

GAELIC WHISKY.
STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best
ĥ
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
R, G. WATKINS CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Heqmsites,
* EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
m
Send for
Prices and
Particulars.
Descriptive
Catalogues
on
Application.
EWSost
u p-to-Date
Machines.
Watcli Repairs by Post
3
WATCHES Thoroughly Cleaned, 2s. 6d. ; best English
Mainspring, 2s. 6d. All work guaranteed 12 months.
No overcharges. Best workmanship.
Gent's Silver Douole-cased Keyless Watches. Guaran-
teed three years. 15s. 6d.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Lever Watches.
Guaranteed five years. 255.
Ladies’ Gold Keyless Watches. Guaranteed five years.
355. Double-cased, £2 15s.
Spectacles to suit all sights. Send for catalogue.
DC 11 asp Watchmaker, Jeweller & Optician
■ On 684 George-st. (Brickfield Hill),
SYDNEY.
ħ
Sailing & Woodworking Machinery,
Vertical & Horizontal Band Mills,
“arand. Pris,” Paris, 1900.
the WORLD’
RECORD
(HIGHEST POSSIBLE AAVARD.)
SOLE AGENTS :
t
85 Pitt Street,
That’s All!
M WHISKY
1
NOW READY. NOW READY.
A POLICY FOE, THE COMMQNWEALTH.
A Reprint of articles from The Bulletin.
Price SlX£»JE3lWOJEa=a'3E»oaifeed, Ocl.
Sole Wholesale Agents: EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO. LIMITED, Sydney and Brisbane.
h
KOBART.
— zm. —
ĥ
Uf
TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
RESERVE EXTRA. RESERVE SPECIAL. RESERVE EXTRA SPECIAL. SUPREME.
SAN DEMAN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
2-41 PITT STREET, SYDKTEY.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and NOTING.
Wonderful Yalue—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Joker's Love Bond, or Siamese Links ; Parisian
Skirt Dance (a book bound and can be carried in vest
pocket), Book of Conjuring Trioks, Klondyke Grub (which
causes roars of laughter), Yankee Rubber Baby (can be
carried in vest pocket and blown out to’ life-size, to the
astonishment of all), Wizard Fish (gives the definition of
your character, very superior, for parlor entertainments),
Wizard Pack of Cards (can be changed as you please,
instructions enclosed). .
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY GO.,
718 George-street, SYDNEY.
X
H. L. HUTCHINSON Manager.
(Mention this paper when writing.
pi
'v;.*
PJONEER
LEATHER
'BELTINGf
ħ
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. c.
& SON, LTD.
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
Tranches • P. Franltel & Co., Edward-st., Brisbane, Q. .
H Summers, Barrack-st., Perth, W.A. ;H. K. Fysh and
Uo Collins-st., Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter & Co., Auckland ;
Blackburne & Smith, Cashel-st., Christchurch, N.Z.
“ Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. ... Pei' Tost Is. 3d.
Fair girls and gray horses.
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
“ ABBOTT ” Filters for iErated Water factories.
Breweries.
Butter Factories.
•The Household.
“ATLAS” Pipe Wrench. It never locks on the pipe.
“ANCHOR” Brand Safety Fuse. The safest
and most reliable yet introduced.
“ IVAN HOE” Mining Steel. Keeps sharper,
drills faster.
WILFLEY CONCENTRATOR. The most economical yet
invented. Has a capacity of from 15 to 30 tons per
day —four times the capacity of a belt machine.
SOLE REPRESENTATIVES:
N. GUTHKJDGE LTD., 71 Clarence Street.
))
35
,jrc3£§:E3:TT-^ , s
The London Times: “A Sound, Honest Brandy.”
The Lancet.: “Of a Fragrance, Purity and Quality Second to None.”
The British Medical Journal : “ A-Pure Product, well worth the attention of the Profession.”
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10!3.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and Watered f°r Banquets and
Private Balls T e “ able Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Arty Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s Crnbrocatioi;
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, liheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints it. MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’S € n>brocatioi).
A POLICY
FOR THE
COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d; posted, Bd.,
The Bulletin
Vol 22.—N0. 1105.]
[Saturday, April 20, 1901.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The Bulletin publications.
Pair Girls and Gray Horses, with. Other
Verses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. New Issue. Blue
cloth, blue edges, with portrait ; ss.
post free. *** A charming presentation
volume.
Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
Stories:
By Albert Dorrington (“ Alba Dorion-”).
A handsome volume of 350 pages, bound in
cloth, decorated ; price 4s. 6d. post free.
On Our Selection:
By AH. Davis (“Steele Rudd”). With
about eighty illustrations by Mahony,
Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher and
Fullwood ; 6s. post-free. *y* “The jolliest
book yet printed in Australia.”
A Hose of Hegret:
• Verses by James Hebblethwaite ; being
No. II of The Bulletin Booklets.
Enveloped, Is. 9d. post free.
The Circling Hearths: -
By Rooeeic Quinn. No. 11l of The
Bulletin Booklets. Enveloped, Is. 9d.
post free.
The Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J. Beady. Buckram, gilt top ; 55.,
post free. *** Australia’s best book of sea
and sailor verse. .
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Aethur H. Adams. Buckram, gilt
top; 55., post free. *** The best book of
Maoriland verse yet published.
The Golden Shanty:
Australian Stories and Sketches in Prose
and Verse, by Bulletin Writers; Is. 3d.
post free. -
Tales of the Convict System:
By “Pelce Wakung.” Paper covers, 193
pp. ; 6d., post free.
The Last of Six:
Tales of the Austral Tropics. By Eknest
Favenc. Paper covers, 141 pp. ; 6d. post
free.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Limited, Sydney and Brisbane.
For tlie
THROAT, the
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
bronchitis!
and /
Influenza!
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
h
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
B. The Tracht". or windpipe.
(!. The Bronchii.il Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SI N G E ES
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
.. . Contain JVO cocaine or other poisonous druff .
SOLD BY ALL CHEMiSTS, in Tins, 1s 6tl; from the Proprietor, U. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, OueenslauA-n.Bt
free on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE. *
THE RED PAGE.
THAT is another Australian writer’s farewell
to Australia, for a time at least—since
“London calls.” Louise Mack (Mrs. J.
P. Greed) was born at Hobart in the early
seventies. Her father, the Rev. Hans Mack, was
a native of Jersey, in the Channel Islands; her
mother an Irishwoman. Louise Mack was the
seventh of thirteen children ; and in her early
years the family removed in succession to Clare
(S.A.), Adelaide, Strathalbyn, Morpeth (N.S.W.)
and Windsor ■=—the rule of the Primitive
Methodist ministry limiting residence in one
place to three years. When Miss Mack was
about fourteen, the family settled in Sydney,
where it has since remained.
As a girl Louise Mack spent five years at
• Sydney High School ; and her memories of
school-days are reproduced in “Teens” and
“Girls Together.” Failing to matriculate
at Sydney University, she settled down as
" teacher, and later as writer. Even at school
she essayed literature as an editor of “ The
High School Magazine,” and in recent years her
pen has been very busy. Her published books
are : The World is Round (T. Fisher Unwin,
London, 1896); “Teens” (Angus and Robertson,
Sydney, 1897); “Girls Together” (Angus and
Robertson, Sydney, 1898). A booklet of her
collected verses, “Dreams in Flower,” will be
published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. next
month. She takes for London publication a
novel, “ In the Coil of Things,” and another not
yet completed ; besides many short stories.
Louise Mack’s verses are perhaps the most dis-
tinguished that have been written by a woman in
Australia, though her manifestation of a true
poetic spirit is occasionally accomplished at
some expense of form. In tone they are usually
sombre; but they are natural lyrics, poignant
with emotion, and permeated by intense love of
Australia—Australian trees and landscapes, Aus-
tralian suns and glooms. Her prose work, though
always excellent, and noted for its sweet lucidity
of style, is not yet so remarkable in its field as her
work in verse.
For the past three years Louise Mack has been
on the staff of this paper, as writer of the
Woman’s Letter in Sydney. The Bulletin is
sincerely sorry to part from a good writer and a
good comrade, and wishes her all possible success
in the field of authorship in London.
BEFORE EXILE.
Here is my last good-bye,
This side the sea.
Good-bye ! good-bye ! good-bye l
Love me, Remember me.
This is my last good-bye,
This side the sea,
I bless, I pledge, I cling,
Love me, Remember me.
This is my last good-bye
To each dear tree,
To every silent plain,
Love me, Remember me.
This is my last good-bye,
This side the sea.
Oh, friends l oh, enemies i
Love me, Remember me.
You will remain, but I
Must cross the sea,
My heart is faint with love,
Oh, Land I Remember me.
You will not, even ask
What claim has she ?
She loved us, she has gone,~
—’Tis all : Remember me.
This 4s what you will say,
My Land across the sea,
She was of us, is gone—
And you ’U Remember me.
Here is my last good-bye,
This side the sea.
Farewell ! and when you can
Love me, Remember me.
LOUISE MACK.
Some Victorian Painters .
Among the men who have succeeded,
Longstaff stands easily shoulders above
the rest. In his landscape sketches,
which have never been seen outside his
studio, he has struck the genuine Australian note
—a note not so jaueb of literal interpretation as of
atmosphere, a suggestion of the strange aloneness
and fatality of the Bush, that essence of romance.
It is pity that Longstaff should have to paint
portraits for a living, and greater pity that he
should leave this country, for he thinks in pictures
as a true artist should, and there is imagination
in his handling.
None of the Victorian painters except Long-
staff paint the bush deep enough in tone. Instead
of transposing the values to accentuate the tone
interest of their pictures they try for a faithful
transcript—sometimes with a synthesis, generally
without.
John Ford Patterson is now with the decadents.
His tenet is that Nature is too horrible, too
“near.” One must go away from her as far as
possible ; and in his latest picture, “ A Bush
bymphony,” he has certainly gone away. It is
like a faint tapestry seen through a film of gauze.
He has tried to do in paint what the French sym-
bolists have done in literature; but has not, T
think, succeeded. The scheme is too high’ in
tone and altogether not convincing enough. But
Mr. Patterson should feel satisfied : he has roused
the ire of every Philistinish person who has seen
his picture; and the Melbourne Gallery paid £2OO
for the joy of possession.
Fox is a clever and versatile painter. I like his
portraits best ; but he has tried to introduce
French effects into an Australian setting. It may
not be unpardonable to paint Australian land-
scape in a French method, but it seems outside
the pale of common reason to look for the atmos-
pheric effects of France in a land altogether alien
From them in tone and color and form.
' Withers lias a charming sense of colour, and
with the years his handling and knowledge of
values has increased, but he has not escaped the
domestic note that characterises rural England
the path leading to the cottage on the top° of the
hill, the village nestling in the comfortable valley
the carter returning through the twilight. Still
his work is always interesting : it never lacks a
personal charm.
Dave Davies (now in England) painted some
° f /-ustralian landscape astonishingly
evcnimf a S d 4 fcru y ; Hls excellent observation of
Sr^- that P° etry of the early night,
S'j 1 ® darkness gathering steadily upon the
everv «w y vT WaS c ? manifest in nearlj
f s ketch he made. Davies has the soul of the
tW ] ;“ ldaGa Pe-painter ; and the distaste for cities,
artist ' ,oy £? - the - ° P , en air whicli the bearded
artist shows. It is pity he left Australia.
th? e^ nard Hal l s ® ldom exhibits. With him lives
studio' T Ty °t Dusaeld orf and the Continental
shonW of Jan Van Beers. He is, I
SI y ’ th ,® fine . st draughtsman in Melbourne,
b;l ,/, an ex baustive knowledge of drawing, but
of entirely facti tious, reminiscences
{' < rP eats , a conv ention himself created
{"".r 1 bobbin, whose optic nerve seems fascinated
cojonr puce, has departed altogether from
piomise and tendency of his earlier work.
The reason why Velasquez is such a great
things’- 13 ri ;i at he P ainted only paintable
r!rlv£ li the . sooner the Australian artist com-
prehends the pamtability of his country the better
nTtnre I ? Stead °. f tryin g to look at life and
6 th /su sh eyes ’ he P ersist s usually in a re-
dundancy of the same compositions. If he paints
H® B f\} t 1S f f om , the shore. Ti-tree and cliff to
the right, sea to the left, beach in foreground. He
never thinks of painting it from above the blue
?® a> d .c e P x . n tone, through the twisted branches so
beautiful in line. And the same with his up-
country work.
However, the artist himself is not to blame for
his limited field; for, to make a living, he must
stay m Melbourne. But if he had the chance to
*4 i A-'®, back-country— not to the stations or
the goldfields but to the Bush itself, and see it as
the explorers saw it, how his outlook would
cha,nge . Most of Australia’s artists have been no
further inland than a bush township : they have
never seen the limitless expanse of sun-burnt
p ains, broken only by an outcrop of rocks, vibrat-
ing ni the. silent heat. Neither have they re-
garded (at least, with a seeing eye—which should
mean a doing hand) the hillside of a gully full-
taced to the midday sun, slap up against a blue
,y, y ith lts creeping cloud atop, everything
almost oppressively quiet in the heat. An in-
scrutable landscape which reveals nothing because
it is the oldest in the world, and nothing has been
written upon its face.
And then, plastically, Australia is one of the
most paintable countries under the sun ; its land-
scape is so essentially one of masses, masses that
simplify themselves to a few tones of deep and
harmonious colour. There is no flickering foliage
to tire your brush; no sentimentality to sicken
your soul.
When I think of Australia’s landscape I see no
pictures of early pioneering, no settlements or
mining camps, but a land older than Arabia Felix
or Chaldean Egypt, a land which has faced the
unbroken centuries silent and unknown—a strange
land peopled by the earliest animals and fringed
with strange trees and desolate shores I—a 1 —a country
of no traditions. There is more mystery to me in
the bronze gums palpable in the stillness of the
naked noonday than in all the so-called mystery—
generally a mere vague, undefined suggestiveness
—which permeates the morbidity of Christian art.
It will be the impersonal man, who considers
his subject and his art instead of himself, who will
paint this country rightly. The everyday man
is so parochially human that his heart must
pant after the waterbrooks of the domestic and
the traditional ; and that is why artless, unthink-
ing work always pleases him.
In the future—say in another two hundred
years, when Australia shall be the nation we are
always talking about—Sydney will play Athens
to the Ptolemyan Alexandria of Melbourne.
Then the man who tramps the galleries will see
what is at present unrealised—Australian land-
scape painted by an Australian who loves and
understands it.
Biit I have strayed slightly from a consideration
of Art in Melbourne—which, for the present, I
should say, is, to use that comfortable expression
of the actor— Besting.
v.
LIONEL LINDSAY.
Just Nothing.
f'lnHE man who knows nothing in all its pro-
I fundity is a seer. He scans the howling
-JL void with sleepless eyes and its
blackness full of points of light. He
cannot sleep; he is the night-watchman, the
caretaker of those myriad stars. Should he
maunder or snore at his post the sleeping
world would wake with horrid dreams. to find
the darkness blank. So you wake at sea when
something is wrong and the throbbing engines
ceasB. The light is out; you stumble up on
deck. The sky is blanked with clouds ; the sea—
there is no sea ; only a hungry, growling, lurking
monster there in the dark. The ship—there is
no ship; we ride a reeling nightmare. The men
—there are none ; only demented, accusing voices
calling, wailing out of hell—only there is no hell.
.1 was saying, I think, that but for the man who
knows nothing, chaos were come again. Fancy a
world made up of people who know some-
thing, and others who know everything. Of
course, these two species of creature make up the
majority as it is. . And they sleep—the good God
be praised ! It is a mad-house where narcotics
are your only physic; and the warder wakes, and
walks,' and watches the void. Think if they were
all to wake, with all their dreadful manias fright-
fully alive. The warder would be no
more; mercifully, his end would be swift ii
that leaden hail of demented, fragmental,
shattered, shattering shrapnel of would-be wis-
dom. The denizens of such a' world would
destroy one another, and then we would begin
again, happily with nothing. Perhaps we shall.
I think,—indeed, I am sure,—that it is best to
be boru blind. Such a one knows nothing truly ;
—he is your only seer. The profundities are all
his; he cannot even argue with you that black is
white or is n’t, or ought to be. Deep into the
nothingness beyond all black and white;—past
the absence and the presence of all colour and
light; beyond the great negation, through the
everlasting question, into the Never Never his
sight pierces, the while he sits with veiled, lustre-
less orbs—globes of deified clay,—how use-
less! No—how much more useful than yours
or mine ! for they are shutters that close out
the false and the foolish and the filthy
and the thousand .natural abominations that your
eyes and mine let in upon our souls till we fall,
and wallow where we fall. Were I possessed of the
sinister design upon suffering humanity (after
the manner of W. Besant, Knight Bachelor) to
project an academy for the encouragement of
authorship, [ should teach the students nothing,
deliberately and carefully, if not prayerfully;
and, though I say it, 1 should cfo well. All
other systems must fail. The man who knows
something ceases to exist. He might as well be a
Government expert or a newspaper man for all
the use he can be to his fellows, or any other
fellows.
To descend to examples—a dangerous practice—
Milton, before he became blind, was nearly
becoming a pestilent fellow, with his absurd
erudition. Fortunately his sight went, and
he saw. Shakespeare and Carlyle knew
nothing, and so did good work. Buskin’s fatal
failing was s*me knowledge. Dickens, poor man,
went about and learned things, and failed.
Thackeray and Oscar Wilde and some others —I
think I might include Victor Daley—have guile-
less wit’s diviner way, and stand under the stars
absorbing and diffusing light. You would ask,
“What of Darwin and Huxley and Bacon?”
The making of three clever men only partly
spoiled by their learning. Gutta serena might
have made any one of these a seer; a trifling
accident, say with gunpowder, would have done
it. Possibly you wouldn’t ask. Perhaps you
know—most men know something, it is the primal
curse, since Adam ate the fruit —the proverb is
something musty.
An expert would attempt to explain what it is
to know nothing. Not so here, for, though not a
seer, Ido not know. If you seek more, be an
infant lying naked and alone under the great
black vault of space, and if you are a very, very
simple sort of infant you may inherit the universe.
V.
THE OWL.
“ Scribe ” talks sense—
Some weeks a go, in these columns, I urged Australian
pressmen at large to be on the lookout with regard to
their accommodation in the National Parliament, which
is not in any way the appurtenance of Melbourne. There
is nothing tangible proposed, as I write. The first ques-
tion to consider is whether a Central Press Association
can do the reporting for Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Hobart, and Perth. No. Impossible. Such a thing may
grow into being, but could not be fixed up now in time.
Well, then, I say the following papers must have equal
facilities: Age, Argus, Sydney Herald and Telegraph.
Brisbane Courier and Telegraph, Adelaide Register and
Advertiser, Hobart Mercury, Perth Herald. Here is
your front line. There are about as many for the
second line. Of course, if there are more front seats, the
best of them may get there. The Gallery Committee
should be composed of one man each from Melbourne,
Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Hobart, and Perth ; and we
might allow the Melb. man as chairman with a casting
vote, in addition to his regular vote. I assume the National
Parliament will meet in the Vic. Parliament House, because
Barton is understood to wish it, and Peacock says he will
be guided by Barton. However, these remarks, with a
little modification, will serve for the Exhibition. At Par-
liament House the Leg. Assembly Press accommodation
is a notorious scandal, even for Melb. requirements. One
solution that occurs to me while writing (I have not met
with it anywhere) is that the National House of Repre-
sentatives should meet in the Vic. Leg. Council Chamber,
and the Senate in the Assembly Chamber. As you
are aware, the Press could he capitally ranged along
the galleries of the Leg. Council, with ample room
for all. Even in the Exhibition they could never
make such a handy Press accommodation. The diffi-
culty is that the Legislative Council Chamber could
hardly be adapted to hold all the members with comfort.
Reverting, then, to the Assembly Chamber. It must be
gutted, if adopted. The Press must have, both the Gal-
leries of the Speaker, which are on the floor of the House.
With seats graded Up in tiers, they would serve all the
legitimate Press. The Members’Rooms behind must be
turned into Press Rooms. The present Reporters’ Gal-
lery could be made the Second Public Gallery, while the
present Public Gallery is. made the Speaker’s Gallery.
Let me urge Newspaper Proprietors all-over the Con-
tinent to look to their interests in this regard They
should all have agents on the spot at once. Co-operation
will suitably restrain Melbourne influence.
Hear,! to this. No Melbourne supremacy is
wanted in an Australian press gallery. The press
of every State should have an equal chance to
watch and report fot its State. And any enter-
prising country paper, or the warrantable repre-
sentative of a country-paper combination, should
also be given good room. You can’t have too
many working pens. But the State press galleries
are too often crowded by loafers and metropolitan
stragglers favoured by officials.
“F.C.S.”:
There still stands at Coonunbene, N.S.W., the old
house, low and squat, with its plastered and uneven
walls, where Henry Kendall, 32 years ago, found repose
during his wanderings amid coastal woods and ranges.
At its rear, to westward, are the dim gorges and hills
wrapped (when I saw them in March) in rain-charged
mist. In front and to the right are the waters of an arm
of Broken Bo ; y, beside which Kendall dreamed and wove
verse. A pioneer of the district sits gout-stricken and
grey in the shadow of the house that sheltered Kendall.
He tells how the singer came from somewhere n the
northern rivers and arrived at Coorumbene (four syllables
—not “ Cooranbean,” as generally written) tired and
almostspent. He came in Robinsoii-Grusoe garb to help the
children in their wood-carrying tasks, and at times brought
the mails from Gosford, Kincumber and Wamberal. In the.
glens, gorges, and dark, unfooted dells ho spent whole days.
The results of these lonely contemplations were “ Narara
Creek,” “ Mooni,” “ Coorumbene,” “ Bell Birds,” and the
prize-poem for the opening of the Sydney International
Exhibition. For the last, Kendall felt no inspiration ;
but—allowing himself to be persuaded—competed, and
carried off the prize. At the feet of the dark hills
Narara creek winds past Coorumbene, and joins the sea
half-a-mile further down. It is silent and but little
traversed, this Narara creek of Kendall’s. In the hills a
little beyond it are the “ clinging mosses,” the “ leaves
and shining woodland waterheads,” the “channels of
coolness, and echoes that call.” There has been hardly
any change in Coorumbene during the years since Ken-
dall kept tryst with Nature amid its solitudes.
“Ignotus ” brings a problem for mathematical
readers—
In Laing’s “ Human Origins," p. 146,1 find the follow-
ing re the Great Pyramid: Ist. The triangular area of
each of the four sloping sides equals the square of the
vertical height. 2nd. The united length of the four sides
of the square base bears to the vertical height the same
proportion as that of the circumference of a circle to its
radius. Can the above statements both be true ?
AUSTRALIAN TOWNS.
Combo, king of Carrawinjie,
Puffed with pride' and ’possum, sat
On his hams and stroked his binjy,
Eyed the Jaelceroo, and spat :
“ Yoivi, boss , me king dis nation,
You bin jump it Combo's claim ;
Squatter make ’implenty station —
Blackfulla bin gib it name.
Cunnamulla, Ulladulla,
Tarnagulla, Burr era long,
Murrumbu rrah, Millamurra,
Muttaburra, Mittagong.
“ Imba, king o’ Burrundulla,
That un brother b’long a me,
Cobaun Brince o’ Wales tha’ fulla —
Me ’n him Royal Family.
Plenty places we bin christen —
Hundreds, t’ousands, near a score ;
Gib it match, ole man, an’ listen,
Combo yabber plenty more :
Currawilla, Muckadilla,
Boggabilla, Boggabri,
Coolangatta, Wangaratta,
Parramatta, Mungundi
“Unsophisticated niggah,”
Lisped the Johnny, “ I admiah
Your obese and kinglike figgah,
But your Majesty’s a liah.
And your beastly appellations
G-wate on educated eahs;
Note the culchawed designations
Of our Bwitisli pioneahs :
Bylong, Cowlong, Toolong, Howlong,
Wyalong, Way, Bigga, Price,
TantanOola, Walmer, Coolah,
Purga, Taree, Paradise.
“Deah old Hinglish names faw evah !
Sweetah music nevah set!
Wule Bwitannia ! Bwitons nevah ! ”
“ Gib it Combo cigarette.”
“ Say, thou ’possum-eating dingo ! ”
“Gib it glass o' nobbier s, blease.”
“ Hast thou in thy howwid lingo
Such poetic names as these :
Tomanbil, Leigh, Cuddell, Millie !
Byaduk, Olinda, Mein?”
“ Argalong and Bringabilly i
Euroburr.ie Porcupine / ”
N.S.W.
BENDBH.


PRICES
FOR ....
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN
OBTAINED BY CONSIGNING TO
Goldsbrough, Effort* 00.
Circular Quay, Sydney,
Who render PROMPT UPTURNS and safeguard your
Proceeds by their TRUST ACCOUNT System.
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager.
Xl^
C B B
\
SB®*
5800
1-dN
£so.
eCSO
M 5607
5800
Gu&r&oreecl oof Ig breal( or bc/ro.
CBB
BRIAR
CERTIFICATE. —Should any of our “ Can’t B Beat ” Briar Pipes
crack or burn, a new one will be exchanged for it immediately on
. application. O' Thousands Selling Daily.
SOOUIIIIIS Mill]
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches everywhere.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LI3T
Of TRICKS, PUZZLES, Etc.,
Etc., FREE.
ĥ
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
EXTRA SPECIAL CATALOGUE
OF BOOKS FREE.
STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTES OF ANY COLONY TAKEN.
TTTTT T A TiTTVO A T\TP book and magic arcade,
W IJjJLi H.N UKilUlii, 201 Bourke Street, Melbourne,
ERASMIC -
- - PERFUME
Is delightfully fragrant and pleasant to use.
A DAINTY, DELICIOUS DELICACY.
. . . ASK YOUR CHEMIST FOR IT . . .
GOOD HAIR FOFL A.LL
»■
All Chem'sts
ħ
h
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and sriving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
/f=T For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
•GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
AST For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively.
Price, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
M
V#
4
m
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
Pitt-street., Sydney.
ĥ
CO.'iSU-T E. HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. H3ILAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
The BEST JUDGES
PRONOUNCE
BEWARE
CF
IMITATIONS.
o
SAUCE
TO BE UNEQUALLED IN FLAVOUR AND QUALITY.
Amenta—YliLQQE, SON & CHAPMAN ud DAVID COHEN ft CO., Sydney.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile
Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
REDUCED CHARGES ON
COMMISSION
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wools realising over 6d. per lb.,
the charges will be
On Wools realising Gd. and over 4d. per lb.
On Wools realising 4d. per lb. and under
WAY BILLS sent on application.
WHEAT.
SALES last season show an increase of 25 per cent, as compared with previous years. Unrivalled
accommodation. Three months’ free storage. .
CIRCULAR giving fullest particulars as to charges, etc., forwarded when desired.
CONSIGNORS are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association ot
this Company.
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
Mitchell’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills; Buncle & Sons’ Chaffeutters.
Donald’s Patent Wool Press.
AGENTS FOR McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
WOOL:
| per Cent.
3s. 9d. psr Bale.
2s. 6d. par Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
ħ
Send Your Consignments op .
KANGAROO,
WALLABY,
RABBIT,
OPOSSUM SKINS
TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. Ltd.
They obtain the Highest Possible Prices.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 12 and 14 O’CONNELL STREET. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Claarge : 3 I»er Cent, to the Growers.
BONUS $ PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS last Two Seasons.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Buyers.
fiC LAWRUS ” DRESS FABRICS
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS & STOREKEEPERS.
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
Australian Agents for the
Wholesale Trade only:
h
(/dMli
ĥ
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
STOGDALE & DUFFUS, Finks Buildings, Corner of Elizabeth & Flinders Sts.,
Melbourne; and 422 George St., Sydney.
Dr. Olarkaon’a Bleotric Belt:
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This B;lt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarltaon’s Ro-I
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of j'our body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy, and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is trulv wonderful
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC. organs is truly wonaenui.
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
ħ
h
call™-™- r c a u t t e DRUG <=*TO3R.:E!
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY. • ’
0 tio. \
M 3
4
mmm,
M
vVhen
writing
please
mention
Tub
Bulletin.
If you are tired y STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy ire light, comfortable, and
may be worn withe." She slightest possibility of
detection. They have erred thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
a.ia jhments 8 3 0
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical A ppliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to— |
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney |


TA
TERSALLS
Address: Care GEO. ADAMS,
Hotoart.
ADELAIDE 0.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
above.
Name
Address
May 1.
shares in the
TDiiF CLUB H. May 25.
(Altered from Birthday Cup owing to the Queen’s Death)
100,COO Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name
Address
Ellesmere Stakes. Ist June.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
allot me _ . shares
in the above.
Name
Address
NEWCASTLE CUP. June 15.
25,000 Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the
above. - * :
N ame
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circular.
Address “ Tattersall,” care Geo. Attains, Hobart.


%
ANGIER’S
Petr
\ EMULSION j
WITH HYPOPKOSPHITBS.
A
FREE SAMPLE
On receipt of 4<*. postage.
Mention SYDNEY BULLETIN.
THERE must be many readers of tins
paper who suffer from some form of
lung trouble, or who are run down
and in need of a good healiii; tonic, feuch
people should at once write for a free
sample bottle of Angier’s Petroleum
Emulsion. This preparation combines
the antiseptic, soothing and healing pro-
perties of our specially purified petroleum,
with the tonic qualities of the Hypophos-
phites of Lime and Soda. A perfect
cream-like Emulsion it is pleasant to take,
and agrees with and benefits the most
delicate stomach. It not only cures the
most obstinate cough and keals and
strengthens weak lungs, but it also pro-
motes appetite, aids digestion and builds
up the health and strength generally.
PRESCRIBED by the MEDICAL PROFESSION,
USED IX Tilil aOSi'ITALS.
Do not accept inferior imitations made with
ordinary Petroleum.
BE SURE TO GET ANGIER’S.
Of all Chemists & Dime Stores.
THE ANGIIR CHEMICAL CO., LTD., SYDNEY, N.B.W.
How tired you look. How you long
for a good r:st. It’s work through the
day and worry through the night.
Already you have nervous dyspepsia,
nervous sick headache, and neuralgia.
Your food distresses you. You are
“all tired out,” and you suffer from
terrible depression.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
is what you need. It keeps you up
when especially pressed with work. It
cures dyspepsia, and it builds up ex-
hausted nerve tissue.
Pure, rich blood, a strong digestion,
a clear skin, steady and vigorous
nerves; these may all be yours if you
only use this great blood-purifying and
blood-forming medicine.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
&
J? s?>
«V*
«y
LADIES
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address—L.D.l.J 300 Collins St., Melbourne
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
3&h per Half-dozen, free by pout thro ayho at
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Is SONS, Brisbane, Q'land
Australia q ProVidcijt Society.
money to lend
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying
, to 20 per cent of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
RICHARD TEEQE, General Manager.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street, Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary. ,
yry v\*au£<\.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 108.
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
gW Send for a
Catalogue.
ĥ
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Eight Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
YORKSHIRE
The Most Delicious |L-P jj g fl 1
Sauce in the World. P 4r
Millions of Bottles Sold Annually in England.
BEWARE of substitutions.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
Eirst-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
For making delicious Custards without eggs in
Less Time and at Half the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed Rice.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DELICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS alone.
GOODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure and wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining- or boiling. The
packets are complete in themselves in the
following flavours Lemon, Orange,Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
Proprietors:— GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT, Bagot Rd.Sublaco, Perth, W. A.&6S,King St.,Melbourne
Paris €xl)ibition, 1900. British Awards
The Only
Grand
Prix
«>*»»«?
highest yTvard
ever made!
FOR TOILET SOAP
HAS BEEN AWARDED TO
(Established 1789.)
M
WW
<£^fßR |T T rec rpk
BP
Appointment
to
m
II
Dim?
B«r majestp €Be Queen ana b.r.b. ci)« Prince or Wales.
20 HIGHEST AWARDS
from 1851 to 1900 inclusive
3ST.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Ma,nf.
Note, our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern,
SYDNEV
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying- from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Oiir Special Bent Shaft
the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double’ Buggies, £2O. Buekboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every descriptio n of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any Arms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot Jo so, and you pay 15 per
cent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway .Station).
OUB BPECIAL IVo. 2
£8 18/6
ħ
Delivered at any Wharf «r
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Bards of the Backbloeke
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Melb. has no climate. Only samples.”
—Yank.
In N.S.W. there are 64 completed bores
yielding artesian water, and 94 privately-owned.
The former, it is estimated, yield 31,762,415 gals,
water daily; the latter 45,499,900 gals. The
hottest water thrown up in N.S.W. is from the
Goondabline private bore (148 deg. F.), 2800 ft.
deep : but the hottest in Australia is from the
Dag worth bore, near Winton (Q.) —196 deg. F.
This bore is 3335 ft. deep.
Writes “ Deeby ” :
How this country does bleed in the interests of private
individuals and incompetent or crooked departmental
officials ! For instance, a Govt, experimental farm, in-
cluding a tank, engine, pump, &c., was leased some years
ago at a merely nominal rental for a term of five years.
During that period a mining town sprang up not far off,
which had to depend almost wholly on this Govt, tank
for its water supply, thereby, of course, enriching the
lessee of the Govt. farm. Meanwhile, a petition was pre-
sented to the department on behalf of the mining popu-
" lation of this town, asking the Govt, for a primitive water
supply nearer the town. The petition was refused on the
ground that there was already a Govt, tank in the locality.
This practically created a monopoly for the lessee of the
Govt. farm. Yet on the expiration of the lease this same
lessee was granted a further lease of five years at a yearly
rental of less than £5, and without calling for tenders, in
spite of the fact that it was well-known locally there
would have been keen competition. The matter was
brought before the Department of Water Conservation,
which replied that it was too late to take any steps in
the matter, they having relied on their official’s report.
Yet this official is still in the department. Meanwhile,
the .lessee of the Govt, farm is piling up wealth (by selling
water alone) at the rate of over £2O weekly. There are
other matters in connection with this affair involving the
competence or honesty of local officials. Our “ bleed-
ing ” country !
Cincinnatus.
[The writer of this, while loathing the Boer war and in-
expressibly ashamed at Australia having taken a hand in
choking a brave little nation beset by fearful odds, is
inclined to believe that some good may ultimately come
out of the Australian-contingent business, which has
taught Australians that they are quite as good in a fight
as John Bull or any other man. Also, this scribe is Quite
aware that exception may be taken (on historical grounds
to his rhyme by literalists.]
There was once an ancient Roman, Cincinnatus
was his name,
He worked on his selection and he didn’t crave
for fame;
His wool was long, his whiskers waved like
banners in the breeze,
And he wore a pair of moleys tied with bowyangs
round the knees.
But if he wasn’t pretty, he was willing, tough and
game,
And so, when Rome got cornered and her fighting
crack went lame,
The people raised a rumpus and to save a further
fuss
They sent for Cincinnatus —same as they did for
MS.
The rank-and-file would snigger,
And the officers would*'scoff ;
It took the consul all his time
To stop them “ chucking-off ” ;
And the army paid its premiums,
For it knew its days were o’er,
When a backblock chump like Cincy
Had to lead them into war.
But they didn’t scoff next morning when he
marched them off at dawn—
They hadn’t time to do the Block or tell their
clubs they’d gone ;
Their plumes grew wet and ragged ; their mous-
tachioes lacked wax,
For he worked those tonev soldiers till they tum-
bled in their tracks.
If potatoes wanted peeling, and the cooks had
graft to do,
When no one else was handy, he would tell a
colonel to;
So when the foemen hove in sight, those toney
soldiers swore
Such ignorance of tactics never had been seen
before. ,
They said there was no hope for it,
Their time had come to die ;
But Cincy calmly corpsed the foe
And winked the other eye.
For he’d recognised the principle,
In drawing up his plan,
That the very best of tactics
Is to kill the other man.
The world grows old and wiser, but the world goes
still to war,
And it barracks for its tailor-dummies as it did of
yore ;
It cheers its Johnnie warriors, and it piles it on
them strong,
And it can’t restrain its roars when Cincinnatus
comes along.
It scoffs when first it sees him, just the way they
did in Rome,
It says his drill is awful, and he’d better stay at
home;
And leave the war entirely to the dudes who know
the game—
But, in the end, they find that Cincy gets there
all the same.
The rank and file may snigger,
And the officers may rail,
But they find that Cincinnatus
Takes the biscuit where they fail.
For he’s recognised the principle,
That’s held since war began,
That the very best of tactics
Is to best the other man.
V.
DUDLEY W.


h
WOOD
SPLIT
POPra-Ti
PULUES
Guaranteed to transmit from 25
to 60 per cent, more power than
any iron pulley made with same
tension of belt.
70 per cent. Lighter than cast
iron.
4.0
. >» >i wrought
iron or steel.
No Key Seat to cut.
No Set Screw to twist off.
No Shaft to take down.
Perfect Balance.
Perfect Shaft Fastening.
Write for Prices and Particulars to Sole Agents
for Australasia—
PARKE & DECS Co. [td.
jSOjDlarence-St., Sydney, n.s.w.
NEW GOLD COMET BROOCH, 15/-,
Set with Pearls and Red or Blue Stones.
K
ART
Jewellers
he,
90 Kino ST
Sydney.
NEW GOLD BROOCH. 15/-,
Set with Pearls and Red or Blue Stones.
Gold Bow Brooch, 5/-
Without Heart, 3/6.
NOTE — Kindly
cut out this Advt.
and forward
when ordering.
TELEPHONE No. 3642.
15c. Lyre Brooch, set with 13
Lovely Pearls, 18/6.
Double, with Chain <lO/.
Please send for
our Illustrated
Sheet of Novel-
ties.
Pearl Set Heart Brooch,
Solid Gold, 6/-
10 Patterns.
((
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
A. BOWMAN’S
. . . Yon Can Have . . .
English Boots at
14/6 per pair.
Tan Boots at
3LO/G per pair.
Porpoise Hide at
17/6 per pair_
Best Btyte.
Best Quality.
No
Better
Made.
ĥ
We do One Line—Gentlemen’s Boots- only.
That one we do Well.
318 GEORGE ST., near Hunter St.,
also 145 KING ST., opp. Theatre Royal.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Hennessy’s
One Star
and
Three Star
Brandy
Has
the
Largest Sale
in
the World.
THE
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
ħ
h
JUDGED
upon their merits.
THE HIGHEST AWARDS
AND
THREE GOLD MEDALS
were awarded at the
Royal Agricultural Show,
SYDNEY, 1901,
for
P&B RUBEROID ROOFING
Light. Cheap. Cool.
P&B RUBEROID FLOORCLOTH
Economical
P&B RUBEROID CEILINGS
Clean. Dry. Cool.
Write for particulars.
E. RICH « CO. L™
SYDNEY,
BRISBANE.
-f«\ , im
o v .' v
»* v ,
JUDGED
for the good of the public.
EIGHT FIRST PRIZES
were awarded at the
Royal Agricultural Show,
SYDNEY, 1901,
for
ROBINSON’S PURE COCOA.
Federation Federation
Droppers Wire
P&B perfect DAMPCOURSE
P&B PRESERVATIVE paint
P*B BUILDING paper
Pearson’s Poisoned Pollard Distributors
AND
“THE ANCHOR FENCE.”
Particulars from
E. RICH & CO. L?
SYDNEY.
BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney , for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper .
Vol. 22.—N0. 1105
SATURDAY, APRIL 20, 1901.
Priob 6d
A STIFF ’UN.
B. R. Wish: “If I know the people of New South Wales, they are not the sort of people to put their money on a scratohed horse.”
G. H. REID : “That’s all right! I’m going to run ’im—stiff.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the A astralious."
Printed and Published by William Magleol), of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co.,"Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBER'?
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly ... ... 0 6 6
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
IVestralia and JHaoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
■6l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition oflhi. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —l \d. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition o/The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with portage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with A us-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding tivo columns in length,
or, say, 8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those,
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street <(i Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 246 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — ll. A. Thompson and Co., 8 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. U. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
T7ie'^xzlleiz//L.
SATURDAY, APRIL 20, 1901.
The Began Scandal and Party Politics.
The appointment of J. L. Fegan, an ex-
Minister in the Lyne Cabinet of N. S.
Wales, to a lucrative permanent place under
the Commonwealth, is scandalous enough
when considered as an isolated incident.
Naturally, George Reid, whose own political
overthrow was not long ago caused by just
such another incident—when he wished to ap-
ply public funds to reward his supporter, J. C.
Neild —has expressed undisguised horror at
the intrusion of “ jobbery " into Common-
- wealth politics. The spectacle of Satan
reproving Sin is almost too familiar for
comment. But honest men of all
shades of opinion may well unite
to denounce the Fegan appointment;
and the supporters of the Barton
Cabinet should press for its cancellation.
The Bulletin attaches no weight to the
argument that Fegan is disqualified because
he fought against Federation. That strife is
dead and buried. Opposition then is quite
consistent with loyal citizenship now. And
the Commonwealth is not generous, it is
merely just, when it dates A.R.C.—from the
Day when the Republic was Founded—and
admits on equal terms after the Fact both the
opponents and the supporters of the Dream.
The Constitution Act is also an Act of In-
demnity for all such offenders.
• * * *
Nor would The Bulletin contend that
the Under-Secretaryship for Internal Affairs
must necessarily be given to an official who
has served the Government of a State. It
is indeed a rule of healthy and efficient
public administration that the promotion of
public servants should be frequent and
regular, and should invariably follow desert;
so that the man in the lowest rank may be
sure that assiduous ability will gradually
raise him to the highest rank. Nothing is
so disheartening to the individual, nothing
so demoralising to the service, as the belief
that the most lucrative posts are reserved
or I . n ® uenfcial outsiders, and that no talent,
no industry, will avail against the wire-
pulhng of a jobbing politician’s nominee.
When a zealous servant sees that pro-
motion goes, not by merit, but by favour ;
when a class of servants realises that the
public service is a stagnant pool where
ambition has no spur, and effort no reward ;
is it any wonder that zeal decays, that
effort relaxes, and that the public suffers
from a spiritless and unintelligent adminis-
tration of public affairs ? The sloth of “ the
Government stroke ” is proverbial ; —and
what is responsible for “ the Government
stroke if not the corruption and inefficiency
of the elected heads of Government ? Yet
Ihk Bulletin sees clearly that, in filling
important public offices, seniority of service
is less important than capacity to fill the
ti C - e ' ■ §°°d of the community overrides
all individual pretensions. Petrifaction in
the public service for a quarter-century
is no qualification for a post where
brains and energy are indispensable. In
filling a new and important office, The
Bulletin would unhesitatingly, if it were
necessary, appoint a man from beyond
the ranks of public servants. But it would
first ransack the existing public service to
find its man, in order to retain the vital, the
indispensable impetus given to the public
service by the legitimate Hope of Pi •omo-
tion.
\** * *
But what are the facts of the Fegan
case ? Here is a low-class politician who
has succeeded in reaching Ministerial office
by dint of persistency and cunning. A
treacherous partisan, familiar with the back-
stairs of intrigue, he made himself useful to
ex-Premier Lyne ; and he is rewarded for
his utility. Not, perhaps, more illiterate or
less gifted than his patron, his apparent
recommendation is that he seems too
servile to be ungrateful, and too well-
trained to be officially over-scrupulous.
Minister Lyne has naturally chosen an
Under-Secretary to suit his political self :
like master, like man. “Job!” the ap-
pointment shrieks; and “Job!” and “Job!”
again. And tlm Public Service may go to the
hell which back-stairs politics has constructed
for it.
* * » *
Here we come to the worst significance of
the Fegan scandal : it is crucial. The first
Commonwealth Government stands at the
parting of the ways : it can take the New
Road of- Honest Administration, or it
can take the Old Road of Vicious Mal-
administration traversed by so many
State Governments. The Fegan appoint-
ment made by Minister Lyne, with
which Prime Minister Barton “sees no
reason to interfere,” is a finger-post to show
that some members of the first Common-
wealth Ministry are willing to travel the old
road to administrative perdition. On a reason-
able calculation, there may be a couple of
thousand officials in the existing State ser-
vices who can fill the post in question as
efficiently as Premier Lyne’s nominee.
There are probably one thousand officials with
better brains and better training who can fill
it much more efficiently. And these officials
are free from the taint of backstairs intrigue
which scents the Fegan appointment. The
place is eminently one to be filled from the
ranks of present Civil servants ; since experi-
ence of administration counts highly among
the qualifications of an Under-Secretary. For
this place, then, and for all similar places,
let Civil servants be invited to apply, and
let the applications be considered by the
whole Cabinet, or by an independent Board
nominated by the Cabinet. Let the Com-
monwealth Government at the very outset
establish the administrative principle of the
Career Open to Talents, the office open
to Experience and Capacity ; and destroy
the practice of reserving the Best Billets as
a reward for Personal Services to Politicians.
* * * *
Prime Minister Barton is reported to
have said that Minister Lyne’s appointment
was not considered by the Cabinet; and
The Bulletin is glad to hear it. From
Minister Lyne this paper expected nothing
less ; from Prime Minister Barton it ex-
pected little more; but from the Barton
Cabinet it expected a great deal more.
Minister Lyne— who is a Minister by the
skin of his teeth because he had influence
enough to prevent the metropolitan Free-
trade organisation from earnestly supporting
his opponent in the Hume electorate ; and
because he had influence enough to prevent
(in a thoroughly characteristic manner) the
most active metropolitan Freetrade news-
paper from vigorously opposing himself—
evidently considers that the Commonwealth
Parliament is an arena for the same tactics
which he has successfully employed in
N.S.VV. State politics. The Bulletin
guesses that Premier Lyne will find himself
mistaken. It is Australia that is talking
now ; and The Bulletin is proud to believe
that there are democratic representatives
assembling from East and West and
Centre who will not tolerate a system of job-
government even for the pleasure of sup-
porting such a steadfast Protectionist as
Minister Lyne. And it is because The
Bulletin desires to see a Protectionist Ad-
ministration continue in office that it asks
Ministers Kingston and Turner and Drake
to do their best to keep their wobbling col-
leagues straight on the line of Honest
Government. Protection is an essential
factor in Australian democratic policy ; but it
is not the only factor ; and the espousal of a
Protectionist policy b,y any Minister is no
excuse for introducing a system of rotten
administration. The Barton Cabinet wil 1
have to face a vigorous Tory Opposition ;
and its policy must be sound at all points.
There are men coming from Queensland,
from Westralia, and from South Australia,
who are not likely to sanction jobbery merely
because a Protectionist Minister is respon-
sible for the job. And The Bulletin
fancies that the first Commonwealth
Parliament, with the romance of the
New Birth still ringing in its ears,
and with the eyes of all-Australia fixed
upon its deeds, will exhibit a quality of con-
scientiousness which will surprise the veteran
political tricksters of the provincial school.
• * * *
The Bulletin advises the Barton Cabinet
to meet Parliament with clean hands. Let
it cancel the Fegan appointment before its
supporters officially complain. Mr. Fegan
offers to retire : let him retire. If Minister
Lyne grumbles, let him grumble. Minister
Lynk is an unhappy accident in a democratic
Cabinet ; and if he insists on perfuming the
Cabinet with his peculiar political aroma,
it were better to be rid of both him and his
aroma. Make it understood that Protection
is synonymous with Clean Politics, and Aus-
tralia will gladly accept Protection. When
there are Federal billets to fill, give them to
Proved Desert, and not to Personal Friend-
ship. If the Barton Cabinet renders, it
necessary for Protectionists to support the
Barton Cabinet at the cost of general demo-
cratic principles, then the Barton Cabinet is
riding for a fall.
An Absurd Lunacy Law.
A short time ago an insane woman threw he'rself
from the cliffs at Beaumaris, near Melbourne, and
by her death added another to the long list of
murders practically committed by the absurd and
antiquated Lunacy Act of Victoria. The usual
nine days’ wonder is eventuating ; the Chief Sec-
retary will answer various irrelevant questions,
and then the matter will be comfortably shelved
until another such occurrence serves to re-open
the solemn farce at the instance of the news-
papers. There is an indistinct idea that Victoria
has “an awful lot of lunatics,” and that they cost
a good deal to support, but the public has no con-
ception of the real state of affairs. From the
political standpoint, inquiry means trouble.
Lunatics have no votes, and people without votes
are politically mere lumber. The “member” is
not in the business “ for his health.”
* * * *
Thirteen years ago was passed a Lunacy Act
providing for the up-keep of certain public Hos-
pitals for the Insane ; the establishment of receiv-
ing-houses for the observation of doubtful cases ;
and the licensing of outside establishments
under certain conditions of supervision by the
Departmental medical officers. Official visi-
tors were appointed, arrangements were made
for legal inquiry into all deaths among the
insane, and the medical service was re-modelled.
Which all sounds very proper and complete, if
read over quickly. But viewed from the practi-
cal standpoint that lunatic-asylums are princi-
pally intended for the cure or relief of the insane
on scientific lines, the Act has turned out to be
about the most defective ever framed in .a lawyer-
ridden State. The expensive asylums are built on
the “ barrack ” system—which is hopelessly out of
date ; and no provision has been made for increase
in the numbers of inmates. There is not at present
m Victoria a single hospital for the insane which
at all approaches present-day standards, whether
from the point of view of the alienist or
of the sanitarian. The great bulk of patients
are herded together irrespective of their par-
ticular form of insanity, so long as it
is not actually violent, and in the dormitories
the sights and sounds of a single night
are amply sufficient to upset all hope of recovery
in patients who might otherwise improve. Every
modern alienist of repute has strongly condemned
the heterogeneous barrack system as being a
powerful preventive of the cure of the insane.
Vet people in Victoria wonder at the small propor-
tion of recoveries !
* * * *
As to the receiving-houses provided for by the
Act, there are apparently none. In a large com-
munity the receiving-house is an absolute neces-
sity for the interim-observation of doubtful cases
to be subsequently either discharged or trans-
ferred to an asylum for treatment. But, at pre
sent_ these' cases are committed to gaol “for
medical observation,” a conviction thus being
necessarily recorded against the unfortunate
patient.
* * * *
The clause relating to the establishment of out-
side asylums is, perhaps, the most serious blot on
the Act. In a vague sort of way it states that,
while regular private asylums are illegal, yet
philanthropic institutions of a sort may be estab-
lished under the supervision of the departmental
officers. But, owing to the opposition of the
Lunacy Department—an opposition which de-
pends largely on the scandalous undermanning of
the medical service—no such establishments have
been instituted. And, since private asylums
are an absolute necessity as long as the public
institutions remain in their present awful condi-
tion, the law is evaded in various ways, all more or
less winked-at by the authorities and aided by the
outside medical profession. It was from one of
these illegal “ homes ” that the unfortunate Beau-
maris victim went to her death.
* * * *
All the supervision these places get comes from
the visiting private doctors, and, as the institu-
tions are, for obvious reasons, run on the cheapest
practical lines, the attendants are often not above
resorting to the straight-waistcoat, at a pinch.
In fact, mechanical restraint is absolutely neces-
sary under these conditions, and “accidents”
arising therefrom are easily got over by a. friendly
medico. The writer does not wish to cast any re-
flection upon such “Homes” or their attendants.
He recognises that private-asylums are at present
an urgent necessity, that departmental influence
is used to prevent their legal establishment, and
that, in order to keep them going, it may be
necessary to hoodwink the Registrar, in order to
prevent unpleasant inquiries. Correct diagnosis
is exceedingly difficult with lunatics, and deaths
often arise from what appear to be quite inade-
quate causes, but the necessity for such action is a
shaipeful one in a civilised community.
* * * *
The Official-Visitor scheme is another ludi-
crous failure. In an undermanned service
there is much that has to be neglected, and
accordingly, from the Superintendent downwards
n \T UIn officials are banded together against
the O. V., who takes his position seriously. The
Ghakles Reade type of lynx-eyed person before
whom every attendant trembles and blurts out
awful disclosures is as extinct as the Alfred
nm-'! T7 v . ariet y patient. The only useful
Urncial V lsitor would be a Government Inspector,
chosen for special qualifications, and empowered
to turn out an asylum from top to bottom, if
necessary. The present style of respectable old
gentleman, who looks with great gravity at what-
ever is shown him, and draws his screw with
touching regularity, may lie ornamental, but he is
certainly not useful; while esprit-de-corps will
always block an earnest reformer.
* * * *
The inquest system and the post-mortem exam-
inations by independent medical men work as
well a,s can be expected, but the annual reports
show far top large a proportion 0f “casualties.”
these casualties (under which head suicide is
usually included) are in great part preventible,
ana are directly due to the undermanning of the
lunacy service; and, with a system under which
an inexperienced attendant is often placed in sole
charge of an absolutely unmanageable number of
patients, such accidents must continue to occur.
* * *
. rnggardly method of administration, in
tact, the Victorian Lunacy Service is rendered
a laughing-stock among alienists. The proportion
ot recoveries is absurdly low, and, of deaths,
criminally high. In a service where, above all
others, special knowledge and a special faculty of
observation are required in the medical officers,
the rates of pay are so low as to debar the best
men from applying. Also, although magnificent
opportunities for scientific research are available,
not only is no advantage taken of them, but any
attempt at the introduction of new treatment or
at original research by medical officers is actively
discouraged. The object of the department seems
to be the encouragement of routine and the
suppression of individuality. The fact is not
recognised that the skilled alienist has evolved
from the old “ mad-doctor, ” and represents a
capable of enormous potentialities for good.
Ihe lunacy vote, ’ represented by the warders, is
the sole subject of political interest, and the whole
administration is subordinated to it; so that, in a
department where rigid discipline is an absolute
essential, a superintendent is required to write
acres of reports before he can secure the transfer-
ence of a disobedient attendant. Asylum-doctors
are often laughed at, but it is remarkable that
there are so many good men among them consider-
ing how poorly-paid and thankless is the work.
* • * *
Everywhere except in Victoria the scientific
treatment of lunatics is now regarded as an impor-
tant department of Government administration.
And goo 1 example is not lacking close at hand ;
the results of tl-e remodelling of the N.S.W.
lunacy-service have conclusively shown that
with modern methods lunacy is essentially a cur-
able disease. Until Victoria comes into line
with the newest alienistic ideas, she must remain
in this respect a standing reproach to her in-
capable Legislature.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Wanted, a Titles Bill.
In England, about two centuries ago, whenever a
politician became too aggressively democratic, the
Royal custom was to confer upon him a post or a
pension, and out of sheer gratitude tin?'recipient
invariably and forthwith became an ardent adorer
of the Throne and its occupant. Wherefore the
Commons passed a Place Bill, which enacted that
when any member accepted an office of profit
under the Crown he, ipso facto, vacated his seat
and his election became void, but he was eligible
for re-election. If his constituents wanted to be
represented by a Royal pensioner they could re-
elect him, but they generally didn’t, and therefore
the system fell into disuse, for a mere man who
was no longer a member of the “ Faithful
Commons ” was apt to find that his post
or pension was suddenly discontinued. The
Royal offer lost its financial charm when accept-
ance meant loss of a seat and of the post as well.
Now, after the labor of those two centuries, there
comes what looks very much like a revival of the
ancient expedient. The “ honors ”in that carpet-
bag on the Ophir. will be awarded where they will
do most good. Not necessarily where they will
do most good to Australia, but most certainly
where, in the view of the donor, they will be most
useful in advancing Imperial interests. Whether
they will equally or at all advance Australia’s
interests is a point on which Royalty need not con-
cern itself. But Australia must consider that
point; and, the danger being obvious, the remedy,
hallowed by British precedent, should be applied.
As England, under Anne and the Georges, found
that a Place Bill was necessary to prevent the
Commons from being diverted from their duty to
the people, so the Federal Parliament will find a
Titles Bill essential to the interests of Australia.
Every member who accepts any title ought to be
comi elled to forfeit his seat and go before his con-
stituents to see what they think of the business.
If they approve, so much the better for the knight;
if they don’t, so much the better for Australia.
The mere motion for leave to bring in such a
Bill will make every member think hard
to ascertain whether he wants to be an
Imperialist, or just an Australian and a democrat
at that. Any M. lI.R. who wants to show that he
doesn’t hanker after a handle to his name, but
does want to prove what a whole-souled democrat
he is, can earn the desired reputation in one act
by linking his name to such a measure. And if it
is passed, knighthoods will be very cheap in
Australia. They are fairly cheap now, but with
a Titles Act in operation they couldn’t be given
away without a cash bonus. Now, ye Labor
members of the Commonwealth Parliament!
—-
A Plea for the Oppressed.
“James Scott” writes to The Bulletin from
Westralia :
In the interests of a race, powerless to assert their
rights, or even make their wrongs and sorrows known,
will you kindly let me place before your readers a few
facts, culled from evidence given at a recent trial, which
may be accepted as typical of the lot of the toad-native
in this State of Westralia.
A few “indentured” natives ran away from a station
were pursued, run down, and brought back a long dis-
tance. To travel “runaways,” a chain-collar is placed
around the neck, and through each a leading-chain is
passed, one end fastened to the trooper’s saddle, securing
the string of poor nude creatures. Thus equipped, the
horse gives the pace, and measures out human endurance
to the captives, who trot to the music of the stock-whip 1
At night, unit is joined to unit, and limb to limb, and in
this cramped-up position tire forlorn captives must pass
the night!--those inhuman precautions being deemed
necessary to prevent escape.
The “runaways” reached the Station under a swelter-
ing sun, and were denied either food or water while
awaiting their doom. Indue course the flagellators ap-
peared, armed with knotted ropes—the veritable “ knout ”
of W.A.


I will not dwell upon the operation further than observe
that male and female, youth and age, were alike served.
Those whom Death spared were turned adrift, barely able
to move away, their furrowed backs a mass of clotted
blood—unpitied and uncared for ; the bodies of the others
were placed in a heap to a-wait the solemn mockery of an
inquest.
The jury found that a little severity had been em-
ployed, but then the awful crime! Mind you, the
“niggers” left the flocks intact to their lusty owners,
did not even wait for “wages,” but quietly “ cleared ” to
their haunts and free roaming life. As, however, sheep
mean money, and “ niggers ” can be had for nought —dis-
carding antiquated, ethical notions, and viewing the
matter from a more modern monetary standpoint, the
Coroner’s Court held that the law had been simply
vindicated, the Dr. and Cr. accounts nicely squared in
W.A. fashion, and “ reported ” accordingly.
Somehow, “ murder will out” even in this State where
the thickly-set and sparsely-tenanted bush, aided by a
loose administration of justice, affords exceptional facili-
ties for the commission as well as the concealment of
crime. In this instance, rumour got abroad that dark
deeds had been done, with the result that a personal
friend moved in the matter.
A second inquest was held, not in the interests of the
“ System,” but of the public, and under its eye. The
putrescent bodies of the murdered natives dragged out of
a hole, into which they had been thrown like dead dogs,
appealed to their Maker more eloquently than words
could express ! Affrighted humanity shuddered while
the grand old flag gazed on the spectacle and wept!
Item : The jury in the final act found a verdict of wilful
murder, and His’ Honor, in passing sentence, stigmatised
the crime as one of the most unprovoked, cowardly, and
brutal ever brought before him—a reproof the author and
buttress of the “ System ” so encumbered with honors
may surely well take to heart.
One word and I am done. Under cloak of “Native
Contracts ” or “ Indentures,” for which, however,
“ Assign ” is the more correct term, offences of the
blackest type can be perpetrated upon the impotent and
unresisting children of misfortune, yet hid from public
view, neither to be revealed nor avenged until the
Great Day of Account.— James Scott. Lauderdale, \Ves-
tralia, March, 1901.
*
Justice (?) at Goulburn, U.S.W.
On March 28, at Goulburn, N.S.W., before the
Police Magistrate, James M'Cormack was charged
with fraudulently appropriating £lO belonging to
Percival R. Johnson, teller of the B. N.S.W.,
Goulburn. Johnson swore that M'Cormack
cashed a cheque for £25 17s. 6d., and that he in-
advertently gave M'Cormaok two tens and fifteen
one-pound notes, instead of five one-pound notes.
As corroboration, he produced the cheque en-
dorsed on the back as having been paid
by two tens, fifteen ones, and the balance
in coin; and swore that the endorsement
was made at the time. M'Cormack swore that
he was paid the correct amount. It was oath
against oath, with no corroboration on either
side; the prosecutor was a bank-clerk, the de-
fendant an ordinary person whose avocation does
not appear except in so far as it is stated he sold
wool for his cheque ; and the P.M. said, accord-
ing to Goulburn Post, March 30—
He could not dismiss the case without branding Mr.
Johnson as a deliberate scoundrel.
(What has that got to do with the matter if
McCormack was not clearly proved guilty ?)
He believed .there was corroboration of Mr. Johnson’s
evidence
(Where was it? —the bank-slip written by Mr.
Johnson himself was no corroboration ; and there
was nothing else.)
—and the defendant’s manner when giving evidence
was not that of an innocent man.
(If the police magistrate, whoever he is, had seen
as many innocent men with guilty manners, and
guilty men with innocent manners, as The
Bulletin has seen —then he would know that only
Omniscience can decide guilt or innocence from
manner ; and he might learn to do his obvious
duty of deciding a case on the evidence in the case.)
He would impose a fine, because Mr. Johnson would be
recouped his loss.
(In The Bulletin’s opinion, Mr. Johnson or any
other bank-teller, or any man in the community,
is not entitled to complain about losses due to his
own mistakes.)
Defendant was fined £2O, with 4s. lOd. court costs, and
21s. professional costs, to be paid within a month ; in
default three months imprisonment with hard labor.
The Bulletin says this is a case for the Attorney-
General’s inquiry. It is also a case for appeal, and
for public subscription if M'Cormack is unable to
bear the cost of appealing. M‘Cormack is asked
to appeal at once, if he has not already done so ;
and if the facts are as reported he can count on
The Bulletin as a subscriber.
♦
Death Under Chloroform.
•'"Pdtyaka” on a subject of eternal interest alike
to doctors and laymen :
The writer is with “ Medi-Cuss ” (6/4/’O3) in his advocacy
of nitrous oxide (laughing-gas) for those minor operations
which yield the greater part of the chloroform death-roll.
For operations requiring little time in the doing, it is al-
most ideal, the quickness in getting the patient under
(50 secs, average) the adequate available period after
withdrawal (about 30 secs.) and the almost absolute
safety, all being in its favour, while the portability of the
cylinders put out of court the old arguments against it on
the score of difficulty of carriage. Recent experiments
with a mixture of oxygen and nitrous oxide have yielded
very satisfactory results in lengthening the period of
available anaesthesia, and as far back as 1877 Pban,
the French surgeon, amputated a leg under its
effects. The cumbrous apparatus then required
has since been superseded, and Hillischer of Vienna
has given the mixture in 2900 cases, comprising persons
ranging from to 82 years of age, and suffering from all
manner of organic diseases, without a single death.
The available anaesthesia after withdrawal here averaged
70sec., asagainst 30 with nitrous oxide alone; but by
continuous inhalation the ansesthesia can be kept up for
several minutes, and probably for longer periods.
Claude Bernard, the French physiologist, kept a dog
under its effects for 72 hours, using 2500 litres of the mix-
ture, without any bad results. As the writer has pre-
viously pointed out in The Bulletin, the best of the pre-
sent anaesthetic methods for long operations is. found in
nitrous oxide, followed by ether. The rapidity with
which the patient “goes off” under the gas, and the
facility with which the ether effect can be grafted on by
means of a proper Clover’s combined inhaler, completely
demolish the arguments of those chloroform faddists who
allege that their dangerous fetish “ does away with the
waste of time so frequently found in the
administration of ether.” Such an allegation is,
in writer’s opinion, a confession of incompetency
to properly administer ether—but this is by the way. The
small quantity of gas required renders the process suit-
able even for emergency operations, while the danger to
life is less than that of ether by itself, which, again, is a
mere fraction of that of chloroform.
It is only from public opinion reacting upon medical
education that the suppression of the chloroform fiend
can come about. There are cases where chloroform is
preferable and necessary—in using the actual cautery
about the mouth, for instance, the inflammable nature
of ether-vapour here rendering it dangerous in cases
where venous turgescence would have bad effects, or in
patients suffering from chronic bronchitis or advanced
consumption ; but it is utterly unfit for comparison with
ether as a general anaesthetic in the hands of an unskilled
administrator. The average young medico only learns to
give an anaesthetic after he is launched as a duly
qualified practitioner, and the. lack of proper teaching
in this respect is a serious blot on the curriouli of
most medical schools. The young practitioner looks upon
“giving chlo.” as the simplest and easiest of ways to
earn a guinea. He gives “ chlo.” because he has no notion
of any other anaesthetic, because the grooviness of hospital
methods has made him look upon ether as a sort of
second-rate affair, and because the action of nitrous oxide
is utterly unknown to him beyond a vague notion that it
is not quite professional, donteberknow, because—aw—
dentists use it. Not one in a score of medicos has ever
read a text-book on anaesthetics, and the average admin-
istrator works by certain rule-of-thumb methods, which
he would scorn to use for any other professional proce-
dure. The “ whiff of chlo.” is easy to give, and it is the
very “ whiff ” which sends up the death statistics, by
depressing the heart action while leaving the sensory
centres intact, so that a patient dies of heart failure
produced by actual fright. Ether is a stimulant, chloro-
form a depressant; ether poisoning is preceded by a
definite train of marked premonitory symptoms, chloro-
form poisoning is rapid and insidious.
♦
The See Ministry.
The formation of a State Ministry by N.S.W.
Premier John See has moved Sydney Telegraph
to rear up on its latest labor-saving machinery and
scoff. That a Protectionist Ministry should reign
in a State which, only two weeks before, went bald-
headed for Freetrade in the Commonwealth elec-
tions, strikes the King-street organ as highly
absurd. The fiscal issue, it declares, is unsinkable,
because in the event of any extraordinary vacancy
occurring in the Senate the two State Houses,
sitting together as one body, appoint a Senator to
the vacancy; and if the majority of the two
Houses are Freetraders, they can, of course,
further increase that alleged tiEin majority in the
Federal Upper House. The Telegraph might
have urged with equal wisdom that the spectacle
of a clean-shaven Ministry ruling a full bearded
community is anomalous, for that has just as much
to do with State politics as .the fiscal question has.
To argue that both Houses of the State Parliament
must be chosen from Freetraders in case (perhaps
once in three years or so) they may be called upon
to elect a Senator, is possibly the weirdest proposal
that has emanated from the very remarkable Free-
trade press; and as an exhibition of blind fetish-wor-
ship it will take a lot of heating. Evidently, in
the Telegraph’s economy, the interests of the
Sydney Importers are absolutely paramount; and
all else must he subservient to them. As
usual, the Telegraph carefully misrepresented
the case with regard to the appointment of a
Senator. Every*three years, there will be in each
State an election of three Senators whose
tenure of office has expired by effluxion
of time. At that election all extraordinary
vacancies will be also referred to the people.
One of the great advantages Australia hoped to
reap from Federation was the shifting of the ever-
confusing fiscal issue to another arena, leaving
State members free to deal with questions of
social and industrial importance. But apparently
such questions as Local Government, Education,
Closer Settlement, and the thousand-and-one
urgent matters left to the State Parliament, are
all to be sacrificed in order that a Freetrade
majority may be able, should the opportunity for-"
tunately occur, to elect a Freetrade Senator to
swell theREiD-M'MiLLANfollowingfor a few miser-
able months. By the Billet of J. Scandal
Carey, this is too much !
♦
“ Specific Inherited Disease.”
Dr. Neild, of Melbourne, shook up the news-
papers somewhat in his evidence in a recent
infant-death case, by stating that over half of the
Vie. farmed-baby mortality is due to “ specific
inherited disease.” One disease oidy is meant,
and every general practitioner knows how terribly
frequent it is in this country. A year’s collection
of the miserable, puny creatures who are born
to rot slowly away, after a few months of
wretchedness, wouid form a fine exhibit for
Australia at the Jookoyork’s reception; and
the prudish idiots who scream at the mere
hint of a C.D. act might form a committee
to introduce it to his notice. So chaste and deli-
cate are the sensibilities of the saints who run
Australia that the public ignorance on the subject
is positively appalling. There is no question more
talked about amongst men, at least, and none
about which less is popularly known. Any
attempt at legal restriction would be howled
down as a flagrant insult to “all pure-,
minded persons,” as the phrase goes; and that
portion of the Vic. Health Act which provides
for the restriction of possible contagion is allowed
to remain a dead letter. Walking centres of in-
fection are allowed to ply their trade unchecked,
although they could be arrested and detained for
treatment by a simple enforcement of existing
laws ; and a yearly-increasing number of helpless
babies are born with the finger-mark of Death
upon their decaying skulls. Young men, piti-
fully ignorant, sacrifice themselves all unknowing
upon the altar of “purity,” raised by the prurient
apostles of the great faith of “ Keep It Dark,” and
in their turn infect innocent women with whom
they come in contact. Ignorance—pure ignorance
—is at the root of the whole evil, and so long as
Australia consents to allow herself to be dictated
to by the Gimlet Brigade, so long will the curse
continue as the rottennest of plague-spots affecting
her domestic life.
A Federal Arbitration Court.
At the 16th annual meeting of the Victorian
Employers’ Union, President Arnall arose and
delivered a series of short, sharp yelps with regard
to the recent labor legislation. He opened by
abusing the workers, who, he declared, were never
satisfied and were always making new demands.
When they were satisfied as to working hours,
wages, and so on, they were not content, but needs
must evolve a desire to control their employers’
businesses by insisting upon unionists only being
employed. He fairly howled about the injustice
of the minimum wage, and wailed bitterly that
when the Wages Board fixed a minimum re-
muneration the men were not compelled to
work for that particular sum, and would go
on strike to secure a higher figure. Mr.
Arnall does not understand that a minimum
wage is binding only on the employer, who is
thereby not allowed to pay less, but can go as
high above it as he chooses. His soul revolted at
the sight of the feeble and indifferent workman
being driven by this iniquitous Act to look to the
State for employment. He adjured his brother
employers to watch carefully the proposed
Federal Arbitration and Conciliation Bill, with
a view to prevent drastic legislation. He'
cursed the Old Age Pension scheme as a hollow
fraud, which, while excellent in theory, dis-
couraged Thrift, and was an evil thing that would
burst up the provident associations. It would
be more necessary than ever for employers to
stand together if the proposed Arbitration Bill
became law. The Federal Industrial Arbitration
Court, with the power to enforce its awards, is
greatly troubling the sleep of Fatman. The Vic-
torian section of him is kicking very hard against
the Minimum Wage law and Factories Act, and
will make the most of any excuse to declare that
the Minimum Wage law is unworkable. N.S.W.
has no such law, and immediately the Customs
barrier is knocked down along the Murray a yell
will go up from the Vic. employer that he is un-
able to compete with the N.S.W. manufacturer,
who need pay no wages at all if he can, by judicious
application of the law of supply and demand, in-
duce people to work for food only. And the yell
will have a basis of fact which will make it dan-
gerous, and might lead to the suspension of the
Act in some way. Judging by Mr. Arnall’s
yelps, the Employers’ Union is very sore about
that minimum wage, and is much afraid that
the Federal Arbitration Court will shackle it on
employers for all time. So it will, if the Federal
Labor Party acts promptly, and, by the estab-
lishment of such a Court before inter-State free-
trade begins, gets the machinery ready to chain up
in one act the sweaters of Australia.
♦
A Discarded Prophet,
Brisbane Courier deserves the eternal gratitude
of all good Australian Democrats. The Courier
insisted that the one issue at the Q. Federal
elections was the question of black labor. It is
quite possible that, but for insistence on this
point, a number of minor matters might have
obtruded themselves and confounded the
issue; but the Courier’s attitude averted that
calamity. Hitherto the voice of Bananaland on
this question had never been properly heard. The
eternal Property vote; the wretched juggling
with electoral rolls ; the miserable manoeuvring of
election dates and arrangements, had all conspired
to stifle the expression of the real sentiments of
the.country. At last, however (thanks to Federa-
tion) the Q. voter obtained an opportunity of
expressing under a system of pure manhood-
suffrage his feelings on the most vital matter
affecting his country —and what was the result ?
The Courier and its following were simply kicked
into oblivion. Anti-black-labor men headed the
Senatorial poll and occupied it almost exclusively;
anti-black-labor carried the North for the Lower
House; anti-black-labor (Page and Paterson)
carried the centre; while Fisher and Wilkinson
(both anti-Kanaka) carried the Wide Bay and
Moreton districts in the South, leaving the
Courier to comfort itself with the election of
Macdonald-Pateuson (who was struck off that
journal’s ticket), Edwards for Oxley, and W. H.
Groom (indefinite and sinuous as ever) for the
Darling Downs. To rejoice the alien-coddlers
still more, the Wide Bay and Herbert districts
(the great Kanaka centres) both returned anti-
blaqk Labor men—to clinch the country’s verdict.
Furthermore, there cannot be the least doubt, in
the face of these facts, that the moment Queens-
land gets electoral reform the State elections will
pan-out just as strongly anti-alien as the Federal
elections have done. The allotment-peg has been
a mighty factor in guiding the destinies of Banana-
land, but its clay is nearly at an end.
The Privileges of Politicians.
In printing the subjoined The Bulletin has to
remark that the late Commissioner Eddy never
allowed his subordinates to be jumped upon:—
Ed. Bulletin, —On the 20th March last the undersigned
were fellow-passengers by the express from Brisbane to
Sydney, and occupied sleeping-berths. At Armidale entered
a familiar figure in N.S.W. politics—ex-Minister of the
Crown and present M.P. —who demanded a sleeping-
berth for his son, which was not available.
The son, it would appear, was not provided with
a ticket, but the father declared that, being an
M.P., he was entitled to a berth for him. Ask-
ing the conductor how he dare question his “ rights” as a
~ Member of Parliament, the distinguished personage took
the conductor by the throat, used the foulest language,
and created a disturbance which would have led to his
being handed over to the police at the nearest railway
station had he paid his fare as a mere ordinary passenger
and not been a Member of Parliament.
The next morning, on hearing much talk about this
outrage, we gave our cards to the conductor and offered,
if the Commissioners prosecuted, to give evidence. In
due course we were waited upon and urged by a gentle-
man representing the Commissioners to appear at Sydney
Central Police Court on the morning of the 10th, and
subsequently were subpoenaed, and duly attended that
court to our discomfort, personal loss, and inconvenience.
After waiting an hour we were told the case was post-
poned, and it was politely intimated to us by the solicitor
acting for the Commissioners that we need not trouble
further unless we heard from him.
It would be interesting to know how a case of this kind
down for hearing can be suppressed, and by what right
the magistrate can “postpone” a case without hearing
evidence, or having a reason publicly assigned. There is
a strong impression abroad that political influence is
again becoming paramount in the control of the N.S.W.
railways, to~ their undoing. Possibly those responsible
for the increasing mismanagement know their own
interests lie in holding the candle to the political devil ;
but if members of Parliament of this type are to travel
free, the Commissioners’ servants and the public should
be protected, and suitable trucks or cages be provided,
with separate sleeping-kennels.—Yours, John Horrocks
(Sydney), Oswald M'Master (Brisbane).
♦
According to the Q. Govt. Press, if there was
one tiling that made the Q. Labor Party stink in
the nostrils of the Q. public it was that Party’s
alleged “ pro-Boer ” sympathies. And as the Q.
public had, for the time, no means of contradict-
ing this statement, a good many worthy people
accepted it as gospel. The Federal elections,
however, told a different tale. The party that
had so often expressed its belief that the war was
a most iniquitous one, the party that stank in the
nostrils of the Q. public, somehow contrived to
beat the ultra-loyal section into a cocked hat.
The Buzacotts, "the Thynnes, Annears, Bar-
tholomews —all men loyal to the backbone and
publicly effusive—were left out in the cold while
at least three Labor candidates who had been
flamingly denounced by the Jingo Press from one
end of the country to the other as disloyal and
traitors, were triumphantly returned. If the
Jingo Press doesn’t mind, folks will really come to
the conclusion that Loyalism isn’t half so rampant
or wide-spread as certain journals say it is.
4
The Country Press Conference, wdiich sat in Syd-
ney last week, seems to have been successfully
nobbled by the big Sydney dailies. Over -10
representatives of country journalism took the
bait of the Herald and Telegraph and plumped
for the free-postage of newspapers throughout the
Federation. It is admitted that postage would
mean a slight extra expenditure on the part of
country journals, but the “extra” would be well
compensated by the better command it would
yield the rural journalist in his own market. Free
postage carries into his town or village the big
penn’orths of Sydney day by day. His paper
cannot compete with them either in quantity or
quality. His topics are all exploited, and Ms
journalistic influence killed. Instead of producing
a paper, he is forced to produce a rag, and live
rather on the commiseration of the public than on
any intelligent service he renders. The nobbling
of him by the Sydney press should disentitle him
even to commiseration. But his fatuousness in
not seeing where his genuine journalistic interest
lies is aggravated by his claim that a Govt, which
charges other industrial products carriage-rates for
sending them hither and thither should not charge
the-particular product known as a newspaper. The
man who sends his wheat or potatoes across
country must pay if the Govt, carries them for
him, but, according to this Sydney-bossed con-
ference, the man who so sends printed sheets of
advertisements and news is entitled to have his
commodities carried free. The Commonwealth
Govt, will blunder egregiously if it hearkens to
any such rhodomontade. The newspaper-maker
must be taught to pay for the use of public ser-
vices as the farmer, the grazier, the artisan or
other producer pays.
The seamy side of the S’African war begins to
slowly turn itself to the gaze of the British
public. The official casualty-list gives the total
number of British killed from the outbreak
of war in October, 1899, to the end of March,
this year, as 17,572, of whom 14,728 are
dead from bullets and disease, and 775 are put
down as missing—many of them missed by the
searchers after the battle and left to be devoured
by the vultures. The remaining 2069 are put
down as Invalids. That is, they have been dis-
charged as unfit for further service, and will, in
the majority of cases, be confirmed cripples all the
rest of their lives. Over and above this holocaust
there are many thousands who will die premature
deaths ofving to hardships endured in the cam-
paign. Nearly 18,000 men and 100 odd millions
of money ! “ The price of subjugating my coun-
try will stagger humanity,” prophesied Kruger.
Was the subversion of the two little States
worth it, even to gold-hungry Britain? The Boer
Republics might have been swamped for half the
money, had it been devoted to planting British
settlers and their families on the land so that the
Boers would in time have been outnumbered and
simply died of acute minority. The British Govt,
could not have bought the land openly, but it
could have worked it all the same, and done its
conquering much more thoroughly and legiti-
mately; but Rhodes’ “apple-cart” was in a
hurry, and, as a consequence, 18,000 British
soldiers are dead or ruined, Britain burdened
with debt, and the seeds of an undying South
African problem sown.
The latest Melbourne Jaypee horror comes from
Flemington, where, sortie months ago, a young
fellow of 18 was charged with vagrancy. There
was no prior conviction for crime against the lad ;
and, though he was shown to have been in bad
company, the beaks suspended judgment, and
gave him a week to clear out, allowing him to go
free on his own recognisance. Meanwhile, the
youth remained in Melb., in the hope of getting
work, until six days expired ; then he took train
for the country. Next day, his case was called,
and the Solons who had given him a week’s
grace for the express purpose of leaving the city,
calmly proceeded to sentence him in his absence
to a month’s imprisonment. The conviction
was duly recorded; and when the young
man, losing the job he had obtained in the
backblocks, returned to the city recently,
he was promptly arrested and gaoled. After
a few days lie managed to see a solicitor, who
took immediate action. Nothing came of this,
however, until the youth had done the greater
part of a month in gaol, when the Crown Law
authorities magnanimously agreed to grant a
pardon, conditionally on his indemnifying the
magistrates who had convicted him against any
action. The boy’s best course would naturally
have been to serve his sentence, and then attack
the Bench for damages ; but the uncertainty of
things and the desire for freedom impelled him
to sign the required papers and walk out of the
gaol to which he had been illegally condemned.
♦
D. R. Thompson, M.D., writes to The Bulletin
from Hobart
Ed. Bulletin. —l have just read the verdict given by
the jury in the Coningham divorce-suit; and I agree that,
as the allegations against Dr. O’Haran were not proved,
he was rightly pronounced not guilty. Here, then, is a
parallel case to that of Suffield. In each case it was the
firm and unchanging denial of the man against the un-
corroborated statements of the woman ; and in each case
the man was supported by alibi—but how different the re-
sult ! Suffield’s denial was ignored and his witnesses dis-
credited. The more influential Dr. O’Haran’s word was ac-
cepted. The poor man, unfriended but by poor ones like
himself, was sentenced to penal servitude for ten years, and
afterwards died—cannot it be said “was murdered”? The
influential man, proclaimed not guilty, was feted and
idolised and £l9OO, and more, was quickly subscribed by
priests and other friends, so that he should not suffer
pecuniarily to the extent of a single penny. In
short, one law for the poor man and another law for the in-
fluential dignitary. This, however, is not the only-
aspect of the Suffield case. To my mind The Bulletin
pamphlet showed that Suffield’s innocence could
be easily proved on every point of the recorded evidence.
As a doctor, I have studied the printed evidence
line by line ; and if an inquiry had been held, with the
experience gained during my professional practice of
about 40 years, I believe I would have had no difficulty in
proving that the woman’s evidence was fabricated. Yet
two N.S.W. ex-Ministers of Justice, A. J. Gould and B. E.
O’Connor, who closed their ears to Suffield’s plea for
inquiry, are to-day elevated to the Commonwealth
Senate !- D. ft. Thompson, M.D., Hobart.
N.S.W. Labor-party’s Federal programme con-
tains a demand for Constitution-amendment
to substitute the mass referendum for exist-
ing methods of amending the Constitution.
To the argument that the existing arrangements
are necessary to protect State interests they have
replied : “ Oh, but we are all Australians now.”
Something has happened lately, though, which
ought to hint to the Laborites' why the smaller
States won’t look at things that way. In the recent
Senate elections, though the Barton and Reid
candidates were Australians, just like themselves,
the Laborites nevertheless ran two candidates,
thus knocking out their own contention that one
Australian is as good as any other. Also the
N.S.W. Laborites are (like the smaller States) in
the minority ; and so, when the matter was re-
ferred to a mass vote, they were over-
whelmed by the bigger bodies—just as the
smaller States would be. And they don’t like
it —they say that the mass vote doesn’t give
their party, with its special policy, a fair deal.
But if the mass vote doesn’t give a comparatively
small party with its special policy a fair deal, how
do they justify the attempt to fix the mass
referendum on the small States with their special
interests ? The fact is, they have struck precisely
the same snag that they want to tip into the
stream for the smaller States to run up against.
♦
The Commonwealth Govt, will need to walk cir-
cumspectly in all matters relating to British
interference in other countries. Branches of the
Australian churches are, for instance, trying to
persuade Barton that he ought to urge Chamber-
lain to make the guaranteed security of lives of
missioners a condition in the overtures for peace
in China. None of the Powers, it seems, have
thought of this condition, or having thought of it
they all very prudently ignored it. Missioners in
any country should have only the same security as
others ; in fact, if their professions about laying
down their lives were genuine, they should not need
as much. But in the second place, to guarantee
missioners’ security would lay the foundation of
frequently recurring interferences with China.
An intemperate missioner hit on the head with a
pagan chopstick might set Europe and Asia
aflame. Thirdly, if the Federal Govt, softly
acquiesced in this clerical scheme and persuaded
Chamberlain accordingly, the Commonwealth
would be morally committed to stand with men
and money by England whenever that country
set out, on account of a broken-headed missioner,
to partition China.


The equitable life assurance society
of the United States.
LIBERAL TERMS TO AGENTS OF GOOD STAMPING
In order to improve the position of its Agents in Australia, and to better conserve
the business, the Equitable now offers RENEWAL CONTRACTS to
first-class agents, thus giving them a pecuniary interest in their business for
several years, instead of for only one year as at present.
For particulars, refer to
S. W. D’ARC Y-IRVIN Ji, Manager for New South Wales and Queensland,
Equitable Building, Sydney ; or to
G-. G. McCOLL and B. H. PASCOE, Managersfor Victoria, S. Australia and Tasmania,
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
HELIDON SPA WATER
A NATURAL
MINERAL WATER MMBBB
a
THE
Sulphide Corporation
LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W,
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can be Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Gold, Silver, Lead,
and
or
Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought
... ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
Special Terms quoted for Large Parcels or
Regular Supplies tinder Contract.
Full Particulars and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cockle Creek-
A E. SAVAGE,
Manager
CIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Agents for Australia,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Tivoli Rickards Co.
Lyceum “ The World’s Verdict.”
Palace “ Why Smith Left Home."
Theatre Royal “Cinderella.”
Her Majesty’s “Florodora.”
Empire Fuller Co.
Town Hall Mdlle. Dolores.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's Grand Opera Season.
Her Majesty’s “ Lady liig-er of Ostrat.”
Theatre Royal “The World.”
Bijou Rickards Variety Co.
Athenaeum Hall G.B. Biograph.
At Sydney Tivoli nothing has yet been
heard from Billy M‘Clain about going on the land,
but if Rickards could see his way clear to start the
leaping man from Dixie somewhere down the
Swanee River, it would be a blessed relief to the
tired scribe. The brightest point about Dark
William is the diamond that glitters far back in
his cavernous mouth. After hearing him droning
about being merely a prominent coon, Marie
Lloyd and the bewildering Rosie Aquinafdo come
like a long, long, iced shandygaff in a weary land.
Marie is still telling how the costers laid Folke-
stone under contribution, and singing of the wife
who didn’t know if hubby took milk and sugar ;
and, like Millie, she’s “ all right.” The more one
gazes upon the amazing performance of Rosie Aqui-
naldo the more bewildering it appears. She glitters
and scintillates in many weird positions in a white
figure-costume frosted over with sequins, and her
black, curly hair tied up with one white riband.
Ferry the Frog is not in the same street, and Rosie
ranks with Cinquevalli as one of the wonders of
the world. Some of her contortions are pic-
turesquely horrible, and others are grace itself ;
but everything she does is marvellously clever and
seems to be done with ease. At the finish she
slowly unties the lover’s knot into which she has
twisted herself, gives three little bounds, and floats
away like the Lost Chord.
** * *
“The World’s Verdict,” at Sydney Ly-
ceum, is in this scribe’s opinion a most shocking
exposure of the taste of a huge hunk of Sydney
population. From start to finish it is a crude,
drivelsome horror. It opens with the poisoning
of an ancient party who dies in the limelight—for
which he can claim no pity : any man who drivels
as that ancient did deserves to be poisoned. It
ends with a woman being tied in a chair under a
slowly-descending guillotine, and shrieking for
what appears to be about 16 hours, till the funny
man shoots the maniac who is grappling with her
rescuer. Still, if people like to listen to a woman
screaming herself hoarse, manager Anderson is
wise to engage women to yell to their delight.
There are many other items in the melodrama
calculated to cheer up the morbid person who
revels in blood and bones—especially a London
hotel where a maniac is in the habit of dropping
in casually through the window and looking for a
victim. The fact that the various ladies and
gentlemen who have to perpetrate the dreadful
thing mostly do their work well, does not detract
from the fact that the alleged play itself is an
unlovely horror.
** m *
At the Queen’s Hall (Sydney) Entertainer
Rodney plays a lone hand for two hours with song
and story, and plays it very well; while pianist
Henderson gives valuable support. One-man
entertainments are calculated to pall, but this
scribe much enjoyed Rodney’s little show. The
entertainer has a pleasant manner, and a big fund
of stories, and gives as much variety as one man
can possibly give. He lifted up his serviceable
voice and sang a verse of the “Old Kent Road,”
first as it is written, and then as Handel, Gounod,
Offenbach, Arthur Sullivan, and Verdi would
have given it. It’s well worth hearing, and so are
his song “Round the Block,” the “Cockney’s
Description of ‘Hamlet,’” and several other
items. Rodney says he is an Irishman, but he
can talk Yiddish, Cockney, Doric, and Hibernian
in a manner that suggests that he has kept some
very mixed company in his time.
** * *
At the Empire, Victor, the Magician,
borrows a watch from some trusting individual
and fires it from a pistol; but the rehabilitated
ruins are found in an empty beer-bottle. Getting
away with people’s jewellery is a nasty habit
beer-bottles nave. He also smashes up the atmos-
phere with firearms and makes handkerchiefs of
the fragments. J. Hughes sings the good old
ditty of the yeoman who is to be married to-day,
but looks too young to be thinking of such
tilings. Essie Dorien and Tillie Dunbar
make their first appearance. Essie is held
over for further consideration. Tilly, with an
occasional Peggy Prydeish effect (some way after
P e ?£y)> dances cleverly in the burlesque-style,
which those who like it like very much. Will
Watkins and Jeannie Johnstone take-off the
popular melo-drama to good effect in their small
burlesque, “After Dark.”
*§ y t
A 6 the Palace, the German who formerly
kissed his supposedly soon-to-be brother-in-law on
one cheek now salutes both in true Teutonic style.
The German who loves furiously, but with strictly
honorable intentions, and retreats with a flourish
of trumpets, as it were, when he finds his adored
is—like Werther’s Charlotte—“a married lady,” is
thoroughly characteristic of that race whose chief
love-story depicts the hero committing suicide
because he has permitted himself to feel affection
for the other man’s best girl. Like other men,
the German enjoys being successful in love ; but,
unlike other men, his next-best pleasure is to be
disappointed and to retreat with a beautifully-
broken heart, either in the Wertherian method or
more prosaically by the big front door.
On S a t ur d a y night, Wirth’s Circus and
andfnl ™ pie f, c ?n cluded their Sydney seasons
and folded-up their tents. Wirth goes to Perth,
Dam pier to Newcastle. Just now, the Criterion
stcSdThstPl* 0 , th ® but it is nS
stood that Charles Holloway will soon blaze into
his accustomed brilliance in the Park-street house.
** * *
At Sydney Royal “ Cinderella ” will con-
tinue to glitter through the brief pomp and gor-
geous masquerade for at least another three weeks.
XNeliie btewart s array of turquoises has set the
tasnion in Sydney, and wherever women are to be
tound an alleged turquoise peeps out from some-
lere. 1 hey look up from waistbands, they
peep from the floral decorations of many hats,
they swmg heavily from the large red ears of
waddling dowagers, and roost in massive beauty
on the red fingers of the lvdy who does the scruli-
i rqu ? lses everywhere! Musgrove’s
beautiful show has had, and is having, tremendous
Houses; but if only one-tenth of the people who
are staggering about under heavy loads of blue
jewellery have looked on “ Cinderella, ” there’s a
fortune in it.
#* * *
Florodora at Her Majesty’s makes a
further impression of a rather long-winded pro-
duction that harps a little too much on the
dependence of the British aristocrat on the Ameri-
can heiress. The dialogue is spotted with good
things as when the sprightly widow enunciates
the great truth that it is easy for a woman to be
iaithtul to a man when he-is dead. Nevertheless,
the opera seems most at home when it merely
curvets round and relies less oil the
book than on its many and voluminous skirts.
Ihe dancing embraces every form of gymnastio,
Miss Carrie Moore being occasionally flung up
towards the flies, both in her own person and in
that of the dummy which is whisked furiously
°J er footlights towards the orchestra. As one
of the girl makers of the mysterious perfume,
Carrie boasts a coppery complexion with a rather
metallic voice to match. Hugh Ward, as the illegal
proprietor of an ill-gotten perfume, has a Glad-
stone make-up, but shakes as gay and vivacious a
mg as any ballet girl. George Lauri is, as usual,
George Lauri, and nothing much better of him
can be said than that.
** * *
Two benefits loom up in the near future.
Tenor F. R. Woodhouse, who has struck a melan-
choly chord of ill-health, is to be tendered a
Night m Bohemia,” at Centennial Hall, on the
evening of Saturday, 27th. All the best-known
vocalists, instrumentalists, poets, artists, and the
salt of Sydney m general, will take some part in
the show, which is under influential patronage
that can put up the dollars if it feels that
way. The Mayor is chairman, and it is
sincerely hoped that Mr. Sun Johnson will
sing “Way down the Swanee River.” If he does,
it will be a raging success, for anybody who
heard Mr. Johnson sing at the Illingworth Night
would travel right across the continent to hear
him again. Mr. Woodhouse has been ordered to
take a sea-voyage as a last effort to recruit his
broken health, and it is “up to” artistic Sydney
to take itself, its family, the best-looking hand-
maiden and the back-blocker within its gates
along, and pay for admission at the door.
The other is a complimentary farewell
benefit to Mr. G. F. Pack, well-known in Aus-
tralia as a composer who created the music for
“Matsa,” “Djin-Djin,” “The Forty Thieves,”
and other Xmas attractions at Her Majesty’s.
Mr. Pack is at present conductor of Charles
Arnold’s orchestra at the Palace, where the benefit
Tn 1 if lie place 011 Thursday afternoon, the 25th.
AH the Sydney theatres are sending representa-
tives, including the Misses Nellie Stewart, Carrie
Moore, Grace Palotta, Nita Clarke-Leete and
other 4.7 guns in the operatic and dramatic world.
Mr. Pack leaves for England per White Star
liner Afric in May.
** * *
Melb. Age, wilfully ignoring the real
causes of the slump, said: “An opera which fails
to draw even a moderate audience on Easter
Monday may fairly be assumed to be about played
out, so let us hope that ‘ The Bohemian Girl ’ has
now been finally shelved at the Princess’s—for
the rest of the present season at least.” The fact
is that Musgrove’s public would have been quite
capable of crowding the house for this bank holi-
day performance of “The Girl” if they hadn’t
known certain things about it. Firstly, the low-
pitched orchestra spoils the effect of the music.
The choruses have never sounded so thin and
dull in any amateur performance of Balfe’s opera
that Melbourne can remember. Another all-
sufficient objection to “The Girl,” as given at the
Princess’s, is the weakness of the principals. The
Count is a short, squat Mooney, the Devilshoof
has no voice to speak of, the tenor hero of the
English ballad opera makes the silly lines more
ridiculous by his foreign accent and mannerisms.
All the faults of the work are emphasised in
this, the weakest of Musgrove’s entertainments.
** * *
At Her Majestv’s(Melb.) the Nance O’Neil
business looks satisfactory, though not boomsome,
as of yore. On Saturday the loud, emphatic lady,
who has certainly lost a little weight and vigor,
revived her Magda, and showed further signs of
overwork in her hoarse tones and halting elocu-
tion. Words that begin with a vowel appear to
trouble Nance more than ever. She pauses
at them as though she were confronted
by a phantom aspirate, and had to satisfy
herself of its unreality before opening her
mouth. Which mannerism is only one of many
that seem foreign to the character of Magda, and
cast a deep shadow of doubt on the allegation that
Schwartze’s prodigal daughter has soared to social
eminence on the wings of her warble. To-night
LOUISE MACK (Mrs. J. P. Creed).
(Thursday) and to-morrow Miss Nance plays
“Peg Woffington,” and on Saturday an Ib-
sen tragedy—“ Lady Inger of Ostrat ” —is to
be presented “ for the first time on the
English-speaking stage.” The advt. also states
gravely that Ibsen “might have written the
part of Lady Inger for the young American,”
and although Melbourne is to get first bite at the
histrionic feast aforesaid, “arrangements have
already been completed for the presentation
before a London audience of Lady Inger by Miss
Nance O’Neil, during her forthcoming visit to
England.” If the tragedy be half as impressive
as M‘Kee Rankin’s ad., the English-speaking
world is in luck.
** # *
The Bijou programme continues to invite
inspection—Austin Rudd, Ted Box, Lizzie Kirk,
DeWynne Bros., Whelan, Frank Leon, Whitburn
and the “too-numerous-to-mention family.” Also,
Frank Latona, the Musical Tramp, will burst
forth for the first Australian time on Saturday, in
place of Lottie Collins, whose little widowhood
terminates this week. The estimable Lottie is to
take a farewell benefit on Friday afternoon, when
Madame Slapoffski, Salvi, Madame Janson and
other members of the Musgrove Opera Co. will
give their services to Lottie. And the heroine of
the occasion I - enerously promised to confer her
benefit-recei,,.„ upon a couple of local charity
fundi.
*# # *
At Melb. Athenaeum Hall the G.B. Bio-
graph is showing how Lord Roberts led Barnum
Powell across the camera’s line of vision for the
sake of the patriotic photographer who had lent
a light cart to the British army in its direst hour
of need, and was rewarded with special sittings
from the General. The “Bobs” pictures are the
pride and joy of the G. 8.8. owing to
the light-cart incident above stated, but they
don’t compare for clearness with the Queen’s
Funeral, and twenty other subjects. The Funeral,
by the way, is not quite identical with the film
originally shown at the Palace Theatre, London.
For one night, or for two or three nights only, the
apparatus which cannot lie revealed the fact
that the coffin bearers let their half-ton burden
slip to the ground as they were trying to
lift it from the gun-carriage. This thrilling
accident was cut out of the picture by order of the
Crown or the Police (which are one and the same
thing for suppression purposes), and subsequent
reproductions give no inkling of it. The G. 8.8.
is going big ”at the Athenaeum, in a showman’s
way of speaking, but The Bulletin regrets to
think it would go a bit bigger if the missing acci-
dent could be slipped into the Funeral ceremony.
Ihe public do so like to feel shocked in modera-
tion.
A copy of “A Policy for the Common-
wealth,” The Bulletin’s particularly suc-
cessful pamphlet, will be posted from this office to
any Australian address on receipt of Bd. in stamps
(of any State).
“ The best way to get good government,”
says Sydney’s Mayor, “is to give the people the
power to govern in all essential respects.” Just
so- And Dr. Graham, as M.L.A., resisted in
N. S. W. Parliament a clause of a Bill empowering
the citizens to elect the Mayor of Sydney, and
another clause conferring one-man-one-vote on
residents in the municipality.
State Premier See has strengthened the
Ministry in backblockers’ eyes by appointing two
honorary members of Cabinet, viz., Hayes mem-
ber for the Murrumbidgee, Riverina, and Bennett,
member for Durham, Upper Hunter. The first-
named is an old Party man and popular in the
House. Bennett has come quickly to the front
as this is his first Parliament. His return in ’9B
was one of the surprises of the General Election.
He defeated H. H. Brown, who had represented
the district for about 20 years. Report says that
Bennett will have to go bald to win the seat again
Ihese country contests are not swayed by the
burning questions of the day, as the metropolitan
press takes for granted, but turn on local issues
Brown has been working quietly and steadily
right through the electorate, since his defeat
building up his position in an unobtrusive way
A published facsimile of the proclamation
of King Edward’s accession shows that the words
“Emperor of India” were omitted, and had to
be interlined. Omen ?
He the loss of the s.s. Federal, it is curious
to find that authentic information was expected
by such a large number of persons as attended a
‘spiritualistic seance” recently held in Mel-
bourne—for the purpose of receiving communica-
tions from the drowned seamen. The spirits of
24 of these, it was alleged, attempted, through
the medium, to communicate with their relatives ;
and the communications were the familiar
medium’s twaddle. The whole business looks
like cross credulity in contact with impudent
mountebankery.
Vi hen the sea began to give up the dead
of the wrecked Federal the bodies were at once
attacked by dingoes A burving-party beat the
brutes off, and entombed the remains in the sand
hilis ; but a few days later it was found that the
dogs had scraped away the sand and were busy
devouring what remained of the bodies. After
that, stones and wreckage were piled on the
graves. Some of the bodies, taken to Mel-
bourne for identification, had the skulls picked
dean, and out of six only onecould be identified. So
tremendous were the seas that two of the bodies
were swept over cliffs 20ft. high and hurled chains
•111 ’ 1"k Bulletin hopes that strict inquiry
will be made as to whether the ship was properly
found and fitted to combat such a gale.
J. D. Hennessey, fine-journalese-journa-
list, in his capacity of Official. Greaser to Sydney
civic council, discusses the “concert” preparing
for the Yorks
" * ien Royalty is the guest, either of an individual or a
nation, no pains must be spared to secure the desired
result.
I. Slush.
There is no room for petty jealousy now, every man and
woman will be there that night to do their best ; every
singer, every musician, every attendant will be inspired
by the hour and the opportunity, from the keepers at the
gates to the chief magistrate of the city in his robes of
office—all will unite as one.
One city, one bucket, one Slush !
Before 8 o’clock invited guests commence to arrive,
each in evening or official dress.
One garb, one Slush !
But the concert commences, and under the spell of
music and song the audience, from the highest to the
lowest, are carried willing captives through the golden
gates of sound.
One set of golden gates, one sound, one Slush !
The silken union jack covering the golden souvenir is
lifted by the Mayor, and three cheers for the King aits
called for.
One souvenir, one king, one Slush !
J. D. Slush !
A London Daily Mail correspondent
writes from China :
For good behaviour on the march, in camp, and, in
fact, at all times, the Americans and English were about
equal. The Indian troops also behaved very well, as did
also the Ist Chinese ; although they were all, perhaps, a
trifle too keen after loot. The Japanese were splendidly
disciplined, but, of course, unlike our Asiatic troops, they
had no European officers, and at rare intervals their
Asiatic nature was bound to penetrate through their
artificial veneer of Western civilisation. lam sorry to
say I saw several revolting instances of the Japanese
torturing their Chinese prisoners on the march to Peking.
But the Russians and French were quite indescribably
brutal in their behaviour, and one can scarcely think that
the troops sent by the latter nation were truly represen-
tative of the French army. One prefers to imagine that
they were third-rate colonial troops grown “ rotten ”
through too long service in the East. It was the French
marines who were the worst offenders—if there can
be a worst when all were so appallingly bail. Throughout
the whole time they were in the country the French and
Russian troops left a gory trail of murder, rapine, and
pillage in their wake, until the thought that the allied
forces were civilised troops avenging the atrocities of a
barbarous foe seemed absolute farce.
The Russians had a great redeeming feature which the
French had not—they would fight. During the siege of
Tientsin, at a time when the railway station was being
hard pressed, the Russian soldiers practically saved, bv
their stubborn resistance and ultimate repulse of the foe,
the entire garrison from annihilation. For the railway
station was the key to Tientsin, and it was here, through-
out the siege, that the fighting was heaviest.
Minister Trenwith is having a bad time
with the Melb. unemployed. When plain Bill,
the Labor member, in a seedy coat and an old
belltopper, Trenwith frequently led the unem-
ployed to assaults on Ministers, but now that
William is a Minister himself he adopts exactly
the tactics of the gentlemen he used to assail as
enemies of the people and bowelless autocrats.
Trenwith tells the unemployed there is work in
the country, and they must go to the country for
it, and the cry of the lone farmer who wants
to give good wages for good work and can’t
find workers is supposed to be loud in the land.
Meanwhile the unemployed insist that some of
those who have tried the country have got chance
jobs and have been worked like goaded niggers
for Kanaka pay, and swear that once outside of
Melbourne you never hear of that anxious farmer
who is clamouring for hands. If Trenwith is
genuine in his expressed sympathy, let him get
the anxious agriculturists’ names and addresses,
also their rate of pay, and convince people that
he is not merely a decoy created in the hope of
clearing Melbourne of the obnoxious unemployed
during the Royal visit.
It is no longer a secret (says N.Y. Critic)
that Mr. Laurence Housman is the author of “An
Euglishwoman’s Love Letters.” Mr. Housman,
who is a young man of 34 years, is an artist as
well as an author. While he has written a num-
ber of books, the “ Love Letters ” is the first to
give him an international reputation.


The demand is still increasing for Wilfley Con-
centrators. Last week, both the Lucknow-Canoblas and
the New Dayspring mines added Wilfleys to their plants.
There is no doubt that since the inception of the
“ Wilfley,” those mines using them have derived great
benefit from their use. We understand that the
“ Wilfley ” will treat all the tailings coming from a ten
head battery. The capacity is from 15 to 30 tons per day.
This is as much as any four belt machines. N. Guthndge,
Ltd., the agents, report brisk business, having at present
12 or 14 orders in hand.*
* * • f
The Insurance News of Ist August, 1900,
writes: “We have faith that the Colonial Mutual with
its many advantages of position and organisation and its
manifest decision to cultivate only safe and high class
business will secure its full share of business.*
* * * *
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., South Melbourne,
have been successful with their tender for the two new
pump ends for the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of
Works, Spottiswood pumping station. These pump ends
have been designed by the Board Engineer, and are a
departure from the existing ones, weighing about 65 tons
each.*
* * * *
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
Allan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
* * » *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * * *
Most readers of The Bulletin will have heard
that Luhrig Vanners have proved a phenomenal success
on Broken Hill sulphides as also on low grade gold and
copper ores. All Barrier Mines remodelling their mills on
up-to-date lines include a number of them. The South
and Junction companies each have about a dozen, no
slime treatment plant being now considered complete
without these excellent machines. In Queensland tin
concentration is the latest accomplishment, the Irvine-
bank Mill having introduced Luhrig Vanners with success-
ful results, the example having been followed by the well-
known Coolgarra Tin Mining Co., who are installing a
number of Luhrig Vanners in connection with their new
Tin Dressing Mill. Messrs. W. &J. Lempriere, Melbourne,
are the general agents for the Luhrig Appliances.*
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject toinspection. Cable address: “Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
• * • •
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sorts of iron-work.*
* » » •
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buchu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
* * * •
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
“Rats”: If the bush public were not long-
suffering they would effectively inquire why the public
advantage should be sacrificed for the private benefit of
the few, as it now is in the matter of closing the banks
and other public offices on the slightest pretext at times
when it would greatly convenience the public for them to
be open. Example : Last Federal election day thousands
of bush people rode long distances to the towns, partly to
vote and partly to transact business with the banks and
the Land and Mining Offices. Although these places
adjdin polling booths they were all closed, and the weary
bushie must come in again, perhaps a 40 or 50-mile ride in
and out. No one wants to deprive these officers of their
legitimate holidays, but surely such days as these could be
tacked on to their annual leave to the advantage of all
parties.
r * * * *
The foundation—or, according to the inscription
thereon —“ memorial ” stone of the Commercial Bank of
Australia’s head office in Oollins-street, Melb., is cracked
through from top to bottom. Omen 7
Deui york [ife Insurance Co.
Special Representatives Wanted.
GOOD CONTRACTS.
PP T , y __ THOS. P. PURVES, >rencral Manager,
76 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
“ ENGLAND’S FAVORITE.”
PLAYER’S
NAVY CUT
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
m.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate oi Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting 1 Charges.
Ny. Markwald,
178 William-street;,
MRIj BOURNS;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; 27 Bogle-street,
Brisb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
Auckland, NZ.
AUSTRALIAN METAL GO. LTD.
1 St. James’s Boildieos,
IX3 WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores.
Importers of Cyanide of Potassium (98/100 per cent,
pure), Bleaching Powder, Mining Requisites,
Candles, etc.
The WILDCAT
COUMN
Westralians: Another small boom m the mar-
ket, though almost without exception the mines were
beyond their intrinsic value before it They
must come to that value eventually, though the higher
they rise the greater will be the fall—which may be ex-
pected to take place not later than next week.
Great Boulders, 255., a rise of 2s. in a few days,
meaning over £160,000-and the rise was probably more
iustifled in this instance than in any other. Golaen
Horseshoe, £ll, a rise of £1 (or 000 , representing'
almost the total gold-production of six months, although
it is over 15,0000 z. a month, and the greatest output
of the field). How monstrous these changes when
considered in this light! Lake Views, £9 18- _
week thev were £8 10s., and a few weeks before under £7,
but a matter of half-a-nnllion is nothing so far as the
W A market is concerned. The mine has next to nothing
to do with it now, but it can be only a matter of
time when it will have all to do with it; that must as
surelv be the case with Westralians as with the mines of
every field. Associated, 555., a rise of ss. £125,000 in a
few days. Mine working at loss as usual. No divs. for a year,
and no hope of one for another year. Intrinsic value pro-
bably under 10s. Northern Associateds, 555. This mine
is cursed by its name, and unless the writer is greatly
mistaken, it has more than double the intrinsic value of
its god-parent, with which it has no connection,
and never had, in respect of line of reef, &c.
Kalgurlis, 87s.—a rise of £1 in less than a week.
Ivanhoes, £9 55., another rise of £l, which represents
£200,000! Brown Hills, £4 55., which, but f ° r the all-
round boom, would foreshadow the success of the Diehl
process. Perseverance, £7l7s. 6d., an inflation of £175,000
in a week, which is not too bad for a mine considerably over
£lOO,OOO in debt, that must either issue more shares or work
for over a year ere incubus can be lifted. The few other
marketable stocks are also up. There has been no dis-
crimination—they all move up and down together, which
is inconsistent with the rapid changes that take place m
the mines themselves.
* *~ \ * *
Brookman’s Boulder reports intersecting 20ft.
of sulphide ore assaying loz. at 1000 ft. level, believed to
be identical with that struck last year 100 ft. above. # Is it
by drill or cross-cut ? The last strike went loz. in the
core but only a few dwts. when the cross-cut reached the
lode.’ The find at this juncture is most opportune ; and
should present values be maintained, the difficulty which
the co. now has in collecting calls should vanish. Per-
haps the getting-in of calls has a good deal to do with
the strike : when there is no strike in the mme the call-
paying shareholders get one “ on yieir own.
Lake View Extended: ‘‘The small quartz
stringers mentioned in the last two reports have entirely
disappeared, and the face is now in hard blue diorite.
Values still remain very slight, and rarely show more
than a trace of gold.” How refreshing is the truth about
a mine, however cruel!
* • * *
Ironsides North (W.A.) : “Grade of ore again
disappointing. Although free gold was showing in the
winze for several days, bulk samples showed the low aver-
age of 6dwts. to the ton. Several holes were drilled in
the foot and hanging walls, the borings from which gave
no better results. 60,000 gals. of water were sold during
the month.” Some little consolation even in that. As a
rule, over there the mine with the most water has the
least gold.
* * * *
Boulder Half-Mile South, W.A.: Mine taking
a rest to overhaul machinery. Shareholders would also
like to take a rest from this rank duffer up to date.
Many Sydney people bought them at 10s. and upwards ;
present market value, Is. lid.
Golden Horseshoe, W.A.: “ Development work
on the lode continues to reveal large bodies of ore of good
average grade. The eastern crosscut at No. 7 level has
not yet intersected the boundary lode at the No. 6 level.
This body is 30ft. inside the boundary, but appears to be
taking another twist eastward into the Great Boulder
ground, therefore the exploratory work now proceeding
in this part of the G. Horseshoe is being watched with
keen interest.” The writer would think so ! In view of
the probability of this lode, from which the G. Horseshoe
gets the great bulk of its gold, going back to the mine
from which it came, it is rather wonderful that shares
should, at time this is ’ written, be at £lO
ICs. buyers, which means a market value of
£3,lso,oou—much the highest on the field. Last
month’s production over 15,0000 z., two-thirds of which
must have come from the lode which came into the mine
from the Great Boulder, which now stands a show of
getting it back again. t m 9
Tindall’s, Coolgardie : 1180 tons, 1350 z. “ Esti-
mated profit on run, £9O ’’—which is certainly untrue.
They say Tindall’s is a cheaply-worked mine, but it can’t
make profit out of less than 2Jdwt. dirt.
• * * •
Merton, owner of the biggest private mine in
Westralia—the Reward claim, near Mt. Malcolm—is adding
another 10-head to his battery ; total, 30 head. And still
another 30 are to be added when water can be got.
February yield, 1200 oz. from 800 tons.
£ * * *
Cable: “Two men, Alfred C. Bailey and H.
de Stedingk, have been committed for trial in London for
alleged fraud in connection with the subsidiary com-
panies of the West Australian Development Corporation.”
These are two gentlemen who made an early splash in the
Westralian market in London. Bailey—“ Mr. Arthur
Crawshaw Bailey ” in those days—founded the Western
Australian Development Corporation, of which he was
managing director: also he floated the Armadale G.M.
Co. and the M’Kenzie Gold Mines. All these and others
are long since only memories. Mr. Henry de Stedingk’s
was a fine name for a prospectus, and full use was made
of it.
* * * *
Kalgoorlie Chamber of Mines (about the livest
institution of the kind in the Australias), has issued its
first district figures for 1900. Ore handled (all ways),
491,943 tons; gold, 733,5780 z., worth say, £1,844,786.
Divs. (eight payers), £1,163,991.
Boiled down, this is how the Westralian Govt,
ended the strike or lockout of Collie coalminers : it
agreed to pay the owners 3s. sd. per ton above contract
price for the coal supplied to the railways (which are the
chief consumers) on the owners undertaking to pay the
miners 6d. per ton more than they had been getting.
Sixpence to the men, thirty-five pence to the masters—
and the Forrest Rump has the armor-plated front to
point to the bargain and ask the crowd to consider how
solicitous it Is for the workingman !
* * * *
Unlike dozens of other copper shows that have
been pegged in Westralia, the Anaconda (Murrin district)
keeps going ; the output is £3OOO a month, with a good
solid sulphide lode just being developed at 160 ft.
Died at Melbourne, 14th March, W. J. Begel-
liole, formerly manager of Bayley’s Reward mine. Also,
some three weeks ago, plucky John Clark, of the Brilliant
Worcester, and Victory United, O. Towers.
The second section of the new Mundio
at Mt. Morgan mine is now complete at a , pqn non?
£6o,ooo(first section, finished 18 months ago, cost £90,000),
but cannot be started until the long-overdue deluge
arrives. As the entire crown of the rpater
nearly disappeared, and with it consequently g
quantity of the treatable oxidised ore, both high and low
grade, the tendency is naturally towards co ment
on treatment processes that will enable the » »
to profitably deal with the huge bodies of sulph
begin at the 370 ft. level and continue r >S h t down to
Heaven only knows where. The Linda level (650 .)
shown the body as large and as healthy as at tne top.
The process adopted in the Mundic Works has
been evolved by Metallurgical Engineer G. A. Ricnams,
who, by the way, started on the mine in the early ‘J,
an ordinary eight-bob-a-day man, but who is now in a -
lute command. When the mine was given a decent snow
after the era of £1,100,000 a year dividends, the low-
grade ores, both sulphides and oxides, were take
hand. The West works were built; and successfully
treated, at a cost of from 4dwt. to 6dwt., the lOdwt. re
that was pitched over the tip in the days of half-a-c
a month divs. The special mundic furnaces were b
two sections on Richards’ design to treat the low-gra
sulphides. These have a slightly larger average 12 t.
—than the oxides, and require more careful reduction
and roasting ; consequently treatment costs a little more.
In 18 months Mundic first section returned
40,0000 z. from 50,000 tons. Most important feature or
process is the height to which gravitation has neen
availed-of. Ore descends about six floors ; and from t
time it goes in to the first hopper, after being trucked
direct from the mine, up to the time the tailings are
thrown over the tip, it is only handled once by manual
labour. The receiving hopper feeds direct into powerful
breakers, and the ore, reduced to about ljin. cubes, tails
into a dryer heated to a high pitch. All extraneous mois-
ture is removed here, the ore only retaining the chemi-
cally-combined waters which are extracted in tne
roasting. An elevator picks it up, lifts it 50it.
and drops it into the mill bins, out of which it is fed into
the Krupp ball-mills below. The mills do the final
pounding, and the floury ore gravitates to the floor
underneath, whence it is picked up per bucket ele-
vator, and tipped on top of the reverberating furnace,
70ft. high. Each furnace has 13 inside arches, of which
four are power-worked, the rest being merely gravitation
chambers. Compressed air is puffed into the four check
arches, and the speed of the ore is thus regulated in
going through. From top to bottom takes 24 hours, and
ore is roasted so completely that hand-rabbling is alto-
gether dispensed with, the stuff being merely shot into a
calcine hopper, and run into the 150-ton vats for chlo-
rination.
The principal difference in the sulphide and
oxide treatment is in the fact that the sulphide is only
reduced to one-half the fineness, and is fed straight into
the revolving furnaces from the ore-bin instead of being
hoisted up on a tower. Only eight additional hands will
be required to work the new section ; and its capacity is
3000 tons per month 1 In the old top works, where they
still treat the 2oz. high-grade stuff, nearly everything is
done by hand —feeding, rabbling, trucking, &c. Experi-
ments are being made in the new works with a view to
minimising dust-inhalation by employes. The life of a
“ shed hand ” at the Mount is not more than 8 to 10
years ; arid the mortality in a quiet, steady way from dust
and gas has been very noticeable.
„ * * *
The Dawes Range Copper Co. This is the latest
introduction to the London market from Queensland, of
which one Warren White says that “ in no part of the
world has he seen such immense lodes of copper exposed,
not even in the American copper mines.” The mining
manager says 44 for richness and. magnitude the ore-bodies
are unsurpassed anywhere.” Another mining manager
says “ that if the ore is worked from the face it should be
mined for 4s. per ton.” Australian promoters: Foster,
Vic. ex-Minister for Mines, Hans Irvine, Winter Irving and
Orowe of Queensland, who are talking big about it in
London. Proposed to erect a smelting-plant to treat
8000 tons per month, which at 5 per cent, copper, with
the metal at £7O, is £28,000. £13,250 is deducted for
mining, smelting and all other charges, leaving an esti-
mated profit of £14,760 per month ; but that is on paper,
where it is so much easier to put it than to take it out of
the mine.
• * * *
“ J.A.J.”: That tin scheme is one of the big
things of Queensland if sufficient working capital and
equipment are provided, as well as development; but a
very large capital is needed and plenty of brains.
Mt. Lyell (Tas.): “ Owing to the large quantity
of purchased ores from N. Lyell and other mines, the
big mine is now only sending from 600 to 700 tons per
day to the smelters, and the various faces do not present
the same busy appearance they did a few months back.”
But there is another and more important reason. The
best part of the ore-body above the tunnel levels has
been taken away, and the great .bulk of that
which remains is too poor to pay, and can only
be used as a smelting-base. Taken altogether the ex-
ploratory work from the tunnels has not been satisfactory.
Where the ore was high in copper there was no great
quantity ; and where there was quantity, there was no
great value. A year ago the mine looked like having a
long life ; it has quite a different appearance to-day,
indicating how difficult it is to judge the life of any mine.
Nor have its troubles come singly. Last year much
was said and believed of the money that was going to
be made by the purchase of other mines that were
too silicious for individual working ; already it has proved
not an unmixed blessing. It has been found in smelting
the South Tharsis ore that, owing to -the fine dissemina-
tion of copper pyrites, the smelting action is not what
was anticipated, and much is lost in the slag. The public
need not be surprised to find that important changes in
the management may shortly take place.
* ♦ ♦
North Lyell mine is now in the hands of the
newspaper butterman. “ No. 2 bench, from which the
chief supply of ore for shipment is obtained, continues
to produce marvellously rich ore as the centre of the
body is neared, some of the material being almost pure
bornite. The eastern ore body is also maintaining its
value both as regards quantity and quality, and on the
hanging-wall side there is a body of decomposed ore carry-
ing a large percentage of oxide of copper, and soft enough
to be shovelled out like sand; there is now no doubt that in
this eastern ore body, quite apart from the rich bornite
mass, the co. possesses a magnificent and probably un-
rivalled copper-mining asset.” The public would do well
to remember the things said of the parent mine a few
short months ago, probably by the same hummer ; and if
they don’t, they are much softer than the ore that can be
“ shovelled out like sand.”
* * • *
As seemed inevitable from the start,. Wertago
copper-mines, far west N.S.W., have fallen into a bad
way, and the attempt at local smelting has been aban-
doned-after the co. has been drained of its resources.
* * * *
Broken Hill Junction North’s reconstruction
scheme has been hung up for the production of a balance-
sheet, as some shareholders thought there wasn’t any
cause to reconstruct. But the figures snuff-out that hope.
In the seven months (to end of Feb.) covered by the
statement the co. appears to have lost £9125. At the end
of its last year (July 31, 1900) it had a surplus of liquid
assets over liabilities of £6764 ; its surplus of liabilities
over assets at the end of Feb. was £2361. And the lead
market is pounds worse now than it was most of the time
when this loss was being made.
The elaborate statistics issued by the Gernmn
metal co.’s, which are the biggest dealers in Broken Hill
levd sulphides, must give the man who bought shares on
an £lB lead-basis the shivers. Except in the last couple
of years, the average price of lead for 12 months has never
for 20 years past been above £l4 11s , and only five times
has the average exceeded £l3 ss. Moreover, values of most
commodities have fallen in 20 years ; but possibly lead
ought to be an exception, because silver (in the produc-
tion of much of which lead is a by-product) has had so
awful a slump. Still, in spite of that slump, silver pro-
duction has increased enormously, and with it, of course,
lead-production also. Therefore, there doesn’t seem
much of a reason why lead should escape the general
decline. At the last Broken Hill Proprietary
meeting, the chairman announced cheerfully that the
world’s production of lead in ’99 (’OO figures are not even
yet available) had decreased by 20,000 tons compared
with ’9B. These German figures support that; the de-
crease is here set down at 21,000 tons. But the chairman
didn’t announce what these figures also allege, that the
consumption had fallen away 14,000 tons, and that, in-
stead of exceeding production, as it has done for many
years past, production in the two years ('9B and ’99) ex-
ceeded the consumption by 33,000 tons. Metal statistics
are probably worse lies than a lot of other statistics, and
besides, these German cos. are big metal buyers (in fact,
most metal statistics are issued by buyers); but, for all
that, they don’t make pleasant reading.
» • * *
Some N.S.W. dredging yields: Turon No. 1,
270 z.; No. 2,20 oz. for 10 days—2oz. per day. Sellers
now at 125., no buyers, and the Sabbath tipster seems to
have forgotten them. His readers probably have cause
for a better memory. Araluen Valley, 41oz. for 10 days’
work ; Araluen, 14£oz. for 61 hours ; Shoalhaven River,
28oz. 17dwt. ; Macquarie No. 1,18 oz. Why this great
falling off? Kiandra, 30oz. ; Colombo, lOJoz.
* » * *
Glenfine South, Vic.: Shares were recently
over £lO ; they are now a little over £5, for which there
seems to be full and sufficient reason. “ The north drive
on the west leer at the deeper level has been stopped for a
time at least; the country has become broken, and what
little stone continues is of poor quality. The end of the
shoot of gold in this direction appears to have been
reached. Going south on the same leg the stone continues
to keep strong, about Bft. still in the face ; but the quality
has seriously deteriorated. The stone may improve
again, but the falling-off seems rather ominous.
* * * *
There has been trouble at the Waihi gold-mine
(Maoriland’s biggest), in the Upper Thames district, over
the dismissal of sundry men who were Union officers, for,
as the manager alleged, exercising a disturbing influence
in the mine. Numerous representations were made to
him on the point, with the result that, although he
claims the right to exclude all sentiment from business,
he has reinstated two of the men.
* » * *
Aproposoi current newspaper pars re prospecting
in Rhodesia, S’Africa, and the chances of success, it
must be remembered that the British S.A. Co. may, if it
thinks fit, claim 50 p. c. of everything found by a pros-
pector, and the possession of a “ miner’s right,” costing Is.
(for the stamp) renders the holder liable to be called
upon for active military service. Living is not
dear, but fever is as prevalent and deadly on the high
veldt of Rhodesia as in the swamps of the Mozambique
Territory on the coast, though slightly different in char-
acter. Prospecting consists of hunting up “old workings ”
supposed to have been worked by ancient civilised people,
many of which, however, present no more appearance of
age than the old open-cut, abandoned 30 years ago, of the
Royal Standard at Woods’ Point, Gippsland. It is the
“Romance of the Dark Continent” that keeps London
speculators’ interest up in Rhodesia, not the gold that
has come out of it, for one mine at Kalgoorlie has
produced more gold in one month than all Rho-
desia has turned out since its occupation by whites.
Barring an unpayable trace near Umtali, and a little
round Macequece, in Portuguese territory, no allu-
vial has been found, although the niggers dredge it up
from the bottom of the Zambesi at Tete, with a gourd at
the end of a long bamboo, from their canoes. There’s a
tip for another distant-dredging boomster 1
* * * *
The Bulletin’s newly-discovered and very
peculiar Mining Poet once more :
The statement for the year ending 31st Dec.,
1900, issued by the Australasian Department of the
Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York, has been for-
warded to The Bulletin, from which it appears that the
figures published in these columns last week were Jncor-
rect. This statement gives the figures which will appear
in the official returns to the British and Australian
Governments, and from it we quote the following:—
Year Increase
1900. over 1899.
Premium income _ «. £9,215,544 £557,681
Total income .. .. .. 13,018,126 85,453
Assets 66,889,764 4,909,366
Contingent Guarantee Fund St
divisible surplus .. .. 11,614,368 1,320,210
New business issued & paid for 36,140,869 1,387,918
Insurance & annuities in force 234,393,817 18,240,796
It is claimed that in our remark that it is a very expen-
sively managed institution, due allowance is not made
for the fact that premiums on new policies amounted to
over 27 per cent, of the total premiums. Of course, an
institution which is extending its business so rapidly
must incur a large outlay, and as in a life-office the ex-
penses are mainly incurred in obtaining the new business
a comparison of the ratio of expenses to income is apt to
be very misleading as between offices whose proportion
of old to new business differs. The point to be arrived
at is whether the outlay has been justified by the results.
In the case of the Mutual Life of New York there appears
according to the present statement to be no doubt it has
been so justified.
With respect to the Loans on Policies on ac-
count of Deferred Instalments of Premiums, we are
informed that the system is not adopted with a view to
swell the assets, but because the method of valuation of
policies and allotment of dividends found most suit-
able to such a colossal Company, tabulates the
reserve required on each anniversary of the policy
assuming all premiums paid to such anniversary.
Against this, must therefore, appear as an asset any
instalment of premium not yet due, less cost of collec-
tion. This asset, the co. contends, is neither “intangi-
ble ” nor “ unproductive.” When any payment has to be
made under a policy, the asset is perfectly tangible, ana
if a policy lapse, the balance taken credit for is more than
covered by the reserve. It is also productive, as an addi-
tion is made to the annual premium-rate in the case of
quarterly or half-yearly payments to cover interest and
extra expense. We are also informed that the liabilities,
which we assumed to be valued at 4 per cent., are in part
valued on a 3i per cent, basis.
• • * •
Maoriland is the first of the Australias to break
away from the silly custom of offering' the local investor
in State securities less than is reverentially tendered to
the gilded British creditor. Last year King Dick floated
£300,000 4 per cent. Treasury Bills on the London market.
This year he is about to issue £500,000 bills at the fame
interest on the Pig Island market. There is no doubt of
its success, and M.L. will have the satisfaction of knowing
that the £20,000 annual interest will be spent in the
country; and will also pay income-tax, and be available for
further investment at the same rates to pay off the
British gold-draining loans on which no income-tax is
paid to Maoriland, the gold being forever lost to the
country.
* * * •
The Union S.S. Co. of N.Z. is making a strong
bid for the Canadian passenger-traffic by placing the
Moana in the trade. Capt. Carey, the Pet of the Pacific,
her genial skipper, has made many successful trips in his
time, including—it may be judged—one to the Blarney
Stone.
* * * *
Cabled that the Pattisons, of the whisky-dis-
tilling firm, are to be charged with fraud in the flotation
of Pattison, Elder and Co., into Pattisons’, Limited. By
the way, was there ever in Australia such a splurge in
whisky-advertising as that made by Pattisons’ rep. r
SELL BEFORE THE CLEAN-UP
Twenty heads of stampers—four mortars in a line,
With enough engine and boiler power to equip another
line.
The copper plates are silvered and ready to absorb
The golden metal from this very rich mine.
The wine is o’er the fly-wheel, and the starting valve is
turned;
The cams revolve, stampers drop, and pulp flows o’er the
tables.
With a swish, swish, and twenty heads are beating to the
tune —
“Sell before the clean-up—take your profits while you
may ! ”
Twenty heads of stampers lie idle at that mine.
The reef is large and easily won—but gold is hard to
find.
Mine samples are all very fine—but mills do burst a lot of
mines.
So sell before the clean-up—take your profits while you
may !
Kalgoorlib.
BILLOFAWAYBAOK.


Com plete
Outfits.
ħ
AN ORIENT
16/6
AN ORIENT SUIT^-
ALL GLASSES OF GARMENTS
.. IN THE ..
“Orient To figeasure" filatliina
.. AT ..
PRICES^
Write for Particulars and Patterns.
ggorg< 8, Barrack Sts., Sydney
RAFFAN S SULPHUR PILLS are the Oldest Remedy,
have seen centuries depart, and still remain in
tavor as the Best Laxative for Biliousness and Sick
•»i.«'« u £ e £&£ e * E P som Sa lts not their equal.
RAFFAN S SULPHUR PILLS will cure anv illness or sick-
ness by perseverance.
RAFFAN’S SULPHUR PILLS saves Health, produce
Healthiness, and Freedom from Disease ; keep
you Mentally Healthy, regenerate the Faculties
—Reasoning, Judgment, and Will.
1/-per box of 50. If not obtainable locally, send stampsl/1
0,, AN ’ Pharmacist, 55 Elgin-street, Carlton, or'
d Garroway’s Rooms, Queen’s Walk, Melbourne.
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR OIL
for the hair.
Preserves, Beautifies, Nour-
ishes and Restores it more effect-
ually than anything else; pre-
vents grey hair and scurf. For
Ladies and Children it is the
best preparation ; a'so in a Gold-
en Colour for fair or grey hair.
ROWLAND'S
ODONTO
FOR THE TEETH.
Whitens and Preserves them,
prevents decay, sweetens ihe
bre ith. Ask for Rowland's ar-
ticles, of Hatton Garden, London.
Sold by Chemists and Stores.
Forget all your troubles,
Reverses and debts,
In peaceful enjoyment of
HOME CIGARETTES
SOCIETY
At the overflow meeting about the Conine-
ham case at Sydney Town Hall, it was resolved to
request the Attorney-General to prosecute certain
persons concerned in the Coningham-O’Haran
case. Perhaps it may be expedient to let the
Gonmgham case slide for good—possibly it may
be better to put up with a ease or two of periurv-
forgery or forgery-perjury than to further stir up
the black blood of sectarian hate. But the Coning-
ham-case perjury-forgery question certainly does
yell to Heaven with a loud voice for an authorita-
tive legal pronouncement as to who did the forgerv
and the perjury. Somebody has richly earned
seven years hard.
* * * *
One point about Melbourne’s gorgeous
preparations, in gala, for the Duke of York is
the disrespect involved to the memory of Queen
Victoria. The State is supposedly plunged in the
deepest mourning only three months after the
good Queen s death. Yet here it is to be all High
Jinks. Hopetoun plainly doesn’t like it. He re-
fuses even to go to the play.
■ * *
Already the late Victoria Regina is gently
fading into history The idea of the permanent
recognition of her birthday has slumped to such
an extent that it is now announced that, on May
Alrd, Premier Barton will merely “ ask the Com-
UNDRESS UNIFORM.
HE: "Phew! Hot isn’t the word! A nice cool coat of
paint is the sort of costume for this place.”
SHE: “ Yes, if one could yet all the fashionable colors.
But they might shrink, or the color wash out, or
run. The old defect! ”
HE : Not at all: The nude effect!”
monwealth Parliament to adjourn over the follow-
ing day, as a mark of respect to the late Sove-
reign, whose successor is not yet crowned. Any-
how, the idea was absolutely absurd. If Victoria’s
day was to be maintained ■on account of her
record reign, there are several other English and
British sovereigns who have achieved records in
some line or another. Alfred the Great, as a
Dane-smasher ; Bill the Conqueror ; King John
who made a record march through France ; Henry
V, who inspired George Rignold ; Elizabeth, who
put up a record in piracy and Armada-smashing •
Charles I, who was a record loser till he made a
final flourish by losing the top-end of himself ;
Charles 11, who is popularly supposed to have
put up a record at hugging pretty women. All
these are record-breakers in some line or another
and if the birthdays of all these, and the rest who
h£ive not been herein mentioned are keDt as
wodd n “fe be a gtiev ° us d6 “ th » £
a fri!itfSS ter h r!H ays . are said t 0 have been
s s Tab/r.pTni? ° f elay m . the bearing-up of the
. . lalune (alleged poisoning) mystery as to how
/ he witness™
COUk not ? ream of spending their
has S d fl ft, f i a u d 80 \ he accused Mrs. Smith
for a few f «v + fUI C,U f ge hanging over her head
T«L tra weeks ln order that some Pig-
wlbbf q J“ ay ??* lose their holidays. Mean-
antidWS d ih ey D ' : li LY Telegraph continues to
" , the evi dence for the prosecution in
thin^ t H f dmary i T, ay> l)y hiring forth every-
T , |: - f r ;, t lat f c an tell against the woman. The
majonty _°f the people who read the D.T.
she i S qU ', te satisfied in their minds that
nnf vl g ty ’ an( l under present conditions it will
Smitb W a 7-f? r ‘he Crown to prove that Mrs.
Pm Tl ®/ew Patrick Conway. That is, thanks to
taken for granted. Mrs. Smith will
deceased rf°- ve jhat she did not poison the
eceased. It is a dead certainty that the majority
of the jury will have read the Telegkaph and
eee influenced thereby. This
wl ,“ ry badly wants the American system, by
whmh the jury couifl be asked, for challenge, had
they read the newspaper accounts of the case. It
Ju A l V ak f 81x m onths to get a jury, but better
trial * take 16 months than allow a prejudiced
* * m *
i l 1 1! tbe other day a poor woman
lost her husband. A kind woman of position
*l° bn® tbe larder if necessary, wrote am
ottered help. The poor woman replied in person
and immediately opened-out as follows: “But
that s a big sum you’ve put down in writing, and
ve got your name to it.” The lady was puzzled
until proof was put m, and there, under her sig-
nature, was “26/2/01.” It turned out that the
suffering widow had some hundreds deposited in
her own name, but wished to leave them intact!
Haute nuance in humble life
* * « *
Some time ago this paper published “A
Plea for the Loving Woman,” in consequence of
some most uncharitable remarks
passed by a titled Maoriland lady on
the subject of maternity. Apparently
Mainland’s Chief J ustice shares that
lady s (his wife’s) ideas. Two girls
were charged before him with con-
cealment of birth. Both had borne
their children under sensational cir-
cumstances, one of them being con-
fined in an open paddock in the
early morning hours, without the
slightest assistance, proper or other-
wise. After the child was born the
unfortunate creature dragged herself
from door to door vainly begging to
be taken in. The other girl’s expe-
rience was equally dreadful, and both
had suffered a night of dantesque
horror that might have been con-
sidered to have wiped out their
“ sm.” Of course, both the children
died under the circumstances, and it
is wonderful that the mothers did
not also die. Found guilty of con-
cealrnent of birth, they applied for
probation, and the Chief Justice
asked were there any previous con-
victions. lhe police said there were
not, but tendered the information
that both girls had been illegal
mothers before, for which reason the
Chief J ustice sent them both to gaol
for six months. The C.J. empha-
sised. the fact that the previous un-
legalised maternity was his sole rea-
son for this course. When the first
magistrate of a country allows his
decision to be thus influenced, what
can be expected of the average bull-
headed J.P, ?
* * *
The Salvation Army tea and
coffee business is making big strides
in country centres, having a great ad-
vantage over competitors in the fact
that the retailing is done by members
° f th ® Army without commission.
Lhe Army, as a money - making
machine, is something for the retail-
dealer to dread. Judging from under-
paid and often starving officers, it’s
hard to believe that all the cash goes
m the service of God !
™ e T e ’ s nothing but White Australia in
this letter, anyhow :
~ . Bulletin.—Why let any correspondent chide
the Maordanders and South Australians for placing the
Indian officers of the Imperial contingent on a different
footing from the white men of similar rank? The black
man, whether African or Indian, is inferior to the white
man , and, if not treated as such, soon begins to think
he is superior. The fuss over Ranjitsinhii’s cricket made
him a conceited little darkey, who took every opportunity
f? ord , lt ° ver white Australians, considerably higher in
the scale of development. If Ranji had been treated
according to Ins color he would never have been
permitted to enter a cricket-ground with a white man.
“ - haVe b< * h compelled to travel in the
coloured carriage on the railway lines, and in the
Transvaal he would have been sjamboked had he pre-
®Uand6d k® fo , ot P aths instead of on the dirt
load. This distinction between African and Oriental
niggers is lllogically founded upon the fact that the
Indian has a better brain, by persons who forget he is still
socially and morally only the equal of the negro, who is
his physical superior. The matter is simply one of evolu-
tion. The proper place for the coloured man of all sorts
is half-way between the white man’s house and the
monkey-cage at the Zoo.
A.ll the same, Ran j i’s Indian ancestors were
probably scholars and gentlemen at a time when
this correspondent’s British ditto lived in a hole
in a rock, with a coat of blue paint for clothing,
and gnawed raw bones with indecent noises before
throwing them at the hairy female in the corner.
* * * *
In Melbourne they are hiding all the. sore
places on the route the Yorks are to travel
Which recalls how, when old Nicholas of Russia
travelled through his dominions, they used to build
flourishing villages, through which he would pass,
and turn the steppes into flower gardens for his
Imperial eyes to dwell upon. Then, when all was
over, there was a big sale of lumber, and much
com pouched by the transformation artists.
* * » *
The Plague continues to bob-up spas-
modically in Brisbane in a manner which is certain
to rum that city’s chance of slavering the Yorks.
Last week a man staggered into Brisbane hospital
and complained that he felt “cronk.” He was
put to bed, and two hours afterwards was carried
dovvn t° the mortuary, where autopsy dis-
closed Plague as the cause of death. Brisbane’s
cheap Asiatic is apparently bent upon finding her
out at the most momentous period of her grovel-
some history.
* * * *
Papa Madden tried to talk like a
father to a deputation from the Unemployed
m Melbourne the ■ other day. His Wax. is
described as being “sympathetic but straight,”
whatever that may mean. He raised some ques-
tions for the Unemployed’s careful consideration
and gave them “sound advice ” in regard to “an
unwise threat ” about demonstrating before their
Royal York nesses ; then he promised to lav the
case before his Ministers. If the Unemployed are
wise they’ll keep that threat going for all it is
worth. Ihe bare idea of a ragged demonstration
the dear Duke and his “ old dutch ” makes
the y ictonan aristocracy’s blue blood congeal, and
it the worldess and hungry show that they are
determined to carry out the threat the Naicest
will be glad to buy them off at any price. The
Bulletin s advice to the Unemployed is to keep
its tail up and go the whole animal!
* * *
If the Jookoyork doesn’t visit Gippsland
the irrepressible Frank Geaph, LL.B., will have
nothing to reproach himself with. Geach, who
would do well in London as an auctioneer of the
florid Gothic type, posted from Melbourne a letter
and numerous stereoscopic views (with a stereo-
r?H tO l '■' ie l etter deserves to work its
tell intent, for it addresses the august little Per-
sonage as “Sir,” and goes on thuswise— “The
enclosed photographs will alike serve to illustrate
ttie pristine grandeur of this continent when sunk
m its centuries of sleep, and the marvellous
results accruing from the Briton’s daring.
Garbed m a mantle of vegetation tropical in its
luxuriance, ranging from the fairy maidenhair
tern to the forest monarch piercing the clouds
and peopled by a race of moral giants, Gipps-
land would yield a most fascinating ramble.”
recent meeting of the Duchess of
York s Welcome Committee (Melb.) a prominent
member suggested that a thousand horse-women
should jog alongside the Duchess’s carriage during
the procession. One has only to note the physical
proportions of the committee and know whv the
motion was lost.
* * * *
Be Mr. Lyons’s great Australian opal,
now said to be under offer to Edward YII as a
gift, and the well-known superstition that bad
luck is attached to these beautiful stones. The
famous “ Hope Opal,” which cost £7QOO, belonged
tor years to the Hopetoun family, which suffered
a succession of misfortunes during the period of
ownership After its sale, luck returned to the
Hopes. When last heard of, the “ Hope Opal ”
was shown for sale in a jeweller’s window.
Writes a
correspond-
ent :
Have the Syd-
ney police no
power to stop and
fine drivers of
vehicles who pro-
ceed, at full trot,
between the kerb
and the tram-
line, past tram
stopping- - places
while passengers
are in the act
of dismounting?
Writer saw a
four-horse ’bus,
coming along at
a brisk trot, push
right through
between the sta-
tionary tram and
the kerb as tram
passengers were
in the act of de-
training. One
poor woman,
paralysed with
terror, fell al-
most before the
horses’ feet, and
would have been
seriously injured
had not a big
muscular man
promptly picked
her up and held
her back. Half
of the number of
recorded tram
accidents are
easily traceable
to this cause.
The tram stops;
a passenger es-
says to alight;
he perceives an
approaching ve-
hicle coming
along at a good
rate ; he draws
back; the vehicle
passes- -still at a
. , , brisk rate : the
Si"t*“ncfC i 'S,ff'vSv“ 8 S 1 'iT kln ?“ •**»
S&/^ , ±Y h 0 f
vswpKfte
wfttCiSgipK”' their «» “>* "*•
Norbert : Watched an exhumation at
thTthl ‘‘t-?T etei & , Saw by the headstone
Sl, silent tenant had been deposited there
nlotu ? agro - SoniB , hones were unearthed and
h,mH l, J !i a COff , ' ilt the graveside. Here I took a
hand and pointed out that the “digging ghoul”
had invaded the premises of adjoining occupant.
On inspection he admitted his mistake, and un-
S! ly pshfd hack the “relics” with the
| a , 6 f h . lB shovBl through the tunnel he had
inadvertently made. However, lie gave the ex-
pectant group of relatives a “run for their monev”
by so'emrdy transferring to the casket a shovelful
of dark clay- and a rusty coffin-liandle—said clay
M«fbS„S pattern ea,!mix ' il by
* * * •
A Devonshire-streefc cemetery yam :
The; necessity for removing the bones of Maria’s iong-
u'.'';le John took me the other day into that Sydney
S° t. department in winch business in connection with
Devonshi re-street cemetery is being conducted! VVhe„
a loud voiced R n p ld official was occupied in disregarding
a loud-voiced Hibernian person, and another was busilv
to X” f r ln tr h mn " r ' B ' his . nails - Wherefore, it was “up
to curb my impatience and await my turn. As I
“\ es,” said the voice of officialdom, “ I~ah—under-
graves.thWhoafna3mes?^> U a — h -i»terested - tour
“ I tould ye.”
“ Tell me again.”
“ Well, Bridget Donohue.”
“ Yes.”
“ v ary Ann 9. asey ’ Have ’ OO g°t Bridget Donohue ? ”
<< X? s ’ vW St 9° on> Tell me the others.
M'K-ee’n Larkll ? s —an’ l want compinsation—an’ Bridget
M .f ve wrote to Mishter O’Sullivan about it.”
Written to Mr. O’Sullivan about what?”
Snure, I’ve tould ye. Compinsation.”
for ? 9, ompensafclon '■ What do you want compensation
r Z h , lm COl 'P S > av course. Holy Saints ! it’s what for do
Lw fc . CO ‘T nsatlon . ye ’ r . e axin me—an’ me jist afther
claimin me four mothers-in-law !
** * *
“ Bushie ” : If 50,000 people, in “our
Christian N.S. Wales,” so forget the God who
died to save them that they spend a happy holi-
day watching horse-jumping at the Agricultural
tohow, on the nominal anniversary of His death,
What chance has the mere S’African contingenter
who goes to save Britain (and himself), and doesn’t
die it he can help it, to be gratefully remembered
m the time of his necessity—after the war’
Multiply by a trophy of Boer whiskers, divide
by ±>oers teeth, and give the answer in terras of
British “generals ” who are chasing De Wet.
* * *
Lord “Bobs” was represented in the
Melb. Druids.’ procession last week by a Druid
standing in a conquering-hero attitude on an imi-
tation kopje, and maintained the prestige of the
fcjtnpire magnificently till lie struck the telephone
wire communicating with the Morgue. The wire
took “ Bobs ” under the chin, and the overthrown
warrior had to be carried away to hospital. An
awful omen—the straight wire, so to speak !
The Fatter
Th e Better.
[FOR BULLETIN.]
“ I wish you’d drop your “ new ” fads, Belle 1 and settle down
for life;
I long to see you wed! you're growing old ;
A friend of Pa’s will call to-day, who wants you for his wife—
He’s a dear man, Belle, and worth his weight in gold! ”
“Bight! mummy, I’ll get mashed on him! and wed him straight away >
1 our “darling gin's ” got sense enough for that!
Bring on your trembling suitor! worth his weight in gold you say f
Kind Fates! I only hope he’s nice—and fat.”
ALONE.


Lord and Lady Hopetoun and suite dined
at the Australia, Sydney, prior to their departure
for Melbourne.*
A man at Watson’s. Bay, Sydney, caught
with a very fine waterproof lineaseaturtle, weighing
301 b. And anybody who is not inclined to believe
this can see the man’s statutory declaration, and
the turtle itself, at Mick Simmon’s shop, Hay-
market, where the well-tried line was purchased.*
There was a young man of Manilla,
Who had lost, while he lay very ill, a
Superb head of hair ;
But lie wasn’t long bare
After trying some Richard’s Capilla.*
The Pl/REST WHISKrY
in the World . . .
GEO. ROE & CO
JOHN MEAGHER & GO.
.1 ustralasia/h Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
V
Before booking- your Steamship
passage, write - for Travellers.
Gazette, and Sailing List with map’
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 .Co!lins-st., Melbourne; 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
j.d.i.z. tin.
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
only—largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15tb. Full strength, 16‘5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of .the Stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents foi
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Sydney.
The Wearing Sort!
Every pair of BOOTS and SHOES we sell is of the wearing sort,
simply because they are honestly made of honestly-prepared
materials.
h
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George Street, Sydney.
Ladies’ Black Vici Kid Oxford Lace Shoes with patent tips, in pointed, medium, and wide toes—ll/6
12/6, 15/6, 17/6, 18/6. Add 9d. postage.
Gent.’s Stylish Button Boots in French Oalf, 22/6; Black Vici Kid, 25/-; and Patent Calf, 25/-.
Add Is. postage. Buy a Pair To-Day.
“London, Sunday Afternoon.—Mr. Allen
Stoneham has presented the city of Perth (W.A.)
with the statue of the late Queen by the well-
known sculptor, Mr. F. J. Williamson.” Let us
see, what is it that mining-promoter Stoneham is
after at Perth ? Is it a tramway-concession ?
• * * *
“The Lady Mayoress would be glad.”
Thus commences an advertisement of the Adelaide
citizens’ “ York ’’-reception-committee. Why
don’t civic magnates get their fool-stulf edited
before they send it forth to the world ?
* * * *
“Galen” writes re Melb.’s water sup-
ply :
Our “Queen City’’-men sit at homo in snug content,
and think with pity of the poor devils ‘ way-back ’ who
have to drink contaminated tank and well-water.
Suburban householders squirm at the thought of the
tank, whilst putting a truly pathetic trust in the reser-
voir. Meanwhile, a certain health-authority has been
making a collection of the things which come to folk who
drink at the tap, and that collection will be a national
asset before long. Surely it is full time that our highly-
trained Board of Health staff became officially aware of
the condition of the water-supply of Melbourne and
suburbs, which comes, God knows whence, and goes down
the gullets of the people, in such condition that an out-
break of Van Yean plague seems only a question of time.
The morning bath is a pollution, the mid-day drink is a
sin, and the evening tea an absolute crime before Heaven
and Hygiene. To wash one’s hands is to defile them, to
wash one’s body to shame it, and to look at the water one
drinks is to weep. There are many people who cannot
affoi-d a filter to strain cff at least a portion of the impuri-
ties,and whose babes’ milk is diluted with this muck. On
all sides are heard complaints, but no one moves ; so the
infant-mortality creeps-up, and the adult-mortality will
creep-up, and filth will continue to foul the land until the
very stones of the streets protest against being watered
from the Corporation carts.
* # • *
When two colliers recently arrived at
Adelaide from Newcastle (N.S.W.) with their
load-lines submerged, the opinion of the Crown
law - officers was that theS.A. Act applied only
to vessels loading within the province. Recipro-
cal State action in this matter is therefore urgently
needed. But even when proceedings are taken
the unfortunate skipper is always made answerable
instead of the man who regulates the amount of
cargo, and occasionally “stands by” on the wharf
to see that it all goes on board despite mild pro-
tests from the skipper (who has his billet to look
out for).
• * * *
Presented recently “ by the officers and
teachers of N.S.W. Public Instruction Depart-
ment ” to a teacher who had figured for a space in
S’Africa as a “ captain,” a medal “for gallantry.”
Now, though the recipient, for aught The Bulle-
tin knows, may have deserved distinction 100
times over, it should have come from his quondam
military superiors ; and there would be something
supremely farcical in the conferment upon him of
a medal by his colleagues and personal friends,
were not the absurdity also indicative of the rapid
growth of the decoration-disease in Australia.
Any trinket that can possibly be construed into a
“medal” is borne ostentatiously on the watch-
chain, and every chance of donning a uniform of
any kind is eagerly seized. And, during the York
visit, the epidemic will reach the acute stage.
* * * *
“Melb.” : A mansion on a hill, near the
lity, to the north, is pointed out to me as the
latest acquisition of the Salvation Army.
Meanwhile their £30,000 Training
College goes ahead, in build-
ing, near the Eastern Hill
Fire Brigade Station.
Is this English
money, out of
the bank ?
SOMETHING LIKE A COMPLIMENT.
He (after opening a hook of hers in Which the Other Man had written that “Omar ” verse about
“A Loaf of Bread, a Jug of Wine, and Thou”): “ But why the Loaf and the Wine?”
“ Lean Scribe ” descants to The Bulle-
tin on some of the joys of country journalism :
I recently answered a Melb. advt. Editor and re-
porter wanted for a country bi-weekly.” and (things not
being too brisk citywards) asked for the modest screw of
£2 a week. Portions of reply—“ Would you accept less
than £2 ? I have several applications at much less. Do
you ride a bike ? Are you a comp. ? A few specimens of
your literary work might be acceptable.” In answer I
wrote agreeing to take 355., but didn’t get the job even at
that. Proprietor of this “ country bi-weekly ” (who, by-
the-way, in each issue has in the place where the leader
ought to be a verse of scripture) subsequently informed
me that two “journalists” would go for less than my
demand, one at 305., the other at 255. I presume the
latter was the “ successful ” applicant.
One N.S.W. soldier at least has been
stricken with plague at Capetown.
• * * •
The Chinese theory the Plague, it is
said, is that the disease has, all to itself, a special
devil, who is usually due about the month of June.
But as the time approaches for his arrival, an
Imperial Edict is issued putting the calendar
forward a couple of months. Then when the
plague-fiend comes, he says, “ Hello, I’m late, I’ll
have to put it off till next year ! ” Then —having
thus “got the bulge” on the fiend —they, the
authorities, rectify the calendar again. Of course
this is “miserable superstition”—but is it any
more so than our “days of humiliation and
prayer ? ”
* • * *
Rev. John Walker’s N.S.W. Presbyterian
fund is languishing. Cash and promises together
have stood at £31,500 or thereabouts for some
months; which is a gloomy outlook for the
£lOO,OOO modestly aimed at. If, say £50,000, had
been the sum yearned for ; and only cash col-
lared, and promises suavely ignored; the bank
account might now have been more substantial-—-
although the Rev. John has done wonders, and is
apparently a past-master in the art of stroking-
down —with a judiciously-varied stroke —donators
in esse and in posse. “ The Lord loveth a cheerful
giver.” . . . “The A. family is one of the
mo it staunchly-Presbyterian in N.S.W.” . . .
“ Mr. and Mrs. B. are loyal friends of the church.”
. . . “Both Mr. and Mrs. C. have a great love
for tiie church of their fathers.” . . . “ Mrs.
D. and her husband are warm-hearted Presby-
terians.” And so on ad lib.— the Rev. John
never overdoing the jam and never once repeat-
ing hruself. He never seems to land less than
£5O when any prosperous Scot puts him up for the
nicht.
The Bulletin will shortly have to make a
big effort to start a Foundling Hospital, at which
children will be received “and no questions
asked.” At present, conventional respectability
is an ogre that battens on the bones and flesh of
the unauthorised infant. The police are eternally
fishing up incidents that prove how dreadfully
neces ; 'ary such an establishment is. One came to
light in Victoria the other day, when a woman,
arrested on suspicion of concealment of birth,
admitted that she had slain her infant, and had
been pregnant eleven times, but had only given
birth to three unfortunate mites of whom but
one is living. And this is the outcome of
Respectability !
* * * •*
Woman crossing Collins-st., Melbourne,
knocked down by tram. Conductor hails cab and
wants driver to take woman, who is apparently
injured, to the hospital. Cabby refuses. Has
had enough trouble in previous similar cases in
getting fares out of tram co. Woman carried to
side-walk ; fire-alarm broken, and soon after .fire-
cart dashes up. Finding services not required,
ambulance is sent for and, after 20min., arrives.
Woman, a mass of torn clothing, dust and blood,
eventually carted off. And this is Marvellous
Melbourne !
* * * *
Several maiden ladies of uncertain age
brought their papers personally to
Melb. Census Office. One care-
fully explained that the sub-
enumerator was engaged to
the young lady next
door, and “she was
sure he would tell the
cat her age.”
“ Science ” on “ Female Modesty ” :
The lady who covered her face when surprised by the
bath-attendant (B. 23/3/l/’01) was by no means anomalous
—as might possibly be inferred. Very many women act
like the ostrich, fabled to hide its head in a bush in order
not to be seen by pursuers. That the idea is instinctive
may be seen by comparing- the common impression of
young children that when their eyes are covered or shut
their bodies cannot be seen. Doctors will tell you that
women under examination often find satisfaction in
covering the face with the hands. Casanova was told in
Constantinople that the most reserved of Turkish women
blushed at nothing when their veils were on. George
Moore, a good observer, in “ A Modern Lover,” represents
a modest girl-model as enduring the nude pose, but
shocked beyond bearing at sight of the resultant picture.
Incidentally, it has been observed that the centre oj
FEDERAL ELECTION
RETURNS’
A PUZZLER.
FRECKLES : “ Wot IS this ’ere Federation,
Ginger ?”
GINGER : “ It’s joinin' Tasmania onto Orstralia,
I fink”
FRECKLES: “’ Struth! ’Ower they goin' ter shift
it? ”
modesty among some Hottentot tribes, where steato-
pygy is considered beautiful, resides at the rear. For
some curious notes on these topics see Ellis’s “ Psychology
of Sex,” vol. ii, p. 46.
* e • *
“ Alba. D.” talks Art arid Psychology :
The chasteness of sculptor Mackennal’s “ Circe ” is
probably due to the absolute subordination of the ab-
dominal lines—a treacherous task to all but genius. In
denuding the figure of hip and abdomen, in the interest
of chastity, the painter or sculptor is liable to lose the sex
lines —the feminity of the figure. To the ascetic all flesh
is gross, and for centuries the Lean Woman has been held
up as the type of spirituality and purity. Psychologists
are fearless image-breakers, and they aver that the Thin
are, in numberless cases, sensual to a degree approaching
ferocity. It is the slim, wistful woman who is
the veritable man-eater, yet it is the slim, wistful
woman who is chosen to represent the angelic
type—praying lips and upturned eyes. The heavy
young damsel known as the full-blooded Hebe —heavy
bosomed, broad-beamed and lazy, is supposed to be the
embodiment of wickedness. As a matter of fact, she is not
fond of man, but of his dinners, his money. When she isn’t
eating she would prefer to spend her time in long, brilliant
periods of sleep. She predominates in our pictures, sur-
rounds our beer-machines, simply because Fat is synony-
mous with vice and ease. Rich men pass gold bangles to
her over the counter-lunch. And the Thin Girl—who is
all that the Fat Girl ought to be —hits a type-writer in a
stuffy office, or frets out her sensuality in a slop clothing
factory.
* • * »
The riiie-range habitues of Randwick,
despite the Supreme Court injunction obtained
against the practice, still keep blazing away at
the targets. Residents of Coogee at rear of range
forecast that someone will be hit shortly. The
rapid-volley-firing folly, which wastes much am-
munition that the taxpayers pay for, is chiefly
responsible for stray shots. Lined up in 50’s or
more, with instructions to fire within a time limit,
how can raw recruits help “ strays ” ? The rifle-
man who aims slowly and carefully, however new
to the game, cannot send a bullet over the hill.
• * * *
In Sydney Medical circles they are saying
that a jug may go to the well once too often.
m * * •
A casual stranger of meandering mind,
taking a constitutional near Williamstown (Vic.)
lately, wandered into the quarantine ground at
Cut Paw Paw. He saw nobody, and was strolling
homewards when an enthusiastic official spied
him, and he was promptly secluded, vaccinated,
and kept there a few days till his indignation
cooled off. They have a smallpox patient there
just now, and as it isn’t often Victoria gets a case
of that sort she likes to make the most of it.
* * * *
“ Melb.” : A disgusting sight is the throng
of poor aged men and women waiting all day for
their pension money outside the pay offices. The
Civil Servants have an altogether false idea in
treating this as Workus business, and pensioners
as paupers, especially the wemen.
* * * *
“Phormi”: Par. in B. 9/3/’Ol, re jury-
disagreements, doesn’t state the whole case.
Whilst many, do dodge jury-duty in the way
stated, there are others who are afraid to trust
the judge with a “guilty” verdict. I remember
alO days’sittings of a M.L. Supreme Court, in
which only in the first case did the jury find a
“guilty” verdict —expecting that the accused (as
one of the jurymen told writer) would get six
months at the outside. The judge, however,
dealt him out a savage three years “ hard.” Re-
sult, no more convictions that sittings.
* * * *
The “Harrny” gets nearer and nearer to
military rules. In Melbourne the other day a
Salvation laundry lass was degraded to tub-
washing for six months as a result of having
cheeked her “captain.”
*** • *
Fatherly-looking Vic. Education Minister
G-urr is putting his foot down against sending
young females to remote districts to share a room
with half-a-dozen others and to live on salt-junk.
He is insisting on two rooms and decent living for
all country teachers ; or—no pedagogue !
» * • *
“The 20th-century woman,” writes The
Bulletin’s London correspondent, “is easily
going to ‘out’ her fin-de-siecle sister, according to
a life-taking case just concluded. Maud
and John were lovers. Maud, a fine-
looking, upstanding filly, coming on
rapidly, and with enough physique and
affection for half-a-dozen Johns. The
man, a respectable', four-meals-a-day, go-
to-bed-at-ten shopman, had no right to
indulge in such Indian curry as Maud.
Clouds in the shape of relatives arose ; a
storm brewed ; and Maud, ‘ heeled ’ with
a loaded six-shooter, arrived at the shop
of John and dropped him dead in his toy-
tracks. Arrest—jury. Maud explained :
had gone to shoot herself before her cold
lover—struggle, and he was accidentally
shot. All evidence, even her avowals after-
wards, pointed to murder. Nathless, the
usual petticoat-blinded jury acquitted Maud.
But the Crown intervened and prosecuted. Mur-
der evidence still more damning, but jury again
acquitted ; • then the Crown charged Maud
with attempted suicide. Of course she must
plead guilty, and Justice Phillimore ladled
her out 15 months’ hard labor ! Now, what
will the Commonwealth pay for that gentle-
man’s services for 12 months? Maud’s de-
meanour in court excelled that of a veteran
Old Bailey barrister.”
* * * *
Charming letter from one of those
cents whom Victoria so carefully protects,
as produced in Melb. Criminal Court,
t’other day, during the trial of the “ boy ”
in the case :
I'm going to be married. I have been acting the goat
with a boy. I told him I was 17. . . lam going to
have him for ever. He is 23 years of age. I went to the
beach with Will. He bought me a ring and two false
teeth. Good night, mother.—From your son and
daughter.
Judge Holroyd agreed with the jury’s recommen-
dation to mercy, and ordered a week’s imprison-
ment.
Advt. in an Ipswich (Q.) paper :
WANTED at once Three Aldermen for the Muni-
’ ’ cipal Council. No Gray or Bald-Heads need
apply.
The Ipswich satirist is slightly at sea. It isn’t
the gray or bald-head that is the trouble with the
average alderman—it’s the paunch. Prohibit all
aldermanic candidates of more than a certain
girth and you’ll soon find an alteration in the
municipal policy.
RECESSIONAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I wandered, crowded by the crowd
Which, at the Show-time, Sydney crams,
And all the time I cursed the loud
Procession of tumultuous trams.
At least ten thousand times a day
I had to waltz out of their way.
As flooded streams sweep round their curves
They thundered ceaseless, car on car,
Sure only he who has no nerves
May know exactly where he are,
Or where he art, or where he am,
When every moment means a tram.
What bells and bawls, what squeaks and squeals,
What screams and shrieks, and how they shake
Themselves, when to the grinding- wheels
Is hard applied the hoarse, harsh brake.
A Bishop would say many damns
(Nor e’er be heard) amongst the trams.
And now, returned to the grim gum
From spree and street and shop and show,
Amongst the tramless paddocks dumb—
The Station’s pianissimo —
You’d think a rare relief I’d find
At thought of trains left far behind.
And yet, amid the untongued tracks,
The soundless scrub, the silent; plain,
Whence comes no noise save when one whacks
The bush, I long for trams again !
You’d say the contrast could but soothe—
Alas! the opposite’s the truth.
And frequently—thus far from town—
The reins upon my neddy’s neck
I drop, and dream of knocking down
For ever an eternal cheque.
And then my heart leaves ewes and lambs
And listens to the longed-for trams.
MOUSQUETATRE.


“ He’s from the Country.”
Such is the expression intended to convey the
idea that he is easily deceived.
MARK FOY’B success is a Town Trado.
The Keenest Judges in Bydney haunt FOV*B.
If yen asked City Friends to get your wants,
they would surely so to FOY’S
the fun of the thins l 8
~l rU 'MARK TOY, SYDNEY.
Bame prices and attention as if you bought amongst the daily crowds at the oountera.
Sorrowful remark by a Dunedin (M.L.)
beak = , From my experience here, I think it’s
not ” lttlo matfcer w^et^er witnesses are sworn or
Th? magisterial inquiry into the loss of
Mr 1. C. Kerry’s yacht Ariadne, which recently
went ashore at the mouth of the Waitaki River
M.L, is digging out some interesting facts!
.Lloyd s surveyor valued her at £5OOO. Present
owner bought her for £2OOO, and she was insured
m London last year for £20,000. The evidence of
Lloyds surveyor was to the effect that the yacht
was not well found, and the charts were inadequate
for safe navigation. The captain was said to have
expressed great surprise that when the lockers
were opened all the electro-plated ware had dis-
appeared ; and the general impression is that the
owner of the Ariadne (who, by the way, was not
on board when she ran ashore) has had particu-
i! rd ll "l k - j ur -f expressed an opinion
ashore 6 Captam dld not try to run the yacht
A peregrinating Australian writes from
London, that “Florodora” as produced there
would not run a week in Melb. or Sydney. Con-
K at^ th 'r fair Australian Florodoriennes
could not be duplicated in any part of the world
Imported feminine beauty, as a rule, possesseth
either too much or too little outline. The ideal
willowy shapliness of figure is purely Australian
and when expressed by the P.D. Corset-and
there is the secret of the “Florodora” sucoess—the
result is, that perfection of grace and charm
known by the naicest” everywhere as the P.D.
(perfectly divine) figure.*
Lightest Wines in Australi,
(HIE TEIS have WO Equal,
Ateherley & Dawson, 284 Geerge-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
„ „ . Sydney, April 16, 1901.
Mr Dear Arini,—
, A.J.C. fourth day’s racing was close and excit-
ing and the day itself was close and depressing.
With 75 per cent, of moisture in the atmosphere,
and wearing its new winter clothes, Society must
have reminded itself of a steam-jacketed vat.
Every woman over nineteen looked wan and
hollow-cheeked.
A few women wore all black hats with gold
buckles. Nellie Stewart’s raiment was among the
most noticeable in that crowd of 12,000 odd. It
was of lovely cream silk with yeasty chiffon ; and,
with a pale blue hat, the effect was lighter than a
syllabub. She brought her little daughter, who
was in deep mourning-for a favorite doll.
Nellie introduced other infants to her own,
and the small child responded with quaint
gravity and invitations to view the dead doll
which is still lying in state. Grace Palotta,
I forget her frock, but I remember the big red
rose tucked into her hair (nestle is, I believe, the
suitable word), after the fashion O’Neil. Mrs.
Claude M Donald (once Miss Ethel Greene), wore
a startling frock of ficelle lace with a pink over-
dress cut like asparagus, and a hat with black
feathers which would have made her comely face
look creamy instead of yellow, but for that 75
per cent, of moisture.
Boleros and zouaves were plentiful at the races.
The bolero is first cousin to the zouave, and both
are simply wicked unless their cut and your figure
are slenderly perfect. A large-hipped woman in
a zouave ! There’s one line of demarcation above
the waist, then the waist-line and the light strik-
ing straight down ! O, the Artist does hate the
zouave ! I once saw so good a figure as Mrs
Brough s get quite a hunch-back effect out of a
short black velvet zouave worn over a light bodice.
Such very tall women, and such a lot of them
were at the races. Some one told me that they
came from the Hawkesbury. I know a woman of
five feet eleven, and yet she wears cork arrange-
ments in her shoes to lift her another half-inch.
We usually associate the position of Mayoress
with rotundity of figure and a thick neck. Most
of the Mayoresses I’ve known got very hot and
shiny-faced after their three-thousand’th conse-
cutive hand-shake. But Mrs. Graham, gay and
girlish-looking, accomplished four thousand hand-
grips (assuming that everyone was thoughtless) at
her first reception on Monday last, and finished
looking no hotter than the ice she ate. And the
long, long smile (long in point of time, please)
really looked to be her own, and not merely an
official acquirement taken over with the Town
Hall suite of rooms and other municipal per-
quisites. Mrs. Graham wore a black-and-silver
frock with heliotrope and black hat, and received
in a foliage bower that would have made a good
aviary had it had wire outside its walls of green
Decorations and refreshments were all that the
artistic and hungry might desire, but the crash-
bang of the organ was too loud. I did not notice
this but myself. A lady whose double-
barrelled name has r’s and b’s in it couldn’t find
her card when it came to having the name
announced. So she spoke it in low, incisive tones
to the usher. He, raising his voice against the
organ s, announced Mrs. Augustus Johnson.
“I could forgive the Augustus and the John-
son, she said, “but not the missus.” A number
of race-dresses came. Also a lot of dresses built
to make you scream.
An odd thing about this reception has been the
rarnd spread of excitement since it was anouneed.
u 8 Somebodies, °f course, were ready for it. Then
the Anybodies, even from away back, began to
rouse up, and finally the Nobodies, from far and
near, poured into town, and from 3 to 5.30 p m
fairly assaulted the Town Hall. Wild-eyed, de-
termined-looking, they were intent upon greeting
the Mayoress ; but it was with a bigger ambition
—they were famishing for York ham !
The rational way to enjoy a Mayoress’s recep-
tion is to go with a party of, say, four. Go early
and secure a sofa or five or six chairs close to the
foliage sanctuary, syndicate your skirts to keep
the whole of the lounge or unoccupied seats, get a
little table m front of you with a large stock of
assorted pastry, and say “more tea, please
waiter, every time one passes. Hundreds of
persons go to Mayoresses’ receptions in the
rational way, and so trained are some of their
faculties that by the time the reception is over
they have an accurate knowledge of about 3000
toilettes from the skirt-binding up to the quality
of the toque crown. And their watching has not
affected their preying either, or their lien on the
unoccupied seats.
One of the frocks at the Mayoress’s reception had
a vest collar and cuffs of that beautiful ribbon-
work. which, at a little distance, looks like hand-
painting on satin. The ribbon, about the tenth
of an inch wide and shaded from palest to darkest
violet, was fashioned into flowers, rosesand bunches
of lilac, on a satin background. It was wonderfully
cunning ” and becoming, and it has a historiette.
Ihe damsel who wore it—a brunette of about 19
—saved it from being made into a tea-cosy. Her
mother had seen, admired, and acquired it for
that purpose.
Trebelli Dolores’ second warble came off last
Saturday. Toe singer still sticks to the classical
programme Handel—Purcell—and composers of
the 15th and 10th centuries, and high-toned
moderns such as Massenet. By the way, the old-
tlme < r ora P osers just mentioned had a good idea of
their business, their music seems unusually fresh
and spontaneous—is the local article too vain to
take a hint ? All the same, going back to the
programme, it’s very much an open question
whether a lest exalted programme, musioally,
would not bring better houses. Australia
is not very bright at its music, and it likes
3 tnnll to be homely for instance on
Saturday I m Ower Young to Marry Yet ” and
, n ®, Laughing Song ” were rapturously received,
oth being old friends. Mr. Clarance Newell
played several things on the piano in a nice, kind,
inoffensive way, and was encored once or twice.
, A Politician’s wife, who is known to
difficult with her domestics, lately issued
invitations for a select little dinner-party; but
when the evening arrived, and the guests were
assembled, the hostess was horror-stricken to dis-
cover that cook, _ laundress, housemaid, and even
coachman had disappeared, leaving their mistress
and her daughters to struggle through with the
dinner-pa rty as best they could. This is the lady
who once expostulated ” with her coachman bv
turning the hose on him.
Doctors of this State are giving a dinner and
reception at Hotel Australia to-night to profes-
sional brethren who have served with the forces in
AA- D you have a medical degree and thirty
shillings you can be there. This was the heaviest
faster the Australia has known. For the second
time in its history its tower was densely inhabited.
t , A Manual of Etiquette for the Nation and the
Individual, with Special Reference to the Enter-
tainment of Royalty, and Suggestions as to pro-
per demeanour in the Presence of Superiors.”
Compiled by J. D. Hennessy. The dedication of
this apparently-coming work, a forecast of which
appeared in last Monday’s Herald, will be to the
People of N S. Wales and the Right Worshipful
the Mayor of Sydney.
Did Everybody read Mr. Hennessy’s prose-
poem in last Monday’s S.M. Herald? If you
i d “7^ cry body—didn’t certain days of your child-
hood flash back upon you—days when you had
played the wag and had eaten nine immature
quinces with six ounces of brown sugar? Spots of
the letter reminded me of Dan O’Connor. For
instance: “Biff the concert commences, and,
under the spell of music and song, the audience,
rom the highest to the lowest, are carried willing
captives through the erolden gates of sound.” Mr.
Hennessy was “induced”—he should have said
inspired to write that letter for the inform-
ation of the community,” and, from the apparent
accuracy of his knowledge, he must have enter-
tamed Royalty, probably in that lane off Hunter-
st., where his modest brass - plate clings to a
dingy wall. Strong men read that letter breath-
less and bare-headed. Reverential grovel exudes
from every full-stop. If we took Mr. Hennessy’s
advice, and if by-and-by the Ancient of Days
himself came down with the Seraphim and Cheru-
bim in attendance, in what greater spirit of self-
abasement could we receive the Divine and
winged beings ?
Then, amid intense silence and strained atten-
tion, the Right Worshipful the Mayor of Svdney,
with a representative following, approaches their
Koyal Highnesses and places the offering before
the Duke and Duchess as a memento of the Mother
otate Ihe silken Union Jack covering the
golden souvenir is lifted . . .” We can feel that
silence even now beforehand. The next article
r? Jr u He “ n ? 8 5 i y 8 letter in the Herald is on
Adulterated Butter.”
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:
“Lord Hopetoun and the pair of maiah-
generals— French and Downes—paid a visit to
A m V? gt ° n rac ecaurse the other day to discuss
with the secretary, Byron Moore, the best ways
and means of arrangmg the ‘York’ Review and
thif 6 o f. re m°ni os a.ncl refreshments incidental to
that outing. 14,000 troops are to provide the
military portion of the show, and when they are
m position the Jook and Party will arrive at the
far end of Flemington course (barouches are to
carry them from town) and there start a horse-
back procession down to the Grand Stand, cheered
all the way by the common folk who have paid
for admission to the ground, and by 7000 Govern-
ment guests who will jubilate gratis. For every
two soldiers on review we are to be blessed
with one distinguished visitor, if you please •
e - W . hol f nobl j y my of invited ones will
take their turkey and champagne simultaneously.
A *‘£‘ P00I “* which has been more or less
needed at Cup-time for some years, is now coming
to pass ; and with this addition to the Flemington
establishment, and a careful allotment of different-
colored tickets on the Beauchamp system,
Byron Moore hopes to get everybody seated at
one fell swoop. But what an order for caterer
Skinner . Knives and forks, glass and crockery
forTOO0 *“‘»<®°f ‘he
“Lady Hopetoun, when in Melbourne before
Upp ° S j d to i lave * he greatest detestation for
street crowds, and was frequently escorted out per
thedoor 7 nf mn ? i t P V ng dera .°cracy swarmed at
the door of an establishment in which she hap-
pened to be shopping. This trip the Block push
and eV Mr m p e greedy and obtrusive than before,
and Mrs. Governor-General cannot be set down
f n ny "J ore 0 re within the city limits without bZg
instantly surrounded by an open-mouthed wide-
at Her r Ex d JjthH others like magic, and stares
at tier Kx. with the unblinking stare of Lawson’s
luny bullock. The other day, the Governor
£ S R- mage ? to PP. ed in Collins-street, and
her Ladyship was alighting when she noticed that
crowd 7 WaS fill - ing with a scrambling
crowd , she thereupon instantly resumed her
seat and was driven away. The Countess hates
her mission as a peep-show.
“’Tis said that just after the Commonwealth
£ and the Period of Mourning, the Widow
of Cliveden intends to launch her second daughter
(Vera) upon society from the starting point of m
extra-gorgeous entertainment. There’ll be a bv
thm!lh°p vis , ltln £ British somebodies on hand
though Royalty itself is unattainable. ’
“S’Rupert’s stepmother, vastly popular with
Victorians, as a rule, awakens much envy among
the more ambitious dames of her own set. These
high-steppers bitterly resent the Widow’s sort of
semi-official standing, attained to some extent by
her own liberality and. geniality in periodically
welcoming to her own house societies of various
kinds, en mane, backing up bazaars, and putting a
helping finger in every pie. Handsome Mrs.
What’s-her-name, who gets credit for wanting to
oust the Baronet’s relict from her pre-eminence,
seldom spends a penny or wastes a smile on
the world of nobodies. Once in a way,
she condescends to boss an exclusive Holy of
Holies at some charitable function, where she
dresses down her colleagues and tactlessly cold-
shoulders would-be customers. Then she wonders
why the public plumps for the Widow of Clive-
den.
“The Melbourne Tramway Co. must have
spent many thousands in completely relaying the
St. Kilda Road track. This is another bit of
work done in view of the Royal visit. The track
has also been elevated 18 inches. This was made
necessary by the St. Kilda Road improvements,
the whole road having been re-made above its
former level. It is now quite the finest and
longest boulevard in Australia.
“ A hot controversy rages among C. of E. folks,
about the erection of grand-stands on the Cathe-
dral Close, facing Swanston-street. William Cain,
a lay member of the chapter, defends its action in
making hay while the Jook shines; Parson
Hindley leads the attack. Very nasty things
have been said on both sides, and, of course, much
Scripture has been quoted. Even Adam and Eve
have been dragged into the controversy. The
tem per displayed suggests Cain and Abel. Hindley
is Abel. J
That Charity fair at Como (the Armytage
place) was less chic than in former years. It
happened, not in a nice garden, but in a paddock,
as if it were a Sunday School picnic or a Salv’-
army encampment. One approached the concert-
room through what appeared a fowl-run, and hens
are hens all the world over.
“Mrs. Vallange, young and pretty as ever, in
pale grey trimmed with cream lace, grey purse-
bag slung to her belt, white chiffon ruffle with
tuoked scarf-ends and black hat, sang agreeably.
Both she and sister Ruby (who contributed a song
m a pretty little twitter) sport the newest
coiffure— i.e., puffed-out but very smooth, hardly
waved at all. The front hair parted to one
side, ends on the forehead in one, two or
three smooth stiff curls rather like Carmen’s
lovelocks’ or a Coster’s ‘kiss-curls.’ Not
so pretty and light as the one loose little centre
curl of yore, they look smart enough unless the
hair is very dark and massive. Some people, of
course, will travesty the idea, and pile over one
eye a cluster of short, solid sausages. Gold purses
and lace, lisse or chiffon boas are epidemic. Veils
are prevalent again—fine, black ones, with an
occasional big dot.
At the fair, S’Rupert’s liege lady provided a
refreshing streak of variety among many mincing
fashion-plate women—all studied mannerisms and
intonations. Nowadays she is rather a hand-
some woman, with expressive eyes, marked fea-
tures, and a so-so complexion. There was nothing
notable about her Como costume except a droop-
ing hat of coarsest magpie straw, but she stood
yarning with a white linen apron round her neck
to keep off the sun, while her neighbors posed
and simpered round her with one eye on the
photo, man.
Ella Russell must have felt rather disheartened
by her first experience of ‘ grand ’ opera at the
1 nncess s. A few hours after her arrival in Mel-
bourne, the yellow-haired prima-donna sampled
Mignon ’ from the manager’s box. The boxes on
the opposite side were empty; the dress circle
audience couldn’t have filled every seat in the
front row if they had tried ; and the attendance
upstairs and on the floor of the house was very
off. No wonder Madame Ella sat with her back
turned to the empty benches all the time. Posi-
tively nobody there to admire her diamonds—and
such a display, too ! String of diamonds round
her plump white throat; an aigrette flashing in
her hair; diamonds at her breast and on her arms
A very blonde, imposing lady is 1 Miss ’ Russell,
the Oountess de Righini. Age uncertain, smile
gracious, amiable dimple on her cheek. Her com-
plexion is so fair that it gets easily ‘ caught by
the wind but needs very little make-up to look
ovely behmd the footlights. Hubby is a dapper
little Italian Count, of the kind that seem born to
be connected with the lyric stage by matrimony.
C ?i rdial audience applauded Ella Russell’s
"If* r},, ourne lnn,n gs as Leonora (Sat., April
i.l). Ihe opera went with a swing, not only be-
cause of the newcomer; all the singers were on
then- mettle, and showed what they could do.
After all Ibel ieve «u Trovatore’ suits this co.
better than anything they have done so far.
J anson gets her fling, Salvi is in his element, and
altogether Musgrove knew what he was about
some months back when he opened the operatic
campaign with a sprint by the tuneful ‘ Trouba-
Q° ar ' oome of the local musical elect pronounce
Saturdays performance one of the finest ever
vouchsafed to Melbourne.
Ella Russell is not unlike Miss Lorraine
in looks, though rather less bulky of figure
and not so fresh and pretty in face. She wears
her own nice golden hair, has a large mouth
and is very dramatic. Indeed, as the tragedy
thickens, her vigorous acting rather knocks the
wind out of her voice department. Her first
gown, of creamy satin, has a brocaded front, stole
sleeves, &c. She sits out to take the veil in
frosted white brocade and hair down her back
and sings outside the fortress in decollete black
velvet and black chiffon head-wrap. In this
mournful scene, sharp eyes spied gaping placket
or pocket, and a glint of white between bodice
and skirt, but one can forgive a trace of untidi-
ness in the toilette of a heroine whose whole world
is tumbling to pieces. The pleasant, plump trou-
badour seemed slightly flurried by the impetuous
caresses of his new Leonora, who ruffled his hair
for him, and bustled hihi generally Salvi
always makes such an ideal ‘ Mammy’s boy.’ In
Carmen,’ remember how he bursts into audible
blubbering when he hears of Mamma’s illness and
bellows Omy poor muzzer ! ’ In the ‘ Trova-
tore prison-scene with his gipsy parent he looks
quite the model lad, in juvenile black velvet tunic
and knickers, nicely braided with yellow.
~ d.c. were S’Malcolm M'Eacharn with
old Mis. Stephen, wrapped in black velvet, lined
with white satin; Mrs. Frank Stephen, with
white tulle and black feathers in her hair, and
black-zouaved white gown ; Mr. Vallange, boyish
as ever, despite S’African experience ; and Mrs.
.Bingham, violets in hair and black lace over her
white satin cape. This pretty, graceful matron
soon follows hubby to England. It has
been a great disappointment to the Lieut.-
Governoress that the husband of her youngest
and favorite sister failed to obtain the desire
or his heart and remain in Melbourne as
Commandant. Mrs. Bingham, the most con-
genial ot the young Maddens’ numerous aunts, is
also very popular with his Waxellency, her
brother-in-law. On the other side of the circle
sat more of the same theatre-party—Janet Lady
Clarke, in plain, low-necked black gown with
transparent sleeves; Mrs. M'Eacharn, in severe
blaok velvet not a sparkler about either of them.
S Malcolm’s wife, plump, fair, and flaxen-
haired as of old, retains, as the result of her facial
paralysis, the inability to frown—not such a mis-
tortune as if her pleasant smile were cut off. The
convalescent, however, still feels frail, and says
that she s been suffering too long to believe that
complete recovery can as yet be hers.
Miss Mary Clarke, who sat with young Mr.
itzgerald, wore ivory satin, with black velvet
straps over her bare shoulders, while little sister
era, m white muslin and her dark hair atop,
prattled more vivaciously than her seniors.
T he P'nschof-Wiedermann clan filled a box, as
usual, and had their bouquets and box of sweets
carried to them in state by consecutive ushers.
Conductor blap. bustled about between whiles,
as cingin the greetings of a large acquaintance-
ship Big John Forrest, over from W.A., wan-
dered rouhd the back of the d.c. and fumbled at
t e wrong door, as if he hadn’t begun life as an
e f P c ’ rer ‘ Baddy Zelman in a skull-cap, and kind
other dayT Beaumont > represented the lights of
Just now there’s a shuffling-up of musical
critics, due to the resignation of big, taciturn Mr.
Cuenett, whose vacated chair now holds sparse,
grey-headed, whimsical ‘ Nono ’ Morrison. The
latters father handsome old Dr. M., of ‘the
Scotch, doesn t look much older than his son, of
whom he used to say, in reference to the younger
mans legal career, ‘My son is one of the most
cultivated youths m Melbourne, and yet ’
Barents, as a class, all cherish the secret convic-
tion that their children are horribly mistaken in
ganging their am gaits.’ Fate apparently makes
a point of chastening the old folks at home by
s unting their offspring on to non-ancestral lines.
The Herald’s new critic, Herr Hartung, is a
spruce, elderly German, who, in Lady Loch’s
with* H " U ”’ * k ”*
In The World ’ Harrie Ireland wears two
smart costumes— ace polonaise over pale-blue,
and black suit with zouave and appliques of large-
patterned cream lace. Off the stage, one often
sees Harne now-a-days, in black coat and skirt,
strolling with Styan.
~ "u cert l aan £ a y bachelor, who generally runs for
the hare but scarcely ever gets home with the
hounds, is in the hunt again for a fine plump
P nze \ « 8 even money so far ; for the beauty has
passed through the ranks of many to return to the
thm line of eligibles m Melbourne. Then the
popular and much-tried bachelor has as good a
show as any of his peers this side of the globe.
“ Word comes that the tall, broad-shouldered,
double-chinned fashionable, whose portion of an
extensive estate was allotted by the Law not so
long ago, has taken for better or worse, in the
(rreat Smoke a certain St. Kilda charmer who
went Ome a few months ago. He was quite his
own master and she her own mistress, so they had
only themselves to please— yet the relatives of
the wealthy bridegroom declare that the “boy”
really acted very foolish ly-i.e., without their
advice. But the girl’s relatives are quite satisfied.
“The census people really should be more
careful. In the paper left on the respectable
householder they give a specimen form to show
how the document should be filled up. Here is one
or their specimen entries:—
Anne Campbell, servant, aged 27
Janet Campbell, servant’s daughter, aged 12.
So that the imaginary Anne had a daughter at the
age of 15—a somewhat early age, even in this
country, surely. Also the governess living in the
house has an infant son !!! * 8
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


No Waste of Words.
Evidence Which is
Right to the . . . Point, and Reliable.
If pain attacks you, or you notice any deviation
from regular health, try and locate the cause, and
discover which organ of the body is weakening.
If the kidneys are at fault—and in nine cases
out of ten when health fails they are—look well to
their restoration to health and strength.
They are the filters. The purity of the blood
depends upon their cleansing powers. If the kid-
neys get weak the blood soon becomes impreg-
nated with impurities. As they reach a more un-
healthy stage a scalding or irritation is felt, while
a dull ache or pain in the back makes you mise-
rable. If the water, when allowed to stand 24
hours undisturbed, shows a sediment, or is cloudy,
you cannot afford to ignore it. If allowed to go
on, your face will get pale or puffy—especially
under the eyes—the feet or ankles will swell, or
the heart begin to act badly.
Kidney disease weakens thousands daily. An
eminent scientist once said : “Take care of your
kidneys and your body will take care of itself.”
Mr. T. J. Castner, of 8 Victoria Parade, Pad-
dington, N.S.W., wrote, on 28th August, 1900,
saying : “ Some five years ago I was under medi-
cal treatment for severe pains in the back ; in
fact, I was completely done up. After giving a
fair trial to the doctors, who then wanted me to
undergo an operation by crushing a stone in my
bladder. I was advised by a friend to try if
Warner’s Safe Cure would benefit me. After
taking three or four bottles, I felt better. I con-
tinued the course for about five months, and am
now, thanks to Warner’s Safe Cure, free from any
trouble whatever.”
BEFORE INSURING ELSEWHERE ascertain what
The Mutual Life Insurance^
Company of New York
CAN DO FOR YOU.
Established Over
Half-a-Century.
FOR YOURSELF—
An Income for Life.
An Endowment for Early Retirement.
A Pension for Old Age.
FOR YOUR WIFE—
A Definite Amount at your Death, and
A Fixed Income for her Life.
FOR YOUR SONS-
Money to start in a Business or a Profession.
FOR YOUR DAUGHTERS—
Marriage Settlement Money, or
An Income for Life at your Decease.
FOR YOUR BUSINESS—
Additional Capital at your own or Partner’s Death.
All Policies now issued by THE MUTUAL LIFE embody conditions of guaranteed Automatic
Paid-up Insurance ; Extended Insurance Free of Further Charge ; Loans ;
Liberal Cash Surrender Payment.
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT: Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager.
Branch Offices :
SYDNEY— Company’s Building, Martin Place.
MELBOURNE—2B9 Collins Street.
BRISBANE— 377-379 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE—73 Kino William Struct.
PERTH —St. George’s Terrace.
HOBART—3B Macquarie Street.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Himyadi Janos
For LIVER COMPLAINTS. OBESITY, 4c.
The "VIENNA MEDICAL PRESS” says:-
** Hunyadi Janos may be regarded as a specific for obesity.
Average Dose.— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with
. similar quantity of hot or cold water .
CAUTION.
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
‘ ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The new King’s title: Edward the Caresser.
There is a Melbourne impression that
National Treasurer Turner’s ill-health will pre-
vent him continuing in office.
Madden perhaps consoles himself with the
idea that Chamberlain was afraid of his accom-
plishing a Napoleonic coup d’itat.
David Syme is hanging a temporary
portico of pine and stucco on the front of the
new Age building in Collins-street, to gratify the
Yorks.
Dean Farrar, whose serious illness was
reported last week, schoolmastered Primate
Saumarez Smith in Marlborough College in the
latter’s Latin-syntax days.
Kingston and Holder both confess that
they have no committees, no secretaries to thank.
In the Commonwealth election they left them-
selves in the hands of the electors with very good
results.
“N.” : I never saw it in print till just
now that Clarence and York were rivals for the
hand of Princess May, and she preferred York all
the time. One might have imagined it was
coming.
J. Wilson, fertile third time “ runner-up ”
for M.L. rifle-championship, is the sole sur-
vivor of the Wilson family, who—father, mother,
sons, and daughters —were murdered in the
Poverty Bay massacre by Te Kooti’s followers in
’6B.
“ Melb.” : Demise, Ben Teesdale, aged
88, the handsome, white-bearded, florid, fur-
capped veteran who since time began lias been on
view as he sunned himself at the polished brass
railing in front of Cleeland’s Albion Hotel. For
years uncountable he had been Cobb’s agent.
In the Austral Light (R.C. mag.) one of
the cloth tells how lie was travelling with a doctor
who was expatiating on a successful operation for
trephining. The priest asked “Where is the
patient?” Doctor: “ I don’t know. His cere-
brum is in that jam-tin, and his cerebellum in that
cigar-box.”
The Duke of Clarence, eldest son of King
Edward, was born very prematurely, about six
weeks before the expected time. He was brought
forth after the Princess had been skating, at
Windsor. The layette was at Marlborough
House, and the youngster had to be packed in
cotton wool.
Is there a Boodlewraith Curse 1 Since ’93,
MTlwraith, Drury, Byrne, Palmer, Dickson, and
Chataway, all in the forefront, have gone to final
audit. Two alone have soft temporal seats —Sam.
Griffith, Chief-Justice ; and Nelson, President Q.
Leg. Council; and one is a.lawyer and t’other a
Scotchman.
Gregor M‘Gregor, the S.A. Labor senator,
got into politics through his capacity for telling
anecdotes with a humorous twist. He, unlike
most of the Laborites who have come to the front;
in politics, was an unskilled laborer—just a pick-
and-shovel man, and L not ashamed of it. It is his
great misfortune now that he is well-nigh blind,
having to be led everywhere. His memory is,
however, remarkably retentive.
SWEET ECHO!
MOSES (humming softly as he waits for a pro-
spective customer to undo his chain): “My
g'chain, my [?]chain, my pretty, pretty
if chain! ”
Tom Bent (Brighton, Vic.) was in a Govt,
money-order office t’other day and saw a police-
man helping to count the coin. Bent was amused.
“First time I ever saw a ‘ Bobby ’ doing duty as
a bank-teller.” “Almost as strange,” retorted
the policeman, “as seeing a cabbage-grower in
the Speaker’s chair.”
The Syd ney women who have started a
special purse of sovereigns for Dr. O’Haran would
behave better by merging their contributions in
the general fund. Further, Dr. O’Haran, who
has just had a lot of not unflattering likenesses
of himself printed for circulation, would lose
nothing by being just a little less effusive.
Of the three new N.S.W. State Ministers,
R. G. D. Fitzgerald, member for Robertson, is
the least known. R.G.D. is a solicitor up Single-
ton way, and a good Federalist. His electorate
is merged into the Federal “Hunter,” and he
gave great encouragement to Barton when he was
deciding on a constituency.
Of the ten N.S.W. Conventi<mists of 1891
only two, Barton and M'Miilan, have won seats
in Federal Parliament; of the ten who sat in the
Convention of ’97, six—Barton, Lyne, M Millan,
O’Connor, Reid, and Walker—have won seats.
Three of these latter ten did not stand, and one—
Wise —stood and was defeated.
Walter Bennett, M.L.A. for Durham, ap-
pointed lion, member of John See’s Cabinet, is a
native of Maoriland. He has been 10 years m
N.S.W., almost all the time engaged in country
journalism. Mr. Bennett, who edits Dungog
Chronicle, has lately been trying hard to estab-
lish a weekly supplement for the general country
press.
One very much defeated S.A. candidate
for the Senate unblushingly, and with a bland and
child-like smile, told the electors at. the calling of
the poll that he had merely come forward to find
out where he was best liked in the State, so that
he might present himself there for election to the
local Parliament. The roar of derision was a roof-
raiser.
Poor old Mint-sauce Jones, the almost-
forgotten back-number of Vic. politics, was a can-
didate for the Fremantle (W.A.) House of Repre-
sentatives seat; but he didn’t get as many single
votes as the winner got dozens. A miracle of
the elections over there, by the way, was the
oppressive silence of Newcastle’s windy warrior,
Tommy Walker.
To cite Critchett Walker as a man ap-
pointed to an under-secretaryship on the same
basis as Fegan was a bad Bartonian “bloomer.’
Mr. Walker was a quarter of a century in the
Civil Service before he reached his Under-Secre-
taryship. He went in a youth, and climbed and
climbed. Actually, he is a perfect type of the
growth and bloom of the competent civil-servant.
Sunday Times, of Perth (W.A.), now
seems to be owned by a speculative R.C. priest.
Tommy Walker, erst of N.S. W., is editor. Vos-
per, when he started the paper, was agnostic and
died a penitent R.C. The padre held a mortgage
over the property, so it fell into his hands. And
now Tommy Walker —spiritist, freethinker, in-
fidel—runs the journal for its clerical proprietor.
It was interesting to watch Slangdon
Bonython’s election ad v ts. in his self- Advertiser.
The address occupied just a column ; and every
issue it was propped up hard against the choicest
news-stuff of the day. It leaned oftenest upon
the bosom of the Coningham case ; but when
divorce was “ off ” the farmer was invited to pass
from a description of the prize bull at Adelaide
show to a vivid description of what Slangdon had
done for the State’s producers. But he didn’t
stop at that—he was, of all the candidates, by far
the most liberal advertiser in the country papers.
Altogether, his was the most strenuous bit of
electioneering the dust-province has known, and
it resulted in Slangdon being sent in far ahead of
Premier Holder.
Lately the Supt. of Public Watering
Places prepared for the Pastoral Land Com-
mission a long, interesting, and valuable re-
port on the artesian bores of N.S.W. —the
best thing of the kind yet produced in the
State. To it the modest Minister O’Sullivan
prefixed a page of hifalutin and not too
grammatical Sullivanese : and then it was
' all issued with the Supt.’s name printed in
small type on the title page, and with the
O’Sullivan’s in about as big as the Govern-
ment Printing Office could supply. No
wonder his officers love him so !
Judge Onslow, the retiring Chief Jus-
tice of Westralia, was a Cambridge contem-
porary of present British Lord Chief Justice
Webster ; and, both being crack athletes,
especially on the long - distance running
tracks, they were thrown a good deal to-
gether. Onslow represented his ’Varsity
one year in the annual contests with Oxford.
He still retains his fondness for athletic
sports, but has more diligently cultivated
his classics ; indeed there were few finer
classical scholars at this end of the earth.
Varney Parkes, appointed to the
Sydney Harbor Resumptions Board, is the
second member of the late ex-Premier Parkes’
family to accept Govt, employment. A
daughter was recently appointed visitor to
asylums for the insane at a small salary.
Pai'KC.s often asserted that while he lived no
member of his family would fill a Govt, billet.
Musical critic Guenett, who has just
severed a 15-years’ connection with Melb. Argus,
has probably passed through as many accidents as
any man living. An Englishman of French ex-
traction, Guenett possesses a Gallic temperament,
which leads him into paths especially conducive
to casualty. From his youth onwards he has been
accustomed to being thrown off horses and out of
buggies. He has twice had his skull fractured,
and was given up by his medical advisers on both
occasions, but it was with the advent of the
bicycle that he was afforded full scope for his
Brassey-like "faculty of “falling-off.” Ever
since, he has been half his time either with his
arm in a sling or hobbling on a crutch.
THE CHANCE HE MISSED.
STREET MUSICIAN : “ Please give's
somethin’, mister, if it’s on’y a
copper. Got a wife an’ family at home, an
I’m a good Christian man.”
THE GENTLE INEBRIATE : “ Good Christian man,
are you? Well, why didn't you snap up
Marshall-Hairs job at the University?”
Knights in the Federal Parliament. In
the House of Representatives : From N.S.W., 2
Lyne and MMiilan ; Vic., 3—M‘Eacharn, Quick,
Turner; IS. A., I—Bonython ; W.A., I—Forrest;1 —Forrest;
and from Tasmania, 2—Braddon and Fysh. In
the Senate: Vic., 2—Sargood and Zeal; S.A., 3
—Baker, Downer, Symon. Queensland has no
titled man in either House, and N.S.W., W.A.
and Tasmania are without titles in the Senate.
Leo Cussen, the Melbourne barrister, who
got “plucked” at the Wannon election for the
Federal Parliament, had a brilliant University
record, taking first-class honors in all his years.
A clever man, as well as an able lawyer (a civil
engineer, too), Cussen is not a good platform-
spouter. And how is a polished representative of
higher culchaw from town going to win a country
election on the Tory ticket, if he can’t stir ’em up
with his tongue ?
Frank Fox, the new chief of Melb. Age
staff, started life at 1G as a private in a line regi-
ment ; but, being bought out by his parents after
six months, drifted into presswork, and eventually
came to Australia for his health. He was on the
defunct Standard, and afterwards started the
ill-fated Sporting Standard. He joined the
Age about five years ago, but Syme’s staff has
had such rapid changes that there is not now a
man on it senior to Fox.
Oscar Bailey, the pushful “ infant ” of
Federal Hansard staff, and Adelaide’s only con-
tributor thereto, learned his lightning shorthand-
ing in Sydney. Soon, while still a lad, he wanted
to try the S. Aus. capital; and, other means fail-
ing, he tramped right across, via Gobar, Wil-
cannia, and Broken Hill. He got a chance to
report a rather intricate j udgment of Chief Jus-
tice Way’s, and the little bigwig was so pleased
with the result that Bailey was put on his feet at
once.
John Kidd is again a State Minister. A
quiet little man, he is liable to be overlooked
when forecasts are being made ; and none of the
cognoscenti tipped him for a place in the recon-
structed N.S. W. Govt. In Dibbs’s last Ministry
the selection of Kidd was a surprise, and he was
supposed to be a makeweight for the R.C. Tom
Slattery—Kidd was to keep up the Protestant end
of the log. Kidd’s Orangeism is perhaps the
main reason now for his selection for a second
term of office.
“Tom” Hassall, M.L.A. for up Moree
way, has left the N.S.W. Ministry, in which he
held the Lands portfolio, and is going to England.
For months it has been assumed by everyone that
the burly Thomas was to be appointed Trade
Commissioner, or something of the sort, to the
State of N.S.W. in London. Premier See
strenuously denies that Hassall is to receive any
Govt. job. And he ought to know. Still, every-
one is wondering why Tom Hassall unmurmur-
iugly abdicates £l2OO a year.
Poet Arthur Adams didn’t meet many big-
gun “specials ” during the China war—they were
mostly in S’Africa. He came across Lynch, of
the Sphere, who got away from the siege of Lady-
smith by the simple expedient of walking out, but
was afterwards captured by the Boers. The
Sphere, according to Adams, gives as much as
£5O for a photo. Whitall, Reuter’s agent, dropped
in for loot in the shape of £lOOO worth of silver,
in boxes. The most noted pressman was, of
course, Dr. Morrison, who, despite his long
residence in Cnina, can’t speak the language.
When he walked through China, years ago, Mor-
rison could just cackle 12 words, and he hasn’t
learnt many more since.
Frank Anstey, the .ablest Vic. laborite out
of Parliament, was originally a sailor, and in the
middle ’Bo’s, as a lad of 18, was staying between
voyages in a Sydney seamen’s boarding-house.
A strange tar, a thick-set man of 35, blus-
tered into the room one night and tried to
bully young Anstey into bringing his sup-
per. Anstey declined, upon which the
stranger made use of expressions which
impelled the future Labor-man to saunter
up and push his face hard. Taken aback
by the onslaught, the newcomer picked
himself up, and, announcing his inten-
tion of eating Anstey, rushed on him,
but in a couple of minutes was left
stretched on the floor. The pair
never met again until 15 years later,
when Anstey, being in Bourke-st.,
Melbourne, one day, with Marshall
ILyle, observed a man whose appear-
ance, despite Pharisaic respecta-
bility, somehow reminded hnn of
his old life. As the man turned his
portly figure Anstey saw a mark on
his cheek, and, like the true artist,
recognised his own touch. “ See
that man?” he said to Lyle, and
related the incident. “Do you know
what he is now?” asked Lvle.
“You’d better take care he doesn’t
have his revenge for that thrashing,
after all ! He's the hangman ’. "
Oscar de Satge, long since
retired to England, who has just
issued a book of Australian reminis-
cences, was one of the genuine pioneers
of Western Queensland, and in the
long, long ago established himself on
the Diamantina —then a veritable Never
Never. De Satge was along, lank, seri-
ous man, of strong Tory feelings, in
which, unknown to him, several Radi-
cal sentiments flourished. In Parli-a-
menthewas admitted to be able, but he could
never form a party or hold on to one.
Toby Barton soon escaped from tin* posi-
tion his equivocal felicitation to Dr. 0 1 laran had
placed him in. At the huge public meeting to
the triumphant doctor he sent a message, so
warmly congratulatory in its tenor, that the
silence of other prominent public men stood out
in bold relief. It would have been a graceful act
had G. H. Reid kept*him company with a similar
message, but such a course would have been
skating on very thin ice as regards certain of his
following, and G.H.R. lay low.
Cassells’ new “ History of Woolwich Mili-
tary Academy ” mentions that Khartoum Gordon
and Adam Lindsay Gordon were thereat the same
time. Then it discounts its own credit by the
statement that A. L. Gordon was accidentally
shot on a moor in Scotland! The assertion is
made that he was expelled from Woolwich, for
“ horse-stealing,” with extenuating circumstances.
He owned a racehorse, but it was detained
for debt. Gordon broke open the stable, took
the horse, and won a race with it.
Just before election day, one N.S W. can-
didate for the Senate—a man who went through
the country with an advance-agent, just like a
circus—sent out, or somebody sent out on his
behalf, to all the country papers a half-column of
fulsome liogwash, asking for an insertion of it as a
leadin' / article for—one guinea! It began some-
thing like this:—
Of all the candidates for the Federal Senate, the one
most certainly deserving of a place in the six is .
And, alas, The Bulletin has actually seen that
“leading article” in two or three prints !
The death is reported of Sir Harry Pais-
ley, who for many years earned a breezy living as
a “ poker ’’-sharp on the Atlantic steamers. He
made at least one successful trip to and from Aus-
tralia and the East, but Sir Harry’s best hauls
were accomplished between London and New
York. The profession of always winning at
cards, and winning most persistently when the
stakes are highest, grows difficult for even the
nicest of men when he gets to be old and notori-
ous, and Paisley died in poverty, sad to say. An
overdose of morphine shuffled the gentlemanly ill-
dealer off in New York, and there he will sleep
in the best of card-sharping company until
Gabriel’s Trump calls him to be euchred.


TRY
MAGONOCHIE’S
CELEBRATED
Worcestershire
Sauce.^^—
Most Delicious
and Cheapest.
SOLD EVERYWHERE .
Australian Representatives :
bwipt & CO.,
7 Spring Street, Sydney.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager
Hotel
Australia
Rates from 12/6 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
The AUSTRALIA HOTEL is fireproof
from tower to basement.
Rapid elevators run day and night, and
an efficient night-staff regularly patrols
the building.
Hot and cold water are in every room.
Private suites, combining bedroom,
sitting-room and bath-room, are one
of the most attractive features of the
hotel, and a post office, telegraph
office, hair-dressing sa'oon, bookstall
and cigar-divan, are included in the
building.
J. SMITH (Late of Menzies’), Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
“ Matelot ’ l tells of an interesting person-
age :
He was a fellow passenger of mine recently from
Hongkong to Port Darwin—a sexagenarian Frenchman,
well-known up north as a bird-catcher and taxidermist.
Came to Australia first in the ’so’s, and since then has
been all over the Northern Territory, W.A., M.L., and
Polynesia, besides “collecting” in America, India,
Egypt, China, and the Straits Settlements, for London
Zoo and Jamrach, of Hamburg. Once, when he was
smuggling about six dozen poisonous snakes on a French
steamer from Australia to Marseilles, some one cut a hole
in the snake-box. Result—the crew were promptly
“’way aloft,” and the passengers locked themselves
in their cabins. The old fellow and his bird-tender killed
a lot of the reptiles, and then he was put in irons, being
allowed out each morning to attend to. his feathered
charges. At Mauritius he jumped overboard, swam to a
British vessel and claimed the protection of Gov.
Broome, who refused to give him up, and the
French captain reported the matter to his
Govt. A sentence of three years gaol, and a
rousing fine was registered against the snake man.
The collection of snakes represented two years’ hard work,
and old Louis stood to draw £7OO had he got them to
London. Another time, taking home “ dickies” in a
German liner for Bartlett, of the Zoo, he found that the
crew were looting his cages. A remonstrance to the
chief officer was laughed at, so Louis mounted guard one
night with a shooter, and hearing a rustling amongst the
birds, fired in the dark and shot in the knee a marauding
fireman. The man lost his leg, and a big row ensued at
Hamburg. Bartlett came over, and eventually Louis was
released, whereupon he gave the fireman £2O. When I
met him he was on his way home after more adventures.
With a big shipment of birds he had taken passage for
Europe via China in the Futami Maru, which was wrecked
on Mindoro in the Philippines, and when the passengers
and crew left, Louis stayed on to try to save some of his
property. Single-handed he boated ashore a lot of cages,
and his larger stock—cockatoos, wild geese and ducks,
cassowaries, emus and kangaroos—he liberated on the
island, where he thinks they will become acclimatised.
After fearful hardships and exposure, he was taken off by
a steamer and brought to Manila, went home, sold his
salvage stock for £3OO, visited Paris Exhibition, and came
out again. In the early 70’s he went to Europe, joined
the French army, and was taken prisoner at Metz. The
old boy, who is still as hard as nails, now contemplates a
run to Papua to catch birds of Paradise, the Prince of
Wales and the King of Belgium being named as buyers at
£2OO per pair. This man’s real biography would beat
Rougemont’s romances hollow.
* * * *
" Trotter ” descants on one aspect of Far
Northern agriculture :
On the Tully River (Cardwell, N.Q.) the late James
Tyson owned a large tract of splendid scrub-country,
which he intended for sugar-growing. This land was put
up for auction lately, but had no buyers. An enterprising
"speculator” bought 10,000 acres recently at 10s. an
acre, and intends cutting it up in sections and leasing it
to Ohows for fruit-growing 1 . The Chows have made an
appearance in this district—as in all others in N.Q.—and
mean to stay. The meat-works people intend starting a
“ jam-factory,” and the heathen comes along accordingly.
The Tully and Murray Rivers are suitable for fruit-grow-
ing ; and tropical fruits of all descriptions—such as pine-
apples, mangoes, oranges, &c. —will flourish there ; but
the middle-man comes in and fleeces the cocky. One
pumpkin-squatter sent 60 cases of oranges to Townsville
and lost 6d. a case on the transaction. Tried Normanton
and lost a florin ; now he sends to the Chows, and gets
a return. A Chinkie bought a man’s crop for £2B
and cleared £lOO. The shark won’t let the producer
live.- Saw a man in this district putting up house, sheds,
fee., for Ohows. He told me he had leased the land to
the oily mystery for 10 years, first two years rent-free,
and afterwards £1 per acre per year. So it goes on.
Every man who owns land in the North will tell you that
he’d sooner have a Chow for a tenant than a white man—
" He’s more reliable ! ” But to show what this country
will do: There's a man on the Tully who cleared £4OO
this year from oranges alone. He took them to Towns-
ville in his own boat, thence to the Towers, and sold
them himself. This man employs niggers. By the way,
what is wrong with the idea of growing maize and
pumpkins, &c., on a big scale on the Northern scrub-
lands and feeding them to pigs—for which there is an
almost illimitable market now at Brisbane at remunera-
tive prices ?
How is this for “ strength ” ?
said youth : “You can’t beat the
Lane Cove sharks. There was a
dead cow in the river one Satur-
day, and three or four 15-foot
‘ tigers ’ had been nosin’ round all
mornin’, so when we pulls up at 3
o’clock there was about 40 other
boats there for the hunt. Some
1 captain ’-bloke started bossin’.
He got us all in a ring so’s they
couldn’t get away with the meat,
and then every time one ’ud
make a bite he’d let go with his
harpoon. He missed twice, but
the third try he got the iron into
the biggest. Cripes ! you orter’
seen the rope hum ! and in about
three shakes the boat gives a jerk
and begins to slide. Then he
yells for us to hook-on, an’ as he
goes past we all hooks-on in a
string an’ away goes the whole 40
boats down the river like blazes. .
Crums ! we did slide ! and some
of the blokes was just going to
cut loose when the ‘ tiger ’ runs
slap into a mud-bank —just two
mile from the start. Strong ?
Well, no not for a Lane
Cove-er ! ”
* * *
It is now six years since
the Maranoa River, Q., ran right
through from its source to where
it joins the Balonne.
“Yes,” said Appy, the pit-sawyer, “I
was one of the sailor-crowd that served all through
the worst of the Wanganui (M.L.) war. One
fight we were in the Friendlies (Maoris) were sent
round one way to take a pah in the rear, while we
were sent round another way to take it in front.
We never saw the pah, but we met the Maoris.
“Here’s the niggers!” we yelled. “Give ’em
what for ! ” We dropped 14 of them, and chased
the rest right into camp—and blessed if they
weren’t the Friendlies ! There was a row, and the
boss sojer wanted to know how we came to do it.
“Well,-” said we, “what did you want to send
them round on the port-tack for—and us on the
starboard and no pennants flying.”
+ * * * *
“ Imray ” : Can any Bulletin reader
give an idea (understandable by the ordinary
bushman) as to the evolution of the blow-fly.
What is he before he is a blow-fly ? and what be-
comes of the maggots ?
Several fishermen have lost their
lives recently by being washed off the
rocks on the coast near Sydney. Such ac-
cidents are of common occurrence, and
are usually caused by ignorance. . The
seas along our coast, especially when
there is a swell unaccompanied by wind,
are most treacherous. The waves will
wash to a certain height for perhaps
half-an-hour, when suddenly, without
warning, a number of enormous breakers
will come along, sweeping the unwary
fisherman off the perch he has selected
as being well out of reach. The fact
that a rock is dry is no guarantee of
safety, for there is often time for the
water to dry between the breaks. Old
hands have always one eye on the water,
and if caught lie down and hang-on
hard.
“F.S.S.”: At Broad Arrow ail
old miner—a hatter -kept, a tamo snake.
He saw the snake go into his hut, and
could not find it for three days, during
which there was a complete clearance of
vermin. So the old chap, giving the
snake the credit, allowed it to stay on
after he had found it. He was tempted
to kill it once when he found it coiled
up in his bed ; but, on second thoughts,
contented himself with giving it a shove
with a whip. The snake did not go on
the. bed again, and for three months it
stayed, becoming at last quite tame.
But one day two men who came to the
old man’s tent while he was away,
despatched his pet, in ignorance of its
domestic status.
* * * *
Said that a wombat was respon-
sible for first bringing copper under
notice in S.A. The ’bat threw the
ore to the surface, and then a sta-
tion-hand happened along whose curiosity was
aroused by the look of the stone. The rest is
known to De Rougemont, Father of all the Flying
Wombats.
* * * *
‘ ‘ Werrimee ”: Travelled lately from Tiboo-
burra to Broken Hill. Crouched up in a shanghai
from noon on Saturday till Monday night, one
interval between meal and meal, 18 hours;
another, 11 hours; then three two-bob meals in
nine hours. Horses poor and weak, whipped from
stage to stage, and driven full walk up to each
“mail change.” And for an exhilarating trip of
this kind you part with six lovely sovs. each way
—besides 4d. per lb. for luggage .over 14 lb.
At Sandy Creek we met the up-coach bogged in
midstream, the coachman wading through mud
and water, and whacking into the weary brutes.
The mail must be up to time at the Broken Hill
end; but at Tibooburra it is often from four to
forty hours late. Common thing to see the mails
served out at midnight, and even at 1 and 2 a.m.
* * * *
“R.W.S.”: The supposed “protection”
of the lyre-bird must be very ineffective. The
sale of lyre-bird tails is frequent in Sydney wool-
stores. Inquiry should be made—with a view
to prosecution—about the senders. That would
be the only way to deal with the offenders; you
can’t catch them shooting the birds.
A DISTINCTION—NO DIFFERENCE.
TORY FATHAN : “ 'Ere, I want to be knighted !”
DUKEMAN (laughingly): “ Well , you ARE benighted, ain't
you? ”
“ Dave ” on a certain bush-worker’s
yearning for company :
“ Call at the humpy when yer out thet way,” said Bilk
“ I never see nobody all th’ blanky year ’cept th’ ol’
woman an’ th’ kids. Queer ol’ gal she is !—blowed if she’s
looked at me th’ lars six munoe, and th’ kids is racing
about thet big paddick like brumbies. A ’ell of a life fer
a man, y’ know.”
Caught in a storm, I ran into Bill’s one evening (he was
paddock-minding).
“Mary Jane!” Bill shouted, “no supper to-
night?” Mary Jane, a coarse girl with big bare feet and
dirty faded hair, banged a couple of pannikins and a
damper and some cold mutton pn to a greasy slab-bench,
and grunted. A clumsy, big-mouthed boy of 16, with his
pants half falling off, came and stood at the door and
gaped at the mutton.
Bill searched in a back crib for sugar. “ Now ain’t
thet enough ter drive a man off his ’ed ? ” sorrowfully
shaking dust out of a bag. “ On’y the other day thet
wuz full. By G——! I’ll break some of yer -- necks,
one o’ these"times ! Will yer put a bit o’ honey in yer
tea?” he asked me, but I tried to assure him that I
wasn’t hungry.
“Dammit, leave somethin’in th’ house; don’t be
worse then a dingo.” This Bill addressed to another
youngster, who stood himself beneath a bag of comb sus-
pended from the rafters, waiting for the strained honey
to drip into his,open mouth.
“ Now wire-in ; don’t be afraid ; ’elp yerself,” said Bill,
setting me example.
Here Mrs. Bill appeared, with a blanket round her,
and a bandage over both eyes, so that she wouldn’t see
Bill, and sat down and groped for the mutton.
It did seem “ a ’ell of a life ! ”
“ Scotty ” : Bulletin (9/3/’01)
report that a Prahran J.P. gave a man
“24 hours” for putting on his hat. If a
Hindoo wears his shoes and his turban
he is directly insulting the court. He
must remove one or other. If he removes
his turban and his shoes he is again in-
sulting the bench. All nigger (Indian)
pleaders chuckle over this. But Plow-
den, Chief Commissioner at Lahore, who
threw up his appointment in order to
become a pleader (barrister) was master
of the situation. In ’65, I think, a cheeky
Hindoo was pleading before him, when
he remarked, “There are natives in the
court with their shoes on.” The pleader
explained that they were European shoes.
In fact, they were patent-leather over
very loose white socks (all niggers are
spindle-shanked). Again the court said,
“There are men in court wearing both
shoes and head-gear. Mehtur Bolao.”
Which is “ Call the sweeper.” The latter
appeared with his broom, which Mr.
Plowden would have ordered him to
apply, thereby sending their souls to
hell (I must quote Homer) and their
bodies “ Kunessin oionoisi te pasi.”
(That’s not bad for a Murrumbidgee
whaler)> The lawyers ran to the door and
quickly returned minus their shoes. If
we all —all whites —made the turbaned,
fezzed, and lowest of all smoking-capped
Indians, remove his boots or turban at the
door, we should soon have civility from
the Hindoo hawker and an exodus of the
Mussulmen. But we haven’t the pluck to
do it. I write this for the benefit of
“White Australia.”
* * * *
Man entering bar : “ Give us a beer
and brandy.” Publican, amazed : “Beer
and brandy?” Customer: “Yes; what
about it?” Publican: “Well, blessed
if I ever heard of such a blend before!
Might I ask why you drink such a strange
mixture?” Customer: “Oh, well, it’s this
way : If I drink beer alone I get full long
before I’m drunk, and if I drink brandy by itself
I get drunk before I’m full, but when I mix ’em I
get full and drunk at the same time, and that’s
what I call getting the worth of your money.”
* * * *
“ Werrimee ” : In that town of flies, clust
and drought, Tibooburra, the butcher had to
shut-down because the surviving stock in that
part weren’t strong enough to travel to the
slaughter-yard. The town’s supply of pigs also
gave out, and tinned-dog at the stores followed
suit. The only baker fell ill, and everybody lived
on scones, damper, and other people’s fowls. The
pubs, got meat occasionally from Broken Hill per
coach (200 miles). Butter, cheese, potatoes, car-
rots, come per parcels-post; and at the present
rate of going saveloys and prime ducks will be
early on the list. Letters often come now in an
advanced stage of grease; and when love-epistles
arrive mixed up with sausage-meat it will be, time
to take a last long look at the “Red Hen and
quit.
» * » *
“Buzz'”; Be the Queensland drought
which, after all, has not broken-up out West:
One mail contractor has during the last 12 months lost
in the execution of his contract 200 horses. Day after
day he had to walk along beside the four miserable
creatures that dragged the coach or buggy with the mail-
bags. On five separate occasions all four horses died at
the end of the stage, and many dropped on the journey
and were left to perish. When the mails were packed the
poor brutes would stumble for the slightest cause, and
fall, when the whole load had to come off to lift them up
again. It has been the cruellest time for both man and
beast ever known, and the pity of it is that it is not over
yet —for though there have been a few inches here and
there and isolated storms in a few parts, nothing short of
several feet of good rain will do any permanent good.
Until that comes the western country is done. By the
way, the other day 9000 breeding ewes were trucked
back to the west. They were the remnants of two flocks
of 18,000 and 11,000, which left the station some months
ago in search of grass.
* * * *
“E.S.S.”: Asshowingthe wonderful change
that a shower of rain makes in Sturt’s country:
For many months not. a vestige of grass or herbage
had been seen between Broken Hill and the Q’land
border; in fact, the ground looked as if nothing
ever had grown there, or ever would. Then came
patches of heavy rain, and within a week the
whole country was as green as emerald. What
price a system of irrigation here ? At Sandy
Creek, erstwhile the barrenest spot of all, grass is
now high enough to mow. Birds are returning to
the long silent country ; and Cobhain Lake, for
months a dry bed, is calling back its feathered
denizens. Settlers, too, tired of the surly Afghan
and his camels, hail the return of the teamsters,
whose vocabulary of expletives sounds now like
“ prayers after rain.”
* * * *
Nearly all the leading Australian papers
have discussed the book of the hour, “An
Englishwoman’s Love-Letters,” but none have
challenged the passage (on p. 208) which Aus-
tralian papers might fairly have pounced upon.
This : “ As I went by a bird opened his bill and
sang a note, and down, down, down, down he
went over a golden scale ; pitched afresh and
dropped down another ; and then up, up, up over
the range of both. Then he flung back his shabby
head and laughed. It was the laughing jackass.”
If the guttural gurgle Jacky makes is meant by
the “ golden scale,” the description is oddly inapt.
Similarly, Jean Ingelow wrote a poem called
“ The Bell Bird,” commencing, “ Toll ! Toll !
The bell bird sounding far away ’’—whereas
nothing more unlike a toll than the note of the
bell bird could be imagined.
* * * *
“Sulphides”: Be par (8., 2/3/’01) about
man with whiskers full of tuberculosis. We have
half-a-dozen piggeries around our (N.S.W.) town,
the pigs of which are fed on the refuse of 1 ,otels,
boarding-houses, and hospitals. Have been in
the grain line here for 13 years, and have never
AUSTRALIAN GOLD IN SIGHT.
Signor Hazon negotiating in Italy for musical talent.
known any piggery-owner to buy a single bushel
of grain-stuff for feed. Tuberculosis here is Bd.
per lb.


CHILDREN
now-a-days have notoriously BAD TEETH,
because the White Bread they live on lacks the
Wheaten Phosphates (rejected with the Bran)
which go to make good, sound Teeth, as well as
Bone, Brain and Nerve substance.
CEREBOS SALT, used like common salt,
supplies these necessary Phosphates, and is,
therefore, invaluable in the daily food of
mothers and children.
Wholesale Agents .--HARRISON & ATTWOOD, 334 and 336, George Street, SYCNEY.
Sold by Grocers and Stores.
An Old Boundary Rider
When a reporter' called to interview Mr.
Henry Gray, of Singleton, he
anticipated an interesting conversation for
subsequent publication in the Singleton Argus,
and in this he was not mistaken.
“My age is fifty-six,” said Mr. Gray, “and I
am one of tne oldest inhabitants of the Hunter
River District, having lived there for nearly fifty
years. For twenty-one years I was a boundary
rider, and went through all the hardships
inseparable from such a life, often camping out in
the cold and wet all night without a fire, and
riding all day in the pitiless rain. I well remember
one experience—l had got a thorough soaking,
and being unable to change, my joints got chilled,
and for l ine weeks I was bed-ridden through rheu-
matism, which cause excruciating pain in joints
and muscles. I was powerless to do anything, and
took to crutches when I rose from bed. The
cold weather aggravated the pain, and then
my flesh swelled and became so tender that I
could not bear it to be touched. My arms and
hands were beyond my control—l staggered
when walking, and was intensely miserable.
Many remedies, liniments, embrocations, and
electric belts were tried, and the doctor’s orders
faithfully followed, but with no beneficial result.
Two years ago I read a pamphlet concerning
Dr. Williams’ pink pills for pale people, and
began taking them. After using a few boxes the
pains became less excruciating. Wince then I have
had no return of my ailments —have regained my
old strength and activity, and have constantly
borne testimony to the wonderful curative
proprietors of Dr. Williams’ pink pills. If other
sufferers will give these pills an honest trial they
will not be disappointed.”
Physicians say that vitiated and impoverished
blood is the real cause of rheumatism, sciatica,
and rheumatic gout, and that only by purifying
and building up the blood can they be shaken off.
By this method Dr. Williams’ pink pills have
cured thousands of cases, not only of rheumatism,
but of anaemia, debility, skin diseases, rickets,
premature exhaustion. By toning up the nerves
they cure excessive nervousness, St. Vitus’ dance,
neui-algia, paralysis, etc. Sold by chemists and
storekeepers, and by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine
Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney, two and nine per
box, six boxes fifteen and three, post free.
Special instructions sent free if you write describ-
ing your case.*
Order
SCHWEPPE’S
DRY GINGER ALE
Dear Bul-
letin. Rat-
fleas do bite
humans! Let
me put adozen
of ’em to bed
with the man
who says they
don’t, and I’ll
guarantee he
doesn’t sleep
that night.
Next to pig-
fleas, rat-fleas
are the worst
biters I know,
and I’ve lived
on a dairy-
farm with all
sorts. — Yak-
bum.
[The rat - flea
proper, i.e.,
species found ex-
clusively on rats,
probably does
iwt bite human
beings. The so-
called “human
flea,” on the
other hand, has
more catholic
tastes, and will
certainly accept
dog, cat, or rat
in default of any-
thing better.
Herein lies the
root of the viru-
lent discussions
between natu-
ralist and epider-
miologist, the
former denying
that the rat-flea
feedsonhumans,
the latter prov-
ing that plague
can be trans-
mitted .by fleas
found on rats.
The best solution
of the difficulty
is to regard all
fleas and other
bloodsuckers
with suspicion in
plague-time. It
is a mistake to
consider that
each species [of
animal has its
own particular
brand of flea,
and uses none
other. Some
animals mix
their fleas —our
own echidna
(“porcupine”)
WANTED HIM TO FIX THE DATE.
FATHER : “ Yes, and when I die I’ll leave you me gun, too."
SON AND HEIR (an enthusiastic sport): “When d’ye think ye’ll die, dad?"
owns two varieties, one of which cannot jump—but in
most cases the flea is not discriminating, and will feed on
any warm-blooded animal with corresponding likelihood
of conveying contagion.—Ed. B.]
SMALKUM M’EACHARN, who is to favor
with a life-like misrepresentation of the
electorate of Melb. in the first Australian
Parliament.
Related that during the late Queen’s last
illness an American reporter presented himself at
Osborne House, and, announcing himself as the
representative of 295 “ noospapers,” demanded
that his card should be sent in to the private-
secretary. “Can’t be done, sir,” he was told ;
“not even gentlemen’s cards are being sent up.”
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case rc contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
Timß. : You belong to thebrigade livingalways
in Purgatory, not bad enough foV basket-Hell, and not
good enough for print-Heaven. Better pay for some
glasses for the good of your brains H. : But the
“Herod” play didn’t “catch-on” much. It flourished
in London to about the same extent that parson Walters’
“ Joseph of Caanan ” flourished ,in the principal Aus-
tralian cities Eric: “With trumpet-tones I tell.”
Yes; penny trumpet L.O. : You’re the crankiest poet
for some time Van der : Less copy, and more pains
with it A. Macrae : Bulletin doesn’t care to print the
bald statement that So-and-so is dead, or married, or
hanged, unless something readable is appended about
him W.P.B. : A strong factor in excluding Holman
from the N.S.W. Labor Federal nominations was the use-
less jealousy of a certain soured politician not now in
Parliament Mac : ‘ 1 The paper pays only what it
uses.” What paper does more ? If we paid for what we
don’t use !!!... .Crow : The yarn about the little Sunday-
schoolboy is a palpable invention, and the instance of
G. H. Wise’s “ caustic wit ” is very painful indeed
O.S. : “Federal” is shorter, but perhaps it would
be better to say “ Commonwealth Parliament ”
and “Commonwealth Minister” than “Federal”
ditto. “ Commonwealth ” is right, %nd it has
a clearer democratic significance C.M.: The
case in a nutshell: Wales was banker, in the bac-
carat play at Tranby Croft. Gumming won £125, and
was accused of cheating, by nefariously increasing his
stakes. Signed a declaration admitting his guilt (after-
wards claimed that he did this to avoid public scandal).
Nevertheless, prosecuted three gentlemen and two ladies,
for libel. The evidence of Wales was dubious, until a
little juryman questioned him point-blank, whether he
believed Cumming was guilty, and he replied that he did,
though he had not ocular evidence. Verdict for de-
fendants J.E. : N.S.W. Senate-election system will
not be complete without the contingent vote to secure
representation of the now-disfranchised minority. Then,
when the members really represent the voters, we’ll be
quite satisfied with whatever vote they choose to give.
The rest is only a matter of education, and of making
every elector vote or go off the r 011... .Hermit: Senti-
ment’s right; but verse too flawy, words wrongly
accented : syllables wrongly stressed ; false rhyme and
metre—and so on O.E.M. : Gibbon’s test for arriving
at historical truth is probably the best, even yet:—
“ I shall borrow from each nation the facts that
redound to their own disgrace and the honour of
their foes.” (Decline and Fall, chap. LX111.)....
C.P. W, : The Melb. dailies in their interviews with Ella
Russell made no mention of Amy Castles.. Joe L. (Lis.):
To undertake such a task would result in our early
funeral Gordon W.P. : Suftield is not still in
prison. He was liberated on completing his sentence, and
died a few months afterwards of pneumonia. Undoubtedly
his death was indirectly duo to his gaol-confinement
S.M. W. : Wants distinction.... Karl C. : Worth par. only.
... .Jim : Would have to be completely re-written....
Prospect G. : “Rejoinder” is flat and thin C.T.C.
(W.A.) : Great lack of skill V.R. : No good whatever.
Albar : Will print. ... Fardowner : One item may do.
... .T.H.B. (Perth): Will print “ Dr. D.”... .Thomas
Miller (Clermont): Will look into the matter presently.
E W. 0.: " Liverpool-st." is over a mile long. If
you’ll give full address, will send particulars.... Francis
MacD.: No, we don’t intend to publish such an issue.
Let the thing die. It is better buried J.A.A.: Thanks.
Ida M. : “A Life ” is the better, but has hardly
enough in it for The Bulletin. Your matter is greatly
handicapped by your difficult handwriting Lyla:
Afraid there’s "little promise in it. Too much of the
beaten track, both in subject and style Halmerce :
None up. The tale has tragedy in it, but the treatment
is inartistic and feeble... .Alone : You get rather a strong
“ situation ” at the end, but your lack of dramatic skill is
fatal... .Chummy : Too scrappy and shapeless Ellen :
No ; if you read "this paper you will find that that is just
“ the sort of pieces ” we do not take... .Narr : ’ Girls
not up F.B. (M.L.): Bring on your “curses.”....
A.M. (Vic.): Not force enough E.F.M.: Thanks
Judas: “Casual” too slow; possibly some “Coupons.
Paul 0. : Unusable. Such motives require exception-
ally -skilled handling Onl: “Asserted” too slight;
ditto “Beer.” E. B. L. (Vic.) : No interest
F. C. S. : Will use Magnet: Passed 0ut........
A B.T. (Ad.): Re-write in 100 words T.G.F. : Old, but
g00d... .. .L.G. : Grow a bit H.O. : Why on earth
should we reprint an English cycling guide-book .
F L : Courtney’s Shorthand : Angus and Robertson,
publishers, Sydney. Price Is. 6d. or thereabouts ..En-
thusiastic Admirer : Too thin. You want us to libel a
woman, who will then claim damages.... T. O. C*. .
Pretty flat.... Constance M. : Tell your stories in one-
third the space F. N. : Guess it will d 0... .L. C.:
Doubtful.... Bungarra : Stick to prose.... Slim Jim :
Neither the porous-plaster yarn nor the Parkes-yarn will
do by itself.. ..A.D.B. : “ Truisms ” unusable... .G.F.P. :
None good enough.... Quilp : “Seer” returned.. ..Ped-
lar : Can’t find alleged poetic significance of Bushed.
Brown & Co.: “Real” is a dissyllable.. ..J.L.W.:
Savs nothing... .Cecil: Not up... .Vulcan : Think Realf
rather forceless....G.F.B. : That sort of thing has become
tiresome. Every Jew isn’t an arsonist, any more than
every Christian i5....J. Pay: Thanks ; but gist of your
comments have already appeared... .The Wreck : Will
illustrate “Baker’s D.”....Minyip : Your letter throws
no new light on the controversy.. . .O. Ank. : Although
marriages with a deceased wife’s sister is legal in Aus-
tralia, resultant children are in British law illegitimate.
F. L. Mac. : Items hardly of sufficient interest
Argol: The profound may be sometimes obscure, but
obscurity is not necessarily profundity.... Dingo: Can’t
howl in Bulletin. .. .Larry N. : Like unto the cackling of
an incensed hen... .O.A.C. : It would be no play upon
words, after all, because “ cardinal ” (cardinale, Italian)
means a hinge. ..Wattle : Your rhymes are abominable...
Riverina : Not much in either... .G.A.P. : “ Testimonial
clumsy and inept.. ..A.P.R. : Hardly well enough done
R.A.K. : “Bebe” lacks finish and is somewhat faint
of impression.... Alec. Z. : Idea much better than
your handling... .A.D.B. : Nothing we care for... ..
A.C.T. : You ask us to believe that Jim Phillips could be
mistaken for a strange “ consumptive ” by men who had
known him for years?... .H.D.L. : Thought events would
alter aspect—as they have....T. (Dun.): Can’t print
it, old man ; but think how much pleasure you got in
writing it ! H.E.B. :No points W.T.L.M. : Last
page or pages missing; also pages not numbered....
E.B.J. : Rather wooden H.D.N. : “ Bumble too
unequal.... W.H. (N.Q.): Ingenious; but avykwardy
versed, and too long for its interest.... Barkis i Well,
we’re not “ willin’.”.... W.11.W. : Lacks point and preci-
sion Van der B. : None of them much account
E.J.R. : Best you’ve sent, but you haven’t yet hit us.. ; .
Job-Lot : Yes —very Treble-X : Must have got flat in
transit. ..E.S. : Be simpler, and you’ll be stronger
Kozee : More geographical than poetical Echo : Too
like a memory of missed sins... .Nada : Poetry too tame
and domestic for us... .W.J.E. : Won’t illustrate forcibly.
....Blue Gum : Take away the embroidery and there’s
nothing left Ngarambi :If you want M.S. returned,
read notice above... INarr. : “A Scrap” is now two
scraps L.M.D. :It fails only because people Wouldn t
believe that such a monster existed in the guise of a doc-
tor Phil. Spence : Bad thing to publish a story like
that now that a poisoning-epidemic has begun.... Ben-
digo : Probably malicious. The “ threatened litigation
over the management of that big estate is said to be only
in the air and likely to remain there... .E.B.W. : Well-
written, but don’t like the squalid theme.... Tess : Not
novelty or force enough. “Infinity” would make a son-
net —if you had the skill... .T.G.F. : “Dusty Bob ’ re-
jected once already... .S.T.G. : Thanks ; but could make
no use of it O.D.J. : Goanna’s bone-swallowing per-
formances already fully discussed.. . .Marksman : Missed
this time, anyhow.... Pat F. (W.A.) : You think our
artist “ might improve on it.” Any artist would have a
fit at the sight of it....W. F. Mac. : Don’t write on
sponge-paper, and leave much more line-interval
Townsend Macdermott, aged father (or say,
Awful Dad) of the Victorian Bar, could probably
write a book of reminiscences quite as interesting
as that of the late Montagu Williams, the
English barrister and county-court Judge. Long-
time the chosen advocate of Melbourne’s leading
criminals, Mac’s most remarkable client, perhaps,
was Billy Barnes, the expert burglar and lock-
picker, who in a weak moment brought himself to
grief for the murder of J. B. Slack. Slack, of
South Melbourne, was a lonely old crank with a
mania for legal proceedings. Everybody took it
for granted that J. B. Slack had “ rats in the
garret,” so when the pertinacious litigant was dis-
covered lying dead of a cut throat in his dusty
house, clutching a razor in his right hand, a
verdict of suicide naturally ensued. Some months
later Billy Barnes got caught in the act of climb-
ing up Dr. Beaney’s verandah-post, which meant
another long term of “chokee” for the burglar.
And this time Billy’s conscience played him a
scurvy trick. He was moved to babble in his
dungeon cell of “ poor old Slack,” and the wicked-
ness of killing him. The police got an order to
exhume the ‘ ‘ suicide’s ” body, and it was then
discovered that his throat could not possibly have
been cut by the hand which held the razor. Slack
was a left-handed man. Moreover, the wound,
viewed in the light of Billy’s confession, bore wit-
ness to truth of it. Put on his trial for murder,
the weary burglar pleaded guilty ; all the same,
Townsend Macdermott made a powerful de-
fence, contending that the jury had
come to the right conclusion re Slack’s de-
cease, and that Barnes’s babblings and sub-
sequent “ confession ” were mere theatrical
follies, born of criminal vanity. A hesitating
jury speirt some hours in finding the prisoner
guilty, but being safely convicted, Billy didn’t
have to wait a minute over the appointed time for
his execution. The Law hanged him with enthu-
siasm. Mention of litigant Slack (a now some-
what forgotten character) always recalls the name
of Townsend Macdermott to the barristerial mind.
To think of the old pleader—erstwhile famous
as a mining lawyer —is to quote some of his smart
sayings. Mac.’s repartee was essentially quota-
tional. “Hot, isn't it, Mac.?” said a younger
practitioner, one blazing north-wind day. “My
dear boy, it’s hot enough to dissolve an injunc-
tion,” was the reply. < ice, on his way to Court,
wily Mac. was accosted by a seedy person with
the peculiarly confidential manner of one who
“does the touch.” “ Good morning, Mr. Macder-
mott ! Many’s the time you’ve appeared for me.”
Quick as thought the answer—“ Run away, my
good man, and rob a bank, and I’ll appear for you
again.” In criminal-assault cases Mac. was a bless-
ing to his own sex. Appearing for the Man
cm one occasion, his cross-examination of the
Woman was very warm, and to the point. “While
the unfortunate prisoner was trying to do what
you have told us, didn’t you say to him, ‘ A-ah !
TOWNSEND M‘DERMOTT, THE VETERAN
VIC. BARRISTER .
Photo, by Richards & Co., Ballarat .
don’t ’ ? ” inquired Mac. in a lingering, beseeching
tone. His way of putting the question, and the
girl’s feeble declaration that her “Don’t” had no
“ A-ah ” before it, settled the case in his client’s
favor. The old battler was on one occasion con-
fronted by a technical objection, which prevented
him from going into the merits of his case. Bar-
rister Isaacs had raised the objection, and Chief
Justice Higinbotham remarked that it was fatal
unless Mr. Isaacs would waive it. “ Then must
the Jew be merciful,” said Macdermott.
Hawaiian Planters’ Association offers a
£4OO prize for the best design for a sugar-cane-
cutting machine—amount to be increased to £1250
on the machine’s practical efficiency being proved.
For a cane-transporter and machine to load cane
in cars £350 is offered.
Re the alleged whispers about the possible
need for a regency in Germany, it does look as if
the Kaiser were a “bit-off” when we find him
(with reference to the recent Constantinople
earthquake) praying that “the Lord would con-
tinue to hold the Sultan ” —Abdul-the-Damned,
to wit!—“in His gracious and holy keeping.”
“Locust” While on election-tour re-
cently on behalf of a Bartonian candidate, I struck
a little gold rush where about 35 men were making
tucker. The men had just finished dinner (half-
East 11a.m.). One of "them stood on a mullock-
eap and coo-eed, waving his arms to the north,
south, east and west, like a clay-covered Merlin
the Enchanter. The men began slowly to come
in. A chairman was appointed, who lit his pipe
and squatted on his haunches on a big mullock-
heap. The meeting likewise lit and squatted.
I began. Knowing that for some inscrutable
reason many N.S.W. miners are Freetraders
(though highly protected by the State pros-
pecting-vote bounty) I thought I would nave
a hard job—and so it was. Pegging away
desperately, at last, to my surprise, I found
that one shot told. I said that the Free-
trade tariff proposal as propounded by the
M‘Million was to raise £4,000,000 from duties on
narcotics and stimulants, and that the consumer
would have to pay extravagant prices for his beer
and tobacco. Every man’s face lengthened ; each
one slowly took his pipe from his mouth and
looked into the bowl for a minute with pensive
glance. Then the pipes were replaced, and I
knew the battle was won. We got 34 to 1 there,
and I am credibly informed that there is one
man on the field who neither smokes nor drinks.
So that must have been his vote.


A DRESS REHEARSAL.
G. JENKINS, C.M.G. (stage-manger) : “ That position will do very nicely. Please understand that when you are not bowing to His Royal Highness you will bow to me.”
AUSTRALIA: “O, Sir George — I mean Mr. Jenkins —don’t you think I’ll find it awfully tiring?”


THE PRY DOG
Tri E YFLLOW TU?
QEO.TYLE'S T>OC
ITT PR I ~Z- g
2MP'?RIZF
Honorable mention
AT THE AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY’S DOG SHOW.
—The Bulletin’s “exhibit.”
r.
A recemfwriter in an agricultural journal says that “ good results
-have been obtained by giving calves two ounces of cod-liver oil per
day mixed with milk.” What price cod-liver-oil-fed veal !
A BURST OF GRIEF.
When the news of Queen Vic-
toria’s death and of the King’s
accession was heliographed to the
town, Major B. J. C. Doran, who
commanded the garrison, trained
minute-guns on the Boers, and
fired the salutes with live i
shells. i
A recent American visitor when asked his opinion
of Australia—“ It’s a grand country,” said, he ; “ but
it’s not finished. You
haven’t put the fence
around her yet! ”
Bombala, Friday.—Mr. E. J. Crooke, M.L.C. of
Victoria, yesterday visited the proposed site for the
future Federal capital, with which he expressed him-
self well pleased.
Wonder what back Melbourne street Mr. Crooke
“ visited ”on his way to Bombala. And, by-the-bye,
wonder who Mr. Crooke is, and
does M.L.C. mean “Man Look-
ing for Capital 1 ”
The Federal Home Secret art at Home (to Fegan);
“ Open your mouth and shut your eyes,
And I’ll give you something will cause surprise.”
Hod Quixote and the wiffdinill (with variations).
Mr. O’Sullivan, in responding, made a wild onslaught on .the DaILT
Telegraph. It was simply a case of platform versus press, and platform
■would win. They (the Govt.) were all clean men. Why, then, should they
be hounded down by men*sitting behind dirty inkpots?”
Sunday Brunker was men-
tioned as one of those upon
whom Reid’s mantle would
fall. Our artist has here
feebly attempted to depict
\ a good man struggling
A with an eye-glass.
The N.S.W. Govt, has decided to put up the money „
for rats to be destroyed by the Water and Sewerage
Board. Pity it was not made a Special Govt. Depart-
ment, and the portfolio of Chief Secretary for Rat
Destruction given to some mute inglorious Fegan, “ of
whom Heaven send us mo*,” says a man by the name ,
of Murphy. '
CARTOONLETS.


A. Saunders’s
Strong, Reliable LEVERS—“THE CHAL-
LENGE,” 15s. The UNRIVALLED LEVER,
in Black or Nickel, 20s—perfect timekeeper.
The LONDON LEVER, new f-plate model,
25s ; in Solid Silver, £2 2s; in Double-case,
£2 10s, £3. ROTHERHAM LEVERS, £3 10s,
£4, £5, £6, t 7, £B. Gold Watches, £4 4s,
£6 ss, £6 6s, '7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Mind, we guarantee you the utmost satisfac-
tion, “ otherwise we will exchange watch for-
you.” Send for illustrated book of particulars,
post free.
A. Saunders.
Registered Gold 2-Bird, 2-Heart Amethyst
Brooch, 20s ; Pearl Set Bird, 22s 6d ;
15c. Gold, £2.
A. Saunders.
Brooch Crescent, Pearls and Turquoise
Pure Silver-gilt, 5s 6d ; Heart Shape, 6s 6d.
The Latest Style.
A. Saunders.
16c. Gold Broobh, Diamond ahd Baby
Horse-shoe, 355. A Pretty Brooch,
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Brooch, 2 Bar Scrolls, 3 Pure
Diamonds, 2 Rubies or Sapphires, £2 10s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 14 Pearls, 7 Opals, 355. A Very
Choice Present. Bracelet to Match, £2 15s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Twist Bar, Bow and Heart
Drop, 5s 6d. Special Value.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 15c. Gold, 2 Bar and Scrolls,
Pearl Set, £2 ss. Very Strong and Pretty.
Hand-made
Solid Gold
16a ; extra
•». Saunders. »
Wedding Ringu and Keepers. 9c.
, 6s 6d, /g 6d, 108 each ; 16c. Gold,
heavy. 25s ; 18c. Gold, 20s •
A. Saunders.
Registered 15c. Gold Secret Name Brooch.
2 Rubies or Sapphires and Diamond, £2 10a ;
S Diamonds, £3 and £4. 9c. Gold, similar
pattern, 20s and 255.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Pearl Set Bird’s Chain and
Red or Blue Stone, 17s 6d. Very Dainty.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Bar, Scroll', Diamond, 2 Red or
Blue Stones, 20s. Very Pretty.
A. Saunders.
New Motto Registered Gold “ Dinna Forget"
Brooch and Amethysts, 9c. Gold, 17s 6d ; 15c.
Gold, 30b ; 18c. Gold, 355.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 4 Opal Hearts, Pearl Set Scrolls,
355. The Latest and Prettiest Style.
A. Sounders.
New Style Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Bird,
Amethyst Heart, 21s ; 15c. Gold, Jt'2.
15c. Gold and Pure Diamond. 2 Bar
Brooch, £2. Neat and Strong.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch (Registered), “ Good
Wishes,” Chain and Heart, 13s 6d ;
15c. Gold; 255. A Very Pretty Brooch.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Brooch, 2 Diamonds, Ruby
Sapphire and Ivy Leaves, 255.
A. Saunders.
Silver Gilt New Turquoise Initial
Brooch ; any Initial, 2s 6rt.
' Zrlr "
-- -~V g-
Solid Gold Chain (Single or Double),
£2 10s, IS, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s. £5. 15c.
Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7, £B,
£lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Send (or Price Illustrated Book.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 15c. Gold, 2 Bar, Red
Blue Stone, 2 Diamonds, 21s.
Very Cheap and Neat.
A. Saunders.
Gold Bar, Raised Ivy Leaves, 7s 6d.
Very Neat.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Diamond-cut Amethyst
Hearts and True Love Knot, 20s.
Very Pretty.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Hearts, Diamond and Ruby,
2 Bar and Scroll, with True Love
Knot, 17s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Nellie Stewart ” Bamboo Gold Bracelet, 20s.
Size thicker, 255. Latest style.
A. Saunders.
Ladies' or Gent’s Newest Tie Pin, 15c. Gold, Forget-Me-Not and
Spray, Turquoise and Pearls, 20s. Very Dainty and Pretty.
A. Saunders.
Name Bracelets, Gold Bands, Any Name, 255;
15c. Gold, £3 ; Other Styles, 17s 6d, 20s, 30s to £4.
h
>
Ladies’ Curb Gold Chain
Snap Padlock, 255, 30s,
355, £2 ss, £3 ; 15c.,
£2 10s, £3, £4, £4 10s,
£5, t 6, £lO.
10s extra for Key
Padlock.
All with Safety
Chain.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Baden-Powell Sword Pin, Turquoise and Pearls, £2.
Call and Sea Our Jewellery Exhibition.—A Splendid Display;
Or Send for Our 1900 Complete Illustrated Book, Post Free Anywhere.
olid Gold Fine Opal Links, £2.
15c., £2 10s. Monogram, 2/6 ex.
A. Saunders.
Opal Bracelet, J Hoop, 11 Pretty Opals, £3. Very Stylish.
A. Saunders.
Gold Charm Envelope, with
Twopenny Stamp, 12s 6d.
Silver, 6s 6d. Name Free.
A. Sajnders.
Gold Brooch, Diamond-cut Amethyst, 2 Bar ; Large
Size, Extra Strong, 255, 15c. Gold, £2 ss.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch Amethyst, Diamond-cut, 2 Bar, Extra
Strong, 22s 6d ; 16c. Gold, £2.
A. Saunders.
Latest Designs : Gold Brooch, 2 Bar, Diamond and
Red Stone, Scroll and Bell, 21s ; 15c. Gold, £2 ss.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Shields and Hatchet, Chain and
Heart, Ituby and Pearl, 15s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 30s.
« o
nr 'o — 0~0 c
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Bar, Pearl Set Scroll, Red or Blue
Stone, 20s. Very Pretty and Strong.
A. Saunders.
New Style Gold Bird, Ruby
and Turquoise and Leaf,
5s 6d. Very Neat.
Silver Initial Hat Pins.
Parisian Diamonds, 4s 6d ;
Turquoise, 3s. Any Initial.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting' Keyless, 2os, 30s,
£2, £2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, .‘ 2, £3, £4. £5
Superior Quality, £O. £7, £B. £lo.
All Guaranteed. Send for Pr.ce List
A. Saunders.
Gold Bar, liaised Flowers. 5s 6d.
Ladies’ Long Gold Muff Chain, £2,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £5, £O.
Price According- to Pattern and
Thickness.
Front Studs, 9c. Gold, 3s 6d each ; 15c.
Gold, each 5s and 7s 6d.
Front Studs, Diamond, Rubies or. Saph-
phires, 10s 6d and 12s (id each; Larger
Diamonds, 20s, 255, 30s to Co each, price
and Size of Diamonds.
m
(io!<t Crosses.
Clinseel or I’lain,
12s fkl; l.arfrei,
; Ifte. ••old,
21 is and 20s.
A. Saunders.
Cents’ or Ladies’ Pin, Pearls and Turquoise, Rubies or Sapphires,
Floral Design, 21s.
A. Saunders.
Band Bracelet, 9c. Gold, Diamond and Rubies or Samphires,
15c. Gold, £3 10s, with 3 Diamonds, £4, £4 10s and £5.
Very IN'eat and Effective.
Gent’s or Ladies’ 15c. Gold Tie Pin, Pearls and Turquoise Centre
Star, 20s. All the Ra;re.
Baden-Powell Gold Sword and Pearl Set Spray Brooch,
Diamond, 25s ; without Diamond, 22s 6d; 15c. Gold, £2 ss.
Charm, Old
English Coin, Gold
Mounted, 10s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Dinna Forget,
10s 6 1.
Our Own Registered
Design.
The Lucky “ Erin-
jro-Brasrh” Charm,
Solid Gold, 10s.
Ghana, Gold,
Amethyst and
Pearls, 15s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 255.
Latest Design.
Real Lyddite
Shell, Gold
Mouut< d, 8s Cd.
Only a Few Left
Charm, New
'Gold Bell, 7s 6d.
A. Saunders.
18c. Gold, 3 Sapphires,
Rubies, or Opals,
4 Diamonds, £3,
£3 10s, £4, £4los, £5.
Latest Style.
Turquoise and Pearl,
Solid Gold Ring, 21s.
A. Saunders.
18e. Gold, 5 Opals,
J-Hoop, £2, £2 10s,
£3, £3 10s,
18c. Buttercup Single-
stone Diamond King,
£3, £4, £6,
Opal Band Rings,
9c. Solid Gold, 17s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 30s ; 18c.
Gold, £2.
A. Saunders.
18c. Gold, 3 Pure Dia-
monds, 2 Opal Hearts,
£4 10s. Latest Style.
A. Saundera.
18c. Gold, Pure
Double-cut Diamond,
£5. Larger, £6 6s,
£7 10s, £8 10s, £lO,
£l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Price according to size
of Diamond.
18c. Solid Gold, Pure
Diamond and 2 Rubies
or Sapphires, £2,
£2 10s, £3 ; 3 Dia-
monds, £2 10s, £3,
£4, £6.
18c. Solid Gold
Diamond Band, £2,
£2 10s, £3; 15c.
Gold, 30s.
9c. Gold Name Band
Rings, 10s, l'2s 6d,
15s; 15c. Gold, 20s,
255; 18c. Gold, 255,
30s, 355, 40s.
18c. Solid Do'd Mar-
quese Diamond and
Ruby Ring', £3 10s ;
Larger Diamonds, £7
10s, £lO, £l5, £3O.
Special Value.
!sc. Solid Gold, 2
Diamonds, Ruby 01
Sapphire, 20s.
Solid Gold Pearls and
Rubies. 10s ; 15c.
Gold, 15s.
A. Saunders.
(Registered) Gold Links,
20s ; 15c. Gold, 32s 6d ;
Silver and Gold, 10s ;
All Silver, ss.
Solid Gold Monogram Links,
9c. Gold, 20s and 25s ; 15c.
Gold, 355, £2 and £2 10s ;
Solid Silver, 5s and 6s 6d ;
Monograms, 2s 6d extra.
A. Saunders.
Large Size Gold Shield
Links and Dumhell, 21s
15c. Gold, 35s and £2.
Gold Heart and Dumbell
Links, 12s 6d ; 15c., 25s ;
Silver, 3s 6d.
Latest Style.
Gold Ring Turquoise
and Pearls, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS,
LEADING ART
JEWELLER,
815 & 817 George Street
/nearly opposite \
\Railway Station/)
SYDNEY.


THEBOYAL VISIT
Secure
Lasting
Mementoes
Of this
Great Event
With a
KODAK.
KODAKS at all Prices from
ss. to £7 15 0.
FR€€ INSTRUCTION
. . IN . .
photo<sraphy
GIVEN TO PURCHASERS.
Write for ILLUSTRATED PRICE-LIST, Post
Free, and Mention This Paper, to
KODAK
THE BLOCK,
284 Ceillns Street, MELBOyEINE
and of all Photographic Dealers.
Publications.
THE BALLET GIRL
ĥ
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
To be had only of
Madame Panza, —
913, G-P.0., SYDNEY.
lARIOND SONG BOOK,
GOO SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one book. National
Songs of every country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC,
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
where. Complete list of the songs for a stamp. This
wonderful book will be sent anywhere for only 2s. 6d., posted
2s. lOd. from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO., Wat-
erloo Clumbers, 458 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps, 2d
extra. Ald exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for tills
Slid other Fast Selling Books. Mention this paper when writing
RATIONAL REFORM IN TEACHING
FRENCH.
Teachers must bear in mind that it is a gross mistake,
as well as a mere waste of time and labor, to land pupils
on the grammatical and literary stages of the study before
the first stage (Phonetic and Mechanical) has thoroughly
been mastered. (Dr. Henry Sweet, Oxford.)
Therefore use PERIER’S FRENCH METHOD (Is. 6d.)
and its PHONETIC COMPANION (Is. 3d.). All book-
sellers. Copies are sent, post free, by sending postage
stamps to A. C. GAERTNER, Sole Agent,
32 Norwich Chambers, Hunter-street, Sydney.
ELECTRIC
MINING
MACHINERY
OE EVERY DESCRIPTION.
KRUPP BALL MILLS
NOV
BROS
31 O’Ccnnell-st., SYDNEY; and 15 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
NOW ON SALE!
NOW ON SALET
The Suppressed Book,
The Coningham Dvarce Case.
A Full History of the Celebrated
Coningham-O’Haran Trial.
CONTAINING MUCH MATTER NEVER BEFORE PUBLISHED, AND GIVING A
FULL AND VIVID REPORT OF ITS STARTLING, MORAL, THEOLOGICAL
AND LEGAL FEATURES.
It is the only Complete, Absolutely Fair and Unprejudiced Account of the Whole
Proceedings yet published.
PRICE SIXPENCE.
By Post—
Sevenpence.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-St.
SYDNEY.
IS§gSSxgg?SlS§x!S!™:x
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
SIX SOLD M€PBLS
The repeated success of the
MARRICKVILLE TWEEDS,
year after year gaining full honours at the
GREAT SHOW,
is a clear index to their excellence. .
VISITORS FROM ALL PARTS were struck
with their choice designs, the clean finish, ana
attractive appearance of the
MARRICKVILLE TWEEDS
exhibited at the Showgrounds, and many nave
decided to „„„ T „
“ WEAR MARRICKVILLE.
HORDERN’S IN PITT-STREET
keep a full range of these Famous Tweeds m
stock, and supply
Suits to Order
for 458., 555., 655.
Trousers to Order
from 12s. 6d. pair.
You can see all the SHOW PATTERNS in our
Tailoring Department.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
SYDNEY’S LEADERS OF FASHIONS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
(Sdmples of Marrickville Tweeds Posted
Free to Any Address.)
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
iss sisssgggggs
H. NEWMAN’S
SILVER KEYLESS
WALTHAM
WATCH
£l2 10s.
FOR
FOR
is
A , r plendid Timekeeper, with Beautifully Finished
Nickel ji. vement: Three-quarter Pli te ; Compensation
Balance ; Seven Jewels ; in Heavy English Hall-marked
Silver Casgs
On Receipt of Remittance one of these Watches will he
forwarded, securely packed, carriage paid, and at our
risk, to any part of Australasia.
H. NEWMAN,
The Waltham Watch Agency,
175 & 177 Elizabeth-st., Melbourne.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
POST FREE TO ANT ADDRESS.
ħ
RCiptCir*
C(irsd-^
X\J HEIST we say “RUPTURE CURED”
VV we mean it, for it is a fact that
thousands of cures have been accomplished by Dr.
Pierce’s World-renowned ELECTRIC TRUSS during
the past twenty-five years. There is nothing else like it
on earth ■ It does the work! Have received so many
letters and testimonials that we hardly know what to do
with them all. If ruptured investigate at once. Our
prices are reasonable, but not cheap. We make no dis-
counts. “Dr. Pierce’s” is THE Truss, and you cannot
be You P can lll get U our t “ t BOOKLET No. 1” for nothing by
calling or it will be sent to you on receipt of a stamp.
It tells all about this TRUSS. Address :
Magnetic Elastic Truss Co.,
620 Market St., SAN FRANCISCO., U.S.A.; or
160 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
H. SOUL & CO., Agents.
DAPTO (La-lte
(LIMITED),
lllawarra),
ne a,r
SYDNEY-
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PROI3XJCBRS
OP
FINE silver.
h
MAKERS OF
“S. Co of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILLAWAKKS,”
..IHtAND OF-.
SOFT LEAD.
T> i nf nil classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
1 urC 1 ' HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD H ILL I3N
of ASS AY S.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to P. S. Morse, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia. Ltd., DAPTO, N.S. VV. ; or Martin Prack, SYDNEY.


ĥ
Gaoling / Health-giving !
ADD A LITTIE
COKDY’S FLUID
TOYOURBATHQHFoor-BATH,
Tho Cooling, Invigorating
and Strengthening
Effects are s<*mply
Magical.
Of all Chemists k Stores.
Insist on having “CoNDT’S FLUID.”
The name Condv & ot London, EnguTcT”
should be at foot of Label.
Mrwara of Inferior Australian Snbstitutea
DMIH
G-O TO HELL-
ItJOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
_ Australian Stamps bought, price-
HATS. HATS. HATS.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
Write for
Catalogue to
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
valuable invention.
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
for a pearly skin and brilliant
Complexion. Chemists sell it.
NOTHING ELSE LIKE IT.
Used by the Elite of English
Society. S. Harvey, Limtd.,
London Bridge S.E.
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
' important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALT€R BRADLEY # CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 Greorgo Street, Sydney,.
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro'-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
__ Mr. Biadley, assisted by a competent staff.
Allies Held at the Auction Rooms
[Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sal a
V aiuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-s't
HIGH-GRADE
FARM—-
gsSiSS
Massey-Karris Co. Ltd*
35 BROADWAY,
Georgre-street West, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
If there is any paper which wishes to
politically stay Senator Simon Fraser, let it report
him verbatim.
It has been decided that the official
designation of the House of Representatives is to
be “ not “M.H.R.”
In democratic Broken Hill and district, of
5497 votes cast for the Senate, Mary Jane Gould
polled 297. They put him 23rd on the list.
The other day a compositor in a Mel-
bourne Tory paper substituted “Theft” for
Thrift in a leading article. The poor printer
isn’t always a fool.
If J. N. Brunker had stood aloof when
Reid tried to form his first Government in Burde-
kin’s drawing-room, the Govt, would not have
been formed. Brunker stood aloof when See
attempted his coalition coup, and the Coalition
Govt, vanished.
Mr. Barton no doubt read his colleagues’
minds correctly when, without any consultation
with them, as he says, he instructed the Governor-
General to inform Chamberlain that the Common-
wealth will not have Boer prisoners interned
within its boundaries.
N. S. W . Attorney-General Wise describes
reviving the fiscal issue in State politics as
“putting money on a scratched horse.” This
doesn’t prove that Sydney D.T. is a fool, but it
strongly suggests that it is a rogue. The Daily
Telegraph owns the brute !
Solicitor Crick, if the See Ministry lasts a
few years, is expected to make a name as Lands-
Minister as conspicuous as that of Solicitor
Jack Robertson.. But, then, Robertson put
all his brains into his Ministerial duties, whereas
Crick will probably still stick to the lucrative law
realm.
Millionaire Geo. Brookman, and wealthy
tobacconist, Hugh Dixson, are already out in the
National Ass. interest for S. ii. Parliamentary
seats. Ihe S.A. delegation to the Commonwealth
includes five lawyers, yet an equal number is
already out for local vacancies. Australia is a
happy hunting-ground for the lawyer.
Dear Bulletin,— Of the 16 votes cast at
Ashford (Gwydir Federal electorate) not one was
formal. Yet there’s only one pub. there. Any-
how, 16 is not half the actual voting strength of
Ashford. The inertness of country electors is
answerable for much evil—the present N.S.W.
contingent in the Senate for instance. — Wal-
laroo.
PUSS-PERVERSITY.
“ You naughty boy t don't pull the pussy's tail.”
“ Ain't pullin'; pussy’s pullin’; I’se holdin’ on.”
Goddard was not satisfied with the sup-
port given him against Lyne at the Hume by
Sydney D.T., the “president” of which paper,
by an ominous coincidence, was just then accept-
ing a remunerative Govt, billet from Lyne afore-
said. “Ye cannot serve two masters.”
The faot of Barton trying to condone the
Fegan appointment by three such malapropos pre-
cedents as Eagar, Owen, and Walker, proves the
absolute necessity of quashing Fegan, or Fegan’s
appointment will become a genuine precedent.
With the Fegan precedent admitted, every mem-
ber of a Govt, may appoint his own Under-
secretary.
Northumberland timber-getter discussing
the rival candidates at last general election : “I
dunno nothin about Freetrade or Pertection an’
.1 dont care who s the best man. I’m agoi’n’ to
vote f or Norton ell make a blanky rowT the
Ouse, an thats what we want.”
The widespread protest at the Fegan
appointment will probably, be successful in pre-
hondT.f ratlfi l a %‘. ™ cah imagine any
tad betmen th e Prime Minister himself and
the sfren^lu ai f d T he 7 hol J, 3 question will turn on
CabiS fnd Barto™ 8 wifl * ,he
NS. W. Justice portfolio goes again to
a solicitor—R. G. D. Fitzgerald. Lee and
c o( b were laymen and although worth little in
the office they avoided the callous tactics indulged
n«^, y f S ° ll< : It T P ? de l ce3Sors - As the Justice
JJepartment stands between prisoners and the
administrator 16 * layman should make the best
Unkind people are dragging up Fegan’s
anti-Bill speeches m the Federal campaigns,
began s favorite prediction was, “that under
1 ederation we would make the country for a few
people, but put it back 50 years for the masses.”
began soon got himself numbered among the
chosen few, and has left the masses to shift for
themselves.
Sydney Telegraph, which said little
about the matter while Things were Pending, sud-
denly wakes to the fact that the present position
tvt cnconstitooshnal, and daily asseverates that
JN.b.YV. Parliament should be called together at
once. In fact, now that D.T.'' President Carey
lias got his comfortable Govt, billet, there is no
reason why Parliament should not meet at 10
minutes’ notice.
How very absurd, in face of the splendid
democratic victories in Queensland, those Northern
Labor papers look that fought so furiously against
b ederation. The movement for Australian unity
was decried as a wretched wile of Fatman and a
stumbling-block to all true Democratic progress
and behold ! the Q. Radicals have gained a bigger
victory in one battle than they won in a wearisome
10 years’ campaign.
Barton, at Maitland, when seeking the
confidence of the Federation
In the meantime, we shall utilise the State officers.
The system has two advantages. It will give us an
internal addition, and the assistance of men who have
experience, if we can obtain their services from the
State. The appointments will be temporary. . . . We
shall need the best services of capable- and experienced
men—men experienced in the public service, if they can
be available.
Well, either the public services of the several
States are very poorly officered, or Barton did not
mean what he said, if he still intends to defend
the Fegan appointment.
Snow’s Tram Grab is to come before next
session of S.A. Parliament, backed by Adelaide
Municipal Council and a large majority of local
bodies. Holder, now resigning as Premier, pro-
mised that, if the local council couldn’t agree on
a scheme, S.A. Govt, would go for nationalisa-
tion, but no more has been heard from the shifty,
lean politician. With Kingston, Batchelor,
Glynn, and other strong opponents absent, the
Snow crowd, which is gaining (or “securing”)
much support from politicians, has a splendid
chance of getting its unspeakable grab through
S.A. Parliament next session
Dear Bulle-
tin.—Letter (B.
30/3/’01) about
difference of
price between
English and Bel-
gian iron and
steel omits the
consideration of
private royalties
•'.id to English
landlords. These
are never less on
steel rails than
9s. 6d. a ton;
whereas in Bel-
gium ‘the State
royalty is only
Is. 9d. a ton—
which means a
handicap of 7s.
9d. a ton on
British steel. In
France private
royalties were
abolished at the
Revolution (1792)
and until the
same thing hap-
pens in England
Protection means
amongst other
things, legalised
robbery by the
fat British land-
owner. May The
Bulletin never
be so fascinated by the Protectionist view of the
case as to leave social abuses completely out of
sight. — Canopus.
At the calling of the Federal poll, in Ade-
laide, there was something akin to an apotheosis
of Josh. Symon, K.C. The man who had been
boycotted by the National Ass. had to acknow-
ledge the cheers of the democracy which had placed
him at the head of the Senate list. Just before
Symon rose to thank the electors, th.e sun peeped
through the side window, lighted on the dis-
tinguished counsel’s egg-bald pate, and illumined
the whole room. To hundreds, Josh. Symon will
now always seem to have a halo.
J. H. KEATING, who headed the Senate poll
for Tasmania. . *
Poynton, one of S.A.’s Federal members,
had the unique distinction of receiving the block
support of squatters, shearers and laborites gener-
ally. When elected to S.A. Assembly six years
ago Poynton was considered c, firebrand, but he
was the main author of a Pastoral Act which lias
done much to revive the squatting industry.
Poynton is unimpressive-looking and a poor
orator, but his head is properly screwed on.
Awful admission from the Kalgoorlie
Miner, Westralia’s most vigorous paper, run by
J. W. Kirwan, M.H.R. (he had been charged
with making his opponent pay for speech reports
in the Miner). “His (Kirwan’s) opponent is
charged neither more nor less than he (Kirwan)
is. The practice followed by the Miner has been
pursued by it for years; and is identical with
that of the Adelaide and Perth dailies. It applies
to all municipal and Parliamentarv candidates.”
Minister N. E. Lewis, who retires from
hon. membership of the Barton Cabinet, saved
the Adelaide Convention on Federation from a
sudden collapse. John Forrest, was, on one occa-
sion, in a vefy obstinate mood, and insisted on the
Senate’s absolute equality with the House of
Representatives. Lewis held the same view in
fact, a, majority of the Conventionists were for it.
Lewis, however, recognising that the Convention
would rise if the motion were carried, went over to
the other side, and saved the situation.
Thus characteristically N.S.W. ex-Minis-
ter Fegan, after appointment to a permanent civil
service position : “I am now in a position in
which I don’t give two straws for Mr. Reid or his
opinions.” By the way, Lyne (no doubt with a
view of .softening things, down) avers that Fegan’s
salary as Under-Secretary for Internal Affairs
will not exceed £750 or £BOO a year. So that a
Commonwealth Under-Secretary is to be (say)
£2OO a year at least worse off than a common
Under-Secretary for the State of N.S.W. !
Now that the plague has caught the Cape-
town army, wHat price the British yearning for
peace? They cable bravely that the Boers are
not entitled to peace on the refused terms ; but if
the Boers keep up the fight a little longer
and the plague gets going, Britain will be glad to
make peace on almost any terms. Britain is
thoroughly sick of the war ; and the Boers stick
to it as grimly as their old Dutch forbears stuck
to the fight against Spain. And Judas Chamber-
lain may well be praying for peace or compromise
as Wellington prayed for night or Blucher.
How absurd a political fetish is Brunker
of N.S.W. ! Brunker’s character is set forth in
his handwriting, which is of the copperplate
order affected by tailors’ foremen. The depth
of political ignorance in which the amiable
placid, respectable cow-merchant wallows was
illustrated in his estimate of the annual cost of
Federation per head of population (didn’t he sav
f 27 l r t( l people of N.S.W. ? Strangers coming
to JN.S.W. naturally ask “Whence Brunker ?”
or “ How?” Much of Brunker’s howness appar-
ently consists of the fact that he is related to
S.M. Herald.
Fleming, spokesman for Melbourne’s un-
employed, told Lord Hopetoun the other day that
ne (His Ex.) had come from “a country where the-
people are much more prosperous than they are
here.” “Which country?” the tired Hopetoun
wanted to know. “England,” said Fleming.
“The cause of the misery here is the bad manage-
ment of the country.” And the Gov.-General had
to look as though he were listening to words of-
historical truth and wisdom. Finally, he said he
was very sorry, and would see whether “ anything
could he done”—to put the Melbourne unem-
ployed on level terms with London’s submerged-
tenth, did he mean?
G. H. Reid, in his speech before N.S.W.
Federal Freetrade Association; cites as positive
proof of the sterling qualities of Freetection that—
The fact that the mother State of the group, the State
which had a much riper political experience than- any
other, gave such an overwhelming majority for Freetrade
was a very significant circumstance. Going to the other
extreme of the continent, they found the youngest State
also voting Freetrade.
Then lie goes on to say that the fact that the
youngest (and most inexperienced) State also
voted Freetrade only strengthens the belief that
the Freetrade poli'y is the best. What can any-
one do with such a logician ?
“ Malle ’ : The N.S. Wales Protectionist-
leaders have always systematically overlooked
their supporters when distributing loaves and
fishes, and, seemingly, the Federal Govt, means
to do likewise. The Federalists were pretty
unanimously uninvited to the Commonwealth
shiyoo, while “Long Bill” lavished illuminated
invitation-posters on the Pile’s-dog crowd. Now
the first Federal appointment of note goes to
Fegan, the Freetrader and anti-Federal hustler.
If this sort of thing continues, Barton’s estimate
of the House of Reps.—supporters 40, opponents
29 (equivalent to a majority in N.S.W. State
Legislature of 29)—will soon need revision
Precedent, and the manipulation of poli-
ticians, having made the weary old fiscal question
the touchstone of Federal politics, the State
electors may well consider whether all minor
politics are to be governed by this dreary fetish,
m the same way as minor politics in America are
defined by the Republican v. Democrat cry, and
in Britain by the Liberal v. Conservative cry. If
the State Parliaments wish to do things, they will
cast aside this fiscal demarcation once and for
ever, and—if we must have Party Government-
range themselves after the fashion of the London
County Council, as Progressives and Moderates.
I hen can we differentiate the sheep from the
goats and ascertain where we are.
The fate of the Barton Government will
largely depend on the votes of Labor-members.
Barton has been cute enough to get to work early
with this fact in view. Kingston, in South Aus-
tralia, and Turner, in Victoria, have been quietly
angling for the support of the men who will be
likely to join a distinct Labor-party in the Federal
Parliament. Two better members of Cabinet for
this work could not have been selected. King-
ston justly stands high in the estimation of the
intelligent Laborites in his owii State, while Tur-
ner has the assistance and good-will of men like
Trenwith, Beazley, and Mauger in Victoria. If
the Labor vote m the Federal House is to be
secured for the Barton Government, then Turner
and Kingston will get it.
N.S.W. Premier See has harnessed up his
new team. Six out of the nine Ministers were
members of the late Lyne Administration, so
piactically it is the same old Govt. Sydney D.T.,
which assumes most of the credit of stopping the
leading men of the old Freetrade Party (Brunker,
Ashton, Carruthers and Garland) from joining the
Ministry, is developing symptoms of violent dis-
taste of the new Govt, for the avowed reason
tnat the State Premier has selected men from the
_ I rotectionists. ” As if the poor man could have
done anything else. The D.T., 18 months ago,
received the announcement of Lyne’s Ministry
with loud acclaim, and has consistently supported
it since, but, having made it up with G. H. Reid,
is now prepared to accomplish its extermination.
Lively contests are expected for the Pre-
sidency of the Senate and for the Speakership of
the House of Reps. The personalities of members
being unknown to the majority of their fellows
the fights promise to run on inter-State lines.
For the Senate Presidency, S.A. and Victoria
will run the Presidents of their respective local
Leg;. Councils—Chaffey Baker, and W. A. Zeal.
And the choice seems to lie between them, though
if Sargood adheres to his decision to stand, the
contest may end in Baker slipping in. S.A. and
Victoria also supply leading candidates for the
Speakership m the other House—Holder and
Quick respectively. As there is some idea of
Holder helping Freetrade and G. H. Reid, the
Sydney press is crying to “ give N.S; W. a show ”
and suggests Bruce Smith. The Govt, nominee
will probably win the office, but Barton is silent
as to whom he will -select. With the Victorian
vote solid, Quick seems to have a good show.
If Premier Peacock is nab more cautious
he will says Melbourne gossip, awake one morn-
ing to find the Age sitting heavily on his political
Ihe reason will be that he has not been
sufficiently respectful to the Age proprietor.
David Syme wanted the property at the corner of
Collins and Spring Streets, recently bought by the
Vic. Govt, for the housing of the Federal
Ministry. The place belonged to Dr. Rudall, and
is m a splendid position. Syme wanted to get
hold of it for his nephew, that rising surgeon, Dr.
Syme. It was dirt-cheap, and just as David
was trying to work the last point Peacock
stepped m and bought it over his head, planking
down the deposit on the spot. Peacock is at pre-
sent disinclined to disclose the price paid by him
—but the figure was about £12,000. Considering
that the property was sold sometime ago (not in
boom time) for £30,000, the Vic. Government beat
Syme for a real bargain.


“Mr. A. Saunders, the well-known jeweller
of George-street, opposite the Redforn Terminus, is
always to the front where novelty and originality
are in demand. I have had an opportunity of
seeing his latest design in pretty brooohes. The
aooompanying illustration gives a faint idea of
wliat he oalls his ‘Federal Broooh.’ In the
preoious metal and choice enamel it is one of the
oh:
A Pretty and Effective Brooch.
prettiest souvenirs of a great event I have seen
for some time.. A scroll inscribed ‘ One Land
One People,’ is surmounted by the Federal
shield ; depending from each end of the scroll is a
gold loop chain ; while underneath all is a heart.
What more appropriate gift could be made in the
form of a brooch during the com in" festivities
than this? The price of the brooch in silk-lined
casket is 225. 6d. post free.” —“ Mab,” in Fbee-
man’s Jouunal.
Read what VITADATIO is Doing.
A Whole Fa mily Cored
... J3T ...
VITADATIO
After Years of Suffering.
CALL AND SEE FOB. YOURSELP.
Paddington, August 22, 1900.
Mr. S. A. Palmer,
184 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Dear Sir. —My mother has suffered for many
years with Dropsical Swellings in her legs and
feet, and for weeks at a time has been laid up and
could not move about. She is 77 years of age.
My brother has also suffered for a long time with
Poverty of Blood, Weakness, and General Debility.
Last January my mother and brother decided to
take a course of VITADATIO, and the result
was marvellous. My mother got better, and is
now able to go about anywhere, and has no pain.
My brother lias regained his strength again, and
has put on a deal of flesh, and has now a healthy
color. I myself have suffered Tor twenty years
with Fibrous Tumors, General Debility, Weak-
ness, and Poverty of Blood, and noticing the won-
derful effect the VITADATIO had on my mother
and brother I decided to take a course. I got the
medicine from your Paddington Agency, 377
Oxford-street, and after I had taken six bottles
one tumor came away. I am still taking the
medicine and expect some more to come away. I
am getting much stronger, and I have gained five
gmuds in weight since I started with the VITA-
ATIO, and now I have a much better fcolor.
We have persevered with VITADATIO, and it
has done wonders in our family; and we will be
very glad to give any further explanations re our
case on application for our address, which can be
obtained at 184 Pitt-street, Sydney, and at 377
Oxford-street, Paddington.
[Note. —As the writer of the above does not wish
her name to be published through the press, I
have refrained from adding it to the above
testimonial, but the name and address can be
had (as stated) on application as above. —S.
A. Palmer.]
Fnr further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
Queensland Smelting jjompg.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
T3UYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
Publications.
The Coningham Case.
[ Dr, O’Haran’s Vindication and How
It was Brought About,
Illustrated with over
A HUNDRED PHOTOCRAPHIO FAOSIMIIEB
of the Documents quoted in the Case and
MANY OTHERS THAT DID NOT AP*PEAR IN COURT,
and of which the Publisher holds the
Sole Right of Reproduction.
THE ONLY GENUINE HISTORY OF THE CASE.
The work is issued solely to Subscribers, and early Appli-
cation for Copies should be made.
Orders have been already received from Cardinal
Moran, Hon. W. P. Crick, Mr. J. H. Want, K.C., Mr. T.
1 ‘Mattery, Dr. O’Uaran, and other leading public men.
A,
"*r
.
i-.
mm
SOME OF THE CONTENTS OF THE BOOK.
Introduction and General
Survey of the Case.
The Abigail Episode.
The First Trial.
The Waddy Fiasco.
Boomerang Strategy.
A Game of Euchre.
The Relief of “ Burrilda.”
That Agricultural Expert—
“ Captain ” Smith.
Documentary Evidence.
The Romeo of Glenmore
Road.
“ Stout and Oysters.”
“ Beer and Boots.”
The Shadow of “ Zero."
A Belated Wedding and a
Demented Bride.
Coningham’s “Bodyguard.”
“Zero’s” trysting with
“Oonny.”
“Dear Jim” and “Dear
Fred.”
Soothing the Baby.
The Midnight Banquet.
Dill-Macky’s Revolver.
“ For Old Lang’s Sign.”
Foiled!
“Conny’s” Collapse.
Triumph of Dr. O’Haran.
' STATUTORY DECLARATION OF MRS. BONNER.
THE WORK WILL BE PUBLISHED THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA AT
5/- per Copy ; 5/6, Post Free.
ORDERS should be addressed AT ONCE to
D. COOPER,
Bos: 265, Gr.-F*.o., Sydney
Fair Girls and Gray Horses
Bv WILL OGILVIE. 4s 6d.
CHARLES READ & CO.,
(3 DOORS FROM
STRAND ARCADE).
Camden Buildings, 420 Ceorge St, Sydney.
Write for our 80-page Illustrated Catalogue—POST FREE.
Silver-Plated Leaf Toast-Rack,
Price 10/6
A SAVING OF 25 PER CENT.
Gold Curb Chain Bangles
with Padlocks,
35/- 4 ' • 55/- 63/-
ħ
Gold Curb Chain Bangles
with Padlocks,
35/- 45/- 55/- 63/-
Silver-Plated 4-Oup Egg-Frame,
Price 32/6
A SAVING OF 25 PER CENT.
MILES R“EAD OF ALL OTHERS
< . Are erica’s Representative Typewriters . .
h
The Ifost .
. flensmore
.. Deui Century
Why Search Elsewhere ?
WE Alone can Offer Ton
a Choice.
WE WILL ADVISE YOU WHICH IS BEST FOR FOUR WORK.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue—Free.
UNITED TYPEWRITER & SUPPLIES CO. (LARGEST dealers in AUSTRALIA)
114 Pitt-st., SYDNEY ; 362 Collins-st., MELBOURNE ; Barrack-st., PERTH.
Webster & Co., Brisbane ; Reeves & Co., Adelaide ; Hedley Button, Launceston and Hobart.
ĥ
THE SMARTEST MAN
ON EARTH
Can’t keep count of every detail in a business which
has a dozen, six, or even three assistants, but the
NATIONAL^
CASH REGISTER
is
ggas
Will do it for him, and do it
thoroughly, Keeping Kecord
every hour, Year in, Year out,
never getting sick or
“ DOING A LOAF.”
Tt earns its own Cost in,
less than a year, and after
that still goes on saving
for you.
National CaSb Register C°
335 Pitt Street, Sydney.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager for Australasia.
Dunlqp Tyres
RUN BETTER
AND
WEAR
BETTER
than any
other
tyres.
A
MILLIONS
Huhiop Tyres
have
been
sold.
The
continually
increasing
demand
proves how
satisfactory the
PUBLIC and TRADE
have found them.
Beware
of
Imitations.
None genuine unless the
cover and tube are em-
bossed with this
ft
I3T TRADE MARK.
A
Beautiful
and useful
Booklet is
“All
about
Dunlop
Tyres
for
1901.”
If you have not already
obtained a copy, send
for one at once. Gratis
upon application.
The j)unlop pneumatic Tyro Co. of Jus. [td.
150 Clarence Street, SYDNEY;
and at
.Melbourne,
Adelaide,
Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS
WE
fg&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
nxr.srw,
Kleat deplete o.<| |.Co.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74 CASTLEEEAGH ST., 74
SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manages.
City Mutual Life
~ “ “ '
4* Assurance Society
Limited. ...
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIGH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
GEO. CROWLEY,
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Manager.
'—THIS—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Robbrts,
U.M.G., M.L.C.; Brock Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,268.
Policies issued 82,00 assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses- equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
ILIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4.800,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital £3,216,885 0 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, E'q., Chairman ; J. C. Syme
Es<i., J.l*. ; lion. W. 11. Etnhli-ig, M.L.C. ;
Hon N. TliornKv, M.L.C.
General Manager: I [ ni y Gyles Turner, J. P.
Chief Inspector: H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: H. M. M'Nioot, and Al' an Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street. Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith.
Assistant .Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Ojjice: 1 Jiishojtsfrote Street I Vitkin
corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.I
Bankers . The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
IVEW SOUTH .wales:
SYi>NICV - 273 GIOOIIG IS STIMOIOT.
Acting Manager : J. R. Lesjoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
Hay market, Gosford (with agency at Wyongl, New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £BOOO, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Saving’s Bank, Market-street. Melbourne.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE GO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers £3,000,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Established 1879.
THE
United Australian Mutual fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices :
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capita! .. £500,000
Subscribed Capital .. 251,260
% Paid-up Capital .. 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance. Agents required where not represented.
Alfred Websteb, General Manager.
E. B. McKknny, Secretary.
The Bank of north Qaeeislaid
Liivimoi).
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Oo. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITA!. i-700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 JOO £350,000
Shiiip'ng.
THE HOWARD "SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
CySEI.ONU
PORTLAND
VVARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Saturday, April 20,12 Noon.
’■'Tyrian, Saturday, April 27,12N00n.
Peregrine, Friday, May 3, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIItiE
POUT AUGUSTA
Steamer Early.
ALBA NY
Fremantle
Steamer Early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCK HAMPTON
BUNDA BERG
Peregrine, Sat., April 20, 12 Noon.
Bimvah, Tuesday, April 23, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, April 27,12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Peregrine, Sat,, April 20, 12 Noon.
Leura, Saturday, April 27, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT i
GERALDTON (
CAIRNS. &c. (
Lass o’ Cowrie, from Townsville
weekly. I’assengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest. Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Keturn Tickets Available for Six Months,
passengers Tickets ini erchanareable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Compai = ,s. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves— Foot of King-street.
THE “ ALL RED ” MAIL ROUTE TO LONDON.
THE ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
OF THE
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LIME
. (C. & A. LINE)
Under contract with the Governments of New South
Wales, Queensland, and Canada, leave Sydney evcfry
four weeks as under, for
BRISBANE, HONOLULU, VICTORIA and VANCOUVER.
May 29
June 26
July 24
Connecting- at Vancouver with the
. CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
This is the Imperial Route Home, as well as the most at-
tractive It avoids alike the heat of the Red Sea and the
cold ol Cape Horn. The railroad journey between the
l acme and Atlantic Oceans (Vancouver to Montreal)
occupies about five days, and is made
WITHOUT CHANGE ON CARRIAGES,
through the grandest scenery in the world—over the
Selkirk and Rocky Mountains, across the Prairies, and
along* the North Shore of Lake Superior.
Passengers have the-choice of a number of overland
routes, enabling them to visit the principal cities of
Canada and tin United States.
For Railway Maps, Guide Books, and all other informa-
tion, apply to
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents.
Banking, Public Companies, &e.
Trustees, €*€C&lorS,
Cofgpaijv Lirgited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
i-'150,000 0 0
090,000 0 0
£150,000 0 0
£8312
0 0
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE LIABILITY ...
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business)
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1900 ’ 1 6,326,343 0 0
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker reinstered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq '•
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ’ ’
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of Mew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH : ]
Equitable Building’s, George Street. j
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital pay al ile by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital
.. £2,500,000
ħ
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. T,td. oj Condon.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors—Sydney : Sir W. M‘Millan, Hon?A W. Meeks,
Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.,
Branch Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide W
N. M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson; Perth a’w
Farquhar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montefiork.’
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
Write Jor Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
“SANITAS”
NATURE'S
GREAT DISINFECTANT.
Does Not Stain Listen*
FLUID, POWDER, SOAPS, &c.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
Valuable book, “HOW TO DISINFECT,”
free on application.
The “ SANITAS” Co., Ltd.,
BETHNAL GREEN, LONDON.
I Cure Fits.
You are
not asked<
to spend '
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Rts, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance,
&c. All you are asked to do is to
send fora free bottleof medi-
cine and to try it. I am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H.G. R00T, 38, Endsleigh Gdns., LON DON.
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrib & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, CALLING at PLYMOUTH and
LIVERPOOL Via CAPETOWN,
Calling at Melbourne ; Adelaide and Albany.
The line new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz.:—
AFRIC, 12,000,t0n5, to Sail First Week in May.
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
SUEVIC, PERSIC, RUNIC and MEDIC.
The attention of the travelling public and shipper.-
generally is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric light
throughout.
For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents, O’Connell-st., Sydney, and Watt-st., Newcastle.
3XT. D. n..
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL FLEET.
. . COMPRISING .
129 Steamers of a Total Tonnage of
506,754; Horse-power, 403,245.
Mileage run in 1899, 3,545,000 ; Over 3J million Pas-
sengers carried since 1857.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, London,
Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
REGULAR SERVICE TO HONGKONG, via BRIS-
BANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, and YAP.
The fine new N.D.L. fast twin screw.
S.S. NUEN TUNC, 1341 tons,
Captain GosewiSeh,
Leaving SYDNEY APRIL 24th NEXT.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
Medical.
Will Develop or Reduce
any part of the Body.
A PERFECT COMPLEXION
BEAUTIFIER and
Remover of Wrinkles.
Dr. JOHN WILSON GIBBS'
THE ONLY
Electric
Passage
Heller
(Patented
United States,
Europe,
Canada.
h
“Its work is
not confined to
tire face alone,
but will do good
to any part of the
body to which it is
applied, developing or
reducinq as desired. It
is a very pretty addition
to the toilet table.”
—Chicago Tribune.
“ This delicate Electric Beauti-
fier removes all facial blemishes.
It is the only positive remover of
wrinkles and crow’s feet. It never
fails to perform all that is expected.”
—Chicago Times Herald
“The Electric Roller is certainly productive of good
results. 1 believe it the best of any appliances. It is safe
and effective.”—Harriet Hubbard Ayer, New York World.
For Massage and Curative Purposes
An Electric Roller is all the term implies. The invention
of a physician and electrician known throughout America
and Europe. A perfect complexion beautifier. Will re-
move wrinkles, “crow’s feet” (premature or from age)
and all facial blemishes. Whenever electricity is to be
used for massaging or curative purposes, it has no equal.
No charging. _ Always ready for use on all parts op the
body, for all diseases. For Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neural-
gia, Nervous and Circulatory Diseases, a specific.
Price—Gold, 21/- ; Silver, 16/- PAMPHLETS FREE.
Sole Agent tor Australasia—
J. OHHi |VfER3
229 Collins-street,
Melbourne.
ĥ
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney of Bladder troubles,
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
<&c., should have one of these
Cabinets. Price 25/-
Head and Pace Steamer, 3/6.
Can he forwarded to any address.
J. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
DON’T POISON*
YOURSELF
W ith DRUGS. Ail Diseases 01 me .\ ]■;i; vi/Cs !sy»iem
JjAme Back, Sciatica, Liver Complaint, Dyspepsia, Des-
pondency, Brain Fao, and, in fact, all chronic weaknesses
and ailments ean now be Speedily Relieved and Cured
without Drugs or Medicine of any kind. Address—
ARTHUR HALE, 44 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
MARKS /’P'IFRICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
9
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send fur Cataloguer, Par-
ticularx, cbe.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers
281 CEOROE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
TALAR SIR,—I have been cured of Weakness and De-
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBERT
E. PARKHURST, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Business Announcements.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS, TO DIMS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Seaconsfield Parade
ST KILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
i-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE a
GO.
(1.1 M I'l'lOl >).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, Souij Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOIi MELBOURNE '
ADELAIDE
p ORT PI RLE
And UULF PORTS
FSPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
.S.S Allinga, Fiiday,
April-19.
BRISBANE
maceav
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Ointra, Friday,
April 26.
Rest and Cheapest ltoute to Goldfields.
bai°on Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
nrst Port between Melbourne and 'Cairns with the
steamers of the A. H.S.N. Co. and VV. Howard Smith and
01 Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
cntions to be ascertained on application.
G. s. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Atrents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
’ ,V ■ ■ IM- wov. Ltd.
royal mail coastal service.
THU POPULAR PASS UN t! Hit LINE.
Milrwu »v. l f irMag,lifioent Steamships as under.
MRLBOLRjNE and COUKTOWJM MAIL LINE —Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Eowen, lownsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
Svlwrv AN,I> KOLK' 11A MPTQN—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURE ETOWN-Every 3 Weeks, via liris
ba ‘ ,e > Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Norrnanton.
wmrv NEVV OALKI»ONIA, and EUI, Monthly.
and MELBOURNE, Weekly. y
SYDNEY ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
fortnightly. *
Pan .sennet’ A ceoniniodnfion, Attendant:* and
v« inin ft unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
of th^Ad!^’^ I ee " J '! e ’ boill ' nealld Cairns with the steamers
! l r Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
En>- J af/i m° lt '?" s to be ascertained on application.
n l n A,I ude ,"'l vv - Aus f ralia all tickets are inter-
ncmm 6 V th the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
street lt a" 1 ' 1 A £ e ' Mls > 1" Bridge-
street, Sidney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports '
P. A!M D 6. COMPANY.
be T de e sp ß a o tchedas'follows S !^ S ° f above Co.npany will
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON
Touching a! the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at lirindisi.
~, s steamers now call at Kmuantle
PASSAGE MONEY TO LON DON —Si ri gl . . i os to £77
r. , , Ditto Return ,1 Ills to £l2l
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial pores
are available for Return by Orient and Mari-
roo - ni - Particulars on application
to EDVVARD TRELAWNY, Superintendent in Aus-
Corner, Pitt and Bridge Streets
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
trench Government, calling at MELBOURNE ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
~ . iicu tu IJOUIUItV, UlUlil, Urlllia,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77.
including table 'wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen s Confer, Pitt Street, Sydney.
B- BRAsiER DE THUY, Principal A^ent.
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORI'S.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. ANP a.” LINE.
Tlie Steamships of the above Coibpany will be despatched
as follows for
MANILA, CHINA, and JAPAN.
_ Touching; at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for t'ie Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilb.ourn’s Patent Reiri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBES, BRIGHT and GO., Managing Agents
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
■" 37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
j||‘pßjraith,|‘EaehBni3®.
PROP. LTD.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS
KALGOOELIE, 4500 tons,
COOLQ-JLIR-IDTIE, 3500 TONS,
SAIL FORTNIGHTLY between
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
West Australian Ports.
Passenger Accommodation IT nsurpassed. Liberal Cuisine,
MILWRAITH, M‘E* ACHARN AND CO.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Alban}' and Fremantle.
Sydney Agents—BUßNS, PHILP & CO. Ltd.


HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
P.re<B your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the 6kin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
YOU. I don’t say i erhaps ; but I WII.L. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and FILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Store*,
Great Britain, 1/Hd. per b x. Prepared by
AIBEKI, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents t ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney- Purchasers snouid
look foi the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
g een la el on • ach box. (Regd. copyright).
ħ
h
FRINGES,
tfttui.il Curly, from S/0 eoa&
PLAITS ond TAILS.
fsHn. lout», all real I *.,
CUTTINGS & COM ISITfeJ
e priced up. Vyn per 02.
\Va ore the clieap&iin Aat»
walla for all Hair Worfc,
Send Color of lloir.
w. n.wzzw.
110 IV 11.1.1 AM STREET.
*®rner of Palmer-etrset,
SYDNEY.
o»tile Trum will stop at Deo.
Send alampn for full Price Llti
f*'S9>if+ otteutiou j;jvon >.o Country <J, liiar
ĥ
Dr. BoxwelFs .""SILENT PILLS.
AT ON-POISONOUS, HARMLESS, ALWAYS EFFEC-
TIVE. A Sure Friend, dispelling Misery, Suspense,
and Anguish by affording Immediate Relief. Sold by all
Chemists in Australia or can be sent anywhere. Price,
5/6 per box. Purchasers can rely on the fact that
these Pills are the Formula of a Skilled Expert —Dr.
Boxwell having been for years Physician to the Woman’s
Hospital, London. Agents for Dr. Boxwell’s Silent Pills,
all leading Wholesale Druggists in Australia or Pill
Manufacturing Co., 539 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
“ COMMON SENSE EAR BRUM.”
iritel
mi
mm
OMJPLETELY restore the
_ Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-da.v for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Mioxis. Grouraud-’S
FRCNCH DERMATIC PILLS
A SILENT BUT SURE REMEDY. Universally used
by the ladies of France. Guaranteed to produce the
result in an incredibly short time. Mrs. Thompson,
Cardigan-street, Carlton, says : “ I was for three months
taking all sorts of remedies—wrinkled, anguish-stricken,
and careworn ; but now bright and happy-looking for,
thanks to Mons. Gouraud’s Pills, I am myself again.”
Price per box, posted anywhere, 5/(5. Write to PILL
MANUFACTURING CO., Elizabeth-st., North Melbourne.
CALVERTS
per cent.
CARBOLIC
SOAP
Cus'-es and prevents Insect
and Mosquito bites.
The strongest Carbolic Toilet Soap.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
t?
D\t§
NATURES TRUE REMEDIES.
Nature has provided a TRUE REMEDY for Every
Complaint. It is, therefore, unnecessary to contaminate the
System with Mineral Poisons, which leave the System Weak
and Debilitated. Sufferers fn m Blood and Skin Diseases,
Nervous Affections, Piles, Rheumatism, and Affection of
the Liver and Kidneys, Chest and Lungs, Consumption,
General Debility, Costiveness, Influenza, Melancholia,
can rely on a Cure from these Remedies.
ALFALINE
REMEDIES
Are a guaranteed
Cure for the
above Complaints.
They have Cured
Thousands, and
stood a Test in
Australia for over
20 years. They
have never been
known to fail in
a single case, and
they are purely
NATURE’S
REMEDIES.
k(tisuaq)
limmS
iiimmu
ALFALINE
HERBAL
REMEDIES
Have been Awar-
ded several Gold
Medals, and
More Testimon-
ials than any
known remedy in
Australia.
A Special
Guaranteed Rem-
edy for each
Complaint.
HERR RASSMUSSBN'S CHIEF LABORATORY.
fiLFILINE VITALITY PILLS
Are a Guaranteed Cure for All Nervous Afr ctijSfhs, Weak Spine, Brain and Nerves, Poor
Memory, Tired Feeling, and General Debility. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Course, 28/6.
ALFALIfIE BLOOD PILLS
Are a PERMANENT CURE for the Most Chronic Blood Dis< ases, Skin Diseases. Blotches,
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, etc. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Courses. 23/6.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
Purify the Blood and Build up the Weakest Nervous System. A Guaranteed Cure for
iEnemia, Wa-ting Diseases in Females. A General Blood and Nerve Tonic
for both sexes. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-. Couises, 2:.‘/6.
ALFALIHE LIVER ARID KIDNEY PILLS
Are Guaranteed to Cure Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn,
Biliousness, and the Liver and Kidneys. BOAES, ONE SHILLING. Posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills- Guaranteed to
cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lum-
bago. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 12s. and
235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage—
This Suspender imparts Strength and Vigor,
at the same time as it supports the parts.
Price 215., posted.
Aifaline Asthma and Cough Pills -A
Woudeiful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Con-
sumption, Bronchitis and Influenza. Boxes,
posted, 35., 65., 12s and 235. 6d.
Electric Belts —Containing powerful and
effectual Electric currents unequalled as a
cure for all Spinal and Kidnev Affections ;
425. ami 635. Send for all particulars.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Sufferers can only obtain the Alfalihe Herbal Remedies from
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office or Branches, the addresses of
which appear below. Letters should be addressed and Cheques
and Money Orders made payable to Herr Rasmrussen’s full
name— Hans Peter Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head
Office or Branches. Register all letters containing monev.
All Remedies sent unobserved, packed in plain cover.
Correspondence held confidential.
ALFALINE
PILE POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
FAT-REDUCING
POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
HAIR-RESTORER,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
CORN CURE, I/-.
OINTMENT, 1/-.
9. -
H!RR RASSMUSSE
HFEBALAIFALIKEPUI
KEBSRASSMUSSSfJ
'
A USEFUL BOOK
SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmussen’s
valuable book, The
Alfaline Guide to
Health, which con-
tains valuable in-
formation for all
Complaints, and
copies of Testi-
monials, will be sent
free in plain cover,
on application.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD OFFICE,
(HANS PETER RASSMUSSEN)
547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Alfaline Remedies can only be obtaimd from his Head Office and his
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES :
MELBOURNE, 150 Bourke-street.
BRISBANE, 309 Queen-street.
ADELAIDE, 154 Rundle-st.
N.Z., 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A.—PERTH, 481 Hay-street.
KALGOORLIE, Hannan-street.
BOULDER CITY , Piesse-street.
FREMANTLE, Henry-street.
A FREE ROOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of the ALFALINE REMEDIES.
Medical.
OR. J. COLUS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPYNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLUS,
ASTHMA, BBOMCHITIS,
DIARBHCEA, i' l -, bears
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—•
Pr.J.COLUS BROWN 6.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlokodyne. 1 never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECT It IC
BELTS and
ABBLI A NCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
I
ħ
RAMEY’S DEDICATOR
For the Treatment of
Catarrh, Bronchitis, Hay Fever, Asthma,
Colds, influenza, Headache, Catarrhal
Deafness. Book of Treatment, Free.
Price of Medicator (size, 4 inches long, Nickel-
plated), and 4 months’ treatment, 1 Bottle Com-
pound Inhalent, and 1 tin ■* /
Nasal Ointment, only I”/ m Post Free.
HOME CATARRH CURE CO.,
231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and infallible Remedy ,
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY,
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C-S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
Over
100
years
have
proved
their
value.
G. L. ROBERTS, M.D.
h
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
Born 1766, Died 1834.
INVENTOR OF Dr. ROBERTS'
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
The best for all Wounds and Skin Diseases,
Chronic Sores, Ulcerated Legs, Pimples,
Sore Eyes, &c. ■
ush Dr. ROBERTS’
ALTERATIVE FILLS,
For all impurities of the blood." Invaluable for Skin
Diseases. Prices is. i.Jd-. and 2s. 9c!. each of all Drug-
Stores. '
Sole Makers : BEACH & BARNICOTT, LtcL
BRIDPORT. England.
Mrs. WALSHE’S
Famous English Tansy Pills.
'T'HESE Famous Pills are now universally used through-
out the world, being the most perfect combination
of agents yet discovered. They contain no poison or
deleterious drugs, and they can always be relied on to
afford immediate relief. Price, sent posted, ss. 6d. per
box. Write to A. Chemical Co., Elizabeth-street North,
Melbourne. Mrs. John Wood, Bendigo-street, Prahran,
Melb. says : “ Mrs. Walshe’s Tansy 'Pills gave me imme-
diate relief, although I had during two months previous
tried ill sorts of remedies without success.”
ĥ
[DEAF
T
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
(how long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOH
CONCERNING YO URSEL V EH.
Address. —L.D.1., 300 Collins St., McJbournr
Mrs. J. M. Nicholl writes to The Bulle-
tin from 4 Clifton-Park Road, Clifton, Bristol,
England, a hopeless-looking letter. But it the
persons inquired for are alive and can be found,
The Bulletin is the paper to find them :
If there are now living in Australia any children of a
certain John Rowse (born in 1807 in the Parish of St.
Columb, Cornwall), and they wish to help him, he is still
living in Bristol and in great poverty, and can be heard
of through me. You will know best whether the notice
should appear in the form, of an advertisement or in a
paragraph to catch the eye of working people. Ihe old
man is industrious (an old farmer) and would work; as
long as he could stand. He occasionally earns a few weeks
livelihood at a crossing or tidying-up, but lives, of neces-
sity, much in the workhouse. He fancies his children
are ail in Australia, but has lost sight of them for very
many years. I am quite a stranger to him, only lam
very sorry for him.
This paper does not, as a rule, print
parodies, but the following, from London Morn-
ing Post, is sufficiently true to stand any amount
of repetition
“ RECESSIONAL.”
Three years after Rydyard Kipling.
God of our fathers ! known of old,
Lord of our far-flung battle line,
Beneath whose awful hand we-hold
Dominion over palm and pine—
Lord God of Hosts ! Oh, judge us not,
We have forgot—we have forgot !
The shouting and the tumult dies,
The banners and the troops depart ;
Still stands'thine ancient sacrifice,
A humble and a contrite heart.
Lord God of Hosts ! Oh, judge us not,
We have forgot—we have forgot 1
For we, with Empire drunk, let loose
Wild tongues to speak, base pens to write
Slanders and lies, and boasts whose use
Should stir ttie blood, should rouse ttie fight :
God of mankind ! condemn us not,
We have forgot—we have forgot !
For heathen hearts that put their trust
In beaus of gold, in hosts of men,
To friends untrue, to foes unjust,
So it may seem to England’s gain—
For grasping deed, for vengeful word,
Have mercy on thy people, Lord.


LADIES WHO
Must be Well Mounted
CYCLE
BRANCHES EVERYWHERE.
h
Is specially designed for Ladies. The frame is so built that the skirt hangs gracefullv
command a pleasing and comfortable pose when asked. The terms are lonl and easv Wr,> th n ,? er Can
V.BYOHEY DEPOT : 385 GEORGE stp«t
A Lady’s Evidence.
Db. Mobse’s Indian Root Pills Cubed Bilious-
ness and Headaches.
“Having been a sufferer from Biliousness and
Headaches, and having tried different medicines,
also doctors’ powders for the head, but getting no
relief from them, and seeing Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills advertised, I purchased a bottle and
the first dose relieved me. My husband also uses
them. I recommend them to all my friends
suffering the same as I was. I may say I have
been using them for some time, and never known
them to fail. You may make what use you like
of this.” This is the evidence of Mrs. Noble,
Woid’s-avenue, Hurstville, N.S.W. Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills cure Biliousness, Indigestion,
Constipation, Dyspepsia, Headaches, Liver and
Kidney Complaints. Piles, Pimples and Blotches.
Sold by chemists and storekeepers, price Is. lid.
per bottle, or six bottles 6s. 6d., or same will be
mailed, post paid, upon receipt of price. Sole
proprietors, The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.
(Australasian Depot), 58 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Packed in amber bottles and the full name'blown
thereon.*
The Borough Council of Dunolly, a back-
blocks Vic. township, lately decided that a
memorial to her late Majesty should be erected
locally. The stodgy councillors then shelved a
proposal to re-excavate the old reservoir. It was
stated the town had only a 10-days’ supply of
water left—but what did that matter so long as
they got their blessed memorial? Is not York
laden with presents, and has he not the power to
bebauble the wearers of white waistcoats?
Bunny lias a poor time of it now—quoted
in the London market as flat at 71,d., he is bundled
out of existence in Victoria with the assistance of
M ‘Lean Bros, and Rigg, Ltd., the big iron-
mongers in Melbourne. That firm supplies guns,
ammunition and traps, and, in cases of dire need,
can turn on a full blast of destruction with Dixon
Gould’s Vacuum Destroyer. This machine is the
Jim Dandy of its kind, is beautifully made,
certain in operation as a Waterbury watch, and
counts its victims by thousands. Poor bunny !*
An interesting leader in The Bulletin,
13/4/’Ol, on “ The Theory and Practice of Drink”
wisely proclaims—“ We only desire perfect health
as a means to perfect life, and perfect life depends
upon the quantity and quality of possible brain
sensations. ’ In other words, man is governed to
a great extent by the brand upon his bottle.
D.C.L. supplies the best possible sort of brain
sensation. Soft and nourishing as milk, yet cheer-
ing as fizz, it gives the maximum of brightening
results for the minimum of vital cost. Therefore
is D.C.L. ever known as the Whuskyof the Wise.*
After the Brunner (M.L.) mine disaster,
a fund was raised for the widows and orphans,
out of which every widow has been allowed 12s. a
week. Since then several of the widows have
married again, and a question has arisen as to
whether they are still entitled to the weekly
allowance. In one case the public trustee, who
administers the fund, refused to pay ; but the ex-
\yidow issued a writ, and he parted without bring-
ing the case into Court. He now proposes to
allow each widow £65 on her marriage; but the
younger ones “aren’t taking any.”
The statists have evidently a poor opinion
of John Chinaman’s marital relations, as “Chinese
are to be set down as ‘Never Married’ unless
they have wives in Australasia.” And what a
time the unfortunate sub-enumerators must have
had filling in census-papers in Lilly Boulke-street
and other Chow quarters ! Also, do the Statists
expect to get correct particulars from those
harassed women who let rooms as to the status of
certain lodgers—the married couples, the woman
with a baby “ whose husband is away in the
West,” but nevertheless calls to see her about
once a week or so ?
Mr. Curry, Under-Secretary for Lands,
taking leave of N.S.W. Minister Hassall,
observed: “We (officers and clerks in the Lands
Office) have no political opinions.” This rather
strained the fact; but numbers of highly-placed
Civil Servants in Australia really deplore the
liberty to vote which the law accords them. Two
under-secretaries in Queensland, on their own and
other officers’ account, recommended, a few years
ago, the disfranchisement of all Civil Servants.
The high officials say that, having the vote, they
must use it. If they didn’t the fact would be
noticed and used against them. If they use it, as
likely as not it will be against their existing
Ministerial head. One under-secretary admits it
has been his bad luck to have to conscientiously
vote at five different elections against Ministers
with whom he was in the closest official intimacy.
Piles and their Cure.— The pamphlet
by Albert Sharp of Sydney, entitled, “ Piles, and
the Way to Cure Them,” without operation, sent
free, on application to the Dep6t, 257 George-
street, Sydney, or Frank Buckhurst, chemist,
Melbourne.*
ĥ
ITIOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“Elis’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
ON A STATION
.A . .
Is a boon.
BRANCHES IN EVERY STATE.
RED BIRD BICYCLE
You can ride it anywhere. It is much cheaper in the long run than a horse. You
can buy one on long, extended, gradual payments. Drop a line to—
GrOOlaD BICYCLE CO., 64 King Street, Sydney.
The
Original
JOHN JAMESON
Agents:
J. Barre Johnston & Co.,
Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
h.S,v“w=> 1 , &fe b »dS‘r„
ssa T‘T in ? s® S’SS ?,IVS
Sf- s ®* asttssr r P h „K
SJ? «*{S|»*BBKaß Mr. at ss£33
cheque (through Wakeful’s win) was £1415.
Samp a< t hi' 11US be run ° r half the Prize-money only is paid
race last y g ear aP bu e rsh: Vhen *? ° arabine ' von ‘he Tame
time Old fWhinn A W f S close on 12sec - slower this
cessivety, and the last time got over the distance in 97
l en „fl w *{,- A . an '? ran Da Carabine to two
Swe^peSeri^ei 8^68 ’ the three
there was a good chance of scoring a Melbourne Cup with
* • • *
p “ "S firsttsrxigs £s
1!" w'igrtj, “"r? s > ,rln t'
rihanrtMi a Tf’vf or^ he doub,e ' (mother-Stete and VicTlue
’ b, ' t ’ his Easter Stakes form on third day when
vi 1 ler”respecti yeh- ) to tl L e ( Grass Pan and’Haut-
vmers respectn ely) beaten so handily bv him before was
acc°oun P e fo e r S tte rer - M ° St turf P e ‘°P ie ™at a lo’ss to
account for this surprising reversal of form, but explana-
tics" tI, fL° U " d iT Vv hi ? n, -Pidged cutting-dow P n tac-
; . hen there was that stone penalty and the fact
£t; sis*
»«h il, wo“r on ‘ are
• *
"ib'? Ibex is a chestnut and a
dead ring for old Abercorn. Gossoon is a brown and
m'istakV’in” Th‘ V b !? Wn * Sonle suspect that there
is a mistake m Ibex s pedigree. His dam, Angora, was
The safuraHon°7h 1 year . before Gossoon came along,
wherfe Ibe7 was hreT ° r the .Probability of a mistake
K-ilth ID6X W ‘T 3 bred are occasional suggestions, but the
or possibly^ould^ccu^.* o*ll^asser*i 0 * 11^asser * i t ha t no error occurred,
* * * *
vicTorv ir?n7i of;being ““Passed V a horse’s easy
victory in a, classic race when he has “ nothing to beat ’’
W^fy, S i nkln ?i j Plostrated in this season’s Legers. Finland
with long odds on him, won V.K.C. Leger from a couple
?/ oommopers. He was considered to have beaten
4 tT’f-Ihnnp'!!'- S 'i lCh i bandsome style that the public took
*7° about inland for the Australian Cup, in which he
ran like a non-stayer. The Leger was no test of his
stamina At Randwiok, tire other day, Clean Sweep won
the Leger as he liked from a couple of forlorn hopes
Bt 7 e ' c , olt sbook <>ff the suspicions attaching
to Ins ‘‘form,’’ and started at 4 to 1 for Sydney Cup in
took r° Bu 4? st i on of the Clean Sw : eep that
thpnrOPc ' Gup ' u Hls Deger race had not revealed
Wl°L= ta - e, 7 SS ' The P ,lblic should beware of accept-
form y vict °ry over duffers in a w.f.a. event as good
G-ozo leads the list of winning sires at A.J.C
of U Sa7 n Fran ee r’ JU t t closrd - , A top of successes per medium
Fran Gauleon and Fighting Mac, there are several
places to his credit. Other Tucka Tucka sires that
M^,i d f N ' ente (Undaunted and Bange) and
Pnifp Alf onso); Two each of Lochiel’s, Grafton’s,
first Last nlmeH 8 and Vanguard’s got past the post
vipLi M n d couple were m evidence through
7,77=1? fL 1 Uarabine and Advance each, who stand
out as the only two that won twice.
.* * * «
Champion jock F. Kuhn brought the most
w tl, n ih r H^ f ° llr ~7 A - J - G - m eet. R. Lewis follows
two each ’ t ** !n C ° me °* Jenklns ( M - L -) and C. T. God by
• •
Officially stated that no big Rand wick meeting
y ea rs has been so well attended as that which
closed on Saturday last. There were Over 20,000 on the
course on Easter Monday. Hence, in lieu of the always
bfg surplus° SS ° Ver the Autumn gathering, there’ll be‘ a
* * * •
H T be ,j uck it- -A- sporting medico struck a
Sydney bookie firm for the full amount of their books each
Cum - T^ a w U k f ( wn market) and U real, iland (Aus.
Cup) ’ d W kefu (Don Caster) and San Fran (Sydney
At two big yearling sales (Chisholm’s and Glib-
ly™,!) ln S T- dn ? y ’ i ast week ’ 171 were got rid of and
19,407g5. realised. Presence of Vic. buyers brought about
this extraordinary result. 6
* * * *
A brown filly by Haut Brion—Novelette, and
consequently full-sister to Haulette, brought most money
at Chisholm s yearling sales, in Sydney, last week. Mr
i D-, Brown paid IOOOgs. for her. Scobie led away Aus-
traha s half-sister, by Haut Brion, for 850 gs. —probably on
Mr. Orr s behalf. This w-as 359g5. more than Australia
san l e r, ”g’ last -'’ear. The youngster was first
knocked down for £825 to someone who denied bidding
Previousiy, Scobie had gone to 800 gs„ but refused to
case the nag at that figure. She was restarted at 7()ogs.
when Scobie came again with the result stated. A colt
pyuaut Brion from Acme’s sister, Princess Olga, fell to
Mr. H. Hawkins,” for 510 gs.
* * • *
Clibborn’s sale of yearlings in Sydney t’other
day produced some sensational bidding ; 66 lots fetched
3082g5., and this in face of the fact that Chisholm’s sale
occurred but a few days previously. A colt by Grafton--
Lady Trenton (with owner's value fixed at 500g5.) evoked
keen competition between W. T. Jones’s (now at ’Ome)
representative and “Mr. H. Hawkins,” who kept rising
untd latter cried a go at 1300 gs. A brown filly by Haut
Bnon (imp.) from Etra Weenie (dam of Merriwee/Wigel-
Diffidence) brought 1175g5. from Mr. J. Wilson
vr ® ti* -*i A Pos’tano-Bangle colt (Mr. Hangar’s) went to
Mr. Bailey (Ballarat) for 625g5., and “Mr. H. Hawkins”
secured the Positano-Morisca filly for 450 gs.
* * * «
Sydney big Tatt.’s Club continues to flourish.
It was announced at recent annual meeting that last
year s revenue topped that of all before. Bank-liability
paid off and £2500 invested in Treasury bills. Profit oil
year reached £3419. Writer remembers that the new
P ace was built at the instance of the late Mr. George
Hill, and w-hen the club shifted from George Adams’ long
room opposite, pessimistic predictions were plentiful that
the load of debt w-ould never be shunted. Members re-
signed at different times fearing future liability. The
most sanguine, however, never dreamt that the overdraft
would be wiped out so soon. It all shows what big money
there is in the concern, especially when the beneficent
a.j.u. allows an extra day at Randwick.
* • • »
dav of for P° Q y high-jump on finishing
Winicr n nrl -rf S^ ow ,‘ 0nl .V H. D. Morton’s Tattoo, and
Thurlow s Gnome, survived at sft. These tied
Zrini. >t ! ,,- 1 /'V : n ,er^ C L noine failed badly, and Tattoo,
scoring beautifully with his first effort, won
* • * *
wiirh^R' galloper to visit Australia
Re °? rd Re 'gn. a dandy on the flat and a born
n „ r ,. r ' * t 0 Sydney shortly to undergo pre-
book ip L f ° r burdles—an item upon which
okie-owner Dan M Leod is casting covetous eyes.
. r ‘ Sop- Miller has a rather eccentric performer
f'lr?iv ra ! I ’.i a 'daughter of Trenton and Orotava (La
Carabine s dam). Omrah ran in Mentone (Melb.) Handi-
iMini- S f Saturday and was easily beaten by Skipper.
'hamstown on Easter Monday, the same two horses
met over the same distance, 1 mile, and this time Omrah
V o , n iVY SIX len oths, whilst Skipper, meeting the mare on
only 71b. worse terms than before, finished the absolute
last in a field of nine. But how about the eccentricity of
Skipper s running? J
i? ® a H a , ra t Miners’ Turf Club meeting on
Sister Saturday the Selling Race provided some good
sport. When the field went to the post a man on a
black pony accompanied the starter, his business being
to stop, if possible, the wild career of Coronella, after
that confirmed bolter had completed his four-furlong
task. Coronella won the flutter (odds on), and then the
trouble began. The nag bolted, as usual, and had gone
about half-a-mile past the winning post before the man
on the pony made a first desperate attempt to catch him
by the bridle. No good. Coronella went on rejoicing
for another round of the course, and another, and an-
other. Some of the jockeys who were waiting to weigh-
m made unavailing snatches at the bridle of the mad-
headed steed, and the man on the pony became almost
frantic in his periodical efforts. At last Coronella, being
almost spun out, consented to get caught. He was sold
ror £26 to a Westrahan sport who said that his jockey
would know how to reduce the horse to subjection. The
Bulletin will be glad to hear how Coronella shapes in
the Ooolgardie district under the new management.
* * « *
Onkaparinga Club, which races on Easter Mon-
da .V at Oakbank, in the hills behind Adelaide, gave
L 2700 in stakes this year. It has a £5OO Cup, Hurdles of
the same value, and an £llOO Steeplechase—£7oo to win-
ner. A smart three-year-old, Royal Artillery, kept the
Cup m the State, but Howie took the Hurdles with
Leiroo, and Allan the Steeplechase with Wooral (Hayseed,
The African, Bethnal, and The Duke, nowhere). It is
expected that the big event will be increased to £l5OO
next year.
» • * *
The total isator had bold advt. at the big one-
day Onkaparinga meeting. £45 17s. was the best div. of
the day. In the chief event, the Great Eastern Steeple-
chase, J. J. Allan, on his own horse, Wooral, captured an
£ll div. ag well as the stake. The second horse would
have paid exactly £297 for a sow if successful ! During
the afternoon over £22,000 went through the machine,
the Racing Club taking 7£ per cent, of this. What per-
centage the man with the bag would have taken can only
be conjectured, but it’s pretty certain he wouldn’t have
handed back to his customers over £20,000 as the machine
d , besides which, the money that the club keeps goes in
stakes for next year. Three races were won by the abso-
lute favorites, another by a very close second favorite,
two more by thirds—Leiroo was third in demand when he
paid 10 to 1 ; and yet a man who should have blindly put
on every horse that started all day would have been
only about £l2 out on balance.
* * * *
S. A. Tatt’s Clip meeting drew a great crowd.
Tote money totalled £10,894, £3OO ahead of last year’s
amount. Five jocks experienced a bad time, one (E.
Hodgkins, the State’s top-notcher) on Corral, in the Wel-
ter, died subsequently, consequent upon several broken
ribs and perforation of the lungs. M'Cann (riding St.
George in same event) sustained a broken collar-bone,
while Calnan and Walker were badly shaken. Ebb, with
H. Hardy up, made a mess of the last jump, and, rolling
over, broke his rider’s left arm.
* * * *
Mr. J. A. Buckland’s Valour (by Vancleve)
notched a double at Ashburton (M.L.) trots, cutting out
the Winchmore mile in 2.25 from scratch, and Dash
Handicap Mile in 2.27 2-5 from 2sec. behind scratch.
Buckiand s St. Simon (scr.) was downed by Irene in
Laghmoor Trot, and trainer Piper protested ori ground of
the of the mare’s performance being far
better than at a meeting held just previously. He dealt
it out pretty strong to the committee, and’the officials
writhed, but said nothing, merely dismissing the objec-
tion. Deposit was, however, returned to Piper.
• • * •
Trudge ” : Never saw a tougher swimming
struggle (I have seen hundreds of hot ones extending over
20 years) than that on Saturday between Read and Cavill
for the Australian Mile Championship. Former set the
pace at straining tension and sustained it from end to
end. Meanwhile boy Dick responded marvellously, never
allowing his bigger and older rival to get more than 3yds.
away till after ICOO yds. had been thrown behind ; but
thenceforth greater maturity and consequent superior
stamina told its tale, though Cavill was only shaken off
inch by inch while frenziedly-excited hundreds screeched
vigorously. Additional years are likely to improve Cavill
for some tune yet, but Read was possibly seen at his best
on Saturday, as the achievement is truly a remarkable
one. In the light of this and other occurrences it seems
to present scribe that ’tis just as well for their reputa-
tions that Fred Lane and Jack Hellings have, at least
temporarily, retired, though neither is nearly out of the
twenties yet.
* • • *
A , f ? w / ears a £°> the mere suggestion that it was
possible for a man to swim the double over-arm or
Trudgeon ’ stroke a mile would have caused the sug-
gestor to be thought “dotty.” This method of propul-
sion is named after the man (J. Trudgeon) who brought
it from South America to England 28 years back. Not
long since, the list of remarkable swimming feats included
a quarter-mile by someone “ using the Trudgeon stroke
all the way. _ When Balmain (Sydney) veteran Peter,
Murphy swam m the Australian half-mile cham., at Fitz-
roy Dock, Cockatoo Island (Sydney), and adopted the
double over-arm stroke, ’Ome writers thought it wonder-
ful. Now, the old side, single, and breast strokes have
disappeared altogether in the Mother State, as every
schoollioy and champion affects an improved Trudgeon.
.Both Read and Cavill utilised this method over every inch
Saturday ' , '° Urney in Mother State Mile Championship on
* * • *
swimmer Read’s performance in the
State Mile supremacy Saturday last is much the finest
ever put up. He finished 35 or 40 yds. away from pre-
vious holder of the title and hitherto invincible Dick
Cavill, and was clocked to do 24min. 46 4-ssec.—26 3-ssec
better than the previous world’s “ best,” created by the
Ome top-notcher (J. A. Jarvis) at Leicester (Eng.), Aug.
8, two years Cavill also touched inside Jarvis’
figures (25nnn. 13 2-ssec.), putting up 25min. 12 4-ssec.
Last years ‘ all schools” premier “ Snowy ” Baker swam
every inch, of the mile in 28min. 38 l-ssec., just missing
standard time (28min. 30sec.)by 8 l-ssec. What prompted
fo oJs th , man Mealy) to start is a mystery, as less
than 300yds. saw the end of his tether.
Wednesday last week, crack N.S.W. vro
sculler, H. Pearce, who won the big sculling event at
recent Anniversary regatta, shipped ’Ome by Orient-liner
Omrah as a deck-hand. He purposes taking on some of
the second-raters “ down-under,” but will leave the front-
rank men alone yet awhile. Harry is a son of one-time
crack oarsman, “Footy” Pearce, who, if memory serves,
visited England years ago in something the same fashion,
but did little good. Pearce fils promises well. He is not
yet 22, scales 12st., is strongly built and as hardy as a
draught horse. The youngster shaped publicly first
when under 17 at Balmain regatta, and won. He is at
least as good as the best we have in Australia now.
• * • - •
M.L. crack pair-oar combination, Calnan and
Crawford (Wellington R.C.) has been broken through the
departure of Calnan (stroke) for S’Africa with the M.L.
Contingent. The career of Calnan—best known in Aus-
tralia as a slashing forward with last visiting M.L. rep.
football team—is unparalleled in M.L. rowing annals.
Beginning absolutely raw in ’96, he rose with a bang
through the maiden and junior classes, and at end of
season rowed, with Crawford, second to the .Picton crew
in the Champion Pairs. Since then the two have com-
pletely knocked the bottom out of M.L. pair-oared rowing,
winning this event at every regatta of note from Auck-
land to Dunedin (including four championships) without
ever being pushed. They have always favored Che “ biff ”
stroke—very slow up on slide and a quick, sharp swirl
through the water, Cheir combination being equalled
only by their magnificent watermanship. Two curious
points are that they never used a rudder on their shell,
and that Calnan has always rowed stroke on the usual
bow-side.
**■ * »
An Australian long-distance rowing record was
put up by F. M. Armytage, the Tasmanian sculler, in Port
Philip, the other day. Armytage rowed from Geelong to
Port Melbourne in an 18ft. skiff, completing the 45 miles
in nine hours. The sculler, a well-to-do’amateur, use
a boat of his own designing, and aspires to make a record
crossing of the English Channel in the same skiff.
• * • *
The recent death of. Sydney pug Bryan Byrne
(whether what occurred at the Golden Gate A. C. or the
Engine-street “ two-up ” school some days later was re-
sponsible or not) should cause Sydney fight-promoters to
drop their cheap-and-nasty system of match-making and
pit none hut properly trained men against each other.
Often now “ pick-ups ” from the tough section are matched
with at most a week’s warning, and dubbed champions of
this or that locality or “ new arrivals ” from England
or America. This is the class of contest that provides
the deaths when they do occur. • It isn’t on record that a
well-trained man has ever been killed in the ring.
There’s too much grab about these so-called clubs, who
want to pay as little as possible for the attraction so that
the margin of gain may be big. Men who have to train
can’t meet for small sums.
* * * *
’Rastling-matcH (catch-as-catch-can conditions)
between Indian Buttan Singh and Newcastle (N.S.W.)
middleweight Graeco-Roman man M‘Dermott, at the
Democratic Club (Melb.) Monday night, though
genuine enough, turned out a huge disappoint-
ment. M'Dermott had little hope from “ go.” Buttan
got first fall—a neck-hold—in 18min., and 4mins. later
M'Dermott withdrew through an injured arm. Unusual
course of appointing a judge for each wrestler, as well as
a referee, brought about the rare and laughable spectacle
of five men floundering over the mat at one time, and
caused an unseemly triangular dispute. Writer never
thought M'Dermott had a chance with the turbaned top-
notcher, and wonders whether M'Dermott ever really
looked upon his prospects as at all rosy.
* * * .
N.S.W. Gun Club’s big £lOO Open Handicap
shoot last week went to J. T. Campbell, who grassed 52
straight, and carried home a string of 75 through his two
noms. Boy Montgomery, of Warren (N.S.W.) evidenced
better form, but had hard luck with his 49th, leaving
ultimate winner to kill. Campbell is 47 years old, and
oughtn’t to have a whole bone in his frame, but he owns
many. While talking to this writer he told of a broken
shoulder and arm, and seven surgical operations. Screens
were drawn round his bed four different times through
doctors insisting that he had reached the end of his
tether. Campbell is one of the lean, tough sort that
couldn t be killed with an axe.
* * * *
Herb. M‘Kell, in such a desperate hurry to
leave for England to “fulfil an important engagement ”
12 months ago when Otto Cribb cornered him, never got
further than S’Africa, and now news comes of his first
engagement (March 17) at the Cape, where he and Yankee
lightweight, Everhardt, supplied a howling fiasco before
a highly wrought-up (beforehand) house. The referee
called the thing “ no fight ” at the end of the 11th round.
The purse (£200) went to local charities, and when the
mail left sports and scribes were bitterly deploring the
heavy knock out the game had received. This recalls—
several things.
* * * *
Disputed question in an Albert Park, Vic.
cricket-match. The batsman split a cronk ball with a
b ;2' v ‘ ,°ne naif was caught by the wicket-keeper, the
other half by slip. The umpire gave it out, but expert
ruling is asked for.
» * * *
Invincible plugger Martin literally paralysed
em in the last 100yds. of Melb. Druids’ Great Wheel Race
t other day, and went home with £165 worth of spoil.
Later, the 10-mile supremacy of Victoria fell to him, at
Bendigo ; with Tasmanian Wilksch second, and Frank
Beauchamp third. Seeing that the Bendigo track is
much below first-class time, 23‘5 is remarkably fast.
Beauchamp has been either second or third in every
championship this season.
* » * *
Half-caste M.L. pug. Ruenalf’s method of
attracting attention at recent N.S.W. Agricultural
(society s show was amusing. He’d pound away at a
punching-ball fixed outside his booth and gather a lot of
admiring urchins in front, and then, in between bangs,
bashes, thuds, and gasps, would offer a free ticket for the
booth to the lad screeching loudest at a given signal.
„ ■ nooah ” went one punch stiffer than the rest.
Now ! cried the bruiser ; and the youngsters would
cheer uproariously. “That ain’t loud enough !” came
from the platform. “ Try it agen—now ! ” and so on
hour after hour throughout the day and right through
the week. &
* * * *
interesting example of the superstition
of the racing cyclist. One big firm in the trade in
Australia employs a number of track-men, and a clerk
who is cross-eyed. It was noticed that when there were
races on in the afternoon not a man of the riders would
step up for his usual Saturday pay. Investigation dis-
closed that the cyclists were scared off by the “ evil eye ”
c^ each declaring that he would have
devil s luck on the asphalt if he encountered that cocked
optic.
* * ♦ *
As evidencing what a tough specimen world’s
champion Jeffries is, he never has been knocked down in
any of his fights. Only once did he show signs of
and then not till Corbett had literally
showered blows on his head. Both Fitzsimmons and
Sharkey got home squarely on the huge ex-boilermaker’s
jaw without much visible effect. Though incessantly
pounded about the ribs not once has he been doubled up,
nor, as far as indications went, seriously inconvenienced
thereby. Hence it is generally conceded that any other
man in the business to-day can be much more easily hurt.
It is rumored that Bilmartin, the famous Red
Bird champion who holds all the Australasian records up
to the hour, is going to be married shortly.
At Emmaville (N.S.W.) Easter Sports Massey-
Harris riders gathered four first and one third—in fact,
the whole programme.


the modern art JEWELLERY CO.
187 PITT-ST.
Telephone 3400.
THe New Cedar Pencil
Manufactured in Gold, Silver and Gun-Metal.
Gold Oedar PeneU, set
Turquoise, price 27/0
Silver Oedar Pencil, En
graved price 3/6, Plain
price 3/-
Gun-Metal Oedar Pencil,
price 2/6.
Gun-Metal Oedar Pencil,
with single Turquoise,
price 4/-
Gun-Metal Cedar Pencil,
with Turquoises, price
5/-
h
. . Write tor ILLUSTRATED SOUVENIR CATALOGUES, sent Post Free.
NOTICE.— Open all day Wednesday till 6 p.m., and on Saturdays from 6 p.m till 9.30 p.m.
ĥ
--a
k
FOR
THE
HAIR
THE GREAT
HAIR PRODUCER
and restorer.
The Very Finest Dressing, Specially
Prepared and Delicately Perfumed
v for the Toilet.
“HARLENE"
Produces Luxuriant Hair, Prevents Its Falling
Off or Turning Grey.
UNEQUALLED FOE PROMOTING THE GROWTH OP
THE BEARD AND MOUSTACHE.
THE RENOWNED
REMEDY FOR DALONESS.
ħ
h
ĥ
For Preierving, Strengthening, and Rendering the Hair Beautifully Soft; for Removing Scurf, Dandruff, Ac. also for
RESTORING GREY HAIR TO ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
".HARLENE” PRESERVES, STRENGTHENS, AND INVIGORATES CHILDREN’S HAIR.
Full description and directions for use in 20 languages supplied with every bottle.
1/., 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size; 4/6 per Bottle from Druggists &c., all over the Worid.
■‘HARLENE” Co., High Holbom, LONDON, ENGLAND.
ħ
25/6
43/-
Any Initials In Monogram, as above, 2/0. extra.
SOME WATCHES
Have Compensation Balances in name onlv, and others in
reality. The following letter tells of the balances that are
in all the
“Fx& R” Watches
even those at 25/8 each, one of which this letter refers to.
B.M.S. Warrimoo,
6/4/’Ol.
“ The watch I purchased from you I find to be a first-
class timepiece. I have compared it with our ship’s
chronometers, and found it vary only a few seconds during
the great changes of temperature passing through the
tropics.”
Gent’s Size Lever,
Gun-metal, Open-
faoe Case, 13
Jewels and Com-
pensation
Balance, 38/6,
Fairfax & Roberts,
Vice-Regal Jewellers,
S 3 Hunter Street, Sydney.
A pretty story comes from Auckland (it
ought to have come from Otago). The dread of
the Black Death was on the place, and a war or
extermination had been declared against the rats.
The Counoil had placed a price on the head of
every rodent in the city, and the grocer s boy
became a perfect Nimrod and slew about 30. At
the risk of contracting the plague, he carted his
dead along, obtained his scalp-money, and
came back jubilant to the boss and told him how
much he had made. The boss cast upon him an
eye of Aberdeen grey and then remarked quietly :
“Weel, weel, ye’ll just pay the money to oor
cashier, for ye ken the rats is mine, not yoursj
and ye munna try to rob yer maister like yon.
The bov’s remarks are unprintable.
Amusements.
i4 l h O t iH b»TR E, 8 Y D N E Y«
TO-NIGHT, AND EVERY EVENING,
CHARLES ARNOLD’S
ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY
in Broadhurst’s Enormously Successful Farce Comedy,
the Great Anglo - American Success,
THE GLEEFUL PLENITUDE,
WHY SMITH LEFT HOME.
Box Plan at Paling s. Manager, L. J. LOHR.
HEATRE ROY A L, SYDNEY^
Lessee .. .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Under the Direction of Mr. Gkorge Musgrovu.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45. EVERY EVENING at 7.46.
WEDNESDAY MATINEES at 2.
FIFTH WEEK FIFTH WEEK,
And Continued Sensational Success of the Most Beautiful
Operatic Fairy Pantomime Ever Witnessed,
CINDEB.EI.I.A.
THE MOST BEAUTIFUL SPECTACLE EVER SEEN
ON ANY STAGE.
Interpreted by MISS NELLIE STEWART, MUSGROVE’S
ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO., OPERA ORCHESTRA
and CHORUS.
PRICES OF ADMISSION—Dress Circle and Reserved
Stalls, 6s. ; Stalls, 3s. ; Early Door Amphitheatre (7 to
7.40), 2s. ; Amphitheatre, ONE SHILLING after 7.40.
Box Plan at the Theatre Royal (Dress Circle En-
trance), 10 to 5.
Empire theatre, sydn ey.
(Late Royal Standard, Castlereagh-street.)
COME TO STAY.
JOHN FULLER’S EMPIRE COMPANY.
Every Evening, at 8. Saturdays, 2.30.
Magnificent New First Part, THE ROSE BOWER.
New Artists Every Week. Change of Programme
Every Saturday.
PRICES—2s., Is. and fid. Plan at Theatre.
ARNOLD DENHAM, Business Manager.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manairer, Mr. J. C. Williamson..
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
THE WILLIAMSON OPERA COMPANY.
AN IDEAL ATTRACTION,
FLORODOR -A.-
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, George-street. Prices as usual.
THEATRE,
SYDNEY.
I^YCEUM
Sole Lessee and Manager William Anderson.
SECOND WEEK and CONTINUED SUCCESS of
Xlae World’s Verdict.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
Famous Dramatic Organisation, headed by Miss
EUGENIE DUGGAN.
PRICES—3s, 2s and ONE SHILLING. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
QENTENARY HALL, YOR<-ST„ SYDN EY.
Saturday, Ajpgril 27,
MISS BERTHA DICKENS
MISS BERTHA DICKENS
The Queensland Soprano.
Plan at Paling’s. 35., 25., Is.
J. EDWARD SYKES.
ftICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
b Sole Proprietor .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
THIS SATURDAY, at the MATINEE, GIGANTIC
SUCCESS of the Great
MARIE LLOYD,
and the Coster King,
ALEC. HURLEY.
ADELINA SARINA, ROSIE AQUINALDO, GEO.
D’ALBERT, MAGGIE FRASER, and all Our Great Co.
MATINEE SATURDAY and WEDNESDAY.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Leasee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
First Appearance in Australia of the Great English
Tramp Musician, MR. FRANK LATONA.
Magnificent Reception of the Popular MR. AUSTIN RUDD.
Brilliant Reception of Mr. FRANK LEON, Miss
LIZZIE KIRK, Miss LULU ZESOH, DE WYNNE
BROS., ALBERT WHELAN, TED E. BOX, and all our
Great Co.
Box Plan at Allan & Co. Matinee Every Wednesday.
HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING,
THE UNIVERSALLY FAMOUS MELODRAMA,
THE WORLP.
Received with Ever-Increasing Enthusiasm.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Box
Plan at Allan’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
AN ARTISTIC MUSICAL TRIUMPH of
Mr. George Musgrove’s GRAND ENGLISH OPERA 00.
First Appearance in Australia of ELLA RUSSELL,
The Renowned Dramatic Soprano.
Thursday, April 18, “ IL TROVATORE,” Leonora,
ELLA RUSSELL. Friday, April 19, “ TANNHAUSER.”"
Saturday, April 20, First Production of Verdi’s Mar-
vellous Work, “LA TRAVIATA.”
PRICES OF ADMISSION—Dress Circle, 7s. 6d. ; Re-
served Stalls, 6s. The Box Plan at Allan’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. O. Williamson.
Bus. Manager. Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr. R. Stewart.
NANCE O’NEIL’S FAREWELL SEASON.
Thursday and Friday, 18th and 19th,
NANCE O’NEIL as PEG WOFFINGTON.
Saturday, April 20, for the First Time on the English-
Speaking Stage, Ibsen’s Great Historical Tragedy,
“LADY INGER OF OSTRAT.”
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, os; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Athenaeum hall, Melbourne,
Under Direction of Messrs. Wyld and Freedman.
Every Afternoon, at 3. Every Evening, at 8.
Immense Success of the GENUINE BRITISH BIOGRAPH.
Mr. H. 0. Wyld will arrive per R.M.S. Victoria with
New and Varied Pictures, including Vivid Reproductions
of the* QU fcEN’S FUNERAL PAGEANT.
PRICES—t3s,, 2s. and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
TALKING MACHINES!
SO~ Great Reduction in Prices "•fl
EDISON PHONOGRAPHS—
IMPERIAL, £2 17a 6d
STANDARD, £4 10a.
HOME, £6 10s
CONCERT and 12 RECORDS, £2l
GRAPHOPHONES-
COLUMBIA, £5
UNIVERSAL, £lO
COIN SLOT, £5
RECORDS REDUCED to 28 Each.
Edison Electric 00. , 1 Rowe-st., Sydney.
CURES COUGH.
• Cured my son of a dreadful Cough.’
Mrs. Johnston, Belleek, Fermanagh.
GIVES REST & SLEEP.
HAYMAN’S
BALSAM
of Horehound
Safe and Pleasant fop Children.
‘ NOTHING LIKE IT FOR A COLD.’
Mr. W. Hird, Norwich.
STOPS COED.
“PRIMUS"
Kerosene Bath Heater
HOT SHOWER INSTANTLY.
NO WIOK. NO SMELL. From 75a. Each.
m
k
Si
M
m
NO PLUMBER’S WORK. FIX IT YOURSELF.
COSTS HALF THE PRICE OF GAS.
Large Stock BATH HEATERS for Gas and Wood.
Send for Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS,
236 PITT ST., SYDNEY, and
422 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
PHOTO
From Life, for Lovers of Art, Beauty, and
Chic; Carefully Selected Assortments,
Cabinets or Stereos, with Illustrated
Catalogue and Minatures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s.
Money Order or Cheque on London.
English, French, and German Rare Books.
Explain wishes and requirements, and full satisfaction
will be obtained.
R. GENNERT,
89c Faubourg: St., Martin, Paris, Franco.
Public Notices.
To the Members of the A.M.P.
Society.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
With a view to guard against any recurrence of the
Board’s action in connection with their London, &e., Ex-
tension proposal, and at the same time to provide for an
infusion of fresh blood in the Directorate, I desire to offer
myself as a Candidate for your votes at the forthcoming
election to the Board.
The insight into the Society’s affairs I obtained last
year, when helping Mr. Want and others to defeat the
Extension Scheme, satisfies me that, amongst other
things, certain changes in our mode of government are
needed in the interests of the Society, especially :
1. More effective representation of members in Colonies
other than N.S.W. on Head Office Board, e.g , by adding
to it a locally-elected resident Director from each of such
Colonies, who should occasionally sit with the Board in
Sydney to settle important matters of policy, &c.
2. Provision for taking a binding Referendum vote in
serious cases of disputed policy.
3. A limit to the number of Bank Directors (at present
four) on our Board—the huge financial interests of the
Society necessarily making it a rival of the Banks.
To carry out these and other desirable changes I would
propose the appointment of a Committee of Directors
and Members to prepare the necessary amendments in
the By-Laws for your approval.
Your obedient servant,
GERALD R. CAMPBELL.
Chambers, Sydney.
TO THE MEMBERS OF
THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
Ladies and Gentlemen,—
Permit me to intimate that I am.one of your Directors
who, in accordance with the By-laws, retire on this occa-
sion, and, being Eligible for re-election, I am again a can-
didate, and have the honor of respectfully soliciting your
vote and influence at the forthcoming election.
My interests in the Society are large, and I think I may
claim that my long experience in connection with the
commercial and producing interests of the Colonies has
not been without benefit to the Institution.
I fully recognise the importance and responsibility
attaching to the position of a Director, and should you
therefore again do me the honor of returning me, my
earnest efforts shall, as heretofore, be given to promote
the welfare of our Society.
Yours faithfully,
JOSEPH ABBOTI
(GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & 00., LTD.).
Sydney, 10th April, 1901.
At Poverty Point.
If George Musgrove wants to finish up his second Mel-
bourne opera with anything of a bang he will need to
shorten the waits between the acts. “Mignon” had to
carry the awful burden of 40min. of intervals, and a lot
of the public naturally stayed away from the later per-
formances. An explanation of this tiresome policy was
suggested by the too frequent appearance of Madame
Slapoffski’s name on the bill. Last week, for instance,
the conductor’s wife sang in “Mignon” or “Tann-
hauser ” on four successive nights, so it was only to be
expected that the masterful Slap, would give her voice
as much rest as possible. And because the weary
audience didn’t vigorously kick against the imposition,
Slap, took their contentment for granted, no doubt. He
reckoned without a knowledge of Australian audiences.
Madame Slapoffski, it seems, was not professionally
known by her husband’s name until she appeared as an
operatic artist in Melbourne, or, rather, until she sang
“ Elizabeth’s Prayer ” at a Marshall Hall concert in the
Town Hall, prior to the arrival of Musgrove’s Co.
Madame Slap., the prima-donna, is only an Australian
identity thusfar. In England she sang ballads under her
maiden name—Miss Lillie Williams.
Theatrical-manager George Darrell, who had intended
to stage “The Sorrows of Satan” in Sydney, left for
Yankeeland per Sierra on Tuesday week. George is
nearer 60 than anything else, but he seems to have dis-
covered the Fountain of Perpetual Youth, for, seen on
the street, he has the joyous and jocular appearance of a
boy of 31.
Barron Berthald, whose slight Franco-German accent
doesn’t at all mar his singing of “ Tannhauser ” in English,
makes up very like the George Rignold of yore. Seated
in the centre of the stage, with his face resting on his
hand, Berthald would pass for a twin brother of our royal
friend, Henry Vee.
Frances Saville has scored a particular success, at
Vienna, as Elsa in “ Lohengrin.” If the fair daughter
of the Simonsens has not grown much older and stouter
since she sang the name part in “ Marjorie ” for the Firm,
she ought to make a charming Elsa.
It is known for certain that the Williamson Italian
Opera co. will have a fine principal tenor in Larissa, the
best of all. the tenors who were available. Probably a
certain famous soprano has been secured, but the recent
cable-message which announced the engagement of a
complete co. didn’t specify this lady’s name. Anyway,
there should be a strong combination of artists, judging
from the fact that the salary-list will go considerably
higher than the management’s original estimate.
George Allan writes from Milan, in March; “ Italy may
be bright and sunny in the main, but my experience has
been one eternal landscape of snow. I begin to think I
must have struck the North Pole.”
Nance O’Neil’s re-appearance in Melbourne, where she
was “ born to the Imperial purple ” 11 months ago, is going
to provide some further humorous complications in news-
paper criticism. Last year Nance was “ perfectly
natural ” and “ spontaneous ” in all the daily-press
statements of the case. She got one rather rough notice
from the Age —that was for her Lady Teazle —but the
offending journal took it all back as the season
advanced. The idolators contradicted one another
with their selections of Nance’s superbest points
in certain characters, but, as to her talking,
her gestures and her facial expression, there was
a complete unanimity of praise. She didn’t seem to act
the parts, she lived them, according to the press notices
of last year. And now the Evening Herald has recklessly
put its foot into last season’s butter. “The fair Ameri-
can has made great strides in her art since her last appear-
ance in this city. Her elocution is much less labored than
of yore, gestures freer and more attuned to the purpose,
and play of features less immobile. La Tosca’s acting in the
third and fourth acts reached a high standard of ability,
the actress refraining from the tempestuousness which
marred several of her former tragic efforts.” This of the
Nance whose acting was so spontaneous, unconstrained,
“ instinct with truth ” and altogether beautiful 11 months
ago ! And the Herald is just as far from the truth as it
was last time. Nance’s elocution has not altered in the
least, nor are her gestures more “ attuned to the pur-
pose,” nor is she less tempestuously disposed. But she is
considerably thinner than of yore, and her voice seems to
have lost some of its old strength. When she plays
Elizabeth again it will be found that her royal roar has
diminished in volume.
Grewar, the man who induced Marshall-Hall to lecture
in Adelaide, and went down heavily thereby, went to
S’Africa with the last S.A. contingent as a sergeant.
Grewar, a Methodist parson’s son, has go and brains, and
was cut out for the managerial trade, but he had very
bad luck from the start. He made a bid for “ Banjo ”
Paterson, but the veteran Smythe got there first.
Among the articles recently stolen from Mrs. J. R.
Wood (formerly Essie Jenyns) at the Hotel Australia,
Sydney, was the diamond pendant presented to her by
citizens of Sydney at the hands of the late Mr. Justice
Innes on the occasion of her forsaking the “boards.”
This loss much grieves Mrs. Wood.
“A cold-blooded admirer of Nance O’Neil” writes:
“ I want to express sympathy with Nance O’Neil, and com-
passionate her because of her magnitude ; for her weight,
moral and physical, has made her many enemies. She
came to Australia weighing 14st., more or less, looking
the opposite of the ideal feminine, and fell amongst
critics whose every idea is based on the old romantic con-
ventions. These critics think of the stage heroine only as
the “womanly womanand the womanly woman', as
cherished in the minds of the romanticists, is a
creature that never existed off the boards of
the theatre, and outside those of the moral
novel. Nance O’Neil was not a bit like the
cherished ideal; she looked a hale, flesh-and-blood per-
sonality, with a fine capacity for taking care of herself.
There was no appeal to the protective instincts of the
male—“ protection ” is the poetic ifarne man irives
to his desire to take over and possess. Hos-
tility was the natural outcome. The romantic and
chivalrous man is always anxious to screw the
neck of the woman who laughs at his romance and has
no need of his chivalry. The O’Neil played Magda on
these lines, the only possible lines, Sudermann having
built his heroine that way. Some writers shrieked
desperate charges of “unwomanliness”; some were dis-
gusted, they didn’t know why, missing the appeal to their
Lord of Creation magnanimity; some praised. The
praise was not flattering in nine cases out of ten, and
gave painful suggestions of being provoked by half-col.
advts. rather than an honest appreciation of good work.
Now, practically the whole of the critics refuse to find
tender and womanly touches in anything the O’Neil does,
because she has shown an “unwomanly” attitude of
mind, and ignores the ideals. Yet this actress is capable
of most bewitching tenderness, the tenderness of a strong
woman, a kind of tenderness always much appreciated by
men in real life where the pagan feelings get their work
in. Now-a-days, every man has a caul—romanticism. A
few strip themselves of it for good and all, and contrive
to see life clearly ; the majority put it aside in conducting
their every-day affairs, but draw it over their heads when
in the presence of life as depicted by art. With his caul
on, the literary and artistic person becomes unhumanly
stupid, and challenges the ass in its own field.
Some of the tricks of the music-teaching trade are
strictly dishonorable but rather amusing to people in a
position to spot them. For instance, the prof, who
“ took over ” Amy Castles from Mme. Marchesihas stated
that he will have to devote a tremendous amount of
tuition to the middle register of Amy’s voice. Which
means, as a matter of course, that he means to claim
credit for work already accomplished. Fellow pupils
with the Bendigo girl at Marchesi’s academy can testify
to the fact that Madame wrought a very great improve-
ment in the aforesaid mid. reg., but had not begun to
educate Amy’s higher notes before her mother came and
took her away to the new school.


TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
*X'Q
WINES
MANUEL
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
The Bed Brands Only of fSJPXTEXT'S
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
UNDER DISTINGUISHED
' , >•
ROYAL PATRONAGE.
Sara®®
US
m
m
w
m
m
m
& ? ■■ a
i
m
E
m
ijnss
- 09
1
I
sHH
From H.R.H. PRINCESS HOHENLOHE.
(The German Ambassador’s Daughter.)
‘ * KOKO ’ for the Hair is the BEST Dressing I
know. It keeps the head cool, promotes growth,
and is in EVERY way excellent.
Princess HOHENLOHE.
I Recommended and Used byH.M. The 1
Queen (of Greece). Princess Victoria
(of Schaumburg Lippc), Princess
IHohenlohe. Princess Marie
(of Greece), Princess Henry Reuss
Rear-Admiral Tinklar. &c.. &c. * I
KOKO FOR THE lIAIR
. i|| ;to grow ; k r? sT ? soft ?«?? piia^ <
111 cleanly ol all hair preparations, and is perfectly lff ’ prevents hau ' /rom falling, is the most
Q?.l> EHSE IT
Tr makestheIISIFi ‘' ow thickand6tcong -
111 eve a r d f ofmtlfe^^^f^rafn beaUtitUl lu6tre ’ and enables them to dress it in what-
CHILDREN LIKE IT.
11l portion desnTd cool and clean, allays irritation, and keeps the hair in whatever
they all LIKE IT «*
'" lel e r s m±‘^^„ a l f^ a . 1 pe l ecH Z colourless, contains no poisonous substances, dye. sugar of
mmmmm
h
Is., 2s. 6d„ and 4s. 6d., of all Chemists, Hairdressers, Stores, &c. *
Australian Depot: Koko-Maricopas Co., Ld., 14, Castlereagh St., Sydney,N.S.W.
, CAUTION.—See that this Registered Trade Mark is on every bottle.
ĥ
i
Pri
Six
Shillin o-S
(Post
Free)
ice,
NEWMAN’S
SPECIAL
HVpost—2a. (id. a packet.
For Removing 1
Superfluous Hair.
C. E. NEWMAN, Chemist,
52 King Street, Sydney.
DEPILATORY.
HEARNFS BRONCHITIS CURE.
AMOUJ 2F2.SS3VS;sX3-3r IS'-’OISFS.
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA U AlUi> ’
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful ; n flnon/.<. c . „ _
Wordless in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are suhiecTto <>&«<■ (•’"ti* Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
forting in al aying irritation in the throat and giving strong, I, to ,he voice, andTt Sl"r,E cS nr i,,h„Sh, I “ *>' •*«*> » Complete Cure. It is most com!
rjsr “ Cm ' ghs " ,won »-»•* *— «. t
33!£i‘Vf7\A.M3 OF 1 OOXJC3-13IS
>se is generally sufficient.
BRANCH DEPOT
REMEMBER THAT EVERY PISEASB_ AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
r "AT„ K -O* tm M ,
OHice, No. 5, First Floor , Cioors Cliciiixbsrs, 522 Grsorsr© Btroot Svdiipv Tpl
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Fm-warded by Pmt to any \a*L» w lln no t obtainable L^My.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected,—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food fob
Infants
-
fm.
9
m
mM
r
ww>.
1
*£3
Wi
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
AND
the aged.
Dear Bulustw,-tfe British regimental
reception of new officers. When the Tipnerarv
Mihtni were ab° u t to be transferred bodily to us
(the R.A ; ) we could stand the splendid body of
men-but the squireen Captains ! Fancy a senior
cadet, just bursting with artillery science, being
under the ‘‘ r/mtleman ” who mistook the stonf
‘‘Hehto vn at , a ' ,atter for smokes!
Hell to your sowl, Sergeant ! ” said lie - “h-,-
V ' an ° f thim larrge see ffi xrs ! Gas- |
How The Bottle was Smashed.
«ot,“fc,t“ rrya b ° ttle '
i; f ;V ld - K ,° V proved , in the c ' ase of Mrs. Jones’
little girl. You see her mother had sent the child
to t.ie shop of Mr, Ayres, the chemist, for a bottle
of medicine, and when he had given it to her she
put it inside of her closed umbrella to carry home
On her way back it began to rain, and the child
thoughtlessly raised the umbrella. Half the
contents of the bottle was saved, and the mother
was obliged to make the best of it.
Writing under date of Nov. 27th, 1899 the ladv
sit \ s.: About four years ago, come 'Christmas I
became bad with what I can only 'describe as a
nasty low, weak feeling. I was so weak that
r n tif s r ve h r r e place to
s»tebto ;„d siliS: go °™ t *«•»»<•
feeble , 'lw B f° i Sf a ?f l^ and i I reall >’ was
iuom, that 1 often felt like throwing myself
down, only I knew I couldn’t get up again A
S; **Mm pain ,«r,„ m y ‘
ti e siSf- 1 Rfraid 1 sl;0uld smother ; and
the sickening coppery taste in my mouth of
mornings was hard to bear. y *
“For the life of me I could not say what was
the matter or what was the cause of'all this I
sh montht°md Sfn dOCto r rc " ularl > T
six montiis, and he told me I was a nuzzle to h-‘m
and that he didn’.t kfiow what ailed me 1 ’
“ All he could say was that if I did not.give. U p
1 ftmg water from the well, cutting wood milk-
ing, and other work I had to do, ! would not be
long for this world. This was not a very cheer-
mg vmw for him to take, but I have no doubt
that lie was sincere in it, and the state I was in
*f!" ed b f r ln! « out iu But his medicine
*>ad no effect on me at all.
A “ ( \TJ hiy r . happened to read about Mother
<3e,gel’s Syrup, and some eases in the book were
= h like mine as an egg is another in a
J, Her( j Jone j i tells how she tidied up one
of her children, and sent her to the chemist’s for
a hot Me of the'Syrup, which incident, with its
attendant calamity, has already been related ).
t commenced at once,” continues our corre-
sponden, on w.iat medicine there was left in
the bottle and used it up. Then I sent for
T l SSfi r ;;-| h, S h ff ?i, ” e Sa l e to hand - P, y the time
ad finished.this one I was ever so much better,
but I kept right along with the medicine until I
got perfectly well-; which I did, and have not had
any illness since.
“I am seldom without a bottle of Mother
beigel s Syrup in the house, and it is part of my
common talk to tell people what it has done for-
me, and what I am sure it will do for anybody
who suffers from the complaints we are all liable
°±r A T Mrs -^ T AmTHA Jane Jones, Graham-
street, Auburn, N.S.W.
Referring to the little girl’s bad luck on her
first visit to the chemist, Mrs. Jones adds that it
is a comfort to reflect that a half bottle of Mother
beige! s Syrup is more good than a full one of
anytmng else.
THE LAST BOER.
(Translated from the Bavarian Liman Blatter.)
The last little streamlet of blood
Has soaked down through the sod.
And thiTV” th ? land of the Boert) >
And the last musket is mute
Heaven hath no pity !
Long since are the crops down-beaten,
And round the shot-shattered farms
The flames lick and quiver.
Two sweat-bathed steeds
V” th . e b ™ w of the hill are tethered,
And darkly on the veldt
An old grey-beard crouches,
Holding, with agonised sorrow,
bunk on his horny hands,
The flaxen-locked head of his bov,
Whom the bullet has just found.
As the lad’s eves glaze,
And he sighs 'his last breath out,
There comes from the old man’s lips
.Nor word nor prayer.
But he raises up liis child,
His hair blood-matted and tah°ded
Lightly before him on to the mare,’
As though he still lived.
Trotting along the narrow path,
With the flame-glow gleaming before him,
He rides through the evening—
Silently rides he home,
And the stars laugh cheerfully down.
His tears blind his eyes,
And, whispering low, the rider
Speaks to his dead child :
“We are riding, Pieter, riding
Through our little world,
For the last time we two together
tor God has willed it so. *
But where this night from the saddle
Thy life-blood trickles down,
Cursed, in earth and in rock
Cursed he the gold !
And though they soon hew it out
And seize on it lustfully,
The blood of my boy cleaves to it,
And fastens my curse thereon
From woe unto woe,
Crazed, it shall drive them :
Their men it shall slay,
And their wbmen it shall lure.
“ It shall deprave their race,
And rob them of peace ;
And their sons shall die—
But. none so nobly as thou !
And what, with lustful greed,
They seek in our land to-day,
They shall come to curse—as we
My dead child, curse it!
“We are riding, Pieter, riding
Through our little world,
l’or the last time, we two together
For God has willed it so.
But where this night from the saddle
Thy life-blood trickles down,
Cursed, in earth and in rock
Cursed be the gold ! ”
-Neivous fiiifibrej's will find it worth their
while to peruse 1 lerr Rassiriussen’s advt. on page
26 of tins issue *
I 1 loin S Africa conies the story of a
wounded soldier, who, believing himself to be
done-for, confessed to the doc! or that instead of
being (say) Jones, he was Brown, and had—with
the view of \ getting rid of his missus changed
clothes and identity with Jones aforesaid when
the latter was killed. But the sham Jones re-
covered, and now he’s wondering whether he
lmdn t better become Brown again and take on
the same old missus, rather than face the possible
responsibilities of the real Jones. The devil-
that is to say, the Woman—you know, is better
than the Woman you don’t know.


h
9P
w,
*y\
a
£r)SOres a
Oldfiie
CULLED FROM THE KINDLY FRUITS OF THE EARTH.
It is a revelation in regard to the marvellous instinct of benevolence that animates an all-wise
providence. Scientists have for years been endeavouring to discover some really natural method of
healing, ie . after the teaching of nature. “Sanoalmus is this remedy, being nothing more nor less
than an extraction from
FLOWERS, FRUIT, HERRS AND SEAWEED.
Ah hough the discoverers of ‘Sanoalmus ” do not profess to have found thereby the secret of perpetual
life, they.'have certainly provided the means of perfect health. An elixir of health has been
esta ; dished.
WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY TEN YEARS AGO
would have been scoffed at as the suggestion of a lunatic, or perhaps regarded in the light of being a
CHAMPION FIRST-CLASS UP-TO-DATE LIE.
To-day we are astounded at the simplicity of its system of working. “ Sanoalmus” is equally simple,
taken from the natural produce of earth and sea, that we in our hitherto blind ignorance
HAVE BEEN TRAMPLING UNDER OUR FEET.
If you suffer with your Nerves, Liver, or Kidneys, ’’Sanoalmus” will put such troubles right. For
Anemia Blushing, Weakness and Debility, it is a certain cure, in fact it puts such tone into the
system that anyone may
“LOOK THE WORLD IN THE FACE”
and fear no man. Its influence on the blood is extraordinary. Two or three bottles of "Sanoalmus”
will do more in a case of impure blood than two years’ treatment by ordinary methods.
CONSUMPTIVES REJOICE
unless in a very advanced stage “Sanoalmus” will cure you—under any circumstances it will
considerably prolong life. Taking “ Sanoalmus” at regular intervals not alone cures but protects
from such everyday ills as Indigestion, Flatulence, Bad Breath, Headache, Ear-ache, Coughs, Colds,
Sore T-hroat. Neuralgia,Giddiness, Influenza, ko. In Rheumatism and Sciatica it is most beneficial,
and will accomplish wonderful results It conquers Backache when all other treatment has failed
For Constipation its action is simply perfect, and renders a healthy and regular working to the
functions of the bowels. Last but not least “ Sanoalmus ” must he welcomed as a divine blessing
for the reason that if persevered with regularly for a brief period it will entirely destroy
THAT HORRID BLOOD POISONING MICROBE,
the recognised curse of humanity. Here you wi 1 assuredly realise the far-reaching effects of
this “ Simple Discovery,” and also the forethought which recognising an evil furnishes the
antidote " Sanoalmus” (as before stated! renders the blood perfect; consequently it ensures a
lovely complexion, does away entirely with all pimples, blushing, blotches, or red,'rough skin ; a
peach-like bloom attends the use of “ Sanoalmus.”
THE UNTUTORED SAVAGE WOUNDED BY POISONOUS SNAKE
or spear, turns instinctively to certain herbs that not only relieve the pain but save his life.
“ Sanoalmus ” contains all the properties of these herbs. It is nature’s own remedy.
MOTHERS TAKE HEED.
When baby is teething, a half teaspoonful of “ Sanoalmus ”iti milk will soothe, strengthen, and
comfort your little darling. Remember, it is absolutely harmless to the smallest mite. If it so pleas*
you, it is within your power to bask in the heavenly sunshine of perfect health, no longer need you
LANGUISH IN THE GLOOM OF SICKNESS AND DESPONDENCY
To be obtained from all chemists, price 3/0 per bottle, or direct from the proprietors,
Wells. Strong & Coy.. 10 Barrack Street opposite Savings Bank of New South Wales, Sydney.
BALDNESS.
A GUARANTEED CURE.
To those who are sceptical we are prepared to give a written guarantee that CAPILLA will
do all that is claimed for it. Those who have used C A PILL A are amazed at its wonderful effect
upon the Hair and Scalp. It gives renewed life and vigor to the hair, and gives to it that lustre so
much desired by persons troubled with Premature Blanching, Greyness and Breaking Hair, etc. One
or two applications arrest the fall and clear the Head of Dandruff. It makes thin Hair thick, and
weak Hair strong. Testimonials from Leading Sydney Solicitors, Business Men, International
Footballers, Cricketers, Actors and Actresses, etc., etc., with each Bottle. CAPILLA is registered
under the provisions of the Trade Mark Act of 1900.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. 2/6 and 5/- per bottle, by post 3/2 and 5/8.
Leading Sydney Chemists and from the Proprietor—
W. RICHARDS, 168 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE
‘PLUM’
ĥ
THE
‘PLUM’
O. ENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Pricf / s i n S? le Razor > in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21s.
I Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful oase, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to ant part of the World.
KSF" Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents : CRAIG & AITKESM, 680 George-st., Sydney.
I’ll Try It.”
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
gapillariie
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Result.
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers &. Wigjmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
ISf*” Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to any part of Australasia.
CRAIG & AITKEN^C
New South Wales Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
EVERY HOUSEHOLD and TRAVELLING TRUNK ought to contain A BOTTLE of
END’S FRUIT SALT 9
m
For Preventing & Curing by Natural Means
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
TESTIMONIAL. —“ I have been a nurse for ten years, and have nursed cases
of scarlet fever, pyaemia, erysipelas, measles, gangrene, cancer, and almost every
mentionable disease. During this time I have not been ill for a single day, and
this I attribute to the use of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a
pure state. I recommend it to all my patients during convalescence. Its
va*ue as a means of health cannot be overestimated.” — A Professional
Nurse ( Qualified ).
THE EFFECT OF ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ ON A DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS, AND FEVERISH CONDITION
IS SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, IN FACT, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, AND AN UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTSOU. — See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it, you have a
w WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., at the 1 FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. 0. ENO’S Patent.
TH_E
FREEMAN & WALLACE
This is the only Medical
Institute in Australia with
a bona fide capital that
stands behind guarantees
as evidence of faithful per-
formance of all contracts, j
ai?d
SOrgical li)StitGt?
IN AN AGE which is so remarkable for its progress in all departments of Art, Philosophy, Manufacture and
——■Buy Science it is surprising to find the practice of Medicine so deplorably in the rear, while thousands
of practitioners in the healing art prefer to remain in the conventional groove of their predecessors. The Freeman
and Wallace Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute consulting staff rise superior to the false code of ethics which
tyrannically bind the medical profession, and announce to the public that upon all special complaints they still con-
tinue to be consulted by the afflicted at their old address, Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
m
s m
EXPERTS FREEMAN AND WALLACE.
The Specialists who conduct the largest practise in Australasia.
AI MfbTIPP No one should hesitate to consult us, as consultations either by letter or In
vrCulnL HU I luCa person are given FREE OF CHARGE, and Strictest Privacy is always assured..
OUR COMMONWEALTH POCKET DIARY.
Every Farmer, Miner, Mariner, Station-hand, Book-keeper, and other Toilers should send for a copy of thi3
Useful Memorandum Book. POST FREE ON APPLICATION—ALL COLONIES.
400-PAGE MEDICAL WORK (Illustrated, containing 80 Engravings, Many Useful Prescriptions,
Hints on Sick Room, Accidents and Emergency) Price 6d. (POST FREE) ON APPLICATION.
Heart, Kidney, Liver Affections. Gravel, Bladder and Spina! Affections.
Herve and Brain Complications. Rheumatisnu Sciatica, Epilepsy, Gout.
Rupture and Piies Cured without Operation. Blood and Skin Diseases.
"
'M :
, -mm
I
- :
£ mi I
mmm
§1
n i
4
WHY WE ADVERTISE!
Because Advertising: is the legitimate means vouchsafed to enlighten people
to acquaint each other with their avocations and wants. If a man has a
Speciality, and has devoted years of his life and expended large s urns of money in studying- that Speciality and in
purchasing the necessary appliances, etc., for treating certain diseases, it would be absurd for him not to announce
the fact, and disseminate trie knowledge universally. We have no apology to offer for informing the world through
this advertisement and otherwise of the means of relief we can afford to sufferers who need our help. Therefore,
however opposed to your own preconceived ideas and to those of your medical advisers, our method of treatment may
be, the fact still remains that it is successful, and this is verified by the thousands, of testimonials received from
grateful patients. We make no secret of our mode of practice. We only claim to have utilised in a common-sense
way the result of scientific research and long experience. If you listen to the counsel of your sceptical friends and
jealous physician you may omit consulting us, but remember if you allow the disease to run not in your system, you
are guilty of culpable neglect, and are alone responsible for your future pitiful condition.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Kegistration by Government
Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, stouth Australia,
Great Britain and America Open to Inspection.
Late Consulting Staff, Homoeopathic Hospital, Melbourne;
Uate Medical Staff, British Army.
HOME TREATMENT If you live out of town and cannot visit us, this need not deprive you
——i———> of the benefits of our wonderful treatment, because in the new system
of combining medicine and electricity a complete Electro-Medical home treatment is provided for. Scarcely a day
passes that the news does not reach us of some wonderful home cure of a person living so far away that a personal
visit could not be made. Write a plain statement of your condition, explaining your feelings and symptoms as clearly
as possible, and from it we will be able to accurately diagnose your case. It only costs you the trouble of writing,
and twopence postage to get the opinion and advice of Australia’s Leading Specialists.
DO NOT BE DRUGGED TO DEATH BY QUACKS
When there are so many quacks and impudent pretenders in the field of Medicine, who arrogate to them-
selves the monstrosity of giving counsel and advice in matters of which they are profoundly ignorant, and who
have nothing to recommend them but their audacity, sufferers cannot be too careful whom they consult.
Although liberty of choice belongs to all, discrimination is necessary. In consulting THE FREEMAN AND
WALLACE ELECTRO-MEDICAL AND SURGICAL INSTITUTE patients may feel assured that they shall
receive the advice of those fitted by superior skill and education, the result of special study. Our reputation and
unparalleled success as Specialists entitle us to your confidence.
Medicines forwarded to all parts of the Wo/W -
CONTENTS FREE FROM OBSERVATION
Sydfyfy
For privacy Patients may address “Messrs. F. & W.,” 225 and 227 Elizabeth Street, SyJnr.c
N.B.— QUEENSLANDERS are Hereby informed that a person advertising as Dr, Wall, ice
in Brisbane is in no way connected with the Institute.
Price 6s.
Post Free.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
“By Steele Rude.


THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
Opals, SappUTrX
to J U 1 find V* to *»ir advantage
to t,ena their parcels direct to him. The firm W
period oMO f ° r strai ?! l V extending over a
40 >e‘ lrs ,. which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated A trial nar
is sohdted be f ° UoWed by direct remittance,
Thrli J ir am^ itfc,S Cahinet ' which ruled the
Six members dOl M “q * Wed Euro P e - consisted of
s x members. Mr. See s consists of 11—to rule a
million or so of people.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
safeltHUi 8 ® ulpl,ur Hair Restorer, quickest,
lit ’iT ’ T St ‘: res the natural color. Lock-
ffi'est! «™r,wh" g “ H “ EeSlorer ' L^9
trustworthy correspondent writes from
Ohina to a Sydney man :
pinadnV^nH^rtr 3 cam Pa>gn there has been too much
mibierlpr ll l?’ the number of women who
sufferis enormous d A°r the atest indignities they can
mans anrf S. At 6 Vllla & e . where a force of Ger-
hadbcpn/nvloufi encamped, 87 cases of women who
wls snoLn fo h l d T?r. rCported - w ‘ien an Italian officer
hi? shonM*™ ° llt the complaints, he said, shrugging
the renlv o? thl r° Unff me £ will be young men.” But
‘Whaf, hif/11. u? J an officer was even more brutal :
wnat better illustration can be eiven of the
Geh-Btrengtf e h- 8trengt f ° f the Gerinan soldier?”
p “ 21°. Chinese custom a woman, when raped, has
death up ’ TK her ma i e re ' a dvessee that she suffers
soldiers ?,? fc b e wondered at, when a small body of
if thev o v, Vl aB '? t 0 steal an| l rape, that the villagers,
vilW ifr. idpd a tn Ce ’ tUr " on the marauders. Often one
bv ddTprpnt K d ,i hre r e °, r J our times in search of plunder
without donh?"h 8 °^ aoldl , ers > an d the worst offenders are,
«>nstant?v sprtd- th * Fr ? nch and Germans. The latter are
ver from' „ S^'Kln^.,? u t small patrols and demanding sil-
Ifllales are dPsI V,ll s ge ',“ opposition is met with the
villages are destroyed. Very likely these looting-exnedi-
head officers of*th° U Air he authorit y or cognisance of the
f th ' 6 Alhes concerned ; but they engender
pl?p bl tterness amongst the Chinese than anything
are in fo y *** , com Pelled to suffer. Stricter regulation?
sands f& - aS - th £ Br . ltlsh are concerned. Thou-
bnfpH (1 ? therwi ? e inoffensive Chinese join against the
of c?nfrovi? n - e r Sl - m °" this acc °unt; and the settling
% th..7;ste£SSp. h d&"““ '■ im '* dei ° n,y
The S’African war
death in Sydney last
horses ,on the Sussex,
Moncrief, a fine young f
the stomach and died
hospital.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION,
.Apply Sulplioliiie Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
ngurements. Sulpholme developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Fitzpatrick, chief traffic-manager of Vic-
torian Railways, lias been appointed Acting-Com-
missioner until Parliament comes to some decision
as to future control. There is a strong feeling
among the more crooked politicians, in Victoria,
that the Act under which Mathieson ran the
railways successfully will ha,ve to be altered. This
means that they want it altered to suit their
own ends. These creatures found they could
not squeeze Mathieson as they wished to do
when he began to work in real earnest in the State
interest, and there have been rumblings in the
House during the last three sessions, which
go to show that an effort will be made to make
the future Railway Commissioner amenable to
political influence. Alteration or no alteration,
Fitzpatrick is not a big enough man for the
permanent job.
It was stated in The Bulletin months ago
that S’Malkum M'Eacharn’s desire in entering the
federal Parliament was to be appointed High
Commissioner for the Commonwealth in London
Now the paper which used to be the Liberal organ
°r Y v c *°. ria > which seems to be now the organ
®f David Syine s personal friends, nominates
M Eacharn for the billet. It is put so seductively,
If the quasi-diplomatic functions are abandoned and a
business ” High remunerated at only a
moderate salary, sums up the ideal with which the House
of Representatives will be content, then it will be difficult
for the Federal Government to find a man for the post
whose claims will equal those of Sir Malcolm M'Eacharn.
Why didn’t the Age mention the salary at which
David’s dear friend is willing to do the work
while on the job ? Of course, money is not the
consideration in this case. Canada’s High Com-
missioner got a peerage; Australia’s may get one
too. There may be the wrinkle.
was responsible for a
week. While shipping
Permanent Artilleryman
ellow of 24, was kioked in
ere he oould be got to
h
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
ei d - Clea " s '"S Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Rfle . .. _ , Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
ĥ
TN€ ROYAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA
LIMITED,
HEAD OFFICE : MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
TWENTY-SIXTH REPORT, presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary general Meeting on 26th April, 1901.
rpHE DIRECTORS have pleasure in submitting to the Shareholders the annexed Balance-sheet and Statement of
x Accounts for the Hajf-year to 30th March, duly audited and certified.
The net profits (including £6,121 Os. od. brought from last half-year) amount to £12,608 12 6
out of which it is proposed
To pay a dividend at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum £3,750 0 0
To transfer to the reserve fund ' 6 000 0 0
- 8,750 0 0
And to carry forward the balance £3,858 12 6
The Directors point with pleasure to the considerable increase in the figures appearing in the Balance-sheet,
which shows progression in every direction, enabling them to recommend with confidence an increase in the dividend,
which will no doubt be considered satisfactory by Shareholders.
While the Directors will continue to use every effort to extend the business on safe and profitable lines, they trust
to have the assistance and co-operation of the Shareholders, whose services in the past they desire to thankfully
acknowledge. If each Shareholder will do what he can to introduce desirable business to the bank the results cannot
fail to be gratifying to all interested in the institution.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD,
H. T. WILSON, Manager.
Dr.
BALANCE-SHEET of the ROYAL BANK of AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
FOR THE HALF-YEAR ENDING 30th MARCH, 1901.
Or.
CAPITAL and LIABILITIES.
To capital authorised—
-600,000 shares ot £4 each £2,400,000 0 0
„ Capital subscribed —
First issue of 160,000
Shares .. .. £600,000 0 0
~ Capital paid-up.. .. £150,000 0 0
„ Reserve fund .. .. 10,000 0 0
„ Profit and loss account. 12,608 12 6
■ £172,608 12 «
„ Notes in circulation 6,667 0 0
„ Bills in circulation 33,391 8 1
„ Government deposits . .Nil
„ Other deposits—Rebate and interest
accrued—
Not bearing interest .. £150,150 13 10
Bearing interest.. .. 372,725 18 2
622,876 12 0
~ Balance due to other banks .. .. 196 16 6
~ Contingent liabilities, as per contra .. 142,053 0 0
£877,793 4 1
ASSETS.
By coin, 'bullion, and cash at
bankers’ £170,900 12 8
„ Government, municipal,
and other public stocks,
debentures, and funds .. 80,000 0 0
„ Notes and bills of other
banks 486 8 1
„ Balances due from other
banks .. •• .. 8,668 0 0
„ Stamps 605 1 0
£205,659 16 4
„ Real estate, consisting of—
Bank premises Nil
Other real estate, at cost to bank .. 19,622 0 8
~ Bills discounted and other advances,
exclusive of provision for bad and
doubtful debts 610,193 7 6
~ Bank furniture, fittings, stationery,
&c., at cost, less £542 written of! for
depreciation .. .. 465 0 0
~ Liabilities and securities of customers
and others in respect of contingent
liabilities, as per contra 142,053 0 0
£877,793 4 1
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To salaries,
~ Balance
rent, and other charges .. £3,044 8 4
12,608 12 6
£16,653 0 10
By balance at 29th September, 1900
Leas dividend declared 31st October,
1900
„ Balance carried down
„ Profits for the half-year, after deduct-
ing interest accrued on deposits and
rebate on bills current, less reserves for
bad and doubtful debts
£9,121 0 C
8,000 0 0
£6,121 0 6
9,632 0 4
£16,663 0 10
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To balance
£lO,OOO 0 0
£lO,OOO 0 0
By balance
. £lO,OOO 0 0
£lO,OOO 0 0
BAKER &
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
PONY PREMO, No. 15.
“PREMOS”^
PRODUCE PERFECT PICTURES!
•• • •
Everyone should be equipped with a
PONY PREMO NoJS.
to take Photographs of the arrival of
PONY PREMOj No. 15.
Tlie Duke and Duchess of* York
Price Complete.
£3 15s.
Size—4 x 5
Reversible Back
Victor Shutter
Iris Diaphragm
Pneumatic Release
Rapid Rectilinear Lens
m
Price Complete.
<£3 15s.
Adjustable Front
Swing Back
Sole Leather Case
Perfection Holder, and
Adapted for Cartridge
Roll Holder
Pony Preino in Case.
SEND EOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE—POST FREE.
375 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Pony Promo OtooecL.


School-teachers’ grievances :
Dear Bulletin.— N.S.W. Public-school teachers are
complaining— with regard to the annual examinations—
q{ the lack of a syllabus of the scope of questions to be
set for the various half-yearly enrolments in each class,
particularly in grammar and arithmetic. Desirable also
would be the notification to teachers of the approx-
imate date of the inspector’s annual visit—each teacher
to be required to have as nearly as possible the full
number of his pupils present. As things are an inspector
m av appraise a teacher’s year’s work when all his dullest
pupils are present and his brighter ones absent ; while a
[ acher in the neighborhood, hearing of the inspec-
lor's approach, can fix his school up for the visit by
•etting his, dullards to stay away till after inspection.—L.
This looks like a genuine military griev-
a 'aTQueanleyan (N.S.W.) were recently interred the re-
mains of Trooper J. Swan, who went to S’Africa with the
Ist Contingent, and returned to die in Sydney military
hospital. Swan, who had belonged to N.S.W. Permanent
Vrtillery, had to buy his discharge before he could join
the contingent. But the man was not really discharged;
he was merely “ transferred at his own request”—a thing
done every day in the British army-from one regiment
to another ; and the proof that Gen. French is perfectly
well aware of the practice lies in the fact that none of the
P A. commissioned officers who have gone with the contin-
gents were required to send in their papers. All were
‘‘attached for duty” and “seconded.” Even the bur-
lesque “Citizens’ Bushmen,” though N.S.W. Govt,
professed to have nothing to do with them,
were supplied with a CiO. and an adjutant
from the P.A. Now N.S.W. Govt., has, in decency,
to choose between repaying to Swan’s represen-
tatives the money it meanly obtained for a bogus-
discharge, and striking off the strength of
the Permanent Artillery, from the date of joining the
contingents, every P.A. officer who did so join. What is
sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander. If a private
bad to buy his discharge to join a contingent, an officer
should have had ri resign his commission to do so.
THE BOERS.
Unschooled in Letters, and in Arts unversed ;
Ignorant of Empire ; bounded in their view
By the lone billowing veldt where they upgrew
Amid great silences ; a people nursed
Apart, the far-sown seed of them that erst
Not Alva’s sword could tame ; now, blindly hurled
Against the march of the majestic world,
They fight and die, with dauntless bosoms curst.
Crazed, if you will; demented, not to yield
Ere aU is reft! Yet, mad though these may be,
They have striven as noblest Englishmen did use
To strive for freedom : and no Briton he,
Who to such valour in a desperate field
A knightly salutation can refuse.
William Watson, in London Daily News.
The world moves ! Sydney Water and
Sewerage Board complains of the excessive con-
sumption of water —not whisky—by Sydney City
Council.
Armv Chaplain liose, recently returned to
N.S.W. from S’Africa, says that “in no case had
he seen or heard of an ambulance party having
been unfairly treated.” This testimony, from a
man who was on the spot, is worth tons of the
wild hearsay statements that have got abroad
about wanton Boer attacks upon the men of
mercy.
The Great Northern S.S. Co. (U.S.A.) are
having built, at New London, several ve -sels
630 ft. long, 73ft. beam, and 56ft. depth-being
thus wider and deeper than the biggest Atlantic
liners, though inferior in length. But, for bulk,
everything afloat will be surpassed by the 20,800
ton boat which the White Star line is having built
at Belfast, Ireland. This vessel —the first to top
the 20,000 tons—will exceed the once-famous Great
Eastern’s capacity by 2000 tons.
GENERAL
Two Years’
A IFIRIZEUSriD
DEBILITY.
Sufferings.
I ZEST UsTimiEaD.
The C afe of
Mr. ROBERT GRAHAM.
(Reported for “ The Star.”)
The increased facilities for recrca'hu
afforded to shopkeepers and their em-
ployees uuder the provisions of the Eatly
Closing Bill are often appreciated by people
who do not come directly within ihe
operation of the Act. It gives “ outsiders ”
an opportunity of meeting folks enjoying a
half-holiday in the middle of the week who
are not at liberty at any other time, except
after business hours. Knowing that Mr.
Robert Graham, of No. 11 Wattle-street,
Chippendale, was always disengaged on
Wednesday afternoons, our reporter
th ught it an opportune time to obtain an
interview in 1 elation to his indisposition,
and was rewarded by finding the gentleman
mentioned sitting on his verandah.
“I have called to ask a few question
about, your illness,” began the scribe.
“ You are quite welcome to ask as many
questions as you like, and I will freely
answer them.”
“ What was your complaint, and how
long were you ill ? ”
“I suffered from debility, in conjunction
with indigestion, for fully two years.
I had been engaged iu sewer work for
some time, and the bad air played havoc
with niy con-ti tut ion. My health had been
very for a long time before I
paid much attention to it. ai d then it was
compulsory, for the disease had worked so
slowly and so stealthily that I did not
give in till it had mastered me completely
I thou| ht that the unhealthy feelings would
go away w hen the sewer w’ork was finished ;
but I was greatly mistaken. I could not
go on Working through the violent pains in
my head and chest, which afterwards ex-
tended all over my body, and 1 got very
feeble in the legs. My appetite became
fickle, and gradually died away altogether.
Anything I did succeed in getting down had
a nauseous taste, and proved quite unpalat-
able. I could not sleep well at night. I
went to bed feeling tired and weary, and
after sleeping an hour or so I had to put
in the remainder of the night wide awake.
When it was time to get up I had to drag
myself out of bed with much reluctance, not
having enough energy to dress. I could
not look at my breakfast, and would start
the day with only a cup of tea on my
stomach. My strength gradually caved in,
as I could not take any food to sustain it,
and I lost all animation and vitality. Water
wws my principal drink, being always
thirsty. My stomach was too much upset
to allow' of my taking anything else, so you
may imagine how debilitated I was. There
was not an hour of the day or night that I
could say I was free from a depressing
languidness that made me melancholy be-
yond description. A sign of my w-eakness
was the way I used to perspire without any
exertion, before I W'as taken ill I was as
hard as nails, and could do a good day’s
work without raising a sweat. In other
ways the debility made itself manifest,
notably by the symptoms of extreme
nervousness from which I suffered. I
used to think I had not got any nerves at
all, but now the least thing would startle
me, and set me all of a tremble. I fought
hard against my affliction, and often forced
myself to eat when I had not the slightest
inclination for food. The result was usually
very disagreeable, my enfeebled digestion
constantly turning on me. I experienced
dull, aching pains I etween the shoulders
shortly after these forced repasts, and it
was not long before the food came up again.
The retching involved in the operation
made my headaches, from which I was
never free, increase in violence. My
tongue was coated with a tlvck, slimy sub-
stance, which made my breath disagreeable.
The fellows with whom I worked used to
remark how awfully miserable I looked,
and in truth I was frightfully thin and
pale”
“ What medicines did you take during
your illness ? ”
“I think I must have taken every
medicine under the sun. At all events i
visited the hospital for six weeks, am
brought back all sorts of physic and pills,
but they did not benefit me in the slightest
degree. I did not get any relief from pain,
neither did they promote an appetite. At
the end of six weeks I gave the hospital
best, and consulted a doctor. He advised
me to take Clements Tonic. I felt rather
doubtful about his advice. After having
taken so many mixtures before, I became
very incredulous about medicines, and so 1
sought the advice of another doctor, who
also recommended me to take Clements
Tonic. Without more delay I procured a
bottle, and the effect was most remarkable
I had believed that my nervousness couh
not be cured by any medicine, but to my
unspeakable delight I felt my nerves m<m
restful in three or four days after the intro
duction of Clements Tonic. Sound refresh
ing sleep came la k quite naturally, and
my terrific headaches were amongst the first
of my tormenting symptoms to be subdued.
The bodily pains left me one by one, and
my strength ielurued as my appetite g ty
better, thus enabling me to eat the foil
that my worn-out frame so much needed
There was an entire absence of pain in th
stomach after eating, and I was never after
wards in doubt about my meals bein.
properly digested and doing their wort
thoroughly. Clements Tonic lestored my
bowels to healthy action, and my tongue
lost its obnoxious roughness and became
clean and sweet again. The excessive
perspiration no longer remained to remind
me of my weakness, as I became strongei
and stouter every day. I took quite a
different view of life under my altered con
ditions, and the feelings of melancholy
troubled me no more. W hen I had taken foui
bottles of Clements Tonic I was quite strong
again, my nerves were as sound as a bell,
and my digestion was all that I could wish it
to be.”
“Can I report these particulars in the
papers.”
“You may with pleasure. I owe my
restoration to health solely to Clements
Tonic, and if any people should happen to
read about my case who are suffering in the
same way they may be glad of my experience.
Publish how and when you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Robert Graham, of No. 11 Wattle-street Chip,
pendale, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales,
do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have care-
fully read the annex-d document, consisting of four
folios and consecutively numbered from one to four,
and that it contains and is a true and faithful account
of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
contains my fu'l permission to publish in any way my
statements—which I give voluntarily, without receiv-
ing any payment; and I make this solemn '’eclaration
conscientiously believing the ame to be true, and bv
virtue of the provisions of an Act made and passed in
the ninth year of the reign of her present Majes'y,
intituled “ An Act for the more effectual aholit, on ■ [
Oaths and Affirmations taken and made in the various
Departments of the Government of New South W 1 s,
and to substitute Declarations in lieu thereof, and for
the suppression of voluntary and Extra judicial Oaths
and Affidavits.”
j-iUChKLL, j.t.
Business Announcements.
(aood Tailoring.
AUTUMN.
Rough Tweeds and Worsteds.
PURE INDIGO SERGES,
TO STAND ALL WEATHERS.
FANCY TROUSERINGS, VESTINGS, &c.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post Free.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Outfitters,
73 AND 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR.
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
I
Medical.
Reader, why not be able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to H' pnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home You can per-
form all of the many marvelous feats
that are possible to the Hypnonist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain, win reluctant affection,
I gratify your ambitions, and produce
I amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever publkhed. For a short
time I will send this magni-
ficent work Absolutely
FREE to all who apply.
Remember this costs you noth-
in A postal card will bring it.
Order to-day and learn to Hyp-
notize. It ’s a chance of a
llfa-time. Address—
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
79 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
*9
ħ
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism.Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstkk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By oue application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. <fc Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
$
<b v
Those
, suffering
from weah
and sore eyes,
and blight, should
i -
SINGLETON’S OINTMENT
Never Fails. Restores Eyelashes.
AhJa CHEMISTS.
DRUNKENNESS^*
Positively CURED by Administering
EUCRASY.
drink or food with-
out the subject’s knowledge. Perfectly Harmless, and
will effect a Speedy Cure. Write TO-DA Y for Free Book,
Address THE EUORABY CO., 62 Hunter-street, Sydney.
Business Announcements
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Be fc,
Cheapest, and Most stylish CLOTHING in An tralia,
STUART & 0.
enopniETAi r limited,
262 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
sr
Our Suit to order at 42«. is
marvellous value; made from
a 1 wool Tweeds.Vicunas,or Cast
color Serges-; it is perfect tltt.ng
and beautifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order from
any class». f material. £3 .'?*»• To
measure, capital Trousers, \ery
good patterns. 12s. 6d.
Dress Suits, to measure. £*•
Clerical Suits, to measure. £s*
Biding Breaches. 255.
Killing Habits. Ac.
We supply ready made. Men’s
. capital Tweed Suits 21s. & 255.
f Famous Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye, 255.
All-wool, fawn, grey, or brown
Sergei ette suits. 30s.
Excellent I'weed or Serge
Trousers. ss, lid.
All-wool blue and black Vicuna
Sacs and Vests. 19* lid.
Men’s Grass Cloth Summer
Suits, 19s. lid. W ite Drill
Sacs and Trousers. 10 s. lid.
Khaki Suits, shrunk. 12a lid.
Black and Grey Alapaca Sacs,
6s. 9d. White and Brown Prill
Trousers. 3«- 9d.\ 4s 9d., ss. li I.
Travelling Trunks, Ba s ai d
Rugs in great variety
Men’s White Sliiits, colored
front and cuffs. 2s 9d.
Fancy Blouse Shirts, new
designs, ss. lid.
White Matte Shirts, collar and
pocket. 3s. (id.
So t Alpine Hats, 4s. 6d.. all
colors.
Hard Hats, 4". lid. Caps. Is,
Merino Undershirts or Pants,
ls.9d,
Neckties, all shapes and colors.
Is.
White Shirts to measure. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
ss. »d . 9s. fid. , • .
We like to write letters; so don't be afraid to ask for any
Information. Our hook, "The Philosophy of Press" and
patterns of all kinds and self-measurement forms posted free
Write for them.
WOODHEAD'S^-
ZZZ CRAMP
SIMPLEST, FASTEST & MOST
EFFECTIVE EVER MADE for
FLOORING, CEILING, &c.
No. 5, 355; No. 6,30 s; No.
7 (Celling), 25s each.
/. A' NA
If your Ironmonger or Storekeeper does not stock, send
direct to us—
PERRY BROS.
Wholesale
Ironmongers,
Brisbane
Sole Agents eor Australasia.
*4
o
tp
OLD
RNS
SUNBU
FINg
c/?
HA
V
&.C
O/Sfr
H
Y
im
r/7
p *o P
r, Etors .
v
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO,
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
ER.MAN Hollow Ground
h
ĥ
4lw t
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
mahp IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADEi
MA f N BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale : OSBORNE, GARRETT, & CQ., LONDON, V.


THE LEADING HOUSE
*" " "
m
r
MS'
Wm
»
h
h
HI
LONDON SYDNEY MELBOURNE PERTH
AUCKLAND WELLINGTON
No. 82618.
Sterling Silver Pepper
Pot, 11s 6d.
No. 307—Solid Silver-Top Blotting
Pads, 13s 6d, 18s 6d and £1 6s.
No. F2727—Sterling Silver Hall-marked Cake Basket, £8
No. F 1022.
Silver-plated Bedroom Candlestick, £l.
No. FI 68.
Sterling Silver Trinket Box,
15s 6d.
No. 84741.
Sterling Silver Sugar
Dredger, £2 15s.
No. 129 A. —Fine Quality Opal and 15ct. Gold Bar
Brooch, £2 10s.
Smaller size, in 9ct. Gold, £1 ss.
No. E7302.—9c.
Gold Heart set with
v ' Pearls and
Turquoises, 16s 6d.
FASHIONABLE BAMBOO BANGLES.
9c. Gold, £1 ss, £1 16s, £2.
15c. Gold, £2 10s, £3 10s, £4.
No. 198 A.
SET LINKS.
9c. Gold, 15s Cd ;
15c Gold, £1 10s;
Silver, 4s.
No. E7o6l.—New Design, 9e. Gold Amethyst
Heart Brooch, 12s 6d.
No E 3184.
Polished Oak Biscuit Box, Silver-
plated Mounts, 14s 6d.
No. E 6412,
Solid Silver Clasp, 10s 6d.
(Drawn Half Size.)
No. E393B.—Silver-plated Fern
Pot, 3£in. high, 9s 6d.
No. F 2534.
Thistle Candlestick, Best Silver-
plate, 17s 6d each. ,
N0.,E9248.
Cut Glass Puff Box, with Solid Silver
Top, 13s 6d.
In all Silver, with Glass Lining,
£ll7s 6d and £2 ss.
No. E 8733.
Solid Silver Menu Holder, 9s 6d.
No. 153 A.—Daisy Brooch, 8 Fine Diamonds.
3 Opals, £4 17s 6d.
No. E7058.—15c. Gold and Pearl set Heart and Spray
Band Bracelet, £3 15s.
No. 157 A.—Elegant Scroll Brooch, 14 Fine Dia-
monds, 2 Whole Pearls, 3 Rubies, £6 15s.
No. 145A.-*-9c. Gold Amythyst and Pearl Bracelet, £2 7b 6d.
No. E672B.—Best Silver-plated Hot Water Kettle,
with Spirit Lamp, £7.
No. E8396-—9c. Gold Curb and
Heart Brooch, 4s 6d.
No. E9l37.—Silver-mounted Combs, 5s 6d.
No. 128 A.
15c. Gold Diamond and Ruby Butterfly
Brooch, £3 7s 6d.
No. E 6534
Solid Silver-Mounted
Manicure Scissors,
7s 6d.
No. 163.—5 Fine
White Diamonds,
£5 ss.
No. 338.—Silver-plated Jam Spoon, 6 inches long, 3a
Finest Silver-plated English
Out Glass Butter Dish with
Knife, £1 2s 6d.
No. 359.
Silver-plated Breakfast Cruet,
complete with Spoons,
13s 6d.
No. E 7072.
6-Bell Solid Silver
Baby’s Hattie, with
Ivory Handle,
12s 6d.
Others 4s to 2
No. 136.—9 c. Gold Bracelet, Pearls and Sapphires, £2 ss.
No. 178.—Wedding
Bing, 180. Gold,
Eg B -
HH i*§ 1. v^v
ser-
No. E 3777.
ComVtination Lamp and Fern Pot,
> £2 12s 6d.
No. 122A.—15c. Gold Brooch, Fine Set Amethyst.
£2 7s 6d.
No. 016.—15 c. Gold and Finest Opal Heart
Brooch, £2 15s.
IstejWwt o*ws«i,rs
LONDON !rtr
(.—Pair Fine Silver-plated Pie Servers, in Case,
£1 10s.
No. 333. —Solid Silver Christening: Spoon, in Case,
15s 6d ; Silver-plated, 6s 6d.
No. 267 A.—Solid Silver Embroidery Set, in Case, 17s 6d.
No. 295.—Silver-plated Serviette Rings, 2 in Case,
8s 6d ; 4 in Case, 16s 6d ; 6in Case, £1 ss.
Write for Free Catalogue.
AH Goods Delivered Carriage Paid.
412 GEORGE
&
Y.


Enteric Fever, Malaria, Typhoid, Dysentery,
Small Pox and all Contagious Diseases.
The War in South Africa
JEnteric Fever has claimed fa/r more victims than the
bullet during the Great Boer War. A guard to the health
of our soldiers, is, therefore, of the highest importance
for the success of the campaign. The following impressive
letter, giving the experience of one of the medical staff of
the Princess Christian Hospital, South Africa, is most
interesting on this subject:
Tan-y-Bwlch, Chester Road, Erdington,
February 4th, 1901.
Dear Sirs. —l have recently seen your advertisement and free offer in the London
Morning Leader, and shall be glad if you will send me a bottle of your Carlsbad Powder
to use in my family.
I first heard of your preparation from Sergeant Gardener, R.A.M.C. (St. John Ambu-
lance Brigade, Birmingham [City] Division), who has just returned in charge of invalids
from Africa. He was for some time stationed at Princess Christian Hospital,
Pine Town Bridge,- Natal, and had also served at several other base hospitals. His first
duty on arriving in Durban, in April last, was to assist in burying four victims from
Enteric Pever. As I was about sending out nine more men (they sail on the Lismore
Castle on the 7th), I asked him to address them. In the course of his remarks he urged
them to lay in a supply of Kutnow’s Powder. He himself had attended to Hundreds of
Cases of “ Enteric,” and the only medicine he partook of was KUTNOW’S POWDER
twice or thrice a week, as instructed on the bottle. He had never been “SICK OR
SORRY” for an hour, and he attributed this fact to the bi-weekly use of KUTNOW.
In following Sergeant Gardener I suggested that the men should lay in a stock of
KUTNOW, and I trusted they would benefit from the advice given, and would return to
England, looking as strong and hearty as he did.
Yours faithfully, J. R. STAMP,
Supt. Sec., St. John Ambulance Brigade,
Messrs. Kutnow & Co., Ltd., London. Birmingham (City) Division.
The foregoing testimony speaks in most unmistakable tone as
to the sterling merits of KUTNOW’S POWDER, which is THE SUPREME
REMEDY for Ail Derangements of the Stomach, Liver, Spleen, Kidneys
and Intestines. It Prevents and Removes Sick and Nervous Head-
ache, Languor, Insomnia, Debility, Prostration, Hypochondria, and
Mental Depression. It is a Natural Corrective to Biliousness,
Indigestion, Constipation, Rheumatism, and Gout.
LEADING HOSPITALS USE KUTNOW’S POWDER.
KUTNOW’S POWDER IS CONTINUOUSLY USED IN THE FIELD HOSPITALS IN
SOUTH AFRICA ; LIKEWISE IN THE PRINCESS CHRISTIAN, THE PORTLAND,
AND THE LANGHAM HOSPITALS; THE AMERICAN HOSPITAL SHIP MAINE ;
THE PRINCESS OF WALES’S SHIP. USED BY THE C.l.Y.’s, THE HON.
ARTILLERY CO., AND THE IMPERIAL YEOMANRY. IT IS PRESCRIBED IN
THE LEADING HOME HOSPITALS, AND USED IN THE PRINCIPAL HOSPITALS
OE THE FIVE GREAT CONTINENTS. IT IS USED BY OFFICERS OF HIS
MAJESTY’S ROYAL NAVY. HIGHLY COMMENDED BY THE LEADING MEDICAL
JOURNALS: “The Lancet,” “'The British Medical Journal,” “The Bristol Medico-
Chirurgical Journal,” “The Edinburgh Medical Journal,” “The Medical Times and Hospital
Gazette,” &c. EMPHATICALLY ENDORSED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
WARMLY APPROVED BY THE LEADING HOSPITAL NURSES. IT HAS RE-
CEIVED THE DIPLOMA OF MERIT, PARIS EXHIBITION, 1900.
PRESCRIBED TO MEMBERS OP THE ROYAL FAMILY
KUTNOW’S Improved Effervescent Carlsbad POWDER is superior and preferable to Drugs,
Salts, or ordinary Salines, which are usually drastic and purgative, but possess no restorative or
curative prop rties. KUTNOW’S POWDER, on the contrary, has the highest Therapeutic
and Diuretic remedial value, re-energising and restoring concurrently. As an aperient it is
always gentle and painless, yet withal the most perfect organic cleanser in the world. Equally
beneficial to the child, the invalid, or the strong man. The bi-weekly use of KUTNOW’S
POWDER PREVENTS THE CONTRACTION OF ANY CONTAGIOUS DISEASE.
It thoroughly cleanses the system of all impurities, stimulates the heart, fortifies the lungs,
rouses the liver, energises the kidneys, assists digestion, braces the nerves, and so strengthens
the entire system as to defy contagion.
KUTNOW’S Improved Effervescent Carlsbad POWDER may be obtained in capsuled bottles
of all Chemists and Medicine Vendors. See that the Registered Trade Mark, “ Hirschensprung ”
(or Deer Leap), and the autograph fac-simile signature, “S. KUTNOW and CO. (Ld.),” are on
the label and Carton. ONLY THESE ENSURE GENUINENESS. INSIST ON
“ KUTNOW’S,” AND FIRMLY REFUSE ANY SUBSTITUTES ; THEY ARE WORTH-
LESS AND OFTEN INJURIOUS.
Proprietors :
S. KUTNOW and GO. (Ld.), 41 FARR2NCDON ROAD, London, E.C.
Proprietors in U.S.A. :
KUTNOW BROS., (Ld.), 853 Broadway, New York, U.S.A.
Along the Castlereagh.
Bill Primrose’s Brewery Story.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
About a mile from the township, on the road to
Conroy’s Flat, I came upon a huge decaying
wooden structure. Scattered about its rotting
floor were broken barrel-staves, bung-corks, and
rusty hoops. It was an abandoned brewery.
Poets have sung of deserted mines and deserted
homesteads; but no one has immortalised the
naked temple where the dead beer-froth has
stained every beam and rafter.
Looking out through the chinks Of the wall, I
saw a mob of sheep spreading from the dusty flat
towards the thin pasturage of the river-bank. The
wind came through the doorway, and fretted the
gray webs where fatted spiders drooped in mid-
air. In fancy I saw an empire of casks arise from
a malt-strewn floor, with a naked god astride a
bulging tun singing “ Hey for the beer that’s
bitter ! ”
• * * *
Arriving at Conroy’s Flat I came upon the at-
tractive legend of the The Swag and .Pannikin,
swinging over a newly-painted pub. Entering, I
saw Uncle Jim asleep in the corner. Behind the
bar, to my vast surprise, who should stand but
mine host Bill Primrose, late King of Sydney
Domain ! He knew me at once, and greeted me
with one eye half-shut and a moist, beery hand.
1 stood back while two teamsters slouched in from
the road—dry-lipped, smelling of bullock and
long, slow distances. The thirst of a teamster is
a chirk-brown thing with seven throats —as was
o.ice more made evident.
When the teamsters had gone, and their whips
were cracking in the bend, publican Primrose
leaned towards me over the bar. He breathed an
odor of prosperity and good spirits. We shook
hands again and again.
“Ah, sir,” said Bill, “afore I came up here the
Salvation 1 Army wanted me tew jine, but I wud
sooner sleep in a hempty cask than hit a drum
what never did me harm. Me brother Joe died in
Perth, sir,' an’ left me a lirrle money, an? I thought
oi'tlve place where I had been happiest, and so I
took this pub.
“I like the , Castlereagh : me thoughts have
alwuz been up here among the sheep an’ the
drovers what lend you their money tew mind. I
like mindin’other pipple’s money. Mother used
tew say I’d die a banker or a brewer. I should
like tew die a brewer. There wuz a company
started a brewery down the river, near the town-
ship, but they wuz alwuz in trouble—coopers,
most time's.” A .
I intimated that I had seen the company’s pro-
perty ; and watched Uncle Jim snort, stretch his
legs, and open his eyes about the width of a hay-
seed.
Publican Primrose settled on his elbows ; ex-
perience had taught me not to speadc when Bill
settled on his elbows. I sipped what Bill called
whisky, and waited. . "
* * * *
“ I suppose, sir, you’ve never studied breweries ?
A brewery is like a sheep-station—blokes rushin
about brandin’ casks an’ chuckin’ ’em on drays
while other coves tallies every pint what leaves
the place. If yew go tew the end of the brewin’-,
shed you’ll see a lot of fellers shearin’ the wool olf
the beer in the vats. It’s a pity them artists don t
paint a nice brewery wiv its ’underds ah’ ’underds
of casks piled up tew the roof, an’ the tubs an’
vats an’tuns, an’the lorrymen (big as giants) heavin
an’ rollin’ the liquor across the floor. What a
place tew lie, in, sir, when the hot wind seems tew
rip away yOur froat an’ the sun is eatin’ intew
your bones ! Yew snuggle wiv your back against
a tub listenin’ to the gulp, gulp, an’ drip, drip,
drip of the beer up above. Ah-h-h-h !
“ Some of the vats are bigger’n a Guvimint
tank ; when yew sit near yew can hear the froth
washin’ up against the sides —the big loose froth,
sir, what heaves like the sea. I used tew hold me
waistcoat an’ sigh, ‘ What is the wild beer sayin’,
Bill ? what is the wild beer sayin’ ? ’
* * * »
“ It wuz coopers what killed the brewery down
the river, sir. A cooper is a man what builds a
close fence round a selection of drink. These
coopers are terrible guzzlers, sir. When I wuz in
the brewery down the bend there wuz a cooper
there called Swanky Joe ; he never drank out of a
glass or bottle; he jest walked across the brewery
an’ stuck his head intew a 10,000-gallon vat o’
beer. On a warm day he’d let it stay there,
leanin’ over wiv the froth pilin’ up round his hair.
He wuz a fine man, sir, what liked his bath.
‘-‘A man worlcin’ at a brewery has a lot o’
friends. Swanky Joe wuz very pop’lar wiv the
jockeys and loafers from the township. They’d
slink in froo the front gate and say, ‘ What oh !
Swanky, eny ’ope of a wash ? ’ Swanky wud look
up from his hoops an’ staves wiv one eye on the
manager’s office. ‘ ’Olloa, Bunny ! ’ he’d say.
‘ ’Urry up ; the boss is about. Get it out o’ the
little tub there, an’ for Gawd’s sake don’t get yer
boots in it! ’
“ It wuz a beautiful sight, sir, tew see Murphy,
the policeman, come intew the brewery on a visit
of inspeckshun. No sneaking about him ; he’d
jest walk right up tew the big vat, lay his helmet
on the steps slow an sorrerful, an’ then undo his
belt. It’s a grand sight, sir, seein’ a six-foot
p’liceman undoin’ his belt before a 10,000 gallon
vat o’ beer. I used ter think of that chap fiajax
defyin’ the lightnin’. Murphy ’d take a long
breath, put both hands on the edge, an’ lift him-
self slowly, very slowly, until he hid half of him-
self in the big, white froth. Only his boots, sir,
wud be vissible from the beer. Then you’d wait,
an’ wait, until you began tew fink that the beer
wuz beginnin’ tew feel ashamed of itself. Scheiner,
the German head-brewer, wud rush out shoutin’
‘ Murder! Dhieves ! Yire ! ’ Then you’d see one
of Murphy’s boots wriggle, an’ he’d get down
.very slow from the vat, wipin’ his mouf an’ lookin’
wiv a friendly eye at the brewers. ‘ Ah-h-h-h !
bhoys, yez are alwiz thryin’ tew Spile me dhrink.
’Tis good beer, no less, an’ me trote wuz as dhry
as-a camel-thrack.’
• * ' ' * * *
“One terrible hot day, sirj I stood in the
-brewery gateway lookin’up at the big white vat
o’ beer till I couldn’t look at it no longer, so I
made a rush in, ’opin’ tew reach it afore I wuz
stopped; but Scheiner collared me by the coat.
‘ Yat you do ?’ he sez. ‘ Vas you dink dis is a
svimming-bad ? Yere’s dyour dowel ? ’
“ ‘Herr Scheiner,’ I sez, ‘I on’jr want tew see
me reflection in the beer. I helped yer brother
on the Bareoo wunst. Let me see me reflection
in the beer ! ’ He wouldn’t let me, but he gave
me a drink but of a lirrle cask. On’y Murphy
the p’liceman wuz allowed tew go up tew the big
vat.
» * * *
“ Arter a bit a reg’lar school of whalers an’
tramps took tew hidin’ behind the vats arter dark.
They drifted up from the Murrumbidgee an’ Gawd
knows where. Every man on the track must
have talked about the brewery along the Castle-
reagh. There wuz a man amongst ’em called
Sailor Ben ; he wuz a hairy man, sir, wiv a hoarse
vice, knotted hands an’ warts all over him. Me
ole friend, Stinker Jones —you remember, Stinker,
sir? —he wuz captin’ of the gang. The watchman
knowed they wuz hidin’; but bein’an’ old Murray
cod-fisher he was soft wiv the boys. At night, sir,
when the brewery wuz closed, these whalers an’
tramps wud come out of hidin’ an’ sit round the
vats dippin’ in their billies an’ drinkin’ like
gen’lemen. Sailor Ben wud sit in a dark corner
on his own, talkin’ to himself, an’ sayin’, ‘ Ha, ha!
avast there, ye lubbers ! avast! ’ An’ all the time
he’d be spittin’ a ter’ble black juice over the floor.
He had a few mice in his hair : he wud sing in a
awful vice about desert Inlands an’ mermaids.
“Well, sir, arter he’d been in the brewery about
a month he got queerer. One night he crawled
out of his corner an’ collared a small mash-tub an’
floated it on the beer in the big vat; an’ afore any-
one cud stop him he jumped intew the tub and
pushed off intew the middle of the vat. The
boys scrambled round watchin’ him like kids at a
pantermime. Ben sat still for a long time, wiv his
hand over his eyes as though he was lookin’ across
the sea. ‘No ship in sight,’ he sez, hoarsely,
‘no one tew ’elp a perishin’ sailor. Heaven, hear
me prayer, an’ send a sail,’ he sez, spittin’ out
the terr’ble black juice, ‘or I perish on the deep.’
His hairy arms wuz like a gorilla’s, an’ he kept
one over his eyes lookin’ for a sail. ‘ Heaven
hear me prayer,’ he sez again, ‘ an’ send a ship.’
“Stinker wuz nearly sober; an’he jumps up
an’ collars a lot of brewers’ corks what wuz fas-
tened together wiv wire, an’ tied ’em round his
belt. Then he got another mash-tub an’ floated it
on the big vat. ‘ Keep your ’eart up, Ben !’ he
shouts. ‘ Yew shan’t perish for want of a helpin’
hand.’ Wiv that he jumped intew the tub an’
pushed off intew the middle of the ragin’ beer.
“ Sailor Ben sat up in his tub, sir, an’ scowled
at Stinker floatin’ towards him. ‘ Avast wiv that
lubberly craft !’ he roars. ‘ This is the ship Lon-
don, wiv 700 souls aboard. Keep tew starboard,
d’ye hear ?’
“Stinker skimmed up alongside the London
an’ seized her by the ribs. ‘ Come ashore, Ben,’
he says, ‘ an’ no larkin’.’
“ Ben the sailor stood up like a bull, collared
Stinker by the chest, an’ frew him intew the beer.
It wuz a awful sight, sir, tew see Stinker floatin’
about the beer wiv his corks, an’ Sailor Ben
cursin’ him for a lubber an’ a shark.”
* * * *
I heard a groan from Uncle Jim. He was wide-
awake and listening. Publican Primrose con-
tinued.
“ One day the manager told Herr Scheiner that
the customers wuz complainin’ about the terrible
flavor of fish an’ prawns that went wiv the last
5000-gallon brew. That was froo the whalers
catchin’ their tucker in the river. Arterwarc’s
the manager goes up tew the big vat and says
there wuz a tremehjus leakage of 700 gallons a
week. Scheiner he said somethin’ about Murphy
the p’liceman, but the manager said ‘ Bah,
nonsince ; ’tisn’t possible for one p’liceman tew
surround a square acre of beer’—for that’s what
the leakage amounted tew, sir. .
“ Suddenly somethin’ came intew the manager’s
face. ‘ Surround the vats !’ he shouts. In ’arf a
minute all the brewery hands wuz around the tubs
wiv staves in their hands, shoutin’ an’ cursin’ about
the dark corners. Stinker Jones surrendered first;
then arter a desperit fight they got Ben the Sailor;
the others rolled out like the blokes from Cronje’s
laager. They wuz a dirty crowd, sir. One old
wh der began tew cry ’cause lie lost his swag in
the beer; another went on his knees tew the
manager an’ sez ‘ Gimme a photograph of the big
vat what’s got the white balm on top ; it
will be something for me to look at
when I’m perishin’ in the dry country!
The manager wuz at his wits’ end, sir ; he
couldn’t prosecute a dozen whalers for sleepin in
his vats ; it wud give the beer a bad character, sir.
So he let ’em go.”
* • * 1 *
Maloney and Brannigan came in and asked for
beer. Uncle Jim looked as if he was going to say
something, but changed his mind. Publican
Primrose wasn’t the man to spoil a good story;
he drew the beer with as much froth as possible,
and proceeded.
“ Arter a bin, sir, drinkin’out o’ the big vat be-
came fashionable: it wuz better than takin it
from a glass or tap. You could stretch yourself
across it, burrowin’ froo the white balm intew the
cool red beer. The swells took tew cornin’ up
from the township, an’ tipped heavy tew bo
allowed tew get their chins in. One day a ker-
ridge drove up, an’ the Guvnor himself stepped
out at the brewery gate. There was a lady in the
kerridge. ‘ Sir ’Erbert,’ she sez, ‘ where are you
goin’?’ ‘Deer Lady Anastasia,’ he sez, sof ly,
‘do not worry ; I’m goin’ tew see a man about a
lirrle poodle for yew, Lady Anastasia.’ He
stayed in the brewery, sir, longer than a mort-
gage : when he came out Lady Anastasia jumps
up in the kerridge an’ sez, ‘ Oh, Sir ’Erbert,
there’s a lot o’ froth around your neck ! ’ ‘ Lady
Anastasia,’ he sez, ‘it is a hair of the dawg what
bit me.’ ”
Publican Primrose smiled with enjoyment.
• * » *
“There wuz an old cooper named Sam what
got a job at the brewery. He wuz a slow work-
man, an’ wore spectacles. Never hurried himself
like the other coopers ; jest plugged along, makm’
a cask now an’ then. He wuz alwis losm his
specs ; sometimes they fell into the 5000-gallon
vat, an’ he wud pass away the mornin’ tishin for
’em wiv a long piece o’ wire. Sometimes he
hooked a bit of crayfish or a bit of an old sock.
One mornin’ he pulled out a singlet belongin tew
Stinker Jones. It wuz a fair day’s work findm a
pair o’ specs, in a 5000-gallon vat, an’ the manager
didn’t like it. One day a smart young cooper
named Manners came along and asked for a job.
The manager started him right away. Manners
wuz a quick worker, an’ wud knock a cask toge-
ther while old Sam was huntin’ for his specs. So
old Sam got the bag.
“He took it tew ’eart, but he got another
job down South, an’ plugged away for nearly
12 monfs makin’ casks an’ huntin’ for his
specs. Well, one day, as he was strainm a
hoop on a tub, in walks Manners and asks for a
job. Seein’ that he looked quick an’ handy, the
boss gave him a show right away. Old Sam got
the bag next day ; an’ he never said a word, jest
walked out o’ the gate wiv his kit o’ tools under
his arm. Next ,day he left for Sydney an’ gorra
job—coopers wuz scarce them. days, sir. I hey
paid him ten bob a day for fishin’ in the vat; he


va, V-~
ant} cw ,pr- %
Isis
• ,_r A/.iajßEssEij Sd~r~j: —-—fJIZrii 1 ri «-*t 1
-Tfrfrrr-- • ° r 3 ears Vi^T''~7r'-
turner ? n >zU
• £)
•htl
?
a/i ColJins-st., aieiu.
AGENCY BUSINESS. cstr.
t^u aiB, aci inS Suburb. OWtfeT reti:• ii
through ill-health; "will sacrifice; special chance
energetic man. Full particulars t-^ance
BAYLEe and Co..
3'Z3 CoUms-street.
Grocciy Businessi est. 7 years, musF
<vwnpr eomg yj&i. 25 *
ta y«.Wlic £> UIIU Hi K
®7 kc s^r g
wjf old age and ill health- iso 1 w “ ;,Ure city!,
Iceij I'-cuiitable Building. ' tSU W Bv ermgham & Co. Jl
. ■■ iBs. y
full value for money, £»0. Joseph ana
i ea<Jin .e city Wteiton. 7 bodies, 70
! yltr- ® u,ldnes > *oP prices, G»ite bends io years, rtfnt 4C
X. ./.LI. JObEVa and CO., 106 King-street.
f Jißooms ao/3 '* An^iQftJ;, WoA PrnfifrU
fetodlt vaiae xid, uuiy ns, frargaiu,
MOO£E and CO.— thoroughly fur?
nished, birjcain, t’sirouirii illnent*, £SS.
TVTOORR and P.O «*City liUach ttdoEQS UUXC Udj
‘ tie Imperial rnnwrs »runi«mnjr
7<a Pitt-stra |||L
fIV E f!ti A S C Y ,nd stat . io °«T, folly auf.hori^ed.Thk
«»tSS mrZt hM wrT
Westjßod News Agency) 201 George-street West.
Ml. POUD. 75 Miller-street. North Si">-
ia-street.
A -COUNTRY GENKRAI, STORE, establish?,
f 1! >'«ars, now doing good sound business, ounom
leai mg on account ill health, jfctock consists of grol
eSir-t «n»m°ng |r >. crockery, produce, wines anti
.pints, &.c., up to about t£S : W. ail good saitiablc siulif
good dwcLmg attached to store. VV. lUiISBAXE, 21
bwanston-st. »
4 NUMBER nice Confect icucries, News
" '*’* *- «wLavw.l«u,u :*.t» Cl vrvoi.« Uii.
BUSINESS
SACRIFICES
_ ■oo'i ae ' 'yr<
>!»*-
'c&AV
e&.- v -‘
ended
the entire
and you
±iow otten we read of a flourishing business for sale on
account of the ill-health of the owner. He has been so
. ~ absorbed in his fight for wealth that he has forgotten another ac-
, COU " t tbat need _f balancing—his health account. ICidney troubles are slowlv hut
doesn’t amount to^SlheyThLt 8 grave. It is only backache at first,
and then, if it is isn’t checked, Bi-milt's disease and Death, 6 sp ® lls> "7“?,7 troubles ’ diabetes,
Hard work and worry-principa lv worrv-are ho„? f Vfh&t haTe been a brilliant, useful career is
system. To overcome this 1 condition lL 1 bounc to cause nervous depressions and a consequent failing of
system in good order basing 7 mUS * be l,ullt restoring healthy kidneys. Keep your bfood
KIDNEY
ood health is yours. Plenty of Sydney proof that this
IS
PILLS
Mr. James Hudson, 10 Lermox-street, New-
town, tins cry, says:—“l work in the Bondi
sewer. 1 here is a constant drip, drip there, and
when working- it mostly happens that one is wet
through, borne parts are better than others, but
while working m the shafts one is continually
damp, and this affected my health. My trouble
came with a bad cold in my kidneys which
caused terrible pains in the back. I did my work
but it was most fearful torture for me to do so as
you can well understand. I was exceedingly bad
with these pains when I saw Doan’s Backache
.Kidney Pills advertised, and it struck me by the
name of the remedy that it should be good for my
complaint. I procured a box at Newman’s Phar-
macy, in King-street, and they cured me in fairly
good time. I could not take them constantly,
being afraid to use them while workingin the wet
sewers, but I managed to take two doses a week.
The nature of my work caused me to have slight
returns of the pa n, but I take a dose of Doan’s
Backache Kidnty kills, which never fails to cure
me. lam never without them in the house.”
Mr. William Carroll, an ex-railway guard, of
749 Harris street, Ultimo, this city, writes:—“l
strained myself in pushing some heavy trucks, and
soon noticed the effect in the small of my back.
For three solid months I was unable to do any
work, and was laid up. I had a very lame back,
and a dull pain through the loins and kidneys,’
and the secretions became unnatural and irregu-
lar. My physician advised Turkish baths. I
took them and received some small benefit, but
not sufficient to enable me to work properly. I
procured some of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills,
and used them ; I found wonderful relief, so much
so that I am now able to do heavy work as of old
in a thorough manner. I might mention that it is
a year ago since I took these pills, and I have not
been troubled with my back or kidneys since
SdnaJ’rJty convincesme that Doan’s Backache
are a tru ' 3 kldne y remedy, and I
never fail to recommend them among my' friends.”
Mr. F. Florence, 208 Alfred-street, North Syd-
ney, says:—“ More than a year ago I took Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills for a backache which had
been giving me a lot of bother for some months. It
came on in the first place through weak kidneys,
I believe. My back was so bad that I could not
stand straight or do any work, and I began to
think I was crippled. I procured a box of Doan’s
ackache Kidney Pills at Newman’s Pharmacy,
King-street. They were not recommended to me,
but the name seemed promising and suitable to
my case lam glad to be able to inform you that
this medicine soon effected a cure, the first few
doses giving me almost complete relief. It is a
wonder to me at my age that I am not troubled
more with backache than I am, but I suppose
that the pills have put my kidneys in perfect
order. I can work and move my back as freely as
I could in my young days.”
Mrs. Spears, 32 Goodsell-street, St. Peters
this city, says: “For a good while I was in L
pretty bad state with my back. This was a dull,
constant ache about the kiduevs. Sometimes it
was much worse than others, when I moved the
pains becoming very bad indeed, more particu-
larly when I stooped. It was a most distressing
complaint, and I did not like the thought occur-
ring to me that this sort of thing often lasts a life-
time, yet such is the case. Almost a year ago 1
heard of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills and rp
solved to try them for my ailmeh™
some at Newman’s Pharmacy, King-street. l am
very pleased indeed to inform you that they
1V ? n6Ver had the P ;1 ” 1S return since
I used them. Iga ve some of these pi llsto a rela-
tion, who has derived as much benefit through
to • p H 1” aS 1 ha T e - , 1 ara ver y giad to be able
to state these simple facts since it mav lead to
Kidney fills! 1 ”' b * fr ° fU DWs
Be Sure You Get DOAN’S.
The kind your neighbors endorse.
15s. 3d.), or, if you oa on ot obtain sent™ B^/^'
ter-McC ellan Dn 7fi Piff of v>Ant CJ, ~ 1 . C< 1 T~» • J
lctors.
used tew say that you could find anythin’ in a vat
be F f llunibr . ellas > an’ old hats. One day
be , foand a marriage-certificate in a tin box ;
he onlj things he didn’t find, sir, wuz a bicvcle
aS long as he made a cS
hJlhed fooSpS” ‘ see,n l " ““<>>'«
u Q lß, i t < . old I San ? - wuz Kettin’ slower every day •
Iwbfo ° Se HS i pallets and specs, somethin’
Whpiho lle couldnt work wivout his specs.
lcn lie wuzn t fishin he wud go intew the uas-
f a f e “ llst< ? n for a well-known vice askin’ for a
° n > 9 he d patter round tew the office
mnsttn| t « e i bC Jv WeVVt?rayoung man wiv a sandy
mustache had been m arter a job lately. Then
in’ d *fr° an Sl i arl i fisl " n ’ again ‘ one hot lnorn-
’ I ln oa ™ e the boss wiv young Manners. Old
bam dropped his ftshuT-line, an’his lips begun
tew work awful. Then he wiped his face affi
seemed to brace himself up a bit; an’ he walked
over tew young Tom Manners. ‘ Tom nTy ad ’
sez lie, ‘ W are yew ? There’s a good job“vaitin’’
I;- 6 /- yew > d °m. Come ail’ I’ll show yew our
thf f U^ S ‘ q YeS ’ S , ez tbe manager, ‘show liim
wards UbS l wT'Vt an CO, r intew the office after-
wards. I want tew speak tew yew pertie’lar.’
offieeW a - th a manager comes back from the
office an sees bam workm’ away at a cask
Where s young Manners, Sam ?’ he sez ‘ I can't
now h ’ lm old ,ere ' 1 T ai ! t lli,n tuw begin work
tul ' i ° J bam never looked U P l he wuz planin’
manater°‘‘ a f aV n ‘ Good ’eaven !’ shouts the
manager, why don t you answer?’ Then he
Cawd d |“ lt ? W Sam S fnCS an ’ went whit e. ‘ Great
L 16 scream . s ’ ‘ you’ve murdered him!’
Nobody see me do it,’ sez Sam, lightin’ his pipe.
Scoundrel!’ shouts the manager, ‘you’ve
drowned the young feller in the big vat ' ’ ‘A
dead man won t hurt the beer,’sez Sam, gently.
1 knowed a brewery wunst what nearly went
bankrupt cause their beer tasted flat But one
btp a /.abb t-oh got drowned in the big tub an’
livened it up. Yew can’t beat a dead man for
that n beer P f^ at V bee ['f ? h ® pubHc USed te "’ drink
me put Tom intew the big vat ’
3 he manager listens to him like a man thunder-
thp vh an mn hei f 1(3 j n A be coopers rushed up tew
the \at. they found Manners strugglin’ in the
TW n uz llke a white wall around him, sir.
r- be / hslied him out; but he never was right in
arterwards, he ustew wake up in the night
trying to push the balm off himself. He died lars’
°P, tbe brain,’ the doctors said.
cmuld yo U u sir?” WI & m ° re p3aceful dea * b .
* • * *
Publican Primrose moved about the bar smiling
beer 61- TT asked micle Jil >‘ d he’d like another-
Peer. Uncle turned away, saying he’d drink
Castlereagh water m future. He held up his Mass
and asked Maloney whether the dark substance
floating on the top wasn’t a rabbit-oh. Maloney
stared at the substance long and hard and said,
tie gob, tis the dead-ring av Mick Mullins that
wint missin awhile ago ! ” From Bill’s motions I
judged that the beer left m their glasses as they
walked out was not wasted. y
Visitors to the “Swag and Pannikin” drink
K U fi C °l d rU ', U 110 w; they are of opinion
that it is better to risk seeing an occasional snake
than to meet the pale, cold face of a fellow-crea-
ture staring from the depths of a long-beer. But
P< U T.m : 1 11 , Priniroso only s,niles behind his new bar
It 11 take more t lan a dead man tew keep ’em
off the beer when the hot weather comes again ”
he says. & ’
N.S.W.
ALBERT DOERINTON.
The Olden Way.
[FOR THE BULLETIN
Sbal coTd e f iVe UP the fight because some have grown
Shall we furl up the flag for the moth and the
mould ?
Shall we turn a poor back on the foe in our fear,
nd slink with the prudent who slip to the rear?
", If i' VG truly believe in the prophets who tell
if there’s Heav’n for the brave, for the craven
there’s Hell ” ?
Shall we falter to-day, in the heat of the fray,
Or battle it out in the Olden Way ?
O, Hands that are weary and Hearts that are sore,
Ye labor but now as they labored before;
The Heroes who strove and the Warriors who plied
iheir terrible trade on the field, where they died.
JLhe I lag that we cherish—by them was it flown,
Our Harvest of Freedom-by them was it sown.
Did they part from the fray ere the finis!) ’ Oh
nay !
iliey battled it out in the Olden Way !
And if these were our fathers and We are their
seed,
How shall we bring shame on the Fame of the
breed ?
How shall we tell Ages that follow : “ We came
Of men who were mighty in spirit and frame ;
But We, we are puny, and little we dare,
And fain would we fatten on delicate fare :
But our Fathers (they say) had a love for the fray
And would Battle it out in the Olden Way 1 ”
k or it matters no whit if the fashions be new,
1 here is only one test if the metal be true, —
Do we lend a stout arm till the vict’ry be won,
Or pray in the kirk with our fighting undone ?
Do we shrink in appall ? Do we answer the call
Of the bugle that pealeth : “ O Brothers, come all,
Get you girt for the fray ; be ye manful to-day,
And Battle it out in the Olden Way ! ”
Q.
P. LUITIG.
All Melbourneites, Imperial and other-
wise can mute to thank the poor little Jook for
recent loyal improvements to the city. The
I I’ince s Bridge approaches would have remained
or ever in the same state of abject ugliness had
not the announcement of the York visit impelled
the awful councillors to crawl towards the goal
they should have run to years ago. Now they are
walhng in the newly-widened thoroughfare with
rockeries and foliage, while the Queen’s statue
committee intends taking over what was a horrible
fetid swamp at the rear of the Immigrants’ Home
and transformnig it into a new park, fitted out
with kiosks and band-stands. At present, how-
ever, one great difficulty faces the City Engineer
m his work on St, Kilda-road, near the bridge.
The land recently filled in continues to sink
rapidly and shows no signs of stopping. The
surface beautifications are accordingly postponed
but enough has already been done to make the
toughest Republican admit that Grovel is not
always an absolutely unmixed evil.
A Census-Collector’s Experience.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I was a comparative stranger, so the district-
collector put all the papers in order for me, and
we went over the list together. “ Jones;
he’s the cocky on the right-hand side, half a mile
after you pass the pub. De Lisle’s just opposite.
Mrs. Anderson—she lives about a mile off the
road; you’ll see her track after you get over
the rise from De Lisle’s. John Harris-next house
.” And so on (I have altered all the names).
It was getting near sundown as I turned my horse
into Mrs. Anderson’s cart-track. In the dark I
would not have seen the way, for the road was
overgrown with brush and seemed little used.
The sun was just setting as I came out of the dark
messmate forest and viewed the house and clear-
ing. The enclosure originally intended for a
garden was invaded by prickly-moses, wild hop,
bracken, and other rank undergrowths. The low,
two-roomed house was almost hidden by dense
clumps of whitish gum saplings, the tender
suckers of which grew up to the door and sprouted
between the boards of the verandah floor. The
smoke issuing from the paling chimney, and a
well-beaten path winding from the back door to
the creek through the thick, malodorous dog-
woods, were the chief signs that the place was in-
habited. The surroundings seemed to breathe an
air of loneliness and abandonment.
A slatternly bush girl answered my knock, and
ushered me into a room whose neatness and order
were in sharp contrast with the general aspect of
negligence without. In an armchair in the corner
sat a woman, prematurely old and grey. Her
face was pinched and sallow, and her eyes, dark
and sunken, had a wild, abstracted stare.’ She
was sobbing spasmodically, and her hands, which
twitched violently at times, clutched at a portrait
in her lap. I explained my mission, placed the
census-paper on the table, and ventured a word to
the effect that I was sorry she seemed ill, and
hoped to find her better on my return in a week’s
time. She turned her gaze upon me for a moment
but made no reply.
The girl was sweeping the verandah as I passed
out. She seemed determined upon extracting all
the relief from monotony which I could give ; for
she stood right before me and talked with a
levity and familiarity strangely in contrast with
the scene I had just witnessed.
“What’s the matter with your mistress’” I
said. ‘ ‘ Baby dead ? ”
“Oh, he wasn’t a baby when he died—he was
20 and more ; but that portrait she’s got was him
when he was a baby. He’s dead just 12 months
to-day. 5
She nudged me to walk away, and followed to
the gate. Here she looked round as if to see
whether she was watched ; then, putting her
handle her mouth, she came a step closer, again
looked furtively at the house, craned her head for-
ward, and whispered impressively •
“ ’E was 'anged / ”
V.
PRDRO.
A will, almost unique for its brevity as for
other reasons, was lodged at Vic. Probate Office
recently It was written inside the lid of a glove-
box, ana stated, “I leave all to mother if any-
thing happens to me. 24/7/’98.”
Painting the Lily.
(A TEMPERANCE SPORTING STORY.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I was sitting on Lawler’s trough when I saw
1 , i r u^n°, ri ! lng ’ looking quite excited.
ht i be sa id, “I’ve struck it at last! ”
My heart sank. “Not work, Harry?”
“ a . jivin’ us?” he said, contemptuously.
Am t tins the workin’ man’s paradise ? Well,
jever ear of anyone workin’ in Paradise ? ”
It was very simple. There was a bilbard-
tournament coming off at Lawler’s—the Court-
nouse. Harry knew a chap who played a “shine ”
game—could knock up 50 with his eyes shut. We
were to introduce him as a novice, get him on a
good mark, back him—someone was sure to ma Ice
%V?° k^ aud , SCOOp - Ifc looked all right, as none
ot the Courthouse players were much good : but I
saw an objection.
It 11 run into a couple of quid. Where are we
going to get that ? ”
“I provide the brains ,” he said—“wow’re gotter
get the spons ! Tell th’ ole lady you’ve got a job,
and want to get your tools out o’ pop. I’d do i<■
but my missus wouldn’t b’lieve me. Better got
three ‘ jim,’ I think.”
Aftei more discussion I consented, got the
Briggs’ and WaS tken Produced to Harry’s friend
m Sn lVaS l nn arl 'l l°° “ full ” to stand > but he ga\ e
m ®, 3 f 111 100 and beat me—and I’m no mug.
If lie does that full, ’ow’ll he play sober ? ” pro-
po'”lded.,,, 1i y pal - “ goin’ to keep ’im on the
square till the tornyment’s over.”
~ d observed that this would mean keeping “ oT
it himself This shook him, but he stuck to his
W w ' , has nearly enough will-power to work.
VVe took Briggs to Lawler’s, where he got
beaten a few times, of course ; and the marker
finally placed him on the 100 mark. He was
drawn against a young fellow who had not played
20 games m his life, which made it look a bigger
cert, than ever.
I saw Harry a couple of times during the
an h ?w ld he , was keeping Briggs “ square ”
, tight, but used a lot of unnecessary language
stead/drink 1 Um h ° W he llked “waparilla as a
At last the night of Briggs’ first heat came, and
he looked unnaturally sober. “Cut it fine” 1
whispered. ’
b Jhi® °v th r player was . 80 nervous that he could
hardly hit a ball, and it apparently took Briggs
all his time to keep behind him. The young
fellow, however, gained confidence as he went
along, and began to get away from the old man,
W wi!' ras n| issin & the ball everv second shot
.•J™ 1 * th ! ? a, ? e was 18 °' i4 ° we thought it
worse° Start ’ bUt ° Ur man ’ s P lay > if Possible, got
“ We’re done ! ” I said to Harry. “He’s a
®» rr ys language was enough to turn
the doth blue. At last we called Briggs over.
You re a measly old skunk to take a couple o’
pals down,” we said. F
“tET' F ot *f ki m,’ you down ,” he answered,
Book at me. I hen we noticed that his eyes
b lo °dshot, and his hands shook so that he
could hardly chalk the cue. ‘‘ You lads were too
clever You’ve only got y’selves ter blame. I
never handled a stick before unless I was three-
parts-gone. I d give this bleater ’arf the game if
drinks C* k<3P me 011 tkat bloomin’ rotgut of soft
We saw he was speaking truth. We looked at
each other and got—and never went back again.
W.H.D.


“I Gained Flesh Rapidly.”
If You Are Run Down, Losing Strength, Are Greatly
Debilitated, and Suffer from the Long, Hot Summer,
There is one Medicine That Will Quickly Cure You. It is
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
w,
w
o
5s
f
Mr. A. Smith, of Chief Street, Brompton, So. Australia, very kindly sends US
the following letter with his photograph, both of which are given here.
“I have used Ayer’s Sarsaparilla for loss of appetite, indigestion, and to give
tone, and vigor to my system when training for bicycle racing. I only used three
bottles ; but it was enough to improve my appetite and thoroughly restore my
strength and health. I also gained flesh rapidly to my normal weight.
** As a blood-purifier and general tonic for those who are affected by the
long, hot summers of Australia there is no medicine like it.”
It is because of such testimonials that Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is called
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
We could show you hundreds of such letters as this. They all say that Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla helps every one who tries it. It always does good and sometimes
makes such wonderful cures that they seem like miracles.
If you are feeling poorly just now, get a bottle of this grand old medicine.
The very next day you will feel better.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Gives Vigor to the Nerves.
AYER’S PILLS act gently; they cure constipation.
99
“Steele Rudd’s” Book.
“ On Our Selection.”
Price: Six Shillings, Post Free*
ffliorilaad: and liber Ueraea
By Arthur H. Adams.
'»* The best; book of verses Maoriland has
produced.
CONTENTS :
DEDICATION.
Mother o' Mine!
MAORILAND.
Maoriland.
On the Plains.
The Dwelling's of Our Dead.
Rain in the Bvfsh.
The Storm and the Bush.
The Coming- of Te Raupa-
raha.
Written in Australia.
The Brave Days to be.
LOYE MOTIVES.
To You.
Lament
On the Sands.
A’Portrait.
After Long Years.
Song.
Blossom of Life.
The Goal.
Grey Eyes.
Just a Woman.
Lullaby.
Afterwards.
My Lo.ve.
The World has Grown so
Grey.
Satana.
A Woman's Farewell.
And Yet !
SONNETS.
A.D. 19——I
My Land.
Love and Life.
The New Woman.
Reminiscence.
The Four Queens (Maoriland)
To My Love
The Stars.
The Girl at the Harp.
Sunset.
The Perfect Present.
Lovers.
China, 1899.
Antagonists.
Sydney.
Morning Peace.
To One Slain in Absenoe.
OTHER VERSES.
Myself—M}' Song.
The Poet to be Y*
Man and Woman.
Pansy : song-words.
Blossom.
Sydney Nocturnes:
From the North Shore.
King Street
In Hyde Park.
The Australian.
Fancies:
From Wellington Terrace.
The Parade.
The Sculptor.
The Ebb of Day.
The Reaper.
A Child.
The Tui.
Dawn.
The Anarchist.
A Song of Failure.
The Garden of the Sea.
Bereft.
A Question,
Epitaph,
THE MINSTREL.
Printed Oil deckle-edge antique paper, uniform
with Ogilvie’s and Brady’s verses. Bound in
white buckram, gilt top.
Price: Five Shillings Pest Free.
Fair Girls and Gray Horses, with, Other
Verses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. New Issue. Blue
cloth, blue edges, with portrait ; ss.
post free. *** A charming presentation
volume.
Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
Stories:
By Albert Dorrington (“ Alba Dorion ”).
A handsome volume of 350 pages, bound in
cloth, decorated; price 4s. 6d. post free.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd”). With
about eighty illustrations by Mahony,
Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher and
Fullwood ; 6s. post-free,. *** “The j oiliest
book yet printed in Australia.”
A. Hose of Regret:
Verses by James Hebblethwaite ; being
No. II of The Bulletin Booklets.
Enveloped, Is. 9d. post free.
The Circling Hearths:
By Roderic Quinn. No. 11l of The
Bulletin Booklets, Enveloped, is. 9d.
post free.
The Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J. Brady. Buckram, gilt top; 55.,
post free. *** Australia’s best book of sea
and sailor verse.
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, gilt
top ; 55., post free. *** The best book of
Maoriland verse yet published.
The Golden Shanty:
Australian Stories and Sketches in Prose
and Verse, by Bulletin Writers; Is. 3d.
post free.
Tales of the Convict System:
By “Price Warung.” Paper covers, 193
pp. ; 6d., post free.
The Last of Six:
Tales of the Austral Tropics. By Ernes*
Favenc. Paper covers, 141 pp. ; Gd. post
free.
om all booksellers, or Post Pree
or Stamps of any Australasian
for P. 0.0.,
Province.
‘The Bulletin’ Newspaper Co. Ltd.
214 George Street, Sydney, Australia.
S*lb Wholesale AoSSrsts: EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.
ĥ
S. FREEMAN * SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAP OFFICE : WTNTAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
ħ
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, lselicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORD’S
MAGNESIA
A
Sold Throughout the World.
N.8.-ASK FOR BINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA,
o
0/V ,
IRI
FOR
-The besr remedy-
INFLUENZA, U
COUGHS,
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA
Ask for Bonn mg ton'
and seethatvou get i


S'S’DNEIT
Rubber Works
MANUFACTURERS OF
Sheet Rubber,
Washers,
Valves,
Gas Tubing,
Rubber Rings,
Rollers,
Buffers,
and Every Description of
Mechanioa! Rubber Goods,
Works :
CAREY STREET, off Birkenhead Road.
City Office :
PERBRIAU and CO.,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
The Ways of Many Waters
Collects the dashing ballads and verses of sailor-men’s
and wharf-men’s life which E. J. Br ad v has contributed
to Tub Bulletin and the Sunday Times, Sydney. It is
the first attempt on the part of an Australian verse-
writer to chant the life on the sea and the margins of
the sea ; though there is one horse-poem—the story of
“ How Jack Bowlin Steered ‘ Jones.’ ” The volume is
bound in buckram, with gilt top, in a size that will go
mto a pocket without squeezing; and the price is 55.,
post-free.
THE
IS THE ORIGINAL
‘CINnOdINOO MOJ.DPjSHJ.4SOM
DUPLEX PUMP,
*
Sole Australasian Representatives i
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK.
32 and 34 Clarence Street, Sydney, H.S.W.
-— ~
TANG YES-
DUPLEX PUMPS * RE up to
BENNIE, TEARE & GO.
HAVE DEPOTS IN
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, PERTH, COOLGARDBE,
And carry Stocks of Materials and Furnishings for
MINING. ENGINEERING, IMPLEMENT-
MAKING and IRRIGATING.
SOLE REPRESENTATIVES IN AUSTRALIA OF
TANGYES LIMITED.
h
' *
sTT. C. EMDZEeijXBKH &c CO,
DYERS * CLEANERS,
40 YOlUt STItWHJT, SSTDNIDY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
HOTEL,
CEOR&E & MARKET STREETS.
Board and Residence, Bs. per Bay.
luncheon!
12 o’clock till 2.30. f
■a®'
DINNER, TEA
5.30 till 7.30.
ONE .SHILLING UPWARDS.
Perfect Cuisine and First-class Attendance.
Special FISH LUNCHEON and DINNER c>n FRIDAYS.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
C O CO A
BREAKFAST- SUPPER.
Fish and Game, hard frozen and well packed, forwarded to all parts of the State,
People residing in distant localities where Good Better is unobtainable, are recommended to obtain their supply from the above Company, proprietors of the
well-known “ Golden Star ” brand, and Sole Agents for the famous “ Berry ” brand. Both kinds are Pasteurised, and have excellent keeping qualities.
Our Bakehouse Goods, for Balls, Parties, &c., are conceded to be the finest manufactured. Sent well-packed to any town inN.S.W.
Head Office : HARBOUR ST., SYDNEY.
Price Lists and Particulars sent to any .Enquirers.
H. PATESON, Manager.
ĥ
HORSEPOWER . .
. . MINING WHIM
Will raise a load of from 5001bs. to 7001bs. at a speed of
from 60ft. to 70ft. per minute. Fitted with patent auto-
matic safety attachment. Drum will carry 500 ft. of fin.
steel wire rope. Weight 12001bs.
including necessary sills, sweeps, extension rods, set of hand levers
-with castings and bolts, and three sheaves.
WRITE FOR FURTHER PARTICULARS——^
PARKE &' LACY COMPANY LIMITED,
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES and BOILERS,
And at
San Francisco and London
60 Clarence St., SYDNEY
ħ
/ , -•
74 Glaresie© St., SYDNEY; MELEOURNE, 435 Bourke st.,
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS.
Sol “£f° nts J. A. FAY & CO.’S Woodworking Machinery.
Largest Stock of Woodworking Machines in Australasia. ,
Band Saw Machines
Circular Saw Benches
Tenoning Machines
Sandpapering Machines
Planing and Moulding Machines
Vertical Shaping Machines
Mortising Machines
Scroll Sawing Machines.
es and Furnishings of Every Description for above
and Ail Other Woodworking Machinery.
'
