

MeEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE.
Absolutely
Pur©,
therefore
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
R. Gr. WATKINTS & 00.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining- and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mininsr Requisites,
. EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
lisfe
Prices and
Particul
Descriptive
Catalogues
on
Application.
■
Most
Up-to-Date
lines.
K
Sawing & Woodworking Machinery,
Vertical & Horizontal Band Mills,
O-raxxca. Priac,” Faris, iBOO
M
THE WORLD’S
RECORD
(HIGHEST I
SOLE
rEN TS
85 Pitt
Watch Repairs by Post
Qp
WATCHES Thoroughly Cleaned, 2s. 6d. ; best English
Mainspring, 2s. fid. All work guaranteed 12 months.
No overcharges. Best workmanship.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Watches. Guaran-
teed three years. 15s. 6d.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Lever Watches.
Guaranteed five years. 255.
Ladies’ Gold Keyless Watches. Guaranteed five years.
355. Double-cased, £2 15s.
Spectacles to suit all sights. Send for catalogue.
DC MAIR Watchmaker, Jeweller & Optician
• O. mnin, 684 George-st. (Brickfield Hill),
SYDNEY.
That’s AH!
A 1 WHISKY.
HELIDON
*
I
i
HOT3iVRT.
-jfifcx
Hadley s Orient Hotel.
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and .Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
?I '- v-
c '9
RESERVE EXTRA. RESERVE SPECIAL. RESERVE EXTRA SPECIAL. SUPREME
SANDEMAN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
’ 241 PITT STREET, SYDKTET.
Telegraph—“ EERVET, SYDNEY."
Mining & Contractors’
Machinery and
Explosives.
Builders’ <fr
Engineers’
Sundries, Belting,
Oils, Pacleings, &e.
Campbell” Oas & Oil Engines,
171 Clarence St., Sydney.
PIONEER
BELTING!
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWIQI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
Branches:—P. Frankel & Co., Edward-st., Brisbane, Q. ;
H. Summers, Barrack-st., Perth, W.A. ; H. K. Fysh and
Co., Oollins-Bt., Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter &Co., Auckland ;
Blackburne & Smith, Cashel-st., Christchurch, N.Z.
“ Tales of the System.”
]?RICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
Fair girls and gray horses.
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
JOHN JAMESON
W H ISK Y.
Agents : J. BABBS JOHNSTON & CO., Loftus Street, Sydney.
OTARD-DUPUY
25 Years BRANDY.
Estbd. 1795.
HAIR TONIC.
The Guaranteed Remedy for
Weak, Thin, and Falling Hair.
Testimonials from International Cricketers and
Footballers, Leading 1 Sydney Solicitors, Business
Men, and from Parliament House with each bottle.
2/6 per bottle, post 3/2 ; Intercolonial, 3/6 ; 4 bottles (posted under cover) which will effect a cure in the
most obstinate case, posted free for 10/-, Intercolonial, 11/-.
W. RICHARDS, Proprietor, T6B ~PiTT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ROYALTY DRINKS IT,.
EXPERTS APPROVE IT.
DOCTORS PRESCRIBE IT.
PATIENTS RELISH IT.
Judges Award it_
Prize Medals Wherever
Exhibited.
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. IOkS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Any Bushmart Will Tell
you to use
Row’s Crpbrocatioo
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism
and Stiffness of Joints it. MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons ara
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s Crobrocatioi}-
Fair Girls and Gray Horses
Witt Ogilvie has given what Victor Daley calls “ the
most charming book of verses .vet issued in Aus-
tralia.” The second edition is considerably enlarged
and improved, and the publishers have been informed
by a happy lover that “it makes the beautifvUeet
present.” The price is 4s. 6d. post free.
The Bulletin
Vol 22— JN'o. 1117-j
[Saturday, July 13, 1901.
Pfisristered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The Bulletin publications.
Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
Stories:
By Albert Dorrington (“ Alba Dorion ”).,
A handsome volume of 350 pages, bound in
cloth, decorated ; price 4s, 6d. post free.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd”). New
Issue. With about eighty illustrations by
Mahony, Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher
and Fullwood ; 6s. post-free. ***“The
jolliest book yet printed in Australia.”
Fair Girls and Gray Horses, with Other
Verses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. New Issue. Blue
cloth, blue edges, with portrait ; ss.
post free. *** A charming presentation
volume.
The Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J. Brady. Buckram, gilt top; 55.,
post free.. *** Australia’s best- book of sea
and sailor verse.
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, gilt
top ; 55., post free. *** The best book of
Maoriland verse yet published.
A Rose of Regret:
Verses by James Hebblethwaite ; being
No. II of The Bulletin Booklets,
Enveloped, Is. 9d. post free.
Forwarded by return mail from The Bulletin
office in exchange for postal notes or stamps of
any Australasian State or Province.
■or the LUNGS, the
the VOICE
.A .>• ■ • •
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs ! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza!
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
o
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice. SUITED
B. The Trachea or windpipe. ,
0. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung. OLD and YOUNG
D. A lobe of one of the lungs. '
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
iHltswv'
Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous druff
cnin ry all CHEMISTS, in Tins, 1s 6d; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON, Chemi
Sydney Depot: 5 *»d 7 QUEENS PLACE.
(Registered),
sfc, Ipswich, Queensland—po»fc
THE RED PAGE.
THE KING OF CARABAS.
“ Wanted—A truthful epitaph for defunct royalty.”—
Morrison Davidson.
And so the King of Carabas is dead,
Bewept by other kings and queens in dozens ;
In grief profound the nation bows its head,
And pensions off his five-and-forty cousins,
While Sorrow slowly beats her muffled drum,
And bids the people weep in slimy lane and slum.
He loved not much, but many. In his day,
From high-born damsels down to Sue and Sally,
He ran the gamut in his princely way,
And knew each shapely ankle in the ballet
His judgment was superb on waists and wine,
The dainty “fatted calf ” he deemed a thing divine.
He loved the turf, and all the band of sport
Revered him as of festive life the patron ;
For much he lingered round each gay resort
And scandalised each pious ancient matron.
The Course and all its crew he made a Regal Ring,
Among the jocks he rose—aye, every inch a king.
He laughed at learning, but he lived for Art;
There was no man in all that mighty nation
Could better judge how tailor did his part,
Or fold a tie so sweetly on occasion ;
Was none could half so deftly wield a cue,
Or read in Beauty’s blush if Beauty painted true.
How free he was from pride ! He once confessed
To break the bars of rank was his ambition,
And, therefore, he preferred plebeians blest
With surplus cash to any poor patrician ;
“ I owe my people love ! ” his polished accents fell—
(How much he owed in coin no soul could ever tell).
And so the King of Carabas is dead,
And grief has rent the great heart of the nation,
And sundry butchers bitter tears have shed,
And paupers weep in endless desolation ;
While fellow Royal Vultures wail the Thing
That one time wore a crown and called itself a king.
in The Bulletin.
P. LUPPIG.
A Bushman’s Notion.
IT may be interesting to our local painters to
know how some of the pictures in the Aus-
tralian court of N.S.W. Art Gallery look to
a bushman’s eye. Of their technical quality
I cannot judge. But it seems to me that, in so
far as they profess to represent ouf' country’s life
and scenery, they should represent it truly. It is
possible that in years to come,, if these pictures
are preserved, they may be referred to for
authority on the way we live now, the way Aus-
tralia looks now. Any such reference would, in
many cases, become misleading—owing to the
unabashed distortion of facts which characterises
the pictures.
For example, “ The Ploughman Homeward
Plods His Weary Way,” by Percy F. S. Spence,
seems a good picture ; but one can’t help looking
at the position of the horses’ feet. Notice that
the near front foot of the first horse, and the off
front foot of the second, are raised to a position in
which they are held when the blacksmith shoes
them. The other feet are stationary, as though
the horses were standing instead of plodding their
homeward way. If you watch a moving horse, no
matter how slowly moving, you will notice that
the hind foot is lifted first, so that it comes down
on a spot only the fraction of a second
after the front foot has left it. Some
horses overstep, some step short ; but in
all cases the front foot is so tardy in lifting that at
times you would think the hind foot must strike
it. Nor do plough horses lift the foot as high as
depicted ; they are more inclined to drag them,
like a working bullock. The colouring of this
picture is dark and gloomy. It does not give me
the impression of approaching night; it presents
a nightmare in which there is night at midday.
The colouring in most of the oil-paintings comes
as a shock to one who has for years feasted his
eyes on the thousand natural tints of the Aus-
tralian bush. I, find it particularly repugnant in
Streeton’s “ Cremorne Pastoral”; in Sid Long’s
“Pan,” “ By Tranquil Waters,” and ‘'Midday.”
Compare these with Hunt’s “ Sydney from North
Shore —evening.” The colouring is not true; but
it is more in harmony with Nature than Sid.
Long’s; as it is also in “A Billabong on the
Goulbum River,” by H. J. Johnstone. This
painting gives a clear idea of the subject treated.
One can look at a picture like this and recognise
the spot at once; but, presented in Sid. Long’s
dress, all the truth is gone.'
Why not give us our Bush as she is ?—so that we
who were rocked in her cradle, and lulled by her
murmuring voices, if fettered to a city life, may
go at times to look and freshen our memories with
glimpses of the dear wild haunts of the long ago.
The Bush has colours enough for any brush. Look
at any group of trees, even the stunted growths of
our arid deserts. There are all shades of green
and gold ; leaves hanging with a deep-green sur-
face, leaves showing a lighter under-tint in the
breeze ; the mellowing leaves that are falling, and
the sere leaves that flutter lightly on to green
grass or russet herbage. These should be easy
enough to reproduce without the application of
foreign tints; and yet, in the whole court, there
is nothing approaching a natural presentment.
Looking at the works he has given us, I am
certain that if Sid. Long were taken to a water-
hole wherein a red cqw was bogged, and asked to
paint it, he would paint the cow blue; and if a
black turtle were at the time perched on a white
log, one would see on the eaavas a purple turtle on
a pink log.
I was looking at one of Streeton’s pictures
when I heard a German farmer on my left criti-
cising B. E. Minns’ “ Season of Mists.” “Vhat
a shocking colour in de foreground ! ” he ex-
claimed. “See dose turkeys—they vos vhite an’
pink. Und dose pumpkins ! Yell, I been farmin’
a long times now, but .1 never growed pumpkins
mit dat colour pefore.”
' For my part, I could pass the pumpkins, but
Enough of colour ! Let us turn to something else.
The most striking picture in the court is
“Across the Blacksoil Plains,” by George W.
Lambert. This is a picture which one must stand,
say, ten feet away from to admire properly. Good
as it is, it will not bear a too close inspection.
The driver, for one thing, is not a “ veteran.” He
has a bulky stick of uniform thickness for a whip-
handle, and his whip is tied on by the wrong end.
The bottom bale is down on the hind wheel, and
one notices that the ropes round the bottom and
third tiers have been twitched somehow. I looked
in vain for the rollers, which should protrude from
between the bales. The “ roller ” is a stout,
smooth stick, placed at right angles to the twitch -
stick, and around it the slack rope is wound. No
teamster would be foolish enough to destroy his
rope by attempting to twitch his load together
without the roller.
Again, in this picture, every horse with its head
down has it inside the chains. Horses in boggy
ground are generally reefing and plunging, and,
with the exception of the shatters, are more
likely to reach over the chains. ' Then —where are
the spreaders ! The only hoof that is lifted clear
of the bog has no mud on it; it is clearly outlined
—is clearer, in fact, than the bodies of some of the
horses. And what is the grey horse pulling by ?
The chain is two feet below the hook on the
names, and appears to be hanging to a tug-chain.
The breeching, too, is too far back for the position
of the horse.
“The Wool Team,” by F. P. Mahony, is to
some extent misnamed. It shows a cockie, or
station driver, in a square-cut coat, and station
bullocks—and a station load. “The Station
Team ” would be more appropriate. But even a
station driver would not be so absent-minded as
to forget to put cogles in his bows.
Mahony’s “ Rounding-up a Straggler ”is better,
though the straightness of the stockman’s whip
somewhat deadens the effect.
In “As in the Days of Old,” by the same artist,
one sees a misconceived idea, for the man with
the whip, instead of having the bushranger at his
mercy, is in reality at the mercy of his antagonist.
He has let go the reins—a dangerous thing to do
in any case—and has lost his Qff-side stirrup.
There is nothing to prevent the bushranger ward-
ing the threatened blow; at the worst, he could
let it fall on his shoulders; then, catching his foe
by the arm or shoulder, swerve aside and drag
him off. In fact, the horses are, if anything,
slightly diverging, and it is odds on the bush-
ranger winning the day. But that isn’t the idea
that Mahony intended to convey.
“The Golden Fleece,” by Tom Roberts, and
“Cradling in Golden Gully,” by A. J. Fischer,
are pictures that “ talk,” because they are true.
“ The Prospector, ” by J. R. Ashton, is faulty
m almost every particular. His dress is rather
that of a pack-horse-drover’s cook, who has come
down to sink a soakage for the night’s supply of
water. _ Allowing him his pouches—articles fast
becoming obsolete in the bush—a strong objection
must be made to leggings and long-sleeve guern-
seys. Miners don’t work with guernsey-sleeves
rolled across the muscles—they cut them off ; and
they certainly would not be encumbered with
leggings. It reminds one of the man who stood
in two empty kerosene tins to adze a rail. The
“boyang” is the badge of every man with a pick.
This prospector’s dish has a ridge round the
bottom, and the rim is turned over—that is, out-
wardly. It would be better were it turned in.
No doubt it is a good dish for a bushman’s toilet-
room, or for mixing up a damper in; but a miner
would n’t be seen carrying it.
The man who put the handle in the pick did n’t
finish his job ; and the blade of the shovel is rusty,
which does n’t say much for the man’s energy.
The next is “ A Sketch,” by J. Mather. This
apparently depicts the approach of a storm, with
a strong wind blowing. A large tree is being
blown over, and another giant alongside is also
bending ; whilst several tall, thin saplings, almost
in a line with them, and certainly in the direct
path of the wind, are undisturbed. This is re-
versing the natural order of things with a ven-
geance.
Arthur Streeton’s “A Surveyor’s Gamp” is
very unsatisfactory. It gives one no idea of a camp
in the bush, but a good idea of a dummy rigged in
a park. The pole has.no visible support—except
a post in front. One must imagine that the pole
is nailed to that—and surveyors, as a rule, don’t
carry nails. This is merely a fly ; the tents are in
the background. One would wish the picture
reversed. -
The structure in front is probably meant for a
galley, though it is too smudged to tell exactly
what it is. Anyhow, in our snake-ridden bush,
only new-ehums would utilise a big hollow log for
side supports. A man stands there with a theo-
dolite as though he had climbed over the log with
it, or lugged it all the way round, to oblige a
photographer. That effect of posing is at all
times ahominable.
One turns from this with pleasure to “The
Wounded Duck,” by N. Cayley. This is the most
naturally-painted picture in the Australian court.
It is to be regretted that the artist has spoilt the
general effect by one little blunder. The bird has
been winged, and the wounded wing is uppermost,
whilst the side supported by the uninjured member
is down. Any sportsman knows that, on winging
a bird, the injured side, having lost part, or whole,
of its support, is the first to drop. However, one
can overlook a little thing like that when tlm bird
itself is so faithfully painted. The pity is tha’t our
other artists do not endeavour to follow Nature
as closely, to paint her in her own garb—to paint
her as N. Cayley paints her.
N.s.w.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
The Girl and the Island.
P'jM HEY have not left off stoning wizards
B vet, for all they may say. I have a friend
JL —he is a painter—who has given house-
room to one, and he tells me that every
time he brings the wizard’s wonder-work before
the public-, the school of the matter-of-fact make
fun of it with jibe and sneer. The missiles they
hurl are not exactly the same as those that bruised
and wounded dead, old wizards, but they hurt,
all the same. The wizard that my friend houses
has the power of transmuting the baser metals
into gold, and, of my own knowledge, I am aware
that he has healed and made whole again more
than one who was unwell —even when the wound
was at the heart.
When a wizard takes up his residence in your
house, be sure he will draw the blinds and dull
the place to twilight. Then your neighbours will
say: “ What a curious, unworldly, good-for-
nothing, rambling, old house is that across the
street there ! Why doesn’t the mah get rid of his
wizard : everyone is laughing at him.”
But it happens, now and again, that the world
grows strangely wrought with the wizard’s won-
der-work—it may be a hundred years afterwards,
when the house where he lived is in ruins. Then
the people come, and they put roses above the
ruins, never pausing to think that the place where
he resided was dften without food, whole days at
a time.
* » * *
As we sit smoking in his studio with rejected
pictures round about us, my friend, the painter,
opens his heart to me. He talks to me of one
thing and another, but mostly of a tall young girl
and an island. The tall young girl, I know, exists;
but I would not like to vouch for the island.
Any way, I have never told him that I doubted the
existence of either, there being many others in
the world to play the sceptic.
My friend does not sleep well, and the wizard
who resides with him, thinking, perhaps, that he
may have done something to cause these
periods of unrest, has given him an island
—as a thing to occupy his mind. Think! that
is its much as a king could do—but no king
in all the world has in his giving such an
island as this that ray friend got from the
wizard. And in this wise he speaks of it:
“Ig& to my island frequently. Would you like
to know where it is? Well, it is in the Coral
Seas, and it is built of coral—beautiful, branching
coral, white and pink. It has a reef all around to
keep away unruly seas, and it lies in the centre of
a blue lagoon. It is large, so very large that a
ship takes quite a long time to sail around it.
“It has mountains inland, and in the moun-
tains are savages, with black, blood-streaked eyes,
and teeth an inch long, and yellow, like a tiger’s.
These fellows are cannibals, and my island would
not be a pleasant place to live in, only that I
have another race of men there. This race
came from Greece in an ancient day. They were
beset by storm, but their gods were kindly, and
brought them at length to my lovelier island.
They never weep—they do not know what sorrow
is—and it is only when the cannibals come down
to war with them, and some of them are slain,
that they become grave.
“Inland, there are dense forests, damp, dripping
places, full of great, green serpents with yellow
eyes. These serpents have silver manes, and,
when they lift their heads to strike, I am minded
of beautiful, bad women. The sodden tracks are
trodden by lions and tigers and elephants and
jaguars. Anyone who says that this is impossible
does not know what he is talking about, because in
a certain realm all things are possible.
“When the tide is out the dugongs come up to
the salt marsh-meadows, arid they munch the
rank grass, and when they roll in the ooze the
air is full of sucking noises. There are sharks in
the lagoon—great grey fellows, with row after
row of teeth that dove-tail like interlocking
fingers, and, when they fasten on an arm or a leg, it
is no use in the world to struggle. But I have
seen men struggle all the same ; and I suppose
they could not help it, because we are not all
philosophers, and some of us love life very much.
“There is a fringe of palm trees round the coast,
and one of them is so lovely that I do not think
the world holds such another. When I look at it
I am reminded of the tall young girl.
• * * *
“I take friends to my island sometimes, although
they do not know it; and one man I take very
often, because he needs it. He is enchanted.
Let me tell you what I have seen.
“One day before I came to own my island, we had
been fishing, he and I, and when night fell we
went to our room and I slept. But there was no
sleep for him, and he sat beside a table and
wrote. Hours went by and I awoke. The pencil
had fallen from his hand, but there was no sleep
in his eyes, only enchantment. I knew it for en-
chantment all at once. How lam going to
describe what I saw in those eyes I do not know.
Have you ever seen smoke drifting across the face
of the moon when the moon is low and very red ?
Well, it was a sister thing to that. Shadows were
moving there, lifting, falling, drifting slowly
round and round about. I knew that these were
visions come from their secret places to look out
on the sleeping world. Some day he whom they
inhabit may give them a voice, and then they
■ shall startle you with their beauty.
“ Now it is not good that a man’s eyes should be
peopled by visions, and as my island is the half-
way house to slumber—the shrine where the mind
gets sanctuary from worry—l take him there. He
does not know, as he tosses to and fro in a hot
horror of wakefulness—part of which is begotten
of physical pain, and the rest of anxiety as to how
he is to play the man’s part, and face the morrow ;
as his eyes burn, and the kindly darkness becomes
hateful, he does not know that I have taken him
to my island, and that he lies sleeping under a
palm.
* * * *
“In my island are red flowers. They are large,
loose-leafed things that hold themselves up, like a
fawn’s ear, when.the wind purrs, them. They
grow on vines, a score on every vine, and the
women wind them round about, till their bodies
are an exquisite minglement of brown and red.
If you would know how beautiful brown and red
can be, consider a dark woman’s cheeks when she
-blushes. As I lie under the palm trees the women
dance. It is an old measure caught by them in
some mood of woodland merriment ; a joy-of-foot
bequeathed to them in some green moment by
nymph and faun. They have drunk of palm wine,
and such a glory leaps along their veins and
splashes from their eyes that trie sea and the sun
seem to dance, too—the palms and the flowers and
the paradise birds in the palm-trees.
“ Then I say to myself—‘ It is no wonder the
world was lovely when Greece was great.’
“ They bring me fruits of a keen relish when I
am hungry—fruits in which I can taste the scent
of the blossom. The pulp in some is blood-red,
and some have a coating of amber enclosing a
heart of cream, while others have a secret excel-
lence, captured from the sun, the moon or the
passing wind, and imprisoned in their cores.
They give me fish to eat —fish with flesh as white
as pearl.
m * * *
“When the mood is on me I go up into the dense
forest, and there my flesh is thrilled with a
pleasant sense of peril. All about green eyes
■gem the dark,—hungry eyes with malignant lights
in them. To and fro, on the sodden leaves, I
hear the pad, pad, of the tiger, and I fancy how at
times his claws sheathe and unsheathe with the
desire to rend flesh. A lion roars his challenge
down the wind, and from a distance comes a noise
of lust-anger, the trumpeting of elephants at their
midnight courtship.
“That forest is like no living forest in the world.
It is peopled with shadow-shapes that hide in the
darkness amongst the wet black trees, beings that
cheat the eye, but hurt the soul. The writer of
‘ Leonore ’ hunted in such a forest, and there are
others who have made strange captures in like
places, but who feared to show them to the world,
lest men should think them mad.”
Yesterday I found the artist jingling gold. He
had made money by the sale of a picture, and was
in the finest of moods.
“ Well, what about the island ? ” I asked.
He knocked the ash from a cigar. “Haven’t
been there lately,” he said.
He had a rose in his coat, and the reason flashed
in on me. I said, “You’ve been with ”
“Just so,” he interrupted; “the tall young
girl.”
“Well, it’s good-bye to the island!” I mur-
mured.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
I WOULD NOT BE A KING.
I would not be an idle king, to sit upon a throne,
And sway a golden sceptre o’er a nation all my own ;
To be the people’s'idol, ever worshipped by the throng,
With flattering incense to be served, and mercenary song ;
To be the envy of the rich, and wonder of the poor :
A situation that would be I never could endure.
To live on choicest dainties that the kitchen can produce ;
To quaff from golden chalices the grape’s fermented
juice ;
To see a thousand at my beck, ten thousand at my nod,
Low bend the knee in homage, and protest I am a god:
Though this to-morrow could be mine, and earth my
praises sing,
I’d rather be a working man than any idle king.
To ride within a chariot before the gaping crowd,
And hear the shout, “ God save the King ! ” repeated oft
and loud;
My smile to make a nation smile, my frown to make it
sad ;
And everything that kings may have to make my spirits
glad—
No : take your trappings all away ; for I can truly sing,
I’d rather be an honest man ; I would not be a King.
The sceptre is a bauble ; it might do for boys at play :
A man of dignity would throw the childish thing away.
The crown is but a dunce's cap, that silly people wear ;
And home-made bread is quite as good as any kingly fare.
Then I would not exchange my lot; such toys away I
fling;
I’d rather be just what I am ; I would not be a king.
The multitude that bow to him are only fools .or knaves ;
And those who guard his person but a host of armed
slaves :
And though they worship him to-day, to-morrow, for a
groat,
They’d throw away their loyalty, and cut his kingly
throat :
For it is to the office, not the man, they homage pay ;
They'd kneel unto a beggar were he made a King to-day.
If kings would rule their mighty selves, they’d have
enough to do ;
To put their families right, I fear, were more than they’d
get through :
Let each one mind his business, then, and wipe his
troubled brow ;
The people And that they can walk without assistance
now :
The drowsy earth has waked at last, and learned one use-
ful thing—
That men can rule themselves, without a fellow called a
king.
For kings are only paupers, who are by the nations fed ;
And, were the people wiser, they should labour for their
bread.
We need no kings to reign o'er us ; we can do well
without ;
And if we could but have our wish, we’d send them
“ right about.”
Each man should reign in righteousness, and rule o’er
his own heart ;
And kings and all their trumpery should evermore
depart.
William Denton.


New Zealand Loan & Mercantile
Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
REDUCED charges on wool
COMMISSION
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wools realising over 6d. per lb.,
the charges will be
On Wools realising fid. and over 4d. per lb. .„ ...
On Wools realising 4d. per lb. and under ... ... m
WAY BILES sent on application.
2 per Cent.
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
WHEAT.
s^f on ‘ sll,,w an increase of 25 per cent, as compared with previous years. Unrivalled
CC °n rp a ' ° n ' 1 ree months free storage.
P Ving fullest particulars as to charges, etc., forwarded when desired,
bhis Compa are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
Mitchell’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills; Buncle & Sons’ Chaffcutteru.
Donald’s Patent Wool Press.
AGENTS FOR McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
5800
SSOj
3^5800
5807
CB B
Kr,
7>
©o&narjfeed oof (o breal( or boro.
A CERTIFICATE. —Should any ol our “ Can’t B Beat ” Briar Pipes
f \ crack or burn, a new one will be exchanged for it immediately on
application. Thousands Selling: Daily.
uviua
v aaa/
siioiiiiiiis mild
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches everywhere.
w*
Crozine Blacking
is a waterproof polish that produces a brilliant and permanent
gloss, which will not rub off. Shoes polished with “ Crozine
Blacking wear long, because it is an oil dressing, which softens
the leather. “ Crozine Blacking ”is guaranteed to be absolutely
free from all harmful substances, and will be found to be the
most satisfactory dressing made for all walking boots and shoes.
Sold almost everywhere. If not found, write at once to
C. L. HAUTHAWAY £* SONS, Boston, Mass., U.SA.
V s }y •
ELECTRICITY.
If yon are tired of STOMACH DRUGGINC
ia disappointment, send for Ollfl of RtonVlftnoAn’
. 7 « wjnwuuiiu
' wr » f° r one of Stephenson’
BI<SCTRICAX< APPLIANCES, invented b'
k Sydney s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon
|strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI
therefore wholly an Australian invention
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
§ nn nnrai nnsi».-
% DO NOT SUFFER
JUOMOER. The joys and ambitions ol- life car
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
I Rheumatism, Giddiness,general
. Rebility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
< Ihey impart vigor and'potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom toAfae cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands#
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ S. da
m a - n ? e^s i with eight visible batteries 10 0
glam Belts, with-twelve visible ditto 110 0
Warn Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extrn powerful, with suspensory
atlashments 380 I
wadies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
prices ranging from .. 15s. to 22 0 {
, ?*.*■j? e above-named Electrical Appliances will be
lorwarded to any address with written guarantee and I
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads, |
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &o. '
All communications should be addressed to— |
A. D. STEPHENSON, '
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney (
*fhen
writing
please
mention
Tbs
BirtJJTXN.
n
HAVE THE
BEST.
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE
Is built by a light, handy machine, easily operate !, which will weave
THREE CHAINS OF FENCE AN HOUR.
The Lateral Wires are two-ply cable of best Gal. Steel Wire intersected by Crimped Steel Pickets
securely interwoven at any desired distance apart, forming a perfect Web Fence which will hold
securely all kinds of Stock.
FOE CATALOGUES AND PARTICULARS
“ CYCLONE ” WOVEN WIRE PENCE CO.,
128 Franklin. St., Melbourne ; 143 Sussex St., Sydney.
PLAIN HOM€ TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 86 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of youngand old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts rGady-madc for all occasions arid
everybody ; public speaking made easy, is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver's Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentaob, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties,Love, Dress, etc. Is6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets op Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Editii O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, Is 6d post.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Ciievasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE. —SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SypNEY.
SKINS
Send Youk Consignments of
KANGAROO,
WALLABY,
RABBIT,
OPOSSUM SKINS
TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
They obtain the Highest Possible Prices.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 12 and 14 O’CONNELL STREET. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge : 3 Per Cent, to the Growers.
BONUS i PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS last Two Seasons.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Buyers.
“ LAWRUS ” DRESS FABRICS
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS & STOREKEEPERS.
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
Australian Agents tor the
Wholesale Trade only:
“/ «»-•»
OUIMCd
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
3TOGOALE & DUFFUS, Finks Buildings, Corner of Elizabeth &
Melbourne; and 422 George St., Sydney.
Flinders Sts.,
WHITE'S
PATENT.
Corset Attachment
WHITE’S
PATENT.
With Attachment.
The “TITAN” (Regd.
Indispensable with the present tight-
fitting skirt.
Produces straight front without in-
creasing size of waist or impeding
action in walking, as it does not
require stocking - suspenders to
keep it in position.
Guaranteed not to ride up or wrinkle.
Idealis s the symmetry of the figure and
gives indescribable elegance to the simplest
7T' gown.
Reduces High Figures and Large Hips.
Restores the Figure after Confinement.
Affords great support with perfect ease and gives
permanent satisfaction to the wearer.
Can be attached without sewing to any corset. Under;
can also be attached without sewing to the lower f J —
further reducing size. Worn by Royalty.
Recommended by the Medical Profession. Thousands of un.
Without Attachment sollclted T jH' m ?. nia , ls A To be obtained of all the best Drapers
turnout Auacnment. and Ladies' Outfitters throughout Australasia,
N.B. When ordering, the size round largest part of hips should be given. Every Attachment is stamped « TITAN.”
In Black, White, and Bern. Price 6/a.
patentee and . n rSi WHITE, 1,2 &3, Langley Court, Long Acre, London, EC.
-Sole Manufacturer , j w f j
W* Th* Trad* sutfliti through aUthtgrirngal Whektalt Houns in Aiutraiia and AVw Xtaktnfo


TATTERS ALL’S
Ad caress: Care GEO. ADAMS, Hobart.
Silver City C. July 31.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in above.
Name,
Address.
Spring H. (Special) Aug. 10.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name.
Address,
£ • s
A
G.N.H. Aug. 10.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name,
Address.
c
Metropolitan S. Sept. 9.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me sli a, in the above.
Name
Address
£ t t
Metropolitan S. Sept. 9.
(SPECIAL)
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot mo . sharia in above.
Name
Address '
<£ s s
Demonstration H. Oct. 1.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name -
Address
Caulfield C., 100,000 at 5; Melbourne C., 100,000 each at 5 and 20.
Melbourne C. (Special), 100,000 at 5.
For full particulars read our Printed Circular.
Address “ Tatter sail,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


miERS
EMULSION
WITH HYPtfPHDSPMITK),
FREE SAMPLE
On receipt of 4d. postage.
Mention SYDNEY BULLETIN.
THERE must be many readers of this
paper v/ho suffer from some form of
lung trouble, or who are run down
and in need of a good healing tonic. Such
people should at once write for a free
sample bottle of Angier’s Petroleum
Emulsion. This preparation combines
the antiseptic, soothing and healing pro-
perties of our specially purified petroleum,
with the tonic qualities of the Hyp.ophos-
phites of Lime and Soda. A perfect
cream-like Emulsion it is pleasant to take,
and agrees with and benefits the most
delicate stomach. It not only cures the
most obstinate cough and keals and
strengthens weak lungs, but it also pro-
motes appetite, aids digestion and builds
up the health and strength generally.
PRESCRIBED by the MEDICAL PROFESSION,
USKD IV THE HOSPITALS.
Do not accept inferior imitation* made with
ordinary Petroleum.
BE SURE TO GET ANGIER’S.
Of all Chemists & Drug Stokes.
THE ANGI£R CHEMICAL CO., LTD., BYDNEY, N.B.W.
The warning cough is the
faithful sentinel. It tells of
the approach of consump-
tion, which has killed more
people than war and pesti-
lence combined. It tells of
painful chests, sore lungs,
weak throats, bronchitis,
and pneumonia. Do not
suffer another day. It’s use-
less, for there’s a prompt and
safe cure. A cure for fresh colds
and old colds, easy coughs and hard
coughs
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
It often cures a fresh, cold in a single
night, and it masters chronic coughs
and bronchitis in a short time. Con-
sumption is certainly prevented, and
cured, too, if taken in time.
If anybody tells you that consump-
tion cannot be cured, they are certainly
mistaken, for we have thousands of
these cases reported to us, absolutely
cured, and no mistake about it.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral Plaster placed
directly over the tender, aching lung
is a great aid to the Cherry Pectoral.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Masc., U S. A,
wm
r PMRoT - w
Br^nd”
eWpTur
SP(SASf SViSoNDJ
£004*5 (01P5 ic J
Beware op -'' ‘
L /mitati o nS
ladies.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Aii sb»-LD>l>i 300 Collins Bt., Melbourne
Australia!) AlOtOal ProVidcpt Society.
MONET TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
Head Office: 87 Pitt-street, Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
HHOUSSV.
Commercial
Bugsy,
£l4 108.
H. Hillier,
■l3O Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
&ST Send for a
Catalogue.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Eight Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works iMELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
THE
ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the World
solely for Toilet Soap was obtained by
aa
fRAHCA
A.&F. PEARS
Reduced Facsimile
~ of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the
jurors of the
Paris Exhibition,
SOAP MAKERS,
BY
Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND TO
His Royal Highness
The Prince
of Wales.
THE HEALTHIEST
TOBACCO. „
In
three
Strengths.
P 4
as
&
@2
■4#
“ABSOLUTELY
PURE.”
Mild
Medium &
Full.
cr
v
Name of nearest Agent post free from HI. RUTTY & Co. Sydney.
3XT.S.
i
“W. Carriage & Saddlery
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern,
SYDNEY
When In town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £6; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 16s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia,, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every descriptio nof vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.— Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 16 per
cent more for your requirements.
(close to Itedfern Railway Station).
OUB SPECIAL No. 8
£8 18/6
Delivered at any Wharf or
N.S.IY. Bail way 8, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Song of Darkness.
With the sound of smothered laughter—with the
tread of stealthy feet,
And the gleam of eyes where pleasant passions
shine ;
With the surge of sighs that echo to the lisp of
night-winds fleet,
You are here to light the darkness, Lady mine !
With the flash of satin shoes upon the green,
And the swing of hurried pulses where there never
pulse has been,
I have found you in the darkness, Lady mine !
You are here with me in darkness, with the star-
light in your hair—
Shining silver in your hair so silken-fine —
With a curve upon your lifted lips which spurs
my own to dare,
You are dazzling in the darkness, Lady mine !
With the mystery of midnight in your eyes,
And your dancing glances showing where the
path of pleasure lies,
I adore you in the darkness, Lady mine !
Though the lawn lies black beneath us, and the
grey boughs gloom above,
You have quickened in my heart the Flame
divine;
And the night among the myrtles offers time and
place for love —
You are here with me in darkness, Lady mine !
You are here with me at midnight, all alone ;
I can feel your quick heart throb against the
thunder of my own,
And —I’ve kissed you in the darkness, Lady
mine!
v.
FRANK HENTY.
The Flowers that Die.
Little, pattering baby-feet,
Where the violets bloom a-sweet!
Dirty, dimpled, dangerous hands
Where the gallant rose-bush stands I
(Was there infant known to live
Who was not inquisitive ?)
Delving down with sturdy will
Under phlox and daffodil,
Under shrubs and costly trees,
Crying to the budding peas—
“ Won’t you flowers let baby know
What it ig that makes you grow ? ”
But the flowers naught reply,
Only .droop their heads and die.
Children of a greater growth,
In the fancy fields of sloth,
Seeing flowers of ancient years—
Sprung from superstitious fears—
Blooming with a fragrance rare
’Neath the well-paid gardeners’ care,
Probe, with hands that know not ruth,
Probe beneath to seek the Truth ;
And the flowers naught reply,
Only droop their heads and die.
V.
MILKY WHITE.
The Harp: An Interpretation.
There stood my harp upon the breeze-blown deck,
And through it played'the briny breath of heaven »
Above there sailed nor cloud nor tiny fleck,
But through the sunbeams we were onward driven.
The idle strings, low moaning, mused of pain
Or some old memory of buried love,
Then rose into a wilder, clearer strain,
And falling, murmured like a mateless dove.
And now it ceased, as if to wipe a tear,
And Silence, dumbly speaking, brought relief,
When waking Memory wailed upon the ear
The piercing passion of a speechless grief.
And then it rose as from beneath the tomb,
Swift-soaring heavenward on the wings of Hope,
And music had the power to banish gloom
And make a harp of every mast and rope.
Then swifter blew the fairy breeze along,
And Hope led up to joyous Victory ;
Each trembling string thrilled with a rapturous
song,
Some bridal song it seemed of sky and sea !
A gentler breath now touched a dearer note,
And forth there thrilled the spirit of all Peace ;
Across some classic sea we seemed to float,
Or round the Blessed Isles of ancient Greece.
Once more there came the subtle trembling
change,
And Joy and Love blent into blissful calm ;
Then swelling, thrilling through its mighty range,
It fell asleep as some spent angel’s psalm.
T.
J. BOFTON.
To Nancy.
Fairer than the finest fancy
Of the love-lorn swain,
Nature formed thy face, Miss Nancy,
But forgot thy brain;
Wonder not, if all impassioned
At the beauty she had fashioned,
She forgot thy brain.
Yet, despair not! —Wisdom, Folly,
Shall thy victims fall,
Chase away thy melancholy,
Thou shalt conquer all;
By thy barren mental spaces,
By thy sweet and comely graces,
Thou shalt conquer all.
Death to vanity, to talent;
Maiden, from thine eyes
Hazel, laughter slays the gallant,
Platitudes the wise.
Nought may lay the spells that oharm us,
Morituri Salutamus!
We, the fools and wise.
V.
OLIFTONHNSIE.


MONKEY
BRAND
SOAP
Makes Tin like Silver;
Copper like Gold;
Crass like Mirrors;
Windows like Crystal;
Crockery Ilka Marble.
Cleanses and polishes at one ahd the same time.
Does not polish the dirt in, polishes the dirt out.
Cleans and Brightens everything, but
Won’t Wash Clothes
A GREAT INDUCEMENT
TO BECOME ENGAGED IB THE
APPROACHABLE PRICES OF
UP-TO-DATE GEM RINGS.
18c., 3 Fine
Diamonds, from £5.
2 Fine Diamonds,
with 1 Sapphire,
Ruby, Opal, or Pearl
from £3 15s.
20 Different Patterns
Our QUERY
RING (Note of
Interrogation).
18c., get with 11
First-water Dia-
monds £8 & £9 10s
6 Lovely Diamonds,
from £lO to £4O each.
Smaller Stones,
from £3, £4, £6,
18c., 14 Lovely
Diamonds and
3 Rubies or
Sapphires, £7 10s.
Smaller Stones, 84s.
18c., 2 Fine Dia-
monds, from £5.
1 Fine Diamond,
with 1 Sapphire,
Ruby, Opal, or Pearl
NOTE.
Kindly cut out this
advt. and forward
when ordering.
JbZ&m «ay *■
AHT JEWELLERS, KING ST., SYDNEY.
Please send for Illus-
trated Sheet of Rings
and Size Card.
All Goods Post Free.
it
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
A. BOWMAN’S
You Can Have
English Boots
.. AT ..
London Prices.
Best Style.
Best Quality.
No
Better
Made.
We do One Line—Gentlemen’s Boots—only.
That one we do Well.
318 GEORGE ST., near Hunter St., and
145 KING ST., op. Theatre Royal, SYDNEY
Also 294 Collins St., Melbourne.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Hennessy’s
Hold
the Largest
Stock
on
Earth
of
Genuine
Bottled
Brandy.;
THE ~’”
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
Yi
f.
Sa
Va
sj
a
a
*
r\
v >
Cigarettes
FACE - FACE
with facts past and present reveal a pheno-
menal growth in the uses and consequent sales
of P. & B. Materials, as illustrated by the
comparative sizes of these two men. Not
bad for six years, is it ? This result may be
attributed to the following facts. Honestly
made materials, well-adapted to this climate:
at a low cost. P. & B. Materials are not
perfect, .but they possess a high degree of
merit (at less cost) than any other materials
made for similiar uses. That’s our reason
for recommending you to cover your roof with
P&B RUBEROID ROOFING.
Have you tried it ?
mm'
rvßuasR 0 '?
P&l3aBOFtK6
'P&B.CAWPWURSf!
¥&. NT -
P&B PAPSR;.,
fc.RlCH&t o^
1901
E. RICH s CO.,
LTD.
SYDNEY. BRISBANE


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Voi.. 22.—N0. 1117.
SATURDAY, JULY 13, 1901.
Frio* 6n.
AFTER THE RECENT “SCRAP” IN N.S.W.
“PROGESSIVE ” PARTY : “ I say, didn’t HE get a reg'lar knock-out!” LABOR PARTY : “My word!” “LIBERAL” PARTY: “Great Scott, but didn’t I give
the other cove a proper doing!” INDEPENDENT PARTY : “Rather. What you might call a reg'lar ‘moral victory!” (And such is life!)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ...
Half-yearly ... ... ••• ” ”
Quarterly ... ... ••• (Job
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
fVestralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
€l, with Us. 3d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in -Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease of in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—] fl. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition o/Tiie Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
Til/ sending direct to Xre Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with portage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other A rticles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand _ that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical draivings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 3!£ Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 33 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
SATURDAY, JULY 13, 1901.
A Differential Tariff for Britain.
It is anticipated that the Federal tariff will
come up for discussion next month, and
when it does the advocates of a differential
tariff in favor of Great Britain and Ireland
will doubtless bring forward their little fad,
and push it for all it is worth. When they
do, all that can be asked is that it be con-
sidered intelligently, upon its merits, as a
plain business proposition, without any bel-
lowing, flag-flapping, or hysterics about the
“duty we owe to - the beloved mother
country.” As a matter of fact, Australia
owes just the same duty to Britain as Britain
ow r es to Australia, and there is no need for
hysterics. Years ago certain British people
decided that they would come out here
(those who were sent out here were such a
small minority that they may be left out of
the question), and some other British people
decided that they would remain where
they were. There is no special virtue
in remaining where you are—an oyster
can do as much as that; and the brother
who stayed at home has no right to expect
the brother who went abroad to worship
him for ever after, merely because of his
stationary character. Australians fought at
Crecy and Agincourt and Bannockburn and
Minden quite as well as Britons did ; they
might not be called Australians then, but
that is a mere detail. If Britain admires us
and feels grateful to us for our valuable
assistance at these and hundreds of other
battles, well and good. If Britain doesn't,
that is also well and good. It matters no-
thing either way. But a plain business pro-
position shouldn’t be confused by any absurd
theories to the effect that when two brothers
parted many years ago, the brother who
went away, and all his descendants, should
for ever afterwards be filled with humble and
prostrate reverence for the brother who
didn’t go, merely because he didn’t go, and
for all his descendants. Let us be business-
like.
• * * *
The next part of the theory of the dif-
ferential tariff crowd is that Australia owes a
debt of gratitude to Britain because Britain
is the only country which admits Australia’s
products free of duty, and that Australia
should give special concessions to British
goods in return as a pure matter of business.
Even if the basis of this theory were true—
which it isn’t—the deduction is wholly un-
true. This is really and truly the situation
which the differential tariffists lay before us:
(1) Britain is mostly Freetrade because it thinks that
Freetrade pays it best. Its motives are purely selfish.
It doesn’t propose to benefit anybody save itself.
(2) Australia is mostly Protectionist because it thinks
Protection pays it best. Its motives are purely selfish.
It doesn’t propose to benefit anybody save itself. So far,
the two are exactly level.
(3) Britain admits Australian goods on exactly the same
terms as it admits the goods of strangers, rivals and
enemies—France, Russia, Germany, and the world in
general. Australia treats British goods similarly.
(4) And it is proposed that Australia should give
British goods a preference in the Australian market, so
that Britain shall be able to annex all the trade of this
country. And on the other hand Australia is to get no
preference in the British market. Australian goods are
to scramble against the goods of all the world without
any assistance whatever. Australia is to charge 5 to 10
per cent, higher duties on French, German, Russian,
American, and other goods than on British goods.
Britain is not to charge 5 or 10 or anything else per cent,
more on French, German, Russian, or American goods
than on Australian goods. Britain is to get a vastly
better show than anyone else in our market without our
getting any better show than anyone else in its market.
The Briton is to get Protection in Australia that he
doesn’t enjoy in his own country, and which he de-
nounces in his own country. And the Australian Free-
trade push, which says Protection is utterly bad, is
mostly in favor of giving him the accursed thing.
Considering the assistance which our ancestors
gave to Britain in its battles, from Hastings
down to Waterloo and later, and further
considering that but- for their aid Britain
might have been beaten at Trafalgar and
Napoleon I. have poured his army into
London—there is no evidence to the con-
trary—this one-sided proposition doesn’t
show the gratitude on Britain’s part towards
Australia that might fairly have been ex-
pected.
• * * *
Britain hasn’t even done anything remark-
able in the way of letting in Australia’s pro-
ducts more cheaply than other countries do.
The idea that it does so is mainly a supersti-
tion. About five-sixths of Australia’s
exports to the outer world consist of
wool, gold and silver. Practically every
State of any importance in the world
admits our gold, silver, &c., just as
freely as Britain does. Quite a number
of important States admit our wool just as
freely as Britain does. In short, so far as
concerns the great bulk of our trade, there
are many leading States which treat Austra-
lia just as liberally as Britain ever did.
Some of them, in the small matter of wines
and tobacco, which may be a large matter
one day, treat this country better than
Britain does. And if this country, in a
frenzy of “ loyalty,” singles these countries
out for special and undeserved ill-treatment,
they will probably retaliate, with disastrous
results. Canada tried the differential tariff'
experiment, and Germany retaliated so
promptly that the Canadian wheat to
Germany dropped from 38,000 tons in 1898
to 900 tons in 1900. The year before
Canada provoked this ill-judged conflict
Germany’s purchases of Canadian goods,
though still small, had almost doubled, so it
was a very promising little field of commerce
wherein Canada went and hanged itself.
And it gained no compensating advantage.
British purchases didn't increase to make up
for the loss of foreign customers, and the
Dominion's exports decreased six million
dollars in 1899.
• * • *
It is customary to assume that our British
customer is so much more important than all
other customers put together that Britain
ought to receive special concessions and
special consideration. There are two or
three side-issues, however, to be considered.
In the first place, a very large proportion of
the goods which Britain takes from Aus-
tralia are really gold and silver which go to
pay interest on our numerous debts. Any
other country would take these imports just
as gladly, if it was offered the chance. A con-
siderable proportion consists of wool bought
from us by Belgium, France, Germany and
other countries, and which is simply sent to
London for transhipment because London is
the great transhipment port of the world.
When allowance is made for these matters
Australia buys more goods from Britain than
Britain buys from Australia—the money
sent to London to pay interest on our debts
isn’t an import “bought” from us by
Britain. And it is Britain which should
rush to show its gratitude to us by a differ-
ential tariff—not the other way about.
* * * *
Even apart from the fact that our real
trade with Britain is much smaller than it
looks, because tribute is included in trade,
and that our real trade with other countries
is a little larger than it looks, there is this
matter to be considered. In 1899 the
United Kingdom took from the Common-
wealth, in all, £26,560,000 worth of pro-
duce. Other countries took £20,860,000
worth. Deducting the money sent to Lon-
don to pay interest with, “ other countries ”
are really the better customer of the two.
Coghlan’s “Seven Colonies,” in giving the
results for a series of years, unfortunately
lumps the Commonwealth and Maoriland
together, but taking all Australasia he shows
(“Seven Colonies” for 1899-1900, p. 337) that
between 1891 and 1899 our exports to the
United Kingdom increased by £3,000,000;
exports to places outside the British Empire
increased by £7,000,000, and exports to
British possessions, other than Britain oi
Australasia, increased by £4,000,000. there-
fore it is proposed to severely kick the
countries whose purchases increased by
£11,000,000 in order to gratify (not even to
buy an advantage from, but merely to
gratify) the country whose purchases only in-
creased by £3,000,000.
• * * *
If Australia puts the trade of all the
world outside Britain at a special disadvant-
age, then the outside world will probably
retaliate. That outside world doesn’t really
need Australian goods very badly. It can
get practically everything Australia has to
sell—wool, meat, minerals, coal, and all the
rest—from South America and other coun-
tries. And it is a serious thing to jump
comprehensively on our best customer, lhis
is how the figures went for the Common-
wealth in 1899 (Coghlan’s “ Statistics of
the Seven Colonies ” for 1899, page 8) :
Exports of Imports of Balance
Common- Common- in favor of
wealth wealth Common-
to from wealth.
United Kingdom .. £26,564,000 £21,231,000 £5,333,000
Other Countries .. 20,862,000 11,389,000 9,473,000
The Commonwealth requires all that
£14,806,000 balance to pay interest
on its debts to Britain As a means
of raising it the trade with other
countries is about twice as valuable
as the trade with the United Kingdom.
It is the trade with countries outside the
United Kingdom which keeps Australia afloat.
So far as the mere exchange of goods (other
than gold, for which a market can always be
found) is concerned, the trade with Britain
leaves no balance, or none worth mentioning,
with which to pay our interest bill, and the
trade with other countries is everything.
Therefore, if the Commonwealth Parliament
deliberately declares war against the great
aggregate customer who keeps us out of the
insolvency court, it will be a very mad
Legislature indeed. Between 1891 and
1899, Australia’s exports to Germany in-
creased by over £2,000,000 —an increase
not far short of that shown by our exports
to the United Kingdom. To declare war
against that one customer alone would be a
tolerably reckless proceeding.
Federal L. fe Assurance—Again.
So far as concerns the House of Representatives
the question of establishing a Government Life
Assurance Department has apparently been hung
up on the nail of Procrastination that sticks out of
the back of the door of Apathy. It may recon-
sider the matter, or the Senate may take a bigger
hold of the opportunity than the Representatives
are doing, but so far the hanging-up tendency is
very conspicuous. The only visible product of the
debate so far has been a great mass of painfullv-
silly literature professing to explain why a
Government Life Assurance Department can’t
possibly succeed. For instance, William Lyne
(a director and shareholder of the Citizens’ Life
Assurance Co., with which a Federal Government
Life Assurance Department would necessarily
compete) offered these remarks (S.M. Herald
report) :
He found that in Maoriland, although the Government
some years ago introduced a general system of life assur-
ance, only 390 public servants assured with the Govern-
ment. As regarded the annuities principle, he found that
unless the Government subsidised the fund men entering
at, say, 25 years could secure an annuity of £152 at the
age of 60 only by the payment of £22 a year.
* * * •
The statement that only 290 public servants in
Maoriland have insured in the Government Dept,
may be true, or it may be a hideous blunder. It
certainly looks like a hideous blunder, for these
reasons: At the date of the latest returns, the
whole amount of ordinary life policies in Maori-
land was £21,762,155, divided among 10 institu-
tions ; and the Maoriland Government office held
£9,558,166 of this, or nearly half. In other words,
it does almost as much business as the other nine
institutions put together, and this despite the fact
that the A.M.P. was doing business in Maoriland
for eight years before the Government office was
founded. It seems highly improbable that an in-
stitution which does nearly half the business of the
State should only have 290 public servants among
its clients. But, if it has, then it must owe its
prosperity, even more than was commonly sup-
posed, to the support of the people at large, and
Lyne’s theory only further shows what splendid
scope there is for Government Assurance among
the masses. The proposal before the Federal
Parliament was that the Federal public servants
should be compulsorily insured in a Federal
Government office, and on that basis the said
office, it has been shown, would start with 1500
public servants among its customers —not 290.
There would be any number more later on, but
there would be 1500 to begin with. And in addi-
tion to this, according to Lyne’s figures, there is
such a brilliant chance to do business with the
public that the Maoriland Government Assurance
Department has 39,366 policies in force, of which
39,076 are issued to the general public; and over
£3,000,000 of funds. What more does Lyne
want ?
* * « *
Furthermore it appears that William Lyne has
struck the terrifying and insurmountable fact that
the compulsorily-insured public servant, if he
went in on the annuity plan, starting at age 25,
would have to pay £22 a year in order that he
might retire at age 60 on an annual allowance of
£152 per annum. The Sydney Evening News
said sorrowfully that these “ unfavorable statist-
ics” threw a wet blanket on the proceedings.
Seeing that neither William Lyne’s private office,
the Citizens, nor any other office that this paper is
aware of, could give the same annuity at any
lower price—in fact very few would give it at that
price—it is difficult to see where the moist blanket
comes in. Lyne struck the disheartening fact
that a Government Life Assurance Department
would have to charge the public servant almost as
much as he would pay any where else, while giving
him much better security. If that is such a per-
fectly new discovery that it falls like an avalanche,
it must have been a very unprepared person that
it fell upon.
„ » * •
A further reason advanced against a Federal
Government Life Assurance Department is that
it wouldn't have a revenue from lapsed policies
which other offices have, therefore its prosperity
would be less. Heaven only knows why this
should be. The Federal public servant certainly
wouldn’t be permitted to let his policy lapse while
he remained a public servant, but when he left
the service—as he occasionally does—taking his
policy with him, he might let it lapse now and ti en
As for that portion of the general public which
insured in the Federal Department, it would pro-
bably let its policy lapse in the same lament a tile
and slipshod way .which characterises it in its
dealings with other offices. Seeing that, by Wil-
liam Lyne s calculation, the slipshod general pub-
lic supplies 90 per cent, of the business of M.mri-
land’s State Assurance Department, this might
prove to be an item as regards the Federal office.
Anyhow, if it is a fact that the existence of
a large body of regular and compulsory Civil Ser-
vice policy-holders—a class which couldn’t let its
policies lapse—would reduce the profits, it would
be a mean thing to let these disastrous persons go
and insure in Lyne’s private assurance company,
or any other private institution, and thereby in-
jure it when it wasn’t looking. And, curiously
enough, one of the reasons of the A.M.P. board
for wanting to do business in England was that
life business there was more stable—there were
fewer lapses— and consequently it paid better.
* m • rn
Melbourne Age also has a theory on the sub-
ject, and a superlatively silly one :
To enter upon an innovation so important and far-
reaching as public service assurance with only 1500 sub-
scribers would not, in the opinion of the majority of
Ministers, be a wise step. The life assurance companies,
it is pointed out, have sources of revenue which would
not be open to the Commonwealth. Upon the establish-
ment of new branches large sums are set aside for invest-
ment, and the revenues include the earnings of this
money, as well as the premiums of the assured, upon
which the Commonwealth, for the present at all events,
would alone have to depend. Further than that, there
would be no safeguards in the creation of averages by the
successes in one sphere of operations being set off
against the failures in another. These difficulties may,
of course, be overcome, but the feeling of Ministers ap-
pears to be that in taking a new departure into the
realm of assurance the Commonwealth should not tinker
with the question, but should be prepared to act upon a
thoroughly organised and well-constructed plan that will
ensure ultimate success.
Yet, as The Bulletin pointed out last week, no
other life office started with anything like 1500
assured subscribers, and with a certainty of
issuing 1500 policies in its first year, apart from
all the business it might do with the public. It
took the A.M.P. more than 10 years to issue 1500
policies. It was in its twelfth year before it had
1500 policies on its books simultaneously. It takes
very few policies to make a large and prosperous
office if they are permanent and are for decent
amounts, as the civil service policies would be. The
great Equitable of England has nearly £5,000,000
of funds, and they are increasing at the rate of
£170,000 a year ; yet it only issued 1713 new
policies in the five years up to 1899. The London
Life (funds over £4,600,000, and increasing at the
rate of £120,000 a year) only issued 1585 new
policies in the six years up to 1899. The Federal
Department would start with about as much
certain business in its first year as these great
institutions get in five or six years. As for the
other point, every mutual life office has to depend
wholly on its premiums to begin with. The
Government Life Assurance Department would
begin just as the A.M.P. and every other mutual
institution did, only with the immense start it
would enjoy it must progress very much
faster. The A.M.P. had only £96 accu-
mulated at the end of its first year,
and £558 at the end of its second ; and it was
seven years old before it had £IO,OOO on hand.
The Federal Government Life Department would
accumulate funds, just as the A.M.P. did. And
it would have exactly the same chance in “ the
creation of averages by the successes in one sphere
of operations being set off against the failures in
another,” as the A.M.P. has, also the National
Mutual, Mutual Life Association, Colonial Mutual,
City Mutual, Citizens, Maoriland Government
Department, &c. In other words, its business
would spread all over the country just as theirs
does.
* * * *
To create the Department, it is only necessary
to adopt bodily the premium tables of the A.M.P.,
to make regulations for the investment of the
funds in State and good municipal securities, to
appoint a capable manager and instruct him how
far he can go in advertising expenses, and to get a
cheap office with some tables, desks and stationery.
Even an actuary wouldn’t be wanted till the first
triennial valuation fell due. The writer has
known two dissatisfied canvassers and a sacked
insurance clerk get together and found a life
assurance office, which is now a pretty large and
prosperous concern, and they did it in less time
than the Federal Parliament has already spent in
talking about the matter. Even then they were
delayed by troubles connected with raising the
money for furniture and preliminary charges.
* * "* *
As regards the compulsory insurance of civil
servants, the kind of thing which William Lyne
foreshadows is distinctly not what is wanted. The
old N.S.W. Superannuation Fund idea, whereby
the civil servant made provision for his own old
age, if he had any, but made none for his widow
and orphans, was a disaster all along. As a
specimen of the kind of thing that is wanted the
A.M.P. Society issues a form of policy whereby a
man may insure his life for, say, £IOOO, and on
attaining the age of 60 he ceases to pay premiums
and begins to receive an annuity of £SO per year,
which lasts his life-time. (It can also be
arranged that he shall collect the accumulated
bonuses subject to a discount.) The annuity
of £SO a year is continued to his widow.
At her death the annuity ceases, and the £IOOO
is paid over to the heirs. If the assured dies
before the age of 60 the annuity to his widow com-
mences immediately. That is the. ideal provision
for death and old age. Every public servant who
was not sufficiently insured before the Federal
Public Service Act came in force should be re-
quired, on reaching the age of 21, to take out a
policy in this or some very similar basis, for not
less than a certain fixed amount, though with full
permission to take more than that amount if he
is so inclined. If only insured for the minimum
he should be required to take out further policies
as his income increases. If he left the service he
would take his policies and all hi; rights and
privileges with him ; insurance would then cease
to be compulsory, but if he chose to emtinue pay-
ing his premiums, he would incur no loss by leav-
ing the service. If he didn’t so choose, he could
give up his policy and collect the su render value
like any other foolish priv ate citizen. There would
be no attempt to make him insure for sufficient
to provide him with an annuity of £152 in his
old age, as mentioned by William Lyne. The
average public servant can’t afford to insure to
anything like that extent in a private office, and
to suggest that a State office must either think
out a way of insuring him to this extent, or else be
a wet blanket and a failure, is an absurdity. But
it should be possible to so arrange things* that
every public servant, by the time he is 50 years of
age, shall have an annuity of £SO a year comino- to
him and to his widow, with £IOOO to divide among
his children afterwards. And if this annuity can
neither be sold, mortgaged, nor seized for debt
the Government Life Assurance Department will
have done as much for him as can be expected


Any provision beyond that must be a matter for
his own consideration.
* * * •
The reason why a Federal Government Life
Assurance Department could give better value
than any private office would simply be, as
pointed out last week, that its expenses would be
far less. It would pay no commission ; its busi-
ness as regards the civil service would cost nothing
to acquire, and it would take whatever other busi-
ness came to it on the same terms. It could dis-
pense with agents, branch offices, and the like—
the post-office would be its branch office every-
where. Its advertisement could be hung cheaply
outside every Federal public building, and it
could be advertised gratis in all Government pub-
lications. The chief British office which doesn’t
pay commission (the Equitable) works at an ex-
pense rate of 3| per cent. —-little more than one-
third of even the A.M.P.’s low rate ; and with a
great saving in branch offices and expenses a
Federal Life Assurance Department could do the
work even more economically than the Equitable.
The Clergy Mutual works for about 4 per cent.,
and the London Life at less than 4 per cent., ex-
penses—also on the no-commission plan. And
none of these offices started with 1500 sure cus-
tomers, with a prospect of an early increase to
10,000 or more.
* # ♦ *
The situation, at time of writing, is this. The
Federal Government, by the mouth of William
Lyne, says it approves of the idea of Govern-
ment Life Assurance, and is going to see about
the matter next year or later on. Meanwhile it
proposes to pass the compulsory assurance clause
of the Public Service Bill, and compel its present
1500 uninsured public servants to insure in pri-
vate offices, instead of making them the nucleus
of a big Government Life Office. Then, having
thrown away its 1500 available clients, it will
possibly start business. Meanwhile it is proposed
to exercise some kind of supervision over the pri-
vate office ; the public servants are only to insure
in approved institutions. Lyne had that system
in N.S.W. It works so well that the N.S.W.
Public Service Board some time ago approved of
a very small proprietary office with £4llO alleged
p lid-up capital (of which £OIO was visible assets
and £3500 was “ goodwill ”) as a good, reliable
place for public servants to put their premiums
into !
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Expulsion of Findley.
Feom one of Australia’s foremost, best esteemed,
and most cultured Radicals :
Editor Bulletin.— Do your readers know the true
meaning of the Findley expulsion from Vic. Parliamant ?
Findley is an active, vigilant, too strong-mouthed Labor
member ; hated by the Opposition ; a thorn in the side of
Peacock. He got into the House as representative of
Melbourne city at the general election, because the com-
mercial vote was split, and because no elector can now
vote in two constituencies on same day. But at a bye-
election the commercial voters of St. Kilda and Toorak
can pour into the city and swamp the Labor vote. This
is the kind of “ one-man-one-vote ” with which George
Turner wants democrats to be content ! Peacock and
his reactionary allies know that at a bye-election Findley
has not a show. They know that they can expel Findley
without ugly consequences-—such as happened when
London again returned John Wilkes. Ministry and Oppo-
sition forgot their jealousies in their hatred of the Labor
party and of Findley ; they have combined and succeeded
—for the present.
What did Findley do ? Nothing. He was the nominal
publisher of the Tocsin. He did not, he assured the
House, know what was in it more than old Mr Ebsworth
used to know what was in the Argus. He expressed
regret that the article of the Irish People had been copied.
Had the paper not been a Labor paper, the explanation
would have been accepted, and the extreme step would
not have been taken. But the as yet unlcnighted leaders
of the House wanted to get rid of him, to get him out of
.his seat for Flinders Lane, to show Chamberlain and the
Colonial Office how hysterically loyal w;e can be, to gain
eulogy from Jingo papers. The majority of the House
followed the leaders like sheep. They took the safe, but
not the noble, course to preserve their “ loyalty ” in the
eyes of the country. It is to be hoped that the advice
which Peacock gave Madden— or which Madden gave
Peacock— will be made public. We are entitled to
know it.
The resolution of the House declares Findley to be
guilty of seditious libel. The charge is false. To test it,
let any newspaper print the Irish People article in full,
without comment, in this loyal Australia, and let the
authorities prosecute the publisher. The cowards dared
not prosecute—dared not leave it to the courts. It would
have been time enough to expel Findley after he had
been convicted in due course of law. There might have
been some reason for expulsion if, in addition to being
convicted of libel, he had been proved to be a liar as to
his knowledge of the article. But Findley has been
expelled by a union of his political enemies, without trial
and without a stain on his character.
The Tocsin article is a protest against the interference
with the liberty of the press in the illegal seizure of the
plant of the Irish People. It disclaims belief in the
charges against King Edward ; it disclaims the “hardly-
veiled seditious sentiments ” with which the Irish
People winds up, treating the pretender Charles Edward
as being “little less obnoxious than Albert Edward of
the oath.” It points out that arbitrary suppression is
quite as capable of being used to silence truth as to stifle
falsehood", to choke reform as to preserve order, to
strangle the voice of opinion, or subserve party or per-
sonal interests,” &c. It reminds its readers of the grand
lesson taught by John Milton in his “ Areopagitica.” To
what will this foolish action of the Victorian House com-
mit us? Are our Australian democracies so blind to the
future as to permit Governments to punish minorities for
such articles ?
The article in the Irish People is an enraged attack
made by some ardent R.C. on Cardinal Vaughan and the
Duke of Norfolk and other English Catholics for present-
ing a loyal address to a king who had made the “ blas-
phemous” declaration against the doctrine of the Mass.
King Edward’s past is dragged in so as to point more
effectually the (alleged) unfaithfulness of the English
Catholics. The adjectives are the strongest part of the
article ; but they are nothing to John Norton’s. But if
Findley be punishable, why not criminally prosecute
him ? Why should the Government not come out into
the open, instead of shooting from the trenches of the
House ? Because they have a bad ease. We are' all en-
titled to have our own opinion of the personal character
of any man, even a king—even Charles II or Caligula ;
and we are all entitled to express our opinion—subject to
the liability to prosecution or action. As for “ seditious
libel,” it is absurd—at all events, in Australia. There is
nothing in either the Tocsin or in the Irish People calcu-
lated to provoke sedition (literally, going apart from, or
resisting constituted authority) in Australia.
Peacock has succeeded in getting the blessing of the
stock exchanges and the shire councils. So did Knight
Patterson, and he fell ignominiously. Shire councils and
stock exchanges will not avail Peacock when our people
get their eyes peeled. —Vindex.
♦
What Happened to Lee.
T ’E present N.S.W. Ministry has come back from
the General Election about as strong as—perhaps
a trifle stronger than—it was before. Its direct
following and the direct Opposition are almost
exactly equal, but the Labor Party, 24 strong, is
with the See Ministry by reason of its Old Age
Pension and Compulsory Arbitration policy, and
the bulk of the 19 alleged Independents are mostly
with it. The Labor Party holds the balance of
power, as it has done almost continuously for the
last 10 years—in fact, it and the Independents, if
they combined together, would make a larger
force than either the direct Ministerialists or the
direct opposition. If the Labor Party took any
interest in honest finance (which, apparently, it
hasn’t done so far) it could insist that the See
Ministry, or any other Ministry, should face the
position and do something strong and definite
towards making ends meet in the future, and pay-
ing off the £5,600,000 or so of old shortages, and
stopping the Great Dismal Steal of loan moneys
for revenue purpose. Unfortunately, honesty and
solvency weren’t on the programme of any one of
the three parties which went before the electors
on Wednesday last week. The people were invited
to choose mainly from among the Lee crowd with
the worst and most shameless financial record in
Australia, and the See crowd with the second-
worst, and the Labor crowd with no financial
policy at all, and no visible desire for any, and
with no financial record save that it had connived
at the worst proceedings of both the other parties
in turn. In a general way, Premier See speaks
the solid truth when he says that N.S.W. has
enthusiastically endorsed his policy. It has en-
dorsed his deficits so cordially that he will proba-
bly go and have larger ones with a view to secur-
ing the country’s further approval. The country,
certainly, hadn’t very much choice in the matter ;
still it is noteworthy that hardly one candidate —
it is doubtful if even one—was asked to pledge
himself to a policy of raising enough revenue to
meet the State’s outgoings. The See Govern-
ment granted Old Age Pensions, which made
it popular, and it didn’t demand the
money to cover the expense, which might have
made it unpopular—it just trusted to Provi-
dence. It gained a certain bogus glitter by
sending liberally-paid contingents to Africa,,
and it didn’t ask the country for money
to pay for them, which would have badly smudged
the glitter—it just used the funds entrusted to it
for safe-keeping by the savings bank and other
institutions, as if it was a junior clerk taking the
loan of a pound out of the petty cash to put on a
horse. A Government which acts like that gets
its policy cordially endorsed in N.S.W. as a
matter of course. Both the old parties in
N.S.W. are built on these lines, and N.S.W.
has endorsed them both at different times.
Meanwhile, among many bad things, there is the
satisfaction of knowing that things might have
been worse. The efforts of the Lee party to keep
the dead-and-gone fiscal issue alive .in State
politics, and to attract votes by rousing the old
Kiama Ghost of sectarian strife, failed dismally.
The Telegraph tried vainly to wallop both these
defunct spectres into life; and lied to little
purpose, but with an incredible horse-power of
mendacity, over many other matters. But even
when it invented an imaginary break-down of the
new Government steamer, in order to show that
the public money had been fooled away on a
useless vessel, and told amazing snake-
narratives about a pallid crew drifting help-
lessly on the rooks, nobody listened much. Still
the Telegraph had its uses. It probably
lost its party a seat here and there; it was so en-
thusiastic in its assurances that the See Govern-
ment' was irretrievably damned that, no doubt, a
good few Lee supporters remained peacefully and
contentedly in the public-house when, if they
hadn’t been led into a state of false security they
would have rushed out and voted with all their
might. Anyhow, N.S.W. has managed to elect
125 men, mostly, judging by their speeches,
hideously dull and ordinary men, and the Parlia-
mentary machine will presently get going again.
♦
The Live King and the Dead One.
The motion of Senator de Largie, that the Mel-
bourne Argos be required to apologise for calling
Britain’s monarch a fool and a blackleg, is
described by the heavy and respectable press as
evincing a great lack of humor. The kind of
humor that the aldermanic soul understands is to
see a person in large check pants sit down on a
pie, and everybody that doesn’t laugh when
somebody sits on a pie is supposed to be
of a grave and wrinkled disposition. Senator DE
Lahgie’s motion, as it happened, wasn’t humor—
it was satire. It was a bitter satire, if the Jingo
press would only abate its sonorous bray for a
moment and consider itself in all its own tawdri-
ness. The Argus led the way in hunting down
Vic. Labor member Findley, not because the
paper of which he was nominal publisher
called a British King bad nam.s, but merely
because it mentioned, with strong disap-
proval, certain bad names that he had
been called by another paper. The Argus itself
calls a British King far worse names straight out.
The only difference is that the Argus, being by
instinct a person who lies low behind the hedge,
takes the precaution to attack a dead King who
can’t defend himself. In the Jingo creed a dead
King is fair game because he has no more titles to
give away. The Jingo push attacks every monarch
after he (or she) is dead some time. It does this
in order to show its freedom and independence of
spirit, but it crawls humbly to every monarch
while he (or she) is alive. It dedicated the Word
of God to James I. (the man it now calls a fool
and blackleg) in language that put him really a
trifle higher than God. It called the unspeakable
George IY. “the First Gentleman in Europe”
while he was alive, and the worst scoundrel in
Europe after he was dead. It took to
calling Queen Anne “Brandy-faced Nan”
mostly when she was safely in her tomb.
Papers of the Argus stamp will take to
dropping offensive and brutal epithets on Vic-
toria, when she has been dead some years
longer. The Argus and the Irish People both
attacked the British Crown and threw mud at the
sanctity of British monarchy—but the loyal paper
kicked a dead man, and thedisloyal one had the cour-
age to kick a living one. The paper that hasn’t the
pluck to say unpleasant things about kings when
they are alive shouldn’t be so valiant against dead
kings. And it shouldn’t grieve so much over the
lack of humor shown by people who see the
absurdity of its attitude, even though it can’t see
that absurdity itself.
♦
More White Elephant.
The party which opposes the taking over by the
Commonwealth of S.A.’s White Elephant, the
Northern Territory, makes altogether too much
use of the White Elephant aspect of the case. Its
plea is that, as the Territory has never paid its
way, it must be useless—which is a silly idea rest-
ing on a very silly misconception of the evidence.
The Northern Territory is one of the richest parts
of a very barren continent, and it hasn’t paid its
way for exactly the same reasons that have made
many other valuable parts of Australia un-
profitable-isolation, remoteness from any great
centre of population, and the fact that attempts
were made to settle it on a large scale before there
were people to put on it. It differs from the
other White Elephants principally in one point:
Because Britain refused to hand it over entirely
to S.A., and that State was merely in charge
as Britain’s agent, therefore a separate account
had to be kept of the Territory’s revenue and ex-
penditure, and its separate deficit became visible.
The other White Elephants had no separate ac-
counts kept, and their deficits were merged in the
general accounts and didn’t appear. It is practi-
cally certain that all the Monaro district of N.S.
Wales has been in the White Elephant business
ever since this country started; also, Eastern
Gippsland and the Wimmera district of Victoria ;
also, a good half of Queensland ; and a great part
, of Westralia. They only want the same system
of keeping the accounts to show the same results
as the Territory has shown. Still, they will
doubtless pay some day, and so will the Territory
—only more so. It is the most promising of eight
or nine White Elephants—provided it gets into
the hands of some authority with money enough
to supply it with means of communication,
which S.A. can’t do. The fact that it
has dropped behind is no proof that it isn’t
a great deal more valuable than N.S.W. or Vic-
toria, In America, California is far richer than
Vermont, but Vermont happened to be settled
first by an • active race, just as N.S.W. and
Victoria were in Australia, and the more valu-
able territory lagged 200 years behind as a conse-
quence. Some half-century ago Britain dropped
the Transvaal as a White Elephant just as a great
many people want the Federal Government to
drop the Northern Territory, and now it is spend-
ing £200,000,000 on the job of stealing the aban-
doned animal back again.
+
Our Assumed Soldiery.
A letter from the adjacent front: —
Dear Bulletin.— Concerning military matters in
Sydney : How is it that, when the splendid infantry-
training ground stretching from Kensington to Botany
can be reached as easily as Victpria Barracks, we are
treated to so many exhibitions of prehistoric tactics on
the old rifle range? What better configuration of ground
for training in attack and defence, outposts, advanced
and rear guards, defence of convoys, scouting, and the
use of cover, can be found than that provided by the
scrubby sandhills surrounding the Bunnerong-road ?
Twenty square miles of varied uninhabited country, un-
surpassed for military purposes, is neglected in favor of a
few acres of flat grassy field. I witnessed the following
“ instruction ” (?)
A battalion of five companies—250 men—(thanks to
the genius who organised partially-paid troops on a peace
footing, like regulars) scarlet clad, is halted uncomfort-
ably on the rubbish-tip at the north end of the range.
The old target-hill is “ assumed ” to be held by “ a strong
force of all arms.” Their flanks are protected by the
fence of the Agricultural Ground, and by Park-road.
Their front is about 200yds. The strong force of all
arms must be very crowded. Note the area of the battle-
field. It is 1000yds. long, does not exceed 250yds. in
width, and is enclosed. The O.C. explains the “special
idea ” to his officers, who stand round him in nigligg atti-
tude upon the remains of sardine-tins. The 0.0. speaks :
“ The distance to the position is 800yds., but we must as-
sume it to be 1200. It is assumed that the artillery duel has
shaken the enemy’s artillery so that the attack may now be
pressed. The flanks must be ready to meet any attack of
cavalry ” (posted, presumably, in large numbers in the
Cricket Ground clock tower). “ Cover must be fully
utilised. I hope to see a good attack.” Then the
serious nature of our preparation for war impresses itself
on all beholders. Each section of the firing line dis-
patches its ground scouts, who pay great attention to the
movements in rear. Each company sends a section
(about 10 men) into the firing line. These advance about
30 paces and open fire. The adjutant, with much fine
sarcasm, informs the subalterns in the firing line that,
though only 800yds. from the enemy, they are really, by
assumption 1200yds. distant. They blush, and make
sottovoce comments. When they are 80yds. ahead, some-
one inquires anxiously where the supports are. It is
elaborately explained to the officer in charge of the
supports that by assumption he is 250yds. behind the
firing line. This explanation has taken time, and, when
it is over, the supports are by assumption a quarter of a
mile in rear of firing party. This has to be rectified by
doubling. The major is sent hurriedly to liven the sup-
ports up. Meanwhile, the right flank has met cavalry (a
lancer riding-school having stopped its progress). The
firing line compliments a recruit \yho has fallen
from his horse, extricates itself from the cavalry,
and passes on. Supports now begin to pour in.
The centre of the attack is in disorder through meeting
entanglements (the engineers are raising a “ crow’s nest.”)
A football scrimmage is the next obstacle, but, finally,
after having disarranged, and been disarranged by, the
stretcher drill of the Army Medical Corps, our flushed
and stubborn soldiery arrive within 300yds, of the position.
Here they halt and pour in destructive volleys while the
supports and reserves come up. The Adjutant wants to
know why bayonets have not been fixed, and is told by a
rash subalternthat they are really by assumption 700yds.
from the position. The Adjutant gets angry (assumption
has got on his nerves) and he replies that men must not
get false ideas of distance, and that bayonets are to be
fixed at once. This time the subaltern’s comments are
not sotto voce. Bayonets are fixed, and finally the
mounted officers (still mounted) gallantly lead their men
on to victory after an attack lasting fully ten minutes.
The troops are formed-up and the O.C. makes inaudible
comments. He ends with a yell that “ the great lesson of
the Boer war is ” —etc., etc.
The band comes, the regiment marches off with the
wrong impressions conveyed by its former defective
training more deeply rooted than before. The farce has
cost our bleeding country £6O, and the soldierly men of
our forces are very weary of it all.—Yours (by assump-
tion) truly, Viking.
*
The Career of an Outcast Territory.
Ernest Faveno writes about S.A.’s White Ele-
phant, which the Federal Government has wisely
decided to take over, though it isn’t getting on
very fast in the arrangement of details :
The acquisition and administration of the Territory by
the Commonwealth seems only natural and proper, but
the question comes pertinently in, will the N.T. ever re-
pay the price S.A. asks for it—the amount of the accumu-
lated debt ? When we look at the natural
resources of the province there appears to
be no adequate reason why the N.T. should not
pay its way, and, in time, liquidate its back debt. In
point of size it is the third-largest State in Australia.
In variety and availability, the country within its
borders is, from a pastoral, mineral "and agricul-
tural point of view, suitable for occupation.
It possesses several navigable rivers, one of them
navigable for over 60 miles for ocean-going steamers ;
it has on its coast-line one of Australia’s best
harbors and several other first-class ones. How comes it,
then, that it has become such a scorn and a reproach
amongst its fellows ? There are several answers to this
question. In the first place, an attempt was made to
officially force and create settlement; and settlement
cannot be forced —it rftust grow spontaneously. Secondly,
when the country was first stocked, cattle and sheep were
brought over from S.A. at great expense and put on un-
suitable country ; the well-grassed, healthy tableland was
passed over and the stock taken on to the sour, poorly-
grassed coast lands. Naturally this was the cause of
great loss, both in stock and money, and gave the coun-
try a bad name. Then again, because the N.T. was in
the tropics, the idea was jumped at that tropical agricul-
ture must necessarily thrive and flourish there, indepen-
dent of other needful conditions, so sugar and coffee and
other experimental plantations were commenced, and one
after another came to a disastrous end. Thousands upon
thousands of pounds were again hopelessly lost and the
country was beginning to earn for itself the reputation of
being a financial sink, chiefly owing to exaggerated and
over-sanguine estimates having been formed of its capa-
bilities. The goldfields suffered in the same way : rash
and foolish speculation took place in 'Adelaide, the dis-
coveries were wildly exaggerated and the fields over-
rushed, and in consequence the inevitable reaction set in
and they have now become the spoil of the Chinaman.
Then followed a pastoral rush to the tableland country,
but dry seasons and the depreciatioh of station property
that set in just then throughout Australia acted as a
deterrent to the bona-fide pioneers, and allowed the
villain of the N.T. tragedy to strut upon the stage and
play his fell part in the drama. The Territory
became the exploitation - ground of the speculative-
syndicate promoter. A modest principality could
he secured for a nominal rental. In consequence
huge areas were taken up on the map by persons
who had the vaguest notion of the country and its
characteristics ; schemes were formulated and the affairs
placed before the public in the form of prospectuses
showing the possession of enormous territory. Some of
them reached London, some of them never even reached
the printer, but one and all served to add their quota of
damnation to the already bad name of the ill-used N.T.
Some of the schemes were for the construction of the
transcontinental railway on the land-grant system, others
for growing tropical produce by means of imported
colored labor, and others, again, for breeding cattle on a
most extensive scale and inducing the inhabitants of the
Malay Archipelago to become meat-eaters. So much for
the past.
When the Commonwealth takes over the Territory
and its debt, it will be essential to enter into a policy of
reconstruction as regards many things. The man who
wishes to take up 20,000 miles of country, and float it on
the London market as a first-rate property for breeding
giraffes and boobies on, must he coldly discouraged. The
Chinese element must be eliminated, and the stocking of
country, the formation of fresh stations and the rehabi-
tation of abandoned ones, be in every way encouraged.
There is splendid sheep-country all over the table-land
south of the dividing range. Some of it is even now
within a reasonable distance of port, and most of it will
be when that most necessary work, the trans-
continental railway, is finished, for this railway is
the most important element in the redemption of the
N.T. from its moribund condition. This is a big order,
but unless it is accomplished the N.T. will never be a
paying asset, good as its resources undoubtedly are.
4.
Duggan, The Meddler.
“ Fkaulein ” on Victorian Lands Department
methods:
In a recent par you write of Vic. Lands Minister Duggan
as “ a well-meaning meddler.” The casual reader takes
this to mean that he interferes with those estimable in-
competencies, the State Lands officials. This is gross
injustice to Duggan. You might be as incompetent as a
dead Babylonian without any interference from him.
What is really needed in this State is a strong, “ meddle-
some ” Minister, armed with a barrow-load of bags and a
cheque-book, so that he could give the estimable official
the sack and his arrears of pay in one act. Business with
the Department is generally conducted thusly :
Certain lands are advertised as available. You apply.
Five, perhaps 50, or 400 others also apply ; ss. each
application. You are the alleged lucky person at the
board which allots the land. You will be told that your
survey fees must be paid within 28 days. The Land Act
of ’9l says you may pay one-third cash, balance extending
over six years. The Department says, in a way there is
no mistaking, Cash, or some other applicant wiil get the
land.
Your pay your survey-fees amounting in this (western)
Division to about .-£7 per mile for line surveyed (country
mostly open heath). Then you wait for the surveyor to
come. After about six months, you think you have been
overlooked, and write to the Secretary for Lands, draw-
ing attention to the fact, &c. In a week or two you
receive the startling information that your communica-
tion has been received, and will be considered in due
course ; this comes from someone who has the honor to
be your most obedient servant. Then you wait again.
Recommendations have been made and fees paid in this
district as long as two years ago, and the payees are get-
ting blear-eyed looking for the gentleman with the
theodolite. Also, present writer has had a lease (renewal)
in course of preparation for 18 months, and doesn’t know
if it is finished yet.
In Nov., 1900, certain lands (about 20,000 acres, known
as Blue Blocks) were gazetted as available for closer set-
tlement, in 20 odd blocks. About 200 persons applied.
All district land offices ran out of forms on the
second day, and no plans were available. In January
of this year the land was recommended to 34 ap-
plicants. This would amount to about £4OO survey
fees, which had to be paid at once. Then it was an-
nounced that the squatter’s lease of the land had been
extended for six months. The applicants, a lot of them
strangers to the Department (they came from S.A., where
they evidently do things) consoled themselves with the
assurance that at the end of the time they would get
possession. But it is now announced that the lease has
been extended for another six months, and in all proba-
bility there will be another and yet another extension.
And the applicants, or their descendants, may get
possession, if they are good, about 2000 a.d. But Duggan
isn’t a meddlesome'man—at least up to now it looks like
the very last offence that could be justly charged against
him.
4
The last five years have been marked by an
enormous increase in the cheap foreign nigger in
Queensland. For the first half of the decade he
was practically stationary; then a boom set in.
Here are some results :
TCI.
1891 .. 8990 18,358 27,348
1895 .. 8745 18,658 27,403
1900 .. 9330 25,100 34,430
Within the last five years, therefore, the black
and brown and yellow alien population of Queens-
land has increased 20 per cent., while the rest of
the population has increased only about 10 per
cent. Fully one-seventh of Queensland’s increase
of population between 1896 and 1900 arose from
the influx of colored aliens. And these
figures don’t anything like express the size
of the evil. They only deal with the colored
alien. The colored British subject and the
half-caste British subject are not included.
There might, in course of time, be a million
Chows, Japs, and Kanakas in Queensland, and
not an alien among the lot; it is a mere matter of
waiting long enough till the imported brown man
dies out, and his son or grandson, the locally-born
brown man, grows up. The above figures merely
show that, despite deaths and departures, the new
nigger has been increasing for the last five years
at the rate of 1400 a year. And during these five
years the Whindykit Government has been in-
tensely impressive about the “efforts” it was
making to discourage this same coffee-coloured
invader. Apparently he comes in faster when
the Shindykit Government makes efforts than
when it doesn’t.
The most far-reaching piece of legislation passed
in Maoriland for some years is the Workers’
Compensation for Accidents Act, which came
into operation June 7th. In several important
respects the Act differs from the English law.
For instance, it will make no new pile for the
lawyers, as every claim for compensation is
deemed an industrial dispute, and as such will be
tried and determined by the labor courts under
the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act.
No compensation is payable in any accident
brought about by the culpable neglect of the
worker himself, but it must be paid in all other
cases. The award of compensation is a first charge
on the employer’s property, takingprecedence even
of mortgages, thereforeevery mortgage executed on
and after 7th June is liable to become a second
mortgage. Hence not only employers, but all
owners and mortgagees, will necessarily have to
insure against the new risk, and the M.L. Govt,
fills the breach with a new system of accident
insurance in conjunction with its Life Assurance
Department. Only in one case can the new system
of compensation be avoided. If the labor court
is satisfied that other provision (equal to that
offered by the Act) is made for the payment of
compensation, it may issue a certificate, having a
maximum currency of five years, exempting the
employer from the Act. The rates of compensa-
tion are: In case of incapacity, half-wages—the
amount payable not to exceed £2 per week or
£3OO in the aggregate; in case of death, 156 weeks’
wages (provided the total is not less than £2OO or
more than £400) to be paid to those dependent on
the deceased, or, if he leaves no dependents a sum
not exceeding £3O to coyer medical and funeral
expenses. This Act is another example of
the Maorilander’s practical way of looking at
things. When the average workman meets
a sudden death leaving helpless dependents
behind him, there is always a large pro-
bability that they will become a charge on the


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
of the United States.
LIBERAL TERMS TO AGENTS OF GOOD STAMPING
In order to improve the position of its Agents in Australia, and to better conserve
the business, the Equitable now offers RENEWAL CONTRACTS to
first-class agents, thus giving them a pecuniary interest in their business for
several years, instead of for only one year as at present.
For particulars, refer to
S. W. D’ARCY-IRVINE, Manager for New South Wales and Queensland,
Equitable Building, Sydney ; or to
G. G. MoCOLL and B. H. PASCOE, Managersfor Victoria, S. Australia and Tasmania,
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
that do much night-reading
will last longer, will do the
work better and easier, if
the Glasses worn are pro-
perly fitted and adjusted.
WOOD, “The Optician,”!
is eminently qualified to undertake this to your
entire satisfaction.
Only address in N.S. W. --299 George Street, Sydney,
OPPOSITE HUNTER STREET,
and Equitable Buildings, 95 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Eyesight Tested Free through post, write for
particulars.
Sulphide Corporation
** LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W.
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can be Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Cold, Silver, Lead,
and
or
Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought—-
... ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASK.
Special Terms quoted for Parr/e Parcels or
Hetfular Supplies under Contract,
Full Particulars and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cockle Creek-
A E. SAVAGE, CIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Manager. Agents for Australia
public in some shape or other. It may not be
certain that the employer was the cause of death,
but it is tolerably certain that the public wasn't.
So Maoriland gives the public the benefit of the
doubt.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOE COMING WEEK.
Royal “ The Second in Command.”
Lyceum “ The Favourite.”
Criterion “ The Power and the Glory.”
Palace “ In the Soup ” and “ Ivy Leaf.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Casino Girl.”
Empire Fuller Co.
Tivoli Rickards Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s Italian Opera Co. (“La Boheme”).
Princess’s “ Jim Belmont.”
Theatre Royal “A Million of Money.”
Bijou Dampier Dramatic Co.
New Opera House. ... Rickards Variety Co.
Sydney was glad right down to the ground
to see its Brough back again last Saturday, and it
said so at the Royal with an emphasis there was
no mistaking. It was a tremendous and well-
deserved ovation that fell on the returned wan-
derers. All the same, Sydney would like to know
why the “ Second in Command ” is described as a
comedy. It isn’t a tragedy, nor is it exactly a
drama. It is rather a broken-hearted society jest,
or a crushed smile in four acts, or a humorous and
well-written sorrow. The “ Second in Command ”
is well-staged, well-played on the whole, and it is
a good piece of work; but it isn’t a comedy.
Brough, as the hero, is an elderly major, with no
money and no prospects of promotion, and con-
sistently rejected by his best girl. So he is
sorrowful enough. The best girl’s brother, who
is in the regiment, wrecks himself utterly at
Monte Carlo, and is sorrowful too. The best girl
herself has the news broken to her (the thing is
done so suddenly that it is rather smashed than
broken) that the lady (a M‘Laughlin of the
Hebrides) with whom she lives is really keeping
her out of charity, and that she must hustle for a
husband, and that makes her sorrowful enough.
So she recklessly engages herself to the Second in
Command, which gladdens him for the moment,
though it makes her sadder than ever. Then she
falls madly in love with the rich colonel and he
with her, and they are both all broken up at the
impossibility of things. About this time her
brother implores her to marry the colonel and
borrow the money off him to pay his debts, and
he hears of the engagement to the penniless major,
so there is more woe all round.
m • * *
Then the lady breaks off her engagement
with the major, and breaks his heart, and she
becomes engaged to the colonel. And the brother
repents, and tells the colonel she has only done
this for his (the brother’s) sake, and she really loves
the weary major with all her soul, and he doesn’t
want to be saved at the price of his sister’s happi-
ness. So the man she loves throws her over
gently, and goes weeping miserably among the
baggage, in order that she may go back to the
man she doesn’t love, and be happy with him in a
miserable sort of way. She doesn’t go back, and
profound and misdirected wretchedness settles
down on everybody. Everything is wrong ; even
two men who nearly get a drink and one who nearly
gets a cigar have these refreshments snatched from
them at the last moment. At the remote end of the
story things clear up sufficiently to allow of the girl
marrying the colonel, but the hero is left to his
sorrow and his debts, though a huge royal duke,
with a stern countenance like a public injury,
gives him the V.C. at the last moment. This sort
of thing is very good society tragedy, but it isn’t
comedy.
• * * •
The fact that Brough is an artist of great
calibre has struck Sydney often before, and his
rendering of Major Christopher Bingham lends it
additional weight. The kindly, wrinkled cynic
on whom the hoof of misfortune treads so consis-
tently is a loveable character as Brough does him,
and any person with a Soul Would go a long way
to make his acquaintance. Mrs. Brough is rather
less successful than usual; there are probably not
many actresses in Australia who would do the part
so well, yet Mrs. Brough herself has often done
similar parts very much better. The best of the
feminine characters is Miss Susie Vaughan.
Her elderly lady who came from the Hebrides
isn’t a work of art —she rises to the rank of a work
of nature. Little Miss Chatteris is little more than
an outline, but she leaves a pleasing impression so
far as it goes ; and Cecil Ward makes about as
much as could be expected of the colonel. The
colonel is a character in whom the public takes no
great interest. A new man, Ernest Vere, is left
for more considered judgment later on (he has a
slim figure and an elegant pair of legs, anyhow).
Leslie Victor leaves a favorable impression;
Orlando Daly doesn’t. As for the royal duke, he
isn’t so much a duke as a Shock. Such a very
large duke with such a very small part is incon-
gruous.
#* # #
The “Casino Girl,” now doing nothing in
particular and doing it, on the whole, very well at
Her Majesty’s (Sydney), is a cleverer production
than “Florodora,” with catchier music and a more
sparkling libretto. Consequently it is extremely
probable, in the peculiar state of public opinion,
that it will make less of a success and run for con-
siderably fewer nights. Unless Mr. O’Sullivan
can place a sum of money on the Estimates for the
purpose of putting public opinion on a more
rational basis it is difficult to say what may
happen. The “Casino Girl” embodies a story
that is even hazier than most operatic stories. It
deals with a group of American citizens that meet
accidentally in an Eastern city, and strike up
musical friendships with the inhabitants thereof,
who are mostly married to the Pasha. The
opera, from the point of view of the libretto, is
pleasingly reminiscent of the “ Geisha,” and in
humor it occasionally comes almost up to the
Gilbertian standard, besides which there is a fair
amount of pasteboard sphinx, and camel with
human-being legs, and dancing brown girl, and
small black boy. Lauri, as usual, holds up the
performance —this time as a German brewer
turned Pasha, who has a hundred wives and is
faithful to them all. Some men, he virtuously
remarks, have only one wife and cannot be true to
her, but he is true to a hundred without any
difficulty, and could be true to more if lie tried.
He does try by annexing some dozen or so
American chorus girls to be faithful to ; and
when, still later on, he offers love to Carrie Moore
(who tries to make herself plain by wearing a
drop-off red dress that looks like a frilled lamp-
shade) his attachment to the fair sex reaches the
height of heroism. Like most of its kind the
opera tapers off considerably towards the end
of the second act. Though Carrie Moore
is saved by Kenningham from becoming somewhat
less than a hundredth part of a Pasha-ess, it is left
rather in uncertainty whether the gorgeous
American chorus-girls who agreed to take shares
in that Egyptian potentate remain a syndicate, or
are separately married to the various young men
in the red caps with whom they perform an un-
usually large number of dances.
» * » *
Hugh Ward takes the part of the sad-eyed
tenor who endeavors to dispose of his unpaid
chorus company in lawful, albeit limited, matri-
mony to the German brewer Pasha; and Carrie
Moore, once she gets out of the lampshade dress,
makes a fairly favorable impression all round,
more especially when she takes off Irene Franklin,
and also becomes a doll to order. One badly
wants a microscope to find Carrie on the stage,
and when discovered one wants most to find her
as some one else, though she is not amiss as
merely herself. This is a dark saying, but its
concealed meaning is perfectly friendly. Grace
Palotta possesses a voice not worth much alluding
to, and a face and manner worth a great deal, and
her little moral ditty on the fate of the fast little
clock that Btruck up an acquaintanceship with the
bold bad lamp that smoked and went out at
nights, is one of the best items in the opera. Also,
Lauri is Lauri. That’s all the public wants Lauri
to be.
** * *
Hawtrey’s comedy season at the Palace
comes to an end next week, and his departure will
make Sydney a less desirable place to live in than
it has been of late. If O’Sullivan can see his way
to put a sum on the Estimates for the further
retention of Hawtrey it would be a good work ;
there are few evils that O’Sullivan can’t alleviate
more or less by putting a sum on the Estimates.
On Wednesday the “Ivy Leaf,” by Bernard
Espinasse, is to take the place of the present
curtain-raiser. The Bulletin hopes to speak
kindly, yet more or less truthfully, about it next
week.
** # *
The early part of the “Power and the
Glory,” at Sydney Cri., before the scenery has
had time to ameliorate matters, is considerably
spoiled by the too-persistent gag of the baker-boy,
the butcher-boy’s allusions to his noble blood being
only a shade less dreary. The final peace and
blessing descend with less accuracy than usual in
this drama, the said peace falling just as much on
some of the bad people as on the good though
imbecile characters. The villainess isn’t hurled
from the flies of the Burlington Theatre, though
her old pal has threatened to do for her in that
way. Consequently it is evident that the lady in
question, who has continuously tried to demolish
tne heroine for no great reason throughout the
play, is likely to continue doing so for the same
reason all the rest of her life. And as the heroine
is the usual fool heroine who always tells her per-
secutors what she is going to do to them, thus
putting them on their guard, instead of doing it
and saying nothing, it is probable that she will
have further trouble as soon as the ordinary person
she has married returns to sea. The hero leaves an
impression of somewhat greater intelligence, ex-
cept where he stops, before rescuing the heroine,
to remark that he is a “common British sailor.”
There is nothing very deep or apposite in this
observation, but the gallery cheers it all the same.
#* * *
The amiable but nobbled race-horse will
probably run for some time longer at Sydney
Lyceum, his tin prototype jerking placidly along
the back scene just above the noses of the specta-
tors, who are watching his career in the far dis-
tance. The conduct of the heroine who sees her
brother-in-law bowled out on the racecourse for
fraud, and then authorises him, as a medical man,
to attend her little boy, looks as if there were only
one doctor in the district, or perhaps she took a
medical man related to the family for economical
reasons—which latter supposition does not har-
monise with the extremely gaudy evening-dress
which she wears to visit the stables. Considering
this elaboration of the horsey parts of the drama,
the scene where the heroine is nearly drowned
dryly in an empty cistern lacks fidelity to nature.-
But the big boy who sells newspapers in a gym-
nastic fashion remains a cheerful item, while there
are good points about the small boy whose identity
is discovered by a piece of ribbon. He is a
pleasant small boy, and makes a favorable impres-
sion when slowly dying of poison in the midst of
a leafy stage forest.
m# * *
Sydney Empire has a new first part called
“ Fun on the Jetty ” ; and the Dartos are at the
Tivoli. Otherwise the two variety shows are so
much as usual that it isn’t worth while for this
paper to waste the valuable time in which it
might be giving good advice to the Common-
wealth on any extended observations.
*# * *
In the absence of foot-warmers and other
antidotes to a low, vulgar temperature, the patron-
age at Her Majesty’s (Melb.) suffered severely
last week, but the opera itself was always* strong
and hearty. One night was given to ‘ Ernam,
and a meagre attendance heard Larizza, Signora
Benedetto, Travaglini, Cattadon, and the chorus
sing Verdi’s old opera with fine effect, the all-
round effort at the end of the third act being
something sweet and nourishing as well for the
body as the soul. “ Ernam is distinctly
improved by an alteration in the King s make-up.
His baritone Majesty has seen the folly of
his original straw berry-blonde hair and beard,
and is now a comparatively dark monarch and a
reasonable spectacular success. Also, his voice
seems to take a higher tone of authority when he
suppresses a weak-minded rebellion in the pre-
sence of a large party of ladies, who troop down
to the catacombs to see the conspiracy squelched.
They perform “Ernani” for the very last time
to-night (Thursday). For to-morrow the bill is
“Pagliacci” and “ Cavalleria,” the two bril-
liant, bloodthirsty little operas that have
been running five nights a week since they
were first produced. Last Saturday the
heavy tenor, Larizza, took up the name part
in “ Pagliacci,” previously sung by Dani. To say
that Dani, the tenor who resembles Phmmer, is
far surpassed by Larizza is not to find fault with
the taller artist. Dani was a clever Pagliacci a
bright reminder of Giraud whom Melbourne saw
at the Princess’s long ago. Larizza puts himself
right into the character, and the virility of his
singing and acting is great. On Saturday he
seemed to communicate some of his surplus force
to the sprightly little Nedda (Signorina Vaccari),
and the opera looked larger than before in all
respects.
** * *
Next Saturday (13th) is to introduce “La
Boheme” to Melbourne. Later on “XJnßallo’
will help to carry the season along to the 31st,
after which the melodious roar of the Italian Co.
will break out in another city.
** * *
“ The Bush King,” a drama with a lot of
typical Australian crime in its composition, is
raging for one week at the Bijou. “ The Bush
King” was probably put together some time
after “ Robbery Under Arms ” had inspired
the author to do this deed. The name
of the noblest marauder is Captain Mid-
night, who differs from old friend Starlight,
insofar that Alfred Rolfe plays the part, whilst
Dampier is limping around disguised as Humpy
Ned, a polished son of Beer. George Buller,
likewise Misses Lily and Rose Dampier and John
Forde are in the cast, and the Earl of Hopetoun
is the personage to whom “ The Bush King ” was
dedicated by permission. Which seems so unfair
to Hopetoun that the author ought at least to
balance the indignity by dedicating his next work
to the Jook.
mm**
At the Opera House, a large dumb animal
continues to earn a weekly salary for Herr Wins-
chermann, owing to Winschermann having got
him on a string. The animal in question is said
to be “the Sacred Bear of India,” but, unless his
wrongs have made him sacred, the title seems highly
inappropriate. Marie Lloyd and Hurley came
back to the Opera House on Saturday. Marie
is repeating her tale of the forty donahs and
blokes who painted Folkestone red. Moreover,
she has something very bright and Marielike to
say concerning baccarat and domestic bliss. A
wearisome manipulator of handcuffs fell heavily
into the bill last Saturday and was regarded with
scorn, but the familiar turn of Celina Bobe, who
now xylophones the “Turkish Patrol,” brought
almost as much applause as ever.
m* * *
The Philharmonic Society give two per-
formances of “The Damnation of Faust ” at
Melbourne Town Hall this week, and the second
performance will happen on Saturday. The great
cantata by Berlioz got worthy treatment from the
Phil, forces last year. The present revivals are
expected to go a little better. If they are only as
good as the original sample it will be a pleasure to
hear Faust d—d.
** * *
The Italian Opera season in Melbourne
has been suffering terribly from the cold these
last three weeks, and that’s all about it. Rickards’
new Opera House is a sufficiently cosy winter
theatre—upstairs anyhow. How it will feel in
the summer remains to be proved. The old
Royal, with its three galleries, is an inviting place
of refuge from the open air these nights. But
Williamson’s Her Majesty’s! “ The coolest
theatre in Melbourne” at Xmas time, and a polar
region in June and July. Nothing less than the
body heat of 2500 people can make the place
endurable on a sharp night. Doors have been
lately fixed at the street - entrance to the d.c.
passage, but the improvement will not suffice.
One gets numbed with the cold. _ If the place had
gas instead of the electric-light it would probably
permit of an ordinary - eyed audience feeling
happy, and then they would proclaim the good-
ness of the performance. As it is, they associate
Italian opera with cold feet, neuralgia, and
wretchedness.
mm**
Hawtrey, with “A Message from Mars,”
follows Dampier at Melb. Bijou, but he is not due
before Aug. 24.
** * *
At Melbourne Princess’s a comedy com-
pany of somewhat unconvincing abilities have got
the run of Musgrove’s stage for a fortnight.
Their first programme comprises the two-act trifle,
“Nurse” and the mawkish little curtain-raiser,
“A Bit of Old Chelsea,” which Pattie Browne
played at the same house a while ago. “A Bit,
&c.,” is the tale of an inexperienced sculptor, who
usually sleeps in a hay-loft apartment at the back
of his studio, but who, on this occasion, provides
shelter for a strong flower-girl at 2 a.m., and in-
•sists on giving her the use of the loft whilst he
roosts in the studio. The damsel, being a credit
to her sex, grows restive under the arrangement;
and although the sculptor, after a brief wrestle
with his artistic conscience, falls into a virtuous
slumber, she decides to return to the outside
world and get frozen as before, leaving her tem
{jorary benefactor at liberty to occupy his own
ittle bed again. She doesn’t quit the premises
precipitately. She soliloquises on the social
question as regards genteel young men and unpro-
tected flower-gals, and ere she passes out into the
stilly, dew-spangled night, she lays a few stale
blossoms beside the dreaming sculptor, as though
he were indeed no more to her. Then the curtain
falls. Probably the eccentric young female will
take care to catch his admiring eye next day, but
meanwhile she wanders at large.
• * * •
“Nurse,” written by Miss Clo. Graves,
is palpably a woman’s work all the time. A
man and a maiden who have never met are
“intended for one another” by a rich aunt, there-
fore they object to aunt’s intention until they do
meet, without knowing that each is the other’s
intended, whereupon they fall in love. The hero
has gentle tendencies to betting and liquor and
other dissipations that endear the male sex to
lady writers, and the heroine is a nurse who
nurses for nursing’s sake. Even an intelligent
Clo. Graves can gull herself into the belief that the
penny-novelette kind of nurse is a sweet reality
rather than a popular feminine fraud. There
are several characters beside the ministering angel
and the Reggie who makes casual outlays of £5OO
upon gee-gees (perhaps Clo Graves didn’t know
that a “monkey ” was £500), but none of them
have a ring of truth in their dialogue. All the
same, it is bright, unorthodox dialogue at times,
and if the company were equal to all requirements
the result would be other than what it is. Car-
den Wilson, as a writ-server, makes a success of
his little part ; Frank Hawthorne, as an alleged
valet, is not unlike the waiter whom Boucicault
created for “The Pickpocket” of yore ; Henry
Ludlow is amateurishly pleasing, and Miss May-
nard plays the name character better than a Miss
Jean Barns impersonates a frivolous grass-widow.
But this is very modified eulogy. On Saturday
the same company produces “ Jim Belmont,” and
a week later the Vic. Operatic Society takes the
floor.
** * *
“A Million of Money,” at Melb. Royal, is
one of Bland Holt’s horsiest productions, wherein
the back-cloth defines 'the Little Bourke-street
boundary of the theatre, and the Derby candi-
dates have to cover half a furlong of public
thoroughfare on their way to the winning post.
Also it deserves to be noted by Isaac Moses 'and
the racing world in general as the first drama to
introduce a starting machine. The. field on
Saturday lined up to a primitive starting-gate—
under the management of two racecourse clowns,
who stood on very tall stilts for the purpose of
raising the rope barrier. It was an utterly
ridiculous novelty, and it limited the Derby
field to five horses because there wasn’t room
for any more to line up, but as a sign
of the times the ‘ ‘ gate ” provoked meditative
comment. In 1893, when “ A Million of Money”
was staged at the Princess’s with Myra Kemble,
Walter Howe and Lilia Wilde in the cast, and
Baker was a shiny villain instead of the soul of
honor, the starting-gate had never been brought
to bear upon a classic horse-race. The drama
which holds the mirror up to Turf practices has
reflected a great innovation within the space of
eight years. Now The Bulletin begins to hope
that Bland Holt will one day produce a Mel-
bourne Cup scene where the Tote will boom in
the foreground, and the winner will pay a divi-
dend of £73 10s.
* * • *
It is Baker who inherits a Million of
Money nowadays, and Albert Norman is the re-
lentless majah who takes him down with the
assistance of Miss Harrie Ireland. The lady
shakes her glorious auburn locks at Baker and
lures him to the baccarat table and leaves him
dead-broke for the present. Her stage name is
Stella St. Clair, but even that suspicious circum-
stance doesn’t prevent Baker from thinking her
pure, it appears. He scatters his ten hundred
thousand pounds in three acts, and nearly
breaks the heart of his wife (Miss Ross),
also he gets wrecked; but owing to a sudden
rise in the price of some wild-cat shares
which he got from the majah, he is restored
to health and happiness. The temporary
ruination of millionaire Walter Baker by Norman
and Miss Ireland is effectively acted. Charles
Styan, as the cast-off husband who used to drink
champagne before he came down to beer and dis-
grace, is a forcible incident, and the Bland Holts
supply relief of a rather superior kind. Likewise
Brown is a cheerfully dishonest character, who
turns respectable for a time, but finds that it
doesn’t suit him. Brunton’s scenery ranges from
good to beautiful, and the hippodrome features of
the show are kicksome in the extreme.
Recent pulpit utterance in a N.S.W
North Coast town :
Oh Lord, wilt Thou direct the pen of those who control
the press of this fair continent. Wilt Thou show the way
of truth to the editor of the Sydney Daily Telegraph,
and teach him and his subordinates the error of their
ways. Inspire them with Thy grace, and put between
them and Mammon the sword that defendeth right,
truth and light. Teach them the way to assist in the
development of the purification of the political atmos
phere, and save their pen from directing thoughts that
are calculated to suit the policy of the Evil One. Lord,
be Thou with all newspaper men in the execution of their
responsible duties. Be Thou also with the Premier of the
State, Mr. John See, and direct his footsteps in the paths
of duty, arid help him to rise above the antagonistic
newspaper men that are seeking to destroy his political
life. Amen.
So there now !


Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
fillan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
* » * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.9.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Sound Progress of 17th August, 1900, writes
re the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society, Limited :
“ Everywhere it is making rapid progress and is meeting
with a proper response from those who understand sound
investments.”*
* * » *
The Austral Otis Engineering Company have
now delivered one of the water-ends in connection with
their contract with the Melbourne and Metropolitan
Board of Works. The second water-end will be delivered
within a week or two. These water-ends are a very
massive piece of work and reflect credit on the makers.
They are made of a special mixture of iron, which was
subjected to severe tests before being put into the work
and gave highly satisfactory results. Each water-end
weighs about 70 tons.*
* * • *
John W. H. Piper, C.E., M.A.1.M.E.,
M.Am.I.M.E., &c., Australian representative of Cutten
Bros., Dunedin, mining and dredging engineers, is leaving
for London about the end of August to establish a Home
Office for the firm, the increase of foreign business
necessitating this action. Mr. Piper will be pleased to
undertake any commissions that may be entrusted to him.
Equitable Buildings, Georg e-street, Sydney.*
• * » •
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
» * * *
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
* * * •
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * * •
All Barrier Mines remodelling their mills on up-
to-date lines include a number of Luhrig vanners. The
South and Junction companies each have about a dozen,
no slime treatment plant being now considered complete
without these excellent machines. In Queensland tin
concentration is the latest accomplishment, the Irvine-
bank Mill having introduced Luhrig Vanners with success-
ful results, the example having been followed by the well-
known Coolgarra Tin Mining Co., who are installing a
number of Luhrig Vanners in connection with their new
Tin Dressing Mill. Messrs. W. &J. Lempriere, Melbourne,
are the general agents for the Luhrig Appliances. *
• » * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “ Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, andallsortsof iron-work.*
* » * m
Urinaipr troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Bucuu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
• * * •
Wired from Kalgoorlie that the deputy master
of Perth Mint is endeavoring to induce the Kalgoorlie
managers to forward the June output of gold to the mint,
with the object of allowing the Duke and Duchess the
opportunity of seeing a mass of gold weighing between
3 and 4 tons.
RAND. . .
AIR COMPRESSORS
ROCK DRILLS
“Ivanhoe” Mining Steel
Explosives
Lubricating Oils
N. GUTHRWGE LTD.,
71 Clarence St., Sydney.
“ ENCLANP’S FAVORITE.”
PLAYER’S
i» i —jinwr t '
NAVY CUT
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Arsenic, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting: Charges.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel. ; 27 Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
Auckland, NZ.
AUSTRALIAN METAL CO. LTD.
1 St. James’s Buildings,
113 WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores.
Importers of Cyanide of Potassium (98/100 per cent
pure), Bleaching Powder, Mining Requisites,
Candles, eto.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
At time of writing, figures from Westralia were
still wanting, but apart from that the revenue returns
are as follows:
Increase as
_ compared
Revenue. witl f laßfc
year.
Victoria (year to 30th June) £8,087,264 £638,856
N.S.W. ( „ ) 10,794,233 590,302
(Rents, &c., of Resumed Area included).
N.S.W. (year to 30th June) 10,661,190 457,259
Rents, &c., of Resumed Area, not included).
S.A. (year to 30th June) 2,818,712 37,854
Decrease as
compared
with last
year.
Tasmania (J year to 30th June) 384,600 £121,135
Queensland (year ~ ) 4,096,290 491,916
Since the Federal Government took over various depart-
ments of revenue and expenditure, the State revenue
accounts haven’t anything like their old value for pur-
poses of comparison. Moreover, when the States settled
down to the new order of things it seems that they didn’t
all start on the same system which (especially in the case
of Victoria) makes the returns still less valuable. It is a
most urgent matter that the Federal Government should
promptly appoint a Statistician for all Australia, and that
he should be allowed to issue monthly revenue returns,
both State and Federal, on a uniform basis—if putting the
accounts in comprehensible shape wouldn’t be an outrage
on State rights. Pending more complete information, it
is impossible to fully figure out the year’s results, but a
few facts are available.
• • • •
The N.S.W. Government reckons that, despite
war and plague and Federal celebrations, it has ended
the year with a total deficit of only £169,929. This is
saying nothing of a sum (probably about £140,000) due
by way of interest on the purchase-money of the resumed
area, which would probably run the shortage up to about
£300,000. And it is saying nothing of the half-year’s in-
terest on a large amount of public debt, which, though it
is interest for the half-year from Ist January to 30th
June, on which latter date the financial year ends, isn’t
charged till next year. Nor does it take any account of
the great mass of other unpaid accounts —it is through
leaving over the June accounts till July that the expen-
diture for that last month of the financial year is made to
look, on Reid’s Cash Basis dodge, like about £400,000,
when the expenditure for any other month averages
about t'850,000. Also, it takes no account of the huge
amount of ordinary expenditure charged to loans. Alto-
gether, an honest, business-like audit of the N.S.W.
finances would show a lamentable spectacle. The N.S.W.
loan expenditure for the year just ended is set down as
£2,879,727, which is a fine large amount.
* » * *
Queensland spent £1,212,019 of loan money
last year, which is even worse than N.S.W.’s record. And
it ends the year with a tremendous deficit of £528,188 —
more than £1 for every man, woman and child in the
State. Queensland has already got rid of £1,575,000 or
thereabouts of deficits by the gentle processor adding them
to the permanent debt. It is interesting to know what it
will do this time. Premier Philp, at latest advices, hadn’t
made up his mind whether to tackle the difficulty by
increased taxation or by economies. When it is a case of
trying to save £528,000 out of an expenditure of £4,600,000
it" wants both measures, and wants them very badly.
Next year Queensland will have about £40,000 more in-
terest to pay, and there is no evidence that next year may
not be even worse than this. Even with all the awful
falling off in revenue Queensland collected more per head
in the year just ended than either Victoria, S.A., or Tas-
mania, and about as much as N.S.W., so its revenue is
just as likely' to fall again as to rise. And as Queensland
charges an enormous amount of ordinary expenditure to
loans, its shortage, on an honest and fair basis, is really
something over £1,000,000. To put things anything like
square, Queensland wants rigid economy, an income-tax
graduated from 6d. to Is., or Is. 3d., in the £, a land-tax
graduated from Id. up to 2d. in the £ according to the
size of the estate, and a sane, courageous, and strictly
honest Government.
Victoria has hopes, even after paying its old
age pensions, that it will end the year with a surplus of
£120,000 or so, but no definite information is available
yet. The railway' receipts increased by no less than
£303,000, which is likely to be the salvation of A. Peacock.
South Australia will probably come out about square, but
everything is guess-work yet. Anyhow there may be a
deficit, and it is tolerably certain that there won’t be
much surplus.
Tasmania is only half-way through its financial
year, but it is obvious that the glory of its boom has
departed. The State and Commonwealth revemua of the
island put together are £36,000 less than the State revenue
for the first half of last year. With the revenue dropping
at the rate of £72,000 a year, and Deficit Bird at the
Treasury, the prospects are gloomy.
• * • *
The Royal Bank of Queensland issues its 31st
half-yearly balance-sheet, to 30th June, 1901. The results
compare with some previous doings as follows:
Dividends, Total
Profits. Dividend Duty, Reserves at
&c. each date.
Dec., 1895.. £37,155
June, 1896 .. £6,445 off' =^’ 922 } 34,678
Dec., 1896.. 6,515 21 per cent. = 4,922 36,271
June, 1897 .. 7,463 21 „ = 5,414 38,320
(£19,483 capital forfeited and written off.)
Dec., 1897 .. 7,440 21 per cent. = 5,075 40,685
June, 1898.. 7,460 {written off , = I© > 40 ’ 070
Dec., 1898.. 7,579 21 per cent. = 5,075 42,574
June, 1899 .. 7,830 21 „ = 5,075 45,329
(£1463 capital forfeited and written off.)
Dec., 1899.. 8,322 21 per cent. = 5,056 48,595
June, 1900.. 8,383 {s ritte ” off = s© 48 ’ 423
Dec., 1900.. 8,433 21 per cent. = 5,055 51,801
June, 1901 .. 8,657 21 „ = 5,056 55,402
The profits for the half-year just completed are at the
rate of £3 19s. 3d. per cent, per annum on the share-
holders’ funds, as compared with £3 17s. 9d. per cent, at
December, 1900, and £3 17s. 3d. per cent, at June, 1900.
The gross profits, too, are larger than they have been for
a very long time. The Royal Bank still sticks closely to*
its wise policy of paying small dividends and building up
a solid reserve. It is the only bank which, after losing
most of its reserves in the suspension year, has more than
made good the loss. The Royal’s reserve fund, including
£3OOO added this half-year, is now £63,000, all separately
invested in State securities, whereas its highest figure
before the great collapse was £46,000. The practice of
keeping the reserve separately invested in State securi-
ties is also a new and eminently sensible precaution
adopted since ’93. During the past half-year deposits
have increased by £32,916, and now stand at £932,178.
The reserve of cash and liquid securities has increased by
£5248, and is now £366,718 —equal to over 37 per cent, of
all liabilities to the public. Altogether the report of the
Royal Bank of Queensland looks highly satisfactory, as
usual.
• • « •
The Royal Bank, by the way, proposes to call
up £1 per share, by two instalments of 10s. The present
paid-up capital is £385,187, in 70,034 shares paid up to £5
10s. each. The call will give the bank another £70,000
with which to spread its business in the North. It has
such a solid hold up there that it should be able to greatly
enlarge its connection if it had only adequate funds to do
it with. At the same time, Queensland, just at present,
is a place where a bank needs to spread its connection
very cautiously.
• * * •
The Co-operative Wool and Produce Co. (Syd-
ney)
Profits. Dividends, &c. Reserves.
February, 1899.. £2745
1900 (6 per cent. =£3o4 ) 6723
„ 1900..£8788 j ßonus on sales.. 4506 j
April, 1901 .. 320 6 per cent. = 857 6186
The balance-sheet just issued is the company’s fourth,
but as the first and second reached this office as mere
statements of assets and liabilities, with no profit and loss
account attached, it is impossible to say with
certainty how things went in these two years.
The Co-operative Wool and Produce Co. has £15,352 paid-
up capital, and its reserve of £6186, as shown above, is
very solid for so young a concern. The year just finished
is, despite an increase of business, by far the worst in
the co.’s record. The great drop in wool prices seriously
diminished the commission receipts for one thing, and
owing to the lateness of the season, it is explained, the
returns from much of the wool sold, both here and in
London, could not be included in this year’s balance-
sheet. So the co. hopes for better fortune next year.
* • * *
The Argus Permanent Building and Investment
Society (Melbourne), though still struggling with the
heavy work of writing off depreciation and old losses,
shows an improvement. Recent results are as follows :
Nominal
Profits. How disposed of. Reserves.
April, 1896 £175 Written off, £169 £1734
1897 159 ’j
Fo sE£H .. “ >«
45 J
Profits.
April, 1898 223 „ 181 1689
„ 1899 198 „ 339 1548
„ 1900 472 „ 440 1580
„ 1901 1275 „ 1762 1093
Most of the sums written off are described as “ Personal
Balances (Doubtful)” and the nature of these isn’t so
clear as it might be. Out of the £1275 earned this year,
£776 is written off as “ Personal Balances (Doubtful).”
If these are interest taken credit for and then written
off, the real cash earnings are only £499. Still the profits
are increasing materially ; a large sum has been written
off the book values of the assets ; and if the co. could only
wipe off the mortgage of £4650 on its properties, its
prospects would look good. The management apparently
reckons that the weary job of writing off depreciation is
about finished, and as it would only require £B4l to pay
a 5 per cent, dividend there should be a prospect for the
shareholders some day.
* • • •
The Ocean Accident and Guarantee Corporation
—a British concern which does an extensive business in
Australia:—
Dividends paid during Total
Profits. year (about) Reserves.
1894 £135,148
1895 £40,118 121 per cent. = £12,292 162,974
1896 50,941 12f „ „ 12,500 201,415
( 59,896 )
P^miums 6 [ l5 - » “>6Ol 327,477
80,667 J
f 165 1
1898-J Profits Vl5 „ „ 16,148 525,041
l 213,547 I
1899 139,472 171 „ „ 19,429 645,054
{ 71,496 )
Prlmffims 6 ! 20 •• » 28 > 098 784 ' 734
96,250 J
The reserves consist of ordinary reserve fund £475,000;
reserve for unexpired risks, £282,548; and undivided
profit, £27,186. The co. also includes amongst its reserves
a sum of £163,869 set aside to meet outstanding
claims, but this can hardly be called a reserve,
being already appropriated, or mostly so. In the strictest
sense of the term, the £282,548 set aside to cover
unexpired risks isn’t a reserve either, but it is generally
reckoned as such in considering the position of fire,
marine, and accident companies. If it wasn’t then the
co. which holds no reserve against unexpired risks might
often look better on paper than the one which takes this
essential precaution. The Ocean is an exceedingly strong,
progressive and well-managed co. with immense re-
sources. Also, it has an old-fashioned and exasperating
way of drawing up the balance-sheet. For instance, the
report for 1898 sets forth that the total dividend for 1898
(paid partly in September, 1898, and partly in March,
1899) will be 15 per cent., while the balance-sheet shows
that the last half-year’s dividend for 1897 and the first
half-year’s dividend for 1898, lumped together, absorb
£16,148. There is actually nothing to show how much
the 15 per cent, dividend declared for 189 S (and paid
partly in 1899) amounted to. Nor is there anything to
show how much per cent, the £16,148 actually paid in
1898 (though part of it was for 1897) represents. And the
constant alteration in the amount of capital through the
issue of new shares, and the fact that the amounts paid
are shown “ less income tax” which is also a fluctuating
quantity, make matters even more obscure. These things
don’t reflect in any way on the solvency of the office, but
they reflect considerably on its book-keeping.
» * * •
S.A. Govt, has granted a shilling a ton reduc-
tion in the carriage of Broken Hill ores and products to
seaboard. Though it means £20,000 a year, it is only a
flyspeck per ton of ore, because the mines send away
little except concentrates, and it takes from five to eight
tons of ore to make a ton of concentrates. The Govt., in
making the concession, gave the Silverton Tram Co.
(whose directors are mostly mining men) a nasty knock
for refusing to reduce their rates ; but it is since an-
nounced that the co. has conceded something—amount
unstated.
» * * *
Miners in a lot of places seem to have some-
thing approaching a mania for the appointment of Govt,
mining inspectors. Their spokesman at Broken Hill the
other day asked for six for that place alone ! The mining
co.’s representative present jumped at the chance—it
would take so much responsibility off the managers’
shoulders. But Chief Inspector Slee, with 40 years’
experience behind him, knew better. “ Make the
manager his own inspector,” he said, in effect, “ by hold-
ing him and his co. firmly responsible whenever anything
goes wrong.” And that is the sum and substance of the
whole matter.
The Royal Commissioner on the B.H. South
mining accident had to leave B.H. without learning any-
thing more than the coroner’s inquest disclosed. The
mine’s lawyer promised, when the Miners’ Association
wrote that the inquiry' was a farce, that no workman
would suffer for telling the truth. But as there is some-
times a difference of opinion as to what is truth, the
workmen took no risks and unanimously stayed away.
• * * *
British B.H. has picked up the lode at 500 ft. ;
hitherto all workings have been above that level. The
development (value not yet ascertained) was badly
needed.
* * * *
The Lucknow mines, N.S.W.: Another little
newspaper attempt from Orange to boom them —said that
Newman, who managed the properties so successfully up
to a few years ago, will soon have full control of all the
amalgamated mines, and that when he gets them going
again confidence in the stability of N.S.W. mines will be
re-established in London. Great Scott! The explanation
given to the writer of the failure to float a N.S.W. mine
in London recently was that the expert had unwittingly
compared the formation with that of the Lucknow mines.
That damned the scheme at once. London was not
taking any Lucknow formations. True, tons of gold have
been got from Lucknow mines, and tons of gold have gone
into them in wages, managers’ heavy salaries, houses,
and machinery. Reasonable also to suppose that where
tons of gold have been got, a ton or two may remain ;
but the fact can’t be overlooked that during the last five
years more prospecting work has been done in the Luck-
now mines than during the previous 15. It is a big
mining gamble, with the chances against it, all the higher
levels having been gutted out; the formation is the
patchiest known in the mining world, and exploring in
the deep levels is an expensive business. Should Newman
strike a bonanza, he will be as greatly praised as if he
manufactured it—if he fails, a new manager will probably
receive the same newspaper gush.
* * * *
Blayney Copper-mine: Last half-year’s report
proves this to be a low-grade and cheaply-run concern.
It produces ore at a trifle over 6s. per ton, and is turning
it into copper under 16s. Realisation and all other costs
would bring the total up to 265. for mining and smelting.
This is done by one water-jacket and several reverbera-
tory-furnaces, and it is estimated that the cost
will be further reduced when the second blast-furnace
is at work. There is another important feature of which
little or no mention is made in the report. The ore is
so silicious that it puzzles most metallurgists how direct
smelting takes place without any addition of iron flux,
and it was on high advice that a trial was made with
ironstone from Oarcoar, but no better smelting
result was obtained. As it is, the Blaymey mine is smelt-
ing an ore containing more silica than any other smelting
proposition in Australia, if not in the whole world, and
producing probably the cleanest of slag which sometimes
runs over 50 per cent, silica. This operation certainly
upsets all smelting text-books and metallurgical theories
and has awakened such an interest elsewhere that corres-
pondence on the matter has been received from different
parts of the world asking how it has been arrived- at. No
technical explanation is given, but the palpable fact re-
mains that it is done, and, after allowing for the fairly
large percentage of limestone used for fluxing, it can only
be accounted for by some mechanical action in the
furnace itself which cannot be- obtained in laboratory
tests. Metallurgists who have not seen the ore or mine
declare that the iron must be more and the silica less than
is generally admitted, although the contents of each
metal have been proved by repeated analyses and are demon-
strated every day by the percentage of iron in the matte
and the wonderfully heavy percentage of silica in the slag.
* * « *
It is about time that an attempt was made to
see if the experience with Blayney cannot be repeated
elsewhere. Probably had it not been for the success at
Blayney with an unusually high silicious ore those two
blast-furnaces would not have been erected at the Lloyd’s
copper mine, Burraga. They were condemned without a
trial when a change of management took place, in spite of
the Blayney success, and in face of the fact that 100 tons
of Burraga ore were put through the Blayney furnace,
and the report that it went through if anything easier
than the Blayney ore.
* * * *
N.S.W. gold-dredging returns for past week :
Araluen Central, 740 z. Bdwt. 16gr., for 124 working hours;
Araluen Valley Consolidated, 610 z., for 111 working hours;
Araluen Proprietary, 200 z., for 115 hours ; Turon River,
No. 1,200 z., for 96 hours ; Turon River, No. 2,200 z., for
129 hours ; Macquarie, No. 1,270 z. (amalgam), for week ;
Ovens Valley, 21oz. (amalgam), for week. Most returns
look payable, some of them very handsomely so, but in
more than one much-puffed concern the margin is very
narrow.
* * * *
Of the Cobar mining district the Warden says :
“I consider the mining industry is only in its infancy,
and the district is undoubtedly the most important
mining centre in N.S.W., and it only wants good seasons
and capital to prove it the best mining district in the
Commonwealth.” It is a good gold and copper mining
district no doubt, but it is not quite as good as that. Of
the North Nymagee, he says : “ It is a mine which the
directors and legal manager seem to think can be worked
with from seven to ten men, a whim, and a green-hide
bucket.” Writer has heard a great deal from time to
time of the North Nymagee, but this is the first he has
ever heard of the green-hide bucket.
* * • *
Q. Mining Notes: Find of small diamonds in
blue clay strata reported by experienced S’African man
at Rosewood, near Brisbane.-—Q. Menzies (W.A. mine)
reports favorable developments. 2 S. G. Eastern,
Gympie, crushed 1564 tons for 12720 z. ; 4d. div. Crush-
ings from several good shows on the Towers’ continue
below the average ; Chillagoes still gloomy ; Woodlarks
are now not considered to be worth quoting on Brisbane
Stock Exchange. Mt. Morgan, 7d. div., but announced
that, owing to water-famine, future divs. will be 3d.
monthly : shares dropped a little. Good parcels gold
arrived atCooktown from New Guinea way ; 600 oz. came
from secret locality.——Towers divs. for June £32,000,
and for six months £151,000 ; big advance on last year’s.
Day Dawn, Towers, crushed 662 tons for 7620 z. ; 6d. div.
Brilliant Central, 620 tons, 7200 z. ; 6d. div. Gympie,
Eidsvold and Co., sleeping heavily.
» * • •
Victorian mining generally is in a bad way and
next to nothing doing on the Stock Exchange ; several
recent bitter disappointments and no mining surprises.
South Glenfine last crushing 7dwt., and as there are no
divs. in this there is a bigger prospect of calls next year
than divs. Birthday, near Ballarat, is the latest big mine
to suddenly slump—from 78s. to 40s. Has paid over 70s.
in divs. Plenty stone in bottom level, but it is much
poorer and the run of gold has become so much shorter
that the suspicion is entertained that the next hundred
feet will see the end of it. A big improvement has taken
place in South Birthday, and some mining men, not
usually sanguine, think that the run of ore found at the
600 ft. will go to the surface ; if so, the shares will more
than double in value. Will probably call up 2s. to erect
a crushing plant. New Moon, Bendigo, going back.
South New Moon coming forward. Golden Pyke getting
some rich crushings from a patch.
* * * *
Sydney E. News : “ It is now an open secret
that during the W.A. boom many of the glowing reports
telegraphed to the eastern States were simply a tissue
of lies. Agencies appear to be again at work transmit-
ting roseate intelligence in regard to several of the minor
W.A. stocks, the object sometimes being to ‘ boost
shares and sometimes to put the public in good heart to
pay a succession of calls. Say a piece of telluride the
size of a pea is found, immediately this is magnified into
a telegraphic assay going 300 z., 400 z., or 70oz. to the ton,
but the size of the find is withheld for London’s exclusive
information. The present state of the libel-law in the
parent state renders it impracticable for conscientious
scribes to be explicit in placing the staid section of
mining operators on their guard in regard to individual
mines in the far West.” Not a word as to the responsi-
bility of newspapers themselves which have been played
with by biassed and corrupt telegraphic correspondents
ever since the W.A. boom started. Writer has referred
to it for years past, and the public have so long been
sickened with these mining lies that they awake na
further interest, and even the truth is received with the
gravest suspicion.
• • • •
Great Boulder : Shares, 18s., and they touched
16s. 6d. last week—the lowest figure they have seen for
nearly three years. Many reasons given for the fall—that
the extensive rich chute which has long enabled the
ounce-and-a-half average to be kept up is exhausting ;
that the bottom levels, so far as developed, are the
poorest in the mine, that the underlay of the main lode
has changed, and is now dipping towards the Golden
Horseshoe. Says a Sydney Sabbath weekly :—“ It is
asserted that the ore body in the Great Boulder mine is
only a pipe going down vertically, and the bores put in
various directions at different levels have to some extent
proved this.” Ye gods ! and this of a mine that turns
out as much gold as, if not more than, all the N.S.W. gold-
mines (dredges included) put together—that has pro-
duced upwards of 20 tons altogether, and is now turn-
ing it out at the rate of nearly five tons a year ; is
developed to 1200 ft. in depth, and has more ore
reserves than any two other mines on the belt. The fact is
that the Boulder for years has been regarded as an invest-
ment mine ; “ bears ” kept away from it because of the
great number of shares and the heavy commission
charged on transactions. If the other mines were in the
same category they would only have about half their
present market value. Inflated values are given by
“ bears,” and if it were not for these so-called unscrupu-
lous persons Associateds would be down to £1 a share.
As it is we have one mine, a steady dividend-payer for
years, well equipped and managed, with a little greater
valuation than another, in the same neighborhood, which
hasbeen worked at a loss for nearly two years, and has been
gutted out of its rich ore with a very remote prospect of
ever being worked at a profit. Few Boulders are over-
sold, while the oversold Associateds probably largely
outnumbered the actual shares—soo,ooo.
* • * *
Bayley’s Coolgardie : One more reconstruction
scheme. Mine at present being mostly worked by
tributors, some of whom are doing remarkably well.
Proposed to call up Is. 6d., which, from so many shares,
will give a substantial amount.


AN ORIENT BOOT
16/6
AN ORIENT SUIT^-
Complete
ALL GLASSES OF GARMENTS
.. IN THE ..
“Orient fe pleasure” Clothing
.. AT ..
SPECIAL PRICES^
Writt! for Particulars and Patterns.
PAVID JOH€S & COMPANY,
St Barrack Sts., Sydosy
ii mn iniirtnfiHliliMiiiiififiliiiaifiiiaMiitoteti
66 KING 5T
Forget all your troubles,
Reverses and dubts,
In peaceful enjcj .nent of
HOME CIGARETTES
Society
LEROY
LIQUEUR
BRAMDY
Talk about mean men and mean Govern-
ments. An old Victorian lady got the full pen-
sion of 10s. a week. It cost her Gs. a week for a
room, and, finding that she couldn’t live on. the
other 45., she took in a little washing—she was
too old to take in very much washing—to eke out
the balance. But Govt, came to hear of it, and it
was so shocked at her duplicity—it having been
led to understand that she had no means of her
own —that it stopped her pension altogether ! There
is genuine humanity and common-sense in the idea
of the See Government to build decent little homes,
which will be let to the N.S. W. old-age pensioners
at 3s. a week, so that they may at least have 7s.
clear to live upon.
BILL: “ Ain’t I keepin' step with my mate? You don’t
expect me to keep time with the whole lot, do yer? ’
How profitable it is to be “trained to the
i . tvt ci \xt r'l i. i • i. u
law. ]N.b.W. Govt. Geologist, piesumajly a
highly-trained scientific receives £Boo a
year under the new Public Service re-grading
scheme ; other highly-trained scientific men—the
palaeontologist in the same department, for
mstance-get down to £3OO. The viticultural
“ ° none- ..I 1 , • , ,• ,
expert gets £375; the wheat experimentalist,
£350. In another department—Education—
the principal of a training college gets £270 and
quarters ; a dozen inspectors draw only £lOO each;
a cataloguer at the Public Library a M.A.—-
But the secretary to the Attorney-General
draws £1000; the I arliamentary draftsman, £830;
his assistant, £o00; the Crown Solicitor, £1640 ;
lus chief clerk, £/o0; three clerks on the civil
side, £doo or over ; two on the criminal side, £6OO
or over; and others in proportion. 1 erhaps they
are not too high ; but in that case what of the
others ?
* • * *
i>. R. Wise was on the solidest of ground
when he commiserated N.S.W. Public-school
teachers on the wretchedness of their pay. In
their case, as the Public Service Board’s regrading
report shows, there are no plums for even the top-
notchers in the department. Inspectors in charge
of important districts containing from 100 to 150
schools receive £4OO a year—the prize for, pre-
sumably, the best among thousands after 25 or 30
years service ! And still they say that education
is one of the most important functions of the
State.
* * * *
Apparently admission to Victoria’s Public
Service is just as much a matter of political in-
fluence now as it was in the bad old days. An
attempt was. made at reform some time ago, but
a large hole was left in the bottom of the new law,
and the new idea fell through. For instance,
there are 1100 new railway officials wanted, and
this fact being announced as required by law
there are 14,000 applicants. The reformed law says
that all applicants must undergo an examination,
but in the innocence of its parchment heart it
quite forgot to say that those who passed the
exam, most successfully should have the billets.
So the examinations were held at different
centres ; and at great expense to themselves and
the country the 14,000 candidates were put
through. Yet, there is hardly a billet for any one
of them. The 1100 permanent vacancies are to be
partly filled by the promotion of casual hands now
in the service, and the rest are being kept for re-
turned cohentingenters. The successful examinees
thought, when they passed all tests triumphantly,
that their appointment was certain. It was only
after it was over that they learned there had never
been any real show at all, and their preparation
was mostly a waste of time. Now a very large
number of Victorian families would gladly rotten-
egg any returned cohentingenter at sight.
* * * *
Concerning a N.S.W. civil service trouble :
The action, early this year, of N.S.W. Public Service
Board in gazetting still another set of regulations dealing
with the question of annual increments has been placed
before the Attorney-General. Mr. Wise has held back
until after the elections, and is now to decide the point,
which point, in the opinion of the service, is simple
enough. In ’9B various regulations were given to the
service providing, in certain cases, for yearly increases.
Under these regulations, a confidential certificate on the
work, manners and customs, as well as personal appear-
ance of each individual clerk is furnished by the depart-
mental heads to the Board. Last Oct. or Nov. these
certificates, on which the responsible officers spent much
anxious time and thought, were duly demanded by the
Board and furnished. Next week the service was circu-
larised to the effect that, pending new regulations, these
certificates would be set aside. Early in Jan. these new
regulations appeared and calmly annulled all the old
ones. Not only this, but dated them back six months.
Thus the increment duly earned under the old regulations
was lost to the service. The action of the Board in
making the new regulations retrospective was imme-
diatelv challenged. But there was another point. The
Legislature has already voted £14,000 for increases in
salaries from July 1, 1900. The decision of the Board to
date them six months ahead is held to be ultra vires.
The Attorney-General has given a tentative opinion, up-
holding these views The whole thing is to be threshed
out wlth the Board and the Bush Lawyers in the
service are quite satisfied their beloved Board will go
down
* * * *
N.S. W. Public Service Association, though
} )U t t wo years old, shows symptoms of that tired
feeling. At a recent special meeting, called by
t j )e Council, there was no quorum, not 40 mem-
bers turning up, No concerts or entertainments
have been held for a long time ; the civil servant
seerns to repent him of bis burst of energy in
f orm ing the Associations. The Council is in bad
odour, too, through the re-grading. The public
servant has now a particularly sore head, and is
in a mood to quarrel with everyone. And so he
looks with sinister suspicion on the many fat in-
creases scattered at the re-grading amongst the
members of the Council of the Association.
* * * *
The most pathetic petition presented to
Maoriland Govt, during the Yorks’ visit was one
from sundry persons, against whom grog-prohibi-
tion-orders had been made, praying that the
whisky-ban against them might be suspended pro.
tern.
m * * »
During the Yorks’ visit to Wellington
(M.L.) it was arranged that they should go
through the Old People’s Home. At midday the
old people were all assembled, dressed in their
best, while the trustees hovered round in blissful
expectancy. Till 2 p.m. they waited, but no
Duke. A telephone-message to Govt. House got
the response that he couldn’t come. Half-an-
hour later another message came that he was
coming. The inmates were again assembled, and
frantic ’phone messages were sent to the trustees.
Another agonising wait till five, and then a
mournful message that, after all, the Duke
wouldn’t come.
* * * *
All things come to those who wait. In
Auckland (M.L.) Dr. Campbell, a fine old pioneer
colonist, just tottering on the verge of the grave,
was recently dragged into the mayoral chair
because it was thought the expected knighthood
would sit better on his grey hairs and spotless
reputation than on another candidate who had
sprung more recently into popular favor. The
old doctor marked the event by presenting Auck-
land, through the Duke, with what is to be known
as Cornwall Park—a very fine property in the
suburbs. Yet “the numbers are up”—and the
veteran’s name is not on the list.
* * * *
The general opinion in Maoriland is that
Seddon and Mrs. Juke ran the whole show, Mr.
Juke and Gov. Ranfurly taking up positions con-
siderably in the rear. Seddon has quite made up
his mind as to the relative importance of himself
and the Governor. After the reception of the
Juke in Auckland, Seddon hurried South in the
new and up-to-date Govt, steamer Tutanekei.
Same day His Ex. also went South —in the old
Govt, boat Hinemoa.
* * • *
The intense loyalists of Greymouth (Maori-
land) badly wanted to show their consuming
respect for the Duke of York by humbly asking
bis permission to do something. Not being able
to think of anything else, they got fixed up, at
considerable expense, an illuminated scroll on
which they expressed at length their unalterable
devotion, and submissively implored permission
to put up certain lamps in the streets of Grey-
mouth at Greymouth's expense. The lamp-docu-
ment was enclosed in a silver casket. And York
was graciously pleased to let Greymouth put up
the lamps at its own expense, in the usual way.
Can’t someone go one better, and present, in a
gold casket, a humble petition praying that the
Duke will permit his bowed-down and abject sub-
jects to continue going to bed at night as hereto-
fore, and to arise in the morning at the customary
hour, without thereby incurring his wrath and
displeasure; with a further assurance that, if
H.R.H. objects in the least to this proceeding,
his subjects will gladly remain in bed all the rest
of their lives, and not get up for breakfast, being
amply sustained by the sense of his royal ap-
proval, and victuals, under such circumstances,
being quite superfluous?
* « * •
It is regarded in M.L. “right-thinking”
circles as certain that when Parliament re-
assembles the Ministry will submit a resolution
that Works-Minister Hall-Jones be expelled from
the House for “disloyalty ” in refusing to give up
to one of the Duke of .York’s suite the rooms per-
manently tenanted by himself and Mrs. Hall-
Jones at Searle’s Hotel. Minister Hall-Jones
must certainly be accounted a coarse and vulgar,
not to say treasonable person ; it is absolutely
certain that in such a case Seddon and “ Sir
Joseph ” Ward would have cheerfully slept in the
dog-kennel or the fowl-hoase.
* *’ « »
There was great wrath amongst society
“officahs” at Brigadier Gen. Gordon’s orders to
S.A. “army” to parade in plain kharki on the
Yorks’ arrival-day in Adelaide. Many high-toned
swashbucklers protested that they had gone to
much expense in buying dazzling uniforms, all to
no purpose, and their indignation is being re-
echoed by the servant-girls of the pious city.
TOO RISKY!
MRS. BENDIGO: “So you think he only wants to
marry you for your money. Tell him your
dad’s busted up. house nwrtyaned, an’ a bill-
o’-sale on the furniture ; then see which way
he jumps.”
MISS TOOMS : “ Thanks! I daren’t risk it!”
One of the M.L. Sixth Contingent writes
to Otago Witness of June 12 about the Boer
tniper who killed two Australian lieutenants, a
srooper and five horses :
Eventually he was discovered, and begged for no row
Instead he was riddled with bullets, and the men tore his
arms and legs off. “ The Australians are rough members
when they start.”
By degrees the facts of this matter will be arrived
at.
Another statement sent to a Zeehan (Tas.)
publican by Regiment Sergt.-Major Cracknel!, of
the Ist Tasmanian Bushmen and printed in Zeehan
Herald of June 3 :
On entering Petersburg a little resistance was offered,
The Tassy’s (who were the advance guard) swept through
the town, and were advancing’ on to a ridge on the oppo-
site side of the town when the Boors opened fire on us,
killing five horses, and also wounding Lieut. Sale, and
shooting dead Lieut. Walter and Trooper Frazer, of the
Westraiians. Soon afterwards the man that did the
damage was sighted, and the men fairly riddled him
with bullet s, then got to work on.him with the bayonets.
STRONG REMARKS TO DEATH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, a stick, a club, a waddy to assail the swaggering
swaddy
As he struts and lolls and poses in his ambles through
the streets,
As with lordly condescension (’tis an undeserved atten-
tion)
He bestows a victor’s smile on every maiden that he
meets !
Oh, a pole, a beam, a girder to perform dark deeds of
murder,
To besprinkle bits of flesh and shreds of kharki through
the air,
To dissever from the body politic the human shoddy
That in everlasting kharki turns to greet us everywhere.
Kingly Death ! Eternal Reaper—of Jove’s thunderbolts
the keeper—
Lo, the kharki crowd is on us, in its brazen grip we
writhe ;
Shall our khariu-cursed community be mocked at with
IMPUNITY
While You in dreary idleness stand fooling with your
SCYTHE ?
Q.
JOHNN SMITTH.
CUPID
FOR
THE
'BULLETIN'
Twin classic days the little God of Love
IK was pictured as a child,
1 with eye serene and mild,
And naked limbs, and winged like a dove,
lie only bore, to work nis honied woe,
A sheaf of tiny arrfifc/j and a bow.
Bsaw ibis to-day, a slouching yob,
enemy of law,
with prognathous 4pm jaw—
A baby burglar looking k>r a job!
H»s hiand was horny, and I chanced to note
A jemniys point protruding from his coat.
S. S.


jiiz. tin.
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
only—largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 16'5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Sydney.
HEALTH
Restored
RAFFAN’S
CATARRH
REMHDY.
AND
STRENGTH
2s. 6d.
55 ELGIN ST., CARLTON, or 3 GARROWAY
QUEEN’S WALK, MELBOURNE.
’S,
The attention of Storekeepers is invited to the above.
The Sales are Phenomenal.
The PUREST WHISKEY
in the World . . .
GEO. ROE & CO.
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.
Australasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
BEANS
. lIVBR
arm
Concluding sentence of a letter from a S. A.
cohentingenter, published in Narracoorte (S.A.)
Herald :
Please remember me to all, and tell them I am enjoying
uivself very much, Shooting Boers is like shooting rab-
bits to me.
What a lovely crop of cold-blooded homicides
Australia is training for herself in S’Africa !
* ♦ • •
The other night, in a Vic. township, when
gold medals were being handed to returned
warriors on the platform, at a local concert, one old
fellow marched up from the back seats to welcome
his son. The erstwhile Boer-slayer had been back
several days, but had left the job of calling on
the old man to the last. Patriotism—love for
your fatherland. Not for your father.
» * » *
A Rockhampton (Q.) patriot (4th Con-
tingent), mournfully“ People forget that the
men who are returning now are just as good as
those who returned earlier.” Poor patriot ! He
forgets that champagne doesn’t fizzle for ever ;
that beer very soon gets flat; and that patriotic
enthusiasm is mostly froth with a residue of bitter
dregs. And above-mentioned contingenter is
down to the dregs.
* • * •
The last Vic. contingent seems to have
been the “scrapings of the pot.” One of them
writes that only 400 out of 1000 were fit for Service
after reaching Pretoria. The rest stayed behind
sick—some of them, the writer unkindiy suggests,
of “pom-pom” fever.
• ¥ V *
Sydney Evening News item :
Trumpeter W. 0. Pugh, who went away with the 3rd
Regiment of N.S.W. Mounted Infantry, under Colonel
Eassetter, has addressed a letter to his parents, Mr. and
Mrs. John Pugh, 71 Oastlereagh-streeb, Redfern, which
FALSE ECONOMY.
LADY VISITOR : “ Yes, we had to send Annie away—she was so wasteful with the gas.”
ENFANT TERRIBLE: “Mother sent ours away, too—cos she said she was trying to save the gas.”
L.V.: “How was that?”
E.T.: “ Oh, she always turned it out in the kitchen when father was there! ”
forms interesting reading. He has not yet reached his
16th year, but seems to have sealed down to campaign-
ing readily. „ Trumpeter Pugh dates his letter from Plat
Band, Transvaal, May 31 last. He says : “ This is the
first opportunity since leaving the boat I have had of
writingyou. . . . Enclosed in this letter you will find a
few Boer stamps, which I have g >t in Boer farm-houses.
We often break up organs and pianos for firewood. There
is lovely furniture in some of the Boer houses. We take
the women and children, then blow the houses down,
and burn the farm crops. We have done this to hundreds
of places. . . . Tell M. to remember me to all the boys
round at the church, St. Paul’s, Redfern, and tell them I
am growing, and getting very fat.
What a nice, good, interesting little boy !
* » * *
Go to the war, young man ! A Crimean
veteran named Jennings, 85, who lived in a
humpy at Gundagai, N.S.W., was, a few days
ago, found in a dying state by a policeman, and
was arrested as a “no visible.” After several
hours the Govt. Medical Officer rolled up and said
Jennings ought to go to the hospital—but that
institution was full. Then the Bench ordered
him to be sent to the gaol hospital, whereupon it
was explained that none but prisoners serving
sentence could be treated there. The magistrates
then ordered the poor old man to the lock-up for
eight days, with an order for his admission to the
gaol hospital when accommodation was available.
Room was at last found there, but directly the
ancient was admitted he died. Go to the war,
young man !
“S.”: Be the disinclination of the re-
turned cohentingenter to get down to business,
and his ability to swell round and have a rich
time: I have met a few in my suburb, and the
most remarkable result of the prodigal’s return in
each instance is the sudden blossoming into jewel-
lery of the sisters and cousins and aunts of the
noble boy, likewise his best girl.
* * * *
The widow of one of the victims of the
Broken Hill South mining disaster gave about the
only bit of fresh evidence supplied to the Royal
Commission appointed to inquire into the accident.
Her husband, she said, went home to her,
scratched and bruised, a few days before he was
killed, with the remark, “You were nearly a
widow to-day.” He added that more than one of
them would be killed there soon. To her ques-
tion, “But, then, why will you work there?”
there was a world of meaning in the answer —
“ Oh, the other chaps are willing to.”
• * ♦ *
Apropos late cables re the deadliness of the
Plague at Hongkong, thus a Bulletin corres-
pondent :
The other day I was jostled in Queen’s Road (Hong-
kong’s main thoroughfare) by two coolies carrying one of
the Sanitary Department’s dead-boxes.” Slowed down
to let the bearers and their unsavourj' burden get some-
thing like an offing, but they deposited it on the side-
walk, and sitting one at each end, coolly rolled and lit
cigarettes. No wonder the plague is finding victims
among white business employes. All Hongkong rejoices
at a prolonged spell of wet weather, as the drains get
some chance of a partial cleaning, but whole oceans
would be needed to shift the magnificent accumulations
of filth.
» » * »
Adelaide has, or had until recently, an
analyst whose business it was, among other things,
to overhaul the city milk-supply, and shut down
on diseased or adulterated milk. The analyst re-
signed the other day in disgust. For two years
the Corporation, or the Board of Health (it doesn’t
appear to be quite certain which) has prohibited
the city oTcials from forwarding samples of milk
for analysis, and as a result the person with the
consumptive or cancerous cow, or the person who
puts chalk and water in his milk, has for all that
time been carefully sheltered from interference.
As to why the local fathers should sympathise so
earnestly with the man who leaves murder lurk-
ing in the early-morning jug for the encourage-
ment of the death-rate, nobody seems to have
any coherent theory. The natural dirtiness of
elected persons may have something to do with it.
* * ♦ •
Chief Justice Madden’s constant railing
against the Shiels Divorce Act has not been pro-
ductive of much effect, for Tas. Senator Dobson is
now drafting a Federal Divorce Bill, which will
bring all Australia into line with the almost-
identical acts of Victoria and N.S.W., and without
doubt the measure will be accepted by the
Commonwealth Legislature. Dobson’s Bill cer-
tainly does not go quite so far as that of N.S.W.,
for he has omitted, at the suggestion of Barton,
the section permitting of a decree within three
years in the absence of the respondent. Desertion,
criminality and cruelty still stand, however, and
the logic which impelled C.J. Madden to advocate
the maintenance of the bond between a black-
guard husband and a suffering wife finds no place
in the measure.
Elsie Hubbard, a
small girl of 11, has been
exciting the curiosity of
Melbourneites by her
passion for travel. She
does not care much where
she goes so long as she is
going, and she has run
away so often, merely to
gratify her inordinate ap-
petite for wandering, that
when she does not turn
up for meals at her home
in Fitzroy her parents
take it for granted she
has stowed away on a
steamer or a train, and
await reports from neigh-
boring States without
much concern. Elsie’s
last escapade was a crip
to Sydney in the hold of
a steamer. When dis-
covered the captain took
her in charge, and shipped
her back to Melbourne,
c.o.d. She has stowed
away to Adelaide and to
Hobart, and has taken
dead hrad excursions over
all the main lines in the
State, always turning up
at her suburban home
again in good order and
condition. She tells a
Herald reporter that she
is meditating a trip to
England in a cargo boat,
and Port Melbourne
crews have got orders to
keep a sharp look-out for
a small freckled girl in
short frocks in any bundles
or bales that may come
aboard. “I love the
sea,” she said, “but my
brother there hates water.
He hasn’t got spirit
enough to wash his face.”
Somewhere in Maori-
land (North Island) the
Town Council lately came
to high words on the ques-
tion of cutting down a lot
of trees in the local parks,
for morality’s sake. The
purist who moved the
resolution had reason to
fear that amorous couples
used the thick foliage as
a cloak for deeds which
shun the light. Strange
rustling among the
branches had grieved his
spirit, and he had pro-
bably been struck by the
significant paleness of the
moon on these occasions.
Whereupon another civic
father, renowned for his
malapropisms, said
“ Mr. Mayor, I object to
Councillor Blank making
insertions against the cha-
racter of our young peo-
ple, which I’m sure he
cannot constantiate.” All
the same the unconstan-
tiated insertion threatens
to result in a considerable
chopping down of timber.
Foliage, no doubt, has a lot to answer for.
* * * *
Despite the lamentable smash-upat Sydney
station some years ago, when a number of people
were slowly steamed to death because they could
not escape through the carriage- windows, the
railway authorities still retain the window-
bars. There seems to be no sensible reason
why, on these long suburban saloon cars,
the windows should be barred. There is no
danger of intending suicides throwing them-
selves through a narrow window while they can
quite easily go out of the doors at each end. In a
certain class of accident, especially steam acci-
dents, these barred carriages become certified
death-traps, because people cannot even get
their heads through the windows. As the
actual cause of death in each case of the Redfern
accident was the inhalation of steam, if the vic-
tims could have got their heads out of the windows
their chances of escape would have been good.
The ordinary compartment carriages have no
window-bars, and passengers can take what risks
they like.
* * * +
Accidents caused by Sydney’s George-st.
electric trams now pass without comment, but
they have not decreased. Surely (writes “ Boko ”
to The Bulletin) the Commissioners can do
something. Here is a suggestion. The cars, as
built at present, have a bogey in the centre and
overhang greatly at each end, leaving a space
some 2ft. in height between the street and the
floor of the car. That is the death-trap, for a
man knocked down by the car gets easily under-
neath, and then the bogey must smash him.
Surely upon the front rail of the leading car could
be hung a light, easily-detachable sheet of steel,
cow-catcher shape, sloping from the rail to a pro-
jection of 3ft. at 6in. from the ground. Such a
contrivance would cost little, oidy one being neces-
sary for each tram, as it could be changed from
one car to the other as necessary. The steam
motors have a clumsy cow-catcher which, though
it has to be lowered when needed, has saved many
a life.
* • * *
That Auckland servant - girl continues
to make additions to her penny-dreadful tale
about the three alleged conspirators who burnt
the Grand Hotel, together with a numoer of its
inmates. Her original narrative re the men who
were looking darkly and mysteriously in at the
window some days before the fire, and the men
who broke into the house at nights and wandered
around the premises carrying kerosene or dyna-
mite or something, is now decorated with this
further melodramatic frill:
Jessie Minns, the pahtrymaid, on being cross-examined,
repeated her former extraordinary statements about
three men burning the hotel. Under pressure the witness
further deposed that on the night of the fire she went
upstairs and found the men smearing some white stuff
over the walls and carpets on both floors. They forced
her to carry messages and a parcel from one floor to
another, and told her that a gentleman was paying them
well to burn the hotel, as revenge on Johnston, the
licensee. Since giving evidence On Saturday, the witness
said that she had been followed b.y these men, with three
confederates with them, on Tuesday night.
Little Jessie explains that, though these extra-
ordinary proceedings and breakings-in extended
over some days, she was too badly frightened to
tell anybody about them, though she was plainly
in a fair way to be burnt in her bed. This makes
her valour in fully explaining tilings now, when
the three men she was originally afraid of are re-
inforced by three others, all the mere remarkable.
The police think that Jessie is suffering from
“ hallucinations,” but it looks rather as if she had
a bad attack of London Journal, and had been
readingabout how Harold Plantagenet Fitzherbert
set fire to the moated grange with a view to com-
busting the beautiful heiress, Muriel Courtenay
Cavendish, whose golden hair hung down to her
knees, and securing her money.
* * * *
No wonder the Manly people are up in
arms for a tramway right through from Sydney.
And the O’Sullivan will give it to them
* * * *
Consider the lamentable hardupness of
N.S.W. country press ! A bare £25 totals the
amount subscribed to “the fund established by
the Country Press Association to defray the ex-
penses incurred by Mr. W. H. Midgley, of
Moree Examiner, in convening two conferences
in Sydney of newspaper proprietors and their
representatives to discuss the defamation laws of
this State.’ Mr. Midgley; it appears, expended
over £4O on postage, printing, and stationery
besides giving his time and services as secretary
to the two conferences. J
* * * *
In the appeal of Rev. George Hay, to
N.S.W. Full Court, claiming the right to marry
two professing Christian Judges granted the right’
while the Judge of the Hebrew faith refused it’
on the ground that the 'Rev. Hay’s system of
matrimonial-bureau nuptials injured public morals
GUESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
'J'HE Diver landed on the reef beneath the sunlit sea,
When suddenly was blotted out the light mysteriously,
And a voice of simple sweetness in a cadence of caress,
With a roguish little quaver and a ripple, whispered “ Guess ! ”
The Mermaid peeped into his face ; then shrank away in flicks
With, '‘Pardon me! I thought you were a dolphin doing tricks!”
NARRANGHI BOORL.


The Charm of MARK FOY’S is the Price.
One of the keynotes of Mark Foy’s success is the working
up of the Men’s and Boys’ Outfitting Trade """ _
To young gentlemen in offices, students, apprentices, and others,
who wish to present a good appearance, we call special attention to
MARK TOY’S SMART SUITS lor BUSINESS YOUTHS.
Every youth on entering his business career desires to be smartly
dressed, but the stern necessity of rigid economy with small
salaries necessitates care in spending the coin. . . .
MARK FOY’S NAVY SEROE YOUTHS’ SUITS ( Ready-Made)
but not what is known as slop-made. These are manufactured in
our own factory only, from . . .
OUARANTEED PURE INDIGO DYED ALL-WOOL WORSTED SERGES.
and are sold at 25/-, 29/6, 35/- The cut, style, and finish are
perfect, and the value is unknown but at Mark Toy’s.
“Shellback” to The Bulletin:—
The result of the Federal inquiry by Vic. Marine Board
was almost a matter of course. What good, in fact,
has resulted from any of the inquiries held during the
last few years ? Plenty of evidence is always on hand to
prove that the lost vessel was well found and manned and
in every way perfectly equipped for a fight with the ele-
ments. Vessels having large f reeboards making the same
passage, through the same gale that foundered the
Federal, had a terrible time, and even one of the mighty
Liverpool White Star steamers was seriously delayed ; so
what chance had the small, deep-laden, comparatively-
under-powered collier ? Fact is—the present freeboard
limit is still on the dangerous side, as anyone will allow
who has seen the little weak-engined deep-loaded iron-ore
steamers wallowing their way across the Bay of Biscay
for Swansea, with their decks full at every roll. Tramp
steamers, also, are continually leaving Australian for over-
sea ports, loaded down to their marks, with decks lum-
bered up, fore and aft, with cattle and horse stalls and
piles of fodder, and in a condition generally that
must render them almost totally unmanageable in
emergency. Say such a vessel gets into collision,
it’s 10 to 1 that the boats and gear are unwork-
able, by reason of the stall-fittings built around
the davits and chocks. Yet who is there to see that
this gear is in proper working order before leaving port.
No cattle-stall or other obstruction should be permitted
within at least 10ft. of any boat or its hoisting gear,
under any circumstance. It is a shameful thing that the
sailor-man’s chances of escape should be thus stolen from
him because some long-shore shark sees a chance of
making a few extra hundreds of freight on deck-space.
It is often—or seldom—a failing of bright,
clever girls to at less than their
face —or form—vaftte. This should be guarded
against. The best remedy is the P.D. Corset,
which, whilst giving a graceful mobility to the
figure, stiffens the character with a consciousness
of self-value. A pretty girl beautified by a P.D.
is too wellaware of her great charm to throw herself
away on any Adolphus who may be first to offer
himself.*
GLOBE TEAS
GLOBE TEAS
GLOBE TEAS
GLOBE TEAS
GLOBE TEAS
GLOBE TEAS
GLOBE TE«S
GLOBE TEAS
GLOBE TEAS
GLOBE TEAB
have
have
have
have
have
have
have
have
have
have
EQUAL.
EQUAL.
EQUAL.
EQUAL.
EQUAL.
EQUAL.
EQUAL.
EQUAL.
EQUAL.
EQUAL.
The Best Tea in Australii
1/9 PER LB.
CHOICE FAMILY TEA.
241 b CANNISTERS @ 121 d. =£l ss.
12tb QANNIBTERS @ 134 = 13s.
61b CADDIES @ 131 d, = 6s.
SINGLE POUND, Is, 2d,
ATCHERLEY
DAWSON, Tba Mbrchamts, 234 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
A WOMANS LETTER.
Sydney, J uly 8, 1901.
My Dear Artni, —
State elections, a big ball, and the productions
of “Casino Girl” and “Second in Command”
are pretty good provender for one and the same
week. The crowd opposite the Herald office
looked the same old, wet, silent, smoking, straw-
hatted crowd that we’ve viewed so often from the
windows of the Empire Hotel. One woman-
only one, I think—stayed in the liquid mud and
crowd’s centre. A pair of upstanding blue bows
betrayed her. The crowd opposite the Telegraph
had lungs, and smelt of onions. In the dining-
room of the Empire, where the Progressives had
fed, was the same old after-dinner fervor, hand-
clasping, speeching, and reading of congratulatory
telegrams.
Squaw-like, a few women came in after the feast,
and there was a demand for menus and auto-
graphs. One lady, whose husband had been re-
turned, asked for a menu to be autographed by
the “distinguished” persons present, as she
wanted it “for her boys.” She was confessedly
not far in the twenties, but the excited chairman
asked, “ Are your sons also in politics? ” and got
the reply, “They’re not even in knickerbockers ! ”
Some of the candidates proved that “the readi-
ness is all.” At Ingleburn, where solicitor Black-
more was addressing a gathering of hen-farmers,
during his hopeless assault on Camden and Poli-
tician Kidd, the speaker was roasting Ministers
and holding them up to scorn for their photo-
graphic freak at the Town Hall, where, to catch
the flash-light flare, they turned their backs on all
present—a forecast of future action. “ Mr. Kidd
wasn’t there !” shouted a young man. “ How do
you know?” asked Blackmore, “are you hiskeeper?
The Telegraph says he was present. Who are
you?” “Kidd’s son,” shouted the audience.
“ It’s a wise Kidd that knows his own father ” re-
torted Blackmore. Collapse of the Kidd.
Here’s another proof. A Sydney sider, at-
tempting the capture of a Western stronghold,
where Beer and the Bishop are all-powerful, was
orating. “ I hear,” he said, “ the local publicans
intend boycotting me unless I swallow their plat-
form whole. I warn the intended deputation
that if they come along with that threat I’ll show
the deputation the door.” “What!” yelled the
local boss-publican, whose height was just four-
feet-six, shaking his fist; “Would you show me
the blanky door?” “No, my little man,”
answered the orator, “ I’d showyou the keyhole.”
There has been great indignation in Dunedin
over the Duke’s visit to the Hawkesbury (_N.S. W.)
on Sunday. A local church-paper has five solid
columns of severe reprehension ; and the “ bun ”
for pious twaddle is certainly taken when, under
the sub-heading of “A Blow at the People’s
Purity,” it is apparently argued that the number
of M.L. illegitimate births will increase because
the Dook broke the Sabbath in Australia!
Ten maidens debuted at University Sports Club
Ball. They had the usual snowy, girl-from-up-
there appearance, with their white silks and
chiffons and bridal-flowered hands and hair. Miss
Jane Stephen (now let us rejoice that the sweet
name of Jane yet abides with us) was one of the
July fledglings. Miss Purves was another, a cata-
ract of narrow ribbon falling from the front of one
shoulder over the white frock. Miss MacCallum,
a daughter of Prof. Mungo, also came out of her
shell, and one of the jokes of the evening was the
mistaking of this young lady’s mother for ,a
just-come out chick by persons who aren’t
short-sighted, either. Miss Hinton, Miss Baker
and Miss Armstrong also “arrived.” A girl
with a big green poppy on either side of
her face, close to her eyes, carried off the daring
decoration capitally. Her hair was really black—
the kind that if an artist were painting he’d use
green for its shadows. Miss Littlebridge Harris,
who was there with her niece, Miss Blanche
Harris, wore a beautiful gown with a molten-
bronze look about it. Miss Hilda Caro was in
ro3y pink. Miss Mary Johnson left a memory of
white silk and chiffon and pink roses. The two
Misses Pitt were white and fluffy aud Dresden-
chinaish. A girl got a pretty effect out of her
arm-straps. They were black velvet bands over-
laid with little pink rose-buds. It was a lovely
ball, and all the damsels wished the U.S.U. would
do it again next evening.
Sydney Comedy Club plays “School” next
Friday night at Palace in aid of Free Kinder-
garten of N.S.W. The Eieut.-Gov., Mrs. Beau-
mont, and the Mayor and Mayoress will be pre-
sent. Mrs. F. A. Davenport and Mr. F. L.
Hodgkinson are the executive.
A correspondent from Orange writes : “ Which
of the four named artistes has the best natural
contralto voice—viz., Kate Rooney, Marian
Llewellin, Hetty Holroyd, and Eva Mylott ?
Also their relative positions?” First of all,
Orange flower, Hetty Holroyd is a soprano, has
always been a soprano, and unless a big tax is put
on high C’s to help pay the expenses of the Royal
Visit, she will stick to her present vocal arrange-
ments, and remain a soprano. Kate Rooney is by
right a mezzo-soprano, Miss Llewellin has pro-
bably the best contralto voice. As to their relative
positions, they stand thus—(struck out, by order).
Sydney University Amateur Dramatic Society
plays, “ She Stoops to Conquer,” next Thursday
night in Palace Theatre. This is the first time
the Society has taken such an ambitious play-
ground as the Palace. And as Tyrone Power has
been coaching the club it ought to conquer with-
out much stooping.
Broughs opened to a packed and fashionable
house. Sixteen persons in the vice-regal box, in-
cluding Miss Darley and some A.D.C.’s with high
collars. No Brough first-night would be at its
best without a host of Allens, and the host was
there in its very best clothes. Frocks are changed
three times in “ The Second in Command.” Mrs.
Brough comes out in a white serge tucker-skirt
and a pretty bolero and vest arrangement, but the
deep heliotrope street-dress in which she sees the
soldiers off suits her best. Miss Susie Vaughan
dresses her psirt perfectly. Her dinner-dress of
1 ilac brocade is a lesson in how to seem slender
1 lough stout. Little Miss Chatteris, who looks
bke a twin-sister of our late visitor, Mrs. Mac-
kenzie Fairfax, wears a very fetching frock of red
cloth with a bolero, white chiffon vest, and black
tie. Just the sort of get-up that will be copied by
a lot of fair, short girls.
“ Casino Girl ” was to me reminiscent of
“Belle of New York,” “LaPoupee,” “Trial by
Jury,” divers Xmas pantomimes, and some Bible
Pictures. It blazes with color, goes like an ex-
press automobile, and is lightly, pleasantly musi-
cal. The eight tall, handsome, stranded mem-
bers of Signor Hasbeni’s co. wear in the first
act dresses of yellow silk, with square collars of
white tucked satin and yellow hats, six-deckers,
with white quills run through the front under the
brim, and black buckles. There’s some very
narrow black velvet about the corsage of the
dresses. And they and the hats would do splendidly
for garden-party or race-meeting wear. The hats
reminded me in lightness of puff paste, the silken
layers were so flaky. I was sorry when that
yellow wave rolled off, for it was beautiful. Grace
Palotta’s first frock is just indescribable. I have
a memory of a short, white and heliotrope skirt
and a short cloak, worn Hungarian-hussar fashion,
of heliotrope velvet and gold gauze, a big hat with
a huge white feather straying away from the
wearer’s face, and another peeping over the brim
towards it. Of course, this is the kind of dress an
American girl wears when touring in Egypt.
Miss Palotta’s hats are noted and copied con-
siderably. One Melbourne house alone made 100
copies of a certain yellow hat she used to wear.
Later in the play she gets into a shorter, brightest
poppy-red frock with an oval, black, glittering
apron, and, though the stage is crowded with
color, this frock makes all the rest look drab. But
Grace is robbed of a tenth of her charm in having
no train to manipulate.
One of Miss Carrie Moore’s short frocks is
cerise silk flounced to the waist. At the square-
cut neck is a wide band of black velvet that makes
a background for a splendid diamond star. Later,
Carrie puts her star in her hair under the brim of
her hat. Another of her frocks is a white satin
with pastel blue chiffon, but she looks best in her
Oriental robes. In the Egyptian ballet there is
a strong flavour of flesh, the little zouave of black
and silver seems to be worn over—nodings else.
By the way, it does not appear now that Miss
Carrie is going to be married —just at present.
London Sketch recently printed portraits of
the Marquis of Headfort and Marchioness
Rosie, nee Boot?. The Marquis, who looks
a school-boy despite his military uniform,
has the eyes of a child and the mouth of
a noodle. His bride wears a large toque
and very undraped shoulders. Her portrait is in
profile. From below the forehead the face pro-
trudes, nose, mouth and chin seem bunched
together —a bit monkey-like. If the full face is
better, one wonders why we see Rosie in profile.
If it is no better you may conclude that the Head-
fort boy married her for her moral qualities, or
“charm,” anything but her looks. Perhaps the
portrait is a libel. Talking of portraits, I often
look over an M.L. weekly— The Triad —and am
always “fetched” by the beauty of the young
singers and budding musicians grown in M.L. and
pictured by the paper named. The South Island
of M.L. seems to produce pretty girls as lavishly
as autumn fields grow mushrooms.
Don’t some good managers know how to get the
worth of their money out of, say, a bunch of
violets ? A woman of my acquaintance has been
wearing a two-and-sixpenny bunch of silk violets
for the last five months ! Sometimes they are in
her toque, sometimes in her coat, last week they
were divided between her hair and her evening
dress, to-day she’s sick in bed with bronchitis and
the violets are in the low, flap collar of her
dressing-jacket. The doctor noted that they
matched her eyes so she is happy, even if there is
a eucalyptus kettle steaming at her.
In the matter of veiling : Soon, unless you wish
to be mistaken for a Boggabri girl, you must let
your mouth go uncovered. Veils to the nose are
due. Rendered necessary by the side-boards of
hair, and ruffled necks. This is bad news for most
mouths, for with women their mouths are the
crux. (Note how they come out in photographs).
Yet the mouth almighty will, you’ll see, short-veil
itself equally with the Cupid’s-bow.
I’ve just been looking for the fiftieth time at a
serge, so-called tailor-made, five-guinea frock that
I can’t wear and wondering if it’s worth an action-
at-law. The sleeves hang like concertinas, and
the lapels of the coat stand out and up till the
Eoints tickle my chin. Would an Australian jury
e moved to tears at sight of these defects as they
were the other month in Paris, when La Belle
Otero pleaded in person about the misfitting of a
dress ! The waist was a quarter-inch too wide,
and two pieces of lace were an inch out of place,
and out came the jury’s handkerchiefs. She got a
verdict, and as she left the court gave the dress-
maker a gaily malicious head-wag. The very
latest laugh that Paris is having is over a fur
cloak. A severe magistrate on the Bench has a
lady friend ; his wife has a gentleman friend. The
wife wished to possess a certain fur cloak—a
beauty worth 3000 francs, and her gentleman
friend would have gladly presented it to her if it
could be accounted for to the magistrate, whose
small salary would not allow of its purchase. So
he (and she) worked a little trick. He pretended
to have shares in a lottery and got the magistrate
to buy a ticket. That ticket, of course, won the
fur cloak. The severely-moral husband received
the prize, hid it from his wife —and gave it to his
lady friend!
It was recently announced in Perth (W. A.) that
the public school children were to attend a
biograph display at the expense of certain public
personages. On the day before the performance,
the children were called to attention in the school
to listen to an announcement, and naturally
imagined that they were going to hear something
in reference to the coming treat. Imagine their
disgust when the head teacher informed them
that it was intended to make a present to the
“dear little children of the Duke and Duchess,”
and that every scholar was to bring THREEPENCE
for the purpose on the following day.
Our time must be sterile in taste when such
press spawn as the “Visits of Elizabeth” is the
book of the day in London. Young, lovely,
innocent Elizabeth (not yet “ out ”) goes visiting
amongst her kindred, who are duchesses, mar-
chionesses, &c., and writes home to her “ Dearest
Mama ” accounts of these visits. A forty-odd-
year-old swan writes with a cygnet’s quill and the
artlessness is a bit overacted. Perhaps Mrs.
Glyn, the author of the book, is pulling the
middle-class British reader’s limb whilst affecting
to show pictures of aristocratic life in England
and France.
An English Marquis—we are given to under-
stand that he’s a very fine fellow, no word that
he’s drunk or “bounding” kisses Elizabeth a
few hours after he’s introduced. She is insulted and
angry, and he apologises so: “The dimple in her
left cheek misled me as to her character.” What
would this noble lord think of, say, Grace Palotta,
if he took dimples for indices of friskiness?
One doesn’t like to think of Grace’s danger.
Another coroneted person whispers to Elizabeth
to “drop her glove outside her door that night as
a sign that it would be all right.” And Miss Baby
Face writes “it was a funny thing to say, wasn’t
it, dearest Mama ? ” Nearly everyone is intoler-
ably vulgar, and looks and demeanor are on the
top rung of exaggeration. The maids are
“ furious ” over some trifle. Titled women “glare
like tigers ” at others not in their set and “ burst
with fury ” when a nouveau-riche calls on them.
A lady “ looks green-rhubarb-juice ” at a gentle-
man and he “ has the expression ‘ damn ’ all over
him.” Eliza meets her Marquis in a train and they
‘ ‘ glare at each other like two wild cats. He
wanted to slap me and I wished to scratch him.”
She talks “fleas ” with a French Count. “ Lady
Diana is pretty but has big ears, and all the
people have the look in their eyes as of persons
with tight boots.”
The poor, cheap words (when applied to humans)
“pig’ and “cat” appear often, and there’s con-
siderable talk about “lying in a hammock when
men are around if your frillies are all right.” It’s
hard to say which is the worse—Elizabeth’s
vulgarity or her grammar. But the craze for
books of letters is at its craziest and Mrs. Glyn’s
mark in “ literature ” is made.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“The sudden sunshine of Saturday not only
attracted an immense crowd to the Flemington
Meeting, but called for the most flippant and
summery frocking. Those who, for want of some-
thing smarter, donned their Midwinter serges,
compromised by hats revelling in Midsummer
roses and Spring airiness. The two slim Clarke
girls were tricked forth in cream costumes and
bird-nest toques. Nothing so tricky has been
seen in the walks of Fashion since the trellis necks
of the blistering season. The Dowager herself
was more engaging than the girls in a dove-grey
voile, avowing the curves of her juvenile figure with
delicious candour. The Madden contingent
helped out rustling Winter or postscript Mourn-
ing gowns of black with the merriest
millinery—a garden of roses, jasmine and sweet-
pea. But the startling Paddy-green rig-out of
S’Rupert’s better-half struck the shrillest note in
the inordinately-gay gathering. Thes Hibernian
outfit was helped to sartorial greatness by the
trimmest revers and vest of white glace silk, and
a mushroom hat of dead black run over by sundry
lines of scarlet silk. Round the wearer’s neck
hung numerous chains and trinkets of an Egyptian
character. The black coats of many cavaliers
provided an admirable foil to the verdant toilette.
Besides this, all other frocks of would-be gaiety
faded into insignificance.
“ A stir was caused in the galleries of the House
of Reps, the other night when a round, very
familiar, corpulent figure and a round face on a
smaller scale to match, and a pair of round, mild
eyes embedded in the too, too solid flesh of the
face were seen in the place reserved for the Elect.
‘ Mr. Reid,’ whispered one to another. But,
just then, Georgie Porgie bowled into the Cham-
ber, and took his seat at the table. Then the
gallery occupants decided it was a twin brother
of the Dry-Dog Politician. And when after
chaffing the Ministry to a point of considerable
anger, the gentleman of the eye-glass rose and
approached the visiting rotundity, everyone was
more convinced than ever of the relationship.
They were wrong, the visitor was the Hon. Dr.
Montague, of Canada.
“ In town the likeness of the pair of talking-
machines (the Canadian one is gifted that way) led
to many queer mistakes. But Dr. Montague, who
is as serious as an owl, did not laugh himself and
thus help the mistaken one out of the predica-
ment, but glared, listened to the apology (!) for
thinking him Mr. Reid, and passed on with a
sodden look.
“ The old supernumeraries of Vic. Parliament
have gone over to the Federal service. There is a
new Usher of the Black Rod with a small voice
and lead-pencil legs which fail to fill his black-silk
stockings. An Usher without plump calves can’t
‘ ush ’ with any sort of dignity. The new young
man will have to take to cycling, or else buy pads.
There is also a new Sergeant-at-Arms, bearing a
new Mace that has cost £2OO. It is being jealously
guarded against the designs of Solomon’s lilies.
“There always is a queer mixture of the re-
spectable, the professional, and the small social
fry at 4th July celebrations. This year was no
exception to the rule. A flag from the sky-scrap-
ing top of the Equitable Building bade the Yank
and all his sympathisers to come and rejoice at
Massah Bray’s show, and the crowd came—pro-
miscuously. There were all sorts in the gather-
ing. The hand-shaking of Consul Bray (an ada-
mant bachelor) was hurriedly rushed through, the
visitors being determined on a foraging expedi-
tion, and making no dark secret of the matter.
They dashed out of the reception-room, where a
few flags, starred and striped, hung dismally
enough, to the tea and candy apartment. In one
devoted to tea and weak wine - cup, several
queer American confections decorated with
woollen girdles and corner tassels reared their
iced heads and set all the tea - drinkers
wondering what woollen comforters had to do
with celebration cakes. In another room only a
moving sea of silk hats could be seen through a
cloud of smoke as thick as the fog outside. One
heard of an American bar and a bona fide
‘ Bronson ’in charge of the taps. That accounts
for the majority of males at an afternoon recep-
tion. A band played ‘Airs of Columbia’ and
‘ Swanee River,’ to which all the ready reckoners
and Uncle Sam’s sons kept time with sticks and
goatee beards. Mrs. Charles Ryan as smart as
possible in black. Miss Muriel Curtain in blue,
and Miss V. Singleton (of Conservatorium lustre)
in purple and pink-tipped hat were amongst the
naicest. Prime-Minister Barton came late, had a
scramble and an iced American drink, and saved
his coat-tails from the fray.
“The hostess of Rupertswood at present has
the house on the Sunbury Hills filled with girls,
who have a roaring good time with the baronet’s
bright wife. Rumor hath it that she contemplates
a merry hop shortly, when a special train will be
turned on and Melbourne’s smartest make the
Rupertswood ball-room, where the life-sized por-
trait of S’William hangs in solemn state, ring
with revelry. Late reports advise S’Rupert’s
health to be better since his landing in London.
“ A mixed marriage that has excited much con-
tentious comment among the Jewish relatives of
the Rebecca in question and the Anglican family
of the young man, was quietly negotiated at the
Registrar’s office last week. When the Hebrew
maiden (marrying a Christian) can resist the
panoply of wedding-bells and confetti, a suburban
registrar is sought to tie the knot. True love has
a decided leaning to the registrar, although
Heaven knows he is a most unromantic creature
as a rule.
“The fashionable nuptials of Miss Winter
Irving and Mr. Staughton were fated to be post-
poned from this week. The bridegroom-elect fell
ill, and, just as that contretemps was causing
alarm, the sudden death of the bride-elect’s father
brought the preparations to a full stop.
“In a ‘Million of Money ’ Frances Ross looks
very young and pretty as a parson’s daughter,
who marries millionaire Baker on the quiet. In
the average parsonage of real life it’s waste of
time looking to Pa for finery—ask him for a new
hat and he’ll chestnut you re ‘ the adornment of a
meek and quiet spirit’—but in the Blandoltian
rectory the Apostle’s one ewe lamb prances round
in swagger flowered muslin, all chiffon frills down
the front, pale-pink and lilac alternately. Later,
as the wife of a rich husband, she sports a silver-
bordered, purple cloak with rich white tassels—a
picturesque garment of novel shape, rather like
an Arab’s bernouse. Under this is worn a girlish
short-waisted, short-sleeved dinner-frock of white
satin.
“In ‘The Million,’ Harrie Ireland (the sinner)
and Frances Ross (the saint) should exchange
roles. The latter’s honeyed sweetness and decora-
tive innocence would sit well on an ‘ adventuress,’
who needs to look lamblike, even though she feels
wolfish. Now, Harrie Ireland, all stage-swagger
and loud haberdashery, would scarcely wheedle a
wide-awake babe-in-arms into mistaking her for
an injured innocent. When she lounges into a
bachelor’s snuggery in tight fawn lace polonaise,
transparent sleeves, and hat-feather hanging into
her eyes, she gives herself away as completely a 8
if ‘ baggage ’ was branded on her brow. Not that
Harry Dunstable (Baker) sees through her. But,
then, they’re so unsuspecting in Stageland ! That
old parson, for instance, who goes to races and
illuminated fetes, gets His fortune publicly told by
a gipsy, and sanctions the addresses paid by a
welsher to his (parson’s) niece ! What would a
real-life congregation say to this erring shepherd ?
From Brisbane:—
“ Little Salvi, of the Grand Opera, can’t get his arm
round the plump Lorraine, so he pats her shoulder help-
lessly. Faust took a fall out of the Devil the other night
by rushing the trap-door and leaving for Hell alone.
‘Himself’ was left clinging for dear life to the sides of
the flooring, but high and dry and with a 113th psalm
expression.
“ ‘ Herod ’ was read at a recent meeting of our Literary
Circle by a society tea-merchant member. By varying
positions he was the entire cast of the tragedy. By the
filter, the Queen ; elbow on the piano, Herod ; behind the
spittoon, the rabble ; under the hat-rack, Salome ; and so
on. The head of our educational system made some
remarks: ‘He looked upon Othello and Herod as black
savages, and was always sorry that such very charming
women as Desdemona and Marianne were in their power.
He had seen Beerbohm Tree act Herod in London, and to
see a woman with such very, very white skin embraced
by an Asiatic savage was revolting to him.’
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


A Letter Prom A Miner.
Broken Hill, N.S.W.,
19 September, 1900.
Gentlemen, —
I beg to testify to the success of Warner’s
Safe Cure as a blood purifier. About three
years ago, I suffered from a most painful skin
complaint, which lasted about twelve months. I
tried various remedies, without success, until I
tried Wamer’s Safe Cure. After taking, I think,
five bottles of that medicine I was cured, and
have had no return of the disorder since.
Yours faithfully,
. JOHN DOWD.
Miner, Broken Hill Proprietary Mine,
Messrs. H.H. Warner & Co., Ltd.
Warner’s Safe Cure acts scientifically. It cures
all diseases of the kidneys and liver. 'When those
vital organs are healthy, most ills that trouble
humanity cease to exist. Indigestion, rheuma-
tism, anaemia, blood disorders, biliousness, gout
gravel, neuralgia, general debility, and Bright’s
disease all arise from defective kidney or liver
action, and are cured by Warner’s Safe Cure.*
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID ;
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes,
splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair,
ttemoves Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
.. ~ , ,nv 'gorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
r-. . , h ° leSale Agents f ° r New South Wales-
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
HIS EXCELLENCY THE EARL OF HOPETQUN
Has A rroiNTKI) IVXr>. JT. A_. WILKLXKreOKT
OF TIIE
COOLALTA WINES
(Offices—374 Oeorge Street, Sydney)
HIS WINE MERCHANT.
H.R.H. the DUKE of CORNWALL and YORK, per his A.D.C. Lord Crichton, writes from New Zealand
say ‘the Oopia*ta Wines supplied to H.M.S. Ophir were very much appreciated.” 1
FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPiE R IDEM.
BUCHANAN
BLACK and
WHISKY
WHITE.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The Peacock’s eyes are in its tail;
Tho’ many, they’re of small avail.
Yet quickly treason he descries,
Who always looks with Arous eyes.
J. P. Butler, S.A. Treasurer, is easily the
thinnest politician in the local Legislature, now
that shadowless Holder has departed. Butler,
like Playford, is a farmer with a taste for finance.
Seems that a man can publicly announce
his own death. Melb. Arc us, 17/6/’Ol, reports
the death of its late publisher—whose name,
nevertheless, appears in the “imprint” of the
same issue.
Elector at political meeting to B. It.
Wise: “ Mr. Wise, do you know why you are
“he a kitten ? ” Wise said he didn’t know.
Well,” continued the elector, “it’s because
you’ve so often been licked ! ”
Wood-chopping champion Bryan will wield
the baton instead of the axe in future, he having
been accepted for the Vic. “foorce.” He hails
from Healesville and Gippsland, where wood-
jamming is a popular sport.
If Providence felt the least interest in the
health of the Anglican Church in Victoria, poor
old Bishop Goe would have been moved by the
Holy Spii-it to throw up his billet long ago. There
never was such a long unbroken failure in Mel-
bourne’s Episcopal gaiters.
“ Gentlemen ; though defeated, I am more
than proud of my thousand odd votes. I will be
with you again at the first opportunity, and I ask
you to pray to your Saviour that I will be suc-
cessful.”—One of the Chosen returning thanks for
his defeat at a recent election.
It is freely printed in Maoriland that the
be-knighted democrats, Ward and MKenzie,
were long in doubt as to the advisableness of
accepting the “honor,” but finally yielded to the
entreaties of—the old, old story ! —certain female
relations. The old mean excuse.
John Colton, the S.A. Premier who first
gave Kingston Ministerial office, is still alive,
though nearly 80 years of age. In that famous
Ministry formed m 1884, were Kingston, Baker,
Playford, and Coles, all of whom subsequently
occupied foremost position in S.A. politics.
Findley, the Expelled, is a printer
and learned his trade on Mortimer Franklyn’s
long-defunct World. His next frame-holder and
great “ pal ” of those days was a young man who
inherited the bulk of the fortune of one of Aus-
tralia’s richest squatters, «-nd now pays income-
tax on £20,000 yearly.
Findley’s name, as publisher of the Tocsin,
has been replaced by that of J. A. Andrews.
Andrews, like Eugene Aram, is equal to either
fortune —Gaol or Plaudits. It was J. A. Andrews
whom G. It. Dibbs prosecuted in Sydney on a
matter of imprints, and sent to prison—a mean
pretext for an unjust act.
Now this is something like a testimonial
for a man to take to Parliament! Laborite
Scobie, who succeeds N.S.W. ex-Speaker Abbott
as member for far-out Wentworth, has lived for
25 years in Menindie. There are 74 voters there ;
of these 72 voted, and all but one went for Scobie,
who is the village saddler.
For the second time this year the order of
St. Michael and St. George has proved fatal to an
Australian recipient. Defence Minister Dickson
died immediately after being made a K.C.M.G.,
and now a brother of Defence Minister Forrest
has succumbed to a C.M.G. In spite of these
warnings, however, Australian public
men are pushing themselves into the
circle of infection.
A CHIP OF THE OLD BLOCK.
ISAAG : “ They, my poy, how many apples are
eleven apples and thirteen apples?”
I KEY : “I don’t know.”
ISAAC : “ Veil, can you tell me how many shillings
are thirteen shillings and eleven shillings? ”
IKBY (quickly ): “ Twenty-four! ”
On the suggestion of Keating, the Laun-
ceston boy-politician, the knighthood title has
been dropped in the Senate, and members no
longer turn verbal somersaults in endeavoring to
say “ Senator Sir Josiah Symon.” Keating’s pro-
posal was hailed with such a chorus of “Hear,
hears”—Symon and Downer themselves being
among the applauders—that Sargood had not the
temerity to speak against the proposal, but cast
himself back in his seat with a deep breath, as if
to say, “ What are things coming to ? ”
A certain Mayor, who has just been re-
turned to the State Parliament, was once deputed
to apologise to Toby Barton for the then local
member’s absence when Barton visited the town
on Federal business. “’E’sbeen called away to
examine a corpse,” said the civic magnate. “ A
corpse,” exclaimed Barton —“what corpse?”
“ Oh ! ” said his worship, “ the Mudgee corpse of
infantry.”
Poor little York was very anxious to speak
to Maorilanders in Maori, and invoked the assist-
ance of a well-known M.H.R. to teach him a few
words. H.R.H. was advised to wind up his
speeches with the Maori “ Kia ora ” (pronounced
Kee-ora) —“Live for ever.” Somehow or other
the wires got tangled, and the Duke said “ Kai-
ora” (ky-ora), thereby inviting all present to eat
with him !
Died recently in the U.S., Louis Janin,
jun., a well-known American metallurgist and
pressman who for some years resided in this
country. Australia has known few men more
competent in their profession than the deceased,
who, however, was temperamentally doomed to
wreck his own career. He was formerly celebrated
as a sprint-runner and was a son of Louis Janin,
the editor of New York Mining and Engineer-
ing Journal.
W. J. Lyne is much disgusted that the
Duke did not lay the foundation of a Hall of
Fame, as suggested by him. Just think of the
tinpot gods that would have been set up by the
politician in response to newspaper-organised
bursts of mob-howl! Better first get some well-
established heroes, then build Parkes’s Dead-
house and Lyne’s Hall of Fame. No man should
have a statue until he has .been dead 50 years,
any more than any man should be hanged until
he has been convicted six months.
Editor Bulletin. —If the late Mr.
M‘Kean, as stated in a recent paragraph,
“ always maintained that the greatest forensic
effort made during his long experience of
the Vic. bar was Dawson’s summing-up for
petitioner in the Molesworth divorce-case,”
he was much in error. Dawson did not appear
for petitioner in the case named. My late father,
Archibald Michie, Q.C., appeared for the peti-
tioner Robert Molesworth, then a Judge of Vic.
Supreme Court; Mr. A. Dawson appeared for
Mrs. Molesworth. Petitioner was successful. I
have the brief somewhere. —A. D. Michie.
The Times (Wellington, M.L.) actually
printed this (in a leading article) during the Royal
visit:—
“An element of romance hangs round the story of the
handsome and winning Princess May, because of her
engagement to the late Duke of Clarence, and the subse-
quent transference of her affections to the Duke of York
on learning that the younger of the brothers had con-
ceived an attachment for her. Affairs of the heart,
whether the actors in them occupy lowly cots or lordly
palaces, have a perennial charm for the fair sex, and the
women of Maoriland will, therefore, be glad to place them-
selves in some sort of personal relation to the Royal pair
whose love-story has been illumined by that fierce light
from which exalted personages cannot escape.”
At the Commonwealth gathering in Syd-
ney, Colonel Wyndham, commanding the Im-
perial troops, collided with burly Dick Seddon,
Maoriland’s Premier. Their introduction started
the trouble. Wyndham put two fingers in Dick’s
large paw, and remarked, “ Haw ! I have heard
of you.” Seddon detests a two-fingered shake,
and the colonel got to thoroughly know this
when he had to go to Seddon for infor-
mation as to the future destination of his show.
Seddon gave it to him in plain blunt colonial— “ I
have a cable from Lord Roberts, and you and your
crowd can pack your swags, and get ready to go
to Maoriland at once.”
“The spectacle of a
Ministry becoming so far
forgetful of its dignity as
to allow the units of which
it is composed to enter
into public controversy
with a newspaper is cer-
tainly far from edifying,”
begins Mr. A. Geoffrey
Eagar in an impeachment
of Messrs. O’Sullivan and
Quinn in Sydney D.T.
Which recalls the fact that
a notable Geoffrey Eagar,
father of the above writer,
one time N.S.W. Trea-
surer, and later Under-
secretary for Finance,
smashed official etiquette
in a far more desperate
way than the O’Sullivan.
While a civil servant he
attacked John M'Elhone
for a speech made in Par-
liament, challenged that
Boanerges to “come out-
side,” and in various other
ways broke standard rules. M'Elhone appealed
to the Premier to keep his underling in order,
but old James Martin only laughed.
Brainy Wallace Nelson, editor of the
People’s Newspaper, Rockhampton, is off to edit
a Democratic journal at Kalgoorlie. Nelson had
loads of ambition for political honors but was most
unlucky. Twice he fell-in through informalities
in his nomination paper, and Capricornia just
failed to elect him as its Rep. in the Federal Par-
liament. Under Nelson the P.N. was, for a while,
the brightest Labor paper in Queensland.
Just as the jury, at the third and final
futile trial of Jane Smith, of Talune notoriety,
retired to consider their verdict, Robert Howard,
the Botany Bay hangman, appeared on the lawn
at Darlinghurst Court-house. “Looking for a
job?” inquired a reporter, who had described
many a gruesome scene enacted within the grey
sandstone walls of the gaol. “No ; 1 don’t expect
to handle her,” replied Robert—who appeared
quite resigned and even smiled magnanimously.
When long Jas. M‘Kean (formerly a Vic
legislator, and recently deceased) had been in
the Parliamentary dungeon for some time
for having said objectionable tilings
about members, a motion was
§assed to liberate him. The
ergeant-at-Arms was sent
to the black hole to bring
the offender to the bar of
the Assembly for admoni-
tion, and shortly re-
turned, announcing that
the bird had flown,
whereat the House was
dissolved in laughter. A
too-clever-by-half door-
keeper, hearing the re-
sult of the division, had
immediately liberated
the prisoner on his
own responsibility.
While smarting under
arrest, M ‘Kean re-
membered that he
was once employed
as a solicitor to
arrange the
amount of
damages to be
paid by a highly-
respected M.P. who
had been led into a
trap by a designing mar-
ried couple; and he and
the sufferer were on oppo-
site sides in the Assembly.
The affair had been kept
a close secret, but M‘Kean
now sent pars, about it to
a number of country
papers. The irate pri-
soner, learning just before
he was let off that the
M.P. in (question had
strained his conscience
to vote for his pardon,
despatched tele-
grams after the pars,
countermanding them. _
The telegrams were in
time to stop publication,
but, of course, the news was all over the province
in 24 hours.
The Federal Parliament-house Committee
has appointed genial George Upward to the sole
management of the show in its club and pub.
aspects. Upward labors under the cruel appella-
tion of Usher of the Black Rod, which would
imply that his chief mission in life is to wave a
wand. But the brawny ex-oarsman clerks for
select committees when required, and has been
the usher of radical reform into the refreshment
department. The Black Rod is a mere ancient
British foolishness, whereas the Black Bottle is a
great political force.
Many “ t’othersiders ” will keep green
the memory of the late Alick Forrest by reason
of his exertions to obtain employment for them.
When the western goldfields broke out nearly
every one from the other States who could
manage it brought with him a letter of intro-
duction to the deceased. They all wanted work,
and Alick wasted many days in finding berths for
needy new-comers who had not even a vote to
give him in return for his kindness. Brer Alick
was, with all his failings, one of the most genial
and kind-hearted men who ever lived.
There are two solicitor-politicians in Syd-
ney who object each to the other bearing the
name of John Hughes, and one of them is
generally writing to the press to explain that
lie isn’t the other fellow. Each is at a loss
whether to change his home, apply for an in-
junction, or emigrate. Whenever one John
Hughes climbs to fresh fame, he finds the multi-
tude lifting its collective hat to the other J.H.,
who on his part is wearied explaining that the
bowing and scraping are before the wrong man.
And when John Hughes passes John Hughes in
the street, there is ice in the atmosphere.
“Kiwi,” from Maoriland : — Apropos the
be-baublement of Ward and M‘Kenzie. Seddon’s
Radical admirers are delighted that he once more
resisted the Royal blandishments (as to the
acceptance of a title). But, if I mistake not, a
rude shock is in store for them. Seddon is not
yet quite clear of the crowd whom he knows how
to humor. Soon, however, I expect to see him
farewell Maoriland to take up a high official
position abroad ; he will then accept a title Con-
sidered to be as much above a K.C.M.G.-sbip as
Mt. Cook is above Seddon’s Terrace. As for
Ward and M‘Kenzie, the “honor” will be the
former’s political death ; the latter, poor fellow,
is too dead politically to be hurt by anything.
Mayor Graham’s defeat by photo.-maker
Eden George is generally alluded to as the surprise
of the N.S.W. elections. Yet it was not quite
unexpected. A stronger man than George would
have won the seat easily, instead of skimming in
by a few votes —possibly influenced by his alleged
timely donation to the Balmain Strike Fund. Dr.
Graham won the seat first when he was a highly-
popular medical practitioner in Belmore Division,
which includes Wexford-street, Belmore Park and
some of the poorest portions of Sydney. His
professional advice was always at the disposal of
the poor around him, and he troubled them little
about the bills. But now he is a Knight, Mayor
of Sydney, Lecturer at the University, &e., &c.,
and has little time to spare for the rheumatism and
colic of Belmore Division. So the poor ungrate-
fully deserted him for Eden George. Added to
this the land’ords and property-holders vented
their spite on the City Mayor for raising the City
Rate m order to place the City Council in a
solvent position. The Assembly now has not a
titled person in it, and if Speaker M‘Court can
manage to escape the distinction it seems likely to
remain without one.
THE RETORT COURTEOUS.
STAIONMASTER : “No smoking allowed on the
platform.”
DEADBEAT (whose pipe has gone out). “I’m not
smokin’.”
S.M.: “ Well, you’ve got a pipe in your mouth.”
DEADBEAT : “ Yes, I put it there to be ready in
case you might offer me a bit of bacca.”
John Anderson, long meinher for E.
Melbourne in Vic. Assembly, who died the other
day, was a good-natured old hotel-keeper who
owed his Legislative position mainly to the
possession of a brogue on which you could hang
your hat. John’s speeches were marvels, and on
one occasion when he had questioned the accuracy
of some Argus report that journal retaliated by
printing one of Anderson’s oratorical efforts verba-
tim. The thing was hopelessly unintelligible.
John was not, as generally supposed, an Irish-
man. He was English-born, but had spent nearly
all his life among sons of the ould sod. It was
Jack Murray, of Warrnambool, who described
him as “an Englishman with a Scotch name and
an Irish accent.”
Mr. Edward Dumaresq, of Tasmania, who
lately celebrated his 100th birthday, is chiefly
remarkable as having sat longer on the magisterial
bench than anybody else this paper knows. He was
appointed a J.P. 12th July, 1828, and after 73
years at the game is still capable of fining the
local larrikin 255. for “farin’ me uniform.” That
is, if he could find the necessary larrikin ; for in
a land where a man may serenely grow older than
Adye Douglas, the air is too soporific for larrikins
Mr. Dumaresq saw the division of Tasmania into
police districts in 1827 ; and knows the sad history
of Vandemonia from Ato Z. His son, H. R.
Dumaresq, was appointed a J.P. 30 years ago
and being an inoffensive agricultural M.P., quite
unlikely to fire the Derwent, he also may live
100 years.


TRY
MAGONOCHIE’S
“ ' 1 ’
CELEBRATED
Worcestershire
Sauce.^^—
Most Delicious
and Cheapest.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Australian Representatives :
SWIFT & CO.,
7 Spring Street, Sydney.
WATSON S WHISKY.
DAVID STORED. & SONS’ Ih ™ ’ CB “* BL " E
Registered
Trade
Mark.
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE
Wool-
Marking or
The Perfect Sheep-Marker.
Kept by ALL
BRANDING OIL
MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
Hotel
Australia «i
Rates from 12/6 per Day,
„ £3 10s. per week
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
The AUSTRALIA HOTEL is fireproof
from tower to basement.
Rapid elevators run day and night, and
an efficient night-staff regularly patrols
the building.
Hot and cold water are in every room.
Private suites, combining bedroom,
sitting-room and bath-room, are one
of the most attractive features of the
hotel, and a post office, telegraph
office, hair-dressing sa’oon, bookstall,
and cigar-divan, are included in the
building.
J. SMITH (Late of JVlenzies’), Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. —In the case of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
THE PRESENT STOCK-INSPECTOR IN THE WEST.
“ Inspecting his stock."
“F.A.R.” : Apropos the fact that at
Rotorua (M.L.) recently the Maoris presented the
Duke and Duchess of York with native curios,
&c., worth, say, £2OOO. In Queen-street, Auck-
land, t’other day, I met a splendid specimen of a
Maori. Asked him if he had been one of the
recipients of the medals given by the Duke to the
leading chiefs at Rotorua. On his replying in the
affirmative I asked him if it were a gold medal.
“No! No!!” he said, “Te Tuke not gif gold
medal ; Maori gif everyting; Te medaHe Duke
give me same as penny —no plutty goot 1 ”
“Philef”: Re “Ben Sun” (8.,
6/5/’01). Where does “Ben Sun” come
from ? I have spent two years —swag up
—on bush routes between Brisbane and
Bundaberg, Brisbane and Roma, and uf
and down Yeulba and Condamine Rivers,
and have camped with drovers and
travellers of every description; with
Kanaka-working eockieson coastal ranges,
sugar hands in mill and in cane, coastal
fishermen, cedar-getters high in the
divide, rail and road navvies ; and fail to
remember a single instance where the
talk at the fire—and elsewhere too —was
not of an incredibly detestable description.
Have no hesitation in saying that around
nine camp fires out of 10, two hours out
of three, the talk evinces a bestiality of
mind, a loathsomely dirty depravity, as
sickening as it is senseless. The cause?
A kind of humor peculiar to Australians,
born of ever-hopeless, ever-heroical stoic-
ism, and perhaps the inadequacy of the
Anglo Saxon language—the language of a
mild, moist clime—to express the drear
desperateness, the iron, silent pathos, of
the momad’s life.
• * *
A N.S.W. up-country municipal
council recently invited applications for
the combined positions of council clerk
and inspector of nuisances at the magni-
ficent salary of £5O per annum. There
were 20 applicants. It costs from 16s. to
18s. per week for board up there. Pre-
sumably the rest of the official’s keep is
intended to be embezzled out of the petty
cash.
“A.P.R.”: If Tattersall’s is to be sup-
pressed, why not also the N.9.W. system of land-
balloting ? Between legal, travelling and hotel
expenses the out-back land-applicant has often to
pay £5 for a 50 to 1 chance of getting £2OOO worth
of drought-stricken desert. Even after drawing
the lucky marble he is sometimes disqualified.
Writer knows of one man who attended nine
ballots last year, and spent £25 in travelling
expenses alone.
* * • *
Many intending settlers complain of the
clumsy regulations re land-balloting in N.S.W.
Every time a man applies for land he has to attend
the local Land Court for two days to have his bona-
fides inquired into, notwithstanding that such has
been approved of ten times before by different
Land Boards, thus incurring considerable expense.
What is desired is a certificate asserting the fitness
of its holder to select land.
♦ » » *
“Jagra”: Almost incredible is the
amount of gambling carried on in the country
districts of N.S.W. Writer knows of “schools”
where men think little of losing £2O or £3O at a
sitting, and where farmers have knocked down in
a few nights the price of a year’s crop, just sold.
I have known two Hawkesbury men to have £7O
on the toss-up of a coin.
* • * *
“W. T.” : Recently heard two of the
horny-handed discussing Wine. “My word,”
said one, “ I got some grand wine once. It was
as thick as treacle and as strong as rum.”
“ Agra ”
writes from
Rockhamp -
ton (Cen-
tral Queens-
land) :
The Rock-
hampton t o
Broadmount
(Keppel Bay)
railway is a
lasting monu-
ment to the
stupidity o f
the Queens-
land Govt.
Broadmount,
in the night-
mares of Q.
Govt., was to
be a mighty
port, to kill
Sheol v i 11 e
dead, and be
a calling sta-
tion for all
the big mail-
boats. Thous-
ands were
spent in build-
ing a splen-
did wharf, and
digging out
mud to make
a harbor..
Then a rail-
way was built
to Rockhamp-
ton. To-day
the train
crawls along
for 30 expen-
sive miles, un-
til the engine hits a post on a wharf, and the car-
riage doors burst open and let the passengers fall
out. The first big boat that tried to enter Broad-
mount got bogged (at high tide) like a cow, and
the skipper darned his eyes if ever he’d enter again, even
with a mud-punt. The town (?) itself hangs by its toe-
nails on the side of a steep hill, like a fly on a wall. The
population consists of two men, and mosquitoes in
hordes. The men find it easier to get beer than very
muddy water. Now Rockhampton Harbor Board has
got a splendid Bates dredge, which will soon enable the
biggest boats to come right up, and 0. Queenslanders
would like to know what that line was built for.
* * * *
“Will J.” : Phenomenon recently intro-
duced to a Dimboola (Vic.) flock—a lamb with
two heads, four front legs, two hind ditto, and
two tails.
A NICE DERANGEMENT OF EPITAPHS.
MRS. MALAPROP (fat party with nice daughter and smart young man attached): “ Friends,
allow me to interpret you to my daughter's financier.”
“Hermes”: Be Maori etiquette. When
writer went surveying in the King Country, Pig
Island, some years ago, the first Maoris we met
came down and examined us suspiciously. They
then requested us to keep close in our camp till the
day after to-morrow, when they would receive us.
We kept close accordingly, wondering whether it
meant a feast or a massacre. When the day came
every Maori for 20 miles around was on the spot.
A hoary chief stood up on his short but redundant
legs, and made a long speech, and insisted on
rubbing noses with “ Wiremu ” (that was our
boss), and said that. when we all went to Te
Reinga (Hades) we would go hand-in-haud. Then
he waved his hand, and the brawny-haunched
tribesmen staggered forward loaded with flour,
potatoes in sacks, bags of sugar, and, in fact,
every scrap of food in the district, and made us a
present of it. It was enough to feed the whole
party for 12 months, and I wondered how it was
that Wiremu had the reputation of not paying his
debts; for, at this rate, his profits must
have been enormous. But Wiremu knew
his Maoris. He accepted the gifts with
great dignity, and made a long speech to the effect
that his father and his father’s father had told him
of the generosity of the Maori, and now, lo ! he
beheld it with his own eyes and knew it for him-
self. He squeezed out a tear and was too affected
to speak, and each Maori wept copiously. Then
Wiremu waved his hand, and said to us (in
Maori): “Take these things that my brothers, the
Maoris, have given me within your tent, lest the
rain come and destroy them, and drown my heart
in grief.” We took them. Wiremu went on
spouting, and as we came Out again to see the rest
of the show he hissed at us in English : “Take all
those blanky things out through the back of the
tent into mine (which was next door), and don’t
let them see you doing it. It wrings me innards
to give ’em' back, but it’s got to be done.”
So we did it. Then I came out and told
Wiremu that it was finished, and Wiremu
waved his flipper majestically, and burst forth
(in Maori) : “Hear ye, men of the tribe of
Hapuka. I, your brother Wiremu, am not a
mean man but generous, even as yourselves ; and
because I love you, and that there is amity
between us, I make you a gift.” (To us): “ Bring
forth the gift from my tent, and give it to my
brothers, the Hapukas.” We did. It was the
same heap of provender. All we got was the
back-breaking job of carrying it in and out again.
Later on, the Maoris presented Wiremu with a
fowl for his tea—and it was a very small fowl,
too. This was all Etiquette. In six weeks’ time
the press of Maoriland will probably rise as one
rag and say that Seddon is to blame for not
having carefully tutored Dook George who, when
the Maoris laid all their treasures, some of them
of priceless sentimental value, before him, incon-
tinently grabbed the lot. He should have picked
out one or two very small ones, and then have
handed the great bulk of them back with the in-
timation that a father may not rob his children,
and the Royal minions should have scattered gifts
—good substantial gifts—and shaken hands with
every chief personally. As it is, the Maoris will
probably be soon heard advocating a South Sea
republic, or something like that. They haven’t
started yet, simply because they can’t quite credit
the impossible circumstance that the Duke has
really gone off with the whole heap of wealth.
They feel as a white man might if you called on
him and he told you to take a chair, and you forth-
with gathered up the most comfortable chair and
went away home with it.
* * * *
“ P.C.” writes: Vic. Govt, has spent
£196,000 on the work of draining the great Koo-
wee-rup Swamp. Its assurances that the swamp
was properly drained induced many to select land
and settle there with their families. The Govt.,
be it noted, sold these people land—not sludge.
Since then they have struggled through flood after
flood, and more than once have seen their homes sub-
merged in an inland sea, and their crops and stock
swept away. Now Vic. Govt.—what humorists!—
has the cheek to present the Koo-wee-rup settlers
with a boat and life-saving apparatus, so that they
can escape from the allegedly perfectly-drained
settlement in time of emergency —or submergency
—and grappling-irons with which to fish for each
other’s dead bodies when they don’t happen to
get away fast enough. It is probably the best
the Government can do now, but the engineer
responsible for the awful fiasco should be sen-
tenced to spend the rest of his natural life on the
dampest part of Koo-wee-rup.
LITTLE CARRIE MOORE OF FIVE
YEARS AGO.
Photo, taken specially for THE BULLETIN by Mendelssohn ,
M elbourne.
A lecture recently given by Theodore
Bevan, in London, illustrates strikingly the con-
nection between missionaries and armed force as
it presents itself to the native mind. If the
Papuans were asked whose was the warship visit-
ing their coast the reply was always “ Tamate
lakatoi ” (Chalmers’ warship). Well they knew
the object of the big vessel was to protect or
avenge the missionary.
* * «
Abdul Wade, the Bourke camel-carrier,
has lately sent up 200 beasts to Winton (West
Q.), where another depot will be established.
But worst, the cheap brown man from the Punjab
(Abdul Wade scorns the suggestion that these
mild, long-suffering laborers are true Afghans) goes
with them.
WHIP MARKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve just put the bullocks to by-by
In the bend at the back of the dam,
And now at the camp-fire I lie by
And smoke while I listen to Sam :
From a piece of an old Australasian
They gave him back there at the station
He’s giving the boys Federation —
But who cares a d ?
The rents and the taxes they levy—
Resumptions of lease on the run—
Have long made the burden too heavy
For sad hearts and shoulders so young ;
And we’ve always had bad legislation
Hand-in-hand with a drought on the station —
The sheep die of thirst and starvation
’Neath a blasted hot sun.
You battle with burr, scrub, and thistle ;
You dig up and stack prickly pear ;
And curse, when the eaglehawks whistle,
The sight of a rabbit and hare.
Then at night, when the sky’s calm and clear,
The song of the dingoes you hear,
And you find when you muster and shear
The number’s not there.
All prices go down on to bed-rock,
Except for the things we require ;
The wool-market’s always at deadlock,
The bank’s putting interest up higher ;
Then comes the beloved selector,
The stock-tax-assessment collector,
The double-paid O.P. inspector—
A fat, greasy liar.
Then it rains—things look just a bit better ;
With luck in, you’ll surely get round ;
But the coach brings a mortgagee’s letter,
Which says you must transfer the ground.
The new man, all shirt-front and collar,
Says, “ Chappie, don’t fwet, have a swallah ;
You’ve always got dwoving to follah ”
The pigeon-toed hound !
In my mind now they march by like cattle—
The shuffling bank-boss in the rear ;
The C. P. inspector does battle
With Stock-Tax for place—and just hear
How the pockets of all seem to jingle
One tune ! while the voices all mingle
In a song called “ We lift the last shingle—
And God wipes away the last tear.”
Then fight on, ye beer-bloated bummers I
You may federate Heaven and Hell,
But you can’t cool the back-country summers,
Or keep the supply in our well.
May God in his self-renowned pity
Make Oobar or Louth Fed’ral City—
May Reid’s tongue get hard, dry and splithy—
The boko-eyed swell 1
N.S.W.
FIREBRAND.


THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Himyadi Janos
For GOUT and RHEUMATISM.
Professor Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University—
? U i?' > T aC^1 J^ nos as invariably shown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never gives rise to un-
desirable symptoms even if used continuously for years.”
Average Dose. A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAPTION-
Note the name “ Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
“ Leading'.’’
PRACTICAL MINER INTERVIEWED.
While in Perth, a special reporter had a chat
with Mr. Patrick Biggs, an intelligent and
experienced miner, well-known to masters and
men in Broken HiII(N.S.W.) —that mining centre
which contains the largest silver-mine in the
world. In the course of conversation, lead poison-
ing, or “leading,” as the miners call it, was
referred to, and Mr. Biggs freely mentioned it as
the curse of a miner’s life.
“ I was engaged in mining pursuits at Cobar
and Broken Hill for years,” said he, “and have
had a personal experience of ‘ leading.’ It was in
’97 that I became seriously ill with it. The doctor
was called in, and he unhesitatingly pronounced
the case one of lead poisoning. The symptoms in
my case were chronic constipation with violent
internal pains, and an inability to freely use the
hands. As time went on I did not progress as
favorably as was wished, so I went to Adelaide
for treatment. ”
“Were you successful there?” asked the re-
porter.
“ No ; the relief I obtained was only temporary.
I felt very disappointed, and decided to go on te
W. A., thinking the sea voyage might benefit me.
But the trip seemed to make me worse, and on
arrival at Perth I was almost unfit for work.
Although I had the treatment of two more doc-
tors, and from time to time tried nearly every
patent medicine advertised, I still remained un-
cured.”
‘ ‘ You could find nothing to work the poison
out of your system ? ” asked the reporter.
“No, I could not,” said Mr. Biggs, “till I
began using Dr. Williams’ pink pills for pale
people. As I continued taking them f gradually
regained good health. These pills worked the
poison out of my system. My blood became pure
and enriched, and I felt ever so much |stronger.
At present I feel better than I have ever done
before, and my recovery is solely due to Dr.
Williams’ pink pills. It will always give me
pleasure to make known the merits of so reliable a
specific. lam off to the Phillips River goldfields
shortly, and should I have sickness of any kind,
I will certainly use Dr. Williams’ pink pills
again.” Mr. Biggs is at present residing at Mary-
street, Perth.
In all cases of blood-poisoning and vitiated or
impoverished blood Dr. Williams’ pink pills will
be found invaluable. They free the blood from
impurities and increase the red corpuscles. At
the same time they tone up and repair the nervous
system. By their action on the blood and nerves
they cure rheumatism, neuralgia, sciatica, lum-
bago, bronchitis, effects of fevers, influenza, and
loss of manly strength, etc. Sold by chemists
and storekeepers and by the Dr. Williams’ Medi-
cine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney, two and nine per
box; six boxes, fifteen and* three, post free.
Ladies will find them an ideal medicine. They
never fail to restore regular health, and so pro-
duce a brilliant and beautiful complexion. Sub-
stitutes are useless.*
♦
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buver of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
CHILDREN
now-a-days have notoriously BAD TEETH,
because the White Bread they live on lacks the
Wheaten Phosphates (rejected with the Bran)
which go to make good, sound Teeth, as well as
Bone, Brain and Nerve substance.
CEREBOS SALT, used like common salt,
supplies these necessary Phosphates, and is,
therefore, invaluable in the daily food of
mothers and children.
Wholesale Agents:- HARRISON & ATTWOOD, 334 and 336, George Street, SYDNEY.
Sold by Grocers and Stores.
“S S. Concerning snakes in shafts
Me that snake imprisoning the Halhday Brothers in a
shaft for two days, one cannot help wondering that the
& oners 4 id " ot /° up ’ arld deal it out to the serpent
with a pick-handle. Snakes very often get into
shallow workings, and when grubbing in alluvial on a
Tas. field, self and mates were always most careful to
look out for snakes and scorpions when going below.
tasa
windlass him up to save my life. One warm Monday
morning had got Charley pretty well bottomed in our
Lift, shaft, when a frantic howl from below caused me to
hang to the handle all I knew. “ There’s a snake on the
bottom ! ” yelled the man in the shaft. “ Heave up, for
Cod’s sake—heave!” I heaved till my eyes stood
out like nobs on a tin trunk, but never an
inch could 1 lift fat Charley. On the contrary, he was
gaining on me bit by bit, and every inch he dropped he
fetched a wilder yell than before, and filled 64ft. of shaft
with linked profanity that spat out at the surface in vivid
lengths. I cried aloud, but no help came, and human
endurance could bear no more. Charley went to the
bottom with a rush and a bump, and for ten seconds I
liung over the mouth of that shaft with a drv tongue and
a heart thumping like a plunger. “ Ho-o-ow-how is it,
Oh-ch-charlej-?” I wailed. Then arose softly a jet of
limpid cursing that was sweetest music to my innocent
ears. “ And the snake, Charley ?” I said. “ Biowed if I
know,” replied Charles ; “ I’m on top of him ! ” Charley
did not stir a peg till we let a man down, and then only
with the greatest circumspection. But the snake was a
mangled and impotent ruin. Fat Charley had bumped
the life out of him
„
T , _ ,
John Batmans historic attempt to bag a
mass of territory around Port Phillip is recalled
by the mysterious appearance of the original
document in the office of Harwood and Pincott, a
firm of Geelong solicitors. Ihe deal was to be
with the Duttigallar tribe, represented by eight
/
THE DOMESTIC SERVICE.
MAMA : “ You know, Mary, you
shouldn't keep such showy maids."
MRS. GEORGE : “ But we live in such a lonely place that maids won't stay with us unless George
is nice to them, and he is positively nasty to them unless they are nice ones."
chiefs, and the document sets forth that delivery
was to be effected by the nigs taking up bits of
soil and placing the dirt in the hands of wily John
Batman. Batman was working the game of the
Port Phillip Association, which consisted mostly
of John Batman.
• • » *
The Gippsland wild dogs which disinterred
and mangled the bodies washed up from the
wrecked s.s. Federal are a powerful cross-breed
between the dingo and the mastiff. They breed
freely, and grow almost to the size of a Newfound-
land. They are rapacious and fierce, and the
dingo strain in them alone prevents them from
being as dangerous as wolves.
“ You've come,” the Chief-
tain sadly said,
“To fill the place of him
whose dead —
The good and obese Mr.
Bett,
A thing impossible, ah
me I
To do at once—you will
agree,
As HE IS UNDIGESTED
YET.”
Ticket-Taker,
The clearing of the Western country
(N.S.W.) by drought and over-stocking, and the
consequent shifting of sand, has laid bare at least
two aboriginal burying-grounds. In one, near
Wilcannia, several skeletons are exposed, along
with what apparently served for memorial-stones.
A peripatetic scientist has built up from the bones
and their disposition a paper for the next Science
Association Congress.
* * * •
This is a true bill from Barmah (Vic.)
where James, and William his mate, are sleeper-
hewing. James left his grub in a small leather
bag wrapped in his coat on a log, and towards
noon a howl from William drew his attention to
the actions of a predatory gohanna of great size.
When James rushed, the go. slid up a tree with
the strings of the leather bag hanging from its
mouth. James felled the tree, slew the go.,
withdrew the bag, and, having dined, expressed
himself blanky grateful for a warm meal.
Tinonee, Manning River, N.S.W., has
produced a Cliartier radish weighing 7flb.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
, , , T .. ■" "f
stamped. A (t m e and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
“ - >•* ~«««* «•»•*< «•
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
C.W.W. : Yes, the A.N. A. is narrow enough in
;fo ~, • Z
lts protest re Commonwealth appointments ; but when a
man is imported for one high billet he lays himself out to
drag in imported men for most of the billets about him.
All his old friends write to him, mail after mail,
; , .... . „ , ,
lmportumn " hlm to > ret them a place > and generally he
ff° es bis best to gratify them.... M.H. : Just been to the
funeral of your marriage poem.. .. Aletes : In Nietzsche
you ’re out of your depth.... A.J.D. : “ M‘Dougal ” will be
„ .. , , , ~
M o T ude « ln iakhn Reciter, ready before Xmas.....
M - L W Heav 7 h f ss B P ace . u 'ore point, more pains.
■-R- : lk - vd , on correctly expressed N.S Y. libel-
la"blcb does “ ot p f m,t P° d 7 ltb to stl , fy ffi ad ’
vertently-inaccurate statements. Xor the rest clippings
don wa, .' ran , t y ° ur complaint.... B.G.S. : The Melbourne
ab ? ut f s . h ? nest as >° f u can « et th * m > tbanks
t k ® 7 movement. Honor where honor
. Various Correspondents : Several loose stamps
and forlorn envelopes confront us. Tether your stamps
to your copy. Don’t write explanatory or introductory
letters ; the copy tells us all we want to know... .Vulcan :
You’ve missed the essential point of Gal ton’s tirade—the
astonishing fact that a University-trained “clergyman
and gentleman ’’ should descend to such vulgar abuse of
£SSiniim„i (hi Sd
no secret of it... .R.K. : It wasn’t officially described as
“The Duke and Duchess’s Room.” The bill for furniture
and’freshments looks very like a “try-on,” seeing that,
when payment was refused by Govt., the Exhibition
trustees (or one of them) admitted that the furniture
was waiting for removal back to the shop it came
from, and the bottles of liquor were mostly
stored away in a cellar for future consumption....
J.G. (Adelaide): Thanks, but we “aren’t taking any.”
Who on earth, barring a few parsons, senile Leg. Coun-
cillors, and old women, now really feels (or even pretends
to feel) any interest in the Dookandutch ? Bung, ex-
ploded—whurr—woosh ! Juggins : Yes, the sender was
a thief, and has had the grace not to demand payment, so
far Veteran : The strychnine tabloids mentioned were
obviously not those “ ordinarily used as tonics.” They
were tabloids to be dissolved in water for hypodermic use
in cases of snakebite Broken Hill: You'begin—
Come, sing us a song of the city of sand,
Silver, sin, and sixpenny ale ;
Dumped in a desolate, drought-struck land
—and end, as far as we’re concerned 6xB: Of course,
it was absurd to suppose the ’possum was hunting rats’
but the animal certainly is not “ strictly vegetarian.”
Lots of bushmen will testify that the ’possum will eat
cooked meat E.M. : The “ unsavoury suggestion” is in
your own unsavoury mind alone. The issue in question
has now been before the public for five months, and you
are the only person who, to our knowledge, has ever put
such a forced and unnatural construction on the article.
Firebrand: Will try and use your heart-felt
curse R.I.P. : Curious fact. Sorry it is un-
printable Cro. S. B. : Your dear friend’s prescription
is an absolutely murderous one. If you go on taking
turpentine in the doses stated you "will die of kidney
trouble in short order. Ask any'sane doctor Shot:
Not worth while arguing about it. The gentleman’s
“leg” has been “pulled.” M.E.A.” : That’s a very
mild case of professional usury and would arouse no
enthusiasm Billie (M.L.) : Now, just suppose this
paper printed all that rancid grease? Narracoorte :
Thanks. “Ria” is the nickname of the typical London
coster-girl Veldt: An ingenious mosaic—but we let it
go.... Jim: Suggestions unavailable. One of them too
suggestive, as you should well know T.A. : Letter-
posted as requested Zodiac: Two misprints in it—
“procession” for “ precession,” and “365” for “ 365 J.”
D.H.R. : The edible-grub was fully exploited in Bul-
letin a couple of years back A.P.R. : Have had that
potato-yarn before A.J.P.K. : Somnambulists have
done much more extraordinary things than that. Duality
of brain-action is supposed to be the cause of the con-
dition. .. E.L. A.: Perhaps the P. &0. will hardly be so sweet
on the Lascar, now that Ram-Jam-Sammee will have to be
provided with the same accommodation as Bill Smith,
A.B G.G. : Mayor items look malicious R.A.K. :
Very slovenly matter and hard to decipher. “Easy
writing makes dashed hard reading.”.... Boko : Funny,
but it would be too cruel. The poor parson’s widow still
lives.. . .Combo : All we have to say about the matter is
that the Judge who sentences a prisoner to 14 years’
servitude and three floggings is not a civilised man ; he is
a brute beast.... Alpha : Most of it is probable enough
G. : Bushranger Dunn was captured 15th May, ’65, and
hanged 19th March, ’66. According to the “ History of
Australian Bushranging ” a brickmaker was watching his
kiln about two miles away from where Dunn escaped,
when a man crawled out from behind a log and begged
a “drink of water for God’s sake.” It was Dunn. He
told the brickmaker who he was, and asked him for a
horse to get away. But the brickmaker refused, went
in to Dubbo and brought out the police, who recaptured
the fugitive. The brickmaker was rewarded. Dunn was
POLITICAL ITEM.
NEAR-SIGHTED BUSH CANDIDATE: “Ladies and gentlemen, I see before me many old, respected
an' familiar faces ”
only 22 years of age when executed W.B. : Plenty of
possibilities about “ Disillusion,” but style too tame
Rough-rider : Hopeless collection of verse Unley: And
yet over 80 per cent, of the Territory population consists
of Chow miners and laborers ! Bushman : Just plain
raw meat and slaughter... .Moira : “ Bushwoman ” leads
nowhere in particular, and nothing happens on the way.
....Constant Reader: Unfit for print W. Jarrett:
Shows signs of improvement, but not quite good enough.
.... Possum : Some humor about Peter, but a great
scarcity of incident... .Con. : Small effort rejected with
energy B. : If you can’t prove the perjury, you must
grin and bear... .Livingstone : Take more than Stanley
to find your poem now 11.W.K. : You’ve mastered the
theory of rhyme right enough—also the theory of pak-
ah-pu—and here’s the combination in practice—
Down in Goulburn St. the Chinamen play Pak-Ah-Pu ;
And white men wander there to get a Quip or Two.
They give you a ticket with Eighty letters on,
For the sum of Sixpence to try your look upon.
You are allowed to mark Ten the other Seventy,
Are odds against you to which you readily agree
In this fascinating game they have Four basins,
And Eighty letters mixed are placed by, in rotations—
Then are drawn Four letters each represents a cup,
When one of these has been selected the numbers do go
up—
Then the Bank appears and you scrutinise your ticket,
Seeing what a failure is your attempt to hit it.
Perhaps their marks may correspond only One or Two
Upon the Bank with the ticket feebly held by you
Bless me ! you get nothing if you have not Five—
To equal theirs no matter how you strive.
.. .Louis M. : You merely hash her ideas. None of your
own ?.... Valdemar : Will remember when reprinting in
book form.... Rifle Smoke: All smoke, no rifle.... Pro-B.:
B stands for Basket... .Lanky : A good try, anyway....
W.H.H. : You write like an encyclopaedia in trousers,
but .... Flaxbush :We saved the pins.. .. J.P.T. :In
the ordinary way of business you would be bound to
deserve the appointment. Why argue against a quite re-
spectable fact ?.... E. M.T. : Sleep again.... Brown : Sorry
won’t d 0... .Thompson : Too ricketty-racketty-jiggity-
jog.. . .T.H.M. : You lack either brains or pains.. .. Pos-
sum :No interest at this end Kelpie: Good point
poorly handled M.F.G. : “ Wind” too stiff—wants a
breath of poetical emotion.. . . Alice M. : All too faint and
forceless... Grafter : Memo, for you at P. 0., Broken
Hill G.H.W. : Hollow! hollow! O.D.W. : Not
enough interest... Larrikin : Returned F.S.S. : Old-
fashioned and feeble... .W.A.Q. : Taffy accepted—verse
declined... .G.P.B. : Stiff reading, like tramping over
boulders... .A.S.K. : As a “first effort” it was decapi-
tated merely. Melted lead next time Ernest M. : So
this is a “dread colum,” is it?....D.W. : Probably
“ II.” ; “Slumber” is a little heavy—doesn’t f10w....
Battleaxe : Not bright.. ..Van : “ .Why” flat.. ..R.V.W.:
Not bad ; not good enough.. ..Will J. : Nearly printed
“Casey”—not quite A. Chee : Send address
W.G.C. : A joke that requires so many footnotes is use-
less... .F.O.G. : That is not for publication.. . .J.O.R. :
Noted... .Zonali: Dull Considine : Practise on the
local paper for three years.... John C. : Considering
Ironside : The other side is leaden W.H.W. : Possibly.
Feathers: Scattered J.G.D. : Passed out
Northerner: Probably Taradale : Ignorant as a hole
in a flower-pot Magnet: Not up T.S.M. : Out of
print.... G. : Considering... .Noorat: Case was not de-
cided on that ground... .Mrs. W. : Dowdy poem with a
draggled skirt Henry W. :Do something temporary
with a muzzle? T.H.M. : More curious than poetical.
Jack o’ Clubs: May print you some day Alone :
Together with the others Narranghi: Considering.. ..
Never: Never Dede: Good last line only
E.F.L.: Good rhymes; not romance enough.
• R.D.: Don’t remember them Possibly held over for use.
.... Hamer 4 : You don’t seem to get the necessary light-
ness of touch Yar. : “ Smith ” lacks both point and
edge. . Bolivar : Some good touches, but it all
turns on an unprintable episode M. Gintar: A
good motive, but you sadly lack presentation-
force One Fool: Might have been a good deal
worse Lone Fisher: Hopeless metre, and poor
stuff, anyway Procyon : Hardly enough in it
Jawage B. : A good deal below mark, but has indica-
tions that, with practice, you might do much better
Aitchpee : Not too bad, but interest hardly strong enough.
....Louis M. : “Yours” is too awkwardly versed
A.E.C. : State the case more lucidly. Your punctuation
renders your exact meaning very doubtful.... Boomer-
ang : D.’s bullet unquestionably Prospector: Will
consider anything you send a10ng.... Cornet : Hardly
point enough.. . Hugh R. : Send along particulars if you
wish, but be as brief as possible... .Ancient: Many
thanks. Appears to have been an impudent imposition.
....Gilaomi: “Church Trouble ” interesting, but would
need too much re-casting Thomas M.A. : Thanks. The
Tanquerey (Paris) photo, business is a swindle ; the pub-
lic will have to look after itself R.I.P. : Remitted,
May 13, to Heathcote, N.S.W. If wrong, please write
again... .Leonidas : Not up.. . .Morse : Kipling 0ff....
D.H.B. : Considering... .L.M.D. : Enquiring re “Step
too Far.” “ D.” may go Alta: Possibly. Try
again M.E.A. : Considering Johhn S. : Ditto.
A copy of “A Policy for the Common-
wealth,” The Bulletin’s particularly suc-
cessful pamphlet, will be posted from this office to
any Australian address on receipt of Bd. in stamps
(of any State).
Characteristic first news-item in Otago
Daily Times :
The individual Communion-cups were used at the
Morning-ton Presbyterian Church yesterday for the first
time, and gave every satisfaction.
Quite a formidable monument, erected by
Vic. Govt., now marks the spot where the Wel-
come nugget was found at Mt. Moliagul. The
finder’s name is engraved in big “caps,” and
trimmed with laurel “to encourage the others.”
S.S. Penarth, employed by the Admiralty
to take M.L. coal to the warships in China,
steamed back with Japanese coal in her bunkers,
and very bad material it was. “Jap coal,” says
the skipper, “ gives 24 buckets of ashes to a watch
of four hours, and Westport coal only three.”


A FAX MAN’S APPEAL.
CONSTABLE ARGUS: "In the name of [?] King I caĺ upon you for asistance! This bad character is trying to escape back to Parliament."
DAWVID SYME: " Weel, I'm thinkin [?] if Findley succeeds ye will be verra badly left yerself."


London, Thursday Afternoon.—Tho equipment to be used by Mr. Baldwin in hte Arctic
expedition includes a motor-car, for use on the great ice plains.
What next Why, the Arctic regions arc just about as suitable for motor-cycling
as thejroads .of Mosman.
"The State Premier has recognise tho extra services of the police^during'
Visit by presenting nnch man with half a sovereign.
See U may seem small, but it’s more than I ’got out of the royal. visits (Hnmph f—
not even a C.M.G.-ship ! "
Speaking of policemen, in Perth, by a recent order, every policeman has to
carry a length uf rope to lasso stray dogs with. There's a premium on stray
do-rs, and dogs being more plentiful than dukes, the police of Perth ought to
out-class their Sydney brothers in the matter of extra pay
Mpf/f
/,, » Cr.<? s o^,o
/A ' & 4?
yf "
COMB TO GRIEF.—A ilereUct o 8 the recent electoral storm iri N.S.W. f
jHf H. COPELAND, KING MAKER ' %
Handle 1
a tyiml Victory ctyyljorf'
I
?V Mokbv-lMdeb I ' Hello, Miss ! vat have
wo here?”
rj\ Australia ; " Only my shirt ; X thought
V*} Z , y OU might lend mo a trifle on it to
h J ~ pay my sharo towards sup-
porting the <i navy. It’s
about all X have left after
’ what I’ve r gono through
lately,”
London, Sunday Afternoon,—The general opinion is that “Sovereign of Greater
|Britain ” would bo .» suitable phrase to include among the King's titles wheg the corona-
tion takes place next July
Mr. H. Copeland, Agent-General for New South Wales, has stated to an inter-
ivfewcv that he felt confident that Australians would deeply appreciate .the inclusion. He
(had himself, in an unofficial manner, made suggestions to the King.
OAETOONLETS.


A. SAUNDERS’
SOLID SILVER SHOWROOM DISPLAY.
THE LARGEST AND MOST COMPREHENSIVE STOCK IN AUSTRALIA
i il
SI
. Will
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’j COMPANION CALENDER and LETTER
HOLDER, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
Most Useful Present.
Cheaper Styles, 7s 6d, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
SOLID SILVER Gent.’s SHAVER SOAP STICK,
BRUSH, PUFF BUX, in Silli-lined Case, £2 10s,
A Nice Present.
A. oAUNDERS’
Latest Style in Ladies' PURE SILYER-CHASED Watteau
Design, HAIR BRUSH, 355; Cheaper Styles, 15s t>d,lBs 6d, 20s,
255. Send for 1901 Illustrated Book.
(w 1
W
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted MANICURE SEX, 20s, in Silk-lined Case.
Other styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 255, 30s, £2,
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver-mounted SHO LIFT, BOOT and
GLOVE FASTENER, and GLOVE STRETCHES,
in Nice Leather Case, 22s 6d
mmmsmrn
A. SATJNDEBS.
SMELLING SALTS BOTTLE, Pure Solid Silver, Plain or Chased
Tops, ss, 7s fid, 10a, 12s 6d, Iss, 2Gs.
Other styles, 2s fid and 8s 6d.
4. SAUNDERS.
Ladiis' Silver-mounted WALLEr
CARD CASE, 20s.
Similar style, 16s,
Solid Silver Swan PIN-
CUSHION, 7s 6d.
PUBS.ES, Pare Silver-mounted as above,
15s and 20s ;
similar lines, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ FRIEND, Pure Silver-mounted,
in Silk-iined Case, 18a 6d.
Smaller, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
SERVIETTE RINGS, Pure Solid Silver,
Diamond Cut, 8s 6d, 10s, and 12s 6d.
In three widths.
A. SAUNDERS.
MIKROR, Puie Silver,
"Watteau Design,
£3.
Other styles, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
GUM POT.
Pure Silvei-mounted,
6s 6d.
SPE TTACLE
CHATELAINE
CASE,
Solid Silver,
80s, £2.
Silver-plated,
;i2s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Sulid Silver 4 o’clock TEA SPOONS, in Case, 15s, 20s;
with TONGS, 20s, 255, 30s. £2 ;
Silver Electro-plated, with TONGS, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
All in Silk-lined Casc j . Post Free.
A. SAUNDEBS.
BUTTEB, Pure Solid Silver, as above, 20s;
with Solid Sliver KNIFE and Silt Case, 30s, Complete.
ffffffi7r¥
A
■ $3- £>
m
I?'
m *** ts>
v> n
SK?<3
&5
fP§i§|
i<vSfc*
5®
.^v,
£'£&•
iISSgH
*Oot
wr--.
353
A. SAUNDERS,
Ladies’ Pure Silver Complete TOILET REQUISITES, in Silk-lined case.
2 HAIR BRUSHES, MIRROR, HAT and CLOTH BRUSH, MANICURE SET
GLOVE STRETCHER, SHOE LIFT and BUTTON HOOK.
18 Articles in all, £l2 10s.
m
. AUNDiiR- .
La dias’Pure Solid Silver-mounted T >LLET SET: HAIRPIN HOLDIR
BOTTLE, PUPP BOX, an 1 POMADE POT, £2. Very Use ul.
CENT
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver RATTLE, Pearl Ring and End, 12s 6d and 10s 6d; other styles, 4s 6d, ss, 7s 6d.
Sulyis LITTLE PIG • * "A
S2&SJL to MftS
A. SAUNDERS.
Child’s SPOON, Solid Silver, Chased, 7s 6d. The Latest and Newest Designs,
COMBS. —Pure Solid Silver-mounted,
Real TORTOIS BSHELL, 20s; Imitation She.l,
10s 6d; Similar, 5s 6d and 7s 6d.
CLOTH or HAT BRUSH, Pure Silver,
12s 6J, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
Price to Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ orG. nt.’s TRAVEL LING ROLLS,
as above, I2s 6d. Other St; les, similar,
10s, 15s, 20s, 255, 20s, £2, £2 10s.
MAH
BlfiPPi ' 1 '
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted SHAVING
CUP, 7s 6d.
In Silver plate, 15s, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Si] rer-mounted Gent.’s
HAIR BRUSH, 15 f each.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted
MIKR'iR, Heart Shape,
12s 6d. Splendid Value,
Pure Stiver-
mounted
HAIK PIN
HOLDER, ss.
Pure Sulid Silve
Badger Hair
SHAVING
BRUSH, 12a 6d.
Other styles,
15s and 20s.
A Nice Present.
Pure Silver
BOOK MASK,
2s 6d.
A, SAUNDERS.
CIGARETTE or CIGAR CASES,
Various Colours, Silver-mounted,
10s 6d, 12s 6a, los, 20s, 255.
StKS
A. S i.UN DEBS.
I’ure Silver-mounted KNIFE BESTS,
in Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNOEBS.
Pure Silver Cabinet PHOTO. FRAME,
12s 6d.
Other styles, 10s, 15s, 20s, 255, 30s;
small, 1j Gd, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHILD’S CUPS, Pure Solid Silver, in Silk Case,
80s, 85s, £2, £2 10s ;
Silver Electro-plated, 10s, l‘2s 6d 15-, 20i.
A Nice Presen .
A. SAUNDERS.
PUFF BOX, Solid Silver Covers, Cut Glass,
10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 61, 20s.
A Most Useful Present.
A. SAUNDERS.
Two Pure Silver-mounted BRUSHES and COMB,
in Silk Case, £3. Other styks, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNUEhS.
S ALTS, Pure Silver-mounted, 15s 6d t
White Cut Gla.;s, in Silk-lined Case.
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER and. SIL VE RSMITH.
A BEAUTIFUL DISPLAY OP PRESENTS.
Mind. 815 GEORGE-STREET,
NEARL Y OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY.


Business Announcements.
TIEUE
SoQtb Africa!)..
PrcssOtatioo
H^dal.
s.
%
Specially Designed and Manufactured for Presen-
tation to returned Australian Soldiers.
K3T APPROPRIATE and ARTISTIC. IS*
Manufactured in 15c. Gold at Three Prices, viz.,
£3 3s- £4 4s. £5 5s-
Prices include cost of Inscription and a suitable Case.
H. NEWMAN,
MANUFACTURING JEWELLER,
175 & 177 Elizabeth-st., Melbourne.
Tails. Plaits.
wmmm
»w
FRINGES, Best Natural Curly Hair, 3/6, 5/6,
7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each. TAILS and PLAITS,
20in. loner, 5/6, ; Extra Thick, 7/6; 24in.,
10/6 ; Extra Thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Comhings Worked Up, 2/6 per oz.
Don’t be misled. Our Plai’s and Tails are
twice as thick as sold elsewhere at same
price. Send Color of Hair. “ Only ONE
Address”: — W. H. WIGZ-LL,
110 WILLTAM-ST., Corner of Palmer -it.,
Sydney. Cable trams will stop at door. All
work guaranteed Illustrated catalogue
post free. Prompt attention given to coun-
try orders. Wigs made on shortest notice.
Publications.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties.
Madame Panza, ——
913, G-P.0., SYDNEY.
FOREIGN S T A ivi P S.
rz
pnnna
{"'IIIEAP SEJ’S.— 40 Japan, Is 6d ;
47 Spain, 2s ; 4 Tientsin, 3d ;
16 Heligoland, Is ; 8 Egypt, 6d ;
30 French, 9d ; 7 Iceland, 9d ; 9
Labuan Pictorial, 2s 6d; 11 Canada,
6d;9CanadaDuty,6d ;sBolivia, 4d.
Packets 50, Is ;TOO, 2s 6d. Stamps
Purchased. New Catalogue of
Stamps, Albums, etc., Gratis.
®DE!2MSi
CHARLES DONNE, 34S Little Collins-st., Melbourne.
nmm
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, By Dr.
ALFRED NEALE. Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
AND THEIR TREATMENT.
Posted Is. Id.
Publishers : Turner and Henderson, STDNKV.
IAMONO SONG BOOK,
POO SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one book. National
Songs of every country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC,
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
ime favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
where. Complete list of the songs for a stamp. This
wonderful book will be sent anvwhere for only 2s. 6d., posted
2s. lod. from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO., Wat-
erloo Clumbers, 458 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps, 2d
extra. Add exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for this
an(J other Fast Selling Books. Mention this paper when writing
“Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
Stories,” by Albert Dorrington (“Alba Dorioh ”)
is the best book of short stories yet produced in
Australia. The S. Daily Telegraph recognises
the author’s “absolute genius.” The S.M. Herald
says the volume “ contains dramatic pictures
which the best of our artists in words might well
envy.” A handsome cloth-bound volume, 350 pp.,
post-free from Bulletin office for 4s. 6d.
The British aristocracy loses its dignity
badly at times. Australia’s recent acquaintance,
the Duke of Manchester, has only escaped this
disaster by never having any dignity to lose.
Manchester’s father made life a long and consider-
able splash, and left his estates bankrupt, and the
present dignitary is a promising young man with
champagne tastes and colonial beer pockets —or no
pockets at all. However, he has made provision
for the future by marrying the daughter of Cin-
cinnati millionaire Zimmerman, and papa Z. has
paid his debts—a little item of £37,000. At first,
the Yankee parent-in-law was not over friendly.
Manchester bought a couple of prize bulldogs in
N’York, on his way back from collecting the
gilded ’Murkan gal, at a cost of £3OO. The tykes
were placed on board, in kennels that were good
enough for York and Manchester themselves
respectively, and the common person wlio’d bred
them called round for his money. Manchester
promised to send a cheque from Ireland, but the
Yank guessed he’d have it there, right now.
Manchester referred him for his dog-money to the
new father-in-law, and Zimmerman flatly refused
to pay £3OO for “ dogs’-meat.” So the person
took his bulldogs home again, and Manchester
was left saying, “Bai jawve ! ”
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Loek-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Wily old W. H. Groom’s self-praise in liis
own paper, Toowoomba Chronicle, is quaint
reading. Advantage is taken of the ancient’s
transfer from State to Federal Legislature to once
more point out the world’s debt to Groom for
existing 39 years in one place, an immovable blob
of red mud.
Thirty-nine years ago ! Why, the German Empire of
to-day was not founded, and the veteran Kaiser, William
I, had only just been crowned at Konigsberg King of
Prussia.
Me and the other Kaiser—we started together.
But William I has gone, and William Henry I is
still on deck. Watch this spot !
The “ Man of Mystery ” was in the full blaze of that
meteoric career that ended so disastrously at Sedan.
So much for Nap ! But see me ! I’m still in the
full blaze of my career, and it isn’t meteoric.
Walk round me and admire me —there’s no
charge !
The United States writhed in the throes of civil war,
and the very day that Mr. Groom first addressed the
electors of Drayton and Toowoomba, Abraham Lincoln is-
sued his celebrated proclamation of the confiscation of the
property of the rebels, and on the very day the poll
was taken M'Olellan was being beaten back from Harri-
son’s Landing after the loss of 70,0H0 men. .. . Lincoln’s
immortal proclamation of freedom to the slaves had not
even been issued until five weeks after the Drayton and
Toowoomba electiorf.
Groom has had trouble with an election petition
lately; doubtless old Abe waited to make sure
Groom wouldn’t be unseated before doing his
emancipation act. Yes, Groom lias seen all that
(and lots more in the ChSONICLe’s leading article),
and still he lives 1 How can you account for it?
Only because Drayton and Toowoomba are the
centre of the earth, which revolves round Grooms-
axis every 24 hours by distinguished permission.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
mHK Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
-L Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beacii. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
J-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
Wonderful Value-a Packet. of Eight Different Articles,
comprising Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket (a good
trick), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin
and Card Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard
Fish (gives definition of your character). That Hideous
Dancing Skeleton (turns himself inside out), Mafeking
Grub (or nerve-strengthener), That side-splitting Look
and Laugh Glass, and, last of all, The Spider and the Fly
(an ingenious mechanical toy). Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. Gd.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
X
718 George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON. Manager.
3ja
JIIIAII ft C«,
lh cl bourne
jhe Best House for
IHUstC;PianoS,Vfotins and
all musical sundries
Collins St..
FROM 5 HP. TO 100 HP.
&
FROM
1 H.P. TO 00 HP.
CAN BE SUPPLIED PROMPTLY
FROM STOCK.
31 O’Connall-st., SYDNEY; 17 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
Tlie Independent Order of . Fore 5 ters.
What a distinguished Insurance man in London, England, thinks of the Independent Order of Foresters.
Mr. William Schooling, known to most insurance people as the eminent editor of Bourne, the great insurance journal, shows how he
feels with regard to the financial stability and the wisdom of the methods pursued by the Independent Order of Foresters, in the following
letter written to Oronhyatekha, Supreme Chief Ranger of the Order, on the first day of the new century: —
BOURNE’S INSURANCE INSTITUTE LTD.
Wm. Schooling, Editor and Manager. Granville House, Arundel Street, Strand, W.C.
January 1, 1901.
ORONHYATEKHA, M.D., J.P., G.C.R., Toronto, Canada.
Dear Sir and Brother. —It is, with peculiar satisfaction that, on the first day of the new century, I write to tell you that
I have become a Beneficiary Member of the Independent Order of Foresters. My pleasure is only mitigated by one circum-
stance, which is that, Isy becoming a member now, I cannot avail myself of your very gratifying offer to personally
initiate me into the Order.
You will readily understand that my work leads me to criticise pretty keenly all matters connected with insurance, and
I have not formed my present high opinion of the T.O.F. without looking very carefully into the facts.
Permit me to express the great pleasure I derived from your al!-to-short visit to me a few weeks ago, and to express the
hope that I may have some longer talks with you when you are next in London.
I have told Brother Cronyn that I want to help the Order in every way that I can, and have asked him to let me know
when any opportunities of doing so arise. To-day I had a visit from Brother Reynolds, with whom I had a very interesting
chat, and I am already beginning to experience the pleasant results of fraternal member ship.
Please accept my heartiest good wishes for the happiest prosperity for the Order, and for yourself personally, and
believe me, yours fraternally in L.B. and C.
(Signed) WILLIAM SCHOOLING.
The above letter, from so eminently distinguished an insurance expert as Mr. Schooling, is the best possible evidence that the Independent
Order of Foresters is an institution of the first class.
ipg- Rates much lower than the Old Line Companies. Absolute safety. Prompt payments, and many advantages not offered by other companies. Over
£900,000 of surplus assets. £1,800,000 already paid to widows and orphans. Surplus reserve increasing monthly at the rate of £12,000 per month.
Representatives wanted in every community. For full information and literature, address G. A. FRASER, Head Offices for New South Wales, 283 George
Street, Sydney. ORONHYATEKHA, Supreme Chief Ranger.
DAPTO
(LIMITED),
(Lake Illawarra),
near SYDjXTBY.
SMELTEES.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
FINE SILVER.
. •
■ >!
S'" - -Ci , ' r _ *
-.. L!
. ■
MAKERS OF
S. Co, cf A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
ILLAWARM”
. . BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers
all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLI
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, eto., apply to P, S. Mouse, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.


The monster public deputation in favor of
Co-Operative coupons (introduced by Mr. Duncan
Gillies, M.L.A.) established an Australian record ;
over 500 people attended. The speakers were
limited by Mr. Peacock to five, but they rep-
resented an enormous number of the public. __ M**,
Nelson (representing 2000 workers in the railway
service) said : “This coupon system has taught us
thrift and brought pleasure to a great many
homes.” Mr. Davis (President Brickmakers’
Association) said that “ The public realised that
it is the only system by which they can get dis-
count on all small purchases.”*
A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
We learn that a most useful Veterinary
Book is attaohed to every bottle of Condy’s
Fluid. This Book contains instructions for
curing most of the ailments and accidents
affecting Horses, Dogs, Sheep, Cattle, Poultry,
and Birds of all kinds.
* Condy’s Fluid is an absolutely certain cure
for Sere Shoulders, Sore Backs, Broken Knees,
Grease, Thrush, Cracked Heels, and Mud
Fever in Horses, —Scab, Foot Rot, Fly, etc.,
in Sheep.—Rinderpest, Hoove, Foul in the
Foot, Wounds and Sores, Foot and Mouth
Disease, and Diarrhoea in Cattle.—Distemper
Mange, Canker, and Eczema in Dogs,
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists and
Stores. Beware of local substitutes, all are
inferior. Insist on having Condy’s Fluid.
MMm
GrO I*o TTKT.T,-
« IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, prioe-
Us -gratis.
HATS.
HATS. HA I^
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRAPLEY * CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Roomi, 324 Georg' Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Countrj’, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the A notion Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
fOR THE COMPLEXION
An emollent, soothing and healing pre-
paration for preserving and beautifying the
skin in all climates; it cools and refreshes
the Face and Arms in hot weather, removes
Freckles, Tan, Sunburn, Redness and Rough-
ness of the Skin, heals all cutaneous Erup-
tions and Insect Stings, produces
SOFT, VELVETY SKIN,
Imparts a luxuriant beauty to the com-
plexion and a matchless whiteness to the
Neck and Arms unobtainable by any other
means. It has been known for the last 75
years as the most curative and harmless
preparation ladies can use. Ask Stores and
Chemists for Rowland’s KaJydor, of 67,
Hatton, Garden, London.
high-grade
farm—-
Massey-Harris Co. Ltd
35 BROADWAY,
Goorge-street West, Sydneys
POLITICAL
POINTS
Total Transvaal war-deaths to June-end
arc 774 officers, 15,900 men—16,674. And sick
and wounded probably six times as many—say
100,000 —total of casualties upwards of 120,000.
With the defeat of Potato Young for the
Manning the number of members of the old Reid
Administration in N.S.W. Assembly is reduced
to four—Carruthers, Hogue, Lee, and Sunday
B ranker.
TO FINDLEY.
Go, thank your feeble foeman who
Did cast his honor down to give
You precedence, and made of you
A People’s representative !
What a hideous scene of decrepitude is
afforded by the Victorian Leg. Councillors !
Looking down on their crowns it makes one
think of a political convocation of tortoises.
What impudence it is for these to pretend to
exist with the example of the Senate before them !
Ed. Bulletin. — Be much-discussed re-
lations between squatter and selector, let me point
out that the selec-
tor'has only him-
self to blame for
most of the dis-
abilities hesuffers.
True, the squatter
loathes the selec-
tor, and putsevery
obstacle in the way
of his making a
living (with much
success, too —
members of land-
board ° being gen-
eral!} squatters
and giving notori-
ously class-deci-
sions in disputes
between the big
and the little man).
Also, the squatter
is at continual
loggerheads with
the selector over
fencing, bound-
aries, gates, &c.,
and appears to
consider him, so-
cially, as beneath
contempt. But,
for all this, the
selector ranges
himself on the
squatter’s side in
all industrial dis-
putes, votes
solidly for the
squatter’s
man at elec-
tions, and
says, speak-
ing of a can-
didate belong-
ing to the
only body that
has the power
or the will to
lighten his back-
crushing burdens,
“ Oh, yes ! —decent chap enough, no doubt —but I
->ould never vote for a Labor-man.” —A.T.H.
l'he Queensland constituencies of Charters
Towers and Bundaberg return two new Labor
members to the Assembly, in place of Common-
wealth Senators Dawson and Glassey. The Bun-
daberg victory, in the centre of the chief Q.
sugar-farming district, gives further and emphatic
confirmation of Q. belief in “White Australia.”
The Federal Senate rejected Senator
Staniforth Smith’s motion that the territory ac-
quired by the Commonwealth for the seat of
Government should consist of not less than 1000
square miles—which was a foolish and unlucky
thing for the Senate to do. The only thing that
was wrong with Smith’s motion was that it didn’t
go far enough.
“They fancied that if they could only get
a new deal they’d beat us,” said N.S.W. Premier
See of his opponents, the other night. “They
can’t win,” exclaimed an elector —“they’ve lost
the joker.” True—humorist G. H. Reid was to
the N.S.W. Calico Jimmies even as Samson’s
hair was to that man of might. It is the fellow
with the jokes who scores.
The value of Parliamentary institutions !
The uses of a Cabinet Minister! A Sydney daily
seriously urges N.S.W. Works Minister O’Sulli-
van to —clean-up the mud on Circular Quay pave-
ment ! Good old Local Government! ” Mean-
while, of course, there are hundreds of pioneer
settlements in the backblocks where there are no
pavements at all—not even roads !
Some interesting statistics : On April Ist,
the population of Thursday Island ran thus : 705
Euro eans ; 304 Japanese ; 83 Filipinos ; 113
aborigines ; 115 Chinese ; 55 Malays ; 81 South
Sea Islanders ; 54 Cingalese; 7 Javanese ; 22
Hindoos; 29 Papuans; 121 other mixed races.
Total, 1689. Can any equally small patch of
country on God’s earth show a similar variety ?
“ Occy ” writes from Melbourne :
I bought a Tocsin on the day it published the alleged
libel. Next day my newspaper-man offered me, first, 6d.,
next Is., then 18d., and finally 2s. for it; the Argus had
made that paper worth 24 times its original price. What
the newspaper man would have sold it for, Heaven knows.
1 have lent it to 20 friends already, just to show how
silly the whole reference to Royalty was. Queerly
enough, thousands are furious without knowing what to
be furious about.
On the evening of N.S.W. polling day
George Reid told Lvne in the House of
Reps, how a disgusted State was going to cast
the remnant of his discredited Ministry into
oblivion. For the rest of that night an angry and
globular prophet curled up in unwonted silence on
the Opposition benches, while a long man jeered
him at intervals, and asked him what weather we
were going to have next week.
Melb. Age, the day after Findley’s expul-
sion from Vic. Assembly, paraded the views of a
Ballarat stock-jobber that not only was Findley’s
departure a joyous circumstance, but that the
whole 17 who voted against his expulsion should
also be thrown out violently. Talk about
Russia’s press-censorship and suppression of free
speech !
George Reid’s intense clumsiness was
probably what lost his party the seat for King
Division of Sydney. His own party candidate
was a Roman Catholic. Reid evidently forgot
this, and in his memorable speech to the electors
gratuitously threw large stupid bricks at O’Sulli-
van’s religion. Those who believed
in Reid went away with the fixed
SLAPPING AUSTRALIA ON THE BACK.
“But to preside over the destinies of four millions
of free people—a people of our own flesh and blood—
(cheers) —a people who have sentiments and feelings
in common with you; a people who are highly edu-
cated, and who are well instructed by a well-
organised press; a people who are quick to express
approbation, and quick, though generous, in their
criticism—l say that to preside over such a people,
and to feel that it will be your own fault if you do
not find your way into their affections, is a position
which any man in the world may be proud to hold.”
GOV-GEN. HOFRTOUN.
HIS LORDSHIP: “ There, my little mam,
you’re a very fine fellow, and I'm relly
proud to preside over you.”
impression that it was their duty to vote against
Catholic candidates, and his own party’s R.C.
candidate was beaten by just 18 votes.
Gympie (Q.) election afforded the Philpites
an opportunity of getting in some really fine work.
Some 52 names were ready to go on the Gympie
roll and the authorities had expressed an opinion
that the owners of the names were entitled to vote
at the recent election. All of a sudden official
opinion underwent a change, and the gallant 52
found they couldn’t vote —simply because the list
hadn’t been printed. Labor won all the same.
S.M. Herald’s otherwise valuable report
of proceedings in the Commonwealth Parliament
AFTER THE BATTLE.
At the recent N.S.W. State elections the candidates com-
plained of the uncongenial weather for electioneering.
The member for Bunkumville indulges in luxuries.
is spoilt by its grandmotherly addiction to stereo-
typed forms. What’s the use of citing “ The Vice-
President of the Executive Council,” and soon?
Why not name the man and his territory ? Add
his office, if necessary. But citing his office with-
out his name is hotel-waiter business, where the
man is known by the number of his room only.
The Federal House of Representatives did
a wise thing in deciding that a Minister shall
draw his Ministerial salary and also his salary as
a private member. Even when the two are added
together the country expects to get a man who
can run the financial affairs of a continent for
about half the salary of a man who runs a big
bank —and the bank man has practically a life
billet, and probably a pension, and he isn’t abused
in the newspapers.
Sydney Telegraph, its party having been
licked with great enthusiasm at N.S.W. State
elections, says it has gained “amoral victory,”
anyhow. There never was an individual sitting
on the floor of the ring with a broken nose and a
black eye and a head six times its usual size, nor
an individual carrying home the remaining half of
his dog for decent burial after the dog-fight, who
hadn’t a vague idea that, somehow or other, his
licking was a moral victory.
Many old members of N.S.W. Assembly
who went up for re-election based their claims for
a fresh lease on the amount of Govt, money they
had managed to get expended in their electorates
during their term of office. Some gave detailed
statements, running up to £50,000. John Nor-
ton’s little bill was a modest £25,000. Either
these sums were fairly due, in which case no
special credit attached to the member, or they
weren’t due, in which case it was plain Thievery.
Anyhow, bring along the I/ocal Government Bill!
The most experienced and clearest-eyed
of the N.S.W. Labor-members are doubting
whether their party will be able to exercise so
great a power in proportion to its numbers as
it has done for years past. Chairman of Commit-
tees Cann puts it that the Labor-men’s power has
been the result no more of their own solidarity
than of the solidarity of the other two parties,
and that with the latter solidarity gone the Labor
party will be as strong only as it is strong in num-
bers.
N.S.W. Opposition leader Lee says that
the See Government “ appears content to hold on
to office at the caprice of the various sections of
the Assembly.” Well, it does appear that way.
And the oidy time Lee had a Ministerial billet the
Government he belonged to held office at the
caprice of the Labor section. And now Lee is
going to challenge the Govt, in the hope of getting
a chance to hold office by the caprice of the same
sections whose caprice is keeping See in office at
present. What a silly hypocrisy is the whole busi-
ness of party politics !
Senator Stewart has unearthed the fact
that Reynolds’s Newspaper is not admitted into
Victoria. It only differs from any other great
British weekly by reason of its republican senti-
ments and its want of adequate crawl to the
British Cro\yn, and the British people object to
that so little that Reynolds’s has one of the largest
circulations over there. But Victoria is much
more loyal to Britain than Britain is to itself, and
it won’t stand Reynolds’s. Senator Jingo Zeal,
by the way, said he had never heard of Rey-
nold’s. How on earth do men of Zeal’s ignorance
get into politics ?
In Snowy River district (Gippsland, Vic.),
there are now hundreds of Hindus —ploughing,
milking, scrub-cutting, etc., but mostly maize-
picking. They work interminable hours for the
meanest wage, camp in squalid gunyahs, and live
on maize and damper till they’ve saved enough to
start as hawkers. An instance is given of a scrub-
cutting contract for which the lowest “ white”
tender was £4. Eight Hindus came along and
cleared the ground to the last leaf for 30s. ! The
maize-grower hasn’t yet the cheek to assert that
his industry is doomed unless he gets coolie labor,
but he’ll presently furbish up some such theory
unless his enterprise is nipped in the bud.
Senator Barrett, to justify direct
taxation, and especially an absentee-
tax, lately quoted the familiar instance
known as “ Nicholson’s Corner.” This
Melbourne property was purchased 57
years ago for £1072. Now it is worth
£5,331,000; and the various owners
have already drawn upwards of
£7,000.000 in rents. Principal owner
has been an absentee for some score of
years. “Nicholson’s Corner” is an
example of the advantages of “ bring-
ing in foreign capital to develop the
country ” ; £1072 of British capital
came into Australia, and by reason of
it two or three millions have already
gone to England, while Australia still
owes England the best part of
£5,000,000. And the local rich men,
like Zeal and Sargood, are too dull to
see that an absentee-tax on the outside
rich man would go to lighten their
own burdens.
Edward Braddon, who for five
and a-half years was Premier of Tas-
mania and ran that State on Protec-
tionist principles, sits with the Free-
trade Party in the Federal House of
Reps., and makes long, soulful orations
about his Freetrade principles. And,
like all the rest of his tribe, he ex-
plains that he was driven to practise
Protection by his State’s financial
necessities. If a Freetrader, as soon
as his State gets into trouble, is driven
to practise Protection to get it out
of trouble, then it is a poor advt. for
Freetrade. A policy that is of no use
in bad weather is a leaky and disma.stedpolicy
without a rudder.
It is announced that Vic. Attorney General
Gillott (front name Samuel) is trying to find out
“if the libel on the King in the Tocsin was
written by an officer in the Vic. public service.”
Yet Samuel is perfectly aware that the “ libel ” in
question was written in Ireland. All the matter
written in Victoria was a complaint that the
suppression of the Irish People was illegally con-
ducted, and a statement that the language used
about the King was a foolish piece of abuse. If the
pallid Gillott finds that the Tocsin’s commen-ts on
the Irish libel were written by a public official, he
will probably foam at the mouth a good deal, and
also sack the official without trial in an under-
hand, “ un-British ” fashion. But it is dead cer-
tain that he won’t dare to take legal proceedings
against the writer, and let the courts decide fairly
and squarely whether his remarks really were
libellous.
Westralia has on hand a railway strike
which threatens to cause the closing-down of the
Kalgoorlie mines. The men want better pay, and
they wouldn’t mind having also the scalps of one
or two overbearing officials. But the better
pay is the main point. The employes had many
grievances under the old Forrest and Throssell
regime, and they seem to have given the new
Leake Government very little time in which to
remedy them. Premier Leake says he made
a perfectly bona-fide offer to submit the
whole difficulty to arbitration, the men being
fairly represented on the arbitration board, and
his offer appears to have been refused with need-
less emphasis. Seemingly the men didn’t wait to
see if Leake’s arbitration was anything different
from the old Forrest variety. On the other hand,
the wages are so wretched that it is asked why
it should be necessary to arbitrate on the small
increase asked for.
N.S.W. general election of 1901 will be
long remembered as the defeat of Sydney Daily
Telegraph. Never was that versatile journal
more cocksure of victory, and never did it fail
more utterty. Not only in the total result did it
fail, but in its own specific appeals. In Gipps-
division, its candidate (one Johnson, an old-time
single-tax bore) was, day after day, eulogised as a
brilliant and magnificent genius, whose victory
was certain. Johnson polled 197 votes, his
opponents 1636. Donnelly, whom the paper
specially pleaded for, in Balmain South, was
over 1000 *votes behind the winner. That
eloquent and heaven-sent orator M‘Naught,
who nightly drew fascinated crowds to Red-
fern, didn’t make M‘Gowen fight hard enough
to get warm. Premier See whose seat was in
jeopardy, polled 9(hper cent, of the votes cast.
O’Sullivan, “fighting with his back to the wall ”
won by hundreds at Queanbeyan. The D.T.
selected 86 candidates, 65 at least absolute cer-
tainties. Not 40 were returned. By 10 a.m. next
day, all the polling-record arrangements in front
of the Telegraph office were dismantled, though
many seats were still in dispute. The D.T. was so
narked that it sadly removed the testimony of its
failure, instead of allowing the admiring public
to inspect it for a week as heretofore.


CDaSSenet, the Great
French Composer, gives the
following description of
The meURN
GIVE to a musical work an absolute and exact interpreta-
tion ; to make clear the composer’s most intimate thoughts; to
bring into play a wealth of execution which only the orchestra
can give—in a word, to translate all the shades of coloring intended
by the composer —this is the achievement of the — Massenet .
The claims we
make for the Mo-
lian are strong, but
not stronger than the
evidence we offer in
support of them. The
patronage and en-
dorsements the Eo-
lian has received tes-
tify to its merits,
and make it worthy
the investigation of
all music lovers.
The plays all classes of music,
making instantly and always accessible any
selection you may desire to hear, played just
as you desire to hear it played, for the ex-
pression is under the absolute control of
the player. The .dSolian can be played
by any one. It requires no musical know-
ledge whatever on the part of the per-
former.
The cheapest iEolian plays nearly seven
thousand pieces—and plays them well, too.
jEolian Grand.
1
Sole Agents for A ustralasia,
323 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
Sendfor Catalogue
trations and
c
containing Illus-
full particulars.
The JSolian is sold at no other
address in Sydney.
READ WHAT . .
VITADATIO
. . . IS DOING.
Suffered for 16 Years
FROM
Chronic Dyspepsia,
Enlargement of the Liver, &c.
Cured by Jitadatio.
Read This Testimonial.
60 Elizabeth-street, Ashfield,
September 17,1900.
To Mr. S. A. PALMER.
Dear Sir, —Having' been a sufferer for 16 years from
chronic dyspepsia, enlargement of the liver, and other
complications, and having been treated by 17 doctors and
9 herbalists and specialists, and receiving no relief what-
ever, I was advised to give your VITADATIO a trial.
Reluctantly I yielded to the advice, and after taking five
large bottles, to my surprise, I found myself recovering
from the above dreaded complaints. I am a painter by
trade, and, thank God, I am able to resume my occupa-
tion without any return of my former illness, iam well
known in and around this district, and all my friends
congratulate me on my speedy recovery, as they all ex-
pected me to succumb, after being so unsuccessfully
treated by some of the best medical faculty that Sydney
could produce.
For the sake of suffering humanity I present you this
grateful testimonial, trusting that some poor sufferer
may give your medicine a fair and impartial trial.
Any person doubting the validity of this statement can
see me at the above address. Wishing you prosperity in
your present enterprise, and may you live long to herald
the glad tidings to poor suffering humanity,—l remain,
dear Sir, yours ever grateful,
SAMUEL SEARLE.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
POWELL’S riSJM
AM
Off
OF ANISEED
WILL CURE YOUR GOUGH
All the world over, it has been the recognised
Cough Remedy for the past 75 years, and is
to-day the Safe and Reliable Cure for
Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and all Lung Troubles.
Loosens the Phlegm immediately, and re-
moves the tickling sensation in the Throat,
which deprives so many of rest during the
night. It Strengthens the "Voice.
WARNING When purchasing
Powell’s Balsam of Aniseed
see the above Trade Mark on each wrapper
and beware of Imitations.
Sold by Chemists and Storekeepers through-
out the world. Prepared only by Thomas
Powell, Ld., Blackfriars, London, S.E.
SuUS
CAMERAS
SUPPLIES
6 6 King ST Sydney
CHARLES READ & CO.,
* HOJLVM NVWHSna
m
in
■
Camden Buildings,
420 George St., Sydney.
Three Doors f rom
Strand Arcade.
A Saving of
25 per cent.
JEWELLERY,
SOLID SILVER GOODS,
SILVER-PLATED WARE.
Write for SO-Paged Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
GALKIN CUPEL MACHINES.
Calkin’s Automatic Cupel Machine.
Will make 600 cupels of uniform size
and density in an hour.
The only absolutely satisfactory machine
made.
Made in three designs—Automatic, Table
and Wall.
The automatic machines will make five sizes.
The table and wall m achines from one to
three sizes, depending on dies furnished.
Maohines for one size only at propor-
tionately less price.
Write for full particulars to
SOLE AGENTS-
pikes icy comply etd.
60 Clarence-St., Sydney, n.s.w.
Importers of modern appliances for Assayers—Furnaces,
Blowers, Sampling: Machines, Ore Crushers, etc., etc.
MILES AHEAP OF ALL OTHERS
* . Are America’s Representative Typewriters . ■
'}
The yost .
jjensmore
.. ilem Century
iThy Search Elsewhere ?
WE Alone can Offer You
a Choice.
WE WILL ADVISE YOU WHICH IS BEST FOR YOUR WORK.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue —Free.
UNITED TYPEWRITER & SUPPLIES CO. (LARGEST dealers in AUSTRALIA
114 Pitt-st., SYDNEY ; 362 Collins-st., MELBOURNE ; Barrack-st., PERTH.
Webster & Co., Brisbane ; Reeves & Co., Adelaide ; Hedley Button, Launceston and Hobart.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS
Catalogue
Free . . .
French’s Acting Edition,
Rare Books
French Novels
Books
for
the
Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
Boohs Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE . . .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
mm
The Beauty of Riding
MULTIFLEX
1 Dunlqp Tyres
Is their all - round Excellence,
THEY BEING
LIGHT, FAST and RELIABLE.
Roadster Tyres Guaranteed for 12 Months.
You are Invited
I'unlop Tyres for 190containint? 48 pages of inter-
esting reading matter, profusely illustrated with photos
of Australian views, racing cyclists, motor cars See.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co., of Aust., Ltd.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.
Trade
Mark.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aus. Ltd.
150 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY;
and at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security—
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
0
w
N 5
BILLS
discounted-
3W.S/X7V.
font deplete Q.s|.C°->Gtd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
* SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
'—THIS—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,600—assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office : .
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital ... .. £4,800,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. £3,216,885 0 0
Directors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman ; J. C. Syme,
Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon. N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M'Nicoi, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager : Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Sishopsgate Street Within
corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers . The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES - .
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
Haymarket, Gosford (with, agency at Wrong!, New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers £3,000,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
The Bank of ||orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director-JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ... £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250 000 ... £350,000
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital „. .. £2,500,000
||eui Zealand Insurance Qo.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
J. A. MINNETT,
Manager.
81 Pitt St., Sydney.
T|)€ Trustees, €*€c<itors,
AND
Ag'iKY Con>paoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £8312 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1900 £6,326,343 0 0
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors —Sydney : Sir W. M'Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks,
‘Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.,
Branch Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W.
N. M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Earquiiar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montefiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
___ Shipping.
THE HOWARD TmITH LINE.
TO
West 8* South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
}
Leura, Saturday, July 13, 12 Noon.
Tyrian, Saturday, July 20, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT DIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer Early.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Steamer Early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Peregrine, Sat., July 13, 12 Noon.
•Konoowarra, Tues., July 16, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, July 20,12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Peregrine, Sat., July 13, 12 Noon.
Leura, Saturday, July 20,12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Qowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest. Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
THE “ALL RED” MAIL ROUTE
TO LONDON.
THE ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
OF THE
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
Under contract with the Governments of New South
Wales, Queensland, and Canada, leave Sydney every
four weeks as under, for
BRISBANE, HONOLULU, VICTORIA and VANCOUVER.
Connecting at Vancouver with the
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
This is the Imperial Route Home, as well as the most at-
tractive. It avoids alike the heat of the Red Sea and the
cold of Cape Horn. The railroad journey between the
Pacific and Atlantic Oceans (Vancouver to Montreal)
occupies about 4 davs, and is made
WITHOUT CHANGE OF CARRIAGES,
through the grandest scenery in the world—over the
Selkirk and Rocky Mountains, across the Prairies, and
along the North Shore of Lake Superior.
Passengers have the choice of a number of overland
routes, enabling them to visit the principal cities of
Canada and the United States.
For Railway Maps, Guide Books, and all other informa-
tion, apply to
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Qieenclaid Smelting Sompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
TDUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apyly to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street. Melbourne.
usiness Announcements.
gjOLARINE
Absolutely the Best
METAL POLISH.
SOLE AGENTS:
N. <SUTHRID<S€ Ltd.,
71 Clarence St., Sydney.
ASK YOUR JEWELLER TO SHOW YOU
The Patent Unbreakable
‘ONE-PIECE’ STUDS
Masterpieces of mechanical skill,
Made in Gold, Silver, and Gold-Cased.
Once
Worn
Always
Worn.
Beauty of
Contour
& Finish.
Avoid
imitations
None
genuine
unless
stamped
‘ Patent.’
If damaged from ANY cause, a new
one given in exchange.
Wholesale only :
SAUNDERS « SHEPHERD, LTD,,
279, GEORGE St., SYDNEY, & London, Eng
A POLICY
for the
COMMONWEALTH
Price 6d.—posted Bd.
direct from The Bulletin Office by
return mail in exchange for stamps (of any
Australasian province), postal notes, or P. 0.0.
for amount stated.
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrie & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, CALLING at PLYMOUTH and
LIVERPOOL Via CAPETOWN,
Calling at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz.: —
PERSIC, 11,948 tone, to Sail About 21st JULY.
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
RUNIC, MEDIC, AFRIC, and SUEVIC.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
generally i s drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric light
throughout.
For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents,
N. D. Li.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Fleet Comprising
129 Steamers of a Total Tonnage of
506,754; Horse-power, 403,245.
Mileage run in 1900, 4,707,000 ; Over 4 million Pas-
sengers carried since 1857.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, London,
Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin screw.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
REGULAR SERVICE to
HONG KONG, via NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA
and YAP.
S.S NUEN TUNG, 1341 Tons,
Captain Schoenberg,
LEAVING SYDNEY, 13th JULY NEXT.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
USE
SPOOLERS
1 !
SPOONER’S
-fe.
*
IfATtNT LEATHER BOOTS
X 'QUZ£DRIO&&«
- ——
; TjWj »»*«
!«»•,->* . *~*«-~*
• «*« y
!
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) od. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers o!
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
Medical.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole A gents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, <Ssc.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
“SANITAS”
NATURE'S
GREAT DISINFECTANT.
Non-Poisonous*
Dogs Not Stain Linen m
FLUID, POWDER, SOAPS, &c.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
Valuable boob, “ HOW TO DISINFECT,”
free on application.
The “SANITAS” Co., Ltd.,
BETHNAL GREEN, LONDON.
I Cure Fits.
You are \
not asked i
to spend j
any money to test whether my !
remedy does or does not cure
! Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance, \
, &c. All i on are asked to do is to !
' send fora FREE bottle of medi=
! cine and to try it. I am quite
I prepared to abide by the result.
| A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
> approved by the medical profession.
I H.G. R00T, 38, Endsleigh Gdns., LON DO N.
“ The Best Australian Boole of Short Stories.”
Castro’s Last Sacrament
By ALBERT DORRINGTON. 4s 6d.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports!
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday,
July 13.
BRISBANE
mackay
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
•S. Allingu, Friday,
July 12.
v Ji est S nd ch,ia Pest Route to Goldfields.
Z/w age tlok * fcs are interchangeable after the
nrst Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and W. Howard Smith and
> ' r. or anc i W.A. all tickets are inter-
ddJonT/n L Wlt l th f e . A -U.S.N. Co. only. Subject'to con-
aitions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Pf Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE -Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weeklv
IvnSrv AND ROCKHAMPTON-Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
ba s e > Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
|™{EY, NEW and FIJI, Monthly.
fYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly. y
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenger A oconmiodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
mst port between Melbourne and Cairns with the si earners
?,,mA de aid f.?.- S ’ Coi »pany and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
, r Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, In Bridge-
Btreet, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
J?. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
OCEANA
BRITANNIA
AUSTRALIA..
VICTORIA ..
ROME
The Company’s steamers now call at Fremantle
PASSAGE MONEY TO LON DON—Si ngl e, ±3B 10s to £77
Ditto Ditto Return £7l 10sto Ul2l
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial poros
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to EDWARD TRELAWNY, Superintendent in Aus-
tralimExchangeCorner, Pitt and Bridge Streets
Messageries Maritimes
Sydney,
Noon
Steamer.
Commander.
6603 C. Gadd
6525 F. H. Seymour
69011. Reeves ..
6525 E. Crewe ..
5545 E. Street ..
July
July
Aug.
Aug.
Sept.
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
Huddart, Parker § go’s gine
—TO—
M ELHQURN E, IfOltA ItT,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Faresjjid Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. AND A.” LINE.
The Steamships of the above Company will be despatched
as follows for
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer. |Tns, Commander. Leave Sydney.
EASTERN ... 3600 Winthrop Ellis July 13
AIRLIE . 2500 St. Jnhn George August 10
AUSTRALIAN . 3000 P. T. Helms August 31
GUTHRIE .. 2500 W. G. M’Arthur .. September 28
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Acents
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO LD.’
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
(Ililiuraith, fl[|‘Eacha7n¥go7
PROP. LTD.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS
KALGOOELIE, 4500 TONS,
COOLG-AB3DIE, 3500 TONS,
SAIL FORTNIGHTLY between
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
West Australian Ports.
Passenger Accommodation Unsurpassed. Liberal
MFILWRAITH, M‘EACHARN AND
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany and Ft
Sydney Agents—BUßNS, PHILP & CO. Ltd.


The latest English geographical gem is
from London Daily News, which tells that a cer-
tain Mr. Rudd is living in Queensland , Westj Aus-
tralia.
A juvenile “ grass-widow,” who applied
for maintenance against her hubby, at Christ-
church (M.L.), lately, said that he had been guilty
of false pretences ; he told her that he was getting a
whole pound a week, and it was on that repre-
sentation that she married him. After six weeks
of wedded bliss he took to drink, and had been in
beer ever since.
“ Count B.” : That Philmayism (8.,
l/6/’G) reminds me of an incident in a Sydney
printing establishment long since defunct. Most
of the comps, were taking holidays, biz. being down
below zero. One of them, however, with a perti-
nacity that became monotonous, called three and
four times a day on the chance of work. “ Look
here, Jimmy,” said the boss at last, “ don’t be so
very sudden. When I get any work in I’ll
send for you.” After that Jimmy kept away for
three days, then again reappeared before the boss.
“Ah, good morning, sir. Anything in, sir?”
“ Yes,” said the boss, curtly. “ Ah, then I sup-
pose I’ll get a start. What is it—wool cata-
logue ? ” “No ; two bailiffs and a stray dog and
a man come to cut off the gas.”
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drises away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis- ]
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin, i
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
“ Christian Science ” is coming rapidly to
a head in England, and the craze may be ex-
pected to strike Australia hard at an early date.
Meanwhile, the story of a case heard in Vookers-
ville (U.S.), is bursting with significance. Miss
Kate M'Culloch went to Rev. Geo. Tompkins to
be souled and healed, and, reckoning she was
merely sold, sued for the return of her 4000
dollars. She declared that Rev. Tompkins’ cure
consisted mainly of kissing, and Rev. Tompkins
retorted that plaintiff admitted after the kissing
that she experienced a peaceful and restful feeling.
He undertook to complete the cure if plaintiff
would undergo another course of “scientific
kissing. ” The kiss cure is a promising idea, and
the tall, soulful-looking healer who starts the
game here will drive a big business amongst the
submerged tenth of the sex—the frostbitten
spinsters. Hitherto it has been the belief that
men caught dangerous ailments through indis-
criminate kissing. Writer know a few who caught
wives through it anyhow.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
Bubmit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and FILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
iiousemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, lumours. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bumons, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
Great l/li- per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents ; ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
2>een label on t-ach box. (Regd. copyright).
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment of
Catarrh, Bronchitis, Hay Fever, Asthma,
Colds, Influenza, Headache, Catarrhal
Deafness. Book of Treatment, Free.
Price of Medicator (size, 4 inches long, Nickel-
plated), and 4 months’ treatment, 1 Bottle Com-
pound Inhalent, and 1 tin
Nasal Ointment, only
10 -
/ Post Free.
HOME CATARRH CURE CO.
231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
DON'T POISON
YOURSELF
WITH DRUGS when our ELECTRIC BELT (with or
without suspensor) will CURE YOU. ELECTRIC
CURRENT GUARANTEED. Pamphlet and Consulta-
tion Free. HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists, 105 Regent-
street, London W., and 44 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
We give a fair trial before payment.
PHOTOS
F rom Life, for Lovers of Art, Beauty, and
Chic; Carefully Selected Assortments,
Cabinets or Stereos, with Illustrated
Catalogue and Minatures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s.
Money Order or Cheque on London.
English, French, and German Rare Books.
Explain wishes and requirements, and full satisfaction
will be obtained.
R. GENNERT,
89c Faubourg St., Martin, Paris, France.
CALVERTS
20 per cent.
CARBOLIC
SOAP
Cures and prevents Insect
and Mosquito bites.
The strongest Carbolic Toilet Soap.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
s
US
Ss
5
NATURES TRUE REMEDIES.
Nature has provided a TRUE REMEDY for Every
Complaint. It is, therefore, unnecessary to contaminate the
System with Mineral Poisons, which leave the System Weak
and Debilitated. Sufferers frc m Blood and Skin Diseases,
Nervous Affections, Piles, Rheumatism, and Affection of
the Liver and Kidneys, Chest and Lungs, Consumption,
General Debility, Costiveness, Influenza, Melancholia, .Enemia,
can rely on a Cure from these Remedies.
ALFALINE
REMEDIES
Are a guaranteed
Cure for the
above Complaints.
They have Cured
Thousands, and
stood a Test in
Australia for over
20 years. They
have never been
known to fail in
a single case, and
they are purely
NATURE’S
REMEDIES.
fcteS*
ItlUUMyUfi
ftinwinu)
IIfAUN&I
HfAlAilOffllß
ALFALINE
HERBAL
REMEDIES
Have been Awar-
ded several Gold
Medals, and
More Testimon-
ials than any
known remedy in
Australia.
A Special
Guaranteed Rem-
edy for each
Complaint.
HERE RASSMUSSEN’S CHIEF LABORATORY.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Are a Guaranteed Cure for All Nervous Affections, Weak Spine, Brain and Nerves, Poor
Memory, Tired Feeling, and General Debility. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Course, 23/6.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
Are a PERMANENT CURE for the Most Chronic Blood Diseases, Skin Diseases, Blotches,
Elood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, etc. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
Purify the Blood and Build up the Weakest Nervous System. A Guaranteed Cure for
ASnemia, Wasting Diseases in Females. A General Blood and Nerve Tonic
for both sexes. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS
Are Guaranteed to Cure Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn,
Biliousness, and the Liver and Kidneys. BOXES, ONE SHILLING. Posted, 1/6.
Alfa line Rheumatic Pills —Guaranteed to
cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lum-
bago. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 12s. and
235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage—
This Suspender imparts Strength and Vigor,
at the eame time as it supports the parts.
Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills-A
Wonderful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Con-
sumption, Bronchitis and Influenza. Boxes,
posted, 35., 65., 12s. and 235. 6d.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and
effectual Electric currents unequalled as a
cure for all Spinal and Kidney Affections ;
425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Sufferers can only obtain the Alfaline Herbal Remedies from
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office or Branches, the addresses of
which appear below. Letters should be addressed and Cheques
and Money Orders made payable to Herr Rassmussen’s full
name— Hans Peter Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head
Office or Branches. Register all letters containing money.
All Remedies sent unobserved, packed in plain cover.
Correspondence held confidential.
ALFALINE
PILE POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
FAT-REDUCING
POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
HAIR-RESTORER,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
CORN CURE, I/-.
OINTMENT, 1/-.
mm
9'
HCRRRASSM
A USEFUL BOOK
SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmussen’s
valuable book, The
Alfaline Guide to
Health, which con-
tains valuable in-
formation for all
Complaints, and
copies of Testi-
monials, will be sent
free in plain cover,
on application.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD OFFICE,
. (HANS PETER RASSMUSSEN)
547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Alfaline Remedies can only be obtained from his Head Office and hia
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES :
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke-st.
BRISBANE-309 Queen-st.
ADELAIDE—IS Pulteney-st.
N.Z.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A.—PERTH, 481 Hay-st.
KALOrOORLIE—Hannan - st.
BOULDER ClTY—Piesse-st.
EREMANTLE-Henry-st.
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of the ALFALINE REMEDIES.
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE’S
fNLORODYNE.
Safe*
Oantion. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIAEEHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS at
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large numher of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
“ We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
AEELIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which’ is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all slaves, however
caused, and restore the
wean r to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing,’we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
" COMMON SENSE EAR DRUM.”
I'THE'I
Beaf
/COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and Infallible Remedy,
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C.S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
Over
100
years
have
proved
their
value.
G. L. ROBERTS, M.D.
«ag-"
Born 1766, Died 183.1.
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
INVENTOR OF Dr. ROBERTS’
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
The best for a]l Wounds and Skin Diseases,
Chronic Sores, Ulcerated Legs, Pimples,
Sore Eyes, &c.
USK Dr . ROBERTS’
ALTERATIVE PILLS,
For all impurities of the blood. Invaluable for Skin
Diseases. Prices is. i£d. and 2s. 9d. each of all Drug
Stores. ___
Sole Makers: BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd.
BRIDPORT, England.
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
[Completely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
fhow long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
DEAF]
W&
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address. —L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles!
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats!
&c., should have one of these
Cabinets. Price 257-
Head and Face Steamer, 3/6.
Can be forwarded to any address
.1. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne


An indignant artist writes to The Bulletin re
a Victorian art-move :
In slavish imitation of old-world forms, the Vic. Artists’
Society has taken the ridiculous step of creating “ Acade-
micians.” Considering that there is no Academy, these
persons (naturally comprising the little crowd which runs
the show) resemble the so-called Rose of Denmark lifeboat
crew, which exists in the inland suburb of Collingwood.
The coterie of “Academicians” has also decided to ap-
point “ associates,” but these will hold their titles only
from year to year, so that any associate who seems to be
attracting too much public attention and cutting into the
business of the Academicians can be conveniently
omitted from next year’s list. This endeavor to
create an aristocracy of art is worthy of a body of
ham-and-beef merchants or the organisers of a suburban
corner in tripe. It is manifestly an attempt to gull the
public, who know nothing about art, into “ dealing off ”
the duly-qualified academicians. Admitting that the
first list is artistically strong, the principle is entirely
vicious, and the whole trend of the distinction will be to
exalt one particular coterie at the expense of other, and,
in time, probably more meritorious, painters.
The cold frosty weather down South has
persuaded all sensible men to pay more attention
than usual to the best brand for supplying nourish-
ment and warmth. This, by common consent, is
D.C.L. The man who partakes judiciously of
that genial whisky doesn’t shiver with cold and
become dull and heavy at the very moment when
he is anxious to appear bright and cheerful—nor
at any other moment. Nor does he gather up
every available influenza or cold fiend that stalketh
abroad. Because D.C.L. prevents these things it
is known as “ the whisky of the wise.”
During a Saturday afternoon ride it is no un-
common sight to see cyclists riding their tyres on the
rims, or sitting on the roadside awaiting the arrival of
some good-natured fellow cyclist, who will explain and
help to repair the leaky tyre. An ordinary puncture can
easily be repaired, and the machine ready for riding in 10
minutes if the cyclist only knows how to go about it, and
has the necessary repair materials at hand. There is no
excuse for ignorance in this matter, when cyclists can ob-
tain gratis one of the Dunlop Co,’s beautifully illustrated
booklet--" All. about Dunlop Tyres.” This hrochure
contains hundreds of little wrinkles useful to cyclists,
and apart from its artistic merits is well worth keeping
as a standard work on pneumatic tyres. Ask .your cycle
agent for a copy, or send an application to the Dunlop
Company’s office.*
“ A woman should be born at 24 and die
at 30. She only plays the devil if she lives
longer.”
Sydney has lately had introduced to its
notice a new hair tonic called “Capilla,” which is
claimed to be one of the finest hair restorers yet
offered to a much-suffering public. Mr. W.
Richards, of 168 Pitt-st,, is the proprietor, and
at the price (2/6) it is sure to meet with a ready
sale.*
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk strip
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirt
are highly recommended.
33/- per Halt-dozen,' free by post throuyUo n
A ustralia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane Q'la 1
A Critical Case.
A SENIOR-INSPECTOR OP POLICE SUBMITS HIS
EVIDENCE.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills add one more
name to the long list of their wonderful cures. It
is for those once placed on the verge of the grave,
and who have been given a longer term of life by
the timely use of this wonderful remedy, to give
the Pills their due of praise; All who use them
give them a good name, but it is only those who,
after a long and dangerous sickness, feel through
their use the rich blood of perfect health in their
veins that can bring warmth and conviction and
the clear ring of manly and vigorous truth to their
words. Such a man is Senior-Inspector W. T.
Langworthy, of Yass, New South Wales, who
writes as follows : —“Dear Sirs, —For many years
I have been a sufferer from rheumatism, constipa-
tion, giddiness, violent pains in the head, and a
‘ liver,’ colds, chills, and, worse than all, lumbago ;
of course, I got temporary relief from doctors and
chemists. At last I read your pamphlet on Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and I considered the
vegetable ingredients would not hurt, and took
four, then three, and no pain. The change was
wonderful. Instead of leaning against the- wall
while putting on my trousers, as usual, through
giddiness, I was able to stand upright, and 1 felt a
desire to turn a somersault upon the bed as a boy.
You will laugh. Well, sirs, it is a fact. I have
used them now occasionally for three years, and
carry the little bottle with me on the road when
travelling. I recommend them to everybody,
with good results. Whenever I look at the little
bottle, I feel I owe one debt to you, and now I
will repay it by expressing my gratitude.”- 1 (I
have no objection to my testimonial being used
relative to the benefit I derived from Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills.—W. T. Langwokthy ) Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood
purifier, and a positive cure for biliousness, indi-
gestion, constipation, headaches, sallow com-
plexion, liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples,
boils and blotches, and female ailments. Sold by
chemists and storekeepers, Is. per bottle, or
six bottles 6s. 6d. Sole proprietors, The W. H.
Comstock Co., Ltd. (Australasian Depot), 58 Pitt-
street, Sydney. Packed in amber bottles, and the
full name blown thereon.*
Among the most desirable new members
of N.S.W. Assembly, is that excellent speaker,
Mr. Dan Levy, a young barrister, elected for
Fitzroy Division of Sydney. Mr. Levy has, so
far, made his way in the world solely by his
personal merits ; during a brilliant Sydney Uni-
versity career he fairly staggered under the weight
of his prizes.
The fight of N.S.W. general election was
that for the Grenfell seat, won after a desperate
battle by the late member, that eloquent young
Radical, Holman. Out of all the members of
N.S.W. Assembly (about 38) who had originally
openly expressed themselves as opposed to Aus-
tralian interference in S’Africa, he was one
of the little remnant of three or four who
through the crisis remained unbounced by Jingo
threats and blow, and had the courage to stand
to their guns. So at the election he was
venomously attacked above-ground and from
under-ground by every method, fair and foul. He
fought with marvellous vigor, and gained many
votes by his final speech before a great audience
of Wyalong gold-miners. Voting : Holman,
1295; Grimm, 1213.
The highest recommendation ever given
to Australian wine has been scored by the Coolalta
wines of Mr. J. A. Wilkinson. In addition to
being appointed wine-merchant to Hopetoun, the
first Governor-General, Mr. Wilkinson has re-
ceived a very flattering compliment from H.R.H.
the Duke of York, through the A.D.C., Lord
Crichton. The A.D.C.’s letter, which the writer
of this paragraph has perused, states that the
Coolalta wines were very much appreciated by
His Royal Highness.
From this it would seem that Findley’s
chances are not quite Buckley’s :
Fint'ley, the expelled of Vic. Legislature, looks a dead
sure thing for E. Melb. at present date. 200 votes, nearly
all strongly labor, have been added to the roll since the
seat became vacant, and there are many candidates in the
field, one and all of whom command sufficient following
to impel them to go to the poll. M‘Clean, bosom friend
of old John Anderson before his death, commands the
personal-popularity vote of the late meml er and a big
section of the R.C’s. L. L Smith has been rounded out
by old-time cronies, and has met with a reception too
tempting to let slip. Shakesperian scholar Diegan is the
chosen Govt, candidate, and Willy Watt, ex-Postmaster-
General, has a record which will command enough votes to
give him a great show in the fight. Brodzky, the
Polish gentleman who runs Table Talk, is out-Jingoing
the most ultra-conservatives, and consequently has the
support of people who would not otherwise look at him.
Lastly, there is Renfrew, who came, out at the eleventh
hour at last election and was beaten by hut a few votes.
To each of the candidates the chances of return are
sufficiently rosy to make “loyalty” a secondary con-
sideration ; and, when one divides the votes on the roll
by seven (even remembering that all the Melbourne Club
members have votes, wherever they reside), Findley has
a far better chance of being returned than he had last
time in Melbourne City.
There was a great disturbance in Vic.
Assembly when “ Jack ” Murray, in fiery criticism
of a slobbersome stock-jobber who had recom-
mended terrible penalties for those 16 members
who refused to support the Govt, in its expulsion
of Findley, uttered scornful remarks about the
morality of sharebrokers and the whole herd of
bulls and bears. Murray might have libelled the
Host and all the archangels without producing
half the effect. H Proputty,” which is first
cousin to Stocks and Shares, was furious, and
Premier Peacock wildly slapped his brisket and
drew' attention to the fact that he was a dealer in
stocks and shares, and he defied the world to say
that he was not the incarnation of all the virtues.
At this Murray apologised. It’s a dangerous
thing to revile a sharebroker of the Empire. Is
he not the modern War God?
“Piles and Their Cure.”—The pamphlet
by Albert Sharp, entitled “ Piles and the Wav to
Cure Them,” without operation, sent free, on
application to the Sydney Depot, 257 George-
street.*
Si
li
illill
AND SUPPU
6 6 King St Sydne
Take
REUTER’S LITTLE PILLS.
For all LIVER complaints
CANADA’S FLYER!
A THE RED BIRD
THIS SEASON’S SPECIAL FEATURES. REDUCED WEIGHT. UNIQUE HUBS. IMPROVED
CRANK BRACKET. PEDAL ADJUSTMENT. CALL AND INSPECT.
BRANCHES in every state. GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King Street, Sydney
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Vic. Grand National Hurdles (Saturday) proved
another boil-over similar to that supplied by Aquarius
last year. Winner (Shoddy) was very much an outsider
(labelled by many allegedly cute people as well nigh an
impossible chance), in face of his work immediately
before ; still Mo whines that he lost on the race, as is his
custom. Shoddy is by Trenton from the First King mare
Chintz ; bred by Mr. John Crozier. He used to be
raced by “ Jimmy ” W .Ison, who leased him to Mr. Hind-
haugh, of the VVestern District, whence sprung last year’s
surprise. His time, smins. 52Jsec., equals the record put
up by Aquarius. On April 23 Shoddy annexed the 2m.
hurdles at Warrnambool, humping 9.10, and, a day later,
gathered in the Amateur Club’s hurdle event with'll.s in
the saddle.
* * • •
Shoddy carried 9.11. Six winners in the
last nine years have carried less than 10st., and
one other was on the lOst. mark. Seeing that the
heavier-burdened horses suffer unduly for their form, the
question of a 9.7 minimum and a 12.7 maximum is worth
considering.
• * • •
Shoddy and Pirate King held the lead from
beginning to end of the three-mile journey, and it
was not until they reached the distance-post that the
little ’un was beaten by his weight. Shoddy is bigger and
more seasoned, so the difference of 191 b. in his favor was
actually greater than it looked. Although he started at
an outside price, Shoddy was quite a popular pick among
punters, who looked for a light-weight victory. With
Pirate King out of the way, it would have seemed a one-
horse race, probably. The live-year-old King must be
a very game bit of stuff, for he insisted on leading the
field up to the last hurdle, and then, after being collared,
he got his head in front once again. Considering the fast
time and the close fight he made of it, Pirate King,
at list. 21b., ranks as one of the best performers in the
history of the G.N. Hurdle Race.
Pirate (without the King) should have some-
thing important to say in the Steeplechase next Satur-
day. Emma seems to be fancied, also Freedom, but it is
hard to see how the latter can be expected to beat Laceby
ou their recent running. Given four trustworthy legs
when the big event falls due, Laceby, in present scribe’s
opinion, is likely to beat Emma and Pirate, and every-
thing else.
• • • •
Last year the three places in G.N. Hurdle Race
were filled by Aquarius, Rackstraw and Goldfinder.
Winner and runner-up were regarded as hopeless chances
before the event, whilst Goldfinder started first favorite.
This year the same three horses, not being handicapped
“ out of it,” were obviously “ well in it ” by virtue of their
previous running, but within a week of the race the trio
came to grief on the track and were scratched. Ikey Mo
looks at racing in the light of such experiences as this.
The punter talks of his fancy gee-gee as bound to win
next Melbourne Cup, and Ikey thinks of the animal as
likely to be broken-down or dead by the first week in
November.
• * « •
Field forG.N. Hurdles, Saturday, was the biggest
since ’95, but not a single fall occurred.
* * » *
Among the 21 winners of V.R.O. Grand Na-
tional Hurdles there have been 10 aged nags, three six-
year olds, four five-year olds, three four-year-olds, and one
three-year-old.
» * * »
Gondolier mare Emmalea was the only one of
her sex who succeeded in Grand National Hurdles, which
she won with 11.6 six years ago. That was her sixth con-
secutive victory in Australia. Emmalea went ’Ome soon
afterwards, but has never notched a single win there.
* * * *
First V.R.C. Grand National Hurdles, 20 years
ago, was appropriated by Martin Loughlin’s Sir Peter,
with the late Tommy Corrigan up. After ’B6 the journey
was lengthened to three miles, and Mr. S. G. Cook (per
medium of Yeoman) landed the first subsequent event
In ’BB the stake (£500) was doubled, when Malua, with his
owner (J. O. Inglis) in the saddle, scored a soft win.
Martin Burke piloted the winner (Crusoe) in ’9l—a 20 to 1
chance—and, though he secured two Nationals over the
same course, this was his only success in the Hurdles.
Tim Swiveller, who subsequently lost Caulfield Cup
on Sainfoin’s protest, won. in ’93—J. E. Brewer had the
mount.
* * * *
The good thing (on paper) for the Epsom and
Metrop. double is Ferryman. The mile (with 9.2 up)
shouldn’t cost him much of an effort; it probably wouldn’t
were the burden 2st. greater. In the Metrop. he has
7.13, and though he did shape badly in a mile and a-
quarter race at Randwiolt after running well in the
Doncaster, it must not be forgotten that Ferryman is
bred (by Gozo from a half-sitter to Seaweed —dam of
Merman) to stay.
+ * • *
The old complaint about the dragging-out of
the Y.R.C. programme is always a specially bitter grum-
ble at the winter meetings. A great man}' members and
the whole crowd of non-members object to the club’s con-
servative policy of starting the first race at 1 o’clock,
instead of 2 o’clock, and fixing a luncheon interval of 75
minutes between the second and third races. Only a few
people want to feed at Flemington after 2.45 p.m. in July.
For the sake of these few, stewards and others, the public
in general have to spend nearly four hours on the course,
with only five events to interest them. A slow, chilly
entertainment for the men, and even more so for the
women who shiver in the stands. And the railway fare
to Flemington by race-train continues to be exactly' eight
times the ordinary charge, although the rival V.A.T.C.
has got the fare to Caulfield reduced to normal propor-
tions, and is now running the show to suit the conveni-
ence of the gate-money crowd.
* * * +
Haut Brion colt Hautboy, who nine months ago
promised much, but was withdrawn through leg trouble,
recently made another start, but the bother showing
again, his preparation stopped, and Mr. R. M. Fitzgerald,
of Tongy (N.S.W.), secured him for stud purposes for
£5OO. Dirt-cheap for such a noted and well-bred per-
former, who ran 13 times last season, and won V.A.T.C.
Mona Nursery, V.R.C. Nursery Handicap, Flemington
Stakes, A. J.C. Nursery, and December Stakes.
The sons and daughters of Little Bernie
keep winning every week up North. He is easily first as
regards winners, and his stock seem to inherit good under-
pinning and stoutness of heart. Little 8., it will be
remembered, won Sydney' Cup for his owner, Bookie Joe
Abrahams.
» • • *
A curious case was heard at Sydney Central last
week. A man was prosecuted for laying a wager in a
King-street betting-shop. Two policemen and an in-
former swore to his identity as the man who issued the
betting-ticket produced in court. Their story was that
the informer entered the shop and made a bet. Next day or
so the police were waiting outside, and arrested accused
as the man who issued the ticket. His story was that he
was only a casual customer “ taking a double ” on his
own account, who happened to walk in. It is only the
layer of the odds who can be proceeded against, and as a
£soor£loofine was the penalty accused was in a tight place.
After the two police and their agent had sworn to his
identity accused called his defence. The shop-owner
swore he was not in his employ. Four witnesses proved
an alibi, and the writing on the betting-ticket was shown
to be widely dissimilar from that of defendant. Still the
“ beak ” looked doubtful, for there were three witnesses
who absolutely swore to his identity. Luckily', the shop-
keeper then played a trump card. The real offender was
produced, who wrote for the magistrate a facsimile of
the betting ticket. On being confronted with the two
men the police quite failed in deciding which was the
right one, and the agent straight out admitted that he was
uncertain. But it cost some £2O to clear the wrongfully-
accused man, and, having sworn to the identity of one
man, the police could hardly muster face enough to pro-
ceed against the real culprit. How many people have
been sent to the gallows or to prison on erroneous identi-
fications?
* * * *
During the protracted debate on the Tattersall
clause of Che Postal Bill in the Senate, some of its
supporters dwelt Strongly on the allegation that many
embezzlements were due to sweep investments. People
who follow racing are aware that this is seldom or never the
case. The man who invests in sweeps knows perfectly
well that his chance of pulling off a big prize is almost in-
finitesimal, and 19 out of every 20 subscribers to Tatt.
probably regard the money as gone as soon as they post
it. The prospective embezzler, on the other hand, is a
man who possesses the sanguine, not the philosophical,
temperament. He is the close student of form, the
acquirer of mysterious and valuable information from the
jockey’s cousin. He steals his employer’s cash, not to
flutter on the off-chance of scooping a fortune, but with
the absolute certainty a certain horse will win. Speaking
generally, the sweep investor recognises that the chances
are overwhelmingly against him. The backer of horses
with other peoples’ money is as sure in his own mind as
he is of the morrow that he will be able to replace the cash
and have a substantial lump for himself through the win
of his fancied nag.
« • * •
The attention of coursing enthusiasts is called
to the meeting of the Murchison and Dargalong Coursing
Club, Victoria. See advertisement.
• * • *
Australian bowlers are not scoring so well at
'Ome as a Week or two since. To date they’ve had seven
matches in Scotland, winning three and losing four.
Victorian manager Oudden’s rink seems to be the weak
point now. In the last match against Crosshill, at Glas-
gow, he went under 7 to 28 ; previous one saw the oppo-
sition score 2 to 1 more than him. At Perth, Cudden
was beaten by 21 to 12 ; at Edinburgh, 24 to 23 ; and at
Galashiels, 28 to 15—all successive defeats. Yet, just
before the sluiiip set in he pulled the combination through
the Howick match, notching 41 to the Scots’ 7. M.L.
players have so far lost 7 out of 12 matches played.
Apropos the secession of M.L. section. They wanted to
form two rinks of the Australasian four, wear a distinc-
tive uniform (which had already been ordered), and be
exempt from contributing to the manager’s ex’s.
* * * *
Of the much-lauded New Crystal Palace bowl-
ing-green, run by champion cricketer, W. G. Grace, Mr.
Hanigan (Manly 8.C., Sydney) says, “ You might just as
well play on the road. The clubs are all at loggerheads ;
there is no association, consequently our welcome in
England has been far different from what we expected.”
This is the biggest set-back of all, for the team went away
dreaming of junketing and picnics galore, with a sort of
open house right through the land, securing the maxi-
mum of joy at the minimum of expense.
* * * *
“No ‘lambed-down ’ shearer” (writes The
Bulletin’s London correspondent) “ was ever chucked
out of ‘ The Traveller’s Rest ’ into the dusty road in a
limp heap as the Maorilanders have been shot out of the
Antipodean bowling team. They refused to fall in line
with their Austral brothers and sling in their bit to the
manager’s expenses, so the past participle came into play
and they were ‘ slung.’ Looks as if the Meat-freezers
were becoming thoroughly Seddonized, and the whole
Southern Pacific will be necessary to reduce their
ballooned heads."
• » • * *
Amateur Aus. golf supremacy, to be contested
on Australian G.O. Links (Sydney), this Thursday and
Friday, drew 23 entrants, all Australian top-notchers, bar
the Geelong player and ex-British premier (Mr. P. O.
Anderson), Mr. Arthur Duncan (the M.L. champion), and
Mr. Balfour Melville (an ex-owner of the coveted distinc-
tion). Present holder (Mr. Whyte) will also compete ;
also Mr. Gillies (M.L.), who has a win of the title on
Bondi (Sydney) links to his credit.
• » * «
A team from U.S. cruiser Brooklyn romped
over a N.S.W. baseball team on polling-day. The
Sydney men, who numbered among them M. A.
Noble, Jansen, Diamond, and other good cricketers, quite
equalled their opponents in fielding, but had a lot to
learn in base running. The “ diving ” for bases when
four or five yards off by the'tars was astonishing. But
the match was won by the “pitcher” of the Brooklyn
team. His command over the ball was a revelation.
Talk of Noble “breaking in the air”! In baseball the
ball is delivered on the full, yet the pitcher could swerve
the ball apparently at will. Also, he made it “droop,”
or fall lower to the striker than its apparent motion
would lead him to expect. He disposed of 15 batsmen
before a decent hit was made. Good pitchers command
high salaries in the States, and after seeing the Brooklyn
man one can easily understand it.
*. » * *
Sydney’s big football attraction to-day is the
annual opening of inter-State Rugby matches between
Q. and N.S.W. Choice of N.S.W. team has raised the
usual howl, but writer thinks it a fair selection. . Mac-
kenzie, Finlay, Conlon, Beaumont, Averne, Lamb, and
Garry are inter-State reps, for the first time. Four rural
players have been included—one of them (West) operated
against Rev. Mullineux’s English combination in a test
match two years since. Finlay (half-back with pugilist
Jack Conlon) is only 18, but his selection is in every way
warranted by his excellent shaping during “ country
week.” Wet weather will probably bring about eleventh-
hour changes in several positions.
» * * •
Personnel of Bananaland inter-State toe-ball
team is practically the same as last year’s lot. Fresh men
are Dennis, N. Colton and T. Colton, filling the places of
M’Cowan, Hindmarsh and Boland.
* * * *
“ Scrum ” : Usual grumblings at team selected
to represent N.S.W. v. Queensland on 13th June. South
Sydney, at present leading for first-grade premiership,
has not a solitary representative. Critics object most to
M’Kenzie, the ’Varsity man, as full-back, and White (N.
Sydney) as three-quarter. Though quite possible that
the selected team will win, and the men objected to
distinguish themselves, the selection committee might
have strained a point and included a pla3’er from the
leading club.
* * * *
Saturday’s round of Sydney senior Rugby was
decided in rain and mud. South Sydney and Eastern
Suburbs and ’Varsity and North Sydney matches ended
in pointless draws. Previous meeting between the first-
named teams brought a 1 point win (9 to 8) to South
Sydney. Glebe downed Western Suburbs (5 to nil), but
only after a tough struggle all the journey. Newtown
romped away from Balmain, and finished 2 against
nothing.
Last ’Ome mail told how Towns had given up
hope of meeting Gaudaur (a match between them
has now been made) and issued a sweeping chal-
lenge to any other scullers in the world, particularly the
’Frisean Harry Petersen, who had just reached England.
Petersen’s record embraces one victory and one loss with
Gaudaur —the latter by a few feet only. The ’Murkan
was after Britisher Sam Emmett, but Towns chipped in
with an offer to give the ’Ome product lOsec. start over
the Thames championship course. M.L. sculler Sullivan
(Towns’s particular pal) waits for either Emmett or Peter-
sen if they don’t relish Towns.
* * * •
But it has just been cabled that the Canadian
and New South Welshman have been matched,
and will row on the Lake of the Woods at the Canuck’s
retreat, Rat Portage, Ontario, during’ the third week of
August. Safe to assume that Towns has given way to
Gaudaur in everything rather than let Jake get off. Gau-
daur insisted that the stake money should be held by a
Rat Portage bank—which, until Gaudaur mentioned it,
English pressmen were absolutely ignorant of. The
course (with a turn) is over a sheet of water that would,
under other circumstances, be among the last places
chosen for the decision of the world’s sculling supremacy.
Conditions are in many ways against the Australian, but
given a fair deal, the title that was Trickett’s, Beach’s, and
Searle’s, looks a good thing for Towns, provided that the
match eventuates, which is not certain yet if the money
be held by Gaudaur’s people.
* * * *
“Chip”: Gaudaur-Towns sculling-match may
not prove so soft a snap for Towns as some think. The
French-Canadian is 44 and has followed the callings of
miner, hunter, farmer, and seaman—the sort of life likely
to keep all his physical powers unimpaired for a year or
so vet. Towns must journey 1200 miles by rail after
reaching Montreal, and then row on a lake with one or,
perhaps, two turns, which is a practice Yankee and
Canuck scullers are adepts at, while it will be new to
Towns. Toronto press, discussing the probabilities of a
match, assert that Gaudaur is still as good a man as w'hen
he met Bill Beach in ’B6. That was a memorable race.
At the last moment Beach had his “ work ” in the boat
altered, with the result that after showing Gaudaur the
W'ay for two miles he was pumped out, and the Canadian
passed him. By sheer force of will-power Beach came
again, and Gaudaur responded as best he could. First
one would show in front and then the other. Excite-
ment reached white heat. The Australian stopped twice
but lay-down to it afresh each time, and ultimately
barely won one of the most gruelling struggles ever con-
tested. Odds of 5 to 1 were laid on Beach at the start,
and 20 to 1 on Gaudaur by the time 2J miles were
covered.
• * * *
Kaffir Essler and Melbourne “feather’' Silver
supplied vimful bruising at Sydney Golden Gate A.C.,
Saturday night. Essler was aggressive, and though Silver
jigged energetically to dodge rushes and swings, he
could not avoid stopping a few. Up to the seventh round
the colored “corner” was jubilant, but thence forth
their weighty underlips fell, as it became painfully plain
that Essler couldn’t sustain the pace. Appeals against
Silver for alleged hitting in clinches were frequent, and
the referee once cautioned him to desist. “ The Kaffir ”
was sprawlingall over the ring in the 16th round— dead and
done, but he faced up for the next and, half way through,
appealed vainly for a foul, and refused to go on, so Silver
got the money. Hitting and clinching that Silver was
accused of are no offence against M.Q. rules. He didn’t
hold and hit, but simply punched directly the clinch was
broken. Latter day referees’ absurd command “ break
clean ! ” is responsible for the false notion chat hitting at
close quarters is foul work. It’s the manner of fighting
allowed in Victoria, and it’s the right and the best style
too.
* m * *
Herb. M‘Kell, fresh from S’Africa, and Snowy
Sturgeon will meet at the Gaiety A.O. (Sydney) Monday
night. Probably Snowy' will find Herb, his toughest
customer, and one he can’t work those wrenching,
wrestling dodges on without risking being hurt himself.
Conditions exact that if either exceeds 10.7 he shall
forfeit a tenner. It’s certain M‘Kell won’t exceed the
weight, and, on appearances, it’s equally certain that
Sturgeon will; latter also may be many pounds over, for
which big advantage a tenner is a trifling sum to pay.
What was M'Kell doing when he made the match thus-
wise?
• • • »
The Sturgeon crowd recently professed anxiety
for a third match with Otto Cribb, and talked hundreds,
but when the Cribbs put up the coin ’twas all over.
There wasn’t a Sturgeon man in sight. This scribe won’t
have Sturgeon against Cribb any r more. Their first fight
was as hot a thing as the Sydney ring ever saw, but
Snowy made the second a mere sprinting match. Stur-
geon’s latest form wouldn’t justify anyone risking money
in backing him to do what he couldn’t when he seemed a
better man.
* * * *
Famous pugilist Jackson is just barely holding
his own at Roma (Q.). Weight has decreased since his
arrival, but not during the last fortnight. Taken all
round, indications point to an alleviation of suffering.
Digestion is better, cough relieved, and he can now sleep
at night. If he can be kept so during the colder months,
Dr. Le Strange may be able to assist him to some benefit
during the spring and summer.
» * * *
Kalgoorlie wants Tim Nolan to fight Tut Ryan
(now champion of Australia), and talks vaguely about a
sure £3OO house. Tim isn’t having an.v probabilities, and
stipulates for a £250 purse and £3O ex’s., provided he is
guaranteed £l5O if he wins and £lOO if he loses. “ Thim’s
my terms,” sa.ys Tim,, “and if they doan’t loike thim
they can lave me out av their reckonin’ altogether. O’im
not afther will-o-the-whisps these toimes.” Ryan and
No'an would put up just the sort of bullocking scraps
that miners glory in.


ARTISTIC DESIGNING
IN JEWELLERY IS THE
AIM OF THE UP-TO-DATE GOLDSMITH.
Rene Lalique Gold Brooches, from 30/-
Rene Lalique 15c. Gold Pendants, from 27/6 to 45/-
Rene Lalique Oxidised Silver Perfume Charms, from 7/6 to 10/6
Rene Lalique Oxidised Silver Ladies’ Coat and Vest Buttons,
from 6/6 to 15/- set.
The modern ]rt Jewellery Co.
15c. Gold Pendant, Mirror
Back, 50/-
187 §itt (St., (Sydney
®AUG
tnft
THE SALT OF THE EARTH
Is as nought compared
with the appetizing
qualities of
o&a, dxj&rrtvi>a
SAUCE.
SAUG
Selections from the printed electoral
address of Geo. Howarth, the Lee party’s selected
candidate for Willoughby (N.S.W.) : —
The increase in population during the time I have re-
presented the electorate has been shown by the constant
addition to the electoral roll. When I was first returned
the number of electors was 2300 ; now it is 4000. A
better criterion, however, is the census, which gives an
increase of 130 per cent. The increase in population must
of necessity have increased. . . . Now, as I worked in the
past to secure the satisfaction of the wants of the people,
so I shall work in the future, and when I have deter-
mined a work it shall be carried out, the easiest plan is
to carry it out with as little trouble as possible.
And he was actually returned.
Two days before the N. S. W. State elections
Syd. Teoegraph came out with a fearful sectarian
bellow, and put mustard on the tail of the Yellow
Pup to rouse him to the last extreme of fury. It
gave about a column to the report of an Orange
Service, and decorated it with big cross-headings :
“A Warning” ; “Too Much Romanism” ;
“Advice to Protestant Electors”; “Romanism
in the Government” ; “A Scandal and a Shame”;
“ Protestants should Rule,” and the like. And the
Yellow Pup promptly slewed round and bit his
owner. The Lee party appealed to King
Division, its old Freetrade stronghold, on the
Freetrade ticket, and King Division threw out
the Lee party’s R.C. candidate and put in the See
party’s Protestant representative instead.
Unique Medical Discovery.
In the year 1879 it was first made known to the
world that a certain medicinal combination of
vegetable extracts possessed such a remarkable
therapeutic action upon the kidneys and liver that
any disease arising from a deranged condition of
these vital organs would speedily yield to its
influence, and the kidneys and liver become again
perfectly healthy.
When it is understood that rheumatism, gout,
neuralgia, biliousness, jaundice, indigestion, dys-
pepsia, gravel, anaemia, debility, most blood
disorders and Bright’s disease all arise from im-
purities retained m the blood, owing to an in-
efficient action of the kidneys or liver, or both, it
will be realized how important such a discovery
is. Warner’s Safe Cure is the name given to this
medicine, and since its introduction thousands of
persons are now in the enjoyment of health, who
would otherwise have gone through life martyrs
to one or other of these complaints.
2 Dunn-street,
Richmond, Vio.,
28th March, 1901.
Dear Sirs, —
I have decided to send you a few lines in refer-
ence to the great benefit I derived from taking
Warner’s Safe Cure.
For some years I have been gradually but
steadily declining in health ; I was subject to
severe pains in various parts of my body, shortness
of breath and palpitation of the heart. I seemed,
indeed, to be on the eve of a constitutional break-
up. I consulted physicians, one of whom pro-
nounced me to be far gone with liver complaint.
I was satisfied that he had diagnosed the case
correctly, and commenced a course of his treat-
ment, but derived no benefit from it. I grew
somewhat despondent, and, in this emergency,
decided to try Warner’s Safe Cure. From the
first bottle I began to feel better in health, and
improved daily. When I had taken about eight
bottles I was perfectly well again. I take great
pleasure in recommending Warner’s Safe Cure as
a sure remedy for the liver.
Yours truly,
(Mrs.) MARY HEARLE,
Ladies’ Nurse.
Messrs. H. H. Warner and Co., Ltd.*
“Pyalla” to The Bulletin about the Sydney
Harbor lifeboat (non) service, in connection with
the recent disaster to the steamer Manly at Port
Jackson Heads
The Bulletin has frequently severely criticised the
existing arrangements, and has pointed out the urgent
necessity for the establishment of a really efficient ser-
vice. Special reference was made, about 10 years back, to
the wreck of the Centurion barque, off North Head. On
that occasion a lifeboat crew could not be obtained until
some Artillerymen from the local battery volunteered.
These did their best, but, from lack of experience, had
to put back. The crew of the barque was meanwhile
rescued by the pilot-steamer, but, nevertheless, the use-
lessness of the “volunteer” system was powerfully
demonstrated. Yet the authorities made no change.
As regards the recent Manly episode, much abuse
has been lavished upon what is called “ the life-
boat crew.” Indeed, Captain Edie, Superintendent
of Navigation, said, according to the Sydney Daily
Telegraph that “ the only question to inquire into is
why the crew failed to respond to the signal when called
upon.” Now, who are the crew ? Does Captain Edie
know ? He simply cannot, because, as a matter of fact,
there is no crew. The “ system ” (save the mark !) is this.
At Camp Cove, near Watson’s Bay, is housed an
antiquated so-called lifeboat (design of 25 years back)
which isn’t even “ self-righting” and has scarcely room
for the crew—to say nothing of rescued passengers. And
the supposed crew of this antique argosy consists really—
by way of nucleus—of a coxswain, who receives about
5s. a week as caretaker and repairer as well as coxswain.
As for the other 12 men required to man the boat, the
expectation is that when, at intervals, a signal is made
for a crew, 12 anybodies will turn up for a wage of 10s.
each. So, of course, immediately the gun is fired (for
practice only), there is a wild rush for the half-sovs. by
men (and boys) of various degrees of efficiency, who
scramble, and sometimes fight, for seats in the boat.
As the coxswain is an excitable and only partly intel-
ligible Portuguese, what ensues is generally a “ survival
of the fittest.” Present writer knoivs, because he has
personally witnessed the “circus.” Also, this little ex-
periment, besides occurring only at very long intervals,
is generally made in fine weather, and in daylight.
As for the signal-gun, which mostly fails to go off
when required, it is an 18th - century piece of
ordnance, which nobody appears to know how to dis-
charge, even if the key of the powder magazine is obtain-
able. And, in any case, when wind and sea are raging,
the miserable pop-gun can’t be heard. Captain Edie, in
blaming the crew, followed out the official traditions of
passing on the blame to subordinates ; though, as it hap-
pened, in this instance he landed nowhere and on nobody.
What is needed is a picked crew of men living close at
hand, who should be paid, say, £12 a year each, and
should be required to practise at least once a month, and,
when possible, in darkness and storm. This is the custom
elsewhere, and would certainly long ago have been the
system here but that Sydney Harbour has hitherto
suffered from too much safety. ' No East of England port,
for instance, could have tolerated such despicable arrange-
ments for a single month.
+
Accidentally drowned, on Saturday night
last, at Milson’s Point, North Sydney, journalist
Charles Junor. Mr. Junor, who was for some
time connected with the laboratory-department of
Sydney University, was a fairly frequent con-
tributor to The Bulletin, and had latterly been
concerned in a Press Agency business. He was—
though somewhat irascible in discussion —a real
good fellow, and his sudden taking-off in the
prime of life (37) is sincerely regretted by a large
number of friends.
The pathetic end of one of M'Douall
Stuart’s first exploring party, told in his last
letter: —
Wandi (Northern Territory), May 17. Dear Steve—No
doubt you will be surprised to find my corpse to-morrow
morning. I must tell you that I am tired of life. I do
not know that I can get anything to do. I am getting too
old to work and am too proud to beg. If an investigation
should occur you will state that drink had nothing to do
with this affair. I have taken the loan of your pistol to
do the deed. I am sane at this moment." I pray that
God will forgive me. This is the end of 35 years’ ex-
perience in the N.T. Good-bye to all friends, and may
God bless you.—Yours, &e., J. A. Ewart.
THE LADIES’
“Fx&R” WATCH
£6 6s.
Is a J-piate Lever.
Is jewelled in 10 holes.
Has ruby roller jewel.
Has solid heavy 18c. gold case.
Has Brequet hair spring.
* Has compensated parts and adjusted balance.
It is guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order for two years
(breakages excepted) without charge.
It will stand hard riding and knocking about.
It is made in every style of case.
It goes with profound accuracy.
FAIRFAX « ROBERTS, Jewellers,
- 23 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
mm
9
$
XI w
Lady’s J-plate movement, OR R 0
14c. Gold Case,
Tbe
Callagbao
Boot
Honest Wear
In every pair.
Calf Lace, full goloshed, medium wide welts, bespoke appearance, 21/- ; post paid, 22/-
Tan Willow Calf Lace, full goloshed, fast color cyclists, perfect fitting, 22/6 ; „ 23/6
Others have ordered.
Have YOU?
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 George St., Sydney.
‘H ARLENE’
% HAIR.
The very Finest Dressing.
Restores the Hair.
Promotes the Growth.
Arrests the Fall.
Strengthens the Roots.
Preserves the Hair.
Renders it Beautifully Soft.
Removes Dandruff.
Allays all Irritation.
Preserves, Strengthens, and Invigorates
Childrens’ Hair.
Full description and directionsfor use in
30 languages supplied with every bottle.
■*/-* 2/6, and (triple a/6 size) 4/6 per
Bottle from &c., all over
the World.
Edwards’ Harlene Co.
High Holborn, London, Eng.
ILS
Mamma, shall I have beautiful long hair like you when 1 grow up l”
Certainty, my dear, if you use Edwards’ • Harlene.'"
FOR the. person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY OljE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. ThaSis . . .
“ Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - ■ GEO. W. ELLIS.
]| Country Without Strikes.
A Handbook for Laborites.
Being H. D., Lloyd’s much-discussed and criticised
account of a visit to the Compulsory Arbitration
Court of New Zealand.
♦ V-| *
POST FREE for 1/0 from Herbert Bailtle & Co., Book-
sellers, Cuba Street, Wellington, New Zealand.
W. W. GREENER’S NEW RIFLE
Made expressly for Cadet Corps.
An entirely New & Exclusive Design.
The new Rifle has been produced
solely to supply the wants of Cadet
Corps for a REALLY RELIABLE
and ACCURATE RIFLE at a low
price, 3s. -»(g
Ten Shots in 3 inch Square at 100 yards.
GENUINE ENGLISH MANUFACTURE THROUGHOUT.
Every Rifle guaranteed and named
W. W. GREENER, Birmingham, England.
On Hand—Greener’s Guns from 9 to 30 Guineas ; Lee
Enfield and Metford Rifles, Govt, viewed ; Greener’s New
Book, “Sharpshooting for Sport or War,” 1/- net,
posted 1/2. Stamps from other States not accepted.
NW All Rifle Shots should read this Book.
Clxas. *W. Buckland.,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
A/TURCHISON & DARGALONG COURSING CLUB
IV ' L VICTORIA.
16th, 17th and 18th July, 1901.
THE MAJORITY STAKE,
For 64 All-aged Dogs, at £2 25., with £5O added by the
Club. First Dog, £loo—Runner-up, £4O ; Two Dogs, £lO
each; Four Dogs, £3 each ; Eight Dogs, £1 10s. each.
Less 10 per cent, to defray expenses. Entries close 12th
July ; Draw, 13th.
Further particulars on application to Hon Sec.,
H. MILLER, Murchison P. 0., Vic.
Dreams in Flower: -
By Louise Mack. No. IY of The Bulle-
tin Booklets (enlarged). Enveloped,
2s. 6d. post free.


When the recent census was taken in Ire-
land, many R.O.’s showed their indignation at
the Coronation Declaration against Transubstan-
tiation by stating their religion as “Idolatry.”
Even N.S. W. Prisons Department is find-
ing itself compelled to move with the times. It
i arted some time ago with its incredibly brutal,
but dearly-loved, gag ; and now the inhuman dark-
cell system has been abolished, while the still
more iniquitous solitary confinement is to have
its term reduced—for first offenders—from nine
months to one month ; the period for pre-
viously-convicted persons being made vari-
able according to the individual case. Better
late than never, certainly — but what a
multitude of victims this solitary-confinement
fetish has already claimed ! How many persons—
gaoled for the first time and belonging in no real
sense to the criminal classes bave by this accursed
“separate-treatment” been driven demented, or
practically slain ! But even these unfortunates
will not have perished in vain if a tardy public
recognition of the fact that they did so perish is
helping to make the barbarous Botany Bay
Tradition pc • ■'-d>le by the light of rational
humanitari r ; sm.
Gilmour, the mate of burglars Mont-
gomery and Williams (hanged at Sydney for
using their jemmies—though without fatal effect
—on the arresting policemen), got clear away at
the time of the memorable robbery at the Union
s.s. Co.’s Sydney office, but has fallen in at last.
He lately killed a Frenchwoman whose house in
Paris he was burgling, and is very likely indeed to
be guillotined.
Tell your Tailor,
clothes must be made with
Bel warp Clotb
and see for yourself that the TRADE MARK is stamped on the back of every
yard. It is a guarantee that the cloth is made from Pure Wool,
unshrinkable, and that the colour will never fade. Insist on
seeing your tailor is not deceived by spurious imitation > of this range of cloths,
in no way equal to the original goods which come from the famous Mills of . .
Sir Titas Salt, Bart., Sons & Co., Ltd., Saltaire.
m*
me
REGISTERED TRADE MARK.
“BELWARPS” can only be obtained from Messrs. LUCCOCK, LUPTON & Co., Bradford;
and their Agents, Messrs. Metcalfe & Barnard, Melbourne, Sydney, & Brisbane.
Beanie’s Bronchitis Core.
T 1 Mm FAMOUS REMEDY FOR.
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Cokls on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. —Dear Sir, —I am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my i ase. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.” —Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREM ELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE'S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old, She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenvvellyn,
“ Katanga, Vie.
“Mr. Hearne. —
“ Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of j r our Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a hot tie
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to niv mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.”
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that, previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus —as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.’
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows :—“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since 1 commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cor! liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night's rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sen' her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply."
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“ Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure. —I remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Years’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other t reatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as.l am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS' CASE.
CURED BY THU EE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes :—“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:—“l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depots ogj ce . jjg § First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record
Food f ° r .
Infants
5
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or t ie most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, &c., every whore.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by s
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own."
British Medical Journal.
I
, AND
THE AGED.
VAUDS


THE
THE
/"T ENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years,
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 78. 6d.
“RAZOLEB” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
ground, rings
exact kind of
can testify to
Prick
/Single Razor, in strong- Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Moroeeo Leather Case, 21s.
\ Single Razoi, in Ivory Handle, 16s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful cise, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to an y part of the World.
JSF” Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAiG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
I’ll Try It."
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
(Japlarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOIjK AGENTS.
The Result.
ORNAMCHTAL HAIR.
Naturally Ourly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6rl to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigwiakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to any part of Australasia.
CRAIG & AITKEIM
New South Wales Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 CEOR&E STREET, SYDNE/
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TL'O IDJSIF’Y COMP^TIXION.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&c
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, BYDHEY.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Rare Books
French Hovels
Books
for
the
Married
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST
Of TRICKS, PUZZLES, Etc.,
Etc., FREE.
EXTRA SPECIAL CATALOG V
OF BOOKS FREE.
STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTES OF ANY COLONY TAKEN.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE,
201 Bourke Street, Melbonrn
EVERY HOUSEHOLD and TRAVELLING TRUNK OUGHT TO CONTAIN A BOTTLE of
ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’
m
For P; eventing 1 & Curing- by Natural Means
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold,
Influenza, Tnroat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
TESTIMONIAL. —“ I have been a nurse for ten years, and have nursed cases
,f scarlet fever, pyaemia, erysipelas, measles, gangrene, cancer, and almost every
uentionable disease. During this time I have not been ill for a single day, and
his I attribute to the use of Eno’s 1 Fruit Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a
pure state. I recommend it to a'd my patients during convalescence. Its
va'ue as a means of health cannot be overestimated.” —A Professional
Nurse ( Qualified ).
THE EFFECT OF ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ ON A DiSGRDEhEE SLEEPLESS, AND FEVERISH CONDITION
IS SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, IN FACT, NATURE’S OVv'N REMEDY, and AN UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION. — See capsule marked END’S ‘ FFtUiT SALT.’ Without it, you have a
WORTHLESS I MET ATI OiV.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., at the ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
ERAS MIC
; - PERFUME
Is delightfully fragrant and pleasant to use.
A DAINTY, DELICIOUS DELICACY.
ASK YOUR CHEMIST FOR IT
GOOD HIAIR FOR ALL !
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and civing Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively.
Price, ss. 6d. ; ppstage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Coliins-street, MELBOURNE.
! 5 FREEMAN »w WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL & SURGICAL INSTITUTE.
The Two Eminent Specialists
who have the Largest Practice
in Aostralasia.
And the Only Specialists in A ustralia who have
Received Highly Commendable Press Notices
in Leading Australian Journals.
Specialties : Nervous and Chronic Complaints, Blood and Skin Diseases,
Heart; Kidney, Liver, Bladder> Rheumatism, Sciatica> &c., &c.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration by the Govern-
ment Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, Great
Britain and America, open to inspection at the Consulting Rooms
by our Physician-in-Chief.
Pis an acknowledged fact the world-wide over that no
single individual or combination of men can be ab-
solute masters of every phase an . branch of art, science,
medicine, or other professed avocation of a limitless
sphere of operation and magnitude. At best the greatest
scientists of the day—men like Lord Kelvin and Edison,
Tours truly . . .
HOWARD FIVE KM AN,
Sydney’s Leading Specialist.
Professor of Electricity as applied Medically, Member
Dr. Harmon's College, Washington Cor., Cal., TJ.S.A.
Director and Founder of the Institute.
for instance, whose fame is universally known—class
themselves as infants in scientific invention and research,
and modestly tell us that they have but a smattering of
knowledge of the possibilities, extent, and development
We have only to look at the fine buildings that occupy
the corner of Elizabeth and Bathurst streets to gain some
idea of the extent and importance of their professional
work. But to have the privilege of being shown through
the building by the Specialists themselves, and to see and
learn something of the real character of their wide prac-
tice, is a treat that only comes the way of a fortunate in-
dividual like the writer. .
The instrument-room was, as usual, one of particular
curiosity. Laymen always have a penchant for eyeing
and examining the polished steel articles with which so
many extraordinary acts are performed upon the human
body. Th; collection in this room is in every way up-to-
date. Whenever a new instrument conies to the front,
and its worth is proved beyond question, it is added to
this rare assortment. Another room full of absorbing in-
terest is that devoted to the galvanic batteries, of which
there are several magnificent kinds. The noted Gaitfe
batteries, the finest French makes, are here in perfection,
irrespective of their high cost. If any article or mechani-
cal and electric contrivance is found necessary in main-
taining the fame of this institution, th* price is never
allowed to stand in the way.
The correspondence department is .. veritable eye-
opener. Its sacredness is a bar to a stranger’s admission,
but a full view of the work going on is had through the
glass doors. Half a-dozen typists are seen driving their
machine-writers at electric speed. To the principals only
are known the names of the persons throughout Australia
who are being treated as skilfully in their homes about
the metropolis and away in the interior as if they were
present in personal consultation at the institution.
The packing-rooms are likewise shut off from curious
and prying glances, and the work of one department is a
mystery to the others. No better system for holding
secret the nature of sufferers’ troubles, tor safe-guarding
their interests, and giving due heed to the feelings and
sensitiveness of patients, could be imagined. Packages
are not plastered with advertising labels, they are put up
in such a way that only the names and addresses are in
view.
What a practice is here revealed and what a consola-
tion must it be to these eminent specialists to know that
they are permanently curing and restoring to health and
happiness thousands of people whose lives were a burden
to them. The young, the middle-aged, and the healthy
are treated with the same amount of success. The pro-
digious nature of the work accomplished by these
specialists necessitates —not the stereotyped morning and
evening two hours’ consultation ticket, but their constant
attention at the institution from early morning till late
into the night. “I call assure you,” said Dr. Wallace,
“ we don’t put in these long hours because we are fonder
'
'
x&x
Premises = Gor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts (Opp. Hyde Park, Sydney
(All Trams Stop at the Door).
of electricity, and only a fringe of imagination of the un-
told stores of strength and wealth wrapt up in this
phenomenal power.
Therefore it requires no argument to convince the
most pronounced of optimists that the field in any one of
the great and honored professions of the day is far too
vast for the thorough comprehension of the most per-
fectly brain-endowed man, or body of naturally-gifted
men. Yet in respect of the most delicate and difficult of
all professions—that of prescribing for the ills and
diseases of mankind—we find doctors, scattered over the
globe, off-handedly and without careful, minute, and
searching examination and diagnosis—without any know-
ledge of the past lives of patients—flippantly dashing off
prescriptions for every class of complaint, as if a cure was
as simple as falling over the proverbial log.
Thanks to the march of civilisation, culture, and edu-
cation, people are getting to know that modern medical
men who are worth consulting confine their practice to a
certain class of cases. Realising the utter hopelessness of
mastering and curing everything under the sun, and find-
ing that “gullibles” are not so plentiful as they used to
be, the wise and progressive men of medicine devote
themselves to one or other class of cases, and work out
the remedies for them to the best of their skill and
ability.
What better and more striking illustration of the suc-
cess of Specialists in Skin Diseases, Heart, Kidney, Liver
Affections, Rheumatics, Sciatica, Nervous Diseases, could
the people of this magnificent continent, Australia, have
than the enormous practice of the famous practitioners of
the Electro-Medical Institute. Their skill, attainments,
position, and renowned reputation stamp them as the un-
doubted masters of fhe classes of diseases and complaints
which have been the study of their professional lives.
When we speak of electricity we think of Edison. Why ?
Because he dwarfs other men in this branch of science.
In the same way, when we talk of specialists, we at once
associate the names of the Freeman and Wallace Insti-
tute. So it is in every branch of. scientific medicine;
some one or two men stand head and shoulders above
their fellows.
It is the aim, object, and devotion of certain doctors to
be pre-eminent in some defined class of disease rather
than to tinker with a host of complaints about which
they can have but a hazy notion, and superficial know-
ledge. To use a hackneyed but expressive phrase, they
are “Jacks of all trades and masters of none.” Never
since the time of Ricord, the noted French Specialist,
have any men conducted so gigantic and successful a
practice as that cone acted by the Freeman-W'allace
Electro Medical and Surgical Institute.
of hard work than any other medical men ; we do it in
the best interests of sufferers. We don’t keep them
waiting- longer than we can help, and we suffer many in-
conveniences for our patients’ sakes.”
Noble sentiments, thought the writer, as the time came
for his departure, and the Specialists returning to their
zr
i ours truly . . .
RICHARD WALLACE h
Physidan-in-Chief,
M.D., L.R.C.P., L.F.P.S., L.M.,
Late Medical Staff, British Army; late Consulting
Staff, Homoeopathic Hospital, Melbourne.
consulting-room. How many doctors in our midst can
we bracket in this category ? Dinners and drives and
conversaziones are more frequently uppermost in the
mind of top-loftical medicos than the speedy treatment
of sad and suffering patients.


Missing Friends.
AN advertisement appeared in the issue of
the 22nd June, 1901, apparently under the
instructions of Mr. H. Weaver, solicitor, of
Armidale. Mr. Weaver writes us that he gave
no instructions for the advt., and as same is
calculated to cause him annoyance, we hasten to
notify his disclaimer of any connection with
same.
IF MARGARET KANE (perhaps married) at one
time of Drum County, Monaghan, Ireland, child of
the late JAMES KANE (schoolmaster) and MARGARET
KANE (net GORDON), at one time of Lisnaskea, Ireland,
or her representatives or descendants, communicate with
the undersigned they will hear of something to their
advantage. Anyone knowing their whereabouts kindly
write
J. A. SNOW, Solicitor,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
A.
J. T,
Letter received. Send to G.P.O.
for letter ; not satisfied.
E. V. A.
UNDER DISTINGUISHED
ROYAL PATRONAGE.
SOT
I
■
II
i
*A
m
m
From H.B.H. PRINCESS HOHEHLOHH.
(The German Ambassador's Daughter.)
“ ■ KOKO' for the Hair i B the BEST Dressing I
know. It keeps the head cool, promotes growth,
and is In EVERY way excellent.
Princess HOHENLOHE.
t Recommended and Used by H.M. The
Queen (of Greece). Princess Victoria
(of Schaumburg Lippe), Princess
Hohenlofie. Princess Vdarie
(of Greece), Princess Henry Reuss,
Rear-Admiral Tinklar. Sic.. &c.
KOKO FOR THE HAIR
ill is a tonic, cleansing, invigorating preparation, causes the hair to grow, keeps it soft and pliant, imparts
to it the lußtre and freshness of youth, eradicates dandriff, prevents hair from falling, 1b the most
111 cleanly of all hair preparations, and is perfectly harmless.
OLD PEOPLE LIKE IX
jj]i for its wonderful power to invigorate decayed hair, and induce an entire new grow th when that Is possible.
MIDDLE-AGED PEOPLE I,IKB IT,
' jj]i because It keeps dandriff away, and makes the hair grow thick and strong.
YOUNG LADIES LIKE IT
i|| as a dressing, because it gives the hair a beautiful glossy lustre, and enables them to dress it In what-
||l ever form they wish, where it will remain.
CHILDREN LIKE IX,
jTj because it keeps the hair and scalp cool and clean, allays irritation, and keeps the hair in whatever
l|l position desired. _
THEY ALL LIKE IX.
' i because it is pure as crystal perfectly colourless, contains no poisonous substances, dye. sugar of
lead, sulphur, nitrate of silver, or grease, does not soil or colour the scalp, face, or the most delicate
fabric in clothing, produces a wonderful, pleasant and cooling effect on the head, and no other dressing
is needed to give the hair the most elegant appearance possible. Try it once, and you will use no other.
Is., 2s. 6d.. and 9s. 6d., of all Chemists, Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
Australian Depot: Koko-Marlcopas Co., Cd., 14,Castlereagh St.,Sydney,N.S.W.
CAUTION.—See that this Registered Trade Mark Is on every bottle.
At St. Arnaud (Vic.), t’other day, a little
girl was arrested for stealing some pork, and it
was proved in the police court that she was one of
five children whose mother, a widow, had been
gaoled for selling wine without a license. When
the mother was convicted it was pointed out that
she could not pay the fine, £25, and if sent to
gaol her children would be left entirely helpless.
She was sent to gaol, and the children were quite
forgotten till the eldest stole the pork in a pitiful
attempt to feed her starving sisters and brothers.
Law has a forcible method of inculcating virtue
amongst the lower orders.
Lucknow, 14th June, 1901.
g J. POLLITZER, Esq., Sydney.
Dear Mr. Pollitzer.—Just a line or two to say that we
have knocked through from the D’Arcy to the Proprietary
at the 800 level, and that your calculations were abso-
lutely correct in every particular. lam sure that you
will be very pleased to hear this. I regard the survey as
a very difficult one, and the accuracy of your work is very
satisfactory indeed to all parties concerned.
Yours faithfully, W. H. SKIDMORE.
To the above I merely wish to add that such perfect
precision could onlv have been obtained with the assist-
ance of my recently-invented mining surveying instru-
ments.
S. POLLITZER, C.E.,
146 King Street.
Amusements.
RINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
Commencing SATURDAY, JULY 20, and Following
Nights, Grand Production of Lecocq's Delightful
Comic Opera,
GIROFLE-GIRO FLA.
Under the Direction of the Victorian Operatic Society.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
WM. OGILVIE, Business Manager.
HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING,
A Success that Sparkles Like Gold.
A MILLION OF MONEY.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Box
Plan at Allan’s CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
Amusements.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor .. .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Our New Artists Received with Enthusiasm.
THE DARTOS, Marvellous Parisian Dancers.
ADELE LIBRA, Wire-Walker and Globe-Runner.
DAN LAMONT and his Performing Dogs.
JOHN COLEMAN, the Acknowledged Comedian.
DE WYNNE BROS., Head and Hand Balancers.
FRANK and JEN LATONA, The Musical Tramps.
Arnoldi, Albert Whelan, Fanny Powers, The American
Bioscope, and all Our Great Co.
Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Saturday and Wednesday.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee Mr. Harry Riokards.
EVERY EVENING,
ALFRED DAMPIER,
Supported by a Most Brilliant Coterie of Dramatic Artists,
IN A GREAT DRAMATIC SEASON.
EVERY EVENING,
“ T lx e ZEES usb. K i xx g.”
RICKARDS’ NEW OPERA HOUSE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY
COMPANY.
MARIE LLOYD,
ALEC. HURLEY, ALEC. HURLEY.
Little Eric, Madame Lucretia, Rosie Aquinaldo,
Adelina Sarina, and all Our Great Co.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager. Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr. E. J. Tait.
WILLIAMSON’S ITALIAN OPERA CO.
SATURDAY, JULY 13, the First Great Novelty of the
Season, Puccini’s Delightful Opera,
T. A. -JEt O H E 3VE E.
Musical Director .. ’.. .. SIGNOR HAZON.
Stage Director .. .. •• Mr. HENRY BRACY.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, ss; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
RINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee, G. Musgrove. Underdirection of Jennie Maynard
GREAT SUCCESS of “ NURSE ”in Melbourne. Satur-
day Next, 13th, sees the advent of “ JIM BELMONT.” a
Society Drama by Mr. Berringer. Very, Very Funny, and
yet pathetically beautiful also. Usual Prices. Matinee,
Wednesday. Doors 7. Overture 8. Carriages 10.45.
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXA X XXXXXXA xxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
\x
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
X X
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XXXXXXXXXX xxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx
VYTYYTYYTY YTTYYT YYTYXYYXXXXX XXXXXX
MEN’S OVERCOATS
GENTLEMEN!!!
Our eagerness is to have you well pleased and
constant customers.
A casual observer looks upon Overcoats simply
as a warm over-garment ; but the up-to-date
Clothier sees differently. Details must be
studied, and there is such a variety of styles,
such an array of Fabrics this season, that an
enormous stock must be carried to grant patrons
a choice they deserve.
Well, we have them all.
Prices are hard facts always—
Men’s Melton Chesterfields, with Velvet Col-
lars, Fly Fronts, Well-Padded Shoulders, 218,
255, 30s, 355. Colors : Fawns, Navy, Browns,
Black, and Drabs.
Men’s Superior Venetian and Rainproof
Coats, 30s, 355, 455, 50s. Colors : Fawns,
Navy, Browns, Drabs, and Black.
Bargain Prices
In Men’s Tweed Cape Overcoats, Scotch and
West of England Tweeds, 17s 6d, 21s —Worth
Double.
Boys’ Tweed Cape Overcoats, 6s 11d, Ss 6d,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d, 16s 6d, 18s 6d.
Boys’ Reefers, to Fit Boys from 4 to 6 years old,
3s 11d, 4s 6d, 6s 6dJ 6s 6d ; To Fit Boys
from 6 to 10 years old, 4s 11d, 5s 11d, 7s 6d,
8s 6d.
MACKINTOSHES.
Men’s Chesterfield Mackintoshes, 21s, 255,
30s, 355, 455, 50s, 555.
Men’s Black Mackintoshes, with Large Capes,
21s, 255, 30s, 355, 455.
Boys’ Mackintoshes, with Large Capes, 15s 6d,
21s.
Held at any angle, viewed in any light, examined
in every way, you will find the above Garments
to be the Best Made and Finished in this State.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
FEDERAL OUTFITTERS,
203, 205, 207, 200, 211 PITT BT., SYDNEY.
(If you cannot come in, please order by letter,
; state size, and enclose price; no extra for
! postage.) '
Amusements.
HEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Under the Management of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative .. .. Mr. Allan Hamilton.
EVERY EVENING at 8,
THE BROUGH COMEDY COMPANY.
THE SECOND IN COMMAND,
A Comedy in Four Acts, by Robert Marshall.
MATINEE EVERY THURSDAY at 2 p.m.
Box Plan at E Ivy’s.
YC E U IVI TiH EAT R E, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. William Anderson.
3rd WEEK. EVERY EVENING at 7.50,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION, including
Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN.
THE F AVOURIT E,
OR THE SPORT OF KINGS.
PRICES—3s, 2s and ONE SHILLING. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
RITERION THE AT RE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of Mr. Charles Holloway.
SECOND WEEK and CONTINUED UNABATED
SUCCESS of Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY and his
POPULAR COTERIE OF PLAYERS in the GREAT
SENSATIONAL SUCCESS,
THE POWER AND THE GLORY,
Written by Chas. Darrell, author of ‘When London Sleeps.’
Prices — 35., 25., Is. Early doors (6d. extra) open 6.55;
ordinary doors, 7.30. Plan at Nicholson’s.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson..
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
THE WILLIAMSON OPERA COMPANY.
THE CASINO GIRL,
AN UNDOUBTED TRIUMPH.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, George-st. Prices as usual.
ALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee, W. F. Hawtrey. Gen. Mgr., E. F. Bradley.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of the SEASON.
HAWTREY COMEDY COMPANY.
In the Laughable Farcical Comedy,
I TNT THE SOXT P.
THE PLAY THAT TOOK LONDON BY STORM.
Preceded by Bernard Espinasse’s New and Original
One Act Play, IVY LEAF.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices—ss., 35., 25., and Is.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
SYDNEY UNIVERSITY DRAMATIC SOCIETY.
THURSDAY, JULY 18,
Goldsmith’s Famous Comedy,
“SHE STOOPS TO CONQUER.”
(Under the kind Direction of Mr. Tyrone Power.)
D.O. and R.S., 3s. ; Stalls, 2s. ; F. 0., Is. Box Plan at
Paling’s. NORMAN GOUGH, Hon. Sec.
MPIRE THeTt RE, SYDNEY.
(Late Royal Standard, Castlereagh-street.)
18th WEEK. (Still More Novelties.) 18th WEEK.
JOHN FULLER’S EMPIRE CO.
Every Evening at 8. Every Saturday at 2.30.
Children Half-price to all parts (Matinees).
CHAS. FANNING, “ Australia’s Comedian.”
DENNIS CARNEY, the “Yorkshire Comedian.”
Mr. and Mrs. LEAN, Baritone and Soprano.
AND OUR GRAND DOUBLE COMPANY.
Prices—2s., Is., and 6d. Open at 7.15.
-|- ~~o"w N HALL, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), JULY 11,
Under the Direction of Mr. A. H. CANBY,
JEAN GERARDY,
THE RECOGNISED FIRST. VIOLONCELLIST OF THE
WORLD.
Miss OLIVE KINGSTON, Soprano.
Herr EDUARD SCHARF, Solo Pianist and Accompanist.
Box Plan now open at Paling’s.
Prices of Admission, 55., 35., 25., Is.
KEMP’S PATENT SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
Ts now beine used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
B IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
!t will stay on the sheep’s back as long as required. It will NOT injure the wool. 'lt will dissolve out under
’ the ordinary scouring process.
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
FEW., CXIPIUIIDE * CO, PIECIOURDE.
BLACK , BED, and BLUE (in 8-gallon Cases)- -
PRICE IN MELBOURNE
„ SYDNEY (E. Rich & Co. Ltd.)
„ BRISBANE (E. Rich & Co. Ltd.)
„ HOBART (Wm. Crosby & Oo.)
3/e
3/e
3/e
4/3
per Gallon.
19
99
99
At Poverty Point.
“ Cockney ” : Susie Vaughan’s coming with the Brough
O. sets one thinking of old times when she was one of
the four Sisters Vaughan—golden-haired Kate being the
“star"—who danced the most fetching and artistic can-
can that Condon had ever seen. Susie was an unmistak-
able sister of Kate, and the other two members of the
quartette were said to be also in the family. They danced
as though they loved it. Saw them first at the old Surrey
Gardens. Then Chatterton, the lessee of Drury Lane,
heard of them, and gave the slim, tall sisters an engage-
ment to do a turn after the spectacular drama, which was
an annual autumn-to-winter production at the Lane in
those days. As the result of the Drury Lane success Kate
Vaughan went on her own, and became the dancing idol
of Gaiety Burlesque, what time Royce and Edward Terry
(with Nellie Farren, of course,) were the other principals,
and Maud Hobson, the handsomest of the chorus girls,
was unknown by name except to the initiated. Susie
Vaughan dropped out of notice for a while after the dis-
bandment of the sisters, but presently she came to light
in small comedy parts ; and now—here she is with the
Brough co.
The Gearl of Yarmouth, as plaintiff in a libel action
against a New York journal (he landed £5OO damages),
was cross-examined re the “ decency ” of his skirt-dancing
in Australia. Poor young Gearl! His antics were often
absurd, but never objectionable. As for his Serpentine
dance, it was an interesting illustration of the fact that a
tall, thin young man, armed with a couple of sticks and
arrayed in gauzy draperies and a flaxen wig, could make
a more effective flutter than the ordinary female who
performs the same easy trick. Yarmouth had another
negative virtue. He said of himself that he supposed he
was “ a bit of a joke.”
A Phil May was announced to open “ a season of musical
and lyric entertainments ” at the Bechstein Hall, London,
on June 15th. It can’t be that our Phil May has taken to
that sort of thing.
Editor Bulletin— Apropos your recent critique on my
performance with the Empire 00. at the Empire Theatre,
I wish to remark that the falling of the lady off the bell
was quite unusual, and occurred only once during my
engagement with Mr. Fuller; it happened the identical
night your writer “Happened to be there.” I did not
wish to appear that night as I was suffering from the
result of a sprain occasioned on the previous Saturday ;
so it was only because I did not desire to break faith with
the public that I went through my performance. In
regard to the quivering of the muscles, that is done inten-
tionally, and if your scribe knew anything of muscular
development he should be aware that that particular part
of the exhibition is very difficult and only to be attained by
hard and rigid training. In regard to the last sentence —
would that my crust were earned as easily as your
reporter’s.— Herr Pagel.
War-correspondent Macdonald is on his way back from
London, frozen- out by the cold. In a private letter, he
says it was possible to keep out of the way of the shells
in the early stages of the Ladysmith siege, and to get
used to them in the later stages, but he could do neither
the one nor the other with the cold of England. After
making an encouraging start with his lecturing tour, he
had to abandon it to get back to his native land to thaw.
Some recent operatic happenings in Brisbane. First,
in “ Faust,” a trap failed to work, so that Mephisto
couldn’t descend and was hailed by a small boy in the
family circle with : “ What ho, Nick ! Have they shut
your own door in your face? ” Next, in “ Carmen,” one
of the ponies engaged in the bull-fight scene refused to
go off and had to be bodily humped away by six supers.
Again, in “Lohengrin,” at the end.of one of the acts, the
curtain was raised and revealed an attendant disrobing
one of the female songsters.
An Argus paragrapher has discovered that Bernard
Shaw was once a pugilist. There is a very early novel of
his lurking in the back shelves of the second-hand book-
shops, called “ Oashell Byron’s Profession,” the hero of
which is a prize-fighter ; but Shaw was never more than
an elegant amateur. He learned to put his ha_nds_up,
considering pugilism an accomplishment essential in a
dramatic critic, and that was about all.
Mild &?we-pill from “Nurse.”-He : “What is that
you’re working?” She : “Invisible lace.” He : “In-
visible ! why I can see it?” She : “Well, you won’t
soon ! ” And not 5 per cent, of the audience ever saw it.
Madame Tussaud’s Waxworks, in London, adver-
tises as its principal attraction a “ Lifelike portrait-model
of Commandant Christian De Wet.”
John Anderson, the lately-deceased member for East
Melbourne, was, in his young days, a stonemason and an
amateur actor—most unusual combination. His theatrical
tendencies shaped his course in life. Anderson took to
the hotel business and flourished.
Handsome Miss Elliott Page, assisted by Julius Knight
and others, tried a Danish play—“ The Jensen Family ”
at a recent matinee in London. The play was spoken of
as an unpleasantly foolish story, having a showy central
character for Miss E.P. She took the part of a beautiful
wench, living with her impecunious parents, and rever-
ently beloved by the lodger, the one admirer who didn’t
make improper proposals to her. After a while her dis-
gust for the proposing sex prompted her to sell herself to
a married barrister, who put her upon the variety stage
and made her fortune. Then the heroine turned up
again, like Magda, in the old home, and every-
body, except her young sister, was glad to see
her on account of her splendid jewellery and things.
She provided the family with a desirable mansion
to live in, and arot rid of her benefactor, the married bar-
rister, on hearing that the man had lost all his money.
Also she scared her good sister’s fiance off the premises by
appearing in the drawing-room in tights, after which she
herself married the lodger of her innocent days. The
lodger was still devoted to the lady, and he couldn't
afford any scruples. These modern advanced stage
heroines, who go wrong and prosper, and return to their
unsophisticated parents, seem to be more inhumanly im-
possible than Formosa in Boucicault’s cheerful old melo-
drama, which was adapted more or less from the French,
and which gave H. A. Jones the main idea for “The
Dancing Girl.” £


Found by Accident.
THE GRIP OF LA GRIPPE.
The Expulsion of the Enemy.
The Case of
Mr. ALEXANDER HISLOP.
(For the "News.”)
of the best known chefs in New
oouth Wales is Mr. Alexander Hislop,
residing at No. 34 Burton-street, Darling-
hurst. That gentleman has been engaged
as chief cook in some of the leading hotels
and restaurants in Sydney, and also in
several important country towns in the
mother colony. His popularity was account-
able for our representative hearing of a
visitation of illness whilst at business in
Albury, the details of which were supplied
in the course of the following interview :
“A few years ago,” began Mr. Hislop,
“I was at work on the Albury railway
station, and whilst there I had a very severe
attack of influenza. It came on like an
ordinary cold, and I treated it lightly for
some time ; but it eventually got me down
altogether. first indications were a
tingling, dry sense of fullness in the nose,
and I used to sneeze nearly the whole day.
The pains in my head I shall never forget-
partfcularly across my forehead. 1 could
nob breathe through my nose at all, and my
eyes yere red and watery. Thiough a
harassing dry cough, which came on at
regular intervals, my throat got very sore.
My lungs were quite clogged up with the
cold, and I became so hoarse that I could
not make my voice heard. I was unfortunate
in having aching pains all over my body,
but intensely acute in my back and legs I
was never free from thirst, being always
feverish. My temperature increased every
day, and caused me no little alarm
Whenever I was exposed to air a little
cooler than what I was accustomed to, I felt
flashes of heat and chills one after the other.
I was always wanting to get near the fire.
My windpipe was inflamed and seemed
swollen, and provoked considerable pain.
During the first stages of my attack I forced
myself to eat a little food, although my sore
throat made the task a difficult one ; but in
a few days all appetite had forsaken me
entirely, and I could only drink large
quantities of water. It was a risky and
foolhardy thing for me to do, bub many a
night I got out of bed and tramped the
station platform from end to end because I
was too restless and feverish to sleep.
Luckily for myself I have a constitution
like a horse, or else those walks in search
•f relief would have caused my death. I
was too weak to stay out long, and on
returning to bed I had to lie in a feverish,
burning state till morning, As the disease
laid a firmer hold upon me I had water
running from the nose and eyes, and my
cough became a little more moist. There
was also a slight discharge from my throat.
My pulse had attained a rapidity which I
did not think possible, and I was so reduced
m flesh that the complicated symptoms
occasiondme distressing forebodings.”
“ What did your doctor say ? ” asked the
repeater.
.-® e said I had influenza in its most
serious form. I came down to Sydney for
treatment, and remained three weeks here.
During those three weeks I took every care
of myself, with a view to getting better as
soon as possible. My doctor’s -directions
were closely attended to, and I did every-
thing that common sense could suggest to
assist in my recovery, j I did not waste one
teaspoonful of his medicine all the time;
but at the end of the third week I thought I
might just as well suffer at Albury as in
Sydney. My d—tor had not given me any
relief with his physic, so I went back again,
feeling every bit as bad as when I went
away. I thought I would never be well
again, so depressed and low-spiiited had I
got. However, on returning to the country
I engaged a furnished house, away from the
noise of the station, as I was too worn out
and irritable to stand it, and I made up my
mind to lie up till I was either killed or
cured.” . ,
“And what sort of progress did you
make ? ”
“ I made very rapid progress indeed.*
The taking of that furnished house was the
luckiest thing I have ever done in my life.
Through an oversight on the part of the
previous occupier, a bottle of Clements
Tonic was left on one of the mantelpieces,
and I read the label. ‘Everything else has
failed to cure me, so I will give this a trial,’
I said, and right glad lam that I did. A
few doses eased my chest of a thick, yellow
phlegm, and my breathing became much
easier. The soreness of my throat was
cured simultaneously with my cough, and I
soon had a longing for food, which 1 ate with
a relish. The splitting frontal headaches
went as quickly as they came, and the
pains all over my body left me as I daily
grew stronger. I could walk about without
feeling as though my legs would collapse
under me, and without feeling light headed
or giddy. My eyes, which had looked so
bleary red and w.'tery for weeks, now
looked clear and bright. As I continued to
get along so well, I knew I had hold of the
right remedy, so I sent to the local store for
a couple more bottles of Clements Tonic.
By the time they were exhausted I had not
a sign of influenza about me. I could eat
well, sleep well, and work well. I had not
been able to smoke for weeks, but now I
could enjoy a pipe as much as anybody. I
do not know what would have become of me
at that time if it had not been for Clements
Tonic, as it cured me of the most severe
attack of influenza when my doctor and his
medicine had failed.” ~.«s»*. -
“Do you ever feel any ill-effects of your
illness now?”
“No;none whatever. But I frequently
work long hours at a stretch, and get a
little run-down. I am never without a
bottle of Clements Tonic in the house, so I
soon pick myself up again.” ~
“Do you consent to your experience
being made known?” %-••**• **•-
“Most certainly. I tell all my friends
what I am indebted to for my present good
health, and you are quite welcome to publish
my case in any way you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Alexander Hislop, of 34 Burton-street, Darlfng-
hurst, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully
read the annexed document consisting: of three folios,
and consecutively numbered from one to three, and
that it contains and is a true and faithful account of
my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also con-
tains my full permission to publish in any way my
statements—which I give voluntarily, without receiv-
ing any payment, and I make this solemn declaration
conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by
virtue - f the provisions of an Act made and passed in
the ninth year of the reign of her present Majesty,
intituled “An Act for the more effectual abolition
of Oaths and Affirmatioss taken and made in the
various Departments of the Government of New South
Wales, and to substitute Declarations in lieu thereof
and for the suppression of voluntary and Extra-
judicial Oaths and Affidavits."
Declared at Darlinghurst, this 13th day of Ausrusfc
one thousand nine hundred, before me, s
THOS. J. HUGHES, J.P
Dr. Clarkson’s Electric Belt:
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr - Clar kson’s irt© _ lnvigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy,- and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
WU bring happiness and health. The influence two agents on the Nerves and Organs is truly wonderful.
Price ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
m
OAM, ORJWRITE- OWL
CUT
RATE
DKXJG STORE
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
(aood Tailoriog.
WINTER.
Warm Tweeds and Worsteds .
PURE INDIGO SERGES,
TO STAND ALL WEATHERS.
FANCY TROUSERINGS, VESTINGS, &C.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post Free.
David Braham & Go.,
Tailors and Outfitters,
73 AND 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR.
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
AN EFFICIENT
FILM CAMERA
THE BROWNIE.
Not a toy. Takes splendid photographs,
2 i by 2 i inches. Complete with hand-
book of instructions.
KODAKS from ss. to £7 15s.
OF ALL PHOTOGRAPHIC DEALERS, or from
KODAK, Limited,
The Block , 28U Collins Street , Melbourne.
Send for illustrated price list and mention this
paper
Medical.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdestke & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
BLAIR’S
GOUT '$ RHEUMATIC
PILLS.
The Great English Remedy for
COUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. ljd. and 2s. 9d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
Be
6'
a*
■Those
suffering
' from weak
and sore eyes,
and blight, should
SINGLETON’S OINTMENT
Never Fails, Restores Eyelashes.
- ALti CHEMISTS.
Silt, —i h.ive been cured of Weakness and De-
*' bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBERT
E. PARKHURBT, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Business Announcements
IT WILL PAT YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the Footsteps of the Wise, md
Buy the Best. Cheapest and Most
Stylish Clothing In Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & Co.
252-254- Flinders St., Melbourne
(Opp. Station).
Our Suit to Order at
42/-. is marvel ’ous
value, perfect fitting
and beautifully finish-
ed.
Trousers. 12/6.
Dress and Clerical Suits*
to order, £>.
Biding Breeches, 25/-
Men’s Ready for
Wear. 25/-
Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye, 25/-
Lonsr Chesterfields, 30/-
Tweed Overcoats, 21/-
\ Waterproof Coats, full
capes. 18/6.
Tweed orSerge Trousers,
5/11.
Travelling Rugs, 10/i
13/9.
Black and Blue Yicuna
Coats and Veels, 19/6.
Undressed White Shirts
2/6,3/6, 4/6. 5/6.
Crimean Shirts, 5/6.
7/6.
Gent’s Splendid Bal-
moral 800t5.6/9,9/6
We like to write letters,
mo don’t be afraid to
ask for any informa-
tion. Our book. 7 hi
Philosophy of Dress,
patterns of all kinds
and self-measurement
forms post free. Write
for them.
Don’t Forget to Write for Patterns.
Removes Headache
Cures Dyspepsia
Strengthens the Nerves
THE MOST WONDERFUL TONIC
FOR LADIES, CHILDREN AND
DELICATE GENTLEMEN.
FISHER and CO.’S
mgsiHEmiE
AN INVALUABLE AND UNEQUALLED TONIC
FOR THE NERVES, BRAIN, AND HEART.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Is. per Bottle—Post Free.
PHARMACY:
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Nearly Opposite 0.L.0.)
ADVICE FREE ON ALL COMPLAINTS.
AH Drugs, Pilules and Tinctures Fresh and Potent.
CURES COUGH.
• Cured my son of a dreadful Cough.*
Mrs. Johnston, Belleek, Fermanagh.
GIVES REST & SLEEP.
HAYMAN’S
BALSAM
of Horehound
Safa and Plaasant for Children.
‘NOTHING LIKE IT FOB A COLD.’
Mr. W. Hird, Norwich.
STOPS COLD.
*
£
>■
w
k
Q
nw
EVERY MAN NEEDS IT.
QOME interesting information is disclosed in the book
published by the Electro-Botanic Institute, of
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney. It dis-
cusses the private side of life in such a way as to cause
most men to pause and think as to whether they are just
what they ought to be physically. The book is sent free,
in plain, sealed wrapper. —Medical Review.
DRUNKENNESS
Positively CURED by Administering
EUCRASY.
It can be given in
drink or food with-
out the subject’s knowledge. Perfectly Harmless, and
will effect a Speedy Cure. Write TO-DAY for Free Book
Address THE EUCRASY CO., 62 Hunter-street, Sydney'
Dear Bulletin, —You say of Pastor Fit-
chett’s “Wellington’s Men ” (8., 15/6/’01); “It
is the personal, dramatic, and literary value of
these accounts that Mr. Fitchett has exploited . .
contributions to knowledge of the human animal
in warfare. They are, in fact, contributions to
human psychology.” Granted ; but let the picture
of “the human animal in warfare” be complete.
Why this perpetual repetition of battle-pictures,
when we know that battles are only occasional
episodes, with, between them, long months of
marches, bivouacs, picquet, and guard-mounting ?
Let Mr. Fitchett give not merely the high lights,
but something, say, like the “Conscript” of
Erekmann-Chatrian. There are plenty of materials.
Let him “analyse the human animal in warfare”
by all means ; but let him take the animal under
all the conditions of warfare —suffering want, and
oppressed with toil, as well as when warmed up
in battle. The pictures of enthusiasts like Fit-
chett are absurdly untrue to nature. They are
not studies from life, but copies ; and bad copies,
despite the technical skill expended on them. —
Veteean.
A Narrabri (N.S.W.) firm has imported a
three-barrelled gun. Two barrels are for shot,
and the other, for bullets, is fixed beneath the
first two.
Heard, recently, at a Sydney debating
society: “A man may overcome great natural
disadvantages. For instance, I have heard of a
case where a man born without arms learned to
write a beautiful hand with his feet.”
Decided in an English Appeal Court (prac-
tically) that a man may break open a box and take
letters belonging to his wife, if he supposes them
to show (and they did) an improper intimacy be-
tween her and the writer. The lady had plenty
of nerve, and fought the matter right through.
First, in the police-court, for stealing ; charge
dismissed. Then before a Judge, who ordered the
return of the letters. Finally the Superior Court
refused to let either party have them, and handed
them to the Divorce authorities ; so the husband
finally scored. Presumably this decision cuts
both ways.


DO YOU WANT A WATCH ?
Perhaps not for your own use, but you may want one for your wife or your boy
or girl. We have them all kinds and at all prices by the hundreds. We illus-
trate and describe a few worthy ones. All of these have been made especially
for us and bear our name and we guarantee them to be thoroughly good and reliable.
Unless you are in the trade or at least a close observer you will not detect the great
difference in Watches as they appear in shops. A few weeks’ (or days sometimes)
use, however, will show you the defects of the inferior kind. Our entire stock has
been selected from the best manufacturers in the World whose reputation for
high-grade Watches has never been questioned. The construction of these
Watches could not be improved. You can buy cheap Watches but a Watch
should be made to last a lifetime. If it only gives you satisfaction for a few
months, it is dear at any price. The Watches described here are the kind that
stand the wear and tear of everyday use and give satisfaction all the time. We
need hardly remind you that shortly a duty will be placed on Watches.
BUY NOW !
m
PRESENTATION
GOLD WATCH
We give an illustration here of a
Gold Watch suitable for presenta-
tion. The case is a heavy one of
18ct. Gold and can be had either
plain or engine turned. The move-
ment is a high-grade Waltham
Lever with 21 Diamond and Ruby
J ewels, 2 pairs Diamond Caps, both
Balance Pivots running on Dia-
monds. Raised Gold Settings, Gold
Train, Double Roller Escapement,
Compensation Balance accurately
adjusted to temperature and posi-
tion, patent Brequet Hair Spring,
patent Micrometric Regulator, £35
This is a small size
“Lady’s” Watch.
The case is full
Hunting * 18 ct.
Gold and . very
substantial. It is
engraved very
artistically. The
movement is f-
plate with 17
Ruby Jewels,
Raised Gold Set-
tings, Patent
Regulator and
Breq u e t Hair
Spring, and is
adjusted to tem-
perature and posi-
tion. JBI4 10s.
This illustration, shows our
Gentlemen’s Gold Hunting
Watch. It is a Watch fit for
the most exacting, being a per-
fect timekeeper. The case is
solid 18c. Gold, Engine Turned,
with Shield and Garter. The
movement is f- -plate Nickel
Waltham Lever with 17 Jewels,
exposed pallets, Micrometric
Regulator, Compensation Bal-
ance, adjusted, and a Brequet
Hair Spring, hardened and
tempered in form. £lB 10s.
OUR GUINEA
LEVER WATCH
Has been specially constructed
for country use, and we can recom-
mend it as a Reliable Timekeeper.
It is correctly designed, well made,
well finished and jewelled. The
cases are of oxidised Steel and are
very tight-fitting, thus excluding
dust and damp from the move-
ments. Strong Crystal Glass,
£1 Is. In Hunting Cases,
£1 ss.
Cl
M
gss
Assist
This is a medium or six size
“Lady’s” 18c. Gold-case Hunting
“Waltham” Lever Watch. The
cases are nicely engraved in a
variety of Styles and are made
Extra Heavy. The Movement is
a fine Nickel f-plate with 17 Ruby
Jewels, Raised Gold Settings,
Exposed Pallets, Patent Micro-
metric Regulator, Compensation
Balance (adjusted to temperature
and position), Patent Briquet Hair
Spring. One of the finest
Watches made and at £l5 10s
it is good value.
.
m
Wlmlß
'm y
w*
m
; ■
v.-.: v 7
ills
THE GOLD-FILLED
WALTHAM LEVER.
Gold-filled, with us, means 2 plates
of solid 14ct. Gold and 1 plate
of Composition in between. The
makers of the case guarantee it to
stand for 25 years, and as they are
THE case-makers of America their
guarantee is good. The movement
is a f-plate Nickel, highly finished.
It has 15 Ruby Jewels, patent
Brequet Hairspring and Regulator,
Compensation Balance. We guar-
antee this watch to give unqualified
satisfaction. £5 10s.
This shows a medium
size Hunting Keyless
Watch, with strong
14ct. Gold Case,
beautifully engraved.
The movement is a
f-plate Waltham
Lever, with 16 Ruby
Jewels, exposed pal-
lets, Patent Regula-
tor, Compensation
Balance, adjusted ;
also a Brequet Hair-
spring, hardened and
tempered in form.
We can recommend
this Watch as being
fit for the use of any
lady. Price JB9 10s.
In open face -£8 10s.
This illustration
shows one of our
Lady’s small size Key-
less HuntingWaltham
Lever Watches. The
case is made of 10c.
gold and is nicely en-
graved. The move-
ment is a nickel f-
plate, 7 Jewels, ex-
posed pallets, Com-
pensation Balance,
Patent Brequet Hair
Spring, Hardened
and Tempered in
Form, and we guar-
antee its Timekeep-
ing quality, 10s.
We have this Watch
in open face at >£6.
m
ff i
mm
#
\
%
m
/
I
This is a fine
quality Waltham
Lever Wat c h.
The case is solid
and substantial,
Sterling Silver
with Gold Joints.
The movement is
gilded and finished
off in Nickel. It
has 17 Fine Ruby
Jewels, Gold Set-
tings, Double
Roller Escape-
ment, Exposed
Pallets, Compensation Balance adjusted to Temperature and Posi-
tion, Patent Regulator and Patent Brequet Hair Spring. We
have them Open Face with strong Crystal Glass and Hunting
at £5 10s. . . _ ,
This is one of the well-known—
and justly well-known—Rother-
ham Keyless Lever Watches. The
movement is on the f-plate
principle and has 15 Jewels, Com-
pensation Balance, Patent Brequet
Hair Spring, and is carefully
adjusted to temperature and posi-
tion. The case is strong and of
solid Silver. These Watches give
satisfaction everywhere. £6 10s,
mm
Wi
'
We carefully examine each Watch before we send it out. Any of the Watches described above will be sent by post, registered, at our risk on receipt of
remittance, for many other Btyles of Watches trrite for our illustrated Price List. Tour name and address on a Post Card will bring one along.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
And at Melbourne, Vic.; Perth, W.A. ; Auckland, N.Z.; Wellington, N.Z.; Christchurch, N.Z. 5 and London.
412 George St. #
The Strand, Sydney


A GRAND REMEDY FOR CONSTIPATIO
y , *tE7r».yg
3E£
Ml
jam
r KUTNOW'S
improved Effervescent Carlsbad
POWDER,
tL H,
'
Hirschensprung or Deer Leap
London
41. FARRINGDON ROAD. E.C>?
REGISTERED TRADE MARK.
Removes Sick Headache,
Biliousness, Indigestion,
Bladder Troubles,
Braces TJp the Nerves.
USE KUTNOW AND PREVENT CONTAGION.
EXACT SIZE
OF.THE.BQHLE
EXACT SIZE
OF THE BOTTLE
KUTNOW’S POWDER was declared by the PARIS MEDICAL
CONGRESS, 1901, to be the greatest eliminator of
poisonous deposits in the World. AWARDED THE DIPLOMA
OF MERIT, PARIS EXHIBITION, 1901.
We suppose you prefer facts to fiction? Facts are stubborn! Well, you have it on the authority of
England’s greatest Physicians—Slß SPENCER WELLS, M.D. ; SIR ANDREW CLARKE, M.D. ; SIR
MORELL MACKENZIE, M.D. • and PROF. LAWSON TAIT, M.D. —who one and all endorsed, com-
mended and prescribed KUTNOW’S POWDER as a most beneficial aperient. . '
Further, the LANCET, London, says : “ Our analysis of Kutnow’s Carlsbad Powder confirmed the
presence of the constituents of the medicinal springs of the European Continent, viz., sulphate of soda potash,
carbonate of lime, lithium and strontia.”
Again, the BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL says : “KUTNOW’S POWDER is a very efficient
and agreeable aperient reproducing the therapeutic effects of the medicinal springs of the famous spas.”
The EDINBURGH MEDICAL JOURNAL says: “ KUTNOW’S POWDER is an excellent
preparation and one we can highly recommend.”
The MEDICAL TIMES and HOSPITAL GAZETTE says : “KUTNOW’S POWDER is a most
palatable and efficient preparation of great therapeutic and diuretic value, especially in Liver and stomach
troubles.”
YOU OUGHT NOT TO LIVE ANOTHER DAY WITHOUT IT.
Kutnow’s Improved Effervescent Carlsbad Powder may be obtained in capsuled bottles from all
reliable Chemists or Medicine Vendors. Don’t be humbugged with imitations, don’t accept any suggested
substitutes. If the Chemist has not got it, he ought to have it, and you must try elsewhere.
Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO., Ltd., 41 Farringdon Ed., London, E.C.
Proprietors in U.S.A.: KUTNOW BROS., Ld., 853 Broadway, New York.
Our New Selection.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
After dinner. Dave and Joe at the barn waiting
for the horses to finish feeding. Dave sitting
with his back to the slabs, his hands embracing
his knees, staring thoughtfully from under his old
felt hat at the stubble-field, upon which a million
grasshoppers sported themselves in the scorching,
simmering heat. Joe lying flat on his stomach,
supporting his chin in his palms, digging earth up
with the toes of his boots, and dexterously spit-
ting at ants that passed within range.
“ Don’t know wot you think,” Dave said,
gloomily, “ but it ain’t good enough for me. I’ve
told the old chap, too, over and over again, that I
won’t stand it any longer. Slog away as much as
y’ like, an’ look after things all the year, then
when y’ want a few bob you’ve to ask him for it ”
(a pause); “an’ when y’ do ask he growls like a
bear ! ”
“That’s so,” Joe said.
“Y’d think,” Dave continued, “a feller was
on’y a kid, th’ way
Just then Dad appeared, using strong language
on Cranky Jaok, for heaving a shovel at one of
the mares.
“Notyoked-up yet?” he growled; “y’ll tek
all day, soon ! ”
“ Oh, give th’ horses time to finish I ” Dave said,
sharply.
“ Time t’ finish 1 ” Dad snorted; “ time for y’
to yarn and idle!”
Dave fixed his eyes on Dad.
“Wot ’re y’ talkin’ about ? ” he said.
“ Wot’m I damn you, feller, will y’ sit there
givin’ impudence t’ me very face ? Get up, and
go on with th’ ploughin’ tli’ two of y’ ! ”
“ Not another turn ’ll I do,” Dave said, the tears
starting into his eyes; “not anotherd—n stroke !
... Y’ ain’t satisfied mooching round the place
all morning, pokin’ in everybody’s road, but y’
must come here ’n’ meddle with things y’ know
nothing about ”
“Know nothing about?” and Dad shook with
rage.
“ Yes ; know.nothing about.”
“ Confound you, you insolent (Dad was lost for
a word) —Clear out of this— clear!” And up
went his big right hand, after the manner of a
railway-guard.
“No need t’ tell me,” Dave said; “ I’ve stayed
here too long as it is—for all thet ever I get from
y\”
“Get from me? What th’devil do you want,
you hound ? ”
“ Something more than the few miserable shil-
lings I get once a year.”
“ D—n y’, feller; d’ y’ think I’m a million-
aire ? ”
“No —nor anyone— —”
Here mother came and intervened, and tried to
make peace.
But Dave was determined to leave home. He
went into the house and put on a coat; then he
saddled a horse and rode away. He went as far
as Delaney’s—five miles up.
Dad began to think, and discussed the situation
with mother.
“Well, you know,” said mother, quietly, “the
boys is men now, and I suppose they think as it’s
time they had something to themselves.”
Dad thought some more, then went down to the
17-acres, where a man we had engaged and a boy
called Regan were pulling corn and carting it in.
Dad went over their tracks, and, finding a small
cob with scarcely any corn on it, brought it along
and threw it into the dray, and lectured the man
for missing it.
The man offered no explanation, but young
Regan grinned.
“You imp ! ” Dad yelled, “ get on outer thet;
wot th’ devil ’re y’ standin’ for ? ”
The boy waded-in.
Dad then lent a hand and worked hard. The
dray was nearly full. The man mounted it to
square the load.
“Wot ’re y’ lookin’ at now?” Dad shouted
again to the boy, who. was watching the man on
the dray.
“I’ve finished me side,” whined the boy.
“ Lead th’ horse on, then.”
“How kin I, till”
“ Lead th’ horse on ! ”
The boy ducked in time to dodge a cob Dad
aimed at his head.
“ You whelp! ” and Dad went off round the
dray after him.
Regan dodged. Dad pelted more cobs at him,
and roared: “Stand, you young devil, or I’ll
knock your head off.”
Regan gathered cobs as he ran, and returned
Dad’s fire over the back of the horse.
The man on the dray sank in a lump on the
load and laughed.
Regan left the dray, charged into the corn and
disappeared.
Dad threatened the man on the dray with
violence and the sack, then left and went across
to Cranky Jack and a traveller who was putting
in a day or two for tucker. They were filling the
shed with hay and must have been doing it all
wrong, because as soon as Dad set eyes on it he
started swearing and dancing round.
The traveller stood, holding an immense forkful
of hay above his head, and listened a second or
two; then he said : “Be d dto you !” and
threw all the hay on top of Dad, and smashed the
fork on the ground, and heaved the pieces down
the paddock, and walked off, cursing.
Dad threw the hay off himself and spat and
shouted, “ You coward ! ”
“Go ’way, Boss; go ’way,” Jack said —“an’
don’t insult the gentleman. Jim’s from Ireland.”
Dad scowled at the half-witted man and went
away. He harnessed Dave’s pair of plough-horses
and joined Joe.
“ I’ll show th’ feller he can be done without, I
know,” he said to Joe.
Joe smiled and said: “Giterp ... Jess .. .
Jally.” And when he stopped to clean the plough
again and looked round there was Dad walloping
Dave’s horses with a shovel.
Joe ran back.
“ What th’ deuce is up, n-now ? ” he said.
“ Confound th’ feller,” Dad answered—“he’s
got th’ horses completely spoilt.”
“They’re all right,” Joe said, approaching the
plough-handles.
“They’re not all right—they’re all wrong; stand
aside, sir.” And Dad took the reins again.”
“ Now then,” he shouted, shaking the plough,
“get up !. . . Horses!” They jerked and
swerved, and shoved each other. “ You d——n
rubbish ! . . . Get up 1 ”
“No wonderl” said Joe, making a discovery.
“They’re not in their right places—put th’ b-
black horse in th’ f-furrer.”
“He’ll go where I put him. Get up , . . you
pair o’ dogs ! . . . Gee back . . . way ! way J Wa-
ya! ” Dad dropped the plough-handles, and
slipped up beside the horses, and brought the
shovel down on them again so suddenly that they
both bounded off before Joe could seize the reins,
and the next moment were bolting across the
paddock with the plough flying behind them.
Dad turned to Joe: “Dammit, why couldn’t
y’ take th’ reins ? ”
“W-well,” and Joe grinned, “there’s some
things a feller can’t do.’’
“ There’s a d n lotter things y’ can’t do ! ”
Dad snorted out, and went after the horses. He
found them, and a portion of the plough, stuck in
the fence near the barn, and surrounded by
mother and Sarah and the dogs and the man who
was pulling corn.
Mother wanted to know what had happened,
but Dad was uncommunicative. Next day he
ordered a new plough, and for months afterwards
the black horse hopped about on three legs.
Dave came back after tea, but scarcely looked
at anyone. He rolled some clothes in a blanket,
hung about for a minute or two, as though he felt
sorry, then said “Good-bye” to us all, and went
back to Delaney’s, leaving mother crying on the
verandah.
“Mark my word,” said Dad, pacing up and
down, “he’ll be glad to came back, yet.”
• • * *
Dave wasn’t away a week when everything was
going wrong. Three cows burst on the lucerne ;
a mare and foal lost; the chaff-cutter smashed in
two places, and every ounce of a bullock that Dad
salted went bad, and was thrown out.
* * * *
A hot day at Delaney’s. Dave ploughing. He
had scraped the plough, and was standing,
reflecting. He felt lonely—’twas the first time
he had ever been away—and couldn’t help think-
ing of home and mother —crying on the verandah
—and of Joe and Sarah. “ Poor old Sarah !” he
said aloud, when a form he knew well rode up to
the fence and greeted him cheerfully.
“Hello, Dad ! ” Dave said with a glad grin. It
seemed like old times to Dave to see Dad, though
it was only eight days since they parted.
Dad dismounted and crawled through the
fence.
“ What’s he puttin’ in here ? ” he asked, survey-
ing the ploughed land.
Dave told him. Then there was a dead silence;
even the birds about and the horses’ tails kept
still. Dave played with some mud he had scraped
from the plough ; Dad with his trouser-pocket.
Dad spoke.
“ Better come home, Dave ? ” he said.
“Dunno,” Dave answered, coloring-up and
throwing the mud down.
“ This is no place for you, man ” (a pause) “no
place at all! ”
Dave gazed in silence at his boots.
“If there’s enerthin’ y’ want, say s’, lad ? ” Dad
went on, knowing when he had an advantage.
“ Here,” dragging his hand out of his pocket with
a jerk, “here’s a fi’-pun’-note for y’, nowl . . .
An’ goodness on’y knows if ever y’ want t’ go t’
town, or enerwhere, yer can alez take a day, or two
days, or a week for that matter — can’t yer ? ”
“ Yairs ... I s’pose s’.”
“ Wull; come ’long?”
And Dave came. And two days later Dad called
him a useless dog.
STEELE RUDD.
Hoisting the Flag at Dingo Flat.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dingo school stands a few paces from the winding
main-track to nowhere. The building is an un-
painted weatherboard structure, with here and
there a board loose and hanging down. Over the
door two boards are gone altogether, but a bag
partly stuffed in the opening, the end dangling
inside like a suicided swagman, keeps the wind,
or some of it, out. The only evidence to this
effect is that you meet much wind outside, and
the bag must be the reason why it isn’t all inside.
The chimney, also of weatherboards, bears evi-
dence of sundry accidents in the shape of large
burnt holes. While ample enough _as to size,
it has the disadvangage of being useless
unless the wind is from the south. When the
wind is from any other direction the smoke inside
school gets so dense that either the fire or the scholars -
have to go out. Some Samaritan has started to
line the internal walls with bags, bub tiring, or
running out of bags, has left it unfinished.
Months ago the scholars were let loose on the
neighboring selectors with subscription-lists to
get money to buy a flag to hoist when the Duke
arrived.
Tuesday was the day appointed for the cere-
tnony, but the teacher had not got back from his
holiday, so Thursday (Dingo is a half-time school)
saw the scholars, eight in number, marshalled in
line ready to cheer. It is a dull, cold, grey day,
and eight insufficiently-clad children, one with no
boots, stand shivering in the raw air. The
teacher, a tall, thin, bony, elderly man, with
stooping shoulders and a chronic cough, holding
in his hand the long-expected flag, stands at the
staff, a long stringy-bark sapling, the bark
stripped off and lying in a yellow heap
on the ground, and tells of The Glory
and the Grandeur of the Empire on which the sun
never sets, and explains, in a dreary, nasal voice,
punctuated by coughs, how the Empire should be
loved and its rulers revered. The children shuffle
and shiver; the flag is run-up, and hangs de-
jectedly ; there is a feeble whisper of a cheer, and
one little girl waves her father’s red handkerchief
violently. The rest stare at a passing bullock-
team crawling along the track, and industriously
count the bullocks —fourteen and a loose one fol-
lowing. A little boy breaks away from the others,
dodges through the ferns, and “peppers” the
passing team with stones. The teacher sighs and
goes inside.
On enquiring why the flag was hoisted, I am told
—because the Duke is here. A further enquiry as
to who the Duke is, meets with the reply that
“ He’s the man who made the war.” Well, per-
haps he is ! T don’t remember myself. Facts
appear to slide off your mind at Dingo.
FRAULEIN.
The imported Inspector-General of Wes-
tralian schools is encouraging a new idea —the
interchange of letters between the top-class pupils
in some of his schools and the ditto in English
schools.
It is about time the N.S.W. Attorney-
General put a stop to trivial cases coming before a
judge. It took a judge, several barristers and
lawyers, a dozen jurymen, and Heaven knows
how many policemen, a whole day, recently, to
decide whether two boys had stolen a shilling’s
worth of corks found in their possession.


i
l
That’s
The Spat.
Know the spot %
Right in the “small” of the back,
Just above the hips.
Bad place for pain,
But it always comes there
When the kidneys are sick.
Comes in many forms,
Sharp, quick twinges,
Slow, exhaustive aches,
Always starts in the one spot
But it don’t stop there—
The ache goes on,
Goes on up the back—
Follows the nerve centres.
You call it all backache ;
Ought to call it kidney ache,
Because it comes from the kidneys.
There’s a lurking danger in it all.
Never neglect backache.
Never neglect the kidneys’ cry for help.
Serious trouble is sure to follow,
Urinary difficulties set in.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are for
kidneys only.
Doan’s Backache Kidney'. Pills cure
backache j
Cure excessive urinary discharges,
Cure retention of the urine,
Cure every kidney ill.
I
KUDES PIUS
Endorsed by Sydney People.
A Sydney Woman.
A Sydney Man.
Mrs. Spear, 32 Groodsell-street, St. Peters,
this city, says : “ For a good while I was in
a pretty bad state with my back. This was
a dull, constant ache about the kidneys.
Sometimes it was much worse than others,
when I moved the pains becoming very bad
indeed, more particularly when I stooped.
It was a most distressing complaint, and I
did not like the thought occurring to me that
this sort of thing often lasts a lifetime, yet
such is the case. Almost a year ago I heard
of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and re-
solved to try them for my ailment, so pro-
cured some at Newman’s Pharmacy, King-
street. lam very pleased indeed to inform
you that they cured me. I’ve never had the
pains return since I used them. I gave some
of these pills to a relation who has derived
as much benefit through taking them as I
have. lam very glad to be able to state
these simple facts since it may lead to others
getting benefit from Doan’s Backache Kid-
ney Pills. ” ' ,rj
■■ - *•
Mr. William Carroll, an ex-railwav guard,
of 749 Harris-street, Ultimo, this city,
writes: “ I strained myself in pushing some
heavy trucks, and soon noticed the effect in
the small of my back, Tor three solid
months I was unable to do any work. I
was laid up. I had a very lame back, and a
dull pain though the loins and kidneys, and
the secretions became unnatural and irregu-
lar. My physician advised Turkish baths.
I took them and received some small benefit,
but not sufficient to enable me to work
properly. I procured some of Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills and used them ; I found
wonderful relief, so much so that I am now
able to do heavy work as of old in a thorough
manner. I might mention that it is a year
ago since I took these pills and I have not
been troubled with my back or kidneys since,
which firmly convinces me that Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills are a true kidney remedy,
and I never fail to recommend them among
my friends.”
But be sure you get DOAN’S —tbe kind your neighbours endorse.
Don’t accept a substitute. All Chemists and Storekeepers sell
them at 2s. 9d. per Box—Six Boxes, 15s. 3d. If you cannot
obtain them locally, they will be posted on receipt of price by
the proprietors, Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Don’t Neglect.
A COMMON CASE OF PILES.
IT MAY LEAD TO SERIOUS RESULTS.
When people generally understand that all such
fatal diseases as fistula, ulcer of the rectum, fissure,
&c., almost invariably begin in a simple case of
piles, they will learn the wisdom of taking prompt
treatment for the first appearance of trouble in
this quarter. Doan’s Ointment will certainly cure
every form of piles—itching, bleeding, protruding
and blind piles—and hundreds of lives have been
saved by using this cheap and effective remedy
right at the start, because at such times a single
pot will effect a cure, while the old, deep-seated,
chronic cases, several pots are sometimes necessary
before a oure is effected. Here is a case in point:
Mr. William Gilliver, of the well-known firm of
Gilliver and Curtis, Railway and General Con-
tractors, and whose private address is “ Avoca,”
Bankstown, has written the following unsolicited
letter, which we herewith publish in full: —
Messrs. Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt-street, Sydney,
Feb. 14th, 1899.
Dear Sirs, —In justice to you and suffering
humanity, I write to say that 1 suffered from itch-
ing piles for 22 years. I tried many doctors, and
pretty well all kinds of patent medicines, but got
relief for a short time only. Seeing your Ointment
advertised, I bought a pot —and did not use more
than one-half of it, now six months ago —and I an
perfectly cured. You may use this as you wish.—
Yours gratefully, WILLIAM GILLIVER.
It cannot be repeated too often that Doan’s
Ointment will cure itching piles. It will cure
them absolutely. But do not take the manufac-
turer’s word for this; ask or write Mr. Gilliver.
He knows, for it cured him, and he lives at Banks-
town, a suburb 12 miles from Sydney. Is not that
the best possible kind of proof ? Could there be
better ?
Doan’s Ointment has been tested in so many
ways, in hospital work, in private practice, and
has proved so successful that a special arrange-
ment has been made by which all readers of The
Bulletin who have not already tried it may
obtain a sample pot, free by mail, by sending us
their names and addresses and a penny stamp to
pay postage. We know that this Ointment will
cure these affections, that it will cure them abso-
lutely, and we want you to know it. It is per-
fectly unnecessary for anyone to suffer from Piles
or Eczema for one moment. Doan’s Ointment
will cure them absolutely, but do not take our
word for it; send a penny stamp for a sample box.
The large size box is sold at 2s. 9d. per box (six
boxes 15s. 3d.). If you cannot obtain it locally
from your chemist or storekeeper, same will be
posted on receipt of price by the proprietors,
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
When writing for sample please mention The
Bulletin.
The Hunger-Track.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ They are praying for rain in the farthest West,
and grass is scarce as can be ”
And the daily paper then goes on to news from
over the sea:
How Germany’s king has caught a cold, and
Britain has won a fight,
And Crete and Greece have at last agreed to bury
their feud and unite.
But hidden away in the “ country news ” is a
letter from Yandaroo —
“There isn’t a blade of grass for miles, and the
stock will never pull through.”
A word or two, but between the lines, in letters
of red and black,
Is a world of history they may read who have
trodden the Hunger-Track.
Six hundred leagues from north to south—
chocolate, black and red,
And women and children hungering for lack of a
crust of bread;
Six hundred leagues from east to west —chocolate,
red and black,
And the womb of the grey land barren and her
dry dugs wrinkled and slack.
The drover through to Wodonga yards with
“ stores ” from the Queensland side,
The traveller camped on the Ninety-Mile where
the mirage waters glide,
The teamster in with the season’s clip from a
hundred miles out back, —
They have paid their toll in Thirst and Sweat at
the gates of the Hunger-Track.
They know the reaches of black despair when the
starving stock go by ;
They have pitched their camps on the bounds of
hell where the bleaching bone-heaps lie ;
They have crossed where long-deserted homes—
lone sentinels of the plain—
Stretch out their hands to the passer-by and cry
to heaven in vain.
They are fighting away on the Hunger-Track as
the weary years run out,
Silent and grim they are battling on with famine
and heat and drought.
One for the sake of a girl down east, one for a
weekly dole,
And one with Hell for the right to live—the prize
of a white man’s soul.
With teeth hard set they grapple with Want and
grip at the throat of Fate,
And laugh as they rush at the last redoubt to
clutch at the goal—too late;
With the pangs of the grey years hot at heart,
they are striving for gold years yet,
And planting a ladder to phantom hope in the
ashes of long regret.
There’s never a day comes out of the east but a
man goes down in the fight
Who has blazed the track that his sons may win to
the heart of their land aright;
There’s never a red sun sinks in the west but a
soul goes out to its God,
That has fought and fallen, as strong men may,
with Death in the track he trod.
But the grey Bush-Mother has reared them well,
• and her children know her moods ;
How she scourges most when she loves them best,
how she hungers and frets and broods,
And they turn to her when the work is done, with
“ Mother, we long for rest! ”
And she gathers them into her outstretched arms
and hides them away in her breast.
They are hoisting a flag in the city streets, with
music, and cheer, and gun,
To tell the world of Australia’s birth and a Nation’s
life begun ;
But out where the desert ends loom wide, that
her worth may be understood,
They are writing Australia’s history and sealing
it deep in blood.
Q.
VELDT.
Ah Ling’s Religion.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ah Ling was short and fat. Moreover he was
religious. He sang hymns in a peculiar falsetto
that made you feel uncharitable towards your
fellow-man and be tempted to heave things at the
singer.
He also went to church twice every Sunday. It
was a treat to see him on that day. He was so
chookful of goodness, he seemed to ooze sanctity
all over. Ah Ling was my servant. His air of
sorrow and commiseration for my ungodliness was
vast.
It is a common saying in China that “ it is im-
possible to convert a Chinaman.” No matter how
genuine the conversion may seem, it invariably
turns out that, unless there is some direct gain in
the matter, John backslides in the end. I was
loth to think this of Ah Ling, but I was sus-
picious, nevertheless. In the first place, I knew
he was robbing me, but I also knew he took good
care that no one else did. This in itself was
serious, but then I knew that plenty good Chris-
tians did the same thing.
His devotion to my interests (apart from that
little “squeeze” I have mentioned) was touching.
At this time I was a bachelor, but was going to get
married.
How to break this news to Ah Ling was hard.
I would fall lower than ever in his estimation, I
felt assured. Eventually I did not break the
news at all. I decided to let him find out for him-
self. I was married in Hongkong, and arrived at
Shanghai at night.
When I knocked at the door, it, was Ah Ling
who opened it. He lifted his eyebrows when he
saw my companion; and, when she came in, I
thought he looked excessively uious. Happening
to steal a side-glance at him, I saw him smile m
himself, and there was a swift Asiatic wink in
that oblique eye. Turning on him, I said,
sharply—
“ What are you grinning at? You wooden-
faced image, take those traps up to my room.”
“ Takee box belong girl ’long your loom, allee
same ? ”
“Yes.”
“Aim.”
I fancied I saw a wicked leer on his face as he
spoke, but the next instant it looked guilelessly
innocent again. What did the beggar mean ? I
determined to have a talk with him in the morn-
ing-
Later that night I happened to go past his
room, and hearing him speaking, stopped and
listened. He was praying :
“ O Lord, wha’for you lettee Missa Blown do
likee allee same Missa Smiff ? One time I wolk
long him ; I sabee he plenty bad man.
“ Allee time he have got plenty sisiter. Some-
time sisiter come stop two, tlee day ; go ’way.
He talkee me.
“* Ah Ling, my sisiter come look see me to-
mollow. You sabee—sisiter ? ’ Hiyah ! I sabee.
“Wha’for he makee too muchee love-pigeon
long he sisiter ?
“ Missa Jones he catchee girl to-night. Bime’bye
be say : ‘ Ah Ling, my sisiter come stop long me
two, tlee day.’ O Chli! ”
I waited to hear no more. Shades of morality !
that was what the beggar meant. I decided that
Ah Ling and I must part. We parted next day.
I have not seen him since.
Also, about two hundred dollars’ worth of our
jewellery and silver have not been seen since.
ALEC. ZANDER.
The Two Wrecks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Smoking-room, Melbourne tavern. Returned
contingenter, almost bent double, the wreck of a
fine man, totters in on arm of a red-cross comrade
and crawls on to couch. They swap yarns. “De
la Rey,” says the Red Cross, “is a fair blanker.
If his crowd catch a bushman, they cut his throat.
That’s ’cos of that young Hollander at Klipfon-
tein. He shot a captain, a lieutenant and a
trooper, also eight horses. They couldn’t make
out where the trouble was cornin’ from. Sud-
denly they spotted him —he was behind a sand-
hill. When he seen they’d spotted him, he slings
up his arms. But they was narked—real furious.
They riddled him with bullets, then bayoneted
him all to pieces ; never saw such a mess in
my life. One gash started just ’ere (bending
over and touching his hip-bone) an’ come
out ’ere (indicating the back of his neck).
The Colonel wanted ’em to carry the carcase
down and bury it. The whole troop point-
blank refused.”
Then the man with a twisted spine told
his tale, with many cheerful oaths: “The
worst thing I seen was after Commando
Nek. We got an old Boer that we called
John, for short. He was a silly old rabbit. We
was ordered to march, and, of course, John was
expected to march too. But ’e didn’t want to shift.
‘Come.on,’ sez a trooper, ‘shift!’ But the old
Boer shook his head and sat down. ’E was a silly,
stubborn old rabbit. ‘ Well, you can blankin’
well stay where y’ are,’ sez the trooper, and he
give’m the bayonet; jobbed it right through ’im
into the ground. Funniest thing ever I seen in
me life.” They both laugh, though the wounded
wreck gets a fit of coughing in consequence.
Then Red Cross tells of a Maorilander who was
“copped” by De la Rey’s commando. “The
Boers stripped him bare, but gave him a ragged
pair of moles. Prisoner asked for his hat, as the
sun was very hot. De la Rey happened along,
and the Maorilander sez, * Are you the
general?’ ‘Yes,’sez De la Rey. ‘Well, surely
you won’t let your fellers take a man’s ’at in the
sun like this.’ ‘ Give ’im ’is ’at,’ sez De la Rey—
so they give it to him. ‘ Now, you just clear out,’
sez De la Rey. ‘ But I can’t travel like this,’ sez
the Maorilander, showin’ his nakedness. ‘You’re
what I call a blanky lot of blanks,’ he sez. With
that, De la Rey, who had a shooter in one hand
and a sjambok in the other, made a welt at him
with the sjambok. And the Maorilander
cleared across the veldt like ’ell.” The wounded
man started off with another cheerful bayonet-
story ; but this scribe didn’t stay for the finish.
J. DRAYMAN.
Writes a Queensland contingenter : .
We are living on fresh mutton, as there are thousands
of sheep (splendid ones, too). Starve the Boers out!
Why, they have beef and mutton to keep them going for
20 years. The only thing that will stop them is want of
ammunition, and they capture enough of that to keep
them going almost, what with capturing trains and
convoys.
The testimony of English Tommies seems to bear
this out.
A. J. Fischer writes to The Bulletin
from London (whence he is returning soon): —
I have spent most of my time here at the Westminster
Art School under Mont Loudan. It is considered one of
the best on this side. Loudan teaches on very broad
lines, and tries to develop the art in one, not drive his
own in. . . . Paris, I find, is trading on its past reputa-
tion. Hatherell says so; and Heysen, the Adelaide
student, thinks so also. He is coming to London next
year (that is for the term which starts in September)
to study under Mont Loudan. He was very much
taken with L’s work in last year’s Academy. French
art of to-day, with few exceptions, is on a level
with the London music-halls (if I might draw the
comparison)—loud, clever, suggestive, and emptv ; while
English art ranks with the highest drama and comedy—
has strength, quiet passages, fine feeling, good colour
&c. And English artists recognise the beauty of women,
and paint them as in Ralph Peacock’s “Sisters” in the
Tate gallery. A visit to the Tate gallery, after a stay in
Paris, gives one a great respect for English art.
I met Fullwood on a ’bus in Piccadilly the other dav
He could not get on with the Yanks, so is going to tr.\
London. He has managed to get a picture in the RoyaJ
Academy as a start. Spence and Hopwood also hav<
pictures in. Spence’s looks like a postage-stamj
among all the large stuff. Clever Streeton has had
bad luck so far as the Academy is concerned.
I could see by the Royal Academy students'
exhibition that the R.A. wants correct tone,
good drawing, and a certain amount of finish. . . .
I think Mahony would get along here ; for there are very
few good animal draughtsmen and painters. Cato'n
Woodville gets a lot of dash in his pictures, but his paint-
ing is very much off, and his color is bad. There is not a
good animal painting in the Academy, and I dare say it
is Spence’s animal painting which helps him there, for he
is as good as any of them. Abbey and La Thangue are
the colorists of the R.A. Abbey’s “ Crusaders Sighting
Jerusalem ”is a marvellous piece of color. I met a clever
Australian here—Reg. Robinson, of Newcastle, N.S.W.
He holds several art scholarships, and promises to do
some good work in the future. Heysen, the Adelaide
student, is a modest fellow, who will go far, although this
is his second year here. He has some pictures in the
Salon. I heard before I met him that he was considered
one of the cleverest students in Paris at present. Minns
has not quite got over his long illness yet, but he is doing
good work. I swore all through the winter, and longed
for Australia; but London is not a bad place in summer:
Just now it is delightful.


Gives Push and Energy
Steadies the Nerves, Gives Tone to the
Stomach, Prevents 111 Effects of Extreme Heat.
“Puts the ‘Go* Into You.”
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
&
“I am a professional cyclist.”
“ In training and racing in the extreme heat of a Queensland summer, which
h T l hl y e fP endlt ' ll ' 6 ? f o ervous ener sy and often leaves one thoroughly
exhausted, I have found Ayer’s Sarsaparilla of the greatest benefit. S
nar^aa ' m f kes JZu h t ave , a . S ood appetite, tones up the stomach, steadies the
Sarsaparilla, n UtS th ® § ° mto you * 1 tell you ’ lam a great friend to Ayer’s
Mr. F. E. Shaw, of Edward St., Brisbane; Queensland, a cyclist well known in
nhotoX-anh Zn ' V ird l? ic y Gl e»” sends us this letter together with a
J om the above illustration is made. This is another reason
why Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is called
“ The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
a es , tim . onia l shows bow valuable Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is to those who
ilr rk - ard ‘’ It removes all feeling of exhaustion, braces you up, makes
best rvf +nv er ’ g I Y6S Str ® ngtll *° * he musc les, refreshes and invigorates, and,
best of all, takes out every impurity from the blood.
■
—rr
The Greatest of All
IYER’S PILLS cure all
Of
26
YEAKS’ SUCCESS
AS THE
UNIVERSAL REMEDY
FOB
Coughs, Colds,
Asthma,Bronchitis,
influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Consumption,
HAS MADE
junglonic
AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY IN THE HOME
OR KIT OF EVERY COLONIAL.
It saves many Lives.
There is no difficulty in obtaining it , so
when you ash for Owbridge’s Lung
Tonic , insist upon having it , as
other so-called remedies are
often substituted.
Prepared by
W. T.OWBRIDBE, M P S.. Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottle*, at Is lid., 2* 9d.. 4*.6d„ & 11s.
by all Colonial Medicine Vendors
OOPTEIGHT.
*
V?- " Si '/S'
m
\
\
V: 7
i
J
o
Before
m
kf
v
%
A
A
i
&
%
S. FREEMAN *> SONS
■nwin TUT* /> - , »
*
'mSM!
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPBCTaTtikS:
p
E
POWDER.
PICKLES.
The Physician’s Our©
for Gout, Kheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
9
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDSI
magnesia]
•
Sold Throughout the Worifl.
N,B,—ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA,
IRISH
TOR
The best remedy-
INFLUENZA, *
COUGHS,
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA
Ask for Banning ton's
and seetkatyou get it.


rubber goods
Waterproof Coats, 15s to 70s.
Rubber Boots, 17s 6d to 205.-
Goloshes —Ladies’, 2s 6d and 3s.
Gentlemen’s, 4s and
4s 6d.
Leggings, 4s 6d, ss, and 6s 6d.
Driving Rugs,
10s 6d, 16s 6d, 21s, 80s
Hot-Water Bags, Best English
Rubber, 6s and upwards
PERDRX ATT & C 0.,
RUBBER MANUFACTURERS & IMPORTERS,
(Catalogues Post Free)
■-
270 George Street, Sydney.
' 'V." '' — *l
60
FOR THB X.ADIES.
W- G. &c CO..
DYERS & CLEANERS.
40 y. OitK. STRUCT, S YDNIiV
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by poxt, i rout all the colonies promptly
attended to
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
GEORGE & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS : Bedroom (single), Ss. per Day, or 21s.
per Wufil- : Bedroom (double), 6s. per day, or Two
Onine*'? per Week.
Breakfast, Luncheon, or Dinner -from
ONE SHILLING upwards.
Letters and Tc. eg rams addressed to “ The Manager**
will receive prompt attention. .
WORTH I NGTON.
TRADE MARK-
All have Wrought Iron Valve Gear.
f lips, both Horizontal t ||ertieal,
... KEPT IN STOCK ...
SI M PS ON BROTHERS,
Sols Australasian Repbesentativhs,
32 and 34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Send for Catalogue.
r\
PLUNGER ANO RING pattern
I TAMGYES
mrm
PU SVS PS ARE up todate.
BENNIE, TEARE& GO.
have depots in
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, PERTH, COOLGARDIE,
And carry Btooks of Materials and Furnishings for
MINING. ENGINEERING, IMPLEMENT-
MAKING and IRRIGATING.
SOLE REPRESENTATIVES IN AUSTRALIA OF
TANGYES LIMITED.
NEWMAN’S
ANTISEPTIC
THROAT PASTILLES.
X/- a. v OX
NEWMAN’S
in King St.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS ’ S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST - SUPPER,
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO LTD
DWEY -m*
Fish and Game, bard frozen, and fa unobtail f ablei are recommended to obtain their supply from the above Company, proprietors ofths
People Agents for the famous “ Berry « brand. Both kinds are Pasteurised, and ha.e exceUent keepmg q ual. hM .
Our Bakehouse Goods, for Balls, Parties, *o„ are conceded to be the finest manufactured. Sent well-packed to a„, town m . . .
Head Office : HARBOUR ST., SYDNEY.
Price Lists and Particulars serif to arty Enquirers. C. C. LANCE, Manager.
PARKE & LACY CO.
LIMITED,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS,
Manufacturers and Importers of
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES & BOILERS.
AGENTS FOG PELTON and LEFFEL WATER WHEELS.
_|_ JLVJ 5=5 J- -
Knowles Steam Pumps, Ingersoll Rock Drills and Air Compressors, Nagel Horizontal
and Vertical. Engines and Boilers, Pennsylvania Return Tubular Boilers, Buffalo
Blowers and Exhaust Fans, M orris Dredging Pumps, Bullock Diamond >nl Is, Dodge
Rock Breakers Roger Rolls, Gates Rock Breakers, Challenge Ore Feeders Hunting-
ton Quartz Mills, Wood and Iron Working, and Laundry Machinery and Mine and
Mill Supplies. @q Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
IKT STOCK:
BLAKE DIRECT
NO STEAM PUMPS
SINGLE AN o
DUPLEX.
DUPLEX OUTSIDE PLUNGE
R PATTERN.
Possible
Purpose.
Boiler Feeders
Light Service Pumps
Mining Pumps
Vacuum Pumps
Air Pumps
Air Compressors
Sole Agents in Australasia,
Hi. SREOORY&CO.
Sydney # Melbourne
’
' ?T.
T: . .
DUPLEX PISTON PATTERN.
