

McEWAN’S ale.
GAELIC WHISKY.
PIG STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
— 1 !■. ,i. i .=-=
“the Standard
©f
Highest Parity.”
The Lancet.
Mining
l.O'y, -rnmn*,: Street, ®ycl.:o-037\,
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery,
BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE
Mining Requisites,
A
INSIDE BEARINGS.
Plttassito. »o 6 lor Fast Wheels.
A«*gpjut round and
JJJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° 85
Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Bole Agents for Samuel Osborn & Co., Sheffield, makers of Mushet’s Tltanio Borer Steel for Miners' Drills, Bessemer Steel, Cast Steel, Mushefe
Seif''Hardening- Tool Steel, Mining, Well-Boring, Spring, and Tyre Steel, Steel Castings of all Descriptions, Steel Truck Wheels and Axles.
INDENTS EXECUTED. SPECIFICATIONS SUPPLIED FOR ALL KINDS OF MACHINERY*
STEEL CASTINGS, HAMMERS, FILES.
That’s All!
A 1 WHISKY.
NOW READY. NOW READY.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.
A Reprint of articles from Tub Bulletin.
Price 'SlX3P£SNrOfi!=i»e>ai3dt ( ■ Qdl.
Sole Wholesale Agents: EDWARDS, DUNLOP & 00. LIMITED, Sydney and" Brisbane.
I
.'FT Ts=B "’’T. *X".
fs Orient Siotel.
Watch Repairs by Post
gp
WATCHES Thoroughly Cleaned, 2s. 6d. ; best English
Mainspring, 2s. 6d. All work guaranteed 12 months.
No overcharges. Best workmanship.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Watches. Guaran-
teed three years. 15s. 6d.
Gent’s Silver Double-eased Keyleas Lever Watches.
Guaranteed five years. 255.
Ladies’ Gold Keyless Watches. Guaranteed five rears.
86s. Double-cased, £2 15s.
Spectacles to suit all sights. Send tor catalogue.
D. S. MiVIR,
Watchmaker, Jeweller & Optician
684 George-st. (Brickfield Hill),
SYDNEY.
RESERVE EXTRA. RESERVE SPECIAL. RESERVE EXTRA SPECIAL. SUPREME
SAN DEMAN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
241 PITT STREET, SYDKTEY.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. y £
Wonderful Value —a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Joker’s Love Bond, or Siamese Links ; Parisian
Skirt Dance (a book bound and can be carried in vest
pocket), Book of Conjuring- Tricks, Klondike Grub (which
causes roars of laughter), Yankee Rubber Baby (can be
earned in vest pocket and blown out to life-size, to the
astonishment of all), Wizard Pish (gives the definition of
your character, very superior, for parlor entertainments),
Wizard Pack of Cards (can be changed as you please,
instructions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
X
718 George-street, !
H. L. HUTCHINSON Manager-
(Mentis v this paper when writing.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
Made by
and Queensland.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
Branches:—P. Frankel & Co., Ed ward-st., Brisbane, Q.;
H. Summers, Barrack-st., Perth, W.A. ; H. K. Fysh and
Co., Colhns-st., Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter & Co., Auckland :
Blackburne & Smith, Oashel-st., Christchurch, N.Z.
“ Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is.
s?er Post Is. 3d.
Fair girls and gray horses.
2nd Edition. Price 4/f>.
- ABBOTT FILTER
«™ Absolutely Pure Water.
ABBOTT FILTER COY., 33 William-street, Melbourne.
I?. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Agents, 71 Clarence-street, Sydney- Fremantle, and Kalgoorlie.
S. FREEMAN * SONS I™ISS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO'S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN'S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square). *
’ BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE WTNTAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
jroszortr.isk.’sr
BOOMERANG BRANDY.
The liONix'N 'Cimks : “A Sound, Honest Brandy.”
The Lancet: “Of u Fragrance, Purity and Quality Second to None.”
The British Medical Journal : “ A Pure Product, well worth the attention of the Profession.”
Nenry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10hS. ~
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE PLENISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in ’the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Bails
n Most
easonab
anquets
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use ,
Row’s Cn^brocatiofy
Cwts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism
and Stiffness of Joints it MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits.
SEE THAT YOU GET
’S
The Ways of Many Waters
Collects the dashing ballads and verses of sailor-men's
and wharf-nirn’s life which E. J. Brady has contributed
to Tub Bulletin and the Sunday Turns, Sydney. It i«
the first attempt on the part of an Australian verse-
• writer to chant the life on the sea and the margins of
the sea ; though there is one horse-poem—the story of
“ How Jack Bowlin Steered ‘ Jones.’ ” The volume is
bound in buckram, with gilt, top, in a size that will » 0
into a pocket without squeezing; and the price is 5s
post-free.
The Bulletin
VQi 22. —is o. io9o
[Saturday, February 9, 1901.
Vpr'pff't at tlia Oenera! Post Office, Pyriney, for Transmission hv poet ns - *r«w**s**t.


The Bulletin publications.
NOW READY.
A New Booklet of Verses by BODERIO QUINN,
THE CIRCLING HEARTHS.
Dedicated “ To the Commonwealth."
CONTENTS:
The Circling Hearths
Love’s Legacy
I Shall Remember
The Voice of Spring
At End of a Holiday
Love and Intuition
As the Tide Turns
The Furnace-Room
Derelict
Irony
A Caress
In the Gardens
The Craft of Blue
Mid-Forest Fear
The Glory-Call
The Currency Lass
The edition in limited to 500 copies for sale.
Of the author’s first booklet (out of print), Mr. VV. B.
Yeats writes : “ Mr. Qiitnn has real imaginative energy.
. . ‘ The Camp within the West ’ has a rue solemnity
and beauty' in its fundamental thought.”
Of the form of; these booklets the Melbourne Age says
(1 o/12/’O) : “Tie .1 diner of appearance. . . deserves
comment. Paper, type, and decoration, are admirable
. . . the Muse invested with such delightful dress. . .
In envelope, Is. (id. ; post-free Is. 9d. from the pub-
lishers,
The Bulletin Newspaper Go., Ltd.,
214’ Gbor-.k-st., Sydnkv, Australia.
Sole Wholesale Agents : Edwards, JDusLor,* Co., Ltd.
For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE
. . THE . ,
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs 2 Colds 2
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza!
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
a
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES /(Registered),
. . . Contain SO cocaine or other 'poisonous dmr,{/
SOLD BY A
free on
LL CHEMISTS, In Tins, 1s 6tl ; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland—Dost
receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE. F
THE RED PAGE .
Bismarck’s Love-Betters.
XpURST Bismarck’s Briefe an seine Braut und Gattin,
A Herausgegeben vom Fuersten Herbert Bismarck,
Stuttgart, December, 1900.
FIVE hundred and ninety-eight quarto page 3
of love-letters printed in Gothio type, and
published in time for the Christmas tret;.
But 598 pages ! 1 began to finger this
book with a shy fear of its thickness, dipped into
it, was caught in its spell, and willy-nilly carried
away by the personality, charm and heartiness of
it, and lo ! here I am finishing the last page with
a sigh of distinct hero-worship. And I say to
myself, Ah ! that is a man ! em ganzer mann !
and fall to wondering whether some century hence
another Carlyle will arise to sing his greatness and
tumble and maul us with the billowy prose of a
Sreat enthusiasm, till even the Philistines and
Inglish shall admirehim.
N 6 one in Germany but now recognises B.’s
importance. His statues stand everywhere, in
bronze and marble; statues that seem not so much
in honour of a man, as of frowning Iron Resolu-
tion, and an unflinching intellectual will. One
was beginning to regard him as a semi-mythical
natural force. But these letters show him
entirely human, as the impatient lover and the
tender husband and father. They reveal the
affection and manliness, the rough deep piety, the
playfulness and humour, the sincerity and
courage, yes, and the poetry and fine sense for
Beauty and Nature, that lay hid in the soul of this
man of Blood and Iron,
The letters-range from Dec., 1846, to Sept., ’92.
There is one remarkable gap, for the letters of
’7O-71, written during the French campaign, have
been “lost.” Helas ! quo oui, monsieur ! The
first is to> the Herrn papa of Fraulein von Putt-
kamer, suing for that young lady’s hand. 8.,
who is now about .32, gives in it a summary of
his University and official career, and confesses
the wild blood of his youth; but he has
passed through the stormy sceptic period of his
life, and is going to eschew sack and live cleanly.
He refers to his former fits of dejection at the
thought “that the existence of himself and
humanity were a thing aimless and unprofitable,
and man a mere bauble, a casual and secondary
product of Creation, arising and then vanishing
like the dust beneath the roll of wheels upon the,
road,”—a tale full of sound and fury, signifying
nothing.
Those moods are now past, and “ I can pray
again to God,” he says, “as when I was a child,
and I feel, if not peace, such trustfulness and
courage to confront life as I never remember
before.” This note of piety deepens in his letters
as time goes on, and he afterwards jokes about his
friend von Arnim’s concern at this religiousness
in him. But he is never what one calls orthodox.
Once, on ge ting good news from “his beloved
Nanna,” he writes : “But I fear that my thanks
|p God for it were not quite in the form He would ,
wish, for I went down to the hotel in my joy and
drank off a lot of champagne.'’’ In another letter
he tells how he considers the apostles and other
biblical writers as men whose conception of
“God’s word” was likely to be modified and
dashed by their shortcomings as men, and he re-
gards them as not altogether trustworthy. But he
dons not wish her to alter her belief one jot for
him, and as for himself he says beliefs change and
develop with years, for Rome was not built in a
day. \ \ ■
So there he write's away at his long love-letters
at Schonhausen, and says “ there is no sound in
the house but the ticking of the clock and Odin
licking bis paws,” and he wishes she were there.
Any thought that comes he sets down—bits of
poetry, scraps of Be ranger, Shakespeare, Byron,
and fragments of French and Italian. And the
long winter wears away with higi there, galloping
up and down the banks among the snow as “ cap-
tain of theriver'dikes,” swearing'at lazy and red-
tape officials, fuming at the stupid farmers in the
land courts, throwing his big soul into his'thank-
less work, energising everybody and complaining
he can’t get away for a few days to see his sweet-
.heart,; He ends one letter saying what a magnifi-
cent sight the pack-ice on the stream is. “Farewell,
the ice is crunching and shrieking and breaking out
there, and I must be off. Hear the music of these
crystal masses hurtled together by the stream,
playing the Pappenheimer March to call me.
And the peasants are there on horseback along
the banks, all ready. Aren’t they going to sing
‘ Frisch auf, Karneraden,’ in their exultation ? Not
they ! But why don’t they, the silent clods ! it
would be fine! Good-bye, love; je t’embrasse.”
But afterwards he’s just as hard upon the mass
of electors—“these people,” he says, “who’ll
swallow the trash of a verbose demagogue, but
upon whom logical and weighty argument makes
not the least impression.” Sometimes he bubbles
into satire, “ Ah ! 23 ! a fine, fine age ! still many
illusions.” Or he tells how he has been
bored and didn’t speak a word to a visitor, but
kept a face “ like the door of a gaol,” and ends a
long letter with a page of sweet things that really
sound, as he says in another place, like “ written
kisses.”
DEATH AS FRIEND .
Photographed from, the woodcut by Alfred Rethel.
Fraulein von P.’s name is Johanna, and he
addresses her with all sorts of endearments. Some
letters begin “Angela mia,” or “dear love,” or
“sweetest heart,” or “ beloved heart,” or simply
“my heart,” “mon ange,” “only beloved Jean-
nette,” or “Juanita.” And (vthen she hadn’t
written for five whole days) “Jeanne lamechante,”
and again after a well-known song, “Ma Jean-
nette, ma Jeanneton.” Once he indulges in
Polish, “Czarna kotka, mila dusza” (black cat,
dear soul), and promises to explain the incanta-
tion when he comes. For Jeannette has black
hair and triste deep eyes. “Thou art like a
warm night of summer,” he writes, “with per-
fume of blossoms and the blaze of lightning run-
ning through ft.” Is not that a new Bismarck?
Here ih another letter where he touches the un-
solved questiori of tragedy: “Don’t be afraid,
dear heart, because thou now findest pleasure in
sad or tragic poems, I see in that nothing but a
sign of thy progress in sensitiveness and under-
standing for what constitutes real poetry, Inno-
cent spring lyrics belong to twelve years ' old.
But deep in the human heart, I would almost say
deep in that unconscious knowledge we have of
earthly misery and suffering, and in the dim but
mighty longings we cherish for better and nobler
conditions .of life, lies the reason for the fact that
the better kinds. of. men. are inclined to em-
phasise the wild conflict and confusion, the’
nullity, the pain ' >nd stress of- our life'
here, more than they do , the swiftly withering
sentiments of innocent mirth that belong to child-
hood. . . Every man who is cultured in heart
and mind is moved by the tragedies of the stage
and of actual life far more deeply than by anv
mere idyll or comedy. . . And if thy mind has
opened, sweet, for the moods And poetry of
Autumn, or of hoar frost in the nights of May,
and for all that is akin to the- things in the soul
of man, thou must regard that, as a proof that thou
art no longer 12 years old. The time comes for
men as for the trees in the forest to breast the
storm, and unless they strike deeper, firmer roots
they are overthrown!” And then he speaks of
the comfort of Love,and of religion, and suddenly
comes to earth again and says the “ idea of her
worrying about him spending too much money for
postage on his letters to her.” But he promises
to be very economical in all other matters.
Then a letter to his father in-law, announcing
the birth of his first-born. “ With God’s merciful
help thou hast just become the grandfather of a
healthy, well-shaped little maid. . . . Johanna is
lying quiet and limp, but in good spirits, behind
the bed-curtains, and the little creature is lying
wrapped up on the sofa, and wawls and cries now
and again. I am very pleased it is a girl, but if
it had been a wild cat I would have thanked God
when Johanna was relieved of her agony. . . .”
Then, three days after: “The little dot just
bellows like a calf led to slaughter, and never has
the slightest scruple about letting out a good yell
when everything isn’t exactly to her liking.”
Afterwards, when he is “batching” in Berlin, he
writes to his wife: “Our next-door neighbours
have five children, all young, and the youngest
bawls at night just like our little Niedchen, close
to my bedroom, so that often when I wake, still
sleepy, I fancy I hear my daughter and that I am
at home with you. It is a very good thing for
me not to get out of the habit, isn’t it, sweet-
heart?”
A.nd so on through all these letters. Love,
Religion, Duty, Patriotism, Humour, and a Good
Appetite breathe from them all to the very end of
his long life. At the age of 66 he writes from
Varzin that without his horses and his wife there
he always feels like a fish out of water. His
religion seems to me to be based rather on a
healthy instinct of compromise with reason than
,on pure intellectual process, just as Goethe’s
optimism was. His love of nature, too, was no
less deep than Goethe’s. Let me conclude with
two quotations from Berlin letters, 1851. “My
only amusement here is going for long walks. The
Thiergarten is charming, and as it is always rain-
ing now in April, I go splashing ahead through
the mud with thick - soled boots, and never
meet a soul. The leaves of the elderberries are as
big as a shilling-piece, and gooseberry leaves,
spiraea and hawthorn even, shimmer green in
the, woods, the last still very pale however.” And
a few days later: —“ All the trees are in leaf, only
the oaks have quite tiny leaflets, the beeches,
lindens, chestnut trees already afford shelter
against the rain, you can no longer see through
the green of the underwood, the fruit trees are in
full bloom and the red hawthorn is a mass of
colour. There were too many people out to-
day, but tlnijt didn’t disturb the nightingales,
which sang out as though they were in the solitudes
of our dear 8c Ik in hausen. ”
F.S.D.
From Berlin, to The Bulletin, Dec. 6.
“Death as Friend."
THE germ of Du Maurier’s verses sought for
by “Albyn” (15/12/’OQ), and here printed
with (?) Sully Prudhomme’s original
19/1/’01), was said by some contributors to
be a German poem “Der Tod als Freund.” En-
quiry has brought no such poem; but Mr. T.
Bladen kindly forwards a photograph of the “in-
expressibly noble and pathetic woodcut grotesque ”
(Ruskin), “Der Tod als Freund,” by the German
artist Alfred Rethel (1816/’59),
Mr. Bladen sends also the following piece of
verse, which appeared forty years rtgo as “a
translation” of the woodcut, and is not without
charm and value.
HER TOD ALS FREUND.
A Translation of tiir Picture by Alfred Rethbl.
Pater Noster qui es in Coelis,
Is the sun shining ? I thought he set
An hour ago ! but I forget,
And I seem to feel from over the hill
The red glow bathing my forehead still.
Sanctificetur nomen tmim, - . j
Very quiet it seems to-night,
Very quiet from left to right; !
And I know full well, though I cannot see,
How the calmness falls over meadow and tree,
; And the carven pinnacles clear and high,
How still they stand in the quiet sky.
Adveniat regmim tuum,
I feel like a sick nian praising God
When his fever is spent and he walks abroad,
And the peace that flows from all peaceful things
Wells fresh in his worn heart’s shrunken springs,
Till his eyes o’erflow, and the world grows dim
Arid he hushes the chords of his own weak hymn
To join in the silent psalmody
Floating up from the brooks, and fields, and sky
To the great God, pouring down from above
Such wealth of glory, and peace, and love.
Fiat voluntas in a,
Yea, very quiet it seems to-night,
Very quiet to left and right,
Very quiet and very sweet'
I would die to-night if God thought-meet!
Sicut in coelo. ita in terra,
Did I read it to-night, or long ago,
Of the blessed Eulalia’s shroud of snow,
And the dove from her martyr lips that flew
With the girlish spirit so white and true?
Ay me, O God, Thou hast called to thee
Full many a soul as white as she !
Ay, I tolled the bell but yesterday
For such an one in the twilight.'grey.
Was it yesterday ? lam very old,
And my eyes wax dim, and .my blood grows cold.
Is it .forty years ? There was snow on the ground
That lay on my heart as the years rolled round.
But green is the churchyard how below,
And my heart is cold, but not with the snow.
Panem quotidianum da nobis hodie,
Is it a bird ? Ay, chirp for thy crumbs,
Thou shalt have them, my child, when Tinh comes :
For there’s something strange on my heart and brow,
And I cannot get up to serve thee novv.
Et remitte nobis debita nostra,
I do not think I am tolling the bell,
Yet surely I hear it knolling a knell.
Is it Armdf ? No, he never tolled so well.
Ha ! old friend, is it truly thou ?
’Tis kind to come thus to help me now,
For I feel almost too feeble to rise,
And it seems a labour to open my eyes.
Atyl well! you can toll even better than I ;
But, who for ? I forget, for so many die,
• Yet I.thought-when they told me,.’twas one-I - knew,
One near and dear, but. I wot not vvho.
Et libera nos a malo. Amen.
Music is it?. ’Tis many a year t /
Since t heard the requiem sound so clear.
Ilona eis, dona eis aetemum !
And hark to the organ, how calm and deep !
Seven years I have heard it not, save in sleep.
Oh, hearken ! It never seemed so near ;
Is it She who singeth so sweet and clear 7
Solvet sasclum in faeilla,
Teste David cum Sibylla.
Oh, to rise and join ! If I. could but see 1
Dear God. . .
Nunc dimittis, Domine !
_ Bethel, born at Aix-la-Chapelle, is the German
Blake as mad and mystical, and perhaps greater
m his art. He early , won fame as historical
painter; but his most famous work dates from his
imaginative years after 1846, when his health and
reason became disturbed.
“ While he hovered between madness and sanity ”
(says a writer in the Encyclopedia Britannica), “ with a
mind as Mr. Ruskin has said in reference to the very
parallel case of William Blake—“ disturbed, but not de-
ceived by its sickness, nay, partly exalted by it, Bethel
produced some of the most striking, individual, and
impressive of his works. Strange legends are told
of the effect produced by some of his weird sub-
jects. He painted Nemesis pursuing a Murderer a
flat stretch of landscape, with a slaughtered body
relieved against the flushing evening sky, while
in front is the assassin speeding away itno the
darkness, clutching his blood-stained knife, thorns
and thistles springing up around his path, and above
hovering over his head, with unhasting but ceaseless
flight, an angel of vengeance, holding an hour-glass from
which the last sands are escaping, and a sword which is
slowly descending upon the fated head. The picture, so
the story goes, was won in a lottery at Frankfort by a
personage of high rank, who had been guilty of an undis
covered crime, and the contemplation of his prise drove’
him to distraction, and he became a lunatic.
Another design which Bethel executed was Death the
Avenger, a skeleton appearing at a masked ball, scraping
daintily, like a violinist, upon two human bones. The
drawing haunted the memory of his artist friends and
disturbed their dreams ; and, in expiation, he produced
his pathetic design of Death the Friend, a skeleton draped
in long monk’s robes, tolling solemnly the passing bell in
a church-tower, while beside the open window, lit by the
last sunset radiance, sits an old sexton, with the peaceful
face of a quiet departure.
So close is the correspondence between Rethel’s
some stanzas of Matthew Arnold’s
Wish, that it seems almost certain that the
poem was inspired by sympathy with the draw-
ing ; and it is here reprinted for comparison,
in the Trans] at ion 77 (author unknown) for-
warded by Mr. Bladen, readers of Austin Dobson
will see a distinct co-relation with the tone and
form of Dobson’s most charming piece of verse
‘•Goodnight, Babette ! ”
' A WISH. , i, "
I ask not that my bed of death
From bands of greedy heirs be free ;
For these besiege the latest breath
Of fortune’s favour’d sons, not me.
I ask not each kind soul to keep
Tearless, when of my death he hears.
Let those who will, if any, weep !
There are worse plagues on earth than teas.
I ask but that my death may find
The Freedom to my life denied;
Ask hutJhe folly of mankind /
Then, then at last to quit in V side.- .
Spare me the whispering,crowded room,
The friends who come, and gape,.and 'jso ;
•, The ceremonious’air of gloom—
All, which makes death a hideous showl
Nor bring, to see me cease to Jive,
Some doctor full of phrase and fame
To shake.his sapient head, and give
The ill he cannot cure a name.
Nor fetch, to take the accustom’d toll
Of the poor sinner bound for death,
His brother-doctor of the soul,
To canvass with official breath
The future and.its viewless things—
That undiscovered mystery
Which one who feels death’s winnowing wings
Must needs read clearer, sure, than he !
Bring none of these ; but let me be,
While all around in silence lies,
Moved to the window near, arid see
Once more, before my dying eyes,
Bathed in the sacred dews of morn
The wide aerial landscape spread—
The world which was ere I was born,
The world which lasts when I am dead ;
Which never was the friend of one,
Nor promised love it could not give,
But lit for all its generous sun,
And lived itself, and made us live.
There let me gaze, till I become
In soul, with what I gaze on, wed !
To feel the universe my home ;.
To have before mv mind— instead
Of tire sick room, the mortal strife,.
The turmoil for a little breath—
The pure, Ujfernal course of life,
Not human conibatings with death !
Thus feeling, gazing, might I grow
Composed, refresh’d, ennobled, clear
Then willing let my spirit go
To work or wait elsewhere or here.


W. Jl7O. Baker’s FINE STEEL CARVERS
Handsome Design, Stag Handle, Capped and Ferruled, Blade 9in. long.
Price, with Patent Guard Fork to match, 12/6 per pair (Carving Knife and Fork) ; Steels, 6/6 each.
Post Free throughout UNITED AUSTRALIA and N.Z.
Catalogue of other Design Carvers, Table Knives, and other Cutlery sent Free on application.
W. JNO. BAKER, Cutler, 3 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY.
PRICES
FOR ....
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN
OBTAINED BY CONSIGNING- TO
Goldsbrough, Mori# Co.
Circular Quay, Sydney,
Who render PROMPT RETURNS and safeguard your
Proceeds by their TRUST ACCOUNT System.
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager.
LAWRENCE S PATENT TOBACCO CUTTER.
PRICE £6.
Lawrence’s No. 2: Improved Automatic and Self-Feeding. Price £3 15s.
Note.— These machines are giving universal satisfaction, and are specially recommended to tobacconists
in the country, so as to enable them to supply their customers with Fresh-Cut and Moist Tobacco.
MICK SIMMONS, Hay market, Sydney.
m' THIS IS THE LATEST TYPE!
GRAMOPHONE-or
ZONOPHONE!
À
Phonograph Records
22/6
PER
DOZEN
For a Few Weeks Only .
OEDEB PROMPTLY.
Edison Electric Company,
1 & 3 Rowe St., Sydney (Nearly opposite G.P.0.)
IF. tf. N. Oldershaw, Manager.
i mv
hioj: hivm
good
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
m- For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
SS" For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively.
Price, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST
of TRICKS, PUZZLES, Etc.,
Etc., FREE.
Á
Rare Books
French Novels
Books t Married
EXTRA SEECIAL CATALOGUE
OF BOOKS FREE.
STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTES OF ANY COLONY TAKEN.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE,
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
NEWMAN’S
For Removing 1
Superfluous Hair.
SPECIAL
C. E. NEWMAN, Chemist,
52 King? Street, Sydney.
DEPILATORY
Now
Ready.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH
Price 6cL; Posted Sc3L.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile
Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
REDUCED CHARGES ON
COMMISSION
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wools realising over 6d. per lb.,
' the charges will be
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb. ...
On Wools realising 4d. per lb. and under
WAT BILLS sent on application.
WOOL:
f per Cent.
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
WHEA T.
SALES last season show an increase of 25 per cent, as compared with previous years. Unrivalled
accommodation. Three months’ free storage.
CIRCULAR giving fullest particulars as to charges, etc., forwarded when desired.
CONSIGNORS are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of
this Company.
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
Mitchell’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills; Donald’s Patent Wool Press.
AGENTS FOR McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
WOOL. WOOL. WOOL.
Winchcombe, Carson & Co. Ltd .
Selling Agents -
Reduced Wool
Commission
21 per cent.
{on all lots.
Large or Small.
WRITE AND CONSULT THEM ABOUT SALE OF YOUR PRESENT CLIP.
WINCHCOMBE, CAESON & CO. LTD.,
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 12 and 14 O’CONNELL STREET. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge : 3 I*er Cent, to the Growers.
BONUS f PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS last Two Seasons.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Buyers.
fifi LAWRUS ” DRESS FABRICS
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS A STOREKEEPERS.
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
Australian Agents for the
Wholesale Trade only:
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
OUUMd
STOCDALE & DUFFUS, 326, Flinders Lane, Melbourne, & 422, George St., Sydney.
Dr. Clarkson’s Electric Belt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s Re-Invlgorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy, and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
nentic. Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-IN VIGORATOR
will brinsr happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is truly wonderful.
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC.
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £1.
njt
CALL OR WRITE— O'WTj
CUT
RATE
DRUG STORE,
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
0 Ho
V
rnrrm
m
nm
A A
2 *
[i ,
vV hen
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired o' STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
■ ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
; Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
| strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
• GIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
! THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
|DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
! LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
, Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
'Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
I They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extrn powerful, with suspensory
avia jhments. .. 8 3 0
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee andi
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads, |
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to— I
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney I


TATTERSALL’S
Address: Care GEO. ADAMS, Hobart.
Newmarket H. March 2, 1901.
100,000 Subscribers at 5 .
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name
• Address
Australian C. (Special) March 5
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
50,000 Subscribers at 5,
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name .
Address
Doncaster H. April 6.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
Sydney C. April 8.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name :
Address
City Tatter sail's H. April 20.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
« • - \
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me „ shares in the above.
Name
Address . ; ;
For full particulars read our Printed Circular.
Address “ Tatter sail,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


MODERN
MILLING MACHINERY.
m
\
V
V
\
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S.Wales, procurable only at 24 Glarence-st., Sydney.
©*■
<5
<9
Losing your hair ? Do you bring out
a combful each morning ? Has it lost
its natural brightness ? Is it beginning
to look faded and dead?
Do you like this condition of things ?
Certainly not. Then stop this falling of
the hair at once. Stop it before your hair
is thin, short, and lifeless. Make your
hair beautiful, glossy, silky, abundant.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
Is a Hair Food.
When your hair is well nourished it
does not come out. ’Tis weak hair,
starved hair, that falls. It’s just so
with thin hair, short hair, rough hair.
Such hair needs feeding. This is why
Ayer’s Hair Vigor stops falling of the
hair.
If your hair is gray, and you don’t
care to look at thirty as if you were
sixty, then you should use Ayer’s Hair
Vigor. It always restores color to gray
hair, all the dark, rich, beautiful color
it had when you were young.
prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
Missing Friends.
SMJCKIM, deceased. Information required of where-
■" about? of John McKim, brother of William
McKim deceased, late of Talbot, Victoria, carter.
E. S. HERRING, Solicitor,
Talbot, Victoria.
IF this meets the eye of William Hamblin, for-
* merly of Kyneton, Vic., or anyone knowing his where-
abouts, please write to his brother Georgo Hamblin,
Ganmain, via Junee, N.B. Wales. Father dead.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk STRIPS
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throng ho tit
Australia .
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MQUNTCASTLE Ic SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
Australia!? JWtGal Proyidcot Society.
MONET TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying not
more than 20 per cent, of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street, Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT 8.. CAMERON, Secretary.
HMWUtSV.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 108-
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
SS" Send for a
Catalogue.
i
m
m
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNJE-ST., CONGORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
YORKSHIRE
RELISH
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World.
Millions of Bottles Sold Annually in England.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
For making delicious Custards without eggs in
Less Time and at Half the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed Rice.
DELICIOUS to alt kinds of Puddings.
DELICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS aloue.
GOODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure and wholesome Jelly In a few
minutes, without straining or boiling. The
packets are complete in themselves in the
following flavours Lemon, Orange, Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
Proprietors:— GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT, Bagot Rd,Sublaco,Perth,W. A.&6B,King St.,Melbourne
Paris €xDibition, 1900 -BritisD Awards
The Only
Grand
Prix
t he
highest jffwari)
ever made!
SOLELY FOR TOILET SOAP
HAS BEEN AWARDED TO
(Established 1789.)
'ilCTo
kIW
BP
Appointment
to
rm
Ber lUajestj) Cbe Queen ana b.r.b. Cbe Prince of Wales.
20 HIGHEST AWARDS
from 1851 to 1900 inclusive.
IV.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manf. Company
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay ns a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, A 5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, A 7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price Liet. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we oan. They oannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUR SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
Â
Delivered at any Wharf or
X.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hobart Mercury wants all Boers in arms
to be executed whenever captured, pleading that
the “recognised usages of war do not tolerate
useless resistance or unauthorised attacks by com-
batants out of uniform.” The Boer uniform con-
sists only of a slop suit and a shocking bad hat,
and the Mercury thinks this shouldn’t be recog-
nised. The plea that soldiers should be executed
for holding out even when hope is lost, as the
British Gordon did at Khartoum, and gallant
Richard Grenville when he fought the Spanish
fleet in the Revenge, and brave Williams when
he defended Kars, and as the Briton prides him-
self on doing all the world over, is really worthy
of a paper of the Stone Age edited with an axe.
And the theory that soldiers should be shot when
captured because their Government is too poor to
buy them a glaring uniform and a big hat with a
feather in it is very Tasmanian. If ever Tas-
mania is invaded, and nobody except the 1800
men in uniform are allowed to defend it, the other
97,000 males being justly and indignantly executed
for defending their country without having their
beautiful official clothes on, it will be a poor look
out for Raspberry Land. How would the Mer-
cury have yelled if the Boers had executed their
British prisoners at Nicholson’s Nek because for
hours they kept up a “ useless resistance ” —a thing
which, it seems, the usages of war don’t tolerate ?
Ave Csosar!
They thronged through the streets and the high-
ways, >
They mounted the turret and steeple,
As a god was the man whom they honored
With trumpet and' chorus—the people !
The bugle re-echoed the bugle,
The cannon far bellowed the story,
And drunk with the wine of enchantment
The multitude chanted of glory.
I looked on the sea of lit faces
That swayed with a strange undulation.
I said, “ Whom they honor must surely
Have brought a great good to the nation.”
I said, “It is sure the Redeemer,
The Bringer of Heart’s-ease they cherish,
The Redresser, the anciently sought one,
The Saviour of those who would perish.”
The lights died, the noise passed, the music
And clamour in slumber were swallowed ;
None moved save the urchin and harlot,
Alone walked the lost and unhallowed.
I said, “ As of old, for the Victor
Wreath-hung are the ways of the city ;
But what of the lost and the Ishmael—
The outlaws, —the outcasts of Pity ? ”
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
Credo.
I want no Heaven for recompense,
I love no names divine ;
The World I know, and in each sens#
I feel the World is mine.
You own no sovereignty but pain.
No sceptre but the sad ;
Oh, sorrow has my full disdain,
Because my heart is glad.
The only gods whereto I kneel
Are Sunlight and the Vine,
And the great blue Night with stars of steel
And fragrances divine;
And the glories of the Absolute,
Beauties I touch and see—
Heaven may have fairer flower and fruit,
But the Earth will do for me.
The angels of your Paradise
Are breastless and above;
I own my girl’s bold laughing eyes
And bright firm breasts of love.
V.
L.L.
Diana—Venus?
Between the day and the startled night
The great white Star of pride
Joys in the flash of her beating light
By the frail Moon’s virgin side.
Slow, slow they sink beyond the pale,
In the grip of the dark held tighter,
The Star in the toils of a lurid veil,
The lean Moon shining brighter.
v.
L.L.
The Discobolus.
Flecked with cool shadows from the quiet trees,
The white Discobolus, all night forlorn,
Welcomes through misty avenues of morn
The magian sun’s gilt plausibilities.
Measuring his cast he Stands in perfect ease,
His strength and splendid beauty lightly borne—
How would he smile our wilted life to scorn
Could he descend the broken centuries !
Far through the billowing leafage of the park
The vile, old, growling, garrulous City lifts
The burden of his toiling, trampled rhyme—
Inevitable life, toil, trouble—then the Dark.
Would He accept such Fate’s invidious gifts,
This Quoiter from the idle youth of Time ?
V.
L. L.


The Australian Widows’ Fund Qife Assurance Society [td.
mnyo qnmifTV « . ESTABLISHED 1871.
1 which iBSspedalpo£8 t pSng- all UBUal f ° rmS ° f Assurance - ,s the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
11. of pre T iunl in theevent of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood
41 A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness. inooa.
Board of Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman*
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Aceumulated Funds ... exceed £1,380,000 Annual Income ... ... exceeds £220,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STE.EET, SYDNEY.
BONUS YEAR, 1901. SH GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
A. BOWMAN’S
. . . You Can Have . . .
English Boots at
14/6 per pair.
Tan Boots at
JLG/6 per pair.
Porpoise Hide at
17/6 per pair
Best Style.
Best Quality.
No
Better
Made.
Ã
We do One Line—Gentlemen’s Boots—only.
That one we do Well.
318 GEORGE ST., near Hunter St.,
also 145 RING ST., opp. Theatre Royal.
NOW READY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth
Being a reprint of a large number of articles from
The Bulletin, in which this paper has attempted to
outline a solvent, honest and democratic policy
for Federated Australia.
Price 6d; Posted Bd.
SEND FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
0F RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-si, Sydney.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
&
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Registered under the “Companies
Act, 1890,” as a Company, having
secured Assets in Victoria.
It has also deposits, as required by
law, in Great Britain, U.S. A., Canada,
and wherever operating in other parts
of Australasia.
Benefits Paid, over £1,650,000.
Monthly Income, over £40,000.
Accumulated Funds, over £838,581.
Head Office, TORONTO.
ORONHYATEKHA, M.D., J.P.,.
Supreme Chief Ranger.
'"INDEPENDENT ORDER « FORESTERS
Incorporated by Special Act of Parliament (Canada), 52 Vic. and 59 Vic.
A Great International and Fraternal Life Assurance Society.
The 1.0. P. gives Life Assurance at a Lower Cost than any other Society in the World.
The Premiums pay not only for Life Assurance, hut also for Disability and Old Age Pension.
All Premium paying in the 1.0. P. ceases at Age 70, also on Total Permanent Disability.
EXAMPLES:
£lOO Policy.
Age 18 20 25 30 35 40 45
Monthly Ppemium la. 7d. Is. Bd. 2s. 2s. sd. 2s. lid. 3s. Od. 4s. 4d.
50
6s. Id.
Policies for £lOO, £2OO, £4OO, £6OO, £BOO, or £lOOO issued to Men and Women,
18 to 54 years of age, at Equal Rates.
Office for South Australia :
J. H. GILMOUR, D.S.C.R.,
Victoria. Buildings,
29 Grenfell St., Adelaide.
Chief Office, Australasia :
ROBT. MCNAIR, P.H.C.R.,
73, 74 and 76 Temple Court,
Collins St., Melbourne.
Office for New South Wales :
W. G. STOTT, D.S.C.R.,
283 Georgre St.,
Sydney.
Prospectus, with full Table of Rates, dec., on Application.
(aood TaiioriQg.
SUMMER.
Light Weight Tweeds
AND
Worsteds.
PURE INDIGO SERGES,
LIGHT AND TROPICAL WEIGHTS
TO STAND THE SUN.
FANCY TROUSERINGS, VESTINGS, &C.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post Free.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Outfitters,
73 and 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Sole Agrents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR.
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
Greatest demand
Cigarettes
Because the Best
*X
P»B
BY SPECIAL PERMISSION
“ The Oaks," Polo Pony Stud Farm, Monavale,
Messrs. E. RICH & CO. LTD. j 6th October. 1900.
24-26 O'Comeli-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Gentlemen,—Herewith find cheque for account enclosed. The terra-cotta color is a marked success, please forward another
tm. The wonderful success of P& B Ruberoid on flat roofs has quite decided me on the class of roofs I shall place on the con-
templated 24 cottages. Photographs would give a better idea of the class of work that P&B Ruberoid has been so signallv
successful on.
Yours faithfully, GEO. S. BROCK.
PS—I have had several letters of thanks, especially one from the Reverend Father of St. Aloysius College, who had a flat
covered with a sort of Val de Travers, which gave them endless trouble; and since they applied P&B Ruberoid it has given
every satisfaction. — G.B.
NOTE.— Mr. Brock's roojs were put on over three years since, and cover his Residences. Ballroom , Stables, Fowl-
houses, Dog Kennels, Duck Sheds, Grand Stand, etc. All roofs except that of his residence being fat.
P&B Ruberoid is much cheaper and cooler than iron. A post-card request will bring you fullest particulars. I
Agents-E. RIOH & CO. LTD., SYDNEY.
P&B
£


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney , for Transmission hy Post as a Newspaper
Vol. 22.—N0. 1096.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1901.
Pmob 6d.
Summary of Reid’s Hall speech
as reported by his “ organ ” ; “ Laughter and
applause.”
THE RECKONING.
'* No funds available.” — Vide daily paper correspondence.
L.B.M. : “Well, he’s an amusing
cuss; wonder what he’ll do next 1 ”
“Mr. Barton ia welcome to all the good for-.
= tune which he has received I find a richer con-
solation in knowing that every position that
has come to me has not come from above.
Beid’s Prot. Hall speech-
Mr. Reid fails to mention that his Dry-Dog leadership was handed ap on a three-
pronged fork, accompanied by the fumes of burning sulphur.
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
" Australia for the AustraliansA*
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 ®
Half-yearly ... ... ... 01% 6
Quarterly ... ... ... (Job
NOTICE.
By sending direct to %jie Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with psttage added where required—
which you may pay by PdSt Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
•
To Amateurs in "Blaclc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street A Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. — The Argonaut office, 2U6 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., S Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 2% Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In conseauence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on 'lnterprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of 1 \d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —l \d. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
xHefzat.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1901.
Free Trade and a Free Nigger Supply.
Premier Barton’s announcement that the
Federal Government intends to have a
White Australia has brought out the Bris-
bane Courier and the Sydney Telegraph as
advocates of Freetrade and Black Labor.
Freetrade in calico goes naturally hand
in hand with Freetrade in niggers. It
is illogical to let the nigger’s produce in free
and keep out the nigger himself. It is
absurd to preach the doctrine of buying in
the cheapest market, and not buy labor in
the cheapest market. It is mere foolishness
to worship at the shrine of the great alleged
Joss of Demand and Supply, and yet object
when the demand for lots of cheap nigger
labor is met by the supply of lots of cheap
nigger labor. The announcement that the
Barton Government intends to make
Australia white and keep it white
has knocked the thin veneer of Liberal-
ism off the surface of the Courier
and the Telegraph, and the former now
publishes hysterical letters demanding that
Barton and his White Australia policy shall
be got rid of together, and that great and
good man, George Reid, whom they seem-
ingly regard up North as a vigorous cheap-
higger-labour advocate, shall be put in his
place. The Telegraph also advocates the
preservation and multiplication of Kanakas—
but not openly in its leading columns. It
bolsters up the nigger semi-surreptitiously,
by means of signed articles on back pages,
while the Courier shrieks in its editorial
columns and in its editorial voice. In the
short period that has elapsed since Premier
Barton’s manifesto theCoußiEß has shrieked
twice—once in each direction. It started by
declaring that the Queensland sugar industry
did not depend on Kanaka labour ; and then,
being apparently kicked hard by the large
boots of some unseen Power behind the
Throne, it proceeded to declare that it did.
It kept to its White Labour attitude for
about 10 days. Its Black Labour attitude
has apparently come to stay.
* * * *
Though Premier Barton declared em-
phatically . for a white Australia, he was
moderation itself as to the means by which
Australia was to be made white. He distinctly
intimated that the Queensland planter was
to be let down gently and allowed time in
which to accustom himself to new conditions.
In his own words :
Legislation against any influx of Asiatic labor we shall
regard simply as a matter of course. As to Polynesian or
Kanaka labor, if we were at the beginning of it now we
should have an equally strong objection to that, but we
shall not be guilty of any oppression of those Kanakas
who are already in Australia, while we shall take care to
endeavor to restrict the importation of any more of them.
We shall try to prevent any such importation as will
increase the number of Kanakas now in Australia. We
shall ensure the gradual abolition of the importation of
these people, but our legislation will be just and firm,
and there will be no unnecessary delay.
And on this subject the Brisbane Courier
declared in its leading article of 15tli J anuary
—just before Barton’s pronouncement:—
There appears to be some misconception in the Southern
States of Australia as to the condition and needs of the
sugar industry in Queensland, and it may be well to direct
attention to the salient facts. Mr. Coghlan, in the last
edition of his “Seven Colonies of Australasia,” has the
following sentence :—“ The growth of the cane and the
manufacture of sugar are important industries in Queens-
land and New South Wales ; but whilst the climate of
the former colony renders the employment of white labor
in the field almost impossible, the plantations of the
latter are worked, as a rule, without the assistance of
colored labor.” It would appear from this that sugar-
growing in Queensland by white labor is practically
impossible. Consequently, if the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment should decide to deal peremptorily with black
labor, and legislate at once to exclude the Kanaka,
legislators would shelter themselves behind the assump-
tion that sooner or later the sugar industry would have
to go, and that no good purpose could be served by delay.
That is to say, those who pin their faith to a White Aus-
tralia would consider themselves justified in resorting to
immediate surgery, on the ground that the chance of
substituting white labor for black on the plantations was
too small to be worth considering. So much would be
cheerfully decided with Mr. Coghlan as guide. Now, it
may be remarked here that Mr. Coghlan’s own figures
prove him to be in error. He notes that the census of
1891 gave Queensland 942 S Polynesians, while a census
taken in October, 1898, reduced the number to 8617. In
seven years the Kanaka population of this colony had
been reduced nearly 9 per cent. But the point of im-
portance in such connection is the increased area put
under cane in the time. In 1891 there were 50,948 acres
devoted to sugar cultivation, while in 1899 there were
110,657 acres. While the number of Kanakas had de-
creased considerably, the number of white planters had
immensely increased. This is the only conclusion to be
drawn from Mr. Cogiilan’s figures. Why, then, assume
that sugar-planting in Queensland, without black labor,
is an impossibility ?
■* * * *
Up to the 17th January, therefore, the
Courier and Premier Barton were saying
the same thing. The Courier, which, as a
Queensland paper, ought to know something
of the matter, declared that the Queensland
sugar industry could do without black labor,
and that it was doing without it more and
more each year ; all it wanted was not to
have its comparatively small remaining
supply of infuriated Islanders cut off too
suddenly. And Premier Barton said that
for the present he was merely going to so
far restrict the importation of Kanaka labor
as to make sure that the number of
Islanders in Australia would not increase.
Importation was to be abolished certainly,
but the abolition was to be gradual. The
period of grace in which the planter is
to accustom himself by degrees to the
loss of his brown savage—that period of
grace which, the Courier asserted, is the
only thing needful—Premier Barton pro-
mises liberally., The only thing he is going
to abolish at once is the influx of Asiatic
hawkers, Chinese fossickers, Japanese
houris, and such like. Barton does not
even say that he is going to immediately
decrease the number of Polynesians ; only to
prevent any enlargement of their numbers.
And the Courier asserts that the Poly-
nesians are already decreasing under the
existing Queensland laws. Therefore the
worst thing that Barton threatens in the
immediate present is that he will keep on
doing what is doing already.
* • * *
Yet after declaring that Queensland does
not need black labor, and only requires time
to taper off, as it were, and after being
assured by Premier Barton that the Kanaka
would be tapered off and not violently re-
moved, the Courier, on 26th January, broke
out in this fresh place :
It is perfectly clear that the black labor question is
vital to us.. . . . As between Mr. Thynne and Mr. Drake,
the latter is out of court altogether as a representative of
our primary industries and most vital interests. Had
Mr. Philp realised the true position of affairs he would
have given Mr. Barton his choice of men who could be
trusted from their past careers to see that the case for
the sugar industry was fairly presented and vigorously
advocated. Instead of offering him an enemy, he would
have fought for a friend, of the industry, and Mr. Barton
would have been obliged to take the responsibility
of rejecting our manifest claims. Now he may
contend that the Premier of Queensland has
practically endorsed his manifesto on black labor!
It is quite evident that the so-called nomination was
little better than pure farce, and that Mr. Philp had
neither the sense nor the courage to make a fight of it.
Henceforth Queenslanders must think and act for them-
selves. Mr. Reid has shown himself in the past ready,
though at the last pinch, to stand by the sugar industry
in New South Wales, and if he will do as much for this
State there can be little question but that he will com-
mand a substantial following in Queensland.
Here, again, Georoe Reid, the leader of
the party which calls itself Freetrade, be-
cause it has always been found protecting as
many industries as it dared, is quoted as the
expected and hoped-for advocate of the
Black Labour Party, and the man to whom
those who desire Freetrade in niggei’s look
for their salvation.
* * *
And this is George Reid’s own special
organ, the Sydney Telegraph, on the same
subject in its issue of 30th January. It
appears as a signed article by one F. Wegg
Horne, but as the Freetrade organ gives
publicity to the article, and says not one
word in repudiation of its sentiments, it
can’t wholly disclaim responsibility :
In the actual work of cultivating the sugarcane, the
labor chiefly employed is undoubtedly black or alien.
This, it is contended' by the labor advocates, is not at all
necessary. They hold that white or European labor can
do all work required both in the field and mill, which
the planters declare is impossible, and experience cer-
tainly supports the latter. Not only did the Government
during the latter part of the eighties endeavor to prevent
the employment of Kanaka labor, by prohibiting further
importation, but the planters themselves tried to work
entirely with white labor. The attempt proved a failure,
and not only ruined many planters, but temporarily
wrecked the industry. The present Chief Justice,
Samuel W. Griffith, when in Parliament, was at first
strongly opposed to Kanaka labor, but subsequently
realised the necessities of the industry, and himself
introduced the legislation under which this and Asiatic
labor is at present sanctioned in that State At
the conference of protectionists held last year in
Sydney, this question was discussed, and, unfortunately,
many wild and extravagant statements were made which
only tend to mislead the public as regards the treatment
of the white laborer and liis willingness and ability to do
any work connected with the industry. In fact, to judge
from what was both written and said on the subject at
that time, it is evident that little or nothing is known in
the southern communities with reference to the conduct
of the industry and the conditions under which it is
carried on in the more northern parts of Australia. Be-
fore, however, attempting to clear away any of these mis-
conceptions, it must be pointed out that it is not for one
moment suggested that a white man cannot work in the
tropical heat. In North Queensland, as elsewhere, he
well and ably fills the ordinary avocations of life to which
he is accustomed in more genial climates, and this he
does with but little detriment to his health. But the cir-
cumstances under which he so toils in the open
country, or on the higher lands, or even in a mine
—no matter how high the temperature may be—are
vastly different to those under which the sugarcane
is cultivated. The direct, blazing, dry heat of the sun
can be endured, but he is naturally physically incapable
of continuous work in the miasmatic moist heat of the
lowlands and swamps on the seaboard, with an air laden
with fever and ague. Such are some of the characteris-
tics of the country found most adapted to the sugar-
growing industry. This will be the better appreciated
when it is explained that these sugar-lands consist of low-
lying alluvial flats, on the margin of rivers or inlets of the
sea, only a few feet above high-water mark, surrounded
by mangrove swamps, and generally situated at the base
of hilly or even mountainous country protected from the
winds. Heavy tropical rains fall during the first two or
three months of the year, showing a register for the
season of from 60 to 200 inches. This bountiful supply is
evidently conserved by nature just below the surface, to
be drawn up subsequently in the form of excessive mois-
ture by the great heat of a tropical sun. By reason of
this, the vegetation is rank and thick, warding off all
breezes ; so that the atmosphere becomes peculiarly dead
and oppressive. Under such conditions the field work of
preparing the ground, and the subsequent planting,
tending, and cutting of the cane, all done by hand labor,
it will be recognised, is most exhausting and enervating.
. . . With these facts and statistics before us the diffi-
culties and importance of this question are apparent.
The suggestions of the extreme Protectionists—doubtless
put forward to catch the labor vote —to impose a suffi-
ciently heavy duty to permit of high wages being paid to
white or European labor would prove'a hardship on the
general public without any compensating good results.
Not even the most prohibitive of duties would permit of
white men doing a work for which they are naturally
unfit.
* * * •
Thus we have it distinctly laid down, that
the Protectionist party is the White Labor
party, and that fact is put to its discredit by
the enraged nigger advocate whose views are
published by the Freetrade organ. And, as
a natural inference, the Freetrade party, led
by George Reid, is to be the Black Labor
and Cheap Imported Nigger party. As a
matter of fact, the Freetrade party must be
the Black Labor party and the Kanaka’s
friend and supporter, or else it must sink
its Freetrade principles and protect
the sugar industry again, as it did before.
It dare not advocate the destruction of the
Queensland sugar industry as it once did the
sugar industry of N.S.W. —before the rotund
Reid lost faith in his nostrum and turned
semi-Protectionist. The Queensland industry
is too large and powerful to be thus treated.
And the sugar business must either be pro-
tected by a tariff or else aided by a liberal
supply of the cheapest nigger labor available.
A white sugar industry, paying white men’s
wages, and not protected by a tariff, could
not possibly stand against the product of
other countries where the cheap nigger is
available, though it is quite possible that a
nigger-run sugar industry could’. The
abandonment of the sugar business being out
of the question, it is a choice between Pro-
tection and a White Australia, or Freetrade
and a piebald land, infested by the off-
scourings of Asia and the scum of Polynesia.
And apparently the Courier and the Tele-
graph hold that Freetrade is more precious
than the purity of the race, and the preser-
vation of the European type.
* * • *
Queensland is itself a living proof, in a
small way, that the sugar-industry can be
run by white labor under a Protectionist
policy. In Queensland, sugar is heavily pro-
tected, and the industry increased enormously
with no increase of Kanaka labor. In 1890,
according to figures published by the
Courier, there were about 50,000 acres under
cane, and 9362 Kanakas to cultivate this
area. In 1899, the area under cane was
110,657 more than double and the
Kanakas had decreased to 8795. So far as
concerns the difference, it appears that the
white man has, to a great extent, filled the
gap—we have the Courier’s authority to that
effect. Thereby, it appears that the white
man, under a Protective tariff, can grow
sugar in Queensland. And the Courier
itself declared, in its attitude of January 15,
that it could ; that a white sugar-indus-
try was possible ; that Queensland was not
in any sense dependent on its drunken and
murderous islander ; and that all it re-
quired was that the change of conditions
should not be too sudden—a concession
which Premier Barton freely promised.
Apparently, it was by an afterthought that
both tha Courier and the Telegraph
realised that a White Australia involves a
continuance of Protection, and that, so far
as the sugar industry is concerned, Free-
trade and the cheap nigger go together.
And having to throw one overboard, they
threw over White Australia.
» ♦ * ¥
The matter is one of cheapness only ; not
one of fitness. The Kanaka has no special
fitness for plantation work ; in faot, he is
less fitted for it than the white Queens-
lander. The short and simple proof is that
he dies off at the work twice, or more than
twice, as fast as the white man does. The
mortality among adult Kanakas in Queens-
land, as compared with white man mortality, is
enormous, andalmost incredible, andthesugar
plantations are merely a Brown Man’s Grave.
The only special qualification the Islander
possesses is that he can die without attract-
ing so much attention as a white man would ;
otherwise, judging by the mortality statis-
tics, he is about the least fit person that
can be imagined for plantation work. As
regards the “temporary wrecking” of the
Queensland sugar industry when a half-
hearted attempt was made, between 1885
and 1892, to dispense with the Islander, it is
a pretence that won’t stand very close in-
vestigation. The supply of Kanakas is less
now than it was in 1890, and yet the acreage
under cane has more than doubled. There-
fore, whatever it. was that saved the indus-
try, it certainly was not any extra supply of
Tommy Tanna. Further, white labor is
both cheaper and more abundant now than
it was in the late eighties, and the alleged
wreck which happened then wouldn’t neces-
sarily happen now. And, in addition to this,
the industry was not being wrecked at the
time when Griffith did his famous apos-
tacy, and revenged himself for the alleged
ingratitude of the democracy by turning
nigger-labor advocate. Queensland did not
go back to its Kanaka-importing disease be-
cause it was driven to that course in order
that its great sugar business might be saved,
for the business wasn’t lost. When Grif-
fith gave notice to the planters that the
supply of Kanaka labour would cease about
1892, a slump certainly did set in among the
panic-stricken growers, though not nearly so
great a slump as is commonly alleged. The
area under cane decreased from 59,186 acres
in 1885 to 54,010 acres in 1886 ; 51,815 acres
in 1887 ; and 47,340 acres in 1888. But the
fall stopped there, though the final loss of
the Kanaka was every day coming closer. In
1889 the cane area had increased to
49,741 acres ; and thereafter it ex-
panded steadily till in 1892—the year
when the ruin was to be consummated, and
the year when Griffith re-established the
Kanaka trade on the ground that the sugar
industry was Lost—the area under cane had
risen to 55,520 acres. In fact, Queensland
was just proving very successfully that it
didn’t require its Kanaka when Griffith
apostatised. The trouble was, that cane-
growing was fast becoming an industry for
small farmers instead of for big capitalists,
each working a huge plantation with a drove
of slaves. The Griffith apostacy of 1892
was not required to save the sugar industry,
but to save the big land-grabber and slave-
driver.
* • * «
The question at issue now is not merely
one of maintaining the existing Kanaka. It
goes much further than that. The Queens-
land sugar industry prospers exceedingly
with a limited amount of Kanaka labor, and
Protection. W e have the solemn assurance
of the Courier that it can dispense with black
labor altogether, and it is impossible to sup-
pose that so respectable a paper as the Courier
would tell a lie about a small thing
like that. As a matter of fact, Queens-
land is becoming less and less dependent
on its Kanaka every year, and yet the
price of sugar isn’t rising—in fact, it
is moderate enough to satisfy any reasonable
person. Concerning the progress that white
labor is making in the sugar industry it
seems impossible to doubt, both on the evi-
dence and on the Courier’s assurance, that,
with the Protection now afforded, the
Kanaka could be dispensed with by the in-
stalment process which Premier Barton
proposes, without doing the slightest in-
jury to the State. But if there is to
be Freetrade in sugar then Queensland
will want, not only all the
cheap black labour it has, but a lot more.
It will then have to compete with the
cheap black labor of all the world—
and that is a large order. So two of the
most prominent Freetrade papers in Aus-
tralia declare for a Black Labor policy, and
call on George Beid, as the Freetrade
leader, to conduct a pro-nigger campaign.
This seems a perfectly natural thing for them
to do. In this case Freetrade and a free
nigger jsupply go together as a matter of
course.
Some Freetrade Inaccuracies, Mis-
representations and Sundries.
The Bulletin has collected some of the Calico
Jimmy party’s literature of the past week, and
publishes a few extracts from the interesting col-
lection herewith. The first item is from Launces-
ton (Tas.) Examiner ,
THE “SAVINGS BANKS” MISREPRESENTATION.
Mr. Edward Pdlsford, M.L.C., the well-known au-
thority upon questions relating to Freetrade, has recently
replied to the assertion so often put forth by advocates of
Protection that the figures published in connection with
savings banks are proof conclusive that there is more
money in countries boasting a restrictive tariff than, in
those whose duties are levied for revenue purposes only.
Mr. Pulsford points out that probably no facts can be
brought together that are more capable of misleading
people “ than those with regard to money and banks—
savings banks especially.” He explains that the circum-
stances connected with such financial institutions vary to
such an extent in different parts of the World that com-
parisons and lessons deductible therefrom, are, to say the
least, riskyu Another thing, the advocate for restric-
tion has an unhappy knack of quoting only such figures
as will suit his purpose. He will take one set of statis-
tical figures which, quoted singly, may convey an
entirely erroneous impression, and argue his case there-
from ; this is the course those who are holding up the
returns from savings banks as an example of what Pro-
tection can accomplish are adopting. British prosperity,
we are told, is on the decline, because some statistics
compiled by Muliiall —a fair authority, we admit, when
fairly' quoted—show that protectionist Germany, France,


or some other foreign country has more money in sayings
banks than freetrade England. . . . “ NOT ONLYMr.
Pulsford explains, “ IS THERE NO SHADOW OF CON-
NECTION BETWEEN THE AVERAGE OF DEPOSI-
TORS AND GENERAL PROSPERITY, but there is no
connection between the amount of deposits and number
of depositors.”
* * * *
The first discrepancy here lies in the fact that
the Protectionist party didn’t start the Sayings
Bank controversy, and isn’t responsible for it in
any way. The man who started it was George
Reid, who a few weeks ago blew this remarkable
blast on his political trumpet, and kept on blow-
ing it till it became really necessary to tell him
what an exhibition he was making of himself: —
The great millions of England are rising under it
(Freetrade). The Savings Banks of England have
£150,000,000 deposited in them— an increase of £36,000,000
in four years. THERE you see the vitality of the great
principle of human freedom breaking through the clouds
that encompassed it, bringing down the high and raising
the poor and miserable.
That was the beginning of the Savings Bank con-
troversy. It commenced by the emphatic state-
ment of the Dry Dog man that Savings Bank de-
posits were a test of prosperity. And The Bulle-
tin, which took up the question, simply took
the Freetrade boss at his word. So it quoted
page 86 in Mulhall’s “Dictionary of Statistics,”
whereon it was set forth that in 1840, about the end
of the Protectionist period in Britain, that country
had £23,400,000 in its Savings Banks, while
France, Germany and Austria had only £14,600,000
among them. Therefore Protectionist Britain
could beat those three countries put together. And
in 1896, when Britain had enjoyed 50 years of
Freetrade, it had £154,800,000 in its Savings
Banks, while France had £165,800,000;
Austria, £178,400,000; and Germany, £212,500,000
(Mulhall, page 643). Where Protectionist
Britain was ahead of all these three countries
put together, Freetrade Britain couldn’t keep
abreast of even the poorest of them. It also
pointed out that Victoria had more Savings Bank
deposits and all kinds of deposits per inhabitant
than N.S.W. And then the Freetrade party,
which had declared (while it could keep up the
pretence that Britain was ahead in this respect)
that Savings Bank deposits were a proof of a
country’s prosperity, promptly declared that they
didn’t prove anything at all. Also it professed
to believe that it was the Protectionist
party, instead of its own lamentable Crowd of
frauds and figure-fakers, that had started the Sav-
ings Bank discussion, and was quite surprised,
from its superior mental pedestal, that they
should resort to such an absurd argument, and
grew quite excited about the “Savings Banks
Misrepresentation.” Yet even now, while Free-
trader Pulsford goes round declaring, since the
Freetrade yarn has burst, that Savings Bank
deposits don’t mean anything, Freetrader Reid,
who apparently doesn’t know it has burst, still
goes heavily to and fro on the face of an over-
loaded globe saying that the £150,000,000 in the
Freetrade country’s Savings Banks prove that
Freetrade is the best policy, and judiciously sup-
presses all mention of the much larger sum in the
Savings Banks of Protectionist countries. Will
Freetrader Pulsford kindly tell Freetrader Reid
to drop the Savings Bank fiction ?
» * • •
The S.M. Herald also had an outbreak, the
other day (30th January, 1901); —
In a letter appearing elsewhere Mr. Mark Hammond
alleges that we have not denied that New South Wales
raised from borrowed money and land sales £40,000,000
more than Victoria. Regarding £15,000,000 of the sum,
representing this colony’s excess of public borrowings, we
distinctly stated that the amount was more than offset
by the larger borrowings of the private capitalists of Vic-
toria, Mr. Pulsford giving figures in proof other than
those we had at hand in support of the statement.
Here, as is usual with the Foreign Shoddy party,
the S.M. Herald offers no evidence in support of
its statement that Victoria has borrowed more
than New South Wales, and is consequently more
dependent than the partially-Freetrade State on
artificial assistance from loans to keep its credit
and industries afloat. It doesn’t mention where
the figures are to be found. It merely says that
things are so, and, by way of further evidence, it
says that Pulsford says they are so ; also, that
Pulsford has produced figures, not quoted, from
some source, not mentioned, which, it says, sup-
ports #this theory. Wherefore The Bulletin,
whicli is always able to quote the source of its
statistics, as they always have a source, refers to
N.S.W. Statistician Coghlan’s latest pronounce-
ment on the question (“ Seven Colonies for 1898,
page 429 —the subject is apparently not dealt with
in the 1900 edition): —
Total net Public and Private Borrowing.
New South Wales .. ~ .. £106,655,000
Victoria.. .. .. .. .. 90,544,000
The Herald may “distinctly state,” in the
Foreign Shoddy interest, that Victoria has
borrowed more than N.S.W. until it grows grey
and old and senile, but the logic of official statis-
tics is against it.
* * * *
The next is the latest sample of George Reid’s
irrelevance, Dry Dogism and mental confusion :
Comparing Great Britain with America and Germany,
the trade of Great Britain is greater than the total of the
United States and Germany.
Mulhall, who, as a statistician of eminence,
probably knows something about these matters,
figures out, in his “Industries and Wealth of
Nations ” (page 388) that in 1896 the total trade of
the United States was £3,311,000,000; that of
Great Britain £1,884,000,000, or not very much
more than half that of the United States; and
that of Germany £1,501,000,000, or close up to
Great Britain. Reid, as it happens, was not
giving the total trade at all, though he said he
was; but only the external trade. The Foreign-
trader holds that when London sells goods to
Amsterdam (250 miles) it is trade, and when New
York sells goods to San Francisco (2500 miles)
it isn’t trade. British trade is to a very consider-
able extent a paper fraud. It is a common cus-
tom to include only external trade as commerce,
and the British Empire is the only great State
which counts the trade of one part of the Empire
with another part as external trade. If the
United States statistics reckoned the trade of
New York with Illinois as foreign commerce, in
the same way as the British Empire statistics
reckon the trade of England with India, Malta,
and other parts of the Empire as foreign com-
merce, it would leave Britain absolutely nowhere.
When the commerce of the two States is calculated
on the same basis (internal and external trade
both reckoned), the United States shows £49 per
head against Britain’s £4B per head. The differ-
ence in favor of the Protectionist country isn’t
large, but the real thing as shown by reliable
statisticians, and the familiar bumptious lie of the
Calico James party, are a long way apart.
• "* * *
And, inasmuch as the Argus has lately been
moaning a good deal at the 3d. bar of public
opinion about the great increase in England’s
? reducing industries since it took to Freetrade,
'he Bulletin is moved to point out, on the
authority of an English statistician of high stand-
ing, that these producing industries, so far as can
be judged by the number of hands employed were
increasing faster before England took to Freetrade
at all. This is Muliiall on the subject ( Diction-
ary of Statistics,” page 424). The statistics for
the whole United Kingdom don t go back to 18A.
Persons Employed in Agriculture and Manufactures
in England and Wales.
1821 .. 2,329,000
1841 . ■ 4,610,000
Increase of 2,281,000 during 20 years of Protection ; equal
to 114,050 per annum.
1841 .. 4,610,000
1881 .. 8,736,000
Increase of 4,126,000 during 40 years of Freetrade ; equal
to 103,150 per annum.
* * * *
These are a few casual items of the past few
days only, but the list will doubtless extend
indefinitely, for the party of the l)ry Dog man is
evidently resolved to keep on in a state of the
wildest inaccuracy right up to the date of the
Federal election, or even later. In fact, through
sheer force of habit it will probably remain in that
condition all its days.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
An "Extreme Freetrader,” or an
Extreme Importer.
Last week a N.S.W. politician of some note in a
small way, who has long been suspected of tot-
tering obscurely on a fence, got down definitely
on to his feet, and being a rather brief man, the
roof of his belltopper was barely visible over the
top rail when he reached the ground. William
M‘Millan, the politician in question, delivered
his confession of faith thus :
Was it necessary to say that in that respect he was still
a freetrader ? If he thought it was his duty to follow
Mr. Barton he would do so at the risk of the Wentworth
electorate. He might say, however, that he had not the
slightest intention of following Mr. Barton, because he
had always been an extreme freetrader. (Applause.) If
he had the honor of representing them he would take his
seat on the Opposition benches. This matter of policy
having been brought so prominently forward, he had
come to the conclusion that at the first address he
would deliver he would deal almost entirely with the
fiscal issue, leaving all other matters for subsequent
addresses. There was much talk about the Constitution
being in danger. It was all “ bunkum.” If it had ever
been in danger it was not so now. As Freetraders they
were determined to fight this battle to the bitter end, and
it was necessary they should have a leader. Certainly he
had been for some time out of public life, but as far as he
could judge the man who was looked upon as leader was
Mr. G. H. Reid.
This is a sorrowful example of how a small man,
whose belltopper is barely visible over the top-
rail when he gets down off the fence, can delude
himself with fine phrases and noble but bogus
sentiments. M‘Millan was never an extreme
Freetrader; he was only an extreme importer,
which is quite a different thing. In the days
when he was Freetrade Treasurer of New South
Wales he was certainly an extreme Freetrader so
far as softgoods and the like were concerned. He
lived by importing them, and it was his interest
to blight and destroy any local industries in these
lines, and prevent the N.S. W. people getting em-
ployment and good wages at making their own
clothes and hats, for if they did his trade would
naturally be damaged. It didn’t necessarily fel-
low that he believed that locally-manufactured
softgoods, made under a protective tariff, would
be dearer or worse than his own imported stuff ;
there is no evidence on that point. Whether
they would be dearer or cheaper, better or worse,
it was his interest, as an extreme importer, to
prevent any N.S.W. softgoods industries arising,
even if the people lost thereby, and to make
them buy imported softgoods even if the price
was higher than local factories, when they got
fairly established, could supply at. In his own
softgoods line M‘Millan was naturally asFreetrade
as anyone could ask for. But so far as concerned
wine, beer, bacon, tobacco, cigars, cigarettes, sugar,
molasses, hams, tongues, fruit of many kinds,
biscuits, butter, timber, wooden goods, galvanised
iron goods, candles, cheese, cement, cider, con-
fectionery, soft drinks of all kinds, corn-flour, fish,
jams, jellies, and very many other things.-
M‘Millan was as good a Protectionist as anybody
could ask for. All these represented industries
which it wasn’t necessary to blight and destroy
for the good of M'Millan’s vested interest, for.
he didn’t import hams and the likes. And h;e en-
couraged these industries with all the outward
semblance of a man who firmly believed that
Protection was a good thing—always provided, as
aforementioned, that the industries which were
thus created to supply the people with work and
wages didn’t interfere with M'Millan’s importing
business. All M‘Millan’s Protective duties
(which didn’t interfere with his own importing
business) could easily have been abolished, and the
revenue which they yielded could have been made
good by direct taxation, which was practically non-
existent then (and which would have fallen on the
profits of M'Millan’s business). And
if M‘Millan had believed in Freetrade half as
much as he thought he did, hes hor.ld ha\e gladly
paid his share of this direct taxation, knowing
that the increased prosperity of the country
(arising through Freetrade) would so much im-
prove his business as to make good the loss. But,
though M‘Millan regarded himself as an extreme
Freetrader, he was only an extreme importer, and
wasn’t built that way. The Bulletin is still
waiting to meet that Freetrader who believes
sufficiently in his own alleged doctrine to live
up to it. Certainly the little man who has
just slid off the fence he was suspected of
roosting on, and disappeared on the other side,
isn’t that kind of Freetrader. If he believed, as
he says, that Protection is wholly injurious, then
he was a bad, mean, treacherous, or incompetent
little person, who, by his semi-Protectionist tariff,
set out to do grievous injury to the country rather
than impose a little direct taxation which, would
have fallen partly on himself. And if he didn’t
set out to do N.S.W. an injury by his semi-
Protectionist tariff, then he doesn’t believe that
Protection is injurious after all, and in that case
it may be fairly suspected that he is only a Free-
trader so far as his own calico-importing industry
is concerned —is a sort of “ rice-Christian,” in fact.
Either way he is in danger of inspiring a good-
deal of public disrespect.
For Jurymen Only.
In a strangely humorous way the Vic. Solicitor-
General has made reference to two notable cases
of husband-shooting wherein Melbourne jurymen
distinguished themselves last year by acquitting
the wives who did the deed. It seems that Mr.
Agar Wynne was lately asked to consider whether
the time hadn’t arrived for releasing Mrs. Cecile
Anderson from prison. Twelve years ago, or
more, the much-pitied woman—a widow—was
convicted of lodging a fatal bullet in her former
sweetheart, one Fraser. She had undoubtedly
suffered scurvy treatment from the man. He had
lived free at her boarding-house and otherwise
made use of her under promise of marriage, and
when at last he went away and took another
woman to wife Mrs. Anderson expressed her
feelings s aforesaid. In the days before the land-
boom crime was crime at the Melb. courts. A
matter-of-fact jury found Mrs. Andeeson guilty
of wilful murder, recommending her to mercy on
the ground that she had received much provocation
from her contemptible masher. The hanging
penalty was transmuted into a sentence of
imprisonment for life. Several attempts
to get Mrs. Andeeson out of gaol have
been made by her sympathisers, but the
changing heads of the Crown Law Dept, have
held only one opinion re the woman who shot
a man with malice aforethought. To order her
early release as an act of mercy would be to estab-
lish a dangerous precedent, said the Law. So
Mrs. Andeeson went on wearing away her life in
a dungeon cell. Lately it occurred to some people
that the non-conviction of Mrs. Dr. Fraser and
Mrs. Weight were precedents which would
entitle the less fortunate shooter to favorable
notice. A mistaken idea, apparently. Solicitor-
General Wynne says “he does not see his way
clear to recommend Mrs. Andeeson’s release,
especially in view of recent cases of a somewhat
similar nature, wherein soft-hearted juries gave
unexpected and incomprehensible verdicts in
favor of accused women.” Are these soft-hearted
juries listening ? A woman who has passed many
long years in prison for venting her rage in the
same way that Mrs. Fraseb and Mrs. Weight
chose to go mad, is now doomed to a further term
of gaol simply because jurymen gave incomprehen-
sible verdicts in their cases. With the kindest of
intentions, they reduced trial by jury to a scandal-
ous farce by acquitting two female prisoners, and
a female convict has to lose her chance of liberty
in the interests of the outraged law. An unjust
verdict in a criminal case is as fertile of ill conse-
quences as the thistle-seed in a corn-field,
Reid’s “Trade” Tarradiddle.
“F.C.” writes on the endless list of Freetrader
Reid’s inaccuracies:—
Consider once more the capers, at Richmond (Vic.), of
G. H. Reid, the Great Dry Dog Statistician. Said he
{vide Argus, 22/l/’01): “The trade of Great Britain is
greater than the total trade of the United States and
Germany. (Not external trade only, note, but total
trade.) The more material the industries of a country
were the better it was for everyone in that country.”
Which last is a fine, large, sonorous statement, and means
absolutely nothing, for nobody ever supposed an industry
so insignificant as to be immaterial would be any advantage
to anybody. With regard to the other statement, let me
draw George Reid’s attention to these figures from the
“Statesmen’s Year Book ” for 1900 :
United States returns for year ending June 30, 'OO
(page 1181).
Imports .. 697,148,489 dols.
Exports .. 1,203,931,222 „
1,901,079,711 „ =£380,215,942.
Germany’s returns for ’9B, latest available (page 609).
Imports .. 5,439,676,000 marks
Exports .. 4,010,565,000 ~
9,450,241,000 „ =£473,061,809.
Great Britain’s returns for ’99 (page 81).
Imports .. £485,075,514
Exports .. £329,680,196
£814,755,710
Thus, taking the British returns six months later than
those of the U.S.A. and twelye months later than those of
Germany, and giving Britain the advantage of the
increase in the.interval, that country’s external trade was
less than that of the States and Germany by some
£38,522,041. So that, had the Man with the Dry Dog
confined his assertions, to external trade only he would
still be a hopeless muddler, whereas he referred to total
trade, and on that basis (external and internal trade both
reckoned) the United States has nearly twice the com-
merce of Great Britain and Ireland. So George Reid’s
great Trade fiction is hereby added to the long and
increasing list of his inventions, which includes the
Starch inaccuracy, and the Wheat inaccuracy, and many
others. In fact, it seems as if Yes-No is simply a windy
man rampaging round the country making large, vague
assertions which mean nothing, or else telling circum-
spect tarradiddles which his hearers aren’t in a position to
disprove at the moment, in both cases the intention is the
same—to deceive ; and in both cases the result is the
same—to heap confusion on the deceiver.
The Cornstalk Income-Tax Muddle.
Although N.S.W. lias had an income-tax law for
a number of years yet that law is so curiously
fixed that even the richest inhabitant needn’t pay
anything, provided his income is only sufficiently
spasmodic. The man who has £5OO a year
regularly is liable for income-tax without any
means of escape whatever, but the man who
receives £lO,OOO one year and nothing the next
isn’t liable to pay anything. His revenue averages
£5OOO annually, but the statute exempts him
all the same. Also the man who earns
£9OOO one year and only £2OOO the next is
only liable to pay on £2OOO in each year,
and the man who makes £25,000 one year
and only £lOOO the next can only be
legally taxed on £lOOO in each year. In N.S.W.
a taxpayer may make £lO,OOO in 1896, but when
he pays income-tax on £lO,OOO about March,
1897, he is not paying his 1896 income-tax on the
actual income for 1896. He is paying his 1897
income-tax in advance, on the assumption that his
1897 income will bethe same as that for 1896. And if
it is a spasmodic and speculative income, and
drops in 1897 to £lOO, which is below the taxable
limit, then he gets a refund of all the income-ta.x
paid in 1897, and he also pays nothing in 1898, it
being assumed that the income for 1898 will be
only £lOO, the same as 1897. Therefore, if a man
has an average income of, say, £lBOO a year over
and above the exemption limit, but it is so erratic
that there are fat and lean years turn-about, the
N.S.W. income-tax law specifies that he may
legally go on in this fashion :
1895 : Income, £3200. Pays no income-tax, the impost
not then being in force.
1896 : Pays £7s—not on account of the income actually
received in 1895, but for 1896, on the assumption that the
1896 income will be the same as that for 1895. The income
for 1896, owing to drought or bad speculations or other
causes, proves to be only £2OO.
1897 : The taxpayer gets a refund from the Treasury of
the £75 paid in 1896, he having paid on the assumption
that his income for 1896 would be £3200, and it was only
£2OO, which is below the taxable limit. He pays nothing
in 1897, it being assumed that his income will be £2OO,
the same as in 1896, The income for 1897 proves to be
£4200.
1898 : He pays £lOO, not on the £4200 received in 1597,
but on the assumption that he will earn £4200 in 1898
also. The 1893 income drops to £4OO.
1899 : Tile taxpayer gets back from the Treasury £95,
on the ground that he paid in 1898 on £3SOO more than
he actually received. He pays £5 in 1899 on the assump-
tion that his income will again be £4OO. Income proves
to be £l2OO.
1900: He pays £25 on the supposition that the income
for 1900 will also be £l2OO. Strikes heavy losses and has
only £l5O clear at the end of the year.
1901: Gets back the £25, which proves to be an over-
payment. Pays nothing for 1901, the wise and intelligent
law assuming that as he made only £l5O last year he will
make the same amount this year.
By this curiously spasmodic process a compai’a-
tively rich man with a fluctuating income may
receive £9350 in five years, and though the
income-tax is £205, he may quite legally, and
strictly according to the terms of the law,
pay only £2O in all. A simple way out is
to enact that the income-tax paid in 1901
is the income-tax for 1900 charged upon the actual
income for 1900, instead of the tax for 1901 paid
in advance, on the assumption that the 1901
income will be the same as that for the pre-
vious year, and subject to refund if it proves to be
less. In fact, it is difficult to imagine bow any
Legislature contrived to avoid striking this easy
and obvious idea, but the N.S.W. Legislature
did avoid it most successfully. It is only a year
or two since it was discovered that in N.S.W.
even a very rich man need not pay income-tax
under certain circumstances, and a drop of £16,000
in the income-tax receipts for 1900, as compared
with £1899 is the natural result of the discovery.
And, unless the law is amended, some further
drops may be expeoted, for the agile fat man is
only beginning to realise the immense possibili-
ties of the situation.
♦
Gloria Madden-O in Excelsis!
And in the daily papers The Bulletin read these
things—
MELBOURNE, Thursday. Amid surroundings of
purple and black, with the background a blaze of brilliant
uniform and gold lace, King Edward VII. was duly and
officially proclaimed from the steps of Parliament House
at noon to-day. The Lieutenant-Governor (Madden) him ■
self read the proclamation from a specially erected stand,
which was heavily hung with mourning. . . . The Lieu-
tenant-Governor arrived just before VI o’clock, and was
received by the President and Speaker, with a gilt-headed
mace as a side-show, and escorted to the stand, by this
time full of persons, whose gorgeousness, even a bird of
paradise might envy. . . . The proclamation having been
read .... Madden called for three cheers for the King,
and these were given without undue lung power. The
Lieutenant-Governor bowed and smiled, then, accom-
panied hy his staff, and followed by a many-colored
crowd, he trotted up the steps to the Qijeen’s-hall, there
to be “received" in the name of the King. . . . and
the Lieutenant-Governor went back to Macedon. . . .
The following telegraphic despatch, with regard to the
proclamation of the King here, was forwarded this
evening to the Secretary of State by the Lieutenant-
Governor :—“ Ministers considered that the proclamation
of his Majesty the King should be impressively made, and
to-day a splendid and most imposing ceremony was very
successfully achieved. ... 1 read the proclamation in
the names of myself, the Premier, President of the
Legislative Council, the Speaker of the Legislative
Assembly, and the Mayor, in the presence of thousands
of the people, who received it with tumultuous cheering,
and the most loyal approval. . . .
Then The Bulletin was exalted beyond itself;
and being strong in the flesh of Madden, and
magnificent in his spirit, and clothed with his
gorgeous uniform, and waxed with his heroic
moustachios, The Bulletin arose and spake,
saying:—
“I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and
the last—l am C. J., I am Madden. By me do
kings rule and princes declare justice ; and there
is no Lieutenant-Governor like unto me. The
sun rises at my right hand ; the moon sets at
my left; and the earth revolves round me every
twenty-four hours, for I am the hub of the uni-
verse, the kingbolt of creation. Solomon in
all his glory was not arrayed like me. Madame
Tussaud’s waxworks were never waxed like me.
There is none like unto me, none; for I am
Madden. Therefore let King Edward Watch
This Space, for lam here. I have proclaimed
him King in the names of Myself and others. I
was the centre of a Splendid and Most Imposing
Ceremony. Now King Edward reigns indeed,
for I have announced it, and I am Madden.
The glorious company of politicians praise
Me. The noble army of lawyers praise Me.
The eyes of Australia are glued to My
gorgeous uniform. The whole world acknow-
ledges mine infinite majesty. Me Maddenum
Laudamus. Observe me spread my Tail —now !
Is it not magnificent ? Is it not sublime ? Was
there ever such a tail as My Tail in
the world before ? Never; and you know
it. From everlasting to everlasting I am
Madden ; and when I die Beauty will
perish. O all ye Green Things upon the Earth,
bless ye Madden : praise him and magnify him
for ever. Oye Whales, bless ye Madden—as he
was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be;
Madden without end. Amen.”
Then The Bulletin gasped and gave up the
drink.
A tear ago Republican Rae desired to submit a
resolution at N.S.W. Labor League Conference
condemning the Transvaal War, but so enthusi-
astically Jingo were the members of the Confer-
ence that they refused by a decisive majority to
even discuss the matter. But what a change one
year hath wrought! Last Friday a shearers’ re-
presentative submitted to the Conference, com-
posed practically of the same men, and re-
presenting the same bodies, a regplution “That
the Labor Party opposes all wars, except wars
of defence.” References to “ military snobs and
parasites who would despise and trample on the
very people on whom they feed ” were Heartily
received. As in his own effective style the shearer
made clear the views of the bush worker on the
military spirit of the day—or rather the mili-
tary spirit of a year ago—the Conference
raised an amount of enthusiasm that
no other discussion evoked. The meeting
was unanimous, the only trouble being to
word a resolution strongly enough. One wanted
to add “ for the defence of the Australian Com-
monwealth only.” Ex-M.P. Darnley proposed
“ that we oppose a standing army, but support a
volunteer system.” This seemed like passing,
until delegate Faber pointed out that if you
teach a man to shoot he wants to shoot somebody,
and to encourage the volunteer system was
only to make, it more difficult to repress
the military spirit. The conference accepted
Faber’s rash assurance that men unskilled in
the use of weapons, when, called to fight
in defence of liberty, will prove themselves equal
to any occasion that may arise ; and the resolution
eventually adopted was for the defence of the
Australian Commonwealth only, and in opposi-
tion to a standing army, the conference not being
prepared to advocate any system of militarism,
volunteer or otherwise. Later, a resolution by
Arthur Rae, calling on the Government to
refuse any further expenditure in the S’African
trouble, was carried without one dissentient voice.
Surely such events as these justify the hope that
the awakening of the people is at hand !
Sydney City Council apparently lays to its soul
the flattering porous plaster of congratulation to
the effect that if it had a good town clerk every-
thing would be well, and bankruptcy, muddle,
debt, dirt, cuss-language, and Alderman Norton’s
dog would disappear out of its midst. Where a
second-rate city is divided into 41 municipalities,
loaded with debt, and hampered by old traditions,
limited powers, a narrow property franchise, and
the well-earned contempt of the public, even a
good Council couldn’t do much.' And Sydney’s
Council, up to the end of last year, was so bad a
one that, with a big deficit every year, and holes
large enough for a goat to fall into accumulating
in the main street, it hadn’t even the courage to
levy sufficient rates to pay its way. Neverthe-
less, when the late able Town Clerk dropped his
swag of responsibilities in disgust, on the ground
(though he didn’t exactly put it in that way) that
he was tired of reasoning with the dangerous ward
of a lunatic asylum, and it was proposed to adver-
tise in England for a new man—
Alderman West moved as an amendment, “ That appli-
cations be called for in the newspapers of the whole of


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
of the United States.
LIBERAL TERMS TO AGENTS OF GOOD STANDIMG
In order to improve the position of its Agents in Australia, and to better conserve
the business, the Equitable now offers RENEWAL CONTRACTS to
first-class agents, thus giving them a pecuniary interest in their business for
several years, instead of for only one year as at present.
For particulars, refer to
S. W. D’ARCY-IRVINE, Manager for New South Wales and Queensland,
Equitable Building, Sydney ; or to
G. G-. McCOLL and B. H. PASCOE, Managers for Victoria, S. Australia and Tasmania,
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasi
HEUDON SPA WATER
A NATURAL
MINI RAL WAT £ R BBwMI
E
m
%
m
138
THE
LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W.
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can be Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Cold, Silver, Lead,
and
or
Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought-^*
... ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
special Terms quoted for Large Parcels or
Regular Supplies tinder Contract.
Full Particulars and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cockle Creek
A E. SAVAGE,
Manager
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Agents for Australia,
the Australian States.” He was sure there must be com-
petent men in our midst. They might get a competent
man from the old country, but municipal life there was
different from what it was here, and the successful appli-
cant would have to be educated up to our standard.
There are hopes that the new Sydney Council will
I>rove better than the old one, but it hasn’t had
time to set up any new standard yet. And it
would be necessary to advertise for a town-clerk
in Greece and Ashantee, not to mention Pata-
gonia, to find one who required educating up to
the Sydney standard. Any good man of munici-
pal experience in England would require to be
educated dovm.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Cwterion “ The Bush King.”
IiTOU Rickards 00.
Lyceum “The Ladder of Life.”
Palace “A Message from Mars."
Her Majesty’s “DjinDjin."
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s "Cinderella.”
Her Majesty’s “Florodora.”
Theatre Royal “ The Great Ruby."
Bijou Rickards’ Variety Oo
(Last Nights.)
Hall Snazelle and “ Our Navy ”
Last Monday being the 20th anniversary
of Mr. W. F. Hawtrey’s first appearance on the
stage, he did a little extra celebration at Sydney
Palace in the shape of Brandon Thomas’s pleasant
one-act play, “ A Highland Legacy.” It is a brief
proceeding, honorably located in an attic at some
address not clearly defined, and its hero is a
fatherless law-student who has just recovered from
a long illness to find himself with nothing left in
the world save 2s. 6d., a summons for £7 odd, the
honored name of MacDonnel, the love of a girl
whose apoplectic parent threatens to put her in a
convent, and the undying devotion of a broken-
down friend in a terrible hat. The friend with
the blighted hat is an actor who once played
Macbeth for one consecutive minute when nobody
was looking, and he hopes to get the young
man (who is of noble family) a billet at
255. a week as an egg-dodger in a small
provincial company that never meets with
any luck. In the midst of these disasters
there enters softly a large, ancient, humble person
in a kilt, with two inflamed knees and a letter.
The letter states that the hero’s rich uncle is
dead ; that not being on speaking terms with the
rest of the family, he has bequeathed his pile and
estate to the Kirk ; but in token of a Christian
and cantankerous forgiveness he has left his old
servant, the large, humble, aged person with the
red knees, to spend his declining years on his
nephew’s hands. The ancient servitor, in addition
to delivering this message, offers to bring ap the
bagpipes and blow them in the attic there and
then. Any other young man in such straits would
have cast the kilted encumbrance to che four
winds, but this young man treats him kindly
and introduces him to the friend with the dread-
ful hat. And he gets his reward, for the appari-
tion proves to be the allegedly dead rich uncle,
who has seemingly disguised himself by putting
red ink on his knees, and all ends well. Mr.
Hawtrey represents the uncle with an imposing
presence and a fine Scotch accent, but the most
interesting personage in the cast is Percy Walshe
as the actor friend with the good intentions and
the hat which looks as if it had been rushed over
by all the flooks and herds of the late
Tyson, M.L.C. Also an honorable mention should
be made of H. V. Preston, as a legal minion dis-
guised in beer, who tries to collect a bill but sees
three bills at once and doesn’t know whether to
insist on immediate payment of the middle debt
by the end student or otherwise.
* * • *
The story of the serious-minded brown
apparition from Mars still constitutes the regular
bill at the Palace, and no definite news of any
change has come to hand.
** * *
William Anderson’s co. has returned to
Sydney Lyceum after a long absence and the
“Ladder of Life” is the first result of its re-
appearance. This drama tears probability to
?ieces till a late hour. It is the reddest drama,
ar one, that the present writer has seen for a
very long time, and is full of red-kilted soldiers
rushing up red mountains under a glaring red
Bun, while the Russian spy, who is responsible for
most of the trouble, lies low in red clothes Dehind
an adjacent rock. It takes its name from three
acrobatic Highlanders from London, the M‘Jones,
the M‘Smith, and the M‘Brown, whose speciality
is the human rope business. Almost everything
that goes wrong is put right by these three form-
ing themselves into a rope. The M‘Brown hangs
by his heels from a sky-light whenever things
get desperate, and dangles the M‘Jones by
the ankles, and the M‘Jones dangles the
M‘Smith, and the M‘Smith defeats the ma-
chinations of the villains with both hands.
This long cataract of human being stream-
ing down on them from above is a shock
that the villains never reckon upon. They
usually remember to fasten the doors and windows
when they are going to be nefarious, but when the
three pour down on them in this fashion it never
occurs to them to hold a lighted newspaper under
the M‘Smith, whereby he might be made to
swarm rapidly with curses up the M‘Jones and
the M‘Brown and quit the scene. In melodrama
the hero never has any confidence in his best girl
till after the third act, and so Robert Inman,
when a strange child wandering past says “ muv-
ver” to his sweetheart, Miss Ada Guildford,
heaps reproaches on her that would be hardly
justifiable if she took in boarders, and rushes
away to die if possible. Then his property goes,
per forged will, to H. O. Willard, and he
is condemned to death on the statement of
a strange _ white man in a skirt, who says
he is a nigger chief; and if it wasn’t that
the M‘Jones, the M‘Brown, the M ‘Smith, and
the M'Dougall desert and carry him away with
them, he would be inevitably talked to death.
* * * »
Among a multitude of people Bert Bailey,
who is the M'Dougall, stands out conspicuously as
a cheerful red Highlander, who doesn’t take him-
self too seriously. One Bill, played by Mr.
Frank Reis, only speaks twice, but he lights his
clay pipe eloquently all the evening, and always
intends to do a deed of crime, only fears that the
other party will hit back. In one of his rare
utterances, Bill says frankly that if his wife will
hold Miss Guildford down, he doesn’t mind kick-
ing her ’ed, but he will take no chances while the
lady is up. As Miss Guildford continues up, Bill’s
orime is still reluctantly postponed. Miss Eugenie
Duggan, supposed to be the heroine, is a lady with
a painful accent such as nobody else on earth
possesses. She is pursued through four acts by
two tall murderers, who capture her occasionally,
P^ an such slow and elaborate deaths for her that
she always has time to get away. Their greatest
effort is when they propose to crush her gradually
but thoroughly with an iron foundry about the
size of Mort’s Dock, and a very realistic steam-
hammer. It is characteristic of the slowness of the
very slow, tall murderer that the only time he
really rushes at her suddenly with a knife is after
she has died from a lingering illness, evidently
consumption. Even then it takes him a little
time to realise that he is rushing at a corpse.
Miss Ada Guildford, also Robert Inman, J. H.
Nunn and the M‘Brown, M‘Jones and M‘Smith
deserve a kindly word in passing ; and the moun-
tains, the big steamer, the horses, the hosts of
men in kilts, the steam-hammer, and the battle,
murder and sudden death are all praiseworthy.
** * *
“ Djin-Djin,” which left so big a footmark
on the shores of the public mind that even the
long wash of the Commonwealth celebrations and
the like has never quite obliterated the same, will
be revived at Her Majesty’s (the Sydney one) on
Saturday. The dogs and monkeys who greatly
cheered up the late panto are included in the
cast, and The Bulletin especially trusts that the
small pocket monkey, with the long upper lip and
the clay pipe and the moleskin Ipants, who shoves
along the little barrow of bricks with an injured
expression of countenance, will not be forgotten.
That small monkey is such an accurate copy of a
labourer trying to make a living under the nefari-
ous influences of Freetrade that he amounts to a
work of genius.
s6
The opera season afc Sydney Royai is to
positively end this week. It was to positively
end two weeks ago. but owing to loud public
encouragement it was extended for a fort-
night. However, this time it is to end for a dead
certainty. To-night (Thursday) and Saturday the
mystic German opera of “Tannhauser ” is on the
bill, and “Maritana” fills in the intervening
night.
** » *
oyaney Criterion audience has been sen-
tenced to another week of the “Bush King,” and
it is probable that the brown Australian scenery
and the interest aroused by the dogs behind the
scenes (only one canine ever becomes visible) will
carry this drama still further into futurity. After
the first act, which is ordinary indoor melodrama,
this production gives itself a violent wrench and
oecomes a diluted “ Robbery Under Arms.” It is
put together more loosely, however, than the other
gum-tree production, for the girl who loves the
hero so well that she alternately betrays him to the
police and drags him back to safety is just dropped
when the play ends without anything being done
with her at all. As a rule the girl with the strong
pure love and the cronk way of showing it dies
sitting up. often allowing herself to be shot
instead of the hero. Sometimes she marries the
quiet good man of the piece, but generally she
contrives to get shot.
** * *
Victor, the conjurer and illusionist, runs
nis honest and respectable little show, as more
fully explained last week, at Sydney Queen’s
Hall, where he continues to take things and hold
them up to tne audience to show that they are
really and truly the things whicn they profess to
be, and then suddenly demonstrate that they are
something quite different. Rickards’ panto, is
also in its last nights.
** * *
The unco guid don’t have much say in
things at Kalgoorlie. Donald Macdonald was
billed to lecture there four nights, missing an
intermediate Sunday, but the Kalgoorlie Miner
of Monday duly reported that “in compliance
with strongly-urged requests Mr. Macdonald
repeated his initial lecture last evening, beginning
at 8.30 p.m. after church exits.” Mac. appears to
have squared his Presbyterian conscience by
delaying his sermon until worshippers from the
opposition establishments could arrive in time for
the overture.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal the balloon and other
scenic effects are now going for all they are worth
—especially the balloon. The cricket match is a
fairly genuine-looking event, though the catch in
the long-field, by which a bogus Maclaren dis-
missed the last Australian batsman, seems to have
been carefully provided by the management from
an easy distance. Also Brown’s jewellery shop
presents a solid, business-like appearance;
the four-in-hand, which conveys the busted vis-
count’s party to the place where their “dead-
bird ” gets beaten by a nose, is a striking success ;
likewise the Lounge at Oatlands Park Hotel, with
staircases and corridor in the rear, is a fine oppor-
tunity for Mrs. Bland Holt’s sleep-walk. But
none of these, things are as impressive as the
balloon. It is surrounded by an atmosphere
of mystery. It appears to ascend on its own with
no chance of ever coming down again, seeing that
Ranji Baker took no instructions on the subject
and has never previously travelled by means of a
bladder. In an ordinary way of aerial navigation
Baker would pull Albert Norman into the car and
ask his advice. The ties of common danger would
draw them together. But instead of seeking a
friend in need Baker simply steals the Great
Ruby from the man who is hanging on to the
basket, and then cuts him adrift. Norman when
last seen is making a swift, lonesome drop through
the clouds whilst Baker presumably continues his
strange career behind the plush curtain. Any-
way, Norman is a considerable bit of ballast to get
rid of, and the balloon ought to go up with a rush.
* * • •
“ The Great Ruby ” has a number of good
acting parts for people built to fit them. The people
at the Royal don’t fit them as a rule, and the
improvement in the performance since the first
night is not very startling. Miss Ross, as the
lady president of the Gang, can be congratulated
on making a hit, but she must beware of a
tendency to lapse into her old, slow method.
Baker’s brown Prince is a commendable change in
all respects from the heroic white Baker of other
dramas, Styan gives a bright character
sketch. Miss Florence Seymour is satis-
factory, _ Corlesse plays a robust burglar of
the ancient Briton type with Corlesseian vigor,
and Albert Norman is making an earnest
endeavour to conquer his troublesome grin. When
that is subjugated he will be able to take severe
measures with his right hand, which has a trick
of waving like the paw of a candidate at an elec-
tion meeting. Meanwhile Norman is getting
along nicely. None of the other people are quite
at home in this drama. Miss Harrie Ireland and
little Miss Athena Claudius should certainly ex-
change places. _ Each of them would be better
than the other in the other one’s shoes. The inci-
dental lords and captains and society girls
want a little more mannah all round. Chas.
Brown is not a bit like a quiet, wealthy
jeweller who thinks the aristocracy was made to
receive love, honor, and long credit from shop-
keepers, neither does Mrs. Holt fill the bill as the
fussy, dressy, expansive spouse of the man whom
Brown isn’t. Mrs. Holt gets many laughs, but
she never identifies herself with the character,
which complaint applies to Bland Holt’s detec-
tive in a less degree. Bland merely manages to
repress himself with difficulty in a part that
would be a soft thing, and effective withal, for a
comedian like Brough, for instance.
** * «
This is the last week, for a month or two,
of Widow Collins and other variety items at
Melb. Bijou. The recent arrivals who appear in
support of Darwin’s theory will depart from their
present habitation after Saturday, and chew their
tails under a somewhat different tariff. Next
week the Rickards theatre will close its gates for
five nights, to re-open them on Saturday (18th)
for “Puss in Boots.” the pantomime that has not
yet concluded operations in Sydney.
** * *
George Darrell’s benefit “ send-off,” timed
for Friday afternoon, at Her Majesty’s, Melb., pro-
mises to beabrightand lucrative transaction. Nellie
Stewart, Brownlow, Tapley, Lauri, and co. will
revive the second act of “ Ma Mie Rosette,” which
means a full house, anyhow—thermometer per-
mitting. The Bland Holts supply the droll cot-
tage scene from “Flying Colours ; ” some tit-bits
from “Florodora” are promised; Snazelle,
Rickards and Lottie Collins will take the
floor in turn , and George Darrell, in his original
“Sunny South” capacity, will sport his re-
nowned red flannel shirt and face death unflinch-
ingly, as of yore. Present scribe never looks
at the cable news from S’Africa without thinking
of George. Up to now there has been no re-
corded instance of a man straightening himself
up against a kopje and defying the Boers to blaze
away and be d dto ’em. The ambushed war-
rior appears to surrender every time when called
upon. But perhaps it is because he lacks the in-
spiring influence of a red shirt. Put Darrell into
kharki, and maybe he would prefer life to dis-
nonor, even at the cannon’s mouth.
** * *
Melbourne last week felt some doubt about
the deoth of its grief for the late Queen when the
news of W. G. Barker’s death was published.
The passing-out of the popular basso gave the
city a real sense of personal loss. At one time or
other everybody who goes anywhere had heard
Barker sing, and had remarked favourably on the
difference between his manly, unaffected style
and that of the average vainglorious pro. They
would have liked him to put a little more “ devil ”
into his work, but none the less they admired him
for his fine voice and his grave self-respecting
appearance. He looked a good fellow, and those
who knew the old-young man (he died in his 30th
year) off the platform testify to his amiable quali-
ties. A meeting of sympathisers, fixed for the
day on which he died, was adjourned to Tuesday
of this week. It now only remains for the Mel-
bourne public to express its sentiment of regret
in solid cash for the benefit of Barker’s widow
and child.
** * *
xs ot so manyyears ago a certain young song-
stress was lauded to t he skies by th e Australian press
as a coming prima donna. Perhaps she was never
quite so promising as her admirers thought her,
but anyhow her future looked bright enougn. A
few nights back that same vocalist had a painful
experience in one of the cities where she was for-
merly a favorite. After singing one verse of a
ballad in a weak, tuneless voice whilst the gallery
boys “guyed” her, she got a mysterious mana-
gerial order to come off, and the poor woman
slowly retired from the stage in a dazed condition.
It is an awful thing for one who has known the
rapture of glowing newspaper notices, and floral
tributes from johnnies, to get ordered, and very
properly ordered, to come off.
** * *
That rather humorous little man, Parson
Haweis, died last week. Australia, or some of it,
remembers Haweis as a very passable lecturer
(with a game leg) who talked intelligently about
the strong moral influence of music for good or
evil, its patriotic uses and abuses, and its history
ancient and modern. He illustrated his discourse
with fiddle-scrapes of a peculiarly harsh character,
for which he used to apologise, saying that his
one-time skilful hand had lost its cunning.
Haweis was very emphatic on the point that the
art of music reached its zenith ten years ago,
and certainly nothing has occurred since then to
shatter the little parson’s theory. “We are living
in the golden age of music—and we don’t know
it,” he declared.
** * *
“ Florodora ” is running its eighth lap at
Her Majesty’s (Melb.), and still goes strong. One
or two of the original songs are sometimes dropped
out. One or two others, notably “ I’ve an Ink-
ling ” might as well be replaced by new goods;
but, take it for all in all, the story of Cyrus Gil-
fain, the millionaire, remains an unimpeachable
success. No other musical comedy has turned
the power of journalism to so good an end.
Cyrus is a triumphant and defiant old fraud for
three solid hours, but at the last moment Grace
Palotta comes forward in the winding-sheet of a
Welsh ghost, named Ethelwynda, and tells him
The Bulletin will interview him when he is
dead. That breaks him up. The thought of
getting interviewed by this scurrilous newspaper
m the World Below is more than Cyrus can bear.
He begs for mercy on his evil knees, and leaves
Carrie Moore and the perfumery business to their
fate
** * *
At the Princess’s they are producing
“Cinderella” on the same scale of splendour as
before. The delightful costumes and the wearers
thereof will perform eight times a week for
another fortnight or so, after which the opera co.
may be expected.
*« # *
Another show that altereth not is Our
Navy under the command of Admiral Snazelle
and Captain Edwards, R.N. The handy men in
blue continue to fall off the greasy pole, heave the
lead, and fire torpedoes at the bounding wave
whilst Snazelle talks and sings. Probably he
warbles better than at first; anyway he now
sounds equal to the fruity basso of ten years ago,
who was always received with gratitude in a
rousing ballad.
** * *
Carlyle Smythe contributes an article on
Albert Edward to the Argus. It is a puff; from
which may be inferred that Smythe and his much-
travelled pa are about to run his new Majesty on a
lecturing-tour in Australia. The subjects will
be* “Baccarat, and Howl Played it at Tranby
Croft j” “How it Feels to have Ice put Down
Your Back by a Professional Beauty;” “The
King Business, or the Best Job on Earth.” Early-
door patrons will have knighthoods and orders
given to them.
The Wild Cat Column.
/ictoria is the only State which has a big
English loan (£3,000,000 at 4 per cent.) falling due this
year. Considering the very bad state of the English
money market the prospect looks woeful enough. It is at
a time like this that Australia begins to realise (1) the
folly of borrowing ; (2) the special folly of borrowing in
England ; (3) the exceeding folly of making loans payable
at any fixed date, so that it may be necessary to borrow
for renewal purposes at exorbitant interest in some time
of panic, instead of fixing the liability for so many years,
and making it redeemable thereafter at the Government’s
option only. In 1899 Victoria had a £1,500,000 loan to
renew. The London market was better then than it is
now, but it wasn’t good, and Victoria got the money at
£3 4s. 4d. per cent, by adding £lOO,OOO to the principal
of the debt. That is to say, its credit was good
enough to enable it to borrow at about £3 7s. 6d. per cent.,
but it borrowed at £3 4s. 4d. and added the rest of
the interest to the permanent debt, and called it dis-
count, and thus paid a good part of the interest out of
borrowed money. An honest Government would have
paid the £lOO,OOO discount by instalments out of revenue,
but Victoria hadn’t an hcmest Government—no Austra-
lian State has.
The £3,000,000 loan now falling due is at 4 per
cent., and if the new loan was floated at par at 3£ per
cent. Victoria would add nothing to its debt, and yet save
£15,000 a year interest. It is about ten chances to one,
however, that it will be a 3 per cent, loan floated at a
heavy loss, and a little more interest will be saved by a
large addition to the total debt, just as usual. And it is
commonly reported that the new loan is to be floated
in the disastrous London market, also as usual.
The money could almost certainly be obtained
a good deal more cheaply in Australia, and
the annual outflow of about £lOO,OOO a year in
interest be thus saved. But though a good many
new loans are floated in Australia, the idea of paying off
an old English loan by borrowing locally, and thus con-
verting a foreign into an Australian liability, is so wildly
novel that none of our stereotyped legislators have yet
attempted it. It would be worth while to stop the out-
flow of £lOO,OOO a year, but it would burst up a foolish
old precedent, and Australian politicians are slaves to
precedent in money matters—to bad precedents, that is.
No good financial precedent ever attracted the slightest
notice in this country.
* * * *
The Perpetual Trustee Co. (Sydney) shows
another increase of profits, and pays an enhanced
dividend, 1900 being the best year in its record. This


“ ENGLAND’S FAVORITE.”
PLAYER’S
NAW CUT
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
a
The Argus of 24th Oct. 1900, writes re the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited : “ The
affairs of the Society in all material respects are based on
a sound footing.*
* * * *
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
* * * *
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
fillan and McOreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
• * * •
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * * *
Since the start of the Broken Hill Proprietary’s
new 5000-ton mill, most of the Barrier mines have been
engaged in remodelling their concentrating plants on up-
to-date lines, and wisely show a preference for machines
which have proved most successful on the difficult fines
and slimes. The machines that can claim this distinction
are the “ Luhrig ” Yanners, as supplied by Messrs. W. &
J. Lempriere, of Melbourne. The South’s new mill will
include a dozen or so, and the Junction Co. has also de-
cided to erect a number of Luhrig Vanners as an impor-
tant adjunct to its large plant. Other mines would do
well to follow this good example.*
• * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “ Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * * »
Mr. Mepban Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sorts of iron-work. *
• * * *
Editor Bulletin.— ln your issue 5/l/’Ol a writer
observes that if Mt. Morgan g.m. co., instead of a 7d.
div. had paid a 6d. div., the saved Id. per share would
have amounted to £4166 13s. 4d., which would have kept
1200 of its workers for 10 days at full pay. Now the co.
has done all in its power to keep the men on as long as
possible. Men have been sent to all places where water
was lodged, where they have blasted and trenched. The
water has been used over and over again until it has be-
come so highly mineralised that it is impossible to use it
without stopping the engines. Every effort has been
made to keep the works going. The writer quoted im-
plies that all the hands had lost their billets ; whereas
out of a total number of 1600 (average for the year) onlj
873 have been suspended from work. Again, he alludei
to the co. having contributed towards the equipment o'
men for the Transvaal. It is not money, however, buj
water that the mine is in need of, and if water could be
bought the necessary coin would be forthcoming.— Gamma.
* * * *
Mother o’ Gold (Vic.) : Owned in London,
where the shareholders have great expectations. The
gold-yields have so far been very small. Described by
the chairman as a parent exploration co. holding some-
thing like 1600 acres, all gold-bearing, in the heart of a
district which was accounted as one of the richest in Vic-
toria. But that was many years ago, and like most other
things in this world gold-mines are not inexhaustible.
There have been many mother o’ gold mines without any
offspring but mullock, though the writer never heard of
any mine being frankly called Mother o’ Mullock.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting Charges.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; %7 Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
Auckland, NZ.
AUSTRALIAN METAL CO. LTD.
1 St. James’s Buildings,
118 WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores.
Importers of Oyanlde of Potassium (08/100 per oent.
pure), Bleaching Powder, Mining Requisites,
OamHea, eto.
institution, like most new concerns, started with a deflci s
or debit balance in the shape of preliminary expense
and other necessary charges. It long since worked this
off, and has now a solid and increasing reserve. Progress
since 1890 has been as follows :
Profit Dividends Deficit.
1889 •• . H’ll 3 :
1890 .. £1,609 3,204
1891 .. 1,710 - 1 . 488
Reserves.
1892 .. 1,875 387
1893 .. 2,115 6 per cent. = £1,500 1,002
1894 .. 2,592 6 1,500 2,094
1895 .. 2,572 6 1,500 3,166
1896 .. 2,831 6 „ = 1,500 4,497
1897 .. 3,095 6 1,600 6,092
1898 .. 3,220 7 1,750 7,562
1899 .. 3,723 7 1,750 9,535
1900 .. 3,802 8 „ 2,000 11,337
There is also an item described as “ Commission Reserve
account, £7830,” and if it is included the total reserves are
£19,167. The last half-year’s profits vvould have been
much larger, but for the extra expenditure of £575 for
extension of premises. The Perpetual Trustee Co. has
now charge of estates amounting to £3,928,521. At the
end of 1891 the properties in its care amounted to
£891,426, so the business has multiplied fivefold in nine
years. And as security for its clients the co. has total
reserves of £19,167 ; paid-up capital, £25,000 ; and un-
called capital, £975,000. No private trustee offers one-
tenth as good security as this for the honest administra-
tion of the estates in his charge, and it is unaccountable
that anybody should be so mad as to leave the assets of
his widow and orphans in charge of the “ gent one,” who
so often leaves unaccountably with the money, when
companies like this are available. A very_ large part of
the Perpetual Trustee Co.’s business consists of estates
transferred from private trustees. And it is a notable
fact that a very large proportion of the estates of this
class offered have to be declined because the private
trustee has, by neglect or fraud, brought them into such
a state of chaos that it isn’t good enough to take up the
business. Another notable fact is that it finds the bulk
of its new business comes to it through the recommenda-
tion of old clients whose good opinion is based on their
own experience.
* • • •
The Australian Gas Light Co. (Sydney) up to
31st December, 1900 :
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
Dec., 1896 .. £54,898 15 per cent. =£51,135 £116,178
June, 1897 .. 48,436 15 „ = 51,135 113,479
Dec., 1897 .. 54,743 15 „ = 51,135 117,087
June, 1898 .. 47,923 15 „ = 51,135 113,875
Dee., 1898 .. 54,156 15 „ = 51,135 116,896
June, 1899 .. 46,995 15 „ = 51,135 112,756
Dec., 1899 .. 55,628 15 „ = 51,135 117,249
June, 1900 .. 47,879 15 „ = 51,135 113,993
Dec., 1900 .. 54,033 15 „ = 51,135 116,891
The Australian Gaslight Co. has also £13,810 reserve for
replacement of meters, &c., but as this is rather in the
nature of depreciation of old meters written off the above
£116,891 fairly represents the actual reserves. The old
Gas Co., with its regular 15 per cent, dividends, is a gor-
geous investment for those very ancient inhabitants who
got in early and stayed in all their lives.
* * • *
The Mutual Life Association celebrates the new
century by introducing a most useful form of new policy
in which ordinary life assurance and accident assurance
are combined. Under this system a man aged 30 can take
out a policy for £lOOO, which not only guarantees his heirs
£lOOO and bonuses at death, but also ensures the payment
of £lOOO to himself if he meets with permanent total dis-
ablement by accident; £5OO for permanent partial dis-
ablement by accident; and £5 per week during tem-
porary total disablement. And the price of this lot, for
a healthy man aged 30, is only £26 10s. per annum, with
, sound office and about £1,500,000 of assets as a guarantee
of prompt payment.
» • * *
The New York and Brooklyn Tobacco Co.,
Sydney, one of the protected industries which are doing
well in N.S.W., issues its third annual balance-sheet to
31st December, 1900. This co. started in 1897 with a debit
balance, or deficit, of £2119 for goodwill and preliminary
expenses. Since then things have progressed as follows :
Deficit
(Goodwill not
Net reckoned as
Profits. Dividends. an asset).
1897 £2119
1898 £2503 10 per cent = £1625 1241
1899 1620 10 „ = 1500 1121
1900 2111 10 „ = ■ 1500 510
The co. has written down goodwill to £lOOO, and proposes
to keep it at that, on which basis the management is of
opinion that it has £490 undivided profit. The present
writer holds that goodwill, as an item that yields no
revenue, and which is never to be found when it is
wanted (i.e. when the co. has burst and the assets are
being realised) is not an asset in any sense at all, and
should be written off to the last copper. Whichever way
this matter is looked at, however, the New York and
Brooklyn Tobacco 00. appears to be making good pro-
gress under N.S.W.’s Freetrade system of protecting the
tobacco industry.
• * * *
Sydney Ferries, Limited —the big co. with
£120,000 paid-up capital which owns the North Shore,
Parramatta River, M osman’s and Neutral Bay ferries—
ended the second half-year of its existence on 31st De-
cember, 1900. Result as under :
Profits. Dividends. Total
June, 1900 .. £4701 7 per cent. = £4200 £5Ol
December, 1900 .. 5089 7 4200 1390
The new company begins well at all events.
* * * *
Shamrock Brewing and Malting Co. (Colling-
wood, Melb.) comes out well for the year ended 27th
Nov., 1900, with a net profit of £9209, equal to rather
over 20 per cent, on paid-up capital A dividend of 8 per
cent, absorbs £3612, and the other £5597, added to £5040
undivided profit from last year, leaves £10,637 to carry
forward. There is also a small reserve of £B9l, making
total reserves £11,528. Even in this dry community a
brewery which earns over 20 per cent, on its capital isn’t
quite a regular occurrence.
* * * *
Richardson and Wrench, Limited, the Sydney
auctioneering and property-dealing co., shows rather
better results for the six months to 31st December, 1900.
This co. was founded in 1889, with a paid-up capital of
£60,000, and tangible assets worth £2500, the balance
being represented by the goodwill of the old firm of
Richardson and Wrench, valued at £57,500. Therefore
there was a deficit in the tangible assets to that amount,
which deficit is being gradually written off as follows :
Deficit
Profits. Dividends. (goodwill not
reckoned as
an asset.)
June, 1899 £52,057
Dec., 1899..£2,071 6 per cent.=£l,soo 51,486
June, 1900.. 2,448 6 „ = 1,500 50,538
Dec., 1900.. 2,538 5 1,500 49,500
Richardson and Wrench begin to accumulate large re-
serves of liquid securities, having £12,063 cash and £3500
invested in Treasury bills. Also, profits are improving
very materially.
* * * •
The Assets Realisation and General Finance
Co. (Sydney) completed its 13th year on 31st December,
i 910. Recent results have been as follows :
Written L on Total
Loss on off Book Visible
Business. Value of p ti Deficit at
Properties. *™P erties Each Date.
1393 ... £37,857
1894 .. £2,850 .. £1,498 .. £1,096 .. 43,301
1895 .. (Total losses for year, £6 814) .. 50,115
1896 .. £1,667 .. £5BO .. £12,946 .. 65,308
1897 .. 1,318 .. 844 .. .. 67,470
1898 .. 1,293 .. 521 .. .. 69,284
1899 .. 1,089 .. 294 .. 6,949 .. 77,616
1900 .. 808 .. 490 .. .. 78,914
The only promising feature in these accounts is
that the loss on the general business is growing
smaller, and there appears to be really a possibility that
in time the business will begin to pay its way.
But even this consideration doesn’t amount to
very much when it is remembered that since 1894
£61,047 of capital has been called up and put into the
business, and this amount, which even at 3£ per cent,
shook! bring in £2136 a year, has only improved the
earnings by £2042 a year. In other words, it seems that
all the improvement is due to the investment of new
capital, and not at all to the revival of the business. The
Assets Realisation and General Finance Co. has a paid-up
capital of £127,013, lesa £78,014 visible deficit, so on the
surface of things £48,099 of paid capital js Still intftob-
But, as the gross earnings laat year were only £965 (equal
to a little over 2 per oent. per annum on the alieged sur
viving oapital) and the net earnings ware £BOB less than
nothing, ft la difficult to believe that any of the oapital
has really survived. At all events, the shareholders, by
manfully paving up oalls, are keeping the co. afloat, in
1894 the paid-up oapital was £66,966 and the visible losses
£43 801, leaving £22,666 apparently Intact. The amount
apparently intact is now £48,099, so the security for the
co.’s creditors has improved considerably. Also, deposits,
mortgages and debts of all sorts, which were about
£74 000 in ’9B, are now reduced to about £34,000.
» * * *
Some recent figures relating to the North Coast
Steam Navigation 00. (Sydney) : ,
.. . Total
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
June, 1899 .. .. ■ •
Dec., 1899 ..£7201 .. 8 per cent. = £5250 .. 25,769
June, 1900 .. 6244 ..8 „ = 5250 .. 26,763
Dec., 1900 .. 6254 ..8 „ = 5250 .. 27,767
The reserves abovementioned consist of insurance fund,
£17,498, and reserve for equalisation of dividends,
£10,269. As regards the latter it would be much better
to drop the painful and invidious subject of equalising
dividends, and call the thing plain reserve. If ever a co.
gets into such a bad way that it can only keep up its
dividends by drawing on dividend-equalisation fund it
has generally also got to such a pass that the
dividend equalisation fund is all wanted to
cover depreciation of assets. The profits shown
above are considerably larger than those openly
announced in the co.’s balance-sheet. In addition to the
profits shown by the co., the insurance reserve, and occa-
sionally the dividend-equalisation fund as well, have a
habit of growing by their own volition, presumably by
the operation of the law of compound interest; and these
increments are included above, in order to show the pro-
gress of the total reserves each year. And taking all
these things into account the progress is very satisfactory
indeed.
* * * *
Once the B.H. Prop directors gave shareholders
a pretty fair amount of information about their property,
but latterly they have developed a large capacity for say-
ing a few things that mean little and leaving altogether un-
said the rest. There never was so much kicking about it,
though, as during the last few weeks ; with the result
that at the half-yearly meeting Chairman Harvey
Patterson ’umbly dealt out a supplementary lot of in-
formation. Among other things he told how much ore
had been opened up- said there was 4,568,000 tons above
the 650 ft level, with exploration still in progress. After
all, though, this doesn’t mean so much as shareholders
seemed to think. For what is the value of this ore ?
There probably isn’t a single mine at Broken Hill whose
ore-value has slumped so shockingly as B.H. Prop’s ; and
the question is how far the slump is going.
Take the year 1898 (Nov. ’97 to Nov. ’9B) and
compare it with 1900—two periods with only a year in
between. In ’9B the total quantity of ore treated was
408,798 ; in ’OO it was 525,938 tons. In ’9B the (approxi-
mate) average price of silver was 2s. 3d. and of lead
£l3 7s. 6d. ; in ’OO it was 2s. 4d. for one and
£l6 7s. 6d. for the other—a vast difference, when one
remembers that the annual production of silver is
4,500,0000 z., and of lead 40,000 tons. Yet in ’BB the net
profits amounted to £262,016 ; in ’OO they were £223,034.
In the latter year the co. used up 30 per.cent, more ore ;
and got over £125,000 more for its product; and yet
net profits have fallen £40,000. And this has been in the
teeth, too, of reports of repeated improvements in the
methods of mining and ore-treatment. Writer knows of
nothing that could account for this but an awful slump
in the value of the stuff handled —not altogether a slump
in the metallic contents, but partly in the ease with
which the stuff may be treated. As to the average
metallic value of the ore, the directors have knocked off
giving figures ; what are given are figures purporting to
show’“ the average extraction per ton of ore,” but really
showing the extraction per ton of material smelted, most
of which is concentrates ; and as it takes six or seven tons
of ore to make one of concentrates, it is clear that, so far
as showing the real value of the ore goes, these figures
are several degrees worse than useless. It is certain that
either the co. is now working abnormally poor stuff or
that formerly it worked abnormally good stuff ; and the
question that ought to be settled is whether it wouldn’t
be a great deal better to do as the Sulphide Corporation
is doing—so mix the ores, that uniform value can be main-
tained over a long term of years. If that is not done any
estimates of the quantity of ore in the mine, unless
accompanied by statements of value, are of very little
account.
* * * m
For some time past it has been darkly hinted
that the B.H. Prop, directors had an astonishing cat in a
bag somewhere ; and the chairman showed an ear of the
animal at the half-yearly meeting. Having got the Iron
Monarch private-railway Bill through the S.A. Parlia-
ment, the co. announces that possibly the ironstone may
be valuable for other things than flux—an iron-smelting
industry was possible. Now who are in that steel-rails
contract business ? But that is showing more than the
animal’s ear.
* • * •
North B.H. Co.’s half-year closed on Dec. 31.
The directors say : “It will be seen by the working
account for the six months that the net profit amounts to
£10,1167 15s. lid.” And the object of this par. is to ad-
vise shareholders, not of this co. more than several others,
not to look at a working-account to find out the net
profit. For, in addition to the expenses shown on the
account there are directors’ fees, manager’s salary, office
and travelling expenses, taxes, depreciation (though this
co. drops out that necessary item altogether). Writing
off only 5 per cent, for depreciation, and making the
other-mentioned deductions, the profit was not more than
£B5OO. The difference of £l5OO odd isn’t much, but it
shakes this paper’s confidence; and so this paper pro-
ceeds to make up on its own account a statement of
liquid assets and liabilities for the half-year just over and
its predecessor, in order to see how things have been
moving :
Half-year ended June 30, ’OO.
Liquid Assets :
Stores £477 14 5
Ore bags 15 0 0
Fuel 176 5 0
Concentrates delivered .. .. .. 4,439 5 0
Ditto on mine 3,092 1 3
Union Bank 6,331 16 6
£14,532 2 2
Liabilities:
Sundry! ..£1,823 14 2
Surplus of Liquid Assets 12,708 8 0
Half-year ending Dec. 31, ’OO.
Liquid Assets;
Stores 1,136 19 11
Ore bags 12 15 0
Fuel .. .. 882 18 11
Concentrates delivered 3,417 2 8
Ditto on mine 337 10 0
Union Bank .. 3,779 1 7
£9,566 8 1
Liabilities:
Unclaimed divs .. .» .. 697 6 0
Sundry .. 6,842 8 8
£7,539 13 8
Surplus of Liquid Assets £2,026 14 5
During the half-year £12,437 7s. lOd. was spent on plant.
(Of course, the working account or profit and loss account
doesn’t show that, and isn’t expected to ; but if it doesn’t
there Is all the more reason why they should show a
charg'd for wear and tear). Add to this £12,437 7s. lOds
the surplus (2026 14a. 6d.), and the £7600 that was paid in
divs. i subtract the £12.i08 Bs., the surplus of the pre-
oeding half-year j and tne result—£9266 14s. 8(L is the
half-year’s profit without making any deduotion for wear
and tear. With a 6 per cent, deduotion on the account
(whloh is not enough, especially considering that no de-
duction at all has been made for some time), and the true
net profit oomes down to £8350.
r * # * •
The present North 00. was formed five years
ago with a capital of £lOO,OOO, of which only £lO,OOO was
called-up. The mine (which had been idle for years) lost
over £7OOO. The co. had to clean out the workings, pro-
vide plant, and put up a mill out of earnings ; and those
earnings had to be made out of sulphide ore carrying
about 9oz. silver and 20 per cent. lead. It has paid over
£20,000 for plant, it has done a good deal of development
work, and its divs. have totalled £17,500 so there are
not many silver-mines can show a better record. Wisely
it kept its profits in its stocking for three years, and used
them to buy plant; but now it has got to buy more
plant, and it hasn’t anything to speak of in the stock-
ing. It must not violently surprise shareholders there-
fore if divs have to be reduced for a while. The r: "e
will probably suffer if this isn’t done ; for more deveio >-
ment work, and mullock passes, &c., are needed. The
Junction is an awful example of the madness of attempt-
ing to pay divs. too fast. The co. has got, so far as
exposed, a very fair body of some of the most easily T-milled
ore at Broken Hill; and it will have to be careful not to
spoil the whole show.
r , • * *
Except where a silver-lead co. has a large
variety of ores at command it is doubtful whether it ever
ought to do its own smelting. It paid even the Broken
Hill Prop. 00. last half-year to sell concentrates rather
than smelt them. In the light of that, what must be the
position of Block 14 ? It has long been suspected that
the bigger profits of the British, Block 14 s poor neighbor,
are due to it selling its product and not attempting to
either roast or smelt. Block 14’s published figures are
not ample enough to allow one to form a definite opinion,
but if the directors don’t feel like going into the matter,
a committee of shareholders very well might.
* • * *
Sulphide Corporation: “Shares sold down to
under 17s. 6d., with sellers prepared to go on.” Why this
after the magnificent balance-sheet and forecast of a
little while ago ? Surely not all on account of the fall in
lead. Something wrong somewhere.
• * * *
Turon River dredge suffering now from want of
water. Before long, however, we are told, the dredges
will work better ground, and then there is going to be a
huge “ scramble for the shares at high prices. The
knowing* ones are picking them up now, and they are
going to make big profits.” Buyer, 10s. ; sellers, 17s. 6d.
No business —margin too wide. A div. whispered two
months ago, but none yet declared, and no excuse given
for advising the purchase of scrip when shares were four
times their present price. To-day the Turon has a higher
valuation than any other N.S.W. dredging co., in face of
the fact that it has been dredging more than a year vvith-
out a div., and its returns are as low as any, and less than
one-third those of the Macquarie No. 1, which has about
half its market valuation. Inconsistencies of this kind
are by no means confined to the Turon dredges ; they
arise from want of discrimination and general public
ignorance, which do more to keep gold-mines going than
the gold got out of them.
Lucknow Consols (N.S.W.) : This came out in
London just before Xmas ; promoted by the Associated
Financial Corporation, the head, shoulders, legs and
everything else of which are controlled by Horatio Bot-
tomiey. The prospectus contained reports from nine
different experts, and the Mayor of Orange was quoted as
an authority on the mineral wealth of the property. The
co. proposed to acquire the “ Lucknow Canoblas ” mines
and “ Lucknow Consols.” A lot more seems to be known
about these mines in London than in N.S.W. They were
being sold for a modest £600,000. and no doubt the pro-
moters will be able to make good use of the money—when
they get it.
* * * •
The “Lloyd” Copper Co. (N.S.W.): Annual
feneral meeting of shareholders in London in Dec.
ales of copper, 650 tons, realising nearly £50,000. Over
70 tons of copper unsold. Ore, matte, and copper on
hand, upwards of £lO,OOO. Considerable delay and diffi-
culty had been experienced in obtaining the services of
a capable metallurgist—who had condemned the plant as
unsuitable, and his opinion had been confirmed by
Schlapp. All the reports agreed that the mine was de-
veloping splendidly. Schlapp’s estimate of ore in sight
and on surface : 150,000 tons, of the gross value of
£643,500. Deducting his estimate of cost of production,
£35 per ton, left £328,500 profit in sight. The lode, Bft.
wide, showed splendid ore at the greatest depth, and had
been described as a true fissure lode, undoubtedly per-
manent. Negotiations pending to borrow £50,000 to put up
the new pi ant recommended by the metallurgist. The chair-
man said there seemed to be some extraordinary fatality
about mines, but especially about copper mines, that they
started by erecting unsuitable plants. There are some
questions certainly unanswered in this report. Has the
proposed system of hot-blast smelting been proved use-
less by working, or is it condemned without ? Did not
the previous manager satisfy himself that the ore could
be smelted on the mine without expensive fluxing, and
were not 150 tons of it put through the Blayney furnace
without difficulty? It was never contended that the
Burraga ore was a pyritic - smelting proposition, but
experience elsewhere has shown that it does not need a
high percentage of sulphide to make hot-blast furnacing
economical and effective ; in fact, pyritic smelting, in a
modified degree, is so young and experimental an indus-
try that to erect an enormous smelting plant such as
they have on this mine, then to condemn it without a
trial and to spend £50,000 on another, is certainly a most
extraordinary proceeding.
* » • *
“ Jimmy S.”: The greater part of the miners
and wheelers in Newcastle (N.S.W.) district belong to the
Colliery Employes Federation, and yet at nearly every
pit after the holidays (when the miners refused to start
work until aware of the terms they were working under),
while the miners had deputations appointed by the
various lodges to arrange their grievances, the wheelers
had to resort to laying the pit idle on the following day
before they got their rise. Owing to there being no
shiftmen’s union in this district the prices paid for shift-
work vary from 6s. to 6s. 6d., 7s. and 7s. 6d. There are
some shiftmen in the C.E.F., but until the others join in
a body they may as well throw away their subscriptions.
The above prices are the same as paid for shift-work be-
fore the miners, wheelers, drivers and trappers got their
rise. Hope this will be an eye-opener to them.
* * * *
Blayney Copper : Smelting stopped and not
likely to be resumed for some months; meanwhile the
300 ft. level will be well opened up and main shaft sunk
another 100 ft. when the lode should be into it or near it,
and the surrounding squatters from Blayney to Carcoar
will have a show of proving whether their sheep have
been killed by copper and sulphur fumes or have died
from natural causes. No less than five actions are
threatened and heavy damages are claimed by the
squatters, unmindful of the fact that smelting went on for
a year without complaint, that no action was taken when
the furnaces worked on the mine years ago, and that
nothing is said against copper-smelters in other places.
However, if they mean business, the question will be
thoroughly fought, for if the squatters succeed they must
kill an industry which employs more men than some
Blayney squatters have sheep.
Glrilamboue (N.S.W.) i Reports not quite SO
voluminous, for which writer expresses his sincere
thanks. Grade of ore not so good as usual, for which hie
sincere sympathy. Market down again ; if it falls mnoh
more the Giril. should be known as the Brokers’ Sorrow,
and not their joy.
• * * •
Mt. Perry copper mine, Q. : Said to have been
bought for about £26,000 cash. It was once a great
boom ; many a man curses it to this day. It has had a
railway built to it since it dosed down, and if the copper
has not been practically worked out its future is before
instead of behind it.
• • • •
Q. mining notes. —Woodlark Island down to
12s. 9d. for paid-ups. Ebagoolah, far N.Q., is getting its
second wind. Telluride is alleged to have appeared ; also
typhoid prevalent. Gympie and Towers opened the year
very sluggishly. At latter several well-known mines
sparring for wind, including that gay deceiver Brilliant
Extended and Kelly’s Blocks. Some results: Towers—
Brilliant 3670 z. from 600 tons ; Brilliant St. George, 1240
tons, 11670 z. ; Brilliant Central 675 tons for 8350 z., 6d.
div. ; Band of Hope, 470 tons for 4620 z. 3000 oz. from last
crushing of 3 and 4 Golden Gate, Croydon. Queen of
I rations, Ebagoolah 121 tons for 600 oz. Mt. Morgan
usual 7d. div. ; dam full and men at work again.
• * * *
Woodlark Island: Shareholders’ meeting ad-
jos. i •'d to allow time for later reports from the mine.
Sine. 'iat time manager reports north drive from tunnel
ad van.. ! 25ft. ; lode strong and highly mineralised ;
assay, 4oz. Odwt. 16grs. South drive extended 30ft. ;
lode softer than in north end and carries pug-; assay
gave Boz. lCdwt. per ton. Both drives 6ft. wide, and
assays are from the full width of the lode ; battery ex-
pected to start last week this month. If these assays
represent the average and the lode is continuous the
Woodlark is undoubtedly a great mine, but in view of the
fact that the share market says otherwise, writer has his
doubts, for the market never makes a fool of itself for
months together. If the clean-up from the south drive
is not anything like soz. 16dwt. it will doubtless be all
put down to the pug.
* * * *
There appears to be no abatement in the num-
ber of contracts for dredging plants required. The Aus-
tral Otis Eng. Co., South Melbourne, have completed a
large number of plants, and have still a great number of
contracts in hand for New Zealand and Victoria, includ-
ing a bucket dredging plant for the Ovens Valley Gold
Dredging Co., whose manager is Mr. Walter Hardie, Pitt-
street, Sydney.
( Continued on page 25.)


Complete
Outfits.
AN ORIENT BOOT
16/6
AN ORIENT SUIT^
63/-
TO MEASURE
ALL CLASSES OF GARMENTS
. . IN THE . .
“Orient To Measure” Slothing
.. AT ..
PRICES^
Write for Particulars and Patterns.
PAVIP JONCS & COMPANY,
6«org« & Barrack Sts., Sydney
Forget all your troubles,
Reverses and debts,
In peaceful enjoyment of
HOME CUS&RETTES
SOCIETY
LEROY
LIQUEUR
BRANDY
A color-sergeant of Tasin uiian Volunteers
has written to Hobart Mercury complaining
that, though he had passed the necessary exam.,
the commandant had refused to recommend him
for a commission, “because his social standing
was not good enough,” as he, the commandant”
wanted for officers only men who were in a’
position to visit at Government House.” Aus-
tralasian State Governments should promptly
strangle the growing tendency to restrict the
officering of their troops—British fashion—to
young men of the “classes.” The conditions of
modern warfare make it more and more
evident that' what is wanted for an officer is
srniply and absolutely the best man in the field
—whether he eats with his knife and drops his
‘ h’s,” or says “ Haw ! ” and ignores g-final. One
phuu lesson of the Boer war is that the dude-
officer is a hideously expensive mistake ; and every
man entering the military service of this allegedly
democratic country should do so with the know-
ledge that nothing but personal unfitness can
stand between him and a commission.
• * * *
A London paper states that the granting
of British army commissions to Australians and
Canadians is not always so blessed a privilege as.
might be supposed—for the Australians and
Canadians, that is. Very often his British fellow-
officer flatly declines to speak to the objectionable
“colonial” if he happens to have been a manual-
worker or business man and sprung from the
ranks ; the whole British crowd resents the advent
of the inferior animal, and he becomes a sort of
Invisible Man whom everybody professes not to
see. Years ago, when the purchase of commis-
sions was abolished and promotion by merit was.
supposed to be established in the British army, a.
haughty crowd of British officers was shocked by
the advent among them of a certain Lieutenant
Tribe, the first inferior being who had made his
way up by his own personal ability. He
was persecuted so brutally and so re-
morselessly by the high-toned gentlemen and
fellow-officers of that period that he either
committed suicide or deserted—anyhow he disap-
peared after a few months of misery. Since then
the British officer has grown partly reconciled to
the man who has made his way up from the ranks.
A NEW TERROR.
What we may expect as a result of the visit of
the Imperial troops.
but apparently the advent of the beastly colonial
is a fresh shock to his dignity, and he has got to
get reconciled over again. Also, the wife of the
superiah British officer has never become recon-
ciled to the “ranker/’ or anybody of that sort,
and even if she condescends to nod haughtily to the
ranker, she is never able to see the ranker’s wife.
The life, therefore, of the ranker, whether he be
British or “ colonial,” is calculated to be a little
liell-upon-earth.
* * * •
Forty sermons upon the death of Queen
Victoria were preached in Sydney churches on
Sunday, January 27, but none of the preachers
could find a text from any of the Gospels upon
which to base his discourse. Old Testament
prophets and New Testament commentators were
drawn upon abundantly, Prov. xxviii., 31, doing
duty four times, and Rev. ii., 10, thrice. Two
inferences are allowable. The first is that the
Modern Churchmen pay little attention to what
the Founder of Christianity had to say for himself,
and the second is that he took verv little interest
in Monarchy. Sacerdotalism is "killing Chris-
tianity, which would get on very well if the
priest would let it alone.
• lie ,®- M. Herald made a queer blunder
assumib* 1 ? 11 King’s reasons for
mo 3, i “King Edward VII.” The
was this planatlon as Printed in the Herald
tiU , e °t Ed "'ard, his Majesty continued,
from his iuh T ” e< l t i ie name of Albert inherited
bv univer= be 'l amenfced S reat and wise father, who,
fc G ,n/ T,io M ent V W t lB deservedly known as Albert
na e me 0 8 o hould H stand^I S o^ Urther Stated that he deBired **
5 h ® Herald’s leader-writer somehow concluded
that the italicised “ his ” referred to King Ed-
vvard himself, instead of, as assumed by every
other paper to that of the deceased Prince Con-
sort, so the leader-writer gravely remarks :
interesting passage in this Royal address is the
ive “ i° r the choice of the name under which
of Queen Victoria is to be known. The
in T>-?f n the a * e Pr i nce Consort has associations
In , Eritl f h , ears that Britons are not likely
perhaps for that reason it is
stoZ “r/n ® '‘lT 16 °fJ heKin S' “ Edward ” should
stand alone. It has thoroughly British associations, dating
™?J aX ? n tmms- and in a way it recalls much of the
ancient glory of the kingdom. For many reasons his
Majesty s desire that this name should stand alone will be
approved by his subjects.
The name Edward, as applied to the present occu-
pier of the throne, cannot “stand alone.” He
must tack VII. on to it. And why His Majesty’s
subjects should approve His Majesty’s desire that
-Majesty s name should stand alone is obscure
A/r tt Anyhow, it is quite evident that
the b.M.H. was prepared to barrack lustily
tor anything the King was reported to have said,
whether it could understand what he meant or
whether it couldn’t.
From Edward VII. to Edward VI. is afar
cry, but the new King’s title is a reminder of the
schools founded by the previous Edward, and as
an unintentional illustration of the jobbery asso-
ciated with those richly-endowed establishments,
we find Australian newspapers mentioning that
the late Archbishop of Canterbury got a free
education at one of them. The billet of Primate
is only possible to men who have had influential
friends from the start. The “Bluecoat” and
other schools which Edward VI. designed for the
poor are now run by the English middle-class
batman for the benefit of his nominees. They
ought to be incorporated with the modern State
School system, and thrown open to the children
of the masses, but class influence bars the way to
reform.
* * * *
Significant recent letter to Sydney D T.
1 c He accommodation of the Government’s Com-
monwealth guests :
„ to He letter in your issue of January
26th, I beg to inform you that I have not yet been paid
and can get no information when I will be. In the mean-
wa 6 ’ I Have been sold out of my business-place, the land-
lord not believing that the State Treasurer refused to
liquidate the Government debts, as per contract. Verb
“ Men laugh and riot till the feast is o’er;
Then comes the reckoning and—they laugh no
more! ” °
* * * *
“ Hermes ” holds forth on the prigged and
bombastic pet scheme of the unimaginative and
unoriginal O’Sullivan :
Dear DuLLETLy.-The O’Sullivan’s idea of a great statue
of Australia Facing the Dawn is all right, but the O’Sulli-
biaSvdanij-°TieT T ° ng 1“ the design. The thing sketched
in Sydney D.T. some time ago is merely a servile imita-
tion of Liberty Facing the Dawn, in New York harbor
In order to atone for the bald stealing of the idea the
Australian creation should be something new ’and
unique I think the following about fibs the Mil ■
Let there be a statue in kharki, and of colossal
proportions Australia, with his pants hitched up
Tound the knees with string, plenty of shirt (The nlJl
Australian flag) sticking out above hi belt his ( sieves
rolled up, the face clean-shaven, and the expression
+hp a m-T’J efle m 1 -’ e and - vefc °y nical as He impassiveness of
plaln ; The clean-shaven lips, cruel and firm
holding between them a short pipe ; the nose prominent
Lp^h 6 an £ ,dar . an d aggressive. Behind him, with
head drooping and re ins hanging, the stock-horse, with
the old and ncketty saddle, and the bridle mended with
string. Scattered round the basement, effigies, in Aus-
tralian stone, of dingoes worrying a kangaroo, crows
pecking the eyes of a sheep, and the gaping bovine dying
H'f fc in the waterless mud-hole. And around all' the
OF THTS 1 ! ANn S »° f wr r asti P fe , red ’ “ 1 AM THK SPIRIT
rva ir s . The care taker could, as proposed bv
OSulhvan, dwell in the basement, and, when he cooked
steak and onions, the smoke could be passed through the
short pipe in the statue’s mouth, and give the whole
thing a startling realism that would knock the Franco-
Yankee idea endways for realistic effect.
Thus courteously Sydney E. News :
Anything worth doing is worth doing well, and if a
large group of statuary is really to replace Fort Denison
we should advise Mr. O’Sullivan, for his own sake, to get
designs from a sculptor, instead of an engineer and
architect, well known as that gentleman may be We
say for his own sake,” because the names of the pro-
posers or orderers of statues often go down more vividly
to posterity than those of actual makers and designers of
those works. There is, for instance, the leading of
Nebuchadnezzar, who set up a golden image, but it can
hardly have been with his own hands, and yet Nebuchad-
?®f ar , ls known now in connection with that image, and
the actual maker is not. This precedent should be <>-ood
enough for Mr. O’Sullivan. It would be something for
him to think of with pride when he retires to that country
with which his admirers propose to present him
Nebuchadnezzar also retired to the country, but that
is another story—that his name will be imperishablv
associated with an appropriately imposing and majestic
female colossus standing on an island in Port Jackson
Apropos of nothing in particular, The Bulletin
has often wonclored if the Babylonian exchequer
was honest enough to pay agistment for Nebuchad-
nezzar.
INNOCENCE.
HIS MOTHER (to Willie, aye 4, who has just re-
turned from a visit to the Jones's): “ Where
have you been all the afternoon, my boy?"
WILLIE: “Down to the Jones's baths watching a
lot of children bathing.”
HIS MOTHER : “ Were they boys or girls?”
Willie; “I can't say, ma. They didn't have
any clothes on.”
Drapery advt. from Sydney dailies on last
Friday:—
A s respectful and loyal
SUBJECTS
OF HER LATE MAJESTY AND PRESENT KING,
we beg to intimate to our Respectful and Loyal Ous-
tome rs that, to enable them to procure their require-
ments,
WE WILL REMAIN OPEN TILL 10 O’CLOCK
TO-NIGHT, FRIDAY,
but will
0 LOSE ALL DAY SATURDAY.
And we respectfully request our Customers, who
will be unable to avail themselves of this opportunity,
to hold over their orders until the following Monday,
and not patronise the disrespectful and disloyal pro-
Boers who may remain open on Saturday, in defiance
of British s entiments.
AND SON,
, & BLANK-STREET,
SYDNEY.
Hereby the wily draper got the public in such a
tight place that the only way it could absolutely
prove its loyalty was by buying a great quantity
of clothes at his shop on Monday whether it
wanted them or not. If it didn’t buy a lot of
clothes at his shop on Monday there always re-
mained the suspicion that it had bought clothes
from a pro-Boer on Saturday. So the drapery
man’s big advt. trots respectfully behind the hearse
of his Queen, _ and intrudes at the tail of her
funeral; and his seven-and-sixpenny shirt becomes
somehow identified with the expansion of Greater
Britain ; and his eighteenpenny double-breasted
linen collar, warranted not to bag at the knees, is
in some sense a bulwark of the Empire ; likewise
his special, high-heeled bell-topper, at a guinea,
which buttons down the back. The soul of the
respectful and loyal draper followed his sovereign’s
funeral cortege on Saturday, but his body opened
on Monday as usual with a keen eye to business.
* * * %
At the memorial services for the Queen
the collection plate went round as usual in many
churches. Also, while the traders were supposed
to shut shop on Saturday many public-houses were
m full blast.
* * * *
Flags at “ half-mast ” have not been the
rule in Sydney during the recent mourning
period, “ Half-mast” means “6ft. below the top
of the pole,” but the local bunting was flown at
every distance—from Ift. to 20.
* * * *
S. M. Herald Feb. 2nd :
» • —January 7, at——’s-road, , the wife of
.of a daughter (seven daughters, six sons) Rita
Victoriawealth.
The Seventh Son will doubtless be christened
Commonedward.
* * * He
During Queen Victoria's official mourning-
week S.M. Herald mourned only once with
black column-rules—on the day of the funeral;
the Telegraph mourned all the time. The
Herald mourned and was resigned ; the Tele-
graph mourned in hope. The Herald, by the
way, has got its title; the Telegraph’s title is
still to come.
* * * *
One reform following the abolition of the
old useless Sydney Transit Commission has come
in quietly, but effectively. No through heavy
traffic is now allowed in Pitt and George-streets,
nor in the cross streets south of Bridge-street.
For years this reform has been advocated, but its
fulfilment was declared impossible by the old
governing body. But it has been done simply
enough, to the evident relief of the congested
streets of Sydney. Big wool-drays, lorries with
hides and tallow, furniture-vans and the like no
longer block Pitt-street, and, with the dwindling
’bus traffic, that and other thoroughfares are now
comparatively safe.
The shadow of a great woe fell upon a re-
„ ' cent wedding at Ballarat, and what
should have been an occasion of delirious
happiness was converted into a bitter sea-
son indeed. The sun shone on the beauti-
ful bride, and her dress was all that mor-
tal, woman could unreasonably desire,
consequently she was clothed in joy right
up to the moment when she declared she
would take that man to be her wedded hus-
band. Then suddenly a great sob sounded
from a side pew near the middle of the
church. It was followed by further sobs
and gasps, and the familiar snip's and
snuffles of a weeping female. All eyes turned
upon the pew, and discovered a young
woman in black, watering the matting
with her tears, and throwing out symp-
toms of heartrending grief. Instantly those
eyes travelled from the distracted young
thing in the pew to the quailing bride-
groom, and they were obviously—everybody
could see it—filled with
accusations and in-
sinuations of con-
duct unbecoming
a gentleman. The
bride turned
Sale, and finished
le ceremony in
tears, which de-
veloped into hys-
terics as they bore
her along the
aisle. Arrived
at the carriage,
s h e heaped
reproaches
and insults
upon the
hot, red
bridegroom,
and then flop-
ped into hys-
terics again, and
it was a distracted
and dismal man
who bore away a
damp, jigging,
dishevelled bride
from amongst her
icy relatives,
and away from
a silent and re-
proachful crowd
of respectable
residents. Mean-
while, a gentle
soul had interviewed the weeping female in-
side, and found that she was howling because
she always made a point of howling at wed-
dings, which somehow reminded her of various
dead husbands of hers. This explanation was
subsequently conveyed to the bride and bride-
groom, but too late to save the honeymoon from
being a failure —all wailings, accusations, a. d
gnashings of teeth.
A woman unexpectedly, died in an Aus-
tralian hospital, the other day. A post-mortem
was ordered and it was found that all organs (in-
cluding the heart), which are ordinarily on the
left, were on the right side, and all the right
organs were on the left. The case is extraordinary,
but by no means unique.
* * » *
The other day a scared woman who had
been treated as a casualty patient attended a
Sydney Hospital and anxiously asked the doctor
what was the nature of the liniment prescribed
for her. She breathlessly went on to say “Me
and my sister have had an awful row and out of
spite she’s gone and swallowed all the medicine
you gave me, and now she’s awful ill.” The sister
who “ got the needle ” is now lying on her back in
one of the wards, and the linimentless sister daily
brings her flowers.
* * * *
The signals from Mars, the God of War,
are probably an attempt to tell Australia not to
be a darned fool.
• * • m
1\T ATRIMONY. —Two Returned Troopers with
' means wish meet two young Ladies view to
above. Soldier, Herald.
Got to advertise for them now—and they were
hanging on by dozens when they left. Oh, how
this country is cooling down !
* * * •
The order that the bodies, in most cases
mere ashes, of the dead shall be removed from
MOONSTRUCK.
HE: “ Darling , put your head
right against mine. I like it,
its so soft!!”
Devonshire - st.
cemetery to
make room for
the new Sydney
railway station,
has been tak-
en more
quietly than
would have
been the
case a couple
of dozen
years ago.
Some of the
plots of
ground were
regarded by
the descen-
dants of the
.owners as Im-
perial grants,
and it was held
that the heirs,
though forbid-
den to bury,
could not be
stripped of their
right to the
ground. The
bones and ashes
of 011111./ distin-
guished Aus-
tralians lie in
that cemetery ;
the remains of
atrocious cul-
pri ts are also
there. Now all
will be swept
away. H o w
forcibly this
proves the ad-
vantage of cre-
mation ! The
living will yet
need all the
world, and for
that reason, as well as a hundred others, cre-
mation should get an early start.


FRESH AS A ROSE!
ADD A LITTLE
CGKDY'S FLUID
to your Bath or Foot-Bath.
nO
TheCooling,lnvigorating
and Health-giving
Effects are Simply
Magical.
Of fill Chemists <fc Store*
Insist on having “CoMDYB FLUID.”
i he narao Condv A Mitchell, oi London, England,
should be at foot of Label.
Beware of Inferior Australian Substitutes.
JAM. (11.
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
only —largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 16‘5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. -It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Pace, Sydney.
-
SOLID MATERIAL
AND
SOLID WORKMANSHIP
ARE ESSENTIAL IN A GENTLEMAN’S BOOT
THAT WILL WEAR LONG ENOUGH
TO BE AN ECONOMICAL BOOT.
TRY THE CALLAGHAN TAN LACE BALMORAL
in Vici-Kid, at 23/6 a pair. It has the flexibility of steel, vyith the softness of a
glove ; and yet keeps shape all through the long time it wears.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George-street, Sydney.
SOLID VALUE!
vLjCfiib a//,
oo
On his return to Maoriland, a local
contingenter was brought up for failing to
maintain his wife, married to him just before he
left for S’Africa. He pleaded that he was subject
to epileptic fits, and, if he had married the lady,
he certainly had no recollection of doing so.
Also that he was only 19, although his age was
stated in the register as 21. His spouse owned up
to being 32. She had only known hubby for a
fortnight before marriage, and had a baby three
months afterwards. According to her own story
she had explained her position to him, but as he
remembered nothing about it, he was probably in
an epileptic fit during the explanation. As soon as
the Court rose, the returned warrior went off to
the brigade office and volunteered, in his capacity
as an acknowledged epileptic patient, for the
sixth contingent.
* * * *
There is trouble in the Maoriland district
of Rotorua. Hitherto visitors who called there
to “take the waters” were not allowed to wear
bathing dresses. They trotted down to their par-
ticular dip, slipped off their garments, and went
into the water as they came into the world. Now
the verra gude have risen to complain that this is
Wrong, and to bathe in the Lake District baths
without proper bathing costume is to commit a
misdemeanour, and get fined by the blushful
law. The people who run the baths have
threatened insurrection and the creation of a
Lakes District Republic. The advent of the
bathing dress means a great financial disaster, as
a large proportion of the people who seek to be
healed at Rotorua and the other Hot Lakes are
sufferers from skin-diseases. There are special
baths reserved for them, and they are not allowed
to frequent those in which the clean-skinned
sport. But the bathing-dress will cover a multi-
tude of things, and it will be difficult to compel
all people to strip for examination before allowing
them to take the morning or evening dip; and
once the idea spreads that tourists with skin-
diseases are using the ordinary baths there will be
a large slump. Rotorua is a place where every-
body wonders’ what is the matter with his or her
neighbour, and the habit of bathing in the “nood ”
is a guarantee of good faith.
* * • *
Melbourne papers turned on the gush-tap
when describing the religious ceremony at the
Exhibition the other Sunday. The Age recorded
that a deep sigh shook the manly frames of the
parti-colored warriors assembled there when
reference was made to the Queen’s death. Which
was a mere reportorial invention'. All the
Imperial Tommies seemed to be concerned about
was the admiration with which they were gazed
upon by the giggling girls. There wasn’t a sigh
or a weep, but plenty of wink and leer. The Age
reporter, bathed in his professional tears, took a
humid view of what was, after all, a very un-
impressive spectacle. Except for the aureole
struck by the sun out of Waxellency Madden’s
bald pate, there was no dignity in the business.
* * * *
The Melbourne press conspired to disguise
the truth re public opinion of the Imperial
Tommies in comparison with .local troops —Per-
manent Artillery and others. The “ splendid
physique” and “machine-like swing” of the
visitors didn’t “win universal admiration” as
alleged by newspaper mis-reporters. Expressions
of disappointment mingled with friendly excuses
were heard on all sides. The marching of the
dismounted cavalrymen was uneven and straddle-
some, especially on the journey up to the
Exhibition when they hadn’t even a drum-beat
to assist them, and as for the line-regimenters,
with their almost limping action of the right leg,
they were less impressive than the sturdier-built
and freer-actioned lot of Yictoiians. Returning
from the Exhibition to a band accompaniment the
Britishers marched better, though not, perhaps,
so smartly as the Indians. The immediate result
of the display was to increase Melbourne’s respect
for “colonial” soldiery at the expense of its old
belief in Tommy Atkins, which was presumably
not the result intended by the local authorities.
* * * *
At one of the Melbourne Courts the other
day a wife declared that she was ready to go back
to her husband if he would turn away the lodger.
She had been married four months, her liege lord
had “ill-treated” her (she said), but she thought
she could live happily with him if they had the
house to themselves, “her objection to the lodger
being that he had struck her.” This must be
about the first instance on record of a lady calling
her husband a brute whilst still further objecting
to the lodger. But she was a Jewess. Perhaps
that makes a difference. In Christian circles it is
ever the paying guest who offers consolation.
Most women are more or less “struck” by the
lodger.
Concerning a parsonical row :
The Sydney ecclesiastical-precedence controversy is
small potatoes in a certain little far-northern town com-
pared with the local religious rumpus. The local church
is built beside the only public hall, which latter is used
by the other clergymen on Sunday. Both are weather-
board buildings and, as voices in either are quite audible
in the other, the clergymen amicably arranged the
time of their respective services so that they should not
clash. But there came to the church a new parson, who
fixed his time of service regardless of those next door.
So now the congregations in both buildings enjoy at one
sitting the saving grace of a double service, and the
rival clerics display great ingenuity in fixing on hymns
which will make the most noise at the most impressive
parts of the other fellow’s sermon. One of the
ministers has backed out of the contest, but the other
has taken up the gauntlet, and he and his opponent are
vigorously reinforcing their respective choirs with lusty-
lunged recruits. The ungodly have taken to attending
the services in the hope of still more interesting develop-
ments.
Salomons, Q.C. (or K.C., or whatever it
is), sets at rest, as far as any lawyer’s opinion can,
the fear that the Truck Act lately passed in
N.S.W. prohibits employers making authorised
deductions from employes’ wages for the upkeep
of semi-public hospitals, &c. Salomons says that
an employe can as well authorise a hospital secre-
tary to collect a portion of his pay as he can his
wife.
* * * *
The celebration at Ebenezer, on the
Hawkesbury, the other day of the 99th anniver-
sary of the establishment of Presbyterianism in
Australia recalls that the late Sydney Burdekin
came to possess all that part of the Hawkesbury
on which the church is situated. Mrs. Burde-
kin is as generous as her late husband in
all that concerns the historic structure. The
clever Sydney police of the early days arrested
the whole congregation one Sunday, under the
impression that they were Irish rebels planning
an insurrection. In 1802 and thereabouts the
dominating fear of the little settlement was that
Irish rebels would grab Australia.
* * * •
A Williamstown (Vic.) Bench displayed
unusual common sense the other day, when,
instead of at once gaoling a man who had stolen
£4 10s., it adjourned the case for three days to
give him a chance to make restitution. But there
should be some guarantee that the offender makes
restitution himself, instead of bullying others into
doing so.
* * * •
Consecutive advts. from Melo. Age
(12/1/’01):
p ENTLEMAN, temporary pecuniary embarrass-
A*" rnents, like meet lady little means would assist,
view immediate matrimony. Englishman, Age.
pi ENTLEMAN, 40, noble, talented, wants meet
young lady with fortune, view to matrimony.
F.T.H., G.P.O.
Both offer themselves for sale, the talented noble
and the plain, ordinary hard-up. And in return
for the lady’s hard cash they offer her—the
pleasure of rearing babies and of slaving to sup-
port impecunious aristocrats.
• • * *
Dear Bulletin. — Re the approaching
census, let me point out that the returns, as
usually sent in, entirely misrepresent—under the
head of “Religion”—the real state of the case,
and that the various churches are thus enabled to
claim as adherents thousands of persons who,
either through lack of courage or through pure
indifference, allow themselves to be enrolled
under one or other of the denominations. Perhaps
a note from you might stiffen up some of those who
(like myself) are creedless, honestly so to record
themselves, and thus help to show that the various
sects have not upon this new country anything
like the hold they lay claim to. —F.W.M. [The
utter futility of the returns in this respect is
further shown by the fact that in every case of
omission to specify religious belief the gentle
N.S.W. compilers have been in the habit of calmly
filling-in the hiatus with “ Church of England.”
Also, in Maoriland all persons who describe them-
selves as “Freethinker,” “Agnostic,” and the
like, are tabulated as having “ refused to specify
religion.” —Ed. B.]
* * « *
A recent “ Return Thanks ” advt. from
S.M. Herald:—
T HEREBY wish to thank Dr. for the kind
attention given to my daughter, , he having
stated that she would live only 5 weeks which took
place to the day; also to Thank the Doctor and Nurse
at Little Bay Hospital for their kind attention.
PETER - .
A Melbourne aboriginal, lately
in trouble for treating his white wife
much as his fathers used to treat their
gins, is reckoned about the smartest wheat-
humper in the city, and can, if he likes, earn his
£3 a week.
The Coninghaui case is to be tried again
on 11th March, but what Judge will preside, or
who petitioner’s counsel will be, is so far un-
known. In legal circles it appears to be thought
that either Mr. Justice Owen or Mr. Justice
Cohen will have the hearing of the case. Last'
Friday this circular was published in Sydney :
Chambers, 93 Eiizabeth-street,
Sydney, Ist February, 1901.
CONINGHAM v. CONINGHAM.
Dear Sir,- I respectfully beg to draw your attention to
the fact that the above-mentioned divorce suit, which re-
sulted so unsatisfactorily after a protracted hearing in
December last, has been set down, on the petitioner’s
own application in person, for re-trial on Monday, the
11th of March proximo.
I venture to point out that this matter has, unfor-
tunately, given rise to sectarian feeling of the bitterest
character, and that the petitioner is wholly unahle to
provide the necessary funds for the due prosecution of
his suit.
He is placed in a still more awkward position by having
to fight, single-handed, against the combined forces of
the entire Roman Catholic Church, and the array of legal
ability which its unlimited resources are able to provide.
It. behoves every Protestant who wishes to see THE
ROMAN CHURCH HUMILIATED to assist in seeing
justice done between the parties upon equal terms, by
subscribing liberally towards the Petitioner’s Relief Fund,
so as to enable him to secure the services of legal
gentlemen and eminent counsel in his forthcoming trial.
Any amount, even pence from the poor Protestants,
however small, will be gratefully received, and, in
appealing to you for your generous assistance, I beg to
point out that no donor’s name will be divulged (in or out
of court), and every subscription will be duly ac-
knowledged by Mr. Arthur Coningham himself.
Thanking you in anticipation of your early response, I
am, yours faithfully, Percival R. Waddy, Barrister-at-
Law, Hon. Sec. Coningham Relief Fund.
Mr. Waddy has since denied having had any
hand in the foregoing production, the two italicised
portions of which (the italics are The Bulletin’s)
would hardly have been put into one and
the same document by any sane legal practi-
tioner. Mr. Waddy states that as the committee
of the Coningham fund would not allow their
names to be published, he took the bull by the
horns and signed a circular which was drawn up
appealing for subscriptions in aid of the peti-
tioner ; but the circular in question, he declares,
in no way corresponds with that issued to the pub-
lic. In a word, Mr. Waddy appears to suggest that
the published circular was a ’‘trick of war.” He
goes on to say that, having been worried out of
his life since his acceptance of the secretaryship
of the Coningham fund, and having been the
recipient of several threats of personal violence,
he has resigned the position, the exciting atmo-
sphere of which (and three glasses of stout)
brought about a certain little police-court affair,
in which he figured on Saturday morning. It is
to be hoped that the alleged appending of Mr.
Waddy’s name to a document he never signed will
be investigated with the severity demanded by
the occasion.
• * * *
A Collingwood (Vic.) small boy, anxious
to get his name into an Evenin’ Herral heading,
gathered up a second suit of clothes, deposited it
on one side of the Yarra, crossed to the other, and,
having undressed, swam the river, put on his
second suit, and “ mysteriously disappeared.”
When the left clothing was found there was weep-
ing and wailing, and the police settled down to a
long dragging job. But just when the business
was getting wearisome the youngster turned up at
his own home, sick of fame, and ravening for
bread and jam.
* * * *
The champion J.P-ism is reported in a
N.S.W. northern river paper. His Worship said
in proposing “The Press,” that “ it was through
the press they had beard of their sad bereavement
that day” (the Queen’sdeath) “and it was through
the press they received most good things.V
PROTECTION.
SHE: “I think bachelors ought to be taxed!"
HE: “As luxuries, or as — er — necessaries?"
THE LODGER
FOR THE BULLETIN.
T am not wot they calls a miz-
zenthrope,
I do not ’ate me sober fellow-
man,
I pities ’im, an’ ’elps ’im all I
can,
For I’ve been sober, too—w’en
I’ve been broke.
An’ yet, just now, I do feel most
inclined
To view my fellow-man with
deep disgust;
An I might go upon a record
bust—
If Jane ’adn’t taken all my cash
to mind.
W’en she first snared me I was
very young,
An’ thought as ’ow I’d ’old the
purse an’ rule ;
But now I know I was a san-
guine fool—
I ’ave to ’old the kid and ’old me
tongue.
An’ as I sucks me empty pipe
alone,
There is a weight sits ’eavy on
me chest ;
For wot the missus calls a
“ payin’ guest ”
’As cast a shadow o’er me ’appy
’ome.
An’ ever since the fatal night ’»
came
Jane ’asn’t ’ad no time to wait on me,
W’en I come ’ome from work, an’ want me tea,
She’s waitin’ on the toff who’s jumped me claim.
Jane sez ’e’s invalided ’ome from war,
Through fightin’ w’en ’is kharki socks was damp.
(I know Hyde Park is not an ’ealthy camp ;
But w’en I mention it, Jane shrieks “ pro-Boer ! ”)
’E’s commandeered me fav’rite easy-chair.
An’ puts ’is feet up on me mantel-piece.
Me parlor cushions fairly shine with grease—
From wot Jane calls ’is “ millingtary air.”
I never dared to smoke “ no stinkin’ pipes”
Among the parlor curtains Jane adores ;
But this ’ere bounder—wot me soul abhorrs—
May smoke about the ’ouse just w’ere ’e likes.
Meanwhile I goes about me daily jobs,
An’ takes the kid on Sundays for a blow.
*E don’t talk like a book, an’ yet I know
’E don’t despise me ’cos I ain’t Lord “ Bobs.”
I know the missus loves me—in ’er ’eart,
Altho’ she’s got the kharki fever now ;
But, all the same, there’s goin’ to be a row,
An’ I’m in train in! to perform my part.
I’m patriotic—in an ’umble way—
An’ sings Gord save the Queen—an’ all ’er loot;
But, tho’ it seems disloyal, I’m bound to boot
That kharki “ payin’ guest” who doesn’t PAY.
TAS.
CRIPES CLARK.
THE SHIP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Her way is through the trackless deeps
Of God’s mysterious sea;
The force that moves her never sleeps,
But works all silently.
She keeps her course in calm serene ;
No storm shall do her shame ;
Yet no man hath her Captain seen,
Or knows her Pilot’s name.
Her passengers, for weal or woe,
Her decks by myriads throng;
But many more sleep down below,
And will not wake for long.
The poorest passenger on board,
The man without a friend,
He keeps his place with prince or lord,
Until the voyage end.
She sails unto a Port unknown,
If any Port there be,
Yet goes not on her way alone
On that mysterious sea.
We see them in the purple dark,
And in the moonlight pale,
The thousand thousand lights that mark
Where other vessels sail.
And so, come sorrow or come mirth,
On deck, or down below,
We sail in our good ship, the Earth,
As far as she shall go.
N.S.W.
V. J. DALEY.


“He’Sxfrom the Country.”
Such is the expression intended to convey the
idea that he is easily deceived.
MARK FOY’B success is a Town Tra.de.
The Keenest Judges j n Sydney haunt FOY’B.
If you asked City Friends to get your wants
they would surely go to FOY’s!
For the fun of the thingl
JL^' 0 MARK FOY, SYPHEY.
Sams prices and attention as If you bought amongst the dally crowds at the counters.
Lightest Wines inAustrali
The value of the estate in N.-S.W. of the
late 0. C. Skarratt (a big shareholder in Mt.
Morgan) has been sworn at £378,500. Mr.
Skarratt, who lately died in England, was well
known in Sydney years ago as a sportsman and as
owner of the Royal Hotel. The estate goes to
trustees for the benefit of deceased’s wife and
their eight children—F. C. Skarratt, Charles
Sydney Skarratt, Mary Eller Bridge (wife of
C. E. Bridge), Emily Charlotte M'Quade (wife
of Fred. M Quade), Lucy Ann Theobald (wife of
C. H. G-. E. Theobald), A. C. Keigwin (wife of
1. H. Keigwin), Violet Skarratt, and Daisy
OKarratt.
Melb. feminine opinion, after unofficially
viewing him, is that the Imperial warrior is neat,
smart and dapper, but can give no points in manly
beauty to the local article. And the Imperial
officah s opinion on the Melb. society damsel is
that her waist is the most willowy and cuddlesome
he has evah, evah surrounded, bai jove! The P.D.
corset being largely responsible for this opinion
from experts, the sex is more than ever charmed
with that immortal institution—meaning theP.D.*
Simplest—Most Durable—Best.
IIICHT^
ff\UNNIKC
r t^k
W
ft
5 .MACHINES
Write for our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
Å
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St, Brisbane.
GLOBE T6JIS have wo
Atcherley & Dawson, 284 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
„ „ Sydney, February 5, 1901.
Mr Dear Myee.—
A week of Dead Marches—Chopin, Beethoven
Handel. Music by day and night. The heavenly
melody of Chopin’s Marche Futimbre singing itself
in our churches, in our halls, and under the open
sky, made the week of mourning blossom like a
rose.
By the way, I beg leave to disagree with
Shelley. He calls the tuberose the sweetest
flower for scent that blows, but nothing could be
sicklier than tuberose mixed with the odours of
the crowd —as on Saturday,, when the wind stirred
the heavy white wreaths on the Statue.
I thought the Funeral Service at St. Andrew’s
lacking in dignity and poetry. At ten o’clock the
vergers closed the doors against the crowd, and there
was one time when a loud-voiced official shouted
through the keyhole to “ Keep back. You haven’t
a ticket, so you can’t get in ! ” The decorations
of the Cathedral were the stiffest in the city,
drapes held up at regular intervals with little hard
bunches of immortelles.
It was meet that the organ should lend the only
note of beauty. Mr. Massey sent Chopin’s
Nocturne of Death, Chopin s March Funebre,
through the aisles. At the last great death
Chopin’s music was unknown to the people, but
Victoria’s passing has made its golden melody
familiar to everyone.
This service was Lady Hopetoun’s first appear-
ance in public. She was looking remarkably well,
not a trace of the invalid about her. She wore deep
mourning—but though deep, becoming—a black
crepe-de-chine gown, with much fine black laci-
ness about the bodice, and a big black hat and
veil. His Ex. looked white and casual in black
clothes with a black hat, and a green band across
his chest. Mrs. Corbett wore a finely-tucked
black glace silk, and had her skirts trodden on all
the way down the aisle by the young Hopes in big
white, turned-down collars.
It is understood that Government House takes
the Royal Death badly to heart. His Ex. has
not given his feelings away to the reporters, for
the Queen was a friend to her Lord Chamberlain,
and it is as a personal friend that the Hopetouns
lament her death. There will be no entertain-
ments at. Govt. House, under six months, and the
V.R. visit to Tasmania is abandoned.
Anybody trying to see “her Excellency” in
the flesh gets badly snubbed. Her Ex. is going
to be as invisible as Isis. No interviews, no little
chats, no nice friendly committee discussions.
She is only to be got at through the medium of
Mrs. Corbett, who is stated to have come out to
act as “Lady-in-Waiting” to Lady Hopetoun,
and stand between her and the crowd.
An official at Govt. House lately informed an
inquiring society woman that Mrs. Corbett didn’t
take that outrider round the town for “pomp.”
On Saturday afternoon extraordinary scenes
went on at Queen’s Statue. I was in a room over-
looking the square, and in the course of an hour I
saw one, two, three, four, five, six, seven women
borne out of the crowd on policemen’s shoulders.
There was an epidemic of fits and fainting. Evi-
dently hysteria was rampant. From all patts of
the crowd policemen would appear suddenly,
hoisting white-faced women aloft. The women
were carried—after terrible struggles to get
through the packed masses—to the Oxford Hotel
near by, where the hall quickly assumed the ap-
pearance of a hospital.
I have come to the conclusion that Sydney
doesn’t understand the Art of Grief. It travesties
even its tears What think you of the following’
You’ll hardly believe it. But I saw it. With my
own eyes I saw it. I saw a baby-girl dressed up
as a little Queen Victoria. She had a little gold
helmet on her head, was decked with black rib-
bons, and draped about with a motto that had the
words “ Mother and Wife ”in it. That was car-
ried proudly through the crowd on its father’s
shoulders, and moved women to tears—they knew
not why.
The Liedertafel’s singing in the open air was
tender and impressive. Those hundreds of men’s
voices, unaccompanied, made the'best requiem of
all. Alfred Hill, looking dark and sombre—while
I admired his intense expression as a conductor I
couldn’t think of him as one of the coming gar-
deners up the North Shore line where "he lives—
led the male voices through “O Sanctissima.”
Four thousand school-children sang ; bands played
Chopin and Beethoven; and above the music,
above the rumbling distant thunder, over the
clashing bells of St. Mary’s, and the rumble and
clang of trams, came the military tolling of the
big Post-office bell, clear, majestic, incessant.
Do-o-m, do-o-m, do-o-m, till the nerves tingled
and the mind was filled with the thought of a
Juggernaut of Fate rolling remorselessly over
peoples, Queens and Empires. Do-o-m, do-o-m,
do-o-m.
I cannot help expressing my astonishment at
the way in which Sydney has manoeuvred its
black. How did it manage it all ? People known
to be without a penny are going about in the
most elegant black toilettes, new hats, new gloves,
new silk petticoats, frills, and frou-frous and
feathers galore. Perhaps there will be the piper
to pay later. Who knows ?
We do know, though, that a purple silk petti-
coat and crcpe-de-chine costume can’t be had for
the asking, but evidently the woman who can’t
get a new dress when she wants it is fast fading
into oblivion.
Crepe-de-chine is the most swagger mourning
material. I saw a simple but ineffably Frenchy
toilette on Saturday—on an Englishwoman. It
had a black crepe-de-chine skirt gathered and
gathered and gathered, round and round and
round, right away down from the waist-line to
below the knees. That was all the trimming on
the skirt, which flowed * out from the gathers in
soft, graceful flows. _ The bodice was what
Americans call “a waist,” of finest glace, but-
toned down the back, and as simple as you please
in the front, with just a yoke of infinitesimal,
sloping tucks to break up its simplicity. But the
cut— ! With this was worn a black silk hat, three
large bows in front, and a roll of silk round the
crown—the hat that Paris never tires of.
What a time the florists have been having!
They could do with a Commonwealth celebration
and Royal funeral every month. One hundred
and sixty orders for Dr. Leo Neill’s funeral are
said to have been unfulfilled in consequence of the
stress of business. “Leo” Neill was truly a
coming man, and one of the most popular in the
medical profession, but too much work and too
little play soon ended a promising career. Drs.
Mills and Scott-Skirving were in attendance, and
many leading doctors were in consultation, while
Nurse Munro, matron of the Trained Nurses’
Home, and two other nurses also exercised their
skilHn vain. Dr. Neill intended leaving for Tas-
mania on the following Saturday, but pneumonia,
getting hold of a run-down constitution, proved
too much for poor old “ Fog,” as he was endear-
ingly called by his medical brethren.
The sudden and utter blankness that followed
Commonwealth week has proved rather detrimen-
tal to the two Art Exhibitions. They were just
too late in opening. By the time their shows
were going everything was off, and the shows were
left. The Art Society closed up last week, on
account of the Royal death, and broke up its show.
The Society of Artists closed too, but it artfully
kept its pictures together; now it re-opens. Some
“At Homes ” will be given among the S.A. pic-
tures shortly. Mrs. Edmund Barton will act as
hostess one evening, and the Art Students have
fixed their At Home for Wednesday, 13th Feb.,
at 8 o’clock.
You will be sorry to hear that Marion Drewe,
that charming girl and energetic artist, is about
to take her departure from Sydney for San
Francisco. Last Friday wvoniug the pupils
of artist J. S. Watkins ve a dance and
a f ? u .PP er at his studio in Hunter-street, at
which a large number of friends attended
to wish Miss Drewe and the Junoesque Miss
Cavill, who goes with her, a hearty farewell and
all sorts of prosperity in the city of the Golden
Gate. Miss Drewe and Miss Cavill leave per
Sonoma on the 26th.
The Palace Theatre flared up with a bright little
revival house on Monday. All the boxes full, and
lots of bare shoulders in the d.c. Mrs. Ted
Simpson and Mrs. W. Street were in a box
opposite the three Austin sisters. Mr. B. R. Wise
showed up for a short while in the d.c.
The cause of this extra glitter coming in the
middle of the long run of “A Message from
Mars, was a new curtain-raiser, and the twentieth
anniversary of W. Hawtrey’s stage career. “A
Highland Legacy,” by Brandon Th mas, showed
Hawtrey in a Scotch brogue, kilts, and vermilion
knees. , Winnie Austin looked her prettiest in the
heroine’s part. She wore a snappy little cream
satin coat with wide sailor collar edged with
turquoise, a well-cut, cream voile skirt, and a
crearn Tam o’ Shanter toque with turquoise choux.
The thrillful Tommy Holding came well out of a
lot of collar, and circulated more thrill than ever
about the houseful of females.
That wire from Mr. George Musgrove, “Don’t
feel justified in singing same time funeral pro-
ceeding. Greatest respect due from profession to
Gueen and-King, who are great supporters of
music, was ndt a brilliant idea. The abandon-
ment should have been made gracefully or not at
all, without giving an unhappy reason like that.
At the Ogilvie dinner last week a pretty meet-
ing was that of the Swedish contralto, and the
young Scotch poet. Madame Janson—-M rs
Fischer is the wife of the Swedish Consul in a
Scotch town near Ogilvie’s home, and she and the
poet talked “ home ’ enthusiastically. Then the
lady wrote her address on his menu card, and
their next meeting will probably be among the
braes and burns of Scotland.
The Coningham case comes on again in March
and is the only exciting thing society has to look
forward to now. By the way, a young Sydney
barrister has, it is averred, been made the victim of
a practical joke. Someone— members of the legal
perfesh, it is whispered— sent out printed circulars
re the Conmgham case, asking people to assist in
the humiliation of the Roman Church,” and
signing them with the name of the barrister
aforesaid—Percival Waddy. On dit, that more
will be heard of this affair, later on. It isn’t the
first time Mr. Waddy has been treated to a prac-
tical joke, either. He has been singled out again
and again, but this may be the last time—if all we
hear is true.
From Elvy and Co. comes the best waltz of the
season— The Commonwealth Waltz,” by Marv
M Carron Maguire. This is tuneful, full of verve
and charm, and the gifted young composer de-
serves much sympathy if a period of mourning
puts waltzing out of the question this season.
The Brisbane folk are actively investigating the
causes which led to the general gigantic orgy
indulged in by the Imperial Tommies at a local
racecourse, borne say that the section of the
public so generally blamed are “not in it” with the
committee, which supplied free so much Bulimba
beer m the enclosure where the thirsty Britishers
were herded. Perhaps one of the most pathetic
and comical sights was the despair of the officers
of the naval brigade when the men formed into
fine at the call wearing the giant busbies of the
Grenadiers, which, no doubt, were more comfort-
able than their own head.gear after so
much beer. One lot of incapable Tommies were
taken to the wharf piled neatly in rows on a lorry.
No doubt T. Atkins’s idea of Paradise will be
Brisbane and its beer, and not Sydney and its
champagne.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Melbourne suddenly realised, at the death of
the Queen, that the city did not possess a statue
of H.M. The Age immediately started a shilling
subscription towards the erection of one, beating
the Argus by one day. Next morning, the
Argus announced that about £2OOO would be
needed for the work. To collect this, the paper
remarked, small collections were a farce, and
called through its columns for large, fat cheques.
But, as Melbourne is nothing if not up to date,
she had better hustle round for a statue to King
Edward VII., who is now nearly 60 years of age.
“ The expensive funereal drapery of Melb.
Parliament House was made to look cheap and
foolish by the placarded announcement—‘Our
Beloved Queen Has Gone To Her Rest! ’ Appar-
ently the Vic. Govt, got its idea of official mourn-
ing from the In Memoriain advts. in the dailies.
Men who could think it necessary to explain the
meaning of all that blackness by sticking up such
a notice must have been very nearly capable
of selecting ‘ Darling Mother in Heaven ’ for their
text. One thing needed of the Federal Govt, is a
calm, gentlemanly Minister for Griefs and
Gratulations, with full authority to draw up
rules for the guidance of hysterical officialdom
in all matters of ‘ loyal ’ display. Any who in-
cline towards ‘ln Memoriam ’ gags must be put
under restraint. Why, there were 1000 State-
school children singing the Anthem outside Melb.
Parliament House last Thursday, and 1000 young
minds came away impressed by the maudlin sen-
timent of the legend that stared from the top of
the building—‘ Our Beloved Queen Has Gone To
Her Rest.’ In years to come they will quote it
to their children as a classic in the literature of
Australian parliamentary sorrow. Ye gods !it
is a precedent.
“ The memorial service at the Exhibition was
rather a fiasco. The general public was kept in
the dark about the arrangements till the daily
papers broke to it the news that all tickets were
already disposed of. Then, when the day came,
there were lots of empty seats in the building.
However, absentees didn’t miss much. It was a
listless, flabby function. The Imperial Tommies
chatted among themselves, and a much-parodied
chestnut vulgarised the hymn-list.
“The Ways of South Australia have gone to
the extent of mourning-cards for the late Queen.
So have Premier Turner’s family, and a few other
earnest good souls who are sorrowing as for one
of their own flesh and blood.
“The mourning habiliments of Premier Tur-
ner’s family and Mayoress Gillott approach the
gloom of intimate grief. Not a particle of jewel-
lery is in evidence among them, and the common
or garden steel pins are replaced by small spikes
of black color. Even their smiles are dark.
“In the purple pavilion crowning Parliament
House steps at the Proclamation the cream of the
cream collected. Mrs. (Chief-Justice) Way, of
South Australia, commanded attention by her tall
splendid figure and telling style. Mrs. Justice
Williams admitted a tucked bib of white into her
black gown and introduced the only suggestion of
jauntiness into the solemn gathering. The
Madden girls looked snug and dimply m black
frocks, with new bebe-bodices buttoned up the
back. Miss May Seddon looked dashing in black
and white, and sported a black tasselled stick 4 la
Palotta in lieu of a gamp. All the Wellington
girls, like Premier Seddon’s daughter, sport sticks
°/ fashion. Who says Maoriland isn’t
Advanced ?
“ At the Proclamation, the light of the Russian
Consul’s uniformed figure went out in the grand
picturesque presence of the Rev. Athanasius
Kantopoulos (the Greek priest), who, dressed in
towering black turban and black-and-purple robes
with long gold chain and large cross dangling
from his neck, turned large, mournful eyes on the
assemblage, and in an uninterested way returned
the looks of the curious.
In proposing the toast of the King, in the
Town Hall, after the Proclamation, his Worship
got through the ordeal with lawyer-like despatch.
Mayor Gillott’s speech halts or drawls somewhat,
m the pulpit manner, but he marshalsh is alleged
facts carefully, fixes his eye on a given point, and
gets there without figure of speech, play of wit, or
let or hindrance of any kind.
“Hurried messages were despatched by letter
telephone, and wire on Wednesday morning to
the Wives of all the Parliamentarians to rally to
the House in the afternoon for a view of the
English officers out of uniform — i,c, 9 in plain
dress. The fair ones collected, and were pre-
sented (or vice-versa), and some escorted the dear
feUows over the grounds, and the gardens, and
the library, and some took the chappies in tow to
sit the worn-out and venerable ‘ Queen’s
Chair, and some to write their signatures and
sentiments in autograph albums, and some to ask
for more buttons. And what did the brave fellows
say to all this ? Scarcely one fair flutterer can
report anything sensible out of a long, drawling
don t-you-know ’ string of anaemic ejaculations,
ihe heroes seemed (out of uniform) to be de-
pressed by their own terrible weight of tiredness.
“Mrs. George Turner was one of the few pri-
vate entertainers of the Imperial officers. They
took afternoon tea in her little St. Kilda bower
on the eve of their departure for England. It
was a bit of a squeeze for some of the supercilious
heroes, but the old adage of the ‘heart being
bigger than the room ’ came in for general expres-
sion, and saved the situation. By the way Mrs
George vaunts the quill with which the Proclama-
tion was signed. The good lady’s jolly face when
the suave Excellency turned aiid presented it to
her was a study in wholesome delight.
Now that the English officers are gone, minus
a gross of buttons and ‘ don’tcherknows, ’ general
opinion among women gives palm for popularity
to that dashing Captain, who really didn’t say
much, but looked a lot of unutterable things, and
who confided to so many that he had £6OO a year,
and was going to throw up war for the stage.
Moreover, that he was coming out to Melbourne
to make his first trial on the boards —‘ where you
jolly people are so good to beginners don’tcher-
know.’ The girls he made this remark to are still
wondering whether it was a compliment to the
Nation or otherwise.
“The officers attached to the Indian regiments
were given the run of the theatres during their
stay in Melbourne, and one night the circle in a
fashionable house was packed with the gorgeously-
tailored treacle-colored heroes As a result
the manager’s office was presently invaded
by some indignant whites in evening dress, who
clamored for their money back, refusing to sit out
a hot evening in a theatre swarming with ‘ colored
persons.’ The black brother is good enough as a
defender of the Empire, but when it comes to
associating with us and our wives and daughters,
bai jove, that’s too much dontcherknow.
“Lieut. Osborne, who has been enrolled in the
sixth Contingent, belongs to an athletic, rich, and
vigorous family; otherwise, as he is married and
is 40 years old, no reason could possibly be given
for his acceptance.
“The Calvert family being in mourning, the
birth of Mrs. Gordon Lyon’s daughter last week
was not attended by the bonfires the Western
squattocracy generally set ablaze on such occa-
sions.
“Premier Seddon, his better half, daughter
and son ‘ did ’ Melbourne in serious family-party
style. Mrs. Seddon’s relatives are old Williams-
town folk and in her youth she gathered shells in
company with bairns now grown to be solid,
Scotchy local notabilities. During his recent
visit, George Reid was very chummy with
Seddon, while our own Mason, M.L.A. showed
himself sweet as honey to the M.L. magnate.
The latter, in return, conferred various official
compliments upon Victoria’s ‘ picturesque ’
Speaker.
“ The late Wesley Hall, the gilded mining man,
who (unlike North Lyell Crotty) has, in his will,
been so good to his wife, was a kind, gentle man,
of sallow, serious appearance. His first wife, a
very pretty girl, with no fortune but her face,
went to Brisbane from Williamstown (Vic.) to
visit relatives, and captivated the rich, retiring
bachelor, who always said he could never under-
stand what the pretty young thing saw in a dull
old fellow like himself. They were very
happy in their married life, but the bride
was ambitious, and soon transferred herself,
husband, babies, and sister, from Mount Morgan
to London, where the household was launched
with great magnificence. When Mrs. Wesley-
Hall died, a few days after the birth of her third
daughter, the bereaved husbancl fled with his
family from England and its sad associations and
settled in Melbourne. After some years he mar-
ried the sister-in-law, who had been with his wife
throughout her married life, and who had devoted
herself to his children from the time of their
mother’s death. The present Mrs. Wesley-Hall
is not a beauty like her predecessor, but is a bright,
comely, little woman, leal and generous to her
own people and devoted to her niece-step-daugh-
ters. The latter havebeen reared hitherto like little
princesses, never wearing a speck of anything but
white from top to toe, and surrounded by a bevy
of foreign nurses with a view to future lingual
proficiency.
“A correspondent of the daily papers makes a
suggestion re a statue to the dead Queen that, in
the interest of the criminal classes, ought to be
adopted with enthusiasm. This genius proposes
that the statue shall be surmounted by a coronet
of solid Victorian gold, and bear a golden sceptre
in its hand. In a city where Parliament has to
put up with a wooden mace because the more
valuable one was stolen, and where gas-meters,
bronze pillars, iron fencing and brass door-
knockers have a habit of disappearing nightly,
this golden proposal should be received with joy.
It would pay Little Lonsdale-st. to contribute to
a shilling subscription towards such a statue.
Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULL.


The Value of Indications !
In 1898 twenty-five of RAFFAN’S Bronchial Catarrh
Remedies were bought. In 1899 the numbers were
260. In 1900 the sales were 2000—convincing testi-
mony of merit and efficacy. In mental and physical
exhaustion it acts like a charm. After a single dose
you feel a sturdiness and firmness of nerve, as if
something had become suddenly unbound. By nutri-
tion it corrects the cause of an unhealthy state of
mouth and stomach. It gives rapid and happy results
in neuralgias, dyspepsias, headaches, eye, ear nose and
throat troubles. Originally made by a London physi-
cian, and sold for a fortune. Now bought by the
public for 2/-, per post 2/6. R. RAFFAN, Pharmacist,
3 Garraway’s Rooms, Queen’s Walk, MELBOURNE.
Largest and Best Company in the World.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE
COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
The Reports of the State Insurance Departments show that the Mutual Life of New York
had, on December 31, 1899,
Larger Total Assets
A Greater Gain in Assets during the Year
A Larger Total Income AND
Larger Amount paid to Policyholders
than any other Company.
ASSETS, at end of 1899, £61,980,398.
Policies include Insurance, Investment, and Trusteeship, as required. Write for particulars, giving
name, address and date of birth, to “ The Manager,”at any of the undermentioned Branch Offices.
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT: Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager.
Branch Offices :
SYDNEY— Company’s Building, Martin Place.
MELBOURNE—2B9 Collins Street.
BRISBANE —377-379 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE— 73 King William Street.
PERTH— St. George’s Terrace.
HOBART —38 Macquarie Street.
One of the dangers of Sydney during the holi-
day season will be Che burglar and sneak-thief. The
Federation festivities will attract all the rascaldom of
Australasia, and plate and purses will be constantly
menaced. Those who are leaving Sydney, and visitors
to Sydney, therefore should deposit their plate, cash
and valuables ih the Sydney Safe Deposit for security
Access can be had to them at any time during business
hours. The vaults are situated behind Paling’s, off
George-street, and are always open for inspection. They
are in themselves a sight worth seeing.*
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR OIL
FOR THE HAIR.
Preserves, Beautifies, Nour-
ishes and Restores it more effect-
ually than anything else; pre-
vents grey hair and scurf. For
Ladies and Children it is the
best preparation ; also in a Gold-
en Colour for fair or grey hair.
ROWLAND’S
ODONTO
EOH THE TEETH.
Whitens and Preserves them,
prevents decay, sweetens the
breath. Ask for Rowland’s ar-
ticles, of Hatton warden, London.
Sold by Chemists and Stores.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
It is recorded that Queen Victoria would
have been named Georgiana, but for the inter-
ference of the Prince Regent.
Of the immediate predecessors, in name, of
King Edward VII., Edward VI. reigned six years
and Edward V. three months.
The Governor-General, it is plain, has no
wasting trouble. He has gained 281 b. in weight
since his arrival at Sydney.
Madden apparently wants to be Lord Mel-
bourne. But lie never will be. Australia greases
lords —but it wouldn’t stand locally-manufactured
ones.
The Duchess of Fife, eldest daughter of
King Edward VII., will be 33 on Feb. 20. Only
her brother York and three young children stand
between her and the throne.
The coins which will be minted for Edward
VII. will be the first issued at London in 400
years with a full-bearded head. Henry VIII.
was the last with a full beard.
Yes, York and May will come. Albert
Edward is a King and a man of some sense, and
he knows that a visit to Australia from York and
May will be the right thing for the welfare of the
King business.
The anti-French feeling in Britain may
have been a factor in the Queen’s death. Had
H.M. spent the cold months in the south of
France as usual, she might have weathered the
severe English winter.
George Turner states that the first official
to draw a salary from the Federal Govt. Treasury
department is an office-boy whom he appointed a
few days ago. Asked for the name of the historic
boy, Turner couldn’t remember it.
When it was cabled that Kruger had wired
condolence on the Queen’s illness, several Maori-
land papers had headlines, “ Kruger’s Impu-
dence.” But when the Queen kindly wired her
sympathies to Mrs. Joubert, noM.L. paper called
it “impudence.”
The new King of England had a habit of
saying that. he would certainly not outlive his
mother. He was thinking of the short lives of
those who drink much champagne, which he is
understood to have practically abandoned in favor
of whisky-and-soda.
Rumor indicates that Primate Cowie, of
Maoriland, proposes shortly to retire. He has
been over 30 years Bishop. He successfully
pacified the Maoris on many touchy occasions.
Originally he hailed from London and is now on
the brink of seventy.
A son of Bryan O’Loghlen, a white-headed
young man of small stature, goes with the sixth
Vic. contingent as Lieutenant at 17s. 6d. per day.
Young O’Loghlen went from a wine-and-spirit
business into the Bushmen’s Contingent, and re-
turned after a few months’ service with Tom
Price.
Michael Heaver, retired member of Vic.
Solice force, who died at Warrnambool the other
ay, was escort in Dublin for Chas. Gavan Duffy
when the latter was on trial for treason. Apropos
of that event, Melb. Age once said in a leader
that Duffy ought never to tie his cravat of a
morning without thanking the gods that his
cervical vertebrae were still intact.
A SKETCH ON MELBOURNE BLOCK.
A Queenslander who just missed by a
point promotion to the Federal Cabinet was
Charles Hardie Buzacott. Buzacott has done
much pioneering in journalism and politics, and
despite the Courier policy, always detested black
labor. As it is, lie hopes to carry a seat in the
Commonwealth elections.
Sixty years ago the map of N.S. W., from
Bathurst to Bourke, was a blank, yet at Warren,
on the Macquarie River, 353 miles out, was one
settler who went there as a boy of 15, and re-
mained there all his life. John Readford,
who at one time held large pastoral properties,
died at Warren on Feb. 1.
Of the first Cabinet in which G. H. Reid
had a seat, only himself and F. A. Wright con-
tinue active volcanoes. Copeland is in England
buying yachts from millionaires and teachings
decorum to duchesses; Stuart, Farnell, Dailey and
Jennings are dead, and the rest are politically
dead. And that is only 17 years ago.
The NSW Western Lands Commission
lately proposed to go into the worst of the
drought-blasted country,
travelling by track
from Broken Hill to
Wilcannia, and
thence towards the
Queensland border.
But after a look at the
awful desolation of the
country outside Broken
Hill, all but three got
into the sleeping-car
andmade for home;
the only M.P. who
faced the trip was
Labor-man Spence.
And it is surely a
sort of poetic jus-
tice that the
squatters should
now have to look
for relief to the
Shearers’ presi dent
who led the bit-
terest fight against
them a few years
back.
What is sauce
for the Dilke isn’t
sauce for the Cham-
berlain apparently.
Dilke had been wir-
ing-in with his agi-
tation about the
Royal spendings
(they were
“Tummy’s ”
rorty days)
when the then
P. of W. fell sick with
typhoid ; and tens of thousands,
anticipating the Prince’s death,
branded Dilke as a murderer. In
fact, he never recovered from the
unpopularity then fastened on him. But,
though the cable once injudiciously let
out that the war had helped to worry
the poor old Queen to her grave,
nobody rises to call Chamberlain a
murderer.
“ Tun ” : Lord Roberts is not a teeto-
taller. I have seen an order from him for a
large consignment of Carbinet, from a Melb.
vigneron.
While G. H. Reid was fishing at the
Scamander, Tas., he asked a yokel, “ Are you a
Protectionist or a Freetrader ? ” The ancient
raspberry-picker, somewhat staggered by the
question, replied, after reverently eyeing the
portly proportions of the champion wobbler, “ I
am a Free Methodist, sir.” He had mistaken
Georgey Porgey for a “ parson.”
The death of Bishop Salvado, of Westralia,
leaves Archbishop Murphy, of Hobart, the oldest
bishop in the Australian R.C. Church. He was
ordained 63 years ago. It was Dr. Murphy who
performed the last rites over Daniel O’Connell.
There are only two prelates alive who were ap-
pointed by Pope Gregory XVI. One of these is
Archbishop Murphy and the other Pope Leo XIII.
Perhaps the most extraordinary double in
Australia is formed by George Reid and “ Teddy”
Finn, the Melbourne journalist. Reid looks much
the older man, but the resemblance between the
two is astonishing. Finn need only buy a monocle
and pertinaciously tuck in his toes to absorb all
the glory Melbourne has to spare for the
unveracious politician whose trade-mark is a dry
dog.
Almost as a matter of course crops up a
yarn to the effect that when the late Queen was
in extremis she sent for a R.C. cleric—Cardinal
Vaughan, this time. Victoria—again as a matter
of course—is also credited with having had during
life those secret R.C. proclivities which that
Church has made a point of attributing to every
noted Protestant monarch—except Billy the
Third !
The dilatoriness of Premier Lyne in ap-
pointing a N.S.W. State commercial agent in
London is caused by a still-lingering doubt as to
whether Lands Minister Hassall is really the
“ boy for Galway.” Ex-Mayor and routed aider-
man' W. P. Manning is not enthusiastic over
immediate politics either in the State or the
Federation, and it is said Lyne is strongly pressed
to give the knight a year or two in London.
There has been a mild rush for private
secretaries lately by State and Federal politicians.
In some cases the billet is seized with alacrity;
but a few who “have been there” regard the
work as only good enough for an unemployed.
Disraeli and Gladstone put their private secre-
taries into Parliament and started them on the
road to a peerage, “but,” said an ex-p.s. lately,
“you are in Australia simply the man who licks
postage-stamps, runs errands when the telephone
won’t work, and keeps tally of drinks.”
What is described as a peculiar point to be
decided in connection with Vic. Old Age Pensions
is that of a lady, born in Hanover in 1825 and
never naturalised in Australia. George Louis,
Elector of Hanover, became King of England in
1714, and that country remained under the British
Crown till in 1837, when, through the operation of
the Salic Law, it passed from the rule of the late
Queen to that of her uncle, the Duke of Cumber-
land. So the aged would-be pensioner claims to
be British-born. And as she certainly was British-
born, her claim looks pretty good.
State Premier
Lyne has joined
the Oddfellows.
Good old block
vote !
THEY USUALLY GO TOGETHER.
BILL: “So that's the parson bloke wot wanted to
convert yer?”
LIZ: “Fes, the old silly. I wouldn’t so much
a-minded if he’d tried to hug me.”
Poor old Rev. Haweis is dead. How he
did pester the Australian dailies to let him spin
along on “music and morals!” “I feel,” he
would say, “that when I address the public
through your great paper, 1 address eighty or a
hundred thousand people, whereas from the pul-
pit three or four thousand are all my voice can
reach.” And then he gave the name of the bank
into which the cheque for the article could be
paid.
A half-forgotten story is that of the telling
of the late Queen’s “fortune” by a gipsy woman
whom she encountered near Balmoral, and who
foretold that Victoria’s death would be presaged
by “ the falling of the Great Stone.” It is well
known that for a long time the Queen took this to
refer to Gladstone, but now comes news that three
weeks before the Queen’s death there fell flat the
largest remaining stone of the famous Druidical
circle at Stonehenge (Eng.).
Trenwith is living up to his reputation as
Vic. Works Minister. T’other day a pick-and-
shovel gang engaged on Yarra bank struck upon
being asked to work “piece,” and carried their
complaint to the Minister. Trenwith went back
to the job with them, and, stripping to his boiled
shirt, began mud-punching with great zeal, and
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the men that
lie could knock out Bs. a shift at the price.
Whereupon the strike was declared off.
The shuffling of the Queensland cards
which gave Drake to the Commonwealth ensures,
it is calculated, the Commonwealth Chief-Justice-
ship for Griffith, and the Q. C.J.-ship for Rut-
ledge. Griffith would prefer Federal active poli-
tics, and is bitter at the popular rejection of his
attempt to grab both a pension and a political
position, but his bitterness will be nothing to
that which Rutledge will experience when he
presses his mediocre claims for the first judicial
seat up North.
A well-advertised Melb. pastor, who is al-
ways topical, preached an expensive sermon on the
new King, Edward VII., the other day, and
pointed out that Albert Edward had always been
an influence for good, a perfect gentleman, and a
man of most exquisite morals. According to the
complacent parson, the King, throughout his
religious early manhood and his saintly middle-
age, has been the righteous victim of shocking
calumnies —nothing more. Nothing succeeds like
succession.
Melbourne papers advertise sale of furni-
ture, pictures, horses, carriages, and other ad-
juncts of wealth and position, in the estate of the
late Otto Hug. Hug, a big handsome Swiss,
was an alleged healer who diagnosed when in
“trance.” He could “go off ”at any time, but
preferred to have his fee “ planked ” as a facilita-
tive. He treated persons at a distance by exami-
nation of their hair “cut close to their heads.”
Did a big business through the post-office, and
must have had enough’ hair on hand to stuff a
mattress.
Mr. Nicholas Lockyer, for years in
N.S.W. Treasury, afterwards Collector of Customs
and till the other day Chief Commissioner of
Taxation, goes into the service of the Federal
Govt, as Collector of Customs at Sydney. Mr,
Lockyer has been a highly successful public officer.
His father, Major- Lockyer, formed the first
British settlement in Weitralia, and was the first
to recommend Brisbane as a white settlement.
Mr. Lockyer, the new Federal officer, is com-
paratively a young man, being midway between
40 and 50.
Cabled that a sketch of the body of the
Queen, lying in state, lias been made by Prof.
Hubert Herkomer, R.A. Let us hope it is not
on a par. with Herkomer’s alleged portrait of the
Queen for which ' he or somebody else got some-
where between 700 and 1000 guineas from Mel-
bourne National Gallery. That so-called portrait
is about the most villainous thing of the sort ever
seen in any civilised country. Tt is an outrage on
Art, a blasphemy against the British Royal House,
and an insult to the human race. It should at
once be tomahawked and burnt, and now is the
time to burn it. Also, it might properly be used
to light the' funeral-pyre of the man: who
engineered its purchase for so outrageous a hunk
of the taxpayers’ money. It is not worth 2s. 6d.,
and would not fetch 7d. at public auction without
the frame.
Apropos a recent Bulletin paragraph to
the effect that Premier Salisbury hadn’t taken the
trouble to speak to Australian Federal leader
Barton :
An item has been eroing the rounds of the U.S. press to
the effect that Lord Salisbury has never so much as
spoken to Mr. John Morley, who was one of Mr. Glad-
stone’s ministers, and is almost the best-known literary
man in England ; also that Lord Salisbury never saw Mr.
Parnell. This was supposed to be a joke, but the follow-
ing, from the London Daily Express, seems to bear out
the statement as serious : “It is reported in Downing-
street that Lord Salisbury has in these reconstruction
arrangements made the acquaintance of several of his
Ministers. ‘ Who is that pleasant-looking man who
bowed to you ? ’ he is said to have asked his nephew one
day when they were out walking. ‘ That,’ replied his
nephew, suavely, ‘is a member of you Cabinet, Mr.
Walter Long, the Minister of Agriculture.’ The Marquis
of Salisbury, adds the Sussex Daily News, as such has
never seen the House of Commons. And he has been
Marquis now for 32 years.”
When that loud self-advertiser and gro-
tesque striker of attitudes, Clement Wragge, dis-
covered that the Styrian peasants fired cannon in
the hope of thereby dissipating hailstorms, and
persuaded the guileless cable-man to send the sur-
prising discovery all this way, he really struck, in
a very ignorant and backward corner of Europe,
the lingering remnants of a century-old supersti-
tion that has gone broke elsewhere. And it
would seem as if Clement W. had accepted this
belated fragment of old tradition as a new dis-
covery. The Wragge myth is as hard to under-
stand as the Reid myth. Clement has no better
luck in weather-prophecy than other Australian
authorities —in fact of late he seems to have had
very little luck. He has done no original work in
meteorology that anybody seems to have heard of.
His fad of a high-level station on Kosciusko was
only the revival of European and American
idea which had fallen into comparative disrepute
in other countries —a bit of old conservatism which
was passed off on the guileless Australian as some-
thing new—and it has produced no known results.
How do such things as the Wragge and Reid
myths keep afloat ?
“ Brew ” concerning the cabled release
from prison of Gabrielle Bompard :
It sets one recalling the stir made by the affair in the
Rue Tronijon-Ducoudray in ’B9. Having decoyed an
attorney named Gouff6 to her room, she and her lover
Eyraud strangled him, put the body in a trunk and drove
out to Lyons, where they had a quiet little funeral with a
ditch as grave. Some time afterwards she quarreled with
Eyraud—it shows how careful one must be when murder-
ing people in the company of a woman—and cheerfully
gave the whole affair away to the police. They locked
her up while looking for Eyraud, but gaol had no terrors
for Gabrielle. She liked it, and enthusiastically remarked
to a reporter that the table d’ hdte was excellent and the
gaolers jolly good fellows. When they took Gabrielle
to the little back room in the Rue Ducoudray and
went through the solemn farce of the reconstruction du
crime, she sat on the sofa and roared with merry laughter
as she explained the details. One gendarme got behind the
curtains and noosed another with a rope. “Magnificent!”
laughed Gabrielle, as the strangled bobby rolled his eyes
and lolled out his tongue, with due respect for detail,
“ That is the exact pose, monsieur. Please do it again, for
it makes me laugh. That is Gouff6 to the life.” The
Parisian populace adored its Gabrielle, and wore her fair
portrait over its heart. When she came up for trial there
were yet other surprises. The gentle Gabrielle accused
Eyraud of having hypnotised her. Gabrielle was a
woman, and beautiful ; Eyraud was neither. A gallant
court bowed to Gabrielle, gave her a term of imprison-
ment, regretting the sad necessity, and guillotined
Eyraud. Now Gabrielle, after 11 years of an excellent
table d’hote and the company of jolly good fellows, has
been released as Jane Small, in return for her exemplary
conduct. She will marry, and will bring into the world
lusty children to strangle more attorneys—or (stand back,
thou Horror !) to become attorneys themselves. Charm-
ing Gabrielle ! • ■


MACONOCHIE’S
FRESH HERRINGS
KIPPERED HERRINGS
HERRINGS IN TOMATO SAUCE
FINDON HADDOCKS
PRESERVED FISH OF AM. KINDS.
MARMALADE
UNIVERSAL PICKLES
BOTTLED FRUITS
POTTED MEATS
SALMON and SHRIMP PASTE.
Worcestershire Sauce
MACONOCHIE BROS., Ltd LONDON
SWIFT & CO., 7 SPRING ST., SYDNEY
WATSON’S WHISKY.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
$
Hotel
Australia
Rates from 12/6 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
The COOLEST Hotel in the
Southern Hemisphere during
the summer months.
J. SMITH (Late of Menzies*), Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
AS TO THE SENATE.
“The Devonshire-street cemetery site being required for a
Sydney central railway-station, the long-interred coffins and the
tombstones over them are now being removed.” — Daily Paper.
1ST. FOSSIL: "Say, we’ve got to clear out. What are
YOU going to do about it?”
2ND. DO.: “ Oh, the Federal elections will soon be on—
let’s stand far the Senate along with Colonna-Close
and Mary Jane Gould and the rest of that lot.”
“ W.S.” writes to The Bulletin re the
horrors of the Western drought, and accompanies
his letter with some absolutely blood-curdling
photographs, which are too faint in definition to
be effectively reproduced
It is impossible for the city dweller or the denizen of
rain-blessed country to form any idea of the utter desola-
tion and misery wrought by the drought in the Far West.
Miles on miles of parched and burning desert—of empty
creeks and water-courses, the cracked beds of which
see in to gasp ; shrivelled scrub and dusty, stunted trees,
under which the famine-stricken stock have huddled up
seeking shelter from the pitiless sun, and died. A line of
thick timber in the distance marks a “ permanent ” hole
in a creek—never before known to fail, but now dry, with
the cattle rotting in heaps on the banks, in the bed, and
all around to the number of over two thousand ! And
hundreds of other dry water-holes bear similar witness to
the drought-fiend’s awful havoc. From the S.A. border
to the Cooper, across fiery sandhills on which the spinifex
is burnt black ; across the stony downs of the Cooper
country, from the Wilson to the Bulloo, from the Bulloo
to the Paroo, and from the Paroo to the Warrego, it is all
the same—one long stretch of withered wilderness, with
not a hoof to be seen for miles.
The breeding herds are all gone. The strings of
motherless calves following the cattle-pads out from the
water-holes told their own tale ; and that was many
months ago. Day to day, from bad to worse, the strong
have followed the weak, until, in the Cooper country,
total annihilation now marks stations which used to run
20,000 to 60,000 head of cattle.
Eastward, in the scrub-country, the miserable remnants
of once-numerous flocks and herds still linger, existing on
scrub felled by armies of scrub-cutters ; but without
green feed, most of them must also die. “Scrub-balls”
are formed in the paunches of the sheep, so large that
they can be felt, and it is marvellous how the animals
survive.
Could it have been known that the scourge would last
so long it would have paid better to let sheep take their
chance, because when the losses which have been cut for
are reckoned the balance now scrub-fed will have cost, in
places, somewhere about £i a head to keep them alive.
To sum-up, it is utterly impossible to write of the
country as it is ; no one who had not seen it would believe
the truth. It would be interesting to know what the
composition of the scrub-balls aforesaid is ; it would give
an idea of the “tucker” that unfortunate stock have to
live on in these parts.
* * * *
“P. ” : Passed nearly 100 camels near
Cobham (N.B.W. far-west) lately, nearly all
loaded with bran and ohaH to keep station horses
alive. As for saving the sheep, that is past,
hoping.
* * * *
Peter Waite, managing director of Momba,
which has a bigger acreage than any other N.S.
Wales sheep-squattage, to the Lands Commis-
sion : “In 1891 we paid £5OOO for shearing; in
1900, £l9OO. And yet per thousand it costs us
more than it used to.” This in illustration of
drought losses.
• * * *
After a particularly hard struggle another
far north-west (N.S. W.) squatter, 22 years in the
district, has just put his possessions into a carpet-
bag and walked out.
Dear Bulletin.— Re “Mac’s"
combined strong woman and glass-
masticator (B. 15/12/’00). Writer did
the Pacific slope (U.8.A.) in ’96 with
a “ variety ” co. that billed a “ strong
woman.” At Monterey, after the
show one night, we had a “family”
supper, which the state of the treasury
justified us in lubricating pretty
freely. Conversation had turned
upon strong-jaw acts, when the S.W.,
who had imbibed rather deeply, but
had remained hitherto silent, sud-
denly jumped up, grabbed a pair of
glass salt-cellars—big, “unbreakable ”
articles weighing about 41b. each—
and snorted forth: “Talk about
chewin’ glass ! L’k ’ere, y’
1 how’s this, and this, and
this ? ” —rending first one salt-cellar
and then the other with her powerful
jaws. The co., rough as it was at
the best, gazed at her in horror
whilst glass-chips flew all over the
place. But quickly the fragments
turned a bright red and the fury gave
in two-thirds of the way through the
second salt-cellar. Bleed ? Yes, a
small bucketful. Now, will “ Mac.”
say how much his woman used to
Meed—just for technicality’s sake.
as for strong women in general, saw
one once in Hanover-street, Boston,
with a big police-officer under each
arm and busily kicking another in
front of her. This was at midnight,
and the three were objecting for all
they were worth, but with no effect
worth mentioning. Also, it may be
news to “ Mac ” that it is easier to
carry two sacks of flour the way he
mentions than one. While as for
teeth-lifting, those “in the know ”
smile hard every time that topic
comes up for discush.—A Retired
“Sampson.”
* * *
A Bulletin correspondent as-
serts that “ at the ’55 Blackwood rush
(about 20 miles from Ballarat) a great
storm one night brought trees down
in all directions. The diggers had
been mining round the roots. Re-
sult—l 7 men killed outright and
about 25 maimed in various ways.”
Never heard of this before. Such
an occurrence would surely be his-
toric.
“Carl”: A Windsor-district orchardist
has a plan of his own. He is breaking-in a young
heifer to draught. Has her tethered to a log 9ft.
long, 18in. wide and 9in. thick with a plough-
chain, which is fastened round animal’s neck and
secured by wire. The poor beast is forced by
hunger to drag this encumbrance from place to
place, the ground all around being deeply scored
by the log.
THE HEATHEN IN HIS BLINDNESS.—IN ANTICIPATION.
“ Mammy,” said the clever boy of the family, “ that long-legged old geeser over there talking
the king, my father — that’s the new clergyman, isn’t it?” “ Yes, my child,” said his mother, her
maternal eye glistening with pride at the thought that his tender mind was thus early turning to
serious subjects. “ Yes, that’s the new clergyman.” “ Then, mother, won’t you save me one of his
shin-bones to make a flute?” “ How can I promise you, tiresome boy, when, for all I know, your
father may want ’em both to make a blow-gun. Now run away and play, and don’t wake your
little sister.”
“ Pyalla ” tells about the “ blue-gums ” :
Bush-pub. “brandy” is prolific enough Of snakes and
spiders, but only once did I see a case of the “ blue-
gums.” He was an out-back wanderer of the “ better
days’ ” class, and had been drinking hard, but we had no
idea that he had “ got ’em.” He was sitting propped up
against a tree near the pub. when suddenly he sprang to
his feet with a yell and made off as fast as he
could run, screeching as he went “ A wattle! a
wattle ! Oh, God ! for a wattle.” We followed up,
and presently we found him lying at the foot of
a wattle tree with his arms clasped tightly round the
trunk. “ What game’s this, Doc ? ” said one of the boys ;
“ Gome along back with us and have a drink.” “God !
no—let me be,” he said ; “ I’ve found a wattle—l’m safe
from the blue-gums ! ” We tried hard to unloose his
clasp, but it was no go. All the time he kept saying in a
hoarse whisper, his eyes staring wildly out of a hideously-
atfrighted countenance, “ Oh, look at the blue-gums !
They’re after me ! Didn't you see them as I ran -drag-
ging their roots out of the ground and following me ?
Oh, look at their twisted trunks ! that’s where their eyes
are. Look at them glarin’ at me ! Didn't you hear them
calling to each other as I ran, ‘Head him off! head him
off ! Stop him from reaching a wattle ! That’s the only
thing that can save him ! ’ Oh, look at their roots twirl-
ing and curling. Look at their eyes ! My God ! no—
don’t take me from the wattle ! ” We let him lie there
for some time ; then we got him loose and began to drag
him along. He got away from us twice, and each time
ran like mad until he reached a wattle. At last we had
to give him his way, and we watched him with his arms
round a wattle until next day. Then we managed to drag
him back to the pub., but he died two days later, still
crying that the blue-gums were after him.
TRUE SUPPORTERS OF THE POLICY OF
DRY DOG.
CHORUS OF FOREIGN IMPORTERS: “Now then,
George , remember you are to fight for us poor
men.”
“ Ita ” re the “ chaffing ” habit :
With the shearer and the navvy their open-air environ-
ment partly accounts for their excessive levity ; but the
conditions obtaining under-ground—the isolation, dark-
ness, community of danger-circumstances which ordi-
narily draw men closer together—render the deep-ground
miner of the “flash” order the most selfish and self-
centred of beings. The only bond uniting him to his fellow
workers is a spirit of aggressive ridicule towards some
unfortunate who either has not the strength or the spirit
to fight. Once knew a trucker —a mere boy—whose life
was rendered a hell by reason of an indecent nickname,
bestowed upon him by a certain hairy giant, which
“ stuck.” He used often to miss “ shift” and pay rather
than face the jeers of the crowd on tip. The miners were
lowered to their work, two at a time, in a bucket, in
which each man placed a leg ; and the bully made a
point of going down with the lad for the sake of making
some filthy jest as they disappeared from view. But one
day something happened in transitu,' and the two were
emptied down through some hundred feet of blackness.
The jury found “ accidental death,” caused by the bucket
striking a ledge and tilting, but those who knew the cir-
cumstances believed that the young fellow had cast both
himself and his tormentor to perdition.
* * * •
“ Yang Anyufc ” : Re superfluous digits (B.
19/1/’9l). A certain well-known Australian official
and literary man was thus afflicted or blessed in
both feet. Of four children, only the eldest
(a daughter) inherited the peculiarity, which
she duly transmitted to her eldest child (a son),
who in turn may be expected to impart the super-
fluity to at least one of his progeny. A second
thumb, boneless, but bearing a nail, is the com-
monest deformity 1 have noticed on Chinamen,
but strangely no case of the kind in a Chinawoman
Ij&s come under my notice, though I have taken
special care to seek for such an abnormality.
* * * •
“ Ababon : ” I know a, man in Dubbo
(N.S.W.), who has such an intense dread of
lightning, that \vhen a thunderstorm comes on he
creeps into a chest kept for the purpose, while
as an additional precaution his wife acts as
lightning-conductor by sitting on the chest till
the storm is over.
“ Thurla ” : Re Xerxes’
query (8., 29/12/’00) as to the
wherefore of cod-fish in the
anabranches and not in the
main river after a fresh. Per-
haps this may enlighten :—The
Warrumbungle blacks used to
enclose with stakes large beds
of sand that had been water-
holes in the Castlereagh and its
feeders. When a fresh came
they would spear and catch
the fish in these enclosures.
Their version was that the fish
got cut off in the rapidly-falling
river, and during drought were
forced to burrow and follow
the water as the holes gave out,
just as the crayfish, &c., do.
V hen these beds became water-
holes again, the blacks would
wade in, and wherever bubbles
rose, would spear a fish as it
came up from the sand. Be-
lieve that the whites have copied
tliis method, but they use wire netting in
place of stakes.
GOHANNAS I HAVE MET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Some decent sorts of chaps, in * Ab-
Originalities,’
Tell of “ six-foot gohannas’—well,
Such 1 truthful ’ yarns as these
Just make me smile ; now listen ! but—
(You’ll doubt my words, I’ll bet!)
A song I’ll hum—or sing—of some
Gohannas ‘ I have met.’
" Bring on y’r ‘ Dipperotodons,’
Y’r Meggertheriums,’
Y’r ‘ Pleasysaurs,’ y’r ‘ Mastodons,’
Y’r whole aquariums !
And when y’ve brought th’ biggest Dipp—
Or Megg that you can get,
I tell y’ that they’re nothink to
Gohannas ‘ I have met.’
“ In days when beer had ‘ bite ’ in it;
The good old long ago ;
Th’ days of sprees, an’ cheques, an’ love—
When men were not too slow ;
The day of tramps ; before the time
Of cattle-trucks an’ trains,
I carted wool with teams of ‘ bulls ’
Across the Ole Man Plains.
“ One night I struck camp rather late,
An’ as I had no dog
To round th’ bulls up through th’ night
I chained ’em to a log ;
I chained ’em to one end, ye see,
As tight’s Y could desire,
Then went down to the other end
An’ lit me campin’ fire.
“ The fire was burnin’ brightly up,
An’ gettin’ nice an’ warm !
When, jumpin’ bunyips, boys ! that log—
Began to move, an’ squirm,
Then shook itself an’ gave a cough 1
(I knelt down then to pray.)
It looked at me ! then walked with ‘ bulls ’
An’ chains an’ all away.
“ Quite sleepy-like it towed them ‘ bulls,’
Like feathers, in a heap ;
He dragged ’em up a red-gum tree,
Then lay down fer a sleep.
I never got a bullock of
That blessed team again ;
The bones an’ chains hung there fer years,
Out on the Ole Man Plain.”
“ There ain’t no trees out on the plain I ”
“ Well, now, who said there was ?
Er—well, y’see—y’see, my boys—
They all died oil, becos—
With beasts like that a-climbin’ ’em—
They couldn’t stand th’ strain !
That’s why, y’see, there ain’t a tree
Out on the Ole Man Plain.”
ALONE


“APENTA,” ‘ * 2
The Best Natural Aperient Water,
relieves the kidneys, unloads the liver, and opens the
bowels.
Sole Exporters: The Apollinaris Company, Limited,
London, W.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
They
never
wear
out.
MAPPIN & WEBB, of London and Sheffield
(Silversmiths to Her late Majesty the Queen),
Make positively the BEST SPOONS and FORKS
in England.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS
Plain Figure
Cash Prices.
Sole Australian Agents,
Vice-Regal Jewellers.
23 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY
They are made on a white hard metal base.
They wear white right through.
They are the most heavily-plated made in England.
They never wear out.
We guarantee them for 25 years.
They engrave like solid silver.
They are the most artistic shapes.
They are sold at London catalogue prices.
They are the cheapest forks money can buy, as they
wear so long and look so good.
They are as low as inferior goods.
A Girl in Danger.
A COFFEE PALACE AFFAIR.
Hearing that a young lady residing at the
Victoria Coffee Palace, Nolan-street Mary-
borough, Vic., had been in danger of her life,
under peculiarly distressing circumstances, a
reporter called upon her at the establishment,
which is noted for its home-like comfort and
moderate tariff. Miss Minnie Lethlean gave the
following particulars:—
“l am twenty-four years of age,” said she, “and
a native of Bendigo. It is quite true,” she con-
tinued, in answer to a specific enquiry, “that I
have been in danger of losing my life, though,
judging by my appearance, you would scarcely
think so. When I was eighteen, I was attacked
by influenza, and, subsequently, by pneumonia.
No one thought I would recover, and so severe
were my sufferings that partial paralysis set in.
By degress the paralysis left me, but I became
anaemic. I felt utterly run down, my face and
1 ips were pallid and bloodless ; I frequently
fainted, and on hot days could scarcely put one
foot before the other. I was depressed in spirits,
and the anaemia seemed to be developing into
consumption. I was placed under medical treat-
ment, but only temporary benefit was received.
Several so-called tonics were then tried, but they
proved useless. I read in the newspapers how
Dr. Williams’ pink pills had cured many cases of
anaemia, and I began taking them. After the
first box, I felt brighter and happier. As I con-
tinued with them, the color returned to my face
my eyes and skin were brighter, and I began to
put on flesh. My blood became enriched, and in
every vein and nerve I felt the benefit I was
receiving. Six boxes completely cured me. lam
now quite strong and plump. I eat and sleep
well, and take a real pleasure in life.”
By building up the blood and retoning the
nerves, Dr. Williams’ pink pills make weak and
listless men and women strong and happy. They
have cured thousands of cases of anaemia, debility,
paralysis, consumption, bronchitis, skin diseases,
dyspepsia, dysentery, chronic headaches, ladies’
ailments, loss of manly strength, etc. Sold by
chemists and storekeepers, and by the Dr
Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney,
two and nine per box, six boxes fifteen and three,
post free. “ How to Cure Anaemia ” ; write for
special instructions.*
“The Whitewashed Knight’' is the newest
sobriquet for Fitzgibbon in the Age office.
Franz Josef Lager Beer
. . . The Most Popular, because it is Unequalled in Quality
Order
SCHWEPPE’S /CRATED
SARSAPARILLA
Dear Bulletin, —Isn’t the Jaypee busi-
ness a bit oppressive? In our township you can
be served with sausages by a J.P. butcher, with
cheese by a J.P. storekeeper, and with calico by
a J.P. draper. If you drive after dark without
lights you will be served with a summons by a
J.P. inspector of nuisances ; next day you will be
fined ss. and costs by a J.P. publican (who is
mayor as well). And then the local newspaper
(owner a J.P.) will report the proceedings. In
fact, the only man in the town who'is anybody,
and is not a J.P. is the schoolmaster. — Kay.
* * * ♦
Be woman workers : There used to be a
lady in Southern Tas., who owned a draught stal-
lion, and travelled him herself, personally super-
intending the contracts.
* * • •
“Where’s that
fat-lamp, Jim ? ” asked
the contractor of one
of the “hands” who
were shifting the tent
at the finish of a big
station - fencing con-
tract. “ Pitched it
away,” replied Jim ;
“ it’s only an old fruit-
tin.” “Never mind
what it is,” snapped
the boss—“you go and
find it.” The tin was
recovered and the boss
scraped out the fat,
revealing a layer of
earth beneath, and
under this Jim was
paralysed to behold
over £7O in notes. It
was the contractor’s
pay-cash-box. Jim, at
date, is the most dis-
gusted fencer in C.Q.
* • •
Antwerp Zoo is
considered the finest
in the world (writes a
well - known Sydney
journalist, now travel
ling). Australia is re-
presented by a kanga-
roo. Almost every-
thing in the animal
line hailing from this
end of the globe is
cheerfully labelled
“kangaroo” at Ant-
werp, whether it be
wallaby, ’possum, na-
tive bear or bunyip.
The only thing Aus-
tralian that isn’t
labelled “kangaroo” is a big snake. There is
also a blue map of Australia on the cages, with
■jink streaks showing in what part the beasties
may be found. One pink streak sets forth that
the kangaroo is very plentiful in Sydney and
simply rages about Burwood and Parramatta.
* * * *
“Yang Anyut ” : Be friction and fire-
making. In Borneo I have seen fire obtained in
a dozen ways; commonest method being to make
in a bit of soft-wood a 1,-in.-deep hole, in which,
when filled with tinder, a piece of split bamboo is
twirled with right hand, top end pressed by palm
of left hand —said bamboo being bent by pressure
into a semi-circle. Sparks, too, are readily obtain-
able by striking dry bamboo against a sharp edge
of broken glazed china.
* * * *
“Peter K. : ” To “W. F. H. ’
(8., 15/12/’00): My Ballarat experience is still a
fact; and I attach no importance to Mark
Twain’s discovery, for never yet (and I have had
much experience of them) have I heard a Bal-
laratite say “thank you,” or even “ kue,” for any-
thing. \
“Pyalla” : Be the flying-fox
pest (B._ 15/12/’00). On the Macleay I
once witnessed a great slaughter of
these bats. Hearing that the blacks
were going to raid a stenchy “ camp,”
I attended, and when at sunset the
flying-foxes had sallied forth in thou-
sands the blacks cut about a dozen of
the “ roosting’’-trees nearly through.
Then we waited on the outskirts of
the scrub till near day-break when the
bats began to return and squabble, as
usual, for position. Hanging head-
down wards from the limbs of the trees
and from each others’ wings their
numbers -increased until the united
weight brought the weakened trees
down. Then the waiting blacks rushed
in, and great was the slaughter— and
the stink. Peaches merely brushed by
flying-foxes’ wings are tainted ; yet the
blacks eat these fulsome delicacies.
* ♦ •
A Maoriland flax-cutter entered
a local pub. one day, recently, and
drank 18 pints of beer. On leaving,
he remarked to the publican that he
would call in later on “and have a skin-full.”
* * * *
Found recently, 10ft. underground, at
Okete Falls, Rotorua, (M.L.), two pieces of quartz
rudely shaped as tools and probably belonging to
an earlier race than the Maoris of the Arawa
migration.
W. F. Hawtrey.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
W. F. Hawtrey, the man who brought the
“Message from Mars” to Sydney, is brother to
the famous London actor - manager, Charles
Hawtrey.
“I will be 45 years old on Monday, will have
been 20 years an actor by 2nd Feb., and 11 years
a teetotaller on 26th Feb. Tea? I like five or
six cups in an afternoon —this hot weather. My
first part was Mullins, the footman, in Burnand’s
play of ‘The Colonel.’ Pinero’s wife, Myra
Holme—she was a widow then, a Mrs. Hamilton
—was also in the cast.
“ I like to have as many pretty girls as I can in
the company, because the more pretty girls I have
The natural water-hole on what is now Mt. Poole station, far-west
N.S.W., alongside which explorer Sturt camped in the awful drought
he had the had luck to strike, has lately run dry—the first time on
record. Poole, Sturt’s lieutenant, who died in this depdt, was buried
under a tree which still stands; it bears an inscription. The property
is in the hands of the family of Melb.’s cx-Mayor Lang, who pre-
serves the historical landmarks.
the more the public is pleased. You see, a man
gets credit for the work done for him by others,
and pretty girls who are capable actresses contri-
bute wonderfully to success.
“ The actors in London, generally speaking, are
much cleverer than the actresses ; but out here I
find, that girls born in Australia, with only Aus-
tralian experience, have much more idea of acting—
are much more artistic—than the Australian men.
There’s a heap of stage talent in Australia; all
that’s wanted is for it to be brought forward.
Theatre conditio.is here now, as they were in
America 20 yeais ago—require the English lead
to make the company acceptable to the public.
But just as they’ve done away with the English
lead in America so they’ll do away with it here.
It has been said that both my brother Charley and
I lay ourselves out to get prominent society girls
into our companies, but that is not quite correct.
We try to get as nice a company as we can—we
want suitable actresses, and we pick the best who
come along. I always work hard at the small
parts, because they give a finish to the whole
piece that is wanting if the small parts are badly
or indifferently played.
“We call ‘Mars’ a play, but, as a matter of
fact, it’s a melodrama with a light comedy hero.
THE SPREAD OF MILITARISM.-ROYAL
BENGAL CAVALRY.
“ Heh! Tuppence yer don’t hit the spud, Billy.”
Ganthony brought my brother the play, and he
read it. It was then absolutely unlike its present
form. It was very much longer and almost in>
practicable to produce. But Charles saw in it
the makings of a big play ; recognised that the
audience would be intensely amused and delighted
at the selfishness of Parker in the first act; saw
the opportunities for striking situations and novel
effects in the second act ; and also saw that by
various little incidents in the third act, such as the
clock striking and the fire-engines passing, that
the audience could be shown the psychological
reasons for the dream in the second act. My
brother Charles therefore bought the entire rights
of the piece from Ganthony on the sole condition
that Ganthony’s name should always appear as
author.” (This sounds rather like what “Mars”
was punished for.) “ Charles, on buying the play
from Ganthony, gave it to my brother George to
rewrite and reconstruct on the lines that my
brother Charles had thought out. The piece is
now running its 15th month in London, and at
last mail to over £lOOO a week. It did well through
the hot weather of June and July ; it prospered in
the dead season of August and first half of Sept. ;
and Ch arles F rohman of N. Y. unsuccessfully offered
my brother, first, £5OOO, and then a much higher
sum for the rights of ‘Mars’ in America. And
all this has happened since the first night of
‘Mars,’ when my brother received the worst of
bad omens by putting his shoulder out on the
stage. Since I staged the piece in Sydney two
reputed actual messages from Mars have been re-
ported in the newspapers, and this fact caused a
cabbie whom I passed the other day to remark to
his mate, ‘ Bill ! look over yer right shoulder ; the
fat bloke ; that’s ’Awtrey, who’s runnin’ the ‘ Mes-
sage from Mars.’ I wonder ’ow much ’es payin’
for those yarns in the papers about real messages.
’E must think we don’t know anything out ’ere,
eh ? ’
“ Clean plays ! —that’s the maxim of my brother
Charles and myself. Look at the exceptional
runs:—‘Our Boys’—over three years; ‘Private
Secretary ’ —two years ; ‘ Charley’s Aunt ’ —over
four years ; ‘ Our Flat ’ —l played in ‘ Our Flat ’
during three distinct years. Now ‘Mars' is in
its 15th month, and Charles Frohman is offering
my brother £lOO per week salary and a guarantee
that my brother’s share of the profits shall not be
less than another £lOO per week to play ‘ Mars ’
in New York at Frohman’s theatre; and Nat
Goodwin prophesies that Charles will make
£lOO,OOO out of the two American tours. You see
it’s the absolutely clean plays that have the big
runs. I’m perfectly certain that the public would
sooner not have blueness; I believe in keeping the
theatre clear of it. The public like fun and
amusement without it, and they can have it, too.
There’s been a public outcry in London against
blueness ; and managers are appreciating the fact
that fun without nastiness or vulgarity will bring
more money and more people than questionable
performances will. Twenty years ago ladies were
never seen in London music-halls, but now they
go to them nearly as often as they go to the
theatres. The music-hall manager is getting more
and more careful as to what his people sing and
say and do, not only because he wishes to preserve
his license, but because he also recognises that
while a blue song will appeal to a certain section
of the public, a clean song will appeal to every-
one. And ladies are going now to the music-halls
where people smoke, because smoking is not con-
sidered the sin that it was 20 years ago.
“The whole tendency of the London stage is
towards the purer drama and the cleaner songs;
and I wouldn’t give a blue play, however brilliant
in dialogue and clever in construction, more than
a three months’ run in London. My brother
Charles put on a somewhat cerulean piece some
years ago, and the disappointment of his
audiences was so great that after quickly with-
drawing it lie said : ‘ Never again will I put on a
play that’s in the slightest degree off-color. First,
because I don’t-care for it myself; second, because
it appeals only to a very limited section of the
public ; third, because we cull the harvest from so
much larger a field if the play we produce is
clean.’ And my own desire here is to show the
public that we can give them any amount of
amusement without touching on any sexual pro-
blem or introducing suggestive matter. Yet, on
the first Sydney performance of ‘ Mars ’ I received
this criticism from a city paper: ‘ “Mars” is a
play where marriage and adultery are the com-
ponent ethics.’ There’s misrepresentation for you
—from a critic who didn’t go.
“ ‘ Tanqueray ? ’ Of course it is a marvel of
construction and a masterpiece in dialogue—
beautiful as a literary work. It’s intensely clever,
from the conversation of the men in the first act
to Paula’s suicide in the last —it is what I call a
play of extraordinary working. I went to see it
four times in London ; I was so charmed with
Mrs. Pat Campbell’s acting. Pinero based the
human interest of Tanqueray not on sensational-
ism, not on blueness for blueness’ sake, but on the
fact that in London Aubrey Tanqueray very often
does marry Paula. That’s where the interest
came in. It so often happens in London, that a
man falls in love with a woman ‘with a past,’ and
so many men have gone to the altar with this un-
answered question : ‘ Can a man reinstate such a
worn an by marryin g her ? ’ As the question works
out for Paula Tanqueray, the question goes
against her; her bad luck sticks to her; she can’t
get away from herself; poor woman ! she is
always on her defence ; and in the end she sees no
way out but suicide. In real life luck sometimes
comes the way of Paulas ; look at , and ——,
and , and scores of others who have lived
their reputations down, have led perfectly
placid and exemplary married lives, and have
died in the odor of sanctity. The reason !”
(so saying Hawtrey put his hand in his pocket
and pulled out a handful of money) “ That ! and
Luck ! A friendly hand came their way, lifted
them on to another plane and ever after things
went smoothly. Many a man and woman have
;one helplessly down for want of the least bit of
sustaining luck or power or friendship.
“Kipling’s own adaptation of ‘The Light that
Failed ’ with the sad ending of the man going
blind again, will be produced by my brother
Charles; Anstey’s ‘ The Man from Blankleys ’is
also in preparation.
“ Nance o‘Neil? Until I saw her in ‘ Macbeth ’
I thought she was only an apt pupil of M‘Kee-
Rankin’s. But after I saw her save ‘ Macbeth ’as
a play in Sydney I gave her all credit for initiative,
acting, originality, courage and determination.
Until she came on the play dragged awfully and I
suffered intensely. The tears were starting in my
eyes. I felt I must shout out or do something to
relieve the tension consequent on the feeling of
imminent fiasco. Then Nance O’Neil came on
with her commanding presence and forceful act-
ing, and saved the play—yes ! saved the play !
A strong word of praise, however, must be given
that most capable man, Kingston.
W. F. EAWTBEY, as the Tramp in “The
Message from Mars.”
Photo, by Talma & Co., Sydney.
“I asked Cardinal - Moran to come and see
‘ Mars,’ but he told me that it was against the
law of the Church for any of the clergy to visit
the theatre.
“Amy Roselle appeared with me in ‘The
Colonel,’ 20 years ago. lam not surprised at her
wanting to die; Dacre was a most depressing man
to know. He always had a grievance; always
imagined that every man’s hand was against his.
“Charles Wyndham is a lovely actor; anything
I’ve seen him in he has done charmingly. There’s
Beerholm Tree, Wyndham, my brother Charles —
(although I say it ‘as shouldn’t ’) Charles Groves,
and Titheradge —possessing the rare gift of con-
vincing their audience of the reality of it.
Wyndham, you know, at the outset of his career,
met with disappointment after disappointment—
fot the sack. And the marvellous thing about
im is that, although his voice is hard, rasping,
and metallic, you cannot go to hear him without
finding him intensely interesting and most con-
vincing.”
S. A. MILLS.


A<> .v- 'So i«•
„^r/
THE REVIVAL OF PUSH ISM.
The strong arm of the law is hereby called
upon to put its foot down with a heavy
hand
GRANNY’S TRUE TITLE
“ Here y’are, the teeny little ’ebau> a
penny each.”
-Tim : “ Look ’ere, Bill, I’ve jest
hter’ly worn my boots out lookin’
for work, and I can’t git none. This
world hain’t no use,for me, an’ I’m
thinkin’ o’ jumpin’ off the pier.”
Bill : “I say, don’t do that just
G'.H.R. : “ Now where is that little dog of mine got to?»
(With apologies to an old print)
ffijoiTon Bulletin (to one Artist): “Look jiere. We are getting too muck of
George Reid in the paper lately. Can’t you get hold of some less rotund
politician who will take up less valuable space 1 ”
{The editor of this paper sometimes indulges his mania for condensation;, to
the extent of a vice.)
SPRATS FOR MACKEREL.
“ The Australians are the finest troops that ever faced a foe.”— Unalith Pavers.
More Australians wanted for South Africa.”— Cable. '
Kangaroo : “ Holy Smoke ! you’re getting on to my leg all right.! ”
,Lion ; “ Yon bet 1 Can’t do better this sort of weather! ”
THINGS IN GENERAL.


a local-option poll
NUMURKAH, Tuesday.
a largely attended meeting of the temper-
ance party was held on W
consider what action should be ta..en wito
regard to the forthcoming local option poll
en 26th February. On the ground that the
■ll not originated by the temperance
naiVy tut by interested individuals, lor the
?ake of the compensation, it was decided
that the temperance party >
«?r»Hdlv for the continuance ot tlic existing *
rn licences This decision was largely
arrived at by the fact that in other towns
where a reduction had been curried the
closing of the hotels was invariably fob
lowed 8 by the issue of a large number of
wine licences and the carcymg on ot «■*
arog selling. S
t! eC^Oy
X* 0
*
* o*'
V* <>
, - /■ v°
,/W
* V’V*
. /</
-
\V \?
\ e •*>
/ouyg)
(w|>o droned
*K Cfcl ) • —'Veil ,1 Ci> Slop
'io" ir 1?c si<sl€s
r lH it" '/o r-fj
—(qecroe figid /
y' SmaJl bo^. — S\i i
p,* <9e*r>w|
op " power" op /A-fto rrtty ? <2^)j
QrM* 4& :—" Hi 4eJ e ** r
W a S°^ o+
S UKe njoyey #<*)<»
gc 1o 'j° r '
I "P H ‘ ,a jnnan.—
J7SSSZ&**
gfjt 70 s t 7
I 7 ] Co, c^
$° jor tjr> ' J
(Jnef'
> 17 ci bsj
J o y-. U+"
05 j?^ ve .0°
<^ue^"ti o 9
- °f
'fw
1 e ’ W ' ,c 1 . A
£"fife ajtaMe -wWr-
c '*"n I
lji<, o *
MELBOURNIANA.


Lever.
A. Saunders’s
Strong, Reliable LEVERS—“ THE CHAL-
LENGE,” 15s. The UNRIVALLED LEVER,
in Black or Nickel, '2os—perfect timekeeper.
The LONDON LEVER, new f-plate model,
25s ; in Solid Silver, £2 2s ; in Double-case,
£2 10s, £3. ROTHERHAM LEVERS, £3 10s,
£4, £5, £6, >7, £B. Gold Watches, £4 4s,
£5 6s, £6 6s, ' 7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Mind, we guarantee you the utmost satisfac-
tion, “ otherwise we will exchange watch for
you.” Send for illustrated book of particulars,
post free.
A. Saunders.
Registered Gold 2-Bird, 2-Heart Amethyst
Brooch, 20s ; Pearl Set Bird, 22s 6d ;
15c. Gold, £2.
A. Saunders.
Brooch Crescent, Pearls and Turquoise,
Pure Silver-gilt, 5s 6d ; Heart Shape, 6s Cd.
The Latest Style.
@ll il
m
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Brooch, Diamond and B iby
Horse-shoe, 355. A Pretty Brooc i.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Brooch, 2 Bar . Scrolls, 3 Pure
Diamonds, 2 Eubies or Sapphires, £2 10s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 14 Pearls, 7 Opals, 355. A Very
Choice Present. Bracelet to Match, £2 15s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Twist Bar, Bow and Heart
Drop, 5s 6d. Special Value.
CIE
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 15c. Gold, 2 Bar and Scrolls,
Pearl Set, £2 ss. Very Strong and Pretty.
a. Saunders.
and Keepers,
Solid Gold, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s each ; 15c. Gc
16* ; extra heavy, 26s ; 18c. Gold, 20s • ex
heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send for card.
A. Saunders.
Registered 15c. Gold Secret Name Brooch.
2 Rubies or Sapphires and Diamond, £2 1 ;
8 Diamonds, £3 and £4. 9c. Gold, aim...*',
pattern, 20s and 255.
A. Saunaers.
Gold Brooch, 2 Pearl Set Bird’s Chain and
Red or Blue Stone, 17s 6d. Very Dainty.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Bar, Scroll, Diamond, 2 Red or
Blue Stones, 20s. Very Pretty.
A. Saunders.
New Motto Registered Gold “ Dinna Forget”
Brooch and Amethysts, 9c. Gold, 17s 6d ; 15c.
Gold, 30s ; 18c. Gold, 355.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 4 Opal Hearts, Pearl Set Scrolls,
355. The Latest and Prettiest Style.
A. Saunders.
New Style Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Bird,
Amethyst Heart, 21s ; 15c. Gold, £2.
15c. Gold and Pure Diamond, 2 Bar
Brooch, £2. Neat and Strong.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch (Registered), “ Good
Wishes,” Chain and Heart, 13s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 255. A Very Pretty Brooch.
eait
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Brooch, 2 Diamonds, Ruby or
Sapphire and Ivy Leaves, 255.
A. Saunders.
Silver Gilt New Turquoise Initial
Brooch ; any Initial, 2s 6d.
Solid Gold Chain (Single or Double),
£2 10s, t'3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5. 15c.
Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, i!7, £B,
£lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Send for Price Illustrated Book.
:
'
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 15c. Gold, 2 Bar, Red or
Blue Stone, 2 Diamonds, 21s.
Very Cheap and Neat.
gj
FKgSBPp
A. Saunders.
Gold Bar, Raised Ivy Leaves, 7s 6d.
Very Neat.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Diamond-cut Amethyst
Hearts and True Love Knot, 20s.
Very Pretty.
A. Saun lers.
Gold Brooch, 2 Hearts, Diamond and Ruby,
2 Bar an 1 Scroll, with True Love
Knot, 17s 6d.
A. Saunders.
“ Nellie Stewart" Bamboo Gold Bracelet, 20a
Size thicker, 255. Latest style.
A. Saunders.
Ladies’or Gent’s Newest Tie Pin, 15c. Gold, Forget-Me-Not and
Spray, Turquoise and Pearls, 20s. Very Dainty and Pretty.
A. Saunders.
Name Bracelets, Gold Bands, Any Name, 255;
15c. Gold, £3; Other Styles, 17s 6d, 20s, 30s to £4.
Ā
Ladies’ Curb Gold Chain
Snap Padlock, 255, 30s,
355, £2 ss, £3 ; 15c.,
£2 10s, £3, £4, £4 10s,
£5, £6, £lO.
10s extra for Key
Padlock.
All with Safety
Chain.
seriesfflßS
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Baden-Powell Sword Pin, Turquoise and Pearls, £2.
Call and See Our Jewellery Exhibition—A Splendid Display;
Or Send for Our 1900 Complete Illustrated Book, Post Free Anywhere.
Solid Gold Fine Opal Links, £2.
15c., £2 10s. Monogram, 2/6 ex.
A. Saunders.
Opal Bracelet, £ Hoop, 11 Pretty Opals, £3. Very Stylish.
A. Saunders.
Gold Charm Envelope, with
Twopenny Stamp, 12s 6d.
Silver, 6s 6d. Name Free.
if 8a nders.
Gold brooch, Diamond-out Amethyst, 2 Bar ; Large
Size, Extra Strong, 255, 15c. Gold, £2 ss.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooo'i Amethyst, Diamond-cut, 2 Bar, Extra
Strong, 22s 6d ; 16c. Gold, £2.
A. Saunders.
Latest Designs : Gold Brooch, 2 Bar, Diamond and
Red Stone, Scroll and Bell, 21s ; 15c. Gold, £2 ss.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Shields and Hatchet, Chain and
Heart, Ruby and Pearl, 15s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 355.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, 2 Bar, Pearl Set Scroll, Red or Blue
Stone, 20s. Very Pretty and Strong.
A. Saunders.
New Style Gold Bird, Ruby
and Turquoise and Leaf,
5s Cd. Very Neat.
5 - -*
Silver Initial Hat Pins.
Parisian Diamonds, 4s 6d ;
Turquoise, 3s. Any Initial.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 255, 30s,
£2, £2 10s, £3. '
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £L, *5 >
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO-
- Guaranteed. Send for Price List.
Sis.
A. Saunders.
Gold Bar, Raised Flowers, 5s 6d.
Ladies’ Long Gold Muff Chain, £2,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £5, £6.
Price According to Pattern and
Thickness.
Front Studs, 9c. Gold, 3s 6d each ;• 15c.
Gold, each 5s and 7s 6d.
Front Studs, Diamond, Rubies or
phires, 10s 6d and 12s 6d each ;
Diamonds, 20s, 2os, 30s to £5 each.
. and Size of Diamonds.
Saph-
Larger
Price
Gold Crosses,
Chased or Plain,
12s 6d; Larger,
20s ; 15c. Gold,
A. Saunders.
Gents’ or Ladies' Pin, Pearls and Turquoise, Rubies or Sapphires,
Floral Design, 21s.
A. Saunders.
Band Bracelet, 9c. Gold, Diamond and Rubies or Sapphires, £2 5s ;
15c. Gold, £3 10s, with 3 Diamonds, £4, £4 10s and £5.
Very Neat and Effective.
Gent’s or Ladies’ 15c. Gold Tie Pin, Pearls and Turquoise Centre
Star, 20s. All the Rage.
Baden-Powell Gold Sword and Pearl Set Spray Brooch,
Diamond, 25s ; without Diamond, 22s 6d; 15c. Gold, £2 ss.
Charm, Old
English Coin, Gold
Mounted, 10s.
FO-
A. Saunders.
Gold Dinna Forget,
10s 6d.
Our Own Registered
Design.
The Lucky “ Erin-
go-Bragh” Oharni,
Solid Gold, 10s.
iM
iili
Oharni, Gold,
Amethyst and
Pearls, 15s fid ;
15c. Gold, 255.
Latest Design.
Rea! Lyddite
Shell, Gold
Mounted, 8s 6d.
Only a Few Left
Charm, New
Gold Bell, 7s 6d.
A. Saunders.
18c. Gold, 3 Sapphires,
Rubies, or Opals,
4 Diamonds, £3,
£3 10s, £4, £4los, £5.
Latest Style.
Turquoise and Pearl,
Solid Gold Ring, 21s.
A. Saunders.
18c. Gold, 5 Opals,
, 18c. Buttercup Single-
stone Diamond King,
£3, £4, £5,
Opal Band Kings,
9c. Solid Gold, 17s Gd ;
15c. Gold, 30s ; 18c.
Gold, £2.
Illii■"
A. Saunders
18c. Gold, 3 Pure Dia-
monds, 2 Opal Hearts,
£4 10s. Latest Style.
A. Saunders.
18c. Gold, Pure
Double-cut Diamond,
£5. Larger, £6 6s,
£7 10s, £8 10s, £lO,
£l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Price according to size
of Diamond.
18c. Solid Gold, Pure
Diamond and 2 Rubies
or Sapphires, £2,
£2 10s, £3 ; 3 Dia-
monds, £2 10s, £3,
£4, £5.
18c. Solid Gold
Diamond Band, £2,
£2 10s, £3; 15c.
Gold, 30s.
9c. Gold Name Band
Rings, 10s, 12s 6d,
15s; 15c. Gold, 20s,
255; 18c. Gold, 255,
30s, 355, 40s.
18c. Solid Gold Mar-
quese Diamond and
Ruby Ring, £3 10s ;
Larger Diamonds, £7
10s, £lO, £l5, £2O.
A. Saunders.
(Registered) Gold Links,
20s ; 15c. Gold, 32s 6d ;
Silver and Gold, 10s ;
All Silver, ss.
Solid Gold Monogram Links,
9c. Gold, 20s and 25s ; 15c.
Gold, 355, £2 and £2 10s ;
Solid Silver, 5s and 6s 6d ;
Monograms, 2s 6d extra.
A. Saunders.
Large Size Gold Shield
Links and Dumbell, 21s
15c. Gold, 85s and £2.
Gold Heart and Humbell
Links, 12s 6d ; 15c., 25s ;
Silver, 3s 6d.
Special Value.
15c. Solid Gold, 2
Diamonds, Ruby or
Sapphire, 20s.
Solid Gold Pearls and
Rubies, 10s ; 15c.
Gold, 15s.
Latest Style.
Gold Ring- Turquoise
and Pearls, 15s.
on
LEADING
ART JEWELLER,
815 & 817 George Street
/nearly opposite \
\Railway Station/?
SYDNEY.


Con)biQ?d Life $ AccidtOt Tables.
The Mutual [ife Jssociation of Australasia
Offers in the first year of the Twentieth Century and of the Australian Commonwealth,
Something Absolutely New.
Ordinary Life Policies do not cover Accidents unless they result in Death.
Ordinary Accident Policies do not cover Death unless caused by Accident.
The Combined Life and Accident Policies
cover both, and at specially low rates.
They are issued in the three following forms :
Table AC.—Assurance Payable at Death:
Premiums payable during Life of the
Assured.
Table CC.—Assurance Payable at Death:
Premiums payable during specified
term of years.
Table EC.—Endowment Assurance:
Payable at end of term of years, or
previous death.
Combined in each case with Compensation for—
Permanent Total Disablement:
Permanent Partial Disablement; or
Temporary Total Disablement;
if resulting from Accident during currency of the Policy,
and while Premiums are being paid thereon.
For Tables of Rates and full particulars apply at any Office of the Association, or to
J. C. REMINGTON , General Manager .
Principal Office: George and Wynyard Sts., Sydney.
THE
‘PLUM’
Ă
THE
‘PLUM’
n ENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
vx ] ike a bel ] anc i never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “ PLUM ” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“ RAZOLES ’* LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
_ f Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 218.
Price j g in{? j e Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 308.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
fW Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents: CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st-, Sydney.
“ I’ll Try It:
The Only Certain
Mount ache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
m
A
The Result.
ornamental hair.
Naturally Ourly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers 4. Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
pw° Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to any part Of Australasia.
CRAIG & AITKEN^
New South Wales Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ALL GROCERS
AND
STOREKEEPERS
SELL IT.
m he Standard
Sauce of the
World.
A
SAUCE
TRY IT.
The Original Worcestershire.
Agents-VIRGOE, SON & CHAPMAN and DAVID COHEN & CO., Sydney.
“ Jiever njind baby / Jt will soon grow now ”
‘HARLENE’
Z HAIR.
The very Finest Dressing
Restores the Hair.
Promotes the Growth.
Arrests the Fall.
Strengthens the Roots.
Preserves the Hair.
Renders It Beautifully Soft.
Removes Dandruff.
Allays all Irritation.
Preserves, Strengthens, and Invigorates
Childrens’ Hair.
Full description and directions for use in
20 languages supplied with every bottle ■
1/-, 2/6, and (triple a/6 size) 4/6 per
Bottle from Druggists, &c., all over
the World.
Edwards’ Karlene Co.
High Holborn, London, Eng.
it
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newsparer Co., Ltd., Sydney.
ELECTRIC
OP EVERY DESCRIPTION.
31 O’Connell-st., SYDNEY; and 15 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
grriftltlnp- fin. trfJLnstralia
(LIMITED),
t~> /v ~f»*t*o ir.ai.Tce Illawarra), near SYUKTUY.
SMELTERS.
• • •
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OP
FINE SILVER.
*i
-
MAKERS OF
S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
ILL AW ARRA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
Pul coasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD ax d COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information rec ording Rates, to E. A. Weinbkbq, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W. ; or Martin Plaoh,
SYDNEY.
The rainfall at Mount Morgan (Q.) is
attributed to blasting operations. Is “blasting”
to supersede praying for rain ?
It was a pleasing attention for Arch-
deacon Gunther, the studious son of a studious
father and the lineal head of his Church in Parra-
matta, to invite E. B. Forrest, the Queensland
M.L.A., to spend a day in the historic borough.
When King’s School, Parramatta, was started, at
the expense of the British Govt., in 1831, the
Imperial authorities sent out as first head-master
Rev. Robert Forrest, uncle of the present Q.
member. The Rev. Forrest’s rule laid the founda-
tions of a great school. He was neither pedant
nor pietist, but a manly, strong-believing church-
man, and so impressed his character on the estab-
lishment that he is in many respects there still.
King’s School was called so after the King of the
time, because of his grant of money, and not after
local Gov. King, as so many local people contend.
A Tasmanian at the front thus winds up
an account of a scrap in which 160 Tasmanians
and a number of guns were engaged :
I fired 280 rounds away. We only know of ki mg
Supposing the other 159 Tasmanians did the same
amount of shooting it seems that a l asmanian
to fire 11,200 times at a Boer before the latter
drops. And that is saying nothing of the artil-
lery.
From Sydney city surveyor’s annual re-
P ° rt ‘ Day Labour v. Contract.
Regarding the day labour staff, during the
for the carriage of materials on the Zone and Ward
svstem were invited, and I am pleased to say that tne
lowest bid was higher than that for which the work is
being done by day labor, thus confirming my previous
judgment that, all things being equal, day la bor on city
works is generally cheaper, better, and more expeditious
than by contract. .
A pill for the old middleman’s-bngade to swallow.


The PUREST WHISKEY
in the World . . ■
GEO. ROE & CO.
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.,
Australasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
Ǻ
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers.
Gazette, and Sailing List with map’
THOS. COOK & SON,
{69 Collins-st., Melbourne; 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
.
GrO TO ECBLL-
« IGOLAN ! > for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagel?,
foreign stamp importer,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
HATS.
HATS. HA I^
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. . All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
lor a pearly skin and brilliant
Complexion. Chemists sell it.
NOTHING ELSE LIKE IT.
Used by the Elite of English
Society. S. Harvey, Limtd.,
London Bridge S.E.
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALT€R BRAPL€y * CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 321 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION 4. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Eleetro-
* plate, and Works of Art.
i Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Meld at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
HIGH-GRADE
FARM—-
c -*t5
Massey-Harris Co. Ltd.
35 BROADWAY,
Gcorge-atreet West, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Will Lyne or Seddon get there first with a
proposal to re-christen his state “Edward” or
“ Albert ” or “ Albertland ? ”
Leahy, chief barracker for private-syndi-
cate railwayism, has been made Minister for Rail-
ways in Q. This is a little stronger than usual—
even for Queensland politics.
Barton’s announcement that he favored
“ preferential treatment of British goods where
reciprocity is possible ” is interpreted by Maori-
land Anti-Federalists to mean that Australia will
be willing to enter into a treaty of reciprocity
with M.L.
AT THE CEMETERY.
MRS. MURPHY: “ Shure, Mrs. Flaherty, that
beautiful tombstone do show the amount of
respict ye had for the ould man.”
MRS. F.: “ Oh, yis, Mrs. Murphy — an' the whips
of money he had.”
Buy O’Sullivan a house ! Surely the
O’S. would not countenance one brick being put
into any place the price of which may come out
of the pocket of any Civil Servant !
o • j. i j -,- , ri TT T> •,
Scriptural admonition to G. H. Reid.
“Let your yea be yea, and your nay nay ; lest
ye fall into condemnation. -James v. 12. But
if ye will both yea and neigh, don t bray. Bul-
LETIN, J/2/ 01.
N.S.W. Guerilla Minister See, presumably
by Gen. French’s advice, has gazetted the forma-
tion of a new corps, ominously named “The
N.S.W. Border Scouts.” Why “Border” isn’t
clear, unless N.S.W. has an idea of some day
going to war with one or more of the neighbour-
States.
“H S R.” • How is it that the idea of
.<t> v u « ’,- , . Y t> Yej-j n.
British Canadian (quoted 8., 19/1/1) didnt
work m Ireland, where both the language and the
~ of .1,0 people were suppressed B ,
is you cannot extinguish the fire of nationality by
any form of injustice. Such proce-
dure only cultivates the national spmt m any
people worthy of the name.
The estimated value of N.S.W. Govt,
House, now occupied by Earl Hopetoun, is
£103.535 4s. lOd. The furniture tots up to about
£lO,OOO. The buildings alone are valued at
£60,500. This stone, mortar, and furniture should
certainly satisfy N.b.W. s desire to properly house
its potentate. To build or buy another similar
structure for , State Governor must bo stoutly
resisted-
Although fe- A. Fieetraders are spending
so much money in boosting their creed, there is a
strange silence amongst the men who might be
expected to lead. Symon, an erstwhile Freetrade
champion, is believed to have become a convert to
™, W i ’ : v, .rj.
a moderate Protectionist tariff as a national
necessity, and Glynn is in the same box. Ihe
only orator now left seems to be the deceased
Dan O’Connell whose statement, “Protection is
Robbery, ” is still displayed on the Adelaide tram
cars . *
Harold Parsons, M.L.C. (W. A.) in London
Times “advocates the recognition in the King’s
titles of the Kingdoms of Canada and Australia,
or else the raising of Canada and Australia to the
dignity of Kingdoms in the Imperial System.”
The Times backs up this idea ; wherefore the
Prince of Croajingolong, the Duke of Eunony-
hareenya and the Marquis of Woolloomooloo may
shortly become actualities.
Actually the three Brisbane dailies sup-
port the municipal candidature of Labor-member
Higgs, who, by hard-fighting and pertinacity,
gave ratepayers an insight into the hideous
muddle and mismanagement that enveloped the
Council. For the last year Higgs has made things
so lively that retiring aldermen are anxious to
escape into obscurity. And he has lately become
a shareholder of the Q.N. Bank. This looks like
opening a new sphere of public usefulness.
T. B. Cribb, the new Q. Treasurer, owes
his promotion to Prayer. He has been on his
knees for years beseeching successive Premiers
for office. T. B. is partner in the firm of Cribb
and Foote, which rules pious Ipswich and the
German farmers for 20 miles around. Armstrong,
Annear, Bell, and Stephenson, who together with
Cribb have chased every portfolio that has been
vacant within the memory of the oldest inhabit-
ant, will have to be placated anew. Only £14,000
was spent in job-Commissions last year; and
Premier Philp can easily double that.
Adelaide Corporation means to proceed
with Snow’s Electric Tram grab directly 8. A.
Parliament meets in June. Meanwhile Bing-
ham, the council’s previous proteyd, who has
been dropped, is pouring out his wrath in
the press. Lamentable that the move-
ment for a Municipal Trust has ceased
owing. to bickering amorist the
numerous municipalities interested.
So far Premier Holder is dumb
as to the Govt, policy on the
question.
One of Victoria's first
pensioners was so overjoyed that
he spent all his first fortnight’s
allowance on a glorious drunk,
and was fined ss. And now he has
been called upon to show cause why his
pension should not be cancelled for this
misconduct. If Victoria kept a simi-
larly keen eye oil pensioners who get
£lOOO a year, and stopped their allow-
ance when they got drunk, it might
be fair enough. As nothing of the
kind is done it is again a case of one
law for the rich and another for the
poor. Also some consideration
might be shown to an old man
who promptly handed the State
back almost all its pension money
in liquor duty and police court
fines. George Turner lives, in
•i political sense, on people like
that, and when he rounds on so
zealous a supporter of the
Treasury it is a case of un-
gratefully kicking his bene-
factor.
Premier Philp, of Queensland, again
promises, as he did a year ago, that his Govern-
ment is going in for adult suffrage. But last time
he said positively that it wa3 coming on last
session, and it didn’t. Now he says it will
“probably” come on next session. In 1902 he
will probably be heard saying that the adul
suffrage matter may possibly come along in
another few years if he feels rested enough.
In Australasia the only State which be-
lieves in Freetrade is one which never tried it. If
N.S.W. would leave off protecting its sugar, beer,
newspaper and other big industries, and try Free-
trade, or pure Revenue Tariffism, for even five
years, and then say that it believed in it, its word
would have a lot more weight. The wild assur-
ances of the State which protects so many of its
big industries that it believes in Freetrade is sug-
gestive of the ox preaching the advantages of a
meat diet and stating, with its month full of grass,
that it is a striking proof of the advantages of the
flesh-eating system.
J. G. Griffin is a N.S.W. candidate for the
Senate. This politically-kaleidosc-opic alderman
appears just now to be a Freetrader. His idea on
the preferential tariff scheme :
To admit free the goods of a country that admits our
goods free is not really preferential treatment; it is
merely common commercial decency.
The other way of looking at it is that to give a pre-
ference to the goods of the country that gives our
goods a preference would be common decency.
But Britain doesn’t, do that. The idea of the re-
ciprocity crowd is that Australia should give
Britain’s goods a long start in the Australian
market over the goods of all other countries ; and
that Australian goods should scramble in the
British market on exactly the same terms as those
of all other countries. Australia is to give a pre-
ference, but it isn’t to get any.
The deplorable E. M. Clark, member for
St. Leonards, a candidate for the Federal Parlia-
ment, in an address he delivered at “ the Shore,”
stated: —
I have not a solitary word to say against Mr. Barton—
in fact, he is too fair a man to be a leader in politics, and
it is a pity there are not more politicians of his stamp.
As to Mr.’ Reid, no one has a greater admiration for him
than I have. I regard him as the leader of political
thought in Australia. It is not for me to state a policy ;
people will follow leaders of political thought, and it is
only my duty as a humble representative to name the
leader I will follow. . . When Mr. Reid issues his
manifesto I hope the issues of the campaign will he more
clearly defined.
It isn’t every day that the country comes across
a refreshing person like this who frankly acknow-
ledges that he has no ideas of his own, and doesn’t
see why he should be expected to have a policy of
his own, and that he is simply going to follow
Reid without even waiting to know what Reid’s
policy is. Suppose Reid declares for polygamy
and cannibalism ?
Letter for Jas. Meury at this office.
Yankee millionaires have now taken to
bossing the U.S. Universities. Rockefeller has for
some time controlled Chicago University ; and re-
cently Dr. Ross, the leading U.S.A. sociologist,
was summarily “sacked” from the Leland-Stan-
ford University of California by Mrs. Stanford.
His offence was a scientifically-founded objection
to the free admission of Chinese to the Stales.
Concerning which ’Frisco Chronicle remarks :
“ The independent and fearless thinker in the
Middle Ages was placed upon the rack ; now he
is choked with a bag of dollars.”
Dear Bulletin. —Ry recent “ B.” par.
about beaching ships on the coast of Westralia I
can produce the photograph of a sailing-ship high
and dry and being loaded with wool. This ship
came from England for years to Condon, on the
N.W. coast, bringing station supplies and taking
back the wool from most of the stations within
100 miles of Condon. Ship came up creek as far
as possible, and was left dry at low tide, and in
unloading and loading bullock-teams used to fol-
low out tne tide from shore to ship and make as
many journeys as possible before rising tide
stopped work] This ship’s last visit was made in
’97 or ’98,, as the Freemantle-Singa;tore steamers
now call at conveniently near ports. —L.P.
Writes “Old Warrior ” to The Bulletin :
S.M. Herald recently devoted a ponderous leader to
prove that it might be worth while to mount soldiers on
cycles, and quoted a recent cable to the effect that a
body of cyclists at the Cape acts like “mounted infantry.”
Should think so ! It’s about time to knock the stuffing
out of this “ mounted infantry ” fad. No European army
has adopted the English system. The French have frankly
taken to the bike. The Germans, as far back as ’6O and
’7O, when they wanted infantry to support their cavalry,
sent them forward in light waggons. The English drill-
book of ’B9 directed the employment of cyclists, and in
Aug., ’OO, there were some elaborate cycle manoeuvres in
Sussex. Now for figures: 100 mounted infantry give, on the
English plan, 75 effective rifles at most. There must be
25 horse-holders to 100 horses, which need a ton of forage
a day. The same men could be carried in four four-horse
waggons, giving 96 effective rifles and four drivers with
only 16 horses, which eat 1601 b. of forage a day. Put the
same 109 men on bikes, and they are all effective, because
the “ wheel ” needs neither holding nor feeding. Also, a
horseman is a big target—loft. high by 9ft. long, while
the man on the bike is little bigger than on foot. No
horse, even if well fed and stabled, can carry a rider much
more than 30 miles a day for (say) a fortnight, whereas a
robust man, in training, can, with passable roads and a
good bike, do his 60 miles a day for an indefinite time.
After that, what is the mounted-rifle or mounted-infantry
fad but an excuse for allowing certain influential persons
to show-off their horsemanship and wear uniforms ?
HER TERMS OF SURRENDER.
SIXTY THOUSAND: “Can 1 do anything that will
induce you to accept me as your husband? ”
THIRTY SOMMERS : “ Well, if you will guarantee
that I will be a grateful widow in six
months I’ll think about it.”
Some time ago a high “military authority
stated that no soldier could be deprived of credit
for war-service. But those two deserters xom
the recently-visiting contingent will not if ®° n "
victed by court-martial —be able to reckon a ay
of their past service either towards the compie 10
of their engagement or for pension. A spong
will be passed over the slate, and at the ena o
the term of imprisonment they will be m exactly
the same position as newly-joined recruits except
that the conviction will stand recorded agams
them.
N.S.W. Public Servants have a fresh
grievance against the Public Service Board. , n
1898 the clerical division was classified under a
complicated set of regulations into various grades.
Promotion throughout all the grades was to be at
the rate of £lO a year provided the necessary cer-
tificates of ability and efficiency from the depart-
mental heads were forthcoming. Clerks at £loo,
£2OO, £250, £3OO had to pass a set examination
before they could lise higher. This system proved
so costly that its early break-down was predicted
when it first appeared. At the beginning of this
year the Board issued a brand-new set of regula-
tions to govern the service, among them ° ne can-
celling all annual increases on salaries over £150..
In Oct. of last year the usual recommendations
and certificates under the old regulations were
demanded by the Board and duly submitted by
the various under-secretaries. Consequently the
public servants entitled to these increases con-
cluded that they would be granted them for 1900
at least. And their opinion was confirmed by
No. 3of the new regulations just issued. This
reads as follows:
All regulations under the Public Service Act of 1895 in
force at the time of the coming into force of these regula-
tions are hereby repealed. Provided that such repeal
shall not affect the previous operations of any regulation
so repealed, or anything duly done thereunder, or any
right or obligations acquired, accrued or incurred, under
any regulation so repealed, or any remedy in respect of
such right.
Last week an intimation was sent round to the
Departments that the granting of increments
would be considered as from Ist July, 1900 on the
basis laid down by the regulations published on
31st Dec., 1900, thus cutting off any increase to a
salary of £l5O or over, and repudiating all
responsibility for increases due last year. The
Service regards this as rank repudiation. Morally
and (as they think) legally the Board is bound to
the old regulations, as per No. 3 of the new ones
right up to 31st Dec., 1900.
“8.A.” to The Bulletin :
One Of the first things that strikes a visitor to Japan is
the very evident spirit of militarism among the people,
young and old. Every school-boy is uniformed in blue
with brass buttons ; everybody in Govt, employ sports
more or less gold lace and brass buttons, and even street
pedlars wear semi-military attire. Ask a schoolboy what
he intends to be when lie is a man, and the invariable
reply is “ A Soldier.” The schoolboys turn out in heavy
marching order, knapsacks and all, and many
of the Australian cadet corps would suffer by
comparison with them. The little brown people
seem thoroughly alive to the fact that they are
going to have a big war on hand sooner or later.
A Victorian country J.P., within
earshot of whose, residence two brass,
bands perform and the Salvarmy “cor-
roborrates,” recently said in granting
an old-metal license : “ There should be
plenty of old metal about this town
shortly, judging by the noises made of
an evening. This place is simply a hell
upon earth.” The protest was reason-
able. What with bands, Salvarmy,
bells, the bottle-oh miscreant, the oyster
fiend, the ice-cream demon, and the
eternal yapping dog and crowing rooster
—life in most of the towns of Australia
is merely a perpetual sacrifice to the
God of Noise. The continuous ear-
torment of urban life is probably respon-
sible for more deaths than the world’s
wars.
In the nature of an apology for
undertakers:—
. Dear Bulletin. —As your paper has frequently
depicted the very necessary undertaker as a
red-nosed, watery-eyed hamr-dog sort of person
in a frock-coat, I should be pleased if you would,
in common fairness, allow a little space (say
6 x 2) to describe a very highly-respected mem-
ber of the “ Boxer ” society, and one who would
give you the same fair measure, should you
ever have any dealings with him. You can’t
always judge a man’s character by the black-
ness of his cloth. Our neighbor is an ideal
undertaker, whose family has followed the
game for generations. We have lived close
handy for many years (all still going strong,
but he bears us no ill-will on that account).
As he passes by, his naturally sad face wears
an apologetic smile, as if to say, “ That’s all
right, don’t mention it, friends ; any time ’ll
do ! ” Some mornings I am awakened by a
tell-tale “ tap, tap, tap, tap”—tacking-in the
lining. He buys the timber already sawn and
shaped into sizes, varying from Commonwealth
babies to that of the ponderous Freetrade
George ; and in less than half-an-hour he drives
past with his pretty little daughter riding
astride the latest order. Occasionally on Sun-
days I hear him whistling “Praise God from
whom all blessings flow”—and then the
familiar tapping. He was lately elected to
one of the most honorable of city positions
simply because—as the defeated opponent put
it—“ he hadn’t an enemy in the world.” The
undertaker who tips his child a “ bob ” every
time a customer calls is not a bad sort ; though
he does smoke a dozen or so of the best Havanas a day,
when the writer has to be satisfied with the ordinary
common briar. —Long Un.
lie the colossal statue in New York Har-
bour. There have been as many as 13,000 birds
found killed or wounded, at daybreak, in the
circular gallery under the lantern. During big
migrations they dash for the electric light.


As the date of closing the Benevolent Societies’
F6te is drawing to a close. Agents and others interesting
themselves in the sale of tickets are requested to send
their returns in as soon as possible. A large number of
tickets have already been sold, and intending purchasers
had best apply at once to their newsagent, or direct to the
hon. sec., W. Moffitt Burns, 35 Oastlereagh-st.*
Missing Friends.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of George
Sweet, who left Temuka, Canterbury, N.Z.,
for Australia, about five years ago, please acquaint
him of his mother’s death in Oct. last. —ANNIE.
VITADATIO
THE GREAT BLOOD PURIFIER.
Indigestion.
Mr. S. A. Palmer, Melbourne.
I may just say I have been suffering from Indigestion
for years, and have taken no end of medicine, but to no
avail. lam now taking VITADATIO, and am glad to say
that lam much better. —I am, yours truly,
ISAAC GROSS.
Indigestion-
Mr. W. Webber.
Dear Sir,—Suffering from a severe attack of Indigestion
I was induced to try your VITADATIO, and after using
two bottles of same I got great relief, and have not been
troubled with this complaint since, and would recommend
anyone suffering from same to give it a trial.—Yours
truly, (Signed) OHAS. RUSSON.
Biscuit Manufacturer, &c., Launceston.
Hemorrhage of the Lungs.
Oharles-terrace, Wallaroo, S.A.,
26th June, 1899.
Mr. S. A. Palmer.
Dear Sir, —My wife has been taking your VITADATIO
for Hemorrhage of the Lungs and General Weakness.
She is now taking the fifth bottle; so far, is giving
satisfaction. Yours very truly,
(Signed) T. J. EVANS.
For further particulars,
8. A . PALMER ,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
You are
notasked
to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance,
&c. All you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottleof medi-
cine and to try it. I am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H.G. R00T, 28, Endsleigh Gdns., LON DON.
I Cure Fits.
Real§erman Hollow Ground
yptv R^zoit
Æ
Ǽ
A
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADEi
M IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale : OSBORNE, GARRETT, & GO., LONDON, %
À
Weak
Men.
There is nothing like ELECTRICITY to put life, vim
or vigor into weak men or women.. Drugs give but
temporary relief; act merely as a stimulant, but Elec-
tricity flies to all weak parts of the body, imparting
Nature’s force thereto and doing the required work surely
and in a permanent manner. If “ run down ”in health
and strength you had better try Electricity. Use an
Electric Belt, for that is the best method of applying it;
but be sure you get a good one while you are about it;
in short, try “ Dr. Pierce’s,” for it is guaranteed to be the
best Electric Belt on earth.
“ Booklet No. 2,” sent by mail for a stamp, tells
all about it. Address
PIERCE ELECTRIC CO.,
620 Market Street, SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A., or
160 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
W. H. SOUL & CO., Agents.
m
V e> v
&
Those
suffering
from weak
and sore eyes,
and blight, should
u-" i -
SINGLETON’S OINTMENT
Never Fails. Restores Eyelashes.
ACHEMISTS.
MILES AKEAP OF ALL OTHERS
« . Are America’s Representative Typewriters ..
I
The Host
- flensmore
.. |)eui Century
Why Search Elsewhere ?
WE Alone can Offer You
a Choice.
WE WILL ADVISE YOU WHICH IS BEST FOE YOUR WORK.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue —Free.
UNITED TYPEWRITER & SUPPLIES CO. (LARGEST dealers in AUSTRALIA)
114 Pitt-st., SYDNEY ; 362 Ollins-st., MELBOURNE ; Barrack-at.-, PERTH.
Webster & Co., Brisbane ; R-eeves & Co., Adelaide ; Hedley Button, Launceston and Hobart.
A PEHHY SAVED
IS A PENNY GAINED
And the same applies to the many Pounds that the
NATIONAL
CASH REGISTERS
Would Save foe You.
6 f- -
Built Like a Watch
and accurately adjusted in every
detail is the ...
NATIONAL
CASH
REGISTER
which carries with it a 2 Years’
Guarantee, showing we have
faith in the workmanship of our
machines.
National CaSb R?gist«r C°
335 Pitt Street, Sydney.
W. A. LINGUA M, General Manager.
Q
*A
Cl
'
m
Its
never
necessary
to
cab
home
when riding:
S3HA.L dOlNfl
For these tyres can be ridden over all classes
and conditions of roads with perfect confidence,
their Reliability and Hardwearing
Qualities making them perfect
Road-riding Tyres.
Roadster Tyres guaranteed for 12 months.
Th© Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aus. Ltd.,
150 Clarence Street, Sydney;
AND AT
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.
Every National Protectionist should get a
copy of The Bulletin’s “A Policy for the
Commonwealth.” Price 6d. at Bulletin Office ;
posted to any address in Australasia for Bd. in
stamps of any State.
N.S.W. Comptroller-General of Prisons
has ukased that gaol-officials shall, until further
notice, wear mourning bands on the left arm.
What a lack of imagination in the supposition that
the prison atmosphere is susceptible of any
deepening of its gloom! A gaol is itself the
House of Mourning par excellence.
Melbourne Stock Exchange brought out
its old Jubilee “transparency ” picture of Queen
Victoria last week and hung it across the front of
the building, amidst funereal draping, to show
how deeply the jobbers mourned their inability to
use it again for illumination purposes. The pic-
ture might very well have been entitled “The
Last Chance.”
For most cruelly maltreating a little infant,
a Sydney P.M., on Jan. 31st, sentenced a man to
six months’ hard labor —the heaviest sentence in his
power. The helpless mite was shockingly bruised
and in such a state mentally that the doctor who
examined her stated he never in his experience
met a human being in so terror-stricken a
condition: The injuries received by the child (18
months old) were likely to affect her for life. Yet
in summarily dealing with this brutal criminal
the presiding magistrate announced that he had
such a poor opinion of juries that, for fear the
prisoner should escape punishment altogether in
the superior court, he had decided to sentence him
to six months, the limit allowed him, although if
committed he (the child-beater) would perhaps
get two years’ gaol—a sentence more in keeping
with his deserts. The Bulletin’s opinion is that,
on the whole, the community has muoh less to
fear from juries than from magistrates.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
In a serious assault charge recently heard,
and dismissed, in Yass (N.S.W.) before Mr.
Thomas, P.M., the court sat from 10 a.m. till
midnight, making, with two hours’ intermission
for meals, 14 hours. Apart from the merits of the
case, surely the P.S. Board or the Attorney-
General ought to pull Mr. Thomas’ ear for this
imitation of the frequently-condemned practice of
certain Dracos of the Supreme Court. “ I have
never found,” said an English Chief-Justice,
“ that much justice was done in courts by candle-
light.” And, not a,part from the merits of the
case, there is very little doubt that the prosecutrix
—apparently under the influence of sexual de-
mentia —was speaking what she believed to be the
truth. So that, between the deliberate female
perjurer and the hysterical inventor of “out-
rages,” it’s slippery walking for any personable
young man in N.S.W. The Yass alleged assault
would seem to have much the same sort of basis as
the charge against the unfortunate Suffield.
A remarkable story of awful suffering
and splendid endurance is that of one Edward
Small, who recently, in the bush between Grafton
and Casino (N.S.W.), had a leg badly smashed
through his horse falling with him. According
to the account furnished to Sydney D.T.,
The unfortunate fellow, upon regaining consciousness,
took off his coat, and with his braces and tie firmly
fastened the coat around the injured leg. He lay all
Friday night without moving, and on Saturday morning
started to crawl over the rough sandstone country to
Myrtle Greek Hotel, nine miles distant. After going two
miles he manufactured an impromptu crutch, taking off
his shirt to prevent the jagged ends of the sticks cutting
his armpit. The blazing sun pouring down upon his un-
protected back soon, caused him most intense agony,
but still he persevered, and after going another
two miles he fell fainting, and there lay till
nightfall. Knowing that he was near a swamp
he made another desperate attempt to reach the
water. Up to this he had not touched a drop since
the time of the accident. After crawling a quarter of a
mile along the fringe of the swamp he found it was dry.
Recognising that it was then a matter of life and death
he started off again in the direction of the hotel, and
during Saturday night covered another two miles. On
Sunday morning, when making another effort, and while
he had hold of a barbed-wire fence to assist him, his
crutch snapped, and he fell, the barbed wire catching him
in the face and nose. There he hung until the skin broke
and _he fell on to his injured leg. Then a swarm of
soldier ants attacked him, and, urged by the agony of
their stings, he made one last desperate effort to reach
civilisation, and, after crawling another mile, was dis-
covered and saved.
TO CURE SORE EYES,
Apply Morris’s Imperial Ete Ointment, and
avoid intense suffering. Never be without it.
Over 50 years in use. Refuse all substitutes. Pots,
2s. Sold everywhere.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security. ——
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERM*.
&
BILLS
discounted.
:Kr.s„'w.
flout deplete flJ|.Co.,Dtd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
•74. CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
* SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
City Mutual Life
e^s
Assurance Society
Limited. . . .
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIQH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
-tabLISHED 1879.
OEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
-THIS-
- Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 185 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,600— assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
. Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
£4,300.000 0 0
£3,196,353 0 0
Registered Capital
Paid-up Capital (23 4, ’Out
Directors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esa., J.P.; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London' Office : 1 Bisliopagate Street Within
corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers . The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES!
BYDNE¥ - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
Hay market, Gosford (with agency at Wyorig), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
fhe Bank of florth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director-JAMES BURNS, Esq.
A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... 250 000
£700,000
£350,000
|)eui Zealand Insurance (Jo.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Laryest Colonial Company.
J. A. MINNETT,
Manager.
81 Pitt St., Sydney.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers £3,000,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Public Notices.
he federal gail'.ammtary (Elections.
TO THE ELECTORS OF VICTORIA.
Gentlemen.—
I have the honor to announce my Candidature for
seat in the Federal Senate, and to respectfully ask to
st in my favor one of the six votes which each elector
ll have.
I am, Gentlemen,
Your obedient servant,
JAMES STYLES.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Perajfrina, Saturday, Feb. 9,12 Noon.
Leura, Saturday, Fab. H, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
luninyongr, Tum., F«b. 19, 5 p.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyong, Tues., Feb. 19, 5 p.m.
No Transhipment.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Tyrian, Saturday, Feb. 9,12 Noon.
Burwah, Tuesday, Feb. 12, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Feb. 16,12 Noon
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian, Saturday, Feb. 9, 12 Noon.
Peregrine, Saturday, Feb. 16,12 Noon
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked throueh.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tbe TrOstces, €*€Q(itor£,
AND
Conjpaov Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £160,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1899 ... £6,277,747 11 3
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; .John Grice,
Esq.; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amountof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital ... .. £2,500,000
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £BOOO. on City,
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Queensland Smelting Qenpg.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
J ' Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
Established 1879.
THE
United Australian fQitual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED. .
Principal Offices :
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital .. £500,000
Subscribed Capital .. 251,260
Paid-up Capital .. 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass , Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance. Agents required where not rejn'esented.
Alfred Websteb, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. IJd. o/ Loud Oil.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors —Sydney : Sir W. M'Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks,
Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.,
Branch Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W.
N. M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Berth, A. W.
Farquiiar ; Wellington, 'N.Z., C. M. Montefiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
Write for Prospectxis. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Government Notices.
Public Works Department,
Sydney, Jan. 17, 1901.
CITY KAILWAY EXTENSION AND DEVONSHIRE
STREET, CEMETERY.
P having been determined to extend the City Railway
to Devonshire-street, notice is hereby given that in
all cases where application has beeh made to'the Minister
of Justice, by the representatives of deceased persons
buried in the Devonshire-street Cemetery, and permission
obtained to exhume such bodies with the sanction of the
Cemetery Trustees within two months from this date, the
Department of Public Works will bear all reasonable
expenses incurred in the re-interment of such bodies in
such Cemetery as the said representatives may desire.
The cost of removing and re-erecting all monuments,
stone-work, etc., now in a fair state of preservation, will
also be borne by the Government.
In the case of those bodies for which no applications
will have been received at the expiration of this notice,
exhumation will be carried out by the Government and
re-interment effected at Rookwood Cemetery.
Forms of application and other information may be
obtained on application to the Clerk in Charge of Bonds
and Contracts at this Department.
ROBERT HICKSON,
Under Secretary for Public Works and
Commissioner for Roads.
Medical.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole A gents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk. Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, &c.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEOROE ST.,BYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
%
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrie & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, CALLING at PLYMOUTH and
LIVERPOOL Via CAPETOWN,
Calling at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail February 8, at 2 p.m.
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
MEDIC, RUNIC, SUEVIC and AFRIC.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
generally is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Matron carried. Electric light throughout
•For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents, O’Connell-st., Sydney, and Watt-st., Newcastle.
TO GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE,
via AMERICA.
A. AND A. LINE.
TO ENGLAND IN 30 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE,
BY THREE MAGNIFICENT NEW TWIN-SCREW
STEAMSHIPS
EACH OF 6000 TONS AND 8000 HORSE-POWER.
BUILT EXPRESSLY FOR THE SERVICE BY THE
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF
SAN FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line leave Sydney and Auckland for
Tutuila (Samoa), Honolulu, and San Francisco every
three weeks, as under: —
Passengers booked to all the principal parts of
EUROPE, UNITED STATES and CANADA
AT LOWEST FARES.
Passengers are booked through to San Francisco, Liver-
pool, London and chief cities of the Continent of Europe,
with special advantages, and have choice of the unrivalled.
Atlantic Steamship Lines of the American, Ounard, In-
man, White Star, and other Companies, according to fare.
Full particulars, Illustrated Guide Maps, etc., gratis on
application to
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OFN.Z., Ltd.,
Equitable Building, George-street, nextG.P.O.
nxr. n>. i_..
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL FLEET.
. . COMPRISING .
129 Steamers of a Total Tonnage of
506,754; Horse-power, 403,245.
Mileage run in 1899, 3,645,000; Over 3J million Pas-
sengers carried since 1857.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, London,
Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
Leaving Melbourne Tuesday after Sydney.
TO SINGAPORE via QUEENSLAND, NEW BRITAIN,
NEW GUINEA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
STETTIN | 2478 |J. Niedermeyer | Feb. 20 | Singapore
TO QUEENSLAND, NEW “BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
YAP, SHANGHAI, and HIOGO or YOKOHAMA.
MUNCHEN | 4636 |H. Krebs ... | April 3 | Japan.
And regularly thereafter every six weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street,
Sydney.
A SILVLR WATCH"
FOB, NOTHING.
1500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR. 1500.
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF OUR
FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the Correct Reading of the follow-
ing puzzle: —
A FR**ND *N N**D *8 A
FR**ND *ND**D.
The only condition is that if your answer is correct you
purchase one of our Solid Sterling -Silver Chains to wear
with the watch.
SEND NO MONEY ; simply forward your answer, and
enclose stamped and addressed envelope, so that we may
inform you if you have won the watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of intro-
ducing and advertising our goods.
Mr. F. Hughes, Lidsdale, N.S.W., writes : “I received
the watch quite safely, and am very well pleased with it.
I thank you very much.”
Address— THE MANAGER,
ENGLISH WATCH & JEWELLERY GOY.,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MASON’S EXTRACT
OF HERBS.
NO OTHER EXTRACT MAKES
BEER
LIKE IT.
The Best of all
Beverages and
the Cheapest.
NON-
INTOXICATING,
DELICIOUS,
WHOLESOME.
Agents :
GOLLIN & CO., Sydney and Melbourne.
mp
NEWBALL & MASON
NOTTINGHAM,
ENGLAND.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(F.IMITRI)).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
?ORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY r
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping-at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Adelaide, Friday,
February 8, 5 p in. (Tran
shipping at Melbourne.)
S.S. Marlob, Saturday,
February 9, 10 a.m.
(Without Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MACIvAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Warretro, Friday,
February 8, 5 p.m.
liest and Cheapest Ho ate to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A. U.S.N. Co. and W. Howard Smith and
Sons. For Adelaide and VV.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
_ Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Ai U. S, INI. Coy; Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THU POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenger A ceotninodu.Hoii, A tteniln nee. and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the si earners
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, 111 Bridge-
gtreeLSydney and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows •
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
'‘Calling at Holmrt.
The Company’s steamers now call at Fremantle
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B 10s to £77
Ditto Ditto Return £7l 10sto "121
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial pori.s
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to EDWARD TRELAWNY, Superintendent in Aus-
tralia, Exchange Coiner, Pitt and Bridge Streets
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MKLBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
PASSENGERS -booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
(fuddart, parker $ (Jo’s Qine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS
Faresagd Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. ANP A.” LINE.
The Steamships of the above Company will be despatched
as follows for
MANILA, CHINA, and JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
ID‘|luiraith,(||‘Eacharn&Co.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Spooially Reduced Rates, Passage Monay,
Stook Rates and Freight Quota! ions, apply
M'llwraith, M'Eadiarn & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & 00. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.


Herr RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
TU STRENGTH restored iviost effectually.
WEAK NERVES, HEALTH and STKtrmin
GENUINE REMEDIES
FOR THE BLOOD, SKIN,
NERVES, LIVER, PILES, etc.
ALFALINE
Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the Nervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
Alfaline Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind. Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, - ONE SHILLING.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
TO BE GIVEN
AWAY^FREE.
THE ALFALINE
GUIDE TO HEALTH
This FREE BOOK
contains a vast fund
of moat useful and
interesting informa-
tion, as well as nu-
merous Testimonials
from cured and
grateful patrons,
with full particulars
necessary for self-
cure, and all details
regarding the scope
of the Alfaline
Remedies.
Sent JPost Free
. . . and . . .
in Plain Cover.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alfaline
Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
■ ■ ■ WARNING
He rr Baasmussen
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr K,aSSmUSSen>
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheqiies or Money Orders payable to HailS RaSSIHUSSeiI.
ADVICE FREE.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free,
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills-A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders— A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 69. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palatable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes-Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectua
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Hans peter Hassmussen
Head
Office
547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
BRISBANE : 300 Queen-street (near Creek-street),
M FIT ,KO (I BN Ej__lso Bourke-street (opp . Eastern Markets).
ADELAIDE : 151 Bundle-street (near York Hotel).
~k"~7~-~W Kf kI A TO Y : 1)1 Lambton Quay.
PERTH: 481 Hay-street.
KALGOORLIE : Hannan-street (next lAndell’s)•
BOULDER CITY : Piesse-street.
PR EM A N TLE : Henry-street.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. Yon may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I (JAN
CURE YOU. I don't say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and FILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Ilousemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Ahsdesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
See. Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents •• ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
Â
fringes,
(future! Curly, from 3ft eadk
PLAJTB and TAILS,
tOin. long, fj/0. all real hdb.
CUTTINGS « OQMBUMt
•orTted tip, 2/fl per 02.
wo ore the cheapeStln
Walla for all Bair Work..
Send Color ol Hair.''
W. H.’Wigz«ll>
110 Wru.iAM Struett,
•Omar of Palmer-stiVrt,
SYDNEY.
Cable Trum will slop at Dooa..
Seed stamps for full Price IJ*V
fKDpt atteufeion'giyen to Country Ortna
Ã
Medical.
Dr. Boxwell’s PILLS.
-\t ON-POISONOUS, HARMLESS, ALWAYS EFFEC-
-LN TIVE. A Sure Friend, dispelling Misery, Suspense,
and Anguish by affording Immediate Relief. Sold by all
Chemists in Australia or can be sent anywhere. Price,
5/6 per box. Purchasers can rely on the fact that
these Pills are the Formula of a Skilled Expert— Dr.
Box well having been for years Physician to the Woman’s
Hospital, London. Agents for Dr. Boxwell’s Silent Pills,
all leading Wholesale Druggists in Australia or Pill
Manufacturing Co., 539 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
<< COMMON SENSE EAR DRUM.”
pOMPLETELY restore ihe
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street. Melbourne.
THE
DEAF
sEAB
wm b ««p9 -w
IfY TOLi
Is a restorative and physical regenerator of
magic power. A broken-down or weakened
system rejuvenated. Vytol acts on the
nerves, brain and blood, quickly and perman-
ently restoring to the sufferer the lost vim,
energy, strength and vigor of youth. Price posted 7/6.
A. Chemical Co., Elizabeth-street, North Melbourne.
Pamphlet, Testimonials, &c., sent Free.
STABLES, KENNELS, CLOSETS, COW-SHEDS,
REFUSE HEAPS, &c., should be regularly dis-
infected with
CALVERT’S
15 pee Cent.
CARBOLIC POWDER,
To destroy Bad Odours, and to Kill or
keep away Insects.
The most Effective Preparation.
In Jib., lib., and 21b. tin dredgers, at 6d., 1/- and 1/6
each (English rates).
Beware of Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
Medical.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPyNE.
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUCHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments form 3
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
RELTS and
AJPRLIA NCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure .all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which, will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
G-erman Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
w
n
'%'S
ter
À
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment of
Catarrh, Bronchitis, Hay Fever, Asthma,
Colds, Influenza, Headache, Catarrhal
Deafness. Book of Treatment. l-'rve.
Price of Medicator (size, 4 inches long, Nickel-
plated), and 4 months’ treatment, 1 Bottle Com-
pound Inhalent, and 1 tin -| /
Nasal Ointment, only ■”/ Post Free.
HOME CATARRH CURE CO.,
231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and Infallible remedy,
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. . Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C-S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
Over
100
years
have
proved
their
value.
G. L. ROBERTS, M.D.
Always
useful.
Keep
them
bandy.
Born 1766, Died 1834.
INVENTOR OP Dr. ROBERTS'
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
The best for all Wounds and Skin Diseases.
Chronic Sores, Ulcerated Legs, Pimples,
Sore Eyes, &o.
use Dr. ROBERTS’
ALTERATIVE PILLS,
For all impurities of the blood. Invaluable for Skin
Diseases. Prices is. i£d. and 2s. 9d. each of all Drug
Stores. •
Sole Makers, BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd.
BRIDPORT, England.
Mrs. WALSH E*S
Famous English Tansy Pills.
Famous Pills are now universally used through-
out the world, being the most perfect combination
of agents yet discovered. They contain no poison or
deleterious drugs, and they can always be relied on to
afford immediate relief. Price, sent posted, ss. 6d. per
box. Write to A. Chemical Co., Elizabeth-street North,
Melbourne. Mrs. John Wood, Bendigo-street, Prahran,
Melb. says: “Mrs. Walshe’s Tansy Pills gave me imme-
diate relief, although I had during two months previous
tried all sorts of remedies without success.”
DEAF
]
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
GENTS.
YVKITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address — L.D.I., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
“Bushman ” : Can any Bulletin reader
rive me any information about a drover (or
drovers) who perished of thirst, together with a
mob of sheep, in N.S.W., about five years ago ?
Have reason to believe that a relative of mine met
such an end.
Some idea as to the unearned wealth of
the dissipating class in England (for Scotland and
Ireland are small items in this connection) can be
drawn from the fact that Sam Lewis, the
“ society ” money lender, left a fortune of
£4,000,000, derived mostly from discounting the
bills of white-handed wasters. And yet Sam’s
clients represented, probably, not more than five
per cent, of the thousands of “ swells born to
the inheritance, certain, or almost certain, of pro-
putty in land, chattels, and hard cash. Usurers
serve a godly purpose, anyhow. They are easy
mediums for the bursting-up of big estates, and
by dragging down the lordly from high places and
turning them loose among the crowd, they tend to
educate the multitude in the true meaning of a
good deal of class “distinction. 5 One often hears
it said by a rough toiler of a plucked pigeon :
** j[ ,3 was a real gentleman before he lorst his
money.”
This is a true tale of N.S.W. Public
Service :
In one of the departments under the Minister for Jus-
tice was an ambitious clerk whose salary was £245 a year.
To secure early promotion this officer passed the police-
magistrates’ examination, and armed with this fact and
the commendations of his direct superiors he presented
himself before the Board for promotion. The members
of the Board were all regrets, but firm. They pointed
out that the office, and not the occupier, was graded, and
that though the officer had undoubted claims to con-
sideration, still it was impossible for them to increase his
salary in the position he was holding—but the clerkship
of petty sessions in a western town was vacant. True,
the salarv was onlv £250 a year, but it was on the way to
a police-magistrate’s billet. So he was persuaded to take
it. Barely two weeks had elapsed before his successor in
the Sydney office was appointed. The man selected was
in the same department at the. same salary— -viz,, £245 a
year— a nd on assuming the duties of the position he was
advanced to £275 per annum 1


IF KING EDWARD VII. VISITED SYDNEY it would give pleasure to thousands
Ä
and racing
By reason of the absolute satisfaction it has given throughout the Commonwealth as a tourist ■
mount, has brought pleasure and profit to thousands of riders.
The “ Massey ” never gives trouble. Is easily pedalled, strong, and of the highest quality.
Such easy terms. SYDNEY DEPOT ; 385 GEORQE STREET.
“ Dizziness ”
Is a very common consequence of indigestion and
torpid liver. Sometimes there are spots before
the eyes and hot flushes. At other times a sensa-
tion of vertigo occurs, at once suffocating and
blinding. It is a waste of
time to attempt to cure
this condition by ordinary
means or remedies. The
stomach and organs of
digestion and nutrition
must be restored to
healthy activity, the blood
must be purified , the liver
cleansed and strength-
ened, the kidneys to tvork
properly , as nature in-
tended, before a cure can
be hoped for. This is the
work Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills do. They
strengthen the stomach,
purify the blood, cleanse
the clogged liver, give
the kidneys the help they
require, and promote the
health of every organ of
the body. “Having been
a sufferer from biliousness
and headaches, and tried
different medicines, also
doctors’ powders for the
head, and getting no
relief from them, seeing
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills advertised, I pur-
chased a bottle, and the
A
r ffl.
7t
i
first dose relieved me. My husband also uses
them. I recommend them to all my friends
suffering the same as I was. I may say I have
been using them some time, and never known
them to fail, ¥ou may make what use you like of
this.” This is the evidence of Mrs. Noble,
Hurstville, N.S.W. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills positively cure biliousness, indigestion,
constipation, dyspepsia, headaches, liver and
kidney complaints, pimples, and blotches. Sold
by chemists and storekeepers, price Is. ljd.
per bottle or six bottles 6s. 6d. Sole proprietors,
The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd. (Australasian
Depot), 58 Pitt-street, Sydney. Packed in
amber bottles, and the full name blown thereon.*
FOR BUSH WORK
There is no Bicycle will stand such knocking about as the
RED BIRD BICYCLE
? h Euf“SN O E' S T a ABS O™r
COUNTRY BUYERS should send for list of Second and Shop-soiled Bicycles now being sold at bargain rates
Satisfaction guaranteed. 6
branches in every state. OOOI.D BICYCLE CO„ 64 King Street, Sydney.
The
Original
JOHN JAMESON WHISKY
Agents:
J. Barre Johnston & Co.,
Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Latest N.S.W.-Vio. cricket match is the 66th
of the senes. Opening day was remarkable for the small
scores made—N.S.W. 170, and Vic. 5 for 67, on a perfect
wicket (even though the bowling and fielding were first-
class) wants some explaining. Doings of second day
were in striking contrast. As against 15 for 237 on Friday
only 9 wickets fell for 362 on Monday. Attendance both
days was meagre, and evidenced unmistakably that the
public won’t stand being surfeited—even with cricket.
At time of writing it looks as if Stuckey’s 130 (not out)
will pull Victoria through.
* * * *
Friday saw crack Vic. bowler Hugh Trumble
bring his list of wickets secured in Vic.—N.S.W. matches
up to 126—an achievement much ahead of any other
bowler’s in the same competitions.
* * * *
Sammy Jones, one-time Sydney’s most popular
cricketer, stood as umpire during the last inter-State
match.
* * * •
The no-balling of aboriginal bowler Marsh in
Vic.-N.S.W. match on opening day (Friday last week)
created something of a sensation. During the first three
overs he offended half-a-dozen times, and was pulled up
on about ten occasions in seven overs. Same umpire
(Crockett) no-balled the young Waverley bowler Howard
twice on the same day. The trouble over unfair bowling
in England has caused Sydney cricket scribes to suddenly
discover what many of the players themselves knew long
ago, viz., that there’s plenty of it in and around the
metropolis.
** . *
“ H.S.” : In the recent Vic. v. N.S.W. cricket-
match at Sydney, aboriginal bowler Marsh was no-
balled no fewer than 4 times in one over (3 times con-
secutively). Viewed even from.a distance, one at least of
these deliveries was a palpable “ throw nevertheless
the rowdy portion of the small attendance cheered on the
darkey—inviting him to “ chuck ’em,” and to “bowl
underarms,-’’ at.the same time freely hooting the umpire.
Crockett’s action, however, was fully justified. Noble
was also no-balled several times by Sammy Jones, the
N.S.W. umpire, as were also Trumble and others ; and on
the whole, it looks as if there is amongst bowlers of “ the
day ” either great carelessness or a growing peculiarity of
delivery that requires more of such prompt and decided
treatment as Crockett’s. The N.S.W. fielding, by the
way, was, on the Whole, no more than middling—always
excepting Noble and his little skipper, and perhaps a
couple more. Leg-hitting on both sides was wretched
during the first half of the match, and perhaps the most
sensational incident was the fine catch by Worrall which
dismissed Gregorv—at the time batting splendidly.
* * * *
A rule lately adopted by the M.C.C., Eng., is
that a bowler can be “ no-balled ” by either umpire. This
law has not been adopted in Australia yet. Its wisdom
can be understood from the incident in last inter-State
match. If, to dodge the criticism of Crockett, Sid.
Gregory, had changed Marsh to the other end, the Sydney
umpire would have been placed in an invidious position—
viz., he would have had to pass judgment on his brother-
official’s decisions. As a matter of fact, Marsh was not
transferred to the opposite crease on Friday as he would
have had a head wind to bowl against.
* * * *
G. B. Fry, on “bowling,” in a recent issue of
Manchester (Eng;) Athletic News : “ The Australians
are held up by some writers as a pattern to us home-
grown cricketers in point of legitimacy of bowling-action.
Now, one of the best of the bowlers in the last Australian
team, in the opinion of many county cricketers, had a
very doubtful delivery—and the man was not Jones.
Having mentioned Jones, I may say that I never saw
him bowl an illegitimate ball.”
* * * *
Pye, the Central Cumberland cricketer, aban-
dons the single-wicket game : he has got married.
The death of Queen Victoria robbed N.S.W.
Cricket Association of a ton of gate-money. Hastily
postponing the match from Anniversary Day the Associa-
tion unfortunately re-fixed the match for the day of uni-
versal mourning. Common decency compelled it to
abandon a second time Saturday’s gate.
* * * *
The reported heavy backing and comparatively
short price of Malster for the Newmarket sets one think-
ing. Highest weight yet humped by a winner in that
hard-to-pick event was Bungebah’s 9.3. Malster’s burden
is 9.5, so that if he scores ’twill be a record. Boz carried
the biggest load (10.1) into a place when he ran second to
Churchill. Newmarket Handicaps decided so far total
27. Nags with Bst. upwards appropriated 12, and only
twice have those having 7st. and less in the saddle landed
the money.
* * * *
The racing postponements over the Queen’s
death are likely to be very expensive to some of the clubs .
concerned, especially as regards losing Anniversary Day.
* » * •
Vic. acceptances on Monday were numerous.
Futurity Stakes has 21 left in, including the cracks Por-
tree, Fides, Finland, Debenture, Aurous, Malster, George
Frederick and Tarquin, who’ll make the race as interest-
ing as ever it was. Most notable withdrawals from New-
market Hep.—Bobadil, Lancaster, Fleet Admiral, The
Chief, Reliance, Cornquist, Ampier, Warrior 11., Duke of
Kent, Town Clock, Isa, Kenley, Carline, First Mate* Flor-
ence, Mylae, Horonda, Nikola, Strathjoy, Ruskin, Patina,
and High Jinks. Paul Pry and the M.L. champion, Ad-
vance, head the list with 9.11 each. The Watchdog is
nominal favorite. Top weight in Australian Cup—La
Carabine—dropped out and left the position to her stable
mate, Paul Pry. Others from Scobie’s quarters still in
are Malster, Clean Sweep, The Bride and Dreamland,
while War God, Merriwee, Seahorse, Khaki, Miltiades,
Horace, First Mate, Warrior 11., Lord Curreton, Juggler
and Hovis figure among the eliminations. Scratchings in
V.R.C. St. Leger were plentiful, the M.L. nags Cavalry
and Military being among them.
* * * •
The arrival of crack Westralian nag Australian
at Adelaide attracts attention to the widely-different
estimates of his capabilities held by N.S.W.' and Vic.
handioappers. In the Doncaster he has 8.4, and in the
Newmarket 9st. If dealt with fairly in the big 6-furlong
event there ought to be money in backing Australian for
the N.S.W. mile.
• * • *
“Q.”: Has been written in several places that
crack Q. mare Ma-Ma, which recently scooped the “King-
ston ” and “ Dickson ” Stakes at Rosohill (Sydney), is by
“ Woodstock, a son of Monmouth,” Ac. Let me correct
this. Ma-Ma, ch. m. by Woodstock- Minnehaha, Wood-
stock, ch. h. by Epigram—Welcome by Maribyrnong,
Minnehaha by Vespasian—Queen of the Forest, by Bara-
tarian. Queen of the Forest was drowned at Mt. Brisbane
in the floods (if my memory serves) ’93. The dam of
Minnehaha was bought at auction by Mr. H. M. Hughes,
of Culcraigie station, Burnett (Q-), at the same time as
Mr. W. Kent, of Dalgangal station, Burnett, purchased
Stockdove. Stockdove subsequently had a colt foal—
Prime Minister—and Queen of the Forest had a filly foal
—Minnehaha. Both (at 2yrs.) were trained by Mr. Kent,
but Minnehaha went wrong and never raced. Prime
Minister was eventually so.d to Messrs. Proudfoot and
Fletcher for 2000 gs. Mr. G. Bailey (Cannindah station)
purchased Minnehaha, and Ma-Ma is her first foal by
Woodstock. Woodstock is one of the sires at Cannindah,
and has been there for years. T’other Q. nag (Fortune
Teller), now in Sydney, is by the Dalgangal station sire
Othello by Epigram—Olive.
Looks as if Bill of Portland is going to prove a
big spec for his English buyer. The crack sire’s list for
this year filled quickly at lOOgs. per mare, and subs, are
coming in fast for next and following seasons at same
figure.
* • m •
Sydney footballer-pug. Conlon has gone through
the tare experience of being the winner in an unusually
brief battle and the loser in a much briefer one within a
few days. Tuesday, last week, he had a soft thing with
Starlight, at Golden Gate A.C. ; the dark bruiser crying
enough, owing to the usual broken wrist, ere the fourth
round was half through. Monday night, this week, at
Gaiety A. 0., “ Snowy ” Sturgeon did the cyclone act with
Oonlon, whom he hustled and harried from the jump.
In the first round, Sturgeon’s elbow lodged violently in
Oonlon’s right eye, jarring it very badly. Conlon was
coming out of his corner for the second tussle when
Sturgeon met him with a vimful right on the point, the
effect of which was to send Conlon full length on his back
for many seconds over the allotted 10, and caused Stur-
geon to stagger back in his tracks with a badly-damaged
bunch of knuckles. The house—the biggest yet seen at
Sydney Gaiety—was absolutely crammed from floor to
roof. The crowd only saw 163 sec. of actual fight for its
money, and yet there wasn’t an audible growl.
• * * *
“Jab”: Can’t fathom Sydney bruiser Jack
Oonlon. When Mick Dunn met him he got a bad attack
of the shakes, early ; ditto in the match with Joe Cullen,
who looked a “moral” for Jack right up to the time
Oonlon sat on the floor grinning and allowed himself to
be counted out. Yet Conlon’s displays at football
evidence grit above the ordinary, and then there was
that getting up after being spread-eagled by a fearful
punch on the back of the neck and ultimately licking his
opponent—Captain’s Flat miner Dan. O’Connell. Conlon
looked nervous from the start in his fight with Sturgeon
on Monday night and good judges tipped defeat for him
inside 3 rounds. He ought now to give the game up for
good.
• * • *
The second match between little ’uns Billy
M’Kell and boy Bert Weekes at Golden Gate A.C. (Syd-
ney) Saturday night drew a crammed house. M’Kell’s
poundage was given as 8.6, but on appearances he topped
that by at least lOlbs. Weekes scaled Sst. Operations
were fast and clever from the jump, but Weekes had a
heap of points to the good at the end of the third round.
In the fourth M’Kell made heavy impact on the “ point,”
spread-eagling the bantam for 7sec. Only the dodge of
falling (not allowed by the rules, but evidently unob-
served by the referee) enabled Weekes to see the round
out. Though the crowd howled for Weekes, and Weekes
alone, from end to end (his great grit and boyish face
have made him a pet of the public) superior strength and
weight told its tale and his power petered out fast, till
the eighth round, when a bump sent him prone, and the
referee, sizing matters up, gave M’Kell the palm. Those
responsible for matching Weekes against M’Kell a
second time should have their bumps felt. Previously
M’Kell was bound to a weight-limit, and then he won
convincingly. This time there was no such restriction.
Weekes will beat any man in his class (bantam) in Aus-
tralia, but giving away a stone or more is much too big a
task for a youngster of his streaky build.
•*» • *
Seventeen-vear-old “ Bob ” Turner and 37-year-
old Hughie Napier put up a tough tussle at the Golden
Gate A.C. (Sydney) last week. Stakes were £5O a-side and
a purse of £5O, all of which went to the winner. Match
was the outcome of talk, and the milk-trade of Sydney
split over the question of relative superiority—supplying
the backing in “fivers,” “tenners,” &c.', for each.
Turner had the hardest task yet set him. Often the pair
stood close in and belted away viciously and spitefully, for
there were heaps of bile at the bottom' of it all. Napier
was rushed from the perpendicular to the horizontal a
dozen times but came up smiling and full of ginger after
each fall. Yells, hoots, and cheers from equally-divided
partisans made an awful din. Veteran Napier lost his
head and battered away fruitlessly at the barricade of
elbows and fists Turner erected round his face while
’’ smothering up,” which practice he resorted to often.
Napier fell off from the eighth round and, in the eleventh,
after being laid out three or four times, his seconds caved
in.
* • • *
Apropos the Napier-Turner bruising-match at
Sydney. Writer remembers old-man Napier (who con-
fesses to 37, but must be over 40) fighting George Powell
(how in W.A.) at the whilom Sydney Gymnastic Olub
10 years back, and winning when ’twas thought almost a
“cert.” for Powell. Just previously Powell had been
beaten by Griffo, and his crowd lost a pile of money. A
bookmaker backer of Powell’s was said to have been
ruined over the match. The affair with Napier was
arranged as a sort of balm for the defeated man’s feelings,
but, after a hot struggle and some fierce punching,
t’other man got the verdict, though he was a bit lucky.
Subsequently Napier visited U.S., and did well therefor
a couple of years. Had Napier trained longer and not let
his feelings get the better of his judgment, the latest
match should have been a fairly soft thing for him, old
and all as he is. Any man with a good left will have
little trouble in accounting for Turner.
* * * »
Cribb’s second match in America was fixed for
Jan. 18, when he and one Thurston were to meet for a
500dol. purse. So confident were both that they decided
there should be no breaking-up of the money—winner
must have all. Thurston’s methods resemble Orilb’s ;
hence something of the hottest was anticipated. Indica-
tions were that the Yankee would start favorite, which
ought to admirably suit the Oribb party.
* * * *
’Frisco Examiner (loq.J: “When they sent
Otto Cribb over from Australia they said he was a fighter.
He is. Oribb is a man who is likely to whip almost any
welter-weight he meets, and he is likely to get beaten
himself by almost any of them.” Which is exactly how
the best Australian judges size Oribb up.
• * * *
The gall of some pugs! Billy M’Carthy, who
couldn’t hold his own with ninth-rate Jack Tuckwell of
Sydney recently, is in M.L., and notifies per medium of a
showy circular (with his own photo, as the central set-off)
that he is “ now making his final tour through this
country previous to his departure for America, where he
will be matched to box for the middleweight champion-
ship of the world. Mr. M’Carthy will give lessons in
boxing during his stay in Rangiora and may be consulted
at Scott’s Junction Hotel.” “The championship of the
world ! Great Scot!
* • * *
The high-falutin challenges thrown out by that
lathy darkey Felix are getting him into a hot corner.
His latest was aimed at Starlight and Joe Cullen, whom
the large-headed black said he could whip in the one ring.
Starlight retorts that though he’s verging on 50 and has
been 16 years at the game he’ll gladly take the big coon
on single-handed anytime and feel that he has a soft snap.
Cullen says : “ Him ! He fight Starlight and me in the
same ring ! Never mind about Starlight. I’ll fight Felix
myself, and I don’t want a penny if he stops me inside 10
rounds. He might outpoint me but he couldn’t hurt a
baby. If Felix’ll fight me P.R. rules I have a backer
who’ll bet £lOO I win.”
* * * *
U.S. mail brings news that Fitzsimmons isn’t
taking any more of the P.R.—he’s out of it for good. “ I
have a wife whose feelings must be considered and chil-
dren whose future is in my hands,” said the freckled
freak. “As a middle-weight I have beaten the world,
and as a middle-weight I have held my own with the
heavy-weights. Only when there’s no bread in the house
will I tackle the game again.” It’s just as well that Fitz.
has decided this way, for his lately-developed habit of
dashing in and taking chances would have suited giant
Jeffries down to the ground.
Vancouver mail tells that Paddy Ryan (the man
from whom J. L. Sullivan got the U.S. championship 19
years ago) died Dec. 14 of Bright’s disease. Twenty-five
years ago Ryan was top of the heap in Yankeedom. His
match with Sullivan was for 5000dols. a-side and under
London P.R. rules. Sullivan won in 9 rounds. Ryan
took the title from Goss, after an 87-round struggle.
Sullivan’s win quite wrecked Ryan—who was an Irishman
born in Tipperary almost 48 years ago.
m * * •
“9.5.”: That “Sporting Notion” (Feb. 2) re
the road-rights of cyclists is all wrong, because arguments
are based on the assumption that Melb. trams run in the
middle of the road. A cyclist can pass a tram going the
same way as himself on his left hand, and still be on his
right side. The crown of the road is between the two
sets of tram-lines. No doubt it was on this ground that
the cyclist won in the case cited.
• * • •
That hideous brutality, the big Yankee six days’
international cycle grind, ended in N’York, 15th Dec.,
before 12,000 people. The finish was sensational. Ameri-
can team (Elkes and 11‘Farland) won by 12ft. only from
Canucks Pierce and M’Eachern. Winners traversed 2628
miles 7 laps. Canadians got over the same distance.
Frenchmen were only one lap away while the Germans
covered 2596 miles. Seven teams withdrew ere the
struggle closed, and many riders were in hospital, at
latest, suffering from heavy falls and other accidents.
Nearly all those who survived the thing presented a piti-
able appearance from exhaustion.
• • • »
Pro. cyclists are busily engaged in smothering
their means of livelihood, and look like proving as
successful as were the peds, scullers, and ’rastlers years
ago. Reported that some prize money won at a recent
big meeting was split up into a “ divvy ” of 11s. 7d. each,
and that the money for one important handicap was
whacked among 12 of the starters.
* * * *
At Prospect (N.S.W.) fish-“hatchery,” there
are at present 750 fine rainbow-trout, which will be two
years old in Sept. next. A trout of this variety, recently
found dead in Prospect reservoir, weighed 3ilb. ; and an
81b. brown-trout was, the other day, taken from the Mac-
quarie River. Also, in the Bibbenluke River, Monaro
district, were recently captured (with the rod) six rainbow-
trout, averaging nearly 31b.
m 'm * *
First of present year Australian swimming
supremacies (the quarter-mile) was decided at Hegarty’s
Baths, Melbourne, Monday. Seven —Pearson and Creaton
(Vic.), Cavill, Read and Craig (N.S.W.), Champion (M.L.),
and Hogan (Q.) —lined up. Cavill won from the start
(and the three N.S.W. men finished as named) in 5.53 2-5
—a fresh record for the continent, topping the previous
by 4-ssec., and only l-ssec. slower than the English
fastest, done by J. H. Tyers in ’94. Cavill will probably
win every event he starts in during the week, as his
present form is exceptionally good. At Goulburn
(N.S.W.), t’other day, he put up 1.3 2-5 for 100yds.
• • • «
Don Walker, famous throughout Australia as
the man who beat Zimmy, Bill Martin, and other cycling
arena gladiators, is now mounted on a Red Bird bicycle.*
In case George Reid should desire to make
him a birthday present, The Bulletin hastens to
inform him that Sunday (Feb. 10) is the natal day
of B. Rather Wise.
Dry-dog Reid, now that he has secured
a N.S.W. Freetrade Council composed of his
“own ticks,” is inviting the members of
N.S.W. Freetrade Association to join his
Committee. He first snuffed them out at
his hole-and-corner meeting, and then tried
to propitiate them by appointing a few to differ-
ent committees on which they would have no
power to interfere with, his “ticks.” As this
move does not seem to have bull-dozed
the more independent freetraders, he is play-
ing another card. He is forming a large
committee—with no executive power—to organise
and find funds, while the Council composed of the
ticks pulls the string against all and sundry who
don’t fall into line. Freetraders with any Federal
inclinations will be sent against the strong men
whom the “ticks” daren’t tackle. If they go
under, as most of them will, they will be victims
to party loyalty, while Dry-dog and his ticks will
“loyally” enjoy the fun.
“ Melbourneite ” : The death of Queen
Victoria was a sad event, but that was no reason
for the Vic. Postal Dept, to make it irritating.
On receipt of the news at 11 a.m., the G.P.O.
issued instructions for all post-offices to close, with
the result that hundreds of people who had
counted on receiving money, by p. 0.0. or postal-
note, on the following day were compelled to wait
another 24 hours for the remittance. Also, tele-
graphic communication was unexpectedly cut off,
and the savings-banks went practically bung for
the time being, and public convenience suffered
awfully because the Monarch had died on a
Tuesday evening instead of a Saturday
afternoon. Ten days later the funeral was
made an occasion for a close holiday at the
postal, telegraph, and money-order offices. No
letters were delivered from Friday afternoon till
Monday morning. Saturday’s express train to
Sydney severed its valuable connection with the
mail service, and so a great many persons had to
feel the loss of the Queen as a personal annoyance
m order that a score, at the most, of the G.P.O.
employes might not be required to put in a little
work. To voluntarily regret the death and conse-
quent funeral of the Queen was one thing, but to
have needless lamentations forced upon one by the
Government was quite another thing, and people
objected to it.
The Bulletin draws the attention of the elec-
tors of Parramatta and adjacent parts to the candidature
of Mr. W. Sandford to represent that seat in the Federal
House of Representatives. Mr. Sandford, whose senti-
ments are more fully expressed in another part of this
issue, is the man who runs the Eskbank Iron Works, and
has kept that industry afloat in spite of enormous difficul-
ties. He has learned by bitter experience how much
Freetrade assists local industry—down the hill. His
platform is soundly democratic,'and is that advocated bv
The Bulletin— the same by which Queen Elizabeth laid
the foundations of England’s commercial and maritime
supremacy. In those days England was a country with a
small, scattered population which had hitherto lived by
exporting raw material, and the good and wise Queen
Bess commenced the new era by inaugurating a system
of rigid Protection. Mr. Sandford advocates uncom-
promising Protection to aid our own manufacturers
and keep the making of our own goods in our own
country. He also supports Arbitration and Wages Boards ;
legislation against all colored or undesirable immigrants ;
Federal control of the Railways and the building of
strategic and commercial lines to connect Port Dar-
win with Brisbane on the one side and Perth on the
other. These railways, under Federal control, can be
used to encourage and foster the baby industries of the
Continent, as is done in Germany with such deadly effect
on British trade. Mr. Sandford is a believer in Adult
Suffrage, and wishes to make Australia a prosperous
White Man’s land, which can clothe, keep, and amuse
itself absolutely during either peace or war.*
Dry-Dog and co. are sending Ashton
against Chanter for Kaverina! Chanter was a
prominent Federal worker, and nearly every
elector in the division is a Federalist. Does
somebody want to see Ashton come a cropper?
Descriptive flowers from S.M. Herald’s
cabled account of the royal obsequies :
From the wharf at Cowes the petty officers of the Royal
yacht Alberta bore the coffin aboard the Royal yacht
through the escort of Grenadiers amid the booming of
muffled guns.
The harbor was entered by the funeral procession a few
minutes before five o’clock. The torpedo boat-destroyers
on either side pf the Alberta moved in jerky dubitant
march, and looked a weird-like escort in the sundown.
Muffled guns! They must have meant muffled
buns.
There is an amusing little political comedy
being played in Melbourne just now. The Age is
barracking almost daily for calling Parliament
together to pass an address of condolence on
account of the death of Victoria. The Akgcs
gets red in the face with indignation at this pro-
posal, and says it will be time enough to condole
when Parliament meets in the ordinary course in
June. But that, of course, is not the real reason.
If Parliament were called together now, the
Radicals in the Leg. Assembly would insist on re-
sending to the Council the democratic measures
which that House of Fossils has impudently thrown
out again and again ; and if the Council rejected
them once more, public indignation would be so
great that the members of that body who are
candidates for the Federal Senate would not stand
the ghost of a show. Ordinarily the ultra-loyal
Argus would bellow lustily for a special meeting
to pass an address—but Policy before Loyalty.
Another 2000 troops for the Transvaal are
being collected in N.S. W. No consent of
Parliament has been asked or given, and
one thousand of the troops are apparently
sent more or less “on spec.” These men
are drafted from peaceful industries, where
they are helping to make Australia, and sent
away to be wasted or maimed or slaughtered in
war, or enterically rotted, at the mere nod
of Messrs. Lyne, See, and French. The
better English of two hundred years ago
rose in revolt against the monarchs who
attempted to enlist troops without the con-
sent of Parliament. It is one of the cardinal
maxims of English constitutional government that
the enlistment of troops is in the province of the
people only. Yet here in Australia, through the
weakness of popular representatives, and the
apathy of the people, we are yielding to influence-
hunters and title-hunters a power which the
English have defied tyrants to usurp. And the
incapable Lyne, having muddled away hundreds
of thousands of pounds in the so-called Common-
wealth celebration, after having received indefinite
Parliamentary authority to spend some £20,000
—having muddled it away, thrown it away, from
sheer incapacity to control expenditure; having
incurred enormous liabilities for a Sydney wharf-
age-resumption scheme which he has not the
courage or the savee to carry out; having,
momentarily at least, bankrupted the Treas-
ury by such a mammoth waste of money
as has never been paralleled in Australia
before, has just floated £500,000 of Treasury
bills to fill his empty exchequer borrow-
ing the money where a splendid revenue
in the hands of a financier with an atom of sense,
would have made borrowing unnecessary ; bor-
rowing it to pay his daily liabilities in defiance
of the principles of sound government. And
this ten-times-convicted incapable, who hangs
on to his State Premiership, and its privi-
leges and prerogatives, while undertaking a
Federal Ministerial post, which a dozen men such
as he could not adequately fill, has the impudence
to go and ask the electors of Hume to return him
to the Federal Parliament. Good Lord ! what is
this country coming to ?


“COMING EVENTS
■n,
i.\
fil
<- in
W/ /A
M: ! !,"
U' • s ?:«a
mi
W
Cast their
Shadows
Before,”
But since its
first
appearance
DERBY
TOBHCCO
has left behind and over-shadowed
all others.;
DERBY WINS ,
RESPECT. '
THE NURSE’S CHATELAINE.
Silver-plated Chatelaine, Price 12/6.
Wi;h Red Cross for the
Hospital Ward.
The Modern ]rt Jewellery Co.
187 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone 34-90.
IN MEMORIAM —
Lest We Forget.
Gold-mounted Photo
Pendants, with Por-
traits of Her late
Majesty and King
Edward VII. Price 6/6.
Open All Day Wednesdays till
6 p.m., and on Saturday Nigrhts
from 6 to 9.30.
Hall-marked Silver Kodak Frames,
with Photos of the late Queen,
Price 2s 6d.
Fairfax & Roberts,
Consulting Opticians,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
(Opticians by Special Appointment to his Excellency
the late Sir Robert Duff, (t.O.M.G. ; his Excellency
Admiral Bridge ; the Walker Hospital, etc., etc.)
SIGHT TESTED DAILY (GRATUITOUSLY)
By a Thoroughly Qualified Ophthalmic Optician.
SPECTACLES
At Lowest London Cash Prices.
Doctors’ Prescriptions at One-Half Ordinary Sydney
prices.
The Celebrated Uniaxial Spectacles, 10/6.
JUST OUT, FOURTH EDITION.
Price ss. 6d., posted.
IE
by P. R. GORDON,
Chief Inspector of Stock and Brands,
Queensland.
With New Stock Route Maps of
Queensland and New South Wales.
BATSON, FERGUSON & CO., Brisbane.
And all Booksellers.
Microbes and Disease.
The normal condition of all life, animal or
vegetable, is health. We were all intended by
Nature to be healthy, and, if we can, by care,
keep all the mechanism of our bodies in complete
working order, it is doubtful whether any disease
can establish itself. The most virulent microbe
would be unable to effect a lodgment in a perfectly
sound and healthy body, or, even if it did, the
white corpuscles of the blood, whose province it is
to deal with such an intruder, would immediately
assemble in such force, and make so vigorous an
attack, that the microbe would be exterminated
and absorbed before it could do any serious
mischief. What gives the microbe its chance is
an enfeebled condition of the vital forces. It
attacks a citadel, the defences of which are in
some parts weak ; establishes a foothold, and then
proceeds to multiply by dividing itself into two or
more parts. These parts again divide in a similar
manner until what was originally one microbe
becomes tens of millions. Our first great care
should be to keep the body in thorough repair.
The organs most susceptible to weakness are the
kidneys and liver. We catch a slight cold. The
liver and kidneys become congested, and cannot
properly perform their functions, and there is an
accumulation in the system of waste products,
which would ordinarily be carried off through
their natural channels, if the kidneys and liver
were doing their duty. The result is Rheumatism,
Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Impure Blood, Bilious-
ness, Jaundice, Ansemia, Gravel, Gout, Neuralgia,
perhaps Bright’s Disease. All these disorders are
due to defective action of the kidneys and liver.
Warner’s Safe Cure possesses a wonderfully specific
action upon those vital organs, and speedily
restores them to health, with the result that any
complaint due to their inactivity can no longer
prevail.
Mr. Reginald Parnell, of Barcaldine, Queens-
land, in a letter dated November, 5, 1900, says:
“I suffered for a short time, but severely, from
indigestion, which caused great pain in my chest
and between the shoulders. After passing several
sleepless nights, I determined to try Warner’s
Safe Cure, and am pleased to say that the pains
have entirely left me.”*
FOR the person who Is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 60 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Proprietor * ■ GUO. W. ELLIS.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, BYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas.. J. B. Moutrie.
LAST 2 NIGHTS & FAREWELL PERFORMANCES.
EVERY EVENING at 7.46,
Matinee Performances at 2 o’clock Every Wednesday and
Saturday Afternoon.
The PANTOMIME EXTRAVAGANZA, entitled
AUSTRALIS, or the city of zero.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
SATURDAY NEXT, FEB. 9, “ DJIN DJIN.”
Criterion theatre, Sydney.
Lessee and Manager
ALFRED
Alfred Dampier.
DAM PIER,
and the Ladies and Gentlemen associated with him.
EVERY EVENING,
“ The Buali KUng.”
New Australian Drama.
pA LACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
HAWTREY COMEDY COMPANY.
SEVENTH WEEK.
HUGE and UNQUALIFIED SUCCESS of
A MESSAGE FROM MARS.
Mr. Herbert Ross
Mr. H. Stephenson Miss Ruby Ray
Mr. T. Holding Miss Roxy Barton
Mr. R. E. Watson Miss Madge Hope
Mr. Wilson Power Miss Lena Brasch
and Mr. W. F. Hawtrey.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY, at 2.30 o’clock.
Box Plan at Paling and Co.’s, 338 George-st.
PRICES, 55., 35., 25., Is. ,
Business Manager, Mr. E. F. BRADLEY.
1C HARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor .. .. Mr. Harrv Rickards.
LAST NIGHTS of the Grand Con.ic Xmas
PANTOMIME,
Written by that great London Author, Victor Stevens,
Fuss in Boots.
A Gigantic and Unparalleled Cast of Characters.
New Scenery, New Costumes, New Music, New Artists.
In fact, everything new and up-to-date. ' Plan at Paling’s.
Matinees Saturday and Wednesday.
IJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE. "
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Gigantic Success of our Latest Importations,
MISS LOTTIE COLLINS.
BOB—THE LEONARDS—JENNY.
THE SISTERS PINE.
Splendid Reception of Messrs. Will Whitburn, Tod
Callaway, Billy M’Clain, Chas. W. Walker, Pope & Sayles,
Madame Cordelia, Misses Ida May, Susie Anderson, and
all our Great Co.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
RINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. George. Musgrove.
Business Manager .. .. Mr. Harry Musgrove
EVERY EVENING.
EIGHTH WEEK of the GRAND PANTOMIME,
CI3XTPEBET.T.A.
The Most Beautiful Spectacle Ever Seen on any Stage.
Dress Circle, 7s. 6d. ; Reserved Stalls, 6s. ; Unreserved
Front Stalls, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. ; Family Circle, 2s. ; Amphi-
theatre, One Shilling. Plan at Allan’s.
HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
SECOND WEEK. EVERY EVENING.
THE FIRST TIME IN AUSTRALASIA, the BRILLIANT
ENGLISH SUCCESS,
THE GREAT RUBY,
A Picturesque and Stirring Dramatic Story of Modern Life.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 2s, la. and 6d. Box Plan
at Allan’s. CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
A™ E u M HALL, me lb ou rn e.
TRIUMPHANT RETURN 'OF
SNAZELLE
in the Most Delightful Entertainment Extant,
OUR NAVY,
And Commonwealth Pictures, Every Evening.
Manager for Messrs. West and Sons, CAPTAIN F.
EDWARDS, R.N.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. O. Williamson.
Bus. Manager. Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas.. Mr. R. Stewart.
EVERY EVENING.
NINTH WEEK of the New Musical Comedy,
FLORODORA.
All Melbourne is raving about it. “ Florodora ” k
eclipsing all records. Friday Afternoon, Feb. 8, Grand
Complimentary “ Send-off ”to Mr. George Darrell.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, 6s; Stalls and Family
Oirole, 8s; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Westralians, on Tuesday of last week, showed
another slump in everything. On Tuesday this week
there was a boom, but it is noticeable that, while every
slump takes them lower than they were before, every
succeeding boom leaves them somewhat behind
the previous one. Associateds, £2 145.—155. higher
than last Tuesday, and 15s. means an increased valu-
ation of upwards of £400,000. Northern Associateds £2 15s.
—lss higher than they were a week ago, representing
an increased valuation of about a quarter-million. Main
Reefs £2, a rise of 6s. ; Perseverances, £7 125., a rise of
£2, which means £350,000; last week they dropped
£2. Boulders, £1 4s. 6d., a rise of 2s. fid. bo
the mine is worth on the market £218,760. more
this week than last. Fingall Oonsolidateds, £6 7s. 6d.
—a rise of about 10s. for the week. Ivanhoes,
£8 12s. 6d. ; last Tuesday they were £6 55., and £2 7s. od.
means an increased market valuation of nearly halt-a-
million. What has happened in the mine to make this
change, or in any of the others for the matter of that
Absolutely nothing, so far as people know. Lake Views,
£7 ss.—onlv £2 higher than a week ago, and £2 is exactly
half-a-million. South Kalgurlis, £2 15s.—about 10s.
higher than last week.
* * • •
British Exploration Co. of .Australasia: The
last successful float in London is all on account of
A. E. Morgans, who can do much as he likes with the
London market —which cannot be said of any other man.
Capital, half-a-million in the same number of shares;
object, to take over mines, gold, copper and tin, in
different parts of Westralia; purchase pnce fixed by
Morgans, who is the vendor, at £310,000, payable £60,000
in cash, and £250,000 fully-paid shares. “ The vendor
will pay all expenses in connection with the formation of
the co. including registration and brokerage,” which is
very good of him. Working capital provided by this
issue, £90,000, and 100,000 shares reserved to provide
further working capital when required. The £90,000
won’t go far to work so many mines in so expensive
a mining country. They are mostly isolated, and though
Morgans has been successful in two or three places he will
be different from any other mining man found in Westra-
lia if he is successful everywhere. The list includes the
Nullagine conglomerates in Marble Bar district, said to
resemble the banket formation of the Rand. They are
represented as being worth over 4 an oz. to the ton.
Stated that hundreds of tons have been worked for this
average, although a considerable quantity of gold got
away in the tailings, and it is declared that 6dwt. per ton
will more than pay all expenses. It may be news to Mr.
Morgans to know that these deposits were examined by a
very big mining man indeed seven years ago, and if they
had showed anything like lOdwt. they would have been
taken up and worked on a much bigger scale than is now
proposed.
• • *
Mt. Lyell Blocks : Stated at last meeting, held
in London, that 6475 tons had been .delivered to Mt.
Lyell smelters, which realised over £46,000 gross—all the
result of less than five months* work. Another contract
arranged for smelting, and regular parcels going forward.
Proposed to lay out £4OOO in shaft-sinking and other im-
provements. Upwards of in hand.
Mt. Lyell West : Chairman admitted in London
recently that though they had one body of ore of con-
siderable value in itself, it was absolutely unworkable by
itself and they were looking for a deposit of pyntic ore.
Even if they failed in finding it the position was not
exactly hopeless because in the southern portions of the
field there were mines in a similar difficulty, i.e., they
had pyritic ore and nothing to flux it with, while that of
the Lyell West was silicious without pyntic ore. total
amount spent to date, £5lBB. Little encouragement
given by the last expert who reported. Said in effect
that copper had been found but without regularity or
quantity. Believed no large bodies of rich ore
would be found, but there were prospects of opening up
a fairly large body of low grade, and there was also a
chance of picking up the South Tharsis silicious ore body
towards the northern boundary. Briefly it might be thus
summed up : If the London shareholders consider only
the interest of Mt. Lyell field they will continue to put
up. If they consider only their own they had better shut
up.
r * * * *
Great Cobar Copper: The beginning of the end.
Resolution passed for the winding-up of the old co. ; con-
firmation only wanted. The tributors, represented by W.
and T. Longworth and Dr. Read, have exercised their
option— i.e., they have got the mine for a modest half-
million. Several interesting features in connection with
this sale have been kept as dark as the lungs of midnight.
About two-thirds of the purchase money is retained by
the tributors by reason of their two-thirds interest in the
co. ; in other words, they paid £500,000 with one hand
and took two-thirds of it back with the other. They
started buying the shares at half-a-crown, and although
they did not leave off at £4 their average pnce was pro-
bably under £2. They were seriously checkmated nearly
three years ago by the co. letting another tribute over
their heads on the basis of a heavy nett royalty—a most
unusual proceeding, and to all appearances unwarranted
by the circumstances. Under the terms of that tribute
the old tributors imagined it could be cancelled for some
£lO,OOO. Rumor says that it cost them £40,000 ; that the
price went up with every day’3 delay, and what it would
have been to-day had they not closed for the higher
amount few people know. The worries of this concern
are all over now. The tributors have made an immense
f ortune, the result of their own unaided exertions. They
have paid over a quarter-of-a-million in royalties and they
take over a mine at half-a-million which had practically
no value when they took it up. The remaining share-
holders, after receiving many divs., will now get a final one
of over £4 a share, and the nominal tributors have had
the pleasure of collecting £40,000 as the result of a
** move ** made and carried out without risk and “as
easy as kissing your hand.”
An Adelaide tradesman, as a sign of
mourning for his Queen, emptied one of his shop
windows, carpeted and draped it in black, and
put in it a huge marble tombstone, festooned with
funeral wreaths. Also, a local theatre hung its
proscenium with crape and then went right on
with the nigger-minstrel show.
The “ exceptionally well-conducted ” Im-
perial soldiers who visited Australia left Mel-
bourne with over 400 of their number under
arrest. The bulk of the offences were of course so
trivial as to appear insignificant to civilians, but
nearly 20 of the prisoners were transferred from
watchhouses where they had been lodged mainly
for unprovoked assaults and insults. Col. Wynd-
ham told a Melb. interviewer that his men com-
plained that everybody in Melbourne wanted to
fight them. The truth was that the people of
Melbourne did not feel inclined to submit to the
frequent remarks of the soldiers regarding their
legitimacy. The police opinion is that the thou-
sand Britishers are the worst-conducted set of
men ever seen in the city and that, if they are
good-conduct men, a visit from ordinary British
soldiers would have meant annihilation to either
the city or the visitors.
At Povery Point.
A correspondent asks if the closing of the theatres on
account of the Queen’s death meant that that unfortunate
class, the minor actors and tail-end people of the profes-
sion, had to lose a night’s wage, which they can ill spare.
Another view is that a good many managers can ill
afford to pay a night’s expenses while getting no receipts ;
plenty of managers, despite all appearances, live most of
their time on the edge of a financial precipice. Did the
landlords, by any chance, forego the night’s rent ? And
if they did, did anyone let them off a day’s interest on
the mortgage ?
Smiler Hales has embarked as war-lecturer.
Melbourne Aoe is crying out for a vigorous policy in the
management, of the local Exhibition Building, as though
that “ white elephant” institution were favorably circum-
stanced for all sorts and conditions of show business. In
the first place, the Exhibition Building is out of the way
of the large majority of the public that spends much
money in the purchase of entertainment. It is cold and
cheerless in the winter. It is only permitted an occa-
sional liquor license, under restrictions imposed through
. the protests of neighboring pub.-keepers. The mere
washing of the floor of the building costs £2O a time, or
more, and the incidental expenses of gatemen, door-
keepers, attendants and police are very great.
Talking of “ Joseph of Canaan ” and the refusal of a
license to play it in Great Britain on the ground that an
admittedly Biblical story is not eligible for production,
the London correspondent of a Sydney paper remarks the
obvious fact that “ the spiciness of a Biblical play lies in
the names.” Give other names to Joseph and Mrs. Poti-
phar, and at once the lady’s attempted seduction of the
good young man becomes a quite commonplace theatri-
cal incident. The naughtiness must have a cloak
of religion, otherwise it can’t draw such mobs of
prurient, unsophisticated humbugs as gloated over “ The
Sign of the Cross.” They must have a “beautiful
moral lesson ” and they want it “ blue.” The repulsive
“ story ” of Lot’s daughters would probably make an
enormously successful play if it were cleverly written
and presented in Biblical form. If any other named
character than old man Lot were loaded up with liquor
by his spinster daughters for immoral purposes the Ker-
ristian world would howl for a prosecution of the mana-
ger. But a play that introduced the wreck of Sodom and
Gomorrah in the second act, and subsequently showed
the Misses Lot retiring to an inner room on the
mission recorded in Holy Writ would fill a long-felt want.
Miss Jennie Opie, as the big, manly, striding middy in
Bland Holt’s drama, sets one thinking of what the late
J. B. Buckstone said of Mrs. Chippendale in “ The Over-
land Mail ” long ago. Old Buckstone was a privileged
person in the matter of “broad” jokes, and Mrs. Chip,
was about as buxom as they make ’em. “My wife,” said
the unctuous comedian, “is an angel. In fact, she’s
better than an angel, for she has something to sit down
upon.”
Demise : Vanderfelt the English actor. 1-Ie had the
misfortune to become attached to Miss Fortescue in a
dual capacity, first as leading man, secondly as ardent
lover. She was a business woman, carrying the Garmoyle
aroma round, and had no idea of allowing the dog to
lie where the deer ought to be. So poor Vanderfelt might
enact Romeo, on the boards, to his heart’s content, but
off them there was a wall of ice. His example was Wilson
Barrett. Twenty years ago, or a little more, the whole
profession agreed that Barrett never would capture the
great Miss Heath, reader by appointment to H.M. Queen
Victoria—but he did ; and she was not so happy as she
expected.
“ Sfogato ” in reply : “ E.” (B. 19/1/1) on the somewhat
unsubstantial basis of “ two programmes,” ridicules my
assertion (B. 12/1/1) that “ of French, Italian, or German
pupils, Madame Marchesi has none.” Not precisely my
words —but, never mind. lam aware that Marchesi has
had a very few French pupils; for instance, her own
daughter, Blanche, who—having sung in Paris at one of
Lamoureux’s concerts—had the following courteous re-
marks written about her by Marcel, in the Journal pour
Tous : “ Good God 1 How has Mme. Marchesi had the
audacity to approach such famous musical numbers with
vocal qualifications so absolutely nil I —with an organ of
such disagreeable quality—painful in the upper register,
completely wanting in sonority in the middle, and
with lower notes so mean? Her voice bleats,
goat-like, throughout its whole extent; enunciation
she has none ; and her mouth opens cavernously in the
high notes, only to emit a thin thread of voice, without,
consistency, and without quality. In what school has.
Mdme. Marchesi learnt to produce sound in such an exas-
perating fashion ? Whence such cruel heaviness of style ?
Rough ! but I see it is more or less corroborated by several!
other leading Parisian critics. “ E.” also, remarks that
no teacher can turn out great singers from poor material.
True ; but a bad teacher often ruins good material.
“ E.” further states that, “of course, Italian voices don’t
need to leave their own country for,culture.” But many
Italians do. Ciampi-Cellaj (who was here with Oarlotta.
Patti) possibly the best concert baritone who has visited
us, was, although an Italian, a purely French vocalist,
and the school which has turned out artists like Faure,
Maurel, and Merly must naturally have a high reputation.
I don’t wish to deny to Marchesi whatever credit is due
to her, but I protest against the mischievous notion—
due to irresponsible, and, possibly, venal scribes—
that she is the great I Am of vocal tuition.
At the Paris Grand Opera and Opera Oomique are to be
heard a host of French-taught artists, compared with
whom the few really good singers whom Marchesi has.
produced are not to be mentioned. I’ve heard the former,
but “ E.” has “ seen two programmes ! ” As for the often-
cited Melba, she was an accomplished vocalist before she
went to Europe—thanks to the late Signor Ceechi. “As
for German voices,” proceeds “E.,” “no fashionable-
teacher outside Germany wants to be afflicted by them"
Yet Marchesi is herself a German, who married the Mar-
chese di Oastrone, and her present name is an adaptation
of his title. German singers who have studied in Ger-
many generally, it is true, lack vocal finish, but Germany
has for all that produced some of the finest voices the
world has heard. What of Tietjens, Stolz, and Waldmann ?'
—of the tenor Wachtelj and the basso Formes—all
celebrities in Italian opera. Finally, “ E.” “ knows that,
some of Marchesi’s star pupils within the past two years,
have been French and Russian.” Well, the Russians who
have attained any vocal eminence, outside their own
country could be counted on the fingers of one hand;
and, though I will not return “ E’s ” very gratuitous in-
sinuation of falsehood, I will say that it would be
interesting to learn the names of the “ star pupils” in
question.
Nance O’Neil, whom Melbourne people (women chiefly)
raved about a little time ago, but who did not altogether
thrill The Bulletin, receives very unkind treatment
from Stafford Ransome, who was “ doing ” Australia for
the London Sphere and Daily Express at the time. He
writes in the former paper that the bulky lady has “a.
rudimentary knowledge of acting,” and that when she
gets to London—if she ever does—“ both she and her
audiences will be disappointed by the results.”
Miss Amy Crawford, the Bendigo girl who was intro-
duced to Melbourne as a recitress at the time of the
Castles Boom, is now second lady in the Nance O’Neil Co.
Maoriland papers gave* the damsel warm praise for her
performance of Mrs. Vane in “ Masks and Faces,” wherein
also J. B. Atholwood scored a hit with his Triplet. The
substitution of Atholwood for Barton Hill, who played
the part (in Australia) for much less than its full worth,
is more understandable than the rapid promotion of Amy
Crawford. The dark-eyed girl from Bendigo has a tall,
fine appearance, charming elocution, and lots of talent,
and so, all things considered, the wonder is that—but
perhaps M‘Kee Rankin has secured her on a long lease.
The Bulletin hopes not. This country can’t afford to
lose any promising young actresses for the next few
years.


A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
A pply fcmlpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulphohne developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on nasre
23 of tins issue *
It Was Not His Fault.
The man who sits down to his supper and
refuses to eat it is not likely to rise in the esteem
of his wife or his cook. Excellent cooks have
thrown up their situations, and gone off in a huff
simply because the master of the nouse has casually
remarked that there was a trifle too much salt in
the soup.
Nevertheless, Mr. John Bennett, according to
his own story, failed to get any satisfaction out of
his meals for several years. Yet nobody
complained of him* because it was not his fault,
lie would not have dreaded the coming of a meal
time, as he actually did dread it, had he possessed
the power to choose his own feelings.
But alas ! a dtaf man may love music, or a blind
one long vainly for the sight of remembered
colours.
“ F rom 1884 to 1889, ” says Mr. Bennett, “ I was
a helpless victim of that tormenting and
incorrigible complaint—indigestion. How it came
on me at the outset I cannot say. It is like
waking up in the night and finding a thief in
your house. How he got in you may never
exactly discover—not even by the aid of the police.
“ What I do know is, that it annihilated my
appetite and spoiled my comfort. The little I
did worry down often came up again—undigested,
and consequently of no advantage to me.
“In fact, I dreaded the coming of meal time,
and wished it were possible to get along without
eating. _ But this is the horror of chronic
dyspepsia—that one must eat in order to live, and
that existence under such circumstances is scarcely
worth having.
‘‘During all those years—about fifteen of them
—I never knew what it was to be well. Of all
the medicines I resorted to, and they comprised
almost everything I heard of that had the
slightest hope in it, none did me any good; that
is, none went to the bottom of my trouble. Any
weary and hapless dyspeptic will understand what
I mean.
borne time in 1899 (just ten years ago now) I
bought a bottle of Mother Seigel’s Syrup of Mr.
Sept. Powell, the chemist here in Paddington.
He has been long in business in this place, and
can be trusted to recommend only what is good in
his line.
“I need only add that the result of my using
this medicine was far beyond my hopes or dreams
Before I had finished the first bottle I was better’
and after taking the Syrup a few weeks longer
I was cured. Yes, and really cured; for never
since then has a sign of my 'old trouble shown
itself.
“ What I think of Mother Seigel’s Syrup may
be inferred.”—John Bennett, 48, Begg Street
Paddington, Sydney, N.S.W., August 30th, 1899 *
Å
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes,
oplendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Kemoves Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
pj , _ Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
- ' ■ 4
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
I
:
f
Publications.
3
FAVORITE
NUMBERS
.... OF
Bilan’s
Australian
flusic
Books^j
*
No. 40.—Favourite Pianoforte Pieces.
The Musical Box
Leon Berger
Danse des F6e Wyman
L’Oiseau Panormo
Venetian, Gondolied, Op.
19, No 6 Mendelssohn
Lieder ohne Worte, Op.
30, No. 3 Mendelssohn
Heimweh Hugo Neumann
Home, Sweet Home
Thalberg
Chanson Triste
Tschaikowsky
The Ox Minuet Haydn
Chant Sans Paroles
Tschaikowsky
Viccolo, Galop de Concert
Blake
Allegro Haydn
No. 41.—Six Spaniard Overtures as Piano So!cs.
The Caliph of Bagdad
Boieldieu
Der Freischiitz
C. M. von Weber
Xumpii
T&nwedi
Messiah
Seiriliuuiide
04r»U
Jiowitii
l/amltl.
Roxsitii
No. 42. —Favorite Violin and Pianoforte Duets.
The Celebrated Andante
in G Batiste
Melody in F Rubinstein
Stephanie Gavotte
Czibulka
Blumenlied Lange
Home Love Richardson.
Joyful Peasant Schumann
Serenade Gounod
Air Louis XIII Ghys
Price l/- ; or Posted H 2.
Obtainable at Musicsellers throughout Australia, or
direct from the publishers,
ALLAN & CO. Propy. Ltd,
276 AND 278 COLLINS ST.,
lAMOND SONG BOOK,
600 SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one book. National
Songs of every country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC,
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
where. Complete list of the songs for a stamp. This
wonderful book will be sent anywhere for only 2s. 6d., posted
2s. lOd. from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO., Wat-
erloo Chambers, 458 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps, 2d
extra. Add exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for this
and other Fast Selling Books. Mention this paper when writing
TSICOMSJ
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, by Dr.
ALFRED NEALE, Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
and their Treatment.
Posted Is. Id.
Publishers: Turner and Henderson, SYDNEY.
LADIES.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address L.D.I a] 300 Collins St.j Melbourne.
HOW TO
SAFELY
CURE THE
LIQUOR
HABIT.
A PAMPHLET with thousands
of Testimonials from Clergymen,
Physicians, Merchants, and all
classes des-LT j c\7 wili be
criptive of sent
gratis and post free. This is the
only remedy which can be used
SECRETLY at home with cer-
tainty of success. Address—The
i UGRASY GO., 62 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY
IT PAYS TO BUY BOYS
GOOD CLOTHES.
Aside from the appearance, it pays to Buy
Boys’ Good Clothes, because the more you pay,
the better the cloth, the sewings, the linings,
the color, the finish, and even the fit.
That is, if you buy clothes sold on their
merits —clothes that give GOOD WEAR, like
FEDERAL CLOTHING.
That is the kind it pays you to buy ; it’s the
kind
HORDERN’S IN PITT-STREET
sell.
BIG BOYS’
Stylish, well-tailored Suits, in Extra Quality
Serge, for Ages 14 to 19, from 20/ to 42/.
SMALL BOYS’
Strong, Serviceable Serge or Tweed Suits,
Made to wear Well.
Sizes for Boys 3 to 8 years, from 6/11 to 20/.
Sizes for Boys 9 to 13, 7/6 to 25/.
Something new in SHIRTS, TIES and COL-
LARS for Boys of all ages.
We can interest you in our
BOYS’ DEPARTMENT.
Write for Our Catalogue of Boys’ Clothing.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
FEDERAL CLOTHIERS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Medical
A Vapor Bath Cabinet
Ā
Is a Necessity in Every Home.
BUY a
QURK£I?
Batl) Cabinet
(Best American Imported),
and enjoy the luxury of a
TURKISH, VAPOR, or MEDI-
CATED VAPOR BATH at
home, instead of at public
institutions, and save money.
Cures Rheumatism,
Sleeplessness, Obesity,
Kidney and Skin Diseases.
Price only 25/—, including Heater, and Prescriptions
for Medicated Baths.
Head and Face Steaming Attachment, 3/6 extra.
Cabinet folds flat to 1 inch thickness, when not in use.
Call and Inspect. Pamphlets Free.
J. CHALMERS,
Premier Building's, 229-231 Collins St., Melbourne.
Will Develop or Reduce
any part of the Body.
A PERFECT COMPLEXION
BEAUTIFIER and
Remover of Wrinkles.
Dr. JOHN WILSON GrIBBS'
THE ONLY
Electric
Massage
Roller
(Patented
United States,
Europe,
Canada.
V*
“Its work ia
not confined to
the face alone,
but will do good
to any part of the
body to which it is
applied, developing or
reducing as desired. It
is a very pretty addition
to the toilet table.”
—Chicago Tribune.
“ This delicate Electric Beauti-
fier removes all facial blemishes.
It is the only positive remover of
wrinkles and crow’s feet. It never
fails to perform all that is expected.”
—Chicago Times Herald
“The Electric Roller is certainly productive of good
results. I believe it the best of any appliances. It is safe
and effective.”—Harriet Hubbard Ayer, New York World.
For Massage and Curative Purposes
An Electric Roller is all the term implies. The invention
of a physician and electrician known throughout America
and Europe. A perfect complexion beautifier. Will re-
move wrinkles, “crow’s feet” (premature or from age),
and all facial blemishes. Whenever electricity is to be
used for massaging or curative purposes, it has no equal.
No charging. Always ready for use on all parts of the
body, for all diseases. For Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neural-
gia, Nervous and Circulatory Diseases, a specific.
Price—Gold, 21/- ; Silver, 16/- PAMPHLETS FREE.
Sole Agent tor Australasia—
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins-street,
Melbourne.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
the famous remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA. ’
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough Difficulty of Breathing t> ■
Soreness m the Chest experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable as ?
for hug in allaying irritation m the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allots a Cough or Asthma to become chronicnor Consumotiontodelelon f T*
“S” aZ^:VulTjrUin e t "*“ d h » L “ h ““ ld «* it, aa, take, at SS3S£^ t SSS^SS^
BEJWA.R.E OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
branch M pot HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depqt- Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s od, Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food
Infants
9
y.
1
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it -is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, Ac., every whore.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by (
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.
At the Hunts (England) assizes, recently,
four young men, convicted of criminal cumulative
assau t upon a 14-year-old girl, received but 12
months “ hard ” each. In N.S.W. they would
probably have been hanged. Surely the penal
sw?ng lUm ° f alleged civili sation has too long a-
One Goldsmith, an Adelaide ArVesleyan
parson, got himself and his tricycle in front of a
traincar the other day, and became mixed up with
the horses. Then he wrote a long letter to the
papers, some extracts from which are as follows :
The angel of the Lord encampeth round about them
that fear Him, and delivereth them.—Psalm xxxv. 6.
I will give a short outline of the occurrence and how it
was I escaped from impending danger, and anyone will
see that but for God’s special interposition I must have
lost my life. . . The Payneham tramcar came behind
me and ran me down. In-a moment I and the tricycle
were resting upon the swingletree behind the horses’
heels. How the horses went past me with their reins
crossed without being frightened ; how the tricycle
passed between them without causing them to kick up •
and how they stood still until removed from the’
tramcar, could only be accounted for by the restraining
power of Him who gathers the wind in'his fist. As God
would have it, I did uot receive a nervous shock, as le-
ported, nor did I lose my presence of miud, but when
the tramcar stopped I simply expressed a wish that the
might be removed at once before they commenced
kicking against the tricycle, and the Great Master kept
them perfectly still. It was by a kind overruling* Provi-
dence that I happened to be exactly in the centre of the
tram.me when overtaken. ... I was preserved alto-
gether from excitement or fear, and was never more com-
posed m my life than when sitting behind the heels of
the horses. ... By the overruling providence of God I
escaped with only a few bruises, and in company wil h two
gentlemen, who very kindly walked with me to the Dorcas
ward, but whose names unfortunately I do not know, I
attended to my hospital duties as usual. As one may
suppose my tricycle was broken to pieces. I canrot find
words; to express my deep sense of obligation and my
thankfulnees to Him of whom it is truly affirmed “ As,
the mountains are round about Jerusalem, so the Lord is
round about His people,” to whom alone he ascribed all
thanksgiving and praise; During the last few days W
right leg, which was wounded in five different places, has
greatly swelled and become so painful that I fear 1 may
have to lay up (sic) for a' time ; but l am conscious that
I am in good hands—One who can accomplish His pur-
pose in any way He pleases'. To His kind care I have
every confidence in committing myself.
What a humorous idea of the Deity the average
parson possesses ! He considers his God as an in-
dividual who allows tramcars to run over him and
then specially interferes to prevent him being
bruised in more than eleven places; and who
drops him out of boats, and then takes special
measures to rescue him when he is scared to death,
and has acquired life-long rheumatism. Provi-
dence, in his view, is an unfinished sort of insti-
tution which seldom interferes quite in time,
but gets there at the last moment when the
believer is badly knocked about and half-dead.
It suggests a sum in proportion : If parson Gold-
smith, because he believed, was only* run over by
two horses and bruised in five places, how many
fewer horses would have run over him, and how
many less places would he have been bruised in, if
he had believed more ? And if, by reason of his
faith, he was only damaged on one leg, would he
have been damaged on four legs if he had had
cnly a quarter of the faith ?
Fitzharris, alias “Skin the Goat,” who
drove the Phoenix Park murderers to the scene of
the crime, and afterwards aided them to escape,
has just calmly applied fora renewal of his license
as a car-driver in Dublin ! T.irn Healy asked in
tlie Commons whether there was any reason why
the authorities should not “assist released prison-
ers.” Humor?
A London print named Answers recently
asked certain celebrities what they did when
tired, and published two columns of their replies
under the headings, “That Tired Feeling : What
Certain Celebrities Play at When Jaded.” Agent-
Ceneral Reeves, of Maoriland, replied :—“When
I am tired I make a point, as far as possible, to
avoid answering any questions. lam very tired
now. ”
He prayer-efficacy. The Tientsin (North
China) missionaries recently had an embarrassing
set-back. Rain was much wanted, and a Sunday
was fixed to solemnly supplicate therefor. No
results. Then the pagan Chows had a great pro-
cession, with gongs and crackling fireworks, and
ere the show was half over down came rain in
torrents.


rrm.
Ensures a
‘Hajafcy
Old Age
«... i Brr» PROM THE KINDLY FRUITS OF THE EARTH.
Tt is a revelation in method of
KSgjTt, «* —r. b.i, E nothing mote nor
than an extraction from
p, nwpRS FRUIT. HERBS AND SEAWEED.
Although th, dhT.h°„ of •• do’,to. P-oigM h„<t i»nd «>'r»by the .««« of
life, they have certainly provided the means of perfect health. An elixir oi neaiu
estabiished. WIRE , ES S TELEGRAPHY TEN YEARS AGO
would have been scoffed at as the suggestion of a lunatic, or perhaps regarded in the light of being a
CHAMPION FIRST-CLASS UP-TO-DATE LIE.
To-dav we are astounded at the simplicity of its system of working. “ Sanoalmus is equally simple,
Uken'from thc natural produce of earth and sea, that we in our hitherto blind ignorance
uave BEEN TRAMPLING UNDER OUR FEET.
,y,ta»th.t,nyon.mw THE WORLD , N THE FAOE »
and fear no man Its influence on the blood is extraordinary. Two or three bottles of “Sanoalmus”
will do more in a case of impure blood than two years’ treatment by ordinary methods.
CONSUMPTIVES REJOICE
unless in a verv advanced stage “Sanoalmus” will cure you-under any circumstances it will
nLnnff life Taking “Sanoalmus” at regular intervals not alone cures but protects
from eveSy ills as InSesMom Flatulence, Bad Breath, Headache, Ear-ache, Coughs, Co ds,
Sore Throat Neuralgia Giddiness, Influenza, fee. In Rheumatism and Sciatica it is most beneficial,
and will results. It conquers Backache when all other treatment has failed
For Constipation its action is simply perfect, and renders a healthy and regular working to the
Bmction" of the bowels. Last but not least “Sanoalmus” must be welcomed as a divine blessing
for the reason that if persevered with regularly for a brief period it will entirely destroy
THAT HORRID BLOOD POISONING MICROBE,
the recognised curse of humanity. Here you wi 1 assuredly realise the far-reaching effects of
tlds “ Simple Discovery,” and also the forethought which recognising an evil furnishes the
anUdote “ Sanoalmus” (as before stated) renders the blood perfect ; consequently it ensures a
lovely complexion, does away entirely with all pimples, blushing, blotches, or red, rough skm ; a
peach-like bloom attends the use of “ Sanoalmus.*
THE UNTUTORED SAVAGE WOUNDED BY POISONOUS SNAKE
or spear, turns instinctively to certain herbs that not only relieve the pain but save his life.
“ Sanoalmus ” contains all the properties of these herbs. It is nature s own remedy.
MOTHERS TAKE HEED.
When habv is teething, a half teaspoonful of “ Sanoalmus ”in milk will soothe, strengthen, and
comfort your little darling. ” Remember, it is absolutely harmless to the smallest mite. If it so please
you it is within your power to bask in the heavenly sunshine of perfect health, no longer need you
LANGUISH IN THE GLOOM OF SICKNESS AND DESPONDENCY
To be obtained from all chemists, price 3/6 per bottle, or direct from the proprietors,
Wells, Strong & Coy., 10 Barrack Street, opposite Savings Bank of New South Wales, Sydney.
DON’T POISON
OURSELF
WITH DRUGS when NATURE is READY and WILLING to> restort you
y°. u T NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORERS. Our SPECIAL BELT and SUSPEN-
GALVANIC BELTS and APPLI are jn ai uke-o u GUARANTEED to be the most SCIENTIFIC and
fp a APPT LANCES They will SPEEDILY RELIEVE and CURE you, no. matter
GpumE ELECTRIC APPLIANCES confide „ ce of mankind in the efficacy of DRUGS to
what your disease or ailment y , h ly reß ard their use as a failure, but have incited the
£Sio‘ss Wra&M.:jfegj wi th DISEASE, ,„d o. REMOVING
the various PHYSICAL ILLS which now affect HUMAN EXISTENCE.
ARTHUR HALE & SON
, . ~, • oruwxrT'Tii'Tr' t-ncwledirp and have DISCOVERED the KEY which will UNLOCK the PRISON
SUFFERING, and let those who have been so long the CAPTIVES of fell DKEASE agam go
Liuuitb or rn loio PHYSICAL VIGOR The experience of thousands has proved beyond a doubt that
HAT F & IS VAN?C BELTS and APPMANCES are the most PERFECT and IMPORTANT DIS-
ALE & SON S h t V ut ‘,!' ;p" i T | {KRA[ , EUX i CS MANY THOUSANDS of people are suffering from various
COVERY ever made in ELECTRO- I HEKAPEg iiob. mm KNEW HOW.” If you are not familiar with
forms nf dispfisiß from which thcv might do relief ea ax' xiriiiix o . , * , u» t t.t » qam’q
curative effect of electricity properly and scientifically introduced into the system by HALE & SON S
IMPROVED AND PATENTED APPLIANCES,
... tit * t-»t» a -vrm A OTTDQT' A XTHTT ATT?, ovom; nlnim wo mn.lrp and the I
W lo^ d o^DliLLY
mrt ELASTKJITCYf cwer-worked tt may^be^lßED^CHW;
let us ^ d gg g V oy°^bor^wUl
be n come U a r PLEASURE? but probably a SUCCESS, bringing manifold returns for the cost of the IMPROVED
ELECTRIC BELT.
DR. DEWAR, of Sloane Street, London, writes “ I have examined Hale’s s Belt, find
is capable of generating a powerful electric current, although no metal substances come into ' „
I consider this a great improvement, as it prevents the irritation so often caused by other app a , .
I have thoroughly examined and tested
DR. JAMES WILSON, of 52 Rodney Street, Liverpool, writes
Hale’s New Patent Electric Beit, and lam satisfied that not only is it a g . „ . ( 11 . nnr i
current capable of overcoming the resistance of the body."' I consider it a valuable agen , P • irritation
gentleman of tender skin, as no metallic substances come in contact with the body ; preventing all irritation
and blistering. In these days of electric frauds lam only too pleased to recommend a genuin pp
L UUOUCI AUg. A** .1 - ~ _ . ,
sSftss* »<■ ft*—
comfort.”
From the Right Hon. the Earl of Buchan.
The Ham, Manor House, Newbury, Berks.
Dear Sirs,-The Galvanic Belt you sent me has acted marvellously in my case I was suffering from nervousness
and agonising free .^Whatytmr Belt has done fo P r me is the more wonderful as
the pair? was “ intense I could not stand erect. My digestive organs are stronger, and general health improved.
Faithfully yours, BUCHAN. .
Mr ARTHUR HALE, during the last 22 years, has had some thousands of patients pass through his hands, most
of whom have gratefully Acknowledged the wonderful curative power of Medical Galvanism.
PARTICULARS AND PRICE LIST GRATIS. CONSULTATION FREE.
HALE & SON, 105 Regent St., London, W.
Australian Branch —44 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
eTeLECTRIC BELTS. BATTER.ES ..H .PPLI.NCES
1 " [Please mention The Bulletin.
ERASMIC
PERFUME
Is delightfully fragrant and pleasant to use.
A DAINTY, DELICIOUS DELICACY.
. . . ASK YOUR CHEMIST FOR IT . . .
THE
FREEMAN & WALLACE
This is the only Medical
Institute in Australia with
a bona fide capital that
stands behind guarantees
as evidence of faithful per-
formance of all contracts.
Elgctro-fjedical apd
SOrgical IfyStitOte
IN AN Afi E which is so remarkable for its progress in all departments of Art, Philosophy, Manufacture and
1 w i„ . Science it is surprising to find the practice of Medicine so deplorably in the rear, while thousands
of practitioners in the healing art prefer to remain in the conventional groove of their predecessors The Freeman
and Wallace Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute consulting staff rise superior to the false code of ethieswhich
tyrannically bind the medical profession, and announce to the public that upon all special ci.m,,hunts they still con-
tinue to be consulted by the afflicted at their old address, Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
EXPERTS FREEMAN AND WALLACE.
The Specialists who conduct the largest practise in Australasia.
._ - uatiaf No one should hesitate to consult us, as consultations either by letter or In
SPECIAL NOTICE, person are given FREE OF CHARGE, and Strictest Privacy is always assured.
OUR COMMONWEALTH POCKET DIARY.
Heart Kidney. Liver Affections. Gravel, Bladder and Spinal Affections.
Nerve’ and Brain Complications. Sciatica, Epilepsy, Gout.
Rupture and Piles Cured without Operation. Blood and Skin Diseases.
WH
THEfj
HEALTH
a.”
tm
% m
0 0 , # m 9f ■
t*: a 1
■;
, ME d|CAL ■ J eGTH , tLfCTRO 'MEDICAL
JBB
! vrrß°
£l- e
i l ill ; J
a i«wl
f jWUCE * { /: ,g -
' ...
WmM
W
SURGICAL INSTITUTE. VIGOR
AND
m
;»•
wSSmi
SS&MK
a
mmufm
WHY WE ADVERTISE!
Because Advertising: is the legitimate means vouchsafed to enlighten people,
to acquaint each other with their avocations and wants If a man has a
an( j has devoted vears of his life and expended large sums of money in studying that Speciality and in
way the result of scientific research and long experience. If you listen ro the counsel of ur ® C^ )t ‘°' l t vou
iealous physician you may omit consulting us, but remeniDerif you allow .the disease to run noc in jour system, you
are guilty of culpable neglect, and are alone responsible for your future pitiful condition.^
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration by Government
Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, south Australia,
Great Britain and America Open to Inspection.
Late Consulting Staff, Homoeopathic Hospital, Melbourne j
Late Medical Staff, British Army.
T-r#>njnc" rrio-c* n T’TVff TJ""KTT —lf you live out of town and cannot visit us, this need not deprive you
Irl Oxm -3--. ; of -£ he benefits of our wonderful treatment, because in the new system
of combining medicine and electricity a complete Electro-Medical home treatment is provided for. Scarcely a day
nasses that the news does not reach us of some wonderful home cure of a person living so faraway that a personal
visit could not be made. Write a plain statement of your condition, explaining your feelings and symptoms as clearly
as nossible and from it we will be able to accurately diagnose your case. It only costs you the trouble of writing,
and twopence postage to get the opinion and advice of Australia’s Leading Specialists.
DO NOT BE DRUGGED TO DEATH BY QUACKS
When there are so many quacks and impudent pretenders in the field of Medicine, who arrogate to them-
selves the monstrosity of giving counsel and advice in matters of which they are profoundly ignorant, and who
havfnotWng to recomnfend them but their audacity, sufferers cannot be to learefid whom they consult
Although liberty of choice belongs to all, discrimination is necessaiy. In consulting THE FRLEMAN AND
WALLACE ELECTRO-MEDICAL AND SURGICAL INSTITUTE patients may. feel assured that they shal
receive the advice of those fitted by superior skill and education, the result of special study. Our reputation and
unparalleled success as Specialists entitle us to your confidence.
Medicines forwarded to all parts of the World—
CONTENTS FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
£^Elizab€tb*Batb<irstSts,Sydi)sy
For privacy Patients may address “ Messrs. F. & W.,” 225 and 227 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
N B.—QUEENSLANDERS are hereby informed that a. P cr sori advertising as Dr. Wallace
in Brisbane is in no way connected with the institute.


Eradicates Scurf.
Promotes Growth.
mt
FOR
V
M 2
Prevents Hair Falling.
Contains no Dye.
FEDERAL PARLIAMENT.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
TO THE ELECTORS OF THE PARRAMATTA ELECTORATE.
Gentlemen,— _ , , „ (
lam a Candidate for your suffrages at the forthcoming election for the I ederal House o_ p
sentatives. lam a manufacturer, and I believe the policy enunciated by the Right Hon. Mm
Barton to be the policy most fitted for the young Commonwealth, and Mr. Barton will nav y
strongest support. , . . • „
I am in favor of Australian productions of every sort, and if you elect me as your Represen
shall give my special attention to the development of the varied industries that have started, or
about to start, in Australia. , , •
lam in favor of the Federal Government taking over the Railways of all Australia, and wor g
the same to assist our own productions by minimum freights, carrying such products to market at t
very lowest possible cost. , n
In and around the Parramatta Electorate have been started Coal, Coke, Iron and Steel, Hopp
Machinery of various kinds, Soap, Oil, Leather, Woollens and Tweeds, Fruit, Jam, Pottei% Lime
and Cement, and many other Industries which require developing. I consider that if Mr. -barton s
policy is carried out we can have as varied and successful industries in the Electorate as in any par
of the world, giving constant employment at good wages to tens of thousands of men. .
I am against any direct taxation by the Federal Government, but shall insist that sumcient
revenue be raised every year to pay all debts incurred. *
I approve of railways through Australia, connecting the capitals from Perth to Brisbane. _
I approve of a Federal Conciliation and Arbitration Act. I believe in Wages Boards, consisting
of equal numbers from masters and men, with a Chartered Accountant and a President for each par-
ticular trade to deal with the question in dispute before appealing to the Act.
I believe in adult suffrage. _ .
I am decidedly in favor of the exclusion of undesirable immigrants, irrespective of colour, my
object being to have a healthy and prosperous white Australian race. , .
I consider the Federal Parliament should be carried on as a successful business is earned on ;
divisions of departments and suitable men appointed for such departments.
As a business man of solid practical experience I cannot forget that we have now a population of
some four million souls, and I will leave no stone unturned to secure for Australia the labor and wages
necessary in the manufacture of our own requirements, and I shall not rest satisfied until Australians
are able to produce all their wants in time of Peace or War.
I place myself in your hands, with best wishes for the new Commonwealth, and trusting to
secure your support in my earnest desire to secure Australia for the Australians, I am, yours
faithfully, W. SANDFORD.
Eskbank Iron Works, Lithgow, 29/1/01.
PERPETUfIt TRUSTEE COUIPUnU CTO.
OFFICES : NO. 2 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS : Hon. RICHARD JONES, M.L.O. (Chairman), Hon. REGINALD J. BLACK, M.L.0.,
THOMAS H. KELLY, GEORGE S. CAIRO, WALTER 0. WATT.
MANAGER ; ARTHUR JOHN MACKENZIE.
CAPITAL : Subscribed, £1,000,000. Paid-up, £25,000. Reserve Fund, £ll,OOO.
FOURTEENTH ANNUAL REPORT of the Director# to the Shareholders, at the Ordinary General Meeting, held
at the Offices of the Company, No. 3 Spring Street, Sydney, on Thursday, 31st January, 1901, at noon.
THE DIRECTORS have the pleasure to submit to the Shareholders the Balance Sheet and Profit
and Loss Account for the year ending 31st December, ultimo.
The net profit for the year is „ .. £4,377 16 8
Add balance from last year .. .. «. „ _ *. .. 634 14 8
Making £4,912 11 i
From which there has been applied :
To write off Premises Account £575 2 6
To the Reserve Fund 2,000 0 0
And it is proposed to pay a dividend of 8 per cent, per annum .. .. 2,000 0 0
Leaving to carry forward ' 337 8 10
£4,912 11 4
The above appropriation brings the Reserve Fund up to £ll,OOO.
Business continuing to expand, it has been found necessary to augment the office accommodation ; and this has
been accomplished at a cost of £1,075 2s. 6d. (of which £575 2s. 6d. has been written off out of profits, leaving the
S remises account at £10,500), and in such a way as to double the ground floor space, to the great comfort of the
ompany’s clients and staff.
The profits appearing to warrant it, the Directors have on this occasion much pleasure in recommending an
increased dividend.
Mr..G. S. Caird, the retiring Director, is eligible for re-election, and offers himself accordingly.
Messrs. J. E. Bowes and H. 0. D’Ardier, the retiring Auditors, are eligible for re-election, and have given the
necessary notice.
The Dividend will be payable at the conclusion of the meeting.
Sydney, 18th January, 1901. RICHARD JONES, Chairman.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LTD.)
Dr. * BALANCE SHEET, 31st DECEMBER, 1900. Cr.
£25,000 0 0
To Capital Paid-up
100,000 shares at £lO
each £1,000,000 0 0
Less uncalled Capital 975,000 0 o
£25,000 0 0
„ Reserve Fund 11,000 0 0
~ Commission Reserved Account .. 7,829 15 0
~ Unclaimed Dividend Account.. .. 13 0 0
~ Sundry Creditors 507 011
~ Balance at Credit of Profit and Loss
Account .. .. .. .. .. 2,337 810
£46,687 4 9
Trust, Executor, and Agency Business :
Amount at Credit of Estates now
being administered by the Com-
pany as Executor, Trustee, or
Agent, including Reserves for Trust
contingencies, represented by In-
vestments and Cash at Bankers,
as per contra 3,928,520 13 3
£3,975,207 18 0
„ Trust, Executor, and Agency Investments:
Bank Fixed Deposits,
Mortgages, and other
Investments .. .. £3,907,443 9 1
„Cash at Bankers at
Credit of Trust Cur-
rent Accounts Less
Overdrafts on be-
half of Trusts .. 21,077 4 2
3,928,520 13
0
9
0
0
0
11
4
0
9
9
3
£3,975,207 18 0
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Salaries, Directors’ and Auditors’ Pees. .
~ Stationery, Advertising 1 , Postages, Land
and Income Tax, and Petties
~ Office Rent, or Interest on Premises
Account, as per contra
~ Law Costs
~ Reserve Fund
~ Amount written off Premises Account..
~ Balance carried down
£4,950 11 2
1,307 1 8
400 0 0
212 12 0
2,000 0 0
575 2 6
2,337 8 10
£11,782 16 2
By Balance from Previous
Account £2,284 14 8
Less Dividend paid for
1898 1,750 0 0
534 14 8
„ Gross Income after providing for bad
and doubtful debts and contin-
gencies and amount transferred to
Commission Reserved Account .. 10,848 1 6
„ Interest on Premises Account as per
contra 400 0 0
£11,782 16 2
RICHARD JONES, Chairman.
ARTHUR J. MACKENZIE, Manager.
We have audited the Trust Books and the Accounts of the Company for the past year, and compared the'
Securities with the various Securities Registers, and in our opinion the above Balance Sheet is a full and fair Balance
Sheet, containing the particulars required by the Company’s Regulations, and is so drawn up as to exhibit a true
and correct view of the Company’s affairs as at the 31st December last. • - .
Sydney, 18th January, 1901.
J. E. BOWES
HALEY C. D’ARPIER
Auditors.
A POLICY FOR THE {Price 6d, Posted Bd.
COMMONWEALTH
Federal Flections.
TO THE
FEDERAL ELECTORS
OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Gentlemen, —Encouraged by the very influential requi-
sition presented to me on the 22nd instant, and to which
there are now 6752 signatures attached, I respectfully
announce myself a candidate for one of the seats at your
disposal in the Senate. As it is physically impossible to
canvass the whole colony, I do not intend to attempt it.
To not a few of the electors, however, I imagine my views
on questions affecting the Commonwealth cannot be
altogether unknown, as they are practically the same I
advocated when a candidate for the Federal Convention,
and during the subsequent Referendum campaigns : in
all, I addressed 36 public meetings in the Metropolis and
suburbs, and in different localities from Albury to Ten-
terfield. In 1897 you were pleased to elect me, out of 49
candidates, as one of your 10 representatives to the Con-
vention which held sessions in Adelaide, Sydney and
Melbourne, in the order named. The debates and divi-
sions in the Convention testify, I think, to my having
attended assiduously to my duty, and, should you repeat
your confidence by electing me, it will be my earnest
endeavor to discharge my obligations to your satisfaction.
You will not, I am sure, expect me to take a narrow
view of matters political, but rather to remember that
what is required is to assist in the building of a structure
that is intended to last for all time.
Section 51 of the Commonwealth Act contains a list of
39 subjects concerning which the Federal Parliament has
power to legislate, amongst these being Taxation, Borrow-
ing Money, Post and Telegraph Services, Defence, Quar-
antine, Currency, Banking, Insurance, Bankruptcy,
Marriage, the Acquisition of Railways, Railway Construc-
tion, Old Age Pensions, Conciliation and Arbitration for
Prevention of Industrial Disputes, External Affairs.
During the first session there will be an immense
amount of preliminary work to be done, not a little, I
hope, of a non-disputatious character.
As a Freetrader, I am, of course, loyal to the principle
that more should not be taken out of the pockets of the
people than isnecessary.for legitimate Government require-
ments. It will be the duty of members of both Houses to
iace without delay the financial position, which admittedly
is not without exceptional difficulties. With regard to
these my business experience, I trust, may be found of use.
For some time to come it is obvious the Federal Govern-
ment will have to rely for its revenue on Customs and
Excise duties and on income from the Public Services, it
being necessary for many of the State Governments to
have at their disposal the power of direct taxation to
supplement their share of the surplus Federal revenue, so
as to meet current engagement without having recourse,
as in days gone by, to the very reprehensible system of
parting'irrevocably with the public estate and living on
the proceeds. As the Federal Treasurer must have
revenue to carry on the Government, he may reasonably
be expected to prefer for that purpose what is generally
called a revenue tariff, and which, I may mention, is not
incompatible with Freetrade principles. It will take time
for the leaven of what not a few of us consider economic
truth to fully assert itself, but Freetraders, having con-
fidence in their principles, look upon Intercolonial Free-
trade as an instalment of the principle they advocate, and
believe that when the advantages of an extended market
thereby secured have been enjoyed by local manufac-
turers and others they will begin to ask themselves,
“ Why only Intercolonial Freetrade?”
Great economies, as well as greater efficiency, should
follow the amalgamation of. the Public Services, such as
the Customs Department, Post and Telegraph Depart-
ment, Defence, Quarantine, &c. In this connection I ex-
ceedingly regret that a feasible, equitable, and accept-
able plan has not yet been formed for federating the Rail-
ways. The Commonwealth Act contemplates this being
done in time, subject, of course, to the approval of the
respective States. The late Mr. Eddy assured me
that if all the Railways in Australia were under
one control the saving in working expenses would
be very considerable—probably not far short of £300,000 a
year—a uniform gauge gradually superseding the present
systems, and, under such management, the whole of the
rolling stock required could be manufactured in our work-
shops, and thereby, amongst other advantages, ensure
permanent employment to those at present in the service,
and open out to many of them a sphere of greater advance-
ment in their respective departments. Before many years
elapse I consider it will be essential for purposes of
national defence that there shall be a railway connecting
Western Australia with South Australia, that the Port
Darwin line shall be completed, and that the Queensland
Railway system shall be extended westwards to junction
with the transcontinental line having its northern termi-
nus at Port Darwin. There should be nothing wanting on
our part to make it impossible for a Foreign Power to
filch any portion of our territory. All these ideas will, of
course, take time to accomplish, but as population in-
creases—and it ought to increase by immigration from
Europe more rapidly than for many years past—and as
the Federal Government will be able to borrow on more
favorable terms than many imagine, the annual charge
on the increased indebtedness to an increasing population
will, in my opinion, not be such as need frighten the most
timid. We must show that we have confidence in our-
selves, in our resources, and in our future, if we are to
get others to believe in us and to co-operate with us in
the manner and to the extent we desire.
Shortly after the Session commences, the Federal Par-
liament should give its attention to the important ques-
tion of Currency and legal tender. It will not alone be a
great public convenience to have a Government Legal
Tender Note, convertible into gold on demand, available
for use throughout the Commonwealth, but, if competent
non-political Commissioners are appointed to take charge
of the Note Issue, a substantial and yearly increasing
revenue may reasonably be expected therefrom.
If I have the honor to be returned as one of your Mem-
bers, I propose to try and induce the Government to
adopt a scheme which, according to my judgment, will
materially lessen the danger of Financial crises occurring.
Such a terrible panic as that of 1893 is, one would hope,
not likely to recur in a lifetime if practical effect is given
to the scheme alluded to, or to one on similar lines ; but,
to make it effective, Federal legislation is necessary.
It will be my endeavour, if elected, to support an early
choice of the site for the Federal Capital, and thereafter
to urge the immediate erection of Houses of Parliament,
Government House, and the other Public Buildings.
As the establishment of the Commonwealth will neces-
sarily enlarge the field of Government action, it will
doubtless come to pass that a closer political connection
will exist between the Commonwealth and the British
possessions in the Southern Pacific. At the present time
our fellow-subjects in the New Hebrides, which are under
dual control, find themselves at a serious disadvantage
owing to the different views taken by. the British and
French Governments respecting trade regulations.
I indulge the hope that in time New Zealand, Fiji, and
New Guinea will all become component parts of the
Commonwealth, and, in consequence, that certain ex-
isting localisms will disappear by the inhabitants entering
into the broader life which we are how beginning.
As it is not my intention to canvass the whole colony
I propose, at public meetings, to reply to pertinent ques-
tions kindly sent to me in writing by representative
bodies or electors throughout the colony. .
It will, in the public interest, be a pity if the expense
of Federal electoral contests becomes so heavy that
eligible candidates of moderate means are debarred from
offering themselves. We require the best available men
to represent us, and, needless to say, these are not
always the men with the longest purses. lam sure it is
not your wish that the Senate should degenerate into
what is called a Party House, but rather that its members
should take a broad, independent view of matters
Federal and National, at the same time, when occasion
demands, being prepared to conserve the special interests
of their respective States.
Your faithful Servant,
J. T. WALKER.
Roaemont, Woollahrn,
January 31,1901.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
•Vo notice' will be token oj communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
A.W. : Also “Q.C.” will now have no meaning,
and we have heard the last of “ Soldiers of the Queen.”.
T.T. : Parkes was-the first to propose the name Common-
wealth for Federated Australia, but Alfred Deakin was
the first to carry it by a vote G.M.T. : We’ve printed all
necessary valedictory verse to Queen Victoria. She was a
Itood woman, and thank goodness there are millions of
women left just as good W.H.E. : “ Swift descending
into Hell, I with a thousand devils fell”—Precisely
J.L.C. : Not up. You poets should study the fashions.
Verse dressed in the style of 50 years ago has to be very
good-looking to pass muster G.R.K.: Unusable
Milky : 1 ‘ Albany ” is bread-and-scrapish, milk-and-water-
isli. Never dilute an emotion Alone : Sorry “ Jane ”
not up. Too long and too rugged Arthur G. : Even
the rankest apparent nonsense should have some substra-
tum of general coherence. Balderdash is not interesting
merely as balderdash B.: Peacock is a pleasant and
popular fellow, but it remains to be seen whether he car-
ries sufficiently heavy guns for his new position A.
W Mac. : Of the 67,000 men who fought the French at
Waterloo only 22,000 were British, and even these in-
cluded a goodly number of Irish who, in those days, were
not considered sufficiently respectable to be called
British Mac. G. : Brightly written, and a lot of truth
in it, but animus too evident. Also, you don’t seem to
know that the men of the imperial Contingent were
picked not for physique—but for good conduct. Also a
comparatively small percentage of the Permanent
Artillery (which you praise) are Australians
Old Miner : The United States exports far more than it
imports mainly because it is fast paying off its public and
private foreign debts. The balance comes back, partly in
gold and largely in the shape of the country’s securities
repurchased. Some more comes in the shape of European
Government securities ; Britain, Germany and Sweden
ha,ve all been raising loans in the U.S. lately. The British
banks sometimes .stand by each other and sometimes not.
There is no fixed rule. They stood by Baring’s bank
when it got into trouble, to prevent a panic A Hard
Case: Haven’t you got any further advanced than that ?
....Bob Flanders-: Read right through it, only to strike
a century-old chestnut in the last line H.M. :
“ Plea for a Hearing ” got one and was found guilty...’.
L.A. : Our mental horizon is clouded with doubt re its
originality. It spunds like out-West United States
T.P.D. : All we can say is, you are too honest to prosper.
P.A. : You say “Too many Australian women do not
require over-much encouragement to accept the wages of
s:n. Alas, the wages of sin are mostly as much in arrear
iw the pay of a Spanish army Vulcan: Poem on Sun-
day Brunker has got the jumps in its metre. And that
stately man never jumps Homebush: The pro-
posal to keep the 24th May as a permanent holiday
is. a hysterical notion from which the public will
probably recover within the next few months
O.W.J. : The most reasonable explanation of the cele-
brated Kanowna “ Sacred Nugget ” mystery is that the
priest concerned had really been shown a huge lump of
gold, which, however—instead of being a “native”
nugget—had been smelted by two facetious miners out
about 1200 oz. of -alluvial gold yielded by their claim
Mackay Progress : (1) You seem to mix up Styria and
Italy in a remarkable manner. (2) Styria is a wet country
where the rain comes down in any case ; you can hardly
fa,il'to have rain there pretty soon after firing off cannon.
You also have it-soon after eating a dog-biscuit, or run-
ning off with your neighbor’s wife, or forging a cheque.
(3) The cannonading idea is over 100 years old. It is the
remnant of a very aged superstition, and the general
result has always been that rain follows cannon-
ading in wet countries where rain follows almost
everything ; and in dry countries it doesn’t. It is not
only used to disperse hail-storms, but (in some coun-
tries) to prevent eclipses of the sun. (4) Why do you
put Styria in inverted commas? Is it a joke?
VVolfang : Will make a picture presently... .H. : In con-
sidering the non-compensation of liquor traffickers in
Russia, it must be remembered that they will get the State
billets R. Don. : Will use.... Henry B. : Once is enough,
Henry Only: “ Conqueror” and “Prisoner” are flat.
A-.D.8. : May use “ O.” Alan (S.A.) : Possibly
F.N.: Considering Barr: Well done; but not very
new or significant. Considering Marcus: No better.
... San Remo : Won’t do. Idea needs much more dis-
tinguished treatment to be effective... .Roughrider:
Don’t send re-hashes of daily-paper items, and don’t write
on sponge-paper. “ A. 5.0.” means Army Service Corps.
....Mulga: Will probably use. You are in error about
the meaning of decimation,” which signifies only the
loss of 1 in 10 Yarrum : “ Harneys ” too slender of
interest and jerky of treatment W. Brenta : Rather
slovenly and feeble W.W. : Too tinkly and Tommy-
Moore-ish C.G. : It wouldn’t do.. ..P. M‘G. : No, the
old man is still to the fore John Hill : We don’t vouch
for i*, but it may be worth a trial. Anyhow, it doesn’t
cost much ... J.G.D. : His last address was Dalby, Q
C.O. : Verses all right; have not yet read stories
W.S. : As you did not send verificatory clipping we could
not use names.... A.T. (W.A.): Don’t remember “ Boko,”
but might find it if you gave approximate date
Moruya : Thanks. The Inspector-General of Police will
no doubt speedily settle those official differences Hal
E. : Will do as suggestion... Mulga : Memo, posted.
Sorry photos, irreproducible. Could you send us some
more sharply defined? N. : We don’t profess to say
which is right, but if you read Macaulay on Marat, you
ought also to read socialist Belfort Bax, who gives the
other side. Marat was highly educated, he preached the
Reign of the Common People, he never held any
office, beyond member of Parliament, and never
sentenced anybody to the guillotine Judas :
Good in places ; very bad in others ; unusable.
....G.M.S. : Can’t do anything with it D.B.G. :
“ Crow” good objurgation, but bad verse. Yarn not bad
stuff for a better handling H. St, A.M. : Hardly in-
teresting enough, as presented., , A.P. : Couldn’t well
print it on such a ribald “point." H.J.R. : Has a
“ possible.”....“ S. of S.” : All been said over and over
again without producing the slightest effect on the con-
ventional view of the case. Sham practically rules the
w0r1d.... J.S.G. : Some of ’em all right.. . .Telsie : Situa-
tion not bad, but weakly led-up-to and clumsily handled.
Daughter of Ossian : You haven’t got the old man’s
mantle ! H.F.M. : Ancient gag—first told of smugglers
and revenue-officers... .Red Head : Will inquire re things
mentioned Silly Billy: Thanks; may use L.P. :
We have seen that photo ourselves ; but thought it might :
be a “ fake.”.. :\E.H. : Balfe was an Irishman, and a por-
tion of “Maritana” was composed in Sydney. “Alas,
those chimes! ” is said to have been suggested by the
striking of Randwick church clock.... Ed. M. (W.A.):
Will print Malgre Tout : Dealt with in leading article
9th February, 1901 M. L. M‘C. : “Reminiscence”
hardly up to standard Glenara (Ararat): Verses
started well;: then became bumpy as a retreating camel.
R.A.T. : Vague pome, and full of dull, good inten-
tion's S.C. : .We can’t pronounce on the engineering
aspect of the proposed Lane Cove weir, but the memor-
andum of enqiliry by the local Progress Association is
certainly an ably-framed |md suggestive document
Wolfgang : It’s the holy truth! —but then, unfortunately,
it is in the nature of things, as witness the “ beggar-on-
horseback” proverb Ethel M. : Certainly crude and
rather purposeless, but there is promise in the lightness
of the touch Eiffa : May do Lacklands : Commend-
able simplicity of stjde, but not “story” enough
QuilpN.: Pars good. “For Ever" rather mechanical
and trashy.... Raven : Effective end—rest wooden
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Jane S. (Darling River): Unsuitable... .J. 8.8. : We
have printed it twice and have had it suggested about 500
times F. Rorke : One or two, possibly.. .H. Sin. (M.L.):
Far too ama' mr sh Red. N. : You are coming along ;
stick to the Art-school awhile. Also, see that you select
“possible” subjects Sylus : Not at all promising.
You should study drawing Kink : Everything left for
artist. -Unavailable : H. Fets, J.A.8., W.J.P., J.M.A...
J. Dick : “ Bottle ” a nice little drawing, but no interest.
....” Inquisitive P.” : One may serve as suggestion
M. (or something like that): You can’t draw horses,
and you send a very weak gag.... A. H. (a something—why
on earth don’t people write their names legibly ?) : Phil
May and water—won’t do Chris. : Still unsuccessful;
you have a quaintly-stumpy style.


FOUR YEARS ILL HEALTH
Sleepless, Weary and Depressed.
RELIEF DESPAIRED OF.
But a “Friend in Need.’’
The Case of
MRS. SUSAN BASTOCK*
[For the Stai
’ ill's Susan Bastock, who lives at No. 72
! Jay-street, Glebe, Sydney, welcomed the
hewspaper man with much politeness, and
nil the latter announcing that his visit Was
|>aid- with the object of eliciting the facts
Relating to that lady’s critical illness and her
Extraordinary recovery therefrom through
tb; administration of Clements Tonic, he
Was soon seated in the front parlor, where
Mrs. Bastock readily assented to supply him
with every detail connected with her case,
“To look at me now you would hardly
think that I am the mother of a family of
thirteen children, and considering the great
deal of suffering which I have gone through
I ought to be—and indeed I am—very
thankful for my present good state of
health. The great physical strain of rearing
such a large family must have weakened my
system terribly, for it ultimately resulted in
my having a premature confinement, which
culminated in inflammation of the bowels.
It took a long time before I could got about
again, and for four years afterwards I never
possessed good health; and at the expiration
Of that time I was visited With a sickness of
a more serious kind than my previous one.
It is considered an extremely interesting and
critical period of a woman’s existence, and
one which is fraught with important con-
sequences ; for, according as it is passed
with safety or otherwise will her future
health be. o It was at the period when my
change of life took place, and never shall I be
able to describe the pain which I had to en-
dure. Women usually regard the approach of
the change of life with a good deal of anxiety
and fear, for at that time certain diseases
Which may have lain dormant, as it were,
in the system, are likely to make their
appearance, and I was in dread of any extra
derangement, because my constitution was
not strong enough to Withstand it. lam
glad to say that i was not attacked by any
disease during my illness, but I had quite
enough to bear as it was, without any other
disorders taking place.”
“ Were your sufferings very acute, Mrs.
Bastock ? ”
“They were extremely so. The pains
were so bad that I could not boar anyone
to touch me. When anyone approached
very close to me I would give a spasmodic
flinch as though anticipating their touch.
Sleepless nights I passed without number,
and I was always Weary and depressed. I
think there are very few women who have
gOne through the same ordeal and have-ex-
perienced such dreadful headaches as mine
were. My eyesight became affected, and I
lould not see to read ; in fact, I did not have
much inclination for reading. I was too
much worried with my deplorable condition
to take any interest in books or papers,
■frequently, hot flushing of the face would
iake place, and then I would be conscious of
r feeling that can only be described as ner-
vous irritation. It was quite a common
Jiing for mo to faint, and I would lie and
think of all the evils that may occur if I did
not soon get better. My digestive organs
" eve quite upset, for although I lay for
fully a fortnight without touching anything
in the way of food excepting a little toast
and water, and even that light nourishment
.vms too much for my stomach to digest. I
vas never free from pain of some sort, and
1 a state of desperation I would sometimes ,
ake a little brandy or whisky in the hope of
icquiring relief. But- stimulants only aggra-
vated my suffering, and I always felt worse
iter them. <9 l had got awfully thin, and my
ace looked as though there was not a drop
of blood left in me. ’The intense mental
depression experienced during my sickness
was sometimes more than I like to think of
even now* ”
“What did your doctor think of your
case ? ”
“I had three doctors, and I am sure they
all despaired of my ever pulling through it.
But they were not the only ones who thought
so. One day a lady friend, who had just
returned from the funeral of her sister, said
to me : 1 Ah* old girl, you will be the next I
shall have to follow.’ It is not very en-
couraging to be spoken to like that when a
person feels half-dead. My medical advisers
were very attentive, I must saj r ; but their
medicines all failed to have a beneficial effect
upon me. Goodness knows how much I had
• taken, but I still remained in the same sorry
plight. So low did I sink that I believed I
was drawing near the grave. My husband’s
belief in the restorative and curative qualities
of Clements Tonic had so often been drummed
in my ears that at last I consented to see
what it was like. I had lost faith in all
medicines, and when my husband brought
me a bottle of Clements Tonic I succeeded
in livening myself up with hope again, for I
slowly, but surely, began to mend under its
remarkable influence. The bodily pains
were quickly under control, my dreadful
headaches were soon completely cured, and
the newly-found remedy gave me a very
healthy appetite. I continued taking Cle-
ments Tonic regularly, as I was convinced
it was doing me a lot of good. My blood
was once again running through my veins
with increased vitality, and I could always
depend upon having a good night’s sleep.
With the departure of my severe headaches
I could sit down and enjoy a read, my
eyesight being completely repaired. The
feelings of depression departed with the
advent of new life, and as the time passed
on it was soon my pleasant privilege to
resume my customary duties. The doctors
Were greatly astonished at my rapid recovery,
and so were all my friends. They could see
by the way I had brightened up, and the
way I was putting on flesh, that Clements
Tonic was making a new woman of me. I
am nearly as active now as when I was a
young woman, and I am thoroughly healthy
in every respect. My children are always
given a dose of Clements Tonic whenever
they have anything the matter with them,
and I am under such an obligation to that
remedy for my new lease of life that I never
neglect to recommend it to my friends.”
“ We will give publicity to your state-
mpnts with your permission.”
“ I hope you will do so, as others may be
cured in the same way. ”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Susan Bastock, of 72 Bay-street, Glebe, Sydney,
in Ihe Colony of New South Wales, do solemnly and
sincerely declare that I have carefully read the
annexed document, consisting of four folios and con-
secutively numbered from one to four, and that it
contains and is a true and faithful account of my
illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains
my full permission to publish in any wav my state-
ments—which I give voluntarily, without receiving
any payment ; and I make this solemn declaration
conscientiously believing the same to be true, and
by virtue of the provisions of an Act made and passed
in tho ninth year of the reign of her present Majesty,
intituled “An Act for the more effectual abolition of
Oaths and Affirmations taken and made in the various
Departments of the Government of New South Waps,
and to substitute Declarations in lieu thereof, and
for the suppression of voluntary and Extra-judicial
Oaths and Affidavits.”
Declared at Git he, this 27th day of July, one
thousand nine hundred, before me,
THOMAS LAW, J.P.
EVERY HOUSEHOLD and TRAVELLING TRUNK OUCHT TO CONTAIN A BOTTLE of
ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’
Fop Preventing & Curing by Natural Means
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold.
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
TESTIMONIAL. —“ I have been a nurse for ten years, and have nursed cases
of scarlet fever, pyaemia., erysipelas, measles, gangrene, cancer, and almost every
nentionable disease. During this time I have not been ill for a single day, and
bis I attribute to the use of Eno’s 1 Fruit Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a
pure state. I recommend it to all my patients during convalescence. Its
va ue as a means of health cannot be overestimated.’'—A Professional
Nurse ( Qualified ).
THE EFFECT of ENG’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ ON A DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS, AND FEVERISH CONDITION
IS SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It IS, IN FACT, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, AND AN UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION.—/She capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it, you liarc a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., a 4; tbe ‘FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS. LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
w
Business Announcements.
HHHHHHHHHHH H H H H H HHHHHHHHH
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
II
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
a
H
H
II
II
II
II
H
H
H
H
II
II
H
H
II
H
H
II
H
H
H
H
H
II
II
II
H
H'
II
H
tailoring
MOST GENTLEMEN like to appear
at their best all the year round,
jgf” Handsome, well-fitting
clothes are- essential to that end. C. G.
Hatte, of Newtown (Sydney), invites at-
tention to his To-Order Tailoring Depart-
ment, which has obtained a reputation
the envy of competitors. He cart supply
you with a nice soft Serge Suit, indigo
dye, for 559. ; a first-class suit in Serge,
Sergerette, or Tweed for 635. ; or a suit
of Apperley and Curtiss’ renowned West
of England Serge for 755. His Two
Guinea Suits (with extra pair of trousers)
of Serges, Sergerettes, and Tweeds are
still the marvel of modern tailoring.
Hatte’s has the largest selection of the
newest and choicest materials, he em-
ploys one of the smartest cutters in the
colony, guaranteeing a perfect fit; whilst
the workmanship is of the best. If you
cannot pay a personal visit, write for
patterns and self-measurement forms,
and your orders will be satisfactorily and
promptly executed. Hatte also keeps
one of the largest stocks of ready-made
clothing—everything the latest and best,
his prices being at least 30 per cent, under
ordinary city houses. He is now making
to measure a special line of Linen Crash
Trousers for 7s. 11 d. White Serge
Cricketing Trousers, well-made and
thoroughly shrunk, for 9s. 11d. Men’s
Striped Khaki Shirts, collars and
pockets, 29. 11Jd. The Baden-Powell
Khaki Shirt, collar and two pockets,
3s. 11d. A splendid line of Gent.’s Silk
Shirts (the best value in the trade),
7s. 6d. Place your orders with Hatte
for everything you want. You will find
he will treat you well, and you will re-
main a constant customer.
H
H
H
IT
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
tt
a
H
H
a
a
a
a
a
a
h
a
a
a
a
a
a
a
a
a
a
H
a
a
a
a
a
a
a
a
a
a
a
a
a
a
a
a
HHHHHH HHHHHHHHHHH H H H HHHHH
Wd
W
A
Medical.
Hypnotism
'W
Reader, why not be able to tiro the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to H' pnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home You can per-
form all of the many marvelous feats
that are possible to the Hypnonist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain, win reluctant affection,
I gratify your ambitions, and produce
! amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just Issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LEBSON or Key to
I Hypnotism, which fully explain,
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and i* the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever For a short
time I will send this magni-
ficent work Absolutely
FREE to all who apply.
Remember this costs you noth-
in?. A postal card will bring it.
Order to-day and learn to Hyp-1
notize. It is a chance of a’
lifa-time. Address—
Ă
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
79 Pitt Street, Sydney-, N.S.W.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism.Sciatica.
Lumbagq, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER'S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Trumans NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
SOU) in two sizes. 9d. it Is. (Id.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN'S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poixgdkstrk & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
Business Announcements
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Be ’t.
Cheapest, and Most Stilish C' OTIIING in Australia.
STUART&fO.
PnoPHIKTAHY LIMITED,
252 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
mm
n
&
imm
h i
fill x
Our Suit to order at 4 in. i*
marvellous value; mad.: from
a 1 wool '1 weeds Vicunas, or fast
color Serges ; it is perfect fitting
and beautifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order from
any class - f M aterial £.’{ 3»- To
measure, capital Trousers, >ery
goo l patterns 12s. Od.
Dress Suits to measure.
Cleric 1 Ruits. to measure. £J«
It ding Bre ches. 255.
Hiding H i bits. <fcc.
We supply re idy made. Men’s
[Capital i weed Suits 21sv&25s.
| Fam us Ballarat Suits,
Indiaro dye,2;s.
All-wool, fawn, grey, or brown
Sergei ette >uits,3os.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, ss. I Id.
All-wool blue and black Vicuna
Sacs and Vests I9s Od.
Men's Grass Cloth Summer
Suits, 19s lid. Wnite Drill
Sacs and Trousers. 10s. lid.
Khaki Suits, shrunk. 12s lid.
Black ami Grey Alapaca Sues,
Os. 9d. White and Brown Drill
Trousers. 3s. 9*1., 4s 9d.. ss. lid.
Travelling Trucks, Ba.s and
Rugs in gn at variety
Men’s White Shi its, colored
front and cuffs 2s 9d.
Fancy B 1 -use Shirts, new
designs, ss. i.d.
White Matte Shirts, collar and
pocket. 3s. fid.
So t Alpine Hats, 4s. Od., all
colors.
Hard Hats. 4*. Od. Caps. Is,
Verino Undershirts or Pants,
ls.9d,
Neckties, all shapes and colors.
Is.
White Shirts to measure.
6s. !)d . !>a. <J<l.
Genta’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
We like to write letters: bo don’t be afraid to ask for any,
information. Our book, ••'the Pbiioaoi by of I l ess” and
patterns of ail kinds and self-me; surement forms posted free.
Write for them.
PHOTOGRAPHY
is easy Photography. It is
mastered by anyone in a few
minutes, and no dark room is
required for changing films.
Kodaks from
ss. to £7 15s.
KODAK
Send for Illustrated Price list, and
mention this Paper.
KODAK, Limited,
“THE BLOCK,"
284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Also at London, Paris, Berlin, BrusseP, Vienna,
St. Petersburg, Moscow, and Rochester, N.Y.
y OOUT v
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable I’ills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but .prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
XTS3E3
SPOON EE’S
aj
IS
SPOONERS
V
*
IWTINT LEATHER BOOTS
GLAZED Rf OS M 1
• - '
. •»»»
■f ■'l'-'VV 1.4. ««.«•.«•• V
, i!\ v sf I r..r;i‘',;VT'.T-:'.*
■•i *r—»- «i- —»>>
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning- and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Urn i vailed EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc


i
i
THE. LEADING HOUSE
Ą
l!CH€^
T A BUSHMLNTS
NO MIDDLEMEN
WE SAVE YOU 25 TO 50 PERCENT
ISlLVepfc^Rg
Ǻ
LONDON SYDNEY MELBOURNE PERTH AUCKLAND WELLINGTON
No. 826X8.
Sterling Silver Pepper
Pot, 11s 6d.
No. 307—Solid Silver-Top Blotting'
Pads, 13s 6d, 18s 6d and £1 sb.
No. F2727—Sterling Silver Hall-marked Cake Basket, £8
No. F 1022.
Silver-plated Bedroom Candlestick, £l.
No. FI 68.
Sterling Silver Trinket Box,
15s 6d.
No. 84741.
Sterling Silver Sugar
Dredger, £2 15s.
No. 129 A.—Fine Quality Opal and 15cfc. Gold Bar
Brooch, £2 10s.
Smaller size, in 9ct. Gold, £1 6s.
No. E7302.—9c.
GoM Heart set with
Pearls and
Turquoises, 16s 6d.
FASHIONABLE BAMBOO BANGLES.
9c. Gold, .£l.ss, £1 15s, £2.
15c. Gold, £2 10s, £3 10s, £4.
No. 198 A.
SET LINKS.
9c. Gold, 15s 6d ;
15c. Gold, £1 10s ;
Silver, 4s.
No. E 7061. —New Design, 9c. Gold Amethyst
Heart Brooch, 12s 6d.
No E 3184.
Polished Oak Biscuit Box, Silver-
plated Mounts, 14s 6d.
: No. E 6412.
Solid Silver Olasp, 10s 6d.
(Drawn Half Size.)
No. E393B.—Silver-plated Fern
Pot, 3Jin. high, 9s 6d.
No. F 2534.
Thistle Candlestick, Best Silver-
plate, 17s 6d each.
No. E 9248.
Cut Glass Puff Box, with Solid Silver
Top, 13s 6d.
In all Silver, with Glass Lining',
£ll7# 6d and £2 6s.
MENU
No. E 8733.
Solid Silver Menu Holder, 9s 6d.
No. 153 A.—Daisy Brooch, 8 Fine Diamonds,
3 Opals, £4 17s 6d.
No. E7058.—15c. Gold and Pearl set Heart and Spray
Band Bracelet, £3 15s.
No. 157 A.—Elegant Scroll Brooch, 14 Fine Dia-
monds, 2 Whole Pearls, 3 Rubies, £6 15s.
No. 145A.— 9c. Gold Amythyst and Pearl Bracelet, £2 7s 6d.
Best Silver-plated Hot Water Kettle,
with Spirit Lamp, £7.
No. 015.—15 c. Gold and Finest Opal Heart
Brooch, £2 15s.
No. 326. —Pair Fine Silver-plated Pie Servers, in Case,
£1 10s.
No. E 8396. —9c. Gold Gurb and
Heart Brooch, 4s 6d.
No. E9l37.— Silver-mounted Combs, 5s 6d.
No. 128 A.
16c. Gold Diamond and Ruby Butterfly
Brooch, £3 7s 6d.
No. E 6534
Solid Silver-Mounted
Manicure Scissors,
7s 6d.
No. 388.— Silver-plated Jam Spoon, 6 inches long, 3s.
No. 345 A.
Finest Silver-plated English
Out Glass Butter Dish with
Knife, £1 2s 6d.
No. 359.
Silver-plated Breakfast Cruet
complete with Spoons,
13s 6d.
No. E 7072.
6-Bell Solid Silver
Baby’s Rattle, with
Ivory Handle,
12s 6d.
Others 4s to 2ls.
No. E 3777.
Combination Lamp and Fern Pot,
£2 ] 2s 6d.
No. 163.—5 Fine
White Diamonds,
£5 ss.
Xo. 136. —9c. Gold Bracelet, Pearls and Sapphires, £2 ss.
0m
No. 178. -Wedding
Ring-, 18c. Gold,
£1 Is.
No. 333. —Solid Silver Christening Spoon, in Case,
15s 6d ; Silver-plated, 6s 6d.
No. 267 A.—Solid Silver Embroidery Set, in Case, 17s 6d.
No. 122A.—15c. Gold Brooch, Fine Set Amethyst,
£2 7 s 6d.
No. 295.—Silver-plated Serviette Ring's, 2 in Case,
8s 6d ; 4 in Case, 16s 6d ; 6 in Case, £1 ss.
Write for Free Catalogue.
All Goods Delivered Carriage Paid.
412 GEORGE ST. & STRAND, SYDNEY.


Purifier.
A Perfect Blood
EXACT SIZE
OFTHEBOIILE
at
+—*
I KUTNOW’S
improved Effervescent Carlsbad
POWDER.
a
m
Hirschensprung or Deer Leap
m %!V/
w
€ „„ London: 1
41, FARRINGDON ROAD, E.C.
REGISTERED TRADE MARK. .
EXACT SIZE
OFTHEBOTTLE
Kutnow’s Powder Removes Poisonous Matters from the
Blood and Tissue, and by Cleansing and Strengthening
the Digestive and Excretory Organs Prevents the further
Accumulation of these Impurities.
When the warm weather arrives the impurities that have accumulated in the blood and tissue during the
cooler months are likely to cause more or less languor, headache, skin eruptions, low spirits, insomnia, etc.
The most simple and effective means of freeing the system of these impurities is afforded by a course of
Kutnow’s Improved Effervescent Carlsbad Powder, which as a purifier of the blood and tissue is absolutely
perfect. - ,
It dissolves the noxious acid and alkaline formations that poison the system, and removes them from the
body by the excretory process, and then, by cleansing and strengthening the stomach, liver, and kidneys,
prevents the further accumulation of these impurities.
Kutnow’s Powder owes its purifying value to the fact that it is composed of the cleansing, curative and
medicinal properties of the most noted health springs of Europe. The drastic, lowering, and nauseous features*
however, of these springs are absent.
Kutnow’s Powder remedies and relieves practically every ailment for which the wealthier class of people
visit the European spas, and is found particularly useful in treating those diseases that arise from an excessive
accumulation in the system of uric acid, and for this reason many of the most eminent medical practitioners in
this and other countries constantly prescribe it for rheumatism, gout, eczema, sciatica, etc.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Kutnow’s Improved Effervescent Carlsbad Powder may be obtained in capsuled bottles from all Reliable Chemists and
Medicine Vendors , See that the Registered Trade Mark, “ Mirschensprung 99 (or Deer Leap), and the autograph
facsimile signature, “S. KTJTNOW & CO,, Ld,,” are on the label and carton. Only these ensure genuineness.
Insist on “KUTNOW’S,” and firmly refuse any substitutes; they may be worthless, probably injurious.
PROPRIETORS
S. KUTNOW & CO., Ld., 41 Farringdon Rd., London, E.C.
PROPRIETORS IN U.S.A— —.
KUTNOW BROS., Ld., 853 Broadway, New York City.
Science in the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“What d’ye want?” snapped the selector’s wife,
sharply opening the door after a precautionary
glance through the paper-patched window. The
snarling sheep-dog, more or less satisfied that
everything was right, sneaked back to his chosen
spot, and the dusty, dilapidated man at the door,
giving a quick glance at the dirty, straggle-haired
woman, intuitively discerned a hopeless combina-
tion of ignorance and loquacity. His first impulse
was to turn away in despair, but, bethinking him-
self of the results of perseverance, his pulse
quickened with renewed courage.
“I, madam, am the world-renowned phrenolo-
gist, Professor Cranium, late of London, Constan-
tinople, and Surry Hills,” he said, loftily, by way
of introduction.
“ Th’ what ? ” gasped the woman, withdrawing
a little, and nervously catching up the corner of
her greasy apron.
“I examine the developments of your children’s
heads, madam,” he explained, calmly, “and tell
you what each one is adapted for.”
“Oh, I see,” said she, advancing confidently,
and resuming her leaning posture against the
door; “you’re the photograph-taker what’s goin’
to take Miss Muggins’s school.”
“Oh, dear, no !” snapped the professor, rather
peevishly. “I see you do not thoroughly under-
stand me.” And, opening an ancient handbag,
he carefully unfolded a battered roll of paper on
which was scrawled what he termed a “phreno-
logical diagram.” “You see,” he proceeded to
explain, pointing a long, grimy finger at the
paper, “this diagram shows ”
“What’s it for, mister?” interposed a bare-
footed girl of ten, who had slowly edged her way
past her open-mouthed parent on the verandah.
The next instant she was tearfully endeavoring to
wipe away the marks of her mother’s flour-
covered hand from her unwashed face, and with a
“ Take that, y’ impident hussy ! ” she was bundled
unceremoniously into the kitchen. Inside, a num-
ber of unruly sisters and brothers were engaged in
pitched-battle over a coign of vantage in the shape
of a crack in the wall, which afforded a good view
of the long-haired monstrosity at the front-door—
who glared fiercely at the slumbering sheep-dog
during the interruption.
“You see,” he went on, patiently, when the
harassed mother had returned, after restoring
order, “this diagram shows the different organs
of thought that are centred in the brain ; and,
according to the manner in which these various
organs are developed, I form conclusions as to
what particular calling a child would be naturally
fitted for.”
“ Oh, y’ needn’t come here lookin’ for lunatics,”
said the Woman, sharply—“if that’s what y’er
after. My children ’ave all got their proper
senses, thank Gawd.”
The disgusted scientist turned his aching head,
and gazed hopelessly across the dreary sun-scorched
plain for one full, depressing minute. Then he
drew a long, deep breath, and returned to the
charge with such vigor determination that,
after about 10 minutes’ hard explanatory talk, the
benighted woman was enlightened to such an ex-
tent that she declared phrenology to be far-and-
away the grandest thing she had ever heard of.
. “My husband’s away at Lame Horse, she said,
thoughtfully ; but I don’t think he believes much
in these things; he’s so funny, you know. How-
somever, I should like to ’ave ’em done just t see
if they’re goin’t’ turn out anythin good, x can
never tell, can y’ ? ” ,
“That’s true, madam. You never can tell
until you have had their heads examined by a
capable phrenologist —which I can fairly claim
t .”
«I should juat like you to ’ave a look at my
’Enery,” broke in the woman, with sudden en-
thusiasm. “E’s my eldest son, and ’e just is
clever. Do you see that beautiful drorin on the
wall, above the mantel-shelf. Well, my ’Enery
did that when he was only nine, an’ all out of is
own’ead, too ! ” . . , ~
“Your son must be a genius,” remarked the
diplomatic-old battler, trying to look interested
in the “ drorin”’ —an atrocious attempt at orna-
mental capitals, reading “ What is Home without
a Mother.”
“A genus!” exclaimed the proud parent.
“ You’ve jus’ said it, mister, an’ you’re not the
only one as thinks so. Miss Muggins ses he’s a
genus, and ses we oughter make a hartist of ’im,
but I don’t think them hartists are respectable,
do you ? They never seem to prosper, an’ on’y
yestiddy I was lookin’ in a paper an’ sawr a
pickcher of one. He seemed dreadful poor,, an
looked as if he had somethin’ awful on ’is mind.
What d’ye charge, sir?” she asked anxiously,
after a pause.
“Five shillings,” cautiously replied the im-
pecunious one, nervously clutching the handle of
his handbag.
“ Five shillins ! ” the woman cried in surprise.
“ That is cheap. I thought it would be about a
couple o’ quid.”
“Five shillings is my fee,” the Professor re-
peated, feeling that the battle was won— ‘ ‘ for
which I give a full, detailed ”
“Moth-er-r, th’ bread’s burnin’ !” shrieked five
or six voices in chorus, and the woman, with a
horrified scream, rushed frantically towards the
kitchen. “My Gord,” she cried—“ my bea-u-tiful
batch of bread ! ”
Reaching the fireplace, she made a desperate
dash at the camp-oven, and sweeping ashes and
lid to the ground together at one fell swoop
emptied the half-baked loaves excitedly on to the
earthen floor. Turning the loaves over in a dazed
manner she sniffed the air critically and then gave
a puzzled look towards the fireplace. The next
moment a son of six sunburnt summers
made a troubled exit through the kitchen-
window, closely followed by a broom, hurled
after him by his angry mother. “Take that, y’
brazen-faced, mischeevous young brat ! . If I
catch y’ throwin’ dough into the fire again I’ll
break every bone in yer body—that I will ! ”
Then she gathered the loaves into the oven again,
hung it a few links higher above the fire, and,
after asking M’riar, the ten-year-old daughter,
whatever in the world she thought she was rear-
ing her for, and commanding her under penalty
of having her “neck screwed ” to put some more
ashes on the lid of the oven and keep the young-
sters quiet, she sailed for the front door.
“I s’pose you’re nearly tired waitin’, mister?”
she said apologetically, stroking back her nomadic
hair with both hands, and cooling-down after the
excitement.
“ Oh, no,” wearily replied the persevering dead-
beat, who had reluctantly yet hopefully struggled
through the uproarious interval. “But if you
would like to have your son Henry’s head ex .”
“Yes,” she interrupted, “I would certainly
like to ’ave ’Enery done'; but ,I won’t bother
about any of these good-for-nothings. And even
if they were worth it, times is so bad now with
drought an’ one thing an’ another that really,
mister, we ’ave to look at every shillin’ afore we
spend it.” -
“ But you will have Henry done,” the Professor
persisted anxiously.
“Yes,” the woman said, reflectively, “I would
like 4;o ’ave ’Enery done; an’ if lie was at home I
wouldn’t mind lettin’ y’ do ’im now, but he went,
to Gonbung Station yestiddy to stop a few weeks
with ’is cousins. However ” (here the expectant
Professor said something inarticulate) “if you’re
connin’ round this way any time next year, I
wouldn’t mind givin’ y’ a few shill —”
Here she was cut-short by a hideous uproar
that just then arose from the kitchen, and the
next minute the family milch-goat, unwillingly
ridden through the house by the delinquent son,
dashed furiously past, threw its rider violently
against the verandah-post, and pursuing its mad-
dened flight, knocked the professor on to the
broad of his learned back.
“Pm so sorry, mister,” said the house-mother, .
breathlessly; “ I hope you’re not hurt, but if y’..
come round this way again don’t forget t’ call
an’ —— ” .
But the ill-starred Professor, ignommiously
picking himself up, and gathering-in his wounded
feelings, had walked far, far away into the
deepening gloom, expectorating black soil and
blasphemy!
BARKY SPRAYTON.
In a certain recent case in which members
of N.S.W. police force lent themselves as spies in
a civil proceeding, an inquiry is now pending.
Inspector-General Fosbery has determined, to put
down an objectionable practice, which, in this
instance at least, was indulged in without his
cognisance.
Gadshill writes :
Bulletin mention of the feeds that usurer Sam
Lewis provided for his victims has set me thinking
of one of Dickens’ strongest pen pictures, viz., the “ dis-
counting dinner ” given by old Ralph Nickleby to Sir
Mulberry Hawk and his pupil Lord Frederick Verisopht,
whereat the usurer’s niece, Kate, figured as an innocent
decoy for the lordling. Messrs. Pike and Pluck, satellites
of Sir Mulberry, came to assist in managing his pupil, and
Colonel Ohowser (of the marines) was the makeweight
guest. It being the particular duty of Pike and Pluck to
laugh uproariously at Hawk’s jokes, their merriment
encouraged Chowser also' to try his wit on the company.
Chowser’s presumption met its deserts. Pike and Pluck
scowled ominously, Hawk cursed the interloper s impu-
dence, and Lord Verisopht, dimly conscious of the outrage,
turned his eyeglass upon poor Chowser and said,
“The Dayvil!” Dinner over, Kate Nickleby fled to
a sitting-room upstairs, somewhat scared by the
manners, voices, and easy familiarities of uncles
strange friends. An hour or two later Hawk slipped
away from the table, found Kate alone, and had begun to
force his drunken endearments upon her, when Ralph
Nickleby came to the rescue. Or, rather, he came per-
haps to see how the girl was shaping in her new part.
But as she stood before him with crimson cheeks, tears in
her flashing eyes, her hair slightly disordered, there came
to Ralph’s mind the memory of some schoolboy scene in
which his dead brother had looked at him as Kate now
looked. And for the sake of "his brother’s child the old
schemer so far risked the loss of business as to turn upon
his valuable ally, Hawk, and bid the profligate begone.
One hears young men of the trans-continental Australian
type expressing scornful amusement at the thought of
anyone having an admiration for Dickens’ Work in these
enlightened days of the smart short story. For my part,
I hope I may die a true believer in the genius of the man
who wrote “Nicholas Nickleby.”
The Drover (Pedigree unknown).
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
How is.he bred? Well, I don’t.know. I sup-
pose it appeared in the stud-book when the horse
was foaled ; but he’s had so many pedigrees and
different names before I owned him that I expect
his real identity has got badly mixed-up. But
you may be sure he’s as clean as they, breed ’em.
Can sprint like a two-yeai -old, and stay for ever.
When I bought him I didn’t ask for a pedigree.
I saw the neddy win; three races in one day
at the All-In Race Meeting, and he appeared
on the card as The Drover (pedigree unknown)
and a maiden: But the way he spread-eagled
his fields made some of us think there might
have been some slight omission re the perform-
ances that accompanied the nomination, as the
horse was described as having run unplaced in
numerous races.
Well, either the calibre of the horses The
Drover had formerly met was exceptionally high,
or the fields at the All-In Meeting consisted of a
lot of brumbies. Anyhow at the settling that
night I bought the, horse, and gave a good stiff
price for him.
When I had paid over the cash and got my
receipt, the fellow I bought him from said,
“Look here, you own as honest an old neddy
as ever stood on iron.” Then, after a lengthy
pause, he added, “But where do you reckon to
race him ? ” I mentioned a couple of places, but
The Drover’s late owner shook his head, and
quietly remarked, “Don’t take him there. We
got away with their double at both places last
year.” “Why, I thought the horse was a maiden
previous to winning here?” I said. “Well,” he
replied, “as far as I know, The Drover was a
maiden, as I don’t remember a horse of that
name winning a race at any of the meetings where
we have been.” I then mentioned a few other
places where I might race the neddy. “No, I
wouldn’t show him at any of them,” he said.
“ You mi(/lit have a bit of luck, and get through
all right, but I wouldn’t advise you to take it on.
And, look here, young fellow,” he continued, “ 1
might as well tell you a few of the places where,
if I owned The Drover, I wouldn’t try to race
him.” He then named nearly all the chief race-
meetings of Queensland, N.S.W., and Victoria,
but added, as a bit of consolation, “They tell me
that when this war in South Africa is over, and
the country gets settled down again, there will be
a few decent sort of races to be picked up with a
horse of the class you’ve just bought. And as I
give you my word that S’Africa is one of the few
places that me and the old battler haven't worked,
it might pay you to remember it.
ON THE RAILS.
“Joe of Birmingham,” writes The Bul-
letin’s London correspondent, “is down to
‘ chair’ the ‘ Australian Commonwealth Banquet ’
on Jan. 21. Now that Fed-Austral has a lot of
large salaried billets in prospect a muster of ‘ big
cattle ’ may be expected. Anyhow it’s worth two
guineas at any time to see ‘ slim ’ Joe trying to
appear delighted with everything—and Chamber-
lain don’t like us Australs, for we know what we
want, and lack the diplomatic varnish to lessen
the brutality of our directness in asking for it.
Besides, as "self-made people, we remind the
Brummagem J.C. too much whence he sprung,
and that alone is a crime to any such self-seeker.”


JAMES DOAN’S
GREAT DISCOVERY.
Hundreds of Sydney People Cured
BY
Doan’s Backache Kidney pills.
Names of Sydney People Given.
Bi
Hi
m %
•y-vsss
v UK
••
STsS^HS
iiiii
■
;.'«SSS
SSUgjfe'SK^-il-sJ;:
■■m
- '
ss::::*
.
piiil
:S-s
HP |
mmamm/A
isr
''V^X'^^VA'A^
*VAr;ivX'’vANv''v'
The Kidneys are the most important organs of
the body beeause they filter the blood .
The statement given below was made by a resi-
« dent of Leichhardt, this city. If the same state-
ment had been made by some person in another
town or country it might, of course, be true, but
we would never know, because we couldn’t prove
it. But we can prove this statement, for the lady
who gives it lives right here in Sydney.
Mrs. Pat. Duffy, 43 Marion-street, Leichhardt,
this city, says:—“Twelve months ago I took
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for pain in the
back, which I knew to arise from the kidneys.
The doctor said that I could expect it owing to
the change of life. I had been taking various
remedies (both internal and external) without
getting any benefit. Only a few doses of Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills released me from all my
pain, however.
“ My husband had been suffering from kidney
troubles, and, seeing how splendidly they acted in
my case, he took the same remedy. He works
for the council, at asphalting, and is out in all
kinds of weather. The pains in his back were
extremely bad. He had been unable to get more
than a passing relief out of anything he had pre-
viously tried, but Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
cured him. Since being cured, he was out work-
ing in the rain, and he caught a cold in his kid-
neys, and so lie took more of the pills. They are
first-rate kidney pills, and he says that nothing
ever did him as much good as Doan’s Pills. I
procured these pills at E. Newman’s pharmacy, in
King-street.”
This is only one instance of what Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills are doing in Sydney. There
are hundreds of similar cases equally as strong
and equally as convincing, and they are all Sydney
people. For instance: Mr. W. Hibberd, St.
Paul-street, Randwick, Sydney ; Mr. W. Lane,
102 George-street, Erskineville, Sydney; Mr. J.
Cameron, 297 Balmain-road, Leichhardt, Sydney;
Mr. Jas. Rees, 6 East-street, Surry-hills, Sydney ;
Mrs. Spear, 32 Goodsell-street, St. Peters, Syd-
ney ; and scores of others.
As we hear of no other medicines curing Sydney
people like this, why are Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills so successful here ? We will tell you why.
Doctors used to think that only urinary troubles
were to be traced to the kidneys.
Modern science has proved, however, that really
all constitutional diseases have their beginnings in
disorders of these important organs.
And this is common sense, for the kidneys filter
and purify the blood. When they do not the
whole body suffers.
When the kidneys are ill, impurities permeate
the blood, muscles, bones and nerves, like foul
vapours from a marsh. _ They saturate every pore.
There is a dull pain in the back, rheumatism,
dizziness, headaches, nervousness, heart trouble,
pains in the limbs, bloating, sallow complexion,
circles under the eyes, bladder irritation, suppres-
sion of the urine, worn out, tired feeling, lack of
ambition.
Our readers will be interested to see the picture
of James Doan, the discoverer of this famous
medicine, which we publish at the head of this
article. He is the noted chemist of Kingsville,
Ontario, and his discovery, spoken of above, has
made his name known all over the world.
Remember it was Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills which Mrs. Duffy used. See that you get
the same. You may always know the genuine,
because the wrapper bears the full name, Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, in bold type, and has the
signature of James Doan. You need never be
imposed upon if you will bear these two things in
mind.
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
-Are sold by all chemists and storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes, 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on
receipt of price by the propriecors, Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
But be SURE they are Doan’s.
The Kid.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’E ain’t wot you would call an ’andsome kid ;
I do admit ’e ain’t no Christmas-card,
With golding ’air a-’anging down a yard,
An round is ’ead a shinin’ saucepan-lid.
Is air is red, like Jane’s, an’ closely cut—
I or reasons w’ioh I needn’t mention ’ere
Is eyes ain’t quite a pair; ’is mouth looks que.-r
Becos ’is big front tooth won’t let it shut.
My Jane—who’s got religion—sometimes rants
As ’ow it pleased the Lord to make ’im plain,
To save im from the sin o’ being vain—
Maybe the Lord forgot Jane makes ’is pants.
But, all the same, I views ’im with content,
A Itho’ with Jane I sometimes disagree,
W en she gets narked, and sez ’e favors me
Becos ’is legs is just a wee bit bent.
’E is our only kid wot got a place,
The rest all chucked the race up at the start.
’E umps ’is weight along to cheer me ’eart,
An’ I just love ’is ugly Chivy Chase.
N.S.W.
CRIPPS CLARK.
The Unit.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Wilson arrived at Quandong, to take
charge of the school that a maternally-minded
Ministry had seen fit (at the instigation of
a man with a vote) to impose upon the children of
the district, he was received with open arms by
the few families who posed as “society.” And
indeed, Wilson was a decided acquisition in more
ways than one. In the first place, he added to
the small circle an element of learning that had
• hitherto been missing, and he supplemented it,
when opportunity arose, by the display of a very
pretty sentiment. At times, too, he pottered
about the border-line of the melodramatic—an
emotional frontier intersected by many pitfalls.
M ith Mrs. Tom Cameron, above all others, the
ardent school-teacher loved to hold (as he put it to
himself) sweet communion, 55 and very early in
the course of their intimacy the little woman
received him with graciousness. She was a
brunette, of the type known by some people as
spirituelle, was possessed of dreamy, languorous
eyes, and—a perfect ankle. Little wonder, indeed,
that so sweet a morsel of humanity should appeal
to the poetic side of Wilson’s nature.
Mrs. Cameron’s husband was the local miller •
a big man of the all-red typo His face was red
1 is hair and beard were red, his hands were red •
ns system throbbed with lusty life and vigor and
he turned the scale at sixteen stone. How did it
happen ? How was it possible that such extremes
as „ A OOl Cameron and his wife developed the
afrimty culminating in married life?
Wilson, the school-teacher, pondered long on the
matrimonial paradox without finding answers to
his mental queries. And, meanwhile, his heart
caught fire. Nevertheless he was wary. Long
years at Fort-street had superadded to his senti-
mental side a strong touch of the practical, and
his study of the absolutes, while showing that
‘ Nature ab ‘ lors a vacuum,” also taught him that
a full vessel cannot be filled. But’ surely it was
impossible that Mrs. Cameron’s heart could be
ti ded with love for the burly miller ; the idea was
absurd. Thus reasoned Wilson.
* * * *
Ihe bum and b-r-r-r-r of the mill machinery
droned over the district like an agricultural bene-
diction. Here were garnered and coined into
go.den sovereigns the results of the season’s labor
o the encircling paddocks, and over all presided
1 >m Cameron, the Mint-master. The man with
the red face and hands was Quandong’s practical
patriarch.
And “H’m,” said the patriarch, one bright
afternoon, as he stood at the mill entrance—“h’m
ah ; anyhow, it’ll keep the little woman from feel-
ing too lonely.”
The school-teacher had just entered Cameron’s
gate, a short distance up the road.
* * * *
Yes, you must find it dull sometimes, Mrs.
Cameron, said Wilson, as he stirred his tea.
“Ah ! you’ve no idea how monotonous.” ’ Mrs.
Cameron wa3 half-reclining on an easy couch
looking very bewitching in her chic muslin tea-
gown.
Why not break the monotony ? Surelv it
rests with yourself ? ” J
“No—unfortunately Mr. Cameron would not
eave Quandong.” There was a plaintive note in
her voice, and Wilson braced himself.
“ Are your wishes not to be consulted in the
matter ? he almost demanded.
“Don’t you see how impossible it is? Mr
Cameron’s interests are all centred here.”
„ “Material interests are not the only ones,” said
Wuson oracularly.
, Mrs. Cameron shrugged her shoulders prettily.
I hat is quite true in many cases,” she said:
but my husband, is so very practical.”
“And you .”
“I am only—the woman ! ”
“And because you are onlv ‘the woman’ is
your happiness to be sacrificed ? ”
“I* is P ar t of the matrimonial code that man is
master, and women must, I suppose, accept it.”
A stupid platitude to shackle fools ! ” retorted
Wilson. It is always possible to compel cir-
cumstance. ”
, “ always, I fear,” sighed the little woman •
‘circumstance more frequently compels us.”
. ‘‘That is as you will,” suggested Wilson,
boiutions can generally be found.”
The picnic had been a success. Lunch was
over, and most of the party had strolled away.
Mrs. Cameron, as hostess, had stayed behind to
“tidy up a bit,” and now, her work done, was
resting. As she sat under the shade of a great
she-oak by the river-bank, idly fingering the
strings of a wonderful hat and looking
dreamily at the silent, flowing water, Wilson,
the school-teacher, thought her the incarnation
of all that was desirable in woman. He
had thrown himself on the grass a few paces off,
and his eyes were fixed inquiringly on her face.
A hundred yards up the stream, on a jutting log,
stood the miller, his red beard, like a bunch of
shredded carrots, sweeping his white jacket.
“You haven’t answered me,” Wilson was
saying in a hungry half-whisper—“ You must
have known.”
Mrs. Cameron pulled a red poppy from her hat
and scattered the leaves on the grass. “ Oh, yes;
I suppose I should have known—a woman’s intui-
lon is credited with wonderful powers of divina-
this ?>> Ut by What rigllt do >' ou s P eak to kk e
“Right 1” echoed Wilson, scornfully. “ What
talk of rl ,ght in a world of wrong ! Is it
right that you should be bound to a man with
whom you have nothing in cdinmon ? ”
lira. Cameron’s eyes flashed, but she spoke
quietly. “ And you offer me ? ”
i, -hove—idolatry— everything that is possible
between kindred souls ! ”
m i m practical, I am afraid,” mur-
mured Mrs. Cameron. “But tell me, Mr. Wil-
son, what would the world be if all men thought
as you ?” °
mu ltßude—hell; to the unit—heaven.”
<( And you are—? ”
I would be,” corrected Wilson, “ the unit.”
From the contemplation of the value of a patch
ot land as a turnip-raising area Tom Cameron
rned in response to his wife’s call and sauntered
.7m Cameron’s face was a study in smiles,
n a? 1 ’ deai !> she said, “Mr. Wilson would
like to be a unit.”
~isn’t he one?” laughed,her husband.
.. sort he would like to be,” purred his
Wl w-’i ke wan ts me to run away with him.”
Wilson joined the multitude, with the assist-
ance of the miller.
YAEREVAR.
In the Street.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Sit here, Jack, your tram won’t be up for 10
minutes yet. How have I been getting on ? Mid-
dling. It’s two years since I saw you—now don’t
fidget, Jack, I’m not going to preach . . . but
I used to curse you night and day when you left
me. It was the girls at the shop who saw me
through-Lizzie Dale, Kittie Smith, and little
Rosie Joyce—they brought things for the kid
and took it in turns to look after me. Don’t
fidget, Jack. I soon pulled round. Got a fresh
billet in Stoneway’s trying-on department. The
id s all nght. Named him after you, of course,
though I didn t think you worth it then. He isn’t
1 o trouble, cept that he climbs over me in
the morning when I’m a bit tired; just spreads
himself out and talks with his mouth on
week ° th*‘f T ° ok klm t 0 a concert last
week-the forewoman gave me a ticket. My kid
wouk nt keep quiet ; the fiddles and piano set
him laughing and pimping. A young fellow
’Twfl«°p and i S n ng <0h ’ love ’ do y° u remember?’
lwasn t a bad song. My kid climbed over my
shoulder-he s like a little giant, I can’t hold him
sometimes. Oh, love, do you remember?’ sings
e young fellow. Helloa ! ’ sez my kid, wagging
his head at the people. ‘Helloa!’ An old
feUow behind said ‘Damn the brat!’ And
the kid laughed, and said ‘ Helloa ! ’ again. The
people looked and looked, but when they saw his
yellow head wagging to the music they only
laughed and shook their programmes at him.
Heres your tram, Jack. Well, good-bye. If—if
you d like to come out and see him some day
I won t worry you for anything. You might ! .' *
like to see him Never gives me a bit of trouble.
• . . ±sondi. Bondi. Good-bye, Jack ! ”
ALBA.
The Duke of Wellington, referring to his
own nevvly-formed Ministry in the early part of
Victoria s reign, said : “We shall not get on well
with the girl-Queen—Peel has no manners, and I
have no small talk.”
Yet another medico writes to The Bulle-
tin
, chlo s oform in quest. Place-Alfred Hospital
fnmrno ’ S p b i? ct 7 - t n l a “ a £ ed 76 ! disease—cancer of the
snfrfo i patient had had chloroform administered in
an®stheHsi t m! 01 Js a f b0Ut ™ days P reviou sly, and the
anaesthetist on that occasion started with chloroform
to ArF e^ d , not lik <f the look of deceased, changecHt
° f °P inion that deceased was
not a very safe subject even for A.C.E., although this
Mfwvf " a lP ot f so depressive, and was supposed to be
safer than chloroform owing to the alcohol and ether in
lkkth e. r ."[as not given on the fatal occasion, as the
nn^n th ff lbt i, kn p e K that dlfc was administered and brought
hp wi ta ° k ° f , br ? ll , c i ll i ls lfc w °uld prove fatal, although
i?® bad previously told deceased he was not a fit subject
form h whpn o h m ' Deceased was only partly under chloro-
t?™ u h h as remove d to the operating theatre :
and dieH ga Fff a ? ? norm ? us as P> breathed three times,
* v? 1 if F orts Awards resuscitation were continued
p°^ftr' h °f Ur - Duncan and Elockhart’s (the usual
was L C t or r f orm WaS ed ’ but the battery
~ ot - , Ifc seems that a patient’s wish as to
whether he wants chloroform or not is not al-
ways regarded at this particular hospital and in
tprpd a - S f e u” qU ?t St iu n ’v f fche an ®sthetist had not adminis-
hs vp d h! hlmself > , the (Presumably same) anaesthetic would
bavebeen given by a junior. All of which goes to show
nfp t n th d re \ S f a ii tro i Igpredilectionafcthe Alfred in favor
OertainW‘ thp d po-p epr f SS^ 6 and dangerous anaesthetic.,
,J he a g e of the subject was against the
? se of. .ether, as it might possibly have set up
sZrtWftt always to be dreaded in an elderly
mhfPdw f „ th ®, Sai i le tlme the deceased was ad-
mittedly unfit for chloroform. Would it not have been:
better to have chosen the lesser of these two evils—viz
either a possible bronchitis following the use of ether or
a more possible utter collapse after the use of chloroform ?'
’ a i S th f. saf ? r anaesthetic, should always be pre-
ferred unless the circumstances and state of the patient
abso utely preclude it. Subjects are, as a rule. more
tWp £ b’onght under the influence of chloroform, and
is used ThP«p e |“t e f nt and than when ether
ILPiuf • . e t e fatter considerations are certainly of
weight in private practice where the practitioner is some-
times single-handed, but such considerations should have
no place in a public institution where skilled assistants
are usually available. It is noteworthy that in most cases
twt at ; hS f ft° m anaisfchetics ’ very little has been used and
there is often an unseemly haste on the part of the
operator to begin, a haste embarrassing to the anaesthetist,
and dangerous to the patient, as the former may
perchance push the drug too suddenly, i.e., without,
sufficient dilution of air. It is probable an operation “s-
-sometimes commenced before the subject is under the
influence of the anaesthetic, and in such cases the shock
P? d f ed by - , jb e > cision or other operative-proceeding
might, especially in nervous subjects, have a direct in-
hibitory effect on the heart’s action! In the last two-
cases m which present scribe acted as chloroform
anaesthetist, collapse and failure of the heart’s action,
took place, but fortunately, before starting ad”
ministration, a large hypodermic syringe was
filled with ether and he believes that the
prompt injection of the ether greatly assisted the
subsequent artificial respira-tion and eventual resuscita-
tion. Since then however, he has altogether forsworn
chloroform, and will never again use it. He was himself
under chloroform for about six hours at this same Alfred
Hospital some time ago, but was not asked what his par-
ticular fancy in anaisthetics was, nor, as far as he knows
was his consent given to an operation being performed—
hnnp6 T lfc a ffi® ar ® d as a 6x2 allotment in the nearest
bone-yard would be his permanent location, yet this mor-
«jw vvriting- the above, deponent has read
Pujyakas recent remarks (8., 19/1/’01), with the whole
of whose views it is impossible not to concur. The new
method of injecting cocaine into the intra-spinal
subarachnoid space is sub-judice, and needs much trial.
Chloroform, on the other hand, has been tried and found
-very much wanting. Apparently the ideal anesthetic
many other ideals) has yet to be discovered. Until
our Vest friend SUmmati ° n eventuateB ' however, ether is


Was Very Weak
Lost Flesh Rapidly,
Took Quantities of Medicine, Failed all the lime.
Was Quickly Cured with .
!
“Some time ago I had a very severe attack of influenza which left me
greatly weakened. I lost flesh rapidly and was in a very bad way.
“I took quantities of medicine, but constantly grew worse all the time.
Finally, I tried Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and began to improve from the start.
“I took about six bottles and was perfectly cured. I have used this remedy
in my family a great deal and I know it to be a thoroughly reliable health-
giving compound and family medicine.”
John Murrell, Railway Station Master, of Sunnybank, Queensland, sends us
this letter .together with his photograph, which we reproduce above.
This is a strong letter, one which must remove all doubt. It is additional
proof that Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is
“The World’s Greatest Family Wledicine.”
You ought to profit by it greatly, for if you are weak, have lost flesh, are with-
out appetite, and feel languid and depressed, here is a quick and certain cure.
Perhaps the trouble is with your blood and you are suffering from headache,
boils, eruptions of the skin, scrofula, and rheumatism; or if you are suffering
from weakness of any kind, here is a prompt and most perfect cure.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Removes 111 Effects of Hot Weather.
AYER'S PILLS—A Vegetable Laxative for the Whole Family.
001-SEN
Kyi
LONDON
SINGERS & SPEAKERS
pjf Brume
P
m
i
PLAIN HOM€ TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 86 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
i iage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the imformation em-
-1 raced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
eloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody 5 public speaking made easy, is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrbstlino, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties,Love,Dress,etc. Is6d post.
Evert Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Sbcrets of Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6<l post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly And His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, Is 6d post
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs.
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, ls'6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE.-SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous. SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYPHEY.
nWV W,
4*28
4A
§
ii
LV
==j»
% •«
' s
•V*
c-0
i
y
wo
)\\
m
A
V
%
A
“STEELE RUDD’S” BOOK-
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
Price, Six Shillings (Post Free).
►♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦«
MAORI LAMP : ai)d Otber Verses.
By ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
The Best Book of Verses Maoriland has produced. Price, Five Shillings (post free).
“THE BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO., LTD., 214 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Wholesale Agents: Edwards, Dunlop, Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
Æ
The Universal Kemedy for Acidity ox the Stomach.
-Icadache, Heartburn. Indigestion, Sour Er uctations,
Bilious Aifections.
The Physician’s Cur©
for Grout, Kheumatic
Gout and Gravel: the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Inlants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
A
Sold Throughout the Wona.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
IRISH MOSS
FOR
-The besl" remedy -
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS.
ASTHMA.
Ask for Bonn i ng ton's
and see thatyou get it


HOSE.
HOSE
I* J win iiIm fi n - X ELY R0BBER.
rerQ » lail S C GARDEN, 50 FEET COILS, for 20A
Perdriau’s B DELIVERY, 60 FEET COILS, for
Perdriau’s sup. delivery, 6o feet coils,
p. . , _ for 50a.
Perdriau S fin. Cotton Covered.
Pe rd r 1 au ? S MEDIUM EUREK A,' 50 FEET COILS,
for 20s.
Perdriau’s eureka, 50 feet
COILS, for 22s 6d. •
Hose
Hose
Hose
Hose
Hose
Hose
PERDRIAU & CO.,
270 G-eorge S fc.,
Sydney.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
M A NUEACTURERS \
AN» . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
SC Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building. Adelaide.
THE WORTHINGTON
1 . IS THE ORIGINAL.,..
DUPLEX PUMP.
Sole Australasian Representatives :
SIMPSON BROTHERS
>
WORTHINGTON COMPOUND.
WORTH
TRADE
32 and 34 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
TyJr.vis
BENNIE, TEARE & CO.
HAVE STOCKS OF MATERIAL & FURNISHINGS
for MINING and engineering.
SOLE REPRESENTATIVES IN AUSTRALIA OF
TANGYES LIMITED.
PUMPS. ENGINES. BOILERS.
DEPOTS IN SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, PERTH, COOLGARDIE.
I
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
WV C- IFHILIDIRXiIDGMS & GO..
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOUR MTItHMT. SFDNISF
(Opp. Centenary Mall).
Country Orders by post iront nil the colonies promptly
wHmBsKgMKKEBBmBK&KKtKtEtmimMBsm
I
GEORGE & MARKET STREETS.
Board and Residence, Bs.
luncheon!
12 o’clock till 2.30. j
•m *r
DINNER, TEA
5.30 till 7.30.
ONE SHILLING UPWARDS.
Perfect Cuisine and First-class Attendance.
Special FISH LUNCHEON and LINN BE on FRIDAYS.
Á
CHRISTMAS and COMMONWEALTH FESTIVITIES.
TO WAY-BACK RESIDENTS.
YOU CAY OBTAIN FROM THE
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO. LTD
by Bail or Parcels Post, the very Finest Christmas Cakes and Puddings, Pastry, &c*
Poultry, Pish and Game forwarded- in a frozen condition to all parts of the Colony.
Butter —“ Golden Star ” and “ Berry ” Brands, of Splendid Keeping Quality—sent by Parcels Post, packed in tins.
ICE, ICE, ICE— Pure Crystal Ice—packed in Special Transport Boxes, and consigned (freight paid) to any Railway Station in N.&W.
Head Office : HARBOUR ST., SYDNEY.
Send for our Price Lists.
H. PATESON, Manager.
PARKE & LACY CO LTD
Have always on hand a Good
Stock of both Horizontal and
Vertical Engines and Boilers;
also of Mining and General
Machinery. Write for particu-
lars and prices to
60 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
CIRCULARS AND CATALOGUES ON APPLICATION.
■ ■
mm
V X'
m
■ • «.
.
—
r,
74 Clarence St., SYDNEY; 435 Bourke St., MELBOURNE,
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS.
BLAKE'S STEAM PUMPS (Single and Duplex)
FAY’S WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY
STEAM ENGINES (Horizontal and Vertical)
ENGINEERS’ HAND and MACHINE TOOLS
STEEL PULLEYS SHAFTING, PLUMMER-BLOCKS
EMPIRE LAUNDRY CO’S LAUNDRY MACHINERY
STURTEVANT’S FANS and PORTABLE FORGES.
- -
■
m
WmSSm
