

McEWAN’S ALE GAELIC WHISKY. Reid's London Draught Stout
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
, *
Sw ..\ t .
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
K. Q. WATKIKTS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
nir* - —for—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
■-
INSIDE BEARINGS.
Fittifi R .No. io6 lor Fast Wheels.
Axle part round and square
at ends, rivetted.
Watch Repairs by Post
WATCHES Thoroughly Cleaned, 2s. 6d. ; best English
Mainspring, 2s. 6d. All work guaranteed 12 months.
No overcharges. Tlest workmanship.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Watches. Guaran-
teed three years. 15s. 6d.
Gent’s Silver Double-eased Keyless Lever Watches.
Guaranteed five years. 255.
Indies’ Gold Keyless Watches. Guaranteed five years.
355. Double-cased, £2 15s.
Spectacles to suit all sights. Send for catalogue.
d. s. mm,
hmaker, Jeweller & Optician
George-st. (Brickfield Hill),
SYDNEY.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° 86 ntt st™*, SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for Samuel Osborn & Co., Sheffield, makers of Mushet’s Titanic Borer Steel for Miners’ Drills, Bessemer Steel, Cast Steel, Mushet’e
Self-Hardening: Tool Steel, Mining 1 , Well-Boring, Spring, and Tyre Steel, Steel Castings of all Descriptions, Steel Trnok Wheels and Axles.
INDENTS EXECUTED, SPECIFICATIONS SUPPLIED FOR ALL KINDS OF MACHINERY.
JSTEEL CASTINGS, HAMMERS, FILES.^^
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISHT.
HELIDON SPA.
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
TQOT3EE <&c 00. Ltd., A.gexits, Syc3L:KX®y„
v » cS
o +
i
a
HOBART.
— xm, —
Hadley s Orient Rote!.
«U ’«!
jgOTlCffi TO ME'LBOITRN'E VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trains. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per YVeek.
RESERVE EXTRA. RESERVE SPECIAL. RESERVE EXTRA SPECIAL. SUPREME
SAN DEMAN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
24=1 PITT STREET, SYDKrE-y.
Telegraph—“HEßYEY, SYDNEY ”
Mining & Contractors *
Machinery and
Explosives.
n!
V*
*
Builders’
Engineers’
Sundries, Belting,
Oils, Packings, &e.
“ Campbell" Gas & Oil Engines,
171 Clarence Si., Sydney.
fsadf
asf
LEATHER
BELTING'
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SOM, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
Branches:—P. Frankel & Co., Edward-st., Brisbane, Q. ;
H. Summers, Barraclc-st., Perth, W.A. ; H. K. Fysh and
Co., Collins-st., Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter & Co., Auckland ;
Blackburne & Smith, Oashel-st., Christchurch, N.Z.
“Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
TT'AIR GTRLS AND GRAY HORS ES
Jt: 2nd Edition. Price 4/G.
JOHN JAMESON
W HISKY.
Agents : J. BAB,RE JOHNSTON & CO., Loftus Street, Sydney.
OTARD-DU PU Y
Estbd. 1795. 25 Years BRANDY.
CAPILLA
HAIR TONIC.
The Guaranteed Remedy for
Weak, Thin, and Falling Hair.
Testimonials from International Cricketers and
Footballers, Leading Sydney Solicitors, Business
Men, and from Parliament House with each bottle.
2/6 per bottle, post 3/2 ; Intercolonial, 3/6 ; i bottles (posted under cover) which will effect a cure in the
most obstinate case, posted free for 10/-. Intercolonial, 11/-.
W. RICHARDS, Proprietor, 168 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
BOOMERANG BRANDY.
ROYALTY DRINKS IT.
EXPERTS APPROVE IT.
DOCTORS PRESCRIBE IT.
PATIENTS RELISH IT.
Judges Award it
Prize Medals Wherever
■ Exhibited.
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Tekphone No. IOhS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in ’the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Bails
Catered for
on Most
Seasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €njbrocatioo
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints it. MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n?brocatioQ-
The Ways of Many Waters
Collects the dashing ballads and verses of sailor-men’s
and wharf-men’s life which E. J. Beady has contributed
to The Bulletin and the Sunday Times, Svdney. It is
the first attempt on the part of an Australian verse-
writer to chant the life on the sea and the margins of
the sea ; though there is one horse-poem—the story of
“ How Jack Bowlin Steered ‘ Jones.’” The volume is
bound in buckram, with gilt top, in a size that will g 0
into a pocket without squeezing; and the price is sL
post-free.
The Bulletin
Yol. 22—No. 1119. j
[Saturday, July 27, 1901.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


For the LUNGS, the
the
. . THB . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs ! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza!
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
■
■
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED .
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
Contain ,VO cocaine Or other poisonous druff
«mn RY ALL CHEMISTS, in Tins, 1s 6d; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland—post
“ee oh receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE. * P
THE RED PAGE.
A Tiny Anthology.
WHEN sad and tired I always make, if
possible, for the river and bush, sure
of welcome and unfailing peace. It
was in this mood that I went down the
mill lane one late autumn day. From
the leaves, swept in discoloured and mouldering
heaps round the roots of the briar and, the
hawthorn, came a scent of decay that brought
with it recollections of the waning year in English
woodlands. On one briar a frail flower trembled
in the wind. The bright, cheerful glow of the
heps contrasted finely with the dark-red of the
hages—heps and hages (0.E.) not hips and haws,
in my youth. There was a soft, clear light over
all, a faint sweetness in the air, and my heart was
set free, delivered from its world of unnecessary
cares.
I went on with feelings as light as the thistle-
down (the “ sugar-steals” of my childhood —why ?)
that floated past, and prepared to find wonder and
beauty in everything. Looking round to see that
I was unobserved I blew a dandelion clock with
great solemnity. The late blackberries seemed
newly varnished, and a leaf against the sun
blushed with blood of queens and kings.
The gold of the poplars was scattered every-
where ; they themselves stood up like a clump of
spears, with a garland of faded, fluttering leaves
round their butts. In this mild light and warmth
life was winsome.
Sure of the good moment I reached the river.
Below the weir there is a little wall of stone built
to direct the flood water, and, sitting on it as on
some old-world deserted wharf, I “put on” a wise
pipe and meditated. Above the fall the water
was so smooth and pure that its surface was be-
trayed only by the passing ripple that shook the
grove of reflected willows—the melancholy gold of
autumn —beneath the bank. But, below' the dam,
the water raced swiftly past in amber floods
on amber pebbles, breaking in the distance to
“resolute ” streams. As the water eddied at my
feet it imaged the massy gold of the sea before the
Throne; withered leaves of the willows fell lightly
into it and sailed away glorified; and lost stars
dazzled and trembled with the ceaseless flow.
The shadow of each leaf fled swiftly below it,
black, but edged with clear brown light. I was
filled with quiet joy: to give one’s self to still
communion with nature is to become more of a
man, acquiescent and compassionate.
Yet in the midst of' this peace I lacked one
thing—two, my dear heart would have said —and
that was, a book. (Here is a trinity for you : a
book, a pipe, and a talking river.) I had looked
through my shelves before leaving the house, but
had not found one to suit my wayward fancy.
Now came the inspiration: let me make a tiny
anthology for these moments of pure living. With
the sinking of the sun a cold wind began to blow,
and 1 went home with the thought warm in my
heart. A perfect one 1 An anthology to suit the
soul’s purest appetite ! Why, fed on such flowers,
it would become, like Marvell’s fawn,
Lilies without —roses within.
And by thus assimilating its beauty I might be
able to cheat the vigilance of Death and carry
through the Gate sweets he should know not of—
more to be desired than fine gold and sweeter than
the honeycomb.
With the delight of this thought came a chilling
fear. If you are your own anthologist you are also
your own judge. Thus the pleasure of gathering
is tempered by the fear of self-reservation in the
choice. I strengthened my heart and sat down to
seek out the most beautiful utterances of sincere
thought contained in my library.
Emotion giving rise to truth and beauty, in this
I sought for my poetry. For what is outside the
essence of the soul cannot be uttered poetically by
it. And emotion has a tendency to run into
beautiful forms. An elect soul, a brooding over
the waters, or the falling of fire from heaven, and
we have that “ delicate creation ” we call poetry.
The emotions roused by war have from time
immemorial given birth to lofty expression. With
this in mind, I wandered through the range of
English war-poetry, pausing over such numbers
as Milton’s bronze-like lines describing the
assembling of the hosts of hell under the imperial
ensign ; delaying with young Harry and his com-
panions, glittering in golden coats like May;
taking a desperate stand with that royal company
on St. Crispin’s Day ; tasting the sweetness and
dignity of Collins’ Ode to the Brave; and lin-
gering over, almost with tears, that noble and
tender heart-cry, “The Epitaph on a Jacobite.”
But I could not choose any : the Christian con-
science has destroyed the delight in war ; we no
longer believe that God wishes it; and-with the
decay of belief goes the beauty and sincerity
of song. No longer is war invested with
a false glory. There was an awful grandeur about
the charge of the French horsemen at Waterloo—
that thundering mass, gorgeous in colour, flaming
with steel, and with the shout of an Emperor in
its gaping mouths —that must have lifted and
transfigured the soul of every man, even that of
the rustic fresh from his English hedgerow, in the
British ranks. But now the victory is to the
groveller and the sharpshooter, and in that earnest
waiting there is time to think. And in the end
thinking will do away with war, even as it has
taken power and gusto out of the war-chants of to-
day. No, I brought not the noise of the captains
and the shoutings into my pilgrim peace.
Songs of love and war ! It is significant that
these are linked together. Are they declining
together ? Is passion dying ? Are there to be no
more cries of the heart ? The world is cooling,
and will soon be as the moon.
It is in the contemplation of that which is
waning, of the evanescent, that the modern poet
finds his inspiration and song. There is infinite
pathos in the very present death of parting, and
in the passing away of that which is young and
beautiful. Perhaps, when the brotherhood of
man is recognised as a glorious and simplifying
fact, our singers will leave sorrow and sighing and
strike a lofty note of hope and joy.
And now to my anthology. O difficult and
sweet labour! to cull f rom the vast range of Eng-
lish poetry a few flowers of light and colour and
solemnity for the solace of an unleisured life.
Here it is—with a few notes. Gan you better it ?
S
A TINY ANTHOLOGY.
The noblest first: its greatness, its sweetness, its
reserved sorrow, will give us a standard for the rest:
I cannot but remember such things were
That were most precious to me.
No further comment : silence is best.
O Proserpine! O absolute beauty of word and over-
word !
Daffodils,
That come before the swallow dares, and take
The winds of March with beauty ; violets, dim,
But sweeter than the lids of Junto's eyes.
Or Gytherea's breath.
Pass on : mar not.
From neighbour realm :
Bitter constraint and sad occasion dear
Compels me to disturb your season due:
For Lycidas is dead, dead ere his prime,
Young Lycidas, and hath not left his peer.
For fading youth and loveliness, a cup! They go flown
the young and beautiful, into Hades, and leave undying-
regret.
This from the wild bleak moorland, the haunted moor
land of lonely tower and ghostly walkers :
It fell about the Martinmas,
]Vhen nights were long and mirk,
The carline wife's three sons came hame
And their hats were o' the birk.
It neither grew in syke nor ditch,
Nor yet in any sheugh ;
But at the gates o' Paradise
That birk grew fair eneugh.
Where is the supernatural better managed ?
This by a curious few is counted unworthy of your first
choice. Heed them not. The pathos of village life is
here—almost to heartbreak.
Beneath those rugged elms, that yew-tree's shade
Where heaves the turf in many a 'mouldering
heap,
Each in his narrow cell for ever laid,
The rude forefathers of the hamlet sleep.
From Collins’ slender store I take his- tender elegy for
his poet friend :
Remembrance oft shall haunt the shore
t When Thames in summer wreaths is d/rest,
And oft suspend the dashing oar
To bid his gentle spirit rest. . .
But thou who oum'st that earthly bed—
Ah ! what will every dirge avail ?
Or tears which Love and Pity shed
That mourn beneath the gliding sail f
This for the lover;
To see her is to love her,
And love but her for ever.
It is all there : that worship we pay to a beautiful
woman ; the anguish of non-possession; and the time-
softened, regretful wonder.
And here’s for your sweetheart dead:
When the lute is broken,
Sweet tones are remembered not j
When the lips have spoken,
Loved accents are soon forgot.
We neighbour Keats with Shelley. Here we sum his
magic in a tiny fragment:
Heard melodies are sweet, but those unheard
Are sweater.
With Wordsworth what difficulty ! He crowds our
brief space. The approach to the virgin spirit of the
hazel wood; the dirge for Lucy ; the perfect vision of
Laodamia; the transfigured science in the Duty ; the
sober joy of the great Ode ; the memoried daffodils and
cuckoos; the subtle grandeur of the Tintern ; the some-
thing deeper than romance in the Keaper; the moon
above the trees burning like his own utterances, with an
unconsumed splendour of light—how great is this poet!
Let us, remembering our purpose, be content with two
quotations. This for its homely sweetness :
It is the first mild day of March:
Each minute sweeter than before,
The redbreast sings from the tall larch
That stands beside our door.
There is a blessing in the air,
Which seems a sense of joy to yield
To the bare trees, and mountains bare,
And grass in the greenfield.
For the loveliness of Yarrow let us say perpetual grace :
But thou that didst appear so fair
To fond imagination,
Dost rival in the light of day
Her delicate creation :
Meek loveliness is round thee spread,
A softness still and holy ;
The grace of forest charms decayed,
And pastoral meluncholy.
Here be music and dreams for tired head :
The island-valley of Avilion ;
Where falls not hail, or rain, or any snow,
Nor ever wind blows loudly ; but it lies
Deep-meadow'd, happy, fatr with orchard lawns,
And bowery hollows crown'd with summer sea.
Would you vision the birth of Spring ?
They watch the dawn of slender-shapen limbs,
Virginal.
Although it has not the sanction of time, I dare not
leave this out. There is faeryland, the true faeryland in
the “ seven woods of Coble.”
How shall I name you, immortal, mild, proud
Shadows?
I only know that all we know comes from you,
And that you come from Eden on flying feet.
Is Eden far away, or do you hide
'From human thought, as hares and mice and coney s
That run before the reaping-hook and lie
In the la.st ridge of the barley ? Dp our woods
And wineis and ponds cover more quiet wood*,
More shining winds, more star-glimmering ponds ?
Is Eden out of time and out of space ?
And do you gather about us when pale light,
Shining on water and fallen among leaves,
And winds blowing from flowers, and whirr of
feathers
And the green quiet have uplifted the heart ?
I have made this poem for you, that men may read it
Before they read of Forgael and Deetora,
As men in the old times, before the harps began,
Poured out wine for the high invisible ones.
Watch that man : he is dangerous, immaterial—he will
draw us into “ faerylands forlorn.”
& jX
There'you have my anthology. I know—none
better —that there are many glorious flowers away ;
but it will serve.
What do they teach ? O foolish one ! It is not
the fact but the emotion emanating from the fact
that is unpriced. By that emotion the poet lifts
us to his level—and shuts us up in content. There
we might lie as in a citadel impregnable to noise,
but we want not that. To be human the “still,
sad music of humanity” must be ever in our ears.
How simple the language charged with these
great passions? Yea, but it is not childlike sim-
plicity, but the last artful (in the best sense) sim-
plicity of great souls. I would say to the minor
poets of Australia: “Cut out these quotations,
plaster them on the Syllabus of the Future, and
live with them.”
For me, please God, I hope to have many
golden afternoons in their fellowship, under a tree
and by a certain pleasant, murmuring river I wot
of.
TASMANIA.
JAMES HERBLETHWAITE.
Besant and Buchanan.
only the coincidence of Death-days, to justify the
conjunction. Besant was an industrious journalist,
useful and unimportant. The weakness of Ins
novels, with James Rice away, showed clearly
that when they collaborated it was Besant who
gathered the sticks and Rice wdio lit the tire. I* or
the rest, Besant defended the author against toe
publisher, and possibly carried the defence to an
extreme: it seemed contradictory that, to produce
the novels which made his living, he himself relied
upon the middleman whom generically he attacked.
He burrowed among the antiquities of London,
too, and lightened the gloom of old brickwork and
fusty records. Perhaps his best work was work
which to-day is rarely read : a series of essays on
French literature, interesting and sometimes
acute. A solid, conscientious, respectable work-
man, he never brought a blush to the cheek of
modesty, or a flash of originality to the light of
literature.
Buchanan’s was a different personality, with
greater power, broader sweep, and higher signifi-
cance. His English birth is irrelevant ; his
parentage was Bcottish : he was characteristically
a strenuous Scot. Difference of generations and
environment did not prevent him from being as
good a type of his nation as Burns was: indeed,
the essential capacity of Burns was very similar
to the essential capacity of Buchanan. These
Scots are all alike. They have heat without
flame ; the True Romance lurks in their hearts,
but never issues from their lips. They clothe
Revolt in Sabbath breeks, remaining both Radical
and Respectable. They are too sane to be imagina-
tive, too fanciful to be stupid. They woo the Muse
with the uncompromising earnestness of the
Shorter Catechism, and through the fields of
gramarye their bowels move magnificently. They
are fine fellows, and far too sensible to be poets.
Buchanan wrote verses, plays, novels, pamph-
lets, and a dozen things beside. He brought
to his work a savage energy, a dogged
persistence, which made him formidable; but
memorable work is in another category. His
literary life was full of apparent contradictions ;
the Time-Spirit fought with Heredity over him,
and the battle was drawn. He was both honest
and prejudiced, both manly and mean, both
jealous and unselfish. Disbelieving religion, he
clung to itj bitterly independent, he accepted a
pension ; uxorious in his life, he professed horror
of Rossetti’s art. And, writing continually, he
left little or nothing that will be read twenty
years from now.
Buchanan’s best literary work is in his verse,
and the best quality of his verse is its .vigour. He
essayed almost every form, and succeeded in
almost every unimaginative form. When he
would be mystic, as in “The Book of Orm,” two
lines by a born mystic like Yeats are worth
Buchanan’s volume. Through his collected
volume of “Poetical Works” you search vainly
for anything original, vital, distinguished.
What you find is a vigorous intelligence
adapting poetical hints. to current themes.
There is no jet, no current; there is a flat expanse
of poetical emotion six inches deep. On the high
plane, Buchanan wrote nothing. On the low
plane he wrote many things excellent in their way,
excellent for one reading, for single publication.
A selection of his work which should include a
little of everything he published, from “Under-
tones” to “The New Rome,” would be good to
keep on the second-rate shelf. Like his prototype
Burns, he was less a poet than a forcible writer
attuned to poetry ; but, unlike Bums, he did not
borrow his lyric emotion, and he has little or none
of his own.
«
George :
Apropos London correspondent’s warning against Aus-
tralians trusting M.S. to London firms, here’s my experi-
ence. Having been recommended by a Vic. pressman to
publish a novel in London, I sent my M.S. to a firm adver-
tising in The Argus as Neville Beeman Ltd. Receipt was
duly acknowledged ; and when three silent months had
elapsed I wrote for news. A very tardy response de-
clared that “the M.S. had been mislaid in renovating the
office.” No further satisfaction was received, and time
passed. Writer mentioned facts to authoress of “An Aus-
tralian Girl,” who offered to write to the Authors’ Associa-
tion if I would give her names, addresses, and dates. With-
in three months my novel was in my hands (having been
absent exactly' three years), the title, author’s name and
introduction missing. No word of explanation was
vouchsafed. Sequel: I re-wrote the book and entered it
for competition at the AUstral demonstration just con-
cluded at Bendigo, where it was awarded first prize.
Verses by Robert Buchanan.
IF I WERE A GOD LIKE YOU
If I were a God like you, and you were a man
like me,
If from a throne omnipotent I ruled all things
that be,
Tidings of light and love I’d send as far as thought
could fly,
And one great hymn of happiness should sound
from sky to sky,—
And on your brow my gentle hand should shed
the saving dew,
If you were a man like me, and I were a God like
you !
If I were a God like you, and you were a man like
me,
And in the dark you prayed and wept and I could
hear and see,
The sorrow of your broken heart would darken all
my day,
And never peace or pride were mine till it was
smiled away,—
I’d clear my Heaven above your head till it was
bright and blue, . '
If you were a man like me, and -I were a Grod like
you !
If I were a God like you, and you were a man like
me, 1 . v
Small need for those my might had made to bend
the suppliant knee;
I’d light no light in yonder Heaven to fade and
disappear, .
I’d break no promise to the Soul yet keep it to
the ear!
High as my heart I’d lift my child till all his
dreams came true,
If you were a man like me, and I were a God like
ybu!
TOMMIE ATKINS.
Shrieking and swinging legs, astride
On his native fence, the Cockney cried :
“Fee faw fuin ! beware of me !
I am the Lord of Land and Sea ! ”
Out on the fields, where day and night
The weary r warriors strove in fight,
They paused a space to gaze upon
The moat-surrounded fence,—his throne l
And while they heard that war-cry float
From the smug Cockney’s raucous throat,
“ Come off the fence,” they cried, “ and share
The brunt of battle, if you dare ! ”
Yet still they heard him shriek and brag
Waving a little schoolboy’s Flag,
And angry at his martial mien
They tried to hoot him from the scene !
“Ho ho ! ” he said, “if that’s your plan,
I ’ll teach you I’m an Englishman !
Here, Tommie Atkins, —take your fee, —
Go fight these knaves who flout at me ! ”
Poor Tommie Atkins waiting stood,
And heard his master’s cry for blood,
Then held out hand to take his pay,
And drew his sword, and sprang away 1
All day the bloody strife was wrought,
The Cockney shriek’d, while Tommie fought.
Night came, the foe were driven away,—
But Tommie Atkins dying lay.
“Tommie, what cheer?” the Cockney said;
Poor Tommie raised his bleeding head,
“ You’ve licked them, sir ! ” poor Tommy cried,
And slowly dropp’d his head, and died !
Still on his fence the Cockney swings,
Loud in the air the war-cry rings,
And still, in answer to his cries, _ 'T?
Poor Tommie Atkins bleeds and dies.
V ENVOI. "
I end as I began,
I think as urst I thought;
Woe worth the world, u Man
Only of dust is wrought, s |
Only to dust must go
After his life’s brief span ;
I think so still, and so |
I end as I began.
When first I learnt to know
The common strife of all,
My boy’s heart shared the woe
Of those who fail and fall,
For all the weak and poor
My tears of pity ran, —
And still they flow, e’en more
Than when my life began !
I reverenced from thle first
The Woman Soul divine,
(Mother, that, faith was nurst
On that brave breast of thine !)
1 Pointing the heavenward way,
T lie angel-guide of man, *
She seems to me to-day
As when my faith began !
Revolter, sword in hand,
Friend of the weak and worn,
A boy, I took my stand - Iff
Among the Knigh m forlorn ;
- Eager against the Strong
To lead the martyr’d vim,
I strive ’gainst Lust and Wrong
As when the fight began !
Never to bow and kneel
To any brazen Lie,
To love the worst, to feel
The least is ev’n as I, —
To hold all fame unblest
That helps no struggling man, —
In this, as in the rest,
I end as I began !
The creeds I’ve cast away
Like husks of garner’d grain,
And of them all this day
Does never a creed remain ;
Save this, blind faith that God
Evolves thro’ martyr’d Man :
Thus, the long journey trod,
I end as I began !
I dream’d when I .began ,4 ■
I was not born to die.
And in my dreams I ran
From shining sky to sky
And still, now life grows cold
And I am grey and wan,
That infant’s Dream I hold,
And end as I began !


New Zealand Loan & Mercantile
Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
RE c?JL9J d CHARGES ON WOOL:
COMMISSION
secei5 ecei r g i g to Store ’ Krelnsui*
S ?! jotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
the Xbf’ ° U over 6d. per lb..
o” w o °, ls realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb.
U wools realising 4d. per lb. and under
Way bills
sent on application.
£ per Cent.
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
sales i
Per C6nt - aS com P ared with Previous years. Unrivalled
CONSIGNORS^! particulars as to charges, etc., forwarded when desired
*h« Co mpB „ y NORSi ‘ real ”<»“ te l/P»«eoW ™der . cW'm the AMechttion of
___ Sole Agents in New South Wales for
MvSflnt' w ood ® ea P e l? and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
MitcheU s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Aiston s Windmills; Buncle & Sons’ Chaffcutters. S
Donald s Patent Wool Press.
AGENTS FOR McDQUQALL’S SHEEP DIP.
a
fdf
CBB
SB®*
SBOQ
l< Sfc.
©MS
5800
5607
©tj&r&ofcscl oor fo or boro.
7>
CERT IFICATE. —ShouId any of our “ Can’t B Beat ” Briar Pipes
crack or burn, a new one will be exchanged for it immediately on
application. K3 T Thousands Selling* Daily.
C B B
BRIAR
SIIOUIUIIS H3IUI
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches everywhere.
m
4/
t'/iil
?WTHAW»
Yi/
rr---- -- L /i//;
•'S'
mr
■M y Y
yi
Cro*ine Blacking
Is the best dressing made for all bright finished leathers.
It is easily applied with a cloth, and produces a polish that is unequaled for brilliance
ahfa Me ?’ w °“ en » and children who use “ Crozine ” once want “ Crozine ”
C. L. HAPTHAWAY & SONS, Boston, Mass., U. S. A!
7
P bo
r:^>
V'V/7
When
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
*jP d Eend f° r one °f Stephenson’s
APPLIANCES, invented by
; Sydney s Leading 3urgeon and Anatomical Demon-
jstrator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
J CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
j THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
: HA MAm nnr«n«T M
{PS?JI9£, D] ® SIPAI R* do not suffer
. LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,.
, K a ! !. n S Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General 1
Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.,
hey impart vigor and potency to every function.
■ brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and ,
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted ’
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and.
may be worn without the slightest possibility of*
detection. They have cured thousands.
they will cure you.
£ s. d.
1 0
110
2 2
8 8 0
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries
Flam Belts, with twelve visible ditto
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells
Extra powerful, with suspensory
aUa jhments
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
. at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 22 0 I
f above -named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and!
pre P a , ld 011 receipt of remittance. Send for
fi”.”"”* 1 Chest -p ads -1
All communications should be addressed to— l
A. D. BTEPHENSON, ‘
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney j
HAVE THE
BEST.
i ill urn
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE
Is built by a light, handy machine, easily operated, which will weave
THREE CHAINS OF FENCE AN HOUR.
The Lateral Wires are two-ply cable of best Gal. Steel Wire intersected by Crimped Steel Pickets
securely interwoven at any desired distance apart , forming a perfect Web Fence which mil hold
securely all kinds of Stock.
FOR CATALOGUES AND PARTICULARS
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE CO.,
128 Franklin St., Melbourne ; 143 Sussex St., Sydney.
J
i
■ " i" .
' <*
PLAIN NOW TALK.
KMBRACINO
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrationsi. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. ’ Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complet
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN
posted for only 7s. 6d.
i unabridged,
HOME TALK,
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy, jg post
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d. P
Dr. Carver s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. ’
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist : post free la. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted
Modern ETIQUBTTB-Parties,Love, Dress, etc. Is6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magio. Is 6d post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted
Lovers Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history!
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, ls6d post.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest son?*
Is 3d post free. * ’
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2e ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
Jj. Hu^dred^of^PECTAT 8 pS- Wa , nt f of ?? a ° e l 3reven * s mentioning any in partioS
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG EOOK W CATALO<3ui^ent
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
SKINS
Send Youh Consignments op . .
KANGAROO,
WALLABY,
RABBIT,
OPOSSUM SKINS,
WINCHGOMBE, CARSON & CO.
SYDNEY.
They obtain the Highest Possible Prices.
Ltd.
The Go-operative Wool & Produce Go. Limited
Offloes: 12 and U O’CONHEU. STREET, Stores: PYRMONT.
Bole Charge : 3 3Per Cent, to the
BONUS J PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS last Two Seasons.
We are the only Sellmy takers who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Buyers
■ Dr * Clarkaon’g Electric Bolt
wUI fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
_ , healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
wunhkeanyof the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
Dr * Olarkaon’B Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
Vigour!* 16nergy ’ and causes y° ur heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
__JF° w»at!n 0 <5 re raW/VHealth, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all viHl
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
fa
Will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves anrl n ~ , .„ .
THEIE TOUCH IS MAGNETIC and 0r £ anB Is tru!y wonderfu!.
Plioo J3LEOTRIO BELT, m. ; EE-INVIOOEATOE, J„. M. pe, botu*. o, Th™ Boltl« (o, Et
CALL OR WRITE—
OWL
CUT
RATE
drug store,
CORKER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Paoket of Eight Different Articles
comprising Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket (a good
trick), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin
and Card Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard
Pish (gives definition of your character), That Hideous
Dancing Skeleton (turns himself inside out), Mafeking
Grub (or nerve-strengthener), That side-splitting Look
and Laugh Glass, and, last of all, The Spider and the Fly
(an ingenious mechanical toy). Instructions enclosed.
. T ®P lendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 George-streefc, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON. Manager.
3
Jlllttn * Ce,
Tllclbournc
I'csl Mou*-« tor
music. Picmcs.Violins, nd
«tll niusical sundries
Collins; 5 1,.
faf
MOTOR CARS.
For Business or or Casoline.
W E n h f avethe LARGEST DISPLAY of Motor Vehicles
In „, t . of f ll t-VPes m Australia. The Public are Specially
Invited to visit our SHOWROOMS and inspect our
magnificent display of Motor Vehicles.
Ths woo ®B is constructed on the Eleotrlo, and the
WINTON on the Casoline principle.
Acknowledged to be the Standard Cars of the World.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUES. IS*
The Woods & Winton Automobile Cos
(ok Amkrica), '
22 &. 24 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY.


TATTERSALL’S.
Address: Car© GEO. ADAMS, Hotoart.
Adelaide 6.N.H. Aug. 10.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name,
£
Address.
*
s
Spring H. (Special) Aug. 24.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
' >
Address
Metropolitan S. Sept. 9.
50,000 Subscribers at 5,
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
Metropolitan S. Sept. 9.
(SPECIAL)
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name
Address
Demonstration H. Oct. 1
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
Caulfield C. Oct. 19.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALI*
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
s
t
Melbourne C. Nov. 5.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address .
J 3 s x
Melbourne C. Nov. 5.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address* .
£ s s
Melbourne C. (Special), 100,000 at 5
For full particulars read our Printed Circular
Address “ Tattersa.ll,” care G-eo. Adams, Hobart.


miti&
EMULSION
.WITH HYPOPKOSPHITES,
FOR
DELICATE
CHILDREN.
CHILDREN all like Angier’s Emulsion
and take it readily when they cannot
be induced to take Cod-Liver Oil.
Bland, soothing, creamy, and a splendid
tonic, it is just what the little ones need,
and it is really marvellous in many cases
to note the rapid improvement in weight,
strength, and colour. Give it to the
children if they have a cough or a cold;
if they are pale and thin; if they are
scrofulous or ricketty ; if their food does
not digest or their bowels are out of order.
The medical profession prescribe it largely
in such cases, and it is used in children’s
hospitals.
A FREE SAMPLE
On receipt of 4d. for portage.
Mention SYDNEY BULLETIN.
Do not accept Inferior imitations made with
ordinary Petroleum.
BE SURE TO GET ANGIER’S.
Of all Chemists <fc Drug Stores.
T HE ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., LTD., SYDNEY, N.B.W.
mmi
sr
*
K
That man
failed to shut
the door, and
the strong draft
struck you
squarely in the
chest.
A draft means
a cold, a cough,
pneumonia, an£
often the beginning
of consumption
itself.
You shun a draft. But
you can’t when riding in
the street-cars; either in
the closed or open cars. Then
keep at hand a bottle of
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
It will cure a “street-car cold” in a
night. The moment you feel chilly or
feverish, want to cough, or have any
tightness in the chest take a dose. The
relief is immediate.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral Plaster is a
great aid to the Cherry Pectoral. Placed
directly over the painful lung, it draws
out all soreness, relieves congestion,
and imparts great strength.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
0
RfisKßoT
BR6ND”
%
woUMDC
(OVGHS (OLPS tc J
Beware of -
k JamtatioaiS
LADIES.
WRITE for valuable free book
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
1., 300 Collins St., Molbourne
Adjrbbs— L.D.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk bTuiER
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
SSI- per Half-dozen, free by post thro tig ho at
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on ApplioatiOD
B. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Brisbane, Q’land
Australia!) ProVidcQt Society.
MONET TO EEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street, Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
WIU&V.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10Sr
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
egg" Send for a
Catalogue.
m
v*
m
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
ml
m
I
••in
mu
WHOLESALE
Distributing Agents
New South Wales —
M. RUTTY & GO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Queensland —
ThoB. Brown & Co. Ld.,
Brisbane
Burns, Philp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand—
D. Benjamin & Co.,
Dunedin and Wellington
Fimrw
SJLSJUUUL
™w
YWWW
Dedicated
To the
Tables of
The World
o&sa,
SA UCE.
AGENTS
VIRGOE, SON & CHAPMAN, and D. COHEN & CO.,
Sydney.
THE HEALTHIEST
TOBACCO.
In
three
Strengths.
ff
£=>
£
&
m
m
V
a Wfj
Name of nearest Agent post free from M. RUTTY & Co. Sydney.
ABSOLUTELY
PURE.”
Mild
Medium &
Full.
HKT.S.'W- Carriage & Saddlery Maaf Company
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Rodforn, SYDNEY
When In town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description o£
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Prioe List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, A'6 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 IBs. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and S A PDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price Lilt. NOTICE. —Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we oan. They oannot do bo, and you pay 1& per
cent more for your requirements.
(close to Red fern Railway Station).
OUK SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
faf
Delivered at any Wharf or
N.B.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10 /-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Attached to the prisoner’s dock at Christ-
church (M.L.) court is a time-table showing when
trains run to Lyttelton—where the gaol is. Cheer-
ful reading for the accused.
Little Blue Byes.
Oh, yes, you are Queen, Little Blue Eyes !
Your crown is your wiggies of gold,
And I am your most humble servant,
Your cavalier, doughty and bold ;
Perhaps I will build you a palace
Out there in the garden some day,
And it shall have windows and curtains —
There you and your dollies shall play.
You are but a mite, Little Blue Eyes !
But then I am strong and so big ;
You know I could kill all the “ Blackies,”
For “ Pleecemans ” I don’t care a fig,
Or Ching Kees—they’re ugly and smelly —
Or lions, or tigers, or bears—-
No, I’m not afraid of the Thunder:
That’s Sleepyhead snoring upstairs.
What’s lightning? Why, Sweetheart, that’s
Sleepy
Just waking, and striking a match ;
The Moon plays all night with Old Sunny,
The game they are playing is Catch.
The Moon is so kind ! All the sunbeams
It catches it throws right down here;
The Earth spins and races, but listen !
It makes not a sound—does it, dear ?
Oh, no one shall hurt you, I swear it —
I’ve put a keen edge on my sword,
And I’ll buy a big gun, yes, and pistols,
And guard you—l will, ’pon my word;
Come kiss me ! your kisses are honey—
Oh, yes, we shall go for a sail,
And take with us all your nice dollies,
And give them a ride on a whale.
And if we can catch a great eagle,
We’ll jump on his back ; ’twill be fun :
He’ll carry us over the water,
And up, so high up, near the sun.
If Sleepyhead dares to start snoring
When we pass by his home in the skies,
I’ll punch him ; but mind, he’s a “ bunting ! ”
And down comes the rain when he cries.
The world is not kind. There are children
Who cry every day for their bread.
The world is not good. There are many
Who wish every day they were dead.
But you shall be always my darling,
As dear to me as you are now—
Is that what you’re thinking of, Silly ?
The moon did not jump o’er the cow.
I love you—l can’t tell you how much—
Your cheeks are like roses full-blown,
Your eyes are two lakes that I swim in :
Why, there I am now all alone !
And sometimes I lie in the rushes,
Or bask in the sun on the shore —
You rogue, take your hand from my pocket !
I ’ll give you one penny—no more.
If ever you leave me, Bright Blue Eyes,
I ’ll find you wherever you go ;
I could not kill God if He took you—
My arm would not reach Him, you know.
You won’t go away ! Oh, my darling,
I want you just here at my side !
If “ Blackies” or Ching Kees affright you,
Come quick to my side, dear, and hide.
She paled, and Death took her. God help me !
I have but a lock of her hair;
A lock of her hair —golden, curly:
Oh, Blue Eyes ! I had not a care
When you came with your laughter and kisses
And climbed for a ride on iny knee :
And now, I have only a yearning
To follow you out to the sea.
V.
ANDREW SARD.
Love in the Present.
O to know how much of your life
Is a brave face donned for the world to see !
How more than much is the life you hide
For your own self’s seeing in secrecy ;
And how much more of your inmost self
You hide from your eyes, lest your cheeks grow
red,
And the shame of the thought that you dare not
view
Strike the flower of your whiteness dead.
And yet, ah, yet! is it worth the wish—
To seek and be seized of your unknown worth ?
Your smiling is sweet: if, under the smile
I saw the purpose that gave it birth—
How much might be lost, how little gained ?
What falseness shown in the guise of love?
So I take you for that you seem to be—
A girl as pure as the skies above.
It may be the world will call me fool
To give my heart for a heart unknown,
To grasp at a rose and mayhap a thorn—
A rose and a thorn on the same stem grown.
So be it! I mind not the world’s wise word ;
Love surely is not for questioning;
And so, with your rose at my heart to-day,
I dread no thorn that the rose may bring,
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


SUNLIGHT
SOAP
IS REALLY
* THE CHEAPEST
IttW'END.
Linens, Cottons and Woollens are ssooa fedjjsred
tbfooles when washed witTi ordinary^oap contain-
iflj*‘aBka!i%i a Iree state,
SUNLIGHT SOAP does not contain any alkali
in a free state and is really tfe djeapSSt m*the>
end, as all articles washed with orach,
longer than if washed with ordinary^soap.
fsfl
1000 NOVELTIES IN HEARTS.
Lovely Diamonds.
Heart PENDANTS,
Diamond,
from £26 each ;
Real Amethyst
HEARTS,
2/6.
Gold-mounted
7/6 and 8/6.
fIT
titWfUKM
kts.* ,ilmA
f.
•B Kino JT
Sydney
3
TELEPHONE 8642.
PLEASE SEND FOR
OUR ILLUSTRATED
SHEETS OF LATEST
NOVELTIES.
All Goods Forwarded
Post Free.
2/6 to 18/6;
Engraved,
3/- to 16/-
rOpal, from 50/- each. Kindly Cut out this Advertisement and Send when ordering.
s
The above
size.
Set with 9c. 15c.
Diamond.. 55/- 60/-
Sapphire .. 17/6 20/-
Turquoise 15/- 17/6
Pearl .. 15/- 17/6
Ruby .. 17/6 20/-
Opal .. 15/- 17/6
Plain Gold 10/- 13/6
Smaller
size.
9c. 15c.
35/- 40/-
15/- 17/6
12/6 15/-
12/6 16/-
15/- 17/6
12/6 15/-
7/6 11/-
it
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
A. BOWMAN’S
f
You Can Have
English Boots
.. AT ..
London Prices.
Best Style.
Best Quality.
No
Better
Made.
We do One Line—Gentlemen’s Boots—only.
That one we do Well.
318 GEORGE ST., near Hunter St., and
145 KING ST., op. Theatre Royal, SYDNEY
Also 294 Collins St., Melbourne.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
RRANDY
Hennessy’s
One Star
and
Three Star
Brandy
has
the
Largest Sale
in
the World.
THE
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
df
sr
m
I
LOOKING-GOOD ROOF?
Our Booklet - FREE qives fullesl -
JjarHculars *:
of
i
RUBEROID
ROOFING
its cheaper
cooler a belter than Iron Roofs
Sole Aqeitfs:
ERICHCL"
TD SYDNEY
U BRISBANE


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 22.—N0. 1119.
SATURDAY, JULY 27, 1901.
Paioa 6d.
NO NIGGEE!
The Orient Company has at last been compelled to hire Indians as seamen, a clause in its transport-agreement with the Admiralty providing that in time of war the steamers
provided by it for the conveyance of troops shall be manned exclusively by British subjects.”— NEWS. ITEM .
HIS IMPERIAL MAJESTY: “HERE IS A COLORED GENTLEMAN, A BRITISH SUBJECT, WHO KINDLY UNDERTAKES TO CARRY YOUR MALLS FOR YOU
MISS AUSTRALIA : “THANKS, YOUR MAJESTY; BUT WHAT I WANT IS NOT A BRITISH NIGGER—I WANT NO NIGGRR!”


The Bulletin .
The National Australian Newspaper.
•'Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum. ... ... ...
Half-yearly ... ... ...
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia. ,
IVestralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. I Vales (except Queensland) is now
€ l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There ivill be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of ljd. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—'lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of Tiie Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Xhe Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—urith pottage added where required—
ivhich you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and gj], Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding tivo columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in JilacTc and IVhite.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
■such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 2U6 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
SATURDAY, JULY 27, 1901.
Foreign Loans, or Local Loans, or No
Loans at All.
Certain rumors about a Federal loan for
public works purposes are already in the air.
They are vague so far, but as the Federal
Government will have many public works to
attend to, and as the loan is the panacea for
all political diseases in Australia, they are
probable enough. Nowadays Australia floats
most of its new loans locally, partly because
the London market won’t supply the money
so cheaply ; partly because the London mar-
ket shows, at times, a certain reluctance to
supply the money at all ; partly for very
shame’s sake, because the country’s foreign
public and private debts already amount to
nearly one-third of its wealth, and it is in
pawn more deeply than any other civilised
land on this globe. During the last twelve
months something like £5,000,000 or
£6,000,000 was borrowed locally. The prac-
tice is much better than the old one of raising
the wind in London, and there is at least
something of independence about it. At
the same time it is a foolish and ridiculous
practice - an absurd process of manufacturing
imaginary paper wealth—a useless taking of
tnoney out of one pocket and putting it and an
I O U in another—a silly method by which
a man professes to become rich by giving him-
self his own promissory note at 3lr per cent,
interest payable by himself to himself, with
the right, vested in himself, to take strong
measures against himself in case of non-
payment. Also, borrowing is contrary to
every democratic principle, for it is a method
by which the community at large becomes the
financial serfs and bond-slaves of a small
class of rich men, either here or somewhere
else.
• * * *
In times of war, when a huge unexpected
expenditure has to be met for a year or two
only, there are excuses for raising the money
partly by loan instead of by taxation. If a
country whose normal income is £10,000,000
per annum wants £10,000,000 or £20,000,000
extra in a single year for campaigning pur-
poses, it might dislocate trade and finance
too much if it took all that gold directly
from its people in one year by taxation,
especially if the money had to be largely
sent abroad, and thus withdrawn from
local circulation. When it takes the gold
and gives paper securities in return, it
supplies a sort of artificial paper currency
which serves to fill the gap. But when a
country borrows, as Australia does, about
£6,000,000 a year as a regular thing—when
the loan expenditure isn’t a matter of sudden
or unusual emergency, but is as much a part
of the invariable order of things as the
policeman’s wages, or the sunrise, or the
Reid deficit—and when the money is wanted
for purely local expenditure on local public
works, then it ought to be raised wholly by
taxation, and the loan habit is drivelling in-
sanity.
* ' ♦ * *
A case can often be expressed more clearly
in a series of propositions than by a general
argument. _ At least Solomon laid down his
proverbs that way, and he was supposed to
be some kind of an authority. The Bulle-
tin proceeds to follow Solomon’s example :
(1) There is no reason why a country can’t construct
all its local public works out of internal loans or internal
taxation, provided it has a moderate amount of cash to
begin with and a supply of surplus labor. It needs the
cash for even a little can’t well come out of no-
thing, and Australia has, lying in its banks, an
amount equal to three years’ average loan expendi-
ture. It needs the surplus labor, for it wants to be
able to build its public works without crippling other
industries for want of labor. Australia has the labor
right enough. It is already spending about £5,000,000 or
£6,000,000 a year on public works, and, if it employed all
the surplus labor, it should spend three times that
amount.
_ (2) When money is borrowed locally, or raised by taxa-
tion locally, and spent locally on railways, tramways,
roads, harbors, telegraphs, and other works, it doesn’t in
the least reduce the country’s available cash. The money
is in the country just as much after it is used for these
purposes as before. There is always about £20,000,000
of the people’s money lying in the Australian banks. If
the Government took an extra £6,000,000 a year of this
by taxation, and spent it on building useful works with
locally-produced material and by local labor, and kept up
this process for 100 years, the £20,000,000 would be in the
banks just the same.
(3) For when a man takes money out of the bank to pay
taxes the Government puts the money in the bank again.
And when the Government takes it out to pay wages the
wages are promptly spent in food, clothes, boots, rent,
and beer, and the grocer, tailor, bootmaker, and publican
put them back in the bank. In a country like Australia,
with £20,000,000 of gold lying in its banks, it is possible to
pay every penny of the public works expenditure out of
local borrowing or local taxation. It would be possible
even if the public works expenditure was £10,000,000 a
year. And it can be done without reducing the cash
resources of the country by a single penny.
» * * *
(4) In fact, the process enormously increases the coun-
try’s wealth. If the State takes from the people in one
year, by extra taxation, £6,000,000 that is now lying idle,
and with it employs 2000 men, who are now standing idle,
in building with local materials a railway or other
useful work—when the work is finished the country has
the £6,000,000 cash and £6,000,000 worth of railway or
other works as well. If it does this process every year
for 10 years, taking the same £6,000,000 in taxation every
year, at the end of that period the country still has the
£6,000,000, and it also has £60,000,000 worth of public
works. The widow’s cruse of oil isn’t a circumstance
to it.
(5) And in addition, by circulating ten times over
£6,000,000 that might otherwise have been lying idle, it
has made £60,000,000 worth of internal commerce that
might otherwise not have existed. Prosperity doesn’t
depend so much on the amount of money in the country
as on the active circulation of the money. In the most
glorious days of the Boom there was much less money in
Australia, so far as the evidence of the banking returns
goes, than in the deadly stagnant days of 1894-5-6—only
it circulated faster. A Government which makes money
circulate to useful purpose can create prosperity.
(6) Of course if the Government raised £6,060,000 extra
in a year by taxation, and spent it on works like the two
transcontinental railways and the Adelaide graving dock,
which might only yield 1 per cent, on the outlay, it
wouldn’t have created assets of a selling value of
£6,000,000. Their selling value might be only £2,000,000.
Even then the £6,000,000 would be still there, and the
£2,000,000 worth of public works would be there, and
the country would be £2,000,000 richer directly, to say
nothing of the indirect gain through increased activity of
trade, and through the opening up of new country. If
the Government increased the taxation 50 per cent, or
more, and expended the money locally on useful and
profitable works, Australia would be a great deal richer
than if it didn’t increase taxation, and a very great deal
richer than if it reduced taxation, and left these useful
works undone.
(7) It is possible to make a country rich by taxing it, if
it is done the right way; also it is possible to leave it very
poor by not taxing it. If an extra £6,000,000 a year is
raised by taxation and spent locally on valuable public
works, at the end of fifty years the country will still have
the £6,000,000, and £300,000,000 worth of works as wtll.
If this isn’t done, at the end of 50 years the country will
also have the £6,000,000, but it will not have the
£300,000,000 worth of public works.
* * * *
(8) But hitherto Australia has depended mostly for its
public works expenditure on money borrowed abroad,
and that pans out very differently. A steady average of
£6,000,000 a year for 50 years borrowed in London at 4
per cent, means £300,000,000 brought into the country.
It also means £300,000,000 of works created. It likewise
means £300,000,000 gone out of the country again in in-
terest, so the country contains no more money and no
more public works at the end of 50 years than if the
money had been raised by taxation. It isn’t one penny
better off at the end of 50 years for all this borrowing.
And it is £300,000,000 worse off, for it owes that amount.
In another 25 years the £300,000,000 will have cost
another £300,000,000 in interest, and there will still be
£300,000,000 owing. Then the country will be £600,000,000
worse off than if it hadn’t borrowed at all.
9. Foreign borrowing means paying, in course of time,
two, or five, or ten, or fifteen millions for a railway that
is only worth one million, and no country can afford that.
10. Local borrowing has this incalculable advantage
(provided the securities issued remain in the country),
that it doesn’t drain the country of money for interest.
The interest compounds just as rapidly, but when a man
borrows money from himself at ruinous interest the
result isn’t so disastrous as if he did it from some one
else.
11. On the surface of things there is a glamour about
the local borrowing idea, as compared with the taxation
idea. When the Government raises £6,000,000 locally,
by extra taxation, and spends it in building, with
local material and labor, a valuable public work, the end
of the transaction is that the community has the money
and £6,000,000 worth of public works as well—total,
£12,000,000. If it borrows £6,000,000 locally to do the
same thing, the end of the transaction is that the com-
munity has the £6,000,000 cash; £6,000,000 worth of
public works ; and £6,000,000 of saleable Government
securities—apparent total, £18,000,000. The community
feels richer that way, for Government securities are cur-
rency—of a kind ; but it is no richer in reality. The
securities only represent money which the community
owes to the community. If a man has £lO he has £lO.
If he has £lO and his own I O U for £lO he has still only
£lO however much it may look like £2O.
* • * *
(12) Still if there was any possible guarantee that the
locally floated securities wouldn’t be sold abroad, or that
the owners wouldn’t go abroad permanently and take
them with them, and thus convert the local debt into a
foreign debt, with the accompanying ruinous drain of
interest, then, regarding the country as a unit, local
borrowing for public works purposes and taxation for
public works purposes would come to the same thing in
the end. But no sufficient guarantee of the kind seems
possible.
• *■ * »
(13) And even if, by the imposition of a heavy absentee
tax or by other means, the conversion of local debt into
foreign debt can be prevented—which is probably impos-
sible—and supposing the securities which are sold in the
country can be made to remain in the country, another
grievous evil remains. The country is a unit in a political
sense, but it is also a collection of individuals. If the
Government raises by taxation £0,000,000 a year for
public works purposes the result, in 50 years, will be (if
the money is judiciously expended) that the country will
still have the £6,000,000 and £300,000,000 (or some other
large sum) worth of public works. These will be abso-
lutely free of debt—the joint and indivisible property of
every individual in the community. With a population
of ten millions every individual’s share will be £3O, and
the share of every family of five, £l5O. This is the most
strongly democratic movement in the way of the equal
division of wealth that can well be imagined.
(14) And by the borrowing process, even if the borrow-
ing is done locally and the holders of the securities don’t
take them or sell them abroad, the money will be there,
and the works will be there, but the community
at large will owe to a few thousand wealthy bond-
holders in the community £300,000,000. The community
at large will be paying every year to a few.thousand
wealthy bond-holders from £9,000,000 to £12,000,000
interest. There will be a constant flow of money from
the community at large to the comparatively small class
of bond-holders. The small class of bond-holders will
really own the works, and the rest of the community will
own nothing.
(15) In short, foreign borrowing, if persisted in, means
national beggary. Local borrowing, if the securities take
to drifting out of the country into foreign hands, or if the
owners take to living in England or other foreign regions,
is just foreign borrowing over again. And local borrow-
ing, if the securities remain in the country-, means the
gradual building up, by the process of compound in-
terest, of a small wealthy class which will own Australia.
The country may get rich in the aggregate, but its riches
will be owned by a very few. France is the only visible
exception to this rule, but France remedied the evil by a
remarkable law of inheritance, which compulsorily sub-
divides fortunes at the owner’s death, and no other
country seems inclined to follow this idea.
The sermon ends here, and it only remains
to make a few concluding remarks and take
up the usual collection.
* * • *
The taxation process is the only true
form of State Socialism. It means that the
public works of the State are equally the
property of every inhabitant. And the bor-
rowing process hasn’t a single advantage or
semblance of advantage over the taxation
process to make up for its obvious draw-
backs and its glaring absurdity. The man
who can lend himself £6,000,000 a year for
any purpose on his own unsupported lOU
can just as well give himself £6,000,000 a
year. So can the State. The amount to be
raised is the same. The community from
which it is to be raised is the same. The
purpose is the same. The country, as a unit,
gains nothing by issuing ridiculous bits of
paper to the effect that it owes itself the
money, and promises some day to take it out
of its back pocket and pay it honorably
to its front pocket. But the country,
as a collection of individuals, loses
a great deal, for by the process of compound
interest a comparatively small wealthy class
arises which has a huge mortgage on the
bulk of the nation. If 500 people in, say,
Melbourne have their Melbourne property
mortgaged for £500,000 to one Melbourne
usurer, it doesn’t make Melbourne any
poorer in the aggregate, but it isn’t good for
the 500 people all the same. And if the
usurer gathers up his mortgages and goes to
live permanently in England, then Mel-
bourne and all Australia do become poorer
in the aggregate—£soo,ooo poorer. If that
usurer’s £500,000 is in Government stock
instead of mortgages, his exit has just the
same effect. But, if there is no public debt
and no Government stock, the position is
different. No man can gather up his share of
the railways and harbors and take that with
him when he leaves. These assets are the
property of the people who stay in the
country, and of no one else.
Colored-Labor: The Kanaka Phase.
The Bui.letin does not pose as an apostle of Sen-
timentality. It recognises that Nature is red in
tooth and claw; and that Man is often redder.
By necessity, too, in the present state of human
things. Whole tribes of the lower animals are
necessarily murdered that Man may live and
thrive; the chariot of Civilisation necessarily
crushes savage races under its wheels in its
triumphal progress. Whether civilisation is
really a different form of barbarism, whether
every triumph brings us nearer to final defeat, are
questions which can be argued till the sun freezes.
The Thing Goes On.
• * • *
But it is one matter to permit destruction which
cannot be prevented, and quite another matter to
encourage destruction which can. Wanton cruelty,
causeless murder, are gradually removing many
picturesque animals, many picturesque human
races, to the land of Memory and Regret. When
all the Paradise-birds have been shot for their
feathers, or for sport ; when all the Maoris
have been killed-off, like the blacks, by
white men’s vices, or diseases ; and when the
continual process of destruction has annihilated
similar beautiful species of animals, similar primi-
tive races; then this earth will be a much less
interesting place to inhabit than if it had fallen
•into the charge of a wiser kind of civilisation.
This has become so obvious to intelligent people
that many societies have been formed, and in
many countries national action has been taken, to
prevent the useless destruction of indigenous
species, and aboriginal races.
* * * *
The generic South Sea Islander included in the
term “Kanaka” varies greatly in his native
homes. Some of him are mild and attractive,
carrying primitive art to a high degree of elabora-
tion, perpetuating some charming old-world tra-
ditions, affording valuable data for scientific in-
quirers ; and, generally speaking, cutting a harm-
less tropical figure in the world. Some of him
are fierce and warlike, and inclined to welcome
the Gospel, in the shape of its missionary repre-
sentative, by roasting it in a stone oven as a pre-
liminary to full acceptance ; yet equally harmless,
for the practical purposes of- civilisation, if left
alone on their islands. There is no reason what-
ever, except the greed of white men, careless of
injury to their own race, why they should be
transported to fertilise Queensland sugar planta-
tions with their blood and their bones.
* ★ * *
They do no less: the edifice of the Q. sugar
industry is built on the bones, and mortared with
the blood, of murdered Kanakas. Just how many
Kanakas have been buried in Queensland since
Bobby Towns’ historic shipment in the sixties, it
is difficult to say ; but an estimate of 30,000 is
somewhere near the mark. In ’O7, the Kanaka
was cheap and plentiful—his price, delivered,
was only £10; now he has been killed off
to such an extent that he is rare and
dear, and costs about £3O. In the early days,
when the Kanaka trade was an unmitigated slave-
trade, the murders on the islands, the murders on
the voyage, the murders on the plantation, were
very numerous. Even as late as the “ Hopeful ”
era, the Kanaka death-rate was tremendous.
And to-day, when the Kanaka has to be com-
paratively well-treated because his death means
considerable cash out of pocket, his death-
rate in recent years has still been from
four to five times as great as that of the
white Q. population—from 50 to 60 per 1000
per annum as compared with 12 to 14 per 1000 per
annum. And it must be remembered that the
Kanaka death-rate is a death-rate of adults almost
exclusively ; while the white figures include the
vastly preponderant infant mortality. The adult
Q. Kanaka is killed-off ten times as fast as the
adult Q. white.
*
Why ? Because the Kanaka thrives in his own
home, and decays out of it. He is really a tender
plant. Unused to hard labor, and reared on a
fish -and - v ege t able diet, he has apparent strength
but no stamina. He is peculiarly subject to lung
complaints; even under the best conditions he
pines and dies without visible cause—seemingly
from sheer home-sickness. The sugar industry
takes no account of these things. There is no
sentiment about the sugar industry. The Kanaka
is the planter’s animal, like his horse or his cow.
When he dies there is little more fuss about him
than when a beast of burden dies. “It is a
damned nuisance!”—that’s all. There is a hole
in the ground, a howl in the huts at night; and
the sugar-mills grind on, grinding out their 55 per
1000 Kanaka death-rate. And our sugar is white
—not blood-red : surely it is wonderful!
* * * *
Even the cheap-labor cry will no longer excuse
the continuous slaughter of Kanakas. The
Kanaka has ceased to be very cheap. He remains
“reliable,” in virtue of the modified slavery of his
three-years’ indenture. The one thing which
makes him valued is the certainty that he will be
on the spot at the vital time of the cane-farmer’s
year—the time when the cane is cut. All the
other operations of the industry can be and are
performed by occasional white labor. The trash-
ing, upon which so much stress is laid, is
not a vital point: many experts think it
unnecessary; probably half the cane in
Queensland is never trashed at all,
and the remainder is trashed chiefly to keep the
“ boys ” employed while waiting for the cutting.
The one essential of the Kanaka’s utility is his
presence at cane-cutting. The farmer will not
employ white men all the year round ; but he
must get his cane to the mill when the density of
the juice is greatest. And, as long as he can get
an indentured Kanaka, he will not pay white men
10s. per day in the season to cut cane—which is
what the job is worth.
« * * *
Yet the sugar industry, properly conducted, can
well afford to pay cane-cutters 10s. per day.
Given good land, there is doubtfully a more pro-
fitable crop in the world. Good sugar-land will
average 20 tons of cane to the acre, with a clear
profit of ss. per ton of cane under present Q. con-
ditions ; so that with 50 acres under crop a farmer
can make £250 a year —given good land. The
trouble with the Q. sugar-industry at present is
poor land and half-time mills —especially at
Maekay. Naturally the half-a-crown per day
Kanaka is preferred to the 10s. per day white—
when even Kanaka labor means loss. As the
Kanaka has to be employed all the year round,
even when he is not needed, lie is little
cheaper in the long run, if the industry were
better managed. But he can’t strike; he can’t
agitate for higher wages; he is “reliable” at
crushing-time. The white man can, does, and
will do the work equally well —if he is paid white
man’s wages. The colored-labor question in the
Q. sugar-industry is not a question of white man’s
incapacity to do the work. It is a question of
better farming, better milling, and better manage-
ment.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
More Shocked Cohentingenter.
The plaint of the returned cohentingenter that he
is treated as a mere ordinary being, and paid the
specified sum for his services, and is then expected
to make his own living like any other person, in-
stead of being something extra in the way of a
Joss all the rest of his life, is growing pathetic.
Witness this great lamentation (one out of dozens
of lamentations) by one W illiams in Melbourne
Akgus
I returned by the Orient in January last, having had
the fever, and after receiving my discharge applied to the
Railway department for a position, also to other branches
of the service. I remained in Melbourne for a consider-
able time, doing my utmost to obtain employment I
have had a good education, and am capable of turning
my hand to many things, but failed utterly to get any
satisfaction from the Government, except a card some
eight weeks ago to say that my name had been registered
for temporary employment in the Railway Department,
and that if not called on within six months I would have
to renew the card.
This, then, is the sum total of a grateful country’s
efforts on my behalf, and on that of many more of my
comrades-in-arms. Inquiring one day at the railway staff
offices, Spencer-street, from an official, who appeared to
reign supreme in that quarter, as to my chance of ob-
taining employment within a reasonable time, I was
asked in a most offensive tone what right had Ito work
from the Government any more than the scores of un-
employed who walk the streets of Melbourne
I am sure that did the public know how their proteges
are being treated they would be astonished and far from
pleased.
I am now earning a precarious living by laborious work
in the bush, and after the day’s toil can reflect at leisure
on the fickleness of mankind.
This individual had two pleasant sea-trips and
about 18 months soldiering (he wasn’t compelled
to go soldiering ; he did it because he wanted to)
at about twice the wage which the most lavish
country outside Australia pays to its troops, and
14 times the wage that many countries pay. His
pay was more than a bush-worker can make in
Australia nowadays. He had a fever ; many
thousands of other men have had fevers, but his
pay went on all the time, while that of other men,
under like circumstances, mostly stops short. The
country paid him his extravagant wage to the
last penny. And now this truculent and highly-
remunerated individual insists on knowing why
he isn’t given a good life-billet to the exclusion of
other men who haven’t had a steady 18 months’
job at 4s. Gd. a day, and who had to scramble for
themselves when they had fevers. He is shocked
at the ingratitude of the country because,
after paying him the high price agreed on
for his services, it doesn’t take special care of


him all the rest of his life as well. He is now
(just think of it!) earning a precarious living by
laborious work in the bush, just like any common
mortal. He was asked, in quite an offensive tone,
by some uncivil worm in office, why he should be
regarded as more important than anybody else —
just as a cockroach might ask the Apostle Paul
where he got that hat. He—it is a shuddersome
thing to write, but it seems to be really true—he
has to work for a living. In a word, he is just
like the returned soldier of any other country,
only with less service than many of them, and
more pay than all of them, and he is shocked at
his country’s ingratitude. It is a hard world—a
hard, cold, hustling world !
Tht Hour and the Peacock.
Unless there is a really brilliant fighting capacity
about Victorian Premier Peacock, that elderly
young man with the loud laugh that sometimes
reveals the vacant mind might as well drop his
Constitution Amendment Bill before he starts. It
is a very good Bill, just as a gun may be a very good
g un —but a good Bill and a good gun both require
a good man attached. The Bill' is the simplest
and most logical that could be imagined. Vic-
toria, with so much of its legislative work handed
over to the Federal Parliament, needs a smaller,
cheaper and more portable Constitution in place
of the old three-decker. The most satisfactory
way, judging by the success of the Federal ex-
periment, is to let the people appoint men to
make a new Constitution. So the Bill provides
for the election of a Convention of 23 members,
one from each Federal constituency, to draft
the measure. Parliament is to consider
it and suggest amendments. It is then
to be re-considered by the Convention, and
finally accepted or rejected by popular vote. The
total electors in Victoria are 257,000, and as 129,000
of these, or rather more than half, have votes for
the Council, the Council’s electors will really elect
the Convention. If they are quite satisfied with
their blessed Council (as the Council says they
are) and quite content with a system under which
they—being mostly Democrats —have to choose
their M’s.L.C. from among about 2000 rich land-
lords and whereby about 127,000 of them are
declared unfit to sit in the Legislature which
nominally represents them (as the Council says
they are), they will see that members are
elected who will carefully preserve that beautiful
bulwark of the Constitution. If the Council
isn’t a mean coward and a shameless liar it will
backup its frequent boast that its constituents
are fully satisfied with it by giving them this
chance to say so fairly and squarely—in
other words, it will accept Peacock’s Bill.
But in the debate on the Address-in-Reply
the Council declared with amazing unanimity
that it wouldn’t accept the Bill, and that
the very idea of permitting its constituents to ex-
press their real opinion about it was an outrage.
If Alexander of the Shriek simply means to pass
his measure through the Assembly, and then see
it rejected by the Council, and then do nothing
more except keep on passing it and seeing it
rejected, he might as well leave it alone. If
Roberts had simply requested Cronje to retreat,
and when he didn’t retreat had just kept on
requesting him, both parties would probably be
there yet. Supposing Peacock adopts the same
policy he will also be there yet. There are possi-
bilities in the case if Peacock, when his Bill is
thrown out, will dissolve the Assembly and stump
the country like a demon of unrest with this pro-
position : “If you send the Ministry back to
power the Assembly is going to pass this Bill
again, and if the Council doesn’t accept it the
Assembly will stop supplies and lay up the whole
machine of Government till the Council sur-
renders.” There would be hope in a case like that.
The Council isn’t a fighting body—it is only a
bragging body ; and it looks large and bumptious
merely because it has never, since Higinbotham’s
day, met a Premier who would really fight. If it
met him this time it would collapse like an old man
with a huge corporation when struck by Fitz-
simmons. And the country would back up a
Premier like that if it could only find a
Premier like that to back up. He would be the
greatest man in Victoria if he fought the fight to
a finish —if not the greatest in Australia. He
could sweep the poll at next Federal election, and
get almost any billet he liked to ask for. He
would have the democracy of all Australia behind
him, and all the moral support that the Federal
Parliament could give. Some day, the People’s
House must needs fight the overbearing oligarchy
of the 48 Rich Landlords, and it will never have a
chance to fight it on a more popular issue than
this. Also, it will never get a better opportunity,
for the establishment of the Commonwealth makes
a reform of the State Constitution essential. The
Hour is there ; so is the Man—at least, the Pea-
cock. It remains to be seen whether Peacock is
quite a man or not.
—+■
The “Necessary” Nigger.
Every person who has been almost persuaded by
the nigger press of Queensland that the cheap
black, yellow and brown man is essential to that
State because “ white men can’t work there ” is
invited to read the following. It is a slab of
wisdom which Colonel Mackay brought back with
him from South Africa, and it is all the more
precious as being almost the only dividend Aus-
tralia has got out of that country :
Then, of course, following out the same line of
argument, you come to the opinion of, perhaps,
the best-known man in South Africa, who, when
I discussed with him the question of black labor,
said : “ We don’t work ; we ride about and talk.” ....
The white man never will work in any country where
he can get a black man to work for him, and in South
Africa the black man, so far from disappearing before the
whites, is steadily increasing. That he is a satisfactory
laborer is very much open to doubt, but at the same time
everybody has got used to him, and while you continually
hear people deplore the natives’ laziness, and while it is a
fact that if it is a wet day he certainly will not turn out
at all, still no one seems to have any great hope of alter-
ing the present state of affairs. What they say over there
is that, no matter how good a worker a white man may be
when he arrives in South Africa, he very soon ceases to
work himself, and gets the black man to work for him.
There is plenty of good evidence in support of
this view. In sultry India the white man does
his work by deputy, per nigger. Ditto in Queens-
and so far as the supply of niggers will go. Ditto
In the West Indies and the eastern-central and
south-eastern of the United States. While
the nigger was available he did this even in Ken-
tucky and Virginia, which are both colder on the
average than Melbourne, and where the rivers are
occasionally blocked by ice in the winter. Also
he does the same in Cape Colony and Natal,
which are cooler on the average than N.S.
Wales. The wearied, languid, climate-ener-
vated planter and nigger-owner of Louisiana
is historical ; it was always understood that
Louisiana was a black man’s country in
the worst sense of the word. Yet Texas and
Arizona are mainly a white man’s country, and
they are both six or eight degrees hotter than
Louisiana, and 19 deg. hotter than Kentucky, and
16 deg. hotter than Virginia. The rule appears to
be that when a nigger is available the white
man abandons to him most kinds of hard
manual labor. It becomes unusual for the white
man to do that kind of labor; then almost dis-
graceful ; then the theory arises that, owing to the
climate, it is impossible. So cold, bleak Ken-
tucky and Virginia became black man’s countries
where the white couldn’t possibly work, while
in the frightful summer heats of Arizona and S.E.
California (it was from Arizona that there came
the original legend of the lost soul who sent back
from hell for his blankets) the white man has
always worked and thrived. And that is the only
visible fixed principle there is about the case.
The Law and the Liquorer.
Federation will not be an unmixed blessing to
Victoria if it entails a recurrence of the kerosenic
whisky that was commonly sold at hotel bars
when the duty on imported spirits stood at 15s.
per gallon. Just now Victoria enjoys more pro-
tection for its stomach than other States of the
Commonwealth, inasmuch as the Customs duties
are lower, and the spirit, therefore, is rather milder
and less deadly in its results than the “ Fine Old
Scotch ” which the alluring Hebe of elsewhere
dispenses at the rate of sixpence a time, and help
yourself from the bottle. The inevitable all-
round Commonwealth spirit duty seems likely
to be fixed at a shilling or two higher than the
Victorian rate of 12s. per gallon. Importers are
taking their stocks from bond in expectation of
the rise, and consumers await with sorrow the
degraded spirits which the future has in store for
them. To say that a higher duty does not
actually compel a reduction in the quality of the
article is to speak simple truth and talk commer-
cial nonsense—under existing trade conditions.
When the Vic. Customs tax on spirits was suddenly
raised, after the Boom collapse, from 12s. to 15s.
per gallon, certain hotelkeepers tested the feeling
of their customers re the substitution of a spirit-
measure system for the old rule of “ help your-
self.” Also an attempt was made to fix a higher
rate for the usual brandy-and-soda order. But
the public resented innovations. The man who
wants only a little spirit for his sixpence couldn’t
See any necessity for having it measured out to
him, and the man who wants a lot —the swiller
whose every “nip” represents a loss to the sup-
plier—roared vehemently against the proposal to
lessen his consumption. So the hotelkeepers with
scruples concerning their imported liquor brands
dropped their scruples, and did much the same
thing as the traders who never had any. They
kept their profits up to the old level by selling in-
ferior stuff at the old price. Sober customers de-
tected the difference every time they took a drink.
Boozers were mostly too unsober to notice it. And
so things went on until duty was reduced and trade
competition—in the big cities anyhow—restored
the liquor to a comparatively harmless state.
Now that the Victorian dealer is threatened
with a higher duty again, the local consumer
of bulk and bottled spirits on licensed premises is
enti led to get a measure of consideration from the
Com nonwealth Government for his liver, kidneys,
bra.n, and general well-being. An increase of 2s.
per gallon in the spirit duty represents, from the
purchaser’s point of view, a rise of more than 50
per cent, on the manufacturer’s price for a bottle
of “square” gin. If Premier Barton and Co.
will paste that fact inside their hats, and try to
understand its commercial bearing on the
stummick of every respectable voter (total
abstainers being eminently disrespectable in the
sight of the revenue), they will admit the injustice
of leaving an increased duty on. spirits to work
out its own damnation under the Commonwealth
as it did under the Vic. State law of not long ago.
The stummick aforesaid cries aloud for protection
against adulterated liquor. It doesn’t want its
owner to help himself from the bottle at the hotel
bar. It wants the Govt, to measure out a fair
amount of spirit which can be sold for sixpence
by a licensed victualler who is practically paying,
say, 2/4 per bottle to the Govt, for the privilege of
possessing it. The further and greater question
as to entire Government control of the liquor
trade is not more important to public health than
the question of adapting the depth and circum-
ference of a licensed sixpenny drink to the size of
the Customs duty.
♦—
Civil Service Appeal Boards.
“Ishmael,” a Maoriland ex-railway official who
has been there, gives his experience :
A short time ago I read somewhere that N.S.W. civil
service was agitating for an Appeal Board. This is
reasonable ; but let the N.S.W. civil servants take warn-
ing from Maoriland, and see that no political interference
or power of veto is allowed to crawl into its articles of
constitution. I am intimately acquainted wjth the work-
ing of the largest Public Service Appeal Board in Maori-
land —the Railway Appeal Board. It was brought into
existence by the Railway Classification Act of Oct., ’97.
Each island has a board of three members. The railway
officers (Division I.) and the wages men (Division II.) each
elect a member to represent them, by universal
ballot. These two elected members, with a Judge
or Magistrate (who is chairman), constitute the
Board. Any railway official having a grievance
has a right of appeal to the Board. On the
first glance things appear fair enough, but the fact that
has turned a judicial body into a howling farce, and made
the M.L. Railway Appeal Board a by-word, is that the
Minister for Railicays has the absolute power to vary or
veto any' recommendation of the Board. The bestmen in
the service do not put up for the position, through fear of
the management, and the consequence is that nine-tenths
of the appeal cases are triumphant verdicts for the
Department. If a case is strongly recommended for con-
sideration, the management graciously instructs the
Minister whether he is to grant the request, vary it, or
refuse it. When any clerk, cadet, laborer, or plate-layer
appeared before the Board during the past 3j years, he
had to face the bullying of the late assistant-general
manager (who was the Departmental attorney-general),
and very often two or three superior officers and chiefs of
his particular department. He was duly impressed with
the heinousness of his crime in appealing, by the severe
aspect of several superiors, many of whom had nothing
whatever to do with the case. Plaintiff was condescend-
ingly permitted to have a fellow-workman to assist him as
counsel, but very few cared to appear, as experience
taught them that they were apt to be promptly trans-
ferred, for the “good of the service.”
Among all the drawbacks, however, the depart-
mental veto is the worst. A workman’s appeal
is an appeal against the department. If the
workman gets a verdict the defendant department
has power to decide whether it will abide by the
verdict, or alter it, or reverse it altogether, and
also whether it will make things hot in indirect
ways for the plaintiff for the trouble he has
created ! When an Appeal Board’s decision isn’t
a real decision at all, then it is better to have no
such Board.
“N.S.W. Shops and Factories Act,” writes a
worker to The Bulletin, “is theoretically one of
the best measures yet passed to ameliorate the
condition of factory employes; but unless more
stringent steps are taken to enforce its provisions,
it will rapidly become a miserable farce. It pro-
vides that no person under the age of 18 shall
have charge of any machine, or work between the
connecting-rods of any engine whilst in motion.
I know boys of 14 who fire and drive steam-
engines, but if the inspector happens to be about,
an older hand is put on for the tune being. It is
also provided that any accident absenting the
injured person from work for 48 hours must be
reported in writing to the inspector. At a certain
N.S.W. foundry recently, a boy, oiling the engine
whilst in motion, had his hand badly in-
jured, resulting in his absence from work for
several weeks. This accident was not reported,
because the boy, instead of being 18, was only
slightly over 14. Dry-grinding in the iron-trade
is also forbidden to be performed by boys under
16, but I have heard a foreman, when setting an
under-aged apprentice to this work, tell him to
“keep his eye open for any well-dressed
coming about ” (a possible inspector). Should
that personage heave in sight, the article that is
being dry-ground is put down, the emery-wheel
is wetted with some waste dipped into a can of
water near by, and when the inspector arrives
upon the scene, the apprentice is simply grinding
a chisel. What is required is an authorised, in-
telligent person, thoroughly conversant with
factory work, to drop in at shops, clad in work-
man’s garb, and nose-out evasions of the Act.
Until then sweating employers will continue to
systematically bamboozle the inspector.
“ Kiarah ” to The Bulletin about the Federal
Postal Bill:
Until the introduction of the Postal Bill Barton and
his colleagues seemed to me a strong team, and I thought
Australia fortunate in having escaped the incubus of the
wily Reid and his following of Calico Jimmies in this
early stage of her nationhood. But this Bill unfor-
tunately is clear evidence that the trail of the snuffle-
buster is over them all. They are too conscientious to be
wholesome. If there is not enough collective manhood
in the two Houses of the Commonwealth to extinguish
the snufflebusters, I want to see the Act enforced in its
entirety. This will mean that, unless the Act is directed
solely at the only straight-going gamble of its kind in
Australia, “ Tattersall,” every bookmaker and every one
of his correspondents will be debarred from using the
P. 0., save on the understanding that their letters will be
liable to be opened. Also, the large number of influential
men who do a brisk telegraphic business with Southern
bookies will find their inclination for a quiet flutter seri-
ously interfered with, if the Federal P.M.G. is the man he
pretends to be. In short, if the Act is to be anything but
a boycott of “ Tattersall,” pure and simple, Federation is
synonymous with despotism, and, as regards private cor-
respondence, we shall have as much liberty as Russians.
And, if our national conscience is pricking us so badly,
let us set our house in order thoroughly. Promoters,
aiders, and abettors of all church bazaars, art unions, etc.,
must be rigorously prosecuted ; the totalisator must be
abolished, and the correspondence of all racing clubs
(and their correspondents’ correspondence), likewise
sporting papers, and papers which publish betting prices
and stock quotations must find “no thoroughfare ”
through the P.O. The Stock Exchanges, the head centres
of the most pernicious methods of gambling, should be
converted into churches. And, by-the-way, the perma-
nent head of the W.A. State postal dept. (R. A. Sholl),
who owns and runs racehorses, is the most flagrant
offender of the Commonwealth, and hardly a fit and
proper person to exercise a censorship over its correspon-
dence. In short, the scope of the Bill is so boundless if
carried out impartially that the requisite eight millions of
revenue would be swamped by the salaries of the in-
creased postal staff necessary to enforce its provisions.
o
More lovely contingent items from Maoriland :
Premier Seddon is going to declare war against the Colo-
nial Office. He arranged a big patriotic reception for his
returned “ fourth and fifth ” at Invercargill, Southland,
but the transport Tagus was ordered to put them ashore at
Port Chalmers, and Judas and Co., having finished
with the 700 crippled Maorilanders, declined, even
though Seddon telegraphed till the wires were
red hot, to dump the returned empties anywhere
but at the nearest port. Seddon furiously declared
“ it was things like this that had caused England
to lose even greater colonies than Maoriland,” and he
would get even with them, which Dick did by put-
ting down his Hob-nailed Boots in his own way. He
sent out the Government boat to meet the transport, but
latter took no notice and refused to heed the lighthouse
signals ordering her to go to the Bluff. When she
arrived at Port Chalmers, Dick promptly placed
her in quarantine, but so arranged matters that
he could get several hundred troopers released, and
chartering a steamer he rushed these down to the Bluff.
So the Invercargill people got their promised big display,
and Dick is still taking it out of the Tagus in quarantine.
After all it is doubtful whether the masterful Richard
hasn’t made a big mistake. Scores of the men were quite
unfit, and were already intensely weary of the sea, and
would gladly have killed the big voluble Jingo for sending
them wandering round the island when they wanted to
get home. Also the Invercargill people succeeded in
blowing a woman’s head off and severely injuring a
number of people by firing rockets off horizontally,
all of which will cost a pretty sum in damages. Seddon
is still furious, and has set up an inquiry into the alleged
overcrowding of the transport. Two men have died since
arrival. Several died on the way over, and there are
about 40 in hospital with pneumonia and malaria. Those
walking the streets are barking and coughing in a way
that shows the seeds of death to be germinating within
them. Sending these men down to cold Invercargill in
the depth of winter was bad policy. But the sickest
feeling of all is caused by the fact that no one wants
them, no one notices them, and “ there ain’t no bands
a-pla.ving,” and the chief feeling of satisfaction with the
public is-that “ the boss ain’t proclaimed any more d—d
patriotic holidays at our expense.”
♦
On the question—“ Can white men work in the
Tropics?” G-. writes to The Bulletin :
Dear Bulletin, —The only shred of justification offered
for the continuance of the Kanaka in Queensland is the
assertion, “ White men .cannot do the work.” In view of
this a paper in Alfred Russell Wallace’s new book,
“ Studies, Scientific and Social,” has special value. The
writer raises the question—Can white men work in the
Tropics ? He is well qualified to offer a reply. Though
not a man of originally strong constitution, he has lived
and worked for 12 years within 10 degrees of the equator,
“ for months together, in or close to tropical swamps.”
Under a tropical sun he has taken as much, or more
exercise than when in England, having, in fact, worked
“ out of doors six or seven hours during the heat of the
day.” And his definite opinion that the white man can
work in the tropics if he likes is worth something.
The new dogma that tropical countries are not for the
white man, except as some sort of slave-driver, Wallace
proves to be a myth. The tropical climate is not un-
healthy for the man who works. It is thoroughly bene-
ficial to the man who works intelligently. The high
death-rate among Europeans in some tropical parts is
due to disease, not climate. Disease is often the result
of insanitary local conditions, and these artificially pro.
duced. Many cities in tropical America illustrate this
More frequently the white man is carried off by disease
simply because he will not work. Laziness, leading to
sexual and other excesses, is the common diagnosis of the
trouble. Men who do hard graft there don’t die. The
truth is that the average white will not work anywhere
if he can help it. He likes to exploit the other fellow.
This is the privilege of the capitalist in most countries.
In the tropics nearly all whites can practise it, and do.
The white man is lazy ; the black man is cheap. Result
—nigger worked to death, white man rots in laziness and
lust.
The humor of the thing is that the dogma is only pro-
pounded for agricultural labor ; the white man can do
anything else if it’s twice as hard. He can dig for gold
or work as a mechanic. Wallace cites instances of men
he has seen doing hard work in the tropics, and thriving
on it both in person and purse. Everyone knows that
the enthusiastic sportsmen who work hard at their play,
and the soldiers and sailors, when at work, keep good
health in the tropics. Work is a condition of health
there as elsewhere.
According to the Ceylon Observer men work for even
50 or 60 years in the tropics, enjoying good health. The
descendants of the Dutch who went to the Moluccas 300
years ago are as tough now as the Boer. Referring to
them, Wallace says : “ The Government physician then
at Amboyna assured me that the race is quite as prolific
as in Europe.” The fact is that the white race need not
suffer in quality or quantity by working in hot countries.
Loafing in hot countries, or drinking in hot countries, is
a different thing.
♦
In spite of his 955 votes Findley had no real
hope at East Melbourne from the start. The
reason lies in the villainous Victorian electoral
system that puts a property-owner on a dozen or
more rolls, and lets him vote wherever he
likes —but only once on one day. In the E. Melb.
electorate are 3500 voters on the ratepayers’
roll and 1227 on electors’ rights. In addition, 125
Government voters’ certificates were issued. Of
these 3500 ratepayers, no less than 1931 are
absentees—property-owners also on rolls in other
districts. (Herein Peacock or Mason or who-
ever was responsible bilked the Laborites to some
extent by not holding the Melb. and E. Melb.
elections on the same day.) Seeing that all the
metropolitan rolls are in a similarly stuffed
state, no wonder it took 10 years’ hard fight-
ing to abolish the plural-voting swindle. Next
morning the Jingo dailies loudly vaunted the
triumph of Loyalty, and paraded the “absolute
majority ” of the E. Melb. electors. Why, E.
Melb. was smothered—stifled. The 1931 absentee
property owners settled the business. The Gas
Co. had 5 votes, and the Tramway Co. 3—all in
the names of reliable employees—while little Tory
Zeal’s name bobs up in each of the four wards.
Sydney Telegraph makes] some remarks re
Sydney betting-shops:—
The suppression t>f the betting shops of the city is ap-
parently a matter to be approached with much greater
care than one would suppose. The last prosecutions were
productive of a considerable amount of litigation, and the
police officer chiefly concerned was subjected to what
some people are pleased to designate persecution. His
companions are chary of proceeding. As they point out,
the prosecution of the shops is assigned to them as a
special duty—unpleasant, like many other duties which
they have to carry out—and they have no desire to shirk
it ; but, as they further point out, if the attempt to sup-
press the shops is meant seriously, why do not the magis-
trates inflict the imprisonment penalty which is within
their power? A year or two back one of the magistrates
announced his intention of sending to gaol the next con-
victed person in any betting-house case that came before
him. No more ever came before him—he was retired. It
is not inferred that his retirement had any relation to his
expressed intention in regard to betting-shops; it is
merely mentioned as a coincidence, and it is also worthy
of note that no magistrate has since done anything more
drastic than to inflict the usual fine.
There seems to be some difficulty in connection with
gaining access to the shops in Sydney for raiding pur-
poses. In Melbourne all the shops were raided on the one
day, and shop betting was practically stamped out in 24
hours. There the police can enter a shop at any time and
without any further justification than well-founded
suspicion. Here the position is different. The police, if
they wish to raid a shop, must first obtain a magistrate’s
warrant—a process which involves some delay, and which
experience has shown prevents action being taken until
the proprietor of the shop has had time to remove evid-
ence of his having infringed the law.
These statements are all doubtless true, and the
inference to be drawn from them is just this:
That the illegal betting men were influential
enough to secure the removal of the only Sydney
magistrate who threatened to fully enforce the
law against them. That the remaining magistrates
find it is a great deal better not to enforce the law.
And that while the police are going through
the slow process of getting authority to raid a
betting-shop somebody in the inner circle gives
the betting-shop man notice of their intention.
Also that the existing law is unworkable, and the
Government doesn’t provide a better one. It is
the case of the winked-at Sunday banana over
again. Either betting-houses should be licensed
and supervised, or, if they are to be illegal, a
workable statute should put its foot down on them
and utterly flatten them out. In N.S.W., when
the powers that profess to be find a thing con-
venient, or difficult of suppression, and aren’t quite
sure whether it is wrong or not, the regular device
is to prohibit it by a law which isn’t enforced.
Thereby the politician tries to satisfy at the same
time the crowd which wants the thing put down
because it is supposed to be a sin, and the crowd
which wants it kept up because it is pleasant and
convenient.
Presbyterian elders and others have wrung from
Vic. Education Minister Gurr a promise to intro-
duce a Bill dealing with religious instruction in
State schools. “ And +!he deputation left,” says
the reporter ; “several of the members muttering
that ‘Members of Parliament will be harassed
until the will of the people of Victoria has been
achieved.’ ” There is no mule as obstinate as the
religious mule. The people of Victoria have
achieved their will by establishing secular educa-
tion ; and the wail of churches who want the State
to do their work gives no reason to suppose that
the people of Victoria want the achievement
undone. A deputation of Presbyterians is about
as far from representing the people of Victoria as
the Tooley-street tailors were from representing
the people of England.
Senator Dawson, as reported in Commonwealth
Hansard
To give the Senate an idea of what opportunity a white
man has of getting work at Port Darwin, I may say that
while I was there tenders were called for the sinking of a
well. Three of my mates and myself went to the office,
where tenders were returnable, for the purpose of having
a look at the specifications. Strange as it may seem, the
manager was particularly frank and outspoken about the
matter. He said : “If you tender for the contract at a
wage to which you have been used you will not get it.
No one can get this contract unless he is prepared to em-
ploy Chinamen, or men who will work for the same wage
as Chinamen.”
These are the experiences which raise and justify
the cry for a White Australia. It is the men who
have seen N.Q. and taken part in its life whose
voices should ring out when politicians attempt to
palter with the question. The desire of southern
capitalists and of those who live on them is to find
a pretext for hanging up the promise of a White
Nation as long as possible, and unless the
Dawsons of the Commonwealth use lung and
vote and pen the wish will be attained.
♦
“Nina Jeane” tells The Bulletin a tale of a
boarding-house—not a pleasant story, but appar-
ently a dismally truthful one :
I bought a boarding-house, and I’ve been troubled in
my mind ever since. I’m going to sell it again, because
the things that happen in it get on my nerves, and it
hurts my conscience to take some of the money. The
bulk of my boarders are “ business ladies,” working in
shops—wages from 12s. 6d. to 255. per week. It does not
pay me to board any of them for less than 12s. 6d. per
week, and some don’t yield a profit at even that. But it
is the poor girls that worry me. The 255. per week one
is a lady ; below that and down to 15s. they are girls ;
while the poor wretches who receive only 12s. 6d. per
week are just females. They have to be—or go to work
without boots, gloves and proper clothes. Shop-girls
who don’t wear proper clothes are always promptly
sacked, so they all get clothes—honestly if they can ; but,
anyhow, they get them. It puzzled me how they did it,
till one morning I found a brass hairpin in Mr. Jackson’s
bedroom. I resolved to-round up that young man at
dinner-time, and talk to him very straight, but he didn’t
come home that evening. There' was only one girl in the
house who had very blonde hair, and she was a twelve-
and-sixpennyer. Jackson not being available, I bailed
her up instead. I got her into my own bedroom, and
demanded what she meant by it. She opened her two
big blue eyes to their widest, and exclaimed in a voice of
surprise: “How could I pay you 12s. 6d per week if I
didn’t? I can’t dress on nothing a week, and it takes all
my wages to pay you.” I was nonplussed, and she fol-
lowed up her advantage : “ We’re all in the same boat,
barring Lady Montmorency” (the 255. per week one),
“ an’ she’s too ugly to get a boy.” I couldn’t say anything,
but got rid of her as soon as possible, and promptly lost
Mr. Jackson, too. I’ve had lots of girl-boarders sines


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
of the United States.
LIBERAL TERMS TO AGENTS OF GOOD STANDING
In order to improve the position of its Agents in Australia, and to better conserve
the business, the Equitable now offers RENEWAL CONTRACTS to
first-class agents, thus giving them a pecuniary interest in their business for
several years, instead of for only one year as at present.
For particulars, refer to
S. W. D’ARC Y-IR VINE, Manager for New South Wales and Queensland,
Equitable Building, Sydney ; or to
G. G. MoOOLL and B. H. PASCOE, Managersfor Victoria, S. Australia and Tasmania,
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
O. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
Carefully Examined FREE.
If they need treatment I will frankly tell you so.
If they need SPECTACLES I will make them
at reasonable prices.
WOOD, “The Optician,”
Only Address in N.S. W. ,
299 George Street, Sydney,
OPPOSITE HUNTER STREET,
and Equitable Buildings, 95 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Eyesight tested through Post. Write for particulars.
Sulphide Corporation
" LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W.
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can be Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Gold, Silver, Lead,
and
or
Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matte JJought—
... ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
Special Terms quoted, for Larue Parcels or
Regular Supplies under Contract.
Full Particulars and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cockle Creek-
A E. SAVAGE,
Manacmr.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Agents for Australia!
then. I have to take them or give up my house, and it
seems to me that the whole city of Sydney is full of
women trembling on the brink of bankruptcy, who are
driven by sheer want of sufficient money to live on to be
“ respectable adventuresses.” I regarded Mr. Jackson as
an ogre, a robber, and betrayer of virtue when I found
the hairpin. I regard him—well, less harshly now ;it is
people like him who keep thousands of underpaid girls
from becoming professional women of the town. Can’t
you start a crusade to make Parliament pass a law com-
pelling employers to pay girls enough to live on ! A rise
of 10s. per week won’t make a girl lead a good life, but
it gives her the opportunity if she wishes to do so.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal . “ The Second in Command.”
Lyceum “ King of Crime.”
Criterion “ Dangerous Women.”
Palace Bertram : Court Magician.
Her Majesty’s “ The Casino Girl.”
Empire .' Fuller Co.
Tivoli Rickards Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s Yic. Operatic Society.
Her Majesty’s “ Rigoletto.”
Theatre Royal “A Million of Money.”
Bijou Dampier Dramatic Season.
New Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
The Women bill-postered as Being Dan-
gerous appeared for the first time at the Sydney
Criterion last Saturday, and turned out to be only
two—Misses Ida Gresham and Helen Gibson.
The drama opens, as might be expected, in a house
that is no better than it should be, and into this
mansion the good girl wanders (after the helpless
fashion of the stage good girl, who is always wan-
dering either in the street or in her mind), to be
immediately imprisoned in an attic, and fed on a
total absence of diet, in order that she may be
persuaded to be one of the sisterhood. She is re-
leased, after a large but uncertain space of time,
by the funny man. So far the alleged “ Dangerous
Women ” display grievous want of sense; they
take an immense amount of trouble to bring about
the fall of one girl, when outside there are
scores of equally good-looking girls who are
ready to fall like a shower of grasshoppers
with no trouble at all. After this, Sylvia starves
irrelevantly on the Thames Embankment, where
an ugly but clever Boxer Burlesque Ballet is gone
through for no specific reason. Here she is
honourably loved by a disguised millionaire who,
having knocked over a man who thereupon died
of heart disease, has been ordered by a priest to
do penance. The Father didn’t seize his oppor-
tunity to get some coin for the church, but merely
told the millionaire to go and earn his living for a
year as an unskilled labourer, and he is doing it
when the story meets him. The idea seems to be
that after a year of this kind of thing he will
only knock down healthy people who can stand it.
Sylvia, the heroine, about this time, is pub-
licly chloroformed in the open air by the two
allegedly Dangerous Women, who want to annoy
her pa, and she is buried alive, and, later on, is
rescued from somebody’s ancestral vault by an
insane doctor, who thinks he can raise people
from the dead. He is so pleased that he wants
to kill Sylvia, and raise her again, but a tre-
mendous inrush of pa and other people comes to
the rescue. Next act, the good girl, whose
capacity for falling into holes is something in-
credible, is found in a lunatic asylum, but, as it is
the sort of asylum where people escape by merely
walking out, the lady, even though she is a
heroine of the simple, long-haired kind, that has
great faith and no common sense, can hardly help
escaping. After this, nothing in particular
happens to Sylvia.
* * * *
Miss Helene Burdette always makes a
favorable impression as the frivolous, flighty girl,
but as the good girl weighed down by the awful
burden of stage virtue, ‘she is even better than
usual. It is much more difficult to be a good girl
interestingly than a bad one, and the fact
that Miss Burdette triumphs, not only over
her persecutors, but also over the efforts of
the author to make her a complete idiot,
which says an immense amount for her
ability. Miss Helen Gibson makes her first ap-
pearance as a quite unremarkable Dangerous
Woman. She looks a nice calm girl who would
be just as pleased teaching in Sunday School as
basely chloroforming the righteous in public
places. G. P. Carey has some good Sherlock
Holmes touches as a would-be detective, while C.
R. Stanford excites several thrills when he pro-
claims that he can restore to life people who have
been dead forty years. He never reflects what
complications would arise in real property if he
made a business of this.
** * *
Bertram, Court magician, who pursues the
surprising tenor of his way at Sydney Palace,
proves, of course, to be one of the gentlemen that
coin money out of the air, and make a garden on
a table. Bertram does his tricks in a clean-cut
manner, but they are the same weary old tricks
we know so well—the tricks that have to do with
cards and gloves and the usual sundries and ap-
purtenances. A magic show always reminds the
E resent writer of old schooldays, only, in lieu of
eing asked questions, you are liable to be shot
at with a card out of a gun, or requested to do
something that will make you look foolish, while
the magician does the same thing and doesn’t look
foolish at all. An entertainment of this sort looks as
if various amiable people paid half-a-crown or three
shillings each in order to let the man on the plat-
form have a good time at their expense. Of
course, it only looks like this, and the cleverer the
entertainer the more it looks so. At the same
time, the cards and the growing roses and the
vanishing handkerchiefs are beginning to be flat,
stale and unprofitable, and the public calls for
newer tricks, even if the things in the newer tricks
do not vanish quite as swiftly or grow to such
enormous proportions.
The bright and cheery “ Casino Girl ” is
not to last long at Her Majesty’s (Sydney). By
the time this issue is in print its days can be
counted on the toes of one of its pretty dancing
girls, with several toes over, unless a very large
Eiece of coal fell on the front of the lady’s foot in
er early youth and amputation was necessary.
The Italian Opera Co. is due with Verdi’s
“Aida” on Saturday, August 3, so the present
show will probably finish its career on Thursday
of next week. Sydney will farewell it with
regret, for it is a happy, airy trifle which doesn’t
wear out the intellect by having any plot, purpose,
or fixed intentions whatever. Judging from
present appearances the “ Casino Girl ” will stand
reviving later on.
** * *
At Sydney Lyceum the career of the dis-
guised burglar, who looks as if he didn’t like his
trade and only burgled from a stern sense of duty,
is destined to be short, though violent. “The
King of Crime ” commences a 12 nights season on
Saturday. Sydney first saw the “ King ”in May,
1894, when the two large, dreadful hands that
reached out from behind the curtain at 12 sharp,
and closed round the neck of the informer, and
dragged him into the recess to be strangled pri-
vately, were the hands of Albert Marsh closing
round the neck of H. Plimmer. There was an
extra thrilling episode one night in ’94, when H.
Plimmer didn’t die in the right place, and A.
Marsh, who is shot in his retreat and falls down
the stairs, fell on Plimmer’s head. Since then the
“King” has been played by C. Holloway in a
small round hat and top-boots. It was a fine
melodrama the first time it came to Sydney, and
the second time it was a melodrama, anyhow.
The Bulletin forgets at the moment when it last
heard of Marsh, but Plimmer is now in the States,
and worse actors than Marsh are probably falling
on his head in a strange land.
** * «
The “ Second in Command ” is now near
the end of its third week at Sydney Royal, and
its successor, “Mrs. Dane’s Defence,” looms
in the distance of August 3. The sor-
rows of Christopher Bingham are not going
very strongly. Christopher ought to take a
high place among the multitude of characters
that Brough has played so brilliantly, but the
two difficulties that the “Second in Com-
mand” can’t get over are, first, its confirmed
sorrowfulness ; and, second, the lonesomeness of
its hero. The author contrived to make Bingham
interesting, but he practically ended there. With
a good plot, and a good company, and good stage-
management the fact remains that none of the other
characters attract the public to any great extent.
And the one person the public is really interested
in has incessant bad luck, barring the fact that an
unnaturally large duke gives him the V.C. That
is the last straw. The public refuses to accept
the duke and the V.C. as compensation for the
other disasters.
** * *
Sydney’s two variety shows are drifting
along the same old track. The latest arrival at
Fuller’s Empire is Daisy Chard, a plump little
girl with a whistle. The alluring Elmores allure
steadily. From Monday next the Empire is to
have a dress-circle, and the man who eats peanuts
while John Fuller sings “Alice, Where art
Thou ? ” will be relegated to the ground-floor near
the door, handy for ejection. Celina Bobe is
back at the Tivoli, extracting music from masses
of firewood ; but the best turn is the Dartos,
dancing on a grey and empty stage with a garden
behind, slumbering in the mellow limelight.
Madame Dartos looks like an ivory nymph in that
act. Later on a man sings ordinary songs in a
powerful bog aocent, and pours desolation over a
pleasant memory.
#* * *
Sydney’s University Dramatic Society last
Thursday tackled “ She Stoops to Conquer,” at
the Palace, with a small-dog ferocity and a vigor-
ous though spasmodic resolve to get there. The
drama was something like itself in places, in spite
of the irrelevant turnips that were cast down before
the players. It even bore up against the fact that,
when one of the two heroes wondered how he
should win his way to a woman’s heart, some
utterly irrelevant person handed him a large
black cat by way of nothing in particular.
No very earnest attention was paid to the
dressing of the period, and one fine old English
personage had a perfectly modern Sydney accent
which defied all disguise. Mr. Jones, as Mar-
low, did the nervous, crushed end of the character
rather well, but was giddy in a serious way. An
amateur company playing comedy usually does
the serious parts rather well, and only labors
heavily in the humorous spots.
** * *
The Vic. Operatic Society, which breaks
out every now and then with an amateur-profes-
sional performance, and takes care to do it re-
spectably, has ventured into Melbourne Princess’s
for a fortnight. On Saturday, the old fashioned
fable of “ Girofle-Girofla ” was revived. Lecocq’s
opera retains its early tunefulness, but the alleged
humor of its dialogue dates back to the British
pun-period, when people laughed on slight provo-
cation, and a little joke went a long way. These
times “ Girofle-Girofla ” leans heavily on the
music for support. Whenever the conductor’s
baton ceases from waggling and the fiddlers are at
rest a tired feeling pervades the front of the house.
The plot, which was probably new and
original long ago, is a very fragile
plot, anyhow. A stout, bald-headed Don,
has a wife who oppresses him, and twin-
daughters who have been respectively com-
mitted for trial in matrimony with a gentle tenor,
and a dusky heathen named Mourzook. The
twins are both the same girl for warbling pur-
poses, but the occasional introduction of a dumb
replica, very like the original girl as far as can be
judged from the back of her head and figure,
enables the one girl to sing in a dual capacity
with some appearance of being sometimes the
other girl who never opens her mouth. And inas-
much as one sister is said to have been borne
away by brigands previous to the arrival of Mour-
zook, the other relative gets married to that im-
patient calamity after becoming the tame tenor’s
bride. She does this to save the family honour,
or something, with the result that the f.h. looks
very shaky what time the turbulent dark gentle-
man is clamouring for his honeymoon. Yet, in
the light of modern civilisation, “ Girofle-Girofla ”
is not even improper. It is simply foolish, and
melodious.
• * * *
Miss Minnie Waugh, the strapping
brunette of the local concert platform, plays the
name-parts in a golden wig, and sings effectively,
as usual. Also, James Wade, the short tenor, is
a musical success. Moreover, James acts passa-
bly, although the soprano is a rather crude ama-
teur who can’t give him much assistance except in
their duets. Harry Ingham, as Mourzook, con-
tributes a strong, rich voice to the proceedings ;
George Leopold and Miss Hesford Angus are at
home in their parental characters; Miss Ida
Osborne is, of course, a valuable Paquita, and the
chorus voices are young and fresh. Take it alto-
gether, “Girofle-Girofla ” is a credit to conductor
Hanstein and t"he management of the Y. 0.5., but
they will probably find their other opera, “ Les
Cloches, ” a more payable show.
* * *
The last nights of Italian Opera at Her
Majesty’s are not getting all the encouragement
they deserve. “La Boheme” was given four
times last week, and the house that ought to have
been crowded every time was not more than half-
full. Puccini’s fascinating work will perhaps get
the ear of Melbourne when the company returns
and the weather is warm, which hope applies to
the whole repertoire of Williamson’s strong, dur-
able co. They supply a capital entertainment.
Their voices never grow weary. They have the
brightest scenery and the best-dressed chorus that
Melbourne has ever known in Italian opera, also_
the theatre is smarter under its new name than'
the Alexandra where Simonsen did big business
for one notable season in days of yore. But that
was a summer success. Public appreciation didn’t
suffer from cold feet.
* * * *
“Un Ballo in Maschera,” sweetest of
Verdi operas so far as concerns the second
and third acts, was played on Saturday.
Unfortunately, there are five acts and four
long opportunities for going out to see a
man, and the women, who haven’t got a
male friend waiting outside, would prefer fewer
intervals for meditation. All the same, “Un
Ballo ”is interesting. The plot is founded on a
comparatively virtuous Duke, a most uncommon
fact in romantic opera. The Duke loves his
Prime Minister’s wife, who is equally gone on the
amorous potentate, but their affection remains at
the platonic stage. Nothing but cold despair
would have come out of it if they hadn’t both gone
to see a witch. This leads to a discovery of certain
circumstances which look incriminating, where-
upon the lady’s husband joins a conspiracy—the
funny old Italian-opera conspiracy that always
stalks abroad in bird-scaring attire —to kill the
Duke. And when he himself has fatally jabbed
his royal master at a masked ball he learns the
innocent truth of the matter, and feels sorry for
his crime,
* • * *
“Un Ballo” is not one of the happiest
efforts of the present company. Larizza and
Signora Benedetto are strong as the Duke and the
lady, and Travaglini, although he lacks animation,
is a welcome chief conspirator for the sake
of his fine basso voice. Other parts are not
very well filled, The second-best conspirator
(Tondini) has no rumbling thunder in his chest,
and the important baritone character wants a
better voice than that of Cattadori, who has been
a weak spot in previous shows. And Signorina
Vaccariis, alas! not an admirable boy Osric in
more than one respect. Her singing will pass.
Her smile is the same joyous, youthful accom-
plishment that made her a proper Musetta in
“La Boheme.” But her knees are a solemn
warning to girls of theatrical aspirations. Seems
that “Rigoletto ” is to be produced ere the season
closes—on Saturday next at latest—with Signora
Sapio as the Fool’s daughter, and Dani as the
Duke who chortles his dissolute lay to the fair
moon. The dook in “ Rigoletto ”is one of the
wickedest.
** * *
Dampier’s latest Friday lapse into Shake-
speare, at Melbourne Bijou, is a praiseworthy
“Macbeth.” When Dampier gives his artistic
mind a chance to spread itself upon a play by One
Who Wasn’t Bacon, the result is always interesting.
The touch of the experienced actor can be seen in
every part of the show. Small details are worked
for more than their surface value, and unfamiliar
tricks of stage business strike one with their apt-
ness to the situation. Somebody who has a big
stock of old dramatic lore at his disposal must be
the prime mover in a respectable production of
any Shakespearian play. “ Macbeth,” as Dampier
puts it through, is decidedly more persuasive in its
main features than the “Macbeth’’which the Nance
O’Neil Co. perpetrated with better spectacular
effect. In his acting of the ghost-stricken Mac.
there are powerful moments. Lily Dampier is
also impressive in several places, and especially
when Mrs. M. walks in her sleep. Alfred Rolf e,
as Macduff, is at least stronger than Plimmer was.
Edmund Holloway plays King Duncan in his way,
and half-a-dozen minor characters are intelligently
filled. The aged monarch will no doubt be done
to death again this Friday. Meanwhile “Shamus
O’Brien ” is trying to rescue Ireland from the
oppressor, and on Saturday the last week of Dam-
pier’s season will be inaugurated with one more
melodrama.
#* * *
Walker and Ida May, who shine in the
reflected glory of Whelan’s imitation of them, are
the newest re-arrivals at Melb. Opera House.
The infant Claude Bain is there for the first time,
and the verdict on that small suggestion of his
father sounds favorable. Bain pbre has a depress-
ing influence on many people, although he achieves
some violently hysterical giggles from the female
portion of the audience, but when he gets born
again, as it were, in the flesh of Bain fils, the
apparition amounts to a joke. An awful joke.
Marie Lloyd is still appearing for a few nights
with more or less success, some of her songs being
not so bright as the others; also, Hurley continues
to coster. There are numerous costers in London,
but thus far only two of them have been brought
under Australian notice —the coster according to
Rickards and the sad-faced bloke depicted by
Lonnen and Hurley, and others like unto these
latter. When the eye of memory has reviewed
the long procession of costers it winks at H.
Rickards to intimate that he can annex the cake.
* * #
The reigning hippodrama at the Royal
promises to reign on for another week or two.
Probably the cheerful manner in which Baker
dissipates his capital on account of a misunder-
standing with Miss Ross helps to make “ A Million
of Money ” popular. Human nature in general is
glad to hear Baker protest that money doesn’t
bring happiness. The sentiment offers some little
consolation to the top gallery, whilst enabling the
bulky employer of labor to bemoan the circum-
stances that have placed him in a private box.
** * *
On Saturday afternoon (27th) Marshall
Hall gives another orchestral concert at Melb.
Town Hall. The programme is diversely German,
and the prices are 35., 25., and Is.
** * *
Edwin Geach, writing from London pre-
vious to Donald Macdonald’s appearance on the
platform there, said:
This crowded old city in 1901 is an impossible place, and
one cannot move a hundred yards in a day. lam busy
endeavoring to create a little interest in the show, but
fear the good time is gone—if there ever was a good time
for S’African War Lectures “ within sight of St. Paul’s.”
A week later, Geach wrote again :
After much hard work, we duly opened to a fair-paying
house, and played an actual London record lecture season
(three nights), and managed to pull through cheerfully, the
“ star” giving great satisfaction and getting as good notices
as the brains of the average London reporters will permit,
which is not saying much. But patriotism in England is
dead tired at present. They are sick of the war, and the
alleged love for things Australian is all moonshine —they
know nothing and care less about us. Mind you, they
had not heard a war story half as bright as Mac.’s, I’m
told. He could be boomed at a considerable cost of coin
and trouble. To sum up the situation Macdonald is good
enough for England, but England is not good enough for
him. The chances are we shall return to Australia via
Queensland, arriving in August.
*» * *
Geach’s sweeping contempt for the intel-
lectual capacity of Cockney journalism can’t have
been inspired by a paragraph in the London
Morning Leader, which somehow got on to his
Macdonald advt. in the Ceylon Standard. Re-
ferring to this rapturous summary of Mac.’s merits
the Leader man said : —•
He has been lecturing on the siege of Ladysmith, and
these delicate little compliments have been paid him by
his business manager. . . I wonder how many men
famous authors and doctors —went out to South Africa
simply and solely in the interests of self-advertisement.
They are all men of the hour, all brilliant and delightful
orators and raconteurs. Take this Ceylon Standard
advt. as a sample. It begins with this proud flourish :
“ The English can conquer anything but death.” And
how does it end? In this sound and sensible style:
“ Secure seats in advance.” There you have the touch of
a showman’s hand, and the sound of a voice that is sane.
The Wild Cat Column.
The Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney: .
t,. .. , Total
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
June, 1896.. £40,303 8 per cent. =£39,966 £1,025,071
Dec., 1896.. 40,067 „ „ 40,000 1,025,138
June, 1897.. 40,119 „ „ 40,000 1,025,257
Dec., 1897.. 40,150 „ „ 40,000 1,025,407
June, 1898.. 40,410 „ „ 40,000 1,025,817
Dec., 1898.. 40,864 „ „ 40,000 1,026,681
June, 1899.. 42,340 „ „ 40,000 1-°29,021
Dec., 1899.. 45,251 9 „ „ 45,000 1,029,272
June, 1900.. 50,880 10 „ „ 50,000 1,030,152
Dec., 1900.. 51,509 10 „ „ 50,000 1,031,661
June, 1901.. 51,228 10 „ „ 50,000 1,032,889
The earnings are at the rate of £5 os. lOd. per cent, per
annum on the shareholders’ funds as at the opening of
the half-year (capital £1,000,000, reserves £1,031,661).
This is a high rate, yet not quite so good as the £5 Is. sd.
per cent, of six months ago. There is very little to
chronicle about the Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney,
save its steady record of progress. During last half-year
deposits increased by £339,371, and now stand at
£11,557,615. Total liabilities to the public are £13,030,454;
and cash and liquid securities held against them are
£4,922,263— equal to nearly 38 per cent., of which
£1,441,670 is in State securities. As 30 per cent, is about
the average holding, the Commercial is unusually strong
in this respect. It has the second largest business among
the purely Australian banks, while in point of solidity
it can fairly rank, to all appearance, even with the great
Bank of New South Wales.
All the same it lias often occurred to the present
writer that such an institution as the Commercial Bank-
ing Co. might try a radical experiment with advantage.
It has £1,032,889 of reserves, £1,000,000 paid-up capital,
and an uncalled capital of £1,000,000. The uncalled
capital is a very remote liability while the Commercial’s
run of splendid good fortune lasts —still, it is a liability,
and even such a solid institution would be a
pleasanter thing for shareholders without it. If £500,000
of the reserve was transferred to capital, and the dividend
correspondingly reduced, it would still leave £532,889
of reserves, and it would diminish the share liability
one-half. And when reserves grew up again to £1,000,000
another similar transfer could be made, thus extinguish-
ing the share liability altogether. The Commercial of
Sydney is one of the few banks which could do such a
transaction without shaking public confidence in any way,
and it would certainly put the shareholders in a better
position. In the case of some banks a transaction of the


—
Profits.
i § §
31= 2 i
t,« « g
-5*
*5 g
c «• »»
fix a *
mi
w'S’'
3|I
£ Jj-fl
Cj
June, 1395 ..
£19,883
£10,419
£10,549
Dec., 180f. ..
30,632
10,419
20,762
Juno, 1S90
In,008
10,419
31,411
De.:., 1896 ..
17,928
10.419
QS.920
June, 1897 ..
17,877
10,410
46,378
Dec., 1897 ..
22,730
10,419
58.6S9
June, 1398 ..
2-1,880
10,419
72,650
Dec., 1398 ..
27,800
10,419
90,031
June, isos) ..
27,037
10,419
107,219
Dec., 1399 ..
27,900
10,419
124,730
June, I960 ..
23,55-1
10,419
£13,280
S percent,
div. on
ordinary
shares.
129,605
Dec., 1900 ..
30,178
10,419
16.019
133,445
June, 1901 .,
31,390
10,419
15.919
138,600
Written
Off
S jut cent.
Dividend ,on
Total Re-
serves at
wwb date.
—
Profits,
13
1 E
■<(-
Prcforetnic
Shares.
June, 1*96 ..
£5,475
Dec., 1806 ..
£'11,01(0
,020,000
£21,171
5,040
June, 1897 ..
62,530
33,000
21,171
4,299
Den., 18(77 ..
63,222
30,000
21,171
0,360
June, 1898 ..
62,303
30.000
21,171
21,171
7,542
9,172
Dec., 1898 ..
62,801
30.000
June, 1899 ..
52,247
30,000
21,171
10,243
3 per cent.
Dividend on
Preference
Shares.
Dec., 1809 ..
65,861
30,000
31,756
13,843
June, u»00 ..
68,205
30,000
31,760
10,352
Dec.. 1900 ..
05,153
30.000
31,768
13,717
June, 1901 ..
04,989
80,000
31,758
16,018
c fj nr fj aoao
® >. v . Jl z * i
silisisg
gSgSgocfj^
1
£3
«
O
e
CTl
**
to to tc tv to to *- -•
x •■ j v ; w -* C
gyssssfegg
Gross profits.
s
§
«*>
01
tc
i
1
S 5 K 5C S
w "i- « Vjk*-4*c.
o> .t*. --i ;r» o c-:
O cc -J •-* tt o tn
Written off.
H
5* 3° & 5* &
C-”~ pcb'kw’o
Isisssss
s&a>ct ap
oot? o cn o
o o 5 o © o o o
000250000
Hepaid to
Government.
Repaid to
private de-
positors.
lb
CC J-5 CC_OJ tc JC CC
C O O O Si M r-5 O
SSSSSSSi
Carried to re-
serve.
EAND . . .
AIR COMPRESSORS
ROCK DRILLS
“Ivanhoe” Mining Steel
Explosives
Lubricating Oils
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
71 Clarence St.,Sydney.
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
fillan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
* * * •
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castle reagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
♦ * * *
The Argus of 24th October, 1900, writes re the
the Colonial Life Assurance Society, Limited : “ The
affairs of the Society in all material respects are based on
a sound footing.”*
• # * *
The Austral Otis Engineering Company have
now delivered one of the water-ends in connection with
their contract with the Melbourne and Metropolitan
Board of Works. The second water-end will be delivered
within a week or two. These water-ends are a very
massive piece of work and reflect credit on the makers.
They are made of a special mixture of iron, which was
subjected to severe tests before being put into the work
and gave highly satisfactory results. Each water-end
weighs about 70 tons.*
* * * *
John W. H. Piper, C.E., M.A.1.M.E.,
M.Am.I.M.E., &e., Australian representative of Cutten
Bros., Dunedin, mining and dredging engineers, is leaving
for London about the end of August to establish a Home
Office for the firm, the increase of foreign business
necessitating this action. Mr. Piper will be pleased to
undertake any commissions that may be entrusted to him.
Equitable Buildings, Georg e-street, Sydney.*
* * • •
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* * * *
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
* * * •
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * » *
All Barrier Mines remodelling their mills on up-
to-date lines include a number of Luhrig vanners. The
South and Junction companies each have about a dozen,
no slime treatment plant being now considered complete
without these excellent machines. In Queensland tin
concentration is the latest accomplishment, the Irvine-
bank Mill having introduced Luhrig Vanners with success-
ful results, the example having been followed by the well-
known Coolgarra Tin Mining Co., who are installing a
number of Luhrig Vanners in connection with their new
Tin Dressing Mill. Messrs. W. &J. Lempriere, Melbourne,
are the general agents for the Luhrig Appliances.*
© * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “ Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, andall sorts of iron-work. *
* * * *
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buchu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
* * * 1’
Perseverance: 7270 tons for 12,2310z5. The
figures of tonnage and yields of W.A. mines, as tele-
graphed to the East, are usually hopelessly mixed up.
Take this as an example. The total is given as 7270 tons,
yet if the other figures of tonnage are correct the total
must be over 9000 tons. Anyhow, the yield is the largest
ever got in onq,month from the mine. Every effort made
to sweeten the shareholders at the annual meeting to be
held this month in London, yet the shares fell 10s. in spite
of it, and to-day are £4 lower than when the mine was
turning out much less gold. They are also less than half the
price they once reached—£l7—which conveys some idea
of the madness of people in London at one time in respect
to W.A. mines. They are not too sensible now. Time
has brought them to about half their senses. If this mine
was not encumbered with a tremendous debt when it
started its huge sulphide plant, how is it that no divs.
have been declared since ? Many months ago The Bul-
letin stated that the mine was over £lOO,OOO behind. Of
course it was denied. Since that time it has turned out
gold to the value of over £200,000, and has paid no div.,
and in the face of the highest return it ever had, within
a few days of the meeting, where the shareholders will
be told of large ore-reserves in sight, and of others not
in sight, shares are dropping in value. The only explana-
tion is that the debt when The Bulletin referred to it
was much greater than the estimate given, and that it
has taken the mine all this time to clear it off, and even
now no money remains for distribution. It may also be
taken for granted that nothing will be said at the meeting
of the fact that the lowest levels in the mine are the
poorest, and that with the many additions to the plant
and the enormous output, nearly all taken above the
500 ft. level, it will be impossible to keep up the present
production for any lengthened period. *
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Arsenic, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting' Charges.
Ny. Markwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 68 Currie-st., Adel. ; 27 Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
Auckland, NZ.
AUSTRALIAN METAL GO. LTD.
1 St. James’s Buildings,
113 WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores.
Importers of Cyanide of Potassium (98/100 per oent.
pure), Bleaching 1 Powder, Mining Requisites,
Candles, etc.
“WILD CAT” BRIAR PIPES Wild
8
D.
ea.
IN A DOZEN DIFFERENT SHAPES.
Posted, lOd.; 6s. per Dozen —posted, 6s. Bd.; 725. per Gross—jtar Carriage Pree to any
Railway Station in New South Wales.
8
D.
ea.
Cat
WOOLP & CO,, 576 George-atreet (next C3r.3E*.o.>,
aiTOKTESir.
«r
Sr
kind would merely create an impression that the share-
holders expected something to drop and were standing
from under, but the Commercial isn’t of that category.
* » * *
The City Bank of Sydney goes on its small,
quiet way with but little variation. Some results are as
follows :
’ Total
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
Dec., 1894 .. £10,004 5 per cent. = £lO,OOO £108,275
June, 1895 .. 10,030 6 „ „ 10,000 108,305
Dec., 1895 .. 10,020 5 „ „ 10,000 108,325
June, 1596 .. 8,108 4 „ „ 8,000 108,433
Dec., 1896 .. 8,070 4 „ „ 8,000 108,503
June, 1897 .. 8,049 4 „ „ 8,000 108,552
Dec., 1897 .. 8,395 4 „ „ 8,000 108,947
June, 1898 .. 8,273 4 ~ „ 8,000 109,220
Dec., 1898 .. 8,053 4 ~ „ 8,000 109,273
June, 1899 .. 8,070 4 „ „ 8,000 109,343
Dec., 1899 .. 8,212 4 „ „ 8,000 109,555
June, 1900 .. 8,041 4 „ „ 8,000 109,596
Dec., 1900 .. 8,223 4 ~ „ 8,000 109,819
June, 1901 .. 8,105 4 ~ „ 8,000 109,924
The earnings represent £3 3s. 7d. per cent, per annum on
the shareholders’ funds —a very low rate, even in these
times. Judging by the continued painful exactitude of
the published earnings it may be presumed that the City
Bank still continues the process alluded to some years ago
by one of the directors—that it only shows enough profit
to pay a small dividend, and applies the remainder,
whatever it may be, to gradually write off deprecia-
tions, the extent of which is also unknown. Un-
fortunately there was never anything to show whether
the amount it was considered necessary to provide was
£3OOO or £lOO,OOO, or any other sum, or whether the bal-
ance of profits applied towards making up this unspecified
amount each half-year averaged £lOO or £2OOO, or any
other amount in particular. Therefore it is impossible to
say when the City Bank may be expected to emerge from
the period of small earnings and 4 per cent, dividends.
During the last half-year the management has wisely in-
creased its holding of State securities by £25,000 ; this
item now amounts to £50,000. The total liquid securities
stand at £342,272, equal to over 29 per cent, of all
liabilities to the public. Otherwise the business remains
about stationary. Since the great drop in 1892 and 1893
the City Bank’s “ deposits and other liabilities” have re-
mained so consistently stationary at a little over a million
that the fluctuation has never been more than £lOO,OOO
either _way. And in 6j years the visible reserves have
only increased by £1649. In almost every respect
stationariness appears to be the City Bank’s strong point.
* * * »
The Bank of Victoria:—
The earnings still maintain their steady increase, and are
the best recorded since 1893. They represent £3 17s. lid.
per cent, per annum on the shareholders’ funds as at be-
ginning of half-year, as compared with £3 15s. Id. per
cent, for previous half-year, which is a very material im-
proved vit. The business has been well maintained ; de-
posits show a slight increase ; and reserve of cash and
liquid securities is £1,638,011 —equal to rather over 29 per
cent, of all liabilities to other than shareholders, which
may be regarded as sufficient for all purposes. But
despite the general prosperity of the institution, there
is still room for doubt whether it wouldn’t be
much wiser to revert to the old 2J per cent, dividend to
ordinary shareholders. The addition made to the
reserves is £5061 this half-year, and £3840 last half, and,
unless the profits increase materially without any cor-
responding expansion of dividends, the process of re-
building the reserves won’t go on nearly fast enough to
constitute an adequate preparation for next panic year,
There is certain to be a next panic year, sooner or later,
and a large institution which only strengthens its posi-
tion to the extent of £B9Ol per annum isn’t building itself
up very fast.
* * * •
The Commercial Bank of Australia (or rather
that section of the institution of which the accounts are
published, as distinguished from the Assets Trust, which
is equally a part of the bank, but of which the accounts
are not visible to the ordinary eye), shows better results
than for any June half-year since 1892. Of course, as
there is no information issued to the public to show
whether the Assets Trust (which represents over £3,300,000
of the bank’s liabilities) has made £lO,OOO profit or
£40,000 loss for the half-year, it is impossible to say how
things really stand, but the outward and visible course of
events has been as follows :
Assuming that the Assets Trust Co. which is owned by
the bank, has exactly paid its way during the half-year
(about which the writer knows of no available evidence),
the earnings of the Commercial Bank are at the rate of
about £4 os. sd. per cent, on the shareholders’ funds as at
the beginning of the half-year. In that case the Commer-
cial has done moderately well. On the other hand, if the
£30,000 transferred to the Assets Trust was all required
to enable that institution to pay interest on its deposits,
then the Commercial Bank of Australia has only earned
£2 3s. 3d. per cent., in which case it would have done
very badly, and there would be reason to suspect an ulti-
mate necessity for another heavy writing down. The in-
teresting feature of the published balance-sheet is that it
doesn’t throw much more light on the earnings of the
whole Commercial Bank than it does on the Chinese
surplus.
During the half-year the visible part of the
Commercial Bank of Australia has progressed on the
whole. Of its reconstructed deposits another £316,829
has been paid off, leaving only £645,989 still due. As
the total deposits have diminished by only £279,651, it is
evident that some advance has been made. Cash and
liquid securities (£1,199,732) are £327,214 less than they
were six months ago, as the natural result of this repay-
ment, but they still represent over 29 per cent, of all
liabilities to the public. The position of the visible part
of the Commercial Bank of Australia is very solid, and it
has the magnificent paid-up capital of £3,250,821 —the
largest paid-up banking capital in Australasia. Also,
when capital and reserves are all included, the Commer-
cial of Australia only comes behind one other institution
—the Bank of N.S.W. —in total resources. Even if all
the assets of its Assets Trust went wrong—an absolutely
impossible supposition, of course—it would still be solvent
so far as its depositors are concerned, however bad things
might be for the shareholders.
As regards the Assets Trust there is, so far as
the writer is aware, no information to show what the
earnings, expenditure, profit or loss, or amount of assets
still on hand may be. What progress is made at realising
the assets is a mystery. What cash is on hand is a
mystery. What the Trust may be making by repurchase
of its deposits is a mystery. The £60,000 a year paid to
the Trust by the bank may be sufficient or insufficient or
more than sufficient to cover losses—there is nothing to
show. The signs may be that in the end the Trust will
wind up with a big surplus that will go a long way to
replace the bank’s lost reserves, or will wind up with a
loss that will eat up most of the bank’s ordinary capital—
the published balance-sheet doesn’t explain. All that can
be gathered is that the deposits of the Assets Trust are
being repaid at this rate :
Half-year to Half-year to
June, 1897 .. £27,907 December, 1899.. £20,682
December, 1897.. 41,949 June, 1900 .. 12,715
June, 1898 .. 45,474 December, 1900.. 25,138
December, 1898.. 56,591 June, 1901 .. 30,606
June, 1899 .. 26,525
Therefore in 4J years the Commercial Bank’s Assets Trust
has paid off only £287,587 of its reconstructed deposits,
reducing them from £3,642,001 to £3,354,414. During
the same period the bank has assisted the Assets Trust by
transferring £293,000 from its profits. Judging by these
proceedings, the process of realising the Trust’s assets
is exceedingly slow, which doesn’t suggest any too well
for the assets. If this rate of progress is maintained, the
final cleaning-up won’t come till 1950. All the Trust’s
deposits fall due in 1916, so there must be an intention to
accelerate things by-and-bye, when the market improves.
Meanwhile all this mystery is bad for the institution.
Also it is a wildly absurd reflection on the Vie. Banking
Act, and suggests an urgent need to fix the Federal
Banking Act very differently. Apparently there is
nothing to prevent a bank putting £11,500,000 out of
£11,600,000 liabilities and assets into an allegedly separate
co. and thereafter publishing no information about them,
and even refusing to say why it publishes no information.
If Gilbert had only written an opera about a Japanese
bank run on these lines it might have amused the public
a good deal, though the idea that it was possible to really
run a bank on these lines [would never have occurred to
the public.
* * * *
The management of the Royal Bank of Queens-
land has a scheme on hand for the enlargement of the
institution. At present Queensland has three banks. The
Queensland National Bank has no paid-up capital at all
if its accounts are put on a logical basis, and it lives on
the concessions of its creditors. Its nominal paid-up
capital (£412,922) and nominal reserve (£21,000) aren’t
nearly sufficient to make good the shortage in its deposits.
(The shortage that is being paid out of earnings.) The
Bank of North Queensland has only £lOO,OOO capital and
£11,860 reserves, so it is but a small concern. The
Royal, with £385,187 capital and £55,402 reserves, is the
largest of the three, but it is also a small concern. There
is room in Queensland for a large local bank which doesn’t
give unsecured overdrafts to shady politicians, to take
up the place once held by the fallen and discredited
Q.N.8., but the Royal requires much more capital to fill
the position. It is proposed, at the end of this year, to
pay off the remaining £45,915 of its reconstructed
deposits. It is also proposed to call up another £1 per
share, which will provide £70,034, and make the paid-up
capital £455,221. The £9 shares will then be £6 10s.
paid up.
With a view to raising still more money with
which to extend the business there are these alterna-
tives : The remaining £2 10s. per share may be called up,
but this would only yield £175,085 at the best, and
Queensland shareholders are none too well able to pay
calls just now. Or there may be a fresh issue of ordinary
shares, but the present dividend is only 2£ per cent, and
the ordinary shareß, £5 10s. paid up, are selling at about
£3. Outsiders would not take up at par ordinary shares
which they can buy in the open market at a heavy dis-
count ; and if the present shareholders took them up
it would be just the same as making a call. The
management, therefore, proposes to issue £300,000 worth
of preference capital (30,000 £lO shares) with a first claim
on dividends up to 3J per cent. If the bank increased its
available funds by getting £300,000 more fixed deposits
(which it probably could get if it looked for them ener-
getically) they would also cost 3J per cent., and it would
be necessary to keep a cash reserve against them in case
of large withdrawals at maturity, so they would cost
more than the preference capital would, and have just
the same preference as against the ordinary shareholder.
The issue of preference capital appears to be the best
possible idea in the circumstances.
* * * *
Progress of the Queensland National Bank since
its last reconstruction :
The nominal net profit (£12,000, after writing off £16,350)
is equal to £5 11s. sd. per cent, per annum on the nominal
capital and reserves (£430,922) with which the half-year
commenced. But everything (including the reserve-fund
of £21,000) is so nominal about this institution that these
are matters of small account.
• * • •
The balance-sheet of the Queensland National
Bank is really only a hilarious joke, and doesn’t even pro-
fess to give reliable information about the bank’s posi-
tion. If it showed the position absolutely there would be
no capital and no reserve-fund, and an enormous shortage
as well. The principal troubles are these : In 1897 one-
fourth of the private deposits were written-off and ceased
to bear interest, and were removed out of the balance-
sheet, and the amount thus provided was utilised to write
off lost assets with. But this immense sum is to be paid
out of profits, so it remains a liability in this sense that
until it is liquidated the shareholders can get no divi-
dends. The amount was never accurately stated, but it
was apparently about £1,038,000, and in four years
£42,000 has been provided for. A sum of about £458,000
of Government deposits also ceased to bear interest and
was supposed to be nominally written off (yet to be
repaid out of profits—amount repaid to date, £21,000)
in order to allow of writing off another £468,000
of losses. But as this £458,000 was never even
nominally written off, but remained in the balance-
sheet, it is presumed that the £458,000 of dubious
assets continued to appear as good in order to square the
accounts. Then, in addition to the £21,000 repaid to
Government and £42,000 to private depositors in the
past four years, £106,445 has been provided to write-off
unspecified losses, as to amount of which there is no reli-
able information whatever. Apparently this has some-
thing to do with alleged assets called “ Private Ledger
Accounts ; Debts in Suspense pending realisation of
Securities.” These now stand at £617,898, and it seems
possible that when they are all cleared off, and the
£990,000 or so due to private depositors (which doesn’t
appear among the liabilities) is paid, the Q.N. Bank will
be about right, unless there are other losses, or unless
further losses are made in the meantime.
At December, 1897, the shadowy “suspense
account ” asset stood at £742,835. Since then it has been ■
reduced by these amounts :
June, 1898 .. £ll,BlO June, 1900 .. £17,925
December, 1898 20,013 December,fL9oo 21,166
June, 1899 .. 16,000 June, 1901 .. 23,036
December, 1899 14,987
This spectral asset now stands at £617,898, a sum of
£124,937 having been written off. Presumably the
£106,415 written off out of earnings has mostly gone to
this account, at which rate the assets in suspense are
doing very little for themselves by process of realisation.
A balance-sheet like this is a shrieking burlesque. If the
object of a balance-sheet is (as commonly supposed) to
show the position of a bank, and not to conceal it, the
“ debts in suspense ” and all other dubious items should
be written down to bed-rock, the amounts nominally
written off the private deposits should be restored to
their place among the liabilities, and the total deficit
should be put in plain figures among the assets. Then
the whole amount by which the deficit is reduced would
be deducted in each half-yearly statement, and the exact
progress of the institution on its way back to solvency
would become apparent. Also, the £250,000 or so of
uncalled capital should be called up; all the capital,
except a nominal amount, written off in reduction of the
shortage ; and the absurd pretence of putting money to
a reserve fund when there is still a huge deficit should be
abandoned, and the reserve also written off. By some
such methods as these the Queensland National Bank
might be put on its feet again before the present gener-
ation is quite dead.
» * m *
The Trustees, Executors and Agency Co. (Mel-
bourne), whose balance-sheet appeared in the advertising
columns of last week’s issue, shows these results :
Profits. Dividends. Relieves.
June, 1893.. £4,657 , = £ll2 > 962
Dec., 1893.. 3,908 “ 25!oOo} 88 ’ 120
June, 1894 .. 2,288 7£ per cent. = 2,250 88,158
Dec., 1894.. 2,265 7 % „ = 2,250 88,173
June, 1895 .. 304 Nil 88,477
Dec., 1895 .. 256 Written off .. 45,000 43,733
June, 1896 .. 1,702 4 per cent. = 1,200 44,235
Dec., 1896.. 1,779 5 .1,500 44,514
June, 1897 .. 1,757 5 „ 1,500 44,771
Dec., 1897 .. 1,705 5 „ = 1,500 44,976
June, 1898.. 1,722 5 1,500 45,198
Dec., 1898.. 1,101 {fplrcenf = IS} 2 ’ 799
June, 1899 .. 1,954 5 „ 1,500 3,253
Dec., 1899 .. 2,693 5 „ 2,250 3,696
June, 1900 .. 3,971^
Assets writ- V 5 = 2,250 6,817
ten up .. 1,400 )
Dec., 1900.. 3,746 5 „ 2,250 8,313
June, 1901 .. 2,795 5 „ 2,250 8,858
The Trustees, Executors and Agency 00. is slowly build-
ing up its reserves again, but the process is very gradual;
also the decline in the profits as compared with the two
previous half-years is disappointing. Further, the co.,
in its list of assets, values 2800 A.D. and M. Bank prefer-
ence shares at £2BOO and £14,000 worth of A.D. and M.
deposits at £l4,ooo—total £16,800, whereas the selling
value of the lot at present quotations is only about
£14,800. Though these securities will almost certainly
be ultimately worth more than the values set against
them, on present values the reserves are really about
£2OOO less than even the small sum which appears on
paper.
Despite fluctuations, however, the Trustees,
Executors and Agency 00. appears to be making a little
headway. Two continuous troubles are that it holds a
leasehold which, during the last 12 months, cost £550
more in rent than it produced ; also that it has £20,000
mortgage on its premises, and £21,400 invested, mostly in
the luckless A.D. and M. Bank, to meet the liability when
it falls due, and last year the interest going out on the
£20,000 owing exceeded by £349 the amount which the
£21,400 investment brought in. These two disastrous
speculations have been a drain on the co. for a good many
years, and they absorb about one-seventh of last year’s
profits. The other investments, mostly State securities
and mortgages, yield about 4 per cent, on their face value
and appear sufficiently solid. But the earnings don’t by
any means justify the 5 per cent, dividend. Out of the 13
trustee co.’s of Australia six certainly pay a higher divi-
dend, extending up to 8 per cent., but that is another
story. A co. with £90,000 paid-up capital, and, on the
most favorable computation, only £BB5B of reserves, is a
very weak concern to run a trustee business in which it
has charge of over £6,380,000 of other people’s property.
And at the present rate of progress it will take a very long
time to build itself up into a solid concern again.
* * * •
Overflow Mines, N.S.W. : Another booming
report: “ The brickwork is being completed, and the
bricks are of excellent quality ; the ironwork has all
arrived for the waterjacket, also in good condition ; the
lead and copper refiners are going up, also ore-bins, and
everything is promised to be ready for blowing in about
two or three months.” Up to date, alas ! it has been
mostly blowing-out with the Overflow. A good mine that
has suffered from bad management, and the writer is
very doubtful if the present is much better.
* * * •
N.S.W. gold mines: “ Grassy Gully ” buyers,
2s ; sellers, 4s. What has become of this mine ? Something
is shut up—either the management or the mine. Which
is it ? Mount David : buyers, Id. ; sellers, 3d. No busi-
ness-margin too wide. This co. is going into reconstruc-
tion. Liquidation would be much better; it has been
proved too poor to pay. Some people still have faith in
it but that doesn’t produce enough gold. North Bushy
Hill: seller, 2s. 9d. ; no buyer. If they were offered at
that per doz. business would not eventuate. Peak Hill :
buyers, 2s. ; sellers, 2s. 9d. No biz. Many others have
dropped out altogether. N.S.W. is not a gold-mining
country.
* * » *
N.S.W. dredges: Turon No. 1,15 oz. for a week;
Turon No. 2,140 z. for a week—so it is quite evident that
neither has got into “ the good ground around the
corner,” so often talked of by the good old Sabbath tip-
ster. Most dredges, according to newspapers, are ap-
proaching better ground, but never seem to arrive there ;
and, as to gold-reefs, they are always widening and
getting richer with depth. Dredges nearly all seem
somehow to start on the very worst ground. Araluen
Proprietary, 220 z. ; Araluen Central, 340 z.; Oolumbo,
16oz. There are 15 dredges on the Shoalhaven River and
its tributaries. Three or four are paying, half of them
are not; several are closed down, and others soon will be.
* * * •
North Mt. Lyell, Tas. : Owing to the inability
of certain co.’s to bear their proportion of financial re-
sponsibility connected with the erection of the smelting-
plant, the whole expense has now to be borne by the
North Lyell Co. The Board is satisfied that “ the under-
taking will ultimately prove profitable, but no divs.
need be expected until the furnaces are paid for, and in
operation.” Is it understood then, that out of the shipping
of thousands of tons of high-grade ore, and the smelting
of a much greater quantity at Mt. Lyell, nothing is left
to pay for the furnaces ?
* * * *
Vie. gold production for first half of year shows
a decrease of 12,7550 z,, attributable to the falling-off in
the returns from the S. German Long Tunnel, Long
Tunnel Extended, South Glenfine, Garden Gully, and
other mines.
* * * *
Burbanks, a few miles south of Coolgardie:
May return was the record—2o37oz. That of last month
not yet known in Australia, but writer is advised that it
will be equal to this. Mine looks as well as it has done
for years, and Prof. Nicholas, who has had control of this
show since it was opened—first for the old Melb. co. and
then for the English crowd that took it over—is now re-
linquishing the general management. It has been an
anxious mine to work and develop, the reefs being small,
erratic, and in very hard rock. He has done his best to
regulate the output, and has succeeded right through as
well as any other man in W.A., and having made the
mine a success he proposes now to devote all his time
once more to consulting mining-engineer work.


Complete
Outfits.
sd
AN ORIENT BOOTHS-
-16/6
AN ORIENT SUIT^
ALL GLASSES OF GARMENTS
.. IN TIIE . .
‘lrient To Pleasure” Clothing
.. AT ..
PRICES^
Write for Particulars and Patterns.
PAVIP JONCS & COMPANY,
George 8t Barrack Sts., Sydoey
HAR
66
KING
5
T
Forget all your troubles,
Reverses and debts,
In peaceful enjt) .nent of
HOME CIGARETTES
SOCIETY
LEROY
LIQUEUR
BRANDY
Adelaide has again made the Duke blush.
Kissy Ware did the deed on the first occasion.
The second performance was at the review, where
a gin-case (neatly covered witli red cloth, if you
please !) was placed by the royal charger by some
patriotic official to enable His Royal Shortness to
mount. He ignored the step, however, and
got into the saddle unaided.
* ■ * *
At the Adelaide review, when Royalty left
the pavilion, men and women dashed in to sit in
the chair that the Duchess had occupied. Also
when she planted a tree in the Botanical Gardens
they fought for chunks of the mould which had
been removed in the process and kissed the handle
of the spade that had been used ! They would
have drunk the water in which she washed her
hands. Truly a loyal people !
* * * *
The pea-hens which the Duke of York shot
at Buckland Park, near Adelaide, were fed with
wheat on the morning of the visitation, and were
then driven down into the orangery. It was
really like asking a man into the poultry-yard,
or into a zoological garden enclosure, to invite a
A TESTIMONIAL.
HER ACQUAINTANCE: “ This friend of yours, could I trust her to keep a secret?”
HER FRIEND: “ Well, she's kept all sorts of other things Eve trusted her with.”
sportsman to knock these birds over. Forty fell
to the guns of the party, so that the two peacocks
the King is giving to Adelaide Zoo are more than
compensated for. The Duchess took no interest
in the slaughter of the fowls (which were after-
wards distributed among Adelaide charitable
institutions) but found enjoyment in a more
creditable way—watching exhibitions of buck-
jumping and bullock-riding.
o • » »
Adelaide’s celebrations in “ honor ” of
York’s visit cost the State £lB,OOO and, so far as
is known, the only assets remaining are a few
empty cigar-cases, also a few autographed photos.
left behind by the royal pair. Apparently
Adelaide’s Mayor and Aldermen spent £lOOO of
citizens’ money and got nothing !
* * * *
There was dismay among the drivers
attached to what is perhaps the largest livery-
stable in Adelaide whin the order went forth that
they were all to be clean-shaven during the visit
of the Yorks. One man, who had spent half a
lifetime in cultivating a fine beard, was in despair,
It was only the possession of a wife and many
children that induced him to obey. Also, it was
a barberous command to issue in the depths of
winter
♦ * * *
Adelaide’s capacity for Gor’ Save aston-
ished the Jook. On his arrival at the Schools’
display the children sang one verse of the Han-
them, and he doffed his hat and prepared
to sit right royally, but 5000 juvenile voices got on
to the second verse, and promptly brought him to
attention. At the end of this verse the Jook, feel-
ing secure, again tried to seek repose, but it was
ncT go. The youngsters waded into the third
verse. At the end of this York remained stand-
ing, wondering, no doubt, if S.A. had invented
any additions to the national agony,
» * * •
Mayor Ware of Adelaide has absolutely no
luck in the Royal presence. When the Yorks
arrived at the Town Hall His Worship would not
speak till the band stopped playing “God Save.”
The Jookandutch gazed up him with wild-eyed
apprehension wondering wuat surprise he was
going to spring on them this time. As it was,
York (toothache-tortured) refused to leave his
carriage.
* * * *
The worst that happened 'to the Duke in
S. Aus. was the Register’s treasonable
publication of a fac simile of a Royal message
sent per pigeon from Buckland Park to Adelaide :
“We only got about 25 ducks this morning, ex-
pect to get some peacocks this afternoon.” The
“fist” is a schoolboy’s ; the punctuation and the
composition are shocking. The Advertiser did
what it could short of suppressing the Sacred
Screed ; it didn’t expose the character, or lack of
it, in the handwriting, and it fixed up the Prince’s
punctuation.
* • • *
The hanging-up of the Ophir outside Port
Adelaide because the captain would not then
risk taking her up the creek which they call
the Port River, has set some Adelaide people
clamoring again for an outer harbor. Close upon
£900,000 has been spent on the dredging of the
creek, and the expense will have to go on. As
usual they might get harbor works if they could
agree on a site, but they can’t—some want them
at Largs Bay, where the mail steamers now
anchor ; others want them at Marino, further
down the gulf. Curiously, S. Aus. has practically
only one other port where any shipping worth
mentioning calls. That is Port Pirie, only a few
miles north of Adelaide. Port Augusta, though
deserted, has many natural advantages. But
vested interests are mighty,
**• * .
In the (Adelaide) crowd waiting for
Royalty. Deadbeat selling George-May “favors” :
“ Photos, of the Dook and Dookess ! ” Loyal
Rustic: “Garn! It ain’t ‘Dookess’!” Dead-
beat : “ All right, then—Dutch and Duchess.”
Which isn t far wrong,
* * * *
The Jook presented Col. Madley, S.A.
Police Commissioner, with autograph photos of
himself and his merry duchess. Two days later
he did the very same to the mounted constable
who had been on duty at Govt. House. This, no
doubt, has given the facetious Madley much food
for thought. Some years ago, when Madley left
their ranks the school teachers rose as one man
and presented him with his own shadow. Madley
retaliated by lecturing them for an hour on some-
thing or other m a tone of voice like unto that
assumed by Geo. Reid when about to bait Charlie
Kingston. , . .
m . . , ~, . ■» , ,
They were so anxious at Adelaide about
the Duke’s safety that a reputable citizen, who
happened at 2 o’clock one morning to walk past
Govt House gates, was challenged by the sentry
and had a rifle presented at . him because lie
ventured to walk on the inside instead of the out-
side of the footpath^
*.,, , . ,
An applicant for an old age pension called
at the Sydney office last week for his first pay-
ment. On being told that his first payment was
not due until the first week in August, he repre-
sented that he wanted it before then. He ex-
plained that he was 72 years of age, and quite
unable to work for a living. His wife had pre-
sented him that morning with a son and heir, and
he sorely needed the pension-money to provide
necessaries in connection with the event.
* * * *
An old Ballaratarian, over 70, has been
sent to gaol for working a fraud on the Old Age
Pension scheme whereby he drew two pensions.
He had only drawn the dual allowance once when
caught. He had a record for minor offences, but
two years is an outrageous penalty for his fraud,
and seems to arise from the opinion of Superior
Persons that the old age pensioner should be Put
Down.
» • * *
Dear Bulletin.—l have seen much in the
newspapers lately re old age pensioners in this
State (Vic.), being found under the blighting in-
fluence of Drink, and the same influence has been
brought to bear to deprive several old people of
their allowances under the Act. What amazes me is
this : I know quite a number of civil service pen-
sioners who get pickled with unfailing regularity.
My neighbor on the right is a C.S. pensioner, and
“he won’t go home till morning” every sedbnd
day. Will you please publish the names and
addresses of these people and the dates and nature
of their drunks if I supply the facts ? And will you
please ascertain why the pensioners in question
are not se’verely admonished by purple Justices in
language flavored with whisky and the odour of
sanctity ? There seems to be some kind of an
anomaly knocking round here, and I’m anxious to
place it. Yours, C.M.G.
* * * *
Fully a hundred bank-clerks bet ween 20
and 30 years of age in Sydney and suburbs are
paid less than the minimum 7s. a day.
* * * *
“ V.” : Be the lack of effective fire-escapes.
Hordern’s big building was a haven of safety
compared to some others. Know of a large
Sydney warehouse six storeys high where the
staircase runs up but to the second floor, the five
higher floors being reached by the lift only. In
the event of a fire on either the first or second
floors, the lift, acting as a flue, would probably
be the first thing to become unmanageable, so that
the half-a-hundred “hands” on the top floors
would meet a fate which makes one shudder to
think of. Isn’t it about time the builders of these
edifices were compelled to provide proper protec-
tion ? Also, re the amount of senseless abuse that
has been showered on the policeman who pre-
vented the tarpaulin being held for Clegg to jump
into at Hordern’s fire. He was quite justified in
doing so, experts agreeing that Clegg would have
landed therein as a dead weight of six tons.
Fancy a dozen men with a tarpaulin catching six
tons!
* » * •
Sydney’s recent three big fires teach a few
lessons. The victims of the Hordern blaze were
certainly sacrificed to the economising of ground-
space by piling storey upon storey till it becomes
practically impossible to fight a fire which has
once secured a hold, or to rescue persons from the
upper floors. Quite hopeless, by-the-way, was the
idea of saving poor Clegg’s life by getting him to
jump into a tarpaulin. From that height—l3o to
140 feet—he would fall in three seconds, and
strike said tarpaulin with a velocity of 80 feet per
second (equal, if he was a 10-stone man, to a
momentum of 5 foot-tons.
1 sec. 16 16
2 „ 16 x3= 48
3 „ 16 X 5= 80
144
The use of rockets in such cases might possibly
be effective if the rocket-apparatus were on the
spot, but, at best, rockets are extremely erratic in
their flight, and it is a nice problem in gunnery as
to whether a rocket could be thrown over a build-
ing (say) 140 feet high, from the other side of a
street (say) 2 chains wide. The path of the rocket
would be a parabolic curve, and the “ line of
sight ” would be a tangent to it making an angle
of probably 75° with the horizon. Again, if the
wind were blowing across the rocket’s path, the
missile might carry the line very wide of its mark.
On the whole the “mortar appliance” seems
preferable, since the shell carrying the line is
smaller and heavier, and therefore less liable to be
deflected than the rooket.
THE “ARGUS” TO-DAY AND
TO-MORROW.
One of the sights at Hordern’s fire \va; a
little man with a redundant corporation rushing
around with a slab of burning material fast on his
beautiful tall hat, which'was beginning to smoke
nicely. Everybody carefully refrained from telling
him about it till he passed a fireman whose pro-
fessional instincts overcame his sense of humor,
and he promptly turned the 140 to the square-inch
hose upon the peripatetic conflagration, and
washed the little man clean out of sight.
NOT IN HIS SOUL.
THE LADY'S HACK: “ I saw a poor hawse just
now with a monstrous load on him, Maudie,
dear; and I spoke to his driver and rebuked
him. ”
THE LADY: “ And did he ease his load, dear?’,
THE HACK: “ Oh, no! He just looked at me a
minute, and said: ‘ Gerrout, you big, fat
chump.' Now, I am NOT very big or very
fat, am I, Maudie, dear?”
During his visit to M.L. the Jook*was to
have traversed the province's show railway line
—the Rimutaka incline; but owing to bad
weather and consequent fear of slips? on the hill,
the trip was abandoned. It would never do for
Maorilaud to have killed royalty. The many
thousands of people who use this mountain-line
every year do not, of course, matter, but the
sooner the line is deviated, or closed, the better.
It is not an engineering triumph—it is an example
of brute strength in a mechanical form, and if
that strength failed, as it easily might do, up
would go the price of coffins. By means of power-
ful machinery gripping a centre rail the Fell
engines—always two to a train, usually more —lift
huge excursion trains 1000 ft. in eight miles, and
take about 40 minutes to do it—it all depends on
the state of the weather. At some points the
ferns on the cliffs brush the carriage- windows, and
the havoc a land-slide would work on a train is
easily imagined, especially if the drop on t’other
side is taken into consideration. Had the
engineer who built the line, by ingenious twisting
and tunnelling, secured a fairly reasonable grade,
the work would deserve praise; but, as it is, it is not
only extiemely dangerous, but involves a crimiml
waste of power. The noise caused by the exhaust
steam of several Fell engines is somethii g
hideous, and on a dark night, with the furrace
light reddening the steam and smoke and the
black mountain peaks towering above, a stranger
might easily wonder what he had struck. A
couple of brake-vans accompany each engine.
The brake being composed of two iron shots
clutching the centre rail, a blaze of light is visible
even in daylight, and the shoes are worn out in
one trip. Taking into account the fact that two
passenger-trains each way, and perhaps a dozen or
more freight-trains are hauled up and lowerel
down that awful hill daily, it’s no wonder that
those eight miles are reckoned in the train-rates
as 24.
* * * •
Dear Bulletin. —Hard to imagine a grosser
piece of military injustice than the refusal of
S.A.’s monocled haw-haw commandant to confirm
to De Passey his lieutenancy —fairly earned upon
active service in S’Africa. De Passey showed
himself a man all the way up, but now it seen is
he’s not so ornamental as his gilded superior
thinks necessary for commissioned rank. S.A.
is about the only State that would stand such a
piece of howling snobbery.—A.B.T.
An enthusiast ic Ballarater struck the bed-
rock of bathos during the recent jookfooling in
that city. In a wail to the local papers he
deplored the fact that the Jook passed the Sturt-
street statue of his late grandma “ without taking
the slightest notice of it ” —which dreadful occur-
rence he attributed to the refusal of the councillors
to accept a former suggestion of his own, viz., that
said statue should be draped in mourning on the
occasion of the Royal visit. His idea, he proudly
explained, was that the procession, when passing
the statue, should halt, and the various performers
therein should get out of their vehicles and
“ stand reverently around for a while.” Impres-
sive pictui'e—a drove of fat aldermen “standing
reverently around” and “sayin’ nuffin” till they
got tired of it.
THE GULF BETWEEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ The Day is white,”
The black Night said ;
“And I grow sad
And would be wed.
Heart sick am I
For bridal-bed.
“ Times past it seem’d
The gulf between
More narrow grew ;
And stars have been
Beside the sun
At midday seen.
“It may not be.
Night cannot wed
The bright white Day.
Yet, all hope dead.
Heart-sick am I
For bridal-bed.”
W.A.
PROSPECT GOOD.


\l
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
only—largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 16'5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Sydney.
HEALTH
Restored in a Dose.
AND
RAFFAN’S
CATARRH
REMEDY. -
STRENGTH
55 ELGIN ST., CARLTON, OR 3 GARROWAY’S,
QUEEN’S WALK, MELBOURNE.
Queenslander writes: “Your Remedy hasworked a
complete change on me. I never, before, realised so
much benefit from the use of medicine.”
The PUREST WHISKEY
in the World . . .
GEO. ROE & CO.
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.
Australasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager
BEANS
c»4^
USNESS
AND
LIVER
BSSEB
The latest edition of the lover who goes
crazy because he cannot have the girl who serves
out the drinks all for his very own, appeared sud-
denly in the dress-circle bar of Her Majesty’s
(Sydney) last Saturday night. There he flourished
his revolver, as the baffled pirate used to wave his
sword before he vanished in the pale moonlight,
exclaimed tragically, “ If I can’t have you, no one
else will! ” and fired three shots at Hebe Jenkins.
One bullet passed through the side of her head,
one penetrated below the breast, and the other
struck the other Hebe somewhere in the leg.
Interviewed by the Telegraph the woman in the
hospital said: “Beale” (the man under arrest)
“is an old sweetheart of mine, but I have other
enemies who might have fired the shots ; and con-
sidering I did not see the shots fired, I could not
possibly say who is the man.” “ Other enemies
who might have fired the shots ! ” More baffled
competitors for the lily-white hand which serves
out the drinks !
* * * *
No sooner had Findley been expelled than
pretty well every third back-block Council in
Victoria resol u ted a cordial commendation of
Peacock’s “backbone.” Not one in a thousand
of these mediocrities had read the Tocsin article,
which had an exceedingly small circulation at best.
Writer has met dozens of Melbourne men of the
bell-topper and frock-coated class in the last few
days, not one of whom had the slightest idea of
the alleged libel. Most of them had never heard
of either the Irish People or the Tocsin. But all
these respectable gentry were quite solid that
Findley was a scurrilous, disgraceful libeller, who
had said “something,” and a man to be kept out
of the House at all hazards. What hypocritical
frauds these Jingoes are !
* * * *
N.S.W. chess championship is being
played for the first time this month. Eleven com-
petitors entered, including Jacobsen and Wallace,
two ex-champions of Australasia. The issue was
supposed to rest between them, but owing to the
latter unaccountably losing all his form, the tour-
ney has been shorn of much of its interest.. At
the end of round 4 Wallace had not won a single
game. Jacobsen should win the event comfort-
ably.
* * * *
Another Melbourne victim of plenty to eat
and little to do was Colonel Kent Johnston, sec.
of the Australian Club. Seems that recently
there had been a club stock-taking, and because a
few forks and spoons were missed the Colonel,
“very sensitive,” and “very lame from gout,”
got it on his mind that he would be discharged for
gross negligence or something. So he wrote a
farewell letter, denouncing himself as a coward,
and then made his exit with a dose of cyanide
of potassium. A nice, clean means of departing
ASTRONOMICAL.
London, Thursday.—Professor Pickering, of the Harvard University (N.Y.),
has photographed snow on the moon.
And this is what may be seen on any clear night by the aid of a
strong glass (say, of Coogee whisky)—the Man in the Moon disport-
ing himself as above.
this life, but in all other respects as absurd as the
suicide of James Sherrard, sec. to the Exhibition-
building trustees, who went up to the dome and
hanged himself some months ago.
* * * *
A much bigger job than was expected will
be the removal of the remains from the old
Devonsh ire-street cemetery, Sydney. In order to
avoid the possible overlooking of any remnants of
mortality, every foot of the ground is to be turned
over; and it is expected that, in addition to the
GOOO bodies already removed, at least 50,000 will
yet have to be shifted to the new cemetery at La
Perouse, to which a special tram has been con-
structed for the purpose.
From the Australasian Medical Ga-
zette :
Diphtheria in N.S.W., Victoria, and Queensland shows
a death-rate in the four years preceding the introduction
of antitoxin of 44’4 per 100,000 of the mean population ;
while in the four years after its introduction the rate was
only 18'7 per 100,000. On a population of nearly
3,000,000, this represents a saving of about 3000 lives.
In 1875 diphtheria killed 1 in 2808, and last year only 1
in 11,054.
This one item is a partial answer to the question:
“Is the community any better for the advances of
medicine ? ” On the other hand, the deaths from
cancer have, awful to relate, increased from 1 in
4421 in 1875 to 1 in 1685 last year !
* * * *
A feat suggestive of Jeanie Deans has been
performed by two nice-looking little Invercargill
(M.L.) boys (sons of a dustman) who ran away from
home to see the Dook. They walked nearly 200
miles, took short cuts through one or more railway
tunnels, lived on turnips, and slept in haystacks !
Arriving in Dunedin with no assets but two pair
of sore feet, they were taken over by the admiring
city fathers, who boarded them in an hotel free,
appointed a nurse and matron to cure the injured
extremities, and finally clothed them in new white
flannels and drove them in a hansom to see
the Dook. The Royal pair praised and head-
patted them and otherwise behaved in a way cal-
culated to make other small children annoy and
harass their parents by running away to see
foreign visitors. They are so celebrated by this
time that their father will probably be afraid to
spank them when they get home. It will seem
almost as sacrilegious as spanking the Duke him-
self, or the Archbishop of Canterbury.
* * * *
The China Inland Mission (Protestant),
which owned 58 of the 134 missionaries killed in
the late outbreak, declines to seek compensation.
That is good. The man who takes religion to a
people takes his chances. If the people don’t
want him, and kill or eat him, that’s in the office.
* * * *
Maoriland has a ‘‘ universal ” penny post-
age system now, but the fly in the ointment is
the refusal of Victoria to accept M.L. letters
bearing only a Id. stamp. It is apparently
done out of pure cussedness, for each State keeps
its own postages, and if M.L. is content with a
penny it seems to be exclusively its own affair.
But Vic. post office made quite a little revenue by
levying 2d. fine on the recipients of all such letters
for “deficient postage.” The difficulty has now
been surmounted. The Maorilander posts his
letter for Melbourne with a penny stamp on it,
and the Government sticks on another stamp at
its own expense. It only costs the Government
the paper and gum.
During the York
visitation of Melbourne,
devout ladies on their
way to early Mass sud-
denly encountered, upon
turning a corner, a man
picturesquely attired in a
shirt and a pair of socks,
who promptly avoided
identification by hoisting
the former garment over
his head—hood fashion —■
and sprinting round the
corner out of sight. In-
discreet confidences on
the part of his wife,
however, afterwards
“ placed ” him as a well-
known business - man,
who, returning from a
royal drunk, lay down
and slumbered upon the
cold ground, awaking
with the dawn to find
himself denuded of all
but the garments afore-
said.
* *
The Bulletin de-
sires to move that when
the Federal Parliament
/ establishes a minimum
I wage law for all Australia
it spreads far enough to
include a living wage for
Salvarmy officers. It is
time the sweated
preacher at next-to-
nothing a month had
some consideration.
Likewise an eight-hour
movement and a mini-
mum wage for the re-
formed Flossie, who is
now enslaved at the
Army’s sacred wash-tub
for 10 or 12 hours a day
at nothing per week, except spiritual consolation,
is very urgently wanted.
* * * •
A 17-year-old damsel was lately before
Ballarat Bench for vagrancy and, while awaiting
trial, her fancy Chow brought her a toothsome
breakfast, after enjoying which she rewarded
him with kisses and hugs to the great scan-
dal of the blushful beholding bobbies. Ques-
tioned by one constable as to “ why the divil she
took-up wid a dirty Chinaman ? ” she nearly
paralysed him by remarking “that she’d rather
marry a Chinaman than a copper any day ! ” It is
understood that when the young lady has per-
formed her allotted “ moon ” she will become the
bride of the aforesaid slant-eyed idolator.
A VISION OF THE FUTURE .
FOND AUNTIE (who has just been telling a fairy-tale about a mermaid):
“And now, Billy, what do you see in the water? ”
LITTLE BILLIE : “Barmaids.”
The N.S.W. Imperial “ Bushmen’s ”
Welcome Home to Sydney was reported in
Saturday’s newspapers as a most enthusiastic
success. As a matter of fact it was a dreadfully
tame affair ; livening up at the tail end under the
influence of beer and lemonade. The Mayor and
the Premier both spoke to the reporters—they
were so uninteresting in their hideously stereotyped
remarks about Empiah and spilt blood as to be
inaudible to the inattentive audiences. Colonel
Mackay’s reception by his men was an intensely
cool demonstration. Lieut.-Gov. Darley was
whole-heartedly cheered when he rose to speak,
and smilingly went through the hand-
shaking with the 400 warriors who returned to
receive the half-crown medal. Thereafter the
thirsty alleged bushies retired to the refreshment
booths under the -galleries, and after liberal beers
began throwing biscuits and oranges to longing
maidens giggling in the gallery. Noise increased
in proportion to the imbibition of beer; and when
the musical programme was announced only three
artists had the courage to face the din. Miss
Fanny Walker warbled complacently and in-
audibly while the warriors chucked oranges to the
gallery girls. Laurence Campbell caine out, and
was understood to recite a verse of “Fighting
Bobs,” after which he turned on his heel and went
off. Albert Whelan attempted a turn or two, but
gracefully gave way to the noise. And yet the
dailies announced that the programme was gone
through by well-known artists, and the inaudible
speeches were reported at length. By the way,
when is Premier See going to hire a ghost capable
of prompting him to say something at least semi-
interesting ?
* * * *
Australia’s returned cohentingeter is grow-
ing to be a bumptious and insufferable nuisance.
His latest development occurred at Melbourne.
A quantity of warrior was deposited at that city
from South Africa, and was provided thence with
free steamboat passages to his various destina-
tions. The aggregate military person, however,
had an idea that he would prefer to proceed by
train —for no discoverable reason except that rail-
way travelling is more expensive, and he felt it
befitted his dignity to go by the more costly con-
veyance. So the troopers systematically missed
their steamers, and when they had had this mis-
fortune several times they descended on Federal
Premier Barton with a demand for free railway
tickets. And Barton, instead of telling them
either to catch the next boat so else walk back,
gave them what they asked for. Military disci-
pline is in a fine, healthy state in Australia.
Fancy a squad of British soldiers, who had orders
to proceed somewhere by sea, not only failing
to go, but bailing up Salisbury for pauper railway
tickets instead ! And this country thinks it has
really been going to war “allee same great
Eulopean Power.” But luckily Barton’s spine
stiffened after a while. The first batch of appli-
cants got their gratis passage, but when more and
more batches, all of whom had missed every avail-
able boat, came along, they were told that the
price of their tickets would come out of their pay.
“S.S.; :An-
otheranti-danc-
ing parson has
broken out in
Gippsland
(Vic.), and is
now in active
eruption, pre
dictingall lands
of horror and
immorality
from the prac-
tice. I want to
recommend
Chap. xiii. of
Havelock
Ellis’s “Man
and Woman ”
to the anti-
dancing cranks.
The chapter
deals with
‘ ‘ The Affecta
bility of Wo-
men,” i.e., the
readiness with
which the sex
4 4 responds to
stimuli, psychic
or physical,”
and goes to
show that danc-
ing is an actual
preventive of
the evils which
the ignorant
parsons say it
p r o duces.
Meanwhile here
is an item to go
on with : “ The
reason women
love dancing is
very probably
because it en-
ables them to
give harmoni-
ous and legiti-
mate emotional
expression to
this neuro-mus-
cul a r irrita-
bility which
might other-
wise escape in
more explosive
forms.”
* * •
Old Dr.
Lloyd, North
Melb.’spet J.P.
and constant
friend of ladies
in difficulties,
objects to the
term “lady
doctor. You should say a doctrix,” says he.
¥ * * *
llie reputation of Pentridge as a safe de-
has been badly shaken by the smart escape
of Sparks and O Connor. But prisoners tell an
even more curious story of Pentridge, dating the
incident back about two years, and warders corro-
borate the tale unofficially. It is said that a
noted criminal actually broke into Pentridge, re-
mained m the place two nights and three days,
wearing prison clothes, and eating prison fare,
and then made his way out again, having obtained
,7 ln kinndation the facts he was after concerning
the whereabouts of a valuable swag that had been'
hidden securely for over three years.
**. * *
Vic. Government, in its anxiety to re-
capture convicts Sparks and O’Connor, who
walked out of Pentridge a few days ago, displays
revolting callousness. The Govt. Gazette and
the Police Gazette both contain extended de-
scnptions °f the men, that of Sparks winding up
with : Sparks’ proper nm 3 is Patrick M'Guire ;
his father resides at Blank ; he has a sister named
Mrs Blank, residing at 70 Blank-street, Blank,
and brothers mining at Blank.” Connor’s relatives
are more fortunate; all that the police know is
he has a wife living in Blank-street, Blank.”
JNow, although the two journals named are not as
vvideJy read as, say, The Bulletin, the publication
of the above particulars is a cruel slap at the un-
fortunate relatives,and amounts to holding them
all up to public obloquy as connections of a
desperate criminal. The only persons interested
in their relatives are the police, who could be in-
formed privately. By the way, it wouldn’t be
surprising if Sparks turns up to prosecute the de-
partment for libel, as he is described as having
moles on the small of the back, boil-marks on
right hip, and crooked mouth.” Anyhow, his
sister has the best of reasons for complaining, and
Minister W A. Trenwith, whose signature
appears at the tail of the notice, should be
thoroughly ashamed of himself.
* * * *
The “merry-go-round’’-difficulty at Manly
(Sydney) has been settled after a fashion by a
- compromise ” arrived at by ballot of the rate-
payers. The m.-g.-r.-man has agreed to forego his
• W a Portion of the ocean beach (reaching
right down to high-water mark !) on condition of
being undisturbed in the Corso part of his lease,
llie steam-piano horror will thus lift up its baleful
voice only on the principal thoroughfare of the
place, only upon holidays, and only during the
next seven years / The chances are, however, that
long before that period expires the cacophony-
TionQ will bo ass&ssiii&tod by soul© ©cir-tormontod
citizen.
• * * •
<t Th e Sydney Sunday Servant Girl wants
leading men in Australian centres with suffi-
cient national pride to organise demonstrations ”
to urge England that there must be “noflinch-
mg ’’with the Boers. It would almost seem that
the Boers were defaulting subscribers.


r m
The Charm of MARK FOY’S is the Price.
One of the keynotes of Mark Foy’s success is the working
up of the Men’s and Boys’ Outfitting Tra.de
To young gentlemen in offices, students, apprentices, and other>
who wish to present a good appearance, we call special attention to
MARK FOY’S SMART SUITS for BUSINESS YOUTHS.
Every youth on entering his business career desires to be smartly
dressed, but the stern necessity of rigid economy with small
salaries necessitates care in spending the coin. . . .
MARK FOY’S NAVY SERGE YOUTHS’ SUITS (Ready-Made)
but not what is known as slop-made. These are manufactured in
our own factory only, from . . .
GUARANTEED PURE INDIGO DYED ALL-WOOL WORSTED SERGES.
and are sold at 25/-, 29/6, 35/- The cut, style, and finish are
perfect, and the value is u/nknown but at Mark Foy's.
Percy assumes a lofty attitude, these days,
in regard to the marriage question. “ Bai Jove !
you know, there are such crowds of pretty girls
trying to take a chap by storm.” But the P.D.
corset enables a smart girl to treat such preten
sions with scorn. The P.D. figure brings Percy
aforesaid to his knees every time. It is the clever
girl’s device for conquering the male cynic, ere
leading him away in silken bonds. P.D.—Percy’s
Delight.*
GLOBE TEAS
GLOBE TEAS
GLOBE TEAS
GLOBE TEAS
GLOBE TEAS
GLOBE TEAB
GLOBE TEAB
GLOBE TEAS
GLOBE TEAB
GLOBE TEAS
have
have
Have
Have
have
have
have
have
have
have
XTO
EQUAL.
EQUAL.
EQUAL.
EQUAL.
EQUAL.
EQUAL.
EQUAL,
equal.
The Best Tea in Australia
1/9 PER LB.
CHOICE FAMILY TEA.
241 b OANNIBTERS @ lß§d,=£l ss.
121 b QANNISTERS (<$ 13d. = 13s,
61b QADDIEB @l3Jd.= 6s.
SINGLE POUND, Is. 2d.
ATCHERLEY
DAWSON, Tba Merchants, 884 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
A WOMANS LETTER.
% Sydney, July 22, 1901.
My Dear Arini,—
If you wear a hat like a folded pancake, and
wool in your ears, and smell of eucalyptus, and call
Jones “Jodes,” you’ll be really fashionable.
Everyone has a distressful cold, although the
weather’s not wet. It’s that way in Melbourne,
where they are carrying little hot-boxes to warm
their hands. The golfers who came up from there
and from M.L. to play for the championships are
taking back champion colds.
These golfers—they are a hardy-looking, ruddy-
faced set —have had a great time on Bondi links,
where Mrs. Hugh Macneil gave a big tea on
Saturday afternoon. By now, all the players will
have bogied back to their own links. Mr. Gillies,
an Auckland solicitor, who held the champion-
ship until Mr. Howden, a Melbourne man, wrested
it from him the other day, is a tall, lazy-looking
personage who has also “ worn the belt ” for foot-
ball, rowing, and cricketing. And he has written
books on fishing. The professional man who can
do all these things thoroughly must be addicted
to the pernicious habit of early rising. Little red
coats worn by the golfing women were smart and
bright. Miss Guthrie and Mrs. Monte Douglas,
the Geelong representatives, had blue facings on
red. Mrs. Trapp, the Misses Brown, M‘Kellar,
Calder, and Baird were of the Melb. team. Miss
Darley presented the prizes at the club-house in
the afternoon.
A few marriages occurred last week, among
them that of Miss Gertrude Raphael Rosenthal
to Mr. William Macintosh. The bride, who
married out of her ancient faith, is the grand-
daughter of a man who was so conservative about
it that he owned a private cemetery. From
“Home’’comes the news that the Hon. Judith
Harbord, sister of Lady Carington, was married
to a clergyman named Sullivan last month. Bride-
groom is son of Admiral Sir Francis Sullivan.
Hon. Judith was Maid of Honor to the late Queen,
who, before her death, gave as presents a jewel
and the usual Indian shawl. Such a lot of ladies
holding Court billets—Maids of Honor, Readers to
Her Majesty, Strokers of the Royal Maltese Cat
and suchlike—marry, somewhat late in life, parson
persons. Talking of marriages, a lady up North
has just married her sixth husband. Her previous
spouse died a year ago. Now she is the woman who
might (if she could) give us a volume of real love-
letters—not faked ones. Also, “Husbands I Have
Known ” is a book she might write. What oppor-
tunities Providence gives some women !
There was more “stooping” than the players
reckoned upon at the Palace when Sydney Uni-
versity Amateur Dramatic Society produced
“She Stoops to Conquer” last week. The men
in the cast had to do it to lift fauna and flora
which humorists in one of the boxes flung upon
the stage. The flora, it is true, took the form of
nothing prettier than an elderly cauliflower,
carrots and turnips. Fauna was represented
by a dead cat. It was a glossy-coated, beauti-
fully - marked cat and it came on promptly
at the cue (Marlowe was reading something about
hare soup from the bill-of-fare), but cat-lovers like
myself were sorrowful throughout the remainder
of the performance. We were convinced that the
dark young man in the red fez, who, I think, threw
the dead meow, had killed it for dramatic pur-
poses ; for it was a fresh cat, and it’s not probable
that he could get a full-grown, pretty, just-died-
a-natural-death cat at an hour or a day’s notice.
A bunch of turnips gave Mr. Norman Gough (Mr.
Hardcastle) a chance to score. He was on in a
scene with Tony Lumpkin when the roots arrived,
and, looking up at the box, he entreated “one
fool at a time.”
Of the players (fancy me giving the cat and
vegetables first mention !), Miss Amy Mack as
Mrs. Hardcastle, Mr. Arthur Faber as Tony
Lumpkin, and Mr. Gough as old Hardcastle, were
conspicuously good. The audience was a cool
one, but Miss Mack and Mr. Faber got whatever
spontaneous applause was going. Miss Mercy
Murray in her difficult part of Kate Hardcastle
looked nice, and played gracefully, and her sweet,
clear voice is a big asset in her favor. Miss
Murielle Stratford as Miss Neville does a mock
flirtation well, and tosses her curls prettily. And
it was most altruistic of Miss Blanche Boland to
make herself look a fright for one night only.
The audience, which included a few professors’
wives, had a scholastic look, and was evidently of
value to the opticians. Mr. Tweedlepunch, of
“Florodora,” would have been delighted to put
its bumps under review. And the orchestra—
now, if cats and cabbages had been aimed at that
drove of Zitherites, I could understand it. I
thought of the notice put up at dances in Bret
Harte’s country : “ Please don’t draw your revol-
vers on the band. It is doing its best.”
Off with Goldsmith, on with Robertson. Sydney
Comedy Club played “ School ” at the Palace the
night after the Uni.’s show. It is confessedly the
best all-round amateur company here, and it
played capitally to the most ice-bound audience
I ever sat amongst. The Free Kindergarten
Union’s committee could not have worked the
tickets very well or there would have been a
bigger audience. Bits of “ School ” want bringing
up to date. Lord Beaufoy’s philippic about chig-
nons, woman’s suffrage, and tailor-dressed women
fell flat as thin porridge. Very few of us who
now infest the planet were alive in chignon time.
Very few object to woman-suffrage, and not to
wear tailor-mades is a sign that you are either
deficient in figure or taste. Miss Queenie Doyle
made a oharming grey-robed Bella ; Miss Mabel
Hogg and the pretty little girl who says that
Chimborazo (or some mountain) is four hundred
miles high, have a lot of promise as actresses.
The Euroka Band deserves a loud timbrel note of
thanks, and the man who corneted the solo,
“Lost Chord,” did it so beautifully that I wish
he’d do it again every evening in my suburb.
A correspondent writes to me of a levee held by
Duke George in an Australian city. The man
presented before my correspondent was a small
carpenter in an antique dress-suit, apparently a
haven for moths. He was announced with
severe accent on the last three words as “ Mr.
Smith, Mayor of Kooparatu.” Also about the
ducal visit to another Australian city : “ Its
Mayoress confided to the Duchess that one of her
sons was very ill in the neighboring province, and
that she was waiting for a train to go and see him.
The Duchess suggested coming up in the Royal
train with Us, and so arrive at the sick-bed
earlier. Taking the invitation literally, she had
her portmanteau put into the Royal carriage. The
Duke, coming in, saw the bulky package and
ordered it out, and it was finally deposited in a
carriage with the maids and flunkeys, whose com-
pany the Mayoress had to endure to her journey’s
end. ” But surely the Mayoress and her carpet-
bag would not be put into the flunkey’s carriage.
The Yorks would not be so vulgar. She and it
might travel with the private secs., the newspaper
correspondents and the Court painter.
Someone complains that at Buckland Park,
S.A., where the Duke shot tame pea-hens, the
Adelaide Club, which ran the trick, put the re-
porters who accompanied the party to dine with
the Royal servants. Well, perhaps those menials
were, after all, not quite such flunkeys as the
Adelaide Club men themselves.
Did you see a letter purporting to have
been written by a Boer girl to the mother
of one of the dead Vic. contingent ? It has
been copied into dozens of Australian papers, and
at least a dozen clippings of it have been sent
to me. The clippers seem to take it quite seriously
and have no doubts as to its genuineness. I have
doubts. Would not be surprised to learn that
“ Edith Matthews,” V the Boer amateur nurse,”
is an Englishwoman—romantic, and with a turn
for sentimental letter-writing. The young Vic-
torian was brought, mortally wounded, to a hos-
pital belonging, as she says, to “the so-called
Boers ” —that’s a give-away, isn’t it ? Real Boers
don’t resent the name, but are proud of it. Edith
takes the young Vic. under her charge and calls
him “My Laddie,” which is indeed verra Scoatch.
He fixes his “large blue eyes on her ” and says,
“To-morrow I’ll be on the way to the happy
land.” That’s very unlike what a Vic. contin-
genter would say. It’s very like a good Tommy’s
remark. Miss Matthews goes on—“ Tell his
sisters that I tried to be a sister to him ” (which
is a very Annie Swanish wheeze), but doesn’t
state if she succeeded. And then she kissed him
for his mother—-and several other people.
Mr. Willie Beattie, who has just left for Europe,
was fare welled in Mr. Sid. Long’s studio by a few
friends, and on their behalf presented with an
illuminated address and something in an envelope.
Mr. Goring Thomas, who made the presentation,
said the envelope contained “sea-joi.” The address,
done by Miss Thea Proctor, showed two peacocks
spreading their tails On either side of a classic-
draped figure of Comedy holding a mask.
“About Girls,” “Aches,” and “The Human
Voice ” look attractive texts for lectures. Sydney
Ladies’ Sanitary Association announces them
amongst others for its winter course, which
began at Town Hall on Monday last.
A ball in aid of the funds of the Montefiore
Home will be held in Paddington Town Hall,
Aug. 6. Mrs. Loewenthal and the Misses Harris
and Alexander are hon. secs.
A.N.A. will hold its first annual ball at the
Oddfellows’ Temple, Elizabeth-street, August 9.
Tickets, ss. each, can be had of the general sec.,
289 Pitt-street.
An “ Old Subscriber ” writes to an Adelaide
daily paper: “ My wife has in her possession a
biscuit which she got, when a girl, from the Duke
of Edinburgh’s ship, when here in 1867. It is in
perfect order, and a real ship’s biscuit.” And the
paper solemnly adds (“ Old S.” is surely a heavy
advertiser !): “ We shall be happy, as requested,
to give our correspondent’s address to anyone
wishing to see this curiosity.” I wonder if the
Pilgrimage to the Biscuit has set in yet in the Holy
City. If a ship’s biscuit is a “curiosity,” then a
curiosity is within the reach of all persons and
most dogs. But Old S.’s biscuit has probably a
brass tablet affixed guaranteeing its Galateaism.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent.:—■
“Just now few Melb. Naicest are seen in town
by daylight, for they’re all mad on bridge whist and
meet every afternoon at one house or another to
flog their hard-ridden hobby to an early grave.
“ This week ‘ Cliveden ’ runs the swell nuptials
of the season. The youthful Frank Clarke and
little Nina Cotton are to toe the line at St. Peter’s
on Wednesday (24th) in the gaze of a swell multi-
tude. Why St. Peter’s, and liot the neighboring
Anglican church to ‘ Cliveden,’ where the family
ordinarily say its prayers, must be a matter of
the bridegroom’s taste. He has studied, or is
studying, for Orders, and ought to know all about
it.
“Owing to the mourning on both sides, the
marriage of Dr. Eustace Keogh and Miss Winnie
Rowe, fourth daughter of Mr. Casimir Rowe, of
South Yarra, went off without floral arches or the
usual green accompaniments. Besides, St.
Patrick’s Cathedral is too cold and too large for
floral trimmings. A feature of the bridal attire
was the overdress, of renaissance lace. Mr. M.
O’Loghlen (son of Sir Bryan) helped the bride-
groom over the Rubicon.
“The feminine world wonders why Minister
Drake deserts the ducklings of the service. In
the Postal Department there is weeping and
gnashing of teeth at the poor opinions expressed
by the American-looking Drake re the employ-
ment of women. One man is said to be worth
two of them, and the wail of these lesser mortals
is heard in the lobbies of the House of Reps.
Vida Goldstein, with the Public Servioe Acts
under her arm, interviews Ministers and mem-
bers, scribbles notes during the debate, and sends
them along to sympathetic Reps., or lends a criti-
cal ear to the cross-fire of the members of the
Govt, and the Opposition. Telephone Trilbies
quake while Parliament sits with its considoring-
cap on discussing an Act that has to do with their
salary and service. They sigh for the days when
Byron Moore was boss of the Exchange, and
among the perqs. of office was a nice hot dinner
for the artless little things. Think of that ! and
now ginger Drake taps his pince-nez on his palm,
and talks of clearing them out of the service !
“At Vic. Artists’ Exhibition feminine industry
is much in evidence. A praiseworthy worker is
Violet Teague, an ‘ old ’ Melb. Gallery girl with a
European top-dressing. Her portrait of an elderly
lady (No. 57) —features frozen, figure stiffened
with the shock of the undivulged scene behind the
curtain —sets spectators wondering. Is ‘Master’
kissing the cook, or is it only Sonnie proposing to
the parlor-maid? Another Teague portrait de-
picts the Maddens’ cousin, Miss Riddell-Stanley,
a pretty, picturesque, albeit comfortable and placid
‘subject.’ The artist, by working-up her sitter’s
eyes, accentuating her features and robing her in
bright green, has served up a rather dramatic,
hectic, high-nosed version of the original.
“ ‘ Welcome news from the front,’ by the same
brush, shows an evening-frocked belle boo-hooing
on Papa’s dress shirt-front. Apart from the want
of consideration for Dad’s toilette, starched linen,
punctuated with studs, is not an ideal site for ‘ a
good cry,’ though there might be worse—as I
realised on seeing Sapio, as that smooth, brown,
altogether charming Aida, make an ill-judged
attempt to weep on the coat-tail locality of her
sooty sire, what time she knelt pleading to his
offended back. Bozzoli shied so abruptly when
he felt his stage-cheeild’s warm tears falling that
his scarlet rear-draperies came untacked in the
mourner’s grasp, and observers felt quite uncom-
fortable till they saw that, except for dragging a
sash-tail after him, he was sartorially unharmed.
‘ ‘ Another busy bee is Flo. Fuller, sister of singers
Christie and Amy Fuller. Miss Fuller is the
best local authority on Cecil Rhodes, in his private
capacity, thanks to having done the big man’s
portrait and executed other commissions to his
order, while visiting relatives in S’Africa on her
way to London. Two taking Fuller exhibits in
present show are a sunny coastal bit, near Melb.
(No. 110), and ‘Summer Breezes’ (No. 36), a
sylph-like blonde—poppies in her hat, and white
frock and yellow sash —out in the wind.
“Portia Geach’s ‘Australia’ depicts a typical
poster-maiden, whose arm looks tired with hold-
ing up her well - painted white satin. An
attractive, interesting Geach design for mural
decoration is ‘ Procession of the Hours’ (No.
169), depicting twelve graceful damsels. Two
tiny tots stand for the ‘weesma’ hours’; morning-
time has for representative a virginal young thing
in green ; noon-tide glare is suggested by the
robes, crimson and gold respectively, of a glowing
pair—one raven-haired, t’other Titian-dressed.
Drowsy afternoon, amber sunset, soft dusk—all
find expression in appropriately-garbed beauties.
“ President J. Ford Patterson’s ‘ Fernshawe ’ is
shrouded in faint mist or haze. Fernshawe folk
should sue the artist for pictorially libelling their
district as a damp, unhealthy spot. M‘Cubbin,
too, strikes a chilly note in two of his pictures,
each of which represents a belle in a low-cut
bodice and picture hat, sniffing the cold air in
shivery autumn surroundings.
“ At a recent Princess matinee, Dani, petticoat-
pet of the moment, sat by himself in the d.c.
bashfully holding a newspaper up to his face
to hide his blushes from the scrutiny of the
surrounding women. In private life he’s
a fattish little man, with a sort of unshaven com-
plexion-tint, which doesn’t matter much, consider-
ing he’s a benedict, with his wife in tow, and two
bamhinos at home in Italy. At the matinee, lady
friends repeatedly but vainly beckoned the en-
gaging tenor to sit beside them and trot out his
broken English. Then they 3ent a 10-year-old
miss to entertain him, and you should have heard
young Australia, a handsome kiddie, with black
eyes, fair hair, and scarlet coat and skirt, take on
the contract, bashfulness, broken English and all.
With the aid of few words and many signs, a
brisk interview was soon in progress, and atten-
tive neighbors gleaned interesting data such as
the names and ages of the pair’s respective sisters,
&c.
“ Till I saw ‘La Boheme,’ I had no idea that
Parisians of 60 years ago were so addicted to tar-
tans. Mimi lives and dies in huge checks, and
the Bohemians are comic in plaid peg-top pants.
Even the gamins are all cross-bars.
‘ ‘ Signora Marchi, the tall, handsome duenna and
confidante of many of the operatic heroines, sees
‘La Boheme’ from the stalls. She’s a fine big
woman with raven hair, shown up by scarlet hat-
trimmings, but off the boards is not astonishingly
beautiful.
“ First night of ‘ Ballo in Mascbera ’ (July 20),
a dressy crowd filled Her Majesty’s d.c. Papa
Madden, who deserves credit for encouraging
theatrical and operatic enterprise, piloted a
double-quartette party. Daughter Leslie, back
from Brisbane, wore powder-pink cloak and
cluster of big white blossoms on top of her head,
more cap-like in effect than any of the top-thatch
fal-lals, affected by surrounding dowagers.
“Each of the Lieut.-Governor’s daughters is a
shade more demure than the sister just above her
in age. The first-born, in her spinster days, was
a rollicking damsel, but as her juniors, though
sedate, are all more or less pretty, they ‘ get
there just the same.’ At the opera, the pick
of the basket, a shade thinner thanks to
influenza, aired blue Venetian beads and
gave her patronage to the very newest
coiffure —just as fashionable hairdressers were
beginning to lament that the novelty meant to
hang fire in Melbourne. The back tresses are
built on a group of small, detached coils, low on
the neck, while the rest, not drawn back loosely
in picture style with a flower tucked behind the
ear, is padded-out according to recent smooth,
substantial methods. A neat queue, resting on
well-groomed undergrowth and girded with tiny
black-velvet belt and steel buckle, runs down the
back of the head to the neck-knot. The whole
structure, caged in invisible net, is over stiff and
studied for general appreciation.
“By-the-way, the pretty daughter of a high
official is actually regarded in certain alarmist
circles as a disturbing inter-State force. There
are Adelaide people, for instance, who blame said
charmer because the Royal peep-show visited
their city minus a Duke (Roxburghe) and a
Viscount. No use suggesting that the absentees
came to Melbourne for the races; unmollified
Southstralians dub the Victorienne aforesaid
‘Jack Horner in petticoats,’ because, so they
say, she diverted two big plums from a neighbor’s
pie.
“ Elsewhere in the D.C., the Cliveden dowager,
a be-diamoned spike standing up in front of her
stiff spire of black hair, chatted to Drs. Chas. Ryan
and Stawell, and to the girls she brought along
with her shy, slim second daughter. A tall,
raven-haired French belle, with handsome eyes
and nose and vivid coloring, lit up her white frock
with touches of scarlet.
‘* If the ‘ Bohemians ’ are death on tartan, the
‘Ballo’ crowd (Neapolitan) are given to striped
shirts, exactly like ‘Crimeans,’ and wide little
pants, much shorter in one leg than the other. As
Governor Riccardo (Larizza) stood at the witch’s
door listening to Amelia’s self-reproaches re her
guilty affection for him, he looked the image of an
angry Australian standing at the bath-room door
in girded-up pyjama trews, colored shirt and red
tie roped on anyhow. One could fancy him bel-
lowing complaints re ‘no soap in this blooming
shop!’ I wish stage Neapolitans wore kilts;
those cutty wee breeks would make ideal dessous
for plaid petticoats.
“People speculate about Larizza’s title, ‘ Com-
mendatore.’ According to ‘ltaly To-day,’ the
big tenor’s name-handle is something like Fitz-
gibbon’s ‘ C.M.G.’, only such frills are desperately
common in Italy and madly sought after.
“ Most of the male masqueraders at the operatic
ball look regular oafs in womanish pale-blue silk
hoods and cloaks. Cattadori, with his fierce
black moustache bristling from under his granny
bonnet, would do beautifully for the wolf posing
as Red Riding Hood’s grandmother. Signorina
Vaccari makes a dear little page, in pink and
white haberdashery and curly golden wig.
“In the manager’s box Malcolm MacEacharn
sat with the Prime Minister and Mrs. Barton. At
least, the house took the eagle nose and raven
head that was seen now and again, and then sil-
houetted against the wall, to be that of the
Political Boss. His figure was invisible all the
evening.
“Mrs. Booth—the fine-featured and clarion-
voiced wife of the Salvarmy ‘ Commandant ’ —
made an impressive oration at the opening of the
‘Army’s’ Federal Training Garrison t’other day.
The Countess of Hopetoun was stirred out of her
functional apathy—the usual air of forced patience
—and watched the strenuous speaker with a
kindled eye. Prime Minister Barton and others,
too, caught the impassioned glow.
“At that Hallelujah Rally and official muster,
Mrs. Geo. Turner, who has never been known to
fail a social ceremony, supplied any laugh, joke,
hint or information wanted by any of the political
brethren. In the Frou-Frou world, Mrs. George
stands for the Ministry, rules the officials to a
point of order, obtains a division or adjournment
for Mayoress Gillott when needed, and generally
plays the part of Parliamentary Whip. A more
incongruous figure at that lassie festival was Mrs.
Isaacs, who dresses with negligent grace, talks
languidly, and only seems thoroughly at home
among the Eastern cushions of her own drawing-
room.
“The Dook o’York ‘ordered’ that the little
speech he read to the public-schoolboys in Mel-
bourne should be printed, and a copy given to
every boy present. He did not, however, send
with his ‘order’ any cheque to defray cost of
printing 'and distribution. The schools have to
do it at their own expense. Royal generosity
means receiving a ‘ command ’ to do at your own
cost what you don’t want to do.
“A curious but useful sort of sew-it-on-while-
you-wait club is being started in Melbourne by a
woman who appreciates the needs of busy people.
It is to be a club where women may work, or sew
on a loose button, or use the powder horn on a hot
day, and all that sort of thing. Men are also to
be able to get a button sewn on by a lady attend-
ant for a penny. According to the promoter,
every man’s button, off any garment, will be sewn
on.
“A strange exhibit has lately been on view in
Collins street E., in the shape of an auburn
wig hanging from one of the branches of a tree in
the street avenue. The scarlet counterfeit of
man’s crowning glory, which had evidently blown
from the window of the owner, sways to and fro
in the wind to the amusement of thousands of
passers-by, a considerable number of whom re-
cognise the article and are fully aware of its
origin. The wig is still there and it is to be hoped
it will remain. Anything that will make people
laugh this weather, when the Legislative Council
is not sitting, is deserving of perpetuity.
From Brisbane:—
At the opening of Parliament Lieut.-Gov. Griffith’s fire
eating appearance in uniform and cocked hat was cruelied
by his spectacles. There were two important omissions
from the Speech—the Prickly Pear pest and Woman
Suffrage ; a possible connection between the two is not
thought of. Mrs. Griffith was not a competitor in the
feminine battle of styles that raged. All skirts trailed,
but only one lady wore her veil at half-mast. The mane
and tail of Home-Secretary Foxton’s cab horse hung in
long ringlets. Persons not quite so high up in the social
scale wore short jackets with two buttons at the back.
Kyrle Bellew carried a shower-bath tohisN.Q. mine.
The miners allow a man to carry a lOOOgal. tank on his
back, but a shower-bath ! —it is anathema. They promptly
threw mullock and decaying organisms down Romeo
Bellew’s shafts.
Grand opera found Brisbane audiences a trifle mixed ;
when one half clapped the other half told them to “ shut
up ! ” People shut up without provocation right through
the operas. One heathen woke up to hear the tenor
singing “ Thou forest one !” to the soprano. “ The mag-
nificent blonde beast roaming wantonly about in search
of victory and prey. Female, too,” he murmured, as he
dozed off again to dream of Nietzsche’s ideal man. The
Italian way of singing “ Thou false one ” had beaten him.
Yours affectionately, Akenehi.


f
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
IVIARVELLOUS
PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes,
hplendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair
Re ah 68 S A am , 8 * nd Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Poetic o . ,nvi g° ra t'ng 'n Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
h y all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
-. . . Agents for New South Wales-
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
HI
A Puzzle in Figures.
If you take the figures 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9
and arrange them in three rows, each of three
figures, every row, if properly arranged, will
when added together, make a total of 15, no
matter whether taken horizontally, perpendicu-
larly or diagonally. The puzzle is to correctly
arrange the figures to obtain this result, and the
solution is as under :
2 9 4
7 5 3
6 18
This is one of the most remarkable combinations
of figures, but it is not more wonderful than the
exact scientific combination of the ingredients in
Warner s Safe Cure. This, remarkable medicine
eicercises so specific an action upon the kidneys
and liver that it invariably restores them to health
and activity. The principal complaints arising
from a diseased or inefficient action of the kidneys
and liver are indigestion, rheumatism, gout
neuralgia, biliousness, gravel, ansemia, debility’
most blood disorders, and Bright’s disease.
Warners Safe Cure cures all these, as it acts
scientifically by attacking the seat of the disorder
and enabling the liver and kidneys to remove the
waste products of the body, the presence of which
in the circulation is the cause of so much suffering.
Station Avenue.
Moreland, Vie.,
Dear Sira, — 30th'April, 1901.
i L.^ aVe m I! c h pleasure in informing you that
both my wife and myself have taken Warner’s
Safe Cure both for the liver and kidneys (and in
my case gravel), and I can conscientiously say
that we have derived great benefit from it. I
firmly believe that by taking it occasionally, as
we do, it keeps us in good health ; in fact, we take
it as a family medicine.
Yours truly,
WILLIAM J. STUART.
n/r tt tt „r Master Mariner.
Messrs. H. H. Warner and C/o., Ltd.
HIS EXCELLENCY THE EARL OF HOPETOUN
nas_A l‘I>QINTEl> Mr. J. _A_. WILKZIiVSOJXT
OP THE
COOLALTA WINES
(Offices—374 George Street, Sydney)
HIS WIIME MERCHANT.
FACILE PRI NCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM
BUCHANAN WHISKY
PERSONAL ITEMS.
There are 39 Colonels in Victoria. Most
of them have scarcely ever seen a shell —except
on the sea-shore.
“ Banjo ” Paterson again goes roaming.
He leaves this week per Changsha en route for
England via Siberia.
Labor member Andy Kelly alone excepted,
not a single member of the old Sydney City
Council or the new Council was returned to the
new N.S.W. Parliament.
Jack Murray, of Vic. Leg Assembly, is
possibly the first man in any Parliament who- has
been bold enough to discuss the subject of intem-
perance with reference to himself as a cured sub-
ject.
Senior-Constable Sutton, who now retires
from the N.S.W. force, was shot in the neck by
Gilbert, one of the G-ardiner-O’Meally gang, in
1863, when the gang tried to stick up the Carcoar
mail. Gilbert was afterwards shot dead.
TO H.R.H.
Dear George, farewell, we’re glad you came,
And happily the bill will pay.
They call you mean, but all the same,
You freely gave yourself away !
Next to the late Parkes, dead Premier
Byrnes, of Queensland, stands most dishonored
among statue-admirers. The bulky trophy
they are now sticking up in Byrnes’ honour
saddens his friends.
There are now 11 lawyers in N.S.W.
Assembly—there were 13 of them in the previous
Parliament. The fatal number eliminated two.
Journalism, directly and indirectly, accounts for
18 members of Assembly.
Tas. historian James Fenton died at
Launceston the other day, in his 81st year. Mr.
Fenton was born in Ireland and landed a mere
boy in Hobart ever so many years ago. His
father, Captain Fenton, was buried in the Bay of
Biscay on the voyage out.
Mrs. Mary Delaney, a kindly old
dame, native of Parramatta, died there, the
other day, in
She put up a
ramatta-
her 83rd year,
record of 29 Par-
born children.
AN UNFULFILLED
WISH.
MEDICAL OFFICER (examining
insane patient): “ And do
you hear angels’ voices?”
Patient (tired of asylum life): “I wish to
’Eaven I did !”
Is it a record ? Two days after (Sydney)
Mayor Graham’s knighthood was announced in
the press a big brass plate on his door announced
it to the public. A few days later the public
announced to the knight their appreciation of his
bauble by firing him out of Parliament. Moral:
Plain Jim.
The lollies that Premier Peacock chewed
amidst the tumult of the anti-Findley meeting, at
Melb. Town Hall, were cough-drops, “given to
him by Mrs. Peacock, for a sore throat.” Wed-
lock brings its compensations. The married man
gets a relaxed throat, but his dear little wifey-
pifey succours it with lozenges.
Died recently at Penola (S.A.) John
Riddoch, S. A.’s wealthiest squatter.' Away back
m the sixties Riddoch and poet Adam Lindsay
Gordon sat together in S.A. Leg. Assembly, and
Riddoch was the poet’s life-long friend. Riddoch
was one of the pioneers of the rich S. E. country
of S.A., which made his fortune.
William Byrnes, a foundation-stone of
early Parramatta, moved off last week in his
73rd year. What would Parramatta be without
the Byrnes root and stock? They came with Gov.
Phillip, and from father to son have pegged away
ever since, occasionally flowering out into politics,
but always plodding at municipal affairs.
W. H. Groom, of the House of Represen-
tatives, has been longer in Parliament than any of
his Federal colleagues. He was legislating 27
years before Turner began, and 25 years before
Holder got a seat. He was member of Q. Assem-
bly when Reid, Barton and Kingston were at
school, and before many other Reps, were born.
A man walks the streets of Adelaide called
No. 89. Years ago he was induced to stand for
Parliament and spent his little all in the venture.
Out of thousands of possible votes he got 89. His
loss and failure preyed so much upon his mind
that it bent under the strain. No matter upon
what subject he is approached, he simply mur-
murs, sadly, “ 89 ! ”
A certain Australian University professor,
who lectures on English and other foreign lan-
guages, was once riding in a railway carriage
where there were two people conversing on pri-
vate subjects in a foreign tongue. The professor,
being obliged to listen, politely said, “I feel
obliged to inform you that I understand French.”
“ But we were talking Italian, sir,” was the
answer !
Vic. Premier Peacock has made many exhi-
bitions of his incapacity lately, most strikingly in
his dealings with the unemployed. Because the
deputations refuse to regard him as a little tinpot
Joss he gets fierce and splutters like an angry
fishwife. “Loafers and boozers” was one of his
most recent outbursts, and a mad crowd waited
upon him with unfriendly intentions in conse-
quence thereof, but Aleck got out through a sky-
light, or down a trap-door, and was invisible for
many hours. Peacock, despite his deafening
smile, .has no humor, and his big head is getting
him down. He was very well as an appendage to
George Turner, but he is a failure as the boss-
cocVie of Vic. politics.
Mr. Thos. K. Ryder, of Coyong, Bowral,
N.S.W., recently deceased, was one of the leading
pioneers of the cotton
industry in Fiji in the
days when the South
Sea Island variety
commanded half - a-
crown per lb. One
of live brothers, he
went to the archi-
pelago in ’68, and
purchased Mango
Island in the
Windward
group, antici-
pating Fred,
Hennings, the
principal Le-
vuka store-
keeper, who
had his eye
on the same
spot. Sett-
ling there
with his
younger
brothers, he
quickly es-
tablished
the largest
cotton plan-
tation in
Fiji. The
firm, assist-
ed by Mort
and Cos., of Syd-
ney, had a ship
of its own, im-
ported its own
foreign labor,
and carried on
things in high
style. One of
the brothers,
who set sail in
an open boat
for a neighbor-
ing island, was
never again
heard of. Ru-
pert Ryder
held office in
the late King
Thakombau’s
mixed black
and white
Govt. After the
annexation of the
islands, the Mango pro-
perty was formed into a
limited liability co. The Rvders
sold out at a good price, and bought Calga
Station, near Coonamble, N.S.W. Before leav-
ing Fiji, Thos. Ryder contracted chronic dysen-
tery, from which he never entirely recovered
though he voyaged to England and tried almost
every known remedy.
One of the Imperial contingent’s impres-
sions of Seddon, as published in an English
paper:
“ Seddon made too long a speech, and we got tired be-
fore he finished. The crowd at last made such a noise
and kept crying, “Time,” &c„ that he closed abruptly’
We lost sight of land hours ago, and have been accom-
P?'”™ varying distances by a Government steamer
speech 1 ” Premier ° n b ° ard ' He wants fc0 make another
“ Mr Rudyard Kipling,” says Black and
VyHiTE, has an estate in America, has lived half
his life in India and knows China, Japan, Africa
<ind Australasia as well as many a man whom we
term explorer.” At this rate B. and W.’s esti-
mate of an explorer must be mighty small. Who
was it that wrote of Kipling’s cocksureness
I spat on the wharf at Perth,
And then I went back to England
And wrote of the great wide earth.
THE TURNING WORM.
“ Look here, that’s your last cheque. I’m going
to give up business.”
“ Why, are things so bad?”
“ Oh, ' no, things are all right; but all I seem to
get out of them is my board and lodging.”
Sid Mack, the youthful-looking barrister
who defended Mrs. Talune Smith on her second
and third trials for alleged murder, and whose
speech to the jury on the last occasion
was characterised by Judge Owen as a
“most able, eloquent and exhaustive address”
is the brother of Louise Mack, the well-known
Bulletin writer. Also G. T. Martin, Mr.s
Smith’s junior counsel on her trials, is the sixth
surviving son of old Chief-Justice James Martin.
John Alex. Dowie, Chicago Christian
Scientist and erstwhile Sydney preacher, holding
forth in “Zion” Tabernacle: “I am Elijah, the
prophet, who appeared first to Elisha and then to
John the Baptist. Now, all who believe in me
stand up.” Three thousand people rose. “Now,”
he said, “you have listened to the first message
of the prophet, you must pay tithes and offerings
unto the storehouse of God ” (otherwise Dowie).
Then the plate went round. Even the prophet
Elijah has a plate !
Major-General Andrew Clarke, Agent-
General for Victoria, completes his 77th year this
Saturday. He is entitled to a big pension from
the State for Ministerial services performed ages
ago, but the sum now merges in his official pay.
Attorney-General Gordon (S.A.) was 51 yesterday
(July 26). He has held office under four Premiers
—Cockburn, Holder, Kingston, and Jenkins—and
he would now be Premier himself if he were in the
Assembly instead of the Council, for he is by far
the ablest and most popular man in the present
Cabinet.
John Lancelot Stirling—Conservative,
squatter, and Adelaide Club man—succeeds
Chaffey Baker as President of S.A. Leg. Council.
Like Baker, he is a son of a pastoral pioneer of
the State ; and, like that gentleman also, he is a
native of S.A., a graduate of an English Univer-
sity, and a barrister. Like him, once moie, he
represents the Southern district in the Council,
having beaten Kingston in a contest waged while
that popular tribune was representing Australia
with the Federal delegation to England last year.
Stirling has West Indian blood in his veins, but
he is good Scotch on the father’s side.
The late Mark Moss, “ the father of Vic-
torian bowlers,” has been eulogised more than he
deserved. In his wealthiest days he was not a
comparatively charitable Jew even among his own
people. He merely looked charitable, and posed
as a Great Patron of Bowls, a dignity that didn’t
cost him much. Of late years, after descending
from a “half-millionaire” height to the level of
ordinary Hebrew affluence, Moss chose to re-
gard himself as a ruined Mark, although his
establishment still sported a carriage. He ceased
to contribute to the support of his church. And
when it came to a question of burying Mark Moss,
the incidental circumstances made it clear that he
had earned very little Jewish reverence, outside
of Gentile paragraphs.
Cable tells that “ Mr. Gilbert Parker ”
(M.P. for Gravesend) “considers that the colonies
ought to contribute to the maintenance of the
British navy on the basis of their share of the
world’s commerce.” Mr. Parker, by the way,
when he first struck Sydney, years ago, was
known as the “ Rev. Horatio Gilbert Parker.”
He was a nice-looking curate sort of personage
with lovely whiskahs and blue eyes that reminded
you of Lady Audley’s father; and he distin-
guished himself by supplying to S.M. Herald a
wondrous description of Flemington ; cecourse
on the occasion of a certain Melbourne Cup. But
that is another story.
Obit: “ Smith.—On July 8, at Shoreham
(Vic.), John Thomas Thorold Smith, K.C., late pro-
secutor for the King.” Deceased was son of the well-
known John Thomas Smith, seven times Mayor
of Melbourne. J.T.T. was a barrister of Lincoln’s
Inn, called in June, 1868, and in Victoria, his
native State, in 1870. He held the post of Crown
Prosecutor for 30 years; and made his last public
appearance of any note when the Boot Trunk
Tragedy came into the Criminal Court. Of late
poor Smith was quite unfit for work, and shortly
before resigning his appointment he broke down
whilst conducting a case. Begging leave to
retire from court, he told the Judge that in
going through a bundle of documents on the
table before him he had come unexpectedly ir.on
a letter written by his deceased wife.
Cold-water Atkinson, Maoriland M. 11. it,,
has raised his voice in protest against the insuf-
ferable verbosity of Emperor Seddon. “ I felt
positively ashamed of my country,” he said,
when at a banquet in the presence of distin-
guished visitors the toast-list was monopolised by
a single man, the Premier, as though there were
no other Ministers present.” The following day
the Premier again proposed the toasts, and every
man who sat out the banquet missed the farewell
to the Royal party, whilst Sir John Anderson had
to be pitched on board the Ophir. The Em-
peror’s reply, “The fact is that it galls the hon.
member, as it galls others, to find me where I
am, but so long as I am here I will maintain the
dignity of the position.” In Maoriland, as in
London, Seddon confuses Dignity with Dreary
and Interminable Gab.
The old pioneers were a tough lot. A
few days ago, Jas. Monckton Dario , who is
as lively as a cricket, celebrated his 90th birthday
at Windsor, near Melb. : •
, He arrived in Sydney in the barque Guardian, of 250
tons, in 1834, and shortly afterwards engaged in pastoral
pursuits. He was the frit to take ci tie overland to
Portland Bay, leaving Mullengendrv, on the Hume, for
ln 1837 > and following the tracks of Major
Mitchell after he passed the Goulburn. In 1838 he came
to Melbourne overland with stock. Mr. Darlot was pre-
sent at the first race meeting held in Melbourne at the
swamp under Batman’s Hill. Afterwards he owned in
partnership with Mr. Archibald M’Lachlan) a station on
Gardiner s Creek, opposite to where Toorak now stands
a '! d n °t many years ago the old home-station hut could
still be seen. In the year 1844 Mr. Darlot went up
country, to the Lower Winunera, where he took up the
North and South Brighton Stations. He was also a
partner in the firm which owned the Ballarat and Nin-
tingbool Stations, and saw there much of the gold-minimr
m its early days. ®


HACONOGHIE’S
Fresh Herrings
Kippered Herrings
Herrings in Tomato Sauce
Flndon Haddocks
PRESERVED
FISH
OF ALL KINDS.
MARMALADE
UNIVERSAL PICKLES.
BOTTLED ERUITS
POTTED MEATS
SALMON and SHRIMP PASTE.
WORC€ST€RSNIR€ SAUC€
Maconochie Bros., Ltd.
LONDON.
Australian Representatives—
Swift & Co., 7 Spring St., Sydney .
WATSON’S WHISKY.
DAVID STORED, & SONS’ Three Colors - BLfICK ’ BED and BL » E
Registered
Trade
Mark.
TATTOO OIL
Is the Only Absolutely
Wool-
Marking or
The Perfect Sheep-Marker.
SHEEP BRANDING OIL.
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
Australia
Rates from 12/6 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
The AUSTRALIA HOTEL is fireproof
from tower to basement.
Rapid elevators run day and night, and
an efficient night-staff regularly patrols
the building.
Hot and cold water are in every room.
Private suites, combining bedroom,
sitting-room and bath-room, are one
of the most attractive features of the
hotel, and a post office, telegraph
office, hair-dressing sa'oon, bookstall
and cigar-divan, are included in the
building.
J. SMITH (Late of Menzies’), Manager,
Oastlereagh-st., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors.— ln the case of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
According to a sheep-farmer near Robe,
S.A., the fox is by no means the pest generally
supposed. A few years ago his property was
overrun by rabbits; Reynard came along, and
the bunnies gradually decreased, until now their
number is practically harmless. The place swarms
with the supposed connoisseurs of lamb’s tongue,
and yet, out of some 15,000 sheep, the squatter
and his manager both assured writer they had
never known a .lamb to be killed by a fox. They
consider the much-abused fox the salvation of their
holding, and have never yet destroyed one.
IN THE DROUGHT.
T HE ROO: “ Blest if I know how Pm going to
live; no feed, nothing at all.”
THE RABBT : “If it wasn’t for the ‘poisoned
grain ’ I'm sure I'd starve myself .”
“ Oharky ” : Out ’roo-shooting recently, I
called at a selector’s hut for dinner. The usual
damper, dripping, and golden syrup were on the
table, and the mother noticed some syrup on the
dripping. Turning to boy next her, she said:
“You young -! What d’yer mean by puttin’
yer sticky knife in the drippin’ ? ” “ Wasn’ me,”
answered accused, with his mouth full. “ I licked
me knife ’fore I took any drippin’! ”
* * * *
Maori, entering dentist’s shop one night;
“Me want toot out—how much?” Dentist:
“With gas, ss. ; without gas, 2s. 6d.” Maori;
“ Py kripe, I tink me wait te taylight kum ! ”
Dear Bulletin, — Re your par. about
Hindus in the Orbost district, Gippsland. I was
there during the 1900 maize-picking, when there
must have been 200 or more of these aliens. I re-
member the local trooper turning 13 of them out
of an old hut, not more than 12 x 10. They are a
frightful crowd, the majority suffering from loath-
some diseases brought from Little Bourke-st. In
the district is a station owned by a man who em-
ploys 15 niggers all the year round, and only
occasionally gets a white man to do fencing, &c.
The overseer is a nigger, and when he gets the
chance he makes things hot for the unfortunate
white fellow, who never remains longer than three
or four weeks at the outside. Some of the nigs
cannot speak English, and the only whites on the
station are the owner and a relative or two. And
this in White Victoria !— Swaggie.
* * * *
“ Speckled Trout ” to The Bulletin :
The constable stationed at the Great Lake (Tas.) lives
with his wife and three children (youngest, aged three
months) in a corrugated-iron dwelling full of cracks,
chimneys all to pieces, doors and windows all loose. He
has to hump his tucker eight miles up a 4000 ft. rise, or
pay for packing. Np horse found, and generally the
place is a foot deep in snow. Wages, .£1 per week.. The
cost of Mulcahy’s Arch would just make these quarters
habitable. As they are at present they’re not fit for a
cow, and are a disgrace to any Govt, claiming to be
civilised.
• * * *
Out prospecting, Ted got a coarse color of
gold, and, putting it under the
called New-Chum Griffin to see it. For a moment
Griffin’s face was a study. Then, as Ted was
withdrawing the glass, Griffin seized his wrist and
exclaimed. “ For God’s sake, Tid, howld it that
size/”
* * * •
“ Woady Yallock ” on agruesome'subject:
Re Melbourne slaughter-houses (8., XS/5/’Ol). Why not
giveN.S. Wales a show? Writer knows of a slaughter-
house or two that can give points to anything
discovered in the city by the Yarra. The Board of
Health, in its wisdom, has appointed one inspector to the
charge of two places, situated a considerable dis-
tance apart, and although said inspector is competent
and painstaking, he unfortunately is one of the common
or barn-door variety of men and can’t be at both places
at once ; whereby comes the chance of one of the above-
mentioned meat-shows. Writer has known cattle fairly
rotten to be killed at 3 a.m., shoved into a meat
waggon, and taken to a tinning establishment before
and ylight; likewise pigs from which bags of tubercle as
big as a man’s fist had to be cut. At some such estab-
lishments sinews, &c., are carefully kept by being'piled
one upon the other and dried under a shed. A
casual inspection of this heap will show a moving mass of
maggots, green beetles, and other horrors. When they
are sufficiently dried they are taken to Sydney, whence
they emerge in the shape of gelatine, to be manufactured
into lollies of the jelly type.
* * * *
“ X.” : At Mount Morgans(W.A.) I came
across two women having a slanging-match. One
had the moral support of her
small boy, the other was single-
handed. Suddenly the small
boy lifted up his voice; “Call
her a useless cow, mother, afore
she calls you one.” I believe
among the lydies who lift up
their voices in public expostu-
lation an epithet is considered
to have vastly more weight when
used for the first time —if it is
simply thrown back it is a
second-hand epithet and com-
paratively harmless. And the
small boy, acting as an am-
munition-waggon in the rear,
noticed that neither party had
remembered to call the other a cow, so
he hastened to pass the epithet along.
His mother promptly called the other
woman a cow, and that being the only
thing that neither party had previously
called the other the second woman
was thereby routed with great
slaughter.
* • *
When one of the Chow liti-
gants got into the witness-box, the
policeman asked : “You blow’em
match out?” “Yes, yes,” said
John. “ Break’em saucer ? ”
“ Yes. ” “ Cut’em cock ’ead off ? ”
“Yes.” Whereupon the other
Chow jumped up and, walking
excitedly round to the front of the
C.P.S.’s desk, jabbered out: “Him
kiss’em book, blow ’em out match,
bleak’em saucar, cut’em roostah ’ed off,
anytingyou like —but him liah, alleesame.”
Out-back station at mustering-time. Stock-
man and blackfellow assistant are having mid-day
meal. The day being Friday and the stockman
R. 0., he gives the nigger some corned beef and
opens a tin of salmon for himself. Whereupon
Jacky: “Baal you know me Irishman, too,
Tom ? ”
* » * *
“ Itan ” : Was in a country town once
when new telegraph poles were being erected.
At one point there was a double turn, and to allow
the poles some play to straighten up when the
wires were strained on them, they were erected
with a backward list at each corner. Before the
day was out, 297 people called at the office to
confidentially inform the post and telegraph boss
that the poles weren’t straight. This either means
that the Australian takes a great and intelligent
interest in publio affairs, or that he spends a great
deal of time at corners.
* * * *
“V.”: Saw some large circular holes in
the dry bed of a creek on the upper Burnett
waters (Q.). Subsequently ascertained they were
the work of brumbies, who came out of the scrubby
ranges at night and pawed out these holes until
they struck water.
* » * *
“S.”: The recent adventures of Percy
Pegg, of Junee, N.S.W., with a tiger-cat which
killed his dog and was willing to do as much for
him, recall an experience of my own with a tiger-
cat (“ mountain cats” we called them asboys)in the
State Forest near Bungaree, Vic. The tiger-cat
is the only Australian animal I have ever seen
show a desire to stand his ground and “fight it
out ” with man. There were three of us; we had
shot a small kangaroo, and, to save haulage, hid
the body in a log. On returning, we found the
’roo dragged partly into the open, and a villain-
ous-looking mountain cat settling down to supper.
The brute was about the size of a water-spaniel,
and, although it might have escaped easily, it
stood to its feast, glaring at us with feline male-
volence. One enterprising youth went forward
and poked the cat up with the barrel of his gun.
We hardly saw what happened : there was a sort
of cat and boy convulsion, out of which the boy
issued almost trouserless, bleeding copiously from
about two miles of scratches, and howling madly
as he ran. The cat went back to meals. We
killed the beast with ten shots, and I have never
since cared to stir up an adult tiger-cat when
wearing my new suit and my best pink tie.
“ Occy ” : Wilson and I were quail-shoofc-
ing on Dinny O’Brien’s
estate. When Dinny heard
the sound of the guns he
came galloping over, appar-
ently to slay us on the spot.
W lien he saw who we were
he changed his mind and
asked us up to the house to
have some refreshment in-
stead. He took two bottles out of
a cupboard ; one was whisky, the
other wasn’t. The one that
wasn’t whisky he alleged
to be some wonderful
hop-beer of the wife’s
own brewing. I took
whisky. Wilson was
persuaded to take the
beer. Dinny poured
it out from a great
height to get a head
on it. Wilson sipped
it with a look of
horror on his face.
He was encouraged
on until he got half-
way through with his
undertaking. At last
Dinny took a mouth-
ful himself and as
promptly shot it out
with that want of cere-
mony that characterised
the great Dr. Johnson. He
gargled his throat direct
from the water-bottle,
and, looking with amaze-
ment at Wilson, ejacu-
lated : “ G reat heavens,
d’ye know what you’ve
been drinkin’, man ?
Why, horehound bitters
for washin’ the horses’
feet! ”
“ Quex ” : Travelling, one day, near
Dunolly (Vic.), I was asked by a young fellow for
a lift. After driving two miles in silence, he said,
“I’ll get down here, mate, and get up again, if
you’ll wait a jiff.” He descended, entered a house,
and presently came out with a girl. “ It’s no use,
Min. I find I don’t love you any more, and I’m
not going to hang on any longer.” Girl burst into
tears and endeavoured to fix her ear on to his
button-hole, but, gently laying her down, he
crawled over the fence and into the buggy.
“ Drive on, mate —I never could stand a scene.”
I drove.
* * * *
“G.F.” : Re the practice of some bush-
men in ringing a horse’s neck with a strong
leather band, whereon to hang hobbles, &c. I
remember a horse being found dead, one morning,
having during the night got his hind foot through
the ring of the hobble-chain. In his efforts to dis-
engage the foot, the maddened animal had
gouged out his eye, and left the flesh hanging in
shreds from neck and cheek. The ground was
soaked with blood, and the poor creature pre-
sented a sickening spectacle.
A FEARFUL POSSIBILITY.
COOKIE : “ Say, mister l are there any more a
’Ome like you?”
“C.H.R.” : Dropped on a humorous milk-
vendor, the other day. Had reason to doubt the
respectability of the morning oowjuice, and re-
quested the youngster who brought it round to
tell her parents that, latterly, the milk had a
bluish tinge. Next morning, she explained :
“Please, father says that there milk eomed from
the blue cow ; all the others is run dry.”
» * » »
Things look gloomy round the Western
N.S.W. shearing-sheds. The squatters, or some
of them, are presenting a Pastoralists’ Union
agreement, and the Union shearers may not
accept it. Many of the local men thought resist-
ance might have been deferred till a better season;
but they were over-ruled. Already strike-camps
have been formed at Cobham and other early
sheds.
A WINGLESS WAIL.
My word, my bin t’ink it white man too much same longa
me,
Palparara, Yulbadilla, Oobbareena, Wongalee ;
’Spose mine want it walk about baal ’im gib it ’bacca, tea ;
Tathamurra, Boondandilla, Weelamurra, Werribee.
Make mine jacker longa kitchen, longa bullock, longa
tree ;
Dulbydilla, Coorabulka, BoonOondara, Merriwee.
Take ’im gin and piccaninny yabber “ make ’im bud-
geree.”
Doongnabulla, Wealwandangie, Yandaburra, Targinnie.
Ghearer chear alonga monkey yabber me, “ Go make ’im
come
Widgee, Warro, Weewondilla, Neene, Nunga, Nacowlah ;
’Spose ’im budgeree like puppy, bow, wow, wow, mine
gib it rum.”
Goondoobnall.v, Ebagoolah, Yacamundah, Booligah.
By mine jacker longa monkey, “ bow, wow, wow,” alonga
sum
Taudainvarra, Tierawomba, Tullundunna, Bimerah.
Chearer yabber, “ Myall nigger, go to ’ell ; no got ’im
rum.”
Ticalara, Tintinchilla, Tirrabilla, Cooroorah.
Pig-tail Chinkie longa garden mine bin chee ’im blully
quick,
Eroungella, Erimbula, Egilabria, Baralja.
Yabber, “ S’pose you gib it op’um, gin bin gib it longa
creek,”
Dalgonally, Daroo, Dalgi, Ukalunda, Durundur.
Yaki Mary catch ’im op’um, make ’im Ohow sore longa
stick,
Augathella, Abergowrie, Cunnamulla, Gamboola,
Ohow too flightened longa pleeceman, now mine gib it
plenty cheek,
Calliungal, Authoringa, Ambathella, Gulnabar.
BARCCO W.
HIS ONLY READER
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
J'HE Poet woke at
dead of night :
He heard a voice
within the room
Where he was wont his
verse to write ,
And rose up quickly
in the gloom.
He seized an axe and softly crept
In his pyjamas from his bed —■
And he beheld a man who wept
As one ivho weeps above the dead.
He ivas a rugged, bull-necked man,
A man of violence and sin ;
Biot down his cheeks the tear-drops ran,
And over his protruding chin.
A lantern dark ivas by his side;
Its light with cautious glimmer shone —
He worked it with a patent slide
A tattered manuscript upon.
It was a tale in metre told,
A gentle tale of old Romance ;
The Poet recognised the cold
Rejection-marks with half a glance.
It ivas a travelled manuscript,
Well-known from Brisbane unto Perth ;
For it had trained, and coached, and shipped
All o’er and round Australian earth.
No editor so full of gin
That he that manuscript would use;
But, each and all, to take it in
Unanimously did refuse.
The Author loved it well, and he
Unto his friends would broadly hint
There was a base conspiracy
To keep the poem out of print?
At last it had a Reader found
Who saw at once its merits true ;
The Poet dropped his axe, and round
That reader’s neck an arm he threw.
They sobbed awhile together; then
The Poet said, “I fain would know
The cause why you, alone of men,
Should love my little poem so ?”
The burglar wiped his eyes. Said lie —
That beetle-browed and bull-necked elf —
“ Before I took to burglary
I used ter write like this myself! ”
OREEVE ROE.


A Water Diet.
Considerable interest has been taken in Mrs.
Mary McArdle, of Brewarrina, who, when inter-
viewed, was staying in Taraworth with her friend,
Mrs. Mary Carpenter (says a reporter). This
lady has actually endeavoured to exist on a diet
of water, and it was really on this account that
the reporter recently interviewed her. She ex-
plained the reason of her extraordinary action as
follows :
“It is nearly ten years ago since, as far as
my inclination went, a drink of water was
sufficient for meals. Indeed, the eating of
solid food brought on such severe pains of in-
digestion . that .1 was positively frightened to
eat proper food. At .times of course, I forced my-
self to eat something solid, otherwise I should
have died, but those who have suffered from the
pains of indigestion will understand how I
abhorred meal times. I had also severe pains
right across my forehead and over my eyes. I
used to get quite dizzy, and sometimes would have
fallen had I not clutched at the nearest article.
At night I could not sleep well, and the slightest
sound would wake me. As time went on I grew
terribly nervous, weak and thin ; sometimes 1 was
too weak to walk about the house.”
“ Your experiences have been particularly dis-
tressing,” said the reporter.
“Yes,” replied Mrs. McArdle, “but they at
last came to an end. I had tried almost every
remedy thought likely to benefit me, without
success, when, after suffering for eight years, a
lady friend induced me to give Dr. Williams’
pink pills for pale people a trial.”
“ The result is evident in your sprightly appear-
ance,” said the reporter.
“Yes,” she replied, “it is. Iliad only been
taking them fo r a fortnight when I felt consider-
ably better, and as I continued using them the
headaches and nervousness left me. 1 regained
my appetite and ate without ill-effect; I was able
to sleep well at night, and soon began to put on
flesh. Dr. Williams’ pink pills are a reliable
medicine, and I will always recommend them to
my friends.”
Lack of blood is the direct cause of physical and
functional weakness, headaches, indigestion, heart
palpitation, backache, cold feet, and ti.e general
wretchedness of “delicate” people. Dr. Williams’
pink pills increase and enrich the blood and tone
up the nerves. Thus they cure such diseases as
the following; which have for their foundations
vitiated blood and unstrung nerves : —rheumatism,
neuralgia, sciatica, bronchitis, consumption, pa-
ralysis, locomotor ataxia, nervous disorders, etc.
Sold by chemists and storekeepers, and by the
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place,
Sydney, two and nine per box, six boxes fifteen
and three, post free. Describe your symptoms
and write for a special letter about your case.*
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBL, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University, writes —
“ Hunyadi Janos Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has proved specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipation,
venous obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.”
Average Dose :— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAPTION
Note the name “Hunyadl Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
- ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Par
of the Label.
CHILDREN
now-a-days have notoriously BAD TEETH,
because the White Bread they live on lacks the
Wheaten Phosphates (rejected with the Bran)
which go to make good, sound Teeth, as well as
Bone, Brain and Nerve substance.
CEREBOS SALT, used like common salt,
supplies these necessary Phosphates, and is,
therefore, invaluable in the daily food of
mothers and children.
Wholesale Agents:- HARRISON & ATTWOOD, 334 and 336, George Street, SYDNEY.
Sold by Grocers and Stores.
“Viking” : Late in the Seventies
Sydney barque with a general cargo and a
Formosan crew was thrown on her beam-
ends, in a gale, off the Celebes. The crew
dived into the foc’sle. The second mate
went below, and found them in various
attitudes smoking rank cigars. With
much vigorous language he urged them
to go on deck. “No fear,” said the
Serang, “no more work. All go down
soon. S’pose we work, who pay ? ” The
infuriated European concussion inflicted
with a belaying-pin overcame their reluct-
ance, and the ship was eventually saved.
The story illustrates a curious mental
attitude of the Chinese. Death, appar-
ently, did not matter; but the idea of
working when they didn’t expect to sur-
vive to collect the wages struck the
economical Cninese mind as absurd.
* * * *
“T.0.H.”: The Hindoos on the
Northern (N.S.W.) rivers have a curious
one-stringed musical instrument. It con-
sists of an empty billy-can, with a small
hole punched in the bottom, through
which a piece of string is inserted and
held by a knot on the inside. The can is
held under the left arm, the end of the
piece of string is held taut in the fingers
of the sime hind; while, with the finger
of the right hand, the performer plays
the accompaniment to some weirdly
heath,erish chant. The “music” is due
to the “(giving and backing ” of the can-
bottom, according to change of stress.
• * * •
“Mid”; Wish some Bulletin
reader wou’d en ig’iten me as to the
difference (if any) , efcween the pearl-eyed
and t'.ie black-eyed crow. Is it merely a matter
of age 1 Have shot both descriptions from one
lot, and have young birds of both sorts. As talker
the pearl-eyed bird seems the best.^
* * * *
Dear Bulletin. —N.S.W. Premier See
E remises to help the shopkeepers who have lost
usine3s by the erection of barricades around
Hordern’s burnt-out emporium, if he can find a
precedent for Govt, compensation under similar
circumstances. The barricades are presumably in
the public interest. The “ Tick barricade ”up
North is also in the public interest, and
many cattle-breeders have lost far more
than these clamoring shopkeepers will lose
by a temporary check to their usual volume of
business. If Mr. See is looking for a precedent
for not allowing any compensation, let him inquire
what assistance has been given to cattle-men, who
are suffering for the public benefit by the total
stoppage of their business. If See gives com-
pensation in this case, surely he can’t refuse to
compensate men on the land for the loss of their
stock—starved out by Government rabbits.—
Gripps Clark.
* * * *
“D. 8.” : The tale of an up-country news-
paper conspiracy. When the new manager came
to take charge of the paper he started like the pro-
verbial new broom, and the reporters’ room suddenly
assumed an unwonted air of discipline. We ex-
pected trouble with the editor, and it came. The
almighty “we” signified his opinion of the new
manager in the usual way—went on a howling
drunk. The new manager raved mightily, but
the editor came not. As a last resort all the re-
porters were sent in search of the chief. Not a
man was left in the office, barring a distraught
sub-editor and the raving manager. After an
hour or two the reporters began to return, one at
a time, and quite incapable. They explained that
they had searched in many places for the editor
and were utterly exhausted. The paper got out
somehow next morning, but one such night was
enough for the new manager. He resigned forth-
with, and the old manager was re-instated. Then
we had a celebration —it lasted a week.
• • * •
“Vulcan”: Watched an “ancient grey-
beard” rat sneak into a guinea-pigs’ box t’other
day. -After selecting a fine, fat little “pig,” he
clasped it to his chest with his fore-legs, and, thus
handicapped, turned himself into a log, and rolled
over and over till he reached his hole —where a
brick fell on him.
“ Quart-Pot ” : Re divining
rod. In the early days of the Bar-
rier, at the late W. R. Wilson’s
camp in the Apollyon Valley,
Surveyor Barlow, who had implicit
faith in the rod, volunteered to
prove its efficacy. Cutting a rod,
he circled round the camp, hold-
ing it in orthodox fashion, with the
result that it persistently pointed to
a number of 400 gal. iron tanks
which stood close by. The trial
7as perfectly convincing until
one of the audience examined the
tanks and found them empty!
Writer knew Stewart, who located
several wells successfully in and
around Silverton by means (alleg-
edly) of the rod, and is quite satis-
fied he worked on geological know-
ledge and simply used the stick
as a joke. This is probably the
case in other instances.
A peculiar breed of mice has been observed
on trees in Castleton (Vic.) district, the animals
having a distinctly feathered tail of a black and
white or plaid color.
A copy of “A Policy for the Common-
wealth,” The Bulletin’s particularly suc-
cessful pamphlet, will be posted from this office to
any Australian address on receipt of Bd. in stamps
(of any State).
AN ADAPTATION.
“I's no use, Olivia! There’s no money for spring bonnets.”
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
L.A. : To any Australian jealous of the good
name of his country it now makes little difference
whether that Boer-sniper yarn be true or not. That so
many Australians have written glorying in a dastardly
act of savagery towards a brave if foolish man is the pain-
ful reflection for all who would see the men of their nation
manly in the best sense of that ill-used word. If the yarn
be true, the men who did it have at least the palliation of
anger and blood-madness. True or untrue, what can one
say of the cowardly brutes who, in cold blood, exultantly
applaud it? Henry Martin : Explanation is simple :
You have been looking at the exports and imports of the
seven States of Australasia in Coghlan’s “ Seven Colonies
of Australasia.” The figures quoted were the exports and
imports of the six States of the Commonwealth from
Coghlan’s “ Statistics of the Seven Colonies ” —quite a
different work. In the first work Ooghlan doesn’t in-
clude India, Canada, &c., with “other countries”;
in the second he does. If we quote one authority, and
you persist in looking at another, that isn’t our funeral...
Mendo : It’s not “ unusual ” ; 49 out of 60 cough-mixtures
contain opium—usually in the form of minute doses of
morphine R.W.O. : That morganatic-marriage story
appears to be true. It has not been specifically denied....
M.J.D. : Thanks ; the alleged writer looks very like a
deliberate plagiarist... .Old Sub. (K., W.A.): Louisa
Collins was four times tried—once (abortively) for the
murder of her first husband, Andrews; then she was
twice abortively tried for the murder of her second hus-
band, Collins. On being tried a third time for poisoning
Collins she was convicted O.C.J. (M L.) : As three out
of four of the women who bring such charges are, sooner
or later, shown to be liars, how do you justify your zeal
in advocating that a man who may so easily be wrongly
convicted shall be tortured? Doesn’t the Jessie Minns
case (not to mention a hundred others) tend to cool your
head?... .W.M.M. : Yes, a good fight was made for Grimm
too, but The Bulletin reckons he had all the odds in his
favor so far as money and other material influences were
concerned H.G. : Please don’t abbreviate so much, and
do write names plainly. “There is no context to a
name,” and there is" nothing which brings such
ridicule on a paper as to print names incorrectly
THE TESTIMONIAL THAT FAILED.
THE REPORTER (reading aloud testimonial to be
signed re the virtues of patent medicine) :
“...our reporter espied Mr. Brown’s
picturesque dwelling nestling”
UUGRATEFUL CONVALESCENT : “ Pickcheresk dwel-
lin’? ’Ere, git outer this, you an’ yer bag er
tricks. I’ll ’low no one ter poke mullock at
my ’ouse.”
Enix: That “ Hell’s full!” gag is moss-grown K.„rah :
Story wasn’t up to mark, but we didn’t say so with any
special ferocity P.P.Q. : Your point is good, and your
verse bad A.G.T. : After a short struggle the basket
won Geo. M. : Don’t keep on styling yourself “ annual
subscriber.” We judge contributions absolutely on their
merits, and wouldn’t print an item by our own brother if
it didn’t “go of itself. May possibly print “ Reminis-
cences.” E.O. : The stage spinster dreams, at the out-
set, of being adored by every man—not of getting married
to one W. 0.: We loathe people who label themselves
“ Esq.” They always send us bosh written on expensive
notepaper... .P. : We are so tired of hearing that the
actor in question took his B.A. degree at Me’.b. Univer-
sity Mons. : Story of doeskin vest looks li ilf a lie and
two halves of a libel’... .Roscian : You can’t work a puff
for J. P. Duggan’s Hamlet in this paper. Old Melbourne
remembers it as a leaden performance. Probably the
Hamlets before Duggan were leaden likewise, but they
are less remembered L.E. : The music played by the
Chow orchestra in Melbourne may have a definite form of
composition as regards sound, but it certainly lacks tune,
as Europeans understand the word. The heathen who
bangs tbe cymbals is toiling almost incessantly. Like-
wise the tom-tom beater. The din has no rythm and
very little variety. China up to now has never been
guilty of opera—“ grand ”or otherwise. Music is of the
simplest lyrical type, and the songs are mere chants,
specially suitable to funerals. (Happy idea for the
undertaking profession !)... .E.L. : The cables about the
cruelties of the Boers are evidently sent as a justification-
in-advance for the war of extermination which has now'
been entered upon. The press-censor takes good care
that you don’t hear the other side, though now and then
interesting little “ pointers ” manage to protrude them-
selves.... Melchior : Please don’t send us dialect; we
abhor it. Sometimes it does get into our print—and when
we see it we kick ourselves for w r eeks... .Manchester
Unity : Turn up the “ financial statement from 20th Oct.,
1900, to 7th March, 1901 ” (the only one so far issued), and
see whether the B.H. institute isn’t doctor-sweating.
“ Number on list, 809 ; medical officer’s salary, £B6 45.”
Average per week, £4 9s. 6d, for treating 809
members, half of them with families! No wonder,
as The Bulletin said before, the institute had to
import three different doctors in 4J months
C.O. A. : It all amounts to this—that the landsman can’t
compare with the sailor for steadiness aloft. The London
Fire brigade refuses to accept any but sailors in its
service... Lex. (Ad.) :If we had been the poor sub-editor
of that daily we’d likewise have omitted your last
sentence—though, going “on our own” we’d have
printed it readily enough. In view of what has “ already”
happened to Royalty in Australia it would have been
injudicious to print your concluding words—and this we
say while in full sympathy with your sentiments
F. J.F. : Senator Styles was abs nt, and it was a mistake
on the part of the teller of the “Noes” that made him
appear as voting against Glassev’s motion to restrict
lascar-labor on the mail-boats. Styles’s vote would, of
course, have been the other way E.W. : To print that
So-and-So suicided “while suffering from an illness”
would give offence to the friends of deceased ; whereas to
print that So-and-So suicided while suffering from
illness would be a comparatively unobjectionable way
of putting it. Such are the niceties of idiom
E.L.W. : As Duggan is a popular local grog-dealer and a
R.C., the difference between the votes polled by him
and by Findley is not so much more than the class-
support he thus received. Isn’t that a fair view?....
J.D.O. : Can’t take it in. Children who didn’t know
what a penny was wouldn’t be likely to know anything
about medals A.N.G. : Write to a Sydney skin-dealing
firm —say, Winchcombe, Carson and Co., Bridge-street.
.... Byrock : All blather; men who commit such atro-
cities seldom skite about them White Wing : Too
ricketty... Evelyn H. : Not too bad—though it doesn’t
suit Bulletin. .. .M. Grinat: You don’t seem to get any
vital force into your work. “M’suba” falls painfully
flat W.M. : Little o/it, and less in it! Bilby : Very
good in its way. Doesn’t suit Bulletin, but you might
“ place ” it elsewhere.... Grass Tree : Never heard of the
matter before. Probably only one of the.stupid London
canards about Royalties D.H.R. : “During the ’64
flood”—but, where?... .Betrayer : Try shorter items.
Don’t send in sheaves of unusable MS Scrutineer : Not
badly versified, but hardly point enough.... E.H.O. : You
really expect us to publish that !.... A Subscriber : She is
anonymous... .A.B.S. : Star Office, Sy'dney... .D.B. :
Can’t undertake to read blue pencil-scrawl O.L.E.
(Eng.): Salutations, after many years! But you didn’t
send that cutting Local Fathead : Funny, but, alas !it
was a tragedy for someone Traveller: All true, but
how otherwise can we cram two gallons of matter into a
pint-pot?... .Cush : Must be the original Joke of Ages....
A.B.S. : It would earn us six months L.L. : What are
you giving us? Hattenbach is undoubtedly the best
’cellist in Melbourne... .Theorbo: In what respects has
the stage management of the two operas been improved ?
G.S. : But it happened that on the only Saturday
night when “Cavalleria” preceded “ Pagliacci ” the part
of Oanio in the latter opera was not “ magnificently
acted by Dani." He did not play. The magnificent per-
formance was Larizza’s. So there now ! Austin D. :
Considering Bred (W.A.): Received Ignotus:
Mayor’s “Chapters on English Metre” (Lond., 1886)
seems to be what you want Gilo :Be terse, get to the
point. You maundered over 4 pp. ; we got to the point
with three pencil-scratches Solo :No “mercy” re-
quired ; good item Turaga (Fiji): Thanks; but
hardly worth print.. ..Clubs : Can only use the ant-item.
Kappa : Well written ; but the parallel fails in several
important points Betrayer: Personal par. good.
The others clever in places, but on the whole too strained
and artificial W.M. : You have a good sense of metre
and rhyme, and with more experience might do good
verse E.C. : Verj- crude work C.J.T. : “Any
good ? ” Not much —but not too bad either... .Milky W. :
“ Winter ”is at least excellently versified. Has a chance.
....Echo: May possibly alter and use.... Madge M. :
Woman’s whole life blighted because one man ck ,Ually told
another she was a flirt, and the horrid accusation spread—
Yarran: Will illustrate “ a fair Trap.” Scot R.
Inkier: Don’t quite see what you’re at.... Backtrax ;
Nothing in that. Goat is not a very uncommon article of
diet, out back... .Old Board : You don’t tell it badly, but
Thu Bulletin printed that yarn long ago—in about
l-18th of the space Satire : Grievously pointless
“ Garry ” : Yes genuine.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
R.W.S. : We get as original too many sugges-
tions which might just as easily come from Nova
Zembla, or Capetown, or London, or Central America.
Send us something obviously Australian —something
specially topical anyhow. How are we to know that
things of that sort aren’t scissored from any
one of the thousand current scrap-papers?....
Eric W. : It fails, because a man cannot, in the ordin-
arily-accepted sense, be “ divorced ” from his mother.
But your drawing shows great promise... .A.J. : For
suggestion, if you guarantee originality ..R. Banks:
Will use... .Tired Tim : Good idea... .R. Glynn : Drawing
good, but we’re “ not taking any ” legends like that.....
R. Radford : Is it quite original ? If so, it is an effective
subject for re-drawing... .R.E.W. : Plenty imagination,
but we hardly know how to drag them in. Also, pencil-
sketches won’t reproduce J.M.A. : Only bullocky
available W.O. (H.) : All seem second-hand
M.G.0.: Milson’s will do as a suggestion ; others
unavailable, though some of them show ma gi nation
and promise. Memo, posted.... Mildred E.S. : Stamps
should always be fastened to drawing, not to
letter... .R.W.G. : Strictly original?.. ..0.E.8. : Shows
capacity, but he has yet far to go. Study,
study! W.J.P. : As a suggestion W.G.D. : Sub-
mitted to artist Ted : One will do ; but you should
sign each picture Bob B. : You don’t find new-chums
so green as all that. England is civilised enough to
know what a telegraph-line is A.G. (B.) : Send us
something to help the artist. Mere puns don’t illustrate
well. Also, Australian cyclistes don’t wear such costumes.
....George O. (R.): Don’t quite understand, but have
handed it to artist to see if he can sort it out
Baulkham Hills: Study at a life-class for a year or two
Unavailable : Syd. S., Jack A. 0., M.D., A.J. (Perth), Ohis.
S. V.R.8., Adrian, F. Midgley, Ida S., Moorook,
Biffie, E. Manton, 8.C.D., Rd., J.A.F., J.A.8., J.M‘M.,
T. N.P.C., Chas. A.S., A.A.H.
“ C.W.” : Let me point out that the term
“balmy,” as used in The Bulletin, should be
spelt “barmy,” because, according to the New
English Dictionary, the reference is to “barm”
(or yeast). The term is an English one, of fair
antiquity, and not, as many suppose, a bit of
Australian slang.


• THE STATE GOVERNORSHIP.
p The communication from the Secretary of StaM
f for the Colonies with reference to the appoint-
ment of a new Governor for Victoria was placed
r before the Cabinet by Mr. Peacock yesterday. In
• his message Mr. Chamberlain asked that the
• Government should reconsider the question of
[ allowances to the Governor of the State, so as to
i provide for an aide-de-camp and a private-secre-
[ tAry. This suggestion was made is the Secretary
• Of State had reason to hope that he could secure
J os Governor “a person of distinction and ability."
I whoso qualifications would be of benefit to the
: State. The allowances in question, would mean a
: matter of about £1000 per annum
DISTINCTION
And
i(,Cnro j
old
Marquis
cW-o
yU yCAK
VEfiV <souTy
Cov*«.n(JA 1
so £*«•!*>£
f A-.ocro
Y <* l ' '
■gvVYTViVvty»
COrtMOfJ $
Or j;
CAR.DE>*
CiOVCRfsR ;i
fat*,
"W**Wais
<«■» * u
41 ttyffiy
MELBOURNE EAST ELECTION.
gEM TO THE EoiTOR OK THE AGE
r ’ l’ho electors of Melbourne East, whilst
themselves on the polling of
fcgyestorday, are doubtless Dot unmindful ho*
rJP much their thanks are due to Mr. Watt, whose
JyffZpublic-spirited subordination of party feeling
ij Rnd personal ambition ensured an escape from a
k oalamitj and digraoe. They cannot be unmindful
| either of the pecuniary loss which he has suffered
* in voluntarily forfeiting his deposit, and in other
3 incidental expenses. It will be a not-unbecoming
g proof of such thanks to see that he be reimbursed
3 for that outlay. A subscription limited to a
8 pound from eaoh contributor would readil* make
\ up the amount, but it will be more graceful tn
2 proportion to the hugeness of the number* though
? the contributions be of smaller sums. I enclose
? my pound, ami venture to suggest that yon kindly
\ accept it and others for this good cause.
' , T , Yours, &c., E. G. FitzGibbon.*
; 17th July.
CAircua or the legislative jr
COUNCIL. ]|
A caucus of members of the Legislative Councill
was held at Parliament House, Exhibition Biild-:
■ng, yesterday, for the purpose of electing a leader
to succeed Senator Frederick S irgood, and oN
considering the question of Parliamentary reform.;
Henry Cuthbert presided over a large attendance. :
The question of leadership was soon settled.
The caucus then proceeded to disouss the :
’question of parliamentary reform, in both its:
Igeneral aspect and its bearing upon the CounoUi :
line proposal of the Government to bring about :
reform through the agenoy of an outside body was :
generally condemned. Eventually it was deoided i
appoint a oommittee of ten members to prepare f
scheme qf reform, whioh will be considered at a :
iture meeting.
y Mr. Barton, who was cordially received, saidN
he believed no movement for the uplifting of
humanity had such good results as the Salvation
Army. Ho would attempt to make no speeoh
to add to the pathos of the simple words
of Mrs. Booth. He would content himself with
an expression of sympathy on his own part, and
an invocation to sympathy on the part of all of"
warm heart and white soul. The movement was
growing more powerful, and the more it grew
powerful the more he wished it greator power. 1
(Applause.) The ueed of an organisation to help
the sad and weary had long boon felt. There
were many religious organisations, but this was it
religion without sect. It took no account of olass
but only of misery. (Hear, hoar.) Surely there I
oould be no prejudice ; surely there could be no
jealousy of a movement like this. Surely every
religions denomination and every dogma must
euffer in comparison with the whole-souled Chris
v tiauity of this endeavor- y
A
yHS e c’flZ'
/i *
' e I' - ,f
"If •’ n
-tSs <«• * j 3 ' ll JX
, /> V'
/nv>
Vs
w
e y rs^ < S>
/
Hgifc
V}t &C Vev€*»?ft9:f ■_.
Y A CONCESSION.
To a certain extent the Governmentia prepared
to relax from the firm attitude it has hitherto
taken op in connection with the clauses in the
Postal Bill affecting the transmission of letters to
‘ Tattersall’s ” in Tasmania. The clauses wilPy
not'become operative, assuming the Bill to pass *
the House of Representatives without vital
amendment, until regulations have been drafted
effecting their purpose. There is a disposition on
the part of the Government to refrain from taking
steps to draft the regulations until the question as
to States Rights raised by the Tasmanian Govern-
ment baa been settled by the Federal High Court.
This means that Tattersall’s is safe for another
couple of years at least.
fy i tffes \
oj* 'ye,
MELBOURNIANA:


A thing called a “Ghost Shark ” has
been found at Manly. The only way to
avoid seeing these unpleasant things is
to shun Manly whisky.
THE UNEMPLOYED.
The shelter sheds on the Bunnerong-
road are now completed, and already
15 inmates are there. The grounds
around these sheds will be worked as
kitchen-gardens, in which the in-
mates will be expected to earn
their keep. Books and news-
papers will be provided.
And, of course, The O’Sullivan will
see to it that the Sydney D.T. is
on the list.
MODERN COURTSHIP.
Augustus S “ Here’s rather a neat thing in revolvers T picked up at a-
bargain the other day.”
Cboixy ; “ Congratulate you, old fellow ;
butter—who’s the happy woibanl”
HA NCDOMUM
ytDIFiCAVIT
O‘SULLIVANBS
I Dr. Blimber ; First class in Political Economy, stand up! And if the prebent o .
) gold watch and a purse of sovereigns will indiice a Minister of the Grown o
/ dream of Bs. a day as a minimum wage, how many gold watches and sovereigns
would it take to make the dreams run to 10s. t
“ The police were personally pre-
sented by the Duke of York with.'
autograph photos, of himself and-
the Princess.” —Daily papers;
Mr. O’Sullivan, in acknowledging a presentation*'
by Labor organisations of a gold watch and purse of '
sovereigns, thanked the donors for the handsome gifts
they had made him—incentives to higher achieve-
ment as they would prove. The watch would ever
remind him of the time when he was an active mem-
ber of trade organisations, and the purse of sovereigns-
•would be devoted to the purchase of a piece of land
•in the eastern suburbs, where he had resided over 21
years. Upon that land he would build a residence,
over the door of which would be inscribed the motto/
“ Labor omnia vincit.”
Our artist here gives an architectural detail’ of
the door of said house, and suggests (without extra
charge) some Latin to go with it. The house is
guaranteed waterproof and the Latin will wash.
: i
The N.S.W. Womanhood Suf-
frage League held a meeting re-,
• cently at which The O’Sullivan,
of course, was present, and (of
course) The O'Sullivan made a 1
■speech.
Mbs. Sergeant Flynn : “ What!
only portygraphs !' Shure,
Pathrick Flynn, d’ye mane
to tell me the Jook akshilly
put yez down on a level wid Paycock and thim other polly-
tishins 1 Phfwat is the foorce a-comin’ to at all at all!”
This is not Napoleon Bonaparte after the battle of
Waterloo, but only Toby Barton in his “ presenta-
tion " togs, meditating upon how much more be-
coming would be the Chief-Justice’s robes to his
style of beauty.
“ On behalf of my Government-,” he said in effect, “ I promise
you not only Ti l KSE, but that they shall only be a stepping-stone to
induco mu', when political times get better, to promise the braces tlmt
usually go wlfliihiuii! " (Deafening applause).
(Hut this is really all of O’Sullivan that-TiiE Bulletin can stand-
in one issue). • •
THE GHOST-SHARK AND MINISTER O’SULLIVAN.


A. SAUNDERS’
SOLID SILVER SHOWROOM DISPLAY.
THE LARGEST AND MOST COMPREHENSIVE STOCK IN AUSTRALIA.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s COMPANION CALENDER and LETTER
HOLDER, 12s 6d, 16s, 20s, 265.
Most Useful Present.
Cheaper Styles, 7s 6d, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
SOLID SILVER Gent.’s SHAVER SOAP STICK,
BRUSH, PUFF BOX, in Silk-lined Case, £2 10s,
A Nice Present.
A. SAUNDERS’
Latest Style in Ladies' PURE SILVER-CHASED Watteau
Design, HAIR BRUSH, 355; Cheaper Styles, 15s 6d, 18s 6d, 20s,
255. Send for 1901 Illustrated Book.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted MANICURE SET, 20s, in Silk-lined Case.
Other styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 265, 80s, £2,
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver-mounted SHO LIFT, BOOT and
GLOVE FASTENER, and GLOVE STRETCHER,
in Nice Leather Case, 22s 6d
IP"
'niilßnafiiipfi:ijliiliiliiiliiliijiilfjllij]
A. SAUNDEKS.
SMELLING SALTS BOTTLE, Pure Solid Silver, Plain or Chased
Tops, ss, 7s fid, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 2Cs.
Other styles, 2s 6d and 8s 6d.
A, SAUNDERS.
Lttdi.'s’ Silver-mounted WALLET
CARD CASE, 20s.
Similar style, 15s,
Solid Silver Swan PIN-
CUSHION, 7s 6d
PURSES, Pure Silver-mounted as above,
10s and 20s ;
similar lines, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ FRIEND. Pure Silver-mounted,
in Silk-linea Case, 18a 6d.
Smaller, 16s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
SERVIETTE RINGS. Pure Solid Silver,
Diamond Cut, 83 6d, 10s, and 12s 6d.
In three widths.
A. SAUNDERS.
MIRROR, Pure Silver,
Watteau Design,
£B.
Other styles, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
GUM POT.
Pure Silver-mounted,
6s 6d.
SPECTACLE
CHATELAINE
CASE,
Solid Silver,
80s. £2.
Silver-plated,
;i2s 6a.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver 4 o'clock TEA SPOONS, in Case, 15s, 20s;
with TONGS, 20s, 255, 30s. £2 j
Silver Electro-plated, with TONGS, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s,
All in Silk-lined Cases. Post Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER, Pure Solid Silver, as above, 20s;
with Solid Silver KNIFE and tilk Case, 30s, Complete.
A. SAUNDERS,
Ladies’ Pure Silver Complete TOILET REQUISITES, in Silk-lined ease.
2 HAIR BRUSHES. MIRROR, HAT and CLOTH BRUSH, MANICURE SET
GLOVE STRETCHER, SHOE LIFT and BUTTON HOOK.
IS Articles in all, £l2 10s.
1
i
.
-
'V.
o— ■
a. sAU N D ERS.
Ladies’Pure Solid Silver-mounted TOILET SET: HAIRPIN HOLDER, CENT
BOTTLE, PUFF BOX, an i POMADE POT. £2. Very Useful.
cznzr
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver RATTLE, Pearl Ring and End, 12s 6d and 10s 6d; other styles, 4s 6d, Bs, 7s 6d.
m
hs
This
little
sttgsir
PIG
A. SAUNDERS.
Child’s SPOON, Solid Silver, Chased, 7s 6d. The Latest and Newest Designs,
COMBS.—Pure Solid Silver-mounted,
Real TORTOISESHELL, 20s; Imitation Shell,
10s 6d; Similar, 5s 6d and 7s 6d.
HRBBE
m.
\\
CLOTH or HAT BRUSH, Pure Silver,
12s Gd, 15s, 17s tid, 20s.
Price to Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ or G. nt.'s TRAVELLING ROLLS,
as above, 12s 6d. Other Styles, similar,
10s, 15s, 20s, 255, HOs, £2, £2 10s,
fc
A. SAUNDEftS.
Pure Silver-mounted SHAVING
CUP, 7s 6d.
In Silver plate, 15s, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted Q-ent.’s
HAIR BRUSH, 15 1 each.
Purb Silver-
mounted
HAlli PIN
HOLDER, ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted
MIKE 'R, 15s; Heart Shape,
l'2s 6d. Splendid Value,
Pure Solid Silve
Badger Hair
SHAVING
BRUSH, 12s 6d.
Other styles,
15s and 20s, >
A Nice Present.
Pure Silver
BOOK MARK,
2s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGARETTE or CIGAR OASES,
Various Colaurs, Silver-mounted,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
A. S iUNDER*.
Pure Silver-mounted KNIFE RESTS,
in Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNHKES.
Pure Silver Cab net PHOTO. FRAME,
12s 6d.
Other styles, 10s, 15s, 20s, 255, 30s;
small, Is 6d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, ss.
A. BAUND3KS.
CHILD’S DU PS, Pure Solid Silver, in Silk <'ase,
30s, 355, £2, £2 10s;
Silver Electro-plated, 10s, 12s 6d 15=, 20 .
A Nice Presen'.
A. SAUNDERS.
PUFF BOX, Solid Silver Covers, Cut Glass,
10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 61, 2D<.
A Most Useful Present.
A. SAUNDERS.
Two Pure Silver-mounted BRUSHES and COMB,
in Silk Case, £3. Other styles, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUtfDEIiS.
S A.LTS, Pure Silver-mounted, 16s 6d,
White Cut Glais, iu Silk-lined Case.
A. SAUNDERS,
JEIWEILLSR and SILVERSMITH
A BEAUTIFUL DISPLAY OF PRESENTS.
Mind. 815 GEORGE-STREET,
NEARLY OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY-


Bargains in Clothing.
The widest variety of correctly-made Suits for
Men and Boys are offered to you by
HORDERN’S, IN PITT STREET.
Every detail of Fashion has been carefully
studied in the build, the linings are the best, the
buttons tightly sewn on, the buttonholes artisti-
cally finished; in fact, “ PERFECTION ” is
stamped on every garment bearing our
FAMOUS
FEDERAL BRAND.
If you want Real Style, Unquestionable Value,
and Absolute Satisfaction, come in and see what
we are now offering in
MEN’S AND BOYS’ CLOTHING.
No Disappointing Sale Prices, but Solid Value
at
HORDERN BROTHERS,
FEDERAL OUTFITTERS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
If you cannot come in, please order by letter.
TZHZIE
SoCitb Africao •
*
V
Medal
T
J,
5Z
■
Specialty Designed and Manufactured for Presen-
tation to returned Australian Soldiers.
m- APPROPRIATE and ARTISTIC, m
Manufactured in 15c. Gold at Three Prices, viz.,
£3 3s. £4 4s. £3 3s-
Prices include cost of Inscription and a suitable Case.
H. NEWMAN,
MANUFACTURING JEWELLER,
175 & 177 Elizabeth-st., Melbourne,
ROLARINE
Absolutely the Best
METAL POLISH.
N. SUTHRIPdC Ltd.,
80LE AGENTS for N.S.W., Queensland & New Caledonia,
71 Clarence St., Sydney.
A SILVER WATCH
FOR NOTHING.
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE of OUR
FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s (Lady’s
and Gentlemen’s) to EVERY MAN, WOMAN or CHILD
who sends the CORRECT READING of the following
puzzle :
N*V*R L*S* Y**R T*MP*R.
The only condition is that if your answer is correct you
purchase one of our Solid Silver Chains to wear with the
Watch.
SEND NO MONEY ; simply forward your answer, and
enclose stamp and addressed envelope, so that we may
inform you if you have won the Watch. We are making
this offer solely with the object of introducing and
advertising our Goods.
Address— THE MANAGER,
The LONDON WATCH & JEWELLERY CO.
13 CENTRAL ARCADE, CEORQE STREET, SYDNEY.
“The sinecures are all filled by the in-
efficient friends of the efficient.” — Century Mao.
The rain was driving along the streets and
eddying at the corners. The wood blocks were
slippery, and all the depressions of the very much
depressed Sydney streets were filled with water
and slush, and everyone who could afford it had
taken to cabs and broughams. The large, fat
woman stood at the corner of Barrack-st., and
looked longingly across at the Post office. Then
she held her skirt up, and showed an elegant red
underskirt, which she trailed through the slush m
sweet unconsciousness. It was a wonder she held
up anything, for she carried four parcels, a hand-
bag and an umbrella, and led her dog by a chain.
The tyke got impatient, and started across the
street. She followed. The tram-driver clanged
his bell loudly ; the dog got trodden on by a boy
who was rushing past; and, as she fled to get
off the tram-line, a cab bore right down on her.
People shouted, “Look out! look out!” The
woman stuck to the dog, and, turning her face
down the street, scuttled along in front of the car
right between the rails. The car was stopping,
and in another moment she would have been safe,
when down she went, right in the track, and the
small boy with the time table yelled,. “ What ho !
she bumps! ” The public held its collective
breath as, with screeching wheels, the tram slid
along and gently pushed her in front of it,
through all the slush of George-street. She
wasn’t hurt, but her yells shook the Post-office.
They picked her up, and after a workman liad
scraped her down with a shovel, they put her in. a
cab, and it was only then they found that she still
held tightly in her hand a chain, attached to
the other end of which was a small dog, in a
most disreputable state. The woman who hangs
on to her dog in such circumstances isn’t so far
removed after all from the three Romans who
held the bridge under trying circumstances in the
long, long ago.
Publications.
THE BALLET GIRL
df
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Lite, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties.
Madame Panza,.— —
913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
FOREIGN STAMPS.
sd
a
w
i
f
ammm
mzmm
/HHEAP SETS.—4O Japan, Is 6d ;
47 Spain, 2s ; 4 Tientsin, 3d ;
16 Heligoland, Is ; 8 Egypt, 6d ;
30 French, 9d ; 7 Iceland, 9d ; 9
Labuan Pictorial, 2s 6d; 11 Canada,
6d; 9 Canada Duty, 6d; 5 Bolivia, 4d.
Packets 50, Is ; 100, 2s 6d. Stamps
Purchased. New Catalogue of
Stamps, Albums, etc., Gratis.
CHARLES DONNE, 346 Little Collins-st., Melbourne.
TRIOQEOO!
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, By Dr.
ALFRED NEALE. Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
AND THEIR TREATMENT.
Posted Is. Id.
Publishers : Turner and Henderson, SYJDN KY.
‘xooa BNOS GUQWVI
600 SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one book. National
Songs of every country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC.
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
where. Complete list of the songs for a stamp. This
wonderful book will be sent anywhere for only 28. 6d*. posted
2s. lOd. from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO., Wat-
erloo Chambers, 458 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps, 2d
extra. Add exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for this
and other Fast Selling Books. Mention this paper when writing
Eradicates Scurf.
Promotes Growth
H*ia
Prevents Hair Falling.
Contains no Dye.
STEAM
ENGINES
FROM 5 HP. TO 100 H P
DYNAMOS
MOTORS
FROM 1 H.P. TO 60 hp.
CAN BE SUPPLIED PROMPTLY
FROM STOCK.
NOYES BROS.
31 O’Connell-st., SYDNEY; 17 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
Tto.es In. dependent order of Foresters.
What a distinguished Insurance man in liondon, England, thinks of the Independent Order of Foresters.
Mr. William Schooling, known to most insurance people as the eminent editor of Bourne, the great insurance journal, shows how he
feels with regard to the financial stability and the wisdom of the methods pursued by the Independent Order of Foresters, in the following
letter written to Oronhyatekha, Supreme Chief Ranger of the Order, on the first day of the new century: —
BOURNE’S INSURANCE INSTITUTE LTD.
Wm. Schooling, Editor and Manager. Granville House, Arundel Street, Strand, W.C•
January 1, 1901.
ORONHYATEKHA, M.D., J.P., G.C.R., Toronto, Canada.
Dear Sir and Brother.—lt is with peculiar satisfaction that, on the first day of the new century, I write to tell you that
I have become a Beneficiary Member of the Independent Order of Foresters. My pleasure is only mitigated by one circum-
stance, which is that, by becoming a member now, 1 cannot avail myself of your very gratifying offer to personally
initiate me into the Order. •
You will readily understand that my work leads me to criticise pretty keenly all matters connected with insurance, and
I have not formed niy present high opinion of the 1.0. F. without looking very carefully into the facts.
Permit me to express the great pleasure I derived from your al!-to-short visit to me a few weeks ago, and to express the
hope that I may have some longer talks with you when you are next in London.
I have told Brother Cronyn that I want to help the Order in every way that I can, and have asked him to let me know
when any opportunities of doing so arise. To-day I had a visit from Brother Reynolds, with whom I had a very interesting
chat, and I am already beginning to experience the pleasant results of fraternal membership.
Please accept my heartiest good wishes for the happiest prosperity for the Order, and for yourself personally, and
believe me, yours fraternally in L.B. and C.
(Signed) WILLIAM SCHOOLING.
The above letter, from so eminently distinguished an insurance expert as Mr. Schooling, is the best possible evidence that the Independent
Order of Foresters is an institution of the first class.
Rates much lower than the Old Line Companies. Absolute safety. Prompt payments, and many advantages not offered by other companies. Over
£900,000 of surplus assets. £1,800,000 already paid to widows and orphans. Surplus reserve increasing monthly at the rats of £12,000 per month.
Representatives wanted in every community. For full information and literature, address C. A. FRASER, Head Offices for New South Wales, 283 George
Street, Sydney. ORONHYATEKHA, Supreme Chief Ranger.
DA.FXO
(M M ITBI>).
(Lalte jllawarra), near S'STOJVTS'X'*
MAKERS OF
SMELTERS.
f -y l «r
. *■ • •
REFINERS
PRODTJCEIRS
OF
FINE SILVER.
:V
1
■ -
a
m
&M
mm
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
£ ILL A WARS, A”
..BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of OOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COFFER ORES, CTANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to P. S. Morsb, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.


A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
We learn that a most useful Veterinary
Book is attached to every hottle of Condy’s
Fluid. This Book contains instructions for
ouring most of the ailments and accidents
effecting Horses, Hogs, Sheep, Cattle, Poultry,
Mad Birds of all kinds.
Condy’s Fluid is an absolutely certain cure
for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs, Broken Knees,
Grease, Thrush, Cracked Heels, and Mud
Fever in Horses.—Scab, Foot Rot, Fly, etc.,
in Sheep.—Rinderpest, Hoove, Foul in the
Foot, Wounds and Sores, Foot and Mouth
Disease, and Diarrhoea in Cattle. —Distemper
Mange, Canker, and Eczema in Dogs.
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists and
Stores. Beware of local substitutes, all are
inferior. Insist on having Condy’s Fluid.
S!^K-=SBM
imasa
GrO TO HKLI-
<• IGOLAND for Prelty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, prioe*
lis gratis.
hats. HATS. hats.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTCR BRADL€y * CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Booms, 324 Georgs Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent statf.
Sales Held at the A uction Jtooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-sb
The monster public deputation in favor of'
Co-Operative coupons (introduced by Mr. Duncan
Gillies, M.L.A.) established an Australian record ;
over 500 people attended. The speakers were
limited by Mr. Peacock to five, but they rep-
resented an enormous number of the public. Mr.
Nelson (representing 2000 workers in the railway
service) said : “This coupon system has taught us-
thrift and brought pleasure _ to a great many
homes.” Mr. Davis (President Brickmakers 5
Association) said that “ The public realised that;
it is the only system by which they can get dis-
count on all small purchases.”*
JOR. fEARLY TEETH
ouioaO
swift.*)
OR PEARL DENTIFRICE.
Known for 75 years to be the Best and
Purest Tooth Powder, as it contains no
acid or gritty substances which ruin the
Teeth and produce premature decay; it
WHITENS THE TEETH,
Prevents and arrests decay, strengthens the
gums, and gives a pleasing fragrance to the
breath. It penetrates to the hidden flaws
and crevices of the teeth, and preserves and
beautifies them for years. Ask Stores and
Chemists for ROWLAND’S ODONTO,
of 67, Hatton Garden, London
high-grade
farm
df
Massey-Harris Co- Ltd
35 BROADWAY,
George-street West, Sydney,
POLITICAL
POINTS
A red-hot Orange weekly paper is to be
issued at Sydney by a £lO,OOO limited liability co.
Recent by-elections in the Northern State
leave parties practically as they were before the
Federal fray. The Philp party has gathered in
“ Father ” Groom’s successor.
Talk again of Australian representation in
the British Parliament. Australian representa-
tion !
High time for that when we have shown
That we can get it in our own.
The Q. “Independent” politician is a
parlous creature. Some of him were recently
elected on thp off-chance of a little backbone, but
as two are moving the Address-in-Reply, the Maw
has evidently “ scooped ” them in, as usual.
Both the Melb. morning dailies bitterly
cursed L. L. Smith for daring to split the com-
bined Tory-Liberal vote against Findley, and
urged the electors to forfeit his deposit and throw
him into outer darkness. Yet the discredited old
battler, without any programme and with very
hazy ideas on present politics, managed to get
496 votes.
WANTED, A BOSS.
Copies of cables relating to the Tocsin case were laid on the
table of Vic. Leg. Assembly. The Lieutenant-Governor (who is
also Chief Justice I) cabled to the Secretary of State as follows :
“ Secret and confidential. A newspaper in Melbourne of no great
influence, but ill-disposed, has republished a libel on His Majesty the
King, lately suppressed by the Irish Government. Doubtful whether any
local authority to seize and to suppress here in the ordinary course of
law. If I, with the advice of Ministers, cause the newspaper to be seized
and suppressed here as an act of State, will the Imperial Government
adopt my act as such, because otherwise I have not, I think, any
authority to do an act not otherwise warranted as an act of State.
Ministers are quite willing to advise me and to act. Reply as soon as
possible."
The Secretary of State replied :
“ Secret and confidential. In reply to your telegram of to-day’s date,
the adoption of seizure by His Majesty’s Government as an act of State
would not help if no local authority to seize. The defence of an act of
State is not available against a British subject. For this and other
reasons His Majesty’s Government do not advise any action of the
nature proposed.”
Apropos the suggestion that the State
should take up the business of selling liquor in the
resumed area of Sydney—it contains 29 pubs.,
some of them not of the sweetest—why shouldn’t
the Commonwealth do the same thing in the
Federal capital ? Public ownership and control of
the business is so obviously advantageous that it
would be soon accomplished if the vested interest
<ii In’t bar the way ; wherefore every chance
s hould be snapped before Bung steps in.
AFTER EAST MELBOURNE ELECTION.
How soon on Freedom’s boon they’d seize
If men for their own precious right
Would strive as fiercely as they fight
The battles of their enemies!
Cabled that Lord Raglan, British Under-
secretary for War, announces that the Govern-
ment is sending a committee of ladies to report
upon the refugee camps. If you can’t get the
truth from partisan men, you won’t get it from
partisan women.
Judging by recently-inspired remarks, the
Philp Govt, is going to fill the financial gap by
selling huge tracts of Queensland to wealthy out-
siders. The birthright is going for the mess of
pottage, eaten yesterday. Perish the thought of
a land or absentee-tax.
On the strength of numerous anecdotes
it may be mentioned that the formal prayer in
the House of Representatives is just the Phari-
saical farce it was so largely expected to be. Some
members pay no attention, others study the notice,
some even tick-off the questions that interest
them.
Sydney Telegraph’s financial authority :
If the Australasian Governments can raise £35,000,000
a year locally in revenue it is not impossible to secure
locally one-seventh of that sum (£5,000,000) on loans.
Also, if the Australasian Governments can raise
£35,000,000 a year revenue locally, and £5,000,000
a year loans locally, they could raise £40,000,000
revenue and have no loans.
Dear Bulletin. —I am sickened by the
skite of some N.S. Wales M’s.P. about having
helped to make the Old-Age Pension Bill law,
because since, in many cases, their mothers and
others near to them are going to benefit by it,
said M’s.P. had a direct interest in the measure.
I could name several members whose people are
reaching for the pension, and I think it an insult
for such men to remind the people of what they
have done for their (the people’s) poor.—Alpar.
All goods made by prison
labor are prohibited imports
under the Commonwealth Cus-
toms Bill and rightly so.
Every trade that can be profit-
ably practised in gaol should
be practised, because it helps
to pay the cost of the convict’s
maintenance, and if the re-
leased convict leaves gaol with
a good knowledge of a trade,
whereby he can earn an honest
living, he is more likely to be-
come a law-abiding citizen
thereafter. Further, the Aus.
tralian who is locked up has
the same right to labor as the
one who isn’t locked up, but
possibly ought to be. And
even if prison products are sold
extra cheaply though why
they should be it is hard to say
—there aren't enough Austra-
lians in gaol for their output
to seriously affect the labor
market. But if the cheap out-
put of the gaol population of
half-a-dozen countries came
here it would seriously affect
the market. Every country
should absorb its own criminals,
and their products.
The Victorian carriage-
builders are trying an insidious
dodge to work up a bogus
public opinion against the mini-
mum wage. A printed form
has been issued to each em-
ployer to be filled in. He is
to collect the opinions of all
his employes, and state how
many regard the proposed mini-
mum of 545. per week as too
high, and how many don’t.
The man who doesn’t think
it too high will, of course, be
the first to be sacked when a
slack time comes or when he
can be replaced by a less out-
spoken citizen, so a good many
will say that they regard the
wage as excessive. And then
thO bosses will raise a shriek :
‘ ‘ The wage fixed by the Board
is so outrageous that even the
men are against it.”
Ata small westernN.S.W.
town during the late State-
elections the local postmaster
E laced the hospital collection-
ox in a prominent position in
the polling-booth. An elector,
whose sight is defective, mistak-
ing the box for the ballot-box,
dropped his marked voting-
paper therein. Question then
arose as to how the paper could
be recovered, and after much
debate the postmaster took the
responsibility of opening the
box and thereby possibly turned
the political situation in favor
of the successful candidate,
who led by a majority so microscopic that a
movement is on foot locally to have the votes re-
counted.
Wanted to know : How much money was
spent on the consolidation of N.S.W. Statutes,
begun by 0. G. Heydon, now Judge? In what
stage of completeness is the work at present ?
How many junior barristers have been employed,
and at what rates ? A brief Parliamentary return
would probably set at rest some queer rumors.
HIS EXHIBIT.
SWADDIE (carry-
ing large ex-
ploded shell tro-
phies): “For
Gaiod’s sake, let’s
drop ’em and
run or they’ll
catch us.”
2ND. D O.: “No fear, I’m not
going ’ome without something to
show in the window of the bar-
ber’s shop! ”
A good many people would like to know
why “ Tattersall’s ” advertisement, which is and
has long been prohibited in Queensland, should
appear with impunity in Progress, published at
Brisbane, and owned by Queensland ex-Minister
and Federal Postmaster - General Drake. As
Drake is in charge of the virtuously-indignant Bill
for the abolition of “ Tattersall,” this is somewhat
remarkable.
Chamberlain’s haggling over an extra
£lOOO for Secretary and extra A.D.C. to Vic.
State Governormeans that he wants to preserve the
Vic. and other Governorships as first-class Crown
appointments. In Crown jargon £5OOO is first-
class, less is second or third, but the £5OOO must
be clear of necessary official expenses. If the
State Governor pays for his Secretary and A.D.C.
the appointment ceases to be class 1.
Out of the 125 members of the newly-
elected N.S.W. Parliament, 13 may be taken to
represent practically the whole of the votes in
their respective constituencies, being returned un-
opposed ; 80 represent a majority of the votes ;
and 32 got in on a minority vote through the
multiplicity of candidates. In 1898, three members
were returned unopposed ; 101 represented a
majority of the votes polled ; and only 21 were
minority representatives. Things certainly have
not improved.
The Peacock Ministry is “ cooked.” The
Labor-party is awaiting its demise. Findley will
be avenged. Says a leader of the Party : “Pea-
cock gained his popularity by his laugh ; he is
keeping it by nothing better than a hysterical
shriek. He has sold his friends to his enemies,
and the latter will make the most of their chance.
When he wants our help he won’t get it, nor will
we ever trust him again. He never had much
judgment. It was Turner who kept him ballasted.
We only await our chance.”
The Political Labor League has had a bad
knock-out in the western (N.S.W.) electorates,
where hitherto it has been supreme. The only
“selected” men to win seats were Cann and
Scobie. The former practically had a walk-over ;
in Wentworth, Scobie’s district, the P.L.L. is un-
known. All the other seats were captured by in-
dependent Laborites, including Ferguson and
Sleath. The whole explanation is that out there
the P.L.L. executive has been collared by a few
tricky self-seekers, and this was the rank-and-
file’s protest.
Hints by an irreverent gallery-hand :
The Federal Senate, which won the respect of all Aus-
tralian democrats by its uncompromising stand on national
questions, is evidently suffering from swelled head incon-
sequence, and is becoming boresome. In committee,
hour after hour is wasted in discussing the most trum-
pery clauses of Bills ; and the prominence given to the
remarks of Stewart of Queensland in the early stages
of the session has converted him into a timesome
blatherskite, who feels it his bounden duty to orate by
the hour on things he in no wise understands. S.vmon
has also been complimented on that clear, incisive man-
ner of his a trifle too often, for there is not a subject now
that he doesn’t incise upon until everyone yawns.
The corpse and the kopje and the cannon
and such like are apparently going to be the Tory
man’s stock properties at elections now. Deegan,
at the East Melbourne election, went on about the
corpse and the kopje and the cannon in an alarm-
ing fashion. Among other things he told the
electors that if Findley was returned it would
“ wipe away all the brave Australian blood that
had trickled down the kopjes,” and also, that it
would “bring into disgrace the dead bodies of the
gallant men who slept under the veldt.” The
property-vote put the Dead Body Candidate in by
over 800 majority.
Dear Bulletin. —A clear proof that the
delay in printing rolls for Gympie (Q ) election
(B. 13/7/’01), was due to the successful scheming
of the Philp Govt., lies in the fact that the same
thing occurred at Rockhampton North election.
Twenty-six labor votes, out of 28 names on the list,
were barred, as the supplementary-roll had not then
been printed. The loss of these 26 votes has im-
perilled the labor-seat, the polling being : Turner
(L.) 401, Linnett (M.) 400. Latter has lodged a
petition alleging dual voting on the other side;
and the betting is “evens” that he goes in after
all. The Filch Government. —G.A.P.
After every N.S.W. general election listen
for loose talk about “the splendid organisation of
the Labor party.” But where is it? Outside
Newcastle and Broken Hill it is pretty certain
the P.L. Leagues couldn’t muster 1000 members ;
and the best wins, not only this year, but hitherto,
have been in districts where there have been either
only dummy leagues or none at all. Hard battling
by the candidates and the popularity of the
Labor platform are responsible for three-fourths
of the seats. But the popularity of the Labor
policy has to be depreciated somehow, and so
the crowd fall back on the “ splendid organisa-
tion.”
The Jenkins Govt, goes to S.A. Parlia-
ment, opened last week, with the main items of
the Kingston and Holder programmes as its
policy. Chief planks are : Reduction of Members,
by one-third, thus making Assembly 36 Members
and Council 16 (latter to serve for six years instead
of nine and be elected bv the whole State voting
as one constituency); Household Suffrage for the
Council; Early Closing, and compulsory purchase
of large estates. The Ministry opposes Snow’s
unspeakable tramway-grab, and favors conversion
by Govt, in trust for Municipalities. Whether
Jenkins can get any part of this programme
through the .Council, now bossed by an Ass.
majority, is doubtful.
Westralia’s railway strike ended in a resort
to arbitration. With a little better management
there would never have been any strike, and a
permanent court of compulsory arbitration, before
which all such cases would come as a matter of
course, would have settled the whole trouble long
ago. The great iron-workers’ strike in Sydney
also went to arbitration, as most strikes do in the
end nowadays. The only difference between the
party which doesn’t believe in compulsory arbi-
tration and the one that does is just about this :
Under the first party’s system we have a big
strike, great excitement, disorder, loss of money
—and then arbitration. Under the second party’s
system we would just have arbitration.
Findley’s supporters made a good fight for
that honest Labor representative in East Mel-
bourne, and they also, in a pleasant way, infused
some humor into the contest. Their only hope
lay in the multiplicity of their opponents, for
under the system which allows Eat Man to vote
in any constituency where he has property, pro-
vided he only votes in one constituency on one
day, hundreds of non-residential Tories, whose
votes at a general election would be needed else-
where, poured in to boost the cause of adipose
tissue. So many of Findley’s crowd attended the
enemies’ meetings, cheered them wildly, passed
unanimous votes of confidence in them, and other-
wise encouraged them to go to the poll. Apothe-
cary Smith and others are still lost in amazement
at their widespread popularity.
“ See-Lee ” : Political leaders, at recent
N.S.W. State election, made some remarks about
bringing in a Bill for the abolition of fees in State
schools. As a side issue on one of several ques-
tions, this would mean a bonus of 2 \ per cent, to
the man who is trying to serve his country by
drawing the minimum wage of 7s. a day, and
raising a large family on it. He will save a-
shilling a week for the four or more children at-
tending the State school. The other fellow who
draws the screw and refuses to produce the future
voter will have to help pay the bonus. The
said population-builder might also be assisted in
other ways : By being given preference in Govt,
employment —the larger the family the bigger the
preference, as in France; by allowing the afore-
said p.b. to travel at reduced rates (or free would
be better—the writer is a p.b.) on State railways,
as in Denmark ; or in any other way that may
suggest itself to the democratic instincts of the
men who make our laws.


Beethoven on the
Kreutzer Sonata, Op. 47; Ada-
gio Sostenuto, Adante con
Variazioni, Presto
Moonlight SonaLa, Op. 27
Adelaide
Coriolan Overture
Eginont Overture
Leonore Overture No. 3
Nainensfeier Overture
Prome.heus Overture
Die Weihe des Hauses Over-
ture
Konig Stephan Overture
Konig Stephan Triumphal
March
Fidelio, Abscheulicher
Fidelio Potpourri
Trauermarsch
Turkish March from Ruins of
. Athens
Andante Favori, Op. 35
Hallelujah Chorus from Mount
of Olives
Klavier-Concert No. 3, Op. 37 ;
Allegro con hrio, largo, Alle-
gro Molto
Klavier-Concert No. 3 Op. 37 ;
Allegro con brio, rondo Alle-
gro
Klavier-Concert No. 4, Op 58 ;
Allegro Moderato, Rondo
Vivace
Nocturne, Op. 42 ; Allegro,
•Minuet, Andante quasi Alle-
gro
Septet, Op. 20 ; Adagio, Allegro
con hrio
Serenade, Op. 25 ; Andante
Serenade, Op 41 ; Scherzando,
Adagio, Allegro Vivace
Sextuor, Op. 81 ; Allegro con
brio Adagio, Allegro
Sonata No. 1 ; Allegro, Ada-
gio
Sonata, Op 2, No. 2; Largo
Sonata, Op. 2, No. 3 ; Allegro
Assai, Scherzo and Trio
Sonata, Op. 10, No 1 ; Allegro
Molto Adagio Molto
Sonata, Op. 10, No. 3 ; Minu-
etto and Trio, Largo
Sonata, Op. 13 (Pathetique);
Grave, Allegro Molto, Alle-
gro, Adagio
Sonata, Op. 14, No. 7, Allegro
Sonata, Op. 22 ; Adagio
Sonata. Op. 26; Marcia Fune-
bre, Andante and Var, 1 and
5, Scherzo and Trio
Sonata, Op 31, No. 3; Allegro
Sonata, Op. 49, No. 2 ; Tempo
di Menuetto
Sonata, Op. 81; Les Adieux,
I’ Absence, Le Retour
Symphony No. 1 ; Adagio Mol-
to, Allegro, Andante Caoa-
bile, Menuetto Adagio, Alle-
gro Vivace
Symphony No. 2 ; Adagio
Molto, Allegro con brio. Lar-
ghetto, Scherzo, Allegro
Molto
HIE STATEMENT that the Afolian will
play any piece of music ever composed
is so broad and sweeping that it many
times fails to impress the reader with
its wonderful significance. As a means
of affording a better idea of the enormous
repertoire of the vEolian we present herewith
partial list of the works of a single composer,
BEETHOVEN, that are included in the Hfolian
music catalogue.
These are all arranged from the full orchestral
scores, complete and unabridged. Many of them
are never attempted upon the piano, and are played
only by large orchestras ; yet it is possible for any
one to play them on the Afolian correctly, and with
all the changes of tempo and expression.
Visitors always welcome. If unable to call, send for
catalogue C, giving full description.
Henry M. Birge & Co.,
Sole Agents for Australasia
323 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
The JEolian is sold at no other Address
in Sydney.
CHARLES READ & CO.,
BUSHMAN WATCH:
df
sd
f
E3
Will ran for 20years v
m
Camden Buildings,
420 George St., Sydney.
Three Doors from
Strand Arcade.
A Saving 1 of
25 per cent.
JEWELLERY,
SOLID SILVER GOODS,
SILVER-PLATED WARE.
Write for 80-Paged Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DJEFY COMPETITION.
WINES 7fhe Best Brands Only of SPIRITS
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
MILES AHEAP OF ALL OTHERS
. . Are America’s Representative Typewriters •«
■
The yost ,
.. Oensmore
, ||eiu Century
Why Search, Elsewhere ?
WE Alone can Offer Tou
a Choice.
WE WILL ADVISE YOU WHICH IS BEST FOR YOUR WORK.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue —Free.
UNITED TYPEWRITER & SUPPLIES CO. O-abcest dealers in AUSTRALIA
114 Pitt-st., SYDNEY ; 362 Collins-st., MELBOURNE ; Barrack-st., PERTH.
Webster & Co., Brisbane ; Reeves & Co., Adelaide ; Hadley Button, Launceston and Hobart.
BEAD WHAT
VITADATIO
... IS DOING.
HYDATIDS.
Hopkins-street, Footscray,
February 7,190 Q.
Mr. S. A. PALMER.
Dear Sir, —It is with much gratitude I send you this testi-
monial regarding the great benefit I have received from
the Great Herbal Remedy, W. WEBBER’S VITADATIO.
[ am positive I could not have existed much longer but
for taking it. For 16 years I had been suffering from
some unknown disease. Having a good knowledge of
herbs and their uses, I never consulted a doctor ; in fact,
although I have a large family, and have had the usual
amount of sickness among them, by constantly relying on
herbal treatment I have never had to call in medical aid ;
yet in my own case I was completely nonplussed and
helpless. I may say here that I have been treated by a
noted herbalist, from whom I got but passing relief. He
said “my lungs were filling up.” I have found, since
aking Vitadatio, that what he said was true, for it has
brought from my lungs quantities of hydatids, and also
from other organs of my body ; they even came from my
eyes and head. On account of the stabbing pains in my
eyes when I would stoop, I became afraid of losing my
sight, as it was then very defective. I had lost all sense
of feeling in some parts of my body, and in both my index
fingers and thumbs ; but since taking the Vitadatio my
feeling has been restored. I have been informed since
my recovery, that hydatids are a cause of paralysis,
which has made me still more thankful to you for bring-
ing this efficacious medicine to Australia, and I have
much reason to thank God that I was led to try it. A
good Samaritan, who told me I was in a decline,'bought
me a ss. 6d. bottle of Vitadatio, and when I had taken the
third bottle the hydatids began to appear, and then I
knew what my disease really was. I felt alarmed, but
kept on taking the medicine, as I recognised there was
no other hope for me. After taking ten bottles I found
that I had increased two stone in weight. Previous to
this I only weighed 6st. 41b. The effect it has had on my
nerves is marvellous. I look back on the state I was in
with horror, and I pity any poor sufferer who is in like
condition, and can only recommend them to try
WEBBER’S VITADATIO, for it has cured me, and mine
was an extreme case. If I was to mention the quantity
of hydatids removed from me by Vitadatio, it would be
looked upon as an exaggeration. Before taking the Vita-
datio my household duties were a burden to me, but now
I can fulfil them with pleasure, and everything wears a
bright aspect. Thinking, perhaps, this testimony may
induce other sufferers to try this far-famed remedy, I give
you full permission to publish it if you think fit.—l am,
dear Sir, vours gratefully,
(Mrs.) M. COXHEAD.
For further particulars,
S- A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
GENTS.~^
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.—L.D.l., 300 Collins Bt., Melbourne
NORTHERN PROVINCE
ELECTION.
W. L. BAILLIEU
SOLICITS
THE SUPPORT AND INFLUENCE
OF
ELECTORS.
IF YOU WISH TO SUCCEED
lIM LIFE,
CULTIVATE YOUR MEMORY.
.w THE PELMAN SYSTEM
OF MEMORY TRAINING
ENSURES
SUCCESS AT EXAMS.
CURE OF MIND WANDERING.
SPEAKING WITHOUT NOTES.
BOOKS MASTERED IN ONE READING.
HUNDREDS OF TESTIMONIALS FROM SUCCESSFUL
PUPILS ALL OVER THE WORLD.
§W BASED ON SOUND PRINCIPLES. TEg
A DOCTOR WRITES :—“ I can strongly recommend
Pelman’s System to anyone whose memory is bad or
defective. It is based on sound principles.”—Allan Perry
Stinson, L.R.C.P. and S., Edin.
THE SYSTEM IS TAUGHT THOROUGHLY BY
CORRESPONDENCE LESSONS.
Send To-day for Free Explanatory Brochure and Pros-
pectus Giving Full Particulars.
Address— THE SECRETARY,
The Pel man School of Memory Training,
G.P.O, Box 402, MELBOURNE.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City
1-hour by tram. Billiards, etc. ’
Is your Husband, Son,
Brother, or Father a
DRUNKARD
If so, send us your Name and Address, with 4d. to cover
postage, and we will send you in a plain envelope our
Booklet giving full particulars how to give EUCRABY
secretly in Tea, Coffee, Food, etc. It is odorless and
tasteless, and will cure this dreadful habit quietly and
permanently without the Patient’s knowledge or consent.
It is a positive and permanent “ Silent Cure ” for the
Drink Habit, and will cost you nothing to And out all
about it. GOOD FOR BOTH SEXES. Write THE
EUORABY 00., 62 Hunter-street, Sydney.
TO CYCLISTS that cannot afford to purchase
Si
\
\
Dun iop Tyres
we confidently recommend
Our Cheap “ OCEANIC TYRES.”
TYRES
- CHEAP •
AND
DURABLE
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. OF AUB. LTD., 150 Clarence-st., Sydney
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchuroh, N.Z.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all -
Security.
Classes - of
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
C>v
BILLS
discounted.
3XT.S,A7V.
(|)ont deplete flj|. Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
«74_ CASTLESEAGH ST., 74.
' SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
New South Wales Mont De Piete
D. and I. Company, Limited,
74 CASTLEREAGH-STREET, SYDNEY.
GENERAL MEETING.
A GENERAL MEETING of the Share-
holders in the above Company will be held
on WEDNESDAY, 31st Inst., upon the Com-
pany’s premises, as above, at 11.30 a.m.
By order of the Board of Directors,
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
Business :
To receive Directors’ Report and Balance-Sheet;
to elect two Directors in the room of Samuel
Payten, Esq., and John Hardie, Esq., whose
term of office expires by effluxion of time (both
these gentlemen are eligible for re-election, and
offer themselves accordingly) ; to elect two
Auditors for the coming twelve months (Messrs.
J. B. C. Miles and J. H. Davies are eligible and
offer themselves for re-election) ; and to transact
any other business that may be brought before
the meeting in accordance with the Articles of
Association.
Dated 16th J uly, 1901.
New South Wales Mont He Piete
D. and I. Company, Limited,
74 CASTLEREAGH-STREET, SYDNEY.
TRANSFER BOOKS of this Company
1 will be CLOSED from the 16th to 31st
instant inclusive.
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
Dated 16th July, 1901.
'-THIS'-.
Colonial Mutual Life
assurance society limited,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 106 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon J F Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Robrrts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,491,989.
Policies issued 85,372— assuring £26,085,346.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,576,850.
policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital
Paid-up Capital
.. £4.800.000 0 0
.. £3,216,885 0 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; J. C. Syme,
Esu., J.P. ; Hon. W. IT. Embling, M.L.C. ,
Hon. N. Thornlev, M.L.C.
General Manager : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors : R. M. M‘Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : 0. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street. Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager : Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. 0. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 liishopagate Street Within
corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers . The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
Ntw SOUTH wales:
SYDNEY - 273 GEOItGE STREET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
Hnvmarket, Gosferd (with asreucy at Wyongl, New-
cnJi' ; with Blanches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers £3,000,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
The Bank of Rortb Queensland
LiMITICI).
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp& Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... £700,00 J
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share- „„. n
holders 250 900 ... £350,000
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies*
Directors —Sydney : Sir W. M‘Mim,an, Hod. A. W. Meeks,
'Adelaide : L. A. JE3SOP, Esq.,
Branch Managers : Melbourne, D. Clynk ; Adelaide, \V.
N. M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson; Perth, A. \Y.
Farquiiar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montekiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Yictorian & Queensland Ports.
Peregrine, Sat., July 27, 12 Noon.
Qabo, Saturday, August 3, 12 Noon.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Buninyong, Tues., August 6, 5 p.i
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyong, Tues., August 6, 5 p.
(No Transhipment.)
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Tyrian, Saturday', July 27, 12 Noon.
Konoowarra, Tues., July 30, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Aug. 3,12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian, Saturday July 27, 12 Noon.
Leura, Saturday, Aug. 3, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest. Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves —Foot of King-street.
THE “ALL RED” MAIL ROUTE
TO LONDON.
THE ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
OF THE
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
Under contract with the Governments of New South
Wales, Queensland, and Canada, leave Sydney every
four weeks as under, for
BRISBANE, HONOLULU, VICTORIA anti VANCOUVER.
Connecting at Vancouver with the
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
This is the Imperial Route Home, as well as the most at-
tractive. It avoids alike the heat of the Red Sea and the
cold of Cape Horn. The railroad journey between the
Pacific and Atlantic Oceans {Vancouver to Montreal)
occupies about 4 davs, and is made
WITHOUT CHANGE OF CARRIAGES,
through the grandest scenery in the world —over the
Selkirk and Rocky Mountains, across the Prairies, and
along the North Shore of Lake Superior.
Passengers have the choice of a number of overland
routes, enabling them to visit the principal cities of
Canada and the United States.
For Railway Maps, Guide Books, and all other informa-
tion, apply to
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents.
Banking, Public Companies, &e.
Queensland Smelting Qoiupy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
T3UYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
U Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street. Melbourne.
Hem Zealand Insurance go.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES
£1,000,000
420,000
Largest Co'onial Company.
Manager. 81 Pitt St., Sydney.
T\)€ Trustees, Creators,
AND
Coti>paoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) . £8312 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st, December, 1900 ... £6,326,343 0 0
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. i. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
No. 412 Collins-sfreet, Melbourne.
Bank of Mew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital „ .. £2,500,000
CURES COUGH.
• Cured my son of a dreadful Cough.’
Mrs. Johnston, Belleek, Fermanagh.
GIVES REST & SLEEP.
IAYMAN’S
BALSAM
of Horehound
Safe and Pleasant for Children.
‘NOTHING LIKE IT FOR A COLD.’
Mr. W. Hird, Norwich.
STOPS COLD.
i.
&
Those
suffering
from weak
and sore eyes,
and blight, should
SINGLETON’S OINTMENT
Never Fails. Restores Evelashes.
- Alila CHEMISTS.
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrie & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON', CALLING at PLYMOUTH and
LIVERPOOL Via CAPETOWN,
Catting at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz. :
RUNIC, 1.2,482 tons, to Sail 18th AUGUST,
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
MEDIC, AFRIC, SUEVIC, and PERSIC.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
generally is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric light
throughout.
For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA.
""SfTP. Ha.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Fleet Comprising
129 Steamers of a Total Tonnage of
506,754 ; Horse-power, 403,245.
Mileage run in 1900, 4,707,000 ; Over 4 million Pas-
sengers carried since 1857.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, London,
Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*Twin screw.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
REGULAR SERVICE to SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
S.S STETTIN, 2478 Tons,
Captain Niedermeyer,
LEAVING SYDNEY, 21st AUGUST NEXT.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
Medical.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
5b
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS. .
Sole Agents lor Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, &c.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne^
SMITHS
T
FLUID
1/
mi
I 111 I 111 I.l l ir
'SAtfITAS'
"SANITAS I*'" 1 *'" ' "S ANITAS
OUR TWO RECISTEfiED IfiAOE MARK".
"SANITAS”.
NON POISONOUS.
DOES NOT STAIN.
disinfectant, antiseptic .
AND DEODORANTcombined.
A PEOPLES HEALTH I.S ANAf SON'S WEALTH
r HE SANITAS COMPANY llMlftO
J.J BETHNAL CREf N, LONDON.t. M
ALSO
Powder, Soaps,
Sulphur (fanfcatiiuj) CcIIHIICS,
and all kinds of OSSlfl ftCISIItS.
“The list of 'Sani’as' preparnti ns is now so great as to com-
prise a complete antiseptic ami disinfectant, armamentarium.
“The composition of most ol these is based on ‘Sanitas,' a
“deservedly popular pleasant, and moreover active compound.
—Lanckt, August *24 th, 1805, p. 501;
“ HOW TO DISINFECT.”
Book sent EREE on application.
OF AI.L CHEMISTS, AND
The “SANITAS” Co., Ltd., Bethnal Green, London.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping-at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Warrego, Friday,
July 26, at 5 p.m.,
transhipping at Melbourne
to S.S. Marloo.
BRISBANE
MACIiAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairns
S.S. Rockton, Friday,
July 26, at 5 p.m.
liest and Cheapest Monte to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A. U.S.N. Co. and W. Howard Smith and
Sons. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A- U. S. fM. Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only. .
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, 10 Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
1 he Company’s steamers now call at Fremantle
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B 10s to £77
Ditto Ditto Return £7l lOsto CI2I
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial pores
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to EDWARD TRELAWNY, Superintendent in Aus-
tralia. Exchange Cornel', Pitt and Bridge Streets
Messageries Maritime s
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of ”6500 tons, under Postal Contract with lhe
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and FORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77.
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and gi\e them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through I he Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to t’aris and Calais.
RETI BN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydnev.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent
gaddart, parker & go’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, IIOBA ICP,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORI’S.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. AND A.” LINE.
The Steamships of the above Company will be despatched
as follows for
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers wer ■ specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. 00. LD.
37 Pil i, street, Sydney.
(|)‘|lu!raith,fl|‘[j!actiari)&Co.
PROP. LTD.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS.
KALGOOELIE, 4500 TONS,
COOLG-AEDIE, 3500 tons,
SAIL rOKTNIG HTLY between
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
West Australian Ports.
Passenger Accommodation Unsurpassed. Liberal Cuisine.
MQLWRAITH, M'EACHARN AND CO.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany and Fremantle
Sydney Agents—BUßNS, PKILP & CO. Ltd.


There was a queer case heard in Western
Queensland lately. A local Chinaman was
charged with keeping a half-caste girl who was
not his wife. The Chow asserted (with perfect
truth) that he had been to a local parson to get
married and that shepherd had refused to tie the
knot. The Chow was heavily fined —shouldn’t
the parson have been fined ? Some members of
the cloth imagine that a half-caste girl is better
on the streets than legally married.
“ Old Cudgen Resident ” writes : —
In B., 15/6/1, is a par., “The Black Streak in Corn-
stalk Land ” (reprinted from Clarence River Advocate).
This, although full of misrepresentations ( as far as Cud-
gen is concerned), might be ignored as regards its original
publication ; but a very different matter is its dissemina-
tion far and wide per medium of The Bulletin. Let me
say, then, that the assertion, “ There is no Sunday at
Cudgen,” is a deliberate untruth, for no one, either white
or coloured, works on that day at their usual employ-
ment. Indeed, nowhere in N.S.W. is the Sabbath more
strictly observed than at Cudgen. It is true that the
Kanakas generally are so quiet and law-abiding that there
is only one police-officer stationed here during that part
of each year when there are more Kanakas than white
men in residence, but a second constable is always sent
as soon as there is a temporary influx of whites. Again,
the wage paid to Kanakas by Mr. John A. Robb is £1 per
week during crushing-time, and 15s. per week during the
slack season, with rations same as supplied to white men.
The Kanakas also live in barracks, and not in huts, as
stated ; and the yarn about the dirty billy-cans, &c., is a
pure invention.
Writes Conan Doyle : —
Take a community of Dutchmen of the type of those
who defended themselves for fifty years against all the
power of Spain at a time when Spain was the greatest
power in the world. Intermix with them a strain of those
inflexible French Huguenots who gave up home and for-
tune and left their country for ever at the time of the
revocation of the Edict of Nantes. The product must
obviously be one of the most rugged, virile, unconquer-
able races ever seen upon earth. Take this formidable
people and train them for seven generations in constant
warfare against savage men and ferocious beasts, in cir-
cumstances under which no weakling could survive, place
them so that they acquire exceptional skill with weapons
and in horsemanship, give them a country which is emi-
nently suited to the tactics of the the marks-
and the rider. Then, finally, put a finer temper
upon their military qualities by a dour fatalistic Old Tes-
tament religion and an ardent and consuming patriotism.
Combine all these qualities and all these impulses in one
individual, and you have the modern Boer—the most
formidable antagonist who ever crossed the path of
Imperial Britain. Our military history has largely con-
sisted in our conflicts with France, but Napoleon and all
his veterans have never treated us so roughly as these
hard-bitten farmers with their ancient theology and their
inconveniently modern rifles.
HAVE
A HAD LED
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
w l th inflammation and swollen that when you
{fi o Anger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
th» n ? ’ umier , tlie skin you have poison that defies all
netor dles yOU 1 ? ave trled , which, if not extracted, yon
«an recover, but go on suffering till death releases
i *iP s yo1lr knees are swollen, the joints being
mavhe d.aeif 8am n Wlt ,\ the ai| kles, round which the skin
Showed 0r 1 ’.ere majt be wounds ; the disease
wait v 4 continue will deprive you of the power to
mtdieal y JSL£* y hav< T amended various hospitals and had
fA?,’ -fv 1 becn tol . d .v° ur case is hopeless, or
rrimVnn ? 1 '/ ; but do not, for I CAN
othfrshL^ U i u d ,°? 4 say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
Sendat h once f for ed ' S "° 1636011 f ° r n °‘ now being cured.
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PxLLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Levs
Hands 1 " 3 ;, 8 Knee ’ T In era4ed JointB > Carbuncles, Poisoned
Il.fni 1 nn» il ' m d Ur D- Abscesses ’ Sorc Thr °at, Bronchitis,
al,d Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores
U BERT ’ 7a Gr w 4 ® n,a ‘n. 1/lid- per b..x. Prepared by
>1 dhKl, 1 3, Eajnngdon-strect, London, Envland
- mk" or t he t” 4 ' Sy dncy Purchasers sfiouid
V een ?»t»t „ eglSte ut d trad< ; mark of th « Grasshopper on a
„ ceil label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
sdf
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment of
Catarrh, Bronchitis, Hay Fever, Asthma,
Cora's, Influenza, Headache, Catarrhal
Deafness. Book of Treatment, Free.
Price of Medicator (size, 4 inches long, Nickel-
plated), and 4 months’ treatment, 1 Bottle Com-
pound Jnhalent, and X tin
Nasal Ointment, only
10-
Post Free.
HOME CATARRH CURE CO.,
231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
DON’T POISON'
YOURSELF
WITH DRUGS when our ELECTRIC BELT (with or
without suspensor) will CURE YOU. ELECTRIC!
CURRENT GUARANTEED. Pamphlet and
tion Free. HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists, 105 Regent-
street, London W., and 44 Castlereagh-street, Sydney
We give a fair trial before payment.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
ri+LOROPyNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, saya:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A TESTED AND INFALLIBLE REMEDY,
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CU ?ES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections, Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory ol
SURGEO& LANGSTON
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
NATURES TRUE REMEDIES.
Nature has provided a TRUE REMEDY for Every
Complaint. It is, therefore, unnecessary to contaminate the
System with Mineral Poisons, which leave the System Weak
and Debilitated. Sufferers fr< m Blood and Skin Diseases,
Nervous Affections, Piles, Rheumatism, and Affection of
the Liver and Kidneys, Chest and Lungs, Consumption,
General Debility, Costiveness, Influenza, Melancholia,
can rely on a Cure from these Remedies.
ALFALINE
REMEDIES
Are a guaranteed
Cure for the
above Complaints.
They have Cured
Thousands, and
stood a Test in
Australia for over
20 years. They
have never been
known to fail in
a single case, and
they are purely
NATURE’S
REMEDIES.
m
KatKmjpßrc
hitJTtHtP ,
mweft 1
mUUEKDIH
ALFALINE
HERBAL
REMEDIES
Have been Awar-
ded several Gold
Medals, and
More Testimon-
iajs than any
known remedy in
Australia.
A Special
Guaranteed Kem-
edy for each
Complaint.
HERB RASSMUSSBFS CHIEF LABORATORY.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
i ■^ re a Guaranteed Cure for All Nervous Affections, Weak Spine, Brain and Nerves, Poor
Memory, Tired Feeling, and General Debility. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Course, 28/6.
ALFALIIE BLOOD PILLS
i a PERMANENT CURE for the Most Chronic Blood Diseases, Skin Diseases. Blotches,
! Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, etc. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALIHE UNIVERSAL PILLS
Purify the Blood and Build up the Weakest Nervous System. A Guaranteed Cure for
Anemia, Wasting Diseases in Females. A General Blood and Nerve Tonic
for both sexes. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS
Are Guaranteed to Cure Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind Heartburn
Biliousness, and the Liver and Kidneys. BOXES, ONE SHILLING. Posted, 1/6. ’
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills -Guaranteed to Aifaline Asthma and Cough Pills— A
cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lum- Wonderful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Con-
bago. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 12s. and sumption, Bronchitis and Influenza. Boxes,
235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free. posted, 35., 65., 12s. and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— Electric Belts-Containing powerful and
This Suspender imparts Str- ngth and Vigor, effectual Electric currents unequalled as a
at the same time as it supports the parts. cure for all Spinal and Kidnev Affections :
Price 215., posted. 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Sufferers can only obtain the Alfaline Herbal Remedies from
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office or Branches, the addresses of
which appear below. Letters should be addressed and Cheques
and Money Orders made payable to Herr Rassmussen’s full
name— Hans Peter Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head
Office or Branches. Legister all letters containing money.
All Remedies sent unobserved, packed in plain cover.
Correspondence held confidential.
ALFALINE
PILE POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
FAT-REDUCING
POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
HAIR-RESTORER,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
CORN CURE, 1/-.
OINTMENT, 1/-.
. IKASSMUSSEN^
■■ ■
C ; T01?'. PILLPftLfICE' ;.S~- T;
MASSMB
SHERR RASSMUSSINSIHEfjSSLAIFAjMPtII
i£
A USEFUL BOOK
SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmussen’s
valuable book, The
Alfaline Guide to
Health, which con-
tains valuable in-
formation for all
Complaints, and
copies of Testi-
monials, will be sent
free in plain cover,
on application.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD OFFICE,
(HAN'S PETER RASSMUSSEN)
547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Alfaline Remedies can only be obtained from his Head Office and his
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES :
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke-st. W.A.—PERTH, 481 Hay-st.
BRISBANE- 309 Queen-st. KALGOORLIE-Hannan-st.
ADELAIDE-15 Pulteney-st. BOULDER CITY-Piesse-st.
N.Z.-91 Lambton Quay, Wellington. FREMANTLE—Henry-st.
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of the ALFALINE REMEDIES.
USE
SPOO NEE’S
sd
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In .bottles) 6d. and la.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
l nrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking.
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
PHOTOS
From Life, for Lovers of Art, Beauty, and
Chic; Carefully Selected Assortments,
Cabinets or Stereos, with Illustrated
Catalogue and Minatures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s.
Money Order or Cheque on London.
English, French, and German Rare Books,
Explain wishes and requirements, and full satisfaction
will be obtained.
R. GENNERT,
89c Faubourg St., Martin, Paris, France.
30 Days' Trial.
fs
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
ART LI A NCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Eleotrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
“ COMMON SENSE EAR DRUM ”
IfHEI
DEAF.
COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free* Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Over
100
years
have
proved
their
value.
G. L. ROBERTS. M.D.
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
Born 1766, Died 1834.
INVENTOR OP Dr. ROBERTS’
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
The best for all Wounds and Skin Diseases,
Chronic Sores, Ulcerated Legs, Pimples,
Sore Kyes, &c.
us* Dr. ROBERTS’
ALTERATIVE PILLS,
For all impurities of the blood. Invaluable for Skin
Diseases. Prices is. i£d. and 2s. 9d. each of all Drug
Stores.
Sole Makers, BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd.
BRIDPOBT, England.
am
DEAF
TO
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address A. M. HAST, 145 Collins St,., Me!
’ ! oorne.
ffi
m
m
m
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles!
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,’
&c., should have one of these
Cabinets. Price 25/-
Head and Pace Steamer, 3/6.
Can be forwarded to any address.
J. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne.


Twice last week S.M. Herald referred to
Kingston as “ Sir Charles,” although he has firmly
declined to be so labelled by Chamberlain.
Australian friends of Buchanan, the dis-
tiller and owner of Epsom Lad, are drinking (in his
“B. and W.”) to his recent wins of the Princess
of Wales Stakes, £lO,OOO, and Eclipse Stakes,
another £lO,OOO. Twenty thousand in one week!
They are both weight-for-age events. In the
first he beat the King’s “ Diamond Jubilee.”
Such disloyalty (after Ed. YII appointing him
special whisky-furnisher to the Court) merits a
long and painful execution, such as scraping to
death with oyster-shells. Buchanan’s friends here
are talking of getting him to try an Australian
brumby—a real top-sawyer.
Captain W. T. Wawn, the gallant cheery
skipper who died in Sydney the other day at the age
of 66, owed his death directly to a cab accident,
but he suffered from severe heart-disease and
could not in any event have lasted long. He had
spent most of his life in the South Sea trade, and
even Bully Hayes knew no more than he about
the history of blackbirding. He was a most
accomplished navigator, and a not inconsiderable
artist; also, he had an uncommon gift of graphic
literary expression, and altogether was one of the
most genial companions and best and bravest of
men. Some years ago the bulk of his South Sea
sketches and MSS., representing years and years
of work, were lost in the s.s. Quetta while on
the road to England for publication. But the
veteran bore up bravely under the calamity,
though it wiped out all hope of the fulfilment of
his dearest ambition.
Two members of Vic. Leg. Couucil—
Abbott and Dr. Embling—have had the gall to
propose that the Federal Parliament shall ex-
change domiciles with Vic. State Parliament. The
councillors can’t sleep in their newly-furnished
apartment at the Exhibition Building, and they
pine for their old home. Also, they resent the
idea of any body of men being treated as a matter
of more importance than the 48 haughty Proputty-
owners who block intelligent legislation in Vic-
toria. But they don’t put their grievance in that
way. Abbott, M.L.C., the mouthpiece of Fat-
man’s discontent, professes to be moved by a
desire to rescue the Commonwealth members
from a trying position. They have had the use
of that luxurious club-house at the top of Bourke-
st. “thrust upon them,” and they “find the
courtesy oppressive.” The weight of that courtesy
hurts them, says Abbott, M.L.C. Some of the
Fed. Parliament fellows must have been pulling
the dreary gentleman’s leg.
The Maoriland Federal Inquiry Commis-
sion—consisting mainly of Tories and notorious
anti-Federalists —was appointed to bring in a
verdict that Maoriland shouldn’t join the Com-
monwealth, and it has done so. Being mostly
Tory, it also puts in its report an utterly irrelevant
statement to the effect that Queensland’s sugar
industry can’t survive without black labor—the
perfectly new-chuin members of the Commission
are quite solid on this point. The names of the
persons who pulled the Commission’s .verdant leg
in this matter aren’t supplied. The Commis-
sioners further state that Federation wouldn’t
help M.L. in the conversion of its loans —a subject
a wiser commission would have left alone. Maori-
land, by an awful act of confusion, paid over
£1,600,000 for the privilege of converting a lot of
miscellaneous loans into £21,325,000 of 4 per cent,
stock, fixed till 1929. So for 28 years it pays at
least g' per cent, above the value of the money—a
loss of about £106,000 a year, which, with com-
pound interest, makes a loss of about £5,000,000
more befoi'e the transaction expires. And then,
with over £21,000,000 falling due at once, Maori-
land stands every chance of being badly squeezed
when renewal time comes, if it happens to strike
a bad market.
“ Oh, off to Japan again, of course ! ” was
the universal Sydney comment upon the fact that
Barrister Jack Want had gone North by a Nippon
Yusen Kaisha steamer. And J.H.W. was only
going as far as Brisbane, after all. A notable
case of the “ dog with the bad name.”
“Piles and Their Cure.”—The pamphlet
by Albert Sharp, entitled “ Piles and the Way to
Cure Them,” without operation, sent free, on
application to the Sydney Depot, 257 George-
street.*
Loudly remarked by the landlord that a
big political party in one of the States has for-
gotten to pay its central committee’s rent-bill.
Everybody’s responsibility is the landlord’s
trouble.
When J. 0. Watson, in the House of Re-
presentatives, inquired whether the Federal Govt,
would protest to the Imperial Govt, against the
public execution of rebels in S’Africa, Premier
Barton replied : —
No doubt it will soon be made clear whether the state-
ment is correct. In the meantime the adoption by the
Government of the Commonwealth of the course sug-
gested, with a view to protesting, would amount to the
assumption of a right to inquire officially into the actions
of the Imperial Government in affairs which are not in
the self-governing jurisdiction of the Commonwealth.
Unquestionably the correct view; but what a
slap in the face to colleagues Lyne, Turner, and
Forrest, and to Speaker Holder, who, when Pre-
miers of their respective States, sent a conjoint
cable to Chamberlain requesting that the war be
prosecuted to the bitter end, and intimating that
any terms of peace agreed upon, short of the ex-
tinction of the little S’African Republics, would
be received with indignation in Australia ? Also,
what a snub to Premier Peacock for inviting
Chamberlain, in re Findley, to interfere in “the
self-governing jurisdiction ” of Victoria !
Dawvid Syme was Scotchly cautious in his
dealings wi’ the Findley case, dreading to play
the Argus’ game, and yet fearing to lose a chance
of posing as a prop-and-stay of Tummy’s throne.
This was his only preachment on election morn-
ing
We make no further animadversions on Mr. Findley.
Someone committed a heinous fault in the publication
for which he was responsible. That disgusting blot on
journalism could be punished only in his person.
So Findley Was punished for outraging journalism!
The Findley Blot was not on the Throne and
Person, but a smudge upon the Great White
Press. What Peacock was really inculcating
when he cast the devil out of the swine was re-
spect for Age.
The Weak Spot.'
if you are sitting in a
restaurant or in a shop
where Waitresses or lady
clerks are in attendance,
you will note, now and
again, some young woman
will put her hand to her
back and straighten herself
up, while her lips are
tightened as if by pain.
It’s backache ; yet all day
long she must be on her
feet, lifting, carrying,
hurrying. That weak spot,
the baok, can be made
strong by the use of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
They cure the diseases
which cause headache,
nervousness and sleep-
lessness. They make
the weak strong, and the
sick well. “ For over a
year I have suffered from
indigestion and kidney
complaint; the latter used
to affect me across the
small of the back, causing
me great pain and incon-
venience. Seeing Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills
ll
advertised, I decided to give them a trial, and the
results are highly satisfactory. After using them
the pain disappeared. I used also to suffer
slightly from eczema, but since taking Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills that has entirely vanished. I
find the pills a gentle purgative and very searching,
and can advise anyone to give them a trial.” The
above evidence is submitted by A. M'Kenzie.
Knight-street, Williamstown, Vic. Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood pur tier and a
positive cure for biliousness, indigestion, con-
stipation, headaches, sallow complexion, liver
and kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils,
blotches, and female ailments. Sold by chemists
and storekeepers, Is lid per bottle, or six bottles
6s 6d. Sole proprietors, The W.H. Comstock
Co., Ltd. (Australasian Depot), 58: Pitt-street,
Sydney. Packed in amber bottles, and the full
name blown thereon.*
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY At
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ETis’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KINO STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
W. W. GREENER’S NEW RIFLE
df
Made expressly for Cadet Corps.
An entirely New A Exclusive Design.
The new Rifle has been produced
solely to supply the wants of Cadet
Corps for a REALLY RELIABLE
and ACCURATE RIFLE at a low
price, 3 3s.
Ten Shots in 3 inch Square at 100 yards.
GENUINE ENGLISH MANUFACTURE THROUGHOUT.
Every Rifle guaranteed and named
W. W. GREENER, Birmingham, England.
On Hand—Greener’s Guns from 9 to 30 Guineas; Lee
Enfield and Metford Rifles, Govt, viewed ; Greener’s New
Book, “.Sharps mooting for Sport or War,” 1/- net,
posted 1/2. Stamps from other States not accepted.
itgT All Rifle Shots should read this Book. H9l
Oil a,s. W. Buckiand
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
o°
REUTER’S
LITTLE
PILLS
FOR THE LIVER.
S(J
sdf
RED BIRD BICYCLES.
THIS SEASON’S MODELS FULL. OF NEW IDEAS.
Seat Post Fastener is novel, practical, and reliable. Hubs are unique construction,
easily adjusted. Bottom Bracket simple, strong and neat.
LADIES’ MACHINES IDEAL MODELS OF EXQUISITE GRACE. Just call and see them at
BRANCHES IN EVERY STATE. GOOIiD BICYCLE CO., 64 King’ Street, Sydne
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Punters sustained a heavy set back in Canter-
bury (Sydney) Handicap Saturday. Great track galloper,
but utterly unreliable Leap Frog was backed down
to 7to 4 against. Heaps of coin also went on Brazen Lad
(fours; and Ariana (fives), otherwise Leap Frog would have
gone out odds on. Favorite had things his own way until
last I mile, when he cracked up. Lady Darling (6.9) and
Flashlight (outsiders) were first and second, as named,
with a neck between them. Ariana filled third place.
Winner’s performance was full of merit. She tailed right
in the rear ere the first half-mile had been traversed, and
not until last 3fur. did she streak.
* * * *
Lady Darling, winner of Canterbury Park
(Sydney) Handicap, Saturday, is by Nordenfeldt from
Grace Darling, who (starting 100 to 3 against) annexed
mournfully-memorable Caulfield Cup of ’B5, when the
record field (41) lined up. Near the home turn three of
the leading section fell, bringing 13 others atop of them.
Darra was killed on the spot, while Too Too, Tarpeia
Sardius, Prince Imperial and Tom Brown were badly hurt.
Crack lightweight jock Don Nicholson, on Lord Exeter,
died subsequently; and Frank M'Grath. Twomey, E.
M’Grade and Sam Cracknell had a particularly bad time
of it. Grace Darling ran second in following Melb. Cup,
and in ’95 threw Lady Darling at Mr. S. Hordern’s
(N.S.W.) stud farm.
• * * *
Sam Fielder’s fetching-looking Dunlop gelding
Abington (favorite all the week in shops) closed on
Canterbury Flying Handicap (Saturday) so nicely, that
his A.J.O.' Epsom Handicap prospects look rosy. Pro-
vided he strips fit and well, a bit on him would be well
placed as investments turfy go.
$ .V » *
Touts voted Murrumbeena Handicap (lm. and
a fur.) a moral for Royalty, who was 5 to 2 against at
flag-fall, but failed to get placed. A 20-to-l chance, in
the Pilgrim’s Progress nag, Peeress, won, with Fairyland
(10 to 1) second. Caulfield Cup favorite (Sagacity) fell
soon after the start and had to be treated with a friendly
bullet. Only t’other day owner Ike Foulsham refused
£5OO for his speedy galloper. Bay Eagle and Pirate were
hot pots for Ulapna ’Chase. Pirate came a cropper early
and Riecarton (10 to 1) romped home. Scottie, recently
secured by Mr. S. Miller for 205g5., broke his neck.
*•* . *
Amera, winner of Park Stakes, at Canterbury,
Saturday, takes the eye well, is finely muscled on the
back, and evidences unusual power. By Martini-Henry
out of Vain Glory, Amera is full sister to Vanitas and
Dandy. Previously, Messrs. Moses raced her in the
Northern section of N.S.W. Present owner (Mr. A. E.
Anderson, Menangle) will ultimately use her for Stud
purposes.
* * * •
The racing public are queer cattle. At Canter-
bury Park (Sydney), a few weeks back. Peppercorn ran
early in the day, and was beaten, but, in the last race,
came out and won handsomely. Whereupon the crowd
made perhaps the biggest demonstration of disapproval
that has yet been seen on a Sydney suburban course.
Last Saturday, at Canterbury, Dalmore started in the
Flying Handicap, unmentioned in the betting, and ran
nowhere, Royal King finishing second to Abington. In
the last race the public punted on Royal King, on the
strength of his running in the Flying, but Dalmore, who
was heavily backed by his connections at 7’s and B’s, beat
the favorite pointless. And the public took its gruel
without a murmur.
* • • •
Eden George (who biffed Mayor Graham out
of Belmore) owns Far Niente nag Kenley—now top of the
market for coming A.J.C. Epsom Handicap. Stable
“ commish ” worked t’other day secured about £lO,OOO at
hundreds at five. Kenlej r has 7.7. V.R.C. Maiden Plate
and Flying Stakes fell to him at 2yrs, but ten times sub-
sequently he failed to get a “ drum.”
* * * *
Ed. Bulletin.—What shop-betting in Sydney
has really come to. In last Friday’s D.T. a par. appeared,
stating that a horse (which nobody could mistake for
Kenley) had been backed for what money could be got at
5 to 1 for the Railway Stakes at Rosehill before the
weights came out. In this race are 45 entries, and in the
big handicap 22. Yet the “ shops ” are laying the double,
120 to 1 (still before the weights come out), and before
putting their cards up mark off Kenley with everything
having a chance in the other race, and some of the
smaller fry even scratch his name off with everything.
And this is the sort of thing the Federal Parliament
wants to encourage by wiping out a fair deal like Tatter-
sail’s !—G. F. Barrie.
* * • *
English stallion Vendetta, secured for Russley
(N.S. W.) stud, is by Orme (sire of Flying Fox) out of
Nemesis, and was foaled in ’96, so is still a youngster. He
only shaped as a 3-year-old. In 16 starts he got away
with Hurst Park w.f.a. Plate, Folkestone Maiden Plate,
and Rothschild Plate ; was placed in Newmarket Graven
Stakes, Chester Roodee Maiden Plate, Gatwick Marl-
borough Stakes, Winter Manor Plate, Derby Kedleston
Plate, Leicester Melton Plate, and Liverpool Warbreek
Plate. He was therefore 1,2, or 3 ten times. Ormond
(Orme’s sire) credited himself with the 2000g5., Derby,
and St. Leger. Vendetta’s dam—Nemesis—is by St.
Gatien, who dead-heated for the ’B4 Derby, and sired The
Meddler, an ultimate 18,000 gs. purchase. Her dam (Mos-
quito, sister to Musket) gave the world Trafalgar, who
foaled Dreadnought. Vendetta was the only son of Orme
at the stud last season.
• - • *
In the National Hurdles, Powell, with a head-
wound threatening blood poisoning, rode Shoddy against
medical advice.
* • * •
“Remember Clean Sweep” is this scribe’s
first warning to any person who is hesitating over the
question of an early “ double ” for the Caulfield and
Melbourne Cups. How many thousands of “ doubles ”
were picked last year before the name of Clean Sweep
had been ever mentioned in connection with the 2-mile
race ? The 3-year-old was in the same stable as the sub-
sequent Derby winner, whom he beat easily in the
Melbourne Cup (Nov. 6th), and yet the trainer and owner
of Clean Sweep didn’t think it good enough to pay a 5
sovs. acceptance fee for his Derby chance on the second
Monday in October. “ Remember Clean Sweep ”is good
counsel to the sanguine selector of early “ doubles.”
And a second warning is “ Remember the popular Paris
and Patron pick in ’94.” That was the year when
punters all over the country threw up "their hats
and got drunk. Also they paid for the in-
ebriation of their friends after Patron’s victory
was duly registered. They had picked the right
“ double ” at last. Nothing remained but to sober up
and collect the money. But that was where the trouble
came in. Ikey Mo, in a general way, makes no provision
for the landing of a popular “ double,” and, inasmuch as
every Ikey was hit and none of them could borrow money
from a pal to pay Paris arid Patron pickers, it followed as
a matter of course that the smaller books mostly went in-
solvent and expatiated to their grief-stricken clients on
the foolishness of hoping to get blanky money from a
blanky stone. Of the two evils, backing a popular wrong
double or backing a popular right double, the former is
preferable, because it doesn’t entail a further loss in vain-
glorious refreshments.
« » * *
The Tasmanians, in making their great fight on
behalf of “Tattersall” because his sweep, while it is
located at Hobart, adds £20,000 a year to the Tas. re-
venue, badly failed to understand the probabilities of the
ease. “ Tatt.” only went to Hobart because other States,
In various spasms of morality, declined to deliver his
letters. If the Federal Parliament decides to deliver or
not to deliver “ Tatt.’s ” letters, either decision will pre-
sumably apply all over the Commonwealth. In the first
ease, “Tatt." will probably go back to Sydney as being
larger and more central. In the second case he will pro-
bably go to Europe with his fortune (his occupation
here being gone) and become the Duke of Tattersall, or
the Earl of Sweep, or some such dignitary, and spend the
rest of his days in elevated retirement. There is very
little for Tasmania either Way.
Return Bananaland-N.S.W. toe-ball struggle at
Sydney Agricultural Ground (Saturday) drew 20,000 on-
lookers and a big “gate.” Home side triumphed with a
surplus of 3 -11 to 8. Halloran and White sustained
broken collar bones ; White’s the recurrence of a simple
fracture experienced a year since, and Halloran’s a com-
pound fracture. Initial half, like that of first match, was
comparatively uninteresting, and much below inter-State
rep. form ; but second period made ample amends, and
elicited roars of applause, particularly during the last
half hour. Result was in doubt right to close and excite-
ment waxed hot. N.S.W. forwards won the day by well-
timed and effective work, particularly in the open.
Queensland three-quarters made a better showing than
those of N.S.W., but were more favored by opportunities,
through the fine services of halves Gralton and Evans.
The visitors let many simple chances slip, principally
through Dickson’s mulling at torrid stages.
“ Punt ” : Q. Rugby team, last week in Sydney,
lost both inter-State events, but beat Metrop. Union by
29 to 16. List of matches played now totals 46, of which
N.S.W. has gathered in 28 and Q. 15 ; other three have
been drawn. I tip that next month’s play in
the Northern State capital will produce slightly different
results, especially as a N.S.W. team is at the same time
due in M.L., and the material available to draw upon is
not thoroughly representative.
• * * *
The most popular player engaged in the N.S.W.
v. Q. football contests was young Finley, who played
“ behind the scrum ” for the home team. He is a mere
lad of 18, and was discovered among the players from New
England during country-week. His father is a keen ’ball
enthusiast, and came all the way from Tamworth, where
he is chairman of the local Land Board, to see his boy
play. Finley, jun., is one of the best scrum halves play-
ing at present, and to him N.S.W. is much indebted for
her two successes against the Northern State.
* ♦ * *
Boer example has stimulated ’Ome rifle-shoot-
ing. In the Elcho Shield contest, between volunteer
. teams representing England, Scotland and Ireland, the
scores showed all-round improvement on last year’s
figures, when Ireland Won with 1537 points. This year
England got 1609, and Ireland, with 1585, was beaten
into third place by Scotland.
* * * *
Tho League of Victorian Wheelmen has granted
patronage to the “ Dunlop Road Race,” which is to be
run on Saturday, the 12th October. This fine road con-
test Will be held over the famous Warrnambool to Mel-
bourne course, a distance of 165 miles. The event will be
a handicap one, the starts for which will be allotted by
.the L.V.W. Kandicapper. No pacing will be allowed, ex-
cepting the assistance one competitor may render another.
The prize list is a very extensive one, no less than 10
prizes, of a total value of £llO, being given by the trade.
* * * *
Roberts-Weiss billiard-match in Sydney hasn’t
excited over-much interest, nor is comparative play aS
good as on previous occasions. Weiss, so far, has lost a
lot of ground. Best breaks up to Monday night were—
Roberts : 89, 88, 118, 218, 82, 234, 84, 191, 81, 91, 76, 103,
134,-141, 172, 72, 64, 83, 75, 83, 87, 178, 108, 109, 128, 67,
79, 141, 74,113, 204, 123. Weiss : 77, 61, 69, 63, 134, 88,
78, 142, 63, 51, 208, 72, 92, 100, 61, 100, 163, 70, 91, 68, 107,
104.
* • • •
Second Cribb-Dunn bruising match, Monday
night, filled Gaiety A.O. (Sydney), at double prices. One-
time amateur heavyweight Harry Beckett made the best
referee seen in Sydney for years. Cribb was favorite, and
had the better of first four rounds, when he fell off and
never recovered ; while Dunn, who frequently appeared
about to break-up, pulled himself together remarkably,
and, in spite of a maimed left from the fourth, won in
the ninth round. Oribb was counted out. literally
dead-beat, through tremendous but futile efforts to land
on t’other, who fought far better than in first fight.
Winner’s grit and condition stood to him well in hot
corners. He weathered occasions when there seemed
absolutely no hope for him. Oribb often punched away
while Dunn, half dazed and dog-weary, couldn’t hold his
hands up to shield himself. The M.L. man went to
pieces with a run, while Dunn’s preparation enabled him
to pick up a little every time Cribb stood off, preliminary
to making another furious onslaught. The punching on
either side was not over stiff, and it was painfully evident
that America did poor Cribb no good. Whether the two
hammerings and one defeat at ’Frisco-hoodlum Thur-
ston’s hands, or the allurements of the country were
responsible doesn’t appear, but it is beyond question
that Oribb on Monday night was not the Cribb of old.
* * * *
Some hours after the fight trainer M'Carthy,
lying alongside Oribb at the Cliff Hotel, Bondi, experi-
enced a sensation of cold from the other’s body, and, fail-
ing to arouse him or induce any symptoms of life, called
in a doctor, who said he hid been d.-ad for some time.
The cadaverous appearance of Crihb’s body and his pallid
face were noted by the most unobservant at the match.
Most Dunn money went on b cause it was contended that
two terrible poundings by Frisco Thurston must have
broken the Australian. He looked nothing like his former
self when he returned. During the fight all steam
and punching power completely left him. Time
after time, Dunn was absolutely at his mercy, but Cribb
couldn’t get sufficient powder behind the blows to send in
anything effective. After the fourth round Dunn was
unable to use his left, yet he still stood up. This was not
Cribb as Sydney knew him when he defeated Sturgeon,
Dunn and Co. last year. M’Carthy says the dead man had
complained of severe pains in the back and around the
kidneys, which were so distressing that he had to use
something that would act as a pad before he could lie on
his back, and M'Carthy had frequently to rub that region
with embrocations. Also, now told by Johns and Stone-
ham (recently back from ’Frisco) that Cribb suffered
much long after his second Thurston battle. Sugges-
tions that the match be postponed, or that he should
wear a plaster, found no favor with Cribb, for he
was very stubborn. At time of writing post-mortem
hadn’t been held, hence the exact cause of death
was unknown—but it would be surprising if actual
injury in the ring were at the bottom of it.
* * * *
’Frisco bruiser Riley met Charley Frost at
Golden Gate A.O. (Syd.), Saturday night. For two
rounds Riley held his own, then Frost worried him, and
slugged him right out. Riley was gritty, came up thrice
when it seemed all over, and it is generally opined he
should get into good fettle and try again, as it is evi-
dently in him to make a much bolder bid.
* * * *
It was a short, sweet battle at Vic. Democratic
Hall on Monday night, 15th inst., when Tot Higgins, a
light-weightwithapast, met Jock MTvor, a lighter weight
with a future. The “ boys ” are the choice spirits of rival
Port Melbourne pushes, and fought for love and the pot,
especially for love, and the mill went merrily from the
call. MTvor proved himself the master man from the
first prod, and hammered half the grit out, of his
opponent ere the initial 3min. were spent. Nathless,
Higgins kept things going at a great gait during six
rounds, being knocked pretty silly two or three times
before he decided that MTvor’s peculiar dropping left
and his swinging upper-cuts were very indigestible.
MTvor won his best battle without taking any particular
damage, and improved his position vastly by the vim and
science he displayed. Jack M’Gowan’s next shake-up
with MTvor ought to be a stirring engagement.
* * • *
Sydney Sports Club, in the coming State
amateur premiership, will rigidly enforce the strict defi-
nition of an amateur for the first time in N.S.W. boxing
history. Closing of entries is some weeks off, but names
already sent in indicate the tourney will extend over
several nights. ’Varsity, Scotch, and other colleges are
the largest contributors, there are also pupils of Larry
Foley and George Seale. The management is looking
round for a large and suitable hall, as space available at
the Sports Club will be nothing like adequate. So far,
N.S.W. has not had a genuine amateur champion, though
many have, at different times, assumed the honor.
Apropos, the personnel of this year’s batch of Bananaland
top-notchers doesn’t include one who owned the distinc-
tion before ; no previous winner entered.
Obsequies of Peter Jackson in Roma (Q.) at
night were weirdly picturesque and most impressive. A
lengthv procession followed the hearse to the station en
route to Brisbane. The Mayor and prominent town
people acted as pall-bearers. Members of local athletic
clubs, headed by the town band, carried flaming torches.
All societies and bodies of the district were largely rep-
resented. Shops along the route closed and put up their
shutters. The main street was thronged with people.
Funeral aortege in Brisbane, where the dead was person-
ally almost unknown, extended three-quarters of a mile.
The body was interred in Toowong Cemetery on a hill
overlooking the city.
• . * * *
“ Friend ”: Noticing Peter Jackson’s death last
week, Sydney Evenin’ Nooze lifted over a j-col. from a
’Frisco paper by a whilom Sydney scribe now in Yankee-
dom. Fight between Jackson and Dooley (upwards of 16
years since) was referred 1 bo, and deliberate misstatements
made about Peter guzzling beer at Canterbury Races in
the afternoon of the convincing day, and late Mr. George
Hill (alleged hacker of Jackson) remonstratively ad-
dressing Peter as “you black blanker,” “you black
beauty,” &c., and Jackson replying “ I ain’t goin’ to fight
to-night, sah,” &c., &c. The tale is a fabrication. George
Hill never backed Jackson on that occasion ; so far from
supporting Peter he was on the other side. No man ever
dared address Jackson as a “ black beauty” or “black
blanker.” Peter would have resented it right off. Again,
there was nothing of the “ corner man ” about his style
of speaking. His English Was acquired in an English
school from infancy and under British rule. Jackson
never trained harder for his biggest fight, recognising as
he did that the outcome would either make or mar him.
* * * »
Sydney Referee appeals to the continent for a
monument over the grave of pugilist Jackson. And
Peter Was Worthy of it. He Was a man among men, the
greatest boxer and one of the straightest goers ever
known. Also, he Was actually Champion of the World
twice ; first, through John L. Sullivan, after signing
articles, failing to meet him j and, secondly, when Jim
Corbett also thought better Of it. Though not native-
born, Peter always claimed Australia as his home, on the
grounds that he came an unsophisticated lad and
acquired his world-famous art here. Something after the
style of the memorial stone over the grave of his great
prototype “ Gentleman ” Jackson, or that of Tom Sayers,
in England, is proposed.
* * * *
“ 0.5.” (Goulburn) s No opponent of Peter
Jackson’s ever died through meeting him. He always
refused to go further when his man was palpably help-
less, as witness every fight he engaged in—notably those
with Lees, Cardiff and Slavin.


London’s
West End Style.
15-ct. Gold sleeve Links, with Turquoise Ends - - £>2 2 0
9 - ct - » » „ „ „ „-- £1 5 0
,s ' ct ' »» »» » Plain or Engraved, from 22/6 to 55/“
9 " Ct ' ” » M 5, „ from 16/“ to 22/6
■J
Modern ]rt Jewellery Jo.
187 gitt (St., (Sydney
Next Shadler’s Cafe.
CALKIN CUPEL MACHINES.
Calkin's Automatic Cupel Machine.
Will make 600 cupels of uniform size
and density in an hour.
The only absolutely satisfactory machine
made.
Made in three designs—Automatic, Table
and Wall.
The automatic machines will make five sizes.
The table and wall m chines from one to
three sizes, depending on dies furnished.
Machines for one size only at propor-
tionately less price.
Write for full particulars to
SOLE AGENTS-
pike gw comply ms.
60 Sydney, n.s.w.
Importers of modern appliances for Assayers—Furnaces,
Blowers, Sampling Machines, Ore Crushers, etc., eto.
1
. .;ov'
Li-
■
;■ r'
■
hhr
fasf
sM
raw
MMO&
mm
F 3
©
%
m
m
wmmm
m
m
rr
d
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.
Price OdL -
f
SHE MUST HAVE
Spoons * FORKS * KniUES
Complete Family Cabinet, £ll 13s. Best Quality.
MAPPIN & WEBB’S are the best made in England.
They were Silversmiths to her late Majesty the Queen.
They are selling in Sydney at their London catalogue
prices.
Their Spoons are plated on the best white hard metal.
They bear the heaviest deposit of Silver of all those
made in England.
They will wear for one-third of a century.
They engrave like Silver.
They are made in three qualities only.
B Quality —
Teas, Jdoz., 6/-
Desserts, Jdoz., 7/6
Tables, jdoz., 10/-
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
Vice-Regal Jewellers,
23 Hunter-street, Sydney
Tl)€
Callages')
Boot
NopeSt Wear
li) every pair.
r ;: ;
warn
7
m
r
Your money
returned if
you are not
satisfied with
the Boots. Also,
our Boots can be
exchanged if not
correct, as we wish
distant customers
to be as pleased as
those in town.
Patent Calf, calf-kid legs, full goloshed, 1901 lasts, button or lace, 25/-; post paid, 26/-
All sizes and fittings.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
NEW SOUTH WALES
PATRIOTIC E UNI).
REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE FOR YEAR ENDING 30th JUNE, 1901,
PRESENTED TO AND ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL COMMITTEE ON 18tII JULY, 1901.
Your Executive Committee have met fortnightly throughout the year now reported on, added to which th«.
chairman has been almost daily consulted by the secretary.
Since the initiation of the Fund, seven hundred and seventeen (717) individual cases have been dealt with.
Many of the applicants have applied more than once for assistance, and many of the cases had to be temporarily dealt
with, and considered and reconsidered, before final decisions were arrived at.
Over eight hundred (800) circular letters for reference have been sent out in connection with these applications,
while, in addition thereto, the results of applications from the country have entailed a further amount of outward
correspondence.
The reference replies, military and medical reports in each instance, have been carefully checked, and every case
indexed up, and dealt with on the merits disclosed.
Much of the time of your Executive has been taken up, and a considerable amount of labor thrown on the Secre-
tary and his Olerk, by the full reports necessary in dealing with applications for “ Further Relief,” by far the greater
number of which your Executive have had to refuse.
The wide scope of the Fund, wisely provided for at its initiation, has allowed of relief being afforded to members
Of the China Contingent, as well as to all the New South Wales Contingents to South Africa.
The total amount of Donations to the Fund since its initiation is £50,730 14s. 3d., and interest £1629 16s. 2d.
The amount disbursed in relief from Ist July, 1900, to 29th June, 1901, was
£12,184 15 0
Prior to that it was 255 6 0
Making a grand total since the initiation of the fund of .. . .£12,440 0 0
Thus made up :
13 Widows ..£1,184 15 0
65 Other Dependents .. .. ... 2,132 0 0
639 Returned Wounded and Invalided 9,123 5 0
£12,440 0 0
Leaving a balance to the credit of Fund (inclusive of Fixed Deposits) of £39,536 Is. sd.
The Executive Committee have to express their thanks to the Military Authorities for their assistance in giving
Military and First Medical Reports, and for the courtesy extended to the Secretary when making necessary inquiries
at the Barracks ; also to Captain E. J. Thomas, Transvaal and China Contingents Inquiry Officer, for his assistance
in making inquiries,
Thanks have to be accorded to the Sydney Chamber of Commerce for the use of their office, and to Mr. David
Fell (0.A.A.) for again gratuitously auditing the accounts.
During the year it was found necessary, in dealing with applications for Further Relief, to appoint a Medical
Practitioner, to whom the Executive could send applicants for “ Further Relief ” to be examined as to their ability
or otherwise to work.
As provided for under the Bylaws, a Statement of Receipts and Expenditure has to be published in the month ol
July in each year.
This Statement, duly signed by the Trustees and Audited by Mr. David Fell (0.A.A.), is now placed before you,
and will be published as required by the Bylaws.
(Sgd.) AUGUSTUS F. ROBINSON,
Chairman of Executive Committee.
Sydney, 29th June, 1901.
NEW SOUTH WALES PATRIOTIC FUND,
STATEMENT OF RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FROM Ist JULY, 1900, TO 29th JUNE, 1901.
£32,985 14 4
To Balance Current Account,
bearing interest .. ..20,536 1 5
Fixed .. .. 19,000 0 0
£39,536 1 5
DISBURSEMENTS— £ 8 . d'.
By Relief Account 12,184 15 6
Secretary and Clerical Assistance .. 131 5 0
Charges for Printing, Stationery, and
Furniture .. 88 15 6
Advertising 21 17 6
Petty Cash .. .. 23 0 0
Balance at Credit of Fund
in Bank of N.S. Wales .. 8,465 12 6
Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney 12,070 9 0
— 20,536 1 5
£32,985 14 4
T. A. DIBBS,
J. RUSSELL FRENCH,
Trustees.
July
gating
I certify that Uiave examined the Books and Vouchers of the N.S.W. Patriotic Fund for the period from Ist
r, 1900, toi 30tn June, 1901 (with the exception of those Vouchers detailed as per list), and that the foretroinv
ement is in acQ<srdance narmoif *i * j « 6 6
ng £19,000, have also beei
Sydney, 16th Ju|y, 1001.
statement is in therewith. Fixed Deposit Receipts of various Banks in the name of the Fund and atrtrre-
; £19,000, nave also been submitted for my inspection. 68
(Signed)
DAVID FELL,
Honorary Auditor.


A Tasmanian daily paper reporting the
Duke of York’s Melb. speech :
“ The Duke declared the stone to be well and truly laid.
He then said in clear and forcible tones : Every bottle of
Snooks’s Remedy is guaranteed to give immediate relief
and to cure your cold. It is the remedy you can depend
on, &c."
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
King Ned is to receive from the British
Treasury £470,000 a year—an increase of £85,000
on Queen Victoria’s screw. In addition, he gets
£OO,OOO from the Duchy of Lancaster. The Duke
of Cornwall and York gets £20,000 and the
Duchess £lO,OOO a year, and the Jook’s revenue
from the Duchy of Cornwall is now £70,000 per
annum, so that this young couple have to struggle
along on £lOO,OOO a year. The King’s three
daughters get £6OOO each ; Duke of Connaught,
£25,000.
From Melb. Age :
The late Queen had a passion for shutting up rooms in
which relatives, friends and favorite servants had died.
The spacious apartment occupied by John Brown at
Windsor Castle has been rigorously closed for 18 years, and
a brass tablet, recording the date of his demise, lamenting
his loss, and commemorating his virtues, was put up on
the wall by the Queen. This room has now been re-
opened and cleared out, and it will be entirely re-
decorated.
King Ned seems to be a most irreverent person-
age.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth tlieir
while to peruse Herr Rassnmssen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue *
Dr. Andrew Wilson, the well-known writer
on popular hygiene, recently, in Lloyd’s Weekly,
recommended to dyspeptics the use of Australian
wines especially the clarets. As Lloyd’s
Weekly has a circulation of a million, this should
be a good advt. for our winegrowers.
At a Temuka (M.L.) private hospital
lately, the surgeons removed four inches of nerve
with a tumor from a man’s leg ; a sheep was
killed on the premises, and a nerve extracted and
grafted into patient’s leg. The grafting proved
successful, and the man is now hobbling about on
a stick.
Ed. Bulletin. — A correspondent (8.,
8/6/’01) states that N.S.W. was the first country
in the world to adopt the system of prepaying
letters by means of postage-stamps. Now, post-
age-stamps were first used in England in 1840,
whereas they were not introduced in N.S.W. till
’49.—J.W.C. [Wrong. N.S.W. had its first
postage-stamps in 1837, and that was the world’s
record so far as is known. They were then sold
as impressed covers or envelopes. The adhesive
stamp came in 1849 — Ed. B.[
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
More evidence tendered to the Victorian
Shops and Factories Commission in Sydney :
John English (foreman draper at Edward Hordern’s and
vice-president of the Early Closing Association) said that
the Early Closing Act had proved itself of immense
benefit to shop assistants, while it caused neither loss to
the employers nor inconvenience co the public. In
clothing factories he knew of apprentices who were
started at as low as 2s. 6d. per week, and there were
numbers of female workers, first-class hands, who, after
five or six years’ service, were only getting 10s. per week.
The only remedy he could suggest for that state of thing-!
was minimum-wage legislation.
God bless the Foreign-trade doctrine of Cheap
ness ! Behind every cheap coat there is a cheap,
man, or a cheaper woman.
EDWARDS
A
r§K4
f
A
THE GREAT
HAIR PRODUCER
AND RESTORER.
The Very Finest Dressing, Specially
Prepared and Delicately Perfumed
% for the Toilet.
“MARLENE”
Produces Luxuriant Hair, Prevents its Falling
Lff or Turning Grey.
UNEQUALLED FOR PROMOTING THE GROWTH OF
TIIE BEARD AND MOUSTACHE.
THE RENOWNED
REMEDY FDR BALDNESS.
%•
•■'A
For Preserving, Strengthening, and Rendering the Hair Beautifully Soft; tor Removing Scurf, Dandruff, &c also for
RESTORING GREV HAIR TO ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
HARLENE ” PRESERVES, STRENGTHENS, AND INVIGORATES CHILDREN’S HAIR.
Full description and directions or use in 20 languages supplied with eve y bottle.
11., 2/6 anil (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle from Druggists &c., all over the World.
“HARLENE” Co., High Mol born, LONDON, ENGLAND.
[Price 6s.
Post Free.
“01 OUR SELECTION.”
“By Steele Ruder.’
Beanie’s Bronchitis Gnre.
THE tn a TvmtTS HE3\3lJtu i'OH
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have talcen this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughshave been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain. , . _
t=st atsk OIF* COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
niy case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
I},. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
-4jd “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
Bmall bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria,
Three Cases Completely Cured hy One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vic.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.”
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Ilearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.’
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows: —“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. _ I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesdaj' I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir. —My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Pive Years’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. I arn more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well. —Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS' CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, CharlevilTe,
Queensland, writes : —“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:—“l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot- Q{g ce . 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally .
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food
Infants
9
FOOD Is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BERGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by, s
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own/'
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


Wolseley Improvea snears
A.LTBRA.TIOKT INT PRICE.
<‘ lri d Shearers are hereby notified that on and after Ist July, 1901, the price of the
NEWWOLSELEY IMPROVED ALL-STEEL MACHINE SHEARS will be £3.
, Ihe Wolseley Company have reluctantly been compelled to make this alteration owing to the
PffnrwiTrmr manufacture incurred in bringing the machine to its present HIGH STATE OF
rIiiKJLCIiOPs, a result which has only been obtained after a very larire expenditure in up-to-date
machinery and tools.
The present Wolseley Machine is undoubtedly the BEST SHEARING MACHINE ever offered
to the public, and although the price has been raised to £3, the cost of maintenance, owing to superior
material and workmanship, has been reduced to a minimum, and we are confident they will prove to
r a fAR CHEAPER, but will also LAST LONGER, RUN COOLER, and SHEAR
JjAKbJtK 1 ALLIES than any other machine ever placed on the market.
DAUGAR, GEBYE &CO Sole Afrents for Australia.
THE
dsf
THE
I.NTLEMEN. This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
, hell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know* the exact kind of
e ge tnat is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“RAZOLES” LICHTNINQ RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price
/ ®! n &J e azor > in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21s.
( single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivorj r Handles, in beautiful cise, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is, on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEIN, 680 Sydney.
v.
I’ll Try It."
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Ospillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Result.
ORNAMENTAL hair.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
IST" Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to any part of Australasia.
CRAIG & AITKEN^C
New South Wales Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNE/
WHITE’S
PATENT.
Cosset JUtactomt
WHITE’S
PATENT.
Without Attachment.
The “TITHN” (Regd.)
Indispensable with the present tight-
fitting skirt.
Produces straight front without in-
creasing size of waist or impeding
action in walking, as it does not
require stocking - suspenders to
keep it in position.
Guaranteed not to ride up or wrinkle.
Idealists the symmetry of the figure and
gives indescribable elegance to the simplest
gown.
Reduces High Figures and Large Hips.
Restores the Figure after Confinement.
Affords great support with perfect ease and gives
permanent satisfaction to the wearer.
C an be attached without sewing l to any corset. Underskirts
can also bo attached without sewing to the lower edge, thus
further reducing size. Worn by Royalty.
Recommended by the Medical Profession. Thousands of un-
solicited Testimonials. To be obtained of all the best Drapers
and Ladies’ Outfitters throughout Australasia.
With Attachment.
N.B.—When ordering, the size round largest part of hips should be given. Every Attachment is stamped “ TITAN."
In Black, White, and Ecru. Price 6/6.
Patentee and
Sole Manufacturer,
Mrs. A. WHITE, i, 2 & 3, Langley Co rt, Long Acre, London, W.C.
T’-e Trade supplied through all the principal Wholesale Houses in Australia an t Nero Zealand.
EVERY HOUSEHOLD and TRAVELLING TRUNK ought to contain A BOTTLE of
END’S ‘FRUIT SALT’
m
For Preventing’ & Curing by Natural Means
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
TESTIMONIAL. —“ I have been a nurse for ten years, and have nursed cases
of scarlet fever, pyaemia, erysipelas, measles, gangrene, cancer, and almost every
mentionable disease. During this time I have not been ill for a single day, and
this I attribute to the use of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a
pure state. I recommend it to all my patients during convalescence. Its
value as a means of health cannot be overestimated.”— A Professional
Nurse ( Qualified ).
THE EFFECT OF ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ ON A DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS, AND FEVERISH CONDITION
IS SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It IS, IN FACT, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, AND AN UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION . —See capsule marked ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT.’ Without it, you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. 0. ENO, Ltd., at the ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
0-0013 HAIR AT.T.f
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. °lfit is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
AST For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
£3r For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively.
Price, ss. 6d. ; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-sfreet, MELBOURNE*
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free:.
PLAYS
Catalog je
Free . . .
French’s Acting Edition,
d
Rare Books
French Novels
Books
for
the
Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
Hooks Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
™ FREEMAN* WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL & SURGICAL INSTITUTE.
The Two Eminent Specialists
who have the Largest Practice
in Australasia.
A nk the Only Specialists in Australia who have
Received Highly Commendable Press Notices
in Leading Australian Journals.
Specialties : Nervous and Chronic Complaints, Blood and Skin Diseases,
Heart, Kidney, Liver, Bladder, Rheumatism, Sciatica, &o. f &o.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration by the Govern-
ment Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, Great
Britain and America, open to inspection at the Consulting Rooms
by our Physician-in-Chief.
TT is an acknowledged fact the world-wide over that no
single individual or combination of men can he ab-
solute masters of every phase and branch of art, science,
medicine, or other professed avocation of a limitless
sphere of operation and magnitude. At best the greatest
scientists of the day—men like Lord Kelvin and Edison,
r-
-
-
jr.jgß .'-s
-S . I' -
•V • - -
*2T
' <
• n :
Yours truly . . .
HO WA RT> FREEMAN,
Sydney’s Leading Specialist.
Professor of Electricity as applied Medically, Member
Dr. Harmon’s College, Washington Cor., Cal., U.S.A.
Director and Founder of the Institute.
for instance, whose fame is universally known —class
themselves as infants in scientific invention and research,
and modestly tell us that they have hut a smattering of
knowledge of the possibilities, extent, and development
We have only to look at the fine buildings that occupy
the corner of Elizabeth and Bathurst streets to gain some
idea of the extent and importance of their professional
work. But to have the privilege of being shown through
the building by the Specialists themselves, and to see and
learn something of the real character of their wide prac-
tice, is a treat that only comes the way of a fortunate in-
dividual like the writer.
The instrument-room was, as usual, one of particular
curiosity. Laymen always have a penchant for eyeing
and examining the polished steel articles with which so
many extraordinary acts are performed upon the human
body. The collection in this room is in every way up-to-
date. Whenever a new instrument comes to the front,
and its worth is proved beyond question, it is added to
this rare assortment. Another room full of absorbing in-
terest is that devoted to the galvanic batteries, of which
there are several magnificent kinds. The noted Gaiffe
batteries, the finest French makes, are here in perfection,
irrespective of their high cost. If any article or mechani-
cal and electric contrivance is found necessary in main-
taining the fame of this institution, the price is never
allowed to stand in the way.
The correspondence department is a veritable eve-
opener. Its sacredness is a bar to a stranger’s admission,
but a full view of the work going on is had through the
glass doors. Half a-dozen typists are seen driving their
machine-writers at electric speed. To the principals only
are known the names of the persons throughout Aus ralia
who are being treated as skilfully in their homes about
the metropolis and away in the interior as if they were
present in personal consultation at the institution.
The packing-rooms are likewise shut off from curious
and prying glances, and the W’ork of one department is a
mystery to the others. No better system for holding
secret the nature of sufferers’ troubles, for safe-guarding
their interests, and giving due heed to the feelings and
sensitiveness of patients, could be imagined. Packages
are not plastered with advertising labels, they are put up
in such a way that only the names and addresses are in
view.
What a practice is here revealed and what a consola-
tion must it be to these eminent specialists to know that
they are permanently curing and restoring to health and
happiness thousands of people whose lives were a burden
to them. The young, the middle-aged, and the healthy
are treated with the same amount of success. The pro-
digious nature of the work accomplished by these
specialists necessitates —not the stereotyped morning and
evening two hours’ consultation ticket, but their constant
attention at the institution from early morning till late
into the night. “ I can assure you,” said Dr. Wallace,
“ we don’t put in these long hours because we are fonder
~
'
*•>
Premises : Oor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts. (Opp. Hyde Park, Sydney
(All Trams Stop at the Door).
of electricity, and only a fringe of imagination of the un-
told stores of strength and wealth wrapt up in this
phenomenal power.
Therefore it requires no argument to convince the
most pronounced of optimists that the field in any one of
the great and honored professions of the day is far too
vast for the thorough comprehension of the most per-
fectly brain-endowed man, or body of naturally-gifted
men. Yet in respect of the most delicate and difficult of
all professions—that of prescribing for the ills and
diseases of mankind—we find doctors, scattered over the
globe, off-handedly and without careful, minute, and
searching examination and diagnosis—without any know-
ledge of the past lives of patients—flippantly dashing off
prescriptions for every class of complaint, as if a cure was
as simple as falling over the proverbial log.
Thanks to the march of civilisation, culture, and edu-
cation, people are getting to know that modern medical
men who are worth consulting confine their practice to a
certain class of cases. Realising the utter hopelessness of
mastering and curing everything under the sun, and find-
ing that “gullibles” are not so plentiful as they used to
be, the wise and progressive men of medicine devote
themselves to one or other class of cases, and work out
the remedies for them to the best of their skill and
ability.
What better and more striking illustration of the suc-
cess of Specialists in Skin Diseases, Heart, Kidney, Liver
Affections, Rheumatics, Sciatica, Nervous Diseases, could
the people of this magnificent continent, Australia, have
than the enormous practice of the famous practitioners of
the Electro-Medical Institute. Their skill, attainments,
position, and renowned reputation stamp them as the un-
doubted masters of the classes of diseases and complaints
which have been the study of their professional lives.
When we speak of electricity we think of Edison. Why ?
Because he dwarfs other men in this branch of science.
In the same way, when we talk of specialists, we at once
associate the names of the Freeman and Wallace Insti-
tute. So it is in every branch of scientific medicine;
some one or two men stand head and shoulders above
their fellows.
It is the aim, object, and devotion of certain doctors to
he pre-eminent in some defined class of disease rather
than to tinker with a host of complaints about which
they can have but a hazy notion, and superficial know-
ledge. To use a hackneyed but expressive phrase, they
are “Jacks of all trades and masters of none.” Never
since the time of Ricord, the noted French Specialist,
have any men conducted so gigantic and successful a
graetice as that conducted by the Freeman-Wallace
lectro Medical and Surgical Institute.
of hard work than any other medical men ; we do it in
the best interests of sufferers. We don’t keep them
waiting longer than we can help, and we suffer many in-
conveniences for our patients’ sakes.”
Noble sentiments, thought the writer, as the time came
for his departure, and the Specialists returning to their
$
m
wm
i : -s.
yours truly . .
RICH AR D W A LLACE,
Physician-in-Chief,
M.D., L.R.C.P., L.F.P.S., L.M.,
Late hTedical Staff, Hrxtrsh rmy ' late Consulting
Staff, Homoeopathic Hospital, Melbourne.
consulting-room. How many doctors in our midst can
we bracket in this category ? Dinners and drives and
conversaziones are more frequently uppermost in the
mind of top-loftical medicos than the speedy treatment
of sad and suffering patients.


The Vic. artists have in part atoned for
their snobbish action in creating “ academicians,”
by their decision to throw open their galleries free
to the public on Sunday nights, during the cur-
rency of the present exhibition. This is a slap on
the eye for the Sabbatarian crowd, who prevent
the opening of Vic. National Gallery on Sunday. ,
A few years back the Sabbatarians swore that the
people of Melb. were too godly to visit the Na-
tional Gallery on Sunday, and dared the authori-
ties to open it, as a test. The challenge was taken
up, and an average of 5000 people swelled in each
Sabbath. The pious brigade immediately shifted
their ground, and pleaded that the challenge wins
made by a wholly unauthorised person, and exerted
so much influence on Sargood, Harper, and Go.
that the galleries were suddenly shut, and have
ever since remained so.
Still waiting. Vic. Parliament ran-out
Labor-member Findley on the ground that a paper
with which he was-nominally connected published
a “seditious libel.” If it was a seditious libel
there is plenty of law in Victoria to get at the
real offender—the editor of the Tocsin. The
Peacock Government shows no sign of gomg-for
the offender in the law-courts, where he can
defend himself. If this is because it knows that
the article complained of was not a seditious libel,
then the Peacock Government in general is a liar.
If it is because it doesn’t like to fight in an arena
where the other party can defend himself, then it
is only a coward. If it is because it doesn t really
care, despite all its recent gas, whether the
is libelled or not, then it is a hypocrite, blow,
which is it ? It can be either of them without any
extra charge.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It dri\es away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skm.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd., report for week ended July 19th, that fair quanti-
ties of wheat changed hands at late rates. Shippers
offering 2s. Bd. for prime, and 2s. 7d. for f.a.q. per bushel.
Millers not buying at all. Owing to absence of buyers in
Brisbane wool is quiet. London reports firm market for
fine merinos. Marsupial Skin market steady. Grey
kangaroos inclined to harden, prices in sellers favor
Scrub wallabies slid down another 3 d. per skin while
’possums went well, blues and others advancing 3d. per
doz. Hair, horns and bones, dull and dower than last
week In sheepskins, well-dried samples had a steady
market, hut should wet weather come prices may be ex-
pected to ease somewhat. The demand for tallow was
fairly brisk, and good quantities were disposed of at
recent rates, though in some cases there was a decline ol
2s 6d. per ton. Both N.S.W. and Queensland hides
roused strong competition at full rates, and although no
advance is quoted market is decidedly firmer-
J. J. MILLER’S SPORTING PAMPHLET.
Illustrated, Now Ready.
The most reliable reference on all sporting matters.
Contains nominations, weights and full P er
of all horses engaged in the Caulfield and Melbourne
Cups, and other ?aces. Post free, 1/1. AH Booksellers.
Recent scientific inquiry on the alcoholic
question shows that good whisky provides nourish-
ment and increases vital action. In other words,
it supplies both fuel and steam for the human
machine, whereas bad whisky merely provides a
distorted liver and a dishevelled mind.
fulfills the essential condition—it is a good whisky,
and taken judiciously supplies not only force and
fuel but keeps the human machine well oiled, re-
gulated, and in good repair. It’s quality is known
by the intellectual calibre of the veterans who
prefer it to all other brands—the whisky of the
wise.*
“ Z.” : Are the benevolent asylums to
be crowded with starving pianoforte-teachers,
robbed of their living by the pianola? (liy
the way, I notice that “a Swiss gentleman,
thorough musician,” advertises in S.M. Herald,
“ two piano lessons weekly for Is. od. )
To outward seeming the pianola is a
double - headed sewing-machine, which fastens
its teeth on to the front of the piano, the space
between the two covered heads being occupied by
a rolling pin, round which revolves the mss. of
the music, which is represented by runs and dots.
The machinery was carefully explained to
me, after which, of course, it was as great a
mystery as ever. There remains the fact, how-
ever, that the player may merely move the
treadles with his feet, his hands in his pockets,
and invisible fingers will be heard chasing them-
selves up and down the unseen keys. If he wants
expression as well as accuracy, however, he moves
little bars up and down with his hands, his feet
still working at the treadles, passages being played
in a manner which the most accomplished, hand-
work would never execute. A week’s tuition on
the instrument will make anyone a delightful
player, without any previous knowledge of the
piano.
New York and Brooklyn Tobacco Company Limited.
DIVIDEND NOTICE.
XTOTIOE is hereby given that the INTERIM DIVIDEND
IN of la . per SHARE (being at the rate of 10 per cent,
per annum) for the half-year ended 30th June, 1901, is
now payable at the Office of the Company, GLADSTONE
CHAMBERS, 90 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
By order of the Board.
Kdward P. M. Sheed/y,
22nc^Iuly^90^^^ecretar^^
rpo THE MEMORY OP A “ STRAIGHT MATE,”
JERRY CROWLEY,
who died at Pendinnie, July 4th, 1901. A mate of mine,
and one of the very few, so few and hard to find.
“ Old mate ! in the gusty old weather,
When our hopes and our troubles were new,
In the years spent in wearing out leather,
I found you unselfish and true.”
Amusements.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Rns Manager. Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas.. Mr. E. J. Tait.
LAST 6 NIGHTS of WILLIAMSON’S ITALIAN OPERA CO
THURSDAY JULY 25, “LA BOHEME.” FRIDAY,
JULY 26 UN BALLO in MASCHERA.” SATURDAY,
MONDAY & TUESDAY, JULY 27, 29 & 30, “ RICOLETTO.”
WEDNESDAY, JULY 31, Farewell Special Performance.
Musical Director .. .. SIG w v mfs nv
Stage Director .. .. Mr. HENRV BRACY.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, ss; Stalls and Family
Circle. 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
REMARKABLE SUCCESS.
EVERY EVENING, Grand Production of Lecocqs
Delightful Comic Opera,
GIROFLE- GIRO FLA.
Under the Direction of the Victorian Operatic Society.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
WM. OGILVIE, Business Manager.
HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland holt.
EVERY EVENING,
CONTINUED SPARKLING SUCCESS of
A MILLION OF MONEY.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Box
Plan at Allan’s CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
amusements.
Empire the atr e, sydn e y.
(Late Eoyal Standard, Castlereagh-street.)
18th WEEK. (Still More Novelties.) 18th WEEK.
JOHN FULLER’S EMPIRE GO.
CHAS. FANNING, “ Australia’s Comedian.”
DENIS CARNEY, the “Yorkshire Comedian. n
FRED. BLUETT, the “ Cockney Comedian.
SATURDAY NEXT.—First Appearance of the LESLIE
BROS. (Fred, and Will), the Greatest Musical Comedians.
Prices—2s., Is., and 6d. Open at 7.15. _
hTatFe ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Under the Management of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative .. .. Mr. Allan Hamilton.
THE BROUGH COMEDY COMPANY.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS of
the second in command,
A Comedy in Four Acts, by Robert Marshall.
MATINEE EVERY THURSDAY at 2 p.m.
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
th L^T RE ’ sydnEY ‘
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. William Anderson.
LAST 2 NIGHTS. LAST 2 NIGHTS.
servin g the kin g,
OR, THE KING’S OWN LANCERS.
Interpreted by WILLIAM ANDERSON S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION, headed by
Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN. =
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 27, THE KING OF CRIME.
PRICES— 3s, 2s and_ONE SHILLING. Box Plan at Elvy 9.
CRITERION theatre, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of Mr. Charles Holloway.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock,
Mr CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S
POPULAR COTERIE OF PLAYERS,
in the New Sensational Drama in 4 Acts, entitlea
dangerous women,
Written by F. A. Scudamore, Esq.
Prices—3s., 25., la. Early doors (6d. extra) open 6.55 ,
ordinary doors, 7.30. Plan at Nicholson s -
IjER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY^
H Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas.. J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
LAST 7 NIGHTS and FAREWELL
L of the WILLIAMSON OOMIC OPERA CO., and
FINAL REPRESENTATIONS of
THE CASINO GIRL.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, George-st. Prices as usual.
Palace theatre, Sydney.
Under the Direction of Mr. Robert Brough.
EIGHT NIGHTS ONLY of Mr.
CHARLES BERTRAM,
The ROYAL and IMPERIAL COURT MAGICIAN.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY,
Commencing at 2.30 p.m.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy s.
DICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
R Sole Proprietor .. .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Our New Artists Received with Enthusiasm.
MISS MARY LYNNE, the Operatic Contralto.
DAN LAMONT and his Performing Dogs.
ADELE LIBRA, Wire-Walker and Globe-Runner.
JOHN COLEMAN, the Acknowledged Comedian.
CELINA BOBE, the Great Xylophone Expert & A loliniste
Arnoldi, Albert Whelan, Fanny Powers, The Americar
Bioscope, and all Our Great Co.
Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Saturday and Wednesday
MELBOURNE.
.. Mr. Harry Riokards.
BIJOU THEATRE,
Sole Lessee ..
LAST NIGHTS of
ALFRED DAM PIER,
Supported by a Most Brilliant Coterie of Dramatic Artists
IN A GREAT DRAMATIC SEASON.
The Great Romantic Drama,
SHAMUS Q’BRIEIXr.
l ICKARDS’
NEW OPERA HOUSE
■. MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY
COMPANY.
MARIE LLOYD,
ALEC. HURLEY, ALEC. HURLEY
Little Eric, Madame Lucretia, Rosie Aquinaldo,
Adelina Sarina, and all Our Great Co.
KEMP’S PATENT SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
gst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
t i • i Vmnrlvpflss of woolsrowers, amongst tnem some oi tut; idigc&i
I S now tong used w °*f™ TH?INC . THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
It will stay on the sheep’s back as ,on f h * s o rdfJ^[ry t^ COU ring process
It will NOT injure the wool. It will dissolve out undei
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
FECTOD, mVHE * CO, MEINME.
BLACK. BEB, and BLUE (in 8-gallon Cases)--
MELBOURNE -•• * - gjg Qa,, °"'
SYDNEY (E. Rich & Co. Ltd.) •- - "
BRISBANE (E. Rich & Co. Ltd.) •• •- ”
HOBART (Wm. Crosby & Co.) •• “*/** ”
PRICE IN
0
A
PHYSICIAN
Registered by the
Medical Board
of N.S.W.
SURGEON
H
• 11 fh ft world and also having lately made an extended trip through Europe and America he
to him according to the methods of the most recent and eminent Specialists of the
whole world Every Case treated on its own Merits.
Sufferers at a distance, unable to describe their eases to their own satisfaction, should write for Dr. Watson's
“Guide to Diagnosis,”
which will allow them to give exact and full particulars, so as to enable him to report fully as to the disease and its radical and rational
method of treatment. Tipj\_TlON FREE (Personally, or by Letter).
The publication Ssof symptoms, testimonials and puffs of one's skill and attainments savours too much of self-praise ; so the public
should look with a doubtful eye upon allftose who ot pro (0 m ii," as stated in certain advertisements, for he considers that the
for fair and ,egitimate treatment.
Write for small
«< Guide to Health,
and Method for Self-Diagnosis.
(Please mention this piper when writing.)
D'H.SWATSON
137 Elizabeth-St.
SYDNEY.
M
D'H
At Poverty Point.
Miss Leonore Orelli, who was engaged as chorus lead
and understudy for Williamson’s Italian Opera, died sud-
denly of heart disease, the other Sunday. Some years
ago, the fair-haired Melbourne girl had a remarkably fine
voice, and given good health she might have become one
of Australia’s famous singers. But from tne time of her
first amateur appearance on the concert platform Miss
Orelli had bad luck. She caught a cold, which brought
on rheumatic fever, and the fever returned more than
once. Hence the heart trouble, of late perceptible in her
speaking tones. The Firm gave her a first professional
show as the Fairy Queen in the original production of
“ Djin Djin. Last Xmas she was another Fairy Queen in
Musgrove’s gorgeous panto, at Melb. Princess’s. People
used to doubt the genuineness of Leonore Orelli’s name,
though it came to her naturally through a Swiss-Italian
father.
Died last week, at Sydney, Fred Hiseocks, who came to
Australia nearly 30 years ago as an advertising-map can-
vasser. He was afterwards associated with the sainted
“ Jamie ” Allison in a theatrical spec., and, later, with Al.
Hayman in the management of the Mammoth Minstrels —
combined, in ’BO, with the Loftus Variety Co. Hiseocks
took the combination to England, the late “ Dick ”
Thatcher going as agent; but, as the enterprise was not
a success, H. returned to Australia and organised the
Federal Minstrels, which had a long and successful run at
the Castlereagh-st. Academy of Music, upon the site of
which the Tivoli now stands. Afterwards he brought out
the London Pavilion Co., of which John Fuller (present
lessee of the Empire) and Jolly Nash were members.
Hiseocks made money with the Federal Minstrels, but
was afterwards unlucky, and his latter years were not
too prosperous. One of his daughters is married to Harry
Hodson, a well known actor.
The man at the other end of the cable, apparently,
thinks that what Australia wants isn’t so much the
world’s news as prompt information when some obscure
Australian in Fog Oit.v gets a job, or a cold, or any other
small thing. The other day he wired that an actress from
this end had got an engagement. It was only after hard
thinking that the average Sydney or Melbourne man
could remember that he used now and then to see that
lady’s name in some small part, with long disappearances
between. The London manager who has engaged her is,
apparently, an obscure individual, and the kind of part
or the kind of salary she has got is left to the imagina-
tion.
Dear Bulletin. —Am rather a lover of the genuine
“ coon ” song, but Mr. Billy McClain’s co.ored ditties at
Sydney Tiv. are- too darned realistic ! Will Rickards, or
Leete, or Barrington, or somebody, kindly invite Mr.
M'Lain to sing or talk something the average person can
understand? His latest ditty sounds something like
this :—“ Booooarrrr —whooh —vowh ; bioarrr eloooarrr
—bedoooo—ah ; meee—voooo—shrooooh—doooeeee—roo-
loooarrrh.” —6 x 8.
“Jim Belmont,” the drama - comedietta which Miss
Jennie Maynard and Co. produced at Melb. Princess s last
week, is a pretty little thing—just what might be ex-
pected from the authoress (Mrs. Oscar Beringer) of A
Bit of Old Chelsea.” Unconvincing but pleasing ; bright
but essentially stagey ; therefore a most difficult piece to
be tackled by an amateurish company. The more ex-
perienced of them—Miss Maynard, Frank Hawthorne,
Carden Wilson, and Ludlow couldn’t preserve the weakest
members from the cheerful derision of the ‘ 1 gods, though
they made the story interesting. The main character,
Jim, is a music-hall girl, and it suggests the question of
Marie Lloyd being able to play it. Are there any possi-
bilities of serious emotional acting in Marie ? Certainly
Jennie Lee of yore could have given a clever sketch of the
“serio-comic” who comes to impossible unhappiness
through marriage with a baronet.
The Bulletin’s London correspondent:. The frost of
Irving’s “ Coriolanus ” was foreguessed by a super, at one
of the rehearsals when Sir ’Enery, Sir Lawrence Alma-
Tadema and Sir Alex. Mackenzie were yarning in the
stage-centre. “ Three knights ! ” sneered the supe., and
that’s just as long as the play will run. He was
just about right. The Sydney-sider, A. L. Baird, who has
been actor and manager on a melodram. tour is moving
along. He goes out “provincing” to play in ihe
Awakening ” and other society comedies. Ada Coljey,
yclept “ The Australian Nightingale,” is at the Empire ;
Harry Gribben, fat and unrecognisable, disguised as a
“ prosperous English gentleman ” is being.nibbled at by
the Gaiety Co., and the Permans are booming.”
Writes “ Phelo ” from Kalgoorlie : Charles Arnold has
been doing bouncing biz here with “ What Happened to
Jones.” Sheridan has also scored well with the immortal
“Widow,” though Rignold, following on John L. s heels,
fared but indifferently. Rignold, at the request of gold-
fields “ culchaw,” sandwiched a night or two ot
“Othello” between melodramas. Next, the Janet Wal-
dorf Co with “Ingomar” provided, at least, merriment
for the “gods and lastly the Dryblowers have been
sampling the alleged phenomenal feats of the Georgia
Magnet and the vibrations of Wyld and Freedmans
British Biograph. There is a great opening in the West
for a manager with a good co. and good plays, who could
judiciously divide his time between the fields and Perth.
But third-rate stuff won’t go down here.
Brisbane Evenino Observer applied a couple of most
ancient “ chestnut” yarns to the recent Musgrove Grand
Opera Season. One was the story of how a woman in the
dress circle, who hadn’t expected a sudden silence of the
orchestra, was heard saying to her fair neighbor, “Well,
I always wash and iron Fred's shirts myself. „ nc *
other was the hoary Dublin anecdote of the gallery boy
crying, “ Begorra 1 Hell’s full,” when Faust and Mephis-
topheles stuck half-way in their trap-door journey down
the hole where the steam comes from. The Observer
man must have bought a book of “ Funny Tales for the
Fireside.”
Bland Holt, who paid £5OO, plus a percentage of the
gross receipts, for the Australian right of producing
“ The Great Ruby,” is not making haste to stage any of
the other new and expensive melodramas which figure on
his list. But he will revive “ The White Heather at
Melb. Royal when “A Million of Money” has been put
through.
“P.H.0.": During the performance of “The Second
in Command ” it was noticed that the Broughs invariably
pronounced the word “ veldt ”as “ pfeldt ” which is, no
doubt, correct —while Cecil Ward stuck to the “ v sound.
What a subtlety it would have been if Ward had pro-
nounced it incorrectly only in the first three acts that
is, before he went to the S.A. war—and as pfeldt in
the last act, it being understood that a Boer had taught
him the correct pronunciation in the interval ! But per-
haps not two people in the house would have noticed it.
A new Sydney amateur histrionic venture proposes—
under the style and title of “ His Majesty’s Amateur
Dramatic Society to materialise at the Queen s Hall,
Pitt-street, on 20th Aug. next, with the comedy
“Confusion.” The chief parts will be sustained by
Messrs. Lesleigh Mullarky, Russell Rogers, and Golden i
and by the Misses Carle Doyle, Rose Guest, and Violet
Gillespie. Mr. Leonard Gill, of M.L., is manager.


TWENTY YEARS
KIDNEY'-LIVER TROUBLE
SICKENING GNAWING ACHES.
ENERGY, FLESH & STRENGTH RESTORED
BY CLEMENTS TONIC.
The Case of M r. G. HARDIN.
- (By a Dunedin Reporter.}
People who become nauseated with
their trades and professions and leave
them for the purpose of launching out
into a new sphere of action find their
paths bestrewn with many obstacles,
the existence of which they little
dreamed of. Although probably com-
petent to fill positions which they apply
for, they usually learn that preference
is given, to those possessing previous ex-
perience. An applicant with five years’
insight into a business commands an ad-
vantage over one with twelve months’
knowledge, and so on; therefore, when
we find a gentleman with twenty years’
experience on any subject, he is always
worth listening to. Our reporter held
this view when he called on Mr. George
Hardin, of No. 33 l'orth-street, Dune-
din, who stated that he had suffered for
twenty years from'kidney and liver dis-
uses, and that many complications had
risen therefrom.
An account of your troubles ought
very interesting,' Mr. Hardin.
•™you P 1 * 9 * 6 t 0 them?”
% .all means, as I am sure I am in
possession of facts which will prove
beneficial to others. It is just as much
py duty to put folks on the right track
p regard to disease as it would be to
direct ayight a, stranger who was on the
wrong road to the destination at which
he wished to arrive. To begin with, I
may state that I am an engineer by pro-
fession, and I am of opinion that through
working for so many years in extremely
hot atmospheres accounts for my kid-
neys becoming diseased. My back com-
menced to worry me with sickening,
gnawing aches, and before long I fell
nto a very low condition. I was afflict-
ed with a distressing sensation which
made me feel as though I would rather
i® down than stand up, walk, or any-
thing else. A scalding pain was ex-
perienced when urinating, the water
oemg olouded with a peculiar sediment.
1 used to suffer dreadfully with my
head. It was not an ordinary head-
ac " e which continually attacked me, but
a throbbing, thumping pain that threat-
ened to drive me mad. As a matter of
tact, 1 do not believe there was one por-
tion of my body free from some kind of
o g °? y ' , , My faoul ties seemed to be
-leadened by the excessive torture after
my meals, which I took very irregularly.
L have seen myself go for days and
want nothing to eat, then, quite sud-
denly, I would sit down and eat like a
gormandizer. After theso heavy re-
pasts my life was not worth, living, for
the terrible pains which came behind
my neck, close to the shoulders, were
more than I could bear in silence. A
lunocating feeling very often nearly
made me faint. This arose from the
dead weighty fulness in my chest,
which f®lt as though compressed within
1 -!7 oe l * Th , en 1 a S ain went for days
without food owing to the merciless tor-
■ tures I was put to,”
‘ ■ Under these circumstances yon must
aaye been considerably seduced in
weight!”
J C i?A r . fcainly l W !f- I was almost
48 ~ f® a fher. I did not weigh
myself, as I was not able to walk to
the scales. You have no idea how weak
4 got, and considering I could not keep
anything on my stomach I was not sur-
P n j 0 “ 1 ; * use< * .to avoid everything that
had the least indication of being indi-
ces lble, yet it was all the same to my
poor weak stomach, Up it came again
ilmost before it. had got down, and then
the cruel pamsnn my head were intensi-
Ped. I was m such a terrible state that
I was nearly off my head. All day long
I was sleepy and dull, without any d«£
sire to try and shake off the feeling of
despondency under which I labour-
ed. I seemed to give myself up
lor oke remainder of my days to
rm existence entirely destitute of
aappmess, the secret being that I
aad not enough vitality or will-
>ower to .continue to live in hope.
Worse than allrl was unable to sleep at
aghfc. For dayg and nights I have seen
niyself go without getting one hour’s
sleep, and nave been in such a bad state
when lying in bed that I have been com-
pletely doubled up with the paralysing
pains in my back. There was one period
in the history of my sufferings when I
used to go off to sleep regularly every
third night, but for all the good it did
me X would have been better awake.
These slumbers were embraced simply
through overpowering fatigue, and
while they lasted I dreamt the most hor-
rible dreams. I did not feel the least
bit rested or refreshed on awaking, but
was always bathed in a cold, clammy
perspiration. An extraordinary giddi-
ness used to suddenly seize me, when
my head seemed to spin round like a
top and everything became indistinct
before my eyes, which were swollen and
weak. The rest of my ailments were
added to by a total collapse of my ner-
vous system, which made me very sen-
sitive and irritable whenever the least
noise was made. I used to feel my
hands and limbs quivering and trem-
bling like a frightened child’s. My tem-
per was very excitable and repellent,
the most trifling detail of imaginary
neglect being magnified into a serious
wrong. I was living in, Queenstown
; when my illness started, but soon after
| I came down to Dunedin, where I met
|an old friend who said : ‘ Hello! What
|is the matter with you? You look as
I if you were dying!”
, You probably felt like it, to judge
I from your sufferings!” remarked the
! reporter.
~ “ Ind f ed 1 did. Many a time I
! bought I would never get better. I
waa wonderfully changed in appearance
being without the least colour in my
face, besides having my cheeks sunk
right in. My palate had a most dis-
agreeable flavour, even a glass of water
having a bitter taste, and my tongue
was coated white with an odorous mois-
ture. As I grew older the more acute
were my sufferings. My doctor said he
did not know whether my diseases were
getting any worse or whether I felt the
effects more severely through m v svs-
tern getting weaker with the advance of
[ age. He used to say I could not expect
to be as we l at fifty as I was at twenty •
but now I feel as well as ever I did in
I my life.”
“I am glad to hear it, Mr. Hardin,
flow was your health restored?”
“By taking a course of Clements
ionic, even after my doctor’s treat-
ment was given up in despair. Besides,
1 had taken various makes of physics,
without the slightest relief, and I had
ong since concluded there was no hope
for me. A book was handed to me one
i morning, and on reading some of the
1 wa * struck with astonishment
! at the number of people who testified
to the virtues of Clements Tonic. I
thought if other folks could be cured
by Clements Tonic there was still a
chance for me. You may rest assured
got \ Couple of bottles, and my
h, ™ i°°l b^ an >? mend - pains
diminished, and the pains
which had nearly driven me frantic sub-
- 1 refer > °f course, to the terrible
“ m y bead. I ate and slept
Splendidly, also regaining energv flesh
strength. M y n W vefw.relnvS
a(ted, and soon my kidney and liver dis-
SsKc“ mßl<>t6ly oured by cie -
'‘ ShaH I report this in the papers?”
My statements are perfectly true so
you may publish them in any Va™ y “
c
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
din ? Ana J ° f 33 Forth-street, Dune
th . e Colony of New Zealand, do solemn
IgSSSSrSSfcS*
receivW an hlch 1 glve voluntarily, wltboul
rue, and by virtue of the provisions of an Art nf th.
, JuTtfces A° ct lTBBl -?ealand * ,nUtUICd “ Tl *
&
Declared at Dunedin, this j
December, one thousand nine hund« j ffi 0 d
S. UVRRg
Business Announcements.
Good TailoriQg-
WINTER.
Warm Tweeds and Worsteds •
PURE INDIGO SERGES,
TO STAND ALL WEATHERS.
FANCY TROUBERINQS, VESTINGS, &c.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post Free.
David Braham & Go.,
Tailors and Outfitters,
73 and 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Bole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR.
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
HOLIDAY
PHOTOGRAPHY
No holiday is perfect without a means of
photographing interesting places and
incidents. Kodak Cameras are light,
compact, and eminently suited for all
holiday-makers, ladies, cyclists, &c.
Kodaks are mastered in a few minutes,
and require no dark room for changing
the films. Kodaks from 58. to £7 158.
Send for illustrated price list and mention
this paper.
Of all Photographic Dealers, or of—
KODAK, Limited,
The Block,
284 Collins Street,
Melbourne
THERE IS NO KODAK BUT
THE EASTMAN KODAK.
Medical.
[ * NOTICE •
» To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
i Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
► Limbs.
I Tho Old Reliable English Remedy.
; PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
’ Prepared by Poingdestre <fe Truman, of
i 71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
i efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all ‘
, parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists *
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman’S NURSERY LOTION, i
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
„ SOLD IN TWO SIZES, 9d. & Is. 6d. .
T rvr?ATT Insist upon havi "g TRUMAN’S
IjU l lON, and no disappointment can occur, j
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman, j
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all s
Chemists in the Australian Colonies. {
POWELL’S BALSAM
aM-SAM Ofy
%
OF ANISEEB
WILL CUBE YOUR COUGH
All the world over, it has been the recognised
Cough Remedy for the past 75 years, and is
to-day the Safe and Reliable Cure for
Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and all Lung Troubles.
Loosens the Phlegm immediately, and re-
moves the tickling sensation in the Throat,
which deprives so many of rest ouring the
night. It Strengthens the Voice.
WARNING .—When purchasing
Powell’s Balsam of Aniseed
see the above Trade Mark on each wrapper
and beware of Imitations.
Sold by Chemists and Storekeepers through-
out the world. Prepared only by Thomas
Powell, Ld., Blackfnars, London, S.E.
T)EAR SiK,—l liuve been cured of Weakness and De.‘
binty by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
Business Announcements
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the Footsteps of the Wise, and
Buy the Best, Cheapest and Most
Stylish Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & Co.
PROP.
LTD.
252-254 Flinders St., Melbourne
(Opp. Station),
f
Our Suit to Order at
«/-• is marvel'ous
value, perfect fitting
and beautifully finish-
Trousers. 12/6.
Dress and Clerical Suits*
to order, £5.
Biding Breeches, 25/-
Men’s suits. Beady for
Wear, 25/-
Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye, 25/-
Lonsr Chesterfields, 30/-
Tweed Overcoats. 21/-
k Waterproof Coats, full
capes. 18/0.
Tweed or Serge Trousers.
5/11.
Travelling Bugs, 10/6
13/9.
Black and Blue Vicuna
Coats and Veats, 19/6.
Undressed White Shirts
2/6.3/6, 4/6. 5/6.
Crimean Shirts, 5/6.
7/6.
Gent’s Splendid Bal»
moral Boots .6/9,9/6
We like to write letters,
so don’t be afraid to
ask for any informa-
tion. Our book. 7 hi
Philosophy of Dress ,
patterns of all kinds
and si'lf-measurement
forms post free. Write
for them.
~>on’t Forget to Write for Patterns,
ASK YOUR JEWELLER TO SHOW YOU
. ' The Patent Unbreakable
‘ONE-PIECE’ STUDS
Masterpieces o. schanical skill,
Made la Gold, Silver, and Gold-Cased.
Once
Worn
Always
Worn.
Beauty of
Contour
& Finish.
sdf
Avoid
imitations
None
genuine
unless
stamped
‘ Patent.’
If damaged from ANT cause, a new
one given in exchange.
Wholesale only:
SAUNDERS & SHEPHERD, LTD.,
279, GEORGE St.. SYDNEY, & London, Eng
try orders.
Tails. Plal te
FRINGES, Best Natural Ourly Hair, 3/6, 5/6,
7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each. TAILS and PLAITS,
20in. loner, 5/6, ; Extra Thick, 7/6; 24in..
10/6; Extra Thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings Worked Up, 2/6 per oz.
Don’t be misled. Our Plaits and Tails are
twice aa thick as sold elsewhere at same
price. Send Color of Hair. “ Only ONE
Address’’:— W. H. WIGZELL,
110 WILLIAM-ST., Corner of Palmer-st.,
Sydney. Cable trams will stop at door. All
work guaranteed Illustrated catalogue
post free. Prompt attention given to coun-
Wigs made on shortest notice.
m
BLAIR’S
GOUT $ RHEUMATIC
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are' perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and a-e certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
fir •ughout the Australian Colonies.
EVERY MAN NEEDS IT.
QOME interesting information is disclosed in the book
published by the Electro-Botanic Institute, of
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney. It dis-
cusses the private side of life in such a way as to cause
most men to pause and think as to whether they are just
what they ought to be physically. The book is sent free,
in nlnin. sealed wrapper.-— Medical Review.
I Cure Fits.
You are
not asked
to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance,
&c. All yoft are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottle of medi-
cine and to try it. I am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H.G. ROOT, *B, Endslelgh Gdns., LONDON.
Dreams in Flower:
By Louise Mack. No. IV of The Bulle
tin Booklets (enlarged). Enveloped,
2s. 6d. post free.
Victorian Lands-Minister Duggan has one
brilliant idea, anyhow. He is promoting a Bill
under which, when any big landholder dies and
his heirs declare the value of his land for the pur-
pose of paying probate duty thereon, the Govern-
ment may compulsorily buy the land for closer settle-
ment purposes at their valuation with 10 per cent,
added for disturbance. If it passes it will not only
help on settlement, but it will abate the atrocious
frauds perpetrated on the State by the under-
valuation of land forprobate purposes. Of course
it won’t pass if the House of Rich Landlords can
prevent it. The landlord class always swindles
the State on the probate business.
“ H.P.” : When the coal mine at Outtrim
(Yio.) was being opened-up several leading union-
ists from the other mines near by got employment
there. They were promptly presented with bits
of ground on which to build humpies. Result:
Union leaders were silenced and their former
aggressive policy knew them no more. In Vic.
Railway Department leading union officials have
frequently obtained good billets—thereafter they
have been as silent as the grave, and new leaders
had to be sought. ‘ Same kind of thing is heard of
in England and elsewhere. Most people have
their price—and what a lot of darned cheap people
this world does hold 1


DO YOU WANT A WATCH ?
Perhaps not for your ourn use, tout you may want one for your wife or your tooy
or girl. We have them all kinds and at all prices toy th§ hundreds. We illus-
trate and describe a few worthy ones. AU of these have been made especially
for U 3 and hear our name and we guarantee them to toe thoroughly good and reliable.
Unless you are in the trade or at least a. close observer you will not detect the great
difference in Watches as they appear in shops. A few weeks' (or days sometimes)
use, however, will show you the defects of the inferior kind. Our entire stock has
been selected from the best manufacturers in the World whose reputation for
high-grade Watches has never been questioned. The construction of these
Watches could not he improved. Ton can buy cheap Watches tout a Watch
should he made to last a lifetime. If it only gives you satisfaction for a few
months, it is dear at any price. The Watches described here are the kind that
stand the wear and tear of everyday use and give satisfaction all the time. We
need hardly remind you that shortly a duty will toe placed on Watches.
m\imm T~ITI T~ NOW !
MM
mMM
H
am
mm
ss ■•
m
m
i wm
mk
mmm
m
'-V'v
sswes
This is a medium or six size
“Lady’s” 18c. Gold-case Hunting
“Waltham” Lever Watch. The
cases are nicely engraved in a
variety of Styles and are made
Extra Heavy. n he Movement is
a fine Nickel f-plate with 17 Ruby
Jewels, Raised Gold Settings,
Exposed Pallets, Patent Micro-
metric Regulator, Compensation
Balance (adjusted to temperature
and position), Patent Briquet Hair
Spring. One of the <nest
Watches made and at £l5 10s
it is good value.
r
'■ '. ; v-
PRESENTATION
GOLD WATCH
We give an illustration here of a
Gold Watch suitable for presenta-
tion. The case is a heavy one of
18ct. Gold and can be had either
plain or engine turned. The move-
ment is a high-grade Waltham
Lever with 21 Diamond and Ruby
Jewels, 2 pairs Diamond Caps, both
Balance Pivots running on Dia-
monds. Raised Gold Settings, Gold
Train, Double Roller Escapement,
Compensation Balance accurately
adjusted to temperature and posi-
tion, patent Brequet Hair Spring,
patent Micrometric Regulator, £35
Wmm
H
THE GOLD-FILLED
WALTHAM LEVER.
Gold-filled, with us, means 2 plates
of solid 14ct. Gold and 1 plate
of Composition in between. The
makers of the case guarantee it to
stand for 25 year's, and as they are
THE case-makers of America their
guarantee is good. The movement
is a f-plate Nickel, highly finished.
It has 15 Ruby Jewels, patent
Brequet Hairspring and Regulator,
Compensation Balance. We guar-
antee this watch to give unqualified
satisfaction. £5 10s.
This is a small size
“Lady’s” Watch.
The case is full
Hunting 18 ct.
Gold and very
substantial. It is
engraved very
artistically. The
movement is f-
plate with 17
Ruby Jewels,
Raised Gold Set-
tings, Patent
Regulator and
Breq u e t Hair
Spring, and .is
adjusted to tem-
perature and posi-
tion. -£l4 10s.
sd
This shows a medium
size Hunting Keyless
Watch, with strong
14ct. Gold Case,
beautifully engraved.
The movement is a
f-plate Waltham
Lever, with 16 Ruby
Jewels, exposed pal-
lets, Patent Regula-
tor, Compensation
Balance, adjusted ;
also a Brequet Hair-
spring, hardened and
tempered in form.
We can recommend
this Watch as being
fit for the use of any
lady. Price <£9 10s.
In open face £8 10s.
f
This i 11 u s t ration
shows one of our
Lady’s small size Key-
less HuntingWalthain
Lever Watches. The
case is made of 10c.
gold and is nicely en-
graved. The move-
ment is a nickel f-
plate, 7 Jewels, ex-
posed pallets, Com
pensation Balance,
Patent Brequet Hair
Spring, Hardened
and Tempered in
Form, and we guar-
antee its Timekeep-
ing quality, •£*> 10s.
We have this Watch
in open face at i>6.
m
mm
mm
Wms2%
m
m
This illustration shows our
Gentlemen’s Gold Hunting
Watch. It is a Watch fit for
the most exacting, being a per-
fect timekeeper. The case is
solid 18c. Gold, Engine Turned,
with Shield and Garter. The
movement is |-plate Nickel
Waltham Lever with 17 Jewels,
exposed pallets, Micrometric
Regulator, Compensation Bal-
ance, adjusted, and a Brequet
Hair Spring, hardened and
tempered in form. £lB 10s.
%
/
m
This is a fine
quality Waltham
Lever Wat c h.
The case is solid
and substantial,
Sterling Silver
\dth Gold Joints.
L 'he movement is
gilded and finished
off in Nickel. It;
has 17 Fine Rub}
Jewels, Gold Set-
tings, Double
Roller Escape-
ment, Exposed
Pallets, Compensation Balance adjusted to Temperature and Posi-
tion, Patent Regulator and Patent Brequet Hair Spring. We
have them Open Face with strong Crystal Glass and Hunting
at £5 10s.
OUR GUINEA
LEVER WATCH
Has been specially constructed
for country use, and we can recom-
mend it as a Reliable Timekeeper.
It is correctly designed, well made,
well finished and jewelled. The
cases are of oxidised Steel and are
very tight-fitting, thus excluding
dust and damp from the move-
ments. Strong Crystal Glass,
£1 Is. In Hunting Cases,
£1 ss.
\ ® /
*
M
This is one of the well-known —
and justly well-known—Rother-
ham Keyless Lever Watches. The
movement is .on the
principle and has 15 Jewels, Com-
pensation Balance, Patent Brequet
Hair Spring, and is carefully
adjusted to temperature and posi-
tion. The case is strong and of
solid Silver. These AVatches give
satisfaction everywhere. £6 10s,
■ a
Hi
We carefu ly examine each Watch before we send it out. Any of the Watches described above will be sent by post, registered, at our risk on receipt of
remittance. For many other styles of Watches write for our illustrated Price List. Your name and address on a Post Card will bring one along.
ART DAWSON & CO.
412 George St.
The Strand, Sydney
And at Melbourne, Vic.; Perth, W.A. ; Auckland, N.Z.; Wellington, N.Z.; Christchurch, N.Z.; and London.


A CRAND REMEDY for the LIVER, FREE
CANDID QUESTIONS.
Is it your wish to have a clear skin and a healthy
complexion ?
Would you like all the unsightly pimples and skin
blotches removed ?
Is it your wish to have a good digestion 1
Would you like to be free of Sick-headache, Depres-
sion, and Nervous Exhaustion ?
Would you like to feel that the food is properly
digested, the body properly nourished, and new
strength, vigour, and health infused into the
system ?
Would you like the liver stimulated, the kidneys
freed of deposits, the bowels properly cleansed,
and the blood purified ?
We suppose you would !
Well, that’s easy. To accomplish the object, you
are asked, as a preliminary, to accept a plain,
sensible proposition.
Make a trial of the merits of Kutnow’s Carlsbad
Powder by investing in one bottle, give it a
fair trial, it will quickly demonstrate that at
last you have secured a genuine safeguard to
Health.
Dr. Andrew Wilson (Editor of Health, London) in his
medical reports writes :
“KUTNOW’S POWDER is a very safe, efficient, and
excellent family medicine. The use in Gouty and Rheu-
matic condition, and in Liver and Kidney troubles is
especially beneficial.”
Dr. M. Putnam Jacobi, the eminent physician of
New York, says:
“ KUTNOW'S POWDER is a medicine that promotes
alvine discharges and thus cleanses the stomach and
bowels. I have prescribed it with permanent success.”
KUTNOW’S
POWDER
HAS ACCOMPANIED THE
GENEVA CROSS
THROUGHOUT THE
War in South Africa.
■ II '".jQl ' H '■
Earned by sheer sterling merit the
Highest Commendation from the Presi-
dent of the Royal College of Physicians,
London, Sir Spencer Wells, M.D., Sir
Andrew Clark, MJD., Sir Morell Mac-
kenzie, M.D., and Professor Lawson Tait,
M.H., and prescribed to members of the
British Royal Family.
All the Beading Hospitals in Great Britain use it,
also the Field, Base and Ship Hospitals in South
Africa, especially as a guard against Enteric Fever,
Dysentry, Typhoid and Malaria.
KUTNOW’S POWDER is sold in capsuled bottles by all
first-class Chemists and Medicine Vendors everywhere. See
that the Registered Trade Mark, “ Hirchensprung ” (or Deer
Leap), and the autograph facsimile signature “S. Kutnow &
Co., Ld.,” are on the label or carton. Only these ensure
genuineness. Insist on “ KUTNOW’S,” and firmly refuse any
substitute —they are worthless, and often injurious.
LIVER LOGIC
The Liver is the mainspring of the system.
When active it is the great purifier.
When sluggish it easily develops a poisonous
tendency.
The Liver both secretes and excretes.
It secretes about two or three pounds of bile daily.
It excretes impurities and waste materials.
The Liver is the sewage farm of the body.
If the Liver is sluggish it cannot exoel its refuse,
and as it must go somewhere it is absorbed back into
the blood, causing biliousness and often jaundice.
The Liver also makes from the blood a kind of
sugar, which, if healthy, is used up as nourishment.
If the sugar is excessive or inferior it cannot be so
used, it then escapes into the urine, causing diabetes.
A Torpid Liver develops gout and rheumatism in
predisposed subjects.
The absolute, incontestable remedy for all this,
and the one which never fails is Nature’s Great
Restorative, Kutnow’s Improved Effervescent Carls-
bad Powder.
This Powder is made by an ingenious expedient
from the health-giving medicinal springs of the
Continental Spas.
It is improved by removing all drastic or lowering
properties.
It is gentle and pleasant, but the greatest of all
Stimulators of the Liver.
Highly Approved by Medical Attendant.
“Belfield, Lawrie Park Road, Sydenham, S.E.
“ Thank you sincerely for the sample of your Efferves-
cent Carlsbad Powder, which I requested you to send me
a short time ago for the use of my wife, who has been in
the habit of taking all sorts of so-called ‘ fruit salts,’ but
which she has now discarded in favour of your Powder, as
she finds it far more beneficial, without, at the same time,
producing the excoriating effects which she used to experi-
ence from them. I may add that her medical attendant,
a man of considerable practice in Sydenham, highly
approves of her use of your Powder.
“,T. DENNEY (Clerk in Holy Orders).”
Proprietors : S. KUTNOW and GO., Ltd., 4-1 Farringdon Road, London, E.G. Proprietors in U.S.A. : KUTNOW BROS., Ltd., 853 Broadway, New York.
The Pruning-knife.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Randall had come into the hospital two weeks
before—a nervous wreck of a man who would
have been a museum of diseases had he really
possessed all the ailments he fancied. His hypo-
chondriac imagination brooded over the thought
of imminent Death.
“ Enlarged liver,” said the Doctor, as he dug
his thumb remorselessly into the patient’s ribs
with a callousness born partly of familiarity with
pain (in others), and partly of that inheritance of
contemptuous brutality common to the physically
perfect. A toothache drove him half crazy, but it
seemed to his patients that he could have cut his
father’s heart out with less compunction than one
would feel in killing a chicken.
The men’s ward was empty when Randall
arrived, and he lay there during a fortnight,
pining for the sympathy that a recital of his ills
might bring, and telling himself the tale of a
sickly past during the long, sleepless nights. The
awful harshness of the Doctor choked his speech.
He felt instinctively the repulsion existing
between them. His feeble plaints had met with
cheap discouragement. Another patient would
have been a godsend ; but none came.
Daily, at regulated hours, Randall underwent
the torture —at first on his back in the bed ; later,
standing up and holding to a familiar and hated
strap, hanging close to the head of his bed.
Tincture of iodine was applied with an unmerciful
brush to a patch on the right side, sensitive now
as the raw of a freshly-cut wound.
On that day the Doctor came in, carelessly
cutting a pipeful with a pruning-knife. He was
fond of gardening, and had just been trimming his
rose-trees. He greeted the patient with a sharp,
“Get ready!” as he laid pipe and knife down.
The man moaned, half-rose in the bed, and, with
an invalid’s pettishness, “Can’t you leave it be
to-day, Doctor ? ”
“No! I can’t!” Then, with a fierce look of
contempt at the miserable wretch, “ Damn me, if
I think you’re worth saving ! I’ve never seen
such a crawler in my life. Look sharp ! ”
Randall raised his meagre body, wasted by
disease, tottered across the yard or so of floor, and
took hold of the strap. His effort at self-repres-
sion made the veins stand out on his forehead like
water-washed roots; his teeth were set, his eyes
closed and breath held shudderingly. His whole
body was bent back into expectant rigidity.
The Doctor looked at him, irritated. “Good
God ! man, anyone would think you were going
to be hanged ! ”
The brush met Randall’s flesh almost at the
same instant. The part touched quivered sepa-
rately ; the body suddenly relaxed ; and Randall
moaned despite his will.
“Oh, Doctor, it’s horrible! I can’t—stand—
it! ”
“ Pish ! man, it’s nothing. Come on ! ”
“ God ! what have— I done —to —deserve—
this ! ” Randall slowly grasped the strap, and
assumed position. The Doctor paused with up-
lifted brush : something in the strained attitude
amused him, Randall’s eyes opened and looked
reproachfully at him. He answered their appeal,
his lips parted in a grin : “Pooh ! mam. why—
don’t—you—whistle '! ”
Just then Randall’s eye caught the open pruning-
knife, and all the reserve force that lay in his
weakly frame concentrated in two movements,
made so quickly that they seemed one single
action. The knife went home just where Randall
had dreamed of painting the Doctor with his own
iodine ; and when the matron entered the ward a
few minutes later she screamed and fainted.
They found Randall collapsed two miles down
the road —he had not the strength to go far ; and
he was hanged duly. They had to support him
to the scaffold, but on the drop he stood up
bravely. The hangman said that he smiled like a
man with happy thoughts.
V.
L.M.D.
Violet.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Shb was small, with meek, watery blue eyes ; the
expression of her countenance was angelic in its
sweetness and idiotic in its blankness; and her
name was Violet. Like her namesake, she ex-
haled an odour, but there the resemblance ended
abruptly, for the perfume belonged to a dubious
bundle which she fetched along with her. She
took up her abode with us for the space of two
unhallowed months.
“She doesn’t look up to much,” mother re-
marked; “but then she seems agreeable, and is
not at all of a muscular breed. I was always
afraid to say anything to that last girl, lest she
should knock me down.”
Violet was most unassuming. She wouldn’t
presume to lay the cloth on the dining-table or
take the skin off a potato unless her harassed mis-
tress was there to tell her there was no harm in
either operation. As time went on she became
confidential, and gave her opinion on various sub-
jects. She had a strong aversion to clergymen’s
wives and policemen. She had the misfortune to
reside with a clergyman’s wife once. But never
again would she be misled by one, however lady-
like she was in appearance. (Violet was an
authority on good-breeding, and never tired of
putting the afflicted family in their proper places.)
This particular person had spoken disrespectfully
of Violet once, and the injured maid had her ear
to the keyhole at the moment.
“When I ’eard ’er speak o’ Me hin sich un-
sightly terms,” remarked the Flower, bristling
with indignation, “Hijistup and tells ’er, ‘me
mother ’ll ’ave somethink to say to yer for that,’ I
sez, an’ hoff I goes an’ brings me mother down.
My heye, didn’t she jist walk inter ’er ! ” She
drew in a long breath of heavenly satisfaction at
the recollection. Then she went on to relate how
the clergyman’s eldest and unfeeling son came to
his mother’s rescue, and kicked Violet’s odorifer-
ous bundle down the steps, and threatened to do
the same to her mother if they didn’t get off the
premises, which they did, after heaving two
lumps of blue metal at the front door. “But Hi
’ad me revenge; mother summonsed ’em for a
week’s wages, an’ they ’ad to pay-up,” Violet con-
cluded, triumphantly.
After that little recital the family spoke of her
with bated breath as “the young lady of the
house.”
Violet had a deep contempt for the social status
of the family and its friends, and she never
failed to give vent to it whenever opportunity
offered.
‘ ‘ A young gentleman at the door wants to know
if yer wants any pertaters,” she would say; or
else —“ There’s an ole gentleman wants a little
assistance.” But when a respected friend of the
family would arrive, she would remark carelessly,
* ‘ There’s an ole bloke out there wants to see
yer.” . . . . ..
The members of the family were just young
men” and “young women” to her, while the
charwoman was the “ washer-lady.”
Weeks passed ; the middle of the second month
had come, and still Violet bloomed on the pre-
mises. Yet a secret uneasy feeling was rising in
each breast. There was no disguising the fact
that the Flower had a prodigious appetite, and it
was steadily increasing. Supplies were doubled,
and still the demand slackened not. The afflicted
family anticipated the gloomy and not distant
day when the cash would run out and they would
have to beg their way from door to door. Not
the least remarkable part of the affair was that
she remained the small, thin Violet she was before
her appetite developed.
With closed door and cautiously modulated
voice, mother conferred over the phenomenon.
“I am positive that girl is robbing us,” she
whispered. “ How else could she dispose of four
loaves of bread daily, as well as large quantities
of tea, sugar and butter ? She couldn’t possibly
eat it. She’d be dead in a week if she did.
We’re keeping her old mother’s family as well as
our own. I’ll put a stop to it.”
Mother drew herself up, the fire of battle in
her eye, and turned with a firm step to leave the
room. Father arrested her progress in wild
alarm.
“ For Heaven’s sake be careful what you say,
my dear,” he expostulated, “or you might land
me in the Criminal Court for slander.”
“Don’t be afraid. I’ll do nothing rash. I’ve an
idea. I’ll see how it works.”
Acting on the idea, mother put every edible
article in the house under lock and key, and doled
out supplies with her own careful hand. For a
few days the Flower’s appetite became normal.
The family, alarmed at its own temerity, trembled
in its united shoes ; but beyond glancing askance
at her moderate portion, Violet made no sign.
Then the family resumed its usual cheerful aspect;
things are not alwavs as bad as they seem. At
the end of one short week, however, all was
changed. The mistress still presided over a
locked cupboard, but supplies melted mysteri-
ously out of that cupboard when the key was in
its owner’s pocket. The Violet no longer looked
askance at her food, but ate it with an air of
resignation touching in the extreme. The mys-
tery explained itself one day when mother came
upon Violet making a hurried exit from the
before-mentioned receptacle, carrying sundry
packages which she bashfully endeavored to con-
ceal beneath her apron. In her haste she had left
a duplicate key in the lock !
The reproacnes that followed did not disconcert
her in the least—not they. She simply elevated
her nose and voice, and, backing judiciously the
while towards the kitchen door, gave her opinion
of a woman who would dare to lock provisions
away from a “pore” harmless girl, and subject
her to a process of slow starvation. She said that
mother’s parentage was doubtful, and that some
of her forbears had suffered the final sentence of
the law. Then, on reaching the open air, she
took a violent fit of hysterics, and called on the
neighbors to witness that our treatment had
reduced her to a skeleton, and that she
was going to bring mother to her assist-
ance. At this point male aid arrived, and
Violet calmed down slightly, but reiterated her
determination of bringing mother on the scene.
She was offered five minutes to pack up her
belongings and depart. After that, she calmed-
down still more, and begged permission to finish
“ washing-up,” a process she had apparently begun
before the outburst occurred. She wept so
bitterly at the idea of going away without wash-
ing-up that, at last, her period of grace was
extended to half-an-hour. When Violet learned
that she might complete the washing-up, she wept
tears of thankfulness, and said, “Gorblessyer 1”
A few minutes later, the whole house was per-
vaded with a smell of burning rags and sundries.
Everybody rushed to the kitchen. Violet had
fled, but she had left her mark behind her. The
sleeve of mother’s last new blouse protruded from
the range, and, as she flew to rescue it, she trod
on the shattered remains of six bread-and-butter
plates, belonging to the best tea-set ! Also, the
gas was turned-on everywhere; two pounds of
butter had been put up the chimney ; the cruet
was full of kerosene, and a new belltopper stood
on the floor full of coal.
N.s.w.
EVELINE DOWNEY.
“Holdar M.” again voices a venerable
complaint :
For funereal slowness, Sydney Barrack-st. Savings
Bank would be hard to beat. There’s only one man to
receive deposits, and his failure to cope with the daily
rush is pathetic. And at the paying-out counter it’s just
as bad, though there two Reginalds officiate. Generally
takes present writer 15 to 30min. to lodge or withdraw
cash, and no verbal severity has any perceptible effect
upon the languid pen-suckers who condescend to be
aware of the surging mob. Also, most of the clerks dis-
appear for lunch between 1 and 2 p.m., the only hour
when many of the humbler depositors can visit the bank.
Likewise the push-and-struggle tactics employed by
impatient clients to get before those who have waited
longer is another matter calling urgently for reform by
the institution of the “ queue ” system. Now that Dam-
chicago Dibbs has finished that walking-stick for King
Ned perhaps he’ll look into these base ordinary matters.
“R.R.”: Vulcan is in the metropolis.
He is employed by a hardware firm to do odd
jobs in the way of iron-forging and smithy work.
He labors in a cave-like ruin beneath a rotting
building where the beams bend inwards and the
brickwork shudders every time his sledge-hammer
hits a jarring piece of iron or steel. Quite re-
cently the manager of the establishment looked
in on Vulcan and saw the dangerous condition of
the underground workshop, but knowing that the
leasehold expires within a short time he isn’t in-
clined to spend £lOO or so in bolstering up the
premises. He thought it fair, however, to warn
the unthinking Vulcan re the tons of lumber that
would come down in case of a collapse. Where-
upon Vulcan stared hard at the crumbling beams
and the bulging brickwork, and remarked that if
things did move down nothing but his anvil would
come out alive. Whereupon he refuse d to strike
another blow unless he received an extra half-
crown a, week. He got it. The manager looks
upon the extra money as an in urance fund
and his conscience is quiet. The employees
exhibit a certain skittishness when they are told
to take a job down to Vulcan —they stand afar off
with the job in their hands, and throw it in
the direction of Vulcan’s vault, shouting out
the necessary instructions. But Vulcan, with an
extra half-crown in his mind, hammers on. Some -
times he stops work to look up at the dreadful
beams when they cry and shiver more than usual,
and hunches his back as though getting ready.
Writer is putting his m 0 ney on the 200 tons or so
of lumber. There will be a terrific struggle beside
the anvil one of these days.


m
\
V,
5
\
u
<Z-c.
o
ft
r
f/i|i|
r«5
MANY WITNESSES!
Sydney People Testify.
The Evidence of Friends and Neighbors.
The testimony of People you know is the Proof
of Merit which backs every box of
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS.
One Witness says—
“ I had a bad back, sharp
shooting pains. It ached all
day and night. I was weary
and tired ; felt miserable
all the time. I learned the
cause and got the ewe
— Doan's Backache Kidney
Pills.”
A Never Failing
Remedy for every
ill common to the
KIDNEYS. Don’t
take our word for
it; read these state-
ments.
Another Witness says—
‘ ‘ I had urinary trouble, suf-
fered constant annoyance ; dis-
turbed my night’s Test. Fre-
quent urinary discharges;
stinging sensation in passing.
Diabetes set in ; knew it must
be stopped, and stopped it with
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. ”
SYDNEY EVIDENCE.
SURRY HILLS.
Mr. Jos. Grieve, Wood and Coal Merchant, 18
Albion-street, Surry Hills, states :—“ For the past
five or six years I suffered from kidney disorder.
The symptoms were severe backache and irregu-
larity of the secretions of the kidneys. The
pain had such complete mastery over me that at
times I could not rise from my bed. I went to
doctors to see what they could do for me, but
gained no benefit from them. I tried medicines
with no better results. One day, I saw an adver-
tisement regarding a remedy for kidney trouble,
and I visited Newman’s Pharmacy, in King-street,
and procured a box of these pills—Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills. I felt relief right from the
first dose. My pain gradually grew less, and
finally disappeared, as did the kidney disorder.”
This is Mr. Grieve’s testimony given 12 months
later: —“Twelve months ago I was cured by
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. lam still a
believer in these pills, having never had a return
of my complaint since. I had been a terrible
sufferer with the kidneys, and nothing ever gave
me relief but Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. If I
hear anybody complaining of a bad back I always
tell t lem of the medicine which cured me. ”
BALMAIN
Mr. E. Hansen, 41 Rosser-street, Balmain, says:
“For years I had a backache which made me
helpless and a burden to myself. I also had my
right arm useless, and could not do any work. I
had to use my left arm to feed myself. I was
unable to earn my own living. I tried a lot of
medicines, and went to doctors and hospitals. I
would get slight relief, and then I’d get as bad as
ever again. I took fourteen boxes of one largely-
advertised remedy, but when I started work one
day’s labor made me as bad as ever again. Hun-
dreds in Balmain know of my case, and any of
them will tell you what Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills have done for me. I got a box more than
twelve months ago, and when I had taken half a
box of these pills I felt so well that I could start
work. But knowing how I had been treated by
other remedies I finished the box to make sure,
and then I began work and have worked ever
since. My right arm is as strong and as well as
my left, and all my pains have gone. I’ve not
taken a pill since because I’ve not needed one.
They acted in a most magical way, as men in the
Dock will tell you.”
WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
Mr. Charles Alexander, 143 Riley-street, Wool-
loomooloo, this city, says:—“While working I
a.m obliged to lift heavy articles, and this, I be-
lieve, affected my kidneys, as about two years ago
I began to feel severe pains in my back. Many
widely advertised medicines were tried without
gaining any advantage. An attack of influenza
left my kidneys in such a state that I could
scarcely bear up against the pains. A doctor
treated me for Bright’s Disease. I could not turn
in bed, and my back felt as if someone were trying
to cut out the backbone. I was wholly confined
to my bed when a friend came to see me, and re-
marked that Doan’s Bachache Kidney Pills had
relieved him wonderfully. So some' were ob-
tained for me at Newman’s Pharmacy in King-
street, which entirely cured me. ”
The above is what Mr. Alexander said one year
ago. He repeats his testimony to-day, and says :
“Since I gave the above testimony 12 months ago
I have had no reason to change my opinion. I
had tried medicines which have been extensively
advertised, and also drank stuff prescribed by
doctors, but I would never fall back on any of
them, but Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were
cheap at 10 times the price. Some of the kidney
medicines I have taken were like swallowing
knives to out away the disease, but Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills were mild, and thoroughly
effective.”
Get what you ask for. Get
DOAN’S. Don’t accept some-
thing just as good. All Chemists
sell DOAN’S Backache Kidney
Pills and will give you what
you call for. Some may
endeavor to substitute an article
they make more profit on.
Insist on getting the genuine
and save money and misery.
Price 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes
15s. 3d.) or will be posted on
receipt of price by the pro-
prietors, Foster McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Forced Draught.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The tail-rods leap to lift her,
A-singin’ as they rise,
And turnin’ swift and swifter
The smooth white shaftin’ flies.
The great cranks sink to shove her,
And as they sink they vow
That tho’ they drive they love her
From heel to chatterin’ bow;
So set your fire-doors bangin’ 1
And, trimmers, give us coal
To keep' the shovels clangin’
And shaftin’ all a-roll!
By roar of flue and furnace
And throttle-valves a-gape
We’ll show the craft who’d turn us
What speed she’ll have to shape.
With air-shafts full and suckin’
And ventilators slammed,
With every crank-pin throwirH
A spray of oil, and glowin’,
And doors shut tight and jammed,
We’ll set the good screws buckin’
And stoke like sinners damned.
More steam ! the “ Chief ” is callin’,
For though she’s racin’ fine
From twenty-two she’s fallen
To twenty-one point nine.
More steam ! I guess she’s divin’
Clean through the sloppy swells,
She’s that dead set on drivin’
She thinks of nothin’ else.
She has no time to stagger,
. Nor yet to lift or swing ;
She only mocks the lagger
And hears her engines ring;
And far and thick behind her
Her inky smoke-train lies —
Tho’ smashin’ rollers blind her
She laughs, and scorns to rise.
Proud in her speed that steadies,
Thro’ sea and night she sails,
And where the tide-rip eddies
The spray will kiss her rails.
Her mast-head vane’s a-quiver,
Her funnels blist’rin’ grey ;
The big fish hear her cornin’ —
With mad propellers strummin ’
A sea-song—up the bay ;
And by the town-lit river,
“ Well-steamed indeed J” they’ll say.
There goes a journal gratin’,
A bearin’s just a-squeal—■
But every greaser’s waitin’,
And oil is good for steel
When swells are vainly tryin*
To teach her how to climb—
Or down with engines flyin’—
She nearly raced that time !
Again she lifts, and chokin’,
Her sorews are drivin’ dull—
And now she races, smokin’,
To test her strainin’ hull.
Oh ! hear the ‘ ‘ Second ” curse het
(She seems to understand)
But he has got to nurse her—
Her throttle’s in his hand.
lldll nurse her as she scatters
The water in her track,
He’ll check her when she’s divin ’
And soarin’, —set her drivin ’
With thrust-blocks all a-rack ;
He damns her when she chatters,
And hears her answer back.
The cranks roll fast and flashin’,
And mighty-thewed as gods,
A-thunder all and crashin’,
Oh ! hear the laborin’ rods !
And through the tunnel moanin’
The cold, white shaftin’ spins,
And every standard’s groanin’
And reck’nin’ up our sins.
The gauges jump and twinkle,
Full twenty-two she’s done ...
But hear the bridge-bell’s tinkle
“ Half-speed ? ” We ain’t begun !
“ Half-speed ! ” and feel her swingin’
Across the river bar,
With tail-rods loose and ringin’
And cross-head guides a-jar.
And up the sleepy river
We’ll go at easy steam,
With big screws gently spoonin',
And engines softly croonin’
A sea-tune to the stream,
That dreams with breast a-quiver
A lover’s peaceful drea/m.
Oh ! when the mottled water
Is boilin’ angry aft,
Where two wild screws have caught her
A-swirl with extra draught,
It’s good to hear the thunder
And moanin’ of the steel;
But, oh ! to toil down under—
It teaches men to feel.
There ain’t no sea-breeze singin’
Around our lips and brows;
We hear no water dingin’
And sprayin’ at her bows.
It’s steamy heat and labor,
And sweaty, oily reek,
And cursin’ with your neighbor,
And faintin’ if you’re weak.
But though we loudly cursed her,
Her god-like song was wild ;
And though we toiled we loved her,
And every rod that shoved her
To fight the seas up-piled.
And oh l the “ Second ” nursed her
As though she were his child.
M.L.
QUILP N.
The Land of Tinned-Dog.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dear Bulletin.— For my sins, I live in the land
of Tinned-Dog, which here I attempt feebly to
describe.
This land lies, roughly, 200 miles north of
Broken Hill, and 250 miles west of the Paroo.
Its chief city contains 18 houses—lo of them
empty ; a gorgeous court-house and police-station,
and a still more gorgeous post-office ; all, like the
rest of the city, of cut stone. For of straight
timber in this land there is none ; while of stone,
it stinketh. And weatherboards, corrugated iron
and co. fit not on a camel’s back. Its inhabitants
total 23, of whom 17 are civil servants. One is a
publican, and five are applicants for old-age
pensions. The civil servants spend their time in
cutting each other’s hair and cursing their fate.
For, while there are a police-magistrate, C.P.S.,
postmaster, mining-registrar, telegraph-operator,
school-teacher, stock-inspector, inspector of water-
ing-places, two constables, pound-keeper, &c.,
there are neither beef nor mutton, milk nor eggs,
nor any butcher, baker, barber, bootmaker or
blacksmith.
The town had a creek, also a waterhole a mile
long and 15ft. deep, but sand-storms long ago
filled both up.
It has wheel-tracks across the desolate plains—
the people cried out for a road, but the Keystone
replied that the existing roads were good enough
for the people who lived there. But then, unless
Coghlan lies, we are but one man to thirteen
square miles ; and for M.L.A. we have one of
whom we hear nothing and see less.
Three tracks —from Bourke, Wilcannia and
Broken Hill —converge on the city of Tinned-Dog;
each more damnable than the other.
On the least damnable, after 40 miles of misery,
I reached Torrowangee. Here I found seven
houses and nine typhoid patients. The post-
master had died the week before of a broken
heart caused by watching two pepper-trees which
wouldn’t grow.
Appalled, I fled to the next stopping place—
Euriowie. When I got there I wished to God I
had remained at Torrowangee.
Then for 40 hours a never-ending nightmare of
vast drought-stricken plains, stretching out for
miles to sandhills magnified by the hazy atmos-
phere into ranges, and strewn thickly with glit-
tering white lumps of quartz, changing after a
dozen miles to red, and then to black, iron-stone,
with queer, jumbled outcrops of dark barren
rock.
Packed in between these stony tracts lay great
wastes of soft, shifting, choking sand. Of grass,
not a blade ; patches of saltbush here and there,
and a little, stunted, half-dead mulga, lopped
long ago for the last of the starving stock. Of
wild animals I saw not one; of birds, none but
crows.
There are two or three God-forsaken camps
strewed around miscalled goldfields, peopled with
the queerest old men I ever dropped across.
Literally starving, absolutely hopeless, driven
into semi-idiocy by their ghastly surroundings,
they still refuse to exchange their humpies of bags
and boughs for Liverpool or Parramatta, and live
upon the hope of getting one last drunk on an
pension. Three things strike a stranger
chiefly : First the number of watercourses
created by the annual average of Sin. of rain j
secondly the thin sinuous snakes of low gum-
trees, crawling for miles, and showing out vividly
green against the mournful barrenness of the
plains, there being a strict Government regula-
tion a ga mst cutting timber in water-courses 5
thirdly what in the name of Heaven the rem-
nants of sheep live on ? I stopped my conveyance,
and crawled painfully over the broken stones to
where a small mob was apparently feeding. I
found no sign of any green thing. The driver
said they were licking up seeds. But—seeds of
what?
Still, even in this ultima thule the people con-
gregate and hold horse-races—three in ten days,
within a 30-mile radius; with the usual trim-
mings of monte-men and other assorted spielers.
Five started for the Cup. The betting was 2to
1 on, 6 to 4 on, evens, 2 to 1 against and 3 to
1 against—real Ikey Mo.’s.
J-he winning jock (needless to say, not the 2 to
1 on show) wore a red shirt and moles, one hand-
kerchief round his neck, and a second round his
left leg—what for, I couldn’t guess. After this
came the usual scrap between Wonnaminto Joe
and Flaming Ned; while a station-manager
knocked a man down for calling him “Tom”—
“ like his b- impudence! ” The shearers, stirred
up by their leaders, are spoiling for a fight, but
it is evident there will be none in Tinned-Dog
District this year, for the station hands can shear
all the sheep alive.
Even in this, the direst of droughts, the national
flower of Tinned-Dog—the gidyea—flourisheth
and bloometh—yea, and smelleth like unto a
Chinaman’s garden afar off, or a bullock that has
been dead a week.
That I may soon again sniff the Chinese tobacco
and opium of Lower George-street is the humble
prayer of yours truly,
Milpabinka, N.S.W.
YARRAN.
Dear Bulletin.—.Re “Gipps ” (B. 6/7/’l).
From Annual Register, 15th April, 1812:
On Wednesday evening an extraordinary investigation
took place at Bow-street. Oroker, the officer, was passing
along the Hampstead-road when he observed, at a short
distance before him, two men on a wall, and, directly
after, saw the tallest of them, a stout man about six feet
high, hanging by his neck from a lamp-post attached to
the wall, being that instant tied up and turned off by the
short man. This unexpected and extraordinary sight
astonished the officer; he made up to the spot with
all speed ; and just as he arrived there the tall
man, who had been hanged, fell to the ground,
the handkerchief with which he had been sus-
pended having given way. Oroker produced his staff,
said he was an officer, and demanded to know of the other
man the cause of such conduct. In the meantime, the
man who had been hanged recovered, got up, and on
Oroker’s interfering, gave him a violent blow on the nose
which nearly knocked him backwards. The short man
endeavouring to make off, however, the officer pro-
cured assistance, and both were brought to the office.
They said they had been together on Wednesday
afternoon, tossed up for money, and afterwards for
their clothes, the tall man, who was hanged, won
the other’s jacket, trousers, and shoes ; they then tossed
up which should hang the other, and the short one won
the toss. They both agreed in this statement. The tall
one, who had been hanged, said, if he had won the toss,
he would have hanged the other. The magistrates ex-
pressed their disgust, and ordered the man who had been
hanged to find bail for the violent and unjustifiable
assault on the officer, and the short one for hanging the
other. Not having bail, they were committed to Bride-
well for trial. “ Nothing new under the sun.”
ROCKEY.


Gives Muscular Strength
and Nerve Power
Takes Out Every Impurity from the Blood, Makes the Blood Rich and
Red Removes Depressicu, Imparts Vigor and New Life.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Mr. Thomas Monroe, of Oriel, Albion, near Brisbane, Queensland, is well
known in football and athletic circles. He has to keep his system in'perfect
condition all the time. Read what he says about Dr. Ayer’s Family Medicines.
“ IThave used Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to restore the appetite and give tone and strength to
the whole system, and I have been greatly benefited by doing so.
“ I have also obtained marked relief from the asthma by the use of Dr. Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral. These two remedies are well known throughout Queensland as thoroughly reliable
family medicines.”
So great is the reputation of Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla as a remedy for healing
the sick that it is called everywhere
“The World’s Greatest Family ~
If you are sick, you certainly should give Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla a thorough
trial. It cannot fail to help you, for it cures the blood first of all. Then your
nerves become steady and strong and the hot weather of summer does not affect
you. All depression is overcome. Remember, it is a wonderful medicine for
the children, too, when they are thin and feeble, pale and languid. Put your
confidence in it, for there is no family medicine in the world its equal.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Purifies and Enriches the Blood.
AYER’S PILLS cure dyspepsia; strengthen the stomach.
26 ■
YEARS’ SUCCESS
AS THE
UNIVERSAL REMEDY
FOR
Coughs, Colds,
f Asthma,Bronchitis,
Influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Consumption,
HAS MADt s '
fittbrii ;ie’s
UfnncffiVn
Sold
AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY IN THE HOME
OR KIT OF EVERY COLONIAL.
It saves many Lives.
There is no difficulty in obtaining it, so
when you ash for Owbridge’s Lung
Tonic, insist upon having it, as
other so-called remedies are
often substituted.
Prepared by
W.T.0WBRID8E, I8.P.S., Chemist, Hull.
I in bottles, at Is lid, 2s. 9d,4s 6d, &
by all Colonial Medicine Vendors.
COPYRIGHT.
Ml
lls..
"xog e isoumo v iujom
REECHAMS
PILLS
Are Unrivalled for the Complexion,
&
<b
PATENT
PILILtS
ltx»
is
Sold V
by the Propmw.
HELENS
leton
ST
ENGLAND
LANCASHIRE
AND WILL BRING
The BLUSH of HEALTH
To PALLID CHEEKS.
Are SPECIALLY SUITABLE
for the DISEASES and AIL-
MENTS common to FEMALES
of all Ages,
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 1/11 (56 Pills) and 2/9 each.
BOXES SOLD ANNUALLY.
Beecham’s TOOTH PASTE
RECOMMENDS ITSELF.
It is Efficacious, Economical. Cleanses the Teeth, Perfumes
the Breath, and is a Reliable and Pleasant Dentifrice.
’teaa®**. In Collapsible Julies, O&3E SHILLING each.
S. FREEMAN <» SONS L lw ™
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
OWDER.
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WTNYAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
■
The Universal Remedy for Acidity oi the Stomacn,
.Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cur©
for G-out, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Iniants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
df
DiNNEFORDS
MAGNESIA]
mi
Sold Throughout the Wom.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
*o^ To **
IRISH MOSS
FOR
-The besl" remedy
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
Ask for Banning ton’s
see
ou
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA.


RUBBER GOODS
Waterproof Coats, 15s to 70s.
Rubber Boots, 17s 6d to 20s.
Goloshes —Ladies’, 2s 6d and 3s.
Gentlemen’s, 4s and
4s 6d.
Leggings, 4s 6d, ss, and 6s 6d.
Driving Rugs,
10s 6d, 16s 6d, 21s, 30s
Hot-Water Bags, Best English
Rubber, 6s and upwards
PERDRIAU & CO.,
RUBBER MANUFACTURERS & IMPORTERS,
(Catalogues Post Free) 270 George Street, Sydney.
I
YEARS DYEING
FOB THE BABIES.
W. O- EI.DBIDGB &c CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 JTOIUv STJtKirr, SIDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall). . _
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
CEORCE & MARKET STREETB, SYDNEY.
Apartments: Bedroom (single), 3s. per Day, or 21s.
per Week; Bedroom (double), 6s. per Bay, or Two
Guineas per week.
Breakfast, Luncheon, or Dinner from
ONE SHILLING upwards.
Letters and Telegrams addressed to “ The Manager”
will receive prompt attention.
RTHINGTON PUMPS
All have Wrought Iron
WORTH i a OTO N.
TRADE MARK*
PUMPS) & Vertical,
. . . KEPT IN STOCK . . .
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Sole. Australasian Representatives,
32 and 34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Send for Catalogue.
PLUNGER ANO RING PATTERN
TANGYES
af
DUPLEX PUMPS ARE UP TO DATE.
BENNIE, TEARE& CO.
have depots in
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, PERTH, COOLCARDIE,
And carry Stocks of Materials and Furnishings for
MINING, ENGINEERING, IMPLEMENT-
MAKING and IRRIGATING.
SOLE REPRESENTATIVES IN AUSTRALIA OF
TANGYES LIMITED.
"
EWMAN’S
ANTISEPTIC
THROAT PASTILLES.
1/- a, JGQ3C
' ts ifc
NEWMAN’S
in King St.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING*
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER
N.S.W. Fresh Food & Ice Co. Ltd
331XTEY
Fish and Game, hard frozen and well packed, forwarded to all parts of the State.
People residing in distant localities where Good Butter is unobtainable, are recommended to obtain their supply from the above Company, proprietors of the
well-known “ Golden Star ” brand, and Sole Agents for the famous “ Berry ” brand. Both kinds are Pasteurised, and have excellent keeping qualitiM.
Our Bakehouse Goods, for Balls, Parties, &c., are conceded to be the finest manufactured. Sent well-packed to any town in N.S.W.
Price Lists mid Particulars sent to any Enquirers. c. G. LARGE, Manager,
Head Office : HARBOUR ST., SYDNEY.
. to-*
m
PARKE
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS,
Manufacturers and Importers of
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES & BOILERS.
AGENTS FOR FELTON and LEFFEL WATER WHEELS.
LIMITED,
9/
iaxr stock: :
Knowles Steam Pumps, Ingersoll Kock Drills and Air Compressors, Nagel Horizontal
and Vertical Engines and Boilers, Pennsylvania Return Tubular Boilers, Buffalo
Blowers and Exhaust Fans, Morris Dredging Pumps, Bullock Diamond Drills, Dodge
Rock Breakers, Roger Rolls, Gates Rock Breakers, Challenge Ore Feeders, Hunting-
ton Quartz Mills, Wood and Iron Working, and Laundry Machinery, and Mine and
Mill Supplies. _ 60 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
And at San Francisco and London. » *
■I,-i. . ■
BLAKE
SINGLE AN 6
DUPLEX.
DUPLEX OUTSIDE PLUNGER PATTERN
Pumps for Every Possible Pumping Purpose.
Boiler Feeders
Light Service Pumps
(Mining Pumps
Vacuum i Pumps
Air Pumps
Air Compressors
Sole Agents in Australasia —
H.P. GREGORY & CO.,
Sydney
r ; -
HgartTv-rii-^
NO-LSId X3IdDCI
