

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
/ ■
Reid’s London Draught Stout.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
JES.. <Gk «S& 00-5
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR— ,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
270
Prize
Medals,
22.500
Steam
Engines
I i
rP
REND FOE PRICES AND PARTICULARS
“ podge ” Standard
Mood Split Pulleys
All Sizes kept in Stock.
SOLE AGENTS :
N. 6UTHRIP6C Ltd.,
71 Clarence St., Sydney.
SEND FOR CATALOG."** I
NOW READY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth
Being a reprint of a large number of articles from
The Bulletin, in which this paper has attempted to
outline • solvent, honest and democratic policy
for Federated Australia.
GIBSON, BATTLE &C° » Pit t Stoe t, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
iston,
octor
HATE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE—PORTABLE,
VERTICAL, FIXED and SEMI-FIXED
, • 4SZ \
STEAM
o Motion
INE
and BOILERS
MacliinLe3, Sa
i
AND
PUMPS.
&o.
THORNE’S
That’s All!
A 1 WHISKY.
HELIDON SPA
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
TOOTH & CO. Ltdl., Agents, Sydney.
4
HOBART.
■—*#3; ”
Hadley’s Orient fiotel.
Fenfold's
Adelaide Wines
Free from all Adulteration.
Inter-State Freetrade makes them free from
tariff, so be free with them.
Sydney Branch: 84 Pitt Street
RESERVE EXTRA. RESERVE SPECIAL. RESERVE EXTRA SPECIAL. SUPREME
SAN DEM AN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
PITT STREET. SYPgTEY, i ' ~
PETTY’S HOTEL
IS UNSURPASSED
by that of any other in Sydney for
Comfort, Privacy, Convenience and
Healthy Situation.
The Sanitary Arrangements are of the
most perfect description.
The Hotel is under the Direct Management and
Supervision of
MRS. WILLIAM G AN N O N, Proprietress,
Telephone 274. Church Hill, Sydney.
IDs. per Day or £3 3s. per week.
SPECIAL TERMS CAN BE ARRANGED FOR
FAMILIES AND PRIVATE APARTMENTS.
PIONEER
f
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading' Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
Branches:—P. Frankel & Co., Edward-st., Brisbane, Q. ;
H. Summers, Barrack-st., Perth, W.A. ; H. K. Fysh and
Co., Collins-st., Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter &Co., Auckland-;
Blackburne & Smith, Cashel-st., Christchurch, N.Z.
THAIR GIRLS AND GRAY HORSES
Jj 2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
JOHN JAMESON
“THREE-STAR” WHISKEY.
Agents : J. BAESI JOHNSTON & CO., Loftus Street, Sydney.
EMPIRE HOTEL, SYPNCY
MOST OIE JETTIES-A. 3Li ILi~Y~ BITTT ATED.
OTARD-DUPUY
Estbd. 1795. 25 YeafS BRANDY.
m
PROOF
V ' in oi mu or
Office
10 SUCH ST., SYDNEY
THE SPIRIT OF THE TIMES.
ONE COMMONWEALTH ONE STIMULANT-
BOOMERANG BRANDY
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10hS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
on Most
Reasonable
Banquets and
Pinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n>brocatioQ
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints it. MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n)brocatioQ.
KAY EYE AR EYE EN
LAGER
The Bulletin
Yol. 22— No. 1135 ]
[Saturday, November 16, 1901.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by. Post as a Newspaper.


TWO NEW BULLETIN BOOKS.
Beady Ist December, 1901.
PRICE, 4s. 6d .
Cbe Bulletin Story Book
A Handsome Cloth-bound Volume oj 304
pages; with indexes, prefaces, and
biographical index of authors.
This Book will undoubtedly take rank as
the best collection of short stories and literary
sketches yet produced in Australia.
Partial Eist of Contents:
The Procession of Egos -
J. F. Millington
A Row in our Boarding-House
James Edmond
Some of Fate’s Puppets
John Reay Watson
Long Charley’s Good Little Wife
Louis Becke
On the Land
Henry Fletcher
T%e Parson’s Blackboy
Ernest Favenc
The Bond
Louise Mack
Collop’s Mother
J. Evison
A Bush Tanqueray
Albert Dorrington
The Drover’s Wife -
Henry Lawson
Under the Rose
F. F. Elmes
The Funerals of Malachi Mooney
Edward Dyson
The Square Ring
At Yarrawonga -
His Hair -
Products -
A. Rose-Soley
The Dispersion of Mrs. Black -
“ Robin Studholme ”
White-When-He ’s-Wanted -
A. B. Paterson
The Tramp -
Barbara Baynton
On Our Selection -
Arthur H. Davis
A Box of Dead Roses
Ethel Mills
A Stripe for Trooper Casey
Roderic Quinn
Swamp-Swallowed - _
Alex. Montgomery
Bailiffs I Have Met -
Victor J. Daley
Three Cups of Tea - - '
F. Roll Err
And Many Others.
“Me O:'
F. S. Delmer
Mabel Holmes
ORDERS NOW BEING RECEIVED.
On receipt of stamps, P. 0.0., or postal note
for the price, 4s. 6d.—the book will be posted
to any address immediately on publication.
ALSO,
Beady Ist December, 1901.
PRICE ss.
Cbe Bulletin Reciter.
Bound in fawn cloth, red edges, decorated
cover; with twelve illustrations by
“ Hop," Norman Lindsay, Fred. Leist,
A. J. Fischer, and Hugh McCrae.
.’. To this, the best book of verse-recitations
ever produced in Australia, about One Hundred
Bulletin Bards will contribute.
ORDERS HOW BEING RECEIVED.
Sent post-free immediately on publication, in
return for postal note, stamps, or P. 0.0., 55.-
by the Publishers,
Cfte Bulletin newspaper go., Ltl,
214 George Street, Sydney, Australia.
The Bulletin publications.
Sole Distributing Agents for the Trade:
Edwabds, Dunlop, and Co., Ltd., Sydney and
Brisbane.
For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE
. . THE . ,
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs ! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
dsf
A. The Larynx, or organ ot
voice.
B■ The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SING ERS
and.
PUBLIC
SPEx^KERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
. . Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous dr up
enin by ALL CHEMISTS, in Tins, Is6d; from the Proprietor, fi. HUDSON, Chemist, Inswich r.„
S ° free on receipt of stainps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE. ' PMVlcll ’ Queensland-!
THE RED PAGE.
SPRING ODE.
Spring days have come ! and a livelier iris
(Whatever that may be) shines oh the dove.
Spring time ! when all that we poets require is
Any fresh word that will rhyme with our Love.
Through the green woodlands, flower-burdened, fern-laden
Saunters to meet me, my rustic sweetheart :
How shall I rhyme her—shy, simple maiden ?
Cart ? dart ?—oh, hang it! here goes for a start 1
Fairest of dryads, with rose-blushes tinted,
Stanzas I’d pen to thee dozens of times ;
Passionate sapphics as ever were printed
But the devil’s own bother is—finding the rhymes !
N.S.W.
NORTON MALSEWARD.
The V a mpire.
HOW well I remember my first love,—with
w S v L ! fted busks and her stuffed hair!
We did not meet in the summer, nor in
« , green grass near running water, but in
winter,—under the pale glare of gas, in the wet
street and among people.
+1 her face so bleached
that her black eyes and red lips positively glared :
yet she had a silky fascination for me. And her
w 1 han , ds brought not only flesh into
contact, but mind.
8 a d > ® he WilS hungry. I had just drawn
my months earnings, and we went arm-in-arm
to a little green-curtained restaurant. It was
sufficiently wicked-looking, -the gas low, and the
solitary waiter unobstreperous.
I was drunk. The fumes of the cheap Bur-
gundy started an orchestra in my ears, and
?J, el l ed th ®. of my brain. The wind
lifted the blind and blew my cigarettes in a
wnr ring covey off the table. I stooped to
pick them up, but the blood-strings in my
throat stood out, and the room darkened to
m y eyes. The waiter noiselessly came to my
assistance, replacing them on a plate and retain-
ing a few slyly up his sleeve. But I said nothing,
fingers°° klng at Mar ? uei 'i te and her long, folded
She ordered some oysters, and, when they had
®° me : , watched her squeeze a lemon-quarter into
the shells and over the firm fish.
* * * *
I seemed to be in a garden with Marguerite.
Ihe garden was full of lilies—tall white lilies
without a speck or mark; and everywhere
amongst them were blue flies, trumpeting and
buzzing with pleasure. Here and there a rich
bee, with powdered legs, swayed on a flower, like
a jewel in snow. The air was warm and soft as
down while the rounded sound of bubbling water
poppled m the moss, between the bars of lily-
stalks. A delicious sweetness of earth and honey
mounted to my brain. I watched a butterfly
winged m old-gold and grey, as he flickered on a
red tile under the steady shadow of a fern.
Gradually I grew aware of the subtle electrical
hand upon my wrist—then of the eyes that made
my mind hers,—nay, my very soul. The small
piercing eyes, whose pupils diminished and en-
larged, and enlarged and diminished, like the
flame of a dying lanfp. And every time the pupils
diminished, they seemed to me two miser hands
that gripped my brain and squeezed myself from
me, like water from a cloth, opening only to grin
again. b 1
But the woman, in the body, was tall, and
breasted like a young girl; her back was straight
as an arrow, and her neck reared white as a rock-
wave carrying the magnificent head on its summit.
She had a broad brow, but somewhat slanting; a
sll &ht nose, an eagerly insolent mouth,
and the eyes I have spoken of. Her hair, where
it was loose, shimmered and shook as though over
a heat-mist.
Presently she lifted her hands from my wrists
and I felt her fingers thrill through my temples,
as she drew me towards her and kissed me on the
bp 3 - A. song seemed to set up in the garden, and
the lilies shot up like stars, swayed in the
sky, meeting in an arch, and crossed in stormy
rushes over our heads. The noise of the water
rose clamorously, and a flight of coloured birds
brushed my shoulder. A soft sensation went over
the whole of my skin, like the dropping of a
delicate veil.
And still she drew me closer.
I tried to resist, but, as in a nightmare, my
arms remained limp and paralysed. Neither
could I cry out. All at once, in. the midst of a
million kisses, she drew back her head, and with
a gasping laugh, pushed her red lips at my throat
and bit me deep, even to blood.
In vain I beat her about the face, and plucked at
her cheeks. She hung like a dog. With horrible
little laughs and gurgles she greeted my impotent
rage.
• I P ut , both bands to her forehead, and made to
thrust her from me ; but again my muscles failed.
And she bit deeper.
Then the lilies withered down from the skies
and lay stained and yellow on the earth The
butterfly lost its old-gold, and its wings and whole
form broadened into a bat’s. The soft ripple of
the water changed to the purring of a flame, and
bale-fires leapt from every corner.
Still the woman tore at my throat.
My breath shortened, and I felt as though mv
skull were contracting and injuring my brain.
Spasm after spasm shot through my head. Goaded
to madness, I hurled my tormentor away, and as
she returned at me, bloody-mouthed, I saw that
she too had changed. Her eyes had sunk, her
teeth were old and wasted to an appearance of
cloves; her nose seemed flattened, and her hair
thin Her face was almost simian.
My strength failed me, and I staggered on my
feet. “Marguerite,” I cried. “Woman!
Vampire!
And I fell clean to the ground, like a tree in a
storm.
* * * *
A great coldness rushed upon me, and an icv
breath fanned my forehead. I could feel a pair
of hands beneath my arm-pits. I was smothering
1 here was a bandage round my mouth.
I opened my eyes. There were stars-thou-
sands of them—blinking and blinking; but below,
turbid and swollen, lay the river without a light
for miles. Far away I could hear the platter of
horses on wet roads, and, nearer, the raucous
laugh of a woman.
The hands withdrew suddenly; and a man
darted from me, fleeing up the steep stoned bank.
It was the waiter of the restaurant. The bandage
dropped off my jaw, and I could now understand
the sweet scent of my garden dream.
My pockets were as empty as on the day when
3usffin theS made '' that WilS a fore &°* ie con -
Marguerite never again crossed my path. Yet
I know that green-curtained restaurant, and some
day I shall see her standing in the doorway. If
she beckons, I must go to her.
Because I dare not refuse.
SYD.
W.W. LAMBLE.
S. Gilbert Reminiscent.
IjN this fashion talked W. S. Gilbert when
recently interviewed by William Archer,
that leaden and conscientious dramatic
critic who has turned literary censor. Of
Gilbert’s first meeting with Sullivan :
Oddly enough, on our very first meeting, I posed
Sullivan with a musical problem. It was at the old
“ Gallery of Illustration,” then occupied by the German
Reeds, for whom I had written several short pieces.
Frederick Clay introduced me to Sullivan, and I deter-
mined to play off upon him a piece of musical clap-trap
which I happened to have in my mind. I had just com-
pleted a three-act blank-verse play called “ The Palace
of Truth” for the Haymarket Theatre. One of the
characters in that play is a musical pedant, and it
occurred to me to convert one of his speeches
into prose and to try its effect on Sullivan. So I
said to him : I’m very glad to have the pleasure
of meeting you, Mr. Sullivan ; for you will be able
to decide a question which has just arisen between my
friend Fred Clay and myself. I maintain that, if a com-
poser has a musical theme to express, he can express it as
perfectly upon the simple tetrachord of Mercury, in which
(as I need not tell you) there are no diatonic intervals
at all, as upon the much more complicated dis-
diapason (with the four tetrachords and the redun-
dant note), which embraces in its perfect consonance
all the simple, double, and inverted chords.” Sullivan
appeared to be impressed by the question, which,
he said, he could not answer off-hand. He said he would
take it away and think it over. He must have thought
it over for about thirty years, for I never received an
answer to the question. I obtained my musical facts
from the “ Encyclopaedia Britannica," under the head
Harmony." I took a sentence and put it into blank
verse without any idea as to what it may have meaht.
• * * *
As to which of the collaborators “ thought of it
first,”—says Gilbert:
When I collaborated with Sullivan, the verse always
preceded the music, or even any hint of it. Sometimes—
' er - v rarel y Sullivan would say of some song I had given
him, ‘My dear fellow, I can’t make anything of this’—
and then I would rewrite it entirely—never tinker at it.
But of course I don’t mean to say that I ‘ invented ’ all
the rhythms and stanzas in the operas. Often a rhythm
would be suggested by some old tune or other running in
my head, and I would fit my words to it more or less
exactly. When Sullivan knew I had done so, he would
say, * Don’t tell me what the tune is, or I sha’n’t be able
to get it out of my head.’ But once, I remember, I did
tell him. There is a duet in 4 The Yeoman of the Guard,’
beginning:
I have a song to sing, O 1
Sing me your song, O !
It was suggested to me by an old chantey I used to hear
the sailors on board my yacht singing in the ‘ dog watch ’
on Saturday evenings, beginning :
Gome and I will sing you.
What will you sing me ?
I will sing you one, O 1
What is your one, O !
and so on. Well, when I gave Sullivan the words of the
duet he found the utmost difficulty in setting it. He
tried hard for a fortnight, but in vain. I offered to recast
it in another mould, but he expressed himself so delighted
with it in its then form that he was determined to work
it out to a satisfactory issue. At last he came to me and
said : ‘ You often have some old air in your mind which
prompts the metre of your songs : if anything of the kind
prompted you in this case, hum it to me—it may help
me.’ Only a rash man ever asks me to hum, but the
situation was desperate, and I did my best to
convey to him the air of the chantey • that had
suggested the song to me. I was so far successful that
before I had hummed a dozen bars he exclaimed, ‘ That
will do—l’ve got it! ’ And in an hour he produced the
charming air as it appears in the opera. I have some-
times thought that he exclaimed, ‘ That will do—l’ve got
it,’because my humming was more than he could bear ;
but he always assured me that it had given him the
necessary clue to the proper setting of the song.”
* * * *
This of T. W. Robertson is to the point:
Robertson was an exceedingly skilful dramatic tailor.
He knew the stage perfectly, and he knew perfectly the
company he had to write for—the then Prince of Wales’s
stock company, which varied very little. He fitted each
character with the utmost nicety to the man or woman
wfio lyas to play it; and he was there to instruct them in
every movement, every emphasis. But when these parts
are transferred to other actors who knew not Robertson,
the very nicety of their adjustment to their original
performers is apt to render them misfits. I think"that
accounts in great measure for the comparative ineffec-
tiveness of his plays in revival—their charm was so largely
dependent on Robertson’s personal inspiration.
Then Robertson invented stage-management. It was
an unknown art before his time. Formerly, in a conver-
sation scene, for instance, you simply brought down two
or three chairs from the flat and placed them in a row
in the middle of the stage, and the people sat down and
talked, and, when the conversation was ended, the chairs
were replaced. Robertson showed how to give life and
variety and nature to the scene, by breaking it up with
all sorts of little incidents and delicate by-play. I have
been at many of his rehearsals, and learnt a great deal
from them.
Robertson knew “ Oaste ” was his masterpiece. I re-
member meeting him one day when he had just conceived
the idea of the play and was quite full of it. He poured
forth the whole story to me as we walked along, and I
told him how good I thought it. He was busy with some-
thing else at the moment, and could not settle down to
write it; but he said to me, “ I pant to begin that piece.”
+
“S.T.S.” writes:
Note the growing abuse of a useful phrase. People
are “ only too glad,” or “ only too willing,” to do every,
thing nowadays, making a kind of cheerful superlative of
it. What is overlooked is that the phrase always
implies an unworthy motive underlying conduct thus :
it is really' censure when used of others, confession when
used of one’s-self. “ The wounded man’s comrades were
only too willing to assist him to the rear ” apparently
means that they' had an eye to their own greater safety
“If someone better qualified would propose this toast, :
should be only too willing to make way for him ” is
semi-humourous admission of desire to shirk a duty
But the stereotyped, “ I shall be only too glad to contri
bute to this excellent cause,” “ only too willing to show
visitors over the property,” means nothing at all.
Grant Hervey—
I advocate knocking out the middle letter in all chain-
words that end and start with the same letter. Thus:
Penib, for pen-nib —people rarely pronounce the
second letter ■,—goldust, lampost, dressuit, etc. Dropping
the letter doesn’t alter the sense ; and it helps to drag
the language into some semblance of shape.
Eng. Institute of Journalists has resolved to
examine and certify the qualifications of “young
lions,” and Lond. Morning Leader drafts a Little-
Go exam, paper : whence—
I. Under what circumstances, if any, are the following
terms admissible : “ The devouring element,” “ felt his
position acutely',” “ Jupiter Pluvius,” “ with a sickening
thud,” “ the coign of vantage,” “ transpired,” “ the pro-
ceedings then terminated,” “ under the auspices of,”
“ the sacred edifice,” “ then, as the sun rose fully ” ?
4. Compare and contrast the following phrases : “ It is
alleged,” “it is stated,” “it is announced,” “it is re-
ported,” “it is affirmed.” Consider, with special refer-
ence to the law of libel, the utility of the term “ alleged.”
5. Make any repiarks you please (short of profanity)
upon the word “ anent.”
6. Explain and distinguish : “From a correspondent,”
“from our correspondent,” “from our own correspon-
dent,” “from a special correspondent," “from our
special correspondent,” “ from our own reporters.”
10. What are your views on the subject of “ expenses ” ?
17. Draw a week’s salary.
J. 0.: What a drab’s life is signified by the Aus-
tralian aversion from bright colours! In this
town (Harden, N.S.W.) verandahs, rich and poor,
display some hundreds of tin flowerpots, most of
which ate painted green, while not one has two
hues, or is aught but ugly. (Of course, white,
reds, and yellows are the harmonies with foliage.)
This throws light on the selfishness which now
curses the land. Squalid minds become insensible
to the simplest and purest of joys. I write in
cold blood.
Elsa Barker, in The Smart Set—
I think that when men die and go to hell
They do not burn in fire, as prophets tell;
But that they wait, and wait, and wait, and wait
For one who never comes, loved e’er so well.
“I am tired,”—says Eleanora Duse, perhaps the
world’s greatest actress, —“I am tired of the
theatre, but not of art; tired of the theatrical
part of stage life, tired of the necessary co-opera-
tion of stage artists, managers, scene-shifters, and
lamp-ligh ters. I must rid myself of the slavery
of stage life. That’s no life at all. I assure you
it’s hell, downright hell. Yes, of many of my
companions I cannot think but with feelings of
loathing and suspicion. Many of the actors and
actresses I have met are a contemptible lot.
Once let me get away from this hell, it will never
hold me in its clutches again. This is your queen
of the footlights, the premier actress of the cen-
tury, as some call me,” she said, with bitter
mockery. “Her kingdom a hotel parlour, her
frontier a steaming kettle. And the worst of it
all, I am getting old, my life is ebbing away, and
I see nothing and know nothing.” (Duse ends her
stage career after her approaching visit to
America.)
E.G.B.—
One hears little nowadays of the Victorian Review of
the Eighties—-Mortimer Franklyn’s solid literary periodi-
cal. I was in Franklyn’s employ when Marcus Clarke’s
“ Civilisation without Delusion ” was published. At the
time the Review, although often well written, and well
produced mechanically, had not succeeded, and its circu-
lation barely reached the thousands. When Clarke’s
attack on Christianity appeared, the issue of 2000 was
sold out in three days. I never saw so many black-coats
in my life before. Every minister in Vic. seemed to come
to the office, and to purchase a copy of that number.
Franklyn was overjoyed, and used to enter the office
with large, oily smiles, playing continually with the two
magnificent diamond rings he always WMje —a sure sign
of his exceeding self-content. Another faition of 3000
was quickly exhausted. The rush at the office was like a
scramble at the ticket-box on a first night. Altogether
fully 10,000 copies were sold, and so eager were pur-
chasers that I know of <€ 1 being paid for the number.
Bishop Moorhouse’s reply and Clarke’s rejoinder put the
Review fairly on the road to prosperity ; but its literary
quality grew poor, and it went the way of flesh, losing
for the unfortunate shareholders of the World company,
as the insolvency proceedings showed, 'thousands of
pounds.
THE DEVIL’S SHILLING.
My feet are tired with trudging,
My legs are bars of lead,
The whole world seems a-grudging
A corner for a bed.
I roam about and shiver,
And to me, as I go,
The voice of the grey river
Is wafted from below.
She does not spurn or scorn me,
But calls me to her breast,
She knows that none will mourn me,
And I ask only rest.
With all my senses willing,
With eyes for death alone,
I take the Devil’s Shilling
And join The Devil’s Own !
G.F.O.


M'DOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP
THE ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUS DIP.
M'DOUGALL BROS., 8 Spring- Street, Sydney.
3MC. A. Co., Ltd. LOCAL AGENTS EVERYWHERE
dsf
SEND
YOUR
WOOL
WINCHGOMBE, CARSON & CO. lm.
SYDNEY.
lf you want to get the best possible results.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.
Wool and Produce Brokers,
Consolidated Charge!
for Selling Wool J
2i Per Cent
/Includes all Charges excepting
/cartage from steamer’s wharf.
Fat Stock Salesmen, Stock & Station Agents.
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.
BRAUN ORE SAMPLE-CRUSHER
and PULVERISER.
dsf
Combination of a Jaw and Roll
Pulveriser working together.
May be operated by either hand or power. *
Jaws, 3£ in. wide; Roll, 6 in. diameter; Belt!
Wheel, 16 x2i in. Total Weight, 285lbs*i
Write for Particulars to—
PARKE & LACY CO., Ltd.
60 Clarence-St., Sydney, n.s.w. 1
MINING ENGINEERS & MACHINERY <
MERCHANTS.
HAVE THE
BEST.
ds
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE
Is built by a light, handy machine, easily operate!, which will weave
THREE CHAINS OF FENCE AN HOUR.
The Lateral Wires are two-ply cable of best Gal. Steel Wire intersected by Crimped Steel Pickets
securely interwoven at any Ae&wed distance apart, forming a perfect Web Fence which will hold
securely all kinds of Stock.
FOR CATALOGUES AND PARTICULARS -
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE PENCE
l2B Franklin St., Melbourne; 143 Sussex St., Sydney.
CO.,
NEITHER CRACK
58oe
*8
CBB
&&07
<5BOB
fyiHivi&iSiijfiji faff
NOR BURN.
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
QUARANTGfi* Should juiy of our Colcbrstod CAN’T-R-rpat n j D . «
N.W On® «ll E«l»n£ftor ttto-5;. B <“ T .? r A %a.„ C .' ,C,[ “ B “™ *
Sold by all Tobacconists. By Post, 1 8 . 2d.
-■ jr 4 * _ _ OULU BY A
Mick Simmons,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
sole Oha rS e : 3 to the Grower,.
We are the only Sellinf J Broke™ who do not Charge Id. per lb. to the Buyer,.
“On Our Selection.” By “Steele Rudd.”
A Letter from Archdeacon Lingard.
Christchurch, N.Z.,
February 25th, ’Ol.
Dear Sirs, —
I have much pleasure in testifying to the value
of Warner’s Safe Cure.
Nearly four years ago, after having tried several
remedies for Diabetes without success, my medical
man consented to my trying Warner’s Safe Cure.
At that time there was no prospect of my living
above a few months. At first I took six tablet
spoonfuls a day. I began to improve in health
immediately, and was soon able to undertake my
regular duties. During the last four years I have
never been without the Safe Cure in the house, at
times reducing the doses to one per diem, and occa-
sionally going without altogether for a month or so.
At the present time, though not altogether
cured (at my age I can hardly expect it), I am able
to undertake the arduous duties of a large parish
single-handed, and without much fatigue.
X have no hesitation in saying that my present
fairly good state of health is due to Warner’s Safe
Cure, and I shall ever feel grateful that it came my
way.
Yours, etc.,
EDW. ATH. LINGARD,
Archdeacon of Akaroa.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Limited.
SAFE CURE
disordered condition of the Kidneys and Liver.
Indigestion
Dyspepsia
Biliousness
Sick Headache
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Backache
Sciatica
Anaemia
General Debility
Blood Disorders
Gravel
Bladder Troubles
Bright’s Disease
All arise from a diseased condition of the Kidneys and Liver, and Warner’s
speedily and permanently, by restoring the Kidneys and Liver to health thus
from the blood of the poisonous acids and other impurities which by their
tressing and dangerous complaints. ’
Safe Cure cures them all
ensuring the due removal
presence, cause these dis-


TATTERS ALLS
Address: Care GEO. ADAMS, HoDart.
SANDHURST 0. November 27.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the
Dec. 12
50,000 Subscribers at &
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name,
Address
£ t t
Summer 0.
Dec. 26.
50,000 Subscribers at 5*
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot mo whares in the above.
Name
Address .
Carrington S. Dec. 28.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot mo_
.shares in above.
Name,.
c
Address.
Jan. 1.
Brighton P.
2d,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in above.
Name
t
s
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tatter sail,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


[cm'-)
ikift
Soft, silky,
glossy, abun-
dant, beauti-
ful, elegant,
splendid,
handsome
you can’t find
words to de-
scribe a mag-
nificent head
of hair. Is this
the kind of
hair you have?
Is your hair long enough to suit you ?
Does the color exactly please you ? In
a word, are you perfectly satisfied with
your hair ? If not, give it a good hair-
food. Give it
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
’Twill make you have long, rich, abun-
dant hair, and it will stop falling of the
hair, too. Ayer’s Hair Vigor always
restores color. You can depend upon
it every time. It brings back all the
rich, dark color you had when you
were young. If you are 30, there is
no need of looking as if you were 50
]ust because your hair is gray.
And you will like our Hair Vigor,
also, as a hair dressing; while it forms
a valuable addition to any toilet table
because of the elegant way in which it
is put up.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Ma*g., U. S. A.
SNouyjiwi jo
iii^VM'ag
3ai)u)^(
UsPl**.
The Hotelkeepers’ Friend.
Soda Water, Id. per doz.
Lemonade and Ginger Ale, 3d. per doz.
HOTELKEEPERS MAKE THEIR OWN SUPPLIES OF
DERATED WATERS.
No skilled labor required. Anyone can learn
to operate the Machine in ten minutes.
TESTIMONIALS.
“ To the Daylesford Mineral Water Co.
“ Dear Sirs. —The Machine purchased from you is per-
fect. The stuff turned out is splendid. It is the best
speculation I have entered into since I joined the Licensed
Victuallers.—Geo. Nicholls, Royal Hotel, Swan Hill.”
Mr. Klug, Hotelkeeper, Charlton, says “It is worth
its WEIGHT IN GOLD.
Mr. P. Kennedy, Goolgardie, says : Profits saved by
making my own supplies of Aerated Waters with the
Machine pay the rent of my hotel.”
Mr. Lewis, Heidelberg, Victoria, says “ I have made
thousands of dozens of the best Aerated Waters with the
Machine, and it has not required sixpence worth of repairs.
No Hotelkeeper should be without one of them.”
Mr W. Atkinson, Hotelkeeper, Wentworth, N.S.W.,
gayg ' ; _“lt is the greatest money-maker yet discovered
for hotelkeepers.”
Mr. Burk, Yalgo, W.A., says “Since getting one of
your Machines, and making my own soft stuff, I have
saved its price ten times over.”
W. H. Jones, Peak Hill, W.A., says : ‘Machine great
success. . „ _ , ,
E. Davis, Peak Hill, W.A., says : Cannot speak too
hialilv of effectiveness and simplicity.”
G. N. Murdoch, Abbotts, W.A., says:— Value of
Machine indisputable ; quality and cheapness of stuff
unquestionable.” „ ,
T. H. Williams, Mossman, Queensland, says Highly
successful, and recommend to all hotelkeepers.”
J. S. Davidson, Bundaberg, Queensland, says “ Great
saving compared to previous cost of stock.”
A profitable business awaits pushing men in many small
centres of population, where a deeply-felt want
a GOOD quality of Aerated Waters. Observe the profits.
Call and see these Machines, or write for Circular descnb-
ng them, also Price List.
Davlesford Hepburn Mineral Water 00-407
407 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
331- per Halt-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE St SONS, Brisbane, Q'land
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Next Distribution of the Profits at 31st December, 1901.
Policies Effected before the close of the year will participate in the Bonus to be then allotted.
Amount of Cash Bonus divided among the participating Policyholders for the single year 1900 was £537,895.
(All bonuses vest immediately on policies attaining’ a duration of two years.) ,
Intending Proposers should note the above carefully, and send in their applications early, either direct or through
any of the Society’s Agents, so as to reap the benefit of this year’s bonus.
DIRECTORS : Thomas Littlejohn, Esq., Chairman ; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.0., Deputy-Chairman ; The
Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; Benjamin Short, Esq.; Senator J. T. Walker; J. Abbott, Esq. ; and
F. E. Winchcombe, Esq., M.P. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., KS.b.
Head Office : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
HMOn&V,
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 109.
H. Hilb'er,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
£gF Send for a
Catalogue.
fds
Bent -Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Eight Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HI I. LIEU. 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNIi-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
WORLD
PLAYER’S
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
mk
WHOLESALE
Distributing Agents
New South Wales —
M. RUTTY & CO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria—
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Western Australia —
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland—
Thos. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Philp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
W'atchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand—
D. Benjamin & Co.,
Dunedin, Wellington
and Christchurch.
TV
M
300 K.W. Three-phase Generator
GANZ* G°
DYNAMOS, MOTORS.
EVERYTHING ELECTRIC.
Expert Advice Free.
Sole Agents for Australasia.:
The Austral Otis Engineering Go. Ltd.
SOUTH MELBOURNE.
THE
‘PLUM’
fs
THE
‘PLUM’
r\ ENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
VT Hke a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
ede-e that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
{Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21a
Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful ease, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
yW° Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
I’ll Try It:
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
m
The Result.
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers &. Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
IpW* Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to any part of Australasia.
CRAIG & AITKEIM^
New South Wales Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, A's; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 16 per
cent more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYONHiir
OUK SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
df
Delivered at any Wharf «r
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 107-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A prominent English agricultural journal
advises its readers that when the pig falls sick it
is better to send for the butcher ere the animal
loses flesh. “ The pig is a most unkindly patient,
and seldom gets well,” so it doesn’t pay to try and
heal him. This item gives a fine relish to the
prime imported York ham.
The old story of fishing with dynamite.
Writes a South Sea correspondent
Dynamite kills cruelly sometimes. William Pitt was
dynamiting fish, Aug. 17th, on the island of Florida,
Solomon Group. He applied a fire-stick to a fuse, which
apparently did not light, and he started to blow it, when
the dynamite cartridge exploded, blew some of the fingers
and thumb off his right hand, destroyed his eye, aijd
blew his face and chest full of small holes. One hole
larger than the rest went right through the big bone of
the chest and was about three-quarters of an inch in
diameter. The Govt, yacht, Lalu, was sent to bring the
man to Tulegi. There was no doctor there, but some
traders did all they could for the patient; but he died
Aw. 31. An almost similar accident killed a man named
Sheridan at the same island some time ago, and Sheridan
also took 14 days to die.
Calling.
Painter, while the mood is on me,
(I, myself, will tell the story)
Seize your brush and paint a picture,
Paint a castle, old and hoary.
Let its towers be sunset-reddened,
With green ivy-tendrils twini ig
Round about them, and its windows
Richly, radiantly shining.
Paint a woman at a window,
Watching, while the red day closes;
Let her hands be as two li ies,
And her lips be like red roses.
Make her paler than a snow-flake
Under leaden heavens falling ;
And her lips—they must be parted,
So that one might hear her calling,
Calling, calling o’er the meadow,
Where the lark’s last song is ringing,
To a man, who nods and answers,
And comes near and nearer, singing,
Singing, singing sweet love’s praises—
What, 0 what were life without it ?
And the lark must pause and listen,
With the sunset light about it.
Paint a hundred lissome maidens
Round about him, laughing, dancing,
Hair down-fallen on their shoulders,
Burning mouths and forms entrancing.
Paint the maidens offering favors
To the minstrel—roses pelting ;
Fill their eyes with salutations,
Glances soft and sweet and melting.
But the minstrel must not heed them,
Though their beauty be a wonder ;
He sees only that pale woman
At the castle window yonder.
Yea, his heart goes out before him
To that pale, fair face enthralling,
As, through leagues and leagues of twilight,
Plaintively he hears her calling.
Calling, calling ! —ah, how sweetly,
While he hurries breathless, frantic,
Comes her voice across the distance
From that castle-place romantic.
Painter, he shall never reach her !
Skies shall darken, tempests thunder,
And the ground shall gape between them,
And a sullen gulf shall sunder.
And that gulf shall hold a torrent,
Leaping, swaying, roaring, falling ;
But, above its utmost tumult,
He shall hear her ever calling.
Yea, life-long he shall be haunted
With her beauty pale, unreal :
For the man is but a poet,
And the woman his ideal.
n.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
Memories.
A little creek, and from its bending rushes
A bell-bird’s call;
A lovers’ kiss between the long, sweet hushes
Of twilight’s fall.
A gentle face and eyes a-full of dreaming,
And rich in lustrous shine,
Which underneath their long, dark lashes beaming
Appeared divine.
A rising moon and then, with steps of leisure,
Home through the ripening wheat;
And spirits glowing with that sense of pleasure
Which Love makes sweet.
A little grave amongst the churchyard grasses
Hidden in lilac spray,
Where the spring wind makes music as it passes
In wanton play.
A man’s sad heart grown weary through life’s
dangers,
And bitter with its gall;
A fading sunset o’er the distant ranges,
And twilight’s fall.
ARISTO.


MONKEY
BRAND
SOAP
Makes Tin like Silver)
Copper Uke Gold;
Brass like Mirrors)
Windows like Crystal;
Crockery like Marble.
Cleanses and polishes at one and the same tim r,
Does not polish the dirt »», polishes the dirt out.
Cleans and Brightens everything, but
Won't Wash Clothes ,
ry orders.
Tails. Plalti
FRINGES, Best Natural Ourly Hair, 8/0, 5/0,
7/0, 8/0, 10/0 each. TAILS and PLAITS,
20in. loner, 5/0, ; Extra Thick, 7/0 : 24in.,
10/0; Extra Thick, 12/0 up to 40/-. Out-
tings and Combings Worked Up, 2/0 per oz.
Don’t be misled. Our Plaits and Tails are
twice as thick as sold elsewhere at same
price. Send Color of Hair. “ Only ONE
Address”:— W. H. WIG ZELL,
110 WILLI AM-ST., Comer of Palmer-st.,
Sydney. Cable trams will stop at door. All
work guaranteed Illustrated catalogue
post free. Prompt attention given to coun-
Wigs made on shortest notice.
A POLICY
FOB THE
COM MON WEALTH
Price, 6d; posted, Bd.
QOLD
BAMBOO
BANGLES
AT
FREETRADE
PRICES.
WIUHjiUMHHg
Send flor our Illustrated Oatalosu® l
All Qoods Forwarded Post Pres.
EJNGUBH
HALL
MARKBD.
Hi/* aa/6
as/a ®a/6
38/“ 40/“
48/- 80/" 87/0
Children's
Size - “ 17/6
Telephone 3042.
Art Jewellers and Optician*, 90 King Strosti Sydney.
A Policy for the Commonwealth.
PRICE, ea. > Posted, Bd.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Hennessy’s
One Star
and
Three Star
Brandy
has the
Largest Sale
In
the World.
THE
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
■i/Z
M.
Va
w
CIGARETTES
Green-Apple Wisdom.
THE accumulated wisdom of this generation can’t keep a boy from eating green apples.
You can talk to him till you are tired, but it will do no good. He simply can’t learn from
anything but hard, pit-of-the-stomach experience. He must have his own belly-ache before he
will believe what you tell him.
Now, men are simply boys grown up. It isn’t green apples any longer, but it’s the same
old comedy with new properties. It's the question, perhaps, of roofs. It’s the old chimera of
getting value, of getting full return for honest investment. There are plenty of cheap Roofs.
“ The Woods are full of them.”
In the Full Light of Experience.
“ When the Pan-American Exposition opened at Buffalo,
P & B Ruberoid Roofing was on eleven buildings, including the
United States Government Building, on which upwards of
20,000 square yards were used. They are constantly having
trouble with the cheaper Roofings. These are being torn off in
many instances, and Ruberoid substituted.
“Arthur W. Trench.
“New York, U.S.A., July 19th, 1901.”
Why not use the green-apple common sense that you learned as a boy, and invest in a
Ruberoid Roof? When 75 per cent, of the users of Ruberoid Roofing send us repeat orders, it
ought to mean something to you. How about a trial order ?
AGENTS
E. RICH & CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY.
BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 22.—N0. 1135.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1901.
Prick 6d.
they may be needed.
At a meeting of'the Naturalists’ Club, held
in Vickery’s Chambers, Sydney, on Monday night,
it was decided to take steps towards preserving
the native animals of Australia, which are rapidly
being exterminated.
THE HIGH PRICE OF MEAT.
BOARDING-HOUSE CATERER : “Yes, he seems rather tender, but my boarders have got rather tired of Baked Possum and demand a change."
FAMILY BUTCHER: "Then, I'll tell you what, mum-let me send you a nice hindquarter of Digo or some Native Bear outlets. And we've jusb got in some fine,
fesh Playtypuses-unless you'd prefer a Bandicoot or a Gohanna!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Maoleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBER'S
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 b b
Ifotiee to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
IVestralia and Itfaoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
■Bl, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of\\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maoleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
"Correspondence" column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in lilack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e. , any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus ; and Street <Sc Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. — L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Capetown. Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1901.
More About State Audit.
Mr. Hardy, an English insurance magnate,
who came out here to do some actuarial
work for the Citizens’ Life Office, had a
festive welcome, the other day, and made
certain feeling remarks. He told the people
of Australia that State interference was a
bad thing; that Britain was full of large,
substantial life-assurance offices that had
grown up without Government supervision
or meddling ; that Australia was in the same
desirable situation ; and that, in view of
these excellent results, he hoped that Par-
liament would withhold its legislative hand
and its investigating eye, and leave matters
alone. And just at present Hume Cook, of
"Victoria, has a motion oti the business paper
of the House of Representatives to the effect
that the Commonwealth Government should
establish its own life-assurance department
under Government management and guaran-
tee. Which is, perhaps, the reason why
the private life-assurance man disparages
Government interference a little harder than
usual at the present moment.
• * * •
Of course, it is perfectly true that Britain
has many large, well-managed and prosperous
life offices that have grown up without State
supervision. It has one or two that might
possibly claim to be distinctly ahead even of
Australia’s great A.M.P. Society. These
institutions have been managed on the lines
that any law of State supervision would lay
down, and the State law would make no
change in their management. It would
merely be a question of the State auditor
coming round periodically, and compli-
menting them on being up to, or even ahead
of, the State standard of solvency and pre-
caution, and telling the management that it
and its institution were an honor to the
community. Even the most cantankerous
manager of the richest office could hardly
object to that. Then the functionary would
go away to hunt-up crooked and shady offices,
and make them imitate the ways of the
admirable institutions ; and imitation is the
sincerest form of flattery. Seeing that these
great assurance institutions are so sound and
well-managed, it is strange that a proposal to
make other institutions imitate them should
cause such indignation. A certain propor-
tion of life-assurance concerns are “cronk,”
and a certain proportion of persons commit
murder. Probably the proportion of crooked
life offices is larger than the proportion of
people who commit murder, and therefore
calls for more urgent attention. And a bank-
rupt life office is often a greater tragedy than
a murder. The latter, at the worst, is bub
the killing of a person who would have died
anyhow—possibly very soon, and in a much
more painful fashion. The latter may mean
years of after disappointment and misery,
and possibly disease and crime, caused by
that misery, to the widow and orphans. A
broken life-insurance office, or bank, or
building society is often the centre of a
thousand awful tragedies.
* * * *
And, despite all their successes, there is
not too much to boast of in the results of
Britain’s policy of non-interference—or of
Australia’s either. The record of dead
British offices isn’t nice reading; nor, in
some cases, that of the live offices either.
Britain owns a long and lamentable tail of
brassy life-institutions which would be a
disgrace to any country. Their balance-
sheets have to be published certainly, but
publicity doesn’t kill them, for the average
man doesn’t know one side of a balance-
sheet from the other, and they still collect
the premiums of the foolish and ignorant.
The Yorkshire Provident, after 28 years of
hard premium-collecting, with two-thirds of
its capital disappeared and all the premium
receipts spent—the Universal Insurance L.
and I. Co., after 31 years, with £25,860 lia-
bilities and £491 of assets (this isn’t the big
Universal, but a shabby concern which
apparently took the loan of its name with trim-
mings)—the sorrowful Pioneer Co., income
for 1899 about £ll,OOO, and outgoings about
£14,000 —the Law Property, with £72,000
liabilities and about £lO,OOO of assets —the
Methodist and General (said to belong to
the Salvation Army), and which certainly
looks like it—the Independent Order of
Foresters, and others. There is one Eng-
lish life office whose accounts frankly ad-
mitted, not long since, that it can only pay
2s. in the £, and it is getting steadily worse.
At a recent actuarial investigation it was
responsible for life-policies to the amount of
£111,860, and its life-assurance fund was
worth £l7O. It has been admitting things
like this for a dozen years. Still it gets pre-
miums—a good many premiums, in fact, and
its business is actually increasing. The
absolutely-bankrupt life offices of the United
Kingdom carry the hopes of a good many
thousand families that know no better. And
then, in addition, there are institutions that
are born and die without leaving any serious
trace behind them. Two or three pages of
the Insurance Blue Book are always
devoted to the names of recently closed-up
British insurance institutions—life and
other kinds. Some have transferred
their business; some are in liquidation ;
sometimes one has just gone away and left
no address, and not paid the rent. This
lamentable tail that hangs disgracefully on
to the far end of an honorable business exists
mainly for want of State supervision.
• * * •
Whatever Britain may think of the matter
Australia will almost certainly go in for
State interference before long. There are
two or three reasons why it should. The
Independent Order of Foresters is one ; a
legal system which allows that concern to
exist, despite the fact that, if its liabilities
are calculated according to the ordinary sys-
tem, they amount to a good many times its
funds, and which also allows it to swagger
insolently and blatantly in the land as the
expounder of a new and beautiful gospel in
life-assurance, can’t be too promptly sup-
pressed. The Provident and Industrial
of Maoriland is another good reason,
and one or two more concerns among
the horde that have sprung up in
late years might also be quoted. Austra-
lasia possesses one State-managed life-assur-
ance institution, and the Maoriland Govern-
ment Department, in addition to being the
only office which offers what can be fairly
called absolute security (i.e., the security of
the State), charges lower rates than any of
its rivals, and hopelessly beats every pri-
vately-managed institution of anything like
its own size in economy of management and
general excellence of results. If Maoriland’s
State Department is taken to represent
Government interference, and all the other
offices of Australasia (striking an average
with the A.M.P. at one end of the scale, and
the blatant Independent Order of Foresters
somewhere about the other) to represent the
policy of non-interference, then the case for
State control is overwhelming. If the
Maoriland Government Department is com-
pared to British companies, then, so far as
concerns security, lowness of premiums,
cheap management, and high bonuses, the re-
sult is again largely in favor of State control.
It is the only State life assurance scheme of
any size or standing in this world, and the
lofty British person who declares State
control to be a failure has seldom taken the
trouble to call upon and examine the only
specimen available. He is accustomed to
the privately-managed variety : it is British ;
and he gets his bread and butter by it; and
anything that is British, and that provides
him with his bread and butter, must be
good.
& * * * *
If there was a legal standard of solvency
as regards life-assurance offices, a State
investigation to ascertain that the assets are
sufficient under that standai’d to cover all
liabilities, and power to close up insolvent
offices, it is practically certain that several
institutions now doing business in Austra-
lasia would go out. Thereby, there would
be more room left for the sound offices, and
with less competition they could get business
at a cheaper rate, which would be better
both for themselves and the public. There-
fore, the sound offices would benefit largely
by the proceeding. Y-et even they are
mostly hostile to the idea. One reason is
that, as business is done in Australia, it is
almost certain that even large and solid-
looking offices have occasional intervals
of insolvency—pretty long intervals in some
cases, and pretty bad insolvency. When the
great fall in the value of property came in
the early Nineties, it found almost every
office loaded up with mortgage securities, an
enormous proportion of which ceased to be
worth the amount lent on them. And hardly
one office, by reason of the struggle after big
bonuses and the high expense-rate caused
by intense competition, had any reserves
worth mentioning. They wrote off the loss
by degrees, or it is still being written off by
degrees ; and the partial recovery in pro-
perty values helped them a little ; but there
was a period when some Australian life
offices of high standing might have had a
bad time if a genuine independent audit and
valuation of securities had taken place.
Some of them might have a bad time
even now—it is difficult to say. And
as property values are only being lifted
again by a violent return to the old
borrowing policy, it is quite possible that
another slump may attack the securities
before long. A mutual life office which has
no shareholders’ capital with which to fill a
temporary shortage, which does business in
a land of inflation and violent fluctuations,
and invests most of its funds for the sake of
high interest in securities that are specially
liable to fluctuate, and which spends almost
all its profits in sensational bonuses as it
goes along, finds difficulties in a system
which would require it to show itself solvent
all the time. A really efficient State audit
and valuation would make it necessary to
sacrifice a lot of the bonuses for a number of
years, in order to build up large permanent
reserves and provide for the next slump in
advance. That would be unpleasant for the
management, but good—very good—in the
end for the public. Unfortunately, the State
audit idea only began to take serious hold in
Australia about the time when some even of
the big life offices of this country could least
stand auditing.
• • • •
Also, the State audit idea began to grow
up in Australia just about the time that its
banks and building societies were least
anxious to get into the limelight and demon-
strate their solvency. The State audited the
Q.N. Bank a little and the Bank of New
Zealand a good deal, and the things it found
out about private enterprise were painful to
mention. In New South Wales the State
didn’t audit—it only interfered. It saved
the surviving banks in ’93 by coming to their
assistance without asking questions about
their standing. That proceeding was cor-
dially admired ; private enterprise mostly
rushes to the State for aid in bad times. It
highly approves of State interference so long
as the interference consists of assistance
with no questions asked. In Victoria the
State didn’t interfere, and for that reason
only one Victorian bank escaped suspension.
And the Victorian capitalist, though he ob-
jects to State interference as much as any •
other capitalist, has never ceased cursing to
this day because the State didn’t interfere. If
the Australian life-assurance offices strike a
serious disaster some day, they will also, it
is quite probable, come to the State for aid
with no questions asked. A rigid system of
State inspection now might avert that catas-
trophe. It would almost certainly make
these institutions put more energy into the
work of writing off old losses, and it might
cause them to make solid provision in ad-
vance for future losses. If it achieved either
of these results it would have a good work
to its credit.
The Federal Labor Party and the Tariff.
The Labor party having considered the Barton
tariff in detail has decided to call for its reduc-
tion in committee by something like a million
sterling. George Turner, the most careful and
grubbing Treasurer who ever blessed any Austra-
lian State, calculates that the Commonwealth
requires to raise £8,900,000 a year for its
own and the States’ uses. The Labor
party calculates that £7,900,000 will be enough.
The Bulletin would like to believe that the
Labor party is correct, for paying taxes is not
a pleasant thing ; but, judging by the public
performances of the two financial authorities
—Turner and the Labor party—this paper
is inclined to back the former, and to
forecast that any such severe trimming of the
Federal income as is proposed would only result
in a further resort to the dishonest tricks of public
finance. The system of charging current expendi-
ture to loan accounts has already brought the
finances of the States to a parlous condition, and
threatens to lead to absolute disaster. So, whilst
it would be a joyful circumstance to be able to dis-
pense with £1,000,000 of taxes —since, even with
that million, all the States will continue to resort
to the London pawnshop, and the Federa-
tion will go to the same disreputable place to get
money to put clock-towers on post-offices IHE
Bulletin would be more inclined to welcome a
proposal to gather in yet another £1,000,000 or
so a year, and thus start Australia on a serious
attempt to pay its way. Paying one’s way is
travelling on a rugged and thorny path, but the
journey will have to be made some day, and the
younger our feet the less painful the blisters.
* * * *
One notable fact is that the Labor party’s list
of suggested reductions touches practically no
Protective duty. It is the revenue part, the Free-
trade part of the tariff, to which exception is
chiefly taken. The duties on tea, cocoa, mustard,
kerosene, infants’ food, undressed timber, water-
proof cloth, flannelette and other cotton goods the
party proposes to abolish; thetax on rice to decrease.
The only Protective duties which it is proposed to
interfere with are those on condensed milk (re-
duction from Hd. to Id. per lb.), galvanised iron
(abolition), and ammunition (abolition). It is
satisfactory to note that the Australian Labor
party, as a party, unanimously endorses nearly all
the Protective portion of the Barton National
policy, and finds ground for objection only to the
Freetrade revenue duties. This objection The
Bulletin would, in the main, cordially endorse if
the financial position of Australia were different.
But when the nonest meetingof current obligations
is practically impossible with a Customs and Excise
revenue of £8,900,000, there can be no other result
of reducing that sum by £1,000,000 than an in-
crease of national dishonesty. On some details,
too, the suggestions of the Labor party are open to
criticism. Experience has shown that a tea duty
does not interfere with the cheap brealcfast-table,
whilst it has a value outside of its revenue-raising
properties in keeping rubbish out of the country.
When G. H. Reid canvassed for the gratitude of
the N.S.W. people by repealing the I)ibbs duty
on tea, householders went on paying the usual
price of one shilling, or one shilling and sixpence,
or two shillings a pound for their blend, and
were not aware of getting any better value
for the money than before. The money pre-
viously paid in duty did not go to the
consumer, but was partly pocketed by the
importer, partly distributed among newspapers,
hoarding fiends, and house-to-house tea canvassers,
in the effort to push the consumption of stuff
worth fourpence a lb. as an extra choice eighteen-
penny blend. In proposing to remove the tax
from the murderous flannelette the Labor party
makes another mistake. That shoddy, inflam-
mable material causes scores of deaths from
burning of the children of the poor yeai'ly, and if
it were to be kept out of the country by a 1000
per cent, ad valorem impost, the tax would be a
blessing and not a burden.
* » * *
On the broad principle of having less by
£1,000,000 of the Freetrade brand of taxation,
The B. is, however, cordially with the Labor
party, if it can be done honestly, and would just
as enthusiastically endorse a call for £5,000,000
less—with the same reservation. Unfortunately,
the reservation is a fatal one.
It will be interesting to see if Mr. G. H. Reid
has the unutterable gall to support the Labor
party in this attack on his pet duties. A Reid
tariff would certainly have agreed with the
Barton tariff on the points singled out by
the Labor party ; in fact, Sydney D.T., which
professes to be the organ of Reid, and
is certainly the organ of the importers, called
for even higher revenue taxes than those proposed
by Barton. If Mr. Reid now rallies to the
standard of Mr. Watson and assists his efforts to
do away with just the sort of duties that Mr.
Reid has lately been crying out for, it will show
that the only principle in his political pro-
gramme is office-seeking, and a low-down
desire to embarrass the Government at any cost.
An honest attitude on the part of the leader of
the Opposition on this point would do something
to rehabilitate him in the eyes of Australia ; if he
follows at the Labor party’s tail in an effort to
destroy the very part of the tariff that he himself
favors, it will never be possible to regard him in
any other light than that of a humorous person
with no political moral sense, and no guiding
principle except a greed for office.
Sweater and Co.
“ Manufacturers of clothing, poverty, and im-
morality,” is the sign that should be displayed by
some of the Sydney ‘ ‘ slop ” firms. Hitherto, the
wages paid in their factories have been fixed in
the face of unrestricted competition with the
world, and this has brought the trade in Sydney
down to such a point that only women who had
husbands working, who had homes with relatives,
or who had “ other sources of income” could really
live. But with the passage of the Federal tariff,
and the consequent barring out of European cheap
labor competition, the women have made an effort
to improve their position by means of organisation.
The need for it was very great. For making
trousers, women used to be paid by some manu-
facturers fivepence per pair—some were only
paid fourpence—for which sum the trousers had
to be seamed down the sides, round the bottoms,
sewn round the body, fitted with pockets and
buttons. Vests were paid for at the rate of 6d.
for men’s, sd. for youths’, and for boys’, the
workers finding all the silk and cotton thread;
for Govt, vests they received 7d. Coat machin-
ists were paid anything from 2s. 6d. to £1 per
week, but the average was far below 10s. per week.
In one factory writer took the wages of the eight
best-paid women, and the total was £6 13s. 6d.,
or an average of 16s. each for 48 hours ! This
is the wage of people who have served their time,
not averaged with the swarm of apprentices
working for 2s. 6d. per week. As to the Victorian
rates, the lowest paid for making trousers in that
State is Is. per pair, under the Minimum Wage
law. It is in an effort to raise Sydney rates
towards the level of those of Melbourne that the
tailoresses on strike are now engaged.
* * * *
The demands of the strikers are exceedingly
moderate: for trousers, eigbtpenee per pair for
plain seams and ninepence for raised seams; for
men’s vests eightpence; minimum wage for
machinists 30s. per week. These are the terms
Sweater and Co. are fighting, and in the interests
of the whole community Sweater and Co. must be
smashed. The worst sweaters are not manufactu-
rers in the proper sense of the terra. They are
mere middlemen parasites. The warehouses im-
port the cloth, and the so-called manufacturers fit
up a room with a few machines and tender for the
work of making the cloth up into garments for the
warehouses. Their only raw material is woman’s
labor. They compete with one another, and
the warehouses pit them against each other,
and the more they can beat down wages the
greater the margin of profit. The warehouse-
men calculate to make one profit on the cost of
selling the raw material, another profit on the
cost of making it up; in addition they have to
pay travellers, advertising and other expenses,
and pass the total sum on to the retailer, who in
turn has to get his 30 or 40 per cent, profit. The


firms which imported the cloth and made it up
themselves, and sold it direct to the retailers or
the public, settled the difficulty right away, as far
as they were concerned. It was the middle-man
parasite who stood out. He says he cannot afford
to pay the increased rates, as the aristocratic
warehouseman has got him sweated right down to
the last cent. The middle-man does indeed look
as though someone had got him down. What he
says may be true. He may not be able to
pay the higher wages and live, and if so,
the sooner he is commercially dead the better. At
present he seems to be able to live only by grind-
ing down the worker, and taking from the “big
man” the reproach of sweating.
* * * *
It was not a strike that was wanted. It was a
case to go before an Arbitration Court, which
could have found out if the real sweater was the
poor-looking middle-man manufacturer, or the
eminently respectable warehouseman, who sits in
the legislature and drives to church on Sundays.
As the strike has occurred, the only thing is to
level up the wages—even if it sweeps the middle-
man right out the business. He has no right to
live if he cannot live honestly and without killing
others. For the future the matter is largely
mixed up with the tariff. The big warehouses
who import the cloth would just as soon
import the made-up article. The duty on
made-up clothing is 25 per cent. Add to that
about 8 per cent, for landing charges, and you get
a total duty of 33 per cent. On raw material,
woollens, and worsteds, the duty is 20 per cent.,
and the landing charges are from 5 to 1\ per cent.,
which gives the local manufacturer only from 5 to
74 per cent, protection. In addition to this he
has outside advantages which probably increase
his actual protection to about 12 per cent, at the
outside. These advantages are those of distance,
freshness of design and cut, sorting up
of sizes, and ability to complete small
orders in full range of sizes. The English
or foreign manufacturer has always to make
goods for the Australian market about a
season in advance. Australia is a long way off, and
fashions change suddenly as to width of trousers
and cut of vest. Small men cannot send for a
dozen of assorted suits half-way round the world,
but they can send to the local manufacturer.
Against all these advantages is the superior organi-
sation of the European factories. They work longer
hours, with better machinery and lower wages, and
on many classes of goods they can pay all our cus-
toms duties and still undersell the local product. If
Australia is to have its store-clothing hands paid
a decent living wage, the tariff on manufactured
rags must be increased to at least 35 or 45 per
cent. Local competition will keep the price
down ; so, while the higher tariff won’t increase the
price of clothes, it will set a standard below which
the cheap and nasty foreign exporter cannot cut
rates by his cheaper labor. Then, with a Mini-
mum Wage law and an Industrial Arbitration
Court, the sweater can be kent out of the trade.
The Chinese Egg.
The Bulletin still awaits with anxiety the pro-
test of the Australian Freetrade party against
the protection of the Australian hen proposed by
the Barton tariff. The Customs tax of sixpence
per dozen on imported eggs, now liable to be col-
lected, amounts to 300 per cent, on the Chinese
egg which lias lately been arriving at our ports,
and will prove practically prohibitive. The bless-
ings of the Hong Kong hen’s cheap labor product
will thus be. entirely lost to the Australian citizen.
The issue is such an important one, from the
Cobden point of view, that George Reid, Sydney
Smith and Joseph Cook should for the while
abandon their sorrowful contemplation of the
washerwoman’s taxed starch and rally to the de-
fence of the cheap Chinese egg.
• * * *
The egg, it is perhaps hardly necessary to re-
mind Mr. Reid, is a staple article of food alike
for poor and rich. It graces every breakfast-table,
enters into the composition of the Wolloomooloo
baby’s milk-pudding and the Toorak magnate’s
lobster mayonnaise. From Kalgoorlie to Cook-
town its use is universal. The miner, the
farmer, the laborer, the struggling city clerk,
the sweated laundress, all trust for nutri-
ment largely to the egg. A far-seeing Providence
has seemed to design it, not so much for the per-
petuation of the fowl species as for the provision
of an easily-portable, naturally-canned so to
speak, and quickly-cooked article of human food.
A falling price - barometer in the egg market
indicates happiness and peace for mankind ; a rise
in value pinches every household. For many
years the Australian hen has coped with the
Australian demand for eggs, providing the “laid
to-dav,” the “new-laid,” and the “quite fresh”
in quantities apparently sufficient for all demands.
But, with the beginning of the new century, there
dawned on N.S.W. the blessing of the Chinese
egg.
* * * •
The reason of the extraordinary cheapness of the
Chinese egg, the researches of political economists
have so far failed to reveal, though it is probably ex-
plainableon the ground that the Chinese hen thrives
on a diet of fish-offal, whilst the Australian hen will
not work without the stimulus of a grass run and
two feeds a day of grain food. At Hong kong
eggs cost one penny per dozen packed: they can
easily be landed in Sydney at threepence
dozen and retailed for fivepence, at a big profit.
The Australian hen refuses to work under any
conditions which will enable her product to be
sold at less than sixpence a dozen, even in its
“ quite fresh ” and intensely doubtful state.
* * * *
Now, it must be obvious to the meanest free-
trade intellect that a tariff which proposes to
protect the Australian hen at the expense of the
bone and sinew of the heavily-burdened washer-
woman of the community, is a relic of barbarism,
a prop of monopoly, an attempt on the part of
bloated privilege to suck the blood of the poor.
What claim has that bird, or the mercenary mono-
polists who seek to pile up fortunes out of its
labors, on the goodwill of the Australian com-
munity, that we should be taxed heavily to main-
tain for her easy conditions of work and
plentiful supply of food ? Why should she not
be prepared to compete in the open markets of
the world, and live on fish offal too ? Her industry
is surely long enough established now. Why
should it require more coddling ; still weakly seek
shelter from the State? If the Chinese hen can
lay eggs in China which can be laid down in
Sydney at threepence per dozen, is it not a posi-
tive advantage to every section of the community
in giving them a cheap food-supply ? And why
should the Australian hen object ? Far better
for the taxpayers to agree to pension every Aus-
tralian hen and allow it to live in opulent and
eggless ease than to submit to this burden of
sixpence per dozen on Chinese eggs.
* * * »
These are the arguments on the subject which
will readily suggest themselves to every Free-
trader. They are precisely similar to the argu-
ments used on the question of boots, and woollen
clothing, and furniture, and grain, and a dozen
other things which the Bakton tariff proposes to
tax for the protection of Australian industry.
The Bulletin awaits anxiously, then, their
flourishing forth in the loud squeakof G-. H. Reid —
awaits anxiously, but to an extent, hopelessly, for
the Cobdenites seem to wish to avoid this egg-
question as the politician seeks to avoid the
feculent egg of the platform. Yet, consistency
demands of the great Freetrade party some firm
utterance on the subject, else it will incur the
ignominy of quietly consenting to give to the
Australian lien the protection which it wishes to
take away from the Australian working-man.
The defence of the Chinese egg against its local
enemies is the duty of pressing moment for the
Foreign-1 raders.
The Child-Blood-Griutiness of New
South Wales.
It is well for the average man’s peace of mind
that statistics are dry reading, otherwise the
terrific waste of infant life in Australia would
darken his days and haunt his nights. Listen to
the death wail of the children echoing through
Coghlan’s statistics. In N.S.W. alone, between
the years 1895 and 1900, inclusive, N.S.W. lost by
death 38,258 children under the age of 15 years.
During the same period 15,140 babies were born
out of wedlock, of whom 4212 perished in their
first year ; 373 reached their first birthday only to
die; and the death total was swelled by 289
others, born before 1895. Altogether, during the
six years, 4874 illegitimate children died before
their 15th year.
-* • * *
Probably numbers of these were wanted to live,
but were slain by the ignorance and carelessness
of their mothers. The dirty feeding-bottle, with
the rubber tube poison-bed ; and the infected sink
that cries aloud in vain for carbolic acid, accounted
for some of the little illegitimates without the
consent of their mothers ; but the vast majority
were, no doubt, simply treated as undesirable
planetary immigrants and shoved over the bourn
as quickly as possible by neglect, brutality, and
straight-out murder. There can be no question of
this : the way the illegitimate dies off compared
with the wedlock child proves it. This table is
supplied by statistician Coghlan, and shows the
comparative death-rates of legitimate and illegiti-
mate children for the years mentioned
DEATHS'per THOUSAND OP LEGITIMATE AND ILLEGITIMATE
CHILDREN UNDER 15 EACH YEAR.
1895. 1896. 1897. 1893. 1899. 1900.
Legitimate .. 106 109 91 109 106 89
Illegitimate .. 245 294 260 297 286 288
Excess of illegi-
timate deaths
per 1000 .. 139 185 169 188 180 199
For 1901, as far as the figures are available, the
ratio stands :
DEATHS PER THOUSAND OF EACH CLASS LIVING.
Under one year—Legitimate, 90 - 3 ; illegitimate, 305 - 7
Under five years— „ 27‘8 ; „ 91'5
Which means that the poor little illegitimates died
off about 34 times as fast as those born in wedlock,
and a large proportion of them died in their first
year, when they were utterly helpless, when their
only protest was a wail, and the fiendish baby-
farmer could murder them with comparative
safety.
* * • *
N.S.W. has a Children’s Protection Act, and a
Children’s Protection Department to administer
it. The Act was largely the outcome of the ex-
posure of the wholesale Marin murders in 1892,
but it is crippled by its undue respect for parental
rights, whereas any Act for the proper protection
of children must lay it down as a fundamental law
that all parental rights are based upon the faithful
performance of parental duties. N.S.W. Act
makes it necessary for the Children’s Protection
Department to prove the parent or guardian
guilty of some specific action, which, in the sworn
opinion of a medical man, “has resulted, or
appears likely to result in bodily suffering or
permanent or serious injury to the health of the
child,” before it can take charge of it. What is
needed is an absolutely new Act, drawn on the
lines of the recent English legislation on the sub-
ject, giving the department power to move on the
grounds of general neglect and insufficient care,
and leave it to the court to say whether the neg-
lect justifies the adoption of the child by the State.
* * * •
To provide proper protection for the illegiti-
mate, it is absolutely necessary that the powers
of the Children’s Protection Department be
largely extended. It must have machinery by
which it can have some chance to get to know of the
existence of the illegitimate infant within hours
of its birth. At present, it never hears of him till
60 days afterwards, if it does hear of him at
all ; and by that time the little waif, if not already
dead, is doomed. Every charitable or other
lying-in hospital or home should be compelled to
notify the department within 24 hours of any
birth. Every doctor, or nurse, or other person
acting in his place (the householder being respon-
sible for the carrying out of the law) should be
required to notify the nearest officer of the
C.P.D., or, where there is no officer, the nearest
stipendiary magistrate, of the birth of any child.
If it was described as an illegitimate, immediately
the department received the news it could take
steps to notify the mother in a tactful and discreet
manner that it is prepared, if she were unable to do
so, to find a home for her infant, without exposing
“ her shame” in any way. If this were done the
helpless, deserted mother would turn instinctively
to the department for succour and assistance;
whereas now she turns to the “kind, motherly
person ” who will adopt a pretty baby for a pre-
mium of £5. Mostly the poor girl has to go to
work to earn the £5, and the baby is dead before
it is paid.
• • * *
A searching investigation into the cause of
death should be made in the cases of all boarded-
out children, and a record kept of the people with
whom boarded-out illegitimates die, so that the
Department could get on the track of all people
whose record would cause suspicions of trafficking
in infantile death.
* » • *
To properly cope with the problem, the Depart-
ment should have thoroughly-equipped maternity
hospitals and foundling homes. The mother could
be admitted to the maternity hospital till “her
trouble” was over, when she could be drafted on
to the foundling home to nourish her child for
about twelve weeks or so while it was being inured
to artificial food. Private foundling-homes, such
as that at Waitara, near Sydney, run by R. C.
nuns, can do this; so it should not be beyond
the power or the purse of the State. The
present lack of such institutions absolutely
drives the unmarried mother to the abortionist
and the baby-farmer. N.S.W. has, in the
past, gaoled individuals following these occu-
pations, and when gaol failed to suppress
them, it has tried hanging them; but,
judging by the numerous trials for illegal
practice, that, too, has failed to suppress
the abortionist, and the previously - given
statistics prove that the baby-murderer is
rampant in the land. If State maternity hospi-
tals and foundling asylums were in existence,
many girls would sootier go through the ordeal of
maternity than risk their lives at the hands of the
criminal quack ; and, if it were generally known
that the State would assist, without trouble and
exposure, unmarried mothers to find homes for
their babes, a large number of valuable lives would
be saved, both adult and infant; the abortionist
and baby-farmer would wilt away for sheer lack
of business, and some of the blood-guiltiness of
N.S.W. would be wiped out.
* ♦ » »
N.S.W. State Attorney-General Wise will in-
troduce a Bill into the local Parliament this session
to give effect to some of the ideas aforementioned.
It is a Bill that will deal somewhat forcibly with
parental rights as they are generally understood ;
but this paper doubts if, even in N.S.W. Upper
House, anyone will be found stupid enough to
champion the cause of the baby-murderer and the
abortionist.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Consolidating the Empire.
This telegram to the Natal Mercury of Sept.
20 shows how the work of “consolidating the
Empire ” is being carried out : —•
Oradock, Sept. 12.—This morning nine girls, aged be-
tween 15 and 20, and one married woman were charged
before Mr. Harrison with harboring the King’s enemies
and supplying food, etc., on the occasion of the Boers
entering into Maraisburg. Two were discharged and the
remainder sentenced to 30 days’ imprisonment.
A fuller report in Cape Argus of Sept. 18
shows that the district was under martial law,
and the military prosecutor sought to prove, among
other things, that the accused girls had actually
kissed some of the Boer raiders. It was suggested
for the defence that some of the girls might have
kissed their relatives in the commando, but this
the court considered a treasonable practice,
tending to make rebellion more popular. Cases
of a similarly trivial nature are filling the Cape
“ Loyalist ” papers, and probably help to explain
why the Boers commandos appear pretty vigorous
in spite of all the reported killings and captures.
The imprisoned girls were (as might be expected)
being supplied with food and comforts by their
relatives and sympathisers ; and no doubt, now
that they are out of gaol, their kisses will be at
a premium—in Afrikander circles anyhow. The
determination and bitterness of the Afrikander
women bodes ill for the “consolidation of the
Empire,” and this many of the more rational men
on active service are not slow to recognise. An
officer of the last Bushmen’s Corps which went
from Sydney writes to a friend: —
God send that when Australia’s hour of trial comes, our
women may be as faithful to their country as are the
Boer women.
And these same women will be the mothers of the
future Afrikanders. When the Empire called the
Soldiers of the Queen, Sons of the Sea, and
so on, few of them bargained on being used as
gaolers for women who had committed the crime of
kissing their lovers in the war. If the Germans,
Russians, or Japanese were to come along here
and imprison the girls who kissed our kharki-clad
heroes who went out to fight against them, the
pacification of Australia would probably be quite
as big a contract as the pacification of South
Africa.
♦
The Bishop and the Black Man.
The Bishop of Carpentaria, pastor of the sheep of
Northern Queensland, has, after a survey of the
remote corners of his fold, come back to civilisa-
tion with views on the colored-labor question.
A perambulating bishop in the back-blocks never
by any chance “puts up ” at the shearers’ camp,
or the boundary-rider’s hut, but usually trusts to
the hospitality of the squatter and the branch
bank-manager. His views when he returns reflect
those of the company that he has kept. This par-
ticular bishop, to quote from the Australian
Churchman
thinks that it will be impossible to keep the Chinese
from spreading in some parts of Australia. They are
large mine-owners and employers of labor, and have
settled in large numbers in the Bishop’s diocese. The
blacks, too, are very numerous, and are a fine
race, and the Japanese also are very energetic
and populous. The Bishop thinks that the solu-
tion of the color difficulty, which must always be
felt in Northern Australia, is to Christianise these races.
They cannot be excluded. They must be reckoned with
as a permanent part of our inheritance—a part of the
white man’s burden. In the Divine Providence it may be
our work to elevate them morally ; to teach them what
true citizenship is, and to bring them into the grace and
purity of the religion of Christ.
The prayer of the cheap-labor-seeking employer
to be left in peace with his niggers never seems
quite so nauseous as when it is voiced by a parson
and urged in the name of the Almighty. The
black races can be excluded : if the Barton Immi-
gration Act is passed and honestly administered
they will be excluded, absolutely and for ever.
To Christianise these races would not in the
slightest degree affect their intrinsic objection-
ableness. No sensible person now has any grudge
against them because they do not believe in dog-
matic Christianity; at least three-fourths of the
white inhabitants of Australia at heart share that
lack of belief; and the Chinese and Hindu has
very often a religion of his own which, to
him, is a far better rule of life than any which
Christian sects could substitute. The objection
to colored immigrants is racial and economic, an
objection founded on the fact that we cannot eat
with them, work with them, marry with them,
without the certainty of national deterioration and
degradation. If, as the Bishop says, Divine Pro-
vidence may have the end in view of getting
Australia to “elevate” the colored races, it is
curious that in the mind of every healthy white
Australian Providence or something has planted
an ineradicable repugnance to associating with
these racial inferiors, a conscience which warns us
against intermarrying with them. And that
conscience is as strong in the Bishop as in any of
us. He would not take to wife a Chinese or
Hindu woman, nor would he give a daughter in
marriage to a colored man ; nor would any other
of those who utter cant talk about brotherhood—
not brother-in-law-hood—with the black man.
+
The Exclusion of Aliens.
“ Viking ” offers a few remarks :
The question seems to be reduced to two considera-
tions : (Ist) Whether we will provoke a serious conflict
with Britain or Japan if w'e exclude the Japs, and (2nd)
whether the exclusion of Kanakas will destroy the N.
Queensland sugar industry. Even if the effect of the Bill
will be the closing of the mills—a remote contingency—
that is not. a conclusive reason for permitting the Kanaka
to be retained. If the evils arising from a low-grade race
establishing itself in our midst are' serious enoug'h to
make it worth our while to avoid them by sacrificing
portion of the sugar industry, bv all means let that
portion go.
W. used to make our roads very cheaply by convict
labor, but when the injury to workmen was considered,
and the degrading effects the sight of the chain-gang had
on the public were appreciated, we cheerfully sacrificed
cheapness for the public good. So with the sugar busi-
ness—if the need arises.
Let us get away from side issues and consider the prin-
ciple of alien exclusion with reference to race preserva-
tion and Australian well-being. We may placate our
religious friends by assuming that the colored man has
the same rights as the white. It does not follow that the
coolie has any right to acquire a domicile here. No man
can be said to have a right to do that. If he is allowed
to enter he is being granted a privilege— not accorded a
right. Does not every landholder practise the principle
of exclusion when he paints, “ trespassers will be prose-
cuted” on his fence? Perhaps Premier Piiilp has been
guilty of that heinous offence. Are not his friendly
visitors exercising a privilege when they tread on our turf ?
Who has a right to traverse another man’s land at will?
So with Australia. We reserve the right to say who shall
come as friends, and who shall not come at all.
It is contended by Mr. Arthur in United Australia
that so long as Kanakas are kept at field work there need
be little fear that they will contaminate the white race
by intermarriage. The logic is hard to follow. The half-
caste element is not largely the result of mixed marriages.
This unsavoury aspect of the matter needs very careful
handling so that, while it may receive due consideration,
its public discussion may not become offensive. 001.
Reay recently touched on the matter when he said that
the proportion of Kanaka women to men in Queensland is
7 per 100. The men are not ascetics, and the large influx
of Jap. women is very significant. Pause here and con-
sider various probabilities ; and the fact that Jap brothels
are maintained in Kanka Cairns to minimise risk to white
women.
In his late letter to Mr. Barton, Consul Eitaki laid
stress on the small number of Japs, that come to N.S.W.
and Victoria, but he did not quote figures for Thursday
Island and Queensland. That would have put a different
complexion on his argument, particularly if he gave
statistics as to their occupations. The threat implied in
his remark that “corresponding rights belong to Japan ”
is not of much concern to us.
Unfortunately, the surplus population of all foreign
States is largely of an undesirable character, and it is that
class which naturally seeks an outlet for its perverted
energy in new lands. It is the interest of the foreign
State to get rid of them ; it is our interest to see that
they don’t come here.
Let us grant that the Jap. is above all colored men in
the social scale. We do not want him, even at that esti-
mate of his value. We require our immigrants to
become Australians, to live here, to intermarry with our
people, to help us to build up a sturdy white race to
develope and defend Australia. No colored race can
comply with these requirements. Europeans can, and
do, become Australians by adoption, arid we welcome
them. The colored man is impossible. Who is there,
however great may be his admiration for Jap energy,
courage and progress, that would pleasurably regard the
prospect of the most enlightened Jap forming a matri-
monial alliance with one of his own family ? That is the
white personal view of the matter, and it is clearly the
white national view.
If it is not to our advantage to blend our race with the
black, brown, and yellow ; if such an idea is repugnant
to our feelings, then it is evident that the colored ele-
ments, if admitted, must form themselves into racial
colonies. In this respect, it is instructive to think of the
Chinese quarters in ’Frisco.
They would be separated from us and from each other
by their different nationalities, modes of thought, lan-
guage, and widely different creeds and social and moral
codes. Then we would be a divided people, and, in addi-
tion to our present political differences, we would be
burdened with bitter racial feud, unrest, and social con-
flict. Prevention is better than such a disease.
4
The Chinese Cheap-Tripper.
“ H.8.T.” writes :
Premier Barton was recently deputationised by repre-
sentatives of the shipping firms mainly instrumental in
flooding Australia with yellow and brown agony. The
stringent terms of the Alien Restriction Bill have kind
of struck their principals all of a heap. Hence the depu-
tation. Little wonder that these firms are up in arms
against the new alien legislation. Years ago they reaped
huge profits for their shareholders (most of whom are
non-resident in Australia), by carting down the Chow in
his hundreds every voyage, and dumping him in large
consignments at various points along the Australian
coast, from Port Darwin in the north to Adelaide in the
south. The fares charged to the incoming Chow are not
based on what might be termed a moderate scale, 250
Mexican dollars being a common figure. This goes to the
contracting “ compradore,” who makes all arrangements
for the would-be emigrant. It includes the provision of a
permit—a naturalisation paper purchased from a returned
emigrant who has no further use for the same. A selection
of these documents, with photos, attached, is always
available at several compradores’ offices in Hongkong, and
the heap is searched until the one most likely to fit and
correspond with the intending emigrant is selected.
Armed with this he presents himself on board, and is
carried to his required port of destination. En route he
undergoes a sort of coaching from the older hands in the
topography of his desired haven, hence the ludicrous
answers occasionally given to examining customs officials.
Should he be bowled out as an impostor, as occasionally
happens, the expense of his return fare is charge-
able to the compradore who ships him. The menu
furnished for Chinese passengers isn’t extensive.
Rice is provided three times daily, with the
addition of a thin soup at midday, and either boiled
beef or dried fish. They give but little trouble to those
who have the handling of the ship, and growling on the
score of food is seldom or never heard. They mess in
gangs or cliques, according to the port they ship from,
and the doings of one clique have little or no interest for
the rest. Midway between Brisbane and Sydney a Chow
passenger once reported to the quarter-master'that one
of their number was missing. Inquiries revealed the fact
that several other Chinamen had seen the man jump
overboard, but, considering that it was a case of “no
b’long my pidgin,” omitted to report the fact. The same
thing happened on the same voyage, about a week later.
The Chow is an ideal passenger, who pays liberally, eats
cheaply, and falls overboard with less fuss than any other
passenger on this globe. No wonder the companies will
miss him.
There is to be no tram-strike in Sydney, after all,
Parliament having helped the Commissioners to
climb down with some grace. The running staffs
of both railways and trams are to have an 8-hours
day in eight months’ time. As they climb down,
the Commissioners growl that the reform will
cost over £50,000 per annum, and will throw an
appalling burden on the man-on-the-land in par-
ticular. What would have happened had the
Commissioners been asked to extend the principle
to the clerical staff as well, is too dreadful to think
about. The same sort of cry went up in Maori-
land when the Commissioners there were asked
to agree to a maximum of 48 and (50 hours
per week for continuous and intermittent work.
The concession was granted, under threat of a
general strike, but, as they climbed down, the
awful Three growled that it meant the stoppage
of all interest payments, the increase of all rates
and fares, and the general ruin of the country.
But nothing dreadful happened. All rates and
fares have since been further reduced, and the inter-
mittent labor has been lowered from 60 to 54 hours
per week. The head office had, however, to expend
some brain-sweat in arranging new time-tables and
services to make them fit in with the new con-
ditions. They could have done it before, but till
they were driven to it by the financial exigencies
of the new condition they never tried.
4
Toady Copeland, the robustious N.S.W. Agent-
General, is filling the London papers with “my
scheme” for an Australian Exhibition in London
in 1903—with the usual concomitants of prodigal
expenditure, oceans of fizz, and a worm-like
Copeland welcoming Royalty on a dais—with a
title in prospect. Unluckily for the obsequious
Copeland, Australia has had more than enough
of these exhibitions. Professedly they advertfse
the country, but the ignoble advt. of the African
war-contingents will last us fgr years uncountable.
Besides, if we do want exhibitions, we will have
them here, and spend the money in the country
where it won’t be all wasted by greasy officials for
the benefit of greedy foreigners.


The equitable life assurance society
of the United States.
LIBERAL TERMS TO AGENTS OF GOOD STAMHIMR
In order to improve the position of its Agents in Australia, and to better conserve
the business, the Equitable now offers RENEWAL CONTRACTS to
first-class agents, thus giving them a pecuniary interest in their business for
several years, instead of for only one year as at present.
For particulars, refer to
S. W. D’AROY-IE VINE, Manager for New South Wales and Queensland,
Equitable Building, Sydney ; or to
G. G. Me COLL, Manager for Victoria and Tasmania,
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
fds
The New
Field Glass
For the Races, <bc.
Very powerful, as used by
Officers of the British Army
in South Africa. Easily
focussed by the patent
quick draw.
Magnifying 5 times, 65s ; Aluminium, 84s.
Magnifying 6 times, 73s ; Aluminium, 85s.
In Solid Leather Sling Cases.
WOOD, “The Optician,’
Only address in N.S. IV.,
299 George-SL, Sydney (opp. Hunter-St.)
and EQUITABLE BUILDINGS,
Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Lyceum “ The Ladder of Life.”
Her Majesty’s “Sign of the Cross.”
Royal “ East Lynne.”
Criterion “Wang.”
Empire Fuller Co.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ The Second in Command.”
Her Majesty’s Italian Opera Season (“ Faust ”).
Theatre Royal “ Hearts are Trumps.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
New Olympia (off
Prince’s Bridge).. Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus.
Exhibition Buildino.. . The World’s Fair (last week).
In continuance of his Mission to portray a
Great Moral Purpose, and incidentally, various less
moral women, Rev. Wilson Barrett staged at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, on Saturday, anotherof his plays
“Man and his Makers.” The characters offer
the usual Barrett mixture of cant and concupis-
cence, but there is much more cant than usual, and
a good deal less concupiscence. Indeed, the piece
has occasional flashes of genuine merit; the first
act is more than promising, the third act really
strong—but the influence of the actor manager
wishing to preach a spicy sermon before a vast
suburban congregation must assert itself. So the
second act is mainly Wilson Barrett writing anew
scripture in poem form (copies distributed free by
colporteurs at Her Majesty’s door to the just and
the unjust alike every evening); the fourth act
Wilson Barrett preaching to a judge and jury ;
the fifth act Wilson Barrett preaching to a fallen
woman. Mr. Barrett has set himself up as the
dramatist of the evangelically religious
person with a clean-shaven upper lip, and an
itch for unctuously discussing sex-sins. In
“The Sign of the Cross” robust religiosity was
“relieved” by the portrayal of much heathen
vice, and by much highly-exciting pursuit of a
Christian maiden by a Pagan in short kilts. In
“The Christian King,” there is a vision of the
Master’s Son, a religious ruler of many moral
maxims, and much detailed effort of a Pagan lady
to give or to barter her “body.” In “Man and
His Makers ” the theme is that the Almighty is
not scientific, but evangelical in His methods, and
that salvation is to be got by reading a Wilson
Barrett poem: the inevitable “relief” is pro-
vided by a lady who has been addicted to the ways
of vice, and is converted by Mr. Barrett and his
poem. That plays of this character should suc-
ceed, in spite of turgid treatment and inept
characterisation, is not at all wonderful, for they
appeal alike to the school of Sardou and the school
of General Booth.
* * * »
There are dramatic possibilities in “ Man and
His Makers,” and to a small extent they have been
taken advantage of. A successful bar-
rister is refused the hand of his girl
lover by her scientific father because
of a taint in his blood : his grand-
father had been a six-bottle man,
his father had died of a drug-habit.
The barrister, whose ‘ ‘ foredoom ” is
thus announced, does, in despair,
take to drug-eating—opium, seem-
ingly. But he saves himself and
wins his girl. There is the skeleton
of a fine play. But the idea is
not allowed to grow naturally : all
the flesh has to be put on W. Bar-
rett, and quite extraneous fallen-
woman interest has to be dragged
in. So the drama drivels through
extraordinarily unreal developments,
all apparently designed with the
one object of giving the eminent
author-actor-manager the middle of
the stage, a pious text, and a fallen
woman to moralise over. The Court
scene, for weird improbability, could
not be surpassed many rnelo-drarna.
The thoroughly unscientific treat-
ment of the drug-habit is a minor
fault, since neither the dramatist nor
the general public is expected to be
familiar with the symptoms of mor-
phimania or any of the drug insani-
ties ; but still it is a fault, and Mr.
Barrett, by consulting a physician or
two, might have avoided the mistake
of giving a fortnight of recovery-
horrors to a man who had been eat-
ing opium only a very few weeks.
* * * •
The acting ot “ Man and His
Makers” is pitched in the high melo-
dramatic key. No other course is
possible, since the play is mostly
fierce, turgid declamation. Mr. Bar-
rett is generally successful in his
long, impassioned speeches. In the
second act he is notably good ; but
the quieter exhortations of the first
and last acts occasionally border
perilously close on the ridiculous—an effect partly
of the actor’s extraordinarily juvenile dressing.
Mr. George Barrett plays a real human part with
quiet effectiveness. Miss Lillah M’Carthy occa-
sionally overacts the courtesan, but generally
gives a tragic and impressive picture of the only
other live character in the play. Miss Edyth
Latimer and Miss Daisy Belmore act charmingly
in somewhat colorless parts. Certainly, Mr.
Barrett is to be thanked for bringing out this bevy
of beautiful women. “Man and His Makers”
seemed, on Saturday, to have hit the mark; the
stalls, filled from Suburbia, and the gallery were
roused to something like enthusiasm. “ The Sign
of the Cross ” is to be revived to-night (Saturday).
** # *
Fra Diavolo, at Sydney Criterion last
week, proved a sprightly and pleasant perform-
ance, giving the Josephine Stanton Co. a good
opportunity of showing its value. Auber’s
romantic opera has been so seldom produced of
late in Australia that, except to the oldest of
theatre-goers, it is an unknown work. A public
on which is inflicted so much “Morocco
Bound,” “Casino Girl,” and “Said Pasha”
stuff, might with advantage be allowed a
little Auber more frequently. Diavolo is an
opera hesitating between the grand and the
comic—with a well-defined plot, plentifully be-
sprinkled with picturesque banditti, English
aristocrats of much wealth but little manners, and
graceful village maidens. Likewise the fair
heroine in one scene undresses herself (to a par-
ticularly discreet and modest degree), with charm-
ing incidental music, and pops into bed with far
more clothing on than a man could wear there
without giving rise to grave reflections on his
sobriety. Further, the bandit hero is accus-
tomed to disguise himself nobly as a mar-
quis, and when caught banditting around the
bedrooms of an inn confesses to a little
appointment with a lady, and, so as not to un-
fairly favor or prejudice anyone, with all the
ladies on the premises. Withal there is nothing
suggestive or objectionable in the English version
of the opera, whilst most of the humorous diablerie
of the original is preserved. The Stanton troupe
of Italian bandits was evidently recruited from
Wild West cowboys, who brought their hair and
their accent but they make funny
enough villains nevertheless. The chief burden
of the production was borne by Miss Stanton,
whose voice was the only one fully equal to the
requirements of the opera, but Mr. Hallain gave
some support with a pleasant, if somewhat faded,
tenor ; the orchestra was efficient, and the come-
dians bright and resourceful. Altogether “ Fra
Diavolo ” was a very pleasant production.
*•■ • •
Why it should have been replaced by
“ Wang ” on Saturday night it is difficult to under-
stand. “ Wang” is a piece of the “Said Pasha”
type—certainly a trifle better in plot and brighter
in music, but still an extravaganza rather than
an opera. Except for the opportunity that
“Wang” gives to prove that Miss Stanton
can very satisfactorily fill a midshipman’s
suit, there seems no valid reason why it should
have been allowed to rush a pleasant collection of
bandits off the Criterion stage. The story is of a
pursuit of some hidden treasure by Mataya, Crown
Prince of Siam (Miss Stanton), a white, plump,
and golden-haired lad in ducks who upsets most
popular notions as to the characteristics of Crown
princes in Siam. But perhaps they grow white
princes as well as white elephants in that province
of Asia. Some pretty songs are in “Wang”—
“Another Fellow,” “The Man in the Moon,”
and “ Playing Babies.” A large elephant is very
ably acted by some member or members of the co.
who are not on the bill. The piece was favorably
received on Saturday, but had not so cordial a
DR. KELLY, R.C. Coadjutor-Archbishop of Sydney.
welcome as Diavolo. If the management is wise
it will restore that devilled item to the bill of fare.
** * *
A mixture of melodrama and variety still
continues to be popular at Sydney Empire. On
Saturday a new dramatic co. appeared in the
“Octoroon,” which provided more sensation to
the minute than any play previously produced.
** * *
Holloway’s revival of “Dangerous Women”
will endure till the 16th at Theatre Royal, when
will be revived “East Lynne,” the story’ of the
old-fashioned, fallen woman repenting of her one
sin at great length and with much knee drill.
“ Dangerous Women,” as before mentioned, is the
tale of two ladies who sin very greatly, but don’t
make much by it, having the bailiff in their gilded
halls most of the time, and being obliged to hide
murdered gentlemen visitors from the policemen
with the tablecloth, and then stand hastily before
their forgotten feet. There is a young millionaire,
who pretends to be a working man, and a good
girl locked in a garret, hidden in a coffin, and finally
incarcerated in an asylum. Miss Ida Gresham
and Miss Helene Bupdette take the parts of the chief
bad girl, and the good girl respectively, and Miss
Alice Deorwyn gasps and squeaks a good deal as a
guileless servant-maid. George P. Carey enacts
the principal humorous part effectively, and John
P. O’Neill bounds with mdiarubber lightsomeness
through the role of a low-class, humorous villain.
** * *
No change of any importance took place
this week at the Tivoli, where the quicksilver
Craggs still speed gracefully along one another’s
upturned feet, or fall backwards from tall
pyramids made of themselves. James Bain is a
humorist who falls off somewhat in another
sense. A funnier feature is a cleverish
small child who repeats a pathetic verse on
the iniquities of a wife who eats biscuits at incon-
venient times. Prof. De Wynne, with a few new
shadow-pictures, Johnny Coleman, and Will
Whitburn, as a bushranger, help to fill in the
time.
** * *
“ The 10.30 Down Express ” will stop its
wild rush from the Lyceum side scenes at the end
of this week, and there will be a revival of the
“ Ladder of Life ” or “ Gordons to the Front.”
** * *
Adorable Dolores’ marvellous voice is gal-
vanising Sydney out of its tired feeling and into
transports of enthusiasm. She seems to have
flutes and birds in her vocal machinery, and her
management of them is mysteriously per-
fect. Her repertory is singularly rare, and she
ranges over Italian, Russian, French, and English
composers—the orchids of the gardens of com-
posers—alike with the same fluency and grace.
Her concerts are nightly crowded.
#* * *
“The Second in Command,” which Brough
staged at Melbourne Princess’s on Saturday (and
which must be his idea of a strong piece, or he
would not have led off with it in Sydney) is to the
present scribe’s way of thinking, a weak, flabby,
sentimental fiction. Stripped of its military
trappings, society graces, incidental music, and
Royal ducal personage it would seem the thinnest
of stories. There is an artificial misunderstanding
between a girl, and a colonel, and the
girl’s young brother, assisted by a major.
The brother opens his mouth too wide in mistake,
whilst the other three people are too reticent,
and the result is a complication of subdued melan-
choly that terminates in the last act, when the
major and the colonel return from S’Africa, the
one in a damaged state, the other in a nice new
kharki suit. Then the girl is at lioerty to hug the
one she loves best, he being the colonel, who is
richly endowed with this world's sugar. A sugary
finish appears inevitable from the start. The
bubble of misconception is bound to burst, and it
is much too polite a bubble to burst with a bang.
* * * *
All the characters of this sad, sweet story
are exceedingly well-behaved, including the
flunkeys appointed to serve refreshments in the
officahs’ quarters. A young man named Hilde-
brand does certainly come forth from the dining-
room with a few vine leaves in his hair, whereat
his noble mother reproves him for vitiating the
atmosphere ; but Hildebrand’s drunk never verges
on vulgarity. The dialogue, though always clever,
lias a tendency to strain after sentimental effect.
Some of Major Brough’s remarks sound labori-
ously pretty. And because the play has
a theatrical style its most convincing inci-
dent is, perhaps, the royal visit in the last
act. Charles Garry, who makes a quick and
heavy appearance as the Jook of Hull, has the
air and straddle of a genuine personage acting the
part that he is supposed to be acting. He looks
as though he were accustomed to accept grovel as
his due simply on account of his relationship to
other people who also sit at the receipt of grovel-
custom. Nothing else in the show seems so
natural as the general uneasiness of the company
in the presence of this appalling Jook, who fires
off “a few well-chosen words,” and retires
hastily, leaving His Majesty’s compliments behind
him. Next to Garry in point of merit comes Miss
Susie Vaughan as an elderly noble matron.
Brough is satisfactory as the Major, and Mrs.
Brough is rather less satisfactory as the misunder-
stood girl. Cecil Ward, Ernest Yere, Leslie
Victor, and Miss Chatteris fill the other principal
places.
«* * *
Williamson’s comm opera co. are conclud-
ing their six weeks’ innings at Her Majesty’s
(Melb.) with a revival of “The Old Guard.” The
“ 0.G.” will never surrender so long as a first-class
Polydore is available. Lauri, who amounts to
much the same Mayor of Yandrez les Yignes that
Elton used to be, is the main support of Plan-
quette’s opera, and the girl parts get bright treat-
ment from Carrie Moore, Grace Palotta, Maud
Chetwynd, and Lily Everett. Also Kenningham
and Bathurst are more than satisfactory members
of Napoleon’s army, and the ballet and the chorus
will be warmly received up to Friday night.
* * * *
On Saturday, a farewell season of the
estimable Italian opera co. makes a promising
commencement. “Faust,” under any circum-
stances, was always a matter of particular public
interest, and now when it is going to be performed
for the first time in Melbourne under the best musi-
cal circumstances the city has ever known, the in-
terest is strongerthan usual. At time of writing, the
Italian Opera advt. didn’t date anything beyond
“Faust” for the 16th, but it mentioned that 15
operas in all will be produced within the next five
weeks, which, by all accepted rules of arithmetic,
gives an average of three operas per week. More-
over, the management desired to impress upon
economical patrons of music the fact that those 15
operas on a really “ grand ” scale would be avail-
able at ordinary prices.
** * *
This (Thursday) afternoon the managers
of all the shows in Melbourne are furnishing a
vast entertainment at Her Majesty’s, in aid of the
theatrical charities. Any persons who can’t
attend the matinee, owing to being crowded out
or otherwise prevented, are herewith given to
understand that a contribution addressed to the
secretary of the fund will get there just the same.
* -* * *
At the Bijou a few last visits of the brown
Messenger from Mars began to happen on Satur-
day, and to-night (Thursday) brings the conver- -
sion of Horace Parker to a close. The Bijou will
presumably be closed after the departure of the
Hawtrey Comedy Co., re-opening on the 23rd
with the World’s Entertainers’ variety show.
** * *
Touching “ Hearts Are Trumps,” at Mel-
bourne Royal, The Bulletin’s third chapter of
revelations will be held over for a week or two.
Bland Holt’s gigantic drama from Drury Lane
has attained the pinnacle of notoriety in the
politest circles, and, although it might be rather
too full of countesses and millionaires to get the
heartfelt sympathy of the youths who yell,
“Up with the rag,” it seems destined to
run for another month, anyhow. On Tuesday, of
last week, five supernumeraries in Bland Holt’s co.
made a profit of £l2OO apiece on their respective
“ bob ” investments in a Tatt’s. sweep ticket, but
they didn’t haughtily forsake the management on
that account. At latest dates the lucky five were
forming part of the audience in the music-hall
scene as usual, and were only to be distinguished
from other supers by the special earnestness of
their applause when Harrie Ireland makes her
first appearance in brown tights. Enthusiasm
comes easy to the “extra hand” that is about to
get £l2OO for one shilling.
** * *
Except that the Diving Horses have not
yet made their debut, there is nothing to say of
Fitzgeralds’ circus. The iron building in the
Prince’s Bridge district was erected under the
luckiest star in the annals of the Fitz Brothers.
It has held more people within the last few
weeks than their biggest tent ever might,
could or would have accommodated, and
the rush on Saturday nights seems to get
larger instead of lesser. Just now a ballet-master,
with a heathen name, is inviting the attendance
of 100 dancing ladies at the circus, from which one
presumes that the diving gee-gees will be more or
less supported by a ballet in due course.
* * *
Edgar Granville, a monologue performer
of inoffensive character, is the latest arrival at the
Opera House, and as he seems to be an addition
to all the people who were there before, the pro-
gramme is all the larger for Edgar’s harmless con-
tributions.
At Poverty Point.
Irene Franklin, the “ dainty Yankee damsel who sing’s
about “ chi-ick-en,” has had a sorrowful time in Aus-
tralia these last few months. Her parents came out with
her from America. The father died, the mother is now
in an asylum, and Irene is left with the care of a baby
brother, born a little while before Mrs. Franklin became
a widow. Manager J. O. Williamson has procured an
engagement for Irene in London, and is shipping her to
her destination. Moreover, he arranged that baby should
have a nurse on the voyage, to save Irene from a good
deal of anxiety and embarrassment. It (jpmes hard on a
grief-stricken girl to discover that she can’t kiss an unfor-
tunate baby brother without causing misunderstandings.
Brough’s mother, Miss Romer, and his step-sister,
Brenda Gibson, are coming out again to Australia. Miss
Gibson, late of Irving’s co., is now married, and it was
for the benefit of her husband’s health that the expedi-
tion, which includes the baby, was suddenly decided
upon. By the way, the hubby of Australia’s original
“ Sweet Lavender ” is a well-known baritone singer.
The trouble from which Wilson Barrett suffered in Ade-
laide, it transpires now, was an acute inflammation some-
where within that noble Roman nose. An operation was
necessary, and it “ had to be conducted from inside the
nose, so that no scar might be left to disfigure the
patient’s face.”
Melba’s advt. cable,announcing her professional engage-
ment to George Musgrove, was thoroughly characteristic
of that distinguished artist. As Manager Williamson
points out, the difficulties which have kept the yearning
prima-donna so long absent from her own naWve land
were altogether of her own making. As far back as ’94
the “ Firm ” thought they had Melba fixed for a visit, but
she changed her mind. More than a year ago, when
Musgrove brought out his opera co., the whisper went
around that he had practically secured the “ Australian
rights ” to a grand production of Melba at the earliest
possible opportunity. But the wily lady didn’t sign a
contract until she had given J. O. Williamson another
chance to bid, and she invited him to name the highest
price he would pay for enabling her “ to add some joy to
the lives of her dear compatriots.” J.O.W. having named
his top figure, the lady persuaded G.M. to go one better
—and that’s all about it.
Cecil Ward, as the Johnnie officer in “Lady Hunt-
worth’s Experiment ” : “ Fighting ain’t work —it’s a plea-
sure.” Then the audience sits perfectly, still and perfectly
quiet, and thinks hard. Two years ago, that remark
might have won appreciative handclaps.
“ King Edward thanks Wilson Barrett for birthday
congratulations ” It ought to be the other way about.
What a king Braggart—that is to say, Barrett—would
make ! How he would strut and pose ! With what an
air carry his crown ! Your mummer is the ideal monarch
—a gilded husk, a sounding empty vessel. The Bulletin
moves that King Edward be at once deposed in favor of
King Wilson Barrett the First.
“Cockaigne”: The original cast of Pinero’s “Magis-
trate” has been unlucky. Clayton and Cecil died.
Eversfield suicided in America. Rose Norreys went out
of her mind.
Is Jane May, the French actress who plays “ L’Enfant
Prodigue,” and similar dumb-show pieces in London,
identical with the Jane Mea formerly of Sarah Bern-
hardt’s travelling company ? She is said to give very
clever imitations of the great woman, which suggests
that she has had a long opportunity for studying the
original. The Jane Mea who figured as second lady in
the co. when Bernhardt came to Australia was a tall and
lovely creature, and seemingly not too old to be only
35 to-day.
At a recent musical entertainment a foreign gentleman
was in the chair, and he announced, “De nexta perform-
anci is de part songa, ‘ Salinalari.’” Some of the audi-
ence would have preferred a popular air, but the lovers of
the classical leaned back with a large satisfied expression.
Anyhow, “ Sally in our Alley ” took the whole crowd by
surprise,
Turgenieff on Sarah Bernhardt: “ She is eaten through
and through with chic, reclame and pose. She is
monotonous, cold and dry ; in short, without a single
spark of talent in the highest sense of the word. Her
gait is that of a hen ; she has no play of features ; the
movements of her hands are purposely angular, in order
to be piquant; the whole thing reeks of the boulevards,
of Figaro, and patchouli.”
Maggie Moore says that the first manager she played
under at Salt Lake Oity was a Mormon with five wives
and 30 children.
Rickards has the largest gas engine in Australia (100
horse-power), to work the electric light plant at Melbourne
Opera House. The engine cut lighting exes at the Opera
House by £lOOO a year below the estimates of the
Melbourne lighting cos.
Carrie Moore’s mimicry of Irene Franklin is said to be
not nearly so funny as the imitation that little Fanny
Powers can give. Rickards, thus far, has restricted the
child to her song-and-dance business in public, but pre-
sently Fannie will break out as a caricaturist.
The drollest item in “ Why Smith Left Home” is hus-
band Smith’s joy at discovering the inestimable value of
his cook-ladv as a power for indigestion in the visitors he
wants to get rid of. He wishes he had made her acquain-
tance earlier. “ She ought to have been a bridesmaid at
the wedding,” chuckled the jubilant conspirator.


stocks Kept «->f
RAND ROCK DRILLS & AIR COMPRESSORS
BY THE SOLE AGENTS—
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD., 71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
And at 486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE ; WELLINGTON, N.Z.;
214 HIGH STREET, FREMANTLE; KALCOORLIE.
f
TRA.MWA.YS. TRAMWAYS.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop. Ltd.
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material.
I4T" Locomotives from 10 to 250 h.p. “3d
f '. OCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel Sleepers
Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical advice gratuitously
rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated Catalogues and Photo-
s graphic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different parts of the World upon
application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
Allan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
* * • •
A very successful trial of the Gardner Electrio
Drill took place at the works of the Austral Otis Com-
pany, South Melbourne, a few days ago. The drill,
although only temporarily fixed, bored 8£ inches in three
minutes through hard basalt. A number of prominent
mining men witnessed the test, and expressed themselves
as greatly pleased with the machine. The Austral Otis
Company have been appointed Sole Agents in Australasia
for the Gardner Electric Drill.*
* * * •
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develops, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,"
Melbourne. *
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * • •
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drill*
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * * *
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* * * *
If further proof is needed that Luhrig Vanners
are the best and most economical machines for dressing
fines and slimes, it will be found in the fact that the Tas-
mania gold mine, Beaconsfield, Tasmania, has decided to
increase the number of these machines in the extension
of the present mill and reduction works. When com-
pleted it will have over 100 head of stampers at work, and
60, Luhrig Yanners, including the additional 24 of the
large type. Before finally adopting plans the Tasmania
board sent its manager to inspect the chief reduction
works in other States. Messrs. W. and J. Lempriere, of
Melbourne, are the Sole Agents for the Luhrig appli-
ances.*
• * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that tha
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, andallsortsof iron-work.*
• * * •
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buchu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemist*
One thing about the Eastern Extension
Oo.—it is as rich as Croesus and it isn’t a bit
mean. It pays its agents handsomely, and never
refuses them anything reasonable in the way of
expenses. And thus it happens that Federal
Attorney-General Deakin finds on assuming office
that all the agreements made between the Eastern
Extension Co. and the various State Govts, are
utterly indeterminable, except with the consent
of both parties interested ! In a word, the E.E.
Co. has got the States by the wool for ever and
ever, Amen. “I never came across a state of
things like this in my life,” says Deakin, in his
agony. But who can wonder at it? The States
pay their Cabinet politicians (say) £6OO a year or
so in and out of office, and a country gets exactly
the sort of brains, &c., that it pays for. In mak-
ing a bargain, the £6OO-a-year politician is a mere
chopping-block for the ’cute, well-paid agents of
the Eastern Extension Co.
Application of the beneficent Australian
“strike” to S’African warfare has staggered
English military offisahs. Trooper E. E. White,
A Squadron, N.S.W. 3rd Mounted Rifles, reports
two “ strikes ” near Standerton. On the first oc-
casion two blankets and a waterproof sheet were
served out; and later one blanket was taken
away. The men shivered awhile; then rushed
the guard and recaptured the other blankets
The officer chased them, “got a bad buster,” and
returned to his tent discomfited, while the Aus-
tralians “cheered lustily.” The next “strike”
occurred when lib. of flour was served for a day’s
ration; with no wood or time to cook it. “The
whole of the squadron struck ” for biscuits ; and
got them. “The Tommies were amazed at our
temerity.”
They stood open-mouthed as we told the officers we re-
fused to obey duty unless we were given the biscuits. If
they had, they said, been guilty of the same thing 12
months’ imprisonment with hard labor would have been
their lot.
Naturally—for rank mutiny. What more comio
situation can you conceive than the meeting of an
officer “of the old school ” with this new brand of
private ? And how does the incident promise for
Australian Independence ?
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles. Caustic Soda,
Borax, Arsenic, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CAB BIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting- Charges.
Hy. fiarkwald,
178 VVilliain-streeb,
Melbourne;
11 Pitt-Kt ., Sydney; GS Currie-xt., Adel.; 27 Da lie-street
Brud). ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin , Wellington and
A uckland , NZ.
Smith seems to be the sort of name to get
mixed up with alleged poisoning cases in N.S.W.
A Smith was the chemist of the Dean business,
Jane Smith was charged in connection with the
Talune case, and now Florence Ellen Smith makes
a sensational statement in the Redfern case.
Over-enthusiastic Sydney tailoresses on
strike assaulted one alleged “sweater,” dislocat-
ing his nose and battering him with specked fruit.
More good would have been done by calling
public attention to the fact that Government
departments patronise some of the worst of the
low-wage firms.
“ Dick" : The B. wanted to see a square-
jawed, not-too-old man sent along to sit on the
city Bench, and the city “push” in succession to
Mr. Mair, retired. Mr. A. N. Barnett, appointed,
answers to some of the specifications. He comes
from Albury (where he succeeded Boldrewood
Browne); is still young, keen, and credited with
firmness.
The luck of some men ! Near Broken
Hill, t’other day, during a blinding dust-storm, a
young man fell into an old mining-shaft, but, at
30ft. down, landed on a couple of planks which
had been placed across the shaft. To this pre-
carious perch he clung for several hours before he
was rescued—none the worse except for a severe
shaking.
Melbourne’s new railway—via Collingwood
to Heidelberg—-will pay well from the start, if
looks are anything. The department began with
a quarter-hourly service, and the workers of
’Wood and the parts beyond speedily made it
difficult to get a seat anywhere on the town side
of Simpson’s Road. The Tramway monopolists
have been hit hard.
The discussion on the Quinn Bill in
N.S.W. Assembly for the signing of every press
article with the real name of its author, was
adjourned—which means that no more will be
heard of it. The pow-wow over the thing
showed its supporters to be desperately lacking in
humor ; the measure was one which could only
have been expected of some dense Scotchman,
like Wully Affleck, of Gundaroo, or old Dr. Ross.
By_ the way, had the Bill passed, all Bulletin
artioles would thereafter have been signed “John
Smith.” 6
How about this for Wilson Barrett’s
Alfred the Great essay-competition? It was
turned out by a small Sydney school-boy in the
ordinary course of history-lesson :
When the Romans went away the Britons were attacked
by some savage people called the Piets and Scots, who
lived in the Northern parts of the Island. They were also
invaded by pirates from Denmark and Germany, called
Danes and Saxons. Then came a good man called Saint
Augustine, who taught the people to know the
true god, and to believe in the Lord. Alfred the
Great was told to look after the cakes, and he was so
taking up with his thoughts that he forgot the cakes,
and the Dane {sic) came in and scolded him, and said go
away you lazzy fellow, and Alfred went away, and he
ruled over some of the saxons, and he said this country
shall be Christian.
Historian Freeman, by the way, exploded the
cake-myth and other Alfred-inyths.
“Miles”: That Pyrrhic victory of the Boers
at Brackenlaagte, where they succeeded in “ re-
moving ” two Imperial guns, rather indicates that
those stubborn patriots are beginning to break
down under the strain of constant pursuit and the
raiding of their country. It’s getting on their
nerves, and in their exasperation they face about,
fight pitched battles, make frontal attacks,
as at Fort Italia and Brackenlaagte—and
lose hundreds of men. A score of such vic-
tories, and the war is over. As long as the Boers
could keep out of the reach of the British columns
by constantly moving, they kept the great, over-
whelming, colossally-expensive British army tied
up in S’Africa. When they begin to seek, instead
of waiting to be sought, Ketohener’s stock com-
mences to rise. Apropos , had the Boers shown
the same splendid vim at the beginning of the
war, Ladysmith might have told another tale.
Then they were afflicted with overmuch caution,
just when reckless daring was wanted. Now,
when every fighting-man is worth his weight in
diamonds, they are reckless to an extreme.
Ed. Bulletin.—“Palman, Q.M.F.” (8.,
2/11/’01) makes half-a-dozen mistakes in 15 lines.
1. Elliot, the defender of Gibraltar, was not an
artillery, but a. cavalry, officer. He for years
commanded a light-dragoon regiment, and was
with it in the abortive expedition to Quiberon
Bay. (See Wilkinson’s recently-published “ Life
of Lord Heathcote,” in N.S.W. Publio Library.)
2. Elliot was not educated at the R.M.A.,
Woolwich. That institution was not established
till after the Siege of Gibraltar. 3. Lawrence
and Wilson did not “ defend Lucknow and Delhi
respectively. ” 4. Sir Henry Lawrence, Chief
Commissioner of Oude, defended the Residency at
Lucknow—his own house and grounds. He was
killed, and Col. Inglis—an infantry man—took
command. He was succeeded by Havelock
and Outram. 5. There is no record
of anybody named “ Wilson ” having
ever, on any occasion, defended Delhi.
6. A certain Brigadier Wilson happened to be
senior officer- present with the besiegers when the
Kashmir Gate and Selimghur Fort of Delhi were
stormed in ’57. The whole story of Delhi and
Lucknow is to be found in Roberts’ “41 years.”
You had better choose someone who knows some-
thing next time you want me called a liar.—J.R.
[We didn’t “want” “J.R.” called a liar. We
merely published a letter written us by an Im-
perial officer, whom we do not personally know,
from London.—Ed. B.]
“ The Bulletin Story Book” will be the
best and most representative collection of short
stories ever put before the Australasian public.
A handsome cloth-bound volume; price 4s. 6d.
post-free from Bulletin office. Orders received
now will be mailed immediately on publication.
“ The Bulletin Story Book,” a solid, well-
printed cloth-bound volume of over 300 pages;
containing many of the best stories and literary
sketches which have appeared in The Bulletin
during 20 years, will be ready on Ist. December.
Price 4s. 6d. ; post-free from Bulletin office.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
It used to be customary with people who had
small business transactions with N.S.W. Govt. Depart-
ments to pay their dues in stamps. This was of great
convenience in remote districts where banks and post-
offices are inaccessible. Now that the Post Office is run
by the Commonwealth, N.S.W. Treasury is charged If
per cent, discount on the stamps, and so has ukased that
collectors of revenue are not to accept payment in
stamps. This will cause great inconvenience outback. It
seems to be somebody’s business to arrange that stamps
received from the inter-State Govts, as revenue should be
exempt from discount.
* * * »
Editor Bulletin.— ln re your comments on the
United Insurance Co.’s last annual report, we note your
remarks with regard to decline in receipts from interest
and rents, and, in reply thereto, would desire to say that
the amount has been reduced this year through our
having charged against interest and rent account some
£BOO premium, paid by us for the purchase of a large
parcel of Govt, debentures, the whole amount of premium
having been written off last year’s interest account. We
would further say that this fact was mentioned to the
shareholders at our annual meeting, held last Wednesday
week.—Yours, B. Haigh, secretary. 8/11/01.
* * * *
The Tasmanian, Loan, Guarantee, and Finance
Co. (Hobart) shows a slight improvement in its own small
way
Dividends and Total
Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves.
September, 1898.. £2572
March, 1899 .. £342 4 per cent. =£3ls 2599
September, 1899.. 349 4 „ „ 315 2633
March, 1900 .. 351 4 „ „ 315 2669
September, 1900.. 344 4 „ „ 315 2698
March, 1901 .. 375 6 „ „ 394 2679
September, 1901.. 401 6 „ „ 394 2686
This little concern has £15,000 capital, and its chief,
almost its only, asset is £19,827 lent on mortgage. But
seeing that the gross profit (£479 —expenses of manage-
ment are only £7B, leaving a net profit of £401) represent
less than 5/ per cent, on the shareholders’ funds, the
mortgage business appears to be in rather a quiet state
at present.
* * * *
“ It is indeed a thousand pities that Australian
mining men, when they want English capital, should not
differentiate,” writes a much-travelled correspondent to
The Bulletin. “It should be laid down as a rigid rule
that legitimate propositions should be reserved for finan-
cial houses who genuinely wish to invest money in honest
development-work, and anything that ‘meows’ can be
used on the public speculator at large. He is alwavs a
fool or a knave. But with big financial houses 'like
Rothschilds, who have hitherto steered very clear of
Australia (despite the fact that every field boasts 40
‘ Rothschild’s agents’), it is very different. The other
day, in the city of London, they promised to support a
proposition, provided it was confined to private develop-
ment and would stand inspection. That proposition
hailed from N.S.W. and carried the backing of five excel-
lent reports from five well-known Australian engineers.
Yet when the show was inspected it was found to be very
wild and with a long tail. Such things simply mean the
‘passing’ on sight of many a decent Australian
scheme.”
* • • *
To an Australian miner, from an old mate in
Alaska:— “ I have this winter been stampeding all
over Alaska, and have had hard times. It has been
a terrible season for storms, and we were lucky in
not being caught in any. We got back home two days
before the big storm, which was a very bad one ; about
30 below zero, and blowing just as it knows how to blow
in this country. A friend of mine got caught in it, and
came near losing his arms. It was on the summit of
the mountain, and the wind picked him up and threw
him down on the ice, injuring him very much. Then the
others broke a trail in the snow, and three of them had
to walk all night to keep circulation going. In Nome all
the cabins were covered over with snow, and when we
got up in the morning the door was blocked, and we had
to wait until the relief-party came round to shovel the
drift from the door. It has been storming for over a
month now. Four days before the big storm it regis-
tered 72 below zero back in the mountains. We were
returning from the Arctic, were out of dog-feed, and had
to travel. I can tell you she was a bad day to
travel. The dogs, poor devils, couldn’t move fast enough
to keep us warm, so we had to cut some of the slow ones
loose and try and get them to follow ; but they crawled
into the snow, and there, I guess, they froze to death.
There have been many men frozen to death, got caught
in blizzards, and, you might say, died standing up ; for
when one of them gets you in a place where there is no
shelter, you are in a bad hole. We got caught in one,
but saw it coming and were well prepared. We got our
sleeping-bags out of the sleigh, crawled into them, and
lay in them for six hours until it blew over. We cut the
dogs loose out of the harness and let them shift for them-
selves. They all came out right, as they were native dogs.
“This has been the worst winter any of the old-
timers have seen in this country. A lot of people came
here from the States, and started out, and have never
been heard from since. I have had a very good fellow
for a partner this winter, but a devil of a fellow
to spring yarns upon you. Don’t matter where
you are, or what you are doing; something you
say always puts him in mind of a little story, and then he
starts. We were going over a divide of the mountains,
and one of our dogs got the greenhide harness in his
mouth and chewed it. It was blowing about 40 miles an
hour, and bitter cold ; but as soon as we stopped to mend
the harness he started with his ‘ little story,’ and I had
to pull out a * gun ’ before he would stop talking. But,
when we moved on a little and got into shelter,
we both had a good laugh over it. Still, it was
the only way I could stop him talking. He is very
near as bad as another partner I had in Australia.
I had no ‘ gun ' over there, or I would have been com-
pelled to pot him! I have started about 20 claims over
in the Arctic, and I think some are very good. Going
back in a few days to prospect them, and have them
ready for the spring. I don’t expect to be in Nome for
about 8 weeks, which will bring us into the spring, when
the ice will be out of the river, and we will have a chance
of prospecting. I have let two lays on tribute on two of
my claims in the Nome district. I get 25 per cent, out of
the total output from the claims, so I won’t be doing bad
out of them."
* * * .
“The ways of mining engineers at the top of
the profession vary much; so does their remuneration.
Hayes Hammond, the great consulting engineer of the
Consolidated Goldfields of S’Africa, makes, say, £30,000 a
year in fees, and recently he said he thought he would
give it up because he didn’t get sufficiently paid. Of
course, he has other interests to look after, but I am cer-
tain he doesn’t work as hard as, say, the average editor.
Dr. Hatch, who should step into Hammond’s shoes, of
course, doesn’t get anything like that, but he is an inter-
esting personality. His greatest joy (which he rarely
sees) is his rose-garden at Addlestone, Surrey. He has
just finished an exhaustive monograph on the goldfields
of India—principally in the Mysore district—for the
Indian Govt., for which he got splendidly paid. Of
another type are the engineers that have been streaming
to the Gold Coast for some time past. Their salaries
range from £l5OO to £4OOO a year. Many of them are,
unfortunately, only mining engineers because they are
perfectly willing to send cables ‘as directed ’ written out
previous to their departure in the London offices of the
companies they represent.”
* * * •
The Broken Hill Municipal Council, five-sixths
Laborite, is fighting desperately for the right to tax the
mining co.’s on the basis of profits earned locally. If the
co.’s should only pay on the basis authorised by N.S.W.
Equity Court, the whole Laborite policy of municipal
socialism becomes impossible ; and so, though the muni-
cipality went down on every point in the Equity Court,
the Labor aldermen accept as their only hope the 100 to 1
chance of success on an appeal to the Privy Council.
Which explains their obstinate perseverance with the
suits in the teeth of overwhelming local opposition.
* 9 * m
British B.H. made a loss of £3360 in the Jan.-
July half-year. Lead averaged then about £l3 10s. —
started at £l6 ss. and closed at £l2 ss. Present average
about £lllos. This looks pretty bad for the co., even
though things underground have improved a good bit.
At present, only prospecting is being done, and that on a
small scale. Further, lead-market reports are not bright;
the German trade-smashes are upsetting things. Just
now, it isn’t nice to turn-up files and find that lead
averaged only £9 14s. in 1894, and to reflect that there is
no obvious reason why it should not go there again,
although, certainly, there is no obvious reason why it
should.
* • * *
The most striking feature of Zeehan (Tas.) is its
tribute system and the cause of it. The slump that fol-
lowed the V.D.L. Bank failure made the payment of any
calls a maniac dream, and it looked as if every mine must
close. But owing to a very liberal land law, every miner
could secure a quarter-acre freehold allotment for a small
sum, payment being extended over three years afterhe had
made improvements on it to the value of £5O. Conse-
quently nearly every miner, especially if married,
had his own house and land without having
to compete with the absentee speculator at a
town-lands auction as at present. The homesteads
being unsaleable after a slump—though realising
largely increased prices during a boom—the majority of
miners were practically tied to the field. Result was they
had to raise galena, or starve, or give away their homes
and emigrate. They preferred the first course, and revivi-
fied the field in an astonishing manner, leading to the
declaration of dividends by three companies alone of
£llO,OOO, and in many cases making good rises
themselves. They are now raising 50 per cent,
of the total output of the district. But such
a resurrection of a dead or moribund field is not
likely to recur, owing to a new Land Act, passed by
Mines Minister Mulcahy. Seeing the high prices ob-
tained in boom-times for some of these miners’ home-
steads, he blocked the facilities for securing them that
the old Act gave, and threw open the door to competition
at public auction. The absentee speculators jumped at
the opening when the Curtin-Davis district township was
offered for sale. The miner failed to secure a home, and,
when the high-flown expectations of the mines failed,
there being no miners fixed on the township, both mines
and township were deserted. That is what will happen
again in every district where exaggerated opinions of
payable, though common-place, mines are exploded.
Minister Mulcahy may, perhaps, grow wiser with the
century, and refrain from tinkering with land and mining
Acts. Likewise, he may not.
* * *
Kalgoorlie mines are threatened with a fuel
shortage. The local supply of firewood is only estimated
to last a few years longer. The consumption of fuel for
ore-roasting, crushing, winding-plants, and water-con-
densation is enormous. The wood has been cut out for a
great distance, and there is but one forest within a
reasonable reach of railway communication remaining.
Oil will probably be the future fuel for these mines. To-
day, oil could be probably landed there for the price of
coal, while its efficiency would be much greater as well as
the economy in handling. Its use would involve many
changes in the system of firing, but these would be small
compared with the money saveable by its use.
* • * *
“Dusty Pat”: The “Carnarvon Castle” (re-
ferred to by B. 5/10/’01) is located at Black fellows’ Gully,
10 miles from Mornish (Q.). The original co. spent thou-
sands in development. The leader is frozen-on to a hard
diorite wall, and is rich in places. The co. had one
crushing and then “ chucked it,” whereupon O’Donoghue
stepped in, and reaped the benefit of the co.’s work. In
same place there is a very curious crushing plant—a
Chilian mill, manufactured locally of granite, the
pan being two slabs cut and fitted neatly to-
gether. The rollers are also granite, and the
plant crushes all the locally-raised stone—giving fair
results. About six miles south of Mornish is another
curiosity locally known as the Crater. It is an old
geyser-opening, about 30ft. deep in the straight, after
which it goes down in an underlie. Surrounding it is a
patch of limestone about 100yds. x 50yds. in area, and
alongside the limestone is a patch of red soil, of about the
same area, which carries a little fine gold from grass roots
to bottom. The country, for a half-mile square, is a net-
work of ironstone and quartz reefs, all poor, although a
lot of loose surface-stone that was bagged and
crushed went as high as soz. Much trenching and pros-
pecting has been done, but where the rich stone came
from, so far no man knoweth.
* * • •
A. correspondent sends a few lines re mining on
that long-quiescent but promising field, the Hodgkinson
N.Q. The General Grant, belonging to the Cecil Syndi-
cate, a Bull co., with E. D. Miles and Co., of the Towers
as agents, crushed consistently for eight months at local
10-head battery for an average of 22dwt. from a reef Ift
to 4ft. wide for a length of 400 ft. on No. 2 level (depth
400 ft.). Sank another 100 ft. and crosscut the reef, 3ft’
6in. of solid quartz, supposed to be better than at the
other levels. The Cecil Syndicate owns eight shows
within a radius of 12 miles, and now has only the General
Grant working. The rest, comprising 150 acres, has been
under exemption over three years. Directors : Earl of
Warwick, Tom Mills, Ross Robinson, Edward Pope
* * * *
“ W.J.M.” : Some further particulars re Callide
railway—as an additional refutation of certain statements
made by “ Canip ” (12/10/’01). I have it officially that the
plans, sections and estimates of the first 40 miles of the
trial survey are now complete, and the cost per mile for
the narrow (2ft. 6in.) and broad (3ft. 6in.) gauges are
£2078 and £2550 respectively. The gradients in the 40-
mile section are all easy and well under the gradients
allowed by the co’s Act. In the event of a tunnel bein<>-
constructed, it will not exceed a quarter-mile long. The
interest upon the capital expended, plus maintenance of
permanent way and cost of labor in running the rail-
way, practically means the cost of transport from field to
port, and so is embraced in the cost of the coal delivered
f.o.b. Gladstone. In addition, there is the revenue deriv-
able from passenger-traffic and freights. The competi-
tors—fpswich, Burrum, Clermont, Darling Downs—are
not likely to be of serious moment, because Callide coal is
greatly superior, and Callide coal’s sphere of operations
will be in foreign ports and northern parts of Q As to
the probable competitors, Port Clinton coal is admittedly
a lignite, and therefore of little value for ocean-carrying
Dawson River coal-field is out of the market owing to
remoteness from a shipping port.
* * * *
The sponsors of the Snow Tramway-Grab Bill
in S.A. Parliament have agreed to make its acceptance
subject to a plebiscite of the ratepayers of each munici-
pality through which it is proposed to extend the lines.
afc *i hat P nce tlle legislature should not pass the
, Th ® ™ te P a y er s may not shoot themselves, but they
will be all the better without the loaded gun. The grab s
i dea is PY tent enough—that the municipalities
eb their streete 6 bIH aS & bnbe to gefc the ,ines extended
* * * *
s „tY?™\ h AuST^ lA ma g»zine is being floated
6no °V the P romo ters ask the public to subscribe for
500 £5 shares reserving another 500 fully-paid up for
themselves. It is claimed that the first four quarterly
n H the magazine were brought out without loss,
a nd that, therefore, the goodwill should be reckoned as
worth £2500. The “therefore” marks a very big jump.
Sympathisers with the hitherto hopeless cause of an Aus-
tralian monthly may subscribe capital, for sympathy’s
sake, but investors are not likely to be attracted by the
prospectus.
* * * *
City Leader, London, 20th July, 1901 : “It is
particularly gratifying to us, as we have consistently
praised the management of the Colonial Mutual Life, to
note that the funds are continually increasing.”*
* • * *
N. Guthridge, Ltd., of 71 Clarence-st., Sydney
(also Melbourne ; Fremantle, Kalgoorlie, W.A. ; Welling-
ton, N.Z.), have added to their list of agencies those of
the New Explosives Co., Ltd., London, and the Pulso-
meter Co. Ltd., Reading. . . . This company is now in a
position to supply all special mining requisites, principal
among them being “Wilfley” concentrators, “Little
Giant” and “Slugger” drills, “Rand” air compressors,
Gelignite, “ Rackarock,” “ Rendrock,” “ Sun ” brand
fuse, electric and other detonators, “ Ivanhoe ” mining
steel, “Globe” lubricating oils, special marlined steam
hose, steam pumps. Large stocks of all the above-men-
tioned specialities are carried.*
* * * •
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
* * * *
See for yourself. The Australian Medical
Gazette of January, 1891, compares Zetz Spa to the cele-
brated' Vichy waters of France, and states that it is
valuable for gout, rheumatism, gravel, catarrh of the
bladder, diabetes, dyspepsia, splenic and hepatic dis-
orders.


Damn Jones 8 ComPMis
“Oricijt To MsaSGrs”
CLOTNIN6 «.
SAC SUIT
TT
£3 3s.
PATTERNS AND SELF-MEASUREMENT FORMS
FREE ON REQUEST.
George & Barrack Sts.
SYDKTBY.
mm
■i i
THE :
RULE
VISIT
HARRINGTON’S
PHOTOGRAPHIC SHOWROOM
lf you want a Good Reliable
CAMERA
HARRINGTON & CO., LTD.,
66 King Street, Sydney,
93 Queen St., Brisbane; 179 Collins St., Melbourne;
504 Hay St., Perth, &c., &C.
Hand Cameras
Stand Cameras
Pocket Cameras
Kodak Cameras
FROM Ss. TO JBSO.
Home Cigarettes.
THE LATEST BULLETIN.
They are the Sweetest, the Nicest, the
most Commonwealthiest Cigarette.
All Tobacconists.
SOCIETY
LEROY
LIQUEUR
BRANDY
King Edward, who seems to take a fresh
title every month (and who, by the way, arranged
at a recent London celebration to be greeted by
flunkeys with “ Hail to our Emperor ! ”), should
think over the tendency of territories to dwindle
as titles stretch out. Julius Cuesar ruled over all
his known world with but one title : when from
the feeble hand of the last of the Caesars fell the
final atom of the Roman power the degenerate
weakling had 26 resplendent words to convey the
idea of his magnificence. (
* * * *
King Ned professes to be compensated
for the anxiety of the Duke of York’s trip to Aus-
tralia by its “complete success.” If he only
knew how Imperial stock has been sent down
here by the visit of the unfortunate little man !
Kings of old had a Jester as a Court functionary ;
the modern King should have at his Court a
Candid Friend. The Bulletin is prepared to
recommend Edward a man for the position.
m m * m
The details of the Ducal expenses in Maori-
land, dragged out during the long discussion
on the Estimates, are amusing reading. Seddon,
on his own responsibility, ordered new liveries for
all the vice-regal flunkeys. On his own initiative,
too, he bought gorgeous sets of harness for the
Ducal carriage. When Gov. Ranfurley saw then,
however, he flatly refused to allow the flaming
gear to be used on his horses, stating that they
had some self-respect. King Seddon will probably
take the lovely gear ’Ome for the Coronation ;
though too loud for a Duke, it should fill the bill
for a Radical “king.”
GOT HIM ON A STRING: A FAVORITE
ROLE.
The endless, squalid squabble over the
bill! Melbourne City Council now declines to pay
its share of the cost of the Ducal decorations
because the Public Works Dept, did not halve the
few shillings got by selling the draggled remnants
of the triumph. The Council reckons it is being
got at for about eighteenpence, and its rage over
this robbery is something frightful. Also,
in the village of Hamilton, a storekeeper sued a
prominent citizen lately for the price of gun-
powder used in tomfoolery on “ Mafeking day.”
Proceedings were suspended “ to allow the towns-
people an opportunity of subscribing the amount.”
Picture the joy of passing round the hat to pay for
the circus business which welcomed the raising of
a “siege” that is now known to have never
existed 1
* * • *
Maoriland is now suffering the most severe
epidemic of influenza in its history. Many local
medicos assert that the returned S’African troopers
brought it with them. “ Patriotism ” does not
pan out as all loot.
One hundred English school-marms, it is
cabled, are to be sent out to the Boer concentra-
tion camps to teach the little children (how to
die ?) under Lord Ketchener, the finishing school-
master.
• • * •
A “sword of honor” has been presented
to Baden-Powell as a tribute from “ the people of
New South Wales.” Parliament should intervene
—of course it won’t—in this. “The people,” in
such circumstances, should be the people of the
country as officially represented. A self-consti-
tuted collector of children’s pennies, dubbing
itself and its fowl-yard “ the people of N.S. W.,”
simply noodleises N.S.W., and swells Baden-
Powell’s hairless head.
• • * *
The irony of things. Two ping-pong
tournaments are being carried on in Adelaide to
raise money for a memorial fund to the dead in
S’Africa. This tippety-tappety game in honor of
men who (no matter how lop-sided their idea of
the Cause) died in their boots, gun in hand !
Advertisements are appearing for articior
of clothing for the Ketchener concentration-camps
in S’Africa. Shrouds (in baby sizes) must be
most particularly needed.
* * • *
Dear Bulletin. —Touching that Sydney
anti-spitting bylaw. T’other afternoon, walking
down King-street, I noticed a person with his back
towards me besprinkling the pavement with
copious expectorations. A policeman also noticed
and strode up with arm outstretched. On reach-
ing his quarry the “cop” suddenly stopped and
became deeply interested in something else. I
saw the face of the spitter then. He was a
member of the Cabinet. —B.
* • * *
Pathetic notice in a Bundle-street (Ade-
laide) photographer’s window : “ The Duke and
Duchess of York. Greatly reduced.” After the
boom, the slump.
* * * •
Mayor Graham has hard and thankless
work trying to get Sydney to keep itself clean.
Some old identities make it a matter of personal
quarrel. Sydney was pampered in the early time ;
if anything in the way of cleaning or ornamenting
took place, the charge was booked to the country
at large, not to the property-owners of the
borough. Gov. Gipps labored to break down this
practice, and, like Mayor Graham, provoked
bitter antagonisms among property-owners. For-
merly, the paving, cleaning and lighting of Sydney
were actually set down on the Parliamentary
Estimates.
* ♦ * *
Concerning a possible new daily paper :
In place of the old yarn about Alfred Harmsworth, the
“King of the New Journalism,” coming out to start a
Liberal paper in Melbourne, there is now in circulation a
tale about a new unmitigatedly democratic paper. Some
of the Labor party have got the idea that they can start a
daily on £30,000 and no brains. Just fancy the “ Daily
Tocsin,” run by 6. M. Prendergast, Stephen Barker, Rev.
J. B. Ronald, M.P., and a few others ! No doubt
the office would be paved with sufficient good intentions
to convert it into a commercial hell. The delusive belief
about the ease with which a paper can be started and
conducted isn’t confined to the uneducated, but afflicts
people who might be expected to know better.
* » * *
The day after he got ten years for holding-
up the White Cliffs mail-coach Tomlinson indi-
cated that he was prepared to “give somebody
away.” Arrangements were made to take down
the confession ; but just then the interesting
prisoner shut up tight. By-the-way, police-officer
Nolan, who had charge of the case, gets his
reward in the shape of a shift from the western
wilderness to Bombala.
* • • •
“ Cuss ” to The Bulletin :
Serious doubts exist in many minds out here (western
N.S.W.) re the guilt of young Tomlinson, convicted of the
White Cliffs coach robbery. It seems queer justice that
a man should be sent up for ten years for robbery under
arms and receiving (from himself), when the Crown failed
to proceed with the more serious charge of shooting with
intent to kill, on the ground that both Kanter—the man
shot —and the driver absolutely failed to identify accused.
The money was found placed on top of the clothing in
accused’s box, and a £lO note was found between the
blankets of his bed. Now, why should he have planted
that note there? Does it not look as if the money
was so placed in order that, if any sort of a search was
made, it could hardly be missed? Also, at the trial at
Broken Hill, why was not the witness called who was
ready to swear he saw a stranger on a bike leave the town
ahead of the coach ? said stranger being at White Cliffs the
day after the robbery 7. As to the overcoat matter, any
man-of-the-world can readily surmise an excuse for keep-
ing quiet about that: there are no “ benches in the
Park ”at White Cliffs. To conclude : Tomlinson is doing
10 years because the stolen money was found in his box in
a room occupied by other men, and till the day after the
robbery that box had been in a tent which anybody could
enter. After removing the box to the hotel a discussion
arose, and, to settle the matter, Tomlinson went to his
box to get a photo. When he returned to the dis-
putants he was sick and dazed so much that the local
medico had to be sent for, who found him suffering from
symptoms of shock with impaired heart-action. It is
possible that Tomlinson found the planted money and
realised the terrible position he was in—hence his distress.
Undoubtedly, there is not a nigger in the woodpile, but a
woman in the case—also, some most infernal scoundrels.
¥ * * «
Brisbane Tram Co. now rules the roost as
regards suburban traffic in that town. The
manager, a shrewd Yank, receives deputations
that apply cap-in-hand for extensions, most of
which are lines that warp the revenues of the
State railway. S’Malcolm M'Eacharn is King-
Pin in this big concern.
The recent case of the s.s. City of Lincoln,
which, after shipping 700 horses in Melbourne
recently, put into Port Adelaide with nearly 200
of the poor brutes dead or dying, is a shocking
example of blind adherence to custom. There
was a time when no one in his senses would ship
horses without making provision for “slinging”
them in bad weather; but now the stalls are
depended on to keep them on their legs, so that
if a horse goes down, he stays down, and rolls
under the feet of those beside him, throwing them
down too. Also, if the stalls are not very strong,
something is sure to give way The momentum
of such a mass of living animals (100 horses weigh
50 tons or over), swaying backward and forward
with the pitching and rolling of the ship is more
than any ordinary timber can stand When a
horse is slung and lifted off his feet he can neither
hurt himself nor rns neighbours, tie swings
with the motion of the ship. It costs a little
more to provide slings, but their use would make
referred to. SU uns P eakable horrors as that
* * * *
English Home Notes gives (with illustra-
tions) a couple of pages in its current issue to the
matter of men’s stays. Fashionable men, it is
stated, generally wear stays now, and the making
of them is quite an industry. A good plain pair
costs £2 25., but in brocaded silks, trimmed with
lace they run to as much as £5 ss. The future
Listoriaif of the Boer Wat shou.d study that
article hard ; it may put him on the track of many
nngs. „
Interesting to recount that Melbourne’s
first telephone exchange was started by Byron
Moore and a few supporting syndicators a
year or two before the tinkle of a telephone bell
was ever heard m London. Ihe tale of the
telephone as Byron Moore tells it is a convincing
grievance against the .Government Dept., which
eventually got possession of the business it had
been striving to bring into disrepute.
The Manly (Sydney) steamer hands, who
struck for increased wages on Sunday last, showed
a business acumen which is too often lacking in
organised labor efforts. It was a fine Sunday,
and the day’s takings by the co. were prospec-
tively big; the next day was the King’s Birthday
holiday, probable takings £3OO or £4oo—and the
co. was called upon to grant the increase at 30
minutes’ notice, and, with the increase, 12 months’
guaranteed employment. Of course, it could do
nothing else but yield,
* « * *
Innate snobber y is shown by Sydney D.T.
in ]ts remark that J the protest & t h e n ' rthern
subu rbs Labor leagues against the degradation of
th harbor b hoa ? dings e is “unexpected.” Why
ahould not J the wor l ingman h £ve an e ye for
beaut as well as the p ro | e rty-agent or the ’bus-
ogs f J &
* * * *
In a recent N.S.W. Supreme Court
appeal judgment occurs the following
On her (the petitioner) returning home her husband
was annoyed with her, and took up a boot and threw it
at her, striking heron the face. But she does not say
tbab ’ n^‘ctec * an y ’ n j llr y on her, or that it caused her
WhfcT recalls the examination by N.S.W. Judge
sim of the petitioner for a divorce in connec-
, r .
celebrated Dean case You say
y X >r husband ™^° a harged w attempting to
-Y&'-SSZXZ* toXIP
„ Yes> your Honor< » .. Was he hanged ? « The
avidity of his Honor for evidence caused him to
overlook the fact that it is not usual to seek
divorce from a deceased person,
* * * •
Frank Farnell’s Bill to amalgamate the
i ega l professions in N.S.W. reverses a Council
measure of over 70 years ago. Farnell’s notion is
that amalgamation will cheapen law. When the
branches were dissevered in 1829 or thereabouts,
the argument for separation was also that it
would cheapen law.
Flannelette.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ The child was standing in front of the fire when a spark set her flannelette nightgown ablaze.
In spite of prompt assistance, the burns were so severe that, in a few hours, death put an end to her
suffering.”— Any day, any paper.
QH, there’s nothing like cremation
To reduce the population,
And the cheapest way to do it is to let
All the kids you don’t require
Stand abound a blazing fire,
In their little nightgowns made of flannelette.
Flannelette ! Flannelette ! though it’s useless in
the WET,
And in winter time it keeps the kiddies cool,
It’s so very cheap and clean, and it burns like
kerosene,
Does the gaudy cotton stuff that “ wears like
wool.”
There’s nothing now alarming
In the trade of baby-farming—
The police can never get you in their net.
And they’ll have to beg your pardon
When they’ve dug up all your garden,
If you just cremate the kids in flannelette.
N.S.W.
CoTTONETTE ! OOTTONETTE ! Oh, THE “ PREMIUMS ” YOU
MAY GET,
If you’re careful how the little pets are drest.
You MAY ADVERTISE, “ KIND LADY WILL ADOPT A LITTLE
BABY
And a roll of flannelette will do the rest.
Then, a cheer for Federation,
With a laryer importation
Of the stuff that’s “warm for children." How
they burn!
Send our wool-ships to that other land
They call the “dear old Motherland,’’
And take her cotton shoddy in return.
Flamelette ! Flamelette ! That’s the name for it,
you bet!
And the Law should have it stamped on every yard;
It may save the shopman lying, and the little ones
from frying,
And put all foolish mothers on their guard.
CRIPPS OLARE.


J.D.K.Z. GIN.
♦
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
only—largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 16’5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Sydney.
Raff AN’S catarrh remedy
For Diseases of the Air Tracts.
RAFF AN’S CATARRH REMEDY
For Chronic Distension of the Stomach.
RAFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY
For Heat Flushes and Red Noses.
RAFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY
Melbourne’s Cure for Exhaustion, Headache.
RAFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY S/6, 5/-.
RAFFAH,
CARLTON, MELBOURNE.
gff
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers'
Gazette, and Sailing List with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Collins-st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
SILVER STAR STARCH.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
dgdd
N.S.W. Education Minister Perry can-
not affoi'd free Primary schools in N.S.W., but
expresses himself strongly on the suppression of
truancy. Truancy, now to be suppressed by a
costly army of inspectors, is largely the outcome of
the miserable threepennies exacted as fees.
Children given the school-money squander it on
the way, and then avoid school to escape the
consequences. On the other hand, children who
have to plead poverty play truant to avoiu the
humiliation. The fees only bring in £70,000 a
year, which amount has been well-nigh balanced
by the sum spent in giving free-poHage to news-
papers. Better fat newspaper-owners than free
education ! !
» • * »
One of the stupid retrenchments of
N.S.W. Assembly this year was to cut down the
proposed salaries of the medical superintendents
of the Asylums for the Insane. The N.S.W.
public asylums, despite splendid appointments
and humane treatment of the inmates, have been
too long looked upon as mere places of incarcera-
tion. The medical superintendents should be
put in a position to devote themselves to the study
of mental disease. Owing to a cheese-paring
policy, we are already far behind America and
other countries in the medical treatment of the
insane'; and if, in ignorance or in spite, the medical
posts at the asylums are made still more unat-
tractive, further retrogression is certain.
• • * *
Shops on the east side of Exhibition-st.,
Melbourne, between Lonsdale and Little Lons-
dale sts., bear the following names: Solomon
Keamy, J. Perlstein, Mrs. Haddad, Gunga Bra-
hamann, S. Matar, Marm Deen, Mrs. M. Khan,
Fatta Deen, Jeelami Shaw, Latoof and Callil, and
Sung Hing Kee and co. There are three other
buildings in the block. An aptly-named “Cos-
mopolitan ” laundry occupies the central position,
while at each end are hotels, wherein M. A. Bruce
and J. Calvin maintain the supremacy of the
Britisher.
* * * *
A fine crusted technicality that has
stimulated the legal palate for 40 or 50
years had itsliquox
spilt badly and
fianlly as far as Vic-
toria is concerned
on appeal to the
Full Court in an
“ under 16 ” case
recently. The guilt or
innocence of the Romeo
concerned turned on
the question whether
Juliet was, or was not,
a few days older
than the birth-cer-
tificate attested.
One, Baron
Romilly, had laid
it down long ago
that a birth-
certificate was
only evidence
of the fact that
a child was
born some-
time before
the actual
date of re-
gistration,
but that it
was not evi-
dence of the
exact date of
birth, al-
though that
was specified
in the certifi-
cate. It has
been con-
tended, for
instance,
that in-
terested per-
sons might post-
date or antedate
births to suit
“fair fames”
or rights of
property.
The Vic. Full
Court, how-
ever, without
calling upon
the Crown,
went bald-
headed for
the eom-
monsense
notion
that such
a certificate
is some evidence
of all the facts recorded
in it. It is to be hoped
that the Colonial Office will not reprove the Full
Court for thus contemptuously brushing aside an
honored British precedent.
• * * 0
Thirty-four adults and nine children in
the various Queensland leper-prisons—another
item in the price-list of the black-and-tan policy.
And the figures bear woeful compound interest.”
* * * *
Mr. F. B. Suttor’s tiny Coroners’ Bill in
N.S.W. Leg. Council needs watching. One of
its provisions abolishes, in the case of gaol in-
quests, juries composed of freemen and prisoners.
The necessity for this abolition needs explanation.
Numbers of cases are recorded in which mixed
juries were unmixed blessings.
“ Railway Man ” complains of a genuine
grievance :
A big fashionable bazaar is set going, and the stalls are
divided amongst ladies in groups according to their
spheres of influence. There is (say) a Locomotive Stall,
managed by the wives of the heads of the Railway Dept.
Mrs. Departmental Head gets a list of the subordinate
officers’ names and addresses from hubby, and distributes
among them-raffle tickets and collecting-cards with polite
notes. The officers, to oblige the boss’s lady, push the
sale of these. Result, many of the men spend money
which they can ill spare to advance some charity (?) or
other. A man who does not feel disposed to shell-out may
find it would cause future unpleasantness to use his judg-
ment freely. The subscription-list, charity-bazaar ticket,
and general cadging business is assuming huge propor-
tions, and the railwayman is not the only sufferer.
* » * *
N.S.W. temperance agitators have taken a
new departure that will bring them much support
from moderate drinkers and non-fanatics. The
new league aims at the nationalisation of the
traffic. Apparently, the cold-tea brigade is
beginning to absorb men who have about
them some of the stuff of which statesmen
are made. State control is the only satis-
factory way out of the liquor puzzle. Prohi-
bition leads to illicit stills, sly-grog selling, and
poisoning of the public. Private control has
proved a failure, and in the nationalisation of the
traffic lies the solution of the tied-house trouble,
the peroxide damsel problem, and the adulte-
rated-liquor difficulty.
* * * *
Is this a solemn truth or a mere ornamen-
tal yell ? A correspondent writes :
Related that, not along ago, while a convivial party
were having a “ good time ” one Saturday at Gosford
(N.S.W.), one member thereof (an M.P.) boasted
he could get a steam-dredger sent to that unim-
portant locality. A dredger is of as much’use there
as a giraffe would be, but, all the same, it made its
appearance. Being there, some semblance of work had
to be found for the thing, and it was accordingly em-
ployed in dredging a channel for the fishing boats, craft
which drew fully six inches of water. When a mud punt
was filled, it was towed about 100yds., and the contents
dumped into Brisbane Water. This valuable work
only cost the country two or three score pounds pet
week, and as the crew spent most of their earnings in
Gosford, the townsfolk “ lay low an’ sed nuffin.”
HIS MASTERPIECE.
ARTIST'S DAUGSTER : “ Now, which do you think
is father’s best work ?”
HE (promptly): “ You!”
New Sydney papers announced : a snips
weekly on the lines of Lloyds published by
Sydney D. T. Co., and a political weekly, The
Patriot, run by the O’Sullivan and others. It is
said that both will materialise in a week or two.
Mr. Todd, now representing the D.T. in Mel-
bourne, comes to Sydney to take charge of its
new publication.
IT MADE NO DIFFERENCE IN MAMMA.
NIAL OLD CHAP ( taking child on his knee, and
making room for handsome mother): “I’ll
hold her, madam; she'll be quite comfortable.
The ladies always take to me. What's your
name, Popsey?"
POPSEY'S MA: “ Algernon Sydney—after his father."
“F.C,” : ’Tisn’t the way-back bush-school
only that is a disgrace to the State that runs it.
Richmond (Melb.), central school, in almost the
biggest suburb, is overcrowded. In winter the
ground is a swamp. There is no shelter whatever,
not even a tree. The youngsters used to be let eat
their lunches on the staircases and in the passages,
but, for some reason, they are now put outside
and the doors locked during the dinner hour.
But—they have a flag-pole and one of Sargood’s
gaudy flags to shelter them from sun and rain.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Church of England “official
organ” opens its vox inhurnana stop on the
flogging question :
Some years ago it was considered that those who in-
flicted pain should suffer pain, arid the punishment
awarded as a deterrent was by means ot flogging. This
had a salutary effect, and checked larrikinism. But some
maudlin sympathy in the House, questioning the action
of certain magistrates who ordered this mode ot punish-
ment, had the effect of staying their hands. The law,
though still in force, is a dead letter so far as its adminis-
tration is concerned, and it needs again to be enforced if
ruffianism is to be put down.
The shriek after the lash by the fat Tory whose
stomach gets in the way of his running, and who
is in deadly fear for his gold watch, is explainable,
but a clerical whine, in the name of Christ, for the
triangle is simply loathsome.
• * * *
To “ go through ” a husband’s pockets has
long been recognised as one of woman’s most
sacred privileges. But since the advent of the
franchise agitation, even that fundamental clause
of the Magna Charta of womankind seems to be
threatened. In a recent N.S.W. divorce-case the
wife alleged that simply because she, by chance,
went near her husband’s clothes while he was in
bed, and rattled his watch and chain, he jumped
up, “beat her violently, tore her night-dress off,
made her wipe up the stains of her own gore,
burned her clothes, and kicked her downstairs ! ”
* * * *
Dr. Maloney’s Legitimisation of Innocents
Bill was promptly thrown out by Yic. House of
Landlords. The only observation meriting the
least notice was that of Melville, M.L.C., who
considered “the Bill did not go far enough—the
seduction of a woman should have the effect of
constituting the marriage tie.” Before this bril-
liant idea could be put into force there would
need to be a removal of present restrictions as to
the number of husbands a woman may have —and
the number of wives a man may take to himself.
• * * *
Victorian Artists’ Society has just had a
meeting, at which Academicians or Associates, or
some other pretty-titled people, were chosen in
close imitation of ’Ome methods. Whilst N.S.W.
art-traditions mostly consist of fight, in Victoria
they are fight and frill. Why should there always
be such a huge amount of the stoush spirit created
in the pursuit of Art ?
* * * *
The law creeps slowly at times. A Sydney
policeman kneeling down peeping through the
keyhole of a shop at 9 p.m. informed writer that
that was the only way of catching offenders
against the Early Closing Act.
At a Sydney Police Court, the other day, a
small boy appeared on bail for breathing too
loudly, in the presence of a policeman, or some
other crime. But when he answered to the name
of Jim Jackson, the policeman remembered that
he wasn’t the Jim Jackson he had arrested and said
so; whereupon the youth tremblingly admitted
that he wasn’t Jim, but only Bill. Jim, he said,
was “took” with the typhoid, and he had come
instead. The pathos of the incident struck the
whole court. One man in particular was so broken-
up that he announced his intention of adopting
the self-sacrificing Bill and bringing him up as his
own younger brother. Whether he thought better
of it afterwards is not known. Most people think
better of their good resolutions, which is one
reason why Bill’s path in life is hard and circuitous.
* * * *
Refusal of Christian burial took on another
aspect in a N.S.W. cemetery the other day, when
a priest refused the “rites” to a corpse which
was represented at the grave by five mourners,
and a parson promptly stepped in, prayed over
the body, and, as a result, enlisted the five as con-
tributors to his collection-plate in future. Can
such an action be regarded as unfair clerical
competition ?
There is one place in Sydney where the
business of money-lending is carried on in an
equitable manner and where those in need of
financial accommodation can rely on being
decently treated. The sensible man who wishes
to get rid of his monetary worries at a minimum
of cost and trouble to himself goes to the offices of
the Australian Equitable Investment Co., Ltd.
The co. has a large capital for investment at low
interest, and is always open to advance money on
risks which the banks would decline; and acts
generally as a medium between the banks and
ordinary money-lenders. Men in business can
obtain assistance for their venture at a figure
which will leave them a fair profit for themselves.
The co. advances money to any extent on deeds of
land, bond warrants, merchandise, stock in trade,
scrip, interests under wills, furniture and all classes
of security. Press notices which have been pub-
lished from time to time express the favorable
opinion which generally exists regarding the co.
Mr. J. E. O’Brien is the Managing Director, and
the co.’s offices are at 45 Elizabeth-street, between
King and Hunter-streets.* < ..
“ Water, clear, cool water Nature’s
sparkling beverage—that’s my drink,” said Mac-
gillvcuddy; “ fetch me a glass, young ’un.” The
glass was fetched. Mac. turned on the tap, and
Nature’s sparkling beverage turned out to be a
sort of muddy brown, with a wire-worm wriggling
about in it and a few tliousand bacteria held in
suspense. Mac. lifted th*? glass to the light, put
it down again reflectively, and went into town to
order a three-gallon Dripstone Filter, at 17s. 6d.,
from M‘Lean Bros, and Rigg, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-
street, Melbourne.
Anyone requiring private matters investi-
gated, or missing friends traced, cannot do better
than write to J. W. Holdsworth, 101 Swanston-
st., Melbourne. J. W. H. is the acknowledged
leading private inquiry expert of Australia.*


If yoG woGld
“STAND ON VELVET”
BGy YoGr
BOOTS
IKark
Fog’s.
I
AMERICAN BOOT. G. E. Keith. Black Oalf Balmoral, made !n 3 shapes—
Pointed, Medium, and Square Toes ; welted. Price, 16/6.
At Flemington on Cup and Oak days the
lawn was alive with P.D. figures, gay dresses, and
lacy loveliness. There never was so much P.D.
corset gathered together at any previous Cup
meeting. And why not? Because the P.D.
increases its popularity every year. Its power to
make an ordinary waist look out-of-the-common,
and a “ good ” figure look better than the best, is
now one of the best known facts in Australia.*
Pedicure —Guest’s new hygienic treatment
of the feet. A perfect cure for corns, bunions,
in-growing toe-nails, painful and smarting feet.
In hot weather this treatment is esteemed a per-
fect boon by all tired women, as it affords instant
relief in the most sensitive cases. Treatment by
appointment. Lady operators. Guest’s Face
Massage Salons, 229 Bourke-street—Tel. 2200.
Also Block Arcade, Collins-street—Tel. 1766, and
Menzies’ Hotel.*
Do you like Coffee ?
Perfect, Pure,
Fragrant, Exhilarating Coffe
Then Try
T.sH. SMITH'S
Cold
> edal
Coffee Essence
Winners of the GRAND PRIX against all
other makers at the PARIS EXHIBI-
TION, 1900.
Australian Representatives ■
WIFT4. COMPANY.
7 Spring: Street,
Sydney
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, November 12, 1901.
My Dear Arini,—
Our Cup wanderers fill their niches once more.
All whom I have met don’t look very joyous.
They went away full of the wine of expectation,
and have come home like returned empties.
Horses and weather cause more heartaches than
unrequited calf-love. Sydney-siders say that the
best-looking women at the Carnival were Mrs.
aV GC t\ Antill bride, and a daughter of
Mr. David Anderson. Victorian plebiscite on
the beauty question not yet to hand. By the way,
a Melb. young woman who had helped to fill
the Cup lawn since she wore Kate Greenaway
clothes, fled over here just before the last carnival,
and now gives her opinion of Sydney girls. They
are willow-waily, floppy, weary, pretty, and
tcrriolv given to eating in the afternoons. Their
slenderness is that of a young bamboo, and their
prettiness requires a lot of accessories. Govt,
ought to give every Sydney-side (fortuneless) girl
a good income to secure these accessories until
shes 27, when, if she’s not married, she ought to
be pole-axed, for another year or two sees her
grey at the temples and round the back of the
collar, and her hips and bust develop enormously,
her neck grows wrinkly, and she loses the bend in
her back. Also, she loses her appreciation of sun-
sets, and begins to see a primrose or flannel-flower
as such and nothing more. ?
Not many of us knew that tailoresses were so
numerous. Their striking strength is 850, and
the city is full of short-frocked, sturdy-looking
girls with collecting-boxes. One of them being
asked why they didn’t wait for the Arbitration
Bill to redress their wrongs, replied—“ The men
that made the Bill would be sure to be ‘daddied’
over by the bosses.” At the monster meeting in
the Domain last Sunday the executive of the
strike were raised to eminence on a lorry j the
speakers were most earnest, keen-faced young
men, but the huge Moreton Bay fig, under whose
shadow they orated, rustled louder than they
spoke. “So hot, my little sir,” it seemed to say.
The best place to hold a strike meeting is on an
ugly site amid bricks and mortar, the less nature
about the better. Great trees and sward make
the orator seem small and mean. There were
bigger crowds around the bands placing in the
rotunda.
After seeing Mrs. Roosevelt’s portrait, as pub-
lished by Sydney D.T., I am a quarter inclined
to think that the President’s consort does dress on
£6O a year. With a different neck, and a mane,
and a body with four legs, one at each corner, and
a tail, the picture would pass as that of a Cup-
starter. The lady has a painfully-intellectual
forehead—a desert of forehead—its monotony
unbroken by a wisp of curled hair. It’s the kind
of forehead that is backed up by utilitarian rather
than artistic brains. One of those penny caskets
of literature which come out in London had an
article, recently, entitled “Are clever people
ugly ?” And it triumphantly answered its ques-
tion in the affirmative, saying: “The higher we
rise in intellectuality, the lower we shall fall in
respect to beauty.” Also, “The reason why
women have hitherto been more beautiful than
inen is because they have been less educated.”
Crushing logic ! Yet there’s nothing like ignor-
ance for loosening the jaw and glassing the eye,
but you couldn’t get the penny-paper writer to
believe it. She seeks her type of beauty !«the
East, not the West, end of London.
Mdlle. Antonia Dolores, in a gown that took
the light like an opal, bronze, blue, and grey, and
coral necklace, has, at time of writing, given two
of the four promised concerts at the Town Hall.
Mdlle’s songs are, as usual, dainty and unhack-
neyed. Amongst those of the opening night were
Berlioz’s “Absence,” which, when Dolores sings
it, brings me a vision of seed-pearls, tears, and
moonlight. In Blumenthal’s “Serenade” one
hears to perfection that effect of which only a few
singers are capable—that of checking and toning
a strong, full note down to a very filament of
music. “Bid me Discourse” and “Chanson
Arabe,” with its wailing charm, were also listed.
For thirteen months Mdlle. Dolores, with only
such rests as she got on ship-board, has been sing-
ing. In W.A. she had capital houses and a two-
hours’ camel ride. Commenting upon Melba’s
voice, Mdlle. says it has notes that remind her of
our bell-bird. Of the cities she has visited, she
heap New York a’calling louder than even her
native Paris. Which recalls a storyette : Railing
from Chicago to N’York, Mdlle. and her
chaperone were assiduously waited upon by the
conductor, a big old negro, black as jet. At the
end of the journey he intimated, in answer to
their thanks, that it was a labor of love, “for
Mdlle. Dolores was the image of his sister, and he
would do anything in the world for a girl who
resembled her.” As the soprano is, in coloring, a
mezzo (English complexion, eyes of greyish hazel,
and dark-brown hair), the conductor must have,
indeed, seen her with eyes of fraternal love and
white faith.
When Mayor Graham and some of the Citizens’
Reception Committee went to the barracks to
request the company of Major-General French
and staff at the banquet to Hector Macdonald,
the military potentate who happened to be on
deck at the time said, “Let me glance at the
Army List, and see who is this man, Macdonald ! ”
He glanced, then : “ Ah, yes ! he’s here; but he
has merely the regimental standing of a colonel.”
At the present moment it appears to be uncertain
whether the Commandant and staff will attend
this dinner. The way of the —aw —“rankah” is
still hard in the British Armv.
Josephine Stanton co. scored a galloping success
at Sydney Criterion last week. “ Fra Diavolo ”
went well, and on Saturday night “ Wang” was
presented to a crowded house, dress-circle, stalls,
and gallery being full. “Wang” is a musical
extravaganza in a gorgeous Siamese setting, and
contains several pretty songs which give the vital
Miss Stanton great opportunities. A dainty little
melody about a running brook and a shady nook was
encored several times. Miss Stanton appears in a
boy’s white flannel tennis suit and a midshipman’s
cap, as Mataya, the Crown Prince of Siam, whose
uncle i 3 regent. Wang spends all his time dili-
gently dodging sundry awful-looking creditors
and seeking the hidden treasure of the late king.
The treasure having been tracked to the vicinity
of the widow of the French Consul, Wang makes
love to the lady in a most amazing fashion,
marries her, and staggers beneath the awful strain
of supporting her and her vast previous family. As
Wang, Mr. Geo. Kunkel is a pearl of a humorist.
His beautiful, red legs and long flowing coat,
to say nothing of his Mongolian moustache,
is an overwhelming demonstration that the
western sac suit is a horror, and the ordinary
dress-suit an outrage on manly beauty. But then,
it is not given to the ordinary male thing to have
such lovely flowing outlines on his basement
works, and Wang’s style of nether garment is
only to be worn by Greek statues and demi-gods.
Kilts aren’t a circumstance beside it. The only
other frocking (all the rest was Siamese, or much
abbreviated) was Miss Nilsson’s. One, a dairy-
maid costume with a pink hat, and the other a
white satin, with blush roses across it, moved a
male person close to me to such enthusiasm that
he promised the thin and faded little woman with
him “one just like it, to-morrow.”
Mr. Victor Leslie, of the Brough co., and Miss
Winnie Austin, who is with Hawtrey, are being
congratulated by friends on their engagement.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Spectacularly speaking, the Cup was ruined
by the wet morning. It was, in the end, a beauti-
ful day ;. but ere the clouds rolled by early birds
arrived in storm-plumage, to spoil the pageant
later on, when they took to the lawns and terraces
in company with human parrakeets, king-fishers
and regent-birds, spreading their plumes in the
sunshine. Lady Hopetoun, flinging off pink
riding-coat, lined with black, to display a Cup-
dress of white crepe, topped by toque of ivory
chiffon and pink cabbage-roses, brought along
‘ that little Charlie-thing, ’ her younger son, a frail
nine-year-old in top-hat and 'Chesterfield, with
complexion like porcelain, and a knack of uncon-
sciously modelling his gait on that of the biggest
man in sight at the moment. Stepping at dad’s
heels, the kiddie affects the pater’s willowy stoop
and cat-like, Lord-Chamberlain tread. If the
only jolly member of the attache-group heads the
party, the small-sized mimic solemnly pulls down
his cuffs, squares his elbows in front of him, and
strides along like a pocket bounder, off to knock
’em in the. Old Kent Road ! If everything the
atom does is patterned on the proceedings of his
elders, his lines are evidently laid amongst enthu-
siastic lady-killers. At the garden - party he
wasted few words on mere men, but hung all the
afternoon on the arm of a white muslinite, bandy-
ing words with her girl-chums, pouter-pigeoning
his little white vest, and altogether doing the
heavy. Of course the poor nipper may have been
cold-shouldered by his own sex at the outset of
the garden function. Judging from the brevity
of his interviews with ‘ Hon. This ’ and ‘ Major
That,’ one gathered that, with galaxies of nice
girls on hand, attachedom wasn’t taking any long-
eared little pitcher.
“ One lady stands out as clearly as an aspirate
at all shivoos for sheer untidiness of dress. Her
troubles about furbelows ! She gives one the idea
of slipping into a dress, securing its mainsails, and
then leaving it entirely to the hands of Providence.
Her hair grows unruly, her gloves burst their
buttons, her hat wobbles like George Reid’s
policy, from side to side, but she doesn’t care
a hang. She looked, all through the shifting
scenes of revelry, one of the happiest women
whirling in the smart set. The constant fixings
and pinnings-up and adjustments and repairs in
operation all round made her negligence all the
more a marvel.
“ There was no need to ask one Sydney woman
were there any more at home like her—she had a
chain to which depended all the family portraits
in medallion shape—seven in all. ‘ All her wares
in the window,’ said one rude fellow. ‘On our
Selection,’ suggested another. ‘Now, there you
do know where you are,’ commented a third.
“Advocates of temperance should have taken
up a stand in the refreshment-room on Cup-day,
and reviewed the squash there, where women
battled for their brandy-and-soda like Trojans,
and left the weaker vessels of male humanity to
drink tea with their relatives at the less crowded
counters.
“A very funny incident relieved the monotony
of the Oaks day. Once the Maddens’ box was
cleared for the tea interval. The Countess walk-
ing along the terrace with Miss Rawson, in order
to avoid the stare of the Stand-gapers, kept her
eyes on the tiles, and suddenly turned up the
steps of the Maddens’ box, where she sat down.
Her nervousness took time to dissipate, but
when at length she raised her eyes to view
tilings, she looked round, failed to recog-
nise the cloaks and fans about, searched
for the familiar gold-and-blue background, swal-
lowed down her annoyance, called Miss Rawson’s
attention to the fact they were on the wrong
roost, and stiffer than ever, and blushing furiously,
descended the inferior steps, and found her way
to her own attic. This time, her nervousness was
very much longer disappearing.
“ Aide Richard Nevill, over from S.A. with
the Tennysons, looked very sad when he drove off
with his employers, en route for the city of
churches. He wore a black-and-white tie, and
seemed to have retained his handy little ways of
humping his Principal’s shawls and wraps. Uncle
Tom Brassey, remember, was death on sou’-
westers, comforters, &c.
“Another S.A. identity noted at the festivities
was President Chaffey Baker’s wife, impressive in
bonnet dashed with red and handsome black
mantle. Mrs. Alec. Hay (N.S. W.), who saw the
Cup with the Maddens, looked a typical Syd-
neyite—pale, slim, and decorative, but too fragile
in pearl-grey and ivory-lace.
“ The handsome woman who won a pile on
‘ Revenue ’ queened it at the Oaks in one of the
most sumptuous costumes on view. It was the
favorite cream voile, made in a style that com-
bined classic drapery with rich oriental trimming.
The material was draped around the hips to a few
inches above the knee, where it fell out frillily.
A quantity of oriental applique was laid on the
bolero and pouched blouse.
“ The Oaks gathering was the brightest and
best equipped of the Carnival. One of the hand-
somely-dressed was Mrs. Henry Butler, who
sported one of her elaborate lace dresses and lace
ruffs she has just brought out from England.
“Steeplechase Day (Saturday) was the heel of
the Carnival, and a tired, dilapidated heel it was.
A scorching sun drew only the bravest and the
gamest. The lawn looked parched, the women
red and greasy. Lucky backers got over-excited,
and boiled over with sheer vulgarity. The unfor-
tunate ones drew long faces, and fanned them-
selves dejectedly, finding racing a delusion and a
snare.
“Mrs. Burdekin again kept to the fore of
frockers. She showed the curviest figure on the
Terrace, and her cream frock was braided down
and slashed across to accent the curve in at the
waist, and out again, and in again, the scroll being
the result of the new straight-fronted whalebone
shafts. Mrs. Alec Hay, who has sported
some stunning frocks at all the shows,
and Lady Clarice, shared the honors of the most
cynosured zig-zag forms divine. All the Federal
and Social Somebodies assembled for a strawberry
scramble in the vine avenue at Mrs. W. Leonard’s
invitation. The Maddens, Clarkes, Armytages,
and the rest of the swagger clique sat under the
shade of the Omar Khayyam tent and feasted
with relish. Later, the Waxellency’s girls led the
way into their own tea-sanctum, and took Lady
Downer (the Federal rose) and Dr. Finch-Noyes
in tow. These were the two most fussy adjourn-
ments for the cup that cheers. The Countess,
garbed in a cheap pink muslin, went off with her
aides for an ice to the retreat where the automatic
linnet sings, and returned to tour the bird-cage,
successfully steering clear of womankind.
“Guv’ment House garden party? Nothing
new. Same old faces, same old costly frocks;
same old silk hats, same old ice-creams, same
old tea. No, wrong there; the tea, straw-
berries and other eatables were the worst
of many a cheap Gruv’ment House treat. The
Maddens made an imposing exit from Govern-
ment House with the Hopetoun party, but
separated on the lawn, for fear the guests might
mob two sets of Y.R. luminaries or mistake one for
the other. The Countess wore heliotrope, another
markedly simple turn-out. The most extraordi-
nary figure of the House party was Lady Havelock,
the newly-arrived Tasmanian Governor’s wife ;
she has an air of mystery about her, and wore
white satin, topped with an old-fashioned grey
cloak, and a grey head-piece. The Guv’nor is a
medium-sized, kindly-faced, shrewd-looking Ex-
cellency, with a scrap of goatee beneath his
lower lip.
“An eye-sore at the garden-party gown-show
was a girl in so short an underskirt that an in-
terval of shin showed below her petticoat-hem,
through the costly transparent over-dress.
“At Govt. House, the Ormond Professor of
Music, escorting Mrs. Peterson, in red-and-white
gala rig, seemed more than ever mermanlike,
thanks to weird, long, narrow boots, which had
an uncanny air of no feet inside. The Greek
Patriarch, slim, pale, and youngish, trailed pic-
turesque black - and - purple vestments. Stout
Archbishop Carr, also robed and sashed, wore his
skirts with a difference. If he’d been anyone but
‘th’ Orchbishop,’ as his people call him, one
might have suspected him of regretfully ponder-
ing : ‘ they’ve all got a mate but me ! ’ as he
glanced from buxom brunette ‘ Mrs. Patriarch ’ to
his own single clerical shadow.
“She-guests enjoyed trailing their trains on
velvety Govt. House grass. English visitors
likened mothers and daughters parading their
draperies to a school of peacocks teaching imita-
tive broods to spread their tails in the sun. Same
critics extolled hostess Hopetoun, in simple
though elegant lilac gown and black hat, as an
oasis in a crowd chiefly intent upon topping pre-
vious record miles of bodice tucks, chiffon flounces
and bead necklets.
“Captain Wallington is generally told off to
coach Mrs. Hopie when the stranger, on a large
scale, is present within her gates. The good Man
of the House, unlike nervous wifie, can manage at
a pinch without Mentor. Rather good fun some-
times to see Wally mistaken for the Gov.-General,
and acting the part, too, when there’s no special
reason for oassing on the cup of boredom to his
principal. ‘Better-not,’ who believes in * impress-
ing ’ ’em, donchernow, unbends less than the real
‘ Mackay ’ would do, under the same circum-
stances. He keeps a stiff upper-lip, while the
blundering nobody looks up at the light, address-
ing him every minute as ‘ Your Excellency ; ’ but
he gazes down his nose and turns a deaf ear when
Mrs. Hopie, standing by, is referred to as ‘ your
good lady ’ or ‘ your noble help-meet.’
“The Senate President and Mrs. President’s
party in Parliament House gardens, on Monday
last, was a lively affair—so loud and lively that
the strains of a band could scarcely be heard above
some of the Federal bagpipes. The crowd had
streamed from the Queen’s Hall and circled on
the lawn, when their Exes suddenly appeared
round a corner, and were soon laughing,
bowing, and engaged in many significant
smiles with some person or persons on high.
Everyone strained a neck to see the for-
tunate. They saw him—the photographer of one
of the daily papers. The multitude gasped and
gave a disgusted snort. A camera-fiend to be
smiled upon in this fashion, while they, the pillars
of Sassiety, are apt to be frozen when they ven-
ture a remark over their handshake ! The ele-
phantine John Forrest jolted heavily round
the grounds in the company of some of the
prettiest girls in the crowd. His dame, how-
ever, was dowdy in black. Mrs. Senator
John Downer blossomed pinkishly in handsome
cream. A more extravagant air of courtesy than
Senator Downer’s was Senator Drake’s. He
almost genuflected to their Ex.’s. ‘Do look at
the Postmaster-General’s bob ! ’ exclaimed one
Federal light. ‘Yes,’ replied a neighbor, ‘he is
making a little duck ! ’ Admiral Beaumont, with
brushed-out whiskers and shining eye-glass, carried
his big frame round haughtily; and Lord
Tennyson, also eye-paned, beat him in a peacock-
strut by a neck.
“The Rupertswood dame made the sensation
of the day in smartness. Her cream voile gown
had rashers of lace and ribbon, and ruche frills
and brilliant buttons, and black tabs and gold
belting, and a ruff, brushed back like a
thick white shrub round her neck. Her head-
piece was a thing of chiffon and pink roses.
Lady Tennyson has a primitive idea of dress,
but bright, kittenish little ways that are a positive
relief beside the rigid stolidity of her silent
spouse. Her white embroidered muslin frock
showed arms of lobster hue —their condition
was not the result of one day’s scorching.
Our cool-looking Countess wore, to the
great grief of His Ex., who no doubt
wishes she would put on some style, an
impudently-plain knock-about frock of pink
muslin, almost innocent of a frill-kick or a
festive piping. She carried a stumpy parasol
with a knob-handle and a stout pink butt. The
G.G. hob-nobbed with everyone, and gave a
genial smile with a nod or hand-grip, potential in
its flattery. Wally slid from the side of duty
every now and then, and dipped his beak into
sundry ready ears. He’s such a sly dog.
“Women could scarcely get to the buffet 3
through the reefs of men struck with prodigious
thirst. The V.R. party, with that infinite
capacity for taking pains ascribed to genius,
spooned up ice creams in the swell kiosk, once the
property of the Upper House, now the resort of
the Senators. Lady Baker, who was beautiful
enough to figure in a thrilling romance, has the
soft, sweet, rather coquetting manner of the one-
time beauty. Her extremely eyeful aspect
(her eyes play like her smiles) makes one feel
hoarse and heavy. The President sticks to Apollo
collars and a severe air.
“Grace Palotta, tricked forth in ficelle voile,
many lace hurdles, and a Florodora hat, walked
the Cup-lawn with a fair, frail specimen of the
smoking sex obviously made-in-Germany. Of
other stage-lights Mrs. Bland Holt, with racing-
glasses and leather sachet slung over her shoulder
and her ears weighted with jewelled pendants,
was the most in evidence. Signor Salvi lost
heavily, and sat in sulky reverie under an elm in
the magic ring. Max Eugene lost, but smiled, hut
he had a charmer to cheer him. Maud Clietwynd
lost a handsome turquoise brooch at the Cup, and
Dolly Twinlda’s lip dropped—-like a rain-cloud—
ominously.
“Gov. Tennyson, at the garden-party, wore his
usual grey suitings, single eye-glass, and collar
low enough even for a poet’s child. He’s as baldi
as Gov. Madden, but, unlike that frilly potentate,
leaves his sparse back-hair to its fate, instead of
fluffing it out to the best advantage with
curling-tongs. Lady Tennyson’s Government.
House party - toilette was a scrimpy lilac
blouse with black skirt. A governess dressed
like that would be in request with employers
inclined to keep temptation out of the way of
flirtatious husbands or susceptible grown-up sons.
Adelaide, having no lack of dashing representa-
tives to the fore at the recent gala, could afford to
condone the chastened dress methods of their
amiable pro consuless. The spouse of Senator
Downer did her State credit throughout. Her
Cup and garden-party suits held their own with
the best, and the wearer looked so young and
blithe; also, her genial, humorous-looking hubby
seemed in great spirits. John Forrest, at the
party, had more the air of an elephant, and won a.
wifely sermonette from his liege lady when he
stamped heavily on her black flounces just as she
stepped forward to shake hands with dhe Hope-
touns.
“At the garden-party, Miss Madden, in white,
threaded with blue, monopolised one aide.
S’Rupert’s wife, looking very stagey in white
voile skirt, pale-blue Eton embossed with white,
and enormous ruffle, chained another, to her side.
Host Hopetoun and his bigger half sort of gave
the gathering to understand that they placed
themselves at the disposal of any guest anxious to
pump-handle a Governor-General, or pass the
time of day with a real live Countess. Those
who availed themselves of the privilege a parently
liked it so well that diplomacy had to be brought
to bear to make ’em let go.
“First night of the ‘Old Guard' (Saturday,
Nov. 9) the Gov.-Generaless took off her pink-
embroidered black cloth to show becoming white
satin corsage, cluster of pink roses, and her usual
simple coiffure of Grecian rear-coils, the side-locks
slightly puffed and held with small combs. Black-
gowned Miss Rawson looked older and more sub-
stantial than her hostess, and the Adrniraless,
also in black, got lots of laughter out of
Lauri’s absurdities. In the opposite box,
Mrs. Ernest Raleigh (nee St. Albans Wilson)
wore shimmering black and coiffure crest of pink
roses, almost as substantial in effect as a toque.
When Carrie Moore tripped forward as the
Buonapartist’s bride, a thrill and rustle ran
through the audience at the sight of her big
diamond-pendant. ‘ The star he gave her !’
whispered she-beholders, with twice the enthusi-
asm they would have shown had the bauble been
a medal for saving life, instead of a trophy of the
chased.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


SB
mm
BULLETIN SUBSCRIBERS^^
Who are unable to read small printed matter, or to see fine
stitching or writing, whose distant vision is dull and who suffer
from persistent headaches or pains after close application—you
may rest assured that you are suffering from Ageing or
Impaired Vision, and Need Glasses. You should visit
us, and have your sight scientifically tested, and be supplied
with Glasses adapted to your individual case.
TO COUNTRY READERS who cannot visit us personally, we send, Post Free to any address, with full instruc-
tions and Price List, our marvellously-aecurate and popular SELF SICHT-MEASURING PATENT. By its use
you can Test your own sight and determine for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you may need.
Write for it to—
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Consulting 1 Optician,
371 George St., Sydney,
next door to the A. J.S. Bank.
King and George Streets.
And at 232 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, opposite Aqb Office.
Warner’s Safe Cure.
FEDERAL TARIFF PRICES.
The proprietors of Warner’s Safe Cure beg to
announce that, as they have a branch laboratory
in Australia, Warner’s Safe Remedies will not be
subject to the duty of 25 per cent., which will
have to be paid on all proprietary medicines
.imported into Australia.
The wholesale prices of Warner’s Safe Remedies
have been slightly advanced in New South Wales
so as to make prices uniform throughout Australia,
but this advance is so small that it will not be
necessary for the public to pay more than two
pence per bottle over and above the prices paid
before the Federal tariff came into force.
Warner’s Safe Cure is the only i eme ly known
to science which will unfailingly cure all diseases
of the kidneys and liver. The following diseases
are cured by Warner’s Safe Cure, because they all
all arise from the retention in the system of
urinary and biliary poisons which it is the province
of the kidneys and liver to expel: Rheumatism,
indigestion, gout, neuralgia, biliousness, lumbago,
sick headache, backache, sciatica, gravel, jaundice,
bladder troubles, blood disorders, anaemia, Bright’s
disease.*
FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM.
g gf
Lightest Wines
Australia.
in
Supplied to H.R.H. the Duke of York.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
It is curious that Governor-General Hope-
toun speaks with a slight English provincial
accent.
The money-testimonial to Dr. O’Haran
amounted to nearly £lO,OOO, which is not at all
bad just for being a Man Who Didn’t.
Sydney has had in succession two Uni-
versity graduates as Mayors—Matthew Harris
and Dr. Graham. And both are knights.
Archbishop O’Reilly (Adelaide) will be 55
on Tuesday next week ; Senator Henry Dobson
60 on Nov. 24; and Senator Tom Playford 64 on
Nov. 25.
Edward YII has passed his 60th year.
Having sampled his heir apparent, Australia
shouts from the bottom of its heart, “ Long Live
the King ! ”
Old-man Booth, of the Salvarmy, is said to
purpose another trip to Australasia. The won-
derful old battler for souls— and “beans”—is
nearly 80, and the last sea-voyage nearly killed
him.
King O’Malley so captivated the esteem of
a widow residing on the King River at Wan-
faratta (Vic.) that she called her pet rooster after
im. It was a rooster to be proud of—but
O’Malley winced!
Generally a man of any importance can
get the newspapers to print his name as he
wishes it. One distinguished visitor should try
and stop the circus-poster business of paragraph-
ing—“ General Sir Hector Macdonald (“ Fighting
Mac”) is booked,” &c.
To the long list of persons permitted to
read their own biographical notices is to be added
the alleged Australian authoress, Mrs. Campbell-
Praed. A cable indicating the demise of the
lady’s husband was mis-interpreted into an an-
nouncement of her death.
Obit. : James Agnevv, One of the fine old
men of Tasmania, aged 87. By profession a
medical man, the sturdy Scotsman took also an
active part in politics, and had been Premier of
the Garden Island. Tasmania is one of the best
places in the world to grow old ; in its placid air
life lengthens out and the twilight is long, Wit-
ness Agnew, Adye Douglas, and Braddon.
THE MATTER WITH THE
ANIMAL.
THIN PUNTER : “ Fizgig ought to
win this race. How do you
like his condition?”
STOUT DO. : “Not at all. Carries
too much flesh. He's a gross
feeder, and they don't give
him enough work.”
Apropos the fact that Adelaide’s Mayor,
Kissy Ware, C.M.G., has been called to account
by his council on a charge of not spending the
allowance made to lum for entertainments, can
it be that the fatal kiss infected Mr. Ware with
the microbe of the roval brand of “economy ”?
Former N.S.W.* Chief-Justice Martin re-
ceived three princely gifts from the coffers of his
father-in-law : £20,000 was passed to his credit
when he married Miss Long, £20,000 when he
became Premier, and £20,000 when he became
Chief-Justice. And yet, in a sense, he was always
hard-up.
Judging from the conflicting versions
given, the members of N.S. W. Ministry are not
at all clear as to the exact sum drawn by Judge
Darley for his dual positions as Chief Justice and
Lieut.-Governor. The two salaries come to
£10,500, but it is understood that the recipient
returns a portion to the Treasury.
Bulletin expects to see “ old brass for
sale” on the door of a residence in Liverpool-st.,
Sydney. Once the door-plate was “ Dr. Graham,”
then it was “Sir James Graham,” now it will be
“Sir James Graham, K.C.M.G.”
Australian daily-paper editors are not
usually millionaires. One of the brightest and
best of them (he is dead now) told present writer
not very long ago that his salary—his total
income—was seven pounds a week.
As far as The Bulletin knows, the only
member of an Australian Legislature who has
never visited his electorate, is Mitchell, M.P., for
the Northern Territory. For that reason, possibly,
he fills his speeches about it with poetry.
Dr. Mcßurney, one of the experts who
fought Death for President M‘Kinley, is famous
in the medical profession as the discoverer of
“ Mcßurney’s point ” —the point on the body
which is bound to be painful in a case of
appendicitis.
The long, grizzly arm of coincidence :
When Samuel Bennett, of Sydney Evening News,
died, the editor of the paper followed him within
a week. Editor Dekker was just a week behind
Frank Bennett. All four deaths took place on a
Sunday—the journalist’s dies non.
Archbishop Kelly, Coadjutor to Cardinal
Moran, seemed, in an opening address to his
flock, to be most of all anxious to impress them
that he had to come because the Pope said so. If
rumor speaks correctly, the Cardinal is about as
pleased at his Coadjutor’s arrival (by order of the
Pope) as a man at the visit of his mother-in-law.
“Cecil P.” : In The Bulletin Queens-
land Edition was lately reprinted Wells’s “ Star.”
I wish to point out that the idea was anticipated
by me in “Finis,” which appeared in Adelaide
Observer during first half of ’B4. Ido not chal-
lenge comparison with Wells’s treatment, but do
claim priority of idea. Of course Wells never
heard of “Finis,” but should I ever reprint I will
append date.
N.S.W. Leg. Council, by deaths, resigna-
tions, and leaves of absence, is fast disappearing.
S. H. Hyam, good fellow, cattle-breeder, all-
round sport, and intermittent legislator, is the
last to go, after long enduring an agonising in-
ternal trouble. The fortune left by Mr. Hyam
would be much more substantial
could his executors recover the
thousands he “lent” to importu-
nate fellow-legislators.
“ Banjo ” Paterson has been trying his
Australian horsemanship on the awful Chinese
which, he “ seems to thrive on whip,
, , . , , , , , , ,
and P lent J of lb > has to be approached by stalk-
ing up behind the ‘ marfoo,’ or groom, and very
often has to be blindfolded to get the rider on.
He klcks sideways as well as backwards, strikes
with either front foot, and bites savagely.”
“ Banjo ” rode one of him at Cheefoo races. The
marfoo who trained him was afraid to get on him,
stuffed him with feed all day, and let him eat his
bedding all night, so “he wasn’t exactly what one
could call fit.” Failing to score, “Banjo” gave
and a S ted as starter. One field consisted
° f , a German Jew a Russian a bwede, an Eng-
hsh officer an Australian, a half-Chinese, and a
nondescript. All were easy to handle except the
Swede who gave up hope when he found he
hadn t drawn mside position.
A REMARKABLE EXCEPTION.
1ST. MINSANTHROPE : “ You wouldn't
think Smith had been married
nearly ten years.”
2ND. DITTO : “ You would not, indeed
he keeps his spirits up wonder-
fully.”
M.L. Judge Cooper and ex-Judge Marlin
(of Maoriland amorous celebrity) have completely
swopped places- Cooper took Martin’s place on
the Bench, and Martin has just joined Cooper’s
old partner, Devore.
Recently dead, aged 90, Captain John
Blackbourn, the first piermaster at Williamstown
(Vic.), and the oldest shipmaster in Australia.
He was in the Australian trade for 64 years. In
’49 he sailed a 570-ton barque, then the largest
Australian-built vessel, from Tasmania to Eng-
land and back ; and at the break-out of the Turon
diggings, N.S.W., in the early Fifties, he brought
the first contingent of miners from California to
Sydney.
Vic. Premier Peacock began life as as-
sistant in a grocer’s store on Simpson’s-road, Mel-
bourne. He rose from that to the secretaryship
of several mines at Creswick. Paying many
miners their wages on Saturdays, he parted with
the dross in such a genial way that they looked
upon him as their personal benefactor. So, when
a vacancy occurred in the Parliamentary repre-
sentation of the district, he easily secured it,
having by this time become legal manager in place
of his employer, deceased.
The will of the late Thomas Hussey Kelly
(“Tin Kelly”), having been sworn at over
£250,000, yields to N.S. W. Treasury probate-duty
exceeding £25,000. Than the deceased there lived
no better-hearted man; and his beneficence was
most unostentatious. The N.S.W. professional
Freetraders covetously eyed the old man’s money
and sought to draw him into the political swim ;
but the successful metal-man, who had a horror of
the limelight, failed to respond. From the time
Burdekin started to fade Sydney Freetrade sorely
needed a partisan with a long purse.
“Sam” M'Caughey, M.L.C., Australia’s
most enterprising and possibly her most pros-
perous squatter, is completing a palatial residence
on his recently-acquired property—North Yanko.
Speculation is ripe as to what it means, for
bachelor “ Sam ” has a really beautiful home at
Coonong, near Narandera. Perhaps it’s an
asylum for some of his ancient aristocratic “ Ver-
monts.” The first owners of North Yanko—the
M‘Neils —lived in a bark “humpy” for years;
the property then went to the Douglas family, one
of whom represented the Mumimbidgee for a
term in Parliament. And now the earth-grabbing
“Sam ” reigns in their stead.
“Melb.”: Speaker Holder has taken to
preaching. I have heard him twice in the pulpit
here. He is not a good preacher. This may be
said with the more freedom because he is an ex-
cellent Speaker, and yet such a financier that, to
my idea, he ought to have been Treasurer. His
preaching is the most absurd Evangelicalism, not
absurd in itself, but through the'contrast between
his preaching and his practice, in regard
to the reckless Gospel views he enunciates.
Besides this, his matter is poor, and utterly con-
ventional ; and his barren style—in the pulpit—
supplies no reason for his being there, except
because he is the Hon. the Speaker, and can draw
bawbees for other persons.
Li Hung Chang is dead, and another of
the past century’s history-makers has gone. And,
of his kind, East or West, none were greater than
he. The story of his life is without parallel in
other lands ; he was not more full of years than of
guile; he has been honored and disgraced
more times than most men can count in
years; his head has been forfeit times enough to
make the ordinary man to lose it actually in very
fear at last; and now dead. Few will be more
sincerely mourned than he, and none will leave a
greater void behind. In his tour of the West in
1896-7, he let nothing pass, and gave forth some
memorable readings of men and things. Of the late
Queen Vic. he said : “ She is a good woman, great
within her limits ; but her limits are very narrow,
she being iron-bound of sex.” Asked his opinion
of Gladstone, and Salisbury: “ Gladstone says
much and means little ; Salisbury says little and
means much; neither does much, being weak. ” All
of which, when you come to think of it, was
tolerably true.
Stout, who,
as M.H.R.,
passed the
M.L. Bill to
prevent “ tied
houses,” now,
as C.J., rules
that the Act
tan be evaded
Oy a brewer
letting houses
for £3O a week
and giving the
lessee a rebate
of £14 if he
takes only the
lessor’s beer. The
brewer’s tieseems
to be positively
indestructible, nu-
less by the passage
af a short Act de-
daring that all beer
must be brewed by
sbeState. That’s the
direction in which the
insistent liquor-dealers
are forcing the com-
munity—a Government
alcohol monopoly.
When Dr. SelvTyn,
the first Bishop of
Maoriland, was on his
way from .England to
take charge of his dio-
cese, he had a disagree-
merit with the captain of
the ship, who informed
him that if he said anything
objectionable he would put him in
irons. On the arrival of the vessel at
the M.L, port of debarkation, the bishop
met the skipper on the pier, and, reminding
nim that lie was no longer under his authority,
threw off his coat, engaged the mariner in a
stand-up fight, and administered to him a sound
thrashing. Then the pair shook hands and were
good friends ever afterwards.
Austral Light (R.C., Melb.), for Nov.,
publishes some notes of an interview which one
Craubourne Philpotts, now apparently in Aus-
tralia, declares that he had with the present
German Emperor, not long ago, at the Paris Cafe
des Afcibassadeurs. This is out-of-the-way matter
for a little Australian religious paper to get hold
of. There is room for much difference of opinion
as to whether the Emperor has been in Paris since
he came to the throne.
“Miller” Darling, M.P., the strongest
force in S. A. Toryism, has urged that as the Leg.
Council represents contributors of direct taxation,
and safeguards the interests of the people, it
would be well, now Federation has been es-
tablished, to cheapen the cost of the legislature by
abolishing the Assembly ! “ Payers of customs
duties only,” Darling remarks, “should be con-
tented with the Commonwealth Parliament, for
which every adult has a vote.”
That recent. Melbourne proposal that the
Wages Board should be composed solely of “men
of commercial experience” is very thin. The
“man with commercial experience ” is no different
from any other man, except that he spends most
of his time driving a hard bargain and reaching
out for another 5 per cent, profit. Of course, the
idea is that “men of commercial experience”
would all be drawn from the employing class, and
that it would be a case of the pigeons referring the
question of whether they should be plucked or not
to a court of hawks.
London Morning Post thinks that the
division to abolish the Kanaka will lead to the
same trouble here as between North and South in
the U.S., on the slave question. The Morning
Post is an authority on duchesses’ tea-parties ;
about Australia it evidently knows nothing.
Outside Queensland, Australian public opinion is
unanimous that the Kanaka must go ; in Queens-
land itself the imported black man’s retention is
supported only by a minority so small that it
could never hope to enforce its views even if
merely confronted by the local abolitionists, apart
from the forces of United Australia. What the
Morning Post should have said is that the
Kanaka question, if not decisively settled now,
would probably lead to a civil war. White
Australia clearly sees this, and is resolved to cut
out the nigger-traffic root and branch.


MACONOCHIE’S
Fresh Herrings
Kippered Herrings
Herrings in Tomato Sauce
Findon Haddocks
PRESERVED
FISH
OF ALL KINDS.
MARMALADE
UNIVERSAL PICKLES.
BOTTLED FRUITS
POTTED MEATS
SALMON and SHRIMP PASTE.
WORC€ST€RSNIR€ SAUC€
Maconochie Bros., Ltd.
LONDON.
Australian Representatives—
Swift <& Co., 7 Spring St., Sydney.
THOS. WHITELAW & CO.
WALL PAPER MERCHANTS. ■—
TELEPHONE 376 8.
LONDON,
SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE
Artistic Wall Papers.
Novel Ceilings in
Plaster Effects.
Latest Designs and Colorings.
Absolutely Fireproof.
A Charming Assortment.
Tha full London and Continental Collection of the above Qoods are now on view at the Firm’s
New Warehouse and Showrooms—39l GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
These Decorations comprise the most delightful Assortment ever shown in Australia. lnvited.
Clients will find our Art Goods are most inexpensive. Patterns forwarded m application.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Hotel
Australia
RATES:
12s. 6d. per Day,
and upwards.
This Hotel has popularised hotel-living in Australia.
During our enervating summer, the cool and ele-
gant drawing rooms, the charmingly - arranged
dining room, the readiness and perfection of the
attendance, and the splendid appointments of the
Hotel throughout, prove a boon and blessing to
visitors. The Hotel is so loftily-built and situated
that residents sleep in a distinct atmosphere—a cool
Hght air, entirely free from the dust and impurity
of tt* city.
i. SMITH (Late of Menses'), ISUaaywfc
OMttereagfc-et., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. — ln the case of ethnological and
natural-history items , etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
About Mickey. Mickey was the school’s
best reciter, and even our “ member” prophesied
a great future for him. The action and expression
which he learnt as a reciter stood to him in need.
One day his old man sent him to a farm about
four miles off to bring home a bull. On the way
home, Mickey thought he would give the old
piebald a lesson in jumping. A cockatoo-
fence ran along one side of the road, so
he turned his charger and drove home the
•purs. The moke, not being used to this,
gave a bit of a pig-jump, and landed on one
of the shore-legs of the fence, which penetrated
its chest some half-dozen inches. Mickey led the
mare home, and told his old man how the ferocious
bull charged him time after time, and gored the
mare, while he only escaped with his life by
climbing a tree. To hear him talk of this adven-
ture would cause you to dream of bulls chasing
you. Mickey was told to get the gun and go back
and shoot the bull, which he did with great
enthusiasm. The moke was put in the high-fenced
slaughter-yard, to be away from the other horses
while being doctored. Mickey’s grandmother had
climbed to the top of the fence to have a look at
the mare, when she fell and broke her arm, and
fainted. Mickey ran to the old man and told him
that the mare rushed the old lady and kicked her
through the fence. Granny did not know how it
happened. The gun was again ordered, and
Mickey shot the moke. “By hell! ” said Mickey,
afterwards, “I was wishing the old woman would
do something, so that I would have to shoot her ! ”
He would have done it, too. Mickey is now a
J.P., an alderman, and a member of the show
committee, so the prophecy of “our member”
oame true.
• * * •
N.S.W. Aborigines Advocate calls atten-
tion to the meagreness of the,
State vote for tne natives —
£13,428, which amongst
6892 means an average
of £llBs. ll£d. per a'
origine per annum.
IN SYDNEY.—A SUNDAY ALTERNATIVE.
Old Gentleman (to street-arab) : “Gimme a
paper!”
THE ABAB: “ Which'll y'have, sir—two pennorth
o' weakness or two pennorth o' wickedness? ”
“ Yarrum ” : Riding over a bridge, t’other
day, I saw an excited man diving intotheriver. He
had a shirt round his middle, and seemed terribly in
earnest. Asked him what he was after. “Lars’
Sunday,” said he, “I was crossin’ the bridge
here with me twenty-guinea ’ammerless gun,
when I spotted a bobby cornin’. Didn’t want to
be copped for shootin’ on a Sunday, so I slung ’er
into the river.” When the bobby came up, he
said: What’s that yer threw over ? Told ’im a
stick. ‘Looked very like a gun,’ ’e said, an’ rode
on. I slung ’er as near the bank as I could, so’s I
could dive and recover ’er, and I’ve been divin’
ever since. She’s a beauty—a real daisy,
anomistake ! ” Then he dived again, and came
up exhausted. “Can’t fetch bottom,” he said.
Ain’t got the wind I ’ad 20 year ago. Asked him
to lend me the shirt, and I’d try. I peeled off,
and took a header. Came back with a handful of
weeds and a couple of jam-tins. Down I went
again, and came up with a knotty blue-gum stick,
worn smooth with handling. “ That’s er ! ” cried
he. “ That’s ’er ! Aint she a beauty ? Kill an y-
thin’ comes in range! ” Then hugging the thing
closely, he sat on the bank, and wept for joy. I
kicked him in the back, donned my garments,
and left. A mile further on, I met a policeman
who inquired if I had come across a man behaving
strangely. He was an escaped lunatic.
* * * *
“ Karch ” : Re “ footing it ” (“ Vril,” B.
8/6/’01). The tramp he records was a good per-
formance for a party, and wonderful for a man of
78 ; but I know of a better. An old ex-soldier,
named Michael Peyton, was for some time men’s
cook at Bowman Bros. ’ station, near Deloraine,
Tas. Michael got stranded down in Hobart once,
his ticket for free Govt, lodgings having given
out; so he pawned his boots for a tot of rum,
started to walk home barefoot, and did the 140
miles in 10 days. No warm heart beat for Michael
throughout that awful macadamised journey ; but
at Deloraine a storekeeper gave him a pair of
boots and a feed. Michael cheerfully got the
latter into his stomach and the former on his feet,
and tramped 10 miles further to Bowman’s. The
old chap was 73. He had been through the
Crimean war, and told the writer that during that
time he had for three weeks gone with grass tied
round his feet, and had nothing but “living”
biscuits. Writer himself once tramped from Comet
mine, Tas. West Coast, to Both well, 150 miles of
difficult going, in five days, with a 301 b. swag.
* * * •
When the item in N.S.W. Estimates for
an Aboriginal Home at Grafton was under dis-
cussion, Sleath, M.P., said the Clarence was so
closely settled by whites that there was no room
for blacks. Much Sleath knows about the Clar-
ence 1 There’s country there which shelters big
herds of brumbies and wild cattle that the cham-
pion station riders can’t capture. The river banks
alone are closely settled, and only as far as the
Orara, a little above Grafton. From old Yulgil-
bah Castle to Tabulam, and beyond to the border
mountains, is all virgin bush —as rough and wild
and thickly timbered as any in Australia, and
likely to remain so for years to come—which
would be a veritable paradise to the aborigine.
“Prospector”: A case of economy of
time. Here at Oroville (Great Barrier) mining-
camp settlers bring fruit (strawberries, etc.)
from farms about 10 miles away, generally
getting here about 11 a.m. Lately one
rolled up at 8 a.m. Asked why he was
early, he explained : ‘ ‘ Oh, me brother
died at 2 this mornin’, so we had to
get up, and dad said we might as
well start pickin’ strawberries, as it
looked like rain.”
* * *
“A.P.R.”: Marvellous
how far a stone can be propelled
by tying it to the fall of a bul-
lock-whip and cracking same.
Writer once thus hit a China-
man 150yds. away. The
Chink spent 10 minutes
examining the drains along-
side the road, and looking
behind trees, but it remains
a mystery to him to this day
what struck him.
“ R. 8.” : Re luck of
druuks. Was stoking in a
gasworks. Steam began to
rise, so I went round and
fixed the engine, and then
started looking for the driver.
Knew he had a few drinks in and
would be asleep somewhere.
Looked all over the show and
couldn’t find him, until, when
passing the fly-wheel, half of
which ran in a pit, I caught
sight of a boot sticking out.
There he was—fast asleep, the
join in the driving-belt just touch-
ing him as it went round. It must
have dragged him in, but he didn’t
remember anything about it.
In the Senate, last week, Senator Sargood
said he had seen women ploughing in S. Australia.
Senator Playford hotly doubted this, but Sargood
added that, in Playford’s State, he once saw a
horse pulling on one side of a plough and a
woman on the other. Senator Pearce deposed
that he also had seen S. A. women ploughing. So
has present scribe, often. The last occasion was
near Mt. Gambier. The plough-lady was attired
mainly in a very short petticoat and Wellington
boots, and her husband, a fat German gentleman,
sat on a fence near by complacently smoking.
• * * *
“Bob R.” : Re “Wallaroo’s” heavy-
booted female (B. 26/10/’01). There’s a woman
who has a clearing contract on a station near
Temora, and is doing well at it. Her husband is
with her, but she says she can “run rings round
him.” She pegs away the whole week, wet or
dry, and turns out on Sunday spick-and-span.
She told me that she could not live in a house-
housework would drive her “barmy.” Must have
out-door graft.
* * * *
“ M.K.” : Re that farmer’s lift of a bag
of wheat to top of load (“Bilby,” 8., 26/10/’01).
I have done the same thing myself, and I weigh
but list. It is more knack than strength. Have
loaded 20 bags of wheat upon a waggon from the
ground without help. Wonderful examples of
streng h can be found outside the ranks of pro-
fessional “Samsons.” At Beulah (Vic.) lives an
18st. German, who; when he wants to get the rear
of his pole-waggon against the railway-platform,
drives close up, turns the waggon upon the
lock, and then lifts the rear carriage of
the waggon round with apparent ease. At
PATHETICALLY
MODEST.
DEAD-BEAT (at Boul-
der Block, W.A.,
on a thirsty day):
“ Blime! if I ’ad
only half the com-
plaint t' em blokes
has it ’ud be a bit of orl-right.”
Portland (Vic.) a man named Whyte is
credited with having carried on his back a lOcwt.
case of galvanised iron ; and Black Andy, a lumper
on the Murray, is said to have done ditto. I saw
an employee of Broad bent Bros., railway carriers
(Vic.), wheel a 7£cwt. bale of corn-sacks on a
common wheat-truck from the platform into a
railway-truck, on a plank rising 18in. in its 6ft. of
iength. ,
“Jaf.” : That feat of lifting a bag of
wheat to top of load (“Bilby,” 8., 26/10/’01) is not
uncommon in farming districts. There is, how-
ever, a farmer at Berry Jerry (N.S.W.) who can
lift from the ground, one under each arm, two
2401 b. bags of wheat and carry them 80 or 100yds.
with ease. Scores of local residents can verify
this. I also knew a farmer who could carry three
coils of wire, lcwt. each, from one straining-post
to another —100yds. or thereabouts. One coil
would be round his neck, and the other two on his
arms.
* * » *
“Alpar” : That supposed great lift (B.
26/10/’01) was nothing. I’ve often seen a Wollon-
gong man (name given) lift a 2401 b. bag of wheat
from the road and throw it on top of his load. Yet
he never, to my knowledge, posed as a profes-
sional “strong man.” Again, at the Yerong
Creek (N.S.W.), I saw a lOst. man walk 200yds.
with 4cwt. of wire up—a lcwt. coil under eacli
arm and two round his neck. This you can take
from me, because my money was on the metal.
* * » *
“Thomed” : Re stampeding of cattle :
It is well known that cattle will not camp on old native
burial-grounds, and it must be apparent to those ac-
quainted with the bush, that animals possess the power
of psychic seeing. The investigations of Prof. Crookes
(radiometer man and real discoverer of the X Rays), and
other eminent scientists in the realm of spiritism, have
proved, beyond a doubt [to some people—Ed. B.] the con-
tinuity of life after the death of the physical body. Ac-
cording to Crookes, the vibrations of light tend to disinte-
grate the “ etheric ” body, hence the necessity of dark-
ness for manifestations. In his “ Where the dead men
lie” Boake merely described what he really saw. The
old idea of waiting some feet underground for the
last trump is getting played out. Cremation —apart
from its sanitary advantages—has always been practised
in India as the only means of freeing the “etheric” body
from its physical counterpart.
* * • •
“ Jack-a-Clubs ” writes :
This may throw light on recent Bulletin pars re stock
stampeding at certain places. About six miles from
Yeppoon.on the old road leading to Rockhampton, there
once was a slime moving slowly across a short-cut bridle-
track. It appeared to the casual rider-by to be the tail-
end of a gully. But when a horse’s foot steps in, there is
a mad jump across the remainder, and a struggle for
ownership between man and beast. Once I dismounted
and put my finger in the slime. Nothing happened. I
rubbed some on my horse’s neck, and instantly he pawed
me. Another time I left my horse tied to a sapling, and
tried to discover the source of this “ animal slime-devil,”
but gave up the search after following the slime for about
three miles, without finding a growing stream. Came back
and found my horse gone ; a broken bridle and a patch of
slime where he stood told the tale. For curiosity I sat
down and saw—first, two cows with calves, then a stock-
man leading a pack; and, lastly, three “swells” from
Rockhampton riding for the sea-side. One calf stumbled,
got up in a hurry, and limped off. The stockman stuck
to the saddle, but his “ pack ” lost its load. Two of the
three “ swells ” buried their beautiful white helmets in
the dust. Although the recent drought dried the slime
up, still the place has the same influence on animals.
* • • •
“ Gowrie ” writes
Queensland Hansard reports the examination of Arch.
Meston re aboriginal kidnapping. He denied that “ boys ”
were ever forcibly removed from their camps. Writer
knew a man in a back-block township who, to please a
big official, did a bit of kidnapping publicly. He rode
out to the camp, brushed the father aside with a revolver,
and annexed the pickaninny from the gin in the gunyah.
The gin, who was lying on the youngster, bit and clawed
like a tigress. The kidnapper threw a handful of silver
and coppers, with a pound of tobacco, to the old man,
who, with a pitiful grin, had sworn that the “ little
pheller ” was dead and buried long ago. Old grey pate
danced in a rage on the coppers and tobacco ; but the
white man smiled and brought in his prize. By the way,
Meston informed the House that he can supply the place
of Tommy Tanna in the canefields with his old friends,
the aborigines!
Right Angle : Re the uselessness of wire-
netting as regards bunny. At
the big Government-tanks near
Narandera (N.S.W.), I recently
saw a rabbit squatting on the
top of a post. If “J.H.C.”
(“ Scotty’s ” opponent) visited
these parts, he’d no doubt decide
to keep that “tenner” and his
poison-scheme out of sight. In
places on the stock-route, near
Bygo Station, the ground is
honeycombed for chains. Bunny
also burrows under the wire-
netting and comes up smiling
amongst the wheat on t’other
side. At the dividing-fence
between Mumbledool and the
stock-reserve the rabbits play
“ under and over ” along the wire.
Up this way it is agreed thku
“Scotty” has, so far, got the right
end of the stick.
* • * *
“Yarrum”: After all, bringing the
Kanaka to Queensland is rather like taking coal
to Newcastle. Why don’t Queensland sugar-
growers, if they must have black labor, round-up
what darkies are left in Australia ? The different
States could well spare them, as it costs them
some thousands yearly to keep ’em in tucker,
blankets, railway-passes, and religion. Queens-
land, by nourishing, and otherwise looking after
its black brudder, could breed enough labor to cut
its cane for hundreds of years to come. It would
be just as cheap as Tanna, and not nearly so
objectionable. It is all bunkum to say our darkies
can’t graft. I’ve seen ’em, in N.S.W. quarries,
knock white men under. Feed your darkie well—
not too much, as he doesn’t know when to stop—and
he’ll work all right. Hitherto, the Queensland
nigger has only been used for show purposes, and,
far as writer has sden, he is a dismal failure at the
game.—[Protector-of-aborigines Meston suggests
the utilisation of aboriginal labor in the canefield,
but it’s better in the interests of Australia to keep
them where they are.—Ed. B,]
* • • • -
“Bob R.” : A few of the P.U. slieds,
which are working with full boards, were fortunate
in possessing astute managers. When the men
refused to sign the P.U. agreement the manager
quietly interviewed the ringleader, and a “tenner”
or two soon altered his opinion as regards
union rules, and with him went in most of the
men. This accounts for the presence in P.U.
sheds of “ big-gun ” shearers who had sworn un-
dying loyalty to the Workers’ Union !
• * * *
“Shaker” : Re that pack horse-drover’s
cook (“ R. 8.”, B. 21/9/’01). Sorensen knew what
he was talking about. “R. 8.” confuses pack-
horse-drovers with packers. Di’overs of small
mobs of cattle often carry their swags and tucker
on packhorses, which the cook packs, and drives
just as he would the cart, if there were one. Even
if there is no regular cook, the man who packs-up,
shifts camp, and boils the billy is called the cook.
ONE AUSTRALIAN PEGASUS.
“ Crackaback ” : Can any aboriginaliar say
what is the trick behind this :
A CHALLENGE.
mEDLAWLOR of Wagga Wagga, N.S.W., has £lOO
J- to say that he can lift a 400-gallon tank full of
water with either his hands or his feet. This rep-
resents a weight of two tons.
One has to be mighty careful in generalizing upon
Ehysics, but seems to me that Hercules and
amson combined would fail to actually lift an
object weighing two tons from its base without
the aid of mechanical appliances. About 2cwt. is
my measure, but I am not wagering any £lOO
about it.


CLEARS
the BLOOD
through the
KLDNEYS
WOLFES
1 ' SCHNAPPS.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For GOUT and RHEUMATISM,
Professor Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University—
“ Hunyadi Janos has invariably shown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never gives rise to un-
desirable symptoms even if used continuously for years.”
Average Dose.— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAPTION.
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
- ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
USED IN THE ROVAL HOUSEHOLDS.
“GEREBOSSALT
Besides being the most Dainty, Dry, and Economical
Table Salt, “Cerebos” contains the strengthening and
constitution building properties which are wanting
in White Bread, owing to the removal of the Bran.
It is, therefore, invaluable in the daily food, of
growing children, delicate mothers, and all brain
workers.
Wholesale Agents: -HARRISON & ATTWOOD, 334 and 336, George Street, SYDNEY.
Sold by Grocers and Stores.
“ Wurrym ” : A dozen
years ago a party of men were
standing on the verandah of the
head station on Auburn, Upper
Burnett (Q.). Three hundred
yards away,' on a stump, sat a
crow. A Winchester stood
handy, and one of the party
fired at Satan. He flew off un-
harmed as everyone anticipated,
but something they did not
dream of happened. Five or six
hundred yards off, far away to
the right, a horse dropped,
struggled, and lay still. At the
same moment the man bringing
up the milkers —he was away to
the left—waving his arm wildly,
galloped through his mob and
up to the house. What sort of
a gory joke was it to fire at a
cerulean man, was what he
wanted to know. He’d have
bis money in the morning, and
so on. All hands went to the
stump to see if the bullet was
embedded there, and thus con-
vince the wrathful cow-man.
The bullet wasn’t there, but in
the top of the stump was stuck
a shear blade which plainly
showed where the bullet had
s' ruck it. The fallen horse was
then visited. It was helpless,
with a wound through the spine,
j ust back of the wither. Another
shot finished it, and then from
the wither was cut half a bullet.
It was the other half that had
grazed the cow-man. There
was a parson in the crowd. He
registered a vow never to tell
of that occurrence lest his re-
putation should suffer.
* • •
“Copa” tells about a
bung-boom-township:—
Somewhere back in the ’Bo’s, at the junction of four
roads in one of the wildest parts of Gippsland, there
existed a little township named Thorpdale. In due tune
the land-fever spread itself over the State. The gentle
speculator arrived at Thorpdale and bought up a few
h undred acres of virgin soil in the neighborhood. Next
the Railway Commissioners considerately built a line
from Moe in the direction of the peaceful hamlet, and
d imped the terminus down on the guileless boomster’s
property, about two miles from the nearest road, and
from the township. The line was the most expensive per
mile ever built in Victoria. Following the course of the
Narracan Creek, which it crossed 18 times in 11 miles,
it consisted almost entirely of bridges, cutting's and
embankments. New roads had to be cleared to the
station, a new town-site laid out, and new public and
private buildings erected. In fact, Thorpdale had prac-
tically to be shifted. The boomster cut up his land into
small' blocks and sold them at fancy prices to the local
innocents. The Railway Department provided extensive
storage accommodation for all local products, and Thorp-
dale loomed large on the horizon as a centre of great
potentialities. Then the boom exploded with a bang. A
nastv gloom hung over the district, broken only by the
shrill shriek of the departmental locomotive as it charged
into the station with its burden of empty carriages.
Among other buildings erected in the good days was a
commodious cool-stcrage chamber, costing £2OO or £3OO.
Finding this little used, except to shelter an occasional
(verv occasional) passenger it did that well enough the
Department sold it for the magnificent sum of £9. Then
it built a decrepit-looking shed of galvanized iron and
woodatacost of £l5 for the occasional passenger toslielter
in instead. A truly great institution is the Victorian
Railway Department.
About the safest place in a thunderstorm
would seem to be the bowels of the earth, but
three men sinking the Long Tunnel shaft at M al-
halla (Vic.) were badly knocked about during a
storm by lightning entering the tunnel, playing
about the plat-sheet, and then running down the
shaft by the steel rope.
There was in San Francisco, years ago, a
Hebrew named Leon Moses, who became a Wes-
leyan parson, and the local Rabbi used to ask as a
riddle: “ Where was Moses when his light went
out?” The answer was, of course —“In the
Wesleyan church.”
Yankee jock Ames, now in Sydney, tells how
the so-called Tod Sloan style was extensively practised in
America long“ before Tod was heard of. It consists of
using short stirrup-leathers and placing the weight on the
shoulders, where it can be borne easiest, so that the
prod runs more freely and can be kept together better.
The seat on the back is more comfortable for the rider,
but the success of the new style all over the world seems
to indicate that it is best for the horse. Leading Austra-
lian jockeys, Kuhn, Turner, Barden and co., all adopt
some modification of it, which may account for then
success.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 170
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending oyer a
piriod of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be, followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.* t
AMES, THE AMERICAN JOCKEY RECENTLY
ARRIVED IN SYDNEY.
Photo, by Boye Habenicht, San Francisco.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice ivill be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
B.D. : If Australia were invaded by a decent-
sized army, it would be a moral certainty that the big,
practically-undefended cities, would fall into the hands of
the enemy. Would you then advise Australians to cave
in, or to hang on the rest of their country and fight the
matter out to the bitter end ? Would you be prouder of
them if they “ listened to reason,” and accepted the rule
of the brigand invader than if they comported themselves
like bull-pups? Tell us—we’d like to hear. So far, the
Boers seem to have only definitely lost the three big towns
of their territory ; the rest of it, and a large share of Cape
Colony, is as much in their hands as in anybody’s
Love is Blind: Story leaves a horrible taste in the
mouth Delphis : A very trite idea. Ever since the
first gate was built some woman has been waiting beside
it for the man who never came Wurrym :It is truly
wonderful how you can get 20,000 or 200,000 reformers to
enthuse over a new voting system which, after all, will
leave things much as they were, and you can’t get two to
vote for freeing this continent from its abject servitude
to the British money-lender, making it self-dependent
and self-reliant. What a readiness there is to tackle the
reform that requires no money and no big effort!
Annam : “Deserted, shunned, reviled, outcast” —yes,
and cursed to everlasting Hades... .Grant : Burnt-stick
batch flat—bar the “ Crawling Worm,” which wants re-
writing—better. H. : Mixture Wordsworth and Ipswich
—too much Ipswich... S.C.O. : Only an ultra-Jingopaper
could suggest that the King doesn’t kiss the pretty girls
presented at Court because he fears germs : The B. firmly
believes that it is a Great Moral Reformation. (2) The
F.E.C. stands for “fecit,” Latin for “did,”—just a short
way of saying so-and-so perpetrated the picture. (3) Con-
sidering “ 8.L.”.. ..Jack Clubs: Lie back for a year (or
five years) and educate yourself. Interim poem :
CORSETS 1
Corsets ; how I envy you !
Great is the power of thine !
Fiercely embrac’d, some dear girl’s waist I
Before man every time !
Corsets ; how I envy you !
To thee I bow !
Tightly lac’d, around some dear girl’s waist!
A great God art thou !
Corsets ; how I envy you !
I would’st have thy billet !
To have encas’d some dear girl’s waist 1
Lord ! do ! so ! will ! it !
Siandra: Rejected that when we were running Tadmor
Chronicle 10,000 years ago, or thereabouts Leonidas :
Don’t dress up moral maxims ; open your eyes and write
what you see.. William K.: Bucolic Muse yours, in sooth...
Nine detached stamped envelopes on our table.
Fasten your stamps on your copy... .M.S.M. : True,
“ nothing matters.” Wherefore—down, viper ! 5.G.8.:
Timid moo. But your mother doesn’t live here, Mick.
... Algie B. : Thanks, but we aren’t taking any. Having
got your railway you can’t put up the fizz to hie—cele-
brate the occasion 1 Is that it ?....Marco : A mist of
words, through which glimmers here and there the
spectre of an idea... .C.S. : Bulletin never prints soapy
remarks about our “ interesting articles,” our “ valuable
paper,” or our “ able and eloquent advocacy.” All that
is taken for granted—that we are able and eloquent, that
our articles are interesting, and that our paper is valu-
able. Else, why is sixpence paid for it so cheerfully r. ; ..
0.0. A. : American locomotives are cheaper than English
ones, but they aren’t built to last like the latter. And
that’s a solemn fact. The Yankee’s theory is that his
engine lasts quite long enough—by the time it
is worn out a much improved pattern is always
in use Wild Clematis: Very mixed impres-
sions : how do you reconcile drought with grassy
paths and curlews in the long grass?... .P.F.R. :
Very hackneyed theme J.S.G. : Rather feeble
and conventional. Don’t remember the other.... A.McH.:
Style too flat and formal... .Medium : Not a “ transparent
medium,” at all events. Couldn’t make head or tail of it!
Jack-a-Olubs : “The Past” thin and unacceptable.
“ Glasgow ” would find him... .M. : Ghawazee interesting,
but a risky topic....“ Kobbs ” : Too venerable... S.
Davidson : Good “Pokey”: Climatic difference
’tween Cairns and Herberton (80 miles distant) is as easily
explained as equally great difference ’tween Sydney and
Katoomba. Cairns is on sea level, Herberton 3,000 feet
high.... Weiderhoopie :In the “ Silvertails ” you mix up
fact and fiction of a glaringly libellous kind very neatly,
and if you could secure a publisher would make a fortune
for the.lawyers... .Sphinx : A robbery, some dialect, but
no story... .Ne’er-do-weel: Small joke, large space....
Bullaman : Too malodorous Footlight: Feeble and
clumsy T.C.B. : Couldn’t use in that form.. . .Ma-
moose : Yarn has been told of a score of Bungs
D.H.R. : “Making a Rise” terribly flat Grace G. :
Both have merit, but neither is quite on mark
M.J.M. : Crudely melodramatic ; you would probably
improve with practice J.A.L. : Thanks for cutting.
.... Van Dam : Not point enough—as put Old Hand :
The question is whether a paper is to rather believe the
account of one person who may have a grievance, or the
result of the observations of one of its own staff, wbo
interviews perhaps half a hundred inmates L. C.
Darnell : Many thanks for letter J.F. : The Gov.-
General probably spends money in excess of his salary.
Why not ? He' was appointed on the strength of his
private means Jos.: Why not arrange your ideas
numerically or alphabetically, or arithmetically, or dyna-
mite them, or arrange them somehow ?... .Vul. : Nobody
except the body of a collie dog Crin : Then two
blacks do make a white Tit Bits (W.A.) : Strongly
advise you not to, under the circumstances. Send ad-
dressed envelope, and we will recommend you to a
skilled and honest man Hix: Letter forwarded to
proper quarter. Trust it may cover your enemy with
confusion V.H.G. (Christchurch): You have a fine
turn for topical verse. Try some more interesting sub-
ject V.H.E. : Good touches in places, but no coherent
idea Mabel H. : Bulletin is not keen on that kind of
fact; send to one of the numerous newspapers which
deal with ghost-literature,... .A. P. Rogers : “ Metamor-
phosis” for print A.R. (Vic.): Not strong enough.
Matchbox: “His Choice” accepted Nellie F. :
Idea of “Too Late” has been used before.... .Hamer :
“Lady of M.” unconvincing Kodak: “Spark” is a
good story spoilt by prosy treatment F.H.D. : Plea-
sant yarn enough, but not in the style of the B
M.J.C. (Vic.): In type and will appear shortly The
Lyre : Horse-swap vein of humor has been worked to
death in Yankee comic papers. Your yarn has no
originality Skeet: Dialogue of Pilgrim’s Progress is
generally*well managed ; but idea has been so often used.
Try again Milesian : Too long-drawn ; get your matter
into one-eighth the space Kobbi : Where and when
was the game played in which you state the winner made
7156 consecutive cannons ?—a break of 14,312 !.... E.D.E. :
Too undressed Cyril V. : Not badly written, but too
much like too many other “ digging ” yarns J.L.K. :
“ General L." for illustration. Camiro : Bulletin
A YOUNG “ OLD MASTER”— SYDNEYS
LEADING VIOLINIST.
doesn’t want round-the-camp-fire preliminary flourishes.
Get to the kernel of your story as soon as possible
Quilp : “ Mountain G.” too closely echoes Bulletin’s
“honeymoon train.” C.M.M. :If you don’t write your
name and address on MS. submitted we can’t possibly
keep track of it A.L.N. : Altogether too rampageous
for the sweet decorum of Bulletin columns ; but how it
would suit a woman’s-paper !... .Watty : Well written in
the Kail-yard style, but wholly unsuitable for The Bul-
letin, which takes no interest in the “ meenister ” and
the “ Squire.” Riv. : Did the dog survive? If so, try
him with latest 96 lines. When next you encounter an idea
don’t beat it so thin. Send it along in nugget form
A.J.B. : Failed to decipher name of even one of the
articles described. . ..Bluey : Does not call for print
Geo. M. : Funny ; but we couldn’t get it into reasonable
shape V.H.G. : Good idea, clumsily handled
Donde: Rather prosy, and directed against an excep-
tional type. The boot is mostly on the other foot nowa-
days ....Quex : The lady in question apparently thinks
that to be clever you have only to be rowdy and dis-
hevelled. Her little compliments to The Bulletin are
easily explicable B. (Brisbane) : Good finale; lead-up
weak Mumbakl: Is it intended as actual experience or
Action? If former, worth par E.G. :01....H.R. : Not
sufficiently plausible, but well written ; try again....
M.M. : Not bad; but rather light-weight for B For-
tuna: Idea needs much brighter handling for that space.
S.W.M. : No print-value C.H.F. : Well, they
rhyme—more or less... .Libra : Depends on the evidence.
But why steal your title? D.M.A. : Love verses too
feeble.... Grant: ‘‘ Come Up ” more wordy than worthy.
Last batch lacks vitality; write less and better
Spieglein : Feeble G.M. : No stamp; no return.
Tom : Noted Cripple : Sorry unusable
W.A.B. :No room for a 3-col. gaol-article. Put your in-
formation into a few short sentences.....l.C.R. : Your
opinions are unvenerable antiques... .Don W. : No
address on copy. . .L.G.D. : Don’t remember date ; get
a Melbourne file, and chase it yourself... .t).H. : Thanks ;
but it’s too stiff to be “ a fine sonnet.”... .Mulga : Would
be a good little picture if better written J.N. : Com-
monplace, despite some ingenuity.. . .11.E.G. : Sing Life !
man—Life !.. ..A.W. : Thanks; but controversy abso-
lutely closed. Erroneous impressions as to what it
prints don’t worry Tiie Bulletin. It prints what pleases
itself, and takes the chance of that pleasing the public.
So far, the system has answered we 11.... J.H.M. : Not
U P by yards.... A.E. :On the whole, “Mary” has not
interest enough... .F W.M. : Rather tedious..-..D.F.L. :
“ Deeps” flat.. . .Trouvfere : Better use your own bat....
W.J.M. (Q.) : Glad to hear from you occasionally
Enock : You don’t enable us to verify the remarks attri-
buted to Minister Leahy. Wanted —date and place of
speech Joe Y. : Not much in it....E.G. : Lament of
very small kitten lost on very large plain l'apoose:
But then you mustn’t babble in The B. Your boyhood’s
story would be more suitable for a much younger paper.
.... W. George : Impossible to say. Britain more than
equals its two chief rivals, France and Russia, combined,
in battle-ships. On the other hand, in torpedo-boats it
isn’t equal to either of them singly. And whether tor-
pedo-boats or battle-ships are more important, even a war
may not decide—for the personal equation comes in and
upsets calculations.... A.N.A. : Too vast and diffuse....
Nemesis : One glaring error in your report, anyhow, and
that makes us suspect more... The Turf Raisers (or
something like that) : Dreadfully illegible. Hung up till
we have more leisure.... Widgee : A rather scanty tale.
Reg. N.: Lacks skill and vigor E.G.W.: Nothing
in treatment to balance extreme triteness of theme....
Sniv. H. : Rather crude, but have “go ” in them. Will
consider Edwd. H. (W.A.): Thanks, but too long and
wandersome Lyn. :To hand. We don’t acknowledge
pars, except by printing them A. A.: Situation strong;
treatment undramatie and conventional.. ..Sirius : Jig-
getty-joggetty verse only burlesques such a subject....
4.
Ice cream machines which require no
labor, 155., meat safes in which the temperature
is reduced 15 degrees by adding water once a day,
ss, Bs, and 15s each. If sent by post Is. 6d. extra.
Write for catalogues to Brandt Bros., 236 Pitt-
street, or 422 Elizabeth-street Melbourne.*
The New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency
00., Limited, report .—Wheat: Transactions during the
week have been few and small, and in anticipation of the
arrival of the new crops buyers are not disposed to
operate beyond actual immediate requirements. Our
representative in the Riverina district reports that the
crops there are in splendid condition, and it is expected
the yield this season will be a heavy one. To-day’s value
here of prime grain is 2s. 10£d., but the feeling is towards
lower levels, and no doubt when the new crop com-
mences to arrive a decline in prices will take place.*
Gay sports who didn’t take down Ikey Mo.
at Flemington last week were deprived of none of
the joy of life so long as they took their D.C.L.
whisky in moderation. After an appeal to that
health-restoring beverage there is no difference
between the glowing feelings of the man who has
just won and the man who has just lost. D.C.L.
■spells fortitude, cheerfulness, hope, and wisdom
Anyway, it is the whisky of the wise.*
Are Opals Unlucky?
The good or bad luck pertaining to thav
beautiful stone —the opal—has furnished the
Eapers with many items of interest, but pro-
ably few ladies would decline a gift of jewel-
lery set with this iridescent gem.
When the writer was on the White Cliffs
opal fields he found the man adjudged the
most lucky there was he who owned the largest
quantity of this stone. But on further inquiry
he brought to light it remarkable but true story
of the persistent ill-luck which for years attended
a lady resident —a JkL’s. Jane Wigney. ‘’When I
was seventeen,” she exclaimed, “ I used to go out
sewing, and owing to wet weather I got my feet
damp and caught a severe cold. From that time
until lately, I seemed the unluckiest mortal alive,
for my health began to fail, and I suffered from
headaches, terrible pains at the pit of my stomach,
under my shoulder blades, and across the small
of my back. Food became tasteless, and I had
to force myself to eat. My blood grew impov-
erished and my nerves unstrung. Then the
sharp burning pains of sciatica came in my legs
and thighs. Despite medical treatment I got
worse, and pneumonia set in. One doctor said I
had chronic indigestion, another said my liver
was out of order, and still another told me my
lungs were affected, but their prescriptions only
gave me partial and temporary relief and the
patent medicines I afterwards tried were also
useless. My husband being impressed by the
character of the people who had testified
to their cure by Dr. Wiliams’ pink pills, per-
suaded me to take them. I was pleasurably
surprised when, after using them for a fortnight,
I felt improved. As I continued taking them
my blood gradually became enriched and I
obtained sound, refreshing sleep. My nerves
were steadied and I relished my food. lam now
strong and well through the use of Dr. Williams’
pink pills, which cured me after medical treat-
ment and patent medicines had failed.”
There is no element of luck or chance in using
Dr. Williams’ pink pills; they cannot fail to do
good because they enrich the blood, tone up the
nerves, and so remove ailments such as aneemia,
debility, nervous exhaustion, neuralgia, insomnia,
skin diseases, indigestion, liver and kidney
troubles, dysentery, rheumatism, consumption of
the bowels and lungs, paralysis, etc. From
chemists and storekeepers and the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co., Queen’s Place. Sydney, two and
nine per box, six boxes fifteen and three, post free.
These pills regulate health, and ladies will find
that graceful development and a complexion of
roses and lilies follow their use.*


THE START.
STARTER KINGSTON : “ ARE YOU ALL READY? WHEN I’VE COUNTED A FEW AMENDMENTS I SHALL FIRE.”
N.S.W. (weeping) : “I’M STARTING UNDER PROTEST, I AM. MR. REID SAYS I’M GOING TO MY RUIN.”


Mr. Reid, on rising to reply, said “ he had been at> the Scotch College
Dr. Morrison was appointed head-master. He had never’ been
what Wad known as a good boy.”
"' r Tn fact, he had a dread of the boy
who was always good, who Always knew
1 his lessons. He found that boy never did
anything in after life.”
Such a boy, for example, would never be able to make
up a really scientific Budget. .
the other when he was playing the wag.
(Laughter.) He might say he stayed
away out of sympathy with the masters,
and he was proud to say he was never
hissed. (Laughter.)
iX.
“ He himself had once taken a
... - • i > but only after the school
authorities had had a long consultation as to what subject it was possible to
! f lve , a P nze in - (Laughter.) They could not pick on a subject'in which
(he could honestly be given a prize, and at length it was decided to award
him one for ‘General Proficiency.’
“ His school life at
v ~ the Scotch College
lasted three weeks, which was divided
into two distinct periods—one when he
was in school.
■“ He had his first ex-
perience of starch At a ,
very early age. When
he was only four years
old he was at- a Dame's
school in Liverpool, and
even then he was far
from being a good boy,
and he had distinct recollections of a ‘ starchy ’ old lady taking him into a back-
room and taking all the ‘starch ’ out of him.” (Applause.)
“Smce that time he had passed
through many vicissitudes, and in that
sir he 't w iu “
that a always had , erWa fa £
Yes, that* so. Joha Cash Neild «,
crisis m this case.
“ He used to disappear quietly out) of
the window. He wished he could do the
same now, but he found the disappearing
trick impossible.” (Laughter.)
Yet he can still wriggle through some'
rathter tight places.
GEORGE REID’S SCHOOL-DAYS, AS TOLD BY HIMSELF.


A. SAUNDERS
WATCHES, JEWELLERY, AND SILVERPLATE AT FREETRADE PRICES.
25 TO 50 PER CENT. SHOWROOMS: 815 GEORGE - STREET, SYDNEY.
A. SAUNDERS.
IT a I K BRUSH. Pure Silver, in Silk-lmed Case, 30s.
EREETRADE PRICES. NO ADVANCE.
& SYDNEY
LONDON
xssssmmmm
A. SAUNDERS’ FREETRADE PRICES.
NUT CRACKERS and PICKS in Silk-lined Case
Chased and Silver-plated, 15s 6d and 20s.
VERY USEFUL.
A. SAUNDERS.
SOAP BOX, Silver-plated, Nicely Chased and
Embossed, 12s <>d.
FREETRADE PRICES.
A SAUNDERS’FREETRADE PRICES
LADIES’ FRIEND. Pure Silver-mounted,
in Silk-lined Case, 18s 6d. Smaller, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
CLOTH BRUSH, Pure Solid Silver-
mounted, 15s 6d, 17s 6d.
COMBS, Pure Solid Silver-mounted, Real
Tortoiseshell, 20s ; Imitation Shell, 10s 6d
Similar, 5s 6d and 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Manicure Set, Pure Solid Silver-mounted, 20s.
Smaller, 12s 6d.
NO ADVANCE IN PRICE.
Pure Solid Silver Chased PHOTO
FRAMES in every Style and Shape.
10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, and 255.
A very acceptable present.
EREETRADE PRICES.
A. SAUNDERS.
MIRROR, Solid Silver-mounted,
Heart-shaped, Velvet-lined, 12s 6d.
Other Styles, 15s 6d, 20s. 80s, £2.
FREBTRADE PRICES.
Pure Silver Hair BRUSH,
Best Bristle, 15s 6d.
You save money buying
from A. SAUNDERS.
A. SAUNDEBS.
jadics’ Silver-mounted WAXXET CARD
CASE, 20s. Similar style, 15s.
A. SATJNDERS.
Gent.’s Hair Brush, Pure Silver, Best
Bristles, 12s 6d. Splendid Value.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHILD’S CUPS,Pure Solid Silver,
in Silk Case, 80s, 85s, £2, £2 10s;
Silver Electro-plated, 12s 6d, 15s,
20s. Without Case, 7add, Bsod, 10*.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ PURSES, Pure Silver-mounted, Lrnard
Skin, 20s, 255. Other styles, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s.
Our Stock ol First Purses is large and Assorted.
A. SAUNDERS.
FREETRADE PRICES. SAVE 25 to 50 PER CENT.
Solid Silver 4 o’clock TEA SPOONS, m Case, 15s, 20s; with
TONQS, 20s, 255, 80s, £2 ; Silver Electro-plated, with
TONGS, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Or Cake KNIVES or FORKS, 20s, 255, 80s. Most Useful
for Afternoon Cake. All in Silk-lined Cases. Post Free.
THE FEDERAL TARIFF.
THIS I HAVE ANTICIPATED.
MY CASH PURCHASES have bsen Enormous,
and I am in a position to sell at EREETRADE
PRICES. £32,000 worth of
WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELLERY, and
SILYERPLATE
to choose from. It will pay, and save you 25 to 50 per
cent. This is a consideration.
ALT, ARTICLES POST FREE.
Ao nim J nilß THE WELL KNOWN JEWELLER
. kaunaers, and silversmith.
815 and 817 GEORGE-STREET,
Nearly Opposite Railway Station.
■ ;- :; : : ; .
A. SAUNDERS.
FREETRADE PRICES. SAVE YOU 25 to 50 PER CENT. (< „
TOILET SET. Beautifully Chased, and Ornamented, m three patterns, W atteau as
above “ Cherub,” and “ Floride,” Chased and Embossed Designs, Containing two Hair Brushes,
Hat and Cloth Brush, Mirror, Shoe Hook and Lift, £l2los. A most acceptable Ladies present.
FREETRADE PRICES. SAVE YOU 25 to 50 PER CENT.
A SAUNDERS’ Newest Style in Pure Solid Silver Chased and Embossed,
4 o’clock Sugar Cream SPOON and TONGS, in Silk-lined Case. We
Stock three patterns similar to Illustration, £4 10s. A useful present.
A SAUNDERS’ Pure Silver Pencils. We stock in every style, ss, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d
Gold, 15s, 20s, 255, 80s, £2. Shall be pleased to send post free anywhere.
FKBETRADE PRICES. NO ADVANCE.
SEND YOUR ORDERS TO A. SAUNDERS.
A. SAUNDERS.
PUFF BOX, Pure Solid Silver, Pretty and
Ornamental, 255.
Silver-plated on White Metal, 17w 6d.
Silver Tops, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s.
NO ADVANCE. FREETRADE PRICES.
A. SAUNDERS.
ttatr BRUSH, Pure Silver,
best Bristles, “Cherub” Design,
18s 6d. Other styles, 20s, 255,
80s, £2. Send for Pattern
EREETBAPE BOOK.
Pure Solid Silver Badger
Hair SHAVING
BRUSH, 12s 6d. Other
styles, 15s and 20s.
A Nice Pre. ent.
A. SAUNJJLKc.
Smelling Salts BOTTJ,E, Pure Silver,
255. Other styles, Silver Top, 2s 6d,
ss, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s
A. SAUNDERS’ FREETRADE PRTCES ;
Dessert KNIVES and FORKS, Silver-plated, Nicely
Chased, £2 15s. 12 Pairs, £4 10s, £5, £o 10s.
A Useful Present.
p
m
■J&r
a,,.
- .' v, L--~
A. SAUNDERS’ FREETRADE PRICES.
Two Peppers, Mustard, Pure Sol d Silver, Beautifully
Chased and Finished, in Case, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS. NO ADVANCE.
Jam SPOON and Butter KNIFE, Pure Solid
Silver, in Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d.
Gent.’B “ COMPANION,” or Letter Book,
Pure Silver Mounted, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Solid Silver-mounted PEPPERS and
SALTS, in 3 sizes, 4s 6d, 6s 61, 7s 6d.
FREETRADE PRICES.
SAVE 25 to 50 PER CENT.
Ladies’ TOILET TABLE, Pure Solid Silver Pin TRAY, Artistically Chased
and Ornamented, 10s 6d. We stock in large quantity.
{pm.
mmm
RT“
A. SAUNDERS.
Pur© Silver-mountcd KNIFE RESTS, in
Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDEI S
EEEETIU.DE PEIOES.
mm
A. SAUNDERS’
FREETRADE PRICES.
THIMBLES, S'lver Steel-
lined, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 4s 6d.
I DO NOT INTEND TO ADVANCE MT PRICES.
FREETRADE PRICES—NO ADVANCE.
falnUrfL
NOW IS THE TIME TO BUY ALL ARTICLES
AT FREETRADE PRICES.
Pure Silver-
mounted
HAIR PIN
HOLDER, ss.
C f-y, u
A. SAUNDERS.
SALTS, Pure Silver-mounted, White Cut Glass,
in Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDEBS’ hattf, SEBYEE, Pure Solid Silver, Pearl Handle, in three efcylee, Ts fld, 10s, Us 6d. The very latest London style.
Call and See oar Jewellery Exhibition—A Splendid Display; or send for our 1901 Complete Illustrated Book, Post Free anywhere.
A. SAUNDERS.
SAVE 25 to 60
PER CENT.
LEADING ART JEWELLER.
SAVE 25 to 50
PER CENT.
815 & 817 GEORGE-STREET,
Nearly Oppos te
Railway Station,
SYDNEY-


NAVY CUT and PRAIRIE FLOWER
COPE’S
(SPECIAL MIXTURE)
As supplied to the ARMY and NAVY.
TOBACCOS
Manufactured i
n England.
Agents—Virgoe, Son and Chapman.
Zhe jY(osi Refreshing tDrink in jTustrcrlicr.
‘Montserrat
99 {
Lime-Fruit Juice
apd Cor&ials • • •
(TRADE HARK)
The LANCET ■ays;-»‘V*«
counsel the public to drlnK
Llme-Frult Julce whenever and
wherever they list, it Is a far
more wholesome drink than
any form of Alcohol.”
M ntserrat” Lime-Fruit Juice, either with water or aerated water, is a
delightful thirst quencher.
Sole Consignees EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON.
EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
Agents:— Elliott Bros., Ltd., J. Connell & Co., Sydney; D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
ft//-
Crozine Blacking
is a waterproof polish that produces a brilliant and permanent
gloss, which will not rub off. Shoes polished with “ Crozine
Blacking ” wear long, because it is an oil dressing, which softens
the leather. “ Crozine Blacking ”is guaranteed to be absolutely
free from all harmful substances, and will be found to be the
most satisfactory dressing made for all walking boots and shoes.
Sold almost everywhere. If not found, write at once to
C. L. HAUTIIAWAY SONS, Boston, Mass., U.SA.
dgdƒ
W. JAMES, Proprietor
The “Ifolcanic” [ratios
MACHINE.
A GREAT SAVING TO
Hotelkeepers, Cafe Proprietors,
&c.
yErated Waters of the highest quality produced with
the utmost rapidity without skilled labor. Abso.
lately the best and simplest Machine in the market.
• PRICES GREATLY REDUCED •
Write for descriptive Pamphlets with testimonials
from people who have used the Machine for years.
/Office : 101 QUEEN ST., MELBOURE.
\ Depot : 130 CECIL ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE.
GOOD HAIR FOR ALL!
g
9
All Chemists
4
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and living Lustra
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARAS ENE.
m" For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
*3- For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
$
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
%
CONSULT
HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
WOOL. PRODUCE. GRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
act _a_s selling brokers ontry.
Consignors are absolutely protected wider a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (f) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
'(lncluding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
will be ••• _ ••
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb : ••• •••
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
under
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing.
Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
WHE AT. t n
Every inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by the Company.
Ample accommodation is provided. * Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent when
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
Mitchell’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston's Windmills, Buncle and Sons Chaffcutters.
Donald’s Patent Woolpress.
AfiENTS FOR McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
THE FEDERAL JEWELLERY CO.
23 and 25 Strand Arcade.
Handsome Boar Tusk Brooch:
21s, in Handsome Case.
Bamboo Bangle, 25s
All Goods English
Hall-Marked.
All Goods English
Hall-Marked.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE
AND PRICE LIST.
Absolutely No Duties
Charged by this Firm.
9c. Gold Muff Chains, 35s to 85s.
Silver Muff Chains, 10s 6d to 16s 6d.
Roman Pearl Necklets, 4s 6d, 7s 6d each.
Real Coral Necklets, 6s 6d to 12s 6d each.
Ladies’ Silver Geneva Watches, from 15s
to 37s 6d each.
Gent’s Silver Hunting Waltham Keyless,
£2 15s, £3 10s.
Gold Ladies’ Genevas, 60s, 60s, 70s, 85s.
All Kinds of Fancy Bead Muff Chains and
Neck Ornaments from Persia, 2s 6d
each up to 15s. each.
First-class Dinner Cruets, 15s to 50s.
Silver-Mounted Purses, 4s 6d, 6s 6d to 30s.
Splendid Bar Brooches, 5s to 60s each.
Watch Repairing- very Reasonably
Executed and sent back within 6 Days.
Solid Silver Hair Brushes, 16s, 20s, 255, 30s.
All Goods
sent
POST FREE.
Write
To-night.
df
9c. Gold
Sleeve Links
15s, 17s 6d.
Silver,
2s 6d, 4s.
V
&S* ■
&
■ V\
4
\ V-
■*■)
vs
gfd
Don,t Take
it for
Granted
ORDER IT
AUCEm
Because
it is the
Best
CHARLES READ & CO.,
6-stone Half-Hoop
DIAMOND BING,
Price, 5 and upwards.
5-stone Diamond and
Sapphire Bing.
Price, 3 lOs an d
upwards.
5-stone Australian Opal
Bing, 22/0
Camden Buildings, 420 George St., Sydney.
lfrct
BROOCH, with Opal or
Turquoise,
Three doors from
Strand Arcade.
A Saving; of
25 per cent.
JEWELLERY,
SOLID SILVER GOODS,
SILVER-PLATED WARE.
Write for our 80-paged ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
HVPAOtiSA
Reader, why not be able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force ol
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feats
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain ; win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I
just issued in book f rm a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explain*
the mysteries and secrets
,of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is he most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For a short
time I wi 1 send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and barn
to Hypnotize. It is a c ance of j
a life-time. Address—
<9
J
g
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
SSllenburgs* Foods.
A PROGRESSIVE DIETARY, unique In providing: nourishment suited to the growing: digestive powers of VOUNG INFANTS from
The “ Allenburys”
The “ Allenburys ”
The “Allenburys”
birth upwards, and free from dangerous germs.
Milk Food no. i
Specially adapted to the first three months of life.
Milk Food No. 2
Similarly adapted to the second three months of lile.
Malted Food no. 3
For Infants over six months of age.
Complete Foods,
STERILIZED, and
needing the addition off
hot water only.
To be prepared for use by the
addition of COW'S MILK,
according to directions given.
No. 3 Pood is strongly recommended for Convalescents, Invalids, the Aged, and all requiring a light and easily digested diet#
The London Medical Record writes of it that— “No Better Food Exists.”
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING Free on application to the Wholesale Depot, 484, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.


A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
We learn that a most useful Veterinary
Book is attached to every bottle of Condy’s
Fluid. This Book contains instructions for
curing most of the ailments and accidents
affecting Horses, Dogs, Sheep, Cattle, Poultry,
and Birds of all kinds.
Condy’s Fluid is an absolutely certain cure
for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs, Broken Knees,
Grease, Thrush, Cracked Heels, and Mud
Fever in Horses.—Scab, Foot Hot, Fly, etc.,
in Sheep.—Rinderpest, Hoove, Foul in the
Foot, Wounds and Sores, Foot and Mouth
Disease, and Diarrhoea in Cattle.—Distemper
Mange, Canker, and Eczema in Dogs.
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists and
Stores. Beware of local substitutes, all are
inferior. Insist on having Condy’s Fluid.
838
Gi-O TO HELL-
-4 IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lis gratis.
HATS. HATS. HATS.
Mountcastle & Quaitis
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes titted with this
valuable invention.
Catalogue to B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street. BRISBANE.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTCR BRAPL€Y * CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 321 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Hooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
pit g»EARLY TEETH
M(D’5
Oporto
OR PEARL DENTIFRICE.
Known for 75 years to be the Best and
Purest Tooth Powder, as it contains no
acid or gritty substances which ruin the
Teeth and produce premature decay; it
WHITENS THE TEETH,
Prevents and arrests decay, strengthens the
gums, and gives a pleasing fragrance to the
breath. It penetrates to the hidden flaws
and crevices of the teeth, and preserves and
beautifies them for years. Ask Stores and
Chemists for ROWLAND’S ODONTO,
of 67. Hatton Garden, London.
SIMPSON’S JUMP SEAT SULKIES
The Strongest, Lightest,,
and Easiest - Riding
Two-wheeled Trap on
earth. -
SIMPSON, Coachbuilder, 73 KING STREET, NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Lee is expected to retire from the leader-
ship of N.S.W. Opposition inside of a month.
Carruthers climbs up.
When Kruger said that “the cost of sub-
jugating his country would stagger humanity,”
the Jingoes laughed derisively. And now !
An all-Australian stamp will be valuable,
even if only as a sentimental suggestion of unity.
Until its arrival, all State stamps should be inter-
changeable.
In the critical division on the Kanaka Bill
in committee of the House of Reps., the colored
man had only four friends, one from Queensland,
two from Victoria and one from S.A.
Already the Barton tariff begins to work,
increases in wages having been secured (amongst
others) by glass-workers and tailoresses in Syd-
ney, largely because of the Protection afforded to
the manufacturers by the new duties.
The assassin-anarchist is the male counter-
part of the outrage-story female—a being whom
the dulness of life has driven across the borders of
sense, and who is mad for a riot of excitement at
any cost. The sensational newspapers are mainly
responsible for his crimes, and supply the prompt-
ing to kill by shrieksome diatribes against politi-
cal opponents.
THE REAL ANARCHIST.
“ The murderer of President McKinley was electrocuted to-day at New York." —CABLE.
A point for the White Australian party
in the Senate. If the white man can’t stand
the stress of climate in the open fields when
cutting cane in N.Q., how does he manage to
stow cargo into the stifling lower holds of vessels
at Cairns, Cooktown, Port Douglas and Towns-
ville wharves ? Longshore Jack tucks the stuff
away in an atmosphere more humid and trying
than that of any canefield—does it right through
the season and comes again for more. Why ?
Because lie gets a living-wage.
“ I cannot stand a wobbler.”—G. H. Reid
in the Federal Parliament.
His grave is made, his doom is sealed—
The arrogant, but luckless elf
Who has unconsciously revealed
Himself unto himself !
Maoriland has begun reprisals, in response
to the Commonwealth tariff, with an export tax
on undressed timber, which will raise the price of
white pine to Australian butter-box makers.
Since the avowed object of the tax is to keep the
work of cutting the timber in the country, no one
on this side can growl at its imposition.
Trenwith definitely left the Radical camp
when he recorded his vote in Vic. Assembly for
the reduction of the old-age-pension rate to 7s. per
week. The one-time shoemaker has for long had
little of his own opinions left; now you can only
recognise the ex-Labor advocate in the slight
awkwardness with which he wears his belltopper.
The consolidation of the N.S.W. statutes
will cost a huge sum. Mr. C. G. Heydon under-
took the work as a labor of love, asking only the
assistance of one draughtsman. The “one
draughtsman ” has increased to ten, and the cost
so far has exceeded £14,000. Now an additional
£2OOO is on the estimates. But the junior Bar
must live.
Rep. Thomas, who created a slight
diversion in the last days of the tariff debate by
his direct-tax amendment, and upon whom the
Argus used several pounds of buttered linotype,
is the same Thomas whom the same Argus de-
nounced with others in ’92 as madmen and
murderers. But Thomas was then a Broken Hill
strike-leader.
A peculiar combination has lately been
entered into between opposition leader Darling
and the most extreme conservatives, and the
labor members of S. A. Parliament. The result
is that the moderate men have been concentrated
round the Govt, standard, and Premier Jenkins
smiles blandly when condemned by the Tories or
reviled by the Radicals.
David Storey has brought in a private Bill
to reduce N.S.W. Assembly to 78 members. As
a private Bill, the measure has no chance of pass-
ing, and for that reason it will probably be enthu-
siastically approved of in its earlier stages. Most
members are anxious to pose as in favor of a
reduction of the House in numbers ; and, even
though their own seats are safe, still more
anxious to prevent any reduction, on the general
principle that an insecticide is bad for the flea
race generally.
THE KID AND HIS
CAMERA AT THE
RACES.
Printed by London Daily News that
Ketchener threatens to resign his command in
S. Africa, if not allowed a freer hand to deal with
the Boers. Possibly the sudden stop put to
hangings was in consequence of orders from
London, and vexed the soul of the Soudan
warrior !
What really are trips round Sydney
harbor with liberal liquors, provided for members
of N.S.W. Parliament, but the Dalley-Stuart
system of influencing members revived ? No
Minister has a right to bolster up his power with a
jolly-good-fellow reputation at the expense of the
public purse.
Sydney Telegraph now pins its faith to
the Senate, and urges that body to kill the tariff
in the interests of the Chinese egg and the Asiatic
textile industry. But a few months ago the
Senate was to be a hideous thing, the robber
stronghold of necessitous States preying on
N.S.W. Now it is the citadel of Freedom and
the fortress of Liberty. Yah !
According to Minister Forrest, to place all
the Commonwealth rifle clubs on the favorable
terms enjoyed by the Vic. clubs will cost £75,000
a year in ammunition alone. When the other
States cultivate rifle-clubs. as Victoria has done—
she now possesses quite half the total number
(142,000) of rifle-club members—Australia will
shoot away fully £lOO,OOO a year at targets.
The Sydney dailies, which continually
wail that had the tariff been anticipated “we
would never have passed the Bill,” attempted
during the referendum campaign to make the
public believe that a very much higher range of
duties would be imposed. Either, then, the people
did anticipate the tariff, or they had a very poor
opinion of the veracity of the Freetrade news-
papers.
The final result of Senate and House of
Reps, discussions on the Postal Bill is that no
power is given to the postal officials to summarily
stop a newspaper circulating for either “ blas-
phemy ”or “ sedition.” The Senate was willing
enough to abandon the Almighty by allowing the
word “blasphemy” to be omitted, but made a
stubborn fight on behalf of King Edward for
“sedition.”
Pointed out in Q. Parliament that, at
date of last prisons report, 24 Kanakas were in
gaol—s per cent, of the total prisoners—though
the race constitutes less than 2 per cent, of the
population. Altogether, 103 Kanakas (6 per cent,
of the total prisoners) were imprisoned during
1900. In same year, 460 colored aliens —gentle,
docile, harmless, law-abiding, &c.—found their
way into gaol.
Another British war-loan is rumored. So
far, the cost of trying to subdue the Boer republics
borders on £200,000,000 or so, and before Cham-
berlain has the title-deeds of Naboth’s vineyard
safe, it seems as if he would have to pay for it at
the rate per foot frontage of a block in the heart
of London. Moral—When you want your neigh-
bor’s property, always find out beforehand what
kind of a gun he keeps.
The Chamberlain agitation to increase
Governor-General Hopetoun’s salary is expected
to burst out afresh at a near date. A rule of the
Colonial Office often quoted for the benefit of
Australians is that a Governor’s salary shall not
be reduced during his tenure of office. In
Barkly’s time the British Government vetoed an
Act of Vic. Parliament which cut Barkly from
£lO,OOO to £7OOO. And it’s a poor rule which can’t
work both ways.
The laundry rates increase which is being
so widely advertised in Sydney is mostly “ fake.”
There has been no advance in starch or soap
prices to warrant a 25 per cent, rise in the rates
for laundry work, and those who resist the im-
position will find that it is soon abandoned. The
white grabster, by the way, is simply playing into
the hands Of the Chinese washerman, now becom-
ing very numerous in Sydney, who may be relied
on to avail himself of his opportunity.
A sum-
ming-up of
the argu-
ments for
extension of
pastoral
leases in
Q u e e n s-
land :
The pastoral
indu s t r y
neverdid pay.
It took all the
good seasons
to stock up
and improve
on borrowed
money. The
bad seasons
swallowed the
stock and
loaded the
mortgages
with arrears
of interest.
The price of
wool is too
low. The rent
and taxes are
■ too high.
Freights are *■
extortionate.
Large areas
don’t pay,
small areas
can’t pay. Ir-
rigation is im-
possi b 1 e.
Tanks are
only expedi-
ents. The rab-
bits cannotbe
coped with. Nobody ever made money at bona-fide
squatting ; only by dealing in squattages. But give us a
40 or 50 years’ lease and all will be well. With long leases,
we will be able to borrow more money at a cheaper rate
on the securities which we have already damned beyond
redemption, and we might, if good seasons or something
or other happens, redeem all our past irretrievable loss-
and make a .profit where profit has never been made
before.
Discussion of the “ ifs ” of the House of
Reps, censure debate still meander wearisomely
along. Bruce Smith, for instance, remarks that
if all members had voted according to their fiscal
opinions the Govt, would have had a majority of
four only ; which, if true, only shows that some
members were wise enough to be Australian
Nationalists rather than British Cobdenites. One-
other authority talks of what would have hap-
pened “ had all the N.S.W. members voted true
to the policy of their State”—a State which abso-
lutely smashed up the Lee foreign-trade party at
last general election !
At the instance of Meagher, N.S.W.
Assembly omitted this year the sum of £l5O for the
Anthropological Society. In addition to studying
and preserving records of our fast-decaying
aborigines, the Anthropological Society deals with
human degeneration, bodily and mental, crimin-
ology and penology. In connection with the
society are associations devoted to child-study
and anthropometrioal measurements. A grant of
£l5O to the society would seem to most people a
splendid investment, though there possibly are
reasons whyM’s.P. should not think so.
Rep. Spence was true to N.S.W. Laborite-
traditions in the vote on the no-confidence motion
of Reid. On the other hand, Thomas, repre-
sentative of the Broken Hill miners, sold his
con tituents badly. Returned pledged to judge
every Govt, according to its programme of social-
reform legislation, Thomas, a hard-shell Free-
trader, on the very first opportunity conveniently
forgot the Govt.’s social policy and voted as a
Freetrader and not as a Laborite at all. That
means the end of the farce of “sinking the fiscal
issue ” at Broken Hill.
Macdonald-Paterson, in the House of
Reps., on the Kanaka Bill
He did not know what would happen in Queensland.
There was seething discontent there, bordering on revo-
lution, because of the intention of the Government to-
force the Bill through.
The discontent of a few bank-shareholders and
other broad-clothed gentlemen can be safely left to-
seethe without fear of its boiling over. The humor-
ous spectacle of about one-tenth of the people of
Queensland rising in revolution against the other
nine-tenths, plus the whole of Australia, in
defence of its right to import cheap niggers, is not.
likely to be witnessed —worse luck.
A curious bit of N.S.W. Constitutional
law is that a member of the Leg. Council may-
interview the Governor without an intermediary,,
while a member of the Leg. Assembly is only
entitled to an interview through the Speaker.
Sydney Telegraph interviews George
Reid’s Foreign-trade brother, Hugh R. Reid,
Melbourne merchant :
While in London Mr. Reid was assured that if tne Com-
monwealth Government ran its own line of steamers to-
England with mails and passengers, a saving to the people-
of something like £150,000 per annum could be effected,
and fares and freights reduced by one-third. At present
a great English shipping ring controls the Australian
trade. They pay 20s. per ton to the shipowners from
whom they charter, and then fix the rates so as to bring
them in 40s. per ton.
A ring or trust that has put up prices 100 per cent,
isn’t quite the advertisement for Freetrade that
it might be. Apparently rings and trusts can
flourish in any soil and under any system —if th©
people are foolish enough to let them do so.


The /EOLIAN
THE /EOLIAN is really a solo
orchestra brought within the
home and can be played by
every member of the family. It
opens up the rich field of orchestral
music to every one.
As its technical capacity is un-
limited, it enables the player to
execute every note of the score —
an achievement which it is next to
impossible for two hands to ac-
complish.
While the /Eolian has techni-
cal powers immeasurably beyond
those of the most skilful techni-
cian, the performer is complete
master of the expression.
This is the secret of the/Eolian’s
fascination. It is responsive to
the player’s every feeling.
The great popularity of the JE olian in Country homes is a
pertinent illustration of their practical value. In these retreats
away from musical entertainment, an .dEolian provides the
pleasure of hearing any composition one’s mood may call for
a.7iy time , with the added pleasure of producing the’ music
one’s self.
The iEolian is sold at no other
address in Sydney.
Send for Catalogue
trations and
containing' Ulus-
full particulars.
Henry M. Birge & Co
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
323 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
READ WHAT
VITADATIO
IS DOING.
4.
uSL BAD CASS.
Ulcers on Both Legs.
HE HAD TO BE ASSISTED IN AND OUT OF BED.
Cured by Vitadatio.
To Mr. S. A. PALMER.
Dear Sir, —About two years afro I fell from a ladder
and burst a vein in my leg. A little later on I slipped
off the shaft of a cart, and grazed the other leg on the
step, the consequence of this was that ulcers broke out
on both legs, and for a considerable time I suffered great
pain, and could not bend either of my knees. I could
neither get in or out of bed without assistance. At this
time I spoke to Mr. Palmer, and asked him his advice,
■and he advised me to try Vitadatio, with the result that
in a very short time I was completely cured. The pain
died out, and I got the use of my legs back again, thanks
to Vitadatio. I can highly recommend it to any person
suffering from any form of blood disease.
Yours faithfully,
JOHN CHARLTON.
Maffia St., South Melbourne,
Vic., 19th Feb., 1901
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
ďfg
Rider Agents wanted
throughout Australia,
one in each town to ride and
exhibit 1902 Model Cycle.
Finest Grades, £2 5s to £4
10s, carriage paid.
’OO & ’Ol Models £1 5S to £2 10s.
Great Factory Clearing Sale at
HALF FACTORY COST.
Fvery Machine fully guaranteed
We have a wonderfully liberal
proposition for good Rider Agents.
[Write at once for our bargain
'list and Special Offer using
2%d stamp or id postcard.
ADDRESS DEPT. 152-C
’Mead Cycle Co., Chicago, U.S.A.
AUSTRALIAN .
The First
Australian Stamp.
STAMPS
Highest Cash Prices Paid
to any amount for
Old or Rare Stamps,
Used or Unused.
m
For Sale— The Largest Stook of STAMPS, ALBUMS, etc.,
in the Southern hemisphere, '
BMYTH & NICOLLE, 14 Hanter-st., Sydney.
USE
SPOONER’S
m
I
jm
SPOONER’S
~ -V.
V
*
*
(IATENT LEATHER BQOTi>
‘GLAZED RIOS &«
"*»M» W» «•>« \»W*
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning- and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trains. Largest H ote
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF lo
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
the ktew
EDISON TALKING MACHINES.
dfg
The Bijou Phonograph
With Complete Outfit, including
Assorted Records, £2.
The Standard Phonograph
With Complete Outfit, including- 24
(2 dozen) Assorted Re-
cords, 2 Blanks, £5 103.
Undoubtedly the Best
Value ever offered.
Extra Edison Records,
20s. per dozen ; 12s. per
half-dozen. Concert (5J
inch) Records, 6s. each,
60s. dozen.
Send for Catalogues non-
fcaini ncr ool An *:.
~ «w***»«*K >JWU oeiecwons.
HBfiyCfi & CO.. ADELAIDE ami BDOKEH MILL
REST THE BURDEN
of your correspondence
on the
New Century
Typewriter instead of on your steno-
grapher, and you will get more work,
cleaner work, better work. It has no
equal for speed, lightness of touch and
durability. Fine new catalogue sent
free.
United Typewriter & Supplies Co.,
UU Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S. W.,Aus.
dfg
[ljorld’s Record Jjrder]
The LARGEST TYPEWRITER ORDER
for the WHOLE WORLD . . .
Has recently been placed with UNITED TYPEWRITER
and SUPPLIES CO. by the Austro-Hungarian Govern-
ment for
500 New Csnturys
The New Century has been extensively ordered by N.S. W.
Government Departments, and is the Machine adopted by
His Excellency the GOVERNOR-GENERAL, and also
the State Governor, Sir Frederick Darley, K.C.M.G.
V.SEND FOR CATALOGUE
United Typewriter Supplies Co.,
(By appointment to His Excellency the Governor-General)
114 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Will Not Affect the Nerves.
W
The Highest Class
SMOKING MIXTURE,
MILD
THREE STRENGTHS
MEDIUM.
FULL.
IN iuß. AND £lb. AIR-TIGHT TINS.
Obtainable from ....
M. RUTTY & CO., 68 Margaret Street, Sydney, and all tlieir Agents.
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO., 44 Worship Street, London, England.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
Wonderful Value —a Packet of Eight Different Articles,
comprising Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket (a good
trick), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin
and Card Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard
Fish (gives definition of your character), That Wonderful
Cinematograph or Book of Living Pictures, Mafeking
Grub (or nerve-strengthener), That side-splitting Look
and Laugh Glass, and, last of all, The Spider and the Fly
(an ingenious mechanical toy). Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
X 710 George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
RHEUMALGIA
rphe new cure for Rheumatism, Lumbago, Gout, Sciatica,
Neuralgia, and similar ailments
IS
a lotion compounded from herbs
PURELY AUSTRALIAN.
3S. 6d. POST FREE.
Rheumalgia Remedy Co., Bathurst,
Wholesale depot for N.S. W. and Q.
American Naphtha Launches for Sale.
One 18ft., one 16ft.—Quite New.
Sharpies’ Cream Separator & Dairy Supply Co.,
143 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.
WiJSS.
h
Specify
SHUISWiTi
when purchasing a Cycle.
They are REUABLE and DURABLE
Guaranteed for 12 Months. Beware of Imitations.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Australasia Limited,
108 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Amd at Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, It.Z.
Solid Rubber Vehicle Tyres
should be fitted to all vehicles. They stop all noise*
vibration, and double the life of your vehicle.
Our tyres contain absolutely the finest rubber, and will last five
years on a private vehicle. Send for artistic Catalogue and price list.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co of Aust. Ltd.,
108 Flinders St., Melbourne, and at Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Br.sbane, <fe Christchurch, N.Z.
dfg
n.s.w. depot-
-150 Clarence St., Sydney.


MINISTERS’
TESTIMONY.
Brighton Road, Crewton, Derby.
I have tested the Kutnow’s Carlsbad Powder
you kindly sent me a few weeks ago, and find it
a thoroughly efficient and pleasant medicine. It
does not appear to leave any undesirable effects
on the system, and I have much pleasure in
testifying to its merits. I shall recommend it.—
Yours truly,
A. P. SANDERS (Congl. Minister).
82, Marine Parade, Worthing.
You kindly sent me physician’s sample of your
(Kutnow’s) Powder. . . . Taken half-an-hour
before breakfast it is the pleasantest effervescent
draught I know, and very effectual after that
meal. My rheumatic gout is much benefited
by it. (Rev.) J. G. MEDLAND.
The Manse, Narberth, Pembrokeshire.
Many thanks for a sample of your “ Carlsbad
Powder.” I have tested it, and think that it is
excellent —the very best I have tried —and shall
have a bottle of it through the chemist.
RHYS HARRIES (Congl. Minister).
7, Manor Road, Leyton.
Thanks for your sample of Carlsbad Powder. I
have tested it, and consider it a mild and efficient
aperient.
(Rev.) HENRY MOULSON (Congl. Minister).
New Brampton, Chesterfield.
Some little time ago you were good enough to
s uid me a sample of your Carlsbad Powder, and,
being just then troubled with a slight attack of
rheumatic gout, I was glad to have the oppor-
tunity of testing the efficacy of your Powder. I
certainly think that I derived considerable tem-
porary benefit from its use, and found it most
palatable to the taste. ... I shall have great
pleasure in recommending it to my friends, as I
have no doubt it will, prove highly efficacious in
many of those gouty and rheumatic affections so
c million in the present day.
(Rev.) J. E. HOWE.
Cwm, Waunllwyd, Mon.
I have to thank you for sending me a trial
sample of Kutnow’s improved Effervescent Carls-
bad Powder. The Powder has done me more
good than anything I have yet tried, and shall
continue to use it. Please be kind enough to for-
ward a large bottle to my address, for which you
will find P.O. for 3s.
THOS. THOMAS (Baptist Minister).
Forton Barracks, Gosport.
I beg to state that I received the samples you
sent me in due course, and have been much
pleased with the Carlsbad Powder, and have
ordered a bottle from the local chemist, which I
hope will benefit me, suffering as I do from uric
acid in the blood.
S. A. SHONE, Chaplain, R.N.
to <S%>&rril/e/iA tAe Sfia/rn^y^
■
IMPROVED EFFERVESCENT CARLSBAD
'Oy
y
SP N 0
FOR ALL
DERANGEMENTS
OFTHE
UVER.STOMACH, KIDNEYS &INTESTINES,
The Medical Journal (April, 1901)
Says s
AS A SUBSTITUTE for the European medicinal spring treatment for CONSTIPATION, many
eminent medical men and the most prominent medical journals have recommended KUIJNOWS
Improved Effervescent Carlsbad POWDER/, as the same is a portable, economical, .reliable, and very
agreeable remedy, extensively employed by the piofession, to whose further attention it is recommended.
It exercises a beneficial effect on the liver, gall-bladder, kidneys, and stomach. The flavour is
refreshing, and it is readily taken by women and children. It has also been successfully prescribed m
diabetes and for the correction of the lithic and uric acid diathesis, with or without jaundice, constipa-
tion, acid dyspepsia, and hemorrhoids. “Its advantages,” says a medical correspondent, “ appear to arise
from its possessing tho power to eliminate from the body tlie excess of bile and acids, thereby, purify mg the
blood and strengthening the general tone by improving the assimilative processes of the debilitated system.
Consequently, it has a salutary effect in cases of hypochondriasis associated with low spirits and geneial
depression.”
For the above reasons KUTNOW’S Improved Effervescent Carlsbad POWDER has been employed,
under the highest medical authorities, for patients leading sedentary lives., and those suffering from
abnormal accumulations of fat. For corpulent women, in particular, physicians will find it a pleasant
remedy when aided by the appropriate diet. The well-to-do classes,, with leisure to command, periodically
seek the cleansing and health-restoring medicinal spas of the Continent. Of the millions of sufferers, how-
ever only comparatively very few are favored by such fortunate circumstances as to enable them to
indulge in the luxury of a trip to the Continent. Therefore, as a boon to suffering humanity, Kutnow s
Improved Effervescent Carlsbad Powder won by sheer sterling merit the approval of such authorities as
Sir Spencer Wells, M.D., Professor Lawson Tait, M.D., Sir Morrell Mackenzie, M.D., Sir Andrew Clark,
M.D., and the most eminent physicians everywhere.
LIVER
LOGIC.
The Liver is the main spring of the system.
When active it is the great purifying organ.
When sluggish it easily develops a poisonous
tendency, contaminating all the great
organs.
The Liver both secretes and excretes.
It secretes about three pounds of bile daily.
It excretes impurities and waste materials.
The Liver is the sewage farm of the body, and
since it is the sieve it must perforce be kept
clean, otherwise it becomes sluggish.
If the Liver is sluggish it cannot expel its refuse,
and as it must go somewhere it is absorbed
back into the blood, causing biliousness and
often jaundice.
The Liver also makes from the blood a kind of
Sugar, which, if healthy, is used up as
nourishment.
If the sugar is excessive or inferior it cannot be
so used; it then escapes into the urine,
causing diabetes.
A Torpid Liver develops uric acid, gout and
rheumatism in predisposed subjects.
The absolute, incontestible remedy for all this,
and the one which never fails, is Nature’s
Great Restorative, Kutnow’s Improved Effer-
vescent Carlsbad Powder.
This Powder is made by an ingenious expedient
from the health-giving medicinal springs of
the Continental Spas.
It is improved by removing all drastic or lowering
properties.
It is gentle and pleasant, but the greatest of all
Stimulators of the Liver.
K UTNO W’S PO WD ER may
be obtained at any chemist or
medicine vendor in capsuled
bottles, but care must be taken
to see that it is Kutnow’s.
Don’t accept suggested substi-
tutes, they are worthless.
THE BEST OF ALL LIVER REMEDIES.
Proprietors :S. KUTNOW and GO., Ltd., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C. Proprietors in U.S.A.: KUTNOW BROS., Ltd., 853 Broadway, New York.
dfg
S.D. & Co.’s Ladv’s 10-ot. Gold Keyless
WALTHAM LEVER WATCH, with best-
finished f-plate movement, patent safety
barrel, expansion balance, jewelled,
strong Solid Gold Engraved Hunting
Cases, perfect Keyless Action, sunk
seconds, and enamelled dial, £6 10s. In
14-ct. cases, with movements as above,
£9 10s. In 18-ct. cases, with finest
quality movement made, £l4 10s. In
Silver Hunting Cases, £3 ss. Open Face,
£3. All above have specially-made heavy
cases.
.
1
S.D. & Co.’s “ EXCELSIOR ” KEYLESS ENGLISH
LEVER is unsurpassed by any watch. It is compact,
convenient, and reliable, dust and damp-proof, has
best f-plate movement, fully jewelled in rubies ; real
Chronometer balance, heavy, Hall-marked Silver
Cases, each guaranteed for 5 years, £6 10s ; in heavy
18-ct. Gold Cases, £22 ; Open Face, £lB 10s ; also
made Keywind Hunting, in Massive Silver Cases, at
£5. Strongly recommended. Silver Keyless Hunting
Rotherham English Levers, £6 10s. Keywind
Hunting Rotherham English Levers, best quality,
£4 10s.
Every
master
here.
ninety-
POOP WATCHES.
one of us is a slave to the Watch. That being so, why should we be ruled by an incompetent
? If you want a good Watch at a Reasonable price, we can recommend all those we describe
You will find that our prices have not been advanced on account of the Tariff, although
nine shopkeepers in a hundred are charging higher prices now. Come in and see our Enormous
Stock of Watches, all of which you can have at the old Prices.
M
/.
m
mmm
S.D. & Co.’s “ECLIPSE” WATCHES have finest
quality f-plate, full-capped dust-proof movements,
jewelled in 8 holes. Extra heavy Sterling Silver
Cases, and are perfect timekeepers. The best watches
at the price ever sold. In Hunting Cases, £.l ; Crys-
tal Front, £1 10s. Ladies’ sizes, with Elegantly
Engraved Cases, Open Face, £llos ; Hunting, £,2.
dfg
S.D. & Co.’s Ladv’s Magnificent 18-ct. Gold
Keyless “ NONPAREIL ” WATCHES are truly
a speciality among specialities, much recom-
mended to ladies who desire a unique, compact,
and elegant, inexpensive Gold Watch. The
entire watch is most exquisitely finished, fine
full-jewelled movement, 18-ct. Gold, Strong
Cases, Perfect Keyless Action, convenient and
reliable. Hunting Cases, t Os. Open Face,
£6 10s. Warranted for 3 years.
S - -
■? / «
This shows our Gentleman’s size Solid Silver Hunt-
ing Case WALTHAM LEVER WATCH, f-plate, 11
jewel movement, Brequet sprung, compensation
balance, £3 10s. ; in 10-ct. Gold Hunting Cases,
£9 10s. ; in 14-ct Gold, £l2 10s.
EACH WATCH CARRIES OUR GUARANTEE.
dfg
This is a Lady’s 14-ct. Gold Filled WAL-
THAM LEVER WATCH, made for us by the
Waltham Coy. The movement is a Jewelled
f-plate one, and the Hunting Case is guaran-
teed to wear for 25 years, surely a reason-
able time for such a low price— viz., £4.
Gentleman’s size, £5 10s.
fdg
412 GEORGt 6T SYDn^
df
S.D. & Oo.’s 18-ct. GOLD KEYLESS
“PRINCESS” WATCH has finely-fin-
ished Jewelled movement, strong solid
18-ct. gold Engraved Oases, Perfect Key-
less Action, £5 10s. Half-Hunting, £6.
Open Face, £4los. Also in Silver Half-
Hunting or Full-Hunting Cases. £2 10s.
Open Face, £2. Warranted for 2 years.
1
N
S.D. & Co.’s English Hunting Lever Watches con-
tain special patented improvements ensuring dura-
bility, timekeeping, and freedom from accident in
wear. The movements are full-capped, dust-proof,
jewelled in rubies, and the cases are strong sterling
Silver, hall-marked, £3 10s., warranted for 3 years.
Special quality, with chronometer expansion balance,
and 3 pairs extra jewels, £4los.
All Watches sent Free and Safe
by Registered Post on receipt of
Remittance,


There is a ludicrous “derangement of
epitaphs ” about some of the utterances of Austra-
lia’s recent visitor, teetotal apostle G reenough.
Lecturing recently on the founders of Methodism,
he said, according to the report—
When John Wesley commenced to preach, the quantity
of trin consumed in'England amounted to four f ; al 1 1( ? l ? s
for every man, woman, and child, and if they added the
Xe and beer that were drunk, they would get a
stupendous drink-bill. It was into this valley of dry
bones that the winds of God commenced to blow.
Dry bones, indeed !
“Red Tape, jun.,'’writes
One item on N.S.W. Public Works Estimates was £3OB,
to recoup the Superannuation Fund, for abatements to
officers retired in 1895-6. The “officers” is Joseph
Barling. His “ retirement ” consisted in being promoted
from Under-Secretary for Works at £920 to preside over
the Public Service at £lOOO a year. In response to a
strong protest the O’Sullivan temporarily withdrew the
item ■" Members should ask for a lot of information
before they consent to the vote. This matter of recoups
from the decaying Superannuation Fund is the burning
question in the Service. When notice was given a few
y ears a g o that public servants could withdraw' from
contributing ” to the account, the great majority did
so. Discontinuing, they, of course, forfeited their pen-
sion rights, and, to their dismay, they were not allowed
to get the money, already paid in, hack. It had been
collared by the Treasury for 15 years. Yet Mr. Barling was
allowed to withdraw his little bit. Is there one law for
the magnate at £lOOO and another for the clerk at £lOO
in the Public Service?
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion V If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may he discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURP YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
Which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
™ee, in Great Britain, 1/ljd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 1 3, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents *. ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
g.een label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE’S
'JtSfeJ!
Oaution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for GOUGHS, GOLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr.J.COLLIS BROWN 6.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to' take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
gdf
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
KELTS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
A
HOTELKEEPERS!
MAKE YOUR OWN
>ERATEDWATERS.
“AUSTRAL” AERATED WATER MACHINE occu-
pies only Four Feet Square, will produce 150 Dozen per day of
Finest Waters (LEMONADE, GINGER ALE, SODAWATER, &c.)
at a Cost below Fourpence per Dozen. This machine
supersedes all others for SIMPLICITY and USEFULNESS, as it
requires no skilled labor to work it.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
214-216 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
gdf
PLAIN NOM€ TALK
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1200 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1901 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,’
posted to any address for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy : Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic, Is 6d, post free
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted!
Lovers Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle's Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How TO Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d. ’
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
Balzac’s Droll Stories, Is 3d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather hound, mv price, 15s post paid’
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d pasted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Pa, Ma and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Metal Working, Brazing, etc., Is 3d.
Send for my Illustrated Big: Book
Catalogue - post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 18 Park-st., Sydney.
Dr - Olark3on.’a Electric "Belt.
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
■ Dr - Clarkson’s Re-luvigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-IN VIGORATOR
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is tmlv wonderful
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC urgans ts truly wonderful.
Price-ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
CAIXOSWEITE- O WL as dktjg store,
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY. 9
y.
Now
Ready.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMON WEALTH
Price 6d Posted Bd.
s
I^=
if;
ses
•DV#
NATURES TRUE REMEDIES.
Nature has provided a TRUE REMEDY for Every
Complaint. It is, therefore, unnecessary to contaminate the
System with Mineral Poisons, which leave the System Weak
and Debilitated. Sufferers frc m Blood and Skin Diseases,
Nervous Affections, Piles, Rheumatism, and Affection of
the Liver and Kidneys, Chest and Lungs, Consumption,
Geneial Debility, Costiveness, Influenza, Melancholia,
can rely on a Cure from these Remedies.
ALFALINE
REMEDIES
Are a guaranteed
Cure for the
above Complaints.
They have Cured
Thousands, and
stood a Test in
Australia for over
20 years. They
have never been
known to fail in
a single case, and
they are purely
NATURE’S
REMEDIES.
1 -Foa—^
KttMSMgMU'S
huiuoti)
IIMU«4
WlllflLßEWße
ALFALINE
HERBAL
REMEDIES
Have been Awar-
ded several Gold
Medals, and
More Testimon-
ials than any
known remedy in
Australia.
A Special
Guaranteed Rem-
edy for each
Complaint.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S CHIEF LABORATORY.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Are a Guaranteed Cure for All Nervous Affections, Weak Spine, Brain and Nerves, Pool
Memory, Tired Feeling, and General Debility. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Course, 211/6.
ALFALiHE BLOOD PILLS
Are a PERMANENT CURE for the Most Chronic Blood Diseases, Skin Diseases, Blotches,
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, etc. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
Purify the Blood and Build up the Weakest Nervous System. A Guaranteed Cure for
•ASnemia, Waiting Diseases in Females. A General Blood and Nerve Tonic
for both sexes. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS
Are Guaranteed to Cure Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn,
Biliousness, and the Liver and Kidneys. BOXES, ONE SHILLING. Posted, 1/6.
Alfallne Rheumatic Pills -Guaranteed to
cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lum-
bago. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 12s. and
235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage—
This Suspender imparts Strength and Vigor,
at the same time as it supports the parts.
Price 215., posted.
Aifaline Asthma and Cough Pills—A
Wonderful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Con-
sumption, Bronchitis and Influenza, Boxes,
posted, 35., 65., 12s. and 235. 6d.
Electric Belts —Containing powerful and
effectual Electric currents unequalled as a
cure for all Spinal and Kidney Affections ;
425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Sufferers can only obtain the Alfaline Herbal Remedies from
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office or Branches, the addresses of
which appear below. Letters should be addressed and Cheques
and Money Orders made payable to Herr Rassmussen’s full
name— Hans Peter Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head
Office or Branches. Register all letters containing money.
All Remedies sent unobserved, packed in plain cover.
Correspondence held confidential.
ALFALINE
PILE POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/•
ALFALINE
FAT-REDUCING
POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
HAIR-RESTORER,
Boxes, 3 - and 6/-
CORN CURE, 1/-.
OINTMENT, 1/-.
y
r ~-H.
M RASSMUSSE
HERMLAIFALImPIIIS
HfMMSSMUSSEN
1 USEFUL BOOK
SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmussen’s
valuable book, The
Alfaline Guide to
Health, which con-
tains valuable in-
formation for all
Complaints, and
copies of Testi-
monials, will be sent
free in plain cover,
on application.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD OFFICE,
(HANS PETER RASSMUSSEN)
547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Alfaline Remedies can only be obtained from his Head Office and hli
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES :
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke-st.
BRISBANE —309 Queen-st.
ADELAIDE —15 Pulteney-si.
N.Z9I Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A.—PERTH, 481 Hay-st.
KALGOORLIE—Hannan-st.
BOULDER CITY-Piesse-st.
FREMANTLE—Henry-st.
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of the ALE ALINE REMEDIES,


Drink
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER ....
REUTER’S
LITTLE
PILLS FOR
THE LIVER.
Are particularly adapted to the needs
of the family, act in such a manner as to
cause noinconvenience,specially intended
for the cure of all ailments arising from a
disordered LIVER and STOMACH.
Mr. Arthur Smyth continues to crack up Aus-
tralasian amateur records on his Massey-Harris racer.
Last w6ek-end he did 10 miles (paced, standing start) in
20min. 34sec. This is lmin. 29 4-5 sec. under previous
best time.*
\I7
The Rage
It does not depend on the start, but on the finish.
It’s staying power which carries many a runner to
victory. It’s like that in business. Many a man
starts off in the race for business success with a
burst of speed which seems to assure victory.
Presently he begins to falter, and at last he falls
and fails. The cause ? Generally “ Stomach
Trouble.” No man is stronger than his stomach.
Business haste leads to careless and irregular
eating. The stomach and other organs of diges-
tion and nutrition become diseased ; the body is
not fully nourished, and so grows weak. Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills cure diseases of the
stomach and other organs of digestion and nutri-
tion. They strengthen the stomach, and so
strengthen the whole body, which depends on the
stomach for the nourishment from which strength
is made ; they cleanse the clogged liver, and
so strengthen the kidneys. There is no medicine
“just as good” for diseases of the stomach and
allied organs. “I have been a great sufferer for
some time from indigestion and biliousness, for
which I tried many remedies, but received no
benefit from any of them until I used your Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills,” writes Mr. S. Cole,
Woodend, Victoria. “ I commenced their use by
taking them according to directions, and after
taking three doses, found they had made a great
difference in my health. I continued their use,
and used a few bottles, and can honestly say they
have cured me of indigestion and biliousness.
Since using these pills, I have recommended them
—and even given them —to many, and the results
have always been good. You have my permission
to use this letter for the benefit of others.” Dr
Morse’s|lndian Root Pills are a perfect blood puri-
fier, and a positive cure for biliousness, indigestion,
constipation, headaches, sallow complexion,
liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils,
blotches, and female ailments. Sold by chemists
and storekeepers, Is l|d per bottle, or six bottles
6s. 6d. Sole proprietors, The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd. (Australasian Depot), 58 Pitt-street,
Sydney. Packed in amber bottles, and the full
name blown thereon.*
“ APENTA”
Natural Aperient Water is the Best Eliminant.
“An ideal purgative ” —The Practitioner.
THE SAFEST AND MOST RELIABLE
HOUSEHOLD APERIENT.
GIVES IMMEDIATE RELIEF.
“Piles and Their Cure.”—The pamphlet
by Albert Sharp, entitled “ Piles and the Way tu
Cure Them,” without operation, sent free, on
application to the Sydney Depot, 257 George-
street.*
gf
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
dg
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
Red
Bird
Bicycles
Latest Model
59
Is far ahead of any
Cycle on the Market.
Terms and a
LIBERAL
GUARANTEE
from us.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The Melbourne Oup race was a disappointment
for the g.p., notwithstanding- the tact that the first and
second favorites fought out the finish, and the great
monte ’ did actually do the trick. Wakeful’s hundreds
of backers had expected that the mare would give them
some excitement for their money. Also the hundreds
who followed Hymettus felt confident that the big chest-
nut would be seen battling for the lead half-a-mile from
home. Opinions differed as to which of the two would
wear the other down, but the partisans of both held tight
to the idea that the history of their Caulfield Cup struggle
would, in some measure, repeat itself. The result falsified
all predictions re those old antagonists. Neither of them
ever looked like getting away with the two miles’ race.
Wakeful, although she led in the first furlong, was content
to let something else (Rockleigh) make the pace as they
swept past the grand-stand, and for the rest of the journey
she ran third, fourth, or fifth. Hymettus, alwaj T s behind
the mare, was beaten at 1} miles, what time Flagship was
sailing away in front—a reversal of the Caulfield order of
things.
And the victory of Revenue was a quite ortho-
dox achievement, after all. There was no taking the lead
a mile from home and winning by “ half a furlong.”
Revenue’s friends and enemies confined themselves to two
rival predictions—the dark horse was either going to
romp away from the field, or prove an utter fraud. In
the end, he neither romped nor failed. He ran like an
ordinary “ good thing,” which gets ordinary good luck.
Had he started at an ordinary short price for a fancied
Oup horse—say 6to I—his win would have seemed fairly
“ solid,” but, under the circumstances, it looked to be
drawn rather fine.
Revenue was the best animal in the race at the
weights, but the advantage that the handicappergave him
was probably of less consequence to the big, steady-going
gelding than it would have been in the case of his stable
companion, Wakeful. One would pick Revenue for a
weight-carrier rather than a flyer.
By the way, Flagship’s forward running in
Melbourne Oup for miles was a contrast to his tame
performance in Hotham handicap three days previously.
The 4-year-old (a 5 to 2 chance) held fourth place from
end to end of the Hotham gallop, and looked very
distressed when he came back to the birdcage. But in
the Oup he was leading the field at a mile and a half.
The lengthening of the price against Hymettus
for Melb. Oup meant that the Caulfield winner had been
beaten three lengths by George Frederick in a trial over
the Oup distance. Also, the big chestnut showed by his
running fourth to Wakeful in Melb. Stakes, that he had,
perhaps, lost a little of his dash, or was not so well dis-
posed to struggle at Flemington as at Caulfield, where
all his best performances have been scored. In 22 years
only one Oaulfield Cup winner (Grace Darling) has gone
very near to capturing the “ double.” Hymettus is not
a better stayer than was Paris, who won two
Caulfield Cups and a Metrop. (after the Metrop. dis-
tance had been reduced to 12fur.), but could never
go two miles. As a four-year-old, Paris was given
a chance to win Melb. Cup with 8.2, but he finished
nowhere. Next year, after he had won his first Caulfield
Cup carrying 8.8, he failed to get placed in the Sydney
Oup with 9st. up. What Paris was Hymettus is—a
speedy horse with just enough stamina to support him
through a long final sprint up to the 12fur. limit. Had
he been asked to make pace for Wakeful in the Caulfield
Cup the mare would doubtless have finished ahead of
him.
Both of the Melbourne dailies on Melb. Cup
morning referred to Wakeful as a possible non-starter, but
neither touched upon the fact that an eleventh hour
scratching of Wakeful would have been an outrage. It
goes without saying that Wakeful was always a certain
starter. The stable’s preference for Revenue didn’t alter
the conditions of the race. Melbourne Cup is worth
£lOOO and £5OO to the owners of the second and third
horses ; and the stable, apart from the question of bets
about Wakeful’s winning the race outright, could have no
reason for sacrificing the chance to pick up £lOOO or £5OO.
Therefore the “ ifs ” and “ buts ” of the Melb. dailies were
simple darned foolishness, or were intended to put the
general punting public “ off ” Wakeful, in the interests of
Ikey Mo, who wanted to save the mare for himself as much
as possible whilst laying shortened prices against all the
others.
Melb. Argus, whose horse-reporters seem to
write everything that the most influential horse-owners
could desire of them, was particularly trucklesome in the
matter of the 3-mile Hurdle race on Cup-day. Said the
Argus : “ The winner (Arcadia) is owned by Mr. S. Miller,
chairman of the Y.R.0., who bought him recently for
£3OO ; but he thought so little of his chance on this occa-
sion that he didn’t even go near the ring to inquire his
price. It is not often that- a horse wins a hurdle race
after jumping steeplechase fences, but Arcadia is
evidently the exception which proves the rule." Now, as
a matter of fact, Mr. S. Miller’s horse was so favorably
handicapped for the Hurdle race that he couldn’t have been
blind to its chance, and if he didn’t inquire the price there
was no reason why somebody else shouldn’t make an
investment for him. Arcadia was a hurdle-racer before
he became a brilliant steeplechaser. He beat a big field
of hurdlers as recently as June 22, and was then handi-
capped at lOst. On July 6th he was second favorite for
V.R.O. G.N. Hurdle race, in which he carried 9.9. Sub-
sequently he won the G.N. Steeple, at Oaulfield, and
again on Guineas day he won the Steeple with 12.7 up.
On these good performances he was somewhat “thrown
into” the hurdle race aforesaid with only lOst. 71b.
Arcadia is a far better horse than the Argus line of com-
ment would lead one to suppose.
• • * •
The Wallace filly Beanba secured V.R.C. Oaks
(ljm.) with great ease, in record-time of 2.37}. Best pre-
vious performance was Haulette’s (2}sec. more), last year.
Veteran Stakes, run immediately after over same distance
as Oaks, occupied £min. longer than Beanba’s time. Both
Beanba and Haulette were prepared by the same trainer
—Earnshaw.
* • * •
The Oaks was but fseo. slower than the Derby
gallop—which is to say that, barring this year’s Derby
time, Beanba smashed the record for the mile-and-a-half
by a three-year-old at w.f.a. As the bard observes—
“ Time’s not ‘ form ’ in itself, you see ;
And don’t you be forgetting it.
Always bet your money on the best gee-gee,
But don’t take Time for betting it."
When Sequence was seen to go clean away from Wakeful
in the Flying Stakes last Thursday, a man situated at the
back of the members’-stand set up a vociferous chuckling
and crovving—“ Ho !ho ! nice chance they’ve got now ! A
nice chance—against Sequence. Hee 1 hee 1 Ho ! ho ! ” &c.
The “ they” whom this offensive rooster was crowing at
were presumably Wakeful’s backers, who laid 2 to 1 on
the winner of the Melbourne Stakes and Caulfield Stakes
because she had left Sequence all behind in those events.
But if the little mare had not been out of sorts, the crow
of the Sequence party would have been a sad moan as
before. Sequence is very fast, but he doesn’t fly off the
mark or seem equal to making his invincible run if
another fast one has got away with a big break. In the
so-called Flying Stakes the Epsom handicap phenomenon
had “ nothing,” bar Wakeful, to beat, and she didn’t put
his courage to the test. Old Paul Pry, who appeared
broken down on a hind leg, finished third.
Australian Colors and Grasspan were about
the moat conspicuous disappointments of Caulfield-
rlemington Carnival season. Mr. Raby's colt certainly
scored second place for the Derby, and was unlucky, per-
haps, in missing the blue ribbon, but, with that one
exception, he ran like a very over-rated colt. Re the
Derby joetle, there were some who declare that Rock Gun
must have got a place under fair conditions. Any way, his
backers for the classic race acted up to their opinion by
taking 3 and 4 to 1 that the colt would down Sequence
m the O. B. Fisher Plate. Thanks to Corsican making
a merry pace, the downing of Sequence duly happened,
xtock Gun collared the brilliant non-stajer in the
straight, bumped him, and beat him home by two
ooea 8 m khe exceptionally fast time (for Flemington) of
Z.dbjSec. One of the best races of the meeting was this
struggle between the “ Gun ” and Sequence, after Corsican
had spun himself out. As a sporting spectacle, it was
worth 10 of the minor handicaps, in which half of the
blocked, and the result would almost invariably
be different if they had to run the jostle again.
* * ¥ *
Sydney-owned nag Khaki, in winning V.R.C.
Handicap, Saturday, set up a new Australasian best (3m.
zsec.) for if miles. Previous record (3m. 3sec.) was shared
in Dy Gorreze, Donation, and Surge. World’s figures for
the same journey are 2.58 J, credited to Ethelbert, and
accomplished at Morris Park, New York. Apropos, said
that Khaki s owner (a Sydney florist) netted £4OOO over
nis nag s third in Melbourne Cup, by backing him freely
for a place, and being lucky enough to get a “ cut ” of
three different sweeps.
* * * *
Khaki’s victory in V.R.C. Handicap, last
Saturday, was very satisfactory to followers of “form,”
insofar that it confirmed the Tuesday’s result. Khaki,
a consistently respectable performer over long distances,
"eaten George Frederick, Australian Colors, and
h lagship in the big event. The odd thing was that the
public allowed the third horse for the Cup to start at 7
labout“ Colors* ” 6 raCO What time they Were takin S 3to
* • * •
Flagship’s third in Caulfield Cup, third in
Carnival Handicap, and second in V.R.C. Handicap, made
him look a cert.” (on paper) for Williamstown Cup on
Monday, and the gobd thing duly came off comfortably,
,' h e disgust of Mo., whose satchels were con-
siderably lightened thereby, and who also experienced a
sorry period of it at Rosehill (Sydney) same day.
* * * »
The Haut Brion colt and dual Derby winner,
Hautvillers, has been well sold for 3000 guineas. Sale was
contingent upon his passing the vet., which he did, and
the result of a test gallop which proved satisfactory ;
half-a-mile was covered in 61sec. Hautvillers goes to
Buenos Ayres.
• • •
The luck of it. Reliably whispered San Fran
may not race again. . Said that one of his legs has filled 1
i twm 06 a . l° ss to present owner, who un-'
loaded £2500 for his nag a month or so ago, and piled the
com on him in recent Melbourne Cup. And San Fran
being easily the best horse in these parts now, the Aus-
tralian turf will suffer too.
• * * »
Australasian mile and a-half record (2.35), re-
ferred to so much since Hymettus’ recent Caulfield Cup
feat, was first set up by the late W. Kelso’s Survivor, in
97, and equalled by Fairy Prince, in ’99, and San Fran,
Sept, last—all at Rand wick. ’Murkan best for the
distance is Goodrich’s 2.30}, in ’9B, and the ’Ome speediest
Landrail’s 2.34, accomplished in Sept., ’99.
• * • •
It often happens that a man who knows nothing,
and cares less, about the ins and outs of horse-racing is
apt to find winners at Flemington by the simple plan of
following his racial fancies. John Brunton, the scenic
artist, went to the Derby as a matter of custom, and,
being a verra leal Scot, he was tempted to put a sovereign
on the tartan jacket of Ohio’s jockey in the Hotham
Handicap. The odds of 10 to 1 against the old gelding
having been duly landed, Brunton’s national spirit
prompted him to risk £1 on Caledonia for the Coburg
Stakes, and he went home a winner of £l7 on his braw
Scottish luck.
• * • »
St. Albans’ nag, Pigeontoe, cast and died in his
box recently, put up some marvellous gallops prior to
Malvoho’s Cup, and started a four to one favorite for the
glided mug himself, after winning Hotham Handicap at
the same assembly.
Queensland form of Boreas II is widely different
from that shown in Sydney. He got away with Q.T.C.
King’s Cup on Saturday last—humping the top stao-gerer
of 9.9, and covering l}m. in 2.38 J. Inference is that he
is a much better prad at home than away, or that the
quality of the other Bananalanders is inferior. Fashion
in Sydney has been to discount performances of Queens-
land nags in Queensland, for they have never run up to
that form in the Cornstalk capital. Ohio was a big
offender this way, yet his doings at recent V.R.C. meeting
showed that he is on a level with the best.
* * • •
Air Motor (winner of Rosehill Maiden Stakes,
Saturday) started favorite and snapped the money from
the fire —through Childers, after getting a big break, stop-
ping palpably towards the end. Air Motor (bred by Mr.
H. L. Mackellar) looks and promises well. She is a three-
year-old, by the Merton stallion, Ayr Laddie (imp.), from
the Goldsbrough mare, Windmill, who went to M.L in
foal to Gossoon.
* * • *
Best-bred thing seen out for some time (Ceres
by Wallace—Harvest Home) came from Newcastle to
Rosehill on Saturday. With Yankee jock. Ames up and
backed heavily in Nursery Stakes, she gave nothing else a
hope from end to end. Owner (Mr. Brown) bred the filly
whose dam was imported, and is by Harvester by Unca’
by Uncas. Distance, 4}fur., time 56sec. ’
* * * *
The Bulletin wouldn’t very much mind wager-
ing a little that Tattersall’s sweeps won’t be interfered
with after all !
* * * *
“ Maclaren’s team,” writes an Adelaide corres-
pondent to The Bulletin, “ looks, at first sight, a likely
lot. A preponderance of clean-shaven men—M’Gahey
Braund, Jones, Garnett, Jessop, Gunn, Blythe—adds to
the youthful appearance of the crowd. With a few excep-
tions, the visitors are undersized—Jessop, Quaife Tyldes-
ley, and Gunn being all midgets. The giant of the team
is Barnes, who stands over 6ft., and is heavily built—a
kind of improved Bill Howell.
“Maclaren, despite the fact that his team left
amid a chorus of English disapproval, is sanguine and
many of his team are even confident. ‘We have an all-
round team,’ he says, 1 but we are admittedly weak in
bowling. England has been weak in bowling ‘for years
The only bowler who should have come is Rhodes ’
Maclaren evidently remembers Hirst’s failure. At prac-
tice on Adelaide Oval, Barnes stands out above his con-
freres. He has a good length, and worked an off-break
on a billiard-table wicket. He is between medium and
fast. Braund, a leg-break man, gets some work on, and
Blythe shapes excellently ; but Clem Hill, Trumper
Noble and co. are bound to trounce what looks like
mediocre stuff.
“ The batting will have to be the Britishers’
mainstay. Jessop, who believes the fast wickets will suit
him, is a nuggetty-built little man, with a powerfully-
developed forearm, and gets his strength in hitting from
the elbow. His stand at the crease is the ugliest writer
has seen, and his crouch reduces his height to about 4ft.
But he gets great power, all the same.
“Apparently, M‘Laren has brought a good
fielding team. Jones and Jessop have done fine work at
practice. The latter is the best cover-point in England.
Garnett, who is only 20, is a left-handed bat, who seems
to be Jessop’s understudy as a hitter. Tyldesley, Quaife,
Gunn, and Hayward are the stonewallers. Summed-up,
M'Laren’s team must make heavy scores against Aus-
tralia in order to win.
» « * *
The cantankerous N.S.W. Cricket Association
now has a dispute with Maclaren on the subject of
umpires. The Association wants to appoint both ; Mac.
demands to choose one for his team. Some vague “ prin-
ciple ” is at stake, and at ’Ome the visiting Australian
teams never can select an umpire. It certainly appears
more graceful and sportsmanlike to allow each side to
appoint one man, and as S. A. has given way on the point
the other States might follow suit.
* * * »
At moment of writing, England v. S.A. match
looks good for the latter, bar some of those possible
peculiar happenings so frequently evident at cricket.
Home team made 230 first and 207 next. Visi-
tors started badly, and had a disastrous time of it
right through the innings, notching only 118. Apparent
crumbling appearance of the wicket scared them a heap.
Veteran Giffen—rated very much of a has-been by self-
constituted judges—did great things, getting 7 for 46.
Wicket-fright of batting side helped him a deal, for they
played back at well-placed balls which called for forward
work. Doings of the S.A. men demonstrated that there
wasn’t much wrong with the pitch, as they hit freely all
round. One looked for the Englishman’s talked-of mar-
vellous fielding in vain. Beyond picking up the balls and
returning smartfy, there was nothing to rave about in it.
* * * *
Clem. Hill’s innings for S.A. against the Eng-
lishmen, at Adelaide on Saturday, was exceptionally
brilliant. Throughout over three hours batting hie
never gave the semblance of a chance, and notched
107 with great freedom, sending ten to the boun-
dary. English team’s trundling—all things weighed—
was high-class, but they grievously lacked a swift bowler.
Brunt of the work was borne by Gunn, Braund, Blythe,
and Barnes. Last-named (the “ fast ” bowler of the side)
shows little better than medium pace. Clem. Hill’s cen-
tury in this match is the fourth compiled by him for the
wheat State against an English Eleven. Previous figures
were 150, 200, and 124. In S.A. second innings he scored
80.
* • * •
“Adelaide”: First impressions of Maclaren’s
team show that they “ run in all shapes.” Garnett is
built very much on the lines of Clem. Hill. M’Gahey
(already known in Australia by a private visit) is tall and
slim ; might be a good-looking actor. The great Jessop,
small but nuggety ; particularly gentle in his manners.
Robson, a jolly, brown-faced typical Englishman, of 40 or
thereabouts. A. O. Jones, a younger and handsomer
Bilmartin—tremendous Roman nose, and same deter-
mined expression. The captain himself is voted much
improved by responsibility ; his speeches have shown him
anxious to convince that he has a strong and representa-
tiveteam. At the nets most of them have shown themselves
bats of the dashing order, Jones especially. Tom Hayward
is unaltered. Quaife and Tyldesley are very small men, and
so is Gunn, who has a remarkable crooked run (just like
Hirst’s) in bowling. Barnes is no colt, but a big, burly
man, who sends them down at a great pace. Blythe is a
delicate-looking boy ; the others think his left-hand stuff
with a spin just suited to these wickets. The rest of the
bowling (Jessop and Hayward, for various reasons, don’t
do much now) is mostly leg-breaks. Braund makes his
do the most astonishing things, and is likely to be unex-
pectedly dangerous. He is a humorous person, and much
resembles Horace Hodges, in Wilson Barrett’s co. Lilley
is a well-built fellow, of no particular style (till he gets
the gloves on). Nine of the team took part in a ping-
pong tournament the evening before the S.A. match
began.
* * * *
Fourth round of Sydney first-grade crioket com-
petitions ended Saturday. Paddington squelched North
Sydney by eight wickets. Losers declared their second
innings closed with three for 137. Paddington played up
in fine style, and notched the 121 necessary to win with
the loss of two wickets only. Leichhardt-Balmain
accounted for Redfern by a margin of 89. Waverley,
against Central Cumberland, stopped at five for 459, and
latter accumulated 393. Expiration of time prevented
Burwood from beating Glebe. A draw resulted. Sydney
and Cricket Ground team saw former credited with 571
for seven wickets.
* • * *
Scraps from Saturday’s Sydney first - grade
cricket. Hopkins got 76 (not out) of North Sydney’s 137
against Paddington, and Victor Trumper 64 of latter’s
121. Pye and Wilson made a big stand for Central
Cumberland, opposed to Waverley. Former scored 178,
and his mate 140. Nothing but a pronounced tail pre-
vented the fruitgrowing centre’s reps, from winning. The
other nine and “ Mr.” sundries only aggregated 75. This
was Pye’s second century in first-grade cricket present
year. Previous one (154) was hit up against Glebe.
Wilson’s feat was a surprise. It’s long since he did so
well. Sydney’s 571 (seven- wickets down) against the
Cricket Ground side included 220 (not out) from Pite.
Lowest contribution to the total was 18. So far, Leich-
hardt-Balmain and Paddington have come out best in all
their matches.
• • * *
Match between East Maitland and Albion clubs,
at Maitland (N.S.W.), Saturday, produced a new Aus-
tralian record for first wicket down. Lindsay and Onus
knocked up 444 before Onus’ stumps were scattered for
192. Day’s play ended with one for 469. Lindsay accu-
mulated 242 (not out). Previous Australian best was 318,
but the world’s record stands at 605, scored by Trevor
and Vernon for Orleans against Rickling Green, in Eng-
land 19 years back. First-class cricket best is 554, made
by Tunnicliffe and Brown (Yorkshire against Derbyshire)
in ’9B.
* * * *
One-time Sydney newsboy, Cocker Tweedie,
(10st.), late of The Rocks, and Broken Hill 11.4 man, Jack
Dunne, thumped and sprawled over each other, Saturday
night, for the middle-weight supremacy of the wheat
State. Tweedie, certain of victory, despite tissue dis-
parity, made the pace from “time” and got all over
Dunne without doing him much harm. In the fourth
set Dunne dropped Tweedie with a flukey one on the point,
and when he staggered into an un-upright position on his
unsteady hind legs another on the same spot sent him to
sleep. Pugilism has been dead in S.A. for years, but if
pugs would only go straight (which they can’t), they could
work up a boom in the Holy City.
• * » *
Ex-novice pug. Peter Toohey brought bantam
champ. Bert Weekes down with a crash at Sydney
Golden Gate A. 0., Saturday night. Bert, over-confident,
lacked preparation. Weekes punched cleverly and often,
but Toohey only shook himself like a bull-pup, and came
along for more, till an opening gave his sinister mauley a
chance ; then home it went, and lean, lank, boyish peic
went staggering. Weekes operated briskly, using right
and left, but most blows were ineffective. Toohey' omy
brought one hand into action (the other might have been
left at home for all he did with it), though always
to some purpose. He clinched and clung occasionally',
when things didn’t look too inviting, and thus avoided
one or two dangerous-looking swipes, but it is question-
able if they carried enough power to affect Tooheys
blow-proof hide. It was one on the mark in the seventh
round that spread-eagled Weekes beyond hope. A man
who “ knew something” could have picked up shekels
backing Toohey', against whom odds of 3 to 1 were plen-
tiful. Weekes should not fight ; he is a capable boxer,
and that’s all. Take away legs and wings and there s
nothing left; besides which he isn’t wicked enough for
the willing game.
* * • *
M.C.C.’s bowling tourney for Australian supre-
macy didn’t catch on so well this year as last, but play
was good throughout. Of 96 entrants, Saturday saw
eight still going—all Victorians. Sims, Wartman, Wax-
man, and Ellis went to the semi-final. Sims finished 7,
and Waxman 6, better than Wartman and Ellis respec-
tively. The final was exciting enough (as far as bowls
can be) for anything, and, during the time being, stopped
all biz. at the bar. The 18th “head” scores were “12
all.” Waxman only notched two more before Sims
reached the journey’s end—2l. Sims belongs to Mel-
bourne club and Waxman to Armadale. Wartman (Mel-
bourne) got third prize, and Ellis (St. Hilda) fourth.
* * * *
Premier swimmer, Fred. Lane, t’other day won
a 90 yards handicap in S.vdney', doing exactly the same
time (54 2-5) in his heat and the final. Six months spell
on Mark Fo.v’s station in the Parkes (N.S.W.) district has
done him a heap of good, and if he goes down this season
it won’t be through ill health or lack of wonted power.
• * • * ■ -»
Sydney sports intend that the Federal capital
shall have a racecourse and meetings to eclipse Flemington
and the Melbourne Cup.


Silver brusnware
Hall-Marked Silver Hair Brushes,
■from - - - -
Hall-Marked Silver Cloth Brushes,
from - - - -
Hall-Marked Silver Combs, from -
Hall-Marked Silver Military
Brushes, from -
17/6
8/6
5/6
15/-
The Modern flrt Jewellery (Jo.
dfg
187 PITT ST., SYDNEY
Next Shadier's Ca/4.
Case of 2 Hall-Marked Silver Military
Hair Brashes, Square or Round - - -
£l/17/6
SA.FB iLS A. CHURCH:
Run Easy; Keep Running Easy.
You can ride a Massey anywhere over
rough, smooth, or hilly roads. It
does not matter.
Every part of a Massey is interchange-
able. If you want to renew a part
just send a line to any of our depots.
df
gdf
Westralian Depots: Hay Street, Perth; Hannan Street, Kalgroorlle»
throughout N.S.W., Victoria, South Australia, Queensland, Tasmania and
HJ
// % \l\ ANY
ilTea
BUT
GLOBE TEA
flotharjtis
we
rje/cr
use
mHIS is the old-fashioned system of selling Tea.
It is practised a lot to-day, but the people who
patronise the Tea-Agent get very poor value for
their money.
GLOBE TEAS
are sold to you direct, and for your money you get
its value in Tea. You don’t get one shilling’s
worth of Tea and sixpence worth of Tea-Agent for
your eighteenpence. Be wise, and send your order
direct to us.
ATCHERLEY & DAWSON
Tea Merchants,
284 George St., Sydney.
Melton Mowbray Pork Pies
These Pies are a rare delicacy,
made -from the original English
Recipe, by our specially skilled
Employees, -from the
VERY CHOICEST MATERIALS.
for Camp use,
Picnics, etc.
(Registered)
Sold in 6d. and la. sizes at all
OUR CITY DEPOTS:
92 KING STREET,
23 ROYAL ARCADE,
135 KING STREET.
The N.S,W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO. Ltd., Sydney
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
5 of this issue *
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drhes away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Sydney is just now suffering from a high-
way-robbery boom. A couple of weeks ago, a
" u %gy loaded with many golden sovereigns was
stuck-up near Clyde, but the occupants had pluck
(and a ‘ gun”), and the highwayman was baffled.
This week a couple in a sulky were held up,
pounded into insensibility, and robbed of about
£4O within the very boundaries of the city.
The gang (there is probably only one gang)
seems to operate with singular coolness and
forethought. Success at Clyde would have
meant a bag of many hundreds of pounds,
and the people held up last Saturday night
would have panned out a good return on that
night only. Given a certain amount of audacity
and the city highwayman seems to carry on his
operations with a reasonable degree of safety : so
far there have been several crimes of this sort, but
no criminals have been caught.
Knowledge in five minutes. Book,
“Business, Memory and Figures.” Sydney
Daily Telegraph says: “It is crowded with
curious short cuts of calculation, valuable
memory aids, hundreds of wise saws and modern
instances, which, if followed out, should lead on
to fortune.” Is. postal-note ; J. C. Cox, Darling-
st., Balmain, Sydney.*
The Fair Rent Bill and the State Fire
Insurance Bill have both been dropped by the
M.L. Government. The Seddon Ministry in its
old age developes a capacity for dropping things
which is only equalled by the untidy woman with
all the little parcels who gets into the tram just
after it has started. And its economical prin-
ciples, its self-reliant policy, and its objection to
floating big loans are among the things that the
Dropping Ministry has dropped.
I.YOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“El’is’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Pose
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
Fx. & R. WATCHES
At the OLD PRICES
(Except one style of Steel Cases, which we have
sold right out of).
No Watch that has ever been made can com-
pare with them for Lowness of Price,
Reliability and Accuracy.
The movements are on the Lever principle.
They have brequet over-coil balance springs.
They have compensation and adjusted balances,
w They have ruby roller jewels.
They are dust-proof and water-tight.
The cases screw together or close in the ordinary way.
They are specially made to stand rough-riding and knocking about,
and go with profound accuracy.
They are made in every style of case.
They are guaranteed for 15 years and kept in order, without
charge for two years (breakages excepted).
Sy
G
Gent.’s Open-face Oxidised Steel Oase,
7 Jewels, 25/6
Gent.’s Open-face Sterling Silver Case.
7 Jewels, 30/-
Gent.'s Open - face Solid Silver Oase,
12 Jewels, 42/-
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
Vice-Regal Jewellers,
23 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY.
Fioe Freocb Calf,
21/-
Post)
PaidJ
22/-
/
-
.
V '
THIS
BOOT IS
PHOTOGRAPHED
FROM
STOCK.
Our Boots can be
EXCHANGED if not
correct, as we wish
DISTANT customers
to be as pleased as
those in town.
Your money RETURNED if you
are not satisfied with the
Boots.
This boot pleases boot-weaTers, because it is made over the finest-looking and nicest
fitting lasts, from high-class popular leathers.
It contains every bit of value that it seems possible to put into a 21/- boot.
Why not mail
your order
to-day ?
CallagbaQ & Soq,
395 George St.,
SYDNEY
tfX
DAK
OCKET
Kodak
Photography is readily mastered by
anyone in a few minutes.
No Dark Room is needed for changing the
Films of a KODAK, they are
LOADED & UNLOADED IN DAYLIGHT.
Kodaks all prices from ss. to £7 15s
To bo obtained of all photographic Dealers.
Send for Price List, and mention this
paper.
KODAK Ltd.,
The Block, 284 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Free Lessons daily at 3 pm., at above address.
M.L. cargoes to Australia have shrunk
tremendously since the new tariff. The Mokoia,
Wellington to Sydney, Nov. 9, carried only 30
tons; the trip’s expenses reaching £4OO, freight
and fares only £l5O. The Zealandia, from Auck-
land, Dec. 9, brings only 102 tons; former average,
560 tons. Of course, trade has not settled yet.
Wired that Gen. Hector Macdonald, dur-
ing his M.L. visit, confined his speeches wholly
to urging “ military organisation for the defence
of the colony.” In other words, Macdonald is a
recruiting-officer pure and simple. For who
doubts that, once “ the military organisation ” is
established, no time will be lost in perverting it
to the base uses of Imperialism—with the aid of
nobbled—ennobbled—politicians ?
By Special
gdf
Appointment.
G. H. SMITH and SON,
TROPICAL HELMET
with special air-space,
in white drill , Jcc. and
in all colors in felt.
10/6 and 12/6
Hat and Cap Manufacturers
and Importers,
302 Ceorge-st. Sydney
Sombrero Soft Felt Hats,
All Shades and Sizes.
Soft Felt Hombergs.
In all Sizes and Colors.
Straw Hats. Stetson Hats.
Polo Caps, Military and Naval
Caps, Livery Hats, Clerical Silk
Hats, Etc., Made to Order
Sydney Telegraph declares it a good
omen that Salisbury’s Guildhall speech was
“ comparatively barren. ” It is the worst possible
omen ; for when a politician has good news he
doesn’t lose a moment in telling it. Africa is
seething with hostility ; Britain is muttering dis-
content ; another increase of taxation is fore-
shadowed ; and Parliament is further pro-
rogued because Govt dares not meet it
at present. Meanwhile, fresh reinforcements
are being sent to Ketchener—nearly 1000
Guards last week, 1000 recruits this week ; and
the war is farther from an end than ever. Prac-
tically the whole Dutch population has been made
hostile ; and the British military will not be out of
S’Africa for many years to come. So much for
prostituting an Empire to Chamberlain and
Rhodes !
WW. GREENER’S New Book, “ Sharpshooting-for Sport
and War.” All Riflemen should read this Book.
Price 1/2 posted.
W W. Greener’s New Rifle, 310 bore, made expressly
for Cadet Corps, very accurate ; 10 shots in 2 inches at
100 yards at last Bisley Meeting-, price £3 3s.
Sporting Martinis to take 44 Winchester Cartridges
Adapted for Kang-aroo Shooting, &e.
Creener’s Lee Enfield Rifles. Govt. Viewed, Guaran-
teed First Quality.
These Rifles are in the ha,nds of many of the best rifle
shots in the States, and in every case are giving great
satisfaction. Twenty-one consecutive bull’s eyes made
™» ne “ f the f e at 700 yards ; 9S out of possible 105
at 400, 500 and 600 yards made by Mr. Jordan, Capt.
Warrnambool Rifle Club ; 104 out of possible 105 at 400
500 and 600 yards by Mr. George H. Tolley, of Stawell. ’
Greener Guns from 9 to 30 Guineas always in Stock.
Prices and Catalogues on Application.
Chias. W. Buckiand
Representing W. W. GREENER,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE


gfd
gf
ROBERTS’ HOTEL
George and Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAY.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY.
TERMS, The convenient
system of paying: for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
LETTERS and TELEGRAMS ADDRESSED to “ THE
MANAGER” will RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
dg
dg
nothing Succeeds [ike Appearance
UP-TO-DATE STYLE FOR UP-TO-DATE PEOPLE,
The Suit
To Order
42s
With
Extra Trousers
Holds the Commonwealth’s Record
..FOR..
STYLE, FIT & FINISH.
Send for Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms to our only address —
OPP. G.P.0., BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE.
Price 6s.
Post Free.
ON OUR SELECTION.
BY
“Steele Rudd.”
THE MICA LUBRICANT CO., SOUTH SHIELDS, ENG.
Lubricants and Packings for all purposes. Patent Mica Grease saves 90% in cost of lubrication, and keeps
bearings perfectly cool. Patent Mica Packings last twice as long as ordinary, and are 25% lighter. They do
not score the rods, but put a mica surface on them, similar in appearance to electro-plate.
tolegentfor Australasia : R. A. HERVEY. Dep6t, 171 Clarence-st., Sydney > N.S. IV
Evil Effects of
Some Soaps on
the Complexion.
PREMIER VINOLIA SOAP is not colored with
poisons, rendered transparent with Chemi-
cals, or semi-transparent with resin and
sugar, nor does it turn yellow in spots,
revealing putrid fats. It is not charged
with powerful penetrating perfumes that
gratify the sense of smell to the detriment
and injury of the skin. VINOLIA is purest,
safest and best. Laundry soaps should
never be used on the skin.
Five Kinds : Sold Everywhere.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
■J'Q DEITY COMU’STITIOKT.
WINES
The Beat Brands Only of
&
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDIEY.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks-Free.
PLAYS
Catalogue
Free . . .
French’s Acting Edition,
fd
Rare Books
French Novels
Books
for
the
Married
Kxtrn Special Catalogue of
Hooks Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
B OK and MAGIC ARCADE .
2 * Bourke Street, Melbourne
ELECTRIC
MINING
MACHINERY
OP EVERY DESCRIPTION.
KRUPP BALL MILLS
NOYES BROS.
31 O’Connell-st., SYDNEY;
17 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
DA.PT O
(X<a>]se lawarra), near SYDIXTEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
Off
FINE SILVER.
(
MAKERS OP
S. Co of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
ILLAWARKA’ 1
.. BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LRAD RJLLI JJ
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to P. S. Moxisa, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Led., DAPTO, N.B. W.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
sZs\
*
N 5
BILLS
discounted.
IW.S.A7V.
(Hont deplete I.o°-» D td *
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
*] JL CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
1 SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
'—THE—.
Colonial Mutual liife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Robhrts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,491,989.
Policies issued 85,372 —assuring £26,085,346.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,576,850.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eciuitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
file Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp& Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 000 ... £350,000
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. Y. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
Hem Zealand Insurance (Jo.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
Manager. 81 Pitt St., Sydney.
v>* Trustees, CxccGtorS,
AND
Agsocv Conjpaoy Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £BB5B 7 3
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1901 . . £6,388,976 5 3
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BOItROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manage!
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Royal Bank of Queensland
LIMITED. J
CAPITAL PAID-UP £385,187
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 245,119
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 55,000
£685,306
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Ass. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE : 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
Ocean
A cadent
and
Guarantee
Co. Xtd. of Londoyi.
| The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors—Sydney : Sir W. M‘Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks.
Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq. Wellington : H.
Bf.auchamp, Esq.
Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montefiore.
J. J. ALLEN. General Manager for Australasia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Established 1879.
THE
United Australian mutual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices:
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital .. £500,000
Subscribed Capital 251,260
Paid-up Capital 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance.
aGENTS REQUIRED WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
Alfred Webster, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £BOOO, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-Generai.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Shipping.
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
VVARRN A !\f BOOL
Tyrian, Saturday, Nov. 16,12 Noon.
-Gabo, Tuesday, November 19, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., Nov. 23, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Konoowarra, Tues., Nov. 26, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Konoowarra, Tues, Nov. 26, 5 p.ra.,
takes passengers and cargo for
transhipment to S.S. Buninyong,
leaving Sat. Nov. 30.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERO
Leura, Saturday, Nov. 16, 12 Noon.
Bunvah, Tuesday, Nov. 19, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Nov. 23,12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Saturday, Nov. 16,12 Noon.
Tyrian, Saturda3% Nov. 23, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT |
GERALDTON V
CAIRNS. &c. I
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
All the above have splendid accommodation, and wil
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the lied Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY
Huddart, Parker § C°s L i,e
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
-A.3XT 33
&
A.
LINE
via
San Francisco,
California.
SPLENDID NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS,
SIERRA
SONOMA
VENTURA
Over 6000 Tons each.
8000 H.P.
Length, 425 feet,
Passengers booked through to American, Canadian and
European centres at current rates.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO., ITT).
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts., SYDNEY.
THE “ALL RED” MAIL ROUTE
TO LONDON.
THE ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
OF THE
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LIME
Under contract with the Governments of New South
Wales, Queensland, and Canada, leave Sydney every
four weeks as under, for
BRISBANE, HONOLULU, VICTORIA and VANCOUVER.
Connecting at Vancouver with the
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
This is the laiperial Route Home, as well as the most at-
tractive. It avoids alike the heat of the Red Sea and the
cold of Cape Horn. The railroad journey between the
Pacific and Atlantic Oceans (Vancouver to Montreal)
occupies about 4 days, and is made
WITHOUT CHANGE OP CARRIAGES,
through the grandest scenery in the world —over the
Selkirk and Rocky Mountains, across the Prairies, and
along the North Shore of Lake Superior.
Passengers have the choice of a number of overland
routes, enabling them to visit the principal cities of
Canada and the United States.
For Railway Maps, Guide Books, and all other informa-
tion, apply to
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital ... .. £2,500,000
COLLINS’ PATENT PROSPECTING DISH
ď
Has the following' advantages over
the ordinary Tin Dish—
A Flange projects round one half and
and prevents the loss of any metal—
fine or coarse.
No experience is required to use it.
A boy can pan off as easily as the most
skilful miner.
Double the amount of work can be done
in a given time than with the old dish.
Sold by all Storekeepers and Iron-
mongers throughout Australia.
If you have any difficulty in procuring
the Collins’ Patent Dish in your own
district write to—
R. JOHNSON CLAPHAM
&. MORRIS, LTD.
78 Pitt-St., Sydney, and
231 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
Manufacturers under License from the
Patentee.
\
CURt
ms
-j> I do not ask you to Bpend
money to teat whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus*
Dance, etc. All I ask of you
is to SEND for a FREE
Bottle and to try it. I abide
by the result. A safe remedy—
approved by the Medical
Profession.
H. G. ROOT, 28,Endsleigh
Gardens, London, N.W.
TIME TA.BLB.
THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
nxr. id. l.
(NOED-DEUTSCHEE LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OB’
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGEES BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*Twin screw.
Leaving MELBOUENE Tuesday after Si dney.
EEGULAE SEE VICE to SINGAPOEE,
via BEISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BEITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, MAOASSAE and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. STETTIN, 2478 Tons,
LEAVING SYDNEY AT AN EAELY DATE.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBEE LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
Publications.
NOW EEADY at Turner & Henderson, SYDNEY.
Toilet & Troubles of the Skin & Hair
by Dr. ALFEED NEALE ; new edition, post Is Id.
TRICHOLOGY, a Study of the Hair, post 7d.
THE BALLET GIRL
fdfg
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, la.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
PoBt Free, la.
Send stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties.
Madame Panza, -
913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
FOREIGN STAMPS.
£4pjgagG§<
*
a
(~}HEAP SETS.—4O Japan, Is 6d ;
47 Spain, 2s ; 10 Bulgaria, (id ;
16 Heligoland, Is : 8 Egypt, 6d ; 30
French, 9d ; 12 Indian Telegraghs,
6d ; 9 Labuan Pictorial, 2s 6d; 11
Canada, 6d; 9 Canada Duty, 6d ; 5
Bolivia,4d. Packets 50, ls;100,2s 6d.
Stamps Purchased. New Catalogue
of Stamps, Albums, etc., Gratis
CHARLES DONNE, 346 Little Collins-st, Melbourne.
Melbourne
Jhe best House for
niusic.Pianos.Viotins and
all musical sundries
Collins -St..
D E AR Sm,_ l have been cured of Weakness and De
-T bihtybya simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. RORprt
E. PARKHURST s Pitt street, Sydney. KOB£RT
Sblpping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(til MIT HD).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Warrego, Friday,
November 15.
S.S. Allinga, Friday,
November 22.
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday,
November 23.
S.S. Rockton, Friday,
November 15.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Adelaide
(Captain D. P. Davies),
Saturday, November 16.
Jiest and Cheapest Ho ate to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and Howard Smith Co.,
Ld. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Qoy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
the Popular passenger line.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenr/er A cconmiodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns wi th the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and YV. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, In Bridge-
and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
D AND O. COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
_ on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
* Leaving two days earlier on account of Melbourne Races.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B 10s to £77
Ditto Ditto Return, £7llos to £l2l
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific, and
Messageries Maritimes Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAYVNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance-
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,.
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R- BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
“E. ANP A.” LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN,
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe -at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
|l]‘|l»raitb JTEaehani t ga.
PROP. LTD.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS
KALGOOBLIE, 4500 TONS,
COOLGABDIE, 3500 TONS,
SAIL FOItTNIGIITLY between
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
West Australian Ports.
Passenger Accommodation Unsurpassed. Liberal Cuisine.
M‘ILWRAITH, M‘EACHARN AND CO.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany and Fremantle
Sydney Agents—BUßNS, PHILP & CO. Ltd.
GENTS.^-
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
A POLICY FOR THE Nowßeady
Price <id. ;
Posted, Bd.
COMMONWEALTH*


A travelled American writes, on his return
to TJ.9.A. recently :
Keep your eye on Sydney I . . . We Americans pride
ourselves on having money to burn. The Austra-
lians make more on the average than we do, and their
living expenses are higher than ours. . . . You see
the signs of wealth on the streets. There are no
patched clothes, and no sun-bonnets. The average
working-man is better clad than his brother of the
U.S. Many of the women wear tailor-made gowns,
and the clerks all have creased pantaloons. . . . The
crowds in a Sydney street are like those of Chicago or
New York, save that the German, Swedish, and Italian
faces are absent. Here, the faces are all English, Irish,
and Scotch ; or, what is better, pure Australian. The
Australians are finer-looking than the people of Great
Britain. They are taller, straighter, and better formed.
Six feet is not an uncommon height for either men or
women. The latter are Amazons; and, owing to the
climate and their sedentary life, they are raw-boned and
ungainly (! 1 !).
As others see us I
Amusements.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Director .. .. Mr. H. HALLAM.
General Manager .. .. A. MIDDLETON.
FIFTH WEEK.
MISS JOSEPHINE STANTON
AND COMPANY.
WA.3STG. j£±.3XT G-.
EVERY EVENING, at 8. ,
MATINEE, EVERY SATURDAY, at 2.30.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. O. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
THE WILSON BARRETT SEASON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
man and his MAKERS.
Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. ;
Family Circle, 25.; Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
HEAT R E ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of Mr. Charles Holloway.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S
COTERIE of POPULAR PLAYERS in
PAN6EROUS WOMEN.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 16, EAST LYNNE.
Popular Prices—3s., 2s , Is.
Early Doors (6d. extra), Open 6.50. Ordinary Doors,
7.30. Commence 8. Plan at Elvy and Co.
|T MPpRE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
FULLER’S EM PIRE VAUDEVILLE COMPANY.
Every Evening, at 8. Saturday, 2.30.
A Colossal Programme. A Great Programme. First
Part. Humorous Finale. Dramatic Sketch, Vaudeville
and Farce. Immense Success of Our Stars,
Albert —McKISSON and KEARNS—Jaok
Miss IDA ROSSLYN, Miss GLADYS BOYD.
Last Nights of Mr. DENIS CARNEY.
Prices—2s., Is., 6d. Children Half-price, except 6d. seats.
Doors Open 2 and 7.15,
YCTeiTm THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. William Anderson.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION
in the New Sensational, Up-to-Date Melodrama,
THE “10.30” DOWN EXPRESS.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 16, THE LADDER OF LIFE.
PRICES —3s, 2s and ONE SHILLING. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
p r7OR TO HER DEPARTURE TO EURO pT.
ALICE HOLLANDER.
ALICE HOLLANDER.
(AUSTRALIA’S GREAT CONTRALTO.)
Town Hall, Saturday, Nov. 16.
Plan at Paling’s. 45., 25., Is. J. EDWARD SYKES.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor .. .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
THE CRAGGS, the 8 Most Marvellous Acrobats in the World.
WILL WHITBURN, Australia’s own Comedian.
PROFESSOR DE WYNNE.
JAMES BAIN.
NEVA CARR GLYNN.
CLAUD SULLIVAN.
ERNEST SULLIVAN.
JOHN COLEMAN.
IDA MAY.
JESSIE WILLIAMS.
HOWARD CHAMBERS.
DORA TAYLOR.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Saturdays & Wednesdays.
JJEBB J. KRETSCHIANN.
PUPILS' RECITAL,
TOWN HALL,
Wednesday , November 20th,
at 7.30 p.m.
INVITATION CARDS
may be Obtained by Written or Personal Application to
Herr J. KRETSOHMANN,
or
Messrs. W. H. PALING & 00.
Rickards 1 new opera house,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Mr. RICKARDS’ NEW TIVOLI SPECIALTY COMPANY.
Salvos of Applause Nightly Greet Our New Artists,
Albert—ATHAS and COLLINS—Lizzie
In a New Act Full of New and Novel Specialities.
Brilliant Reception and Success of One of the World’s
Greatest Specialties, by MADAME DANTE, in her
Original Illusionary Dance Creations.
AMERICAN BIOSCOPE, WILLIAMS SISTERS, and
the Whole of the Great Tivoli Company.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager. Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas.. Mr. E. J. Tait.
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, LAST NIGHT of
J 0. WILLIAMSON’S FAMOUS ROYAL COMIC
OPERA 00.
THE OLD GUARD.
SATURDAY, NOV. 16, Return to Melbourne of THE
GRAND ITALIAN OPERA CO., Opening in FAUST.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, ss; Stalls and Family
Circle, 2s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
FITZGERALD BROTHERS’
CIRCUS <Sc MENAGERIE.
MELBOURNE SEASON—I9OI.
ENTHUSIASTIC APPLAUSE 1
ENTHUSIASTIC AP USE 1
ST KILDA ROAD, ST. KILDA ROAD,
Tn a SDecial Building Erected under the Superintendence
in a spec of M * DAN FIT ZGERALD.
THE GREAT JUMPING HORSE,
NEWHAVEN,
Winner of the High Jumping Prize at Bendigo Show,
with the Record Jump of 6ft. 9in.
Will Jump Over 6ft. Every Evening in the Ring.
HAL GEORGE. \
FRANK JONES. /
gd
Amusements.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Lessee Mr. George Musgrove.
Under the Direction of .. .. Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative Mr. Allan Hamilton.
EVERY EVENING,
THE BROUGH COMEDY COMPANY
In THE SECOND IN COMMAND.
An Original Play in Four Acts by Robert Marshall.
PRICES : Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, ss. ; Stalls,
3s. ; Amphitheatre, Is. (Early Door Amphitheatre, Is.
extra.) Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzie’s, and The Grand.
HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING,
First Time in Australasia, a Play of a Thousand Great
Sceno-Dramatic Masterpieces,
HEARTS ARE TRUMPS.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Box
Plan at Allan’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
Business Announcements.
The FEDERAL
10
Balmoral
BOOT
df
Our -new " Federal"
Balmoral is the best Boot this season. It is made
of finest Dongola ca'f, with kid legs, is leather lined,
the soles are fair stitched and standard screwed.
The " Federal" Balmoral is made purposely for ns,
and yon can't get it elsewhere. In all the new fashion-
able shaped toes. Price carriage paid to any address
in the Australian Commonwealth or New Zealand is
half a guinea pair. Your money back if not satisfied.
The DON Cash Trading Co.
JOHNSTON ST.. COLLINQWOOO,
MELBOURNE
ESTABLISHED 56 TEARS.
A XLE GREASE, in lib. tins, 2s. per doz. ; Roofing
Felt, 75ft. x32in., 9s. per roll; 500 tons Bolts and
Nuts up to 30in. long ; Good quality Fuse, in cases of 500
coils, 4|d. per coil ; Black, galvanised Steam Pipe, up to
Bin. dia. ; Alum, in 2cwt. casks, Bs. per cwt. ; Soft Soap,
for wool-washing, 14s. per cwt. ; Wooden Split Pulley
Wheels, 20in. dia., ss. ea. ; Galvanised 3-Strand Wire, 4‘6
gauge, 10s. per cwt. ; Bullock Leading Drag, back chains,
2d. lb.; Black, Blue, Slate color Paint, 16s. cwt. ;
Mixed Paints, in tins, from 3d. lb. ; Marine Paint and
Priming, 20s. per cwt. ; Octagon Steel, lin. dia., £2O ton ;
Milk Dishes, 15s. doz. ; Blue Wire Dish-Covers, 15s. doz. ;
Light Cooking Ranges, 36in. dia., 355. ea. ; Copper
Boilers, 25 gallons, 355. ea.
Importers, Builders, Contractors, Engineers, Black-
smiths, Plumbers, Cabinet-Makers, arid general Iron-
mongery and Painters’ material.
ONE OF THE LARCEST STOCKS IN AUSTRALIA
Mill miTiSH t sins.
Wholesale and Retail Ironmongers!
307, 321, 276, 278 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S. W.
HOLD TOUR USE
WELL
IN
HAND
&8&
m
£ : v ;
m
ďg
CATARRH Causes DEAFNESS
Buy Ramey's ttleclicator and
prevent this. “A Sovereign
Remedy" for half-a-sovereign,
post free (remit by postal note or
coin securely wrapped and
registered). Treatment includes
Medicator, Inhalent to last tour
months, and Nasal Ointment.
20-page booklet, “What is
Catarrh? ” and treatment of hay
fever, etc., post free on request.
HOME CATARRH CURE CO., 229-231 COLLINS ST.
MELBOURNE.
LADIES >•
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address—L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
Publications.
“ ~ n 111) RBLIGIOn.
For circulation among adults only.
Post free to any address, Is. 6d., from the author
C. P. W. LONGDILL,
Land Agent, Gisborne, Poverty Bay, New Zealand.
gg- The above book contains an idea that will revolu-
tionise our social life. Worthy of consideration from
every denomination under thg sun.
Agents wanted throughout the world.
DO YOU WISH to LEARN a Profitable
Trade in a day, and add to your income,
or start in a fascinating business requiring very
little capital ? If so, send three stamps for my
pamphlet entitled, “AN EASY INDUSTRY.”
Gives particulars. SUITABLE FOR EITHER
SEX. Box 131 G.P.0., Wanganui, New
Zealand.
Wanted.
WANTED for IMMEDIATE DELIVERY,
a BO H.P. 500 Volt Electric Generator,
with or without power. State description and
price. Address —
C.D.,
o/o Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
Sydney.
•unVE THOUSAND AGENTS wanted to wear and adver-
tise the grand watches and jewellery of a well-known
I London firm. Agency attended, in spare time, by lady or
gentleman wishing to add to income. Send for extraordi-
nary liberal offer, giving name, address and present occu-
pation. Reply to No. 1 WATCH AGENCY, 16 St.
Bride Street, London, E.C., England.
HATS FOR SUMMER WEAR.
Styles as interesting as
the Prices.
Shapes more becoming
than we have ever
known them.
g
No. I. 9/9. Grey Felt
POST FBEE.
SENT
FREE
ANYWHERE
IN
N.S. WALES.
QTJOTJI
THE
NUMBER
WHEN
ORDERING,
PLEASE.
No. 23.—10/6. Helmet.
No. 2.—22/6, 27/6. Panama Straw.
POST FREE.
A
HIGH-CLASS
PANAMA
OF
WEAR-RESISTING
QUALITY.
No. 9.—5/9, 7/6,10/6. post frot
A Neat Hard Felt.
OUR GENT.’S HATS
ARE NOT THE
ORDINARY KIND,
BUT A SPLENDID
LOT OF
NOBBY STYLES.
No. 17.—5/9, 7/6, 9/9. post free.
Fawn, Brown and Drab.
Write for our Complete Book of Illustrations if you do not see a Shape to suit you
amongst these. OUR PRICES ARE FREETRADE PRICES.
HORDERN BROTHERS,^
FASHIONABLE HATTERS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
WALTER AYLWARD.
TyOtTLD WALTER AYLWARD, formerly
OF
GARRICK ON SUIR,
COUNTY TIPPERARY, IRELAND,
and subsequently of Melbourne, but late of
Teetulpa Goldfield, South Australia, or any
person knowing his whereabouts, kindly com-
municate with the undersigned, who have good
news for him from his sister.
GAYAN DUFFY & KING,
SOLICITORS,
69 CHANCERY-LANE, MELBOURNE,
VICTORIA.
WANTED Address of Mrs. PATERSON,
wife of Gavin Paterson, Marine En-
gineer, sometime residing at Johnstone, near
Glasgow, Scotland (niece of the late Mrs.
Monro, of Oban), who was last heard of at
Bena River, Viria Mill, Fiji, Australia, and
Pyrmont Post Office, Sydney, New South
Wales.
Any person able to supply information will
kindly communicate with
Messrs. LOGIE & FISHER,
24 St. Vincent Place,
Glasgow, Scotland.
ARE YOU WEAK,
Low-spirited, Tired of Life ?
Have You utterly failed in Your efforts
to regain health ?
THE LANCBTON REGENERATOR WILL CURE YOU.
Its effects are almost instantaneous, and the good
effects go on increasing from day to day.
ARE YOU A SUFFERER from bad health in any of
its many forms ? Do you feel nervous, fretful, timid,
and lack the power of will and action ? Are you sub-
ject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless,
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy ? Are your
kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a dis-
ordered condition ? Do you feel generally debilitated ?
Do you suffer from Rheumatism, Neuralgia, or other
aches or pains ?
Write to-day for the Doctor's Calendar ; beauti
fully illustrated, and of vital interest to all.
Beek the Truth, it Coats Nothing-.
No matter what you are suffering from, the
REGENERATOR restores the shattered consti-
tution like magio.
ADDRESS :
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
Cor. RUSSELL and COLLINS STS., MELB.
DRUNKENNESS
or the Liquor Habit, Inebriacy, and Alcoholism in any
form) CURED BY EUCRASY. Can be given secretly or
otherwise. Placed in a cup of tea, coffee, or in food, its
presence cannot be noticed. WARRANTED PER-
FECTLY HARMLESS and easy to administer. It oper-
ates so quietly and with such certainty that the patient
undergoes no'inconvenience, and ere he is aware his com-
plete reform is effected. An overdose is harmless, and “it
does not impair or injure the health in any way.
DRUNKENNESS IS A DISEASE, and EUCRASY is a
safe, sure, and speedy Antidote. Write for book of par-
ticulars and testimonials from living witnesses—sent post
free (sealed) to any address, 2 stamps.
THE EUCRASY CO.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
R
D
Registered
by the
Medical
Board
of N.S.W.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON.
HAYING had 30 years experience in all parts of the
world, and also having lately made an extended trip
through Europe and America, he is in a position to
treat every case submitted to him according to the
methods of the most recent and eminent Specialists.
Every Case treated on its own Merits.
Sufferers at a distance, unable to describe their oases to
their own satisfaction, should write for Dr. Watson’s
“Guide to Diagnosis B.”
POST FREE Is.,
which will enable them to give exact and full particulars, so as
to enable him to report fully as to the disease and its radical
and rational method of treatment.
Consultation Free or by Letter).
The publication of crowds of symptoms, testimonials and
puffs of one’s skill and attainments savours too much of self-
praise ; so the public should look with a doubtful eye upon all
those who “doth protest too much.”
Dr. Watson does not pretend to say that “ One Pound is
sufficient to send,” as stated in certain advertisements,_ for lie
considers that the public are quite satisfied to pay a fair price
for fair and legitimate treatment.
Mmm
137 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
Pleas* mention this Paper when writing;.
0
I»1


ANOTHER
CONCLUSIVE REPORT.
Th® Case ofMr, C. D. BROWN.
A RECORD FROM WATERLOO.
In course of his duty a reporter knocked
at the door of No. 74 Garden Street, Alex-
andria, which was promptly opened by Mr.
Charles Douglas Brown. Inviting his visitor
into the parlour, Mr. Brown intimated him-
self at leisure for a chat.
“Will you permit me to report your case?”
queried the scribe.
“ Most willingly,” was the response.
“ But I have two experiences to relate, and
you may as well take them dowr in the order
that I had them. When I was a lad of about
sixteen, great anxiety was occasioned amongst
my relatives through the miserable way I
went about. Without any warning I com-
menced to lose flesh until my bones were vis-
ible through my skin. I had not had any
illness to bring about this state of affairs,
and the sudden change was unaccountable.
My appetite was very uncertain. Sometimes
I had a loathing of food, and at others I ate
voraciously. Nothing that was given to me
prevented my flesh falling off, and people
thought I was going into consumption. I
often had a feeling of chilliness running
through my body, my feet and knees some-
times being very cold, even when sitting in
a room where other people complained about
the heat. Then a bad, hacking cough came
on, which strained my enfeebled constitu-
tion greatly. I was troubled with difficulty
in breathing, very little exertion causing me
to sit down and gasp for breath.”
“Were there any painful symptoms?”
“ Yes ; a number of them, not the least of
which were those than attacked me in the
shoulder and bowels. When I raised my re-
latives hopes by eating heartily after hardly
tasting a bite for several days, they thought
I was on the mend ; but shortly afterwards
the severe pains in the chest and stomach
told a different tale. I became afraid to eat,
and so got weaker and weaker, till I had not
enough vitality to take interest in anjthing.
I was very fond of doing little jobs at home
connected with my trade, such as polishing
pieces of marble and making frames and imi-
tation books ; but these were all set aside,
lliere was al ways a bitter taste in my mouth,
lhe bloom of youth faded .from my cheeks,
and I wore a pallid, unwholesome colour in-
stead. I looked like a walking ghost. I re-
sembled one, at all events, in respect to feel-
ing just about half dead. Dull frontal head-
aches tortured me persistently, and the
excruciating pain took all the *go ’ out of
me. I thought my life was destined to be
nipped in the bud, and I would prefer death
to a continuance of such suffering.”
“Surely you could obtain some relief?”
Not until I was given Clements Tonic,
i don’t remember now how many different
remedies I did take, but I do remember
quite clearly that I did not get the slightest
relief from any of them. On the other
hand, when it looked as though my case was
past the aid of medicine, Clements Tonic
came to my rescue, and as soon as I com-
menced taking it I found myself breathing
more freely. A feeling of great comfort was
experienced after taking a couple of doses,
aS i, m £ P ains started easing off, and I slept
well Die first night—a luxury that had been
denied me for some time. In the morning
i felt a freedom from the aches in my limbs,
fu spirits were bright and cheerful,
the. feelings of despondency and grief
having passed away with my night’s slum-
ber. The fretful irritability of temper which
had marked my sickness gave way to an
evenly-balanced mind, and I was soon a
legu.ai attendant at the table, my meals
econnng larger with a daily-increasing
appetite. I soon made up for lost time
under the influence of C’ements Tonic, my
cheeks filling out and displaying a tinge of
re< rr‘ t I mentioned that I
Buffered from costiveness during my illness ;
but that trouble, like all my other ailments,
was soon set right by Clements Tonic, which
thoroughly restored my health a- d strength,
and gave my youthful constitution a solid
foundation to work on.”
«< ?> ave y ou . been fluite well ever since ? ”
1 have, with the exception of a severe
attack of neuralgia. That forms the second
experience which I have to relate. This
attack was more torturing than my first
sickness. The exposure to all weathers,
which we are subject to in our trade, must
have brought it on, combined with over-
work. lam never satisfied unless I am
tinkering at something. AH this has been
done in my spare time, so you see I am never
idle. I took several remedies I had read
about, but they only made me worse. lam
quite sure of this, because the shooting pains
travelled, to my ears, and interfered with
my hearing. My health was undermined,
and I thought I should never get rid of my
complaint.” J
But y°u did succeed in doing so ?”
Oh, yes, after a lot of unnecessary
suffering. A friend one day told me that
Clements Tonic was a sure cure for
neuralgia. I regret not having known this
fact before. My recollection of the wonder-
ful curative piopcrties of Clements Tonic
made persuasion unnecessary, and I bought
three bottles right away. The first couple
of doses lessened the severity of the pains
in my head and face, and the ear-ache be-
came less acute and died out altogether. I
was thus enabled to obtain some refreshing
sleep, and felt much better on arising.
When the second bottle of Clements Tonic
was finished my neuralgia was con pletely
cured, and I continued with? the third
bottle for the purpose of invigorating my
debilitated system. The excellent appetite
I gained enabled me to fill out again, and I
was soon as strong and stout as before my
dreadful attack. It is a long time since
Clements Tonic effected a thorough cure,
and my old comp’aint has never since
troubled me, in consideration of which you
are at liberty to fully publish my statements
any how you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Charlbs Douglas Brown, of 74 Garden-street,
Alexandria, Sydney, in tlie colony of New South
Wale 1 *, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, consisting 1 of
three folios and consecutively numbered from one to
three, and th t i t contains and is a true ai d faithful
account of my illness and cute by Clements Tonic,
and aso c r ntains my full permission to pub’ish in
any way my statements -- which I give voluntarily,
without receiving any payment; and I make this
solemn declar tion conscientiously bebeving the
same to be true, and by virtue of the pro\ isions of an
Act made and passed in the ninth year of the reign
of her present Majesty, intituled “An Act for the
more effectual abolition of Oaths and Affirmations
taken and made in the various Departments of the
Government of New South Wales, ai d to substitute
Declarations in lieu thereof, and for the suppression
Of voluntary and Extra-judicial Oaths and Affidavits- ”
'V»
Deolared at Alexandria, this fifth day of Ootobei
one thousand nine hundred, before me,
JAMES PARR. J P
Ss&t
A^aunnp^-
>1
JUCHTWLAKH) EYIS&IUH
WfAKtYIS DIMNESS ET?'
msm
SStGEOmct ST
808, CABEKi.
The Greatest Discovery of Modern Times
ALL EYE COMPLAINTS
''r I *Tinf~ from any cause whatever.
ASK FOR
ROSE’S
Celebrated Eye Lotion
A CERTAIN CURE for Sandy Blight, Granulations, Bunged Eyes,
Dimness of Sight, Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids, Weak Eyes caused by
Dust, Sun-Glare, Overwork, &c., Swelling Blight resulting from stings
of flies and insects.
Used with equal success on the Eyes of Cattle, Sheep, Poultry, &c.
Largeiy used by Rifle-Shooters and Literary Men.
Testimonials from leading Commercial and Professional Men throughout Australia.
Sole Proprietor . . .
H. A. ROSE
Dispensing-
Chemist,
531 George St., Sydney
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
S3?Beware of Imitations.
FALIERE’S PNOSPNATINE
FAWERES
The Only
Food
containing
Phosphate
of Lime.
For INFANTS and
INVALIDS.
AN ESSENTIAL REQUISITE IN THIS COUNTRY.
“ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Business Announcements.
Y UU (SHOULD ALWAYS WEAK, . . .
AERTEX
CELLULAR
with the cell side next the skin in the case of
UNDERWEAR.
There is not a more health-keeping 1 form of covering
for the body, and certainly none more comfortable
—even luxurious.
Besides UNDERWEAR, we Stock . . .
Pyjamas, Hosiery, etc.
And all Kinds, Shapes, Descriptions, and Colors of
Shirts
—from the White, linen-fitted Dress and Ordinary to
Fancy-pleated Neglig4, and Out-door Shirts for Tennis
and all uses.
Sole Agents in N.S. W.:
David Braham & Co.,
73 and 75 KING- STREET, SYDNEY.
Medical.
i NOTICE
' I'o sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
| Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
> Limbs.
> The Old Reliable English Remedy.
\ PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
• Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman, of
! 71 Old Kent Road, London.
1 Renowned for over a century for quick
I efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
, parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
> _
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all <
Chemists in the Australian Colonies. ,
THE NEW FRENCH REMEDY
THERAPION
This suc-
— cessful
and highly
popular remedy, as employed in the Continental Hospi-
tals by Ricord, Rostan, Jobert, Velpeau, and others,
combines all the desiderata to be sought in a medicine of
the kind, and surpasses everything hitherto employed.
THERAPION No. 1 maintains its world-renowned
and well-merited reputation for derangements of the
kidneys, pains in the back, and kindred ailments, afford-
ing prompt relief where other well-tried remedies have
been powerless.
THERAPION No. 2, for impurity of the blood,
scurvy, pimples, spots, blotches, pains and swellings of
the joints, gout, rheumatism, and all diseases for which
it has been too much a fashion to employ mercury, sarsa-
parilla, &c., to the destruction of sufferers’ teeth and ruin
of health. This preparation purifies the whole system
through the blood, and thoroughly eliminates every
poisonous matter from the body.
THERAPION No. 3, for exhaustion, sleeplessness,
and all the distressing consequences of dissipation, worry,
overwork, etc.. It possesses surprising power in restoring
strength and vigor to those suffering from the enervating
influences of long residences in hot, unhealthy climates.
THERAPIHN may be procured of the
" ■ principal Chemists and
Merchants throughout the world. Price in England, 2s. 9d.
and 4s. 6d. In ordering state which of the three numbers
is required, and observe that the word “ Therapion ”
appears on the British Government Stamp (in white
letters on a red ground) affixed to every genuine package
by order of His Majesty’s Hon. Commissioners, and with-
out which it is a forgery..
0& RX CORO'sl
ESS^<* c£ °f L \ FE- J
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, reoenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope.
Agents for Australasia— PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St,
Melbourne ; Wholesule Agents for New South Wales —
Australian Drug-Co., Ltd., O’Connell St., Sydney. All
Chemists, or Box 165, G.P.O.
A Modern Scientific Triumph, the
“ ELECTRICON ”
The first and only absolute safe and successful
means ever perfected to apply pure Metallic Galvanic
Electricity direct to the ears, permanently curing
DEAFNESS
and completely banishing all distressing
HEAD NOISES
by restoring natural life, strength and activity to the
affected parts of the ear and to the nerve of hearing.
Simple—harmless—positive. Cure guaranteed or no
expense. For full information and complete descrip-
tion, address with stamp—
The L. R. VERNON COY.,
60-64 Hunter-st., Sydney.
“SANITAS”
NATURE'S
GREAT DISINFECTAHT.
Non-Poisonous*
Does Not Stain Linen*
FLUID, POWDER, SOAPS,
Of all Chemists and Stores.
Valuable book, “HOW TO DISINFECT,”
free on application.
The “SANITAS” Co., Ltd.,
BETHNAL GREEN, LONDON.
Business Announcements
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Be 4
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia.
STUART&PO.
PHOPIUETAIIT LIMITED,
252 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station)
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
df
Our Suit to order nt 4.’«. is
marvellous value; mail from
all-wool Tweeds .Vicunas, or last
color Series ; it is perfect lilting
and beautifully finished. ”
A splendid Suit to order fre m
any class >. f material £ i ;{„ i 0
measure, capital Trousers, very
good patterns. I3s. (id.
Dress Suits, to measure.
Clerical Suits, to measure, £5,
Hiding Lreeches. tiss.
Hiding Habits, Ac.
We supply ready made. Men's
capital t w eed Suits tils. A ■».>.
1 Fail! us Ballarat Ser e Suits,
' Indigo dye.a.is.
All-wool, fawn, grey, or brown
Sergerette ruits.HOs.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, fis, lid.
All-wool blue anil black Vicuna
Sacs and Vests I 9» (id.
Men’s Grass Cloth Summer
Suits, 19a. (id. W ite Drill
Sacs and Trousers, 10s. (id.
Khaki Suits, shrunk, 12s (id.
Black and Grey Alapaca S;.cs,
(is. 9d, White and Brown Drill
Trousers. 3s. 9d., 4s 9d., ss. (id.
Travelling- Trunks, Ba,.s and
Bugs in great variety.
Men’s White Shiits, colored
front and cuffs. 2s. 9d.
Fancy Blouse Shirts, new
designs, ss. (id.
White Matte Shirts, collar and
pocket, 3s. 6d.
Soit Alpine Hats, 4s. 6d.. all
colors.
Hard Hats, 4». 6d. Caps. Is,
Merino Undershirts or Pants.
ls.9d,
Neckties, all shapes and colors,
White Shirt* to measure. Gents* splendid Balmoral Boots.
6»* 9d., 9s. od.
We like to write letters; so don’t be afraid to ask for anv
Information. Our hook, “The Philosophy of Press" au*l
patterns of all kinds and self-measurement "forms posted five
Write for them.
M*OUT V
PILLS.
for gout,
RHEUMATISM.
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
An.f alian Colonies.
€V€RY MAN
Should send for a VALUABLE PAMPHLET explainin'"
how all NERVOUS and ORGANIC) derangements may be
SUCCESSFULLY TREATED by a NEW METHOD. It is
EASY and PLEASANT, and will effect a PERFECT and
PERMANENT CURE. Sent post FREE. Address—
THE BOTANIC INSTITUTE, VICTORIA CHAMBERS
ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
■THE!
IEAF
IHEA&J
BY using Wilson’s Com-
mon Sense Ear Drums.
Wonderful Results obtained in
cases considered beyond any
treatment. Soft, comfortable,
and invisible when in use.
Head Noises Relieved.
Pamphlets and Australian
Testimonials Free.
J. CHALMERS, Sole Ag-ent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
cm
DEAF
đf
The New Patent
.SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
|and Head Noises, no matter of
& how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
fX es ' Invisible. Comfortable.
Vvorn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. 0
Address-A. M, NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
df
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents tor Australasia.
TRUSSES. English
American and made to order
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, dkc.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers
281 CEORCE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
g
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism.
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles,
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one of these
Cabinets. Price 25/-
Head and Face Steamer, 3/6.
Can be forwarded to any address
J. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
Tested and Infallible Remedy,
Within the rea h of ail, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Homs Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C.S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
“ The Best Australian Book of Sea and Sailor Verse °
The Ways of Many Waters
By E. J. BRADY.


H m
mam
vm. m
■B
m
ImWn l-
Under Royal
Patronage.
KOKO for the Hair 's a tonic, cleansing, invigorat-
ing and delightfully cooling preparation, causes the
hair to grow luxuriantly, keeps it soft and pliant,
eradicates dandriif, prevents hair from falling and
turning grey, promotes growth, contains no dye or
greasy substance, is the most cleanly of all hair
preparations, and is perfectly harmless. The uni.ue
testimonials received prove it to be undoubtedly
the best dressing for the hair. 1/-, 2/6, and 4/6, of
all Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Australian Depot: Koko-Maricopas Co., Ld. t
14, Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.3.W.
d
CAUTION.
See that this registered Trade
Mark is on every bottle.
gfg
A while back, when meat-prices rose high
in Melbourne, the dozen or so freetraders in that
city loudly demanded that the stock tax should be
taken off forthwith. This iniquitous thing, they
said, was the prime cause of the then dearness of
food, and was a grievous burden on the poor
(always “ the poor ”). It is now about four weeks
since the tr.x was lifted, and the retail butcher
hasn’t lowered his figures by a farthing.
In Feb., 188], David Buchanan moved, in
N.S.W. Assembly, that taxation should be levied
so as to compel all work that could be done to be
done in the State. W. ,J. Lyne supported him.
G. H. Reid, emphatic even in that stage of his
political infancy, pronounced Protection “dead.”
Buchanan angrily prophesied in reply: “Protec-
tion is not dead, but its truths are forcing them-
selves on a Free trade Government and a
Freetrade Parliament, and will vet prevail.” The
stand in the last ditch now made by the
Freetrade party proves the dead David a better
prophet than the live and roaring George.
N.S.W. State Coast Hospital, Little Bay,
is likely to supply some more interesting items
shortly. The drivers, nurses, and employes gene-
rally are complaining of long hours, and request-
ing that they be shortened. Also, most of the
male employes at the Coast Hospital are married.
They are always single when they go there, but
they get married as soon as they can find a
suitable girl. The hospital doesn’t supply
quarters, and the men are asking that such
quarters be supplied, for which they are quite
willing to pay rent. Meanwhile, the wives live at
Botany, four or five miles away, and the majority
of husbands sleep at Botany, leaving the
hospital with about three able-bodied men to pro-
tect it, in case of emergencies. Some night there’ll
be a grass fire, or the connecting verandah will
catch alight, and there’ll be such a burning of sick
and helpless patients that N.S.W. will demand
that someone in a high place be hanged, but will
forget all about it before the rope can be got
ready.
‘HfIRLENE’
Z HAIR.
The very Finest Dressing.
Restores the Hair.
Promotes the Growth.
Arrests the Fall.
Strengthens the Roots.
Preserves the Hair.
Renders It Beautifully Soft.
Removes Dandruff.
Allays all Irritation.
Preserves, Strengthens, and Invigorates
Childrens’ Hair.
Full description and directions for use in
20 languages supplied with every bottle.
1/-, 2/6,and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per
Bottle from Druggists, &c., all over
the World.
Edwards’ Harlene Co.
High Holborn, London, Eng.
a
Mamma, shall I have beautiful long hair like you when I grow up?"
Certainty, my dear, if you use Edwards' ‘ Hurlene.'”
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.
Price SIXPB3STCE=PoatedL, Bd.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Core.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEIWA.R.B OF COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
a l,out the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my ease. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and, troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir. —I suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.’’—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
as! cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vic.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.”
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. T started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as w’alking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.’
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows :—“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, apd let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do —send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent, her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Tears’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Tears’ Case.
CUBED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Tears’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney."
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS' CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes : —“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4t.h April, 1899, he st...es:—“l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
* RANC . H Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food fob
INFANTS
9
-r BENQER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, Ac., everywhere.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by e
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own."
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
AND
THE AGED.


§
! '
> jsr r \v'
OF
&
Si
fMtMXOfIUNT
pntwifTt
s
AOO€J*TAtue
Mil
»OtNO*OlfftO#
i(Hinoi«y
C#rCOTVAAt
HABITUAL
CONSTIPATION
mrit
WVtf riVMI to AOT OCNTkV ni
PHOMPTk* ON TNI
KIDNEYS, LIVER AND BOWELS.
m
#o* OaUT OMVAIN AND OOLONI
H Owfew MKI. LONDON 0. Ok .
PRICE lA. IM
THIS AND NO OTHER
is the Original and Genuine Syrup of
Figs, now known everywhere as
CALIFORNIA
Syrup of Figs
THE DELIGHTFUL LIQUID LAXATIVE.
/ "PHE pleasant method and beneficial
-*■ effects of this well-known remedy,
manufactured by the California Fig
Syrup Company, illustrate the value of
obtaining the liquid laxative principles
of plants known to be medicinally
laxative and presenting them in the
form most refreshing to the taste and
acceptable to the system. It is the
one perfect strengthening laxative,
CLEANSING THE SYSTEM EFFECTUALLY,
DISPELLING GOLDS AND HEADACHES,
PREVENTING FEVERS, OVERCOMING HABITUAL
CONSTIPATION PERMANENTLY.
Its perfect freedom from every ob-
jectionable quality and substance, and
its acting on the kidneys, liver and
bowels, gently yet promptly, without
weakening or irritating them, make it
the ideal laxative. In order to get its
beneficial effects, and to avoid imita-
tions, please remember the full name
of the Company printed on the front
of every package.
Ask for CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS, and look for the
Name and Trade Mark of the
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO., 31 & 32 Snow Hill, London.
Australian Branch: 7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
Of all Chemists, 1/1J and 1/9.
ERASMIC
—— PERFUME
Is delightfully fragrant and pleasant to use.
A DAINTY, DELICIOUS DELICACY.
Paris €xl)ibition, 1900.—British Awards I
The Only
Grand
Prix
She
highest jffwari)
ever made!
FOR TOILET SOAP
HAS BEEN AWARDED TO
(Established 1789.)
KTRf
REC
Bp
Appointment
to
Fm
*
Ber majesty Ox Queen and b.r.b. tbe prince ot Wales.
20 HIGHEST AWARDS
from 1851 to 1900 inclusive.
A Prayer-Cure.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dbewer had not tasted liquor for months, and
lately the uselessness and emptiness of existence
had been worrying him. When he reached home
he kicked open the gate, smashed-in the door,
broke some crockery, and nearly killed the cat.
Then he went to bed with his boots on. Mean-
while, his wife had made her escape and taken
refuge in a neighbour’s house. About two hours
afterwards she ventured back, and when she saw
the battered and disorderly condition of every-
thing, she almost wept with vexation.
Mrs. Roober promptly visited Mrs. Drewer
next day to offer her sympathy—and obtain full
particulars. Mrs. Roober was quite sure such
occurrences were most distressing, but at the
same time strongly advised Mrs. Drewer
to bear-up and not give way to despondency.
As an infallible cure for drunkenness, however,
she patronisingly suggested Prayer, and testified
to several blessed changes that had taken place in
the most hopeless cases. She also dilated on the
necessity of Abundant Faith, whereby we could
always cheerfully bear the burdens of our tribula-
tions. Apropos, she recalled a saying of that dear
old man, Dr. Howlmore, that there was nothing
at all extraordinary about walking on the water —
provided one had sufficient trust in God. As she
was only too anxious to do good when the oppor-
tunity presented itself, and as she was not particu-
larly busy on Wednesday, she would bring a
couple of friends with her to engage in prayer.
Meanwhile, for the present edification and spiri-
tual consolation of Mrs. Drewer, she read and
commented upon the 12th chapter of the Epistle
of Paul to the Hebrews (verses 1 to 6), and, after
graciously accepting another cup of tea, took her
departure.
On the appointed day, Mrs. Roober brought
two of her friends —Mrs. Trowney and Mrs.
Noles. A more, objectionable selection, however,
could not have been made, since Mrs. Drewer in
her heart hated the sight of Mrs. Trowney, and
mortally detested Mrs. Noles. Nobody knew this
better than the same women, and that, no doubt,
was why they had come. After the visitors had
solemnly kissed Mrs. Drewer, and had piously ex-
changed greetings, Mrs. Roober formally opened
ths proceedings.
“Dear sisters, we have come this afternoon to
perform a serious duty. In this world of sin and
sorrow it often happens that a sister, or a brother,
is weak and wayward, and departs from God’s
grace. In this instance it is a brother—the
husband of our dear and afflicted sister who is
among us to-day. Let us pray ! ”
Mrs. Roober then prayed with exceeding fervor
and familiarity for the space of twenty minutes,
and concluded her appeal by informing the Lord
that she could plainly trace His Finger in their
dearly beloved sister’s present trouble (which was
doubtless for some very Wise Purpose), and
earnestly hoped and desired that it might be the
means of bringing both husband and wife into
closer communion with Heaven.
Mrs. Trowney then started off by pointing out
to the Lord this other mournful instance of the evils
of the unrestricted sale of liquor, emphasising at
considerable length theurgent and immediate need
of total prohibition, and, at the same time,
endeavored to influence the Lord in that com-
mendable direction by reverently relating to Him
several shocking cases that had come under her
special notice this last month, and which were all
attributable to the infernal agency of the Accursed
Drink. After twenty-five minutes’ rather effec-
tive oration, Mrs. Trowney finished up by tear-
fully demanding, “ ’Ow long, oh Lord, ’ow long ? ”
in a style carefully calculated to impress both the
Almighty and the company present.
Then Mrs. Noles, who, if anything, was of the
opinion that Mr. Drewer was a very bad man, and
that what he really needed was a sudden check
Eut on his career, opened her mouth and uplifted
er voice—
“ Oh, long-sufferin’ Lord ! (Amen !) Has we
come before Thy footstool to-day, Thou knowest
as ’ow we ’ave much to thank Thee for,
and more particularly and especially for Thy
loving kindness and great mercy to hus, oo are
Thy children. And now, oh Lord, to-day, oh
Lord, as I say, oh Lord, we come before Thee on
our bended knees with our ’arts full of trouble—
and woe—and— ‘ a-choo !’ ” Solemnly wiped her
beak and proceeded—“and oh Lord, as I remarked
before, we ’ave come to Thee this day with our
arts filled with ’umbleness, and thankfulness, and
contrition, and devotion as Thou and Thy far-
seeing wisdom knowest, for to supplicate and to
pray, Oh Lord, because, as Thou ’ast said in the
Axe of the Aposels, ‘ Hask and ye shall receive,’
w’ich we now do, oh Lord, to save that unfortunit
man, our pore unsaved brother ”
“ A-men ! ” murmured Mrs. Trowney.
“Ah, yes ! ’’groaned Mrs. Roober.
} “ our pore unsaved brother, the unfortunit
usband of this our dear sister, oo is in our midst
to-day at the present time.”
“ And, oh Lord, we, oo are Thy children, and
hairs to Thy kingdom (though desprit sinners and
undeserving as Thou, in Thy hinfinite wisdom,
knowest), are ’ere to-day, being specially aware of
Thy merciful dealings with us in the past, and
thankful for Thy many favors, and hax of saving
grace, to beg and pray Thee to extend Thy great
mercy and some saving grace to our dear and way-
ward brother, and exert Thy loving influence so
as to bring ’im back to the fold from whence ’e ’as
wandered. For we know, oh Lord, wot the End
must be if Thy saving grace is not extended to
im has it ’as been to hus. (Groans.) For we
know, oh Lord, as ’ow no drunkard can enter the
Kingdom of ’Eaving (‘Amen!’ from Mrs.
Trowney); for we know becors even Thou ’ast
said so, that ’oosoever departs from Thee, oh Lord,
and from the pleasant paths of Thy wonderful
mercy and infinite love, is on the downward
track that leadethtoEverlastin’destruction and un-
speakable torment, into that houter darkness
where there ain’t nothin’but weeping, and wailing,
and gnashing of teeth.” (Heavy groaning, which
encouraged Mrs. Noles to grind out further
details.) “ For we know, Oh Lord, as ’ow there is
to be a Judgment Day set apart, when the just
shall be separated from the unjust, and the ’oly
from the un’oly ; that we ’oo are Thy children,
Oh Lord, shall be placed at Thy right ’and to
enter into the eternal bliss of the fulfilment of
thy promises to hus ; but that they ’oo were
offensive in Thy sight shall be placed on Thy
left ’and to be cast into the flaming lake of fire
and brimstone, which burneth day and night for
ever and ever. So that we can easily understand
Oh Lord, that our dearly beloved sister naturally
feels very hanxious to rescue ’im as from a yawn-
ing gulf into w’ich ’e is about to fall. And itis becors
we are aware of the terrible danger wi’ch ’e is in
that we would specially supplicate Thee, oh Lord,
to take away ’is ’orrible craving w’ich will surely
lead ’im to eternal damnation and everlasting
torment (groans). But, oh Lord (hysterically
punching the chair), save ’im (■ Amen ’ and
groans), save ’im, we beseech Thee ! (‘ Bah !’
muttered Mrs. Drewer.) Show ’im the herror of
his ways, and make ’im one of hus, Thy children,
oh Lord (appreciative groans). Show ’im the
wrong ’e is doing, and oh Lord, give the
dissipated man a new ’art. Show ’im the way to
Thy grace, and make ’im a better man and a
’appy ’usband ’ (more groans). Show ’im that
the ’eavenly light of Thy countenance aint upon
’im (lamentable groans). But, oh dear Lord,
save ’im, save ’im, we beseech Thee. Save
’im from the Evil One, ’oo is the Devil, w’ich is
the Serpent. Put the hobstacle of righteousness
acrost his path on the broad and downward track,
and show ’im that the red glare of ’ell, w’ich he
sees in the distance, is for ’im alongside of the
Seven ’Orned Beast and his Scarlet Woman.”
“ That’s where you’re going to, you wretch ! ”
Mrs. Roober rose horrified.
“Mrs. Drewer!!!” in various tones of excla-
mation.
“Oh, let me hout !” exclaimed Mrs. Trowney,
as though momentarily expecting a judgment, also
rising as hastily as her recent attack of rheumatism
in the legs would allow her.
“ The Lord preserve hus ! ” piously murmured
Mrs. Noles, thereby meaning Mrs. Roober, Mrs.
Trowney, and herself.
“ It is not,” said Mrs. Roober, in tones of mag-
nificent reproach, “the insult to us. That is
nothing. But to impiously make a mockery of
God—”
Mrs. Drewer defiantly pointed to Mrs. Noles,
and hotly asked : “ How can the Lord listen to a
woman like that, who ought to be at home praying
for her own worthless husband, who’s a hundred
times worse ?”
“You’re a liar ! ”
“ And you’re another ! ”
“Really,” remarked Mrs. Trowney, somewhat
apprehensively, “ I don’t feel safe in this ’ouse,
after what’s passed this day ”
But Mrs. Roober, with that beautiful dignity
and simplicity of faith in the divine majesty of
her belief, which is characteristic of the truly
Christian woman, calmly said :
‘‘ My dear woman ! Do not alarm yourself.
This house is quite safe while we are here —but
let us go ! ”
MAX WOLFORT.
Magna Charta was the instrument of free-
dom by which an Italian-bossed King gave to
French nobles the liberty of ruling over the
English people.— Corrected Definition.
Hollis, M.L.A., complained, in N.S.W.
Assembly, that he was lately subpoenaed to act as
juror. He showed that the English practice is
to relieve M’s.P. of that duty. A wise practice;
the political mind in time comes to be incapable
of dealing with facts.
Fears of Roosevelt’s Jingoism leading the
Eagle into a place where it will moult a feather
or two are general in America: “ There is a bit
too much of the bucking broncho about Roose-
velt ” is the local way of putting the matter.
Sentiment and business, from same issue
of Melb. Age (5/10/’01):
jl/TY soul in conscious longing seeks The converse
- LV - L sweet of maiden fair, With heart whose prompt-
ings are as pure As ever breath of heaven’s air ;
Whose life, unspoiled, has tasted yet The bitter cup
of worldly care.—Answers, by letter, to K.F., P. 0.,
Brunswick. View above.
/"'J.ENTLEMAN, city business, wishes to make ac-
quaintance of lady, with £5OO, age no object.
P.R.S., Age.
H.S.R. : He dirty Boers. At Ahmedna-
gar, in the Deccan (whither a lot of Boers have
been exiled), they are allowed one bar of soap for
20 men per month, and as this place was con-
demned as insanitary for British troops, and has
only water enough for 500, it ought to be as
effectual in “ reducing the personnel of the
Boers ” as the reconcentrado camps in S. Africa.
First catch your Boer —then cook him !
A Liverpool parson’s son, a soldier, but
evidently not an arsonist by nature, writing from
S’Africa :
After looting the waggons, the General gave the order
to burn the lot, and at 8 o’clock all the waggons were set
alight. I thought this one of the hardest acts I had ever
seen—burning all food-stuffs and waggons, and leaving all
these women on the veldt. All the women could speak
English, and were of the better class of Boers, who had
been reared in good homes, making it all the harder for
them. When the fire started all the women sang one of
the Psalms, asking God to give them victory over their
enemies. It was grand to hear those women singing ; all
had good voices, and took the different parts. I felt a
peculiar sensation run through me, and all the men were
very indignant at the step taken.
Northern black-labor papers begin to com-
plain about the aggressiveness of the Jap. as com-
Eared with the Kanaka. Not only is the small
rown man inclined to go into trade himself and
become a business oppositionist, but even as a
laborer he has turned out “unreliable.” He has
learned to strike. At Thursday Island, recently,
a Jap. crew gave the pearl-shelling co. notice that
it could either remove a certain captain or fight a
general strike. The captain was said to make the
men work too hard. The co. tried to replace the
men, but all the other sailor men thereabouts
shook their heads, and pointed out that the men who
black-legged in such a case got knifed-off gradu-
ally and unaccountably on dark nights, and the
thing wasn’t good enough. So the co. climbed
down and sacked the captain for looking after its
interests too energetically. Talk about the arro-
gance of the white worker!
Mark Twain (who becomes serious in his
twilight days):
Extending the Blessings of Civilisation to our Brother
who Sits in Darkness has been a good trade, and has paid
well, on the whole. There is more money in it, more
sovereignty and other kinds of emolument, than there is
in any other game that is played. But Christendom has
been playing it badly of late years, and must certainly
suffer. She has been so eager to get every stake that
appeared on the green cloth, that the People who Sit in
Darkness have noticed it. They have become suspicious
of the Blessings of Civilisation. More—they have begun
to examine them. This is not well. The Blessings of
Civilisation are all right, and a good commercial property ;
there could not be a better, in a dim light. In the right
kind of light, and at a proper distance, with the goods a
little out of focus, they furnish this desirable exhibit to
the Gentlemen who Sit in Darkness
“Love, Justice, Gentleness, Christianity, Protection to
the Weak, Temperance, Law and Order, Liberty,
Equality, Honorable Dealing, Mercy, Education—and so
on.”
There. Is it good ? Sir, it is pie. It will bring into
camp any idiot that Sits in Darkness anywhere. But not
if we adulterate it. It is proper to be emphatic on that
point. This brand is strictly for Export—apparently.
Apparently. Privately and confidentially, it is nothing
of the kind. Privately and confidentially, it is merely an
outside cover, gay and pretty and attractive, displaying
the special patterns of our Civilisation which we reserve
for Home Consumption, while inside the bale is the
Actual Thing that the Customer Sitting in Darkness buys
with his blood and tears and land and liberty.
We all know that the Business is being ruined. The
reason is not far to seek. It is because our Mr. M’Kinley,
and Mr. Chamberlain, and the Kaiser, and the Czar, and
the French have been exporting the Actual Thine- with
the outside cover left off.


a
su
A>\
A
<T -
l
CmLuM
t-
fll
.NS
u
MANY WITNESSES!
Sydney People Testify.
The Evidence of Friends and Neighbors.
'u.
The testimony of People you know is the Proof
of Merit which backs every box of
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS.
One Witness says—
“ I had a had hack, sharp
shooting pains. It ached all
day and night. I was weary
a,rid tired ; felt miserable
all the time. I learned the
cause and got the cure
— Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills.”
A Never Failing
Remedy for every
ill common to the
KIDNEYS. Don’t
take our word for
it; read these state-
ments.
Another Witness says—
“ I had urinary trouble, suf-
fered constant annoyance ; dis-
turbed my night's rest. Fre-
quent urinary discharges;
stinging sensation in passing.
Diabetes set in ; knew it must
be stopped, and stopped it with
Doan's Backache Kidney Pills. ”
EY EVIDENCE.
SURRY HILLS.
BALMAIN
WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
Mr. Jos. Grieve, Wood and Coal Merchant, 18
Albion-sfcreet, Surry Hills, states “ For the past
five or six years I suffered from kidney disorder-
The symptoms were severe backache and irregu-
larity of the secretions of the kidneys. The
pain had such complete mastery over me that at
times I could not rise from my bed. I went to
doctors to see what they could do for me, but
gained no benefit from them. I tried medicines
with no better results. One day, I saw an adver-
tisement regarding a remedy for kidney trouble,
and I visited Newman’s Pharmacy, in King-street,
and procured a box of these pills—Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills. I felt relief right from the
first dose. My pain gradually grew less, and
finally disappeared, as did the kidney disorder.”
This is Mr. Grieve’s testimony given 12 months
later Twelve months ago I was cured by
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. lam still a
believer in these pills, having never had a return
of my complaint since. I had been a terrible
sufferer with the kidneys, and nothing ever gave
me relief but Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. If I
hear anybody complaining of a bad back I always
tell hhem of the medicine which cured me. ”
Mr. B. Hansen, 41 Rosser-street, Balmain, says:
“For years I had a backache which made me
helpless and a burden to myself. I also had my
right arm useless, and could not do any work. I
had to use my left arm to feed myself. I was
unable to earn my own living. I tried a lot of
medicines, and went to doctors and hospitals. I
would get slight relief, and then I’d get as bad as
ever again. I took fourteen boxes of one largely-
advertised remedy, but when I started work one
day’s labor made me as bad as ever again. Hun-
dreds in Balmain know of my case, and any of
them will tell you what Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills have done for me. I got a box more than
twelve months ago, and when I had taken half a
box of these pills I felt so well that I could start
work. But knowing how I had been treated by
other remedies I finished the box to make sure,
and then I began work and have worked ever
since. My right arm is as strong and as well as
my left, and all my pains have gone. I’ve not
taken a pill since because I’ve not needed one.
They acted in a most magioal way, as men in the
Dook will tell you.”
Mr. Charles Alexander, 143 Riley-street, Wool-
loomooloo, this city, says:—“While working I
am obliged to lift heavy articles, and this, I be-
lieve, affected my kidneys, as about two years ago
I began to feel severe pains in my back. Many
widely advertised medicines were tried without
gaining any advantage. An attack of influenza
left my kidneys in such a state that I could
scarcely bear up against the pains. A doctor
treated me for Bright’s Disease. I could not turn
in bed, and my back felt as if someone were trying
to cut out the backbone. I was wholly confined
to my bed when a friend came to see me, and re-
marked that Doan’s Bachache Kidney Pills had
relieved him wonderfully. So some vvere ob-
tained for me at Newman’s Pharmacy in King-
street, which entirely cured me. ”
The above is what Mr. Alexander said one year
ago. He repeats his testimony to-day, and says :
“Since I gave the above testimony 12 months ago
I have had no reason to change my opinion. I
had tried medicines which have been extensively
advertised, and also drank stuff prescribed by
doctors, but I would never fall back on any of
them, but Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were
cheap at 10 times the price. Some of the kidney
medicines I have taken were like swallowing
knives to out away the disease, but Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills were mild, and thoroughly
effective.”
Get what you ask for. Get
DOAN’S. Don’t accept some-
thing just as good. All Chemists
sell DOAN’S Backache Kidney
Pills and will give you what
you call for. Some may
endeavor to substitute an article
they make more profit on.
Insist on getting the genuine
and save money and misery.
Price 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes
15s. 3d.) or will be posted on
receipt of price by the pro-
prietors, Foster McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Message.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Long is the journey from man to worm, and full
of trouble and pain,
But short and swift is the journey from man to the
worm again.
We walk erect for a random year,—make love,
make war, make woe,
And where is the God to hold our hands ? Then
down to the dust we go.
What does it matter, when all is said, the lot of
our living here ?
Death will deliver us at the end, and what is there
left to fear ?
What is there here for man to fear who draws
not coward’s breath,
For what can fright the heart of a man whose
dearest friend is Death ?
Take ye no heed of the Future—let Hell and
Heaven go;
Be brave, be true, be tender, be just—and God
will know.
There is no possible happiness, there is no possible
bliss,
Nor wisdom known to sons of men so sure and
true as this.
Live richly while your life-days last, and let your
heart keep young,
God will remember the generous hand before the
praying tongue.
This knowledge comes to the dying man who turns
him to the wall,
That genius counts for less than nothing, and
Goodness counts for all.
N.S.W.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
The Saving of John Sandilands.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It cost Jack Sandilands something to write that
letter to Damaris, telling her that the break had
come at last, and he was leaving by mid-day train
to-morrow.
That sort of thing brings its own punishment;
whether because it is intrinsically wrong or
because most socially-unlawful things are uncom-
fortable, is a still unsettled question. The sense
of wrong-doing or the sense of the uncomfortable-
ness of it all had been growing upon him for some
time. Damaris demanded a certain amount of
public attention, for instance, at the mixed affairs
to which she and her doubtful mother and
divorced sister —who was beyond a doubt —
gained access at times, and it is hard for a man
with a certain social position to keep it and pay
attention to a woman who has none. So the letter
was written. Yet it cost him something to do it,
for “ under the rose ” has fascinations which need
no expounding, and Damaris was one of those
women who bring the wine of life, if not peace
and prosperity, along with them.
And yet he felt a new sense of freedom when it
was posted. Fate had taken upon herself to ruth-
lessly snap the threads that the girl was slowly
gathering into her slim, brown hands, and he was
going away beyond reach of her strange power —
the power to rouse in him that surging wild-
beast jealousy which transformed him even to
himself. His common-sense told him no good
would come of a life ruled by passion and by
Damaris, and fate had done for him what he had
been too weak to do for himself.
And, still, when her answer came he was
disappointed. Reproach or pleading there was
none—she congratulated him upon his good
fortune. “It is time you and I dropped all
nonsense,”she wrote. “Perhaps lam as glad of it
as you are. Good-bye and good luck, if I don’t see
you again. Of course if you have time to drop in
between eleven and twelve —we shall all be at
home, and would like to see you, but do not put
yourself out, for I know you must be busy. lam
glad we are parting—friends.” There was a P.B,
informing him that Charlie Thorn was coming to
take her for a ride in the afternoon, so that there
would be an early lunch if he cared to stay for it.
He had quite decided not to say good-bye until
that letter came. He was strong at least in know-
ing his own weakness—but it was so cool and
sensible —and they were “all” to be there. Rather
a different message from the kind Damaris had
been accustomed to send him. Besides it
would be just as well to warn her to be careful
with Thorn. As a friend he would do that, and
so he went.
Damaris was waiting for him in the tangled
rose-scented garden, that gave an air of past glory
to the creeper-covered “rookery’’she called her
home. She was shelling peas, and the other
voices could be heard distinctly from the back
region. She wore a big, brown hat and a holland
apron, and laughed a little as she noted how care-
ful he was not to touch her when he was obliged to
pass close to her to get a seat on the stone steps.
“ Don’t be afraid ! ” she said.
“It is best to be afraid,” he answered. “I
have only a few moments to stay, you know. Igo
at one o’clock.”
“ And have other friends to say good-bye to. I
suppose you will go on to the Cedars from
here ? _ Don’t forget to say good-bye to your chief
and his family. Miss Reed is at home. I saw
her pass half-an-hour ago.”
“ Yes, I am going to see them, of course.”
“ And to ask Nellie Reed to marry you ? ”
“Yes,” he answered, boldly. “I am going to
try my luck. ”
“She is a nice girl, and a pretty one. Well,
shall I wish you good-bye and good luck again ? ”
She spoke carelessly, and leant back against the
French window. Like most windows in the old
house, it was minus a clasp, and flew open, dis-
closing the dim, flower-scented room beyond—a
tiny drawing-room, full of shabby, comfortable
chairs, a sofa with many cushions, curtains that
were inured to cigar-smoke, and. beyond all—full
of memories. The girl’s big hat tumbled forward,
and the sunlight falling through banksia boughs
touched her dusky hair to bronze, and for the
first time that morning she raised her big mys-
terious eyes to his.
And then there were her lips curved and red—
“ Better not, Jack.”
But the voiceless sentence the bright eyes and
the red lips spoke was a different one.
“ You are a dear, clever girl, Damaris, not to
make a fuss when a thing is inevitable and for the
best, but as it is for the last time I suppose I may
kiss you ? . ,
“ Well—yes, if you promise to go at once, ana
—I suppose you don’t want all the passers-by to
„„„ us
; n .1,, t-kp. shelter of the cur-
bhe moved just inside tne sneiter or tne cur
tarns, and he followed her. A lizard came out and
sunned itself on the stone steps, and an adventu-
rous king-parrot made havoc amongst the scattered
pea-pods. No one came to disturb them. The
minutes sped—it would soon be too late for Jack’s
visit to the Cedars too late for wM.
Kind lady, buy rosary-beads foot-brush, hat-
■ipeeiis silk-’andkerchiefs ? A stout oynan
woman, laden with the many bundles of her trade,
was peering in at the half-closed window.
Even a clever woman cannot guard against Fate
In „ whimSi7.nl mnnrl
ln <?rf hlllKlC i ™ 0 °■ atv • ■„ r T ,„ 70 i
Go away ! said Damaris, coining forward
hastily. “I do not want anything. But, after
the manner of her kind, the Syrian had no inten-
tion of taking “No,” and flopped her bundles
down just outside the window, and began again
W whinino- pntrpntv
her winning entreaty. . , , ,
Buy something, Damans, and send her to
blazes !” said Jack, impatiently. “She wont go
until you do.”
The woman drew a small case of brassy wed-
ding-rings from the depths of her pack and held
° b - „n„j Ti limn •„
them up, and grumbled not a little when Damaris
invested in a few pins and bade her begone. A
moment later she was back again, flinging wide
the windows for “better light”— “The pretty
lady must see her silk-’andkerchiefs. Only look—
needn’t buv ”
rni i • ■_ i . , (<1 » .1
Hie searching sunlight made hay of the
cheap muslin curtains, showing up the room in all
its sordid shabbiness ; it also brought into promi-
nence the clock on the mantelpiece.
“ It’s after twelve. Good Lord, Damaris, I’ll
never get to the Cedars and away by the train.
a j u j. -j-u r . j j 1
Say good-bye to the others for me, and good-bye
again —l have stayed too long as it is.
She caught his hand. “No, no, Jack, not yet.”
The Syrian gave a pleasant and knowing chuckle,
“Go at once—do you hear me?” cried the girl,
turning on her in a fury. “ How dare you enter
.r i ° , ijj t> i. -j. t i v
the house—-go at once . But it was Jack who
went first after all.
In after life Damaris could never bear the sight
of Syrian hawkers—and sometimes, when the
gilded chains of respectability, monotony, and
law-abidingness weighed heavily, Jack Sandilands
j j j ™ j j s•*tp . fi
dreamed a dream, and wondered if Fate was after
all to be thanked for sending that fat, brown
woman to save him.
Q.
ETHEL MILLS.
Lord Salisbury, the hopeless pessimist of
British politics, apologises for his subserviency to
the Chamberlain-Kynoch gang of pro-Gores :
Fifty or sixty years ago, the leaders whom the public
followed, and who governed the formation and guidance
of political parties, were all men who, like Sir Robert Peel,
valued the advantages of peace, and the economy it
brought, above everything else. But the tide has turned,
and who are we that we should attempt to stem it ? If
the tide has turned we have to go with it! ”
Consider again the magnitude of things
American ! New York municipal improvements
—projected and in progress—are to cost nearly
700,000,000 dollars ! —just about double the
N.S.W. State debt. Rapid transit facilities
account for the biggest items ; a four-track tunnel
contract is for £7,000,000; and an extension
beneath the East River is to cost £3,000,000 more,
F ive new bridges are to cost £26,000,000, and im-
provements of parks and streets the enormous
sum of £17,000,000.
discourses on the Salvation
a rmv
j ■
It only wanted the Salvation Army to make Eastern
Hill (Melb.) the paradise of the parson. Near the Metro-
P olitan Fire Brigade the Metropolitan Blood and Fire
Brigade has now established itself in a smart, red-brick
building, erected in the “Salvo-castellated” style at a
cost of about £15,000. Here it is intended that a garrison
of Harmy ‘ ‘ cade is ” shall vocally and trombonically enter-
tain their neighbors, the Jews, Baptists, Anglicans,
Catholics, and otner sects owning the adjacent properties,
"rStSSSSSS
negotiations for the land were completed with great
diplomacy, so that the annexation had taken place before
interested parties could step in to prevent it. Once a
little curiosity was aroused when a long procession
marched round the block, but inquirers were little wiser
when informed that che Arm .v was simply “ walking round
Jericho.” No walls fell down, as none had yet gone up,
uow D le trumpets have been blown and the city is
taken.
The new and really fine block which this poverty-
stricken organisation, so “ urgently in need of funds,” has
put up is to be used in the “ training of the cadets for
the social and missionary operations of the Army.” They
will be taught the correct smile to accompany the infor-
mation that “another 3d. will make a shilling, God
bless you,” and other qualifications for the field. It is
related that some time ago the then training garrison
was controlled by an individual who had considerable
tal ® nt and a sense of humor, and was not half
a bad fellow all round. He thought he would inculcate
a knowledge 0 f logic and debate by a mock “ trial of the
Devil.” The defendant, who was charged with “obtain
ing money and time under false pretences,” failed to
appear, being engaged elsewhere, but was represented by
counsel—the officer above-mentioned. Cadets were cast
for judge, jury, police, witnesses, reporters and officials,
and things were conducted on Supreme Court lines.
qd, e fj rs {, witness gave evidence glibly that the Devil
had pro mised him pleasure and profit at the race-
course, card-table, two-up school, and other haunts
of sin, but had slipped him up. Then came the
cross-examination: “You went to the racecourse, you
®gy ? ” Witness: “Yes.” “Did you go more than once?”
Witness: Oh, yes, lots of times. Whv did you go the
second and third time if you got no pleasure there?”
Witness: “Well, I got a sort of pleasure.” “Oh 1
(sarcastically), you got a sort of pleasure—the pleasure
you sought for, wasn’t it ?” Witness (confused) : “ Yes.’
“And you won sometimes, didn’t you?” Witness:
“ Yes-” “ So you got pleasure and profit, too V Witness ■
“Well. I “Did 3 r ou, or did you notr Witness.
<‘ Yes.” The other cadets were equally discomfited, and
when, in his closing address, the counsel for the defence,
and the cadet who had been appointed judge, impressed
upon the jury that they must bring in a verdict strictly
accordance with the evidence, and forget all Kerristian
and prejudice, the more honest of the 12 declined to
find Satan guilty, and “ the jury disagreed.” The holding
of similar n “ oc k trials has since been disapproved of by
the Salvarmy war office.
The trials and tricks of the Salvarmy will some day be
written up by some sinner who knows, and is capable of
wielding a vigorous pen. It will be the best book of its
year. Meantime, let legislation consider the Army as
an industrial competitor with those who can’t dodge
Factories Acts and Minimum Wage Boards. With almost
unlimited capital—a gullible public means ■ same
S in^T, of CoLll J. e the . Ann - V tea ; sho P s and prime.. .s have
the pull on ordinary business houses . but beyond these
capitalistic advantages, there are others Though it
professes to pay union rates in all cases, there is strong
reason tor supposing that a vast religious organisation
dnds a wa > 0 sweating the converted toiler Writer
on good author, ty, that the cheapest place in
Melbourne for nearly every kind of printing, zincography,
lithography, cinematographe, and similar work, is at the
Army centre. The fin.shed work does not bear the Army
imprint, as such, but the Blood and Fire bosses get there
3 usfc fche salne - Ma .V not be an altogether wild prediction
thafc the first big industry Australia will need to place
uade v Government is evervthinir pertaining to the Army
barring the big drum. Lord forbid that the Govt, shall
ever take over the big drum.


THIS
& WALLACE
This Is the only Medical
institute in Australia with
a bona fide capital that
stands behind guarantees
as evidence of faithful per-
formance of all contracts.
Electro-Medical apd
SQrgical IpStitQtc.—
IN AN AGE ■which is so remarkable for its progress in all departments of Art, Philosophy, Manufacture and
Science it is surprising to find the practice of Medicine so deplorabfy in the rear, while thousands
of practitioners in the healing art prefer to remain in the conventional groove of their predecessors. The Freeman
and Wallace Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute consulting staff rise superior to the false code of ethics which
tyrannically bind the medical profession, and announce to the public that upon all special complaints they still con-
tinue to be consulted by the afflicted at their old address, Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
I
i;
®| I' ir
plf it
A
yfll
ft* "JljPl'
4 !-'*
P
Mm
ISh
n i
■
EXPERTS FREEMAN AND WALLACE,
The Specialists who conduct the largest practice in Australasia.
SPECIAL NOTICE No one should hesitate to consult us, as consultations either by letter or In
w 1 ,ul “ person are given FREE OF OHARQE, and Striotest Privaoy Is always assured.
OUR COMMONWEALTH POCKET DIARY.
Every Farmer, Miner, Mariner, Station-hand, Book-keeper, and other Toilers should send for a copy of this
Useful Memorandum Book. POST FREE ON APPLICATION—ALL COLONIES.
400-PAGE MEDICAL WORK (Illustrated, containing 80 Engravings, Many Useful Prescriptions,
Hints on Sick Room, Accidents and Emergency) Price 6d (POST FREE) ON APPLICATION.
>SkSP€CIALITI€S
Heart, Kidney, Liver Affections,
Nerve and Brain Complications.
Gravel, Bladder and Spinal Affections.
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Epilepsy, Gout.
Rupture and Plies Cured without Operation.
Blood and Skin Diseases.
r -——?
- - \
WHY WE ADVERTISE » Because Advertising IS the legitimate means vouchsafed to enlighten people
" . * " . n , C j n SIOC. to acquaint each other with their avocations and wants. If a man has a
Speciality, and has devoted years of his life and expended large sums of money in studying that Speciality and in
purchasing the necessary appliances, etc., for treating certain diseases, it would be absurd for him not to announce
the fact, and disseminate the knowledge universally, We have no apology to offer for informing the world thronc-h
this advertisement and otherwise of the means of relief we can afford to sufferers who need our help Therefore
however opposed to your own preconceived ideas and to those of your medical advisers, our method of treatment
may be the fact still remains that it is successful, and this is verified by the thousands of testimonials received frnm
grateful patients. We make no secret of our mode of practice. We only claim to have utilised in a common-sense
way the result of scientific research and long experience. If you listen to the counsel of your sceptical friends and
jealous physician you may omit consulting us, but remember if you,allow the disease to run riot in your svstem ™
are guilty of culpable neglect, and are alone responsible for your future pitiful condition. y y u
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration by Government
Medical Boards of New South. Wales, Victoria, South Australia, Great Britain
and America Open to Inspection by Dr. Wallace, our Fhysician-in-Chief.
Late Consulting: Staff, Homeopathic Hospital, Melbourne.
Late Medical Staff, British Army.
HOME TREATMENT. If you live out of town and cannot visit us, this need not denrivn
- ' you of the benefits of our wonderful treatment, because in the new
system of combining medicine and electricity a complete Electro-Medical home treatment is provided for Scarcely a
day passes that the news does not reach us of some wonderful home cure of a person living so far awav that a ner
sonal visit could not be made. Write a plain statement of your condition, explaining your feelings and symptoms as
clearly as possible, and from it we will be able to accurately diagnose your case. It only costs you the trouble of
writing, and twopence postage to get the opinion and advice of Australia’s Leading Specialists.
DO NOT BE DRUGGED TO DEATH BY QUACKS'
When there are so many quacks and impudent pretenders in the field of Medicine, who arrogate to themselves
the m° n st roBl ty of giving counsel and advice in matters of which they are profoundly ignorant, and who have
nothing to recommend them but their audacity, sufferers cannot be too careful whom they consult Although
liberty ot choice belongs to all, discrimination is necessary. In consulting THE FREEMAN AND WATT aoi?
CTI \Of™ IOAL AND SURGICAL INSTITUTE patients may feel assured that they shall itceheTheadlSe
of those fitted by superior skill and education, the result of special study. Our reputation and unparalleled
success as Specialists entitle us to your confidence.
IMedicineslforwarded to all parts of the WorId—CONTENTS
FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
a' Elizabeth $ BatbtirstSts, Sydoey
For privacy Patients may address “ Messrs. F. & W.,” 225 and 227 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
N.B.—QUEENSLANDERS are hereby irrfbrmed that a. person advertising: as Dr. Wallace
in Brisbane is in no way connected with the Institute.
BEECHAM’S
MUSIC FOLIO
Beyond Contradiction by far the Cheapest and Best
Collection of Music yet Published.
VOLUME 19 NOW READY.
Special Grand Number, Containing:
SOLDIERS’ CHORUS (from “ Faust ’’(—THE RED, WHITE, AND
BLUE—KNEELING BEFORE THEE (Ave Maria), Gounod—WHEN
THE HEART IS YOUNG (Dudley Buck)—BELLE OF BALTIMORE
(Barn Dance)—THERE SHONE A STAR IN HEAVEN (Frank L. Moir)
—The Good-bye at the Door—Queen of the Fairies (Barn Dance) —Beloved, it
is well—Mendelssohn’s Lieder (Book 5), No. 28—Mendelssohn’s Funeral March
(Book 5), No. 27—Thou art my Rest—Silver Chime (Pas de Quarte) —Who
shall be Fairest I —Art Thou my Saviour ?—Dream of Angels, Little One—A
Quiet Lane—Children of Jerusalem—Home they brought her Warrior—
Highland Queen Schottische—The Token—Sir Harold the Hunter—lf I were
but a King—Phoebe, Dearest! —Hush-a-by—The Blighted Flower—ln the
Calm of Twilight—Winter Song—Come to me, dear Mother—When
Thou art Near.
BEECHAM’S MUSIC FOLIO is lithographed from well-engraved plates on stout
paper, and edited by an eminent professor of music, thus guaranteeing perfect accuracy. Each
volume contains thirty different pieces of music, either old gems or some of the most popular
songs of the day, some of which, being published at 25.. have been included at considerable
cost. The songs have all the original symphonies and pianoforte accompaniments in full.
Volume 19 and the preceding 18 Volumes can be obtained from Messrs. Gordon & Gotch and
from most News-agents, Booksellers, and Music-sellers in Australia.
Published at Twopence per Volume by
THE PROPRIETOR OF “ BEECHAM’S PILLS,”
ST. HELEKTS, BKTG.
S. FREEMAN f SONS 1«3"E5
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
, SPECIALTIES:
BATHOS
FREEMAN'S
BAKING
POWDER.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
BEAD OFFICE : WTKYABD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
m
The Universal Remedy for Acidity or the Stomacn,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
(D1NNEF0RDS
[MAGNESIA,
m
Sold Throughout the Wona.
N.B.—ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA-
IRISH MOSS
FOR -The besl" remedy-
INFLUENZA, J
COUGHS,
Ask for Banning ton's
and seetkatyou get it.
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA.


SUNSHINE AND WATER.
Plenty of both is what YOUR GARDEN wants.
You needn’t bother about the Sun—THAT’S AT.T. RIGHT—
IT’S THE WAT'EBTY
n
We’ve been selling
Garden Hose for
20 years, but never
so cheap as we in-
tend selling this
season.
OUR PRICE list:
I x 3 Ply-Rubber Hose, 50ft. Coils, 235, 255, 30s, 365, 42s per Coil.
| Cotton-covered (Eureka) 50ft, Coils, 17s 6d, 20s, 22s 6d per Coil.
Controlling Nozzles, Is 9d ; Hose Unions, Reels, &c.
The Ball Nozzle Sprinkler, 2s each.
PERDRiAU and CO.,
Sa Tolt Free 030 address : - 270 George Street, Sydney
YEARS DYEING
HyPltJr for the ladies,
W- c. lEXjTD^IX)GKE &c CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STKJWHJT, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, lacing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
J-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
32 & 34 Clarence Street,
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
SYDNEY.
, . :. *■' '■ '
For all Services kept in Stock.
lend for Catalogne.
GENUINE
BELTING.
BENNIE, TEARE & CO.
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
PERTH
COOLGARDIE
AND
'Representing in Australia
TANGYES LIMITED.
STOCKS CARRIED
IN ALL THE STATES.
NEWMAN’S
in King St«
ď
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCO A
BRE AKFAST- SUPPER.
KEMP’S PATENT SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
Is now being used bv hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
It will stay on the sheep’s back as Song as required. It will MOT injure the wool. It will dissolve out under
the ordinary scouring- process.
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
FEtTOO. fiRIdIUJIIDG « CQ,. JEtiOIIRnE.
BLACK, IIED' and BLUE (in 8-gallon Cases)--
PRICE IN MELBOURNE .. .. :
„ SYDNEY (E. Rich & Co. Ltd.) .. ~
„ BRISBANE <E. Rich & Co. Ltd.) .. _
„ HOBART (Wm. Crosby & Co.)
===== =•= -or-.- •T.-.yr-.5-~ '■■•■■■rrrff.v.?. -rr- , r ... . - —:-■= :
3/6 per
3/S
■3/0
4/3
Gallon.
.»
99
If
COMPRESSORS.
d
Ingersol 1-Sergeant Rock Drills and Air Compressors hold the highest
average records throughout the world. They have met and defeated in fair competition
every machine brought against them, and have never failed to sustain their reputation for
doing the most work at the least expense. Write for Catalogue to
The Representatives in A nstralia of
ROCK
DRILLS
“ New irtgersoll.”
THE INGERSOLL-SERGEANT DRILL CO., PARKE
LACY
SYDMEY,
TD.
.”W.
HP- a-REO-OIRfZ- «Sc CO.,
74 Clarence Street SYDNEY & MELBOURNE 435 Bourke Street
m H
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants.
PRINCIPAL AGENCIES :
Blake Steam Pumps
Pay’s Woodworking Machinery
Tanite Emery Wheels
Sturtevant’s Fans and Forges
Pickering Governors
Ludlow Valves •
Schuttes’ Korting Injectors
“Champion” Lubricating Oils
Hoyts’ Leather Belting
Genuine “ Atlas ” Metal
Empire Laundry Machinery
Stratton’s Steam Separators
American Tool Co’s Lathes
Goubert’s Eeed Water Heater
’’'i •
TODLWOKKSEi
: ??• ■■' i
ClNtlt V.V!
: 1: O A-
r .■■
