

McEWAN’S ALE.
WHISKY
IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
Mining-
G. WATKINS «&£> CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
McLAREN’S Compound
Traction Steam Engine.
3a:
WINE!
WINE !
WINE!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLDEST WINE^>
AUSTRALIA.
X3T Send for Price List
Ment ion this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
GIBSON. BATTLE & C°
85 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for J. & H. McLAREN, Leeds, England, Makers of Steam Ploughing Tackle, Traction Engines for Haulage, General and Special Work.
We Stock and have to arrive McLaren’s Compound Traction Engines; RUSTON’S Portable Horizontal and Vertical Steam Engines;
BROADBENT’S Hydro Extractors; KIRCHNER’S Saw Mill and Wood-Working Machinery. >
COMPOUND TRACTION STEAM ENGINES.
THORNE’S
That’s All!
A 1 WHISKY.
NOW READY. NOW READY.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.
A Reprint of articles from The Bulletin.
Price SIX —3E»oS t©c3L, Sea-
Sole Wholesale Agents: EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO. LIMITED, Sydney and Brisbane.
à
I
a
3E3CQISt^.DFe.Tr.
;e3fSS
Hadley’s Orient Hotel.
<?y
Mzh,
TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Hay, or from 2 Guineas per Week;
RESERVE EXTRA. RESERVE SPECIAL. RESERVE EXTRA SPECIAL. . SUPREME.
SANDEMAN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
tp-tT'T STREET. £33n>:KrJss‘sr.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and XOVSO.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Joker’s Love Bond, or Siamese Links ; Parisian
Skirt Dance (a book bound and . can be carried in vest
pocket), Book of Conjuring Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which
causes roars of laughter), Yankee Rubber Baby (can be
carried in vest pocket and blown out to life-size, to the
astonishment of all); Wizard Pish (gives the definition of
vour character, very superior, for parlor entertainments),
Wizard Pack of Cards (can be changed as you please,
instructions-enclosed). .
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO., .
718 George-street, SYDNEY.
-\y h. L. HUTCHINSON Manager.
J\ (Mention this paper when writing.
â
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. \Vale6, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWIGI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
Branches:—P- Frankel & Co., Edward-st., Brisbane, Q.;
H. Summers, Barraek-st., Perth, W.A. ; H. K. Fysh and
Co. Collins-st., Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter & Co., Auckland ;
Blackburne & Smith, Cashel-st., Christchurch, N.Z.
“ Tales of the System.”
Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
Fair girls and gray horses.
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
ã
ill
ä
S Y ON EY
71 CI-ARENCE ST :
A MACHINE THAT
s : PAYS ITS WAY.
There is no Concentrator now on the market
more effective and economical than the
WILFLEY ORE CONCENTRATOR.
MINE OWNERS. V
DIRECTORS .. .. I
SHAREHOLDERS j
TRIBUTES?© .. J
You all know the value of your Tailings and Slimes.
Do you know the capacity of the Wl LFLEY ?
It is from 15 to 30 Tons per Day.
II information we will supply you with if you will send or write to us for
a CATALOG.
If®
G
FREMANTLE ♦ KALGOORLIE
214 HIGH ST T MCDONALD ST
G
DARK TOBACCO.
THERE IS ONLY ONE BEST TOBACCO AND THAT TOBACCO IS
((
WEALTH OF NATIONS”
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Teleplione'No. 10!$.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonabl
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sixes supplied.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
E diswan
* m
SKI
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light,
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
the ini a sin
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q’nsland Depot—Central Buildin s Edward-st., Brisbane.
The Bulletin
Vol 22.—N0. 1102. J
Saturday, March 30, 1901.
Registered at the G-eneral Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


*(I*e8 dames n’entrent pas ici.) Periphrastic for “ He
licked that stamp ” ; but the lick-association interiupts
the emotion. Luckily no minor incongruities intenupt
a woman's emotion in face of a love-letter. It is a case of
He nothing common did or mean
Upon that memorable scene.
No woman or worshipper ever sees the King re-trussin®-
his points, as it were. [Memo, for beginners: This
foot-note should have been omitted; it is treason to
laugh at Queen Venus. That is why undertakers are so
popular with the dear ladies ; they are jolly souls, but
they always preserve a proper gravity iii presence of the
case in hand. Every smile before the Throne detracts
from the impression of your devotion. Would vou
laugh at a funeral ? Well, love is a more solemn thing
than even an alderman’s funeral, j [Memo, for you who
nsisted on entering : Serve you right ; you were' told
you had no business here.]
s Eumenthol «
e e
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
(REGISTERED).
fIES
S.O>*
\ C v>
IN TINS, Is. 6t*.
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR’ POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
Gr. MXTOSOH, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT :
QUEEN’S PLACE.
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in indigestion and Dyspepsia,
THE RED PAGE.
A NOBLE LOVE can find a great ex-
pression; but can it ever find full
expression ?
1 do not think so : the modern lover’s
brain is too complex to be satisfied by even
the liberal means of self-disclosure provided
by modern art. Always something is left
unsaid, and (it often seems) the most vital
thing. Words, music, pictures—the greater
the. artist, the more convinced sis sigh at
their inadequacy.
And, philosophically, the barrier of indi-
viduality can never be broken down. You
never can be sure that your written word,
your pictured face, is conveying to another
the inspiring thought which you have striven
to convey. That it conveys a similar thought,
an emotion similar to your own, you may
often believe ; but the same thought, the
same emotion ? You do not know, cannot
know—never.
Only—but this is rare —
When a beloved'hand is laid in ours,
When, jaded with the rush and glare
Of the interminable hours,
Our eyes can in another’s eyes read clear,
When our world-deafen’d ear
Is by the tones of a loved voice caress’d —
A bolt is shot back somewhere in our breast,
And a lost pulse of feeling stirs again.
The eye sinks inward, and the heart lies plain,
And what we mean, we say, and what we would, we
know.
A man becomes aware of his life’s flow,
And hears its winding murmur ; and he sees
The meadoivs where it glides, the sun, the breeze.
And there arrives a lull in the hot race
Wherein he doth for ever chase
That fly inf and elusive shadow, rest.
An air of coolness plays upon his face,
And an unwonted calm pervades his breast.
And then he thinks he knows
The hills ivhere his life rose,
And the sea where it goes.
* * • •
Even the physical expressions of love are
sweet statements, dear proofs ; but they are
not explanation's. They tell most, they may
tell all, they tell very much ; but they do
not tell positively how much, why much,
in what way much. At the best, you
get the utmost love that is possible to
the lover, and—such measure of expression
as sis capacities permit. But always
tlie greatest love transcends the greatest
lover. The more you love, the less (com-
paratively) you show yOur love : it is love's
paradox lovely.
For, in any sphere of human action,
satisfaction means stagnation. Success comes
in striving—and in attainment—but its
essence is striving. In the moment of win-
ning you commence to lose, unless you
regard the goal attained as vantage from
which to reach a goal farther, higher. That
is the essential difference between life and
death—life is dissatisfied. The tree of
evolution grows because it aspires. If
humanity—there—on that topmost bough,
made an end of discontent, humanity would
be undone. But is the bough really higher
than the root, in the universal scaled is
multicellular man really a more wonderful
thing than the unidellulaf protozoa ?
Well, it pleases us to say so. Anyway,
there is more fun on the top hough— and
there are more complex ways of loving.
* * * *
One of the ways of loving.is to write letters
about love—women like them. In the
ecstatic attitude of a woman to a love-letter
there seems to be some relic of the aboriginal
reverence for the incantation-fruits of the
medicine-man. It is a message from the
god. Think ! how wonderful ! Heaven has
passed from sight ; the dull earth surrounds
you ; you hear, but cannot see, the bird
singing at your heart, “He loves me! he
loves me! ” And suddenly, straight from
the skies, drops this visible emanation of the
deity. That paper has been under his hand,
he wrote those words, addressed that envelope'
his tongue has touched that stamp.* “ This
is his letter to me! it is mine! no other
person in all the world has a letter like
this :it is our secret! Oh .-..'!
J. M. Barrie prettily pictured this in
“Tommy and Grizel.” When Grizel’s first
love-letter came she uttered some faint
cries ; then she ran to her rodm and locked
herself in with the letter. Several times
she almost opened it. But instead she
wondered what was inside it. Then she put
it in her bosom and went out, and saw
Tommy, and for the first time she was eager
to go away from him—to read his letter. So
she caine home, and in the most solemn
chair in the most important room she read it
It commenced “My wife,” and the next,
person to enter the room found Grizel in
happy tears on the hearth-rug.
* * • *
The tribe of circulating-library readers has
been buzzing round “An Englishwoman’s
Love Letters” (recently issued) with a vehe-
mence which author and publisher find en-
tirely admirable. And now dozens of
clever literary public-pleasers may well be
moaning : “ Why didn’t I have that no-
tion \ For dozens of literary people could
-do write such letters as well, or better.
The idea expressed in the book, and ad-
vertised by paragraphists and puffers, is that
the letters were actually written by a woman
of two-and-twenty to a man a few months
younger—before and after a breach in love
(made by the man’s mother) which caused the
woman’s death. There were many inherent
improbabilities in this idea ; and belief that
the “ Letters ” represent fact seems to have
been generally abandoned by commentators,
bo the book may be supposed, to ask for
credence as a feat of the literary imagina-
tion.
Here are some extracts—
Oh, I love you, I love you ! I am crying with it,
having no words to declare to yo.u what I feel.
My tears have wings in them : first semi-detached,
then detached. See, dearest, there is a rainstain
tp make this letter fruitful of meaning !
It is sheer convention—and we, creatures of
habit—that tears don’t come kindly and easily to
express where laughter leaves off and a something
better begins. Which is all very ungrammatica
and entirely me, as I am when I get off my hinges
too suddenly. \
I kiss you—how ?as it were for the first or the
last time No, but for all time, Beloved ! every
time I see you or think of you sums up my world.
.Love me a little, too, and I will be as contented
as I am your loving ...
Learest—l have danced and I have danced
till iam tired ! lam dropping with sleep, but I
must just touch you and say good-night. This
was our great day of publishing, dearest, ours :
all the world knows it ; and all admire your
choice ! I was determined they should ! I have
been collecting scalps for you to hang at your
girdle. All thought me beautiful: people who
never did so before. I wanted to say to them,
Am I not beautiful ? I am, am I not ? ” And
it was not for myself I was asking this praise.
Beloved, I was wearing the magic rose—what
you gave me when we parted : you saying, alas
that you were not to be there. But you were !
Its leaves have not dropped nor the scent of it
faded. I kiss you out of the heart of it. Good-
night, come to me in my first dream 1 . . .
You told me, dearest, that I should find your
mother formidable. It is true; I did. She is a
person very much in the grand pagan style: I
admire it, but I cannot flow in that sort of com-
pany, and I think she meant to crush me You
were very wise to leave her to come alone.
It veil now Beloved, I break down in trying to
say how much I love you. I cannot put all my
joy into my words, nor all my love into my lips,
nor all my life into your arms, whatever way I
Something remains that I cannot express.
Believe, dearest, that the half has not yet been
spoken, neither of my love for you, nor of my
trust in you nor of a wish that seems sad, but
comes in a very tumult of happiness—the wish to
die so that some unknown good may come to vou
out of me. v
Not till you die, dearest, shall I die truly ! I
love you now too much for your heart not to
carry me to its grave, though I should die now,
and you live to be a hundred. I pray you may !
I cannot choose a day for .you to die. lam too
grateful to life which has given me to you td say
1 were dying—“ Come with me, dearest C’
though how the words tempt me as I write
them .—Come with me, dearest: yes, come ! Ah
but you kiss me more, I think, when we say
good-bye than when meeting ; so you will kiss me
most of all when I have to die a thing in death
to look forward to ! And, till then—life, life till
L am out of my depth in happiness and drown in
your arms ! . . . ■
-Then the man breaks the engagement,
lefusing explanation. The supposition is
that his mother found a family skeleton
which frightened him.
You were so dear to me, Beloved ; that you
ever are! Time changes nothing in vou as you
seemed to me then. Oh; lam sick to touch your
hands . all my thoughts run to your service :
they seem to hear you call, only to find locked
doors. ...
Oh, could all this silence teach me the one
oiling 1 am longing to know! —why am I not worthy
ot you . If I cannot Be your wife, whv cannot I
see you still—serve you if possible ? I would *be
grateful. *
You meant to be generous; arid wishing not to
wound me, you said that “ there was no fault”
in me. I realise now that you would not have
said that to the woman you still loved. And now
I am never to know what part in me is hateful .
Oli, how tired loving you now makes me !
physically I grow weary with the ache to have
you m ray arms ! And I dream, I dream always
the shadows of former kindness that never appar-
ently grow warm enough to clasp me before I
wake.
You have kept my letters? Do you read them
ever 1 wonder? and do tlihy tell you differently
about me, now that, you see me with new eyes'?
Ah, no, you dare not look at them : they tell
too much truth ! How can love-letters ever
I cease, to be the winged things they were when
they first came ? I fancy mine sick to death
for want of your heart to rest on : but never
less loving. ...
I have to realise now that I have become the
greatest possible failure in life—a woman who has
lost her share of the world ”: I try to shaoe
myself to it. * 1
Be quite sure that if now, even now—for to-day
of all days has seemed most dark—if now I were
given my choice—to have known you or not to
have known you—Beloved, a thousand times I
wou d claim to keep what I have, rather than have
it taken away from me. I cannot forget that for a
tew months I was the happiest woman I ever
knew; and that happiness is perhaps only by pre-
sent conditions removed from me. If I have a
soul, I believe good will come back to it: because
1 have done nothing to deserve this darkness
uniess by loving you : and if by loving you, 1 am
glad that darkness came.
Dearest, I lay my heart down oh yours and
cry: and having worn myself out with it and
ended, I kiss your lips and bless God that 1 have
known you.
Beloveff, the burden of things is too
much foi me. Come to me somehow, dear ghost
of all my happiness, and take me in your arms !
I ache and ache, not to belong to you Tdo • T
must. It is only our senses that divide, us: and
mine are all famished servants waiting - for their
master. They have nothing to do butwaU for
you, and pretend that they,believe you will come.
Oh, it is grievous !
Beloved, in the darkness do you feel mv kisses?
They go out of me in sharp stabs of pain : they
must go somewhere for me to be delivered of them
only with so much suffering. Oh, how this should
make me hate you, if that were possible: how,
instead, I love you more and more, and shall’
dearest, and will till I die ! , . .
Most dear, most beloved, you were to me anc
are. Now I can no longer hold together : but it
is my body, not my love, that has failed.
• * * , *
Well, reader, what do you think? Are
you impressed ? are you convinced that a
real passion expressed itself in this way
Another woman, an American critic, thinks
not —thinks that although the book is clevei
the illusion of reality is not great, because,
though the lady doth protest strenuously,
we cannot “ believe that it has happened.”
“ When we read : ‘ We were shaped for each
other from our very birth. Have we not
proved it in a hundred days of happiness,
which have lifted us up to the blue of a
heaven higher than any birds ever sang ’
or, k To-day, dearest, a letter* from you
reached me : a fallen star which had lost its
way. It lies dead in my bosom ’ —we seem
to hear Roxane leaning from her balcony,
rather than a woman of flesh and blood who
is suffering.” And the critic quotes from the
famous “Portuguese Letters” of Mariana
Alcafarado.
Hove you so desperately that I cannot even
wish that you should be as unhappy as you have
made me, neither can I wish that you should not
think of me. lam fiercely jealous of everything
m France which may give you pleasure or touch
your heart. I know you are only sorry for me
and I will not have your pity. How is it possible
that with all my love I could not make you
happy ? J
“ There is the real note of pas lon and of
pain, sounding as true now as when it was
struck by the hand which was a pinch of
dust two centuries ago.”
A want of complete sincerity—a want of
passion so exclusive that the writer shall seek
only to express herself, careless of effect—-
these are the drawbacks from “the illusion
of reality.” The lover seems sometimes to
be conscious that §he is saying clever things,
to be N listening to herself with head on one
side, self-admiringly. And yet another
woman—English, this one—puts this im-
pression in the form of parody—
Ownest When I woke this morning my
windows were covered with a thick, white frost,
my bath-tub was an improvised skating-pond, and
the mercury in the thermometer outside had
forced a hole through a bulb at the base of the
tube and disappeared. X was just dangling one
timorous, creamy, magnolia white foot over the
edge of the bed into the icy crackling void of cir-
cumambient cold when the door opened, and
Juggins (that housemaid, Beloved, is already
pensioned against sensility !)—Juggins brought
me Letter ...
Mine exclusively ! Yesterday, in your absence,
1 called on your mother. . . . One can see that
your mother has not had many artistic advan-
tages ; the drawing-room curtains are too awful :
and sooner or later that bed of red geraniums by
the front door will have to go. I made no allusion
to the curtains beyond saying that 1 could not
live in a room with aniline colours ; for vour sake,
Darling, I was patient and forbearing.
Dearest, my one desire is to judge her leniently ’•
but 1 happened to mention Meredith in the course
of our talk, and her .comments were so painfully
wide of the mark that I thought it kinder to
change the subject. ...
Circumference of my Globe! This town is
Pisa. . . . Surely you' must have heard of the
leaning Tower of. Pisa ? Love, it is a melody in
marble ! 0, how I pitied those of our party who
were too ignorant and unimaginative to be thrilled
by such a revelation! Don’t laugh at me, Dar-
ling, and call me eccentric, original, romantic ;
but when IJncle asked me yesterday what I should
like for a birthday present I flung mv arms about
his neck and whispered. One of those little Lean-
ing Towers in alabaster ! Beloved, 1 can never
be thankful enough for having been lx>rn with an
artistic nature, ...
* * * *
And yet
Well, E. 13. Browning might have written
many of “An Englishwoman’s Love Let-
ters ” : many of her own are remarkably like
them. That means two things : one, that it
is difficult fora higher-educated woman to
become capable of writing well without
losing part of her power to feel intensely;
the other, that it is difficult for a literary
woman to divest herself of literary self-
consciousness. And the two things are two
sides of the same thing—expressions of the
idea that you cannot eat your cake and have
your cake ; that a woman (or man, for that
matter) who devotes nervous energy to the
cultivation of aesthetic brain-centres has so
much less energy to bestow on the common-
place sex-centres. So, instead of passion,
she offers sentiment ; instead of love,
attenuated “ spiritual communion” ; instead
of children, —books, pictures, music. The
trite verse—
Man s love is of man’s life a thing apart:
"T is woman’s whole existence.
-means simply that man has a larger brain-
held to cultivate ; and when he is weeding
the cabbages he can't be hoeing the potatoes
As long as woman was confined to the potato-
patch she k ept hoeing all the time. Now
that higher education has taught her to
spend time on brocoli and asparagus as well
her potatoes are smaller and fewer in a hill’
Love-letters are one kind of potatoes. Se
how nobly the metaphor justifies itself !
What is the essence of a love-letter
Obviously this, that it should breathe love
not literary sentiment. The more love, the
better the love-letter. Some of Mirabeau’s
love-letters must have made the paper
sizzle : they are penned so furiously. Ant
ror a real woman's love-letter, there was one
not long ago printed on this page—a pathetic
epistle found upon a,Boer killed at Modder
uver- which cannot on its plane be sur
passed.
Dear husband,—You must promise me that i
you are taken ill on the field you will ee
home at once. You must not be ill away from
home Wn eme Why WaS Unde did not come
Dear husband, you tell me that you get cakes
and tarts baked, also blancmanges. Where do
you get sugar from to bake the cakes ? You write
that you have to drink coffee without sugar.
Dear husband, you do not know how fearfully
lonely 1 feel without you, but 1 hope you will soon
come tack to me,, and that the Almighty wil
speedily end the war. The lung sickness among
the cattle has broken out again. I wanted to
send you a few apples, but it is simply impossible
to get them. lam so bitterly sorry.
Dear husband, this house makes me feel so very
sad. When one enters it it seems as if every thine
was dead.
Coffee and sugar can hardly be bought for
money, they are so dear. Dear husband, forgive
any mistakes, 1 am writing so hurriedly.
Mother and all send greetings, and with fondest
love and a kiss from your loving wife.
. G. M. Mull**.
Answer soon.
TKat is a letter to warm the heart of any
man. Sappho had more art, but not more
natural emotion. Compare it with a passage
from “ An Englishwoman’s Love Letters”
Every day your love binds me more deeply than
1 knew the day before ; so that no day is the same
now, but each one a little happier than the last.
My own, you are my very own ! And yet, true as
that is, it is not so true as that 1 am your own.
It is less absolute, X mean ; and must be so
because 1 cannot very well take possession of any’-
thing when I am given over heart and soul out of
my own possession ; there isn’t enough identity
left in me, I am yours s<3 much, so much !
What a gulf!
And the lesson of criticism and illustra-
tion is just this : Let your heart write your
love-letters : the less your head interferes
the better. It is pleasant to read loviDg
sentimentalities wherein poor Cupid is
analysed and discussed and followed into
and through every leafy labyrinth of
his refuge ; but only the pang of passion
thrills and stimulates.. Love-letters, after
all, arc mere shadows and simulacra.; but,
since we must sometimes be content
with shadows, please, ladies, put the stress
on the love, and not on the “letters.”
• • » »
Remark that if “An Englishw Oman’s
Love Letters ” had been turned into rhyme,
the poetry-convention would have carried
ofl all their artifice. Perhaps some such
idea suggested the parallel which has been
f und between the letters and Laurence
Housman's “ Rue. ’ But “ Rue,” though
rnily fair minor poetry, is better in its class
than the letters in theirs. Because the
poetry-convention upholds the illusion in
ilie category of poetry we are content to
walk more or less in a sentimental fairy-
land. ' J
>So, on the whole, the .circulating-library
success will leave no Jove-letters on the sands
of lime not to say the shores of Literature.
Illy author lias assailed the Impossible
which is right ; but with inadequate weapons
which (except from tire saies-point) was
injudicious. Supposing that the English-
woman really loved, and her letters were
tinly posted, it would have paid her much
better to have spent her epistolary energy iu
making herself personally attractive to "her
man. If lie was the ordinary English-
man, it. is no wonder he broke off
the mat ch. Tups© letters frightened
him. His prescient mother pointed to the
gloomy perspective of a life spent in receiv-
ing such correspondence,, and in endeavour-
ing to write suitable replies; and his pro-
phetic soul failed b in. Naturally, he could
not. tell the lady that. So she broke her
heart—over her own letters—the letters she
thought so lovely!
lhe moral is /he Bookfellow'x Advice to
Girls About to Write Letters : Come yourself.


Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Wool and Produce Brokers.
. _ . i ("Includes all Charges excepting
Consolidated Charge! CGITte 1 cartage from steamer’s whart.
for Selling Wool J Mm 2 p* w v .
Fat Stock Salesmen, Stock & Station Agents.
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.
BEST PRICES-—^
.... FOR ....
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN
OBTAINED BY CONSIGNING TO
Goldsbrough, Nlort*Co.
Circular Quay, Sydney,
Who render PROMPT RETURNS and safeguard your
Proceeds by their TRUST ACCOUNT System.
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager.
å
C B B
S
58 00
s&os
seo7
5800
2s—=
(5 o& nan feed oof fe or buro.
\ CERTIFICATE. —Should any of our “ Can’t B Beat ” Briar Pipes
crack or burn, a new one will be exchanged for it immediately on
application. Thousands Selling Daily.
r CBB\
BRIAR
SIIOIMIIIS #3llll
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches everywhere.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST
Of TRICKS, PUZZLES, Etc.,
Etc., FREE.
ā
Bare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
EXTRA SPECIAL CATALOGUE
OF BOOKS FREE.
STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTES OF ANY COLONY TAKEN.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE,
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
ERASMIC
PEERLESS
SOAP
Unequalled as a Preserver and
Beautifier of the Complexion. It diffuses an exquisite
odor, and imparts a stimulating and refreshing influence.
The BEST JUDGES
PRONOUNCE
BEWARE
OF
IMITATIONS.
o'
TO BE UNEQUALLED IN FLAVOUR AND QUALITY.
Agents—VlßGOE, SON & CHAPMAN and DAVID COHEN k CO., Sydney.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile
Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
REDUCED CHARGES ON WOOL:
| p Br Cfcnt.
COMMISSION
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wools realising over 6d. per lb.,
the charges will be ... ...
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb.
On Wools realising 4d. per lb. and under
WAY BILLS sent on application.
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
WHEAT.
SALES last season show an increase of 25 per cent, as compared with previous years. nnva
accommodation. Three months’ free storage. . w i lfm desired.
CIRCULAR giving fullest particulars as to charges etc . f ° r^r^ morand d um of Association of
CONSIGNORS are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memora
this Company.
. Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
Mitchell’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills; Buncle & Sons’ Chaffcutters.
Donald’s Patent Wool Press. CUF fp dip
ar.FNTS FOR McDOUGALL S SHEEP DIP.
SKINS
Rend Your Consignments of .
KANGAROO,
WALLABY.
RABBIT,
OPOSSUM SKINS,
WINGHGOMBE, CARSON & GO. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
They obtain the Highest Possible Prices.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offioes: 12 and 1* O'CONNELL STREET. Stores; PYRK3NT.
Sole
Charge : 3 3Per Cent, to the Growers.
BONUS | PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS last Two Seasons.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Buyers.
44
Ratjd.
f LAWRUS n DRESS FABRICS
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS A STOREKEEPERS.
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
Australian Agents for the
Wholesale Trade only:
“X *» ''*»
OMM
EVERY YARD 18 STAMPED
STOGDAL.E & DUFFUS, Finks Buildings, Corner of Elizabeth & Flinders Sts.,
BTOt * Melbourne; and 422 George St., Sydney.
rtv. Clarkson’s Electric Bolt
Will fill vour Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years study and
1 It- is unlike anv of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
tlian any otoer b<rty made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr . Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
Virine-s the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy, and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vig °To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic,
wifi bring happiness and health. The influence onge Nerves and Organs is truly wonderful.
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
CALL OR WRITE- OWL.
DKXJG STORE,
CUT
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
ă
t Do
V 5
in
M
Wil
W/|?
ft®
vVhen
writing
please
mention
Tiie
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING {
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by (
Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-|
CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give'prompt relief ha Inaomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, GMddfnes*, General
Debility,,Weakness, Loss of Memory, eto., eto., eto.-
They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy,, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands,
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
atia shments. .. 3 3 0
Ladies' Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. lfjs. to 22 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send dor
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to —
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney


TATTERSALL’S.
Address: Car© GEO. ADAMS, Hobart.
DONCASTER H. April 6.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me_ shares in the
above.
Name
Address
SYDNEY 0. April 8.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name
Address
CITY TATTERSALL’S H.
50,000 Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
above.
Name
Address
£ 0 •
April 20.
shares in the
Adelaide C.
91ay 1.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in above.
Name_
Address.
Turf Club H. May 25.
(Altered from Birthday Cup owing to the Queen’s Heath.)
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
PJease allot me.
Name.
in the abova
Address.
For full particulars read our Printed Circular.
Address “ Tatters all,” care Cteo. Adams, Hobart.


WOODHEAD'S^
S" CRAMP
SIMPLEST, FASTEST & MOST
EFFECTIVE EVER MADE for
FLOORING, CEILING, &C.
No. 6,35 a; No. 0,30 a; No.
7 (Oolllng), 25a eaoh.
ą
If your Ironmonger or Storekeeper does not stock, send
direct to us—
PERRY BROS.
Wholesale
Ironmongers,
Brisbans
Solk Agents fob Australasia.
4l
ǻ
If you stop eating you
■will surely get thinner
and thinner, until at last
you starve to death. Grass
won’t answer, although
it is good for the horse.
You must have a food
suitable to your needs.
Ayer’s
Hair Vigor
is a hair food. It
won’t take the
place of grass or
bread. It is good
for the hair, and
that is all. It
feeds the hair
with hair food. The
hair can’t keep from
growing. It stops
falling out because it is
hearty and strong. And
it always restores the early
rich, dark color to gray hair.
We say that “gray hair is starved
hair”; and the only way to treat it is
to supply the best kind of hair food.
This is where Ayer’s Hair Vigor differs
so greatly from other hair preparations;
it feeds the hair. Just keep that in
mind all the time you are using it.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
DOWKIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
) TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
Publications.
money
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, by Dr.
ALFRED NEALE, Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
and their Treatment.
Posted Is. Id.
Publishers : Turner and Henderson, SYDNEY*
LADIES.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address —L.D.1., 300 Collin. St., Melbourne.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
331- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE k SONS, Brisbane, Q'land
ACistraliao Protfidcot Society.
MONEY TO LEND
o^er^h™
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any tine.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager,
Head Offioe: 87 Pitt-street, Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
waufift.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 IOSr
H. Hilb'er,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
egg* Send for a
Catalogue.
wm
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to.
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
YORKSHIRE
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World.
RELISH
Millions of Bottles Sold Annually in England.
beware oe substitutions.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
For making delicious Custards without eggs in
Less Time and at Half the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed Rice.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DELICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS alone.
GOODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure and wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining or boiling. The
packets are complete in themselves in the
following flavours Lemon, Orange,Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
Proprietors :-GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT, Bagot Rd.Subiaco, Perth, W.A.&6S, King St.,Melbourne
Paris exhibition,l9oo.—British Awards
The Only
Grand
Prix
«»»«.
highest $w art
ever made!
tfRI
vycrg
rofsx*/
rec Viy .
FOR TOILET SOAP
HAS BEEN AWARDED TO
(Established 1789.)
BP
Appointment
to
¥i?nF\
ic
x>
fier ittajestp cbe Queen »«« B.R.P. Cbe prince of Wales.
20 HIGHEST AWARDS
from 1851 to 1900 Inclusive.
]Sr.9.W. Carriage
Note our New Address:
& Saddlery Manf
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern,
Corapau 3/
SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description ot
SADDLERY? It so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us. _
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies* the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double’Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.-—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway dtation).
OUR SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
æ
DeliTcred at any Wliarf or
jN.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sydney Telegraph’s African war-corres-
pondent is eloquent about the necessity for
thrashing your nigger, and the virtues of “a
heavy riding-whip with a green-hide fall ’’—lack-
ing the “big and murderous-looking sjambok.”
At Stellenbosch, he says, they flogged a nigger
night and morning, “on principle.” And a
Yankee correspondent who believed in bitting his
nigger “over the head with a rifle, and laying his
skull open,” is quoted with tacit approval. After
this, The Bulletin hopes the Telegraph will
finally cease printing missionary yarns about Boer
inhumanity to “ the poor black men.”
“Pukaki” in reply to “A Man from
England :
Editor Bulletin.— That correspondent’s remarks re the
alleged want of courage of the Highland regiments are
most unjust. I don’t mean to say that Highlanders are
braver than other races ; the average of bravery is much
the same with all Europeans. But, as was said to Prince
Charlie 150 rears ago, “Highlanders, once foiled, won’t
come again.” At the moment of battle the Highlandman
like Celts in general—is in a state of great mental
and physical exaltation, during which he will do great
things. But such a state, of course, involves a correspond-
ing reaction, so that “ once foiled, he won’t come again.”
But how often has he been foiled ? Once by Cumberland
at Oulloden ; and once by Cronje at Magersfontein.
Cronje, in fact, saw what Napoleon never saw—the back
of a Highland soldier.
Found.
They said : “ This world of ours
Is fair with many flowers,
And green with waving trees,
And bright with streams and seas.
Its ways right pleasant are,
Being God’s dearest star.”
But I went, for my part,
Alone, with hungry heart. .
Of what avail to me
Were flower, and stream, and sea ?
I said to the Great Sea :
“What gift hast thou for me ? ”
A deep, slow-heaving sigh
Was all of her reply.
I spake unto the Earth,
She said : “I gave thee birth.”
“ A better gift I crave.”
“Then thou shalt have a grave.”
I cried unto the Day—
“ Hast thou no word to say ? ”
A careless sun-ray shone
My drooping head upon.
I said unto the Night—
“ Mother of star-worlds bright!
“Goddess of Mystery !
Hast thou no word for me ? ”
Night with her thousand eyes,
Gazed down from purple skies.
What message did she bring—
Mournful or menacing ?
Never a word she said —
Yet lower drooped my head.
Never a tale she told—
And yet my heart grew cold.
And then, all suddenly,
The Answer came to me.
In rosy clouds it came ;
And with a robe of flame
It wrapped me all around ;
And I was a king crowned.
And O but She was fair,
With glory of gold hair !
Vivid was each bright tress
With light of loveliness.
Bright were her eyes as stars,
And blue as nenuphars.
Her lips were—Eros knows—
Honey and heart erf rose.
Her virgin breasts were white
Twin-blossoms exquisite.
O Heart whose throbbing dear
A god might lean to hear !
0 Soul made pure and fine
For tenderness divine !
For ye I waited long
Yea unto evensong !
Her arms around me were:
Lilies are not more fair.
Forgot were shore and sea
In that great ecstasy.
They were as dreams, and they
As dreams were swept away.
Earth with her toiling slaves,
Her cities and her graves,
A little spot had grown,
Whereon we stood alone.
Alone, but for the fair
Stars that our comrades were
In our procession bright
Unto the Infinite.
Who, then, did live and reign ?
God only, and We Twain.
N.S.W.
VICTOR J. DALEY.


ǽ
VJDOX3G-S
WOOD
SPLIT
PULLIES:
Guaranteed to transmit from 25
to 60 per cent, more power than
any iron pnlley made with, same
tension of belt.
70 per cent. Lighter than cast
iron.
40 . >» «» wrought
iron or steel.
No Key Seat to cut.
No Set Screw to twist off.
No Shaft to take down.
Perfect Balance.
Perfect Shaft Fastening.
Write for Prices and Particulars to Sole Agents
for Australasia—
PMEH3CU C° [td.
60 Clarence-St., Sydney, n.s.w.
•Ajt JTewfflllera, 4
ydnoy-
PLEASE send for our Illus-
trated Sheets of Latest Novel-
ties. All Goods Post Free.
uoipisqo
Solid Gold
Lucky
CHARM, ss;
with Pin and
Chain, 8s 6d.
New Zealand Greenstone
Maltese CBOSS, Gold
mounted Pendant, 9s.
Gold CHARM,
Faith, Hope,
Charity, ss;
with Pin and
Chain, 8s 6d.
New Zealand
Greenstone Bell
and Chain, 6s 6d;
with Pin, 7s 6d.
NOTE. —Kindly cut out this
Advertisement and forward
when ordering.
(C
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
A. BOWMAN’S
. . . Tor Can Have . ..
r
English Boots at
14/6 per pair.
Tan Boots at
31-0/0 per pair.
Porpoise Hide at
I*7/0 per pair
Best Style.
Best Quality.
No
Better
Made.
We do One Line—Gentlemen’s Boots—only.
That one we do Well.
318 GEORGE ST., near Hunter St.,
also 145 KING ST., opp. Theatre Royal.
■SllenburgsToods.
A PROQRESSIVE DIETARY, unique in providing nourishment suited to the crewing digestive powers of YOUNO INFANTS from
birth upwards, and free from dangerous germs.
The “ Allenburys” Milk Food No. i
Specially adapted to the first three months of life.
The “AHenburys” Milk Food No. 2
Similarly adapted to the seoond three months of liie.
Complete Foods,
STERILIZED, and
needing; the addition of
hot water only.
The *« Allenburys ” Malted Food No. a
For Infants over six months of age.
To be prepared for use by the
addition of COW’S MILK,
according to directions given.
No. 3 Food is strongly recommended for Convalescents, Invalids, the Aged, and all requiring a light and easily digested diet.
The London Medical Record writes of it that— “No Better Food Exists.”
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING Free on application to the Wholesale Depot, 484, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.
A
YANKEE BOODLE
Ss well in front in New South Wales, and forging ahead in
the other Australian States.
The Free Voice of the People is the Strongest Proof possible.
Customs figures show the Yearly Increase in the Sales of DIXSON’S TOBACCO
. in NEW SOUTH WALES ALONE to be
1898 IKTCREASE - - 109,397 ltos.
1899 IKrCREA.SE - - 173,332 l'kDS
1900 IKTCREASE - - 228,263 Itos.
Over 100 TONS more Last Year than daring 1899.
YANKEE DOODLE (LIGHT and DARK) The Great Mild Smoke
AND IS THE TOBACCO OF THE DAY I
CONQUEROR: Dark, Rich, Good —For Smoking and Chewing.
CHAMPION Gold Leaf, Plug and Cut —Choicest Natural Flavor —CUT, in Hermetically Sealed Patent
Tins. Champion Blended Stock Yankee Doodle.
5 INI A SNI Z A CIGARS 4* for 6d. in packets. Best value of any cigar.
MONO POLE The OBIGTNAL BOTHSCHIUD, and above all Imitations.
fc. PIPES AND TOBACCO WARE OF AZ.Z. KINDS^*
DIXSON & SONS LTD., PARK STREET, SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Reyistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
VOL. 22.—N0. 1102.
SATURDAY, MARCH 30, 1901.
PbioiSsl
A LD N~u Rs t~/Ry 7?{/y/SIF
JprT , <x+ soyeJ?c>w i~o ( (
f I ofd meM9 froA
\ Sh&ll I
llf Juji' Sif orj ffjis sh fi,
Continue to Strife
IC
i Softer; l^f^ c
oflh&l-
-c^L"
GEORGE REID’S ATTITUDE.
Mr. Reid says that he is going to study the Black Labour Question in Queensland alter April.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
" Australia for the Australians.**
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Ber Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-ye/trly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and JMaoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
■SI, with '2s. 2d. added for postage.
No neivspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition ofl\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —lJd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition o/Tiie Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with pottage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order , Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to 3. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
• — i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 2)6 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — ll. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
SATURDAY, MARCH 30, 1901.
The Leader who is White the One
who is Piebald.
To-morrow (Friday) Australia has to decide
whether it will support the Government of
Barton, Kingston and Turner, or whether
it will give George Reid a commission to
form a new Ministry out of materials at
present unknown. To some extent the
decision must hinge on the demand for a
White Australia. It is questionable if the
vast importance of this issue is fully realised
even yet in the South. Victoria, Tasmania,
S.A. and even New South Wales have
hardly begun to be seriously afflicted with
the black-labor curse, and only when the
cheap and unreliable man of ebony com-
mences to slop over extensively from his
present habitat in the North are they likely
to fully realise how large the question is.
If they wait till that personal realisation
comes it will be too late to deal
with him. He threatens to swarm South
even as the rabbit swarmed North and
West, but with this difference—that
poison can’t be laid for Asiatics, and a nigger-
proof fence is an impossibility. If the
cheap black alien is allowed to become a
citizen of one part of Australia, then he is
also a citizen of all Australia, for there are now
no internal boundaries. If he is allowed to
multiply in the farthest North, then the
farthest South will be raided by him as
soon as he feels so inclined. All this
continent is interested, and equally in-
terested, in the question of a White Aus-
tralia, though all of it is not yet equally
aware of the fact.
* * * v
Premier Barton has been sufficiently
plain in defining his attitude. He proposes
to stop with emphasis the irruption of the
miscellaneous black and yellow hordes, but
out of consideration for the Queensland
sugar industry, which has become accus-
tomed to rely on its imported heathen, the
Kanaka is to be broken off by instalments.
The Queensland planter is to be allowed to
accustom himself by degrees to new condi-
tions. No increase in the number of
Kanakas is to be permitted, but the sugar-
growers are to be allowed a period—ten
years is suggested—in which to gradually
swear off the existing Tommy Tanna. The
position may or may not be satisfactory ;
that is for the electors to decide, and if they
decide that it is unsatisfactory, they have
also to decide whether it is more unsatisfac-
tory than the other man’s. At all events it'
is explicit enough.
♦ * * *
The position of the other man is remark-
able. George Reid says that he invented
the term “a White Australia”—which he
most assuredly did not. But the term is a
matter of small account; it is the thing with
which Australia is seriously concerned.,
Reid has cursed vaguely, in a loose,
non-committal fashion, at Barton for not
being sufficiently furious and bloodthirsty
against the Kanaka. That was in New South
Wales. Then he went up to Queensland,
which is practically divided into two parties,
the Barton party and the Black Labour
party—where the Courier has called on the
Black Labour party to rally round Reid
because Barton is for a White Australia,
and any man who is against Barton must be
more or less acceptable—where fiscalism is
practically dead at present and there is only
the Black Labor vote for Barton’s opponent
to reach out after. And there, at Too-
woomba, the famous Wobbler wobbled after
this fashion :
Since he had come to Toowoomba he had been treated
with figures which, he must say, fairly staggered him.
He had been told that over £7,000,000 were invested in
the plantations and sugar industry which was worked by
Kanaka labour. He confessed that he could scarcely
credit the information. But he had determined to do
something. He had been asked by some gentlemen who
knew his views very strongly to go and study the ques-
tion for himself. Well, he thought it was the very least
he could do. (Applause.) He did not conceal the strong
views he had on the question, but he was prepared to go
and study this problem for himself, and he hoped to be
able to do so during April. He would not say his final
word on the subject until he had done that. (Applause.)
* * * *
The famous Yes-No man, be it observed,
said this at Toowoomba, almost immediately
after his arrival in Queensland. He hadn’t
gone anywhere near the sugar districts, so he
had seen nothing to induce him to change
his views. And he had heard nothing
which he couldn’t have learned on his pre-
vious visits to Queensland, and from
books of reference in Sydney. In New
South Wales he cadged for the demo-
cratic vote by being more violently
anti-Kanaka than Barton, and by re-
proaching Barton for not being more
anti-Kanaka than he was. In Queensland,
where he is to some extent out of the view
of the Southern democracy, he cadged for
the Black Labour vote by saying that he
made his previous remarks when in a state
of disgraceful ignorance, and when he didn’t
know the size or nature of the subject he
was dealing with. And he is going to make
up his mind in April, after the elections are
over, as to whether he will be for a Black or
White Australia. At the election to-morrow
the Democratic party is expected to vote for
him because, in his ignorance, he declared
himself (in March) to be more strongly in
favour of a White Australia than Barton,
and was deeply shocked at Barton for not
being as ignorant and as violent as himself.
And the Black Labour party will also vote
for him because he has explicitly reserved
the right to be converted to a purely Kanaka
view of things (in April) when he acquires
more information. And people of no dis-
tinct leanings either way may vote for him
because of the impressive spectacle of a just
man who won’t condemn even the Kanaka
unheard—which is only another name for
the ignorant man who didn’t hear the
Kanaka before he spoke in the first place.
* * « *
That Reid will get the Black Labor vote
is now almost a certainty. The Black Labor
party has to choose between Barton, who
has studied the question on both sides and
given his judgment against nigger labor, and
Reid, who was far more anti-nigger than
Barton, but who now says he was talking,
after an illiterate fashion, through his hat,
and that he may turn his coat (in April) and
become wholly pro-nigger. But the White
Australia party surely doesn’t want to con-
fer, in March, a three years’ lease of power
on a man who is going to decide in April
whether he will not wholly or partly abandon
it and its principles. It wants a leader who
has already learned the whole question, and
who has a fixed policy—not one who is
going to learn it later on and get a policy
when he is quite rested. If George'Reid
can’t know till after the election what
he is going to do on almost the most vital
question of Australian policy the rational
course is for Australia to wait until he does
know before putting him in power. It
doesn’t want to draw a policy blindfold out
of a hat. And there is a fatality about
George Reid’s journeys northward. He
was sent into office once before as a Free-
trader—almost as strong a Freetrader as he
lately was a White Australia advocate. Then
he went North with a broad smile and an
open mind to see the N.S.W. sugar districts
and judge things for himself, and he was so
much astonished at what he saw, and at his
own ignorance in not seeing it earlier, that his
Freetrade principles dropped from him like
a garment, and sugar is a protected industry
in N.S.W. to this day. Now if he is sent
into Federal office as an advocate of a White
Australia he is again going North to see a
sugar district with a beaming countenance
and a soul open to conviction. And some
more of his principles will probably drop off
him. The Freetrade Reid who came back
from the N.S.W. sugar districts a Protec-
tionist because he found “there was flesh
and blood behind the industry ” —it would
seem that, in his amazing want of informa-
tion, he hadn’t previously known that the
N.S.W. sugar-planter was made of flesh and
blood—will probably come back from the
Queensland sugar-fields with a similar dis-
covery and another conversion.
* * * *
There is good evidence that Reid’s latest
and most insolent wobble was arranged for
long in advance. Something like two months
ago the Brisbane Courier urged the Kanaka
party to vote for Reid on the ground that
once before he had gone North in the inte-
rests of the N.S.W. sugar-planters, and
abandoned his alleged Freetrade principles
at the eleventh hour for their benefit, and
that he would probably, at the last moment,
prove willing to abandon not only the same
principles, but also another set, for the bene-
fit of the sugar-growers in Queensland. At
this time George Reid was still going solid
for a White Australia, and the world saw the
curious spectacle of a Black Labor paper
denouncing Barton for going too far in the
White Australia interest, and lending its
countenance to the man who denounced
Barton for not going still further. Either
the Courier had a prophetic understanding
of George Reid’s utter inability to go
straight, or else the present crawl-down was
a pre-arranged treachery of long standing.
Anyhow, Reid has gone as far, in bidding
for the Black Labor vote, as any man well
can without throwing the White Australia
party overboard. And meanwhile he figures
before Australia in three beautiful capacities.
He appeals to the White Australia party as
the man who is, by instinct, more anxious
for a White Australia than even Barton,
and. who is shocked at Barton’s lukewarm-
ness. He appeals to the Black Australia
party as the strictly just man who, despite
his strong democratic instincts (even stronger
than Barton’s) won’t condemn the nigger
unheard, and who may change his
views when he has heard him. And
he appeals to all Australia as the
strong, calm man who won’t be led away
by prejudice or popular clamor. This all
amounts, as a matter of necessity, to the
other fa,ct (though that isn’t mentioned) that
he appeals to all parties as the grossly ignor-
ant man who is just going to start (in April)
to learn the A B C of a great national ques-
tion about which he has been talking loosely
for years. But the White Australia party
has to elect its leader in March, and it can’t
afford to gamble on a man who is going to
begin learning the most important subject
of the hour in April.
How Protection Didn’t Raise Prices in
New South Wales.
New South Wales was a partially Protectionist
State until 2nd December, 1891, when the famous
much-cursed, much-maligned Dibbs tariff came
into force. It was then a wholly Protectionist
State until Ist January, 1896, when the Reid
tariff was introduced, and it again became only a
partially Protectionist State. It is the custom of
the Poreign Importers’ party to say that N.S. W.
was a Freetrade State until 2nd December, 1891,
which is wholly untrue. The Freetrade tariff
of Parkes, M‘ Mill an, and Bruce Smith,
as specified in the “Year Book of Aus-
tralia ” for 1891, covered 198 duties, and
of these about 180 were Protective duties.
It is also the custom of the Foreign Importers’
party to say that N.S.W. again became a Free-
trade country on Ist January, 1896, which is also
wholly untrue. The “ Year-Book of Australia ”
for 1900 specifies 50 items of customs taxation
under the Reid tariff and 38 of them are Protec-
tive. It is further the custom of the Foreign
Importers’ party to say that, in the ten years from
1889 to 1899, N.S.W. manufactures, owing to
Freetrade, made more progress than those of
Victoria, wherefore the period of Dibbs’s Protec-
tionist tariff (December, 1891, to January, 1896) is
put in as a Freetrade epoch, and the great start
which N.S.W.’s industries got over those of Vic-
toria that period, and which it has mostly
lost since 1896 under Reid’s policy, is put down to
Freetrade. In addition to claiming that N.S.W.
(which hasn’t been a Freetrade State for 60 years)
was a Freetrade State from 1889 to 1899, and
gained a great advantage over Victoria in conse-
quence, the Foreign Importers’ party claims that
its small tin god Reid is entitled to great credit
for establishing Freetrade in 1896—for establish-
ing the thing that was there already, in fact.
Also, while the industrial progress of N.S.W.
from 1889 to 1899 is set down to N.S.W. being
Freetrade, the bank smash in 1893 is set down to
N.S.W. being Protectionist. Things are a good
deal mixed.
* * * *
Further, it is asserted by the Foreign Importers’
party that the N.S.W. Protectionist duties which
were put on at the end of 1891 laid a'great burden
on the people, and raised prices, and made things
generally unhappy and accursed. Also, that the
removal of these duties at the beginning of 1896
lowered prices again, and were a vast relief to the
community, which then proceeded to breathe
freely once more. On this point, at least, it is
possible to get solid evidence. N.S.W. Statis-
tician Coghlan (on pages 523 to 527 of his
“ Wealth and Progress of N.S.W.” for 1898-1899)
gives the retail prices of a number of commodities
m common use over a long series of years, and tells
exactly how the prices went up when Dibbs’s duties
were put on. The following are all the articles in-
cluded in Coghlan’s list on which Dibbs put
Protective duties, with the prices in 1891, the last
year before the duty was put on, and in 1892 and
1894, after it was on. The shortness of the list is
solely owing to the fact that Parkes and
M ‘Millan had already protected so many of the
necessaries of life that there were really very few
left for Dibbs to protect:
New duty or in-
Prices under crease of duty Prices under
Freetrade. put on at end protection.
1891 of 1891. 1892. 1894.
-m Bread per loaf { } ' /3 * ~f }
1/1 Butter per lb. Id. per lb. 1/3 V
5/- Potatoes per cwt. 6d. per cwt. o/b 4/b
2/11 Maize per bushel lOd. pir cental 3/4 -./o
1/6 Egg-s per dozen 10 per cent. V® l/ a
-I2l_ Oatmeal per lb. { pe?ib.}
-m soap „ f
-/5 Starch „ Id. per lb. —fib - /4I
* * * *
According to this official statement, therefore, by
the Freetrade Government’s own officer, and pub-
lished at the Freetrade Government’s own print-
ing office, out of eight articles in daily use there
were two which were cheaper the first year after
the duty was put on than they were during the
last year of Freetrade. There were three more
that remained at the same price despite the duty ;
and there were three which increased in price,
though not to any great extent. But when the
Protective duty had been on two years, and in-
creased local competition had had time to make
itself felt, every one of the eight articles was
cheaper under Protection than it had previously
been under Freetrade.
**. * *
Yet the explanation was not the usual one, that
Protection had led to over-production, and the
duties had ceased to be operative, &c. Though
imports had greatly decreased N.S.W., in 1894,
was still importing some of all these articles. In
1894 the local supply had not yet quite overtaken
demand, and the duties on the above eight articles
produced a revenue of over £42,600 (Coghlan’s
N.S.W. “Statistical Register” for l£jj>4, pages
277 and 278). On these eight necessaries the
Dibbs Protectionist tariff, therefore, yielded a
handsome income and caused an increaseof produc-
tion, thereby affording extra employment, and yet
prices became less in every case, and the con-
sumer got cheap food (which is the beginning and
middle and end of the Foreign Importing party’s
faith) as he had never got it before.
* « • *
Then on Ist January, 1896, the Rkid Govern-
ment took off all these duties and many more,
with further surprising results. The following is
the list of all the articles included in Coghlan’s
list of retail prices (“Wealth and Progress of
N.S.W.” for 1898-1899, pages 523-527) from which
the Protective duties were removed, and the
prices before and after removal:
Prices
under Duty Prices under
Protection taken off. Freetrade.
1895 1896 1898
-/2f Bread per loaf { } ~' 3
1 h Butter per lb. 2d per lb. 1/- 1/-
-/8 Cheese „ 2d ~ -/8 -/8
4/3 Potatoes per cwt. 6d per cwt. 5/6 9/-
2/9 Maize per bushel lOd per cental 2/7 2/9
-fib Bacon per lb. 2d. per lb. -/7$ -/8£
1/- Eggs per doz 10 per cent. 1/- 1/-
- /2 Oatmeal per lb. { id per lb.} ~/ 2
-/Of Salt per lb. £1 per ton -/0£ -/Of
.. {Shifts} -«
-74 Starch Id per lb. -/4 -/4
The duty on rice was also taken off, but it was
purely a revenue impost, with no bearing on the
tariff question. By taking off these eleven duties
the Reid Government sacrificed £94,422 of annual
revenue—that was the amount these duties yielded
in the last year of their existence as shown on
pages 308 to 310 of Coghlan’s “Statistical
Register ” for 1895. It sacrificed, practically a
lump sum of £3,000,000, for the above income
would pay the interest on a £3,000,000 loan. It
made it necessary to levy 3d. in the £ of income
tax to make good loss of customs revenue on these
eleven articles alone. And the immediate result
was that, in the first year two articles became
cheaper, while two became dearer and seven re-
mained stationary. By the third year, when the
effects of the new system had time to definitely
assert themselves, one article out of eleven
common necessaries from which duty had been
removed had become a fraction cheaper to the
consumer ; four had become dearer ; and six re-
mained stationary. And New South Wales threw
away a revenue equivalent to £3,000,000 of solid
cash in one lump to produce this result.
* * * •
Also, Reid, M‘Millan, Bruce Smith, and
their newspaper allies, the Herald and Tele-
graph and Evening News, likewise Joe Cook,
Gould, Pulsford, Millen, Walker, Bassetter
and their tribe demand public support because
they produced these beautiful and numerous
results. They gave N.S.W. practically a Free
Breakfast Table. But what is the good of a free
breakfast table if the things on it cost more than
they did on the old, oppressed, restricted, down-
trodden breakfast table of former years ? Appar-
ently there is only the joy of knowing that the
rich English and German absentee bosses who run
branch importing houses here are making larger
profits, and sending them to England and Ger-
many. And the M’Millan clan, which lives on
the Freetrade which, in the end, makes the
people’s victuals dear, has to swear that Freetrade
is good for the people. What else can it swear?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Victorian Child-Labour Lie.
Reports from the country districts as to the pro-
gress of the Federal election campaign go to snow
that the most useful, as well as the most foolish,
fable among the multitude which the German and
English Importers’ Party has set in motion
during the present campaign is that about child
labour in Victorian factories. Said wondrous
fiction, which seems to be obtaining a wide cre-
dence in N.S.W., was expounded by G. Reid as
follows:
I pity the workers of Victoria when I go through the
factories, and see in them, not the workers of Victoria,
but their children. (Cheers.) I pity the industries of
Victoria when I see man after man thrown out into the
street, because they have grown too big for them, and
young children brought in to take their places—fcheers)—
and when I know that for every man you find in these
Victorian factories you find half-a-dozen children.
(Cheers.)
It was a very silly yarn by a very silly old clown-
in-politics, but as it seems to be finding believers
who really imagine that Protection and child-
labor go together it is worth while to state the
reasons—there are six of them—for regarding it as
the usual Ananias :
(1) The birth rate of Victoria is smaller than that of
N.S.W. Consequently a smaller part of the population
consists of children. Yet N.S.W. Statistician Coghlax
shows (“ Seven Colonies for 1899-1900,” page 395) that a
much larger proportion of the Victorian than of the
N.S.W. population is attending school. The figures are:
123 regular school attendants out of every 1000 popula-
tion in Victoria against 111 per 1000 in N.S.W. Now,
seeing that N.S.W. has more children than Victoria, and
fewer of them are attending school, either this awful rush
of child labour in Victoria must be exceeded by the still
more awful rush in N.S.W., or else N.S.W. must have an


incredible number of children neither working nor being
educated, but simply loafing at street corners. As neither
the child labour nor the child loafer evil seems unusually
large in N.S.W., and as it can’t possibly be worse—in fact,
it can’t possibly be as bad —in Victoria for want of the
available material, the lie is reasonably obvious.
(2) There are no children under 13 in Victorian fac-
tories ; they are absolutely shut out by law. And the
exact number of children under 16, as set forth in the
returns of the Inspector of Factories, is 3135 (1818 males
and 1317 females). The G. Reid Action is to the effect
that the male children alone in Vic. factories are 37,000 ! !
Wherefore the untruth again sticks out like the head-
light of a locomotive.
(3) A comparison of the highest and lowest wages paid
in all leading industries (the Agures can be found in
Coghlan’s N.S.W. “Statistical Register” for 1809, pages
967 to 1013, and the Victorian official “ Year Book,” pages
602 to 606) shows that in 106 cases the Victorian wage is
higher ; in 68 cases the N.S.W. wage is higher ; and in 20
cases the wage is identical. If the Protectionist manu-
facturer pays higher wages to children than the Freetrade
one pays to adults then something has gone wrong. And
again the Ananias sticks out.
(4) According to Reid’s assertion there are 7000 men
and 37,000 small boys (mere children) in Victoria’s fac-
tories. There are over 9000 males employed in Victorian
iron and metal works alone, and, as that is the kind of
work which can’t he largely done by children, these in-
dustries alone absorb all the allegedly available men (ac-
cording to G. Reid’s account), and 2000 more. That
leaves all the other factories to be wholly run and bossed
by small boys. The utter silliness of that theory is as
conspicuous as the mental poverty of the man who in-
vented it.
15) The fact that wild horses can’t drag from G. Reid
the name of even one protected Victorian factory where
there are six boys employed for one man is a discrepancy
which is as painfully conspicuous as the tower which
Reid’s probable ancestors built on the plains of Shinar.
(6) Finally, the story rests on the unsupported word of
G. Reid. Some things are real even though G. Reid says
they are, but, as a rule, that gentleman’s support is suf-
ficient to kill even the most robust fact.
One reason why The Bulletin will vote for
almost anybody who isn’t Reid is that it doesn’t
want to see a State of N.S.W.’s rank disgrace
itself by sending such a foolish, slanderous,
and wholly objectionable babbler to represent it
in the nation’s Parliament. Why any State
should vote for Reid when Louis de Rougemont
is on the premises passes comprehension.
+
A Federal Ticket for N.S.W.
Owing to the late hour at which nominations were
effected, and the dimensions of this great country,
it was impossible, after it became known who
were really going to stand, to prepare a Bulletin
Federal ticket for the Commonwealth generally.'
In at least four of the States the ticket would only
have arrived in time to be a curiosity after the
elections were decided. So this paper contents
itself with asking the electors of N.S.W., whom
there is time to address before polling-day, to vote
as follows :
THE SENATE
R. E. O’CONNOR, K.C.
J. A. K. MACKAY.
W. P. MANNING.
JOHN KIDD, M.L.A.
G. W. WADDELL.
MARK HAMMOND.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Canoblas.— B. R. WISE, M.L.O.
Riverina. —J. M. CHANTER, M.L.A.
Hume.— WILLIAM LYNE, M.L.A.
Robertson. -J. D. FITZGERALD.
South Sydney. —J. S. T. M'GOWEN, 1.1.L.A.
Bland.— J. O. WATSON, M.L.A.
West Sydney.— J. C. BEER.
Dalley.— l. R. COHEN.
Parramatta.— W. SANDFORD.
Illawaura. —A. HAY.
Macquarie. —W. J. FERGUSON, M.L.A.
Wentworth. —J. T. GANNON,
Werriwa. —T. ROSE, M.L.A.
Cowper.— F. CLARKE, M.L.A.
New England. —W. SAWE'tS, M.L.A.
Gwydir. — G. A. ORUIOKSIIANK, M.L.A.
Richmond.— T. T. EWING, M.L.A.
Darling.— P. E. QUINN, M.L.A.
North Sydney.— E. M. CLARK.
Lang.— J. D. P. EDWARDS.
Newcastle. —D. WATKINS.
Paiskes.— R. P. THOMSON.
East Sydney. —H. FORAN.
As already explained, there are a good many of
these people in whose company The Bul-
letin, as a personal matter, wouldn’t like to
be found dead. Also, it wouldn’t like to be
found there alive. But they have promised to
support the Barton Ministry, and that Ministry
is pledged to oppose black labour, to support the
democratic policy of Protection, to nationalise
the Federal territory, and save the Federal land
from the earth-grabber and the spoiler. And the
Barton Ministry deserves the support of every
true democrat, inasmuch as it includes two men
who created prosperous State banks ; three men
who passed in their respective States valuable
Factory Acts for the protection of the workers ;
four men who belonged to Governments which
abolished the plural property vote, and another
who made four distinct attempts to do so only to
be blocked every time by an immovable Upper
House ; also the only two State Premiers who
established Woman Suffrage ; and the only Pre-
mier in the world who established a legal mini-
mum wage. It includes the only two Australian
State Premiers who passed Old Age Pension laws,
and three men who are at least partly
responsible for the passing of Early Closing
laws. It includes the author (Kingston) of
the best Workmen’s Compensation Act, and
of the only graduated land and absentee tax, in
Australia. Among its members are two State
Premiers who passed measures for the resumption
of big estates for closer settlement. In fact it
may be summed up as containing practically all
the leading Australian statesmen, now living and
not disabled by old age, who have ever done any-
thin!/ for the good of the masses, and who have
systematically fought for the cause of the People
against wealth, monopoly, Toryism and retro-
gression. The Bulletin gives its vote for the
men who are pledged to support that Govern-
ment. And it hopes to assist in ejecting a
lot of these men at some future date, when
better samples of the same political party are
available.
♦
The Protectionism of J. Cook.
Joseph Cook, who has been a Freetrader ever
since he got a portfolio in Reid’s Government,
and possibly a little longer, and is now standing
as Federal Freetrade candidate for Parramatta
(N.S.W.), has been using the mildly reproachful
lauguage of a really good man at those who said
he once (before he got his portfolio) professed
Protectionist principles. Whereupon some one
digs up a letter written by one .1 oseph Cook to the
Australian Star on 28th Dec., 1887. Some ex-
tracts :
I would like to write you a short chapter of English
experience ; for we all can tell more confidently those
things we have seen and felt. Re unemployed of Eng-
landT your correspondent thinks there may be 70,000. I
am perfectly sure he is under the mark. The unemployed
in England at this moment are considerably over
1,000,000. But, sir, the number of unemployed is not the
only index of Freetrade disaster. ... A large firm of
iron manufacturers in Staffordshire has just ceased
operat ions, the sole reason assigned being their inability
to compete with Belgian firms. The employees of this
firm had their wages reduced by 40 per cent., and for the
last 12 months there have been able-bodied men employed
in and around the blast furnaces working to 12 hours per
day for the small pittance of 2s. 6d. These men have
submitted to reduction after reduction rather than take
the risk of finding' employment in a country where it was
so scarce, and now they are compelled to do it, for with
those reduced rates they are not able to compete with
the foreign market. This is not hearsay, it is a hard
fact , and it is one among many. The figures re pauper-
ism in England are misleading. Nearly the whole indus-
trial population of England are at this moment living lives
bordering on the verge of starvation. They would rather
starve than be dubbed paupers. I have seen with my
own eyes men with pretty constant work die like rats from
sheer starvation, and all because of the decline of the ex-
port trade, and the increase of the imported article. Let
me give one more fact to show what is transpiring every
day in Freetrade England. A large colliery owner has
just put down a large shaft at a cost of £BO,OOO. He had
to sink 80 yards, through a loose sand bed, and had to
line it with tubing. He had large ironworks of his own
in the vicinity of the shaft. Yet, notwithstanding, he
imported the whole of the tubing from Belgium at a cost
of 18s. per ton cheaper than he could produce it at his
own works, and when spoken to by some of the workmen,
who at that time were working two days per week, he
complacently remarked that he was buyingin the cheapest
market as a Freetrader should do. Now, according to the
Freetrade theory of exchange, he had to sell as well as
buy, which fact simply means that he had to pay for the
iron he bought in Belgium. What did he pav for it ? Why,
sir, he made the fact of his having bought from Belgium
a lever by which to wring from his workmen a reduction
of 10 per cent. This is how Freetrade is constantly pay-
ing for imports. She sells her flesh and blood, and “pulls
off the last pound,” for imports she can herself produce.
How are we paying for our imports at the present time?
Simply by selling our credit at an enormous sacrifice, as
well as our raw materials at a dead loss. . . . The Herald
writer alludes to “the degeneracy,” “loss of indepen-
dence ”of the British workman. Here is a tacit admis-
sion of the baneful effects of the fiscal policy upon the
morale of the nation. . . . Sir, a six months’ residence
among the workers of England at the present time would
teach the Herald writer rather more on this subject than
he ever read or wrote. But, ah me! “ ignorance is bliss.”
Let him continue to write his Freetrade platitudes.
Mr. Cook said then (which was before he got
into a Freetrade Government) that lie saw these
obvious horrors of Freetrade with his own eyes.
If he didn’t see them and yet said he did, then
he is a person unfit for any place of trust. If he did
see them, and is barracking for the policy which
caused them (and which incidentally gave him a
Ministerial portfolio), then he is equally unfit to be
trusted, and his political society isn’t a desirable
place to be found dead in.
+
Britain’s Lost Manufacturing
Supremacy.
Another example of how the Freetrade nation
gets left. In 1840, just before Britain began to
dabble in Freetrade, its output of manufactured
goods was equal to over 29 per cent, of all the
output of the world—^£3B7,ooo,ooo out of a world’s
total of £1,314,000,000 ; in 189 G it did only 15 per
cent, of the world’s manufactures. In 1840 the
manufactures of Germany, Austria, and the
United States totalled £388,000,000 among them,
so Britain was just equal in this line to these
three big rivals put together (Mulhall’s “ Dic-
tionary of Statistics,” page 365). They have all
grown since then, but the rate of growth is won-
derfully different. Here, are some figures from
pages 365 and 765 of the book above quoted :
Value op Output of Manufactured Goods.
Protectionist laQQ Increase in
States.
U. States .. £1,413,000,000 £1,980,000,000 £537,000,000
France .. 485,000,000 596,000,000 111,000,000
Germany .. 583,000,000 690,000,000 107,000,000
Austria .. 253,000,000 328.000,000 75,000,000
Italy .. 121,000,000 190,000,000 69,000,000
Freetrade State.
Gt. Britain.. 820,000,000 876,000,000 56,000,000
The five leading Protectionist States of the world
are all. growing faster as manufacturing communi-
ties than Britain. Britain was the boss manufac-
turing country of the- world under its Protectionist
system in 1840—so much so that its output was
equal to Germany, Austria, and the United
States put together. It dropped into second
place about 1870 or 1875 —after about 20
years of Freetrade—when the United States
left it behind. At the present rate of
progress it will have dropped back to fourth
place by the middle of this century or thereabouts.
The other States had an enormously long stern-
chase before them when they set out to overtake
Britain, the start which that country gained in
its Protectionist days being something almost
beyond calculation. But one of them has already
overtaken her, and every year that Britain
adheres to Freetrade four others are lessening the
gap. The great national stern-chase grows inte-
resting.
The Beginning 1 of the Tariff War.
George Reid at Toowoomba :
Now, what had Victoria done for Australia that Aus-
tralia, should make sacrifices for her? Did not begin
this war of tariffs in her own selfish interests ? _ Did not
she drive other colonies into a policy of retaliation, and
was Australia now going to surrender her liberty and
freedom in the interests of the Melbourne manufacturers?
(Oheers, and cries of “ No.”) He thought not.
This story has been told so often that it is a fair
thing to point out that the tellers of it are either
disastrously ignorant or blessed with a huge gift
of inaccuracy. For, strange as it may seem now,-
it was mainly New South Wales which was res-
ponsible for the great war of tariffs in Australia,
and Victoria tried harder than any other State to
avert it. When Victoria was established it
was agreed (in 1855) that there should be
absolute Freetrade on the N.S.W.-Victorian
border. This agreement lasted till 1864,
and during its existence Gavan Duffy,
then in the O’Shanassy Ministry, made
great efforts to bring about a permanent Federa-
tion, but Cowper and Martin in N.S.W. would
have none of it. In 1864 New South Wales
repudiated the border Freetrade agreement, and
set up a long row of customs-houses along the
Murray. Premier Cowper, of N.S.W., however,
offered to maintain border Freetrade if Victoria
ivould pay N.S. W. an annual subsidy. In 1865,
so attached were the Victorians then to the
system of inter-State Freetrade that they actually
agreed to pay N.S.W. a large sum every year on
condition that there should be absolute Freetrade
along the Murray. But in 1872, John Robertson,
the most virulent of all Australian parochialists,
then the leading spirit of Martin’s Ministry,
established customs-houses along the Murray once
more. Till 1873 the two States had a practically
uniform revenue tariff, and alterations were a
matter of mutual arrangement, but in 1873
N.S.W. largely altered its tariff without consult-
ing its partner, and that ended all possibility of
further agreement. It seems incredible now,
but there was a time when Victorians were
so attached to the idea of inter-State Freetrade
that they bribed N.S.W. for seven years with a
large annual cash payment to prevent that State
starting the war of tariffs about which Reid is
now so virtuously indignant. Victoria was neither
the first high tariff State—that credit or discredit
belongs to Tasmania and South Australia—nor
was it the State which began the tariff war that
has raged for 28 years on the Murray border. And
if the N.S.W. politicians of Robertson’s time
had been more conciliatory it is just barely pos-
sible that there would never have been any
customs houses along either side of the Murray.
The Excess of Imports Question.
Many Federal candidates, in their struggles with
tariff problems, have got into great and wild con-
fusion over the question: “Is it a sign of pro-
sperity when a country’s exports are greater than
its imports, or vice versa ? ” Many papers have
got into even worse confusion trying to give a
straight yes or no to a question where neither yes
or no is possible. In answer to _ a mentally-
shattered correspondent who sends in a heap of
newspaper-cuttings on the subject (including a
specially-awful leader on “ Imports and Exports
from Kalgoorlie Western Argus) The Bulletin
offers the most condensed explanation it has about
it :
It a country’s imports are greater in value than its ex-
ports that fact either means :
(1) That the country is getting into debt to foreign
lands, or ...
(2) That the country has a lot of money invested in
foreign lands, and that the excess of imports represents
the interest (and it may be part of the principal) coming
back.
And if a country’s exports are greater in value than its
imports it either means:
(1) That it is investing the difference abroad and
thereby becoming extra rich, or
(2) That it is deeply indebted abroad for public and
private loans, and is therefore very poor, and the surplus
of exports is required to pay the interest, and possibly to
repay part of the principal.
When Britain, in past times, exported more than,
it imported, it meant that Britain was growing
rich ; the surplus exports represented money in-
vested abroad. Later, whenits imports consider-
ably exceeded its exports, it meant that it had
grown rich ; the surplus imports represented in-
terest coming in from foreign investments. Later
still, when the imports very greatly exceeded the
exports, a fear arose that that meant that Britain
was growing poorer again ; that it was receiving
back in imports and eating up, not only the inter-
est on its foreign investments, but part of the
principal as well. When Australia in its early
days imported more than it exported that meant
that it was getting poor—getting deeper and
deeper into foreign debt. Now when it exports
more than it imports it means that it has grown
poor and is struggling to pay the foreign interest
bill, but the fact that the surplus of exports isn’t
large enough to cover public and private interest
shows that it is still getting deeper in debt and
getting poorer. If it could keep its imports
where they are now and double its exports
that would mean that it was not only paying
the interest on its foreign debts in full, but
was also steadily paying off the debts themselves.
Nearly one-half the politicians and papers of this
great country say that an excess of imports is a
d ead sure sign of prosperity under all _ circum-
stances, because Britain has an excess of imports,
and most of an equally foolish other half says that
an excess of exports is a dead sure sign of pros-
perity under all circumstances because the United
States has an excess of exports. The first theory
is equivalent to saying that if a man exports 1000
sovereigns from his house it proves that he is rich,
no matter whether they are his own sovereigns
that he is taking to the bank, or sovereigns that
he has borrowed at 40 per shent from Melchisa-
dek, and which he is taking round to Abrahams
to stave off the bill of sale with. And the second
theory is to the effect that if a man imports 1000
sovereigns into his house that proves that he is
rich, no matter whether they are simply his
annual clear income from money invested, or
whether he has got them by pawning his last
available property and they are all required to
pay debts with. And both theories are an ass—
the same ass different sides up.
-
Starvation or Loyalty—Which ?
It was all “Loyalty” a year ago. The band
played and the Australian Tommies were all
heroes. The SEE-bossed, LYNE-inspired Aus-
tralian Star was emphatic on the Loyalty and
Self-sacrifice of the splendid glorious fellows who
offered their lives in defence of the Empire. The
bills are rolling in, the night’s insane revelry has
passed, and in the leading article of Saturday,
March 16, the Australian Star thus speaks
Making all due allowance for loyalty, patriotism, and
thirst for glory combined, it is hardly conceivable that
10,000 of them would have enlisted so eagerly as they did
had it not been for the long run of dry seasons, throwing
most of them out of employment. As it was, for the
10,000 that went away, there were at least another 10,000
who were disappointed in not being able to gel; away,
and, peradventure, still another 10,000 in the background
waiting for an opportunity to follow them. So we may
take it that there were, at anyrate, some 20,000 young
men, of the very kind most needed here, who were ready
to face the terrible risks of war in default of better em-
ployment at home.
Even so, it is better to know that Australians
went forth to murder, driven by the demon of
starvation, than that they played cut-throat for
the inept foolery that has been masquerading as
loyalty.
4
The 111-paid Shipping Business.
G-eorge Reid at Toowoomba: —
They need not talk to him about the greatness of the
United States, with her seventy millions of people. A
marvellous people, full of genius, industry, arid enter-
prise, and yet they were not strong enough to face the
little mother country. The ports of London and Liver-
pool and Hull, and all the great shipping ports of the
United Kingdom, were open to the Stars and Stripes.
There was not a fraction of a tax on them. They went in
just as the Germans and the French do. But, in spite of
all that, where did the giant Republic figure in the
commerce of the mother-country ? Seventy-one million
tons of shipping enter and leave the ports of Great Britain
in a year, and out of that seventy-one millions only
768,000 tons were under the Stars and Stripes.
One possible explanation is that the shipping
business doesn’t pay anybody concerned except
the rich owner. The sailor man in England is paid
on a lower scale than even the agricultural labourer,
and worse than a Queensland Kanaka. Only a
country with a supply of miserably low-priced
labour can become agreat sea-power nowadays, and
the State which has a very limited supply of men
willing to toil in the fo’castle at £3 a month or
less and the most awful of provender, isn’t alto-
gether blameworthy. Britain certainly has the
biggest hold on the worst-paid white man’s job on
earth, though why that should be such a conclusive
proof of its prosperity passes the comprehension
of man and beast. The perfectly dry Freetrader
on land always professes that the one infallible
test of a nation’s greatness is that it should drudge
about a wet deck with a mop and a bucket for less
than 15s. a week. Yet the eminent Freetraders
of this country show not the least sign of going to
sea professionally. They all prefer to be small
and ignoble and affluent rather than to soar to
greatness and be wet and dead-broke. The
point which really makes the poor, damp, unpro-
fitable shipping business loom so large in argu-
ment is the Flag. A ship generally has a flag,
and that enables orators to talk of the business as
“ carrying the mercantile ensign of our country
on all the ocean highways of the world.” Apart
from the flag, humping goods in a ship at sea
only differs from humping them in a basket on
shore insomuch as it is wetter and more unsteady
and more dangerous and worse paid.
John Forrest told a Perth (W. A.) audience the
other day that “when Britain changed its fiscal
policy it had the greatest commerce in the world,
but now it is only second.” Whereat Perth
Morning Herald, largely owned by John’s little
brother Alice, raved
It is strange, indeed, that one who classes himself
amongst the giants of Australia, “those who have won
their spurs on the field of politics,” should show such
pitiable ignorance, or so shameless a disregard of facts.
Sir John’s statement is almost too ridiculous to be worth
disputing. . . , Britain’s trade last year reached a total
of £949,669,292, which was 22J millions more than the
combined trades of Germany and the United States, and
this notwithstanding that Great Britain has a population
of only 40,000,000 against Germany’s 52,000,000, and the
United States’ 70,000,000.
Yet John Forrest spoke the absolute truth as it
is known to every intelligent white citizen, and it
is the unclothed literary Freetrade aborigine of
the Perth Morning Herald who is making a
pitiable exhibition of himself. The trade of
the United States alone is now £3,500,000,000 per
annum against Britain’s record of less than
£2,000,000,000, or about one-half. That is the
total trade —the average Freetrader cooks his
figures by taking external trade only, and ignor-
ing the much larger and more important internal
trade. His theory is that, if you send £lOO worth
of goods a distance of one mile across a political
boundary—an imaginary streak on a map —it is
trade, and if you send £1,000,000 worth of goods
1000 miles without crossing a political boundary
it isn’t trade, and is not worth mentioning, in
this case Brother John really knew something,
and Brother Alice’s paper, which doesn’t know
anything, looked on him with the lofty contempt
of the aboriginal explaining to the white mantjjat
a telegraph line won’t keep out rabbits.
Concerning the rain :
Just because the wayback places that do get rain report
it and those that, don’t get any say nothing city people
are likely to have wrong ideas about the monsoonal rains
that came two-thirds of the way across the continent
during February and early March (a correspondent out
there writes to The Bulletin). Bike most summer rains
these have been very patchy. One station has had its
dams washed away ; its neighbor has had the same dis-
turbance only in the shape of a thunderstorm. Generally
speaking, hilly country, or country flanking a range, has
benefited most. The north of S. Australia has thus had
a far better fall than the south-west of Queensland
(which, on the whole, is in a worse state from drought
than any other part of the continent) and far-west
N.S.W. On the Barrier Ranges, Broken Hill had
nearly 4in. ; its next-door pastoral neighbor off
the ranges, Wilcannia, has had none. In the same
way, while the track for stock from South
Queensland to Adelaide is open (though there is not
much stock to bring down) the routes to the southern
markets via Western N.S.W. are still fast closed. Both
sheep and cattle have been so thinned out that, even
though good seasons should fall on top of one another
for the next two or three years, the price will keep high,
as so many stations will have to start stocking up again.
- +
W. T. Stead in an article on “The Com-
monwealth of Australia” in Feb. Review op
Reviews :
The only distinctive Australian journal which has made
any mark outside Australia is the Sydney Bulletin. It
is a curious product, clever, wicked, lawless, sarcastic,
cynical, scoffing ; but it is nevertheless a distinct
creation, the influence of which is felt throughout the
whole of Australasia, and not only throughout Austral-
asia. Mr. Cecil Rhodes is never weary of denouncing the
Sydney Bulletin. The Australians who settled in the
Rand were, as he said, Sydney Bulletin Australians.
They got Tiie Bulletin every week which scoffed at the
Empire, and ridiculed every ideal which Mr. Rhodes holds
dear. The Sydney Bulletin is the spirit which denies—
it is. the Mephistopheles of Australia. The only other
publication which has an Australasian circulation which
rivals, or exceeds, that of the Sydney Bulletin, is the
Australasian Review of Reviews, in which Mr. Fitciiett
takes exactly the opposite point of view, and glorifies
everything that the Sydney Bulletin scoffs at. It is
curious to contrast the two ; and the future destinies of
the Empire will probably be decided by the question
whether it is the Australasian Review of Reviews or the
Sydney Bulletin which dominates the policy of the
continent.
There are two trifling errors of fact here: this
paper is not, and never has been, the Sydney
Bulletin, but The Bulletin for Australasia ;
and it sells somewhere about ten copies for every
one sold by the Australian Review of Reviews.
For the rest, The Bulletin has nothing but
thanks. It is most gratifying to find that this
paper’s efforts to procure an erect and independent
breed of Australians, and to blot out of existence
the truckling-to-titles, crawling-to-royalties, inde-
cently-self-prostrating variety, are thoroughly
appreciated in the right quarter.
♦
This cable appe .red recently in the Australian
press :
A Boer Romance.— Why BullerGocs Home.—“He Sur-
rendered with 7000 Men.”—London, Wednesday.-—The
Boers report that General Sir Redvers Bulleu and 7000
men surrendered, and were released on parole on con-
dition that they quitted South Africa.
Now the newspaper, O Portuguez, printed and
published at Lourenco Marquez, stated on
21st November last that the rumOr about
General Buller having been taken prisoner'
by Christian de Wet was quite true, and that on
giving his word of honor not to participate
further in the present war, and signing a docu-
ment to that effect, Gen. Buller was set at
liberty, the Boers retaining all his decorations.
The paper says further, that its knowledge of the
occurrence (iad been long intentionally withheld,'
in order to avoid British resentment; and that
publicity was given only under the pressure of
recent peculiar circumstances. Portugee often
spells liar, but' how on earth comes it that this
four months o'd Portuguese fairy-tale is sent out to
us at this late hour as something perfectly new?
And on the general question of surrenders,
“ It looks as though the nation would be put off
with carefully-doctored despatches and reports m
which all things unpleasant are mercilessly sup-
pressed,” writes H. W. Wilson in the National-
Review. And h e gives a detailed list of sur
renders to the Boers by British troops, totalling
about 6000 men. Mr. Wilson records with
some disgust that on one occasion 400 men
were entrusted to the care of 8 Boers and went
away with them peaceably. Also he is evidently
disgusted at finding that the various forces which
surrendered had, on an average, only lost per
cent, in casualties before giving in. It appears
from his account, though he does not definitely
say so, that no Australians have surrendered at
any time during the war.
♦
One T. D. Chataway writes indignantly to Bris-
bane Courier to say that the awful mortality
(ranging from 32 to 42 per 1000 per.annum—say
an average of 37 per 1000) among Kanakas on the
Queensland sugar-plantations does not ove their
utter unsuitability for the work, because the mor-
tality among Kanakas in their homes on the Sand-
wich Islands is 37 per 1000 as a regular tiling
Thereby he gives himself away badly. If the
mortality in Hawaii, including infants and
people who die of old age, is 37 per 1000
then it shouldn’t be more than l!i per
1000 at the outside among the labourers—
all supposed to be in the prime of life, with the
infant and old-age mortality eliminated—in
Queensland. Chataway’s theory is that because


BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY LTD.
378 George Street, SYDNEY;
30 Queen Street, BRISBANE;
On Your Holidays
USE A
PREMO CAMERA
Your Outfit is not complete without it.
™ 25/- ™ £2O
Illustrated Catalogues
Post Free.
Note Our Addresses ;
A
260 Collins Street,
66 Rundle Street,
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE.
n
HEUDON SPA WATER
A NATURAL
min f Ai ar
Sulphide Corporation
LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W.
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can be Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Cold, Silver, Lead, T Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought—
... ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
Special Terms quoted for Targe Parcels or
Regular Supplies under Contract.
Full Particulars and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cockle Creek
A E. SAVAGE,
Managua
CIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Agents for Australia.
the carefully-selected adult ElaiW:as in Queens-
land only die as fast as the babies, crippieo,
venerable grandfathers and grandmothers, chronic
invalids and lepers, and miscellaneous population
on the Islands, therefore the brown man’s suit-
ability for plantation work is dearly proved, and
he only suoceeds in proving that the plantations
are a Brown Man’s Grave.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion “The Black Flag."
Tivoli Rickards Co.
Lyceum................. “ Two Little Drummer Boys.”
Palace ........ “ Why Smith Left Home.”
Theatre Royal “ Cinderella.”
Her Majesty’s.. “The Only Way.”
Empire Fuller Co.
Centenary Hall Miss Kate Rooney’s Concert
(York-street.) (Easter Monday, April 8).
Redfbrn Wirth’s Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's Grand Opera Season.
Her Majesty’s “ Florodora.”
Theatre Royal “ In Sight of St. Paul’s.”
Bijou Rickards Variety Co.
Atiienasum Hall Biograph.
Suburban Halls O. M. Rodney.
The kilt has ceased from troubling at
Sydney Lyceum, and the bagpipes are temporarily
at peace. Manager Anderson’s new military
drama also has a restful influence of its own, inas-
much as there is no visible war in the “Two
Little Drummer Boys,” and not much Flag, and
the cannon don’t bang in public, and when the
regiment goes away and battles for 14 years with
the gory-minded Abdul and Hafiz and Shereef in
the desert, the drama just stays at home and waits
till it comes back. In the first act there is the
very good officer who is going to marry the
general’s daughter, and the very bad officer who
isn’t going to marry the parson’s daughter but is
concealing the fact for the present; and the bad
officer puts on the good officer the blame of having
stolen the Document which is the sole prop of the
country and without which the British Empire is
Burst. This is the eighteenth time the whole
safety of the Empire has depended on a document
that is generally kept in a hat-box or in a paper
bag on a window-sill. Therefore the good officer
is kioked out of the service with a loud kick,
but his faithful best girl marries him all the
same. And the bad officer doesn’t marry his best
girl, so she takes to drink. And the bad officer goes
to Egypt in pride and glory; and the good one
goes as a private to look round the corner of a
Pyramid for his lost honor, and disappears there.
Meanwhile the general’s daughter stays at home
in hope and Christian resignation, and the parson’s
daughter stays there in gin and holding on to a
lamp-post. Their two sons grow up to be
drummer boys, and the sins of the fathers fall
upon them, for the Document, or something, goes
astray again, and the bad man’s son puts the
blame on the good man’s son just as happened
with their fathers. Thereafter the drama begins
to lose its coherence, for the bad man resolves to
drown the good man’s son for no visible or
sufficient reason, and instead he drowns his own
son in the presence of witnesses and is gaoled for
life. And when he breaks out he rushes into the
arms of the long-forgotten good man, just back
after 14 years imprisonment in Khartoum
as the result of jumping incautiously round the
corner of a Pyramid in the hope of clearing his
character. This returned apparition pounds him
on a cold tombstone till he confesses everything.
The confession has no legal weight, for the re-
turned wanderer tells him what to say, and then
bumps him against the sepulchre till he says it,
but everybody is satisfied.
• • • •
The hope and joy and gladness of this
drama is the bad drummer-boy. Miss Dora Mos-
tyn is full of life and energy, and her bad boy is a
real work of art. The good drummer-boy is only
a pale shade and never amounts to much, but the
bad one, when he comes home from the field of
battle and refuses his mother 6d. for drink, is
interesting all the time. When these two youths
have their great fight, Miss Mostyn lashes out
with a boot with the realistic ferocity of a youth
who means to break something, and Miss Buckley
plugs back in a mild, heavenly fashion which
makes the good boy’s victory a farce. Miss
Eugenie Duggan (The Bulletin would cheerfully
give twopence to know what country her accent
belongs to) wrecks her part in the effort to keep
up appearances. She is a nice girl when the
Betrayer with the Document doesn’t marry her,
and after 14 years of hard drinking and general
going to the dogs in the back-ways of London she
is still a nice girl. She tries to drink and be a
lady at the same time, and the two things don’t
go together. Robert Inman represents the good
officer well enough, but the coming back of the
Silver King, with his long black coat and his long
white hair, grows monotonous. The wild-looking
Willard, with his forehead blotted by a great
square block of black hair, which looks as if a
large beetle was stepping into his eye, is better
than usual, and Bert Bailey and Miss Ada Guild-
ford are as good as usual. Which, as these two
artists are usually very good, is meant for sincere
commendation. A view of a valuable water-front-
age property, off which the too-sudden bad man
drowns his son, is a thing that is good for the
soul. This same remark can’t be applied to Miss
Kathleen Duggan’s painful song, “ There’s Some-
thing in the English after all.” Miss Duggan
goes on to mention four nations, and states that
there is something in each of them after all, but
she states it rather as if the fact made her sorry.
A woman ought to be glad that there is some-
thing—even if it is only dinner —in her fellow-
creatures.
** * *
Charles Arnold will appear, bar accidents
and sudden death, at Sydney Palace on Saturday
to expound the tale of “ Why Smith Left
Home.” Arnold (for whom Lohr is managing as
per usual) is an artist whom this country is always
glad to meet and sorry to lose, and there is no
doubt that he will show good and sufficient cause
for the departure of Smith, whoever Smith might
be, and his flight to the plaoe he went to, what-
ever plaoe it was.
** * *
“ Cinderella ” is humping along the great
burden of its magnificence, at Sydney Royal, with
respectable success. It is only after taking several
instalments of “Cinderella” that it is possible
to understand exactly how magnificent it is.
Musgrove has heaped wealth upon it, and it seems
a greater pity than ever that it wasn’t heaped on
something rather better. The present “ Cinde-
rella ” is, probably as good as most other “ Cin-
derellas,” but it is becoming a serious question
if this country really needs any more “ Cinde-
rellas.” The Dartos cast their flying heels in the
air of this free country after new and fantastic
patterns, and their possibilities appear endless.
They and the clothes and scenery should certainly
keep “Cinder” going for some weeks after the
date when she would naturally, on her own literary
merits, have laid her troubled bones to rest.
** * *
The towering ambition of Bonaparte will
fall in the Waterloo tableau at Sydney Majesty’s
for the last time this (Thursday) night. After
that the dramatic season lasts only two nights
more, a very brief revival of the “Only Way”
filling in Friday and Saturday. On the ensuing
Saturday (April 6) “ Florodora” is due, and in the
absence of any legal evidence to the contrary, it
is presumed the theatre will close for the inter-
vening five nights.
** * *
Wirth’s Circus has returned to Sydney,
and the curtain rises on many strange animals at
the old Redfern stand next Saturday. As Louis
de Rougemont was chased by most of these or
similar animals in North Australia, and also by
beasts which appear to have been made by sew-
ing two or three of these animals together, it
might be well if arrangements could be made to
brighten up the circus with that gentleman’s pre-
sence. In his present location he can’t be illus-
trated by appropriate crocodiles, and so doesn’t
get a fair show. An animated discussion in the
ring between him and the flying wombat should
be a good item.
** * *
“Shamus” is due to save Ireland in his
own weary way at Sydney Criterion for another
week, after which the English officer of ’9B will
cease to lick the gummed envelope over his im-
portant despatch in a way that did not come into
fashion till a good time later. Our haughty
ancestors never licked gum and knew nothing of
envelopes. Last Saturday night the newly-
washed clothes which the disguised Irish servant
is allowed by his kind master to fling about the
stage sailed further afield than they ought to have
done, with the result that a shirt fell down among
the orchestra, whereupon the English officer who
had been pelted with it fiercely demanded it back.
The “Black Flag,” it is said, will shortly wave at
the Criterion, after which there is a vague but
terrible rumor that “ Robbery Under Arms ” may
be resuscitated for the many thousandth time.
The Dampier season, which has now lasted a
whole consecutive year, is approaching an end,
and Sydney will feel a kind of aching void when
Alfred departs. He approaches the dignity of an
Institution.
** * *
At Sydney Empire Fuller’s bright little
show still sparkles on its way. There isn’t a
really dull item in it. Will Stevens is a
comedian whom the house delights to honour,
and the night The Bulletin was present
the house threw itself up wildly in the atmos-
phere and encored three times. Two devils
m red and a frog in all shades of green came
out into a place in the “woods,” and scared
the straddle-bugs away with weird gaiety. The
frog sat aloft on a tree-stump and tied himself
in knots, while the devils flew through the
air end over end, and did strange boneless
bounding things in the forest land of Bohemia.
Lennon, Hyman, and Lennon (the middle one is
the frog) are a curious trio ; and were previously
seen by Sydney at the Jordan Circus, on the occa-
sion when the lights went out, and Mrs. Jordan
fell from the trapeze, and the horseman rode gaily
over the cyclist. Watkins the “ Whimsical ” con-
tinues to whim in his own entertaining way. Re a
duet, “In the Dusk of the Twilight,” by John
Fuller and Miss Amy Blackie, anything into
which John puts his voice is worth hearing,
while Miss Blackie makes a very capable partner.
** * *
On Saturday afternoon, Louis de Rouge-
mont effected a masterly retreat on Sydney after
his Melbourne disaster, and appeared upon the
stage of the Tivoli. He is a tall man, with grey
hair and whiskers, appears to be slightly gone at
the knees, and wears a weary, wrinkled expres-
sion. On Saturday, he appeared somewhat diffi-
dent, looked towards the top of the theatre appre-
hensively, and kept close to the wing, as though
he feared the gallery might throw itself down
upon him. He explained, with a rather thick
accent, that he was there to interest and amuse,
and would like to have made some reference—that
is to say, said something—about what happened
in Melbourne ; but had no time—that is to say,
his time was too short, and he must hurry on and
tell them about his life and wonderful adventures.
(Slight interruption.) But he would be content
—that is to say, he would do no more than
say that he had a very bad cold, and his voice
could not be heard in any part of the building.
Then he stamped heavily with his right foot and'
a picture was thrown on the screen representing a
swarm of Australasian “ niggers ” in canoes
attacking an object that was wrapped in clouds of
smoke and jotted over with jets of flame. Rouge,
mentioned casually that the audience knew there
were savages up North, and explained that he was
not the first who had shot “ niggers.” In the
middle of his discourse he stamped «his foot and
another illustration flitted on to the screen. Each
picture shot into its place while the “lecturer”
was still in the midst of his hurried and anxious
explanations and remarks upon the one that had
disappeared, and he would break off suddenly in
the midst of a sentence to say to an unseen
minion, “Next, please—hurry up and send them
on as fast as you can.” There were pictures of
Rouge, holding on to his dog’s tail with
his teeth, while that faithful animal streaked
for the cloudy shore and kicked up the
spray with his hind legs in a manner that
must have been unpleasant to the party behind.
Other Wide World MAGAziNE-like pictures
followed in quick succession—pictures of the
alligator chasing Rouge., and Rouge, in mid-
air brandishing a tomahawk ; of the buffalo which
charged Rouge, with great celerity ; of the whale
that heaved its tail up to the stars and brought it
down, whack ! on Rouge.’s boat; of the prostrate
form of the lady nigger who became the temporary
tart of Rouge.; and a full-length representation of
the temporary tart with young Rouge, on her
shoulders. Where the tart and the young Rouge,
are just now, Rouge, did not stop to explain. He
admitted that when he wrote a book he had to
embellish it somewhat to make it sell, but he
declared that if all the rest were fiction the turtle-
riding yarn was true, and promised to do it again
in Port Jackson. As a lecturer, in this writer’s
humble and tremulous opinion (there are now
two Tivoli libel writs in the manager’s
desk) Rouge, is simply too awful. He flies
off at a tangent in the middle of a sentence
to explain the meaning of the last word he
used before flying off. Then he gallops all over
the sentence again, and winds up with “ Next,
please.” No doubt it is the sordid and tasteless
writer who is wrong, and not the gifted lecturer
with the absolutely new and original style. If
Louis de Rougemont was a combination of
Charles Clarke and Alfred Deakin, with the
same beautiful and profoundly accurate historical
facts to tell, the effect would be great. A man
who could put realism and energy into these in-
tensely accurate statements would make whole
stacks of money. As it is they are a cheerless
and rambling catalogue, and sound like many wax
figures blown by a doleful wind over a very large
plain.
** # *
Melbourne is warming-up again to the joys
of Musgrove’s grand opera, but meanwhile the
popular demand for “Bohemian Girl” has evi-
dently exhausted itself. The co. never treated
“ The Girl ”in a confiding British spirit. It was
better performed by local concerc singers, with an
amateur chorus, not so very long ago, and Mel-
bourne seems to have slowly tumbled to this
truth. Balfe’s amusing work had one neglected
revival last week. “Lohengrin” was a thing of
beauty on three nights. Conductor Slapoffski
and his orchestra, and the stage show, and every-
body concerned therein, deserve The Bulletin’s
best respects for “Lohengrin” as it was
given on the Wednesday when Miss Coomber
undertook the part of Elsa, and did it very well.
Once before, during last season, Miss Coomber
timidly came along at a few hours’ notice to bestow
her heart upon the sympathetic knight of the
greasy countenance, but that trivial gallop didn’t
count in her record. Now she goes on her fully-
rehearsed merits as a sweet, dainty Elsa, and the
opera loves its new prima-donna. The only
irritating item in “ Lohengrin ” is one of the four
page-girls, who seems to regard the slow and
stately entertainment as a picnic. All the time
that she ought to be looking serious this
toothsome, silk-tights-ed damsel, wears a fascinat-
ing smile. Leading chorus ladies seems to make
a point of attracting attention that way. * When
“ Cavalleria Rusticana ” was played at the
Princess’s the effect of the tragedy was marred
every night by Miss Florence Esdaile’s smirk. She
sang quite admirably, like the joyful young sinner
in “Lohengrin,” but because she wasn’t taking a
front place in the proceedings she adopted a con-
spicuous frivol, just to show her importance and
her teeth. Male choristers never misbehave so.
They simply stand around and ruminate till the
conductor shakes his stick at ’em.
** * *
“Mignon,” which made a fairly satisfac-
tory start last Saturday, has the virtues of opera
bouffe and some of the vices of “ Bohemian
Girl.” The action wobbles between light comedy
and tawdry melodrama, and the hero (at the
Princess’s) is an alleged German student who
sings and talks rocky English in the Umberto
Salvi style. The libretto of “Mignon” wanders
about into various keys, so to speak, whereas the
music is consistently melodious throughout. In
the most lucid intervals, or the silliest half-hours,
of the opera the French music is always charm-
ing. There’s a Lothario in the story. He is not
Gay. Everybody associates the name with
easy conquests and divorce proceedings, but
this Lothario is a sad, mad old pilgrim who
potters around singing gentle basso songs to a
bogus harp which he pretends to twang with one
hand, whilst a fellow down in the orchestra plays
the air on a real harp with two hands. Lothario
is looking for his long-lost daughter, Mignon.
She was stolen by gipsies 15 years previous to the
overture, and the gipsies have taught her to dance
bare-footed among chalk eggs without breaking
the shells. When Mignon and her demented
parent meet in the first act they don’t re-
cognise one another, but they strike up
an acquaintance and subsequently go on the
wallaby together, owing to the artless egg-
dancer becoming madly jealous of a giddy actress,
in consequence of the actress having mashed the
Anglo-Italian German student who purchased
Mignon aforesaid from the gipsies and delivered
her from ragged captivity in a cart. Mignon and
her purchaser get engaged to marry in the last
act, by which time the ancient harpist has re-
covered his reason and his ancestral castle, and
the interloping actress has dropped out of the
tangled tale. It may be as well to mention
that Lothario, the lunatic, set fire to some-
body else’s castle in act 3, and Mignon
made a deliberate attempt to roast herself to death
until the student saved her in a most heroic man-
ner. Anyway he emerges from the red glare
with Mignon thrown over his shoulder, and he
declares his own heroism in a loud tenor voice.
* • * •
Salvi, notwithstanding his comic English
accent and his plumpness, earns warm approval
for Wilhelm, the German student. He has much
difficult music to sing, and he sings it well. Also
Tilbury, as poor old Lothario, is the same reli-
able artist as usual, and Mdme. Slapoffski
fives a passable performance of the name-part.
he looks considerably more than a half-starved
girl of 17. Her bare feet are not trilbies ; more-
over her low notes are conversational in tone.
Yet, considering what a lot of things she has to
do, Mdme. Slapoffski may be called a negative
success. Her Mignon is perhaps not more uncon-
vincing than Madame Janson’s Carmen. The
clever contralto lady wears knee breeches and a
rapier in this narrative and fills a small part
neatly. Leumane, as a strolling mummer, is a
happy circumstance, and Miss Lorraine would
have been an admirable Filina five months ago,
since when her voice has been steadily losing
breath.
** * *
“ Tannhauser ” will be staged for the first
time in Melbourne this week, with Miss Coomber
as Elizabeth, presumably.
*# * *
The Bulletin’s fourteenth or so weekly
reference to “Florodora,” at Her Majesty’s, will
merely mention that the 100th performance hap-
pens to-night (Thursday), when every female
visitor is to get a souvenir, and the occasion will
be celebrated by a grand display of special features
and extra enthusiasm.
** * *
At Melb. Royal the Panther’s husband
continues to shirk his opportunity for dropping
into the fire and reducing himself to ashes, but in
other respects the drama does its level best for
the management, and business is good. Seeing
that “St. Paul’s” has caught the multitude in a
willing mood, Bland Holt proposes to give them
“The World” at Easter instead of something
new. If they want revivals, with up-to-date
effects, Bland is their Moses all the time.
** # *
Ted Box, the little man who loves beer
because there are no bones in it, is the newest
turn at the Bijou, bar a trapeze lady formerly of
Fitzgerald’s Circus. Rosie Aquinaldo, the
smiling young contortionist (also late of
Fitzgerald’s), has returned to her Bijou perch ;
and the DeWynnes, Albert Whelan and the
Monkey Trio proceed as before. At the
Athenaeum Hall the last nights and days of Queen
Victoria’s Funeral are passing hence, and the
solemn procession will make its final Melbourne
appearance on Friday, but Rodney, the mono-
logue comedian, lately from the Masonic with a
sore throat, announces his intention to mono-
logue in the principal suburban halls, as per advt.
** * *
Geo. Allan (of Allan and Co.) gives a
glowing report of the voices Hazon and he have
sampled on behalf of J. C. Williamson. “ The
men from Australia were hospitably welcomed by
managers and orchestral conductors in all the big
Italian cities. They found the singing-market
glutted. Fine artists rushed them with ap-
plications for engagements, and all the
people who were brought out by Simonsen
(some of whom must now be pretty ancient,
by the way) begged to be brought out
again, but as J. C. Williamson’s order is for new
talent these old favorites stand no chance. Having
listed a host of first-class singers, the two judges
are about to go over the ground again and make
a final selection of a double company that will be
excellent in all respects,” writes Geo. Allan.
Meanwhile Geo. Musgrove, who knows something
of the modern musical world, declares that fine
Italian artists are very scarce, and not available
for Australia at all.
When L. D. Nathan and Co.’s big ware-
house was burnt at Auckland, a few weeks back,
£lB,OOO worth of kauri-gum was stored in it. A
speculator bought the right to clear the site for
£3OO. On starting work he found that most of
the gum, instead of burning, had melted and run
into the ground. Already there is £3OOO worth in
sight.
Almost as a matter of course, in accord-
ance with the spirit of the times will come the
alteration it is now proposed to make in the word-
ing of the British Coronation Oath, as regards its
reference to the R.C. religion. The religious
bitterness responsible for the offensive portion of
the oath was due to the recency, at William lll,’s
accession, of the struggle between Protestantism
and Catholicism for supremacy in Britain; and
even at Victoria’s accession sectarian animosity
had hardly sufficiently subsided to make the
change possible. But 63 years have brought wiser
counsels, and even the most rabid Orangeman will
be nowadays ready to admit that, so long as the
“ Protestant succession ” is secured by law, there
is nothing to be gained, and perhaps a good deal
to be lost, by requiring an acceding sovereign to
subscribe to the opinion that “ the sacrifice of the
Mass is superstitious and idolatrous.” No mon-
arch should be officially bound to grossly insult
the religious convictions of a large portion of his
subjects.


|)eui york Qife Insurance go.
Special Representatives Wanted.
GOOD CONTRACTS.
Apply— THOS. P. PURVES, General Manager,
76 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“ EN <3 LAN P’S FAVO RITE.”
PLAYER’S
H.TN I ■
NAVY CUT
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
7*
The Australasian Insurance and Banking
Record of 19th October, 1900, writes regarding the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society, Limited : “ The
Society can justifiably point to the adequacy of its
reserves, which are of a magnitude and a character to
command the fullest confidence.”*
* * * *
The Pioneer Tin Mining Co., of Bradshaw’s
Creek, Tasmania, have ordered from the Austral Otis
Eng. Co., South Melbourne, a large dredging plant for the
treatment of their tin deposits. The plant is a very com-
plete one and includes vertical compound engine 400
h.p., suitable boilers carrying 1501 b. steam pressure, and
one of the Otis newest design 15 in. gravel pump. The
plant is to be completed and set to work within six
months.*
* * » *
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
fillan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
♦ * * •
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * * *
Since the start of the Broken Hill Proprietary’s
new 5000-ton mill, most of the Barrier mines have been
engaged in remodelling their concentrating plants on up-
to-date lines, and wisely show a preference for machines
which have proved most successful on the difficult fines
and slimes. The machines that can claim this distinction
are the “Luhrig” Yanners, as supplied by Messrs. W. &
J. Lempriere, of Melbourne. The South’s new mill will
include a dozen or so, and the Junction Co. has also de-
cided to erect a number of Luhrig Yanners as an impor-
tant adjunct to its large plant. Other mines would do
well to follow this good example.*
* * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,*
Melbourne. *
* * * *
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
• » * •
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sorts of iron-work.*
* * * *
The completion of the Chillagoe line brings the
rails within 90 miles of the Einasleigh, and the building of
a tram (2ft. gauge), to connect with the line, is to be
started shortly.
* * * *
Dredging on Crocodile field, near Rockhampton,
will probably be started in the near future. The dredge
is completed and was launched a fortnight ago, directly
the rains filled up the excavation. A shocking mess was
made of the launching, which resulted in a huge hole
being knocked in the bottom of the dredge. At present
time the management is thinking hard how to mend that
hole without stringing up the 150 tons of dredge to get at
it. If dredging at that spot proves a success there will
be quite a dredging boom in Queensland, as there is lots
of country just as suitable as Crocodile. The Clermont
dredge is working, but so far has not cleaned up.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting Charges.
Ny. Markwald y Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; V Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
Auckland, NZ.
AUSTRALIAN METAL CO. LTD.
X St. James’s Buildings,
113 WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores.
Importers of Cyanide of Potassium (98/100 per cent,
pure), Bleaching Powder, Mining Requisites,
Candles, etc.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The unspeakable foolishness of floating loans
repayable at a fixed date instead of, as in England, fixed
for a certain number of years and after that repayable at
any date when the Government feels so inclined, has
again struck this country heavily. In 1876 Victoria bor-
rowed £3,000,000 at 4 per cent., repayable in 25 years
exactly. There was no reasonable prospect when the
loan was floated that Victoria would have the money of
its own in 1901, and it was practically certain that it
would have to borrow £3,000,000 on that date exactly—
even if the market was in such a state of panic that the
money could only be got at 7 per cent. The bill fell due
when Britain was putting ten and twenty million loans
on the market with a rush at a big discount. And Vic-
toria, which could have got the money at 3 per cent,
three or four years ago, and which might be able (if it
could wait, which it couldn’t under the lament-
able fixed date system) to get the money at less
than 3 per cent, a year or two hence, has got its loan at a
heavy price. Full particulars are not available yet, but it
appears that, in consideration of fixing the loan for a long
terra of years, and by making a dead loss of about
£300,000 in discount, it gets the money at something like
£3 7s. 6d. per cent. Allowing for the loss on redemption,
the cost may be anything up to £3 14s. or £3 15s. per
cent. The British lender had the cheerful knowledge
that Victoria must have the money on any terms, and it
got the money on any terms. Certainly, it couldn’t
expect much better, seeing that N.S.W. has just
been doing a short-dated borrow in London at about
£4 7s. 6d. per cent.—but the terms are very bad
all the same. And it is joyful to reflect that the six
States of the Commonwealth have 94 more loans (45 of
them for sums varying from one to over 16 millions)
falling due at fixed dates —that unless they start
a system of gradual repayment out of revenue these
must all be renewed at any price the market likes to ask —
and that any dozen or two dozen of them are liable to fall
due when the market is even in a worse state than it is in
now. N.S.W. has £6,000,000 to renew in 1912, nearly
£13,000,000 in 1918, nearly £17,000,000 in 1924. Queens-
land has nearly £12,000,000 to renew in 1915, and nearly
£13,000,000 in 1924. Australia has to borrow
£31,000,000 in 1924 for renewal purposes alone, and about
£4,000,000 a year on an average between now and then.
Suppose 1924 is a year of general European war with
money at 6 per cent. ! And still new loans are floated
repayable at fixed dates, as if Australia hadn’t suffered
enough already by that foolishness.
* » * •
There is a fair chance that Victoria could have
raised its £3,000,000 more cheaply in Australia, if its Govern-
ment could have got out of the pitial tie old rut. Nowa-
days new loans are often floated locally, but to
borrow money locally to pay off an English
loan appears to be contrary to some silly rule
of etiquette. Queensland, whose credit is far inferior to
Victoria’s, has just floated locally a new loan of £1,000,000,
and, though full particulars are not yet to hand, it seems
reasonably certain that the cost, including loss on re-
demption, is only about £3 11s. per cent., while Victoria,
it is almost certain, will find itself, when the accounts are
made up, paying over £3 13s. 6d. per cent, including loss
on redemption. If Queensland, with a falling revenue
and the biggest debt per head in Australia, can get an
extra £1,000,000 at £3 11s., it is almost certain that
Victoria, with a rising revenue and the smallest debt per
head in Australia, could get £3,000,000 (which wouldn’t
increase its indebtedness, being merely a renewal) quite
as cheaply—if its rulers had only had the courage to try.
* • • «
Perth Municipal Council is fixing up a beautiful
arrangement whereby the city’s electric-lighting rights
are to be given away for a period of 21 years, in small lots
to private co.’s. The municipality is apparently to get
nothing for the privilege and no share of the profits. The
rate at which electricity is to be supplied is fixed at 7d.
per unit for seven years, and not more than 7d. after-
wards. Fourpence or fivepence is regarded as a fair rate
in more civilised communities, but Perth hasn’t begun to
be civilised yet.
« * * *
“ Bond ” : Have nothing at all to do with it.
If any man knows how to make such immense profits
don’t you think he would make them for himself instead
of giving away all that beautiful wealth to complete
strangers?
# • * *
The New York Life Insurance Co. concluded its
56th year—a very successful one—on 31st December, 1900.
Some comparative details follow :
Total Fvnenses Olaims Total Added to
Income. to P enses - Claims. outgoil) g S . Fun d s .
£>££>££>
1894 .. 7,506,855 1,743,709 3,223,252 4,966,961 2,539,894
1895 .. 7,796,763 1,619,244 3,455,459 5,074,703 2,722,060
1896 .. 8,053,407 1,628,670 3,803,214 5,431,884 2,621,523
1897 .. 8,599,400 1,728,702 3,993,715 5,722,417 2,876,983
1898 .. 9,348,131 1,847,549 4,427,956 6,275,505 3,072,626
1899 .. 10,775,980 2,168,393 4,569,337 6,737,730 4,038,250
1900 .. 12,122,329 2,421,921 4,805,725 7,227,646 4,894,683
The assets of the New York Life Insurance 00. were
£28,000,000 on Ist January, 1893 ; at 31st December,
1900, they approached £54,000,000. The co. has nearly
doubled in size in eight years, and the increase
grows steadily larger each year. At this rate it should be
Eossible that people now living will see the New York
ife swell up to be the owner of £200,000,000 of assets,
and it looks as if the time was coming when it and three
or four other vast life assurance societies will own the
United States and the contents thereof bodily.
The New York Life is one of the few institu-
tions doing business in Australasia which includes among
® its assets such an item as “ quarterly and semi-annual
premiums not yet due, £530,009.” This dubious and
spectral paper asset —absolutely the only dubious-looking
one on its list—is based on the assumption that though
the co. allows its clients to pay their premiums quarterly
or half-yearly in advance, yet they ought to pay them
yearly in advance. So, if a new customer takes out a
policy (annual premium £6O) in November, and pays a
quarter’s premium (£l5), when the books close on 31st
December he is assumed in the accounts to have paid £6O,
though he hasn’t, and the other £45 is put down as an
asset in the way shown above. It is a hazy, invisible, un-
productive, and unsatisfactory asset, and the less there is
of it the better. It makes the income look rather larger
than it is, and it swells the assets a little, and it is a
clumsy practice that does no one any good.
* » * *
The New York Life Insurance Co. has a splen-
surplus of £9,462,809 (assets £53,949,900, and liabilities
under policies £44,487,091). This is assuming that future
interest-earnings will be at the rate of 4 per cent., though,
seeing that last year the interest actually earned was at
the rate of only £4 Is. Id. per cent, on the average
assets, this assumption would be obviously absurd. But
it would be possible to reduce the estimated future inte-
rest-rate to 3 per cent., or even 2|- per cent., and still
have a very large surplus, so the security of the New
York Life is beyond all question. Its assets, too, barring
the dubious item of “ quarterly and semi-annual
premiums not yet due,” are equally beyond question.
This co. follows the wise policy—which no Australian
office has yet adopted—of publishing annually a list in
which every single asset and its book value are carefully
specified. This makes it absolutely impossible to over-
value the assets to any great extent without detection ;
every separate asset must have somebody’s eye upon it.
It would be truly interesting if Australian offices did
likewise and showed to the public exactly how much they
have lent on the real estate left on their hands since the
boom time. Writer knows a large mouldering waterside
house in a decayed suburb, now fetching about £5O a
year, which is said to represent £5OOO of a local life
society’s good red loot.
The expenses of the New York lnsurance
00. keep pretty steadily at about 20 per cent, of total
income. It is a very high rate according to Aus-
tralian ideas, but life business is ephemeral in the U.S.,
and an immense new business has to be done to
make up for the constant dropping away of the old, and
it is new business which makes the expense rate heavy.
In many companies renewal business costs only about 5
per cent, per annum, while new business costs from 100
to 200 per cent. Over two-tenths of the New York
Life’s premiums are from new business, while with the
A.M.P. the proportion of new business is less than one-
tenth. While this state of things continues U.S. expense
rates must remain high, and there appears no remedy for
it. Taking one consideration with another, however, the
balance-sheet of the New York Life Insurance 00. is a
satisfactory document and full of promise.
A few recent figures regarding the Civil Service
00-operative Society of New South Wales (Sydney) :
10 per cent. Dividend
Net and 10 per cent. Total
Profits. bonus on Share- Reserves,
holders’ purchases.
July, 1898.. ..■ .. £11,528
Jan., 1899.. £4,681.. £4,374 ... 11,835
July, 1899.. 4,501.. 4,463 .. 11,573
Jan., 1900.. 5,024 .. 4,583 .. 12,314
July, 1900.. 4,719.. 4,833 .. 12,200
Jan., 1901.. about 6,553 .. about 5,456 ..about 13,297
Owing to certain peculiarities in the book-keeping of the
Civil Service 00-operative Society it is impossible to ascer-
tain either the exact net profits or the exact amount of
the dividend for any half-year until the next half-year’s
balance-sheet appears, but the above is a reasonably close
approximation to the figures for January, 1901. The pro-
fits and reserves are increasing handsomely, and the over-
draft, which was as high as £3822 a year ago, has been
reduced to £389, and is more than balanced by cash on
hand. Paid-up capital is £6996, so the reserves are now
equal to nearly twice the capital.
* * * *
Broken Hill Water Supply Co., as already
casually mentioned in this column, didn’t do quite so
well for the half-year to 31st December, 1900, as for the
one preceding. And it still keeps as an asset in its
balance-sheet that fictitious or goodwill item, “Water
Rights, Leases, Parliamentary Bills, &c., £25,194.” If
this is ignored, as it should be, the situation in recent
times has been as follows:
Total
Profit, Deficit
less Dividends. (Goodwill
Depre- not reckoned
ciation. as an
Asset).
June, 1897.. £8,879 10 per cent. = £9,325 £10,507
Dec., 1897.. 15,705 10 „ „ = 9,325 4,127
June, 1898.. 11,779 10 „ „ = 9,325 1,673
Total
Reserves.
Dec., 1898.. 15,760 10 „ „ = 9,325 4,762
June, 1899.. 16,161 15 „ „ = 13,987 6,936
Dec., 1899.. 16,845 121 „ „ = 11,656 12,125
June, 1900.. 19,557 12*,, „ = 11,656 20,026
Dec., 1900.. 17,9231
Premiums H*> » = 13 ’ 987 27 ’ 337
Dec., 1900.. 3,375 J
The reserves are certainly growing fast, but there are
drawbacks. The writer can’t find that anything was
written off for depreciation of plant and machinery since
June, 1897. Nothing seems ever to have been allowed for
depreciation of the big dam (which is said to have depre-
ciated grievously through silting up) or of whatever else
is included in the item “ construction account, £154,349.”
And as the co. has to hand over the whole concern gratis
to the State in about 171 years, it has to get its capital
(£200,000) back out of earnings before then. It is cer-
tainly making progress, having over £41,000 of cash
accumulated already, so the shareholders should come
out all right in the end. But though the B.H. Water
Supply is a pretty good spec, it isn’t necessarily an abso-
lutely dazzling one when all the possibilities (including
those of an opposition supply or a succession of wet
seasons, which will make the mines partially independent
of the co.) are considered.
* * * *
The Australian mining outlook: The silence of
the newspapers on the subject is no proof that an all-
round mining depression, such as Australia has not had
for many a year, does not exist. Even the doubling of
the value of tin has created no tin-boom in Australia, and
although, the metal has been at a high price for over a
year, it is doubtful if it has brought into existence one
permanent tin-producer. Most of the old mines are going
down, if not giving out, and the big attempt made in
Adelaide to consolidate a large number of the tin mines
in Herberton district has not been much of a success—as
is indicated by the sharemarket, which has depreciated
30 per cent, within the last few weeks. Though the
value of the metal is coming down, the tin production of
Australia has nothing to do with it.
*** \ *
Copper has fallen £3 a ton within the last ten
days, but there is less reason to be concerned about the
price of copper than about the condition of the chief Aus-
tralian copper mines. Mt. Lyell shares are less than
one-third of the price they once reached ; they are half
the price quoted last year, and, even now, they are double
what they would probably be at if price were dependent
on the mine alone. The average value of the ore is now
so low that it could not pay if a substantial drop in the
price of copper took place. That is not likely to happen,
but the fact suffices to show how close to the wind the
mine is sailing. Fortunately it has other sources of
revenue, which are bound to increase ; nathless, the
market value of shares is the true barometer of what is
happening. Ohillagoe has suffered heavily—a drop of
10s.—in the slump. The attempt to segregate some of
the leases was only a partial success in London, despite
the presence of Mr. Stewart, the famous £7OOO a-year
mining manager, who was spared for the purpose—
although, with such a salary, one would think
his proper place was on the mine, and not try-
ing to float “ pups ”in London. The Mt. Garnet smelters
are running, and have established the fact that the ore is
rich enough in copper and silver to pay dividends with a
railway, but it is doubtful whether it can ever be done
without. Mt. Garnet shares now stand at less than half
the price of 18 months ago. There are other isolated
copper-mines in Queensland good enough if they can be
brought within railway communication, but absolutely
worthless without.
N.S.W. has only two well-established copper-
mines, Oobar and Burraga. It has had just these
two for many years ; all attempts to develope other
copper-mines made during the last five years
have so far not brought one into existence.
Blayney almost arrived there, but the bottom
level is so poor that it is doubtful. The Ohesney mine
will be a big copper-producer in time to come, but it will
not reach that stage before it spends another £30,000 or
£40,000. N.S.W. was a comparatively big copper-pro-
ducer about 20 years ago, but most of the mines were
worked-out before they were abandoned—as indicated by
the re-opening (among others) of Milburn Creek, and the
finding of next-to-nothing in the bottom.
Silver and lead mining is sicker than it has
been for many a year owing to the low price of both
metals, but chiefly on account of the big drop in lead.
When lead was £l9 per ton great things were predicted
for the Broken Hill mines, several of which were revived
and put on a big producing basis. A fall to £l7 per ton
did not frighten them ; but when lead came down to £l3
—as it is to-day—the outlook became serious. The
change will make a great difference to Broken Hill divs.
Its application to the Central Block 10 and South Mines
is so severe as to bring down the price of the shares and
to ruin a number of recent speculators in them. The fall
has closed down one or two mines, and others must fol-
low if lead continues to fall or remain stationary. The
hope of any increase in price is rather remote. Alto-
gether it is the biggest blow Broken Hill has had for some
years. N.S.W. has one good silver-lead mine outside of
the Barrier—at Bora Creek. All others throughout Aus-
tralia are not worth naming or talking about.
* * * •
The gold-mining depression extends throughout
Australia. With the exception of Mt. Morgan all the big
Queensland producers are falling off. The total produc-
tion of Charters Towers, Gympie, and other fields is less
than it was last year. Gold mining in N.S.W. is mostly a
sort of joke. The N.S.W. mine best worthy of the name
is Baker’s Creek, and that because of what it has done,
not on account of what it is doing. Its divs. are like
angel’s visits. Mitchell’s Creek Freehold is a paying and
permanent concern, but is owned by one man and little
is known about it beyond the reporting of a fortnightly
yield averaging about 3500z5. Nine-tenths of all the
others are rubbish and should be abandoned to save
money. The Wentworth mines have produced a lot of
gold but are producing next to none now. It will
probably be a long time before they produce any more.
Hillgrove is practically a dead letter, Pambula only a
goldfield by name, Mt. M'Donald has had as much Hong-
kong money as it is now receiving curses. Wyalong has
one good mine, the first found there by the Neild family
and so named. Occasional good crushings come from
some of the other mines, but none of them seem to have
any great permanent value. Next to South Australia,
which has a lot of unexplored country, N.S.W. is the
most poverty-stricken gold-mining State of the group.
But other things make up for this. Taking all minerals
into account N.S.W. has been the boss mining State for
years, and only in 1899 did W.A. get its nose in front.
* * » *
Victorian gold-mining is lower than it has been
for years. They have a lot of deep mines in Bendigo, but
only two or three of them are any good ; doubtful
whether enough gold has been won below 2000 ft. to pay
for finding it —it probably costs £lO an ounce to get below
that level. Several mines that last year were regarded as
permanent producers have dropped out, of which the
greatest example is the Long Tunnel. Shares worth o\er
£l2O each in the early part of last year, and now down to
£9 1 Hope was lately centred in Glenfine South as the
coming mine of the State, but even that has fallen 25 per
cent, in market value within the last few weeks, and, as a
rule, the market talks truthfully. To deny that Victoria has
seen its best gold-milling days, and to talk of its great
resources in that direction,' is only a prevalent form of
newspaper idiocy.
• • * •
The biggest gold mines and gold producers in
Australia, with one exception (Mt. Morgan) are to be
found in Westralia. Although most of them are within a
square mile, some have been found in isolated districts.
The boom has gone for good, and although the share-
market is more depressed than it has ever been, some of
the mines out there have still inflated values. Condi-
tions of gold-getting, though much better than they
were in the early days of the field, are still most severe in
Westralia, where mining can never be made cheap. As a
rule, where timber is abundant, water is either scarce or
has to be condensed, therefore it is made an expensive
item ; and where there is plenty of fresh water there is
generally a scarcity of timber. Wages are high, and must
stay so, but Westralia is the great Australian gold pro-
ducer, and in the course of another year or so will pro-
bably turn out more gold annually than any two of the
other States.
* * * *
Stockbroking in Australia is no longer an en-
viable business. In fact in most cases the broker’s occu-
pation has gone, and seats on the Exchange
won’t pay for new seats on the brokers’
pants if things don’t change for the better.
Going on ’Change two or three times a day is
reduced to an absolute farce, very little business being
done even in Adelaide, the liveliest of all Australian
Mining Exchanges. Very much less is done in Melbourne,
and next to none in Sydney.
* * * *
Altogether the mining depression in Australia
is so severe, and likely to be so much worse that The
Bulletin anticipates an all-round shriek for more British
capital.
* * • »
The Junction North’s reconstruction scheme
gets off the runners, and bumps badly. Instead of offer-
ing a new issue of shares to present holders, the old co.
is to be wound-up and a new co., with the same number
of shares, formed, shares carrying an immediate liability
of 2s. 6d. It amounts to making a half-crown call on
shares that are fully paid-up, with forfeiture for non-pay-
ment. This is not a plan to be encouraged. The co., it
seems, owes £5500 ; the new co., which will have £16,250,
will wipe that off and spend the rest in plant-improving
and shaft-sinking.
» * * *
B.H. Prop, tries to partly make up for the fall
in lead-value by pouring more ore into its concentrating
mills, which hitherto have not worked at their full
capacity. Other co.’s are leaving the poorest ore-faces
alone. The Junction North, which had closed down alto-
gether, has a reconstruction scheme on hand—the fifth
or sixth ; the writer of this has lost count. What share-
holders need most is a reconstruction of the lode. The
Junction, in the same boat as the J. North, wisely pushes
on with its new milling plant designed to get out a little
more of the metal. Meantime, what has become of the
zinc-extraction processes ? And why did the Australian
(German) Metal 00. really close its zinc-extraction
works ? It is all a mysterious business.
* * * *
While lead boomed, Block 14 kept its mill and
other plant going full-time by putting through all
ore that was broken. When the market began to weaken
the poorest “faces” of ore were abandoned ; and now,
when it doesn’t seem likely that the price will go beyond
£l4 for some time, the ore at other faces haS to be picked.
Result is that the mill can now be kept at work but two
shifts instead of three a day. Labor will suffer much
more than the shareholders for this. The co.
made only a shilling or two per ton from this poorest ore
—often, in fact, under a shilling—while working costs,
including freight, amounted to about £2 per ton. Of
course the shareholders must suffer seriously, never-the-
less ; but their loss is heaviest on the richest ores. Of
other B.H. mines, the North will probably be the next
that will have to modify its plans unless the lead market
improves; and London advices are not at all comforting.
» * * *
Funny things are happening in connection with
the B. Hill water supply, whose shortage and shocking
quality lately imperilled mining there. A tropical shower
falls and the papers report it. Three or four days after
the same fall is reported by the co. Thus the “ catch ”
(which really hasn’t been considerable down to date) is
multiplied by two. City shareholders in the mining cos.,
who were beginning to kick, are thus silenced, and the
politicians are also induced to cease troubling about B.H.
water supply.
White Cliffs opal fields, far-west N.S.W., still
give tucker to about 400 men, a crust and hope to 300
more, and tucker and a bit over to perhaps 100.
The drought has knocked out the Queensland opal fields ;
the Hungarian field is said to be exhausted ; so White
Cliffs is supplying most of the world’s very uncertain
opal market. Lately good gem has been in poor demand,
while moderate stuff has been readily saleable ; from
which it is concluded that opal is coming into favor in
the back part of the house and therefore going out of
favor in the front quarter. And as the back won’t long
go on buying what the front doesn’t sport, things do not
seem too bright for the opal-gouger in the near future.
Possibly it is this which is pressing on the question of
tribute-percentages again. Through what is now ad-
mitted to have been a bad blunder, the pick of the field
was let on mininsr lease to people who sold to a mostly -
foreign co. ; and this co. lets blocks on tribute to small
parties, doing absolutely nothing itself beyond collecting
25 per cent, of the value of all opal won. The miners
are now saying that 15 per cent, is a fair thing for doing
no more than that.
* • * *
Pambula Mines, N.S.W. : Meeting of share-
holders in London, at which a div. was declared —2d. cn
partly-paid shares and 2 2-9 d. on fully-paids. No ex-
planation why it was paid, as there was nothing left to
work the mine with. The news of the div. comes from
London, and, if the field had not long been dead with no
hope of resurrection, the local correspondent would have
sent it along to the papers as another evidence of the
enduring richness of the camp.
* » * »
Paringa, Hannan’s : Wired to the East that
the poppet-legs on the new shaft have been completed,
that sinking will be resumed in a day or two, that the
mine authorities are confident ol picking up the run of
ore proved by a drill close to the Northern Associated’s
boundary, “and if their anticipations are realised, the
Paringa should shortly blossom out as one of the pro-
ducers of the field.” It has been threatening to blossom
for three years, but what the local newspaper took for
buds have proved to be blight. It looks like a most des-
perate “ wild-cat,” and the only recommendation it has is
that it is on the side-lines of one of two good mines, the
lodes of which would have to turn round and run very
flat indeed to ever get into the Paringa. There are several
other leases owned by the Paringa Co.—Cassidy’s Hill,
Sir John Forrest, etc.—which have been proved good
enough to leave severely alone.
* * * *
Kapai (Hannan’s) : “An important develop-
ment has taken place in this mine. A lode 4ft. 6in. thick
struck in a winze in the north drive at 300 ft. level. It
bulks 25dwt. to the ton, while for a width of 18in. assays
went up to 40oz. The discovery is regarded as most
important.” Certainly, if it proves permanent, because
the mine is a long way outside the Golden Mile. Further
development will probably wipe it out, as it has done
with many other previous “ important discoveries.”
» ♦ * *
(Continued on page 25).


Complete
Outfits.
AN ORIENT BOOT
16/6
AN ORIENT SUIT-s-
-63/-
TO MEASURE
ALL GLASSES OF GARMENTS
. . IN THE ..
“Orient To measure” Clothing
.. AT ..
PRICES^
Write for Particulars and Patterns.
DAVID JONCS & COMPANY,
6<orgt & Barrack Sts., Sydi}«y
ROWLAND’S
KALYDOR
For the & kin.
Removes Freckles, Tan, Sun-
burn, Redness, Roughness, Heals
and Cures Irritation, Insect
Stings, Cutaneous Eruptions,
produces Soft, Fair Skin and a
Lovely Delicate Complexion
Most cooling r.nd soothing in hot
climates. Warranted harmless.
ROWLANDS
ESSENCE OF TYRE.
The most perfect Hair Dye.
Produces a permanent brown or
black which cannot be removed.
Ask for Rowland’s articles, of
Hatton Garden, London. Sold
by Stores and Chemists.
Forget all your troubles,
Reverses and debts,
In peaceful enjoyment of
HOME CIGARETTES
Society
LEROY
LIQUEUR
BRANDY
In giving Cornwall and York presents
worth £20,T00 to distribute during bis travels, the
Jtsntish Govt. follows an evil precedent, which led
t a r^i r - ea l t Bca . n did when his economical Highness
ot Edinburgh made his famous voyage. That
penurious grandee gave away a number of tinpot
trinkets, mostly so poor and cheap that the
recipients were somewhat ashamed to accept
them. They thought, however, that the gifts
were personal, and remembered that the young
man s which was then £12,000 ayear, had
its limits. Thus thinking, they gave so many
costly gifts m return that lie arrived in England
with a cargo worth half-a-million. Of these gifts
a tew which were too cumbersome for his profit
or pleasure were deposited at South Kensington,
p ut ,i 6 J ‘ 011 to the remainder, about nine-
tenths of the whole. When a sum of £GO,OOO was
voted on the next Estimates as the cost of the
presents the Duke of Edinburgh had given away,
people who had accepted shoddy gifts as corning
trom a not. over-wealthy prince suddenly found
themselves indebted to the British taxpayer, and
many of the articles were returned with indignant
letters which the Colonial Office duly burked. It
is a great mistake to revive these humiliating
memories. If the Heir-Apparent be wise he will
confine his presents to public institutions, and
will accept no gifts whatever excepting addresses
and their caskets.
* * * *
»S.A. Govt, hasn't yet announced its pro-
gramme for the visit of the Yorks ; the truth is
that it doesn’t know what on earth to do with
them. It has to supply them with amusement
and interest for five whole days ; and unless Pre-
mier Holder preaches to them throughout one
day, and Attorney-General Gordon tells them
funny stones on another, those two days will have
to be blanks. In desperation the Government
has tapped the Broken Hill directors to find out
if they can’t show the visitors “ the greatest silver
mines in the world ” ; but there has been a nasty
fall metal prices—and the directors are also
verra Scotch. And somebody who was asked to
probe Broken Hill itself rushed back with the
tale that the local Council consists almost wholly
of shockingly Kadical Labor aldermen, bossed by
a Mayor who works in his shirt-sleeves ! Just
what will be done in the end nobody knows.
* * * *
■Culture speeds apace in Melbourne as the
Duko’.s visit approaches. A few days back the
Premier s department received a report from the
chief of detectives recommending that three of
ms burliest and biggest-footed “ demons ” should
be appointed as a royal bodyguard, and requisi-
tioning for authority to purchase three frockcoats
and three belltoppers for their use, in order that
the escort might be suitably attired.
* * * *
Cabled that the cruiser Niobe, accompany-
ing the Ophir, is sending “ wireless telegrams ”
to the coast as she passes. The term is long and
lumbrous. _ A new word will be wanted as the new
invention is more used. Why not “ airgram ” ?
* * * •
Melb. Women's Hospital Committee of
goody-goody dames still labels the respectable
patient 11 Mrs. Smith” while the mother of t!ie
love-child is placarded plain “Sarah Jones”;
nevertheless, Maffra Shire Council, having de-
clined to subscribe so long as this branding prac-
tice continued, was promptly informed that “no
distinction was made between married and single.”
At the Alfred Hospital even paying patients are
labelled plain Tom Taylor or Mary Brown, but it
takes a women’s committee to practise such petty
meanness—the meanness characteristic of the
woman who is virtuous because no man tempted.
* * * *
The Women’s Arch idea has totally burst
up in Melbourne. Only £lOO could be got toge-
ther for erecting one. The notion having been
finally abandoned, it has been decided to give the
£lOO to that admirable institution, the Queen Vic-
toria Hospital for Women, which is worked by
women doctors principally. In this the Mel-
bourne women have shown good sense. If the
Queen’s Statue movement collapses, too —as seems
likely to be the case since the shillings only drib-
ble in like drops from a leaky tap—it is to be
hoped that the money collected will be given to as
useful an object.
» m * *
Thus “ Compton ” on a burning question :
Now that N.S.W. has only one serious interest in life
once more, it becomes necessary to take early steps to
ensure the dissemination of adequate information on its
details. I hasten to supply a want which will shortly
become a roaring one by suggesting the attached exam-
ination paper in the Coningham case. Those who cannot
answer them at sight ought to be cursed with bell, book
and candle if they undertake to discuss the case at all.
Professors Macallum and Butler might embody these
little questions into the ’Varsity papers next year, and
might work up a very interesting little row over them in
the daily papers meanwhile.
1. Mention any occasions on which I)r. O’Haran is
alleged to have worn a soutane, and give an outline his-
tory of the practice of tattooing from the times of the
ancient Britons to the present day.
2. Give the results, as disclosed in the case, of taking
(a) stout, (b) oysters and stout, (c) colonial wine at a
shilling a bottle. Explain the probable bearing of the
Bartonian tariff (when imposed) upon the last.
3. Who were “Fred,” “Mabel,” “Kelly,” and Miss
F y? Are there reasons forgiving the'last-named a
professional status ?
4. Discuss the phrase, “garrison hacks.” Is this the
R.C. or the Protestant version of the hacks of the
Apostles ?
5. Collate the available evidence on the question of
Mrs. Coningham’s taste as regards (a) diet, (b) costume,
(c) the drama. Critically compare the “Geisha” and
the “ Passion Play,” drawing a parallel between the char-
acters of Wun-hi and Judas Iscariot.
6. Write a short summary of Bishop Berkeley’s views
on personal identity, giving any feasible suggestions that
occur to you as to the identity of Mrs. E .
7. What public advantages attach to the proposal that
spots which have become historic in connection with the
case should be reserved as Commonwealth sites?
8. Draw a sketch-map of Sydney and environs showing
the probable course of Mr. Coningham’s movements be-
tween the two trials. Indicate the spots where he
stopped to make notes, and show by a dotted line the
probable whereabouts of Slattery’s crows.
9. “ The cardinal virtues are faith, hope and charity.”
Illustrate this by a review of his Eminence’s ideas as to
the functions of a waste-paper basket.
10. Compare the phrases “Thanks be to God” and
“ Glory be to God ” ; carefully distinguishing the use of
each in witness-box by Church dignitaries.
11. (u) Attach incidents to the following days, June
29, 1898, July 3, 1898, Oct. 2, 1898 ; (b) Suggest words for
a short patriotic poem entitled “ Who fears to speak of
*9B ” and dedicate to Mrs. Coningham.
12. Discuss the probable effect on the result of the trial
of its clashing (a) with the Federal elections ; (b) St
Patrick’s day ; ( c) the visit of the Dook o’ York. Do you
consider it advisable to start the trial a third time on the
arrival of the Dook ? Would it be advisable to introduce
him to the parties ?
* * # *
Melbourne’s Diamond Jubilee Infectious
PUNISHABLE.
JOHNNIE : "Your frock ought to come under the
Vagrancy Act no visible means of support, you know.”
JEANNIE : “ How ridiculous! Don't you see Pm holding it up.”
A HINT.
HIM: “But it is said that two negatives make
an affirmative.”
SHE: “ Yes, and that shows if a girl says no
twice she means yes.”
Diseases Hospital is now finished—as to the shell.
It comprises several beautiful red-brick and tiled-
roofed buildings, constructed on the most scien-
tific lines ; and the money subscribed is all spent.
It will cost £7OOO or £BOOO to equip and finish,
and, as nobody knows where that is to come from’
the poor will continue to overcrowd Melb.
Hospital, which already begins to get into debk
again. By the way, it is not yet too late for Mel-
bourne to drop its notion of a statue and finish off
the Fever Hospital, as a really noble memorial to
the dead Queen.
* * * *
The name “May” was omitted in the
Sydney Anglican services on Sunday week—the
prayer being for “the Duchess of York.” The
omission goes to show that the clergy still
diligently read The Bulletin.
• * * *
Seddon means to go one better than
Sydney over the Yorks’visit. At Wellington lie
proposes to have not merely a “wool arch” and
a “coal arch,” but a “ frozen-mutton arch,” which
he says “ will be unique.” So it will, especially
if the day is warm.
* * * *
Westralia despatched another S’African
Contingent the other day and great was the drunk
thereof. The Coolgardie portion of it quitted the
tram at a wayside station, ate some refreshments
and threw the rest up into the clear, dry, health-
ful atmosphere of ’Groperland, drank a good deal,
and then took pot-shots with the decanters at the
genial landlord, and knocked his principal front
tooth down his throat. At several places on the
road it got out and fought the local population to
a finish, and in between times it wrecked the in-
teriors of the carriages and threw the doors and
windows on to the adjacent arable land.. Quite a
number of residents along the railway track trust
that this Contingent will have a swift passage,
and that certain of its members will have a good
front seat at the last battle. These are the people
w ipse loss of teeth has temporarily over-mastered
h.eir loyalty.
* * * »
A candid Tasmanian hero writes to his
dear pa (who straightway passes on his letter to
the senile Hobart Mercury) that “ he never felt
so well in his life as at the war.” No wonder—
with the fun he has been having. Just listen :
At Zeerust we went to a farmhouse to see if there were
any arms or ammunition, and saw a grave in the garden
which a woman said was her grandmother’s grave.. We
had some doubts, so we dug it up. When we got to the
coffin the woman said, “ Ah, don’t open it.” But we did,
and it was full of clothes and crockery. We broke the
crockery and burnt the clothes. We camped there for
the night, had a few fowls and a couple of small pigs, so
had some chicken broth for breakfast, and nice cold pork.
We started on the track again in the morning, and came
across a flour-mill with about 60 tons of flour, and we
burnt the mill, flour and all. At Boshof we found a
piano in a house, took it outside and had a concert after
we had destroyed all the furniture. Two of us have got
a little negro to carry our wood and water, and feed our
horses, so we do not have too bad a time.
The Glory of it all !
* * * *
The official who filled up specimen-
schedules for Vic. census paper is a wag. For his
first example he has chosen a widowed hotel-
keeper and postmaster as the head of the family,
and has presented him with an 8-year-old daugh-
ter, a 25-year-old governess with an infant son,
a broken-armed Chinee cook, a chambermaid
(widow, 27 years) with a daughter aged 12—pre-
sumptive evidence that the chamber-lady married
when she was about 14—and three lodgers, a
tailor, shearer, and miner, the latter an epileptic.
All the parties profess some form of religion ex-
cept the shearer, who has forgotten what it was
he used to believe. The interesting hotel, unlike
every other country pub., has no livestock on the
premises. The second specimen household is that
of a farmer who has 5475 acres, the influenza, and
a deaf-and-dumb son. The fact that he is aB. A.
of Oxford probably accounts for his ability to run
a 5475-acre selection, with 44 horses, 3600 sheep,
&c., with the help of two “laborers.”
* * * *
It is very unfair that the fate of Baker,
sentenced to death for the attempted murder, in
Sydney, of Detective Toomey, of Brisbane,
against whom he had an old-standing grudge,
should be left so long in the balance by N.S. W.’
Executive. Baker’s crime was cold-blooded, and
well-premeditated, but the Executive will no
doubt follow the wise course, unbroken in N.S.W.
of recent years, of giving effect to the jury’s
recommendation to mercy. So long as the law
respects juries’ wishes, “so long will proven
criminals be overtaken by verdicts framed in the
public interest.
The philosophical old Toorak (Melb.) lad
who incidentally contributed £2300 to th
burglars’ fund, the other day, by banking in
hatbox, and then thanked God that she “still ha
enough to live upon,” was described by the dailie
as being “ well known for her benevolent disposi
tion.” The statement has given the good ol<
dame considerably more trouble than did th
burglar, in the first place—by causing her to b
simply besieged by needy petitioners. Cadger
are now met at the front gate by a stalwar
gardener, whose mission it is to intimate tha
Mrs. is not to be seen.
* * * *
Those members of N.S.W. public service
who got transferred to the newly-created Harboi
Trust, and thus escaped the domination of the
Public Service Board, have had a shock. The
Trust’s office hours are to be —are now—S
to 5 on five days of the week and 9 to
1 p.m. on Saturdays, instead of the time-
honored 4.30 and noon of the “Govt, stroke.”
The P.S. Board hinted at doing a like sacrilegious
act when it was appointed in ’95, but the indigna-
tion with which the suggestion was received forced
the three to drop it.
• * * *
“ Brew ” to The Bulletin :
In view of the imminence with which the plague is
a n threatening Australia, the pooh-poohing nature of
certain published statements attributed to the recently-
returned Dr. Hornabrook, of Adelaide, lead one to re-
gard him as a rather indiscreet young man. His airy
way (as reported) of treating the matter has unfortun-
ately been made the most of by those who object on
principle to precautionary measures, while his Calcutta
plague-experiences and military renown as a hero of sorts
give an undeserved weight to such utterances. The re-
porter appears to have grovelled admiringly when the
doctor related how he deliberately inoculated himself
with the blood of a plague-patient to see whether he
would develope the disease, but evidently did not know
that the risk was practically nil. Many authorities, in
fact, altogether deny its possibility, stating that at this
stage of its life-history the bacillus is not dangerous to
man. This opinion has been held for years by Hanson
and others, and Dr. Hornabrook must have 'forgotten
it. Moreover, all the Govt, plague officials
were inoculated with prophylactic serum and re-
inoculated until they were rendered as nearly im-
mune as any human being can be. If the Ade-
laide reporter had known these things it is pos-
sible that he might not have bitten quite so readily.
The warlike medico is also made by the reporter to
evince a cheerful disregard for all sanitary measures be-
yond sunlight and fresh air ; but it is well to remember
that health matters in Capetown were for a long time
administered by other military medicoes holding just
such ideas, with the present disastrous result. Sunlight
and fresh air are certainly excellent adjuncts when deal-
ing with the plague, but little matters such as the de-
struction of rats, cleaning out sewers, and disposing of
garbage also merit attention. There are several men in
Australia whose experience of epidemics is considerably
larger than that of the Adelaide warrior-medico, and
their efforts to smother the danger before it gets out-of-
hand are made difficult enough as it is without adverse
criticism from people who should know better.
* » * *
“ Progressive ” Maori] and is going back-
wards in some respects. Judge Edwards recently-
announced his intention of resorting to the
flogging of criminals ; and, soon afterwards, Judge
Williams, of Dunedin, sentenced one Flaherty to
15 years’ penal servitude and two floggings of 25
strokes each, for what was certainly a brutal and
horrible offence upon' a three-year-old girl. But
the very fact that the incidentals of the assault
were too hideous for print proves the wretched
man to be a sexual maniac
of the most hopeless type.
So, what purpose can be
served by flogging him it
is hard to understand.
“ TRAPPINGS AND SUITS OF WOE.”
—HAMLET.
BOY : “Me dad says will you please come to me
granny’s funeral .”
STRANGER: “My boy, I know not your father;
nor was I acquainted with your deceased
grandparent. ”
BOY : “ That don’t matter. Dad says he wants
to make it as big a success as he can.”
Adelaide has afc last decided to have a
crematorium ; the building is to be erected next
the metropolitan cemetery. Strangely enough,
adjacent residents, who have uncomplainingly
borne the peculiar smells from the big necropolis
for years, protest against the innovation. Which
somehow recalls the sanitary inspector who com-
plained that the fresh air at the seaside always
made him ill.


Cooling ! Health-giving !
ADD A LITTLE
CONOrS FUND
toyour Bath or Foot-Bath,
â
The Cooling, Invigorating
and Strengthening
Effects are Simply
Magical.
Of nil Chemists k Stores.
Insist on having “CoNDY’S FLUID.”
The name Condy & Mitchell, of London, England,
should be at foot of Label.
•Rpware of Inferior Australian Substitutes,
JJ.K.Z. (ID.
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
but absolutely the best .in the world. One size
only —largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 16’5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Sydney.
The bright man who would be always at
his brightest, needs to pay particular attention to
the brand upon the bottle. Great enterprises
have been utterly ruined by two or three nips of
the whisky than inebriates but does not cheer.
The man who has once tried D.C.L. never falters
in his allegiance. Its title of “ The Whisky of the
Wise ” is now a household phrase, approved by
thousands of watchful matrons. “I have never
known John to make a fool of himself on D.C.L.
whisky,” writes a Maoriland lady.*
It’s
Because
It is Made to give Comfort,
Made in the Latest Style,
Made for Wearing Well that
THE CALLAGHAN SHOE
Has so many thousands of wearers.
Ladies’ j
Shoes )
Brown Vici Kid Shoes, Button or Lace, Stylish Caps,
Pointed Toes, 11/9, 12/9, 13,9
Black Yici Kid Oxford Lace Shoes, with Patent Tips,
in any shape toes, 11/6,12/6, 15/6,17/6,18/6.
395 George-st.
Sydney.
Yet one more reason for the abolition of
the brutal punishment of flogging. German
doctors assert that traumatic neurosis (the pro-
gressive general nervous decay which frequently
follows physical injuries) is specially likely to
result from flogging, because the subject is in a
state of nervous excitement during the infliction.
Apropos, a Bulletin man not very long ago saw,
selling boot-laces at a Melbourne street-corner
blind and utterly broken-down —a comparatively
young man who suffered 7 years gaol and 3
floggings for an alleged offence of which he was
afterwards conclusively proved innocent.
* * * *
When T. J. Wyburn, the veteran Melb.
solicitor, was killed at Camberwell station last
week, one of the first men to step from the train
under which the body lay was deceased’s own son.
Which recalls a similar case on the Hobson’s Bay
line, when a man who had helped to carry a victim
from under the engine, left the scene, and did not
learn till next day that the corpse was that of his
brother.
* * * *
In the half-dozen actions against the
N.S.W. Railway Commissioners, heard during
present term, every one has resulted in favor of
plaintiffs, one man succeeding in gaining a verdict
for the full amount claimed. The Sydenham dis-
aster is held accountable by the railway people
for this sympathetic fit on the part of juries.
• » * *
“ Snell ” : They have been dealing out
old age pensions in bits and pieces at South Mel-
bourne lately, and most melancholy was the spec-
tacle resulting, recalling pictures of slum soup-
kitchens and infirmaries in London prints. The
lame, the aged, the halt, and the blind assembled
in a miserable band upon the footpath opposite
the local Town Hall, and although the hour for
considering their claims was fixed at 9.30 the poor
wretches, some of them in the extreme of visible
decay, were kept waiting out-of-doors in the broil-
ing sun till 11.30 ere a start was made. Utterly
shameful was the whole business—a piteous scram-
ble of poverty-stricken people for a few poor
broken crusts. George Turner’s Act has fixed a
stigma of spiritless pauperism upon the Old Age
Pension idea so far as Victoria is concerned,
* * * *
The editor of an Adelaide “Saturday
night ” paper lately fell-in heavily. He
undertook the task of purifying the city by the
familiar process of pointing out the chief haunts
of disreputable characters, and early in the
“spicy” series be indicated one family in a way
which made identification certain. The family in
question struck back. A plea of justification,
being eventually abandoned, made things worse,
and finally the journalist was glad to plead guilty
on the charge of malice being withdrawn. Enough
charge remained to get him three months, and
a fine of £50 —imprisonment to last till this is
paid.
* * * *
N.S.W. Railway Commissioner Fehon told
a deputation of clergymen, who, being tied down
to work on Sundays, want excursion-ticket privi-
leges for some other day of the-week, that the Act
forbids making class-distinctions. But the Com-
missioners allow already several class-distinctions,
some of them trade, some of them professional.
The clergy should put it that, if the officials of a
racecourse obtain privileges, the officials of a
crowd-drawing church are entitled to concessions.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin. — Your Lambton corres-
pondent (B. 12/1/’01) deserves credit for his
attempt to call attention to
the horrible treatment to
which horses are sub-
jected in coal-mines. I
have been working in a
coal-mine for over a
year, and I have seen
for myself. As your
correspondent truly
writes, “ anything that
can keep on its feet is
worked.” I have seen
a horse so knocked-up
that the utmost castiga-
tion-efforts of two men
could scarcely keep the
miserable beast going.
I have heard of a case
where the sores on a
horse were so bad that
they could be smelt a
considerable distance
away. These sores
were caused by the
road being too low, so
that the horse was
continually knocking his back against the roof.
High time inspectors were appointed to visit
mines, and prevent as far as possible this shocking
cruelty. —Aga.
* * * *
Recent N.S.W. Education Department
circular: —
The Minister of Public Instruction has expressed his
approval of the movement initiated for hoisting the
Union Jack on all schools in the Federal States (by-the-
way, who made Perry Federal Minister V) on the occasion
of the opening of the first Commonwealth Parliament.
... It is desired that all requisite action in this matter
should be taken by the teachers and parents concerned.
... It must be' understood that everything must be
done without expense to this department.
Consider the cast-iron impudence of Perry in
graciously signifying his approval of what is prac-
tically his command, that teachers and parents
shall dip their hands in their own pockets to fur-
ther his glorification on the cheap.
» * * •
The latest W.C.T.U. development in the
U.S. is a Mrs. Nation, who heads a band of
women (already hundreds in number) who carry
axes and other chopping implements under their
cloaks and make sudden organised attacks on
grog-saloons, the fittings of which they utterly
wreck. Mrs. Nation, who claims that her arm is
“ the right arm of God,” has already been arrested
several times, but at latest was still in full blast,
with a fast-increasing gang at her back.
Concerning the pleasing little ways of
N.S.W. Public Instruction Department
When the head teacher of a certain country town
school was last year on sick-leave, it devolved on his staff
to perform his duties without further remuneration
(Regulation 196). The Dept., however, sent an addi-
tional assistant, to whom it is now proposed to pay a
bonus despite said regulation—a fact which may possibly
have no connection with the other fact that.ihe young
man is the son of a district inspector. In the infants’ de-
partment of same school is an assistant (not related to
any superior official) who, though his class has numbered
as high as 90, and though at last inspection he obtained
the highest marks in the school, has, in spite of Regula-
tion 185, to be content with the salary attached to an in-
ferior grade. It would be interesting to know on what
grounds the Department would justify this anomaly—
not to call it a glaring scandal.
* • * »
Melbourne Presbyterian Messenger (The
Bulletin always reads the religious papers):—
A young lady in church accidentally let her handker-
chief fall. By repeatedly stooping to reach it furtively
she attracted the notice of the gentleman in the pew be-
hind, who thought she was about to faint. With the
best of motives, therefore, he took her gently under the
arms, and raised her up, greatly to her surprise. As she
tried to release herself another gentleman went to her
assistance, and before the lady knew what was the matter
they were moving her out into the aisle, and, indeed,
carried her out into the porch, before she could recover
from her astonishment sufficiently to find words for pro-
test.
Which is almost as good as that yarn of Lawson’s
about the barmaid who left her stocking in the
bath-room.
* • * * *
An unexpected result of Federation is the
refusal of several Victorian beaks to allow spielers,
&c., 24 hours to leave the State. Victoria used to
temporarily get rid of many of her undesirables
by thus rushing them across the border, but
t’other day P.M. Pan ton laid it down that such
was not the policy of the Commonwealth, and
other Justices follow suit.
* * * *
The dullness of Melb. City Court was
much brightened t’other day by the prosecu-
trix in a burglary case. Witness confidingly
addressed defending counsel as “my dear man,”
but after some brisk exchanges she gave the cold
shoulder to the creature, declaring she had “no
patience with him.” Among the burgled articles
was a box of trinkets. Suddenly she turned
excitedly to accused, exclaiming, “ Oh, excuse me
—I forgot! There was a tooth in the box with
the jewellery ; I do hope you haven’t been using
it ! ” Accused spluttered indignantly, and the
Court roared.
* * * *
Recent cases of hardship through inability
to obtain stamps for bail-bonds late at night have
moved the Vic. Solicitor-General to order that ss.
stamps shall in future be kept at the city and one
or two other chief watch-houses ; also, he intends
to get Parliamentary sanction for an impressed
stamp on the bonds, when they will be kept in
every lock-up in the State. Which is something;
but why should the State mulct often-innocent
persons for the sake of the few paltry 'pounds
revenue? Also, why shouldn’t a subsequently
acquitted person have his bail-stamp fee returned
to him ?
♦ * * *
A curious feature of the Victorian Marriage
Act is the extraordinary expenditure on stamps
which it entails on poor people who are seeking
relief. At South Melb. court t’other day the
mother of eight children sued her husband, a
steamboat fireman, for their maintenance. Bench
made an order of ss. a week for each of the six
youngest children, and directed defendant to find
THE USUAL—AGAIN.
MANAGER: “Ah, Mr. Lothario and Mr. Divor-
say! I'm delighted to offer you both the very
highest positions in my company. ”
a surety of £lO for due fulfilment. This obliges
the husband to obtain six surety-forms, which his
bondsmen must sign, each form requiring a 2s. 6d.
stamp, so that he is practically bailed for £6O.
Should the husband fail to keep up the payments
the wife has to serve him with six copies of the
order—one for each child —costing 15s. for stamps
alone. If a warrant is taken out, ss. must be paid
for a stamp. In the present instance a penniless
woman is the victim of a most inequitable law.
* * * *
The dignity of the Molong (N.S.W.) Jay-
pees recently sustained a rude shock when they
were ordered by the police (the natural enemies
of J.’sP.) not to proceed with the Manildra Rail-
way-burglary case pending the arrival of theP.M.
The honoraries were furious, and next day when
the P.M. arrived their offended “Washups”
wouldn’t act; and—as, in order to deal singly with
the case, the P.M. would have had to begin it de
novo —-the accused remains with a serious charge
hanging over him, and a paid and competent
P.M. has to wait the convenience of these bump-
tious hindrances to the administration of justice.
IN PUSH SOCIETY.—THE RETORT
COURTEOUS.
PROPILE: “If you sed I sed what you sed I sed,
you are a liar.”
THREE-QUARTER FACE : “ Well, then, if I'm a liar
you're a lydy, and that's another one.”
“ Blue-Gum,” concerning a brave, iat
gentleman: —
T’other evening there were a score of people in the
front carriage of the Illawarra train. Whistle sounded
and train was about to start when a portly gentleman
entered, puffing and blowing. A friend hailed him with
“ Ain’t ye afraid ? ” “ No,” replied the portly gentleman,
casting a courageous glance around, “We can only die
once! ” And his chest swelled abnormally. Train
travelled about twice its own length and then pulled up
before signal; was off again in two minutes, reached an
■ energetic crawl, then brought-to at Eveleigh. The portly
one here arose, tucked his tan bag beneath his arm, and
strutted out with the air of one who recked little whether
his brains got blown out by an exploding engine or his
body carved up by the heathen cannibal. When last I
saw him he was striking an attitude of Ajax defying the
lightning on the platform. The worst feature about rail-
way accidents is the awful feeling of valour they inspire
for weeks afterwards in the breasts of fat gentlemen who
travel lj miles by slow train, and look like Bruce at Ban-
nockburn, or the Charge of the Light Brigade, or Judas
Maccabseus freeing his country, or Hannibal crossing the
Alps or something.
* * * *
Confession (in public) of penitence from a
NorthernM.L.A. (recently in the Divorce Court):
“ I suppose I have made many mistakes, and will
probably make many more, but I hope I shall not
have to pay so much.” (Wild and tumultuous ap-
plause !) The costs were a bit heavy.
* * * /- *
The J.P. wasn’t long in following the bad
example set by a certain Vic. Judge. A couple
of these beauties at South Melb. lately told a man
charged with common assault that “having gone
into the box and flatly denied all knowledge of
the affair the Bench would mark its disapproval
of such conduct by giving him three months.”
And to this day the man doesn’t know what he
was gaoled for : the assault he denied, or the per-
jury he wasn’t charged with but which the beaks
coolly assumed, or his cheek in daring to assert
his innocence before the amazing honorariums.
* * * »
Port Pirie, the busiest spot in S. Australia
(where the B.H. Proprietary does its smelting, re-
fining, and shipping, alone employing over 2000
persons) is also about the grimiest and most
sordid-looking. It has nothing in the shape of a
trades union or benefit society. Several times,
when legislation has been proposed to protect the
workmen and the residents, the suggestion has
been hushed by the dread of losing the Barrier
trade, which, in the droughty years, is S. Austra-
lia’s mainstay; and the Adelaide Labor-people
have also been apparently afraid to organise the
workmen for fear of falling into disfavor with the
city people.
“Brew” on the most lately-discovered
and muoh-puffed alleged elixir of life—the glycero-
phojphate of sodium, subcutaneously injected :
Salt shares with a number of other agents the power of
irritating nerve-substance into action when brought
in contact with it, and various demonstrations
of the property upon the hearts of reptiles
have served as an advt. for the
panacea-mongers. Certain other
substances, or a weak electric
current will do all that is
claimed for salt; and all
these have had, or will have,
their turn as cure-alls under
Yankee “ scare-headings.”
By some curious principle of
association, the successful results
of the injection of
saline-solution in
cases of danger-
ous hemorrhage
have been
pressed into
service as con-
clusive evi-
dence of the
correctness of
the theory;
quite irrespec-
tive of the fact
that the injec-
tion is made
purely for the
purpose of
supplying the
deficiencies in
the actual bulk
of the blood,
and s o en-
abling the
heart to act
more easily by
the proper fill-
ing of its
chambers. The
salt is added
partly because
it is readily
obtainable and
partly because
the absorptive
cells are
somewhat
stimulated by
it, but plain
boiled water
will do at a
pinch.
Salt is also
apparently
necessary to
supply certain
requisites for
the metabolic
changes, but
it is not in any
sense an
“elixir of
life,” and the
wild accounts
of its “ pick-
ling ” effects
upon the tis-
sues are as ab-
surd as the yarn
which accompanied
the apples-and-phos-
phoric-acid fad of a
year or two back. In
fact, when taken in ex-
cess, with a deficiency of green food, salt is undoubtedly
capable of setting up scurvy, and already weird tales are
getting in the medical journals about the unpleasant
results to devotees of the new “ treatment.”
As with a score of wild theories which Yankee papers
fed to the gaping public—each adorned with a pseudo-
scientific fringe of garbled technicalities —the “sodium
glycero-phosphate” and “sodium chloride” fads will
vanish into forgetfulness directly some equally fantastic
nostrum gets the hygienically-demented Yankee public
by the wool.
• * * *
Melbourne now has a snug barbery saloon
near to Collins-street where shaves and ’air-cuts
are performed by girls. The “lady-shaver” is
an established institution t’other side of the
world, and seemingly she is going to fill a want in
Australia. Anyhow the Melbourne business
flourishes on its merits after five months of unad-
vertised existence. A good many intending cus-
tomers having discovered the new saloon at the
end of a long passage turn and flee when they
find women there, but an initiated newchum
nerves himself for the ordeal, and soon learns to
like it. In the first place the barberess inspires
confidence. She is trim and neat, and free from
all suspicion of having been unsteadied by beer
overnight. The No. 6 hand that applies the
lather to your chin doesn’t smell of stale tobacco.
Her work proves to be satisfactory, and her
method is light and girly, not to say coquettish,
almost as though she were tickling you for the
good of your soul rather than shaving you in all
seriousness. Also, she suggests new forms of bar-
ber-chair conversation. You ask her did she feel
neryous over her first throat, to which she replies,
“No,” or “Just a little,” or “Not so nervous as
you feel now , I daresay ” ; and then it seems about
time to wonder how many shaves she will accom-
plish before she meets her Affinity, whereupon she
heaves a gentle blush and coyly strops the razor.
When duty calls her to stroke your cheek, to
satisfy herself that she is shaving clean, you are
struck by the difference between her sisterly
touch and the hard, unsympathetic rub of the
barber masculine. Altogether she is a welcome
change, a deserving cause and a pleasant effect.
Probably she is a rather dangerous innovation if
her best boy comes along and upsets her by going
to one of the other girls for a shave, but the same
objection applies to an ordinary male practitioner
who learns that the horse he backed for 3s. has
been beaten by a head.


“ He’s from the Country.”
Such is the expression intended to convey the
idea that he is easily deceived.
MARK FOY’B succecs is a Town Trade.
The Keenest Judges in Sydney haunt FOY'B.
If you asked City Friends to get your wants,
they would surely go to FOY’S.
For the fun of the thing I
to MARK FOY, SYDNEY.
Bamo prices and attention aa If you bought amongst the dally orowda at the oounters.
f^CTURE
m
COgl
m-
&Sr
All Drapers Everywhere.
R. R. P. Hickson, President of the re-
cently-appointed Sydney Harbor Trust, was at
one time Engineer-in-Chief for the London and
N.W. Railway. In 76 he became E.-in-C. for
Harbors and Jetties in S. Aus., and there built
the Victor Harbor breakwater. After various
services in N.S.W. he was appointed Engineer-
in-Chief for Public Works, which position he
held till his recent appointment. He is M.I.C.E.
and M.R.S.
Among other improvements to still further
add to the popularity of The Australia, Manager
Smith has formed two spacious rooms into one
fp r the purpose of private dinners. This altera-
tion is a boon to those who wish to give anyone a
right royal send-off, as the private dinner can be
arranged for any time of the day or night without
the ordinary arrangements of the hotel being in
any way disturbed. Four private dinners on a
very handsome scale have recently eventuated at
The Australia.*
That photography is fast becoming a popular
and favorite pastime is evinced from the reproductions of
snap-shots, taken b.v several members of the Roval
Family, now being exhibited at the premises of Kodak
Limited, “ The Block,” Melbourne. Those of special in-
terest are the snap-shots taken by H.R.H. The Duchess
of York, who is an ardent Kodaker. The art of photo-
graphy is now simplified to such an extent that it is
within the means of all to produce good pictures, and
what can be more interesting than photographs of family
groups, holiday resorts, etc., taken by one’s own self.
The firm of Kodak Limited give free lessons and demon-
strations at their premises daily to anyone who is at all
interested in photography. These lessons allow the un-
initiated the opportunity of gaining a knowledge of what
is now decidedly the most fashionable hobby, and become
acquainted with the art in order that they may for them-
selves obtain photographs of our Royal arid distinguished
visitors. *
Lightest Wines in Australi
A. WOMAN'S LETTER.
~ tv Sydney, March 26, 1901.
Mt Deab Myee.—
6 & mo ,V s R® Rougemont had his first hearing
at the Tivoli on Saturday. At the night show,
before he made his appearanoe, Harry Rickards
came out and appealed for fair play. “ Treat him
like Britishers,” implored Harry. “He’s come
to tell his story ; let him tell it, anyhow.” And
the house received the ancient story-spinner with
nothing more devastating than a cynical grin that
lasted from beginning to end of De Rougemont’s
lecture.”
Ry the way, Melbourne is getting a reputation
for making things unpleasant for artists it doesn’t
approve of. The Belle of New York, Strong
Man Samson, and De Rougemont all know how
nasty a house can be over there. Sydney hasn’t
made any sort of a record that way yet.
I consider De Rougemont a truly pitiful exhi-
bition. He looks so old and weary, has such thin
legs and big feet, that he would have made his
best effect as an exhibit of wreckage. He was
conspicuously nervous, but, in spite of looking as
if he was going to burst into tears and run away,
he let off several angry jibes—chiefly at the press
that had so maligned him. He shows limelight
pictures of the things people say never happened,
and the pictures bob past quickly, and the lec-
turer in broken-English spends his time in saying
he could tell you more if he had more time. He
seems to have nothing to tell, and is the tamest
professKmal Munchausen ever seen at the
Tivoli. Also, he seems remarkably serious
for a Munchausen, who generally makes
some fun of the business. His absence of
“ 18 onl y rousing thing about him.
If ever you get wrecked, you mosst have
a companion,” said he. “I had my dog.” Pic-
ture on the screen of De R. sitting in a few
on a barren rock with a dog gazing up at
mm. “ I talked to my dog, and told him strange
stories, said he. But the house choked there.
The thought of De Rougemont trying them on
the dog was too much, even for an audience on its
best behaviour.
On Saturday night a smart society house in
black rolled up to the Centenary Hall'to see Mr.
Blow’s cinematograph views of the Queen’s
Funeral. There was too much “ rain ” on the
preliminary pictures—a Highland Sports and a
Commonwealth Procession—or could it be
whisky ? The unsteadiness of everybody’s legs
was truly distressing. But the funeral was less
whizzy, and everything was clearly seen. It was
interesting to note how much more picturesque
those Princesses’ long black veils read in the
cable than they looked in the real. According to
Mr. Blow’s views, the Princesses stole along like
black witches, with great round head-dresses, and
enveloping veils that looked more like shawls.
Everything is excellently set out, and as impres-
sive as it is possible for anything on a screen to
be. lam no lover of the cinematograph myself,
but that is no reason why other people shouldn’t
find a liberal education in these moving pictures
—moving in a couple of senses if you like.
By the way, I suppose it is hard to make an
attractive ad_. out of anybody’s funeral unless
you’re a genuine undertaker and understand the
hideous niceties of the art, but it seems a little
odd, don’t you think, to read in the Heeald :
The Funeral of Queen Victoria. Ever pone De-
lighted. Success v/ion Site ess. Great Applause.
A Marvellous hntertainment.” That’s Mark Blow’s
ad. of his Cinematograph show !
“ A Royal Divorce ” has been running success-
fully for a fortnight at Her Majesty’s, with Cecil
Ward in the good old Julius Napoleon part, and
Linda Raymond as Josephine. What is happen-
ing to Cecil Ward’s elocution ? He used to be one
of our most finished enunciators, but he chews his
words now, and drawls and gobbles alternately to
such an extent that the nearer you get the less in-
telligible he becomes. It is probably the effect of
rubbishy lines on an actor accustomed to make his
voice sparkle with Wilde’s and Pinero’s pointed
smartnesses.
Linda Raymond dresses Josephine rather woe-
fully in a trying dark blue velvet frock with a
black lace scarf on her head, and comes up to
nobody’s idea of Josephine. Rose Musgrove, in
curly golden hair, looks, acts and dresses the
pretty friend of Josephine excellently. She looks
her best in a long scarlet velvet paletot and scarlet
cap. Alma Vaughan’s large eyes and graceful
curtsey are the only parts of her Queen worth
noting ; and Hetty Muret looks handsome as
maid-of-honor—but it must be a trial for anyone
with such a big voice to have nothing to say.
A semi-theatrical engagement is that of a very
pretty danseuse from Williamson’s opera co. to a
smart young Sydney lawyer, whose familv are
distinctly untheatrical people.
The interested public will be gratified to know
that the pretty boy who plays daily with little
Nancy is Dick Stewart’s son, and the picture of
“ Auntie Nellie.”
A beautiful English youth, playing in a theatre
somewhere in these Cawlinies, is creating wild dis-
satisfaction in the hearts of women he makes
stage-love to. Their complaint is he confesses
that he has ,neyer kissed a girl in his life—off the
stage—andrtfiat consequently he puts an arm—
never two—round them with limpness that makes
them shudder, never looks into their eyes when he
says “I love you,” and always gazes smilingly
over their heads when they go to pour their stage-
tenderness into his ear.
Chas. Arnold is returning with a jolly new play
—“Why Smith Left Home,” an American
comedy hinging on the servant question, which
will give the Australians some idea of the size of
the “ Question ”in Yankeeland. In many of the
millionaires’ houses at Newport (U.S.A.) and also
in England a whole set of rooms is allotted
to the servants for recreation, compris-
ing a ball-room, music-room, and library.
The servants are allowed to send out their
own invitations and have their own fun on days
when it will not interfere with their employers.
Present-day masters and mistresses reckon that
thi« is a better arrangement than the old way of
winking at the high jinks that used to go on
below stairs. Now they are well served and
instead of any difficulty in getting servants are
rushed whenever they have a vacancy. This is
high life below stairs with a vengeance.
At Rosehill Cup races on Saturday a sensation
was caused by a lady in a fawn-colored frock and
black hat, who travelled up in a first-class carriage
with a crowd of race-goers, and was heard dis-
tinctly being addressed by a similar name to that
of the heroine of a well-advertised law-suit. People
walked Up and inspected her in the coolest way
imaginable, but despite all the crowds that haunt
the courts these days, and in spite of—no, that
ought to be because of—all the pictures of the lady
in the newspapers, nobody knew for certain if it
was She. A newspaper portrait resembles so
many people that her likeness to Mrs. Blank as
she stares out of the Evening News or Star is
probably the best reason for thinking it was some-
one who wouldn’t know a law-court if she saw it.
I have not seen the Fuller Company at the
Empire yet, but a cynical male tells me that
the most tastefully-dressed woman is Miss Katie
Lynn, who delights the hearts of the male kind in
a frock of pale yellow surah, with white satin and
passementerie trimmings, and made in Grecian
style. In his words, “It has a chaste simplicity
that is very charming.”
Hordern Bros, in Pitt-street, have some delight-
ful English costumes suitable for the coming race-
season. They have also a special line of demi-
toilette blouses in black tucked chiffon. The
winter millinery shows that black velvet and
purple velvet are to be much worn, and many of
the velvet hats are lined with tucked chiffon
with excellent effect.
At last somebody has been sufficiently en-
lightened to give us music in a cafe. At a pro-
minent tea-room in Pitt-street Trudaßros.’ band
plays every afternoon, not too close to drown
scandal but screened off so that the strains of music
steal through the palms, as it were. The effort
deserves encouragement, and people are already
hastening to give tea-parties to accompaniment of
free music.
the most significant sign of how times
are changing is the shoals of tickets to see the
soldiers off lying on my desk. Life is too short
to count these tickets, but there seems no end to
’em. Only last year it was several days’ work to
get one little card for a transport taking away our
contingents, but now—and one doesn’t avail one-
self of any of them.
Speaking of marriages, there was one in the
country lately, but I was unfortunate enough to
see the following notice in the Wattle Flat
limes, and feel that anything I could say would
be tame after it: “ The church looked splendid,
with the number of richly-dressed ladies assembled
and I should say that about a hundred persons
were present. . . The bride and bridegroom
are good specimens of Australian natives . . .
the bridesmaids wore hailstone muslins and were
well chosen to add to the effect of the ceremony.
. . . Bride and bridegroom left in a nice sociable
and were followed by twenty-five vehicles, which
great concourse of people gave plenty of work
at Wattle Creek, where a splendid breakfast, artis-
tically arranged, awaited them. The spread was
faultless, and all being on friendly terms gave a
gusto to the affair.” It was evidently ah awfully
nice kind of wedding where nobody knocked out
anybody’s teeth—quite a relief after the orthodox
marriage party such as we go to down our way.
It seems that London fashion has decreed that
teaspoons are to be used on all occasions, even
with soup. The new fashion, however, is not
meeting universal approval. “ Give me a spoon
to match my mouth,” said one wide-lipped Scotch
dame at a London dinner, “and take away this
yvee bit of a thing for a bairn.” Big mouths had
just managed to get into fashion, and the day of
the rosebud was practically done.
Our helps are not there yet, but they’re
coming. A maid went into a local family the
other day and was observed never to address her
mistress by any name at all. Just to let her know
who she was living with the master asked “Do
you know the mistress’ name, Clarice’” “Yes
Ethel, ain’t it ? ”
A correspondent, writing from England, lately
observes : ‘ How we pity you having to entertain
the Duchess of York; she is so good, you know
and so slow. Her conversation amounts to
nothing beyond the most painful inanities, and
she takes no interest in anything except her chil-
dren, whom she regards as prodigies of beauty ”
oydney s hope can fatten itself on the last sen-
tence as the Great Lies of the World start off
with the most beautiful baby the nurse ever saw
and the largest infant the doctor ever handled’
Andthere won’t be a woman in the attack who
will find it hard to be entertaining to the Duchess
on those familiar lines.
Which reminds me that Home Chat lately
published an article beginning “Is there any
prettier sight m the wide, wide world than a
smiling baby? The opening is premonitory.
Ihe article gets worse as it goes on. Judicially
speaking, it is one of the most pernicious advisory
articles that ever dealt out destruction for a
penny. Why is it that anything bad can be got
off for a penny? A sort of antidote to the wav
ot transgressors being hard, I presume.
“Beauty in Embryo,” or “How to train Ex-
pressions in Childhood,” was what this particular
penn’orth set out to teaoh. It gave a picture of a
hungry-looking child, and underneath were the
warnful words, “Frowns, Sneers, and Scowls run
in Families.” Then it went on to implore mothers
to gee their children to smile on every occasion
possible, stop every sign of a grimace, and en-
courage every pretty habit, so that a “Beauty”
might eventually get builded out of the natural
young face. To Home Chat a “Beauty” evi-
dently means one of these things you see so pain-
fully often—especially on the uppah crust—with
an eternal ready-made smile warranted never to
evaporate even when the owner feels that the
whitewash on the sepulchre is nothing to that
nailed-down smile over her worried interior.
“Lord and Lady Lamington,” writes my Bris-
bane correspondent, “ will have to turn out of
little Govt. House and seek shelter in the nearest
hotel while the Yorks visit Brisbane. Rumour
speaks confidently of the Bellevue, which is near
to the Queensland Club—so near, that the vice-
regals are to grub-out there—if the long-delayed
wet season happens to be in full swing then.”
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“The present ‘servant famine’ provides a wel-
come topic for local newspapers. Writers who
blame employers have hit the wrong nail on the
head. By nature ‘Missus’ is, no doubt, incon-
siderate enough, but for many a day she’s known
herself the under-dog and cringed accordingly.
The secret of the scarcity is that domestic
drudgery as a profession has gone out of fashion,
and in consequence one might almost as well
advertise for ‘ a whipping boy ’ or ‘ a household
leech ’as for a ‘general.’ A local writer argues
that in default of the Daughter of the People the
breach should be manned by ‘cultured gentle-
women,’ not as ‘lady helps,’ but as genuine
kitchen dwellers. Welly ni, but put yourself
in the place of ‘ cultured gentlewoman,’ married
and promoted (if you can imagine such a thing)
from scullery to suburban villa. Just listen to
Mrs. Shoddy, her ex-employer, whispering : ‘She
used to be my servant-girl. It’s awfully awkward
meeting her in society. I'm sorry for the poor
thing, too, but what can one do ? ’ Catch the tell-
tale confessing that her sometime employee, so
far from being of the dishes, greasy, is a person of
refinement, which, is more than the most partial
friend can say of the Shoddy herself ! The solemn
fact is, that ‘Society’ as at present constituted,
will allow a woman to recover from the fact that
she was once a street-walker, but it will
not allow her to recover from the fact that she was
once an honest servant. Work is a Crime.
* Newspaper-essayists, advocating cultured
cooks and ladylike laundresses, quote ‘ white-
armed Nausicaa,’ adding ‘we too, must have
white-armed Nausicaas,’ Must we ? Don’t we
wish we may get them ?
“Anyhow, poor Nausicaa’s arms will soon
change colour if she earns her salt, and, come to
think of it, the certainty of disfigured hands has
much to do with the unpopularity of cap-and-
aprondom. It’s pitiable to see feminine paws, all
seamed and knotty, and the Cinderella of this
democratic day doesn’t fancy herself as a martyr.
Scribe knows of a local ‘Cinder’ who, so far from
suffering her battered fists in silence, while wist-
fully worshipping the lily fingers of social
superiors, abruptly gave notice just because of the
contrast between her own grimy claws and missus’
manicured nails. ‘ Bet your life she shan’t save
her hands at the expense of mine ! ’ she snapped
viciously when explaining her motives.
“ If the street pageant for the Duke of York is
to comprise blackfeiiows, bandicoots, and similar
vanishing Australian types, why not include
amongst these survivals a few maid-servants to be
enshrined afterwards in the State museum as
specimens of a species soon to be as extinct as
that of the bunyip ?
“ One of Melbourne’s leading lady doctors has
decided that she can’t manage to be both a wife
and a physician. Therefore, ‘ xVliss Freda Gamble,
M.D.’ (Mrs. Buchanan) has retired from the
practice of her profession. Miss Gamble was top
of her year in the Medical School at the Univer-
sity, and passed a brilliant course. Then she led
the tight for securing for women places on the
house-staff of Melbourne Hospital, and won.
After two years at the Hospital she started prac-
tice, married a man doctor, and now gives up.
She has looked thin and ill ever since she began
practice on her own. Apparently all the plucky
lady’s hard University and Hospital work goes
for nothing. In the end, she only gets what the
majority of women get without any degrees at
all, and simply by dint of wearing pretty frocks
and looking as sweet as they know how—namely,
a husband and a house to look after.
“ There is boundless joy in the Waxellency’s
family over a little matter of even closer and
homelier interest than the Royal Cake Walk of
May. As the Frenchman says, it is the little
things of life that make for most happiness.
“The Melbourne nurses are still scooping in the
best prizes of the matrimonial market. The
latest capture of the Ministering Angel, with a
bright eye and a business-like waist, is a wealthy
widower, who, on being snatched from the jaws of
death, eagerly sought the hand that saved him,
and got it.
“ Hughie Trumble’s engagement is one for sin-
cere congratulation. The tired cricketer met the
lady—Miss Christian —coming out from England
last year. She is a Malvern girl, with brains and
money.
“ A marriage lately celebrated at Kew (Melb.)
was that of Dr. Alfred Hagenauer, of Sale (Vic.),
to Miss Millicent M'Alister,' of Studley Park,
Kew. The bridegroom, a son of genial old mis-
sionary Hagenauer (now Inspector-General of
Vic. Aborigines), is well-known in local German
circles, thanks to his parentage; moreover, he
made troops of friends of his own during years of
residence at Scotch College, Ormond College, and
St. Vincent’s and Women’s Hospitals. The Aus-
tralian children of non-British parents are, as a
rule, popular members of society, less loud and
flesh-pottish than their ancestors, more lively and
affable than John Bull’s Australian chicks. The
new Mrs. Hagenauer, like her husband, comes of
a marrying clan. Her sisters are all appropriated,
her brother recently wedded a daughter of Mr.
Syme, of the Age, and her widowed father, who
with David Syme is interested in that Tyson
Gippsland property, is engaged to a niece of ex-
Premier M‘Lean.
“Speaking in a general, impersonal way, have
you ever heard the lamentations of grown-up
children, still withering on the ancestral stem,
when a bereaved parent talks of marrying again ?
‘ Such an outrage to the memory of poor father,’
or mother, as the case may be, wail the objector’s.
If the young people themselves are comfortably
settled in life, it’s quite another story. Then his
dutiful bairns go out of their way to advise Dad
to find someone to love (and nurse) him, or lone,
lorn Mater is urged to make some nice old Thing
(with a little money) her Object in Life.
“ The Dowager of Cliveden, looking thinner
and sharper-featured, got her land legs very
quickly last week, on returning from India, for she
shimmered in a jetty frock on Wednesday night in
the stage-box at ‘Lohengrin’ and showed her
astrakhan fringe once more to a ‘ Princess ’
audience.
“Re grand Opera, Mdme. Slap is more to the
fore these times than Miss Lorraine. At the
‘Trovatore’ recital, observers couldn’t help pitying
the sought-after Leonora’s relations. it might
be exciting for the enchantress herself but most
disturbing for the old folks to go to bed to the
tune of amorous jodelling, voiced by a fat baritone
Count and a plump tenor troubadour. Fancy
starting from your first feverish nap to hear the
angry clash of swords and the squish of your
plump daughter’s pleading knees on the damp
ground.
“ Which serenade episode brings back memories
of a boastful backblocks Marm, who often com-
plained that she and ‘ Par ’ were ‘ fairly bothered ’
by ‘squatters coining after our daughters.’
“ Her township home was badly infested with
cats, and sometimes, when our Tall Talker was
entertaining a few bank-clerks, the revels were
disturbed by the songs of Toms serenading their
Tabbies. The hostess always chose to start
violently at these interruptions, and ask faintly
‘ What’s that? ’ Aloud, the guests surmised that
‘ ’Twas but the wind ’ or sich. Sotto voce, they
murmured ‘ Squatters ! ’
“ A certain eminent foreign tenor was singing
‘ Good-bye ’ to a theatrical audience at a private
At Home t’other day when the voices of the
guests became so overpowering that the last
pianissimo messages of the swan-note song were
entirely sacrificed. The infuriated tenor clutched
his music-roll and the hand of his only listener,
the accompanist, saying, ‘Good-bye ! my song,
Ha-ha! It is indeed Good-bye!’ and bounced out
of the room.
“ Touching the Springthorpe mausoleum at Kew
Cemetery, sculptor Mackennal said little to Mel-
bourne inquirers, except that he was rather proud
of the crouching figure of Grief. Probably he
thought that the effect of the sculptures had been
marred by the gaudiness of the surroundings—the
superabundance of gold lettering on the mosaic
floor of the monumental building, the arched roof
of crimson glass, &c. All things considered, the
figure of Grief seems particularly appropriate.
“ Gippsland will be in high feather if York does
a day’s shooting over the Pearson estate. The
residents thereabouts, who have sent their boys to
the war wholesale, are just as Jingo as they make
’em. M‘Lean, son of the ex-Premier, young
Mason (the Speaker’s much advertised wounded
hero), three Umphelbys, and Captain Dobbyn all
hailed from Gippsland. The last-mentioned has
had a peck of family trouble since he hurried off
to S’Africa, three weeks after his wife’s death.
Two of his four children he forwarded to his only
sister in Ireland. The aunt died before her Aus-
tralian nieces arrived, and the little wanderers are
at boarding-school pending other arrangements.
The younger two remained hereabouts with their
dead mother’s only sister. Now she is dead, and
Captain Dobbyn is chafing to get away from the
war to gather his scattered family under one roof
again.
“One Melb. patriot, suffering from swelled
head or too much time on his hands, wrote to the
Herald a long-winded sheet of drivel suggesting
a Living Arch for St. Kilda-road. He elaborately
worked out the mad idea, suggesting panels of
girls here, bridges of boys there, and a dado of
lovely women somewhere else. And the editor
published the suggestion under a column of com-
mon-sense, every-day jargon—in a spirit of good
faith.
(Continued on page 18.)


GitiZ6ns’[ife|ssarance Company timited.
Premier Industrial-Ordinary Office of Greater Britain.
Existing Polioylioldera exceed 216,000.
IMMEDIATE SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS.
Absolute Security. Annual Bonuses.
Moore and Castlereagh Streets,
Sydney.
JOHN FARRELL,
Resident Secretary.
RRIN6TON & CO. Ltd.
Popular “ PREMO D.
Pljotograpbk WercbaQtS
à
.... Carry a Full Stock of the Reputed ....
PREMO CAMERAS
in various Grades, Styles, and Sizes suitable for
Ladies, Gentlemen, Boys or Girls,
At Prices from 255., £2 10s., £3, £4, £4 10s., £5, £6 10s., £7,
£8 155., £9 10s., 10 Guineas, and so on up t* 25 Guineas.
VISIT OUR SHOWROOM
where every description of Photo. Goods and Novelties
.... Open for Inspection ....
HARRINGTON AND CO., LTD.
Branches and Agencies
in every Colony.
King Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The late Federal Minister of Defence,
ex-Q. Premier Dickson, was, for a man in his
position, poor as Lazarus. His will was proved
under £2060.
The Council of Ballarat School of Mines
lately received a group photo, of 19 past students
now stationed in Westralia whose united salaries
exceed £17,000 per annum.
The present Victorian Ministry is remark-
able for the smallness of its average skull. Said
that four of the members wear a No. 6 hat. The
Peacockian policy isn’t likely to exceed 6^.
The bulky two vols. of the Memoirs, of
Princess Mary of Teck were carefully expurgated
by her daughter, the Duchess of York. Glancing
through such a fearful mass of bopaddy, one can
imagine the plums that are gone.
The will of the late Mr. Mahlon Clarke
Cowlishaw, of Sydney, was sworn at £45,788.
This was a surprise in commercial circles, which
would not have been much astonished to find that
Mr. Cowlishaw’s fortune was at least seven timesas
large.
King Seddon’s reply to an importunate
parson:
Rev. Sir, —Rsspect for the position you hold, and ordi-
nary courtesy demand that I should acknowledge the
receipt of your letter of 27th ult., and I accordingly do
so.-—I am, yours faithfully, R. J. Seddon.
Q. Premier Philp has just gone to S’Africa
—to get a breathing spell. It was the only way
he could escape the log-rollers, the backstairs
politicians, theW.C.T IT. delegates, the Woman’s
Franchisers, the alien-coddling petitioners, and
last, but not least, the shrill howl of the Yellow
Backbone of Cairns.
Until he was close upon 70, a fine old Judge,
whose name has lately reappeared in the papers,
was as gallant as any man. They used to say he
e.ijoyed but one or two things better than to draw
a young married woman beside him and implore
her (with his arm by this time around her waist)
to be faithful to her husband.
For Labor-whip Thomas(N.S. W.)even his
practically certain victory at the Barrier was not all
joy. While on the spot ready to meet any eleventh-
hour opponent, he bad word that his wife, whom
he had left in Sydney in health, was seriously ill ;
three hours later he had news of her death. And
he could not even reach her grave from far-out
Broken Hill until it was already almost three
days old.
From Otago Daily Times :
The time will come, let us hope, when we snail have the
satisfaction of hanging the chivalrous De Wet as high as
Hainan.
The writer of this is a Scotchman, who hasn’t yet
forgiven Edward I. for hanging and drawing the
chivalrous Wallace, who flayed a bishop and had
the skin made into saddle housings.
Chief-Justice Way, of S.A., was formally
congratulated by the Bar the other day on having
held that position for 25 years. He entered on it
unusually young, and (though hardly old yet) is
by far the “senior judge” of all Australia. An
even more remarkable fact is that the whole S.A.
Bench (Way, Boucaut, and Bundey) has remained
without any alteration for nearly 20 years.
SHE DIDN’T.
PPLICEMAN: “ What’s the matter, my girl?”
LITTLE GIRL: “Somebody’s nicked me purse.”
P.: “ Would you know it if you saw it?”
L.G.: “ Yers ; it ’ad ‘ Forget-me-not ’ on it.”
John Norton’s unmeasured denunciation
of Barton is suspected by many to have its root in
Barton’s non-attendance at a certain Woolloo-
mooloo meeting held to promote Norton’s candi-
dature for N.S.W. Assembly. As to Norton’s
present support of Reid, who can forget the vile
personal abuse showered upon the latter by Nor-
ton not so long ago !
Melbourne’s Mayor Gillott has one very
noticeable habit —that of unbuttoning and button-
ing his coat when speaking. He never addresses
a court or a meeting without seizing the lapels of
Ids frock-coat, dragging the prmenttighHy about
bis waist, and then fumbling with tne buttons
until they are fastened, when he reverses
operation and begins anew.
The trustees of the Victorian Gallery never
seem to have money enough to buy a masterpiece
of art from a first-class native artist. I ney
readily found £BOO to buy Miss Kemp-Welch »
“ Horses Bathing,” but could only afford a.
quarter as much for a better picture by Ford
Patterson, a local painter. Now they lose a local
sculptor’s best work because they were dilatory,
indefinite, and haggling over a few pounds.
One Frederick Dolman, who has somehow
persuaded the English magazines that he is an
authority, has an article on “ Leaders of the
Australian Commonwealth” in the January
Windsor, Among many inaccuracies are the
statements that Mr. Reid handed over the charge
of the Federal Bill to his colleague Mr. M’Millan
when he (Reid) was absent in England and (2)
that Mr. C. H. Reid, having risen to Auditor-
General in 1878, threw up the billet to enter
politics.
The tall, soldierly-looking Hugo Fischer
strangled himself one day last week, down at
Colac (Vic.) of all places. He had opened a
music-shop there for Glen & Co. and after a fort-
night’s experience of dulness in trade the
dispirited agent went the way of his late friend
Sherrard. Fischer, by the way, was around town
with Sherrard the night before that genial show-
man hanged himself in the dome of Melb. Exhibi-
bition building. Probably the one suicide in-
fluenced the other.
That narrow-minded, bigoted association,
S.A. National Ass., not only excluded Kingston
and Holder from its Federal list, but dropped
Symon, and here is the milk in the coooauut.
When Kingston ran against Stirling for S.A. Leg.
Council Symon, although then Kingston’s deadly
enemy, made a speech advocating his candidature,
and eulogising him for his attitude re the Privy
Council Appeal and the Baker-Way plot to un-
dermine the Commonwealth Bill. Symon may
well feel complimented.
“Pukaki ” has a word to say :
“ Kiwi ” would seem to imply that M.L. pioneers can
be broadly divided into money-grabs and failures. No
doubt many of the early settlers came out solely to make
money : but among the pioneers of Maoriland there has
been a large proportion of men whom any nation might
gladly own—statesmen, scientists, writers, orators, men
who still live in their works. Take, for instance, the little
township of Nelson, which alone numbers among its early
settlers the two Richmonds, Atkinson, Munro, Domett,
Weld, Saunders, Barnicoat, and many others who were
neither money.grubs nor failures.
From “Adelaide” :
Re that par. (8., 16 3/’l) concerning the Chaffey Bakers.
R. 0. Baker is President of S.A. Leg. Council, and a cer-
tainty for the Federal Senate. H. 0. Baker is his cousin,
little known except as a business-man, and now standing
for the House of Reps, in the commercial interest. Jack
Baker, at whom the par. would seem to be aimed, is a
son of R. 0., chiefly notable as a tennis-champion and for
his “ you-be-damnedness ”of style. Jack Baker has,
however, lately surprised his friends by entering Adelaide
City Council and doing excellent work in it ; but he is
not at present putting up for Federal honors.
The Reaper has been busy lately with
members of the “devil’s brigade” in Melbourne.
Fleetwood, Emerson and O’Hea have gone over to
the majority. Fleetwood (a “well-bred” man
and an omnivorous reader) enjoyed at one time a
big practice, which deserted him completely in
later years. Emerson, whose practice was al-
ways with seamen, looked like a salt and carried
with him a smack of the briny. He was a friend
of Jack Tar, and any sailor who was attempting
to recover his wages could reckon on Emerson’s
help.
Significant statements from Christchurch
(M.L.) Press:—
The military system in India compels the observance
of rules which to those in these colonies savour of a
nauseating snobbishness. . . . Thus we find this
officer, a colonel in rank, a member of a family of native
princes, treated as inferior to English subalterns. At
times it must have been especially galling to a man of
Colonel Dadbha’s rank to put up with the slights placed
upon him. Instead of recognition being paid to his
position by the English officers, we are informed that on
occasions he was ordered about by them as though he
belonged to the ranks. Such gratuitous insult and dis-
regard of the ordinary courtesies do not impress one
favourably with the military system. There is no doubt
that Colonel Dadbha felt the full unpleasantness of these
offensive practices during his trip to Australia, in fact
he admitted that nothing would induce him to make a
trip again under the same conditions.
War correspondent Donald Macdonald (he
has just left for England) relates that wherever
he went throughout Australia he had other Mac-
donalds calling upon him and claiming relation-
ship. As he comes of a Scotch-Canadian family,
and knows all his relations on this side of the
Pacific, he was generally able to satisfy the visi-
tors that they were mistaken. But once, in
Maoriland, came a persistent youth, sent by his
mother, to claim relationship. “Mother is sure
you are related to us,” said the youth. “I think
you are wrong,” said Mac, “what makes you
think so?” “Well, mother has seen your pic-
ture.” “What’s your full name, sonny, and
where do you hail from? ” “My name is Jones,
but mother says her father’s name was O’Don-
-1 nell.” “Ah! I see; tell your mother she has
made a mistake this time.” The youth went
away sadly muttering, “ Mother says so.”
“ Snell ” expostulates :
Dear Bulletin, —In your article on the late Queen it
seems to me that you have miserably failed to take into
consideration one point most important to people of some
artistic sensibility— i.e , the evil influence of the British
monarchy as represented by the Queen upon the literary
and artistic education of the people. In all matters of
Art Queen Victoria was intensely bourgeois ; the artists
she patronised were those men whose cheap sentimen-
tality and depraved workmanship appealed only to the
uneducated and the inartistic. She set an ideal for the
tasteless Fat Man who once kept shop, and it was an
ideal that has served to repress Art in England, and has
made the Royal Academy the great art-tripe market of
the earth. The influence of the Crown upon letters has
been just as prolific of evil. Alfred Austin is the laureate
of the rich sausage-market and the bloated brewer ; and
the Throne has showered letters of cordial appreciation
upon literary yobs who drivelled in rhyme about the
magnificence of kings and things, fromFitzgibbon upwards
and downwards—if there be a deeper depth. In this
matter at least, the Crown is capable of sustaining gross
evils and working yet greater ones.
John Forrest quits Westralian State
politics with a pension of £5OO a year
for services rendered as Surveyor-
General in the old Crown Colony
days. £5OO a year makes him rea-
sonably sure of at least a look-in
at the counter-lunch in his declin-
ing years.
“PLAIN ENGLISH.”
Recently died at Nelson, M.L., aged 87,
T. J. Thompson, C.E. He was superintendent of
the old N.Z. Chartered Co. in the ’4o’s, and it was
over his survey in Marlborough district in ’43 that
arose the first native land trouble, Which, through
subsequent bungling of the authorities, resulted
in the “ Wairau massacre,” Mr. Thompson took
an active part in politics, and, owing to his opposi-
tion to land monopoly, was known by the land-
sharks of those days as the “Red Republican.”
In ’65 he was elected to confer with Engineer
Dobson re the boundary-line between the Nelson
and Canterbury provinces, and it was only owing
to delay from stress of weather that, he escaped
Dobson’s fate; the latter being murdered by the
Burgess-Kelly gang close to where the township
of Brunnerton now stands. The deceased was
the son of Colonel G. F. Thompson, R.E., who
built the first Victorian railways. The Thompsons
and the Byrons had long been friends, and when
the poet’s domestic troubles arose young Thomp-
son was under the care of Lady Byron, for whose
character he always expressed great admiration.
Mr. Thompson (who was partly of Spanish blood)
was nearly related to the De Montijos, and would
often talk of the happy days in Granada, before
Eugenie became an Empress and an exile.
W. H. S. Osmand, M.L.C. (Vic.j recently
deceased, used to be popularly known as “ Bill
the Smelter. ” To strangers he was gruff and un-
couth, impressing them with the belief that he
was a cross between Kotzebue’s “Stranger” and
Byron’s “ Manfred ” ; but he was far from being a
bad sort. The son of a naval doctor who was at
Trafalgar, he entered the navy as an A.B. and
was soon acting as master’s assistant. For navi-
gating the frigate Hecate from the West Coast of
Africa to England when the officers were down
with fever, lie was promoted to the position of
sub-Lieut., and subsequently to that of Lieut.
After quitting the navy, he reached Victoria in
’54 and worked on the diggings. In ’63 he had
some adventurous experiences when running the
blockade during the American civil war. Return-
ing to Australia, he settled at Stawell and engaged
in gold smelting. Having great confidence in the
North Cross Reef, he bought in heavily, sleeping
in a boiler and living on the smell of an oil rag
while he paid calls. The result was a fortune,
part of which he invested in squatting property
in N. W. Australia in partnership with Mr. Pan ton
P.M. of Melb. He also owned stations in N.S.W.
and Queensland. When the Oriental Bank went
bung, he was one of the lucky few who got warn-
ing in time and withdrew his coin.
“Melb.” : The other night I took this
from the lips of missionary Baker,
from S’Africa, as he addressed a
meeting :—“Friends, all my wants
in travelling Australasia have been
provided for. At Dunedin I was
in a difficulty, when a bank-note
was sent to me anonymously. I
thought it only a one-pound, when I
found, to my astonishment, it was
one hundred pounds. The cook
at the gentleman’s house where
I stayed gave me £5. When
I left she insisted on my
taking £2O more.”
Writes “Isis” re Pre-
mier Peacock :
Few public men nave
been more consistently
lucky than the present
Premier of Victoria.
Levered into Parliament
by the mining-manager-
ships which fell to him
largely through the
death of his employer ;
holding the Chief Secre-
taryship at a time when
the ripe fruit of factory
agitation was waiting to
be plucked ; drifting in-
to the Premiership be-
cause Turner resigned it
and Isaacs didn’t want it;
Dame Fortune has ever
turned to P acock her smil-
ing face. Nor has she de-
serted him in his present
need. Notwithstanding all
his assertions to the con-
trary, he is afraid to meet
the House and face the Old
Age Pensions criticism un-
til Royalty has arrived with
its baubles ; and the Federal
elections have furnished him with
a timely excuse. His troubles what
may happen afterwards—provided
he can triumphantly hook one of
those little frontal appendages
which have hitherto proved the
political death-warrant of every
Australian democrat. A knack of
opportunism, a superlative amount
of luck, some little administrative
ability, a thundering, though, often
matterless vigor of debate, and a
mastery of the ungentle art of self-
advertisement —have flashed Peacock
to his State’s political apex ; hut
the impossibility of serving the two
masters of involved private en-
terprise and public duty, his
utter lack of statesmanlike in-
sight arid initiative, his de-
creasing tact, and the total in-
adequacy of his abilities for the
task he has undertaken, will
even more quickly drag him
down to his third-rate place—
and will probably keep him
there.
“The way to
make a politician
humble,” says Alfred
Deak'n, “ is to make
him read aloud, slowly,
a Verbatim, unimproved
report of one of his own
speeches the morning after delivery. It is like
drinking soda-water that has been uncorked
for 24 hours.” The same man once remarked as
to popular applause: “Whenever I hear an
audience cheering me particularly loudly, some-
thing in the back of my mind says to me. ‘ Hullo,
what silly thing have you been saying now V”
Of extreme local interest were ihe remin-
iscences recounted at a recent meeting of the
N.S.W. Bankers’ Institute by Mr. T. A. Dibbs,
manager of the Commercial Banking Co. of
Sydney. Mr. Dibbs’ recollections extend about
54 years back, to a time when the deposits in Aus-
tralian banks totalled only £1,250,000—as against
a present total of £104,000,000. As a bank-teller
young Dibbs used then, he said, to receive the
deposits of Robert Lowe, afterwards Lord Sher-
brooke, and British Chancellor of the Exchequer.
“Lowe was then practising as a barrister, and the
fees he deposited didn’t amount to much. The
future peer’s appearance was in those days hardly
professional—his hat was a shady Panama, and he
carried a long stockwhip, and his wife, who in-
variably accompanied him to the bank, wore very
short dresses and the ugliest of poke bonnets.”
It was related also how “ the success of the Bank
of Australia, in disposing of various properties
by lottery, induced Wentworth to dispose of his
properties in a similar way. The Government of
the day opposed the scheme, and Wentworth had
to abandon it. A year or two after his disap-
pointment the discovery of gold completely
altered the aspect of things, and properties, pre-
viously unsalable, were readily realised at double
and treble the figures ruling formerly. Thus Went-
worth became oneof the richest men in the colony.”
In the gold-rush days, when young Dibbs was a
receiving-teller on the Victorian side, he had to
deal with many suddenly-enriched people who
couldn’t write, and he had therefore to record, fqr
identification, any tattoed or other personal
marks they might bear. He was once called upon
to identify, at a place 35 miles from Sydney, the
body of a deceased depositor. “Arriving at his
destination, he found at the one-roorued hut
several men and women feasting on steak and
onions. The savor tantalised his,sharpened appe-
tite, but he declined to join in until after he had
done his work of identification. To his horror,
he subsequently found the deceased within a few
feet of the table, naked, a blanket thrown loosely
over him. He did not stop to lunch.”


For
that
Tired
Feeling
take
SCH/IAPPS
WATSON’S WHISKY.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager
Aboriginalities.
“Cap”: Re track six years old (B. 26/l/’01).
On Fowler’s Bay ran, in ’B6, was still carefully
preserved and fenced in the track made by Eyre’s
dray—nearly 50 years before ! This was on a clay-
pan. Also, re children not knowing what rain
was. Same yeaT (’B6), I remember some children,
from seven years downwards, on the Elizabeth,
west of Lake Torrens, who, ’when it began to rain
slightly, ran into the hut, crying, “Mother!
mother ! the angels are spitting ! ” When N.S. W.
men speak of drought and “ back country,” they
make one tired. Reminds one of Gilbert Parker,
in a London magazine, a year or two back, re-
ferring to Nutherungie as in the “Never-Never.”
Nutherungie !
* * * *
“ Titus Salt ” : The divining-rod is not the
fraud or superstition that many people suppose,
but a genuine scientific fact. Why it locates water
I don’t pretend to know, but "it does. Much
remains to be found out as to the best kind of
wood to be used, the right shape of rod, the best
method of handling, <fcc., but these are mere
details. The principle has long since been put
beyond question, and that is the essential matter.
I only tried the rod once, and with quite un-
looked-for success. It was in a dry region in N. W.
Victoria. The rod answered promptly, pointing
straight ahead. We ran three miles in the direc-
tion it pointed, till it led us to a public-house, and
into the bar, and then it pointed straight at the
whisky-bottle on the top shelf. We poured out
sixpenn’orth each, and tne divining rod was right.
It knew a great deal more about the prinoipal
ingredient in that bottle than the label did.
* * • *
Letter to a municipal body from a way-back
Victorian who therein attempts to define a serious
charge against a reputed vet., to whom he en-
trusted the care of a 30s. influenza horse which
died:—
l9Ol. To the Shire Council. Here I having a
strong coniplane to offer to your Gentleman wich ought
not to be overlooket, becors : I gieve a Ohesnut Poney up
on Mr. Heardsman, here, the other day after your Show,
which have a fall, and open (sowhr) knees, I paid him the
amount of 3s. and gieve him a reciept as he of me re-
quiret ; about 3 weeks herafter I wrote and made en-
quires, but (he) Mr. did not answer, herafter I send
a Note to Mr. Pound K. and so on the 20. Jan. he
send a Note to bedead (I therefor) and I and the
Constable, Mr. of went up thies morning, on
Sunday and see for the carcase on prived Properthy, the
Plase is rentet, from the Bridg hotelkeeper, and there is
no excuse, that Boney strop everywehr so long he have
feed : and I notice he is perfesly killet, as on the off
side the uper part of his head is broke away and it looks
he is dead about 2 month Som mieshiefish one must have
him driven to that act wich pays him more drinks, as I
have done ; I was looking for work and entend to go
further on, he hat no reason whatever as terrible Gruelde
to fullfill otherwise he left him there, but he thinks I
never look for there, and I regonise the Brand: 0 6 l
believe, Mr. of said anyone wich premise the
juberctance of men to maletreate a female Horse : (a
mare) that he will or has done so, such one the will tell
such secrets to fullfill these sorts of Gruelty (euclant is
common at ——.)
Yours trubly oblige
I know one near Banawarthe wich cut a Horse troahb
en the Water, and he was get proved : he serve 3 years at
Beechworth for that cause.
AT MUD GULLY.
VOICE (sarcastically): “ What’s your opinion of
the Dog Act?"
CANDIDATE (suavely): “My opinion is that if
such an Act were now in force the gentleman
who has just spoken would be wearing a
muzzle."
Cecil P. : The dangers of the water-
bottle ! One in my room at Currabubula (N.S W )
the other morning, set fire to my tie, which had
evidently slowly smouldered into ashes. When I
learned that a smell of burning had been noticed
earlier m the morning, I observed that the water-
bottle was between tie and window. Curtains
open, and morning sun did the rest. Have now a
greater down than ever on the accursed water.
T.Gr.l. :Re “Via (8., 13/12/’01): It is
well known to drovers that cattle become uneasy
and often stampede and “ring” without known
cause, between 1.30 and 2 a.m. There are one or
two places in N.S.W., however, where it is im-
possible to camp either cattle or horses owing to
the same unknown cause. Also any drover or
teamster who has travelled from Dubbo to Gil-
gandra knows that for two miles on the Dubbo
side of Johnston’s stockyards at Balladoran it is
impossible to get a mob of cattle to remain quiet
after 8 o clock at night. Teamsters have turned-
in, leaving their horses at the feeders, only to find
the nags miles away in the morning. Horses that
have been tied to their feeders have broken their
halters about midnight and galloped off. Some
have advanced the theory that the local grass is
sour, but this won’t explain the breaking of
halters. The locality is now shunned by any
except new-chum drovers and bullock-punchers.
Once drove a horse and buggy at night along this
road. The animal was tired when I left Bob-
beraa, and I was compelled to use the whip freely,
but on arrival at the part of the road referred to
he freshened up and kept shying and breaking
into a canter. He wearied again a little later, at
the Ooalbaggie bridge. Perhaps some B. reader
can explain the reason why stock refuse to camp
in this part of the country.
* * * *
“Did I go to the Nowra show?” said
Jork ins. “Well, hardly ! I went to one of the
first shows, and got properly drunk—or some-
thing. Managed to stay on my feet till dinner-
time, and remembered no more until daylight
next morning, when I woke in what I took to
be the lock-up. It had a cemented floor, and no
blankets, and looked for all the world like a cell.
1 hinks I to myself, the family is properly dis-
graced now ! And I took off me strap, and was
fixing it to the rafters, when I heard somebody
driving cows. Then I looked up in a corner, and
twigged a separator. It was Brown’s dairy I’d
got into ! That hanging is indefinitely post-
poned.”
* * * *
“ Alces ” : Re “Yang Anyut’s ” surprise
(B. 9/2/’00) at the absence of superfluous digits
amongst Chinawomen, although they are common
enough among men :
The explanation is simply that no female Chinese in-
fant departing at all from the normal is permitted to
live, though male children, as usual among Eastern races,
are, despite deformities, preserved with great care.
Among certain peoples also the possessors of extra digits
are credited with various superhuman powers which
would be dangerous if exercised by the inferior animal,
woman. Consequently the supposed changeling is quietly
removed ” as possessing the soul of a man in the body
of a woman. The regulation of the output of females is
a very widespread custom among the Asiatic and allied
races, and is rendered necessary from a utilitarian point
of jew by the numerical preponderance of female
children over nialo ones, a ratio which becomes further
increased in later life by the reduction of surviving males
owing to their more dangerous ways of life. European
nations, from neglect of this precaution, always show a
preponderance of adult females, and hence the abund-
ance of medieval nunneries.
Barbaric races, again, regarding women as a valuable
article of commerce, do not allow the supply to exceed
the demand. The spinster is unknown in a primitive con-
dition of life. Here and there, as in Georgia, the situa-
tion is to some extent reversed, the female children being
carefully preserved and the males considered merely as
future sires for the Turkish market, breeding from the
females who, for one reason or another, do not go under
the hammer. But in the vast majority of cases the
female production is, under ordinary conditions, kept
strictly down to local needs, and as only the most perfect
physical specimens are required all departures from the
normal are carefully weeded-out. An interesting point
upon which statistics vary greatly is whether the process
leads to any relative decrease of female births, or whether
the Western proportion holds.
* * * *
Sibraa’s artesian bore, about 26 miles from
Bourke (N.S.W.), throws up 700,000 gals. daily.l
temperature of water as it comes from bore,
lOodeg. It is highly sulphurous in taste ; and’
containing much magnesia, is found to be a good
aperient. The water runs into a tine lagoon, and
the overflow travels about half-a-mile to a lake
covering some 200 acres of what was formerly dry
gidgee soil, and having on it multitudes of wild-
fowl.
* • * *
Years ago, when a big M.L. squatter first
leased the
slopes of Mt.
Ruapehu
from the
Maoris, he
had to take
his wool out
on pack-
horses. Some
time after
he took pos-
session a dis-
pute as to
the owner-
ship of the
land arose
between the
Maoris from
whom he
had leased it
and another
and stronger
lot of Maoris.
As the squatter
refused to pay the
latter rent, they
retaliated by forel-
packers from taking the wool toNapie?. Ere
the qua-irel was adjusted he had an accumulation
of three years’ wool m his shed. He was able to
hang on, however, and as wool was then on the
rise, he did not even lose interest
* * * *
“Hagram ” : Used to believe in snakes
charming birds, but later experiences have caused
me to think differently. I once saw a soldier-bird
fluttering close about the head of a black snake
and supposed the bird was charmed. When I
approached, the snake cut away, but the bird
fluttered some more and dropped dead. Examined
it and found it had been bitten on the breast
Since then have seen the same thing happen
dozens of times. The bird attacked flutters round
for an opening and the snake strikes and occa-
sionally gets home.” When the bird is supposed
to be charmed ”it is simply dying.
* * * *
“Esmi” : Stayed once with a well-to-do
farmer who had a violent temper when he let it
off the chain. This he never did until his wife had
nagged at him beyond endurance. Then she
would burst into tears. Perhaps she did it for
the amusement of the kids, for they always
seemed to look on the old man as a kind of circus
His efforts to control himself when his wife was
going for ” him were very funny to behold. A
tavoritc method of his at meal time was to get up
and butt solemnly and vigorously at the door with
his head. After three hard butts he would sit
down, apparently much relieved. He told me
once that he thought all women over 40 should be
poll-axed.
If your correspondent, R.
Cohen, of Thursday Island (B. 2/3/’01), has a cer-
tain cure for the true white-ant pest (I mean the
kind to be found ’twixt Cape York and the Bur-
dekin), I strongly advise him to patent his inven-
tion and then offer it to the Federal P. and T.
Dept. It will be necessary that the invention
should stand a two-years’ severe test within foie
limits mentioned. If it does, he has a better
thing than a first prize in Tatt.’s big sweep. I
have an iron in the fire myself, but must wait till
the period is up before talking biz.
* * * «
An English paper says that the first post-
age stamp ever used was issued in N.S.W. in
1838, two years before the appearance of the black
penny stamp of Great Britain. This penny
stamp, the design of which was circular, with the
Royal arms in the centre, surrounded with the
inscription “General Post Office, Sydney, New
South Wales,” was embossed on letter-covers,
which were sold at 15d. per dozen, and letters in-
closed therein were allowed to pass free in the
city of Sydney. These continued in use until the
year 1852, but specimens, in a used condition
especially, are exceedingly rare, and much sought
after by philatelists.
ON THE SELECTION.— “ SPORT.”
COOKIE (after the thirty-second shot): “ By
cripes, Maria, that shook the beggar up.”
“ A.8.T.” has a vision of pastoral pro-
sperity :
Brought to Adelaide recently from Oodnadatta, up
Oentralia way, samples of grass 9in. long—the result of
only three weeks’ growing after the break-up of the
drought. If by any means a decent average rainfall
could be secured to that usually parched region, what
plenty would smile upon this so-called heartless conti-
nent ! Nor is such a scientific feat altogether hopeless of
accomplishment. About 4 vols in every 10,000 vols of
atmosphere are carbon-dioxide (sufficient to build up the
vegetation of the earth), so that, roughly speaking, in
every 10,000 cubic miles of air we have diffused
4 cubic miles of carbon-dioxide, a quantity which
could be reduced, in accordance with the “ pres-
sure .of gases” laws, to a volume that might easilv
be conveyed from place to place. And might not science
yet reveal a gas which, being diffused through the atmo-
sphere m the same proportion, volumetricallv, as carbon-
dioxide would produce as great but more sudden effects
a gas which, being liberated from great pressure at
several places simultaneously, would spread through the
atmosphere, causing “low pressure” over a great area
with consequent inrush of colder and moisture-laden air.
When this eventuates, thank the Lord, or science, or
whatever it is, our “ drought ’’-bards will be out of a
billet, and Wragge will cease to rave of his pom-pom
scheme. By the way, it is noteworthy that the breaking
of the drought followed close upon' the taking of the
stump” by the S.A. Federal candidates, and I would
therefore suggest that these men be retained in the
capacity of candidates in lieu of more expensive gas-
generating plants.
Queensland fanner to wife, 9 a.m.
Farmer: “Nancy, is the breakfast ready’”
She: “Yes, dear.” “Pigs fed?” “Yes”
“ Cows milked ? ” “Certainly,” “ Horses in
and yoked to the plough ? ” “ They are.” “ Corn
ready for you to drop in when I open the land’”
“ Everything ready.” “ Did you fetch up a cask
of water and bring in a load of wood?” “The
children have gone to do it.” “Then, as you
don’t seem to be busy just now, you can bring my
breakfast along. ” “Yes, dear. ”
AU REVOUR!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When o’er the blue horizon
The stately vessels go,
The farewell flag that flies on
Each mast dips low ;
It sends to hill and shore
A silent Au Revoir!
Au Revoir! Au Revoir!
And we who watch them going
May only stand and sigh,
To see them fainter growing
Against the sky.
Ah! must we evermore
Be sighing Au Revoir 1
Au Revoir!
Au Revoir! Au Revoir!
Nay! Under grey clouds veiling
Gold, sun, or ghostly moon,
The Ships of Fate are sailing
To bear us soon
To that green and silent shore,
Past the Land of Au Revoir,
Au Revoir!
Au Revoir! Au Revoir!
V. J. DALEY.
THE INDIA-RUBBER ACROBAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The crowd’s remarks were coarse and loud, the crowd’s
potations long,
And yarns were told both new and old, and most of them
were strong;
The talk veered round to feats of strength, agilitv as
well ;
And then arose an ancient wight who had a dog to sell.
“ I heard you speak of strength,” he said. “ I’m old, and
can’t do much ;
I travel on the india-rubber acrobatic touch ;
For instance, now, I’m game to bet a bob or two,” he
said,
That I can drink a quart of beer a-standing on my
head.”
The crowd was fly ; the crowd was shy ; the game was
not quite clear,
Until a youth who tried the dodge upset a pint of beer,
And smashed the glass and cut his mouth, and neariy
broke his neck ;
And then they raked up every cent to bet with that old
wreck.
He stood the beer upon his head, then from his pocket
drew
A piece of india-rubber pipe, one end placed in the brew ;
The other end was in his mouth, and not a word he said,
But calmly swigged that quart of beer a-standing on his
head.
G.A.P.


THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBL, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University, writes—
“ Hunyadi Janos Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has proved specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipation,
venous obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.’'
Average Dose :—A wineglassful before breakfast , either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
- ANDREAS SAXLEHNEK, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Par
of the Label.
Franz Josef Lager Beer
. . . The Most Popular, because it is Unequalled in Quality . . .
Order
SCHWEPPE’S
DRY GINGER ALE
Rev. Mr. Paton recently at Bristol :
“ A terrible example of the mischievous effect of
the enforced labor system, under which people
were forcibly carried off from some of the islands
for service on Queensland sugar plantations. . . .
In Queensland there was a sort of bargaining on
the deck of the vessel to secure these people;
those sent to New Caledonia were sold by auction
in the market.” The stench of the blackbirder ;
How it travels!
* * * •
“ P ” : Re “Milseth’s” retriever “ Flora ”
(B. 16/2/’01). Remarkable that “Flora,” who
whilst fat and hearty could squeeze into a log,
was unable, after a fortnight’s fasting, to squeeze
out again ; yet not so remarkable as the fact that
she did without water all that time. That opens
up a new question, i.c., what’s the longest-known
time that a dog has done without water on the
plains, or in the bush ? Also, how long can a
magpie do without water ?
• * * »
Bill and Jim in from the Thompson. Both
chewing bananas and gazing through the doorway
of a Brisbane shop where a female screeched
“Sweet Marie.” “Well I’ll be d —mur-
mured Jim—“if they ain’t got that thing down
here! ”
A woman making her way West in com-
pany with a dog and a goat sold the dog at Larry’s
Hole for a pound and invested with “Tatt.” A
dog’s show ?
* * » *
“ 0.J.” : Yarn about Ricketson and the
cow(B., 15/2/’01) may or may not be moonshine.
But I once sawß. enter a stockyard full of bovine
hard cases, with only a switch in his hand. And
he soon had that beef as meek as a whipped
spaniel. This was at Wagga, in the ’7o’s. Old
sorts swore they wouldn’t have done it for a for-
tune.
• * * *
“H.S.”: Lamentable to think of the
amount of suffering from hunger and scurvy, and
the actual loss of life that have occurred in Aus-
tralia, much of which might have been prevented
by a little knowledge of the value of some of our
trees. Scurvy cannot long exist if the cabbage
encased in the feathery tuft at the top of the cab-
bage-palm is freely used. This cabbage is of good
size, very palatable, and easily got by tearing open
the leaves. The older palms also produce a kind
of sago that is very nutritious. The men left
behind by explorer Kennedy might have been
saved had they but used the cabbage-palms grow-
ing round their camp at Shelburne Bay. At Port
Essington there are groves of these fine palms, to
which the English located there in the early
settlement used to resort when scurvy appeared.
The common Queensland bottle tree also contains
in its pith a fair quantity of farina not at all dis-
agreeable to chew. Very useful also is the “ Mar
rowaite ”of the Peninsula natives. This is the
root of a kind of bullrush which abounds in some
of the fresh-water lagoons. The natives are very
fond of the root, and during the time of its abun-
dance subsist principally upon it —growing there-
by very fat and sleek. Personally I like the flavor
much, and have at times made a hearty meal of
the root. The blacks often pound it up, make it
into a paste, and cook it to crispness over hot
coals. This root is quite worthy of European
cultivation.
“ A.A. A.” : Resnakes inwool.
A Casterton (Vic.) shearer, whilst
shearing a big crossbred wether,
cut in two a brown snake, 25in.
long, which was hidden in the fleece.
* • *
Ant-perjury from Rutherglen
(Vic.) News: —“A large beetle
had got jammed in the entrance to
an ant-hole, thereby shutting the
ants out of their domicile, where-
upon tlie.y got a splinter of wood
about the size of a match and
inserted it under the beetle. Then
several of the more powerful of the
insects caught hold of the other
end, and bearing down with all
their might succeeded in prizing
the body of the beetle out of the
hole.”
* * *
“Led” : If the Australian is
as fond of a horse as alleged, a
large portion of him has a curious
way of showing it. Common in
the country to see horses hung-up
to the fence all day, and far into
the night, with the saddle on,
either by some wayside pub. or
(especially on Sundays) elsewhere,
when the chaps are out to see
their girls. The poor beast is then
ridden home again, generally as
fast as it can go, and when being
turned out, weary and hungry, it
looks round expecting a feed, it
gets a lick of the bridle instead to
send it off. Oh, yes !—the Aus-
tralian dearly loves a horse !
* • *
“Viking” : Talk of luck !
Bill and Jim went to a deserted
shaft to prospect, and after fixing
a dilapidated rope on the shaky
windlass, Bill descended. The shaft
was 6x4, and 50ft. deep. Bill,
on reaching bottom, asked to be
raised a couple of feet, and after
striking a few blows with his pick,
he jumped to the bottom and sent
up a bucket. When Jim hauled
the bucket to the brace he saw a
brown snake coiled on the quartz
Bill had sent up. He let go, and
down went bucket, quartz, and
snake. Bill didn’t get hurt, but
Jim did. The windlass-handle ac-
counted for him.
“PL" : Has any one noticed how
horses will scrape and dig in the sand of dry river-
beds for water in drought time? Writer has
seen them scoop out holes from 2ft. to 3ft. deep.
Also worthy of note is the tremendous distance
cattle will wander from water especially on the
soft downs) —10, 15, and 20 miles is nothing un-
common.
** * .
Sign hung out on farm adjacent to the re-
cent little gold rush at Trentham (Vic ) Notis
to dogs running loos on this land will be shot with-
out further notis.”
• • * *
Novelty in electioneering ads., in a Rock-
hampton (Q.) paper :
TO THE ELECTORS OF NORMANBY.
( \ ENTLEMEN,—Being but poorly able to ride, I see
AX I would have no chance without canvassing the
unper part of the Electorate, which is out of my
reach, the roads being so heavy, I hasten to announce
that I withdraw from the contest that it may not
interfere with the other candidates. I hope the best
man gets in.
Yours faithfully,
STEPHEN EGAN.
* * * •
“ Via ” : The German tramper mentioned
by “P. J. Mac.” (2/3/’01) has a healthy rival in Q.,
who strolls from one end of that dry land to
t’other as the humor takes him. Twice he chucked
up his job and tramped it, first to St. Greorge,
second to Thargomindah— about 1100 miles.
Know for a fact that he walked from Townsville
to Croydon, and from Winton to Normanton, and
he isn't a sundowner, but a tailor. Last heardl of
him at Chillagoe, N.Q. Said he didn’t like the
place, and was thinking of walking down to Bris-
bane again.
A chestnut, but printable. Raw Irishman,
seeking a job, strikes the home of a L. O. L.
official. Girl in kitchen slyly asks the visitor to
speak to the cock} 7 (a big green parrot), faddy
does so, and the bird promptly replies: Hallo,
to Hell with the Pope!” Paddy nearly fell downm
amazement, but retaliated : “ ’Tis yer color that
saves ye. If yee’d bin' a canary I’d ha’ wrung yer
neck. ”
* * * *
“P. Mac.”: Lately met an old digger-
man wheeling his barrow from Clermont to
Ebagoolah (900 miles by road). He was travel-
ling over the black-soil and resting every quarter-
hour. The barrow was half spoke-deep when I
met him, and his load consisted of an old grind-
stone about 20in. in dia., a worn-out jigger, a
wheelbarrow axle, half-a-dozen old picks, ashovel,
a battered prospecting dish, and a miscellaneous
collection of rubbish. Still his load represented
the savings of 60 years. The State has taken the
rest !
* * • *
“Pelican”: Re aboriginal burial-cus-
toms (“H. J. Mac.,” 3/11/’00): I once saw two
men get quite a shock when, on felling a large
hollow tree near Raglan, C.Q., a hide-bound
nigger skeleton shot out feet foremost. A few
days on the “ platform ” in summer up Rockhamp-
ton way transforms a corpse into a grease-spot on
the ground and a withered mammy on top. I
once saw a nigger corpse planted in the ground
together with a pole projecting vertically about
10ft. Nigs explained it was for deceased to climb
up that he might get away when “ debbil-debbil
come along.”
THE COMING SHADOW.
English experts who have lately visited the United States return
appalled by the industrial progress whicn has taken place there
during the last five years. Indeed, in manufacturing activity it
is no less than a revolution. In steel-making, tool-making and all
branches of engineering, and in leather dressing, only to name
two items, our American cousins are forging ahead at a pace and
with a determination which it will take us all our time to beat.
Then our Teutonic relations are equally serious in their efforts to
become a leading industrial community, and success is to a great
extent already achieved. They have beaten us in the race of
ocean-going steamers; they build war-ships and guns at least equal
to our own ; in electrical engineering they arc distinctly ahead of
us; in the manufacture of the finer newer chemicals they have it
all their own way ; in accurate scientific-instrument making we
must now yield the palm to them; English women are mainly
clothed with woollen garments ready-made in Germany ; the silk
and ribbon looms of Lyons and of St. Etienne have had to give
way to those of Chemnitz and Basle. And little Switzerland, des-
titute of seaboard and of coal, competes disastrously with Notting-
ham and Leicester. — Monthly Review (England).
COMMERCIAL INTEGRITY!
FIRST COUKIE (leading Scotch collie, to bush publican who has been doing a double-deal); “Look
'erel — didn't you sell the dorg to me?"
B.P.: “ I did."
SECOND COOKIE : “Why, you sold 'im to me, too."
B.P.: “I did. An', what’s more, I'll take good care that nobody but yous two gets ’im."
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case ivill MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
Bernadine: Belongs to a wearisome, hysteri-
cally-emotional type of story. Paradoxically, it is damned
by too much “ Oh, God 1 ’ .... H.M.T. : “ Bush Idol ” goes
pretty steadily, but never gets anywhere Pandora:
Fairly good in detail, but feeble as a whole ; and the die-
to-save-a-child finale is very old and tired... A.B.T. :
Agreeable terseness; may use.... Gasp: Worth about
one-eighth of the space, and would in any case need
a more skilful hand.... Blue Gum: Touches of skill
here and there, but otherwise jerky and il-finished
Schol. : He was not “ a valued citizen ; ” on the other
hand, he was an inexpressibly mean, dishonest, inhuman
old rascal; but as he leaves some decent children better
not challenge comment by saying anything good of him.
Better let him severely alone... .A.B. : Any doctor might
have been deceived under the circumstances, for the
statements of the passengers so far as they went nega-
tived the strychnine theory. The doctor, you see, care-
fully kept the viscera Kiora : But why not also make
tiueen Elizabeth’s birthday a perpetual public holiday ?
Now, Queen Elizabeth was no small potatoes of a woman,
and her days were full of English glory in all sorts of ways.
.A.C.W. : The reason, The Bulletin hears, was that
Vic! National Gallery trustees when they made their offer
to Mackennal for his “Circe” wanted time-payment
terms. Thev have no money ; under the regime of the
prosaic and materialistic Turner the Public Gallery and
Public Library interests have simply gone to the devil..
C.C.B. : No necessity to make a good story libellous
by taking- pains to reveal the identity of the parties to it.
Why tell the yarn, for instance, about the grey-haired
dentist who lived in Rockhampton—why not tell it about
the red-haired attorney who didn’t live at Mudgee?
And if it is a story the interest of which wholly depends
on the fact that the hero or villain was a dentist who
lived in your street, then The Bulletin doesn’t want it
at a 11... . W.S.S. : Not badly done for English market; no
use to us.. . .C.E.R. : Read some of Bacon's own
“poetry” before affirming so decidedly that he wrote
Shakespeare’s plays, or part of them Revert: Veget-
able poem without a definite pulse Tin : Can’t afford
to guy the gallant Colonel, when one word wrong might
put” u's in the soup 11.8. : You say those verses were
published, and Dr. Lang did not rise from his grave.
But they weren’t published in The Bulletin, and the
Wyalong paper circulates only in one section of the
Elysian Fields S. : In Mr. Windsor’s own words,
he was “ treated most generously by Mr. Syme.”
G.: The servant who “annexes a few articles
of clothing worth about £5 ” is a dangerous commodity
to have in a house, and the term “pilfer” doesn’t
apply to her theft. Servants as a rule are
scrupulously honest. You pay the honest ones a bad
compliment by suggesting that the theft of “ about £5
is not a crime.' As for the question of first offences and
prison contamination, and so forth, it is a social,
not a legal question. The Judge administers
the law, and is, unless he suffers badly from liver,
merciful or otherwise according to his estimate of the
prisoner. The girl in question may have been a bad lot
on the face of her C.M. : Possibly the parson who in-
cited two men among his flock to remove their coats on a
hot day in church was looking for an advt. Anyhow, he
got it. And how about the women-worshippers ? Were
they advised to divest themselves of anything?... .K.K.:
The comparatively mild terms of peace offered the Boers
after Chamberlain’s recent flat of unconditional
surrender, were no doubt owing to prospective trouble
in China. And that may be why the Boers still
flght on C.H.S. : Legless poem with its head under
its arm... Resolo : Wilson Barrett “as a poet! ” Rats !
Antares : (1) The Victorian people have tried Protection
for 25 years, and are so well satisfied with it that they are
solid for its continuance. N.S.W. has never tried Free-
trade and it has never given Protection a serious trial; it
has always had a revenue tariff with a lot of Protectionist
duties. There is a majority, but not a very large one, for
Freetrade, though when it is in power it never dares to
try Freetrade. On fiscal matters N.S.W. has always been
an undecided, hesitating place wobbling between two
opinions. (2) Coghlan distinctly says that the cost of
living is greater in N.S.W. than the average cost in the
five Protectionist States (Victoria, Queensland, Tasmania,
S.A., and Westralia). He doesn’t give the cost for each
State separately. (3) The Age’s story is quite true....
H. (Gootchie) : Ireland had a famine in its Protectionist
period (1816-17), but its population and wealth went on
increasing. And all the causes to which you ascribe its de-
cadence since 1850 were in full force before 1850—except
Freetrade. (2) Your avowed ignorance isn’t an argu-
ment ;it is only a discredit. If you look up so common
a work as the Statesman’s Year Book you can find that
Turkey is a country with an 8 per cent, revenue tariff—
a Freetrade country as the term is commonly used.
It was a great manufacturing country once, before
it tied itself down to the new policy by disastrous
commercial treaties. (3) China has also been for many
years a country with a low revenue tariff, and practically
a Freetrade land. The largest source of income is the
land-tax (from lOd. up to 6s. 6d. per acre per annum) and
excise duties. It is mainly a G. Reid country. (4) As
regards Spain having “ lost her commerce” it has more
commerce now than ever before. In 1705, when it still
owned Mexico, Central and most of South America, its
trade amounted to £13,000,000. In 1897 it was
£70,000,000... .B.J. : Discouraging dog-yarn Harry
V.O. : Many thanks for letter ,'H.M. : Next week
Slim Jim : Not enough in point for a story, unless much
better handled U. : “ Fighting Men ” too crude
A. Croumbie :We don’t know. Ask George Washington
Reid.. . .R.B. : The situation in North Sydney is the re-
sult of bad Protectionist organisation. And if you took
a look at some of the meandering incapables who run the
organisation you would thank Heaven that things aren't
worse L.L. : Too like diluted Henley W.F.E. :
None suitable... .N.O.P. : “ Old Man Canoblas ” has been
better sung....A.S. (Vic.): ‘Myrtle” lacks force
H.M.G. : It may be “ true,” but it isn’t a “ story ” —nor
anything like one !... M.li. : Fairly humorous, but would
need too much trimming.... Newtown : If you send
names of items we’ll investigate.. . .W.M. : Thank you ;
yes ; you are probably correct on both points.... Helen 1:
All those speech-peculiarities were collated and analysed
by “ Alex. M.” in B. 27/10/’00... .Frank B. : Accidentally
overlooked: since returned “ J. Percy”: rather
weak, and the end is too distinctly in view all through..
Fortuna: Rather feeble imitation of a model none too strong
in itself... Pukaki: Always give date of pars referr. d to.. ..
Martin : Office Philologist won t discuss “ Wodki ” verms
“ Vodki ” without samples. Send along your sample
E.E. : “I lay” (present tense) “in humble reverence at
thy feet” is apt, if ungrammatical Kelpie : Not bad ;
but it tails off into uselessness G.A.P. : “Gundaroo”
not quite good enough R. A. Kent: Cuttings re-
ceived, but no address given S.T. : As if the most
dangerous enemy of the Empire” wasn’t the nurse-maid’s
admiration of a man in uniform Buck : We attach
little importance to statements made by the Cape Argi s,
which (with nearly all the rest of the lying
press) is owned and controlled by the Rhodes gang ....
Anon : Scandal par. in W.P.B Dudley W. : On that
colored-labor question you are quite at sea. Facts are
askew.... Isis (Melb.): G00d... .C.A.W. : Accepted mat-
ter is often long held over. That is unavoidable...
Young Walls.md : That kind of thing, unless done very
tersely and graphically, is off Bulletin’s beat, Could
only tell you definitely on seeing a specimen.. . .Snufffe-
dom : Many thanks... .Chib : Will print “H.”....M05s
Vale : He received not £33 00 ), but just over £BOOO.. ..
Neila : Dull as put.... W.A. : Long way below standard.
.... Autolycus : If you write, take Australian, not Afri-
can, view-point. . ..T.G.F. : Badly handled... Busby:
Stick to prose.. . .T.H.M. : If it was our last hope of sal-
vation we’d reject it A.P.R. : Not a bad touch. Try
something more considerable.. ..Killaloe : Has point and
pathos, but lacks deftness and finish... .J. 8. L. : Would
need shorter and more dramatic treatment... .E.D.
(Dunedin) : Couldn’t very well enter into the necessary
details... .C.M.M. : One verse of your Policeman’s Lament
is easily improved—
I’m sick and sad and quite forlorn
The Foorce has lost its hold,
The cook regards my suit with scorn,
And leaves me in the cold ;
I’m clean knocked out and fairly done,
The bloke who’s seen a Boer,
Gets all the girls and all the fun
I had before the War.
....P.W. : Just now it is impossible to say for certain
what will be happening at a Williamson or Musgrove
theatre a month or two ahead.... J.M. : Yes, he is a very
clever trick-cyclist. But the public are tired of trick-
cycling all the same... .B.S. : The principal drapery
shops, not the wholesale houses, take the biggest risks in
importing expensive goods of the “latest styles.”....
R.B. : “ Maoriland ” is most readable—best thing about
the country we have ever seen... .C.S.W. : Possibly....
C.A.W. (Brisbane): Write on one side of the paper;
don’t copy Ogilvie ; and try again.. . .M.I.C. (Q,) : Some
sentimental charm; not force enough... .T.N. : Fail-
point, weakly handled.. ..Backhands : “ Wharton ” fairly
written, but too obvious. “ Vagrom ” too heavily
handled... .J.L.C. : Not up.. .. Billawayback : We’ll see.
....J.H. (W.A.): Considering... ,C.R. : Unusable
M. : It won’t do because too unreal—too like an un-
earthly excursion to Jupiter T.R. : Thanks
Battler: Idea too well-worn... .G.E. A. R. : Metre of
“Never Will It Pay”is rocky and the theme uninteresting;
but you might try again in the same Australian spirit.. ..


AN UNTHANKFUL JOB.
YOUNG VIC : “Take half-a-dozen out of the heap, and the rest aren’t worth the trouble of sifting.”


£ PuLsf OR D.
j C AlttLP.
j PG^Ay.
as. T. Walter,.
Mai\y jAMe
£ -D
THE SYDNEY D.T.’s LITTLE LOT.
Or the bunch it says we must all vote for.
{Any one of these faces would look well on a half-
penny postage-stamp for newspapers.)
Edward VII. (to his son, the Juke ): “ Good-bye, George, me
boy, and don’t worry ; I’ll look after your children ! ”
- George : “ Rather a big order, eh, dad 1 ”
Biaok-and-White Artist Reid : “There, that outline of my policy
ought to satisfy ’em for the present. I can dash in the color
after the election."
SETTLING THE QUESTION.—A VICTORIAN
ELECTIONEERING INCIDENT.
Fierce Woman : “ The candidate has been asked if
he is in favor of Womanhood Suffrage. Well, let me
say I am, and I’m his wife.” Nuf sed.
IN A BAD WAY.
Experienced Practitioner: “H’m! Rapid loss of hair, loss of appetite,
flesh and memory, insomnia, singing in the ears, thoughts rambling and inconse-
rtnpntial twitching of the nerves, sense of heat at base of brain, dry throat and
PCrP p?™? > " Muoh. I have reall, been unable to find six out oi the fifty
odd candidates fit to throw peanuts to a monkey, much less to sit in the Upper
Pham her of the first Commonwealth Senate.” m .
EP • “H’m! Well, then, you’d better give up reading Sydney D.T. for a
few days' and mislay your Elector’s Right. Pll look in again on Saturday morning.
n-
\\ THE DUKE OF YORK IN
AUSTRALIA.
Scene (wholly imaginary) in The
Bullktix Art Department. “Let
- -- not false modesty deter
thee from accepting.
Did not Tenniel (with
. whom thou art not in
y the same street) jump
at it 1 ”
“ True, most noble
Juke j but ’tis nob false modesty. By-the-bye, js this true I hear that you have
baser gifts to bestow than knighthoods 1 ”
‘•Modest youth, ’tis most true—roughly speaking, £20,000 worth. What then?”
“ Then, magnificent scion of a Royal line of Britons who never, never, if it s all
the same to you, take away bauble and let me have mine in hard cash, and
ring the bell, will you : you’re nearest it.’’
CARTOONLETS.


GLOBS Tens. have NO Equal.
Atcherley & Dawson, 284 George-st., Sydney.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ The postal authorities are out in quest of an
enemy of his kind who has been sowing discord in
suburban homes by writing post-cards to respect-
able house-fathers, purporting to come from a
person called Flossie, and containing appoint-
ments in festive places, and affectionate references
to ‘ baby.’ These postcards are timed to fall into
the hands of the trusting wife, and as there is
nothing so easily wrecked as the confidence of a
wife whose ‘faith in John is quite unshakable,’
Gehenna is to pay m many domestic circles.
I here is sheol on hearth in quite a score of Mel-
bourne houses.
“Mrs. Eccles—the languishing Lydia of
Sassiety, and most proficient pupil of Marshall-
liall s conservatorium—goes to Europe shortly to
continue her musical studies in Germany. So one
of the most aesthetic home circles in Collins-street
will be broken up, and one of the most devoted
hubbies rendered a grass-widower. Dr. Eccles
has a great and pardonable admiration for
his wife’s playing, and his wife’s earlv-Victoria
dressing, and his wife’s girlish airs, and his wife’s
Statuesque attitudes. The poor man will have to
batch it, and cling to the friendship of the men
who made the Eccles home the haunt of the Souls
in the temporary absence of his fascinating Oecilia
and her two picturesque children.
“A man with a remarkable career recently
left Melbourne, probably not to return. Dr. W. B
Norcott is the man, and he was, until lately
medical superintendent of the Austin Hospital
for Incurables. He probably holds as many
medals as any living man, though he has never
fought in a battle. Thirty years ago he went to
Bans during the Commune, to represent the
Quakers of England and to distribute food on
their behalf. For his services in this way he was
decorated by the French Govt., and gold medals
were struck in his honor by the municipalities of
Bans and many other places in France. It was a
pride to the old Quaker to show liis medals to
friends and tell them wonderful stories about
Fans during the Commune. A quiet, gentle, cul-
tured man, he seemed an ideal doctor for such a
hospital, but he used to say the managing com-
mittee was a great trouble to him.
“The latest occupation of Naice girls in Mel-
bourne is point-lace and other dainty work for
profit and pleasure. There is no readier, simpler
and more secret way of replenishing meagre
incomes than this, and a Melbourne
association run by swagger dames is the select
market for this drawing-room work. Quite a host
of girls are wiring-in at it now, but the smart
loorak set catch the early worm every time and
secure the best orders.
Extraordinary relations exist between a
divorced couple resident—well, not in Victoria
The man secured the suit on the ground of his
wife s refusal to live with him (case was unde-
fended). Then he married the woman with whom
he had been abroad and by whom he had a child,
BJid settled a substantial sum on his ex-wife for
life. He did more—he gave her a lovely villa and
pleaded to be admitted to friendship. His excuse
for marrying the woman (who was the cause of
the separation in the beginning) was his love for
their child and his wish to improve the status of
the little indiscretion. So his cast-off wife forgave
him, and the friendliest relations now exist
between them all.
The fiery little lawful wife of a certain easy-
going stage hero has been raising ructions again
A few mornings ago she and a lady friend
assembled outside the domicile of the lothario and
his other girl and broke some windows just to
show there was considerable animosity. After
which the fiery one informed hubby’s‘theatrical
friends that she was really going to have a flare-
the newspapers this time. For the sake of
the Sex’s reputation for gentleness and so forth
the aggrieved spouse ought to insist upon a final
settlement of one sort or another, instead of
simply maintaining a matrimonial right to
commit assault and battery whenever the
offending parties come within smiting distance
of her umbrella. Pretty children were born
of the union before hubby found what seems
to be his natural affinity in the new goddess. The
mother s possession of her chicks is a guarantee of
her good faith (as in the case of a certain some-
body else’s grass-widowed wife), so unless she
wants a divorce, or can improve the family’s pre-
sent position by suing for maintenance, she had
better sigh and bear it. No sense in breaking
windows for the amusement of a cold world, which
consists mostl - v men, the brutes Every man in
Melbourne seems to know the story of Mr. and
Mrs. Blank and the fascinating actress who
came between them. The cynical wretches
form a ring around the scandal and urge the
angry victim to further violence with cries of
Go it! little ’un.’
By the way, the wife of another stage hero
seems to be accepting the inevitable in a more
P““osophical spirit. But then the lawfully
wedded one in this case gets some of the dear
fellow s society and probably she looks forward
to a time when all the charm of novelty will be
worn off the other girl, and the game will be in
her own hands again. A discreet ‘missis,’ with a
good stock of patience and a ‘ kiddie ’ at her side
has points in her favour.
. Vic. Judge a’Beckett decided a strange poin*
in divorce the other day when he refused to grant a
decree, to an Australian girl, who had married a
r renchman, now in parts unknown. The petition
for desertion set forth that, after Several pre-
liminary desertions and forgivenesses, respondent
finally left for France, and on arriving wrote that
he had been seized to work-out his overdue con-
scription service. Three years passed without
any further communication, but the petition was
refused, the Judge holding that as respondent had
been detained against his wish his absence could
not be construed into desertion.
“lather Robinson, the handsome and eloquent
priest who engineered Amy Castles’ campaign,
has lately been entrusted with the mission of
raising-up and popularising ‘ The Church ’ in a
dead-and-alive Melb. suburb. Already his rever-
ence’s new parishioners describe his face as
‘ angelic,' and bow to his condemnation of Corelli’s
Master C iristian.’ Good music and top-notch
social shivoos bulk largely in the shepherd’s plans
for coaxing back wandering sheep to the fold of
their fathers, and in case any of the strays have
wandered far afield, the conscientious Searcher
rides the countryside on a fine horse, whose price
and paces typical Irishman that he is—he loves
to discuss.
“ The following description of the belts of the
day is from an American writer in Paris :
ihe belts ! Through the summer they were
of normal size, and reasonable. They were
an inch, say, or an inch-and-a-quarter. Never
any more. They were convenient things
for 16 s^l1 §h n S' oll of those alluring silver purses
that hold about as much money as you’ve got—
they are very small—and no more. But now !
But now ! The belts are like Jack’s beanstalk.
3y have sprung up in a night. Would you
believe it ? Four inches they are—five, sometimes
six. Six ! And the buckles ! You can’t begin
to measure the buckles ; they have grown to pro-
portions so outrageously out of all proportion.’
And the price is as high as the belts. I knew
that without asking. To-day 1 stood before a
Rue de la Paix window in which were gilt belts
and jewelled belts, and belts that were red, green,
black, gray, and magenta, all matching silk waists
that set your mouth watering with the glitter and
shimmer and shine of them ; but I don’t dare go
m.
“You would think at first blush that these
things—they are made of some sort of rubber that
stretches-were simply monstrous; but they are
not. You would think, too, that they wouldn’t
suit everybody ; but there again you would find
yourself mistaken. At the Exposition, Sunday
night, I saw one on a little woman. To all intents
and purposes, being a little woman, she should
have looked dumpy in it ; but she did not. On
the contrary, she looked slim and fragile and
dainty, and everything else that, being a Parisian
she should have looked.
I saw another on a fat woman. Now, T
reasoned with myself, I am about to gaze upon a
sideshow—a veritable sideshow. Nothing of the
sort. The belt held her in at the waist-line, it
sloped out on the hips, and gracefully under the
bust, and gave her, as nearly as it was possible to
give a woman of her build, the figure of a sylph.
“Now, what are we going to do with our little
belts ? I say, what are we going to do with
them ? ”
Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.
Apropos those abortive peace-negotiations.
In the offering even so much, Kitchener has de-
cidedly ‘ ‘ climbed-down ” since he declared that
he would offer no terms and could only accept a
surrender at discretion. Fact is, the British army
m S’Africa is in serious difficulties. More than
half of it is shut jip in petty garrisons and the
remainder is marching over the face of the earth
escorting convoys or chasing phantoms.
N.S.W. Minister O'Sulli van proposes that
f ! lture s " a day shall be stopped from the pay
of the men working on Govt, railway-construction
jobs, and saved up for them, so that they will
have a lump-sum with which to face the world
when the work gives out. He has been moved to
this resolution, he says, by finding that a large
proportion of the men drink their money as they
go along ; and the resolution is certainly a good
one. When the job gives out, the discharged
navvy will either have an unusually large sum of
money or an unusually fine sample of the horrors
to take home with him, and, either way, the dull
brown monotony of life will be stirred up a little.
Dear Bulletin. —l am going to vote for
David Fealey for the Senate. I don’t know
David ; but I have seen his solicitor’s brass-plate
somewhere in Sydney, and I judge that he
is not as prosperous as L. F. Heydon, for
example. The poster which tells me to “Vote
for David Fealey for the Senate” is a very small,
economical poster, about as big as the brass plate,
and it looks as if the printer had given as much as
lie could for the money. But it has a halo—the
halo of a Lost Cause. I know that David has no
chance of bei lg elected to the Senate ; very likely
lie ought not to be elected. But I want to show
him that one voter sympathises with his Lost
Cause. I feel that Fate is on my track, too ; and
I want to provide insurance for the time when my
own Cause will be Lost. When I am called to
show why I should not be convicted and sentenced,
I will say I voted for David Fealey for the Senate.
—B. B.
As far back as 1830 (only ten years subse-
quent to the hanging and beheadiny , outside Stir-
ling Gaol, of two honest democrats who had
“ spoken treasonably ” of the reigning monarch),
London Times protested against the very same
brand of grovel which Australia is about to wallow
in. Said the Thunderer of 1830
A foolish evening paper, whose haberdasher-loyalty
seems to have been confounded by our frankness about
the late King, has the impertinence to insinuate that we
have been governed by unworthy motives in our avowed
contempt for adulation. Will the wiseacres be so oblig-
ing as to mention what sort of unworthy motives he
thinks (ean he think?) can actuate us in treating the
objects of Court idolatry with so little deference?
The ultra-loyalty of haberdashery is as marked as
ever. Look at Sargood’s scheme for a universal
hoisting of Union Jacks and warbling of “ Gor-
save ” by the Vic. State-school children 1
J. hat professed Upper House reformer,
Age, wants to transplant those sapless
M s.L.O. (E raser and Zeal) to the Federal Upper
Chamber, there to take permanent root. Their
experience would be very valuable, says the Age.
If the Argus had had first pick it would probably
have chosen the very same dense Tories, for the
very same reason. Their years of experience in
blocking progressive legislation would indeed be
invaluable to the Retrogressives. The solitary
particular recommendation that the Age is able
to find for its proprietor’s personal pal, Fraser,
is perhaps the lamest excuse ever put for-
ward for any political candidature—“his rail-
way experience would always be useful.” Then
why not bring back Speight and make him a life
Senator. He has had more railway experience
than I raser.
Two remarkable things happened when
Reid was gently reaching out for the Black Labor
vote in Queensland. The wired reports of his
speech represented him as saying that, pending
his promised visit to the Q. sugar-districts, “hi
wished the people to recognise that he was ayainst
the abolition of Kanaka labor;” also that “he
looked with a sort of pleasure on Kanaka labor ”
which he added, was much less objectionable than
the Asiatic article. When he came back to
Sydney he hastened to explain that these were
both errors ; that he said he was for the abolition
ot Ivanaka labor, and looked on it with “no sort
?/rj?/ easure ' ” an American editor once wrote
I he statement in last issue that Colonel Blodger
was a thief, a parricide, and a card-sharper was a
printer s error. What we wrote was that he was
a gentleman of refinement and culture, a true
Christian, and an honor to the community.”
The blundersome M‘Eacharn, at Mel-
bourne t’other day, trod on the rotten plank of his
platform with a loud crack. An elector asked
him, ‘ Supposing black labor were found indis-
pensable for the sugar industry would you support
a measure to bring it on the same level with
white m regard to wages?” “I believe black
more expensive than white,”
said M Eacharn. Then the elector pinned him
neatly. “I want to know, as much in the
interests of the candidate as of humanity,
whether he will support any measure that will
bring black labor on an equality in the
matter of wages with white.” M‘Eacharn:
JNo, I will not! ’ So the floundering ex-mayor
says that he believes black labour costs more than
white, and yet won’t support the principle of
paying the nigger as much as the white man. He
is a supporter of dear-cheap, expensive-low-priced
black labour, s<? to speak. The Torv crowd really
wants the public to believe that it believes in black
labour because it is more costly than the white
article, and when it is asked if it will pay the
nigger exactly the same price as the white man
(after already saying that it pays him more) it gets
angry, and says “Damn.”
W. G. Spence, Federal Labor candidate
for Darling (NEW.), strikes on the same old reef
as the other Labor-members. He says of the
tanri :
With reir ard t° this matter Ido not think that this is
the right time to decide it. The abolition of border tariffs
will make great changes, and when the people have had
time to test the effect I support submitting the question
as between Protection and Freetrade to a referendum and
! ears* 16 deClSlOn of the P eo P le hold good for a term of
And the questions to which no answer is ever
forthcoming are these : What tariff will the Labor
Rarty impose while it is waiting for the people to
test the effect ? And if Parliament refuses to
hold a referendum, and the Federal Legislature
has to decide the question after all, what tariff
will the Labor Party vote for ? The Labor Partv
can never do much real good until it grabs the
reins of government itself. As long as it has no
fiscal policy of its own no sane community will
ever trust it with the reins of government; even
the most reckles; community wants to have some
a n,lers are g° in S to do with the
money. And the country grows weary of sup-
porting a party which despises and contemns the
two old factions, yet by its own act makes it im
possible that it can ever be anything more than
SfSSKT of °" e or o,hi » f
“ Old Bendigo ” to The Bulletin :
David Syme’s selection for the Vic. Senate contains the
names of his two cronies—President Zeal, of the Leg-.
Council, and Simon Fraser— two men whose claim upon
the Vic. democracy rests solely upon the fact that they
play social chanies in David Syme’s back-yard, and lunch
at his table at Menzies’. Another instance of the necessity
of a newspaper ownerUbeing preserved from friends. Zeal
and Fraser are both l%;k numbers and hardshell Tories,
but the other four are all right—J. Styles, J. L. Dow,
“ Bob ” Best, and J. G. Barrett. Finding Zeal and Fraser
in the same list with Styles, the ultra-Kadical, and Bar-
rett, the Labor candidate, one perceives that David
expects the country to entertain his friends.
“Kiwi ” writes from Maoriland on Federal
prospects:
It looks as if the report of our Maoriland Federal Com-
mission is a foregone conclusion— i.e., if the verdict is to
be in accordance with the bulk (mind, I don’t say the
weight) of the evidence so far tendered. The Commission
has just concluded a five-days’ sitting in Wellington,
having examined about 40 witnesses, only three of whom
seem to have read the Constitution Act. Some of those
most unfavorable to Unity, including the president of
Wellington Chamber of Commerce, frankly admitted that
they hadn’t read the Act—in other words, that they
hadn’t the least idea what they were talking about.
Among the witnesses who spoke for union with Australia
were ex-M.P. O’Regan, who had read and studied the sub-
ject, and he shook up the other side badly in several
respects. For instance, the most common objection one
hears to Maoriland joining Australia is that we would
lose our autonomy—that the Commonwealth Parliament
would engulf us altogether—and this is a dangerous ob-
jection because it appeals readily to the ignorant
O’JJegan showed that had we federated four years
ago 274 out of the 288 statutes passed since
then might still have been passed by the State
Legislature, and only 14 dealt with matters that would
have passed to the Commonwealth Parliament. Despite
misrepresentation, there is no doubt that Union is “in
the air” here, and the report of the Commission, mostly
based on the evidence of people who never saw the
Federal Constitution Act, and who know as much about
its provisions as they do of Balaam’s grandmother, won’t
end the matter.
The Age includes the name of J. C. Mani-
fold amongst its 20 chosen for the House of Re-
presentatives. The electors of Corangamite are
pressed to plump for the rich landlord, although
Woods, his opponent, is a strong Protectionist.
It is a poor look-out for Vic. Democracy when it
can be confidently asked to embrace land-mono-
poly and its manifold sins and wickedness.
Robert Harper is also on the Age’s list of the
elect—a pawky, elderly person who can be relied
upon to oppose with Scotchbyterian cunning four-
fifths of the reforms the people most ardently
desire at the hands of the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment. The same may be said of M'Eacharn
whom “Dawvid” has picked for a place, but
who, it is devoutly to be wished, will be left at
the post—or the poll.
The Casting of the Die.
TWENTY-NINTH OF MARCH, 1901.
To-day Australia, throned on high,
Awaits her fate with wistful eye ;
To-day her sons will cast the die.
Behold they gather—East and West,
And North and South—to choose their r>est
To make her mission manifest.
What is her mission? Question Time.
Is it to league with Greed and Crime i
Nay ! she shall tread a path sublime.
Her mission ? Ask the stars benign
That are to her a sacred sign,
And on her Flag in splendour shine.
The sun that lights her skies of blue
Great deeds shall yet behold her do,
If she have Leaders wise and true.
Australians, on this day august,
Consider well the men you trust:
What may be now in future must.
Judge them by deeds as well as creeds
Your soil is clean ; sow faithful seeds.
His crop is poor whose crop is weeds.
The Nation never yet was great
Whose people played the fool with Fate
When she came knocking at the gate.
This day each true Australian,
Whatever be his creed or clan,
Must gird his loins and play the Man ;
And lift his heart, and clear his brain,
And wash his hands of follies vain,
And show the world that he is sane.
The Future waits his choice to-day.
Let him in time for wisdom pray-
The Furies are not far away.
Six States to-day, with pride elate,
Will join to huild a Nation great—
And what of her, the Mother State
This : She will be as loyal found
As any of her Sisters crowned—
When she has certain deadbeats drowned.
Lo, hither comes the Caravan
Of creatures strange, and, in the van,
A short, fat, smiling, eye-glassed man.
His face is like a full white moon,
His body like a gas-balloon—
Our Great Political Buffoon.
What is, in politics, his creed i
It varies with the passing need ;
At present he is Piebald Reid.
His breed is changing, too, they tell,
And even those who know him well
Deplore his new Kanaka smell.
This is the Wag whose deeds declare
That, for a statesman anywhere,
Your motley is the only wear.
Poor mountebanking Piebald Reid,
Condemned the Fatman crowd to leaa,
And parasites that on it feed.
It seems a march of Harlequins,
With bloated cheeks and double chins ;
And hungry pimps with sagging skins.
These last he must, of course, condemn ;
He calls them followers pro tem.,
And is, no doubt, ashamed of them.
They do not come within his ken,
He seems to hint—save nine or ten ;
The restare merely vagrom men.
They seem the simplest of mankind ;
But each one grasps, his back behind,
The little axe he wants to grind.
You ask, good friends, “ What brings them here ?
Where is the grindstone ?” Never fear,
You are the grindstone, brethren dear.
Beneath the Flag of Calico
The proud M'Millan paces slow,
With Cook—called also “ Holy Joe.”
And bloodless Gould, who holds that gaols
Are moral aids where sin prevails,
And beauty spots in New South Wales.
And here comes Colonel Lassetter ;
His cheek would make a sample rare
Of his best-polished brazen-ware.
In Africa he soon will be,
Hung, like a hardware Christmas-tree,
With warlike ironmongery.
In him, of course, there is no guile ;
He wants to make the country smile—
Then let him go and gnaw a file.
Next Jawbone Neild comes at a bat,
With roosters’ feathers in his hat—
A spectacle to shudder at.
Bruce Smith (the Handy Man) struts by
With Wilks ; they wave their hands on high ;
“ The country must be saved ! ” they cry.
Now Piebald Reid has seized the “ flure”
The wit, the wag, the persifleur —
And speaks in confidence secure :
“ I am your discarded Reid,
Your old retainer run to seed ;
Let me once more your counsels lead.”
I may be more than half a sham—
The Lord alone knows what I am—
But vote for me—don’t care a d n !
Hark to that shriek that rends the sky !
It is—l pause to wipe my eye—
The poor Freetraders’ bitter cry.
I am your Moses—Yes-No-Yes—
To lead you through the wilderness
Unto the Land of Promise-s.
Am I played out, or lame, or halt ?
Observe me o’er my pledges vault!
Just watch me turn a somersault !
These are my followers—God knows
The best of them are “ Holy Shows,”
But they are better friends than foes.
Shall we eat dirt ? Bring us a peck 1
We’re used to it, and at your beck
Will load ourselves up to the neck.
I may not have a high-toned soul,
But can speak truth—when in a hole
And own that Office is my goal.
I am not thin of flesh or skin ;
Kick me like H—l : 1 will but grin :
But oh, for Heaven’s sak e—kick me in !
Electors, take no serious heed
Of Jesting Pilate -Piebald Reid,
Or any of his piebald breed.
He’ll frown ; he’ll have good cause to frown
When comes at last the curtain down
The saddest actor is the clown.
N.S.W.
ORRZVE ROE.
Whom the Gods destroy They first
make mad.
How true this is. Apart from deaths by violence
and old age, everyone dies from some form of
disease. Many diseases are at present considered
incurable, but science is making mighty strides
and it is almost certain that in the not remote
future a method of cure for every ill that flesh is
heir to will be discovered, and disease become a
thing of the past. Even now there are certain
cures for certain forms of disease, yet—so mad is
humanity—many people continue to suffer instead
of taking the necessary steps to find out whether
they can be cured. Rheumatism, Indigestion
Dyspepsia, Blood disorders, Gravel, Gout, Jaun-
dice, Neuralgia, Debility, A mem i a, and Bright’s
Disease are all curable disorders. They one and
all arise from a diseased or inactive condition of
the kidneys and liver, and Warner’s Safe Cure
will cure in every instance. This medicine has a
remarkably specific action upon the kidneys and
liver, and ensures a healthy action of these vital
organs, thus vanquishing any complaint attribut-
able to their irregularity.
Mr. W. G. Wilson, butcher, of Murray -st.
Gawler, S.A., says, in a letter dated 27th Sept.,
1900 : ‘ I am pleased to be able to recommend
Warner s Safe Cure for all liver and kidney com-
plaints. When in Broken Hill, owing to the try-
ing climate, I suffered from a very sluggish liver
and I found that Safe Cure always gave
me relief in a short time after taking it." Ever
since then I have been a great believer in its cura-
tive properties, and always resort to it when I
feel seedy, with the best results.”


YOUR Wedding Presents can be Supplied by A SAUNDERS, 2£.u. Jeweller & Silversmith.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT. —Floral China, real
Silver-plated Mounts, 20s.
Similar designs, 15s, 255, 30s. V ery
pretty and acceptable present.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER.— Beautifully Chased and Orna-
.nented pure Silver, Electro-plated on hard
lVhite Metal, 15s 6d. Large size, 20s.
Four o’clock TEA SET with Covers, pure Silver Electro-plated on White
Metal, first-class English Make, £2 10s.
Similar Styles, £2, Jt2 15s, £3, £3los, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG CRUETS, pure Silver Electro-
plated on hard White Metal, beautifully
Chased, 30s, 355, £2, and £2 10s.
Cheaper Style, 20s and 255.
Handsome and Useful Present.
A. SAUNDERS.
4-bottle Lunch or Dinner ORUET, pur®
Silver Electro-plated on hard White
Metal, 21s. Similar Styles, 255, 30s', 365.
Ladies kindly call and see oui* Beautifully-stocked Showrooms^
A. SAUNDERS'.
/j A DIES’ FRIEND.—Pare Solid Silver
Mounts, 18s 6d.
Very useful and acceptable pretents.
A. SAUNDERB.
DARK DISHES.—The very best finished pure
Silver Electro-plate, in various patterns.
20s, 22s 6d, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS,
4 o’clock TEA SPOONS and TONGS in Silk-Lined Case,
Embossed, 12s 6d. Extra Quality, 15s, 20s, 255.
The Silver-plate we guarantee to give every satisfaction.
In Pure Solid Silver, 6 Spoons only 255, with Tongs
30s, 355, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
FOLDING BISCUITS.-Pure Silver Electro-
plated on White Metal, £3, £3 10s, £4.
Can be used for Cake or Sandwiches.
A. SAUNDERS.
OAK BlSCUlT.—Silver-
plated Rims and Lids, with
Enamelled Lining, 15s 6d ;
with Ornamented Fluted
Rims, 20s; Plain, with Shield
only, 12s 6d.
HIiXJIU
1
9 ©
Mfp
A. SAUNDERS.
SALAD BOWL and SERVERS, with Silver-
plated Mounts and Handles, 30s.
Similar, 20s and 255.
Pretty Floral China, 255, 30s, £2 and £2 10s.
--HSr7V 7 1l
m
■esspj^u
A. SAUNDERS.
MANICURE SETS.—Pure Solid Silver, Chased
Mounts, 15s ; larger sizes, 20s, 2fs, and 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAMS. —Pure Silver Electro-plated on hard
White Metal, nicely Chased with pretty Red
Glass 12s 6d ; with Fluted Edg( s, lfs Cd ;
Double Jam, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE.—Pure Silver Electro-
plated on White Metal, 16s 6d ; Chased as
above, 20s, 255, and 30s. Post free.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER.—Pure Silver Electro-plated on
White Metal, nicely chased, 8s 6d. Round, 10s.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
SALTS.—Silver-plated Stand, Colored Glass,
with Spoons, 6s 6d, 8s od, 10s pair.
llllllllllllllllllimili>iii'IBi'l!i!!
llffllliww
mini
IMBllllimiUwmi-r**-
mm
9
mniiiw
m
mmt
“Just What : Want!” SPOONS AND FORKS. A. BAUNDERS can fill that want with a First-Class, Reliable Article.
EXTRA STRONG. Guaranteed to give you every satisfaction.
A 1 QUALITY is the very Highest Standard. Pure Silver Electro-plated on Hard White Metal. DINNER Spoons or Fcrks, 17s 6d half-
dozen ; DESSERT Spoons or Forks, 12s 6d half-dozen ; TEA Spoons, 7s 6d half-dozen.
B QUALITY is a Second Quality. Pure Silver Electro-plated on Hard White Metal. DINNER Spoons or Forks, 12s 6d half-dozen ;
DESSERT Spoons or Forks, 10s half-dozen ; TEA Spoons, 5s half-dozen. Tvrvrvruin
SOLID WHITE NIOKEL SILVER, Wear White throughout. A Splendid Knockabout Spoon to save the Better Article. DIJNJNEK
Spoons or Forks, 4s half-dozen ; DESSERT Spoons or Forks, 3s half-dozen ; TEA Spoons, Is 6d half-dozen.
Packed and Sent post free to all parts of the World. Kindly send your Orders to A. SAUNDERS.
Old Plate
Made
Equal
To New.
A. SAUNDERS.
Small Size BUTTER.—AII Metal, Pure
Silver-plated, beautifully chased, 20a.
Extra ornamented, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
ENTREE DISH, Makes Two Dishes, Pure Silver Electro-
plated on hard White Metal, 355. A Useful and Acceptable
Present. SHALL WE SEND YOU ONE ?
A. SAUNDERS.
CBUET (Breakfast).— Pure
Silver Electro-plated on White
Metal, 10s 6d ; with 4 Bottles,
15s 6d and 17s 6d.
Makes a very nice present.
Call and See our
Displayed Showrooms!
WHISKY FLASK.
Silver-plated Bot-
tom and Patent
Top, 10s fid, I2s
6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
A Warming' Friend.
SERVIETTE RINGS, Pure
Silver-plated, 3s 6d. Simi-
lar Patterns, 2s 6d and 3s.
Wish Bone Design, 4s 6d,
os 6d, and 6s 6d. Solid
Silver, similar to Pattern,
7s 6d, 10s, and 12s Odeach.
I
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER KNIVES.—Two Silver-plated, with Pearl
Handles, in Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d. Other styles, 7s 6d,
10s 6d, and 12s 6d, in cases. JAM SPOONS. —Same
price ; without case, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, 5s 6d and
6s 6d each.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOAST RACK.—Pure Silver Electro-plated
on Hard White Metal, 12s 6d. Other styles,
similar, 8s 6d, 10s, 15s, 20s.
iraSAJ,V,O^
A. SAUNDERS.
TEA POTS.—Pure Silver Electro-plated, on Whit#
Metal, as pattern, 25s and 30s.
.Different Pattern, 355, £2, £2 10s.
w
081
jgaes
IK
(HE
,IIUIHIi/iW'i
A. SAUNDERS.
DINNER CRUETS. —First-class Pure Silver on
Hard White Metal, as pattern, with Shield,
£2 10s ; extra quality, £3, £3 10s, and £4.
Other patterns without Shields, 355, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAMS. —Floral China, Pretty Design, with pure
Silver Electro-plated Stand, 15s 6d ; double, 255.
Latest Designs.
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT WATER KETTLE and STAND,
can be used as a Teapot.—Pure Silver-
plated on White Metal, Beautifully
Chased and Ornamented, 355.
Embossed and Extra Chased, £2, £2
10s. Other Styles, £3 and £3 10s.
Handsome and Useful Article.
ä
Jeweller & SilversmlttL,
A BEAUTIFUL DISPLAY OF PRESENTS.
815 George Street,
Nearly
Opposite
Railway
Static n,
Sydney
Batimatea aiven. OLD PLATB MA.DB EQUAL TO MEW. Send Your
Adtire


The PUREST WHiSKFY
in the World . . .
GEO. ROE & CO.
JOHN 'MEAGHER & CO.
A ustralasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
id
Before booking: your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers.
Gazette, and Sailing- List with map’
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Colltns-st.j Melbourne; Hunter-st., Sydney.
>
)
, GrO TO HELL-
« IGORANI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to J
Fred. Nagci),
FOREIGN STAiIP IMPORTER, I
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney. ]
Australian Stamps bought, price- .
Q lists gratis.
HATS.
“ATS.: HATS.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will 'Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes iitted with this
valuable invention.
Catalogue to B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
DU MACKENZIE’S
ARSENIGAL SOAP
for a pearly skin and brilliant
Complexion. Ch.mis s sell it.
NOTHING ELSE LIKE iT.
Used by th; Elite of English
Society. S. Harvey, Lirntd.,
London Bridge SE.
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRAPL€Y # CO.,
furniture and line Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydn) ,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALS
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
itH*' Sates Held at the .1 uetton Itoonts.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
HIGH-GRADE
FARIVS-^
-
; m
Massey-Harris Co. Ltd.
35 BROADWAY,
George-street West, Sydney. .
POLITICAL
POINTS
Brisbane Courier issues its “ticket” of
six for Q. Senate. All are black-labor men.
The straight “ griffin ” for Victorian
electors: Vote for no member of the existing
House of 48 Rich Tories, and above all things
don’t vote for Sargood.
Bulletin advice to electors : Do not fail
to go to the polls. If there is nobody quite good
enough to vote for there is always somebody quite
bad enough to vote against.
Buzacott, of Rockhampton Record, has
retired from the Senate scramble, and tries for
Brisbane Division opposing Yes-No MacDonald
Paterson and a Labonte. This should make
thing’s easy for the democrat.
When N.S.W. State Parliament gets
seriously to work on the business of providing
civilised accommodation for shearers on out-back
stations some member should extend the scope of
the bill to cover the huts which coal-mining pro-
prietors rent to employes. b V
Things are improving in New South
T ( .L SUa1 ’ the mcrea se in big loans
oame first, and the increase of prosperity came
afterwards. What a blessed thing it would be
SSonVgtS Pr °’ l * lrity ' yhicl ‘
The Kanaka is restricted to agricultural
work and does not compete with the white
worker - is the constant yap of the Black Labour
i, d n f n te - U i P X et m Bome P arts of Queens-
land the islander is cook, male nigger housemaid,
wharf lumper rouseabout in stores and hotels
labourer and things in general. In fact in certain
regions he seems to be restricted to everything
except agriculture. J b
• 5°J V «r to , before nomination day
m N.S.W. there were two promised walk-overs-
the Hunter (the Premier’s) and the Barrier (the
Labor party’s). But at the last moment half-a-
dozen of the usual hunters after pickings rebelled
against an uncontested election and put up a con-
vement but hopeless person for the Barrier seat ■
and thus Barton was left the only man who didn’t
have to go the poll.
DRY DOGGEREL
"Georgie may I go and siuim?
"Yes. I think yer's Ought ter
Hang yer clokbes on a goaseherry fimb
But don't go near the water.'"
If Wise, Australia’s Rupert of debate, is
beaten for Canoblas by the prosaic, unintellectual
Brown, it will probably be only because of the
votes polled for Protectionists Melville and Dal-
veen, who persist in a hopeless battle. If,
at the present juncture, Melville succeeds
in diverting enough votes to exclude Wise from
the first Federal Parliament, he will indeed have
established a strong claim on the gratitude of the
Calico gang. :
Kanaka labor is indeed helping the sugar
industry along wonderfully. The Queensland sugar
output for 1899-1900 was only 123,289 tons,
against 163,734 tons in the previous year. Had
this decline accompanied a reversion to white-
labor conditions, what a howl there would have
been !
“N.Q.”: I venture a prophecy that the
six senators for Q. will be obtained from the fol-
lowing nine in this order, or thereabouts: Bar-
tholomew, Dawson, Drake, Thynne, Stewart,
Higgs, Cowley, Glassey, Hamilton. Of these, at
least four are against the nigger and all his works
and one, alas ! (Cowley) loves him as a brother.
The first six candidates elected to the
Federal House of Representatives—-Forrest,
Quick, Allan M‘Lean, Samuel Mauger, Barton
and Turner—are all Protectionists and Govern-
ment supporters, so the Barton Cabinet opens the
battle well. Six votes secured out of 75 is some-
thing to go on with.
The trust or “combine ” disease is coming
with a rush in England. Five or six years ago it
was almost unknown. Now there are 22 great
industries practically bossed by trusts. One
trust has a capital of £9,200,000 ; another
£6,000,000; another£7,soo,ooo; another£4,2oo,ooo;
another £3,720,000 ; and in many other rings,
such as the Shipping Ring, the capital is an
unknown quantity. The trusts of the Protec-
tionist U.S. are a favourite theme with the
shoddy orator. A little attention to the same
growing curse under Freetrade would be a plea-
sant variation.
E. W. O’Sullivan hesitated to the last
moment about opposing Reid for the Federal seat
of East Sydney. Even on the night before
nomination day it was regarded as a certainty that
he would cast himself headlong into the arena
just about closing time—but finally he decided to
go on promising bridges vigorously in the State
Government. No other man can promise so many
bridges in so short a time and with so reckless a
disregard of money as O’Sullivan, and if he had
quitted the State Legislature he would have been
much missed.
The idea that the Federal Senate is the
proper place for the kind of politician who usually
disfigures the State Upper House seems an all-
Australian one. In every State many of the pre-
sent M’s.L.C. are candidates for the Senate, while
there are but few mentioned as running for the
House of Representatives. Yet the franchise for
both Houses is the same, and in two of the States
the method of election is absolutely identical.
Probably it will take the life of a Parliament or
two ere there is a general awakening to the fact
that the Federal Senate is as democratic a body
as the House of Reps, and practically as im-
portant.
The “great” Adelaide papers have a
beautiful arrangement : Federal candidates’
speeches are reported “by special arrangement ”
and printed as advts.—though in the news
columns. It works out like this. Wealthy law-
ver and mine-
owner R. C.
Baker speaks
—scols. Poyn-
ton and Bur-
goyne share a
public meet-
ing. Poynton,
who has saved
up a bit, gets
2c015., with as
many “ cross-
heads ” as he
likes; but poor
old-tnan Bur-
goyne, whose
pockets are
empty, gets
this—“ Mr. T.
Burgoyne also
addressed the
meeting.”
“The Press,
gen 11 e men,
the Press!
The philan-
thropic, pub-
lic-spirited,
impartial
Press ! Hip,
hip—hooray! ”
The new
divisions re-
commended
by theN.S.W.
State Electo-
rate Commis-
sioners are ren-
dered neces-
sary by the
Electoral Act,
which calls for
representation
on a strictly
proportional
basis. Owing
to the steady
influx from the
country into
the metropolitan area, Sydney and suburbs gain
nine seats in the re-arrangement from the back-
blocks. Tiiis- result, though no doubt ethically
correct, will not suit country people. The
general complaint throughout the State is that
bloated Sydney has got far too big a say already
in matters of government. With the fiscal issue
out of the way, and a new line of division wanted
between ins and the outs, nothing is more
likely than a fight between the Country Party and
the Town Party in the State Legislature.
ANCIENT FREETRADERS.—No. 1.
“ But a certain man named (AUTS v., 1).
From N.Z. Herald :
We commonly regard one of the drawbacks to Federa-
tion with Australia to be the resultant necessity for work-
ing under a written Constitution.
The Herald, which boasts the largest circulation
in M.L ~ evidently doesn’t know that its country
has a written Constitution a good deal less elastic
and more conservative than the Federal ditto.
Premier Philp :
Mr. Barton had wired three times offering him cordially
a seat in the Cabinet, but he thought that, as he had
been a Minister in Queensland during her years of pros-
perity, now, as they were likely to" have years not so
prosperous, it was his duty to stay here. It was possible
that, some day, Queensland might have to fight the
Commonwealth.
The voice of the seceding Slave States over again !
Is Philp to be the Jefferson Davis?
N.S. W. Premiers cultivate a fad of associ-
ating their names with some large pile or pro-
posed pile of bricks and mortar. Parkes invented
a huge Dead House ; Dibbs completed the Sydney
Hospital; Reid projected spacious Parliament
Houses ; and now Lyne steps up with Parkes’s
old Dead House in a new form. Dibbs’s is the
only scheme carrying with it public approval.
The others are of the nature of O‘Sullivan’s statue
“facing the dawn”—they are instinct with the
shoddy spirit of the showman.
When those “ in the know” praise a thing
it must be good. It is significant that the em-
ployees of the great Victorian importing houses
are Protectionists almost to a man. Unfortu-
nately, their dependent position couples guarded-
ness of statement and action, else a powerful regi-
ment of crusaders armed with facts would be
added to the cause. This is especially true of
those who were connected with the importing
trades before the Protectionist era, and who re-
member the 100 per cent, profits that were com-
mon in the early seventies, when the importing
monopolists were undisturbed by serious local
competition.
In Victoria the Freetrade party only
raised eleven candidates for the 23 seats in the
House of Representatives, and five candidates for
the six seats in the Senate. So that body appar-
ently enters into the fray with its tail down.
Its five senatorial candidates consist of two
barristers, two rich softgoods - warehousemen
and an enormously wealthy mine-owner, and no
less than three of the five are members of the
hopelessly Tory House of Rich Landlords. Also
two M’s. L. C. are fighting for seats in the House
of Representatives on the Foreign Importers’
ticket. The cause round which the Fat Men gather
by instinct is good enough for any democrat to
avoid.
The election for Victoria’s six Senators
should show whether David Syme really bosses
that State or only jumps the same way as the cat
in time to foster the idea that he makes the cat
jump. The Liberal organisation selected, out of
20 candidates, Barrett, Best, Dow, Styles, Watt,
and Wise. A few days later Syme chose his six,
taking the first four but substituting, for Watt
and Wise, Simon Fraser and President Zeal, his
two Convention nominees from the Upper House.
The Age has apparently forgiven the House of
Fat Landlords its many sins in order to spite the
A.N.A., but the Natives—and the workers—
haven’t forgotten how that paper stealthily worked
against Federation, wherefore The Bulletin
opines Dawvid will find himself on the wrong side
of the fence on the 9th.
Query : Will the Reid-M‘Millan party, if
it gets into power, leave off protecting the beer,
sugar, and wine industries, and put up the excise
on the local article to the same figure as the im-
port duty on the foreign one? By doing so it
will get a lot more revenue and also avoid out-
raging its holy fiscal principles. All the time it
was in power in former years it sacrificed a lot of
revenue in order, by its own showing, to injure
the country by inflicting on it, so far as these
articles were concerned, the Curse of Protection,
but it surely can’t go on thus injuring the country
at great expense* for ever. Even Reid and
M'Millan must surely follow their own principles
sometimes.
Once, until the early nineties, the
miners of Vie., Tas., and N.S.W. (New-
castle and Broken Hill) and some of the S.
Australians and Queenslanders were in one
organisation the A.M.A. Sleath and
other then-leaders of the N.S.W. men
were red-hot for political action; while
Peter Phillips, Lawn, and other Victorian
officers belonged to the old school. So the
Association was split up ; only the Vic.
and Tasmanian branches holding together.
But at last these latter, at their annual
conference, have decided that a branch
shall be at liberty to select and run Par-
liamentary and municipal candidates,
though the old hands still shake their
heads.
The Maoriland Federation Com-
mission unearthed one witness named Kelly
who held that under Federation “we
should lose very heavily through having to
contribute our quota to extensive public
works in Australia.” The equally-probable
idea that “we” might gain very heavily
through Australia contributing very heavily
to extensive public works in Maoriland
didn’t strike Mr. Kelly anywhere. In
every State the Federal idea lias to
struggle against that class which can see
nothing in it except a combination on the
part of all the other States to burgle from
“us” our old silver teapot and the half-
crown “we” have got hidden in a stock-
ing up the chimney.
The energetic reformers who insist
on exacting a pledge from candidates for
N.S.W. Leg. Assembly that they, if elected, shall
vote for a reduction in the number of members,
should add a further clause insisting that a Local
Govt. Bill shall be passed in the first session.
Even Max Hirsch, the frantic German
single-taxer of Melbourne, tells the electors (now
that he is a candidate for the Federal Parliament)
that he is in favor of a customs tariff that will
raise £6,000,000 a year. The single-taxer’s creed
is that all revenue should be raised by a tax on
land. Apparently the single-tax gospel is the
kind of umbrella that must only be taken out in
fine weather.
Holy Joe Cook, in his manifesto to the
Parramatta(N.S.W.) electors, jibes at his opponent
Sandford to the effect that he (Cook) has “No
axe to grind ” and “no ironworks to parade.” In
the eyes of the N.S.W. Freetrader it is really a
crime to have built up a big Australian industry
as Sandford has done. It interferes with the
importing business of the M'Millan clan whose
axe Joe grinds so assiduously.
Alleged that the Japanese Govt, is about
to make a stir re the position of its subjects in
Australia. So tar the Jap. authorities have
limited the number of little brown men departing
for Australia, but there are indications that this
limitation will not be long continued. Japan
alleges that she has shown herself a foremost
power, and is not. prepared to submit to the de-
grading restrictions generally imposed on Asiatics.
“G.M. ” : When in London recently I
called at the Vic. Govt. Agricultural Department
Offices in Leadenhall-street, and asked to see a
file of the Argus. Judging from the assistant’s
astonished countenance, I might as well have
asked for the “Gesta Romanorum.” I explained,
and was scornfully told, “Oh, if it’s newspapers
you want to see you must go to the Agent-
General’s.” Only three miles off !
According to Q. Registrar-General, out of
8729 Kanakas (in the year ’99), 347 died, or 39 per
1000. Japs perished at the rate of 37 per 1000 ;
Javanese at 57 per 1000; Chinese—only 7 per
1000. John knows how to take care of his skin.
From the above figures it seems that the degener-
ate white (who only dies off at about 12 per 1000)
is likely to outlast some of the belauded aliens
who are “specially adapted for labour in the
tropics.”
Undercurrents, political and social, move
persistently to increase the Gov.-General’s salary
from £lO,OOO to £20,000. There can be no direct
increase till the Commonwealth Parliament votes
it, and the composition of that Parliament is a
matter of much doubt, so an effort is being made
to induce the State Parliaments to each supple-
ment the Gov.-General’s present allowance. Vic.
Parliament, it is thought, will not again reject a
motion in this direction. When Hopetoun lived
in Melbourne, it is alleged, he spent £30,000 a
years as State Governor.
Queensland Worker (March 9th) re the
Senate:—“Unlike our Upper House, the
authority will come directly from the people, and
it will not hesitate to use its powers in order to
block or hamper progressive laws from the Lower
House.” Does the Worker then mean to say
that when a House is directly elected by the
people on a suffrage quite as liberal as that of the
Lower House it is likely to be in opposition to
liberal legislation ? If so, the sooner we abolish
direct appeals to the popular vote the better.
The Bulletin asks all Victorian Demo-
crats to vote against Zeal and Fraser for the
Senate. This paper prophesied that they would
be put on the Age ticket, and the forecast has
come true. On their personal merits and political
record neither has the slightest claim to any
Liberal’s vote. In the Convention, into which
they were engineered because they happened to
be David Syme’s personal cronies, they were in-
tellectually sterile and stupid. They belong to a
bitterly unprogressive clique. Fraser is in addi-
tion a pronounced sectarian bigot. Syme’s choice
of his Tory friend S’malkum M'Eacharn for Mel-
bourne—as against the Radical Dr. Maloney—is
another clear abuse of the power which the con-
trol of a party organ gives.


PIANOS ** ORGANS
BANP & ORCNCSTRAL
INSTRUMENTS
ACCORPCONS
AUTOHARPS
MANPOLINS
GUITARS
BANJOS
Specially Selected
DIRECT FROM THE
MANUFACTURERS.
The Cheapest, because the
BEST, are always the
Cheapest in the
long run.
]| Remarkable Fact
e>
©
CP
&
%
<9
A
5®
%
Of>
bos
%
e>
During half a century
of solid, honest, business,
PALING & CO- Ltd. have established a
reputation which places them AN EASY FIRST
in the opinion of the public, whose verdict is, that
there you can purchase anything and everything in the line
of PIANOS, ORGANS, and MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS of every known
description. Not only so, but whatever you DO PURCHASE
you can rely on, and in addition you can make your
purchase on such Easy Time Payment Terms
that there will be no difficulty
about payments for even the
humblest.
Q
<£
a
o
%
G
?G
$
C>*
9
<9
&
We
have a strong
lead, and we in-
tend to maintain it
by continuing to supply
only the very Best Goods.
We pay most particular
attention to
Our Prices
are Reasonable
and within the
reach of all ,
Call or Write for Catalogues
FREE.
DOCTORS DIFFERED AGAIN
.... BUT ....
VITADATIO
CURED.
Read what Mr. Davis writes.
Perth, June 5, 1900.
Mr. S. A. PALMER.
Dear Sir, —I have been invalided for about 2 years and
3 months. The doctors treated me for Inflammation of
the Lungs, Bronchitis, and Pneumonia, but failed to cure
me. I used to suffer with very severe pains through my
back and chest, and had a very nasty cough. I was in
the Perth Hospital three weeks, but the doctor told me
he could do no more for me, and that I was as well as he
could make me. I was laid aside for 12 weeks at Fre-
mantle. The landlady of the Olub Hotel advised me to
try VITADATIO, which I have done, and after taking
four bottles I am now in splendid health. I will be
pleased to answer any inquiries that any sufferer may
require in the hope that my humble testimony may be
the means of leading others to health.
Yours respectfully,
(Signed) FREDERICK DAVIS, BAYSWATER.
Witness : W. J. Fist, Perth.
For further particulars,
s. A . PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
CHARLES READ & CO.,
(3 DOORS FROM
STRAND ARCADE).
Camden Buildings, 420 George St., Sydney.
m
Solid Silver Afternoon Tea
Set *(3 Pieces, Teapot, Sugar
and Cream).
Price, complete, £5.
å
Cold Curb Chain Bangle
with Padlock and Safety
Chain, 35/- 45/- 55/- 63/-
A Saving of 25
per cent.
Write for 80-paged
Illustrated Cata-
logue Post Free.
Walker & Hall’s ‘FLAG BRAND*
Fiddle or Old English.
Table Spoons .. 25/- doz.
Table Forks .. 25/- „
Dessert Spoons.. 20 - „
Dessert Forks .. 20/- ~
Tea Spoons .. 8/6 ~
Any Part of Dozen Supplied
\
i
!
RIDE
Dun lqp Tyres' 1
And yon then
understand why
90 per cent . of
the Cyclists of
Australia use
them •
RELIABLE,
cammmmmmaamaaMmmmmmmm
speepy,
™ PURABLE.
Roadster Tyres Guaranteed for
12 Months.
The Dunlop pnuematic
Tyre Co. of flue. [td.
150 Clarence Street, Sydney,
AND AT
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth,
Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.
Premier Seddon and his colleagues have
been running the military excitement for all the
political capital it was worth. When the Imperial
troops reached Maoriland they were broken up
into several detachments and sent to various parts
of the country with a Minister in attendance.
Seddon himself sticking to the finest bunch. At
times matters became rather mixed as between
the great man and Col. Pen ton, the M.L. Com-
mandant of the Forces, and at one country town
Maoriland’s Premier peremptorily countermanded
some of Pen ton’s orders, at the same time calling
out, “ I’d like to know who’s boss here ! ” “Well
sir, if you have any orders for the troops I would
prefer them to be given through me,” meekly
answered Penton. “ There’s only one boss when
the Premier’s about,” chirruped little Piram, the
member for Palmerston. Of course, as usual
Seddon came out on top.
Simultaneously with the tardy announce-
ment of Premier Dyne’s resignation, Sydney
Daily Telegraph “president” J. It. Carey was
made a member of the Wharves Resumption
Board. And, peculiarly enough, also simultane-
ously, the Telegraph, after vigorously attacking
the ex-Premier for weeks past, came out with a
gushful leader on the glorious record of that great
statesman, Wm. J. Dyne. Probably this is a
mere coincidence, but such coincidences give
nasty people a chance to say nasty things. Ihe
guiders of a powerful newspaper should be beyond
suspicion, and, in the interests of clean govern-
ment, should be as much above even the appear-
ance of receiving patronage from the politicians
whom they set themselves up to judge as is the
Supreme Court Bench.
Minister of Railways Trenwith was inspired
to talk of the awfulness of landlords at the St.
Patrick’s banquet in Melbourne, and the exiles of
Frin are with him to a man, even when lie shifted
the butt-end of the cur-r-se on to their own
shoulders. “ There are too many Irish landlords
in Australia,” said the Tribune; “we ought to
aim at abolishing the private landlord here,” and
that way of putting it awoke so many blessed
memories of tne open seasom for landlords on the
“ Ould Sod ” that grasping proprietors named
Murphy, and Hinnissey, and Muldoon, and the
like actually cheered the speaker wildly. Tren-
with’s idea of the State getting its own back is to
apply the 10 per cent, probate to real estate, and
rope-in one acre in 10 every time a landlord
passes out. “Wouldn’t it have the iffiet av dis-
cooragin’ thim lan’lords from dyin’ ” asked an
old “ bark,” but the idea caught on.
Labour has become so scarce in the
country districts of Victoria that the Shire Coun-
cils of Bulla and Castle Donnington appealed to
Govt, on 18th Jan. last not to start any public
works in order that there might be a possibility of
getting men to gather in the crops.


Backing, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
ā
ă
BILLS
discounted.
3XT.S.-W.
ffloit deplete o.*|. Go., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74. CASTLEREAGH ST., *7Q.
SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
City Mutual Life
•i* Assurance Society
Limited. . . .
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIQH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
GEO. CROWLEY,
!OcTAR!.ISHED 1879.
'—Tins—.
Manager.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon; C. J. Robjjws,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Mih.hr.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,600—assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eouitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. .. £4,800.000 0 0
Paid-up Capital £3,216,885 0 0
Directors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman ; J. C. Syme,
Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. 11. Embling, M.L.C.;
Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J. P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M'Niool, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager : Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard. 1
London Office: 1 Hisliopagnte Street Within
corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers . The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
Ntw SOUTH wales:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant :'N. S. Bell.
Haymarket, Gosford (with aireucy at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
fleui Zealand Insurance Go.
FIRE and MARINE.
£1,000,000
420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
Bl Pitt St., Sydney.
Established 1879.
CAPITAL
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES ..
(jilted Australian (flutual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices :
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital .. £500,000
Subscribed Capital 251,260
Paid-up Capital 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance. Agents required where not represented.
Alfred Websteb, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
Queensland gompg.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
J * Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, ap; ly to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-3treet, Melbourne.
The flank of flortli flu?,enslaud
LI M ITKI >.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director - JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital I’aid-up £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 000 ... £350,000
Shipping.
TfiT HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Saturday, March 30,12 Noon.
Tyrian, Saturday, April 6,12N00n.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyonjr, Tues., April 10, 5 p.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyong, Tues., April 16, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Peregrine, Sat., March 30, 12 Noon.
Bur'vah, Tuesday, April 2, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, April 0, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Peregrine, Sat., March 31), 12 Noon.
Leura, Saturday, April 6,12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &e.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares anil Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
T*>« TrOstccs, €*ccCitorS,
AND
Ags*Ky Conjpaoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company's
business) £8312 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1900 ... £6,326,343 0 0
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. :
0. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.O.
JAMES BORROVVMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, G-eorge Street,
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capilal payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital ... .. £2,500,000
Bank of Neiv South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office- GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,250,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,250,000 0 0
Directors :
James Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
William Alfred Cotter, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Hon. Henry Normand MacLatirin, M.L.C.
lion. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Auditors:
F. W. Utiier, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office-Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom. ’
T.Te Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects" for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
■pHE
SAVINGS BANK IN VICTORIA
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £BOOO. on City,
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers £3,000,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London,.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn- of the Colonies.
Directors—Sydney : Sir W. M'Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks,
Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq/,
Branch Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W.
N. M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Berth, A. W.
Farqdiiar ; Wellington', N.Z., C. M. Monteeiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY".
Medical
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
m
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole A gents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues , Par-
ticulars, &c.
DENVER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
0$
l
• ,
■■
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles,
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one of these
Cabinets. Price 25/-
Itead and Face Steamer, 3/6.
Can he forwarded to any address.
J. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St,, Melbourne.
Shipping
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetoivn and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL. CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY
nxr. X 3. l.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL FLEET.
. . COMPRISING .
129 Steamers of a Total Tonnage of
506,754; Horse-power, 403,245.
Mileage run in 1899, 3,545,000 ; Over 3| million Pas-
sengers carried since 1857.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, London,
Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
REGULAR SERVICE TO CHINA and JAPAN, via
BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, and YAP.
The fine new N.D.L. fast twin screw.
S.S. NUEN TUNC, 1341 tons,
Captain Gosewisch,
Leaving SYDNEY APRIL sth NEXT.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN &CO., 7and 9Bridge-st., Sydney.
Medical.
MASON’S EXTRACT
OF HERBS.
NO OTHER EXTRACT MAKES
LIKE IT.
The Best of all
Beverages and
the Cheapest.
NON-
INTOXICATING,
DELICIOUS,
WHOLESOME.
*sr
Agents :
GOLLIN & CO., Sydney and Melbourne.
NEWBALL & MASON,
NOTTINGHAM,
ENGLAND.
DRUNKENNESS
Positively CURED by Administering-
EUCRASY.
It can be given in
drink or food with-
out the subject’s knowledge. Perfectly Harmless, and
will effect a Speedy Cure. Write TO-DAY for Free Book.
Address THE EUCRASY CO., 62 Hunter-street, Sydney.
Sore Eyes! Blight!
USED 300 YEARS.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
Never fails. Restores Eyelashes.
HAD FROM ALL CHEMISTS.
HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT.”
Ask your Chemist for this little book.
Will Develop or Reduce
any part of the Body.
A PERFECT COMPLEXION
BEAUTIFIER and
Remover of Wrinkles.
Dr. JOHN WILSON GIBBS’
THE ONLY
Electric
Massage
Holler
(Patented
United States^
Europe,
Canada.
ą
“Its work is
not confined to
the face alone,
but will do good
to any part of the
body to which it is
applied, developing or
reducing as desired. It
is a very pretty addition
to the toilet table.”
—Chicago Tribune.
“ This delicate Electric Beauti-
fier removes all facial blemishes.
It is the only positive remover of
wrinkles and crow’s feet. It never
fails to perform all that is expected.”
—Chicago Times Herald
“ The Electric Roller is certainly productive of good
results. 1 believe it the best of any appliances. It is safe
and effective.”—Harriet Hubbard Ayer, New York AVorld.
For Massage and Curative Purposes
An Electric Roller is all the term implies. The invention
of a physician and electrician known throughout America
and Europe. A perfect complexion beautifier. Will re-
move wrinkles, “crow’s feet” (premature or from age),
and all facial blemishes. Whenever electricity is to be
used for massaging or curative purposes, it has no equal.
No charging. Always ready for use on all parts of the
body, for all diseases. For Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neural-
gia, Nervous and Circulatory Diseases, a specific.
Price—Gold, 21/- ; Silver, 16/- PAMPHLETS FREE.
Sole Agent tor Australasia—
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins-street,
Melbourne.
v— Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(MM IT HD).
i PI L ESS PASSE NGER SERVICE to and from
west Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
Inm MELBOm ®E
ADELAIDE
POET PIRiE
And GULF PORTS
LSPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Adelaide, Thursday,
April 4.
Y
S.S. Marloo, Saturday
April 6.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Cintra, Friday,
March 29.
xJr'if* v nd Cheapest Itoute to Goldfields.
first Cr w ge tlckets are interchangeable after the
steim^ r o f theTrT C^ ou r ne and Cairns "ith the
Sons |f„, h . e ,| A |' 9' S - N - j°- and w - Howard Smith and
changeable T and W - A - all tickets are inter-
lth t! l e . a -U.S.N. 00. only. Subject to con-
ditmns to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents,_6_BKlDQE STREET. SYDNEY.
A. U. S. INI. Cov. Ltd.
Royal mail coastal service.
THIS POPULAIt PASSENGER LINE.
MELBor h ROT ir Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE -Weekly.
Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
« « PORTS—Weekly.
AXU BOCKHAMPTON-Bi-weeklv via Ports
SYDNEY annl!URKl7l’°WN—Every 3 Week “vh Ms
and komanton ’ °° oktovvn - Thursda >’
Svrwrv’ NKW CALEDONIA, and FIJI Monthly
IvnSv AND .MELBOURNE, Weekly. 7
YDN FJrtni4iOy LAIDE ANU WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fasseni/er Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
first no°rt b^ SSage at ets are interchangeable after the
a " d Cairns with the steamers
subiect to C ° m P an y and W. H. Smith and Sons,
Fov^aVi 0 f to be ascertained on application
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter!
Rirom 6 To, h the Adelaide S.S. Co. only,
street Sydney l . and 9° > Ltd -> Agents, In Rridge-
Ports
P. AND O. COMPANY.
betoSSKMS”*" 1 ” °' lh “ *>” reo ”« >«
F °R MARSEILLES AND LONDON
touching at the usual Intermediate Ports. ’
YVitih Pprmis«irm /aoll of
„, Jhe Company’s steamers now call at Fremantle
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B 10s to £77
r m-°, Ditto Return £7l los to £l2l
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial pores
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
i" ne i?TT« t r e ?^ rs i a ' dn£rroo m- Particulars on application
to EDWARD TRELAWNY, Superintendent in Aus-
t™ja l Exchange_Oorner, Pitt and Bridge Streets
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
touku to Duraoay, inaia, Ohina,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
ra^Mraa^^R^BßASlEßl>l^rHtnr^’rincipalAgent.
Huddart, parker & Co’s tine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. AND A.” LINE.
The Steamships of the above Company will be despatched
as follows for
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
(H‘|lmraith,jll‘Eacharn*Co.
PROP. LTD.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS
KALG-OOBLIE, 4500 TONS,
COOLG-AKIDIE, 3500 TONS,
SAIL FORTNIGHTLY between
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
West Australian Ports.
Passenger Accommodation Unsurpassed. Liberal Cuisine.
MBLWRAITH, M'EACHARN AND CO.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany and Fremantle.
Sydney Agents—BUßNS, PHILP & CO. Ltd.


Herr RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
WEAK NERVES, HEALTH and STRENGTH RESTORED MOST EFFECTUALLY.
GENUINE REMEDIES
FOR THE BLOOD, SKIN,
NERVES, LIVER, PILES, etc.
ALF ALINE
Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the Nervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
Alfaline Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirety free from Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFAX.INE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, " ONE SHILLING.
AlfalineTJniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
TO BE GIVEN
AWA IZ REEi
THE ALFALINE
GUIDE TO HEALTH
This FREE BOOK
contains a vast fund
of most useful and
interesting inforina-
tion, as well as nu-
merous Testimonials
from cured and
grateful patrons,
with full particulars
necessary for self-
cure, and all details
regarding the scope
of the Alf aline
Remedies.
Sent Post Free
. . . and . . .
in Plain Cover.
f-
*
*
■
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alf aline
Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
■ • • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
desires to inform his
patrons that his
A If aline Herbal
Heme dies can only be
obtained from his
11 e'ad 0 jffice, or
hi s b ranches the
addresses of which
are set out on this
page. It is, there-
fore, useless to apply
to any chemist or
P atent M edicine
dealers for the genuine
~A If aline Remedies.
A REWARD
I will be given for in-
i'formation convicting
anyone of imitating the
A If aline Remedies.
MPORTRNT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH, ” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RaSSmUSSeilj
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSmUSSen.
APVICE FREE.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and. Cough Pills -A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders—A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier—A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palatable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectua
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Hans peter RASSMUSSENj
HEAD
47 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
BRISBANE : 50 .9 Queen-street (near Creek-street),
MELBOURNEISO Boarke-street (opp. Eastern Market*)•_
ADELAIDE 7~151 Rundle-street (near York Hotel),
‘nTzTTtFELLINGTQN<JI Lambton Quay.
FERTII : 481 Hay-street.
~KALGOORLIE ; Hannan-street (next Lindell’s).
BO ULJDER CITY ; Piesse-street.
FREMANTLE'. Henry-street. I
“Vulcan” : The American road-rule of
“keep to your right” is muck more convenient
than our absurd practice of keeping to the left
while driving from the right, and thus leaving our
left “hubs ” to luck in escaping the other fellow s.
With the other rule, the driver has his dodging
wheel conveniently under observation, so that
bumping hardly ever occurs. Worth considering
in framing the new traffic regulations.
Rp the foundering, with great loss of life,
of the passenger steamer Rio de Janeiro off the
Golden Gate. It is worthy of note that the
jury not only censured the dead cap-
tain and the surviving pilot, but also the Pacific
M 5.3. Co. for employing an Asiatic crew. The
inference is that the general confusion and conse-
quent swamping of boats was largely due to the
cowardice of the panic-stricken yellow agony.
When Sunday Brunker, M.L.A., de-
clined to contest Newcastle in the Free-
trade interest, he gave as his reason that,
as he had refused to stand for the Hunter,
which was a cefrtainty for him, he could
hardly be expected to embark in a hot fight for
the coal-city seat. Said reason is a glowing tribute
to Brunker’s self-assurance. As, at last State
election, the then Chief-Secretary Brunker only
saved his bacon in his own particular corner of the
district by a majority at Minmi mining centre
(even then his lead was but 50 or so), it is evident
that the seat for the whole Hunter district, against
such a man as Barton, would be anything but a
gift for him. But the reason why the absurd
Brunker did not give Barton battle is easily ap-
parent : in the improbable event of his beating
Toby, he would have the unenviable job of sitting
in the Australian Parliament as the man who
ousted Australia’s choice for Federal Premier.
N.S.W. would also have lost the distinction of
having one of her representatives as first real
Prime Minister, and on Brunker the consequences
of his triumphant election would soon have reacted
disastrously. In a month, he would only be
known as the man who gave George Turner, of
Victoria, the Federal Premiership.
VE YOU
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
P.ress your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but ! WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured,
bend at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and. Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, l/lsd. per b x. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Earringdon-street, London, England.
Agents ; ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green latel on each box. (Regd. copyright).
ǻ
fringes,,
Natural Curly, from S/6
PLAITS end TAILS,
StHn. lone. 6/6. ell real baSst
CUTTINGS A COMBUti-3
» orlted up, i/6 per oz.
>V« ere the cheapo!) tin &s>
Ivalle for ell Hair Work,
Send Color of Hair.'
llOlVituui Street,
corset of Palmer-eUeot,
_ i SYDNEY.
Coble Tram will stop at Door.
Send stamps for full Price LI*V
attention given to Country Ortrflr
æ
Dr. Boxwell’s —S* B|| FMT PILLS.
■VTON-POISONOUS, HARMLESS, ALWAYS EFFEO-
1N XIVE. A Sure Friend, dispelling Misery, Suspense,
and Anguish by affording Immediate Relief. Sold by all
Chemists in Australia or can be sent anywhere. Price,
5/6 per box. Purchasers can rely on the fact that
these Pills are the Formula of a Skilled Expert —Dr.
Boxwell having been for years Physician to the Woman's
Hospital, London. Agents for Dr. Boxwell’s Silent Pills,
all leading Wholesale Druggists in Australia or Pill
Manufacturing Co., 539 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
tt COMMON SENSE EAR DRUM
IfHEI
DEAF
COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
3VT ons. Grourand’S
FRENCH DERMATIC PILLS
A SILENT BUT SURE REMEDY. Universally used
by the ladies of France. Guaranteed to produce the
result in an incredibly short time. Mrs. Thompson,
Cardigan-street, Carlton, says : “ I was for three months
taking all sorts of remedies—wrinkled, anguish-stricken,
and careworn ; but now bright and happy-looking for,
thanks to Mons. Gouraud’s Pills, I am myself again.”
Price per box, posted anywhere, 5/6. Write to PILL
MANUFACTURING CO., Elizabeth-st., North Melbourne.
CALVERT’S
20 per cent.
CARBOLIC
SOAP
Cures and prevents Insect
and Mosquito bites.
The strongest Carbolic Toilet Soap.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
Medical.
DR. J. COILIS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPYHE.
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, ‘to, bears oa
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chj.orodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
ii
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
KELTS and
AEELIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount, paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do orecisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
â
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment of
Catarrh, Bronchitis, Hay Fever, Asthma,
Golds, Influenza, Headache, Catarrhal
Deafness, Book of Treatment , Free.
Price of Medieator (size, 4 inches long, Nickel-
plated), and 4 months’ treatment, FBottle Com-
pound Inhalent, and 1 tin
Nasal Ointment, only
10 -
Post Free.
HOME CATARRH CURE CO.
231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and Infallible Remedy,
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C-S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
Oyer
100
years
haye
proved
their
value.
G. L. ROBERTS, M.D.
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
Born 1766, Died 1834.
INVENTOR OF Dr. ROBERTS’
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
The best for all Wounds and Skin Diseases,
Chronic Sores, Ulcerated Legs, Pimples,
Sore Eyes, &c.
osu Dr. ROBERTS’
ALTERATIVE PILLS,
For all impurities of the blood. Invaluable for Skin
Diseases. Prices is. i£d. and 2s. gd. each of all Drug
Stores.
Sole Makers: BEACH & BAKNICOTT, Ltd.
BRIDPORT, England.
Mrs. WALSH E’S
Famous English Tansy Pills.
rpHESE Famous Pills are now universally used through-
out the world, being the most perfect combination
of agents yet discovered. They contain no poison or
deleterious drugs, and they can always be relied on to
afford immediate relief. Price, sent posted, ss. 6d. per
box. Write to A. Chemical Co., Elizabeth-street North,
Melbourne. Mrs. John Wood, Bendigo-street, Prahran,
Melb. says : “Mrs. Walshe’s Tansy Pills gave me imme-
diate relief, although I had during two months previous
tried all sorts of remedies without success.”
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
(Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address. —L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne


NO ARGUMENT CAN PROVE that
is
IS NOT THE FINEST MACHINE IMPORTED INTO AUSTRALIA
OB traok and road experienced riders ride them. The Govts, of two States after .
purchased MASSEYS. YOU CAN BUY on extended terms and send in your Second-hand Bfcvele
payment. V, —SYDNEY DEPOT : 385 GEORGE STBKt
JL.
When they put a man
in gaol, he cannot follow
his natural inclination. His
enjoyment of life is limit-
ed. He cannot eat what
he wants to. He is limited
to a very frugal diet. He
is alive, to be sure, but life
doesn’t possess very many
advantages. Are not ail
these things equally true
of the dyspeptic ? For all
the real enjoyment he gets
out of life, he might as
well be in gaol. He can-
not eat what he likes, nor
as much of it as he would
like. If he transgresses
anjr of the rules of his diet
he is punished for it. He
suffers much—gets little
sympathy. Dyspepsia
starts with indigestion, and
may lead to almost any-
thing. Indigestion means
a variety of things —it
shows itself in many ways.
At first, perhaps, a little
heaviness in the stomach,
a little sourness, windy
belchings, and heartburn. Headaches begin to
come pretty soon after that, and biliousness and
a foul taste in the mouth in the morning. Chronic
constipation is almost inevitable, and it is
probably the most serious trouble that ever
takes hold of a man. Its seeming simplicity is
the thing that makes it most dangerous, because
it leads to neglect. Constipation means that
the body is holding poisonous, impure matter,
that should be gotten rid of. The poison is
being reabsorbed into the blood, and the whole
body is being filled with it. Impurity in the blood
may lead to almost any disease. There sno telling
what may come of it. And yet people are care-
less about it. It is the most serious thing in the
world, and the easiest to cure if you go about it
right. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills cure Con-
stipation. Cure it positively, certainly, infal-
libly. Cure it so it stays cured. Cure it so you
can stop taking medicine. And that is something
that no other remedy in the world will do. They
positively cure Biliousness, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, Dyspepsia, Sallow Complexion, Liver and
Kidney Troubles, Piles, Pimples and Blotches.
A perfect blood purifier, and for female ailments
they stand alone as a woman’s best friend.
Sold by chemists and storekeepers, price Is. IJd!
per bottle, or six bottles 6s. 6d., or same will be
mailed, post paid, upon receipt of price. Sole
proprietors, The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.
(Australasian Depot), 58 Pitt-street, Sydney]
They are Packed in amber bottles, and the full
name blown thereon.*
SCHOOLBOYS’ BICYCLCS .
We have a small number of Low-Framed
RED BIRD BICYCLES
SUITABLE FOR BOYS TO RIDE TO AND FROM BUSINESS ON.
We sell them on Extended Terms.
Street, Sydney.
BEANCHES IN EVERY STATE.
The
Original
JOHN
Agents:
J. Barre Johnston & Co.,
Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
A.J.C. Autumn meet, beginning on Saturday
next, looks like further swelling Vic. owners’ pockets,
iaken by and large, general entries and first acceptances
are not too satisfactory. 517 nominated for smaller
events as against 561 previous j r ear. Of 124 originally in
Doncaster Handicap 32 are left at time of writing, and 67
of uup list (total 93) have declined. Vic. seems to have
certs ” in w.f.a. races—Leger and Champagne Stakes—
and also apparently has big mortgages over Doncaster
Mile and Sydney Cup. This condition of things is made
amends for to some extent by the fact that such great
performers as Hautvillers, Aurous, Sagacity, United
States, La Carabine, Paul Pry, Malster, Clean Sweep,
Wakeful and co. will be brought along to scoop for the
Southern State. Reported probable retirement of crack
mare Fulminate is evidently not likely to come about vet
for she is still in Doncaster and other events. Advance
will represent M.L. at the meeting, Australian will run
for Westralia, and Ohio, Goldsmith and a couple more for
Bananaland.
• * * •
It goes without dispute that Clean Sweep, fit
and happy at the post will have a good 3 to 1 chance of
winning Sydney Cup. Given a fortunate run it will be
an even money chance on Melb. Cup form. With the
“Sweep ” out of the way Malster (7.11) would have taken
Melb. Cup. A 3-year-old improves considerably between
Nov. and April, and here is Clean Sweep, the undoubted
master of Malster over 2 miles, let into Sydney Cup at 8.7.
The colt may tjet beaten under the best of conditions by
a favorably-weighted older one, or even by San Fran, but
present scribe reckons that Clean Sweep, at starting
price, should be the best investment in the race. Mean-
While nothing else has a tempting appearance.
♦ » * •
. Although coming Sydney Cup is looked upon
m many quarters as a sure thing for Clean Sweep or La
Carabine, and Mo. refuses to lay better than hundreds to
one anything not gone with either, capable judges who
saw the Australian Cup run tip San Fran to beat both,
and insist that nothing else but badly-judged riding pre-
vented him from winning the 2i-mile event.
* * * •
The paralysed condition of betting on Doncaster
Handicap next Saturday has called forth an utterance
from handicapper Daly, who professes astonishment at
the Newmarket winner’s “absurdly” short price. He
asserts that she only just squeezed home from Fulminate
in the big Vic. sprint, which gives her nothing better than
an ordinary chance of annexing the A.J.C. Mile with
attendant, rich prize and other possibilities. Others—not
one whit less capable of judging than Mr. Daly—assert in
contradiction that Wakeful scored easily and finished full
of running, which view is apparently held by most pun-
ters—as per the fact that nothing else but Wakeful is
asked for. Nags likely to upset tile “ pot ” are Ferryman
and Sequence. Former’s fifth in the Newmarket was full
of merit, as were also his Bourke Handicap (Melb.) second
and Shorts Handicap (Rosehill) win. Sequence is the
most improved and still improving horse trained at Rand-
wick. If anything else pops up it will probably come
from Wootton’s lot.
■** * *
Private matches ’tween crack nags are rare
now-a-days ; in fact, a big one hasn’t been heard of for
years, though they were frequent in the old Homebush
(N.S.W.) times. While the Dandy-Severity protest was
being considered at Randwick t’other day a supporter
of Severity remarked that his running across made
no difference in the result—’twould be the same if
they had it over again ; whereupon Dandy’s owner
(“ Billy ” Kelso) offered to make a match for £5OO a-side
at the weights, to be decided subsequent to the last race
But the Severity party “ wasn’t taking any.”
• * • *
“Punters’ Paradise” applied to Rosehill is a mis-
nomer, for Mo. rarely nowadays scores as heavily at other
suburban courses. Saturday saw the raucous-voiced get
a complete “ skinner ” in the big thing of the day (Rose-
hill Oup), which excited heaps of betting. Bother De
Aar, Sequence, Bristol Bill, Tam O’Shanter, Bon Voyage
Gordon, Beacon, Doreen, Caravel, Noble Lady, and Black
Metal (of a field of 19) all had strong support.. Bother
was having a high tension struggle with Black Metal near
the finish, when Belus (20 to 1 freely offered) came from
the clouds and snatched the race by a short neck. Belus
though trained by that astute "hand, Ike Earnshaw’
wasn’t a bit fancied—in fact, previous to Saturday his
owner purposed having him schooled over the sticks
He is a fine, powerfully-built gelding by Clan Stuart
(imp.), out of Miss Kyogle, just the cut of a “ lepper ”
and previously ran under the name of Kyogle. ’
• * * *
“ Gun ” : Nice game, backing ’em ! Two nags
(Dalmore and Spring Rose) from same stable, and owned
by one man (Mr. Richards), started for Granville Stakes,
at Rosehill, on Saturday. Spring Rose was backed
heavily at fives, but Dalmore didn’t carry a cent. Former
and Melossi were fighting the finish out when Dalmore
came like a rocket on the outside, just pipping his stable-
chum on the post. The exultant glow of Mo’s classic mug
was remembersome.
.* * i •
The spieler’s grace : “ For those we are about
to deceive may the Lord make us truly thankful.”
* • • •
Obit. Mr. E. T. Barnard, who, a decade back,
retired from the responsible office of handicapper for
V.R.C. and V.A.T.O. on a pension of £SDO yearly. Mr.
Barnard was 75 and had lived in Australia 50 years. For
long he was a Vic. goldfields P.M.
♦ « * »
“A Life of Jockey Tom Hales,” by J. S. F.
Henry, published in Melb., is about as big as the inside of
a ham-sandwich at a Scotch picnic, but it is all meat.
Tom is the second of a family of ten—seven sons and
three daughters. He was born at Portland (Vic.) in ’47.
In his early boyhood his parents moved to Penola (S.A.),
then to Robe, where Hales, aged 13, won his first race on
a chestnut named Euclid. Hales only weighed about 4st.
Later he won three hurdle races and a steeple on Tatiara
Next he went to the employ of E. Stockdale, Lake Haw-
den Station. Here Hales broke in Smuggler for C. B.
Fisher. On Smuggler he won his first metropolitan race
on the Thebarton course. In ’72 he accompanied Ryan’s
string to Melbourne. His first mount there was on Ben-
volio in Maribyrnong Plate, won by Dagmar. He rode
The Ace, second to Quack, in Melb. Oup. His next
master was Winch, in whose violet, white sleeves, and cap
he did well. Won Adelaide Cup with Ace of Trumps.
Then he had a rare sequence of successes in Jellett’s black
and white spots on Richmond. Won Australian Cup, ’75
on Lurline. Next did much work for the St. Albans
stable. Then, in Long’s service, came the great Grand
Flaneur record, including a Melbourne Cup. After a
spell with De Mestre, Tom reached his zenith with White
Hales won V.R.C. Derby seven times, Oaks five, St. Leger
ten, Australian Oup eight, Newmarket Handicap two
Champion seven. At Randwick the A.J.C. Derby half-a-
dozen times, Oaks four, St. Leger seven, Sydney Cup
thrice in succession, and Metropolitan once, Caulfield
Guineas thrice. Never won Caulfield Cup. In conjunc-
tion with Yeomans he acquired Milbey Station, on the
Lachlan, but Hales only retained his interest from ’B3 to
'BB. He purchased “ Haleswood,” of 600 acres, near Tal-
langatta, on the Mitta Mitta. As a breeder he was
Unlucky. Out of 1678 mounts Hales won on 496.
• • * *
A large party of “ books,” “crooks,” &c., put-
up at a big hotel prior to a wayside M.L. race-meeting,
ana next morning a vast array of boots, put out to clean,
Were missing and undiscoverable. The resultant profanity
nearly blew the roof off, and it wasn’t for some time that
& oute Hebrew noticed that one visitor had his boots on.
Approaching this genius, bookie quietly offered him ss. if
his boots were placed outside his door. Bargain made
and complied with. The angry crowd vainly endeavored
to fathom the mystery, and at last a trainer was given
the “ griffin.” Ife offered 10s. for his footgear, and the
“ crook ” was again approached. “ Too late, sir ; they’ve
all been sent by train to Wellington.”
* * * *
Died, lately, at Christchurch (M.L.), Francis
Tabart, aged 71. A life-long sport, he gained his first
experience in Tasmania long years agone. Was subse-
quently station-manager in the Riverina, and one of the
best amateur jocks in Australia —having won, among
other races, the G.N. Steeple (on Teuton) in '55.
* ¥ * *
The new Duke of Westminster has registered
his racing colours (yellow jacket and black cap)—“ the
same colours that were borne with such distinction for
his grandfather (the late Duke) by Bend Or, Ormonde,
Orme, and Flying Fox,” says London Sportsman. Horse-
reporters have short memories. The so-called “West-
minster ” colours got their first celebrity from a previous
owner (Mr. Merry), who won the Epsom Derby with
Thormanby and Doncaster long ago. Doncaster was the
sire of Bend Or. The Duke bought him when Merry died
and straightaway adopted the colours of the old Scotch
sportsman, which were then said to have been worn by
the jockey of some previous Westminster or other.
* * * *
Newcastle (N.S.W.) bruiser Jessep—a com-
parative green ’un at the game—gave “Paddy” Martin
a hot time at Sydney Gaiety A.C. t’other night. Martin
has to his credit a close go with Otto Cribb, and on ap-
pearances had a heap the better of the weights with
Jessep. Offers of 3 to 1 against the Newcastle man
found no takers. It was all bash, bang, thump, and
’rastle anyway, everyway, and anyhow, with Jessep
getting the worst of things (though both were badly
battered), but still coming along for his gruel. He was
sent down often in the sixth round, and as he rose the last
time the watchholder cried “out,” the police stopped
the mill, and the towel went up in Jessep’s corner all at
the same moment.
* • * •
“ Old-Timer”: A happening in the fourth round
of recent Martin-Jessep fight is worth aline. Both struck
at the same moment. Martin made impact with a left
hook on the chin, and Jessep with a right cross on the
jaw, but the latter punch either carried much the greater
weight or got there an instant the earlier, for Martin was
spread-eagled and Jessep went back in his tracks. This
recalls those almost-simultaneous blows in the first Stur-
geon-Cribb mill. Sturgeon was completely knocked-out
and Cribb tottered, dazed and bewildered, back to the
ropes, and, when he came-to in his corner, yelled “ I’m
not licked ! I’m not licked ! let me have another go ! ” It
took his seconds some time to convince him that it was the
other man who had been licked. Years ago at Foley’s gym.
in Sydney Sam Fitzpatrick (erstwhile “ Australian Comet”)
and another were fighting ; each landed on the other at
same instant and they went sprawling in opposite direc-
tions apparently dead to the world ; but present scribe
was always suspicious about the genuineness of that
knock-out for neither seemed in love with the game.
Memorable battle between giant Ben Caunt and middle-
weight Nat Langham in ’57 produced something similar.
Accounts say both countered terrifically and simul-
taneously, Gaunt’s blow fetched up on the cheek and
Langham’s on the jaw. Nat fell instantly head-foremost.
Ben stood a moment dazed, then reeled and staggered
into his corner. Seconds had their work cut out to send
the pair to the scratch, but neither evidenced much vim
subsequently.
* * * *
Australian pugs, grow chary of present-day
referees—and small wonder. When Tim Hegarty and
Jack M ‘Gowan met last, they specially asked for ex-
amateur George Seale to go from Sydney to Melbourne
and act, and paid all exes. At Sydney Gaiety A.C.
t’other night Martin fouled Jessep palpably several times
in fourth round, and the referee called a halt, with the
intention, most onlookers thought, of giving Jessep the
match ; but a second or two later he said “ fight on,” and
ultimately Martin got the verdict on points. Saturday
night last 9st. Bob Turner and much-smaller-in-every-way
Paddy King fought a monotonous, long-drawn-out bump-
ing-and-clinching affair, wherein the slighter of the two
lads showed exceptional grit and seemed to at least hold
his own, but the referee thought otherwise and declared
Turner the. winner, which brought a storm of hoots and
hisses from all parts of a packed house. Smiling Charley
Dunn, the beauty of the Australian P.R., would have no
referee in his as far as the stake-money was concerned
when matching Sturgeon and Mick Dunn against Cribb ;
it had to be a fair knock-out or the side-bet was off. A
match was made for £5O a-side during present week, and
judging by conditions agreed to the referee might just as
well stay at home, for his verdict cannot affect the purse
or wager. Only through a knock-out may either prin-
cipal gather in all the spoil. Failing this, they whack
the purse.
* * * *
One Sydney fight-promoter is in the business
properly. He has a big house at the seaside where pugs,
engaged to fight in his hall may train. The idea is not
bad ; the enterprising one pockets the board and lodging
money for bruiser and trainer that might otherwise go to
swell some fat publican’s bank account, and, at the same
time, has ocular demonstration whether at least one
party to the contract means fight or otherwise.
» * * *
Edwin Dinnie, son of fine old “ Tonald ” of that
ilk, who stayed a dozen years in Australia, promises
bigger things than his sire ever did—big and all
though they were. Edwin, who hasn’t yet touched 24
can put up over 1901 b. with the right and 1701 b. with the
left hand. Some of his best feats are lifting simul-
taneously with both hands bells weighing 1201 b. and
1121 b. ’Tis said that he has pushed an SOlb. ball with a
lOst. man seated on it, and hoisted 801 b. additional at
same time. He won’t have general gymnastics as a means
of gaining muscle. “ Dumb-bells develop all muscles
and give a man real strength,” says young Dinnie. He
scales 13.3, and is sft. 7Jin. high, has a 45in. chest, and
measures 16fin. round the biceps, and Uiin. round the
forearm.
* * * *
Opening of Adelaide League’s cycling meet
Saturday was marked by a serious accident. Finish of
Commonwealth Mile third heat rested with Green, Martin
Goodson, and Lawson, who shot over the line locked!
Lawson s pedal caught Palmer’s spokes, and Lawson sus-
tained an ugly fall, his head bumping the asphalt half-a-
dozen times and inducing concussion of the brain. At
time of writing, Lawson is in Adelaide hospital critically
situated.
*• * ¥
Englishman Jack Green’s triumph over “Bil-
martin,” in the Mile Scratch race at Adelaide, Saturday,
indicates a return to form that’ll take some grappling'
with by the best we have. He is a sprinter, too, of the
first order.
* * * *
Cyclist Martin fell in badly at St. Kilda track
last week. In the middle of a barney between some
racing-men in the training-room, Martin and another
engaged in an altercation which led to Plugger Bill send-
ing the dirtiest of lefts into the other’s jaw and flooring
him. “ Give us time,” asked the prostrate man. “All
right, said Bill. The other rested for a few seconds,
then he stood up and simply made a chopping-block of
the old man, cutting him about so terribly that some of
the trainers interfered and rescued Plugger Bill Martin
before he was killed. The medico who dressed Bill’s
wounds opihed that he had been punched with a knuckle-
duster, hut Bill chivalrously explained that it was all fair
fight.
*****
Atop of news that M‘lvor and Chapman propose
returning 1 to the U.S. in May comes information of the
third Yankee (Vaughan), who came here a few months
since, having made up his mind to do likewise Wednesday
next week. Vaughan, like Chapman, never struck form
in Australia, and alleges that the climate is much against
him. Previous to coming he got over a mile behind pace
with a 84in. gear in 1.37. He complains that while in
America he is given 70yds. in a mile from 11‘Ivor, he only
gets that distance here from the same man in two miles.
* * * •
Mother-State top-notch wheelman “Joe” Meg-
son contemplates visiting M.L. in quest of spoil at
Christchurch champion gathering. Probably the most
doughty performer Megson may bump up against is Geo.
Sutherland, whose form this season is ahead of anything
ever previously shown by him, but “ Joe ” only needs to
be somewhere near his top to make a “ moral ” of it.
* •
Whilom Australian amateur premier Ben Good-
son’s record as a pro. was none too good until Saturday
last, when at Adelaide (with 20 sec. start) he closed on
the Half-mile Handicap from Cobar (N.S.W.) Larry Cor-
bett. Cracks Martin, Walne, Mutton, and M'Doriald were
behind Goodson, who also finished third in the Mile
Scratch struggle, accounting for Yankee Chapman in one
of the preliminary heats. Goodson is still in the Ade-
laide Wheel Race with 60yds. start.
* * • •
’Ome Cyclist J. Chamberlain, who arrived
in Sydney some months ago, survived both New
South Wales Wheelmen’s tests of class “A ” riders
(amateurs) on Saturday, and will represent that
body at M.L. premiership meeting April 5 and 6.
Week before Chamberlain competed in N. S. Wales
Cyclists’ Union tests with same object, and went under to
J. Turnbull. These organisations are very much at
“ outs,” hence M.L. authorities will have to choose
between the two. If League’s rep. starts, the Union’s,
two won’t, and unless the question is settled definitely
beforehand none may face the starter.
* * * *
M. H. Howard, who died suddenly in Sydney,
t’other day, was a front-rank Rugby footballer 20 or more
years ago. He went to M.L. with the first N.S.W. team
to visit that country when “Jumbo” Walkerand the late
Ted Raper were in their prime. Howard’s club in those
days was the old Waratahs —who had their head-quarters
at Harry Hooke’s Freemasons’ Hotel, York-street.
• * * *
A team of German footballers, chosen from the
Association clubs at Berlin, visited England this last
winter. They were badly beaten in all five of their
matches with second-rate teams, but the game is very
young in Germany at present. One day the Deutsehers
will be kicking an international championship match at
Kensington Oval, and winning it, perhaps.
• » * *
Top-notch swimmer Dick Cavill gave further
evidence, Saturday last, at Hellings’ (Sydney) baths, of
great form. He won his heat of a 100yds. handicap in
59 3-ssec., but was l-ssec. slower in the final. Up to time
of writing, the distance hadn’t been officially measured,
but present scribe has an idea that it was said, some time
ago, to be a foot or two short of length named ; even so,
boy Dick’s feat is wonderfully good.
* * * *
The fact that all the best latter-day long-distance
swimmers have unsuccessfully tackled the English
Channel caused Webb’s great feat of 26 years ago to be
questioned recently, and London Referee took the
matter up. Heaps of correspondence came from wit-
nesses of the performance and others including “ boy
Baker ” (now chef, of P. & O. liner Persia) who tended
Webb from start to finish. Result is that the genuine-
ness of the swim has been more firmly established than
ever. Fred Cavill (now in Sydney) occupied little more
than half as long over the same journey, but we don’t
hear much of that because when only a few yards from
the English coast Cavill was taken aboard the accom-
panying lugger owing to landing at the particular part
he reached being impossible.
♦ * * *
St. Patrick’s Day 100 Yards Handicap (£2O) at
Maitland (N.S.W.) on 18th instant, brought out most of
the fastest sprinters in the State, and some fine running.
Martineer (syd.) in the final covered the 95 yards in 9.)
secs, dead ; and Wholahan, off 2yd., was only 18in. be-
hind him at the end of the journey.
• » * *
Grand triennial pigeon-shooting championship
at Monte Carlo, Feb. 7 (25 birds at 27 metres) ended in
two Englishmen, one Australian and a Yankee being left to
fight it out. First prize (ll,Boofr. and gold medal) went
to Hon. S. R. Beresford, just invalided home from
S’Africa, who, with 23 birds, beat Australian Don
Mackintosh, Englishman Vernon Baker, and Yankee
Robinson. Last-named three grassed 22, and whacked
second, third, and fourth money. Mackintosh was
unlucky. He missed his first, then scored a sequence of
16, but the 17th (the hottest of the lot trapped) beat him.
His 23rd (hit with both barrels) fell, got up again and just
fluttered Over the boundary. 93 competed.
* » • *
Last batch (11) of N.S.W.’s contribution to the
Australasian bowling team going ’Ome leaves per Omrah,
April 10. Mother State is weakest of all in playing power
and isn’t at all representative. Vic. contingent embraces
five of their best, and the M.L. lot number several good
ones. N.S.W. section has subscribed £75 of £2OO to be
paid secretary Cudden, but M.L. men refuse to give any-
thing. Persistence in this attitude means that they’ll be
left on their own “ down under,” and have to play as a
M.L. team only.
* * * *
Re the Queensland tropical-labor question. A
Townsville resident, named Foley (an ex-alderman), has
offered—though knowing nothing of cane-trashing—to
pit himself against any Kanaka in the cane-field. Federal
candidate Hamilton has deposited with the Mayor
£5O, and agrees to forfeit the amount and to support
Barton’s policy, if Foley can work two weeks against a
Kanaka on a Geraldton plantation.
* * * *
Paddington, which has regained the Premier-
ship after three years in Sydney first grade cricket, owes
its success to Trumper and M. A. Noble. The twain scored
over 40 per cent, of the total runs made by the whole
Paddington Olub, and bagged more than 60 per cent, of
the wickets.
* * * *
Trumble (Melb.) against Hawksburn on Satur-
day, 23rd, gave his finest exhibition of batting, and the
best performance this season. The wicket was soft after
heavy rain, yet it played truely enough, and the famous
trundler scored 140 in two hours, his complete score
being 210. He hit tremendously and made 140 whilst
his partner Jacobs scored 60.
* * * *
Hugh Trumble, lately created a branch bank
manager, states that he will abandon cricket for another
season or two, anyhow. Playing for Melbourne against
Hawkesburn, the other Saturday, the long’un scored
68 runs and took 4 wickets, with the assistance of veteran
Billy Bruce, who made three smart catches off his
bowling.
Clem Hill, the batsman, scored another cham-
pionship lately, winning, with Green, also an inter-State
cricketer, the tennis “ Doubles,” at the annual S.A.
meeting.
• * * *
Dear Bulletin,—.Be the black boy’s famous
cricket-ball throw at Clermont, Q., mentioned in 8.,
12/1/’Ol : I was present on the occasion, and remember
the circumstance well. An argument started between
two well-known local men about the distance a cricket
ball could be thrown, and A bet B that he had a boy in
his camp that could throw the ball 130 yards easily, the
statement being doubted by all present. A next day
produced the boy, and the following throws were mea-
sured First, with a slight favouring wind, 140yds. ;
second, back against the wind, 130yds. The boy did not
—as has been frequently stated —belong to the’ late Donald
Wallace. He was a trooper in the black police, and to the
best of my recollection his name was not Billy, but “Tiger”
or Clermont.—R.R.
* * * •
At the Yarrawonga (Vic.) Sports, held on the
20th inst., Lou Barker won the Two Mile Handicap and
Scratch Race on his Massey-Harris.
» * • *
Don Walker is showing that he has improved
with time. At Yarrawonga, on the 20th inst., he fairly
downed all opponents in the Half-mile Handicap, and
won with ease on his “Red Bird.” He also gained a
creditable second in the Scratch Race.
Melbourne is suffering severely at present:
It badly wants to make a splash before the Yorks
and outdo Sydney, but it wants to do it “on the
very cheapest.” The latest idea in the heads of
the Decorative Committee is—as the Venetian
masts have but a skimpy appearance in the wide
streets—to paint the pavements red, white, and
blue. Jimjams loyalty!
David Gaunson, who a few years back
cried aloud in public with the wrath of an out-
raged egotist that he would never represent South
Melbourne again, now tries to cajole the electors
by whooping incessantly about his Loyalty. Half
his addresses consists of frothy gush about “our
dear boys ” who are fighting for King and country
and shoring up civilisation generally. But
Gaunson’s chief claim on the affection of the
people is contained in some gaudy blow about his
being the only man who travelled to Sydney from
Melbourne to witness the departure of the Soudan
contingent. Great Scotch ! if D. Gaunson had
come to Sydney to welcome the Soudan donkey
he would have expected to be the first Federal
Premier!
Attention is drawn to an advertisement by
the Government Statistician in this issue, notify-
ing that arrangements have been made for a
census schedule to be left at every dwelling in
New South Wales on or before Saturday, 30th
March, and asking any householder who does not
receive a schedule by that date to communicate
with the Statistician, who will have the omission
rectified.
The BuLLETiNasks the electors of Canoblas
to vote for B. R. Wise. In the present circum-
stances, and with those opponents, he is em-
phatically the man to support. B. R. Wise is by
no means The Bulletin’s ideal politician ; but he
is in many points a representative Australian, he
supports Barton’s National Australian policy, and
he puts far better brains at the electors’ ser-
vice than any of his competitors can boast.
His character for political integrity is high:
he has not used his opportunities to enrich
himself at the country’s expense. Some of his
inconsistencies, in this paper’s opinion, cannot be
justified ; in the case of others, it is the circum-
stances, and not Wise’s principles, which have
altered. It is the bitterest accusation of Sydney
Telegraph, that bitter opponent of Federation,
that Wise from the beginning espoused the idea
of Australian union, and manfully supported it—
careless whether lie found himself in the camp of
Protectionists or Freetraders. The organ of the
Sydney importers is angry because Wise always
put Australia first. That is a decisive reason why
Canoblas electors should return him to the Federal
Parliament.


&
r<S
Refreshing
Results • .
are obtained
by smoking
va
.f»r
*... -
DerbO lobacco
(9 • 0
DERBY WINS RESPECT.
J
Til©
KTew Art Jewellery.
Introduced at the Paris Exhibition.
Now the Rage in London.
Gold Brooch or Pendant,
30/-
We are Open all day
Wednesday till 6 p.m.
On Saturdays from
6 p.m. to 9.30 p.m.
ǽ
Write for . .
Illustrated Souvenir
Catalogues.
Sent Post Free.
Silver Antique Links, 5/6
Silver Classic Head Ladies’ Coat-Buttons, W' / ( 8e ® 0 ‘"/-
Silver and Gilt Antique Blouse-Buttons, 9/6 (set of 3).
/
Gold Pendant, with Mirror at
back, 37/6
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY CO.
187 PITT-ST.
Telephone 3490.
When Furnishing
Buy the CeleB:rat?~l Mappin & Webb’s
Spoons, Forks, Knives and Table Plate.
WHY?
Because they are the best made in England.
Because they make no inferior goods.
Because they produce the Latest Designs. ... _
Because their goods are recognised as being the correct thing
by all fashionable England. •
Because a wife is always proud of their goods.
Because once bought they last a lifetime. .
Because they are sold in Sydney at London catalogue prices.
Because they cost no more than inferior goods.
Plain Figure
Cash Prices.
Fairfax & Roberts,
Australian Representatives,
23 Hunter Btreet, Sydney.
jjjftjfgjpjjljjjjjjj
Manpi/n 8* Webb
LofffiolVaSHEFnELD
m
Two Starling Silver Antique Muffineers, Mustard-
Pot and Spoon in Morocco Case.
According to a London correspondent of
Sydney Daily Telegraph, the London Ameri-
cans’ mourning for the late Queen is “ louder and
more insistent ” than the Englishmen’s. _ “ Most
of the American shops are covered in black
draperies as conspicuously as possible. Ah ! they
are wily people, those Yankees ; with their Union
Jacks side by side with their Stars and Stripes
ornamented with crape bows.” All which only
indicates the characteristically American eye to
“biz,” as displayed in that memorable donation
by the Ansonia Clock Co. to the N.S.W.
“ Patriotic ” Fund.
Piles and their Cure.—The pamphlet
by Albert Sharp of Sydney, entitled, “ Piles, and
the Way to Cure Them,” without operation, sent
free, on application to the Dep6t, 259 George-
street, Sydney, or Frank Buckhurst, chemist,
Melbourne.*
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is .
“ Ellis’King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor
GEO. W. ELLIS.
Q. dredging concerns*are not looked upon with
favor by the speculative crowd, owing, to firm and fixed
conviction of “bouldery” formation in beds of creeks.
Should Stanthorpe Tin Dredging 00. make a success, the
aforesaid conviction will be lifted, as surface conditions
round and about Stanthorpe silently but emphatically
indicate boulders.
* * » •
Gympie is decidedly sick just now. All eyes
are turned anxiously on the eastern ground, with its con-
comitant deep-sinking—more particularly, perhaps, to
No. 1 South Oriental and Glanmire. This claim has many
circumstantial points in its favor and expects to cut reef
for a certainty at 1500 ft. or thereabouts; shaft is now
down 1000 ft. or so. Should a payable reef not be struck,
most of Gympie will turn its face to the wall and weep.
• * * •
“Via”: Floated at Charters Towers, the
Transpacific and Brazil Mining and Exploration Co.,
nominal capital, £30,000, in £1 shares paid up to 18s.
Shares largely over-subscribed, now quoted 50 per cent,
premium. Objects, to mine and dredge at or near
Brazil, South America, which is about as large and
general as if the prospectus proposed to bore for coal at
or near Europe. Truly the hills afar off are not the only
things that are green ; people close at hand are often
the same colour. One would think that all the
fields of Queensland were played out, as if there are not
scores of highly-payable shows on the Etheridge, Hodg-
kinson, Woolgar, Tate and Starcke lying idle for the tap
of pick and drill to yield up their golden sweetness.
There, if the money should be spent fruitlessly, it is spent
in the country, and if they strike it good the results will
be their own, yet the Towers folk rush to spend their
red gold in a “snide” S. American Republic, 6000 miles
away, with the strongest probability that if the co.
strikes it rich the impecunious President will promptly
annex the metal and give in exchange greasy paper-
money worth about 10 per cent, of its face value. And
if the co. doesn’t strike it rich where is the profit coming
from ? The only good feature of the co. is that shares are
paid to 18s., leaving only 2s. as a final twinge.
•*. • •
Hess, of London Ckitic, has so far failed
to induce Labouchere to accept his challenge, which he
repeats every week. Sometime ago he wrote to Labou-
chere’s lawyers, who only replied formally acknowledging
the letter. Some months ago Labouchere said that if it
could be proved to the satisfaction of half-a-dozen men
of good repute that he had received “one farthing from
the Transvaal Govt., directly or indirectly, he would pay
£3OOO to one of the funds for the relief of wives and
families in S’Africa.” This Hess regarded as a chal-
lenge, which he accepted with the proviso that
the arbitrators should consist of a jury of 12.
He now savs he is prepared to prove that La-
bouchere did receive £3OOO for publishing an article
against him and that Labouchere’s own receipt will be
one of his proofs, and if Labouchere can convince judge
and jury that he did not sign it he (Hess) is prepared to
go to gaol as a dastardly libeller, and will deserve every
minute which the presiding judge may award him. He
makes it clear, too, that, should he prove the genuineness
of the receipt, Labouchere must not only pay the £3OOO,
but, if he swears that he never signed it and never re-
ceived the money, he is the man to go to prison as a
wilful perjurer. ' That, says Hess, is the plain issue, and
all Labouchere’s antics will not obscure it. “He knows
well enough that he has had the money, and that from
his very earliest connection with the press he has imposed
himself upon an indulgent public as an honest man,
whilst in reality he has been and is one of the most
despicable scoundrels who has ever managed by good luck
to keep this side of the prison doors. I have already
proved this in my exposure of him by his Beer letters,
and I am ready to prove it again by his Sala letters, and
his receipt for the £3OOO, which he obtained from the
Transvaal Govt. I can say no more than this, and it will
be for the public to judge why Mr. Labouchere is so re-
luctant to give me an opportunity of proving these alle-
gations.” And yet—and yet—and yet —The Bulletin
doesn’t believe that Labouchere ever signed a receipt for
money sent him by the Transvaal Govt. ; it has never be-
lieved him to be a venal rogue, nor does it now imagine
him to be a fool.
• * • *
Victorian Gold Estates: This has been trans-
formed into the Loddon Valley Goldfields with a work-
ing capital of £50,000, and the Moolort Goldfields with
£20,000 ditto. Shareholders of parent co. are informed
that the flotations were successfully accomplished, and
£170,000 cash from one, and the same amount from the
other, as well as £530,000 in fully-paid shares, in one case,
and £700,000, also in shares, in the other, Will he avail-
able for distribution pro rata amongst them “ subject to
liquidation of the. Victoria Gold Estates Liabilities.”
Now what does this all mean ? There is a .heap of cash
here and cartloads of shares. The Estates them-
selves are becoming doubtful propositions. Many
good alluvial mining men can be found in Vic-
toria who declare that this gigantic concern will
never pay—that there is too much water and too
little gold—too many big salaries for men who do next to
nothing—that the administration expenses alone are
greater, per cubic yard of alluvial wash, than the working
expenses of the average Vic. alluvial mine. The London
and Globe holds two-thirds of the shares in the Vic. Gold
Estates, and that concern has gone into liquidation.
Expected that aproducing stage would have been reached
last year ; now doubtful whether it will be this. An
enormous amount of money has been spent in electrical,
winding, pumping, and other plant, mostly made in Mel-
bourne. So far it has been a magnificent thing for Vic-
toria and a few Victorians, but whether it will e\er be
anything but a financial mill-stone around the necks o
Bull shareholders is quite another matter.
* * * *
Yic. : The manager of a Yic. mine deservedly
got himself the sack t’other day. He addressed a letter to
a Melb. sharebroker, which letter was delivered to another
man of the same name, who, seeing that it was not intended
for him, sent it to the office of the co. with a note or ex-
planation. The directors opened it and found a little
surprising information. That the market was un\\ai
rantably inflated ; that it was good to get 58s, and to
take 555. The directors themselves were referred
to in most opprobrious terms, amongst other
things, it was said of them, that they told
a lot of damned lies. Two directors made tor
the mine, and when the manager admitted having written
the letter, he was unceremoniously fired. Manager re-
gretted the circumstance,” but from that it is not quite
clear whether he refers to the writing of the letter or to
its going astray, or both. Of course, he isn’t the only
mining manager who does this sort of thing ; but, as ne
is so careless in letter-addressing, it will pay him to give
up the practice altogether.
* * * *
“ Gippslander ” : The Dry Gully quartz reof a i
four miles from Omeo, Vic., were worked at big profit up
to 14 years ago, notably “Polar Star,” “Association
(£30,000 worth gold from these alone), “ Gambetta,
“ Surprise,” &c. Proceeds were “ played up ”as fast as
produced—the usual thing with co-operative parties, and
often with co’s, as instance Gippsland’s premier mine,
the “Long Tunnel.” When development became
needed, the shareholders were “ blown.” With the ex-
ception of a lukewarm start by a Sydney co. (on Gam-
betta line) and local co. (on the Polar Star and Associa-
tion), the field has, to two years ago, remained dormant.
A co-op. party of Omeo men then got on to a little gold
on Gan betta line, pushed a drive ahead to 800 ft., and
during last year, at 200 ft. level, have been getting better
gold than ever the surface produced. Average free gold,
2oz. per ton ; concentrates (average 30 per cent.) value on
the average £25 per ton. In Nov. last, one small lot <Bj
tons of dense sulphide) gave a bulk chlorination yield of
16oz. 17dwt. per ton. Ore-chute over 200 ft. long. The
Polar Star and Association were taken in hand recently
for local flotation; result, slump. Writer’s opinion is that
Omeoites will see outside capital (and not a great deal)
bring back the “ good old times ” in these claims.
« * * »
A co., consisting mainly of the big S. Aus.
machinery-makers, is still grinding away at the huge
heaps of slag at the old Burra copper mine—the mine
itself has been deserted for over 20 years. The co. has
spent quite £ll,OOO in plant, and runs the dressing-mill
the full 24 hours, putting through from 700 to 800 tons of
the slag weekly. A concentrate assaying from 70 to 80
per cent, metallic copper is produced ; and when the slag
is done with it is practically clean —the average contents
are under } per cent. Profits, however, are not dis-
closed.
• • * *
White Cliffs opal-miners kick against the pro-
posal, contained in a Mining Bill that has been drafted,
to compel all opal-buyers to register, and to require all
persons in possession of gem-stone to account for the cir-
cumstance. The object of the proposal is good enough
—to repress the extensive illicit trade that takes place.
The gem is “gouged-out” (the local term for the pie-
rooting that opal-getting amounts to) by tributors, the
Mines Dept, having made the initial mistake of letting
the field on mining-lease. At different times the cos. and
owners have shamelessly “got at ” the men, especially
the new-chums, giving them a ridiculously low figure for
their stone ; for it takes years of experience to make a
judge of the value of the gem—experience which the
managers had and the miners generally hadn’t. When
they found out what had happened many of the
« gougers ” —well, they took a fancy to some of the stones
they raised, and so “got even.” Such stones can’t
always be so disposed of to the bigger buyers ; and so a
well-recognised body of middlemen have come into
existence, and out of these stones, got for very little
generally, the opal-buyer makes his biggest profits. The
“gougers” with hardly any exceptions would now be
willing to part up all they get if the leaseholders (nearly
all absentees), who do positively nothing towards winning
gems, moderated their tribute demands. If they were
content with 10 per cent, of the gross value, or even 15
per cent., there would be no need for this proposed regis-
tration. But so long as they bleed the men for 25 per
cent, scores of the latter will find means to “ make a living
somehow,” as it is generally put.
♦ * * *
The Australian Agricultural Co., that British
concern which has lived on N.S.W. for 80 years past,
made a gross profit of £108,442 during 1900 —about 25 per
cent, on its paid-up capital. And what glorious dividends
this gang of foreign exploiters has made out of this suffer-
ing country ! Here are some samples :
1888 .. 23J per cent. 1895 and 1896 10 per cent.
1889 and 1890 16| „ 1897 and 1898 12 „
1891 .. 19| „ 1899 .. 13 „
1892 and 1893 12| „
1894 .. Hi „
The A. A. Co. could have made much larger profits, too,
but with a strange, old-world conservatism it shuts most
of its huge estate against close settlement, and over a
great part of its area it is little more than a great joint-
stock dreamer dozing on the surface of the land and
blocking all progress. Probably a democratic Govern-
ment will happen along in N.S.W. some day, and wake
up this sleepy incubus with a graduated land-tax and an
absentee-tax, but as yet there is no sign.
» * * »
Knox, M.L.C., chairman of the Melb. Chamber
of Mines, says he has a £3OOO a year metallurgical billet
on hand, and no Australian is fit to fill it.
• * • «
A southern crowd is going to spend money
testing various shows on the Starcke (Q.) river, where
there seem to be good gold prospects.
• * * *
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Bochu .Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
At Poverty Point.
Williamson’s people have been gathering the voices for
his Grand Opera Co. in a most systematic way for
months past, seeking and finding song-birds m all the
States. A fine collection has been made despite the re-
cent big drain on Australian voices. J. C. W. s aviary is
very fine in the physical sense too. The girl with a voice
like a lark has quite another kind of a leg.
At Melb. Princess during the Grand Opera season they
are cultivating a new respect for Art, and mount a strong
guard at the doors as soon as the overture begins.
Late-comersare drafted in carefully between spasms, so
that earlv patrons may not be annoyed at ecstatic
moments by the cackle and clatter and ruffling of plumes
as overdue parties settle down.
Seems that when Mrs. Potter stated a while ago she
had “ no intention of returning to Australia, she was
open to an engagement, but after Musgrove had fixed
her, as he thought, with a tempting offer, the fair Cora
got another chance in London, and threw the Australian
manager over.
The witching Antoinette Trebelli (now Antonia
Dolores) seems to have smitten them y ejT hard m Cjali-
fornia. One recent enthusiastic notice said The
audience were charmed with the singer and her magnifi-
cent singing, as sweet as, &c., <fcc., and as dainty as &c.,
&c Leading musical critics already claim that her voice
is 'superior to Melba’s, and while she doesn t seek
triumphs on the operatic stage, it is certain that she
achieve renown there. Dolores jrebell )
starts her new Australian tour in Sydney on 10th April
and stays till the 20th. From Sydney she goes direct to
Adelaide, opening on 24th. Melbourne will not hear her
Laughing Song until the Dookoyork has departed and
thellluminations are bygone vanities, but she will be
there meantime to beam upon the show.
Somebody suggests that the Dookoyork should devote
one day in Melbourne to testing the voices of all the
“future Melbas” and other musical prodigies.
Chas. Arnold and co. had a joyful time in Maoriland up
to the finish of the tour. “ It seemed a pity to leave such
good territory,” says manager Lohr “ We could have
put in another six months. We played a little place
called Masterton, and took £152 for the one night, and
there are lots like it. If Benalla were in M.L., we would
stop there four nights. The country is more Prosperous
now than I have ever known it during the last 18 years.
What an answer to the sneers of Al j3tralias Tory press at
the “ wild socialistic legislation of the Seddon Govt. !
And vou should just hear Mr. Reginald Black, a director
of the B.N.S.W. and A.M.P., hold forth on the prosperity
of Maoriland, where he lately travelled for some months.
However, he doesn’t put it all down to socialistic legisla-
tion “ Regular rainfall, and plenty of it,” is his explana-
“PC)” 1 To whom are theatre-goers to look for guid-
ance? 'An example: The S.M. Herald critic, on the
Crane-Power production of “The Christian, tells us that
Tyrone Power “ failed to grasp the situation in the
scene where John Storm seeks to “ slay
to save the soul.” Daily Telegraph, same date (13/3/ 01),
tells us that the actor played that particular scene wth
great force,” and it is selected as the most notable part of
his performance. Again : The Herald says that Lissant
made the hit of the evening as oan °" Wealthy,and
specially notes that the character was not the
aerated. The Telegraph critic tells us that Mr. Lissant
as the Chadbandish canon, erred on the slde
(ion,” and that the conception was overdone, 'then
again : the one paper tells us that Harry Hill s make-up
kfgood but his performance poor ; in t other paper it is
exactly vice-versa. What are we to make of such writers.
[You are not expected to make anything of them,
the world can come to an agreement as to what a
fashionable worldly parson is like, then it can decide
whether Lissant was really like him or not. If it can
decide bv anything like a decent majority as to how a
crazed preacher naturally looks and acts when he drops
in casually with the best intentions to murder a P r ®tty
girl at midnight, then it will be easy to settle whether
Tyrone Power’s version of him was reasonable or weak or
exaggerated. In the absence of any fixed standard for
crazy parsons with good intentions how can unanimity
be expected?—Ed. B.]
Tenor Kenningham, the ex-dragoon, has, alas . no Irish
sense of humor where his jingoism * 8 £°® oemed, _
Donald Macdonald’s farewell lecture, at Melbourne Town
Hall, a new and awful war ballad, written and composed
by Charles Kenningham, was sung by young Horace
Stevens, who had to struggle against the fact that the
words, as follows, were submitted to the audience in cola
print.
Chorus.
Till Eland’s River, Eland’s River, that fight was all our
own; , ,
The Boers surround us, with guns they pound us, but
never a fear was shown — '
They cried “Surrender!” We answered “Never! no
white flag have we e’er known—
You’ve got us here, and it’s here we’ll stop, we re playing
this on our own ! ”
Four hundred of our bovs were left to keep Brakfontein
Hill, . J . ... .
Six times the number of our foe expected an easy kill ,
Six guns they had, our only one had gone, and our rank
and file
Had rations short, and water—well, we’d to fetch it half
a mile.
Chorus-Still, &c.
We dug our pits, and we waited there eleven weary days,
Two thousand of their shells dropped in with their nasty,
prying ways ;
And when they thought that the end had come and we d
cringe as a matter of course
Away o’er the plain came a flash of flame, ’twas the gallant
Broadwood’s Horse.
Chorus —So, &c.
The new Melb. Opera House will be opened by Rickards
on 18th May, when the city is beginning to recover from
its Dookoyorkery. And alas ! tenders for an advt.
curtain have been cordially invited by the management.
“ Tivoli” : Now this is what I think : Rodney, the new
monologuist who comes with blessings from the S’African
press, is a good enough rooinek in his way, but his way is
somewhat small and rather mild, and he works a fat smile
that grows a bit irritating after two hours of it. Those
two hours have provided perhaps one good story and
several excellent songs, and send one away with a great
respect Lincoln. For a man must be bigin
seven directions to be a good monologuist; Rodney is
only a fair size in one. He’d make a good “ turn ” for a
variety show, but is not quite gifted enough for the whole
caboodle on his own.
At the recent band contest at Ballarat a blazing sun
made things hot for the players. Code’s Melbourne Band
had a judicious bottle-holder, who worked round inside
the bandstand, presenting a bottle of water to each player
whose part gave him a few bars’ rest, in which he could
moisten his clay. Finally, the bottle-holder came to the
conductor, who, deep in the intricacies of “Faust,”
grabbed the bottle, took a long pull at it, with his eyes
still on the score, and then, recognising an unfamiliar
taste, spouted the water right in front of him, still gazing
at the score and nothing else. The bottle-holder was
just there, and the things he said were not in “ Faust.”
The incident nearly upset the band, but not quite ; it won
all the same. •
A prominent Australian theatrical manager, hearing
that another person in the profession, having the same
name as himself, was running a small, hungry, ragged
show, and hanging that name, in large capitals, on the
outward walls of distant cities, and upon provincial gum-
trees, wrote savagely, declaring that this action was
deluding unlearned people into the belief that the woeful
nomadic co. was one of his (the big man’s) unparalleled
organisations, and was by its actions tending to destroy
the big man’s credit and reputation. The prominent
manager received a reply by return of post, in which the
small and early pro. remarked, in a business-like way, that
the great man’s complaint was duly noted, and had re-
ceived fair consideration, with the result that the small
and early pro. was happy to inform the theatrical pan-
jandrum that he was at liberty to change his name forth-
with, and conduct his enterprise under the appellation of
Bill Smith world without end, ahmen.
Which occurrence recalls the indignation of the
late William “ Terriss ” when Miss Florence Terras
first came to light at a London theatre. The old-
established actor wrote to the Era in an aggrieved
tone. Was it right for young beginners to adopt well-
known names for stage purposes, he wanted to know ,
whereupon Miss Florence sent her little letter to the
editor, expressing regret for having been born with the
surname which Mr. “ Terriss ” had merely adopted many
years previously. The biter was bound to admit himself
badly bitten by the young beginner.
In Beerbohm Tree’s production of “Twelfth Night
buxom Maud Jeffries figures as Countess Olivia, and our
old acquaintance Courtice Pounds appears as the
clown. Pounds is probably the only operatic tenor on
record engaged to play clown in a notable Shakespearian
show. But the tenor of these Gilbert-Sullivan times is
apt to be a comedian, doomed to subordinate his humor
to his warble. Leumane, if they had captured him in his
youth, would have made a capital frivoller but for his
musical environment. Kenningham shone brightest as
the giddy young monastery novice in “La Poupee, and
as for Courtice Pounds, he was wont to shake his big,
round head with indignation when he found himself
styled a tenor, pure and simple. “ I’m an actor and a
dancer, with a tenor voice,” he protested.
The Bulletin’s London correspondent writes : —“ An
article on the decadence of the drama in the Daily Mail
upset Beerbohm Tree (Oscar Wilde, referring to the
1 Beerbohm,’ said once he supposed it was merely an alias,
and his pronunciation gave the remark point), who
slanged the writer (unknown) and the paper ‘ furosiously.
Clem. Scott thereupon in his new penny paper,
the Free Lance, arose and spake thus : —‘ Have we
arrived at this point, that an actor who is the
servant and not the master of the public, or the Press, is
to be permitted to tell a great newspaper that its critic is
unworthy of it ? If Ido not necessarily agree with all
that was written on the drama of the last century by the
capable writer in the Daily Mail, I no less maintain that
he has as much right to his opinion as his brother jour-
nalists, who, swayed by a popular and unfortunate craze
of irresponsible society, think that the whole atmosphere
of the stage is couleur de rose, and that all self-adver-
tising actors and actresses are miracles of art! ’ ”
ELAND’S RIVER.
We’d fought in many a battle, and we’d fought in many a
skirmish wild
At Rensburg, Colesburg, many a fight, our pluck was
ne’er reviled.
In all these actions we were one of the boys from many a
We hadn’t a chance to show our grit when playing alone
our hand.


IOUR1 OUR
WINTER SPECIAL.
The “FEDERAL”
‘GUINEA OVERCOAT
c “ ——
C miTifr lIIGir-CLASS QUALITY MELTON
: lned l i a ' lan cloth throughout, Silkette
; r f' f S VEI ' VET COLLAR, Strong Poc-
- CI - S > tul ' ba ‘‘k with two vents, PERFECTLY
r tailored-
all FOR 21s.
COLORS—Navy, Black, Browns, Fawns & Drabs
A “ look in,” then a “ try on,” and the result
will be that you will walk out well “ suited ”
with an Overcoat for “
One Guinea.
(If you cannot come in, send us your size
enclose a Guinea, mention color, and we will
pobt you one by return.)
HORDERN BROTHERS,
federal clothiers,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
mTT „ ST. HILDA.
rPUJi Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
f-'Olonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. Citv
j-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
Publications.
THE BALLET GIRL
a
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
To be had only of
Madame Panza,—^
913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
SONG BOOK,
600 SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one book. National
Songs of every country, including WAlt, PATRIOTIC,
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
where. Complete lpd of the songs for a stamp. This
wonderful book will be sent anywhere for only 2s. 6d., posted
2s. lOd. from ANGLO AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO., Wat-
erloo Chambers, 458 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps, 2d
extra. 'Add exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for this
and other East Selling Books. Mention this paper when writing.
NOW READY.
a |"HE AUSTRALIAN HANDBOOK, 1901.
■THE AUSTRALIAN HANDBOOK, 1901,
• and Shippers’ and Importers’ Directory.
32nd year of publication. 10s. 6d., nett.
GORDON & GOTCH, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth (W.A.), Wellington (N.Z.), London, and of all
Booksellers.
Federal House of Representatives.
To the Electors of
The Melbourne Electorate.
GENTLEMEN—
I have the honor to solicit your vote and interest, and,
should you elect me as your representative, I shall give my active support to the
following measures :
(1) The Tariff Policy of the Barton Ministry.
(2) White Australia, reserving to Queensland Sugar Planters the right to
employ, as long as necessary, colored labor, on conditioir that such labor is. returned
to its native shores at stated times, and under no circumstances is allowed to settle
in the Commonwealth.
(3) Federal Defences. Adequate maintenance of the fortifications and
defence forces of the Commonwealth. Increase of citizen soldiers and rifle clubs.
Any increased expenditure necessary for these purposes to be met out of revenue
and not by means of loans.
(4) Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration on lines that are fair alike to
employers and employed.
(5) Old Age Pensions subject to conditions mentioned in my public
addresses.
(6) Uniform Factory Acts for the Commonwealth.
(7) Nationalization of the State Railways by the Commonwealth on
condition that the status of employes is not lowered.
(8) Federal Territory not to be alienated. The size to be considerably
increased beyond the 100 square miles provided in the Commonwealth Bill, and the
site to be within easy access of a seaboard.
(9) Federal Public Works,, All unproductive Public Works in connection
with the Federal Capital, the Post Office, Customs, and Defence Department to be
paid out of Revenue and not from Loans which will be a burthen on future
generations.
I am, Gentlemen,
YOUR OBEDIENT SERVANT,
HI. D. McEacharn.
Central Committee Rooms : Stock Exchange, Melbourne.
Ist March, 1901.
Federal House of Representatives.
mehmda electorate.
VOTE I
ROBERT HARPER
WHO SUPPORTS THE POLICY OF THE
BARTON MINISTRY.
Polling Day, 29th March, 1901
NEWMAN’S
For Removing
Superfluous Hair.
SPECIAL
By post—2s. 6d. a packet.
C. E. NEWMAN, Chemist,
52 King Street, Sydney.
DEPILATORY.
DON’T POISON
Y YOURSELF
With DRUGS. All Diseases of the .Nervous system
Lame Hack, Sciatica, Liver Complaint, Dyspepsia, Des-
pondency, Brain Fag, and, in fact, all chronic weaknesses
and ailments can now be Speedily Relieved and Cured
without Drugs or Medicine of any kind. Address—
ARTHUR HALE, 44 Castlereagh-st., Sydney,
Federal Elections.
READE RS are respectfully invited to
VOID for the THREE Candidates for the Senate :
Mr. A. DAWSON, M.L.A.
Mr. W, G. HIGGS, M.L.A.
Mr. 3. C. STEWART, M.L.A.
THREE GOOD MEN AND TRUE.
Missing Friends.
JNFORMATION WANTED regarding the whereabouts
of Norman M ' Kay, who left Glasgow twelve
years ago for New South Wales ; last heard of in Sydney
eight years ago (was sheep farming). Sister inquires
Tarlair, Spring-street Valley, Brisbane.
C H , AR I ES GLE ? n > Longford, Tasmania.—Any-
DOWNTNr" 0 ™ 1 - 1 ? W « e ?',!? bouts communicate EWING &
Mt. TyeH G ’ Buildings, Perth, W.A, Last heard
PILLS.
F°R GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Eroot & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
Watch Repairs by Post
Cleaned, 2s. 6d. ; best English
■s, c * pn !'»’ “ s - All work guaranteed 12 months.
NoOTereharges. Best workmanship.
fo frT s Double-cased Keyless Watches. Guaran-
teed three years. 15s. 6d.
r ,' ® Double-cased Keyless Lever Watches.
Guaranteed five years. 255.
o- ‘ I*" 8 < ’ op * Keyless Watches. Guaranteed five years.
dss. Double-cased, £2 15s.'
Spectacles to suit all sights. Send for catalogue.
D. S. MflIR,
Watchmaker, Jeweller & Optician
684 George-st. (Brickfield Hill),
SYDNEY.
THE WORD
is a guarantee of soundness of
Material and Quality of Dye of all
Worstei
Coatings,
SergesiTvecis
on which it is stamped.
fox’s fure Mige.
As the result of many years of ex-
perience, FOX’S PURE INDIGO
DYE is recognised as the best
in the Market.
All Fox’s standard cloths are
stamped eve ry two yards on the
back ....
FOX'S PURE INDIGO,
and without this stamp a e not
genuine.
fox Brothers & Co., £tD.,
Wellington, Somerset, €ng.
Makers of Worsted Coatings, Vicunas,
Serges, Tweeds, Tennis and Costume
Cloths. Contractors to the English
Admiralty, War Office, India Office, Crown
Colonies, and Metropolitan Police.
THEIR MILLS are capable of an
annual production of 2,000,000 yards of
material, and find emyloyment for 1,200
hands. Reliable records show that the
business at Wellington was founded
early in the eighteenth century, and the
present Company have in their posses-
sion a balance sheet dated 1733.
*
These celebrated Serges can be obtained
from the leading Tailors and Drapers
throughout the Australian Colonies.
—o
Australian Agents for the Wholesale
Trade only :—
STOCDALE & DUFFUS,
Finks Buildings, Corner of Eliza
beth & Flinders Sts., Melbourne,
. . AND . .
422 George St., Sydney.
CAP
aiHAUmwe
S:
Mfi»
Qapijla
Trade Mark. Sdir Tonic.
Registered in conformity
with Act of Parliament.
The Only Remedy for Weak,
Thin and Falling: Hair,
Dandruff, &c.
Testimonials from Leading
Sydney Business Men, Ac-
tors, International Cricket-
ers and Footballers with
each Bottle. Beware of
Fraudulent Imitation 's.
Price 2/6 per bottle, post 3/2
From Leading Sydney
Chemists and from the pro-
prietor, W. RICKARDS,
168 Pitt-st., Sydney.
T)EAR SIR,—I have been cured of Weakness and De-
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. WILBER
KELLOGG, Melb. Chambers, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Electors!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Herald ! standing on the Rainbow Bridge—who
corrieth from afar ?
Her high young head is crowned with stars, her
face is like a star.
Herald, with the silver trumpet, tell us now her
stately name.
And the Herald said, “ Australia—and her
sandals shine like flame.”
There comes to ev’ry man on Earth one day of
noble choice,
When he may for the cause of Good or Evil (rive
his voice.
There comes to ev’ry nation in the world a dav of
fate,
When the keepers of her destiny shall make her
mean or great.
The men of older lands had theirs-and used it well
or ill;
But as they used it, Fate with wine or gallth’r
cup did fill.
'She filled the Cup of History—careless to curse or
bless—
With golden wine of glory or with gall of bitter-
ness.
Electors of Australia, do ye wake or do ye sleen,
When the Day of Days is rising swiftly upward
from the deep?
Never day rose on a nation such as yours—a
shining star—
Since the tribes of men were gathered on the great
plain of Shinar.
Time doth not waste his chances high on those
who chances miss,
And rarely in his hands he brought a royal gift
like this ;
Then let the sun exultantly behold a people free
With strong hands laying, one and all, our Stone
of Destiny.
AVere ye asked to build a House wherein your kin
might live and die,
Would ye linger at the building, would ye let the
hours go by ?
Nay, ye would not; now before you is a work
more fair and great:
Ye are builders of a Nation; ye are makers of a
State.
For your action shall be godlike—when the old
world is at strife,
In the nostrils of a nation new to breathe the !
breath of life ;
And ye shall do the noble thing and act the noble
part.
With a flashing of the eyes and with a swelling of
the heart.
N.S.W.
D.


SOUTH
KENSINGTON
HOTEL
QUEEN’S GATE TERRACE.
LONDON. S.W.
Visitors to the old country
ã
UNDER ROYAL PATRONAGE.
CONSIDERABLY ENLARGED. NOTED
FOR ITS COMFORT & CONVENIENCE,
ONE OF THE
MOST FASHIONABLE
HOTELS IN LONDON.
MOIR’S
Pure Jams.
1
Assorted kinds in 1 lb. Flat Tins.
Manufacturers :
JOHN MOIR & SON, liIMITEB,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office 9 & 10, Gt. Tower Street, London, E.C.
THE
‘PLUM’
P/D
THE
‘PLUM’
r \ ENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow r ou ,l d, ri l| KS
like £ bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is requhed to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
thffr merits WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNINC RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
( Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21s.
Price j gin | le R a zot, in Ivory Handle, 15s ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, m beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
sote Agents: CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
I’ll Try It.’
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
(Japillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Result.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to any part of Australasia.
ORNnM€NTRL HAIR-
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair,
jsgf" Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
CRAIG & AITKEN^
New South
Wales Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 CEORQE STREET, SYDNEY
The j(oyal Agricultural Society of 0.5.111.
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY.
FIRST aRA.KTD
Commonwealth Show
-
3rd to 10th APRIL, 1901.
£3500 inj>rizesi £3500
~r — li ~ iri
EXCURSION RATES on RAILWAYS
from all Parts.
1\ WEBSTER,
Secretary.
Tatters all’s Chambers,
Hunter Street, Sydney,
Policy for tli®
COMMONWEALTH^
Being a series of articles reprinted from The Bulletin
with an appendix dealing with the Biscal Question.
Price 0(1.; posted, Bd.
THE
FREEMAN & WALLACE
This is the only Medical
Institute in Australia with
a bona fide capital that
stands behind guarantees
as evidence of faithful per-
formance of all contracts.
Elgctro-McdicaS
S(irgical IpStitGtg—-
IN AN AGE which is so remarkable for its progress in all departments of Art, Manufacture an i
lIN Al Science it is surprising to find the practice of Medicine so deplorably mthe rear, Whde thousand ;
of practitioners in the healing art prefer to remain in the conventional groove ° f th ®!f ethics which
and Wallace Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute consulting staff rise superior to the falsecodes
tyrannically bind the medical profession, and announce to the public that upon i Sv
tinue to be consulted by the afflicted at their old address, Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurs S , V
Ml
if**
I§7
7 -■■'.'
£*£££
m.
' v HJ
zj
<
m?
■ • . i 7; 5
* . till '' jl
ftiil
/;*
Kc.j
Hi
i
&
■rjw
*
p « ,
UN
aasi
1/
as
•/"
m ;l>3f
EXPERTS FREEMAN AND WALLACE.
The Specialists who conduct the largest practise in Australasia.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
No one
person
should hesitate to consult us, as consultations either by letter or in
are given FREE OF CHARGE, and Strictest Privacy is always assured.
OUR COMMONWEALTH POCKET DIARY.
oopy °'
SS«sSfeig^S3^SßsS^'
:^s—
Heart Kidney, Liver Affections. Cravel, Bladder and Spinal Affections.
Nerve' and Brain Complications. Rheumatism, Sciatica, Epilepsy, Gout.
Rupture and Piles Cured without Operation. Blood and Skin Diseases.
THEfi
HEALTH
Ct
i
xm
fHI
STRENGTH ELECTRO-
MEDICAL
gjli .'SM X «£ A ®*JV,'«
V.
1
■|i
i j
filler
.. i'f' ' ‘M&V/W 4
AND
- - v'-- i::
.. , M sriTiay!Pwj»au«» , «.
■ . ■ I ■> ' . • ■ -■ • -...-■. '-.
at*
T
t
1
L-^^yjV
TT7 * _ U:
-
WHY WE ADVERTISE
Because Advertising is the legitimate means vouchsafed to enlighten people
to acquaint each other with their avocations and wants If a man has a
, n i 4._j rvf Hia qnfl pvnpnded lanre s urns of money in studying that Speciality and in
Speciality, and has devoted years of his li f treatmff certairfdiieases, it would be absurd for him not to announce
purchasing the necessary applia£?*•_, ersal lv We have no apology to offer for informing the world through
the fact, and dissemmatetne knowledge who need our help . Therefore,
this advertisement and otherwise of the m (){ r rned i ca i advisers, our method of treatment may
however opposed to your own preconceive verified by the thousands of testimonials received from
be, the fact still remains that it is bucomM.and only daim to have utilised in a common-sense
grateful patients We “f r e p "° lf you luiten to the counsel of your sceptical friends and
way the result of scientific but remember if you allow the disease to run riot in your system, you
{SK- >“•> on .. „ .
-ni-nlomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration by Government
Nme D,s M“afc “BoSSSNew South Wales Victoria, -out* Australia,
Great Britain and America Open to Inspection.
Late Consulting Staff, Homoeopathic Hospital, Melbourne;
Late <-ons S Medical Staff, British Army.
\LM3IAIiVaHX jiIMOH
-If vou live out of town and cannot visit us, this need not deprive you
of the benefits of our wonderful treatment, because m the new system
„ rfM „ea„c, e„c S t„
s sp B v‘ouacks
DO NOT BE DRUGGED TO DEATH BY QUACKS
, r ,ba nr.rl irrmiiderit Dretenders in the field of Medicine, who arrogate to them-
When there are so many quacks ma tters of which they are profoundly ignorant, and who
selves the monstrosity of counsel and ci sufferers cannot be too careful whom they consult,
have nothing to recommend them.but then su In consultin „. THE FREEMAN AND
Although liberty of choice belongs SURGICAL INSTITUTE patients may feel assured that they shall
WALLACE ELECTRO-MEDICAL AND oUK L educa tion, the result of special study. Our reputation and
receive the advice of as Speciahsts entitle us to your confidence.
Medicines forwarded to all parts of the World-
CONTENTS FREE FROM OBSERVATION,
BatljGrst Sts, Sydijty
For privacy Patients may address “ Messrs, F. & V/.,” 225 and 227 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
N.B.— QUEENSLANDERS are -1,, a~


Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue #
Amusements.
I"HE TWENTIETH CENTURY SENSATION.
A NEW ERA IN TENTED AMUSEMENT.
WIRTH BROTHERS’
Royal Circus and Menagerie of Per-
forming Wild Animals .
ONE
OF
OUF^
MANY
IT4*
THE BOXING PONIES.
After a most Triumphant Tour of the World, returning
to Australia with a complete Stud of Beautiful and Mar-
vellously-trained HORSES and PONIES, EQUESTRIANS
AEIaAUSTS JUGGLERS and EDUCATED
ANIMALS.
Opening Sydney, SATURDAY, March 30.
Location—OPPOSlTE REDFERN RAILWAY
. STATION.
A COLOSSAL CIRCUS ORGANISATION.
Introducing a Complete Federation of the World’s Star
rcrrormers and a Menagerie of Performing Wild Animals,
including Boxing Ponies, Bucking Elephant, Riding
Bears, Tigers, Lions, Camel, Baboons, Panthers, Monkeys,
animals’ an^aroo ’ an< * many other quaint and curious
POSITIVELY A SHORT SEASON ONLY.
A. MIDDLETON, Manager.
“ Tlte Best Australian Boole of Short Stories.”
Castro’s Last Sacrament
By ALBERT DORRINGTON. 4s 6d.
Amusements.
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Les Bee and Manager .. William Anderson.
BRILLIANT SUCCESS. BRILLIANT SUCCESS.
EVERY EVENING,
TWO LITTLE DRUMMER BOYS.
PRICES —3s, 2s and ONE SHILLING. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
Empire theatre, Sydney.
(Late Royal Standard, Castlereagh-street.)
COME TO STAY.
JOHN FULLER’S EMPIRE COMPANY.
Every Evening, at 8. Saturdays, 2.30.
LENNON, HYMAN and LENNON, Australian Trio.
WHIMSICAL, WITTY WILLY WATKINS,
MEXICAN JACK, Champion Rifle Shot.
EMPIRE QUARTETTE, &c., &c.
PRICES—2s., Is. and 6d. Plan at Theatre.
BEN. FULLER. Business Manager.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening, at 7.45. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
LAST THREE NIGHTS of the DRAMATIC SEASON.
TO-NIGHT (Thursday), March 28, A ROYAL DIVORCE.
FRIDAY, March 29, and SATURDAY, March 30,
THE ONLY WAY.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, George-street. Prices as usual.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee .. .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Under the Direction of Mr. George Musgrovb.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45. EVERY EVENING at 7.45
WEDNESDAY MATINEES at 2.
The Gorgeous Operatic Fairy PANTOMIME,
CINDERELLA.
THE MOST BEAUTIFUL SPECTACLE EVER SEEN
ON ANY STAGE.
Interpreted by MISS NELLIE STEWART, MUSGROVE’S
ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO., OPERA ORCHESTRA
and CHORUS.
PRICES OF ADMISSION—Dress Circle and Reserved
Stalls, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. ; Early Door Amphitheatre (7 to
7.40), 2s. ; Amphitheatre, ONE SHILLING after 7.40.
Box Plan at the Theatre Royal (Dress Circle En-
trance), 10 to 5.
THE ALASKA DIAMOND PALACE
Grand Exposition.
84 KING STREET
Next Door to Newman's,
the Chemist.
This Exposition consists of Art Jewellery of Solid Gold, Sterling Silver, and Rolled
uoia: articles of every description in exquisite settings with the famous Alaska Diamonds,
and ave the Latest Novelties from the
PARIS EXHIBITION, LONDON, and UNITED STATES OP AMERICA.
Special. Our Keyless Nickel Watch, guaranteed
to keep excellent time, only ss. each.
Marvellous value is offered to the Public in the following
Rolled Gold articles : —Brooches, Muff-Chains, Earrings, Ear-
screws, Bangles, Scarf Pins, Ladies’ Fob Chains, Buckles,
Gents’ Alberts, Ladies’ and Gents’ Rings, Keepers, Wedding
Rings, Charms, Baby Pins, Hair Ornaments, Fancy Combs,
Hat Pins, Ladies’ and Gents’ Cuff Buttons, Links, Tie Clips,
Eye-Glass Chains, Sets of Studs, Pearl and Gilt Necklaces,
Sovereign Purses, Children’s Sets, Serviette Rings, Fine
Electro-Plated Cups, Cigar-
ette Holders ; an enormous
assortment of all kinds of
Trinkets and thousands of
other articles too numerous
to mention of the latest
Novelties and in exquisite
taste, which will be sold at
the
Uniform Price of ONE
SHILLING each.
The value of these articles
is from 3s. to ss. each. We
sell them for One Shilling'
in order to introduce them
in this country and make
them known to the public.
GREAT BARGAINS are
are offered to the Public
In our 2,3, 4,5, 6, 8 and
10 Shilling Departments.
[
[
Cm J
Special.— Our Beautiful Keyless
Ladies’ Nickel Watch, guaranteed
good timekeeper, only 7/6 each.
alllliliSiS-SSaS-SSSaSS
Solid Gold Wedding-Ring's, 9 and 18 ct., from 7s each. Silver Baby Rattles 1s 6d and 2s Rri e„oh r
Nickel Match Boxes and Sovereign Purses, 6d each : Patent Watchkevs dri anri rh a9 .k „ .
Special attention is called to our enormous assortment of all kinds of direct
Imported Watches.
Gents’.— The well-known “ Australia ” Nickel Railway Watch, 6s. 6d. each The famous sr -
each. Australia Railway Gunmetal, 7s. 6d St. Bernard Gunmetal, Bs. 6d each' B The reiiihTe
non-magnetiQ Gunmetal Lever, 15s. each. Special bargain Solid Silver Witch « reliable
bargaitTn Goldß^eaters? 11 kU ‘ dS ° f “ °" at S ° Ud G ° ,d Watches from ** 15s. each. Special
f^°T°^ a ri S - Nl “ kel ,- from 18s ' each ’ also Gunmeta] > silve r and Gold-filled cases, excellent movements
Ladies Watches.— Keyless Gunmetal, excellent timekeepers, 9s. 6d. each Kevless Gunmetal with v 1
enamelled photographs of Lord Roberts, Lord Kitchener, and General Baden Poweli11« fiH P
metal, with enamelled Federation Flag, 11s 6d ODen Face Solid Silvpr Jli’ r, 6 , d Gun '
_ Solid Silver, 14s. 6d. Rolled Gold & Goid^ied.Try^ K^aS? , fcSlSS'«2 ,,,t,,,,,r °“ e ’
Special Value.— l 4 carat Solid Gold Watch, splendid movement, 27s 6d each
Lever WaTehTs^™ 6 ”' °' Enamelled Watches > and a of 14 and IS carat Gold
Alarm Clocks. -Fancy and Musical Clocks at the Lowest Prices in the City.
ALL OUR WATCHES ARE GUARANTEED TO KEEP CORRECT TIME.
Do "' ,
1 “'LSs’Zgi JSUf.tM.lilirgKiSJ'SiS! •>’
THE ALASKA DIAMOND PALACE
84 KIN& STR6€T
Next to
Mr. Newman, the Chemist,
George and Pitt Street.
between
Grand Exposition will open Tuesday, April 4th.
RATIONAL
REFORM
FRENCH.
IN TEACHING
Teachers must bear in mind that it is a cross mistake
as well as a mere waste of time and labor, to land pupils
a ? d llte ja ry stages of the study before
the first stage (Phonetic and Mechanical) has thoroughly
been mastered. (Dr. Henry Sweet, Oxford.) g *
Therefore use PERIER’S FRENCH METHOD fls 6d 1
Ztn ™ ETIC COMPANION (is. 3d.) AH book*
Co Pies are sent, post free, by sending postage
stamps to A. C. GAERTNER, Sole Agents 8
. 32 Norwich Chambers, Hunter-street, Sydney.
COAL POSTER COMPETITION' '
F du£s&.ras. <»uSr«s, i,sz.
3rd Prize.—“ CORNWALL,” Melbourne.
Competitors may obtain their Designs at
Marc* 1901 Undersl = ned on and after Saturday', 30th
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons Proprietary Ltd.
Government Notices.
NEW SOUTH
WALES—CENSUS 1901.
ARRANGEMENTS have been made so that a House-
SATURDAY, 30th MARCH, 1901.
fv A n J Householder who does not receive a Schedule bv
that date is requested to inform the undersigned and the
omission will at once be rectified. Communications re-
garding Census matters, addressed to the Government
Statistician, and marked with the ,vord, “Statistics"
will be transmitted through the post free of charge. ’
Census Office, A ‘ COGHLAN > Statistician.
Sydney 26th March, 1901.
Amusements.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY^
Lessee and Manager .. .. Alfrbd Dampish.
alfred~dampier,
‘ ( ‘THE rd BLACK°FUc.» nd TUeSday Gra “ d
SATURDAY NEXT, APRIL 6, FAREWELL PER.
FORMANCES of
ROBBERY UNDER ARMS.
ALACE THEATRE, BYDNEY.
SATURDAY NEXT, lotfT SATURDAY NEXT
CHARLES ARNOLD’S ’
• t> ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY
m BroadhursFs Enormously Successful Farce Comedy
the Great Anglo - American Success
THE GLEEFUL PLENITUDE ’
WHY SMITHJ.EFT NOM€.
Box Plan at Paling's. Manager, L. J. LOHR.
Mr. C. M. RODNEY,
THE SOCIETY ENTERTAINER NOW
TOURING VICTORIA,
WILL OPEN IN SYDNEY,
S-A.TTJIRID.A.ir, APRIL 13.
ICKARDS" TIVOLI
Sole Proprietor
THEATRE, BYDNEY.
.. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Splendid Reception of those Famous Artists,
n *• T i*n .f-F ONARDS and SISTERS PINE.
Continued Brilliant Success of MADAM CELINA BOBE
Mr. GEO. D’ALBERT, ’
FRANK LEON, LIZZIE KIRK
Jalyan Billy M’Clain, Chas. W. Walker, Millie Her-
sfstera &c dame Oordelia> Bab - V Rarkes, Clarence
Box Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Saturday & Wednesday.
DIJOU THEATRE, '
So]e Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Riokards.
RE-ORGANISATION OF VAUDEVILLE.
TED BOX. THE DE WYNNE BROS.
JOHNSON RIANO and BENTLEY.
ALBERT WHELAN. ALMA CRAY. W. WHITBURN.
POPE & SAYLES, JENNIE OPIE, &c., &c.
Box Plan at Allan & Co, Matinee Every Wednesday.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manae-pp r
Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING,
THE THRILLING MELODRAMATIC ATTRACTION,
IN SIGHT OF ST. PAUL’S.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d„ 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Box
"1 an at Allan s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
|3RINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
FAREWELL SEASON, FAREWELL SEASON,
of
Mr. George Musgrove’s GRAND ENGLISH OPERA CO.
Thursday, March 28, MICNON.
Friday, March 29, TAN N HAUSER.
Saturday, March 30, MICNON.
PRICES OF ADMISSION—Dress Circle, 7s. 6d.: Re-
served Stalls, 6s. The Box Plan at Allan’s.
|-|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Under ihe Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson
Bus. Manager. Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas.. Mr. R. Stewart.
LAST 3 NIGHTS LAST 3 NIGHTS
' of
FLORODOR A.
SATURDAY, APRIL 6, FAREWELL SEASON of
NANCE O'NEIL.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, ss; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
ATHENAEUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
" Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Mr. H. Ashton. Treas., Mr. G. Matheson.
Every Afternoon, at 3. Every Evening, at 8.
LAST NIGHTS OF THE
MARVELOUS 810-TABLEAU
of the SOUTH AFRICAN WAR, varied by Changes of
Programme as New Films arrive from London.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Pox Plan at Allan’s.
SN AZELLE, with ' £S?.J
“OUR NAVY”
iVustralian. Tour.
Theatre Royal, Adelaide, Three Weeks from March 15.
CHARLES MACMAHON, Manager for Mr. SNAZELLE.
CAPTAIN EDWARDS, R.N., Manager for WEST & SON.
fIiSS Ada Lawreoce,
The Greatest Tragedienne, Comedienne and Emotional
Actress Australia has yet produced.
Supported by
MR. WILSON FORBES' DRAMATIC CO.
“Leah,” “Camille,” “Romeo and Juliet,”
“ East Lynne.”
South Australian Tour, March. Broken Hill
Monday, April Bth. ’
The lordly Hopetoun now presides
dog J 6 re l.“ Oh! he“dl I " SliS ’ S “““
Sydney artist Tom Roberts—announced
m-Ztf 6 118 Londonwards-bound—does not
expect to get away for a little time yet, owing to
ing still some local commissions to complete.
9 0 ”“?^ am "0’H a ran divorce-case was
8 ’I’ 11 “i 11 blast when The Bulletin went to
■ ore pearly than ever does this paper
nd the impartial public see that justice will not
be done until one side or the other is in gaol for
orgery or for„perjury and conspiracy.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyers Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
P ;I h 1 ’ t | le rea l English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.* 6
The ambition to be “a second Jimmy
Governor came on an aboriginal at Riverstone,
in a thickly-populated district right at the back-
oor of Sydney, and he started his career of crime
last week by kidnapping in broad daylight, and
m the presence of her companions, a scnool-girl
tune of writing an active pursuit was
still in progress Jimmy G. had a short and
active period of crime, hustling over damp hill-
sides, and finally had his neck broken in His
Majesty s commodious stone building after some
weeks miserable existence on His Majesty’s
SKiijy. And even that most uncomfortable
career excites envy in some people, and they want
to go and do likewise !
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
-Cjlizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, bapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
40 years, whioh is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
Some time ago Sydney D. T. spoke of E.
M. Clarke as a man “whose opinion on legisla-
tive matters was always to be valued ; ” in same
issue it set down Dugald Thomson as a “wob-
bhngly inconsistent ” person. This was because
1 homson supported and Clark opposed the Com-
monwealth Bill. Now, the D. T. sneers at Clark
as a man of detail—a politician of only State
caJibre and supports Dugald Thomson against
film for North Sydney—this after earnestly re-
commending Clark as a Federal candidate for
isouth Sydney ! The bluff of the Press is based on
welJ-fouuded contempt for the public memory.
The I ublic, it is an • ass—it has softening of the
brain.
Patents for Inventions— Arthur Griffith,
International Patent Agent and Consulting
Engineer, University Chambers, Phillip-street,
Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyrights,
obtained throughout the world.
Mr. Royle, the N.S.W. Senate candidate,
who by circular appeals to the Public School
teachers “ as one educated man to another,” and
forwards them packets of electioneering cards to
give to their scholars to take home, does not quite
understand the position in which teachers are
placed. He should also send along a few bottles
of whisky, with which they might pacify irate
parents who interview them about making their
schools the medium for circulating political doc-
trines.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
.Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Geraldton Express on the Groperland
J. P. i— —
Fortunately for the country, not 50 per cent, of those
who boast the coveted affix after their names ever
attempt to act judicially alone ; otherwise there would
be some queer law dealt out in our courts. But even as
it is, the world never hears even half of what could be
related concerning the antics of the backblocks J P We
saw some time ago a copy of the evidence on which a man
was convicted before one of Sir John Forrest’s magis-
terial creations. At least one-third of the testimony
admitted was absolute hearsay. Policeman A. could not
attend the court, but he told Policeman B. what he had
seen, and Policeman B., who had not been an eve-witness
himself, told the “ Bench,” and the “ Bench” took down
every word most religiously. Mr. R. S. Haynes was pro-
bably right when he said in the Leg. Council, a few
months ago, that with a writ of Habeas Corpus he could
get half the men in Fremantle Gaol their freedom.
Somebody—probably a certain faithful
penwoman from Melbourne—describing the gor-
geousness of Melba’s domestic surroundings in the
obsequious “ M. A. P. ”:—
Melba is expected back from America in a few weeks to
her house in Great Cumberland-place, one of the most
wonderful homes in all London. The grand Salon, which
aroused the enthusiasm of the Heir Apparent, was’copied
by a number of famous artists from a room in the Palace
of Versailles. The diva’s own apartments are very
lovely, and the quaint diamond-mirrored and adjust-
able partition that divides her dressing-room and bath-
room was designed by herself. The bed, which is placed
on a stand and fitted with a canopy, draped with i
priceless lace, is the one on which the Dauphin
of France spent his last night of Royal state. The toilet-
set in this room—“ hats off” —is of the rarest unspotted
amber tortoiseshell, and each piece bears a large “M”
in diamonds. That in her dressing-room is of hammered
gold, with a lily of the valley design in diamonds and
pearls. Ewers of rarest S6vres stand in basins of solid
silver gilt to correspond with the general decoration
scheme, etcetera, etcetera.
“A toilet-set of the rarest unspotted amber tor-
toiseshell. . . . The Dauphin’s bed. ... A
toilet-set in the dressing-room of hammered gold
with a lily of the valley design in diamonds and
pearls.” What a tail our cat has got!
The hint that the Imperial authorities have
an idea of dumping a few ship-loads of exasperated
Boers into Australia willy-nilly calls for a con-
vincing reply from the people of the Common-
wealth to the effect that they are not taking any.
We have made the Boers hate us by sending thou-
sands of soldiers to help in crushing them out of
national existence, and it would be lunacy on our
part, having made an enemy, to submit to his
being sent to doss on our door-mat.
Melb. Age, re the explanation of the
alleged murder of prisoners by De Wet’s people,
says the fact that they were communicating with
the enemy was “made a pretext for shooting
them.” It is a pretext that has served a score of
commanders in as many wars, and is, on the
whole, quite as good a pretext as that of the
British officer who shot the Kaffir who did not
hurry up with a bridle that was wanted. The
fact is that a War of Extermination has now
begun in S’Africa and we must expect to be
stuffed with lies by both sides, Briton and Boer.
You can’t hope for the truth when you listen to
the savage veils of men clutching at each other’s
throats while lying prone in gutters of blood.


A Paddington Tribute.
Another Convincing Narrative.
The Case of MR. THOMAS BRABY.
(by our reporter.)
A short distance from Oxford -street there
is a comfortable little bootmaking business
carried on by Mr. Thomas Brady, at Tvo.
47 Glenmore-road, Paddington, where our
representative found that gentleman en-
gaged in his usual vocation.
“ I have called to ask about your long ill-
ness, Mr. Brady.” _
“It was a long illness, you’re right. lor
about seven years I did not know what it
was to be entirely well. I was always
either bilious or else suffering from indiges-
tion, and in that time I had consulted four
doctors, and between them they gave me no
end of instructions regarding food, and h°w
I should take more out-door exercise ; all of
which advice I willingly carried out, for I
had been ailing too long. Their prescrip-
tions—consisting of multifarious pills
and medicines —proved altogether useless,
and nothing they gave me prevented
my digestion from going wrong. The
small quantities of food I did eat caused
great irritability of the stomach, and sick-
ness and vomiting were quite common.
After each meal, however light, I felt nasty
colicky pains, and the least pressure on the
stomach produced tenderness in a very
marked degree. I was often troubled with
heart-burn, and also pains in the right
side, near the edge of the ribs, and under
the shoulder blade. My bowels became in-
active, very likely through my sedentary
occupation. I used to be a particularly
healthy man, but so much confinement and
sitting down commenced to show their evil
consequences. Oppressive, throbbing pains
became apparent, and they were always in-
creased by moving about, or by strange
noises. If I took a walk along the street I
got awfully giddy, and my eyes were not
strong enough to stand the light of day.
my headaches were so violent,
and my eyes so bad, that I had to knock off
work, and then lie down in a fit of despair.
I was in such a state of excessive exhaustion
that I was always ready to lie down and go
to sleep, although I slept badly. Many a
night have I turned and tassed without
closing my eyes, and in the mornings I
arose feeling bad-tempered and fretful, and
with a disinclination for any exertion, or
even my ordinary work. A sour taste in
the mouth made everything the same, and
a bitter fluid used to arise from the stomach,
especially on getting up from bed. I was
also aware of the presence of a yellowish
fur upon the tongue. Month after month
passed away, and I was losing flesh and
strength all the time. I had got so weak at
last that I would sometimes faint whilst
sitting down, without any exertion or
excitement. My nervous system had got
into such a morbid condition that I even
felt inclined to shrink from the light.
All the colour had gone from my face, and
my skin generally lost its natural appear-
ance. The doctors could not make my case
out at all, as there was no doubt that my
condition was very serious. I could not
bear the thought of living on much longer
in that way, because all my faculties were
much affected by my sufferings. ”
«* You were very despondent, perhaps?’
“ Well, I think I had every reason to be,
aftei taking pills and medicines galore,
without reaping any benefit from them. I
was prevailed upon by my sister to throw
the doctor’s treatment aside, and go in for
a course of Clements Tonic. ‘ I know so
many who have been cured by it that I an)
sure it will do you good,’ she said. Well, J
thought she might be right, and such after*
wards proved to be case. You can hardly
imagine how quickly it picked me up, for
in a week or so I could eat anything with*
out fear of vomiting it up again. My
tongue became healthy and clean, and the
sourness soon departed from my mouth.
My food no longer provoked those agonis-
ing paroxysms of pain in my stomach, as
Clements Tonic seemed to set my internal
organs properly to work. How differently I
looked at life when I could rise in the morn-
ing feeling refreshed after a peaceful sleep.
The medicine I was now taking drove away
all the sluggishness from my liver, and it
had the effect of making my bowels more
regular in their action. With my strength
coming back, I could go about my work
with a feeling of cheerfulness, instead of
the distastefulness which had for seven
years attended my exertions. The pains in
the head, which used to prostrate me with
their violence, were cured, and my eyesight
was as good as before my sickness came on.
The plainest of food was a luxury, and my
ravenous appetite soon made me get stout
again. When I had taken the fourth
bottle of Clements Tonic you would not
have thought I was the same man. All my
nervousness had been thrown off, and the
pallid face I had worn so many years now
looked a healthy, bright colour. I could
take a walk without fearing those attacks
of dizziness which had previously ac-
companied me when out for exercise, and
the fainting fits never came on again. 1
have to thank my sister for her advice, and
Clements Tonic for its matchless capabilities
as a health restorer. Without it lam sure
I should have dragged along the road of
life without enough strength or spirit to
make my existence endurable ; but now I
jog along quite happy and contented, feel-
ing myself relieved from my burden of
suffering. If ever I feel a little out of sorts
through too long continued labour, or
through the close confinement and lack of
exercise which my business involves, I
always have Clements Tonic at hand, and it
has never failed to do me good. You can,
therefore, quite understand how much con-
fidence I have in it, and that is the reason I
do not begrudge the time taken up in this
interview.”
“ And may we draw the attention of the
public to your illness and cure?”
“ I shall be glad if you will do so, be-
cause somebody may read it with advantage,
and you can publish what I say in any way
you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Thomas Brady, of 47 Glenmore-road, Padding-
ton, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully
read the annexed document, consisting of three folios,
and consecutively numbered from one to three, and
that it contains and is a (rue and faithful account of
my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also con-
tains my full permission to publish in any way my
statements—which I give voluntarily, without receiv-
ing any pavment; and I make this solemn declaration
conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by
virtue of the provisions of an Act made and passed in
the ninth year of the reign of her present Majesty,
intituled ‘-An Act for the more effectual abolition
of Oaths and Affirmations taken and made in the
various Departments of the Government of New South
Wales, and to substitute Declarations in lieu thereof,
and for the suppression of voluntary and Extra-
judicial Oaths and Affidavits."
Declared at Paddington, this 9th day of October,
one thousand nine hundred, before me,
OHAS CAMPBELL, J.P.
HIGHEST AWARD-GOLD MEDAL —PARIS EXHIBITION, 1900.
For INFANTS
and INVALIDS.
FOOD
MELON’S FOOD yields a complete diet for the youngest
infants, in all climates.
MELON’S FOOD retains its properties for any length of
time and is adapted for use in all climates.
MELLIN’S FOOD when dissolved in milk, makes a simple
nutritions diet for growing children.
Samples etc., may be obtained of GOWN & Co., 172, Clarence Street, Sydney, 562 4, Bourke
Street, Melbourne, Grenfell Street, Adelaide, and Wellington.
Mellin’s Food Company tor Australia and New Zealand Ltd., 56, Cannon Street, London.
MELLIN'S EMULSION
For COUGHS, COLDS,
and BRONCHITIS.
Samples and Pamphlets to be obtained from COLLIN & GO., 172 Clarence Street, Sydney.
IfOW
Ready.
A POLICY FOB. THE COMMONWEALTH.
PRICE 6D, POSTED BD.
Business Announcements.
. . . n - _j, . ...g.jpwwn,, ~,.v . JifMßßß* **■
good Tailoriog.
SUMMER.
Light Weight Tweeds
AND
Worsteds.
PURE INDIGO SERGES,
LIGHT AND TROPICAL WEIGHTS
TO STAND THE SUN,
FANCY TROUSERINGS, VESTINGS, &C.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post Fret.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors arid Outfitters,
73 AND 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR.
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
FALSE
ECONOMY.
Every housekeeper worthy of the
name knows what “ false economy is.
There is no need for us to go into
details.
But why ladies, whose management
of their domestic affairs is so skilful as
to call forth the admiration of their
friends, can be so careless -there is no
other word for it—in the purchase of
foot-wear is beyond explanation.
Your shoemaker may offer you an
article which he declares to be of the
highest grade, and which may only be
of poor leather, finished in good style ;
in short, an expensive shoe which will
be worn out in “no time.” False
Economy !
The “ HERZ ” Shoe
Has a reputat on for Quality and
Durability which the makers are
jealous to maintain.
Call and see
them at
HUNTER’S.
Medloal.
Hypnotism
M
Header, why not he able to use tha
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to H pnotize In a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all of the many marvelous feats
that are possible to the Hypnonist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain, win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explain*
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
over publ shed. For a short
time I will send this magni-
ficent work Absolutely
FREE to all who apply.
Remember this costs you noth-
in •. A postal card will bring it.
Order to-day and learn to Hyp-!
notize. It is a chance of a
lifvtime. Address—
à
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
79 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NOTICE
To sufferersfrom Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstke & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies. (
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys *
all Parasites of Head or Body. <
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all <
Chemists in the Australian Colonies. <
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’S €n)brocatioo
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints ii MAN and '
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s Cipbrocatioi).
Business Announcements
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Be>t,
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia.
-LINCOLN, STUART&OO.
1 PnnpnlP.TiST LIMITED.
262 & 264 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
sr
Our Suit to order at 4?*• is
marvellous value; mad.; from
all wool 'l weeds. Vicunas,or fast
Color Series ; it is perfect fitting;
and beautifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order from
jtny class «.f material. 3*. TO
measure, capital Trousers, *ery
good patterns, 12s. 6d.
Dress Suits, to measure. >4
Clerical Suits, to measure. £s*
B ding Breaches, 255.
Biding Habits. <kc.
We supply ready made. Men ft
capital Tweed Suits 21*» & 255.
) Fam us Ballarat Serif© Suits,
Indigo dye, 2.18.
All-wool, fawn, grey, or brown
Sergei ette Miits, 3Gs.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5», lid.
All-wool blue and black Vicuna
Sacs and Vests 19s Od.
Mens Grass Cloth Summer
Suits, 19s. «d. Wnite Krill
Sacs and Trousers. l«s. I»d.
Khaki Suits, shrunk, lie <id.
Black and Grev Alapaca 8; cs.
fis. 9d. Wiiite and Brown Prill
Trousers. 3s. »d.,4s 9d..5s fed.
Travelling Trunks, Ba,a and
Bugs in great variety.
Men’s White Shirts, colored
front and cuffs. 2s. 9d.
Fancy Blouse Shirts, new
designs, ss. Gd.
White Matte Shirts, collar and
pocket. 3». Gd. ..
So t Alpine Hats, 4s. 6d.. all
colors
Hard Hats,4".G d - Caps.
Merino Undershirts or Pants,
ls.9d, . .
Neckties, all shapes and colors.
Gents' splendid Balmoral Boots,
White Shirt* to measure.
®'weliiie to*write letter*; »°, <on ’ t . )? e
Information. Our hook, "The Ph‘lo»ophyof
patterns of all kinds and self-messmement foim
F Write for thorn.
ask for any
I'ress ” and
i posted free
AN EFiriClj£i*T
FILM CAMERA
THE BROWNIE.
Not a toy. Takes splendid photographs,
2£ by 2J inches. Complete with hand-
book of instructions.
KODAKS from ss. to £7 15S.
OF ALL PHOTOGRAPHIC DEALERS, or from
KODAK, Limited,
The Block, 28U Collins Street, Melbourne.
Send for illustrated price list and mention this
paper
THOMSON’S
NEW Model, “GLOVE-FITTING”
“CORSETS
ENGLISH MADE throughout.
These World-Renowned Corsets have been entirely Re-
modelled, and are now the Perfection of Shape, and meet
the prevailing fashion of long waist.
T"
Thom
ons
THE MOST COMFORTABLE & DURABLE CORSET
MADE; AND THEREFORE THE CHEAPEST
N.B. —Old Model Corsets always in stock.
“LA. NOBLESSE ”
A New and Elegant Series of Corsets. Ask to see them.
TO BE HAD OF Alala DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Mfrs-W- S- Thomson & Co-, I/ 1 -, London-
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAYAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
bling th' constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
i cases of anaemia and
' general debility.
I Highly recommended
. for weak and
, J debilitated children.
LANCET “A beautiful and interesting
preparation.”
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL. -“lthas all
the good effectt of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
does not blacken the teeth ”
SOt.D BY CHF.MISTS AI.J, THF WOBI.D OVF.B.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-


á
âa
HAI
Under Royal
Patroriage.
KOKO for the Hair is a tonic, cleansing, invigorat-
ing and delightfully cooling preparation, causes the
hair to grow luxuriantly, keeps it soft and pliant,
eradicates dandriff, prevents hair from falling and
turning grey, promotes growth, contains no dye or
greasy substance, is the most cleanly of all hair
preparations, and is perfectly harmless. The unique
testimonials received prove it to be undoubtedly
the best dressing for the hair. 1/-, 2/6, and 4/6, of
all Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Australian Depot: Koko-Maricopas Co., Dd.,
14, Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
à
CAUTION.
See that this registered Trade
Mark is on every bottle.
M
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
&
0
&
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
BEFBESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d., 1/- 4, 2/6.
Sole Makers—M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND.
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
ENOS
HEALTH GIVING,
COOLING,
‘FRUIT
REFRESHING,
SALT.’
AND INVIGORATING.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
the famous REMEDY for.
FAMOUS
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE T.ARmssT SATE m? a fvr v CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA. ’
Lfe.'JS”! of Breathing, Hoarsens, Pain
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence
Soreness in^ the Chest, experience .delightfuUind immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable “as it effects
" ' ' “ giving strength to the voice, and it neither allc ‘ *
have been properly treated with this medicine.
! orting J n al ! aying irritHtion the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption"^dmi
Nnnncci olinnl/1 Uwx will-* 4- 14- ±• • i i
never been known to exist where “ Coughs
and a Coni[ilete Cure is certain
a Complete Cure. It is most com-
-vr , - , lj i ... , ' jt-tion to develop. Consumption has
JNo house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
I’HE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
“ Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir, —I enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect Go'd-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS’ TORTURE.
R! LIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir,—l wish to add m.v testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. ‘ I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“ JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidh successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
* n " *■ *•» »• *•
“ Vour Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only pave him four doses and have some of
Qifirindi^N.S.W. ’' 1 ““ sendlng for another bott,e in case I should want it.-D. M'DONALD, Trinkey,
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.-A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
•
v " My "1 fe J s . j 2 yea !’ s oId > an( l 1 , am 79 > and l am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
Victoria!” nderfUl deal ° f g °° d ’ lt haVmg qU ' Ckly CUred us both -- R - BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
SSf b “ e “ ,o ““• mothe ™*■“ “»•
“ 1 have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton Victoria ”
« - •
’ have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time The diffi
cultyof breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N S.W™
Quee‘n^L C e?! d Me b bourne!” W&S ’ disappeared after two dose s-C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
“ Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.-C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
&'“oCri: 0 “ H ' ° Ure **»- “ 1 “**0 b. . most
o. mSi'KS:ses?.* °" re - ih * ™» u ~ »—~ •>« „™e._
“ V r our medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
' Siding?**” w l&’waC? * T * had * lam recomme " d ing it to everybody.-S.
-! >r, d ,x iz: - - »°*
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience for all the i
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis ©ure I pot from I'on havo V *° u 8 h
me through a lons and dangerous illness.-HENRY VVUKLOD, Alma, near Maryboroufh Victoria ” H pU ed
O
Point, r^cfiu.’?Ure 1 y ° U WaS *n its effects.-CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch's
Gratitude and Appreciation.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“ The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during' the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchi tin
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
m Our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“ PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st, Brisbane, Queensland.
Mr. W. O. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
“ THOMASON, CIIATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,--Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“ I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUAKRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertiser.”
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
BRANCH DEPOT
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
- E n: a. m /n . ,
Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Strppf Svdnpv Toi
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, Forwarded by Lost to any ’Adless «JT ‘not obtainable Locally.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food f ° r
Infants
9
FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BERGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, 4 c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by*
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
The aged.
Speaking at a banquet in M.L., one of the
.English officers with the Indian troops let the oat
said 0 —' 6 bagproporly - Am °ag other things, he
„>£ 0 LT r i e g im r n £ 8 in India we the men not to be
bpln ’'l ? hey do ifc i 8 P lain that they have
to fiJ? ,/IVv’ # nd - not learned to % h t- We want them
to fight for the Empire, and we will not take the educated
ldea V ! a3 that the British army should
a ™ e . d Wlth tlae newest class of weapon, and the native
cla9a ’. 80 th& t the former should
such'aB^XBs7^* e advantage lf lk came to any occurrence
„ At Shrewsbury (Eng.) the other week,
a member of the Imperial Yeomanry who had
been invalided from S’Africa and since discharged
as unfit for further service was compelled through
absolute destitution to apply to the local Guar-
dians for relief for himself and family. He was
now unable to continue his former civil employ-
ment through injuries received during the war
He was granted ss. a week.” This patriot
™ doubt left home with the assurance that
Whilst he served his country his employer would
save his place ; but Kipling’s verse made no pro-
vision for the battered individual who can’t fill his
p ace when he returns.
An old-established Queensland sugar-
grower writes to The Bulletin
Although the question of colored v. white labor in the
field-work of sugar production is still unsettled, there is
no question nowadays as to the success of white labor in
the mills, and the Federal Parliament could justly le(ns-
late at once against the e nployment of alien labor ins"de
the factories. The evil is becoming more serious every
year. The Central mill co.’s are not allowed to employ
aliens in their mills, yet they make very handsome profits
with the “unreliable” white man, and it is not fair to
these co-operative co.’s to be obliged to compete against
sugar-makers who employ Japs, Chows, and other
Asiatics in their mills. In view of the present cry of
collapse of the sugar industry if our net nigger is taken
away, ’ it is worth remembering that the same yell went
U P 15 years ago, when the Kanaka was shunted - from the
mill into the field ; yet, in the white labor mills the
sugnr is now made at half the cost it was when the
‘ cheap” Kanaka did the work.


ELECTRIC
MINING
MACHINERY
OE EVERY DESCRIPTION.
KRUPP BALL MILLS
NOYES BROS.
31 O’Connelt-st., SYDNEY; and 15 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
■(CiaXIIMITJ
DA.E*TO (Lalte
Illawarra), near
SY33KTBY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODXJ CBR.S
OF
fine silver.
1
MAKERS OF
S. Co, of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
ILLAWARRA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers
1 of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.; or Martin Place, SYDNEY.
Jimmy and the Stranger.
“5000-Up.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
When Jimmy Donegan leased the billiard-ioom
in our township, we smiled at each other and
waited to see some red-hot developments in 0
way of billiard-matches.
Jimmy was the best cueist in the back-coun ry.
But it was not only as a billiard-player that e a
starred the provinces. He always seemed a e o
produce a man who could jump further or run
faster than any of the backblock champions, pro-
vided that there was money to be won by oing
The appointments of the room immediately
began to show the effect of a professional hand.
All the cues were re-tipped ; new cloth ° n t e
table, new lights with up-to-date shades, and all
other requirements suitable to afirst-class room gave
us the impression that James had come to stay.
A month went by and we all began to appreciate
the pleasure of playing our evening game under
the new conditions. The more we saw of Jimmy
the better we liked him. He wouldn’t play any
of us a game unless we allowed him to concede an
unbeatable number of points, so challenging the
marker came to be regarded as an imposition.
“I don’t want to beat you, boys; but if at any
time an outsider should come along I, reckon to
show this town how to play the game. It gave
us much pride to have a player like Jimmy
amongst us, and, happy in our possession, we
hoped some inflated stranger would come along.
Jimmy was a godsend to the Amateur Athletic
Club. He reorganised the whole thing, showed
the boys how to train for jumping and running,
and our annual athletic meeting was a splendid
success. In return for his assistance the commit-
tee offered him a cheque, which Jimmy refused,
adding that now he felt he was one of us it gave
him joy to see the thing a success. He also gave
the stewards of the Race Club the benefit of his
practical experience, and in a case of alleged nng-
ing-in was invited to act as arbitrator. He settled
the affair quicklv and decisively. Addressing the
owner of the second horse, he said: “Are you posi-
tive that the winning horse has been fraudulently
nominated ?” “I could swear it,” was the reply.
“That is just what I am going to ask you to do.
I want you to make a statutory declaration to
that effect,” said the arbitrator. “I wont do
anything of the sort,” replied the man. I hen,
said Jimmy, “ the protest is dismissed. We can t
allow you to waste our valuable time with your
idle suppositions.” The decision didn t meet
with any tiling like unanimous approval, as it was
thought that the owner of the winner should have
been asked to swear to the identity of his horse.
But Jimmy said he knew the man and would
vouch for “his honesty, and we soon forgot all
about it.
One evening the much-wished-for stranger the
inflated billiardist who was to be Jimmy’s prey
and ours—did arrive, and after dinner strolled
into the room accompanied by a couple of friends,
also strangers. Walking to the one rack he se-
lected a cue and carefully examined the tip, then
picking an invisible something off the table, and
smoothing the cloth where it was supposed to
have been, he said : “ Care for a couple of hundred
up, marker? Always prefer to play the marker
—usually a decent game then. Don t suppose
there are too-many players about here that know
the game as it should be played. Never met an
up-country player that could make the game in-
teresting ; play a fairish sort of game myself, so
take a few, marker —pay for the game, win or
lose.” They started to play, and we realised, as
we saw the stranger put in two breaks for 19 each
and another for 40, that he was no boaster. But
all the same, Jimmy won. The stranger said:
“Marker plays a passable sort of a game, but
reckoned, “after a little practice, sure to beat
him.”
On the following evening they played again, and
half the town turned up to see the game.
“ Care to back yourself, marker ? ” the stranger
inauired. “No thanks,” said Jimmy. “Anyone
else care to back the marker ? ” All hands
responded, and before the game was half through
there must have been £5O wagered on the result.
Jimmy always had the stranger well in hand and
won comfortably. The visitor paid up smiling,
and remarked, “Couple-hundred-up, anyones
game. Reckon sure to beat the marker, long
game. Wouldn’t mind wagering that I could.
That decided it. It was just what we had been
starving for. And, after a hurried consultation m
the back room and a wink from Jimmy, the
Doctor was deputed to challenge the stranger, all
agreeing to find as much money as_ he wanted to
bit. The Doc. said : “ Look here, sir you may be
able to beat our man, but we don’t think so, and
we have a good deal of cash to back that opinion
with. It only remains for the marker and you to
arrange the game, and our money is waiting at
even betting. S After a few preliminaries a match
was made for £lOO a-side, 5000-up, the banker
acting as stakeholder. The game was to com-
mence on the following evening at 7.30, 1000-up
to be played on each evening until finished.
Long before the hour for commencing play the
room was crowded, and, to give those who couldn t
get in a chance of seeing, all the windows were
thrown up, the space being immediately filled
with heads. There must have been fully another
hundred standing in the passages and in the yard
Suing the room. Before the balls were broken
the stranger’s two friends, who up to then had
hardly spoken, offered to back their man for any
amount P In an instant there was money
aU over the table, and more coming in through
the windows and along the passages. When
nlay ended for the first night Jimmy was 150
ahead, and told us in confidence that it was all
over and that he had his opponent boiled.
Strange to say, the other man was just as confi-
dent, and remarked that he didn t mind being a
few behind. Rather liked it, make him play-
better at the finish. Had plenty of money ; didn t
mind betting a hundred or two on a thing like
this, but didn’t want to send the town broke.
Often lost more in half-an-hour m a mining-deal
in Sydney than he was likely to be able to bet
These continual pin-pricks, of referring to our
town as a place not on the map, and to us as
knowing nothing about the game, and to the
possibility of his not being able to get as much
betting as he would like, made us all the more
eager for his scalp. The next night we put
our boots on Jimmy, and he justified our
confidence by establishing a lead of 300 when
the second thousand was called. Odds ol
two to one were now being laid against the
stranger, and we thought him a game un, as
he accepted every decent wager at those figures.
On the following evening he put in some great
play, and some of the cynics shook their heads
and said “ it’s not half over yet.” On the night of
the final play, the excitement seemed to affect
the whole town. Men who never came near the
room before were there before the lights were lit,
trying to get a seat. When the game was called,
Jimmy 4001, the Stranger 3986, you couldn’t get
within cooee of the room. Every stroke was
eagerly watched and discussed in whispers. At
this juncture, and just as our man was in the act
of striking, some brute threw a stone on the roof.
It had the effect of making Jimmy miss a most easy
stroke. The saddler said he reckoned the Salva-
tion Army threw it, and that if it was the cause
of the marker losing the game the blooming
cadgers ought to be hunted out of the town, lho
stranger remarked that he was sorry the interrup-
tion had occurred, and suggested that Jimmy
should take a drop of brandy to steady his nerves.
He also said that, as we all looked so serious, he
hoped we hadn’t been betting more than we could
afford to lose, and while admitting that we had
put our money on a good man, he considered that
our man had met a better one.
From this out Jimmy seemed to be getting
anxious, and appeared to be having the worst of
the luck, while his opponent was playing like a
Trojan and nothing seemed to trouble him. At
10 o’clock our prospects looked desperate, and at
11.30 it was all over—the stranger had won by 90
points. After collecting his wagers he called for
a case of champagne (or, as he called it, “ wine ).
But we all felt too ill and bent-up to care about
drinking anyone’s health, much less the health of
the man who had played Skip-Jack with us.
Speaking to the doctor, he said: “If your boys
want their revenge, be only too happy. Don t
want to run away with your money if you fancy
you can get it back. Always to be found at my
hotel.” With that he wished us good-night and
sauntered down the street, whistling “Annie
Rooney.”
We didn’t seem to get our second wind until
long after the pub. had closed. _ When someone
was asked to express an opinion on the situa-
tion the doctor replied by slowly saying:
“ Would it be possible that Jimmy and the stran-
ger understood each other ?” The blacksmith, who
had gone broke on the game, said he was jiggered
if he didn’t think there was something wrong as
soon as the match was made. The grocer, another
victim, offered a similar opinion. The miller
said, “ Well, if this goanner has let us down, it’s
only in keeping with his record afore cornin’ ’ere.
And if that there stranger is a friend of ’is, he’s a
scorcher ! He wasn’t satisfied in leavin’ us with-
out a feather to fly with, but poked mullock all
the time he was a-pluckin’ us.” The butcher
(who could scrap a bit) suggested that we should
pull them out of their beds there and then, and
satisfy ourselves one way or the other. But the
Doctor said, “No, boys ; before going to ex-
tremes, we must be sure that we didn’t get a run
for our money. I propose that we form a vigil-
ance-committee, who will leave no stone unturned
in endeavoring to satisfy us beyond all reasonable
doubt.
This idea was approved-of, but on the following
morning a note was found pinned to one of the
cushions of Jimmy’s table. It was as follows :
“Gentlemen. I reckon, after last night’s defeat,
that billiards won’t be any too fashionable here
for some little time to come, and, as I anticipate a
rather dull time in the room, I have concluded to
try my luck elsewhere. I remain, yours, &c.,
Jimmy.”
Half-an-hour later we knew that the stranger
and his two friends had also gone. At a meeting
held that night the vigilance-committee reported
that the station-master, under examination, had
stated that Jimmy, the stranger and his two
friends had travelled by the early morning train
and had occupied the same compartment. Also,
that they appeared to be in high spirits, and joked
about the match. Further, that when examining
the tickets in the next compartment he had dis-
tinctly heard Jimmy say that he wished he could
have had a photo, of our faces taken just as the
marker had called game on the winning stroke.
Also, James stated that for the size of the place
we had cut-up very well, but it was a risky thing
to ring the horse in, as it might have spoilt the
chance of getting the billiard-match. The stran-
ger here laughed and replied, “ I had a full beard
then, so there wasn’t much chance of their know-
ing me again.”
Then the Doctor gloomily thanked the commit-
tee for its services in collecting this information,
and the proceedings terminated miserably.
CHICK SIDE.
Burns, Philp and Co. have accepted the
Australian management of Mr. Spreckels’ Oceanic
(Sydney and ’Frisco) line.
At a Labor meeting held in Sydney
Domain, on a recent Sunday, one speaker referred
to the Lyne Govt, as the “White Leghorn”
Ministry, it being (like said breed of fowls) good
at laying (political) eggs, but not fond of sitting
close in order to hatch out a large number of
healthy legislative chickens. The next speaker
(Tom Thrower, President Sydney Labor Council)
was so struck with this figure of speech that he
tried to enlarge upon it by calling the Ministry a
“ White Dorking ” Ministry.
Colonel Plurner, who tried to relieve Mafe-
kiug from the north, is described as always giving
his orders in the form of requests. “Sergeant!
You see that cloud of dust on the right? Try a
little pom-pom, please. Thank you, that is very
nice : just a little more, please —a little to the
right. Thank you !” “ Ask Mr. A., please, to try
the 15-pounder on the low kopje to the right.
Plumer’s monocle, it is added, never drops from
his eye—no matter how hot things are.
From Auckland (M.L.) Star, which has
evidently got a big, two-handed grasp of current
events: —
THE WEST AUSTRALIAN MINISTRY.
Brisbane, this day.
A meeting of sugar-manufacturers carried a resolution
deploring Mr. Barton’s statement that he intended to
U abilaisah aakanaakaaaaaaam Rl.xV abolish Kanaka
labour. If this is sanctioned by the Federal Parliament
and no other aliens are allowed to do their work, the
sugar industry will speedily be extinguished.
The big noise in the third line is evidently, a
Maori war-cry, but what “ The Wbstralian Minis-
try ” has to do with it passes understanding.
One of the queerest things ever done by
the Boodlewraith was the purchase, at a fancy
price, of the Seaforth estate, near Mackay. -This
land was valued (on appeal against the local
Board’s assessment) as being worth 12s. 6d. per
acre. Govt, paid £3 2s. 6d. per acre, and tried to
disarm criticism by averring that the cry for this
land by the local selector was pitiful to hear. Ime
sale passed through, and although three months
have elapsed the local selector and all others have
declined, with thanks. Not an acre has been sola,
and another chicken has come home to roost.
Dear Bulletin. —
The notorious A. Tanquerey, of 9 Rue de St. Peters-
burar, Paris, is now circularising 1 the Australian pub 1
the “ free crayon portrait ” swindle, and doubtless many
foolish people will forward a photo, in response to tne
always easily-swallowed bait of “ something for nothin,,.
In return Tanquerey will acknowledge receipt ana sug-
gest (the resulting enlargement being so good) that an
artistic frame would be a' good idea, and on receipt of 10 .
he will forward same- value of drawing and frame (it ever
remitted) being perhaps 2s. Sir Edward Monson,
Ambassador in Paris, the authorities of Scotland Yard,
and others have repeatedly issued warnings through tne
English press against this swindle. Labouchere, in
Truth, has for the last eight years warned his readers, i
enclose Tauquerey’s circulars, forged testimonials and
cuttings from London Truth showing his modus operandi.
Apparently Tanquerey’s circulars are being scattered
broadcast through N.S. Wales ; this town (Cow ra) alone
having received some dozen or so. Several persons were
gulled ; and I just stopped a hard-working and underpaid
woman from sending 10s. and “ freight charge, &- •
about 28s. in all—in the attempt to get back an only
photo, of her deceased parent. She will never see that
again. Labouchere, in Truth, related how an accredited
agent in Paris applied for return of photo, first sent.
After repeated attempts he found a single person ,
charge of this precious “ Society, and then was Per
tently refused return, and finally told photo, had been
burnt.—Yours, R.
[The Bulletin prints this ; but does not suppose it wil
do much good. The only way to protect fools against
swindlers is to let them experience swindling—just as a
child learns that fire is not to be played with when it has
burnt its fingers. Still, as “ Tanquerey gives some scores
of alleged Australian references, this paper would like
anyone who has dealt with him and come-off satisfactorily
to step forward and say so.]


ile Bsgns
iliousness.
JJi>
•tor all
iver
A CHAPTER ON THE LIVER.
How it Governs our Health.
THE PRINCIPAL duties of the Liver are to cleanse the blood and to furnish a fluid
called bile for the proper digestion of food. The duct or pipe leading from the liver
to the stomach sometimes becomes clogged, and the free passage of the bile is thus
prevented. When that happens the bile is forced back into the gall bladder, which
overflows, and thus it is carried into the wrong channel ; this state is called “biliousness.”
Many and varied are the effects of a disordered liver. The tongue is often coated with a
white or yellow matter ; there is a difficulty in breathing ; there is also a tightness across
’ the sufferer is given to faintness and sighing ; pains are felt in various parts of
the body; the stomach and bowels become inflamed; the face is flushed, and there is
sometimes a dry cough. The appetite is irregular, and, as a rule, pimples, boils,
and itching are satellites of biliousness. Langor prevails as a rule, and in many cases there
is an inability to sleep. When sleep does come it is disturbed by dreams of a frightful
character. Now, notwithstanding the seriousness of chronic liver ailments, Bile Beans for
Biliousness will be found an undoubted specific. The Beans by their peculiar properties not
only cause the liver to work properly, but that organ is toned to work and act for itself, so
that when Bile Beans are left off the cure remains permanent. It may be asked why have
Bile Beans for Biliousness become so popular, and how is it that their sale is so great ?
These are the reasons : Firstly, because thousands have been cured by them, and in praising
them to their friends likewise take them. Secondly, because they do not cure every com-
plaint, and the proprietors let the public know just exactly what they will cure. Thirdly
unlike most medicines they act upon the system in a gentle yet efficient manner, and do not
unfit the patient from attending to his or her routine duty. Fourthly, they are no new medi-
cine, the Beans having stood the test of years, and their low price—l3ld. per large box—puts
them within the reach of all.
(BILE BEAUS cug- INDIGESTION)
á
THE SMARTEST MAH
ON EARTH^
Can’t keep count of every detail in a business which
has a dozen, six, or even three assistants, but the
NATIONAL^
CASH REGISTER
â
Will do it for him, and do it
thoroughly, Keeping Record
every hour, Year in, Year out,
never getting sick of
“DOING A LOAF.”
It earns its own Cost in
less than a year, and after
that still goes on saving
for you .
National CaSl) C°
335 Pitt Street, Sydney.
W. A. LIN GUAM, General Manager for Australasia.
The Soldier.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is usual and proper and genuinely British to
despise the Soldier in times of Peace—
To refuse him drinks at so-called public-houses,
to turn on him the stalwart “ chucker-out ” at
the theatres;
To ridicule him as the “peeler’s” rival in the
affections of the nursemaid or cook,
And generally to view him as an absurd ornament
or an inevitable nuisance.
Helas, Pauvre Soldat l
It is a 1 so correct and loyal and truly British to
praise the Soldier in times of War—
To acclaim him the Saviour of his Country, the
Hero, the Christian Martyr;
For royalties, magnates and clergy to sing his
virtues aloud ;
For women to beslaver him in public and weary
him with their amours.
Bully boy, Tommy Atkins !
(In all this the British Public is indubitably right
when is the British Public wrong ?
The man who dares impugn the wisdom of that
leonine brute is a fool from Foolville,
And that is not my present designation and ad-
dress.
Hurrah for the British Public 1)
Yet it is verily my intention to bless the Soldier
in Peace and damn the Soldier in War;
And that not from any disesteem of the Soldier,
whom I love as a man and a brother.
But solely because I hold Peace to be man’s God-
ordained condition,
And regard War as horrible, hateful, hellish—
The Sum of all Sin, the Wrong of Wrongs, the
greatest Crime against Democracy,
The foe of Freedom, Virtue and Truth,
The wrecker of Arts, Letters, Civilisation and
Religion.
War, in short, is the Devil 1
Wbat is the Soldier in Peace ? A citizen (barring
exceptions) cleanly and content, quiet and un-
assuming,
Obtruding only his gaudy uniform, his cane and
his imbecile swagger.
He gives grace to public spectacles and point to
diplomatic despatches;
He is courteous to men and kindly to women;
dutiful, disciplined, neat;
He is the great Unemployed—an economic neces-
sity under existing conditions—
As lover and husband, as son and father, he is
faithful in strict moderation
(A true British quality this, for which we must
ever esteem him),
And by no means so “ absent-minded ” as certain
chartered libellers have asserted ;
The Soldier in Peace must be admired, or at least,
tolerated.
Votre Sanle, Peaceful Soldier !
True in some darkened realms, the Soldier is;
lyranny’s ally,
The upholder of Force, Injustice and cruel
Oppression ;
The panderer to Kings, the foe of the People :
So that the masses are happier in times of foreign
war than during domestic peace.
But this was never in England— England, where:
men are men,
And Kings and Courts and Armies are kept as;
popular toys.
In another and freer country than ours, th® :
Soldier in Peace is our friend
And sworn defender of Wealth—arrogant, bowel-
-IGSS W ©ctloil -
At whose bidding the Soldier is ready to shoot;
down father or brother
Who asks for a living-wage or a decent respite;
from labour.
Such Soldiers were better employed, methinks,
as foreign filibusters,
F ° rC Cubans bl6SsingS of Freedom on Filipinos and
Viva, Americanos!
What is the Soldier in War ? A licensed Butcher
of men—
A Cain, not branded and banished, but pettedL
nattered, rewarded.
"^Assass/ 1 a^er ’ a tiar, a Spy, and a lurking
A complete Lexicon of foul and blasphemous lan-
guage ;
An Anarchist, knowing no law but his oath to
obey his leader
(The Ten Commandments and statute-law being
for his benefit suspended);
An unadulterate Brute, lower than men of the
otone Age,
Who fought and ravened and slew, as Hunger or
Passion dictated,
And not at the bidding of those who say—“ Look
you, this man here
Yesterday was your brother—his goods and his
person were sacred;
To-day (not that I know it, but certain politicians
have told me)
He is your country’s enemy, whom you must cer-
tainly murder,
Under pain of being yourself disgracefully slain
for cowardice and high treason ;
You must burn his dwelling, destroy his goods
mu - n ? r hee , * hou g h his children should starve:
I his do, and God will requite you, the King and
all good men will praise you.”
(I strip off the pleasing euphemisms by which the
trade of the Soldier
Is made to appear as honorable as tilling the soil
or distributing its products).
“ Strategy, ” “ ambushing,” “ sharpshooting,”'
“sniping.”
These are but words to disguise mean and skulk-
ing assassination.
To “forage” or “commandeer” is simply to
plunder and steal;
To “pacify the country” is to buns, destroy,,
hunt, starve, and proscribe.
A brave calling, Gamaradas 1
Such is the Soldier abroad, pursuing a war of
aggression;
Look now at the home-staying Soldier in war-
time, or the one returning war-battered,
When everyone “sees Red,” and Blood is the;
daily diet:
Observe his haughty air, his insolent swagger,
As he shoulders Civilians rudely out of his path
Sea him, inflamed with Beer and Lust, boldly and
publicly
Ogling young girls and malting insulting proposals
to virtuous women
(Virtuous, I grant you, but Oh, so willing to be
tempted !)
Have we not all marked him and marvelled how
far his vainglory would carry him ?
Have we not asked—How long ere all Civil Free-
dom shall cease
And Earth be but one vast playground for this
riotous, leering ruffian ?
I myself have seen— moi qui voua parle have wit-
nessed
In an Australian city’s crowded street a red-
coated ‘ ‘ Imperial ”
Three times fell to the pavement a poor inebriate
woman,
Because she dared to cling to him who was sated
and cloyed with love ;
And though, mayhap, the blood of some spectators
boiled, as mine did,
Not one had the courage to enter the feeblest of
protests against the cowardly deed.
For what would have happened, think you, to
him who challenged the brutal offender ?
He would have been pounded to a jelly by the
trained fighting-man and his comrades,
Then haled before a magistrate, denounced as a
disloyalist, a pro-Boer, and what not —
Would have been lectured and fined and dis-
credited, while the real culprit escaped.
This is the meaning of War to those who stay at
home ; and therefore I say—
To Hell with War, where it belongs !
Soldier, brave Soldier! Dear Soldier 1 My
countryman, friend and brother,
I love you in Peace—l hug you, even though you
do seem absurd;
Live for ever in Peace, as butt, cavalier, or orna-
ment—
I at least will not decry you, or deny you your
beer and amusement.
But, Soldier ! I hate you in War, as the Abomin-
ation that makes desolate,
That creates Wildernesses and Widows and
Weeping Children in thousands.
You are bravest, O Soldier, when, meek and self-
abnegating,
You step aside from industrial competition, and
wearing the badge of subjection
And accepting the paltry pittance a grudging
nation bestows,
You leave the willing to work and offer yourself
as a puppet and plaything
For women and small boys to wonder at.
That is your true forte, that is your mission and
metier ;
Stick to it, noble Soldat!
M.L.
J. LIDDELL KELLY.
Father Tells a Story.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ A veby funny thing happened to-day, my dear.
Jimmins and I had just sat down to lunch ”
“But didn’t you take in your lunch? Keep
quiet, Willy.” V
“Yes, but Jimmins ’phoned me to go out with
him. We were just ”
“ That’s Alfred Jimmins, isn’t it! He shouldn’t
spend money on taking people to lunch while his
poor wife is just struggling to make both ends
meet. Go on, James.”
“ Well, we had sat down and ”
“Willy, if you want more bread you should
say to your sister, ‘ Please, Lily, pass the bread.’
Yes, James.”
“Oh, Jimmins was ordering soup”
y° u had a big dinner. No wonder you
said you were not hungry to-night. What else
did you have ? ”
The usual things. Soup, meat, vegetables
and wine.”
“Wine! Jimmins is extravagant. I would
™ to see his wife’s face if she heard about it.
Ihe idea! Lily, you must finish your meat or
you will not get any pudding. Georgie, pass your
father the salt, and don’t talk with your mouth
full. Yes?”
“As I was saying, my dear, we had just sat
down when Jimmins saw ”
“ Georgie, eat properly or you will leave the
table. Yes ? ”
“ Saw a friend of his, Baudeman ”
“ Any relation to the Baudemans we know? ”
*' I think so. But as I was saying
Was he a stout, red-faced man with a grey
moustache ? I thought so. Well, that’s the man
JMrs. Baudeman told me of. He’s her cousin-in-
law and a real bad character. I’m surprised,
James, that you should spend your time with such
a man.”
“But I never saw him before to-day. And
as—
“l dare say he is a warm friend of that Mr.
Jimmins. Just fancy him parading about giving
wine-lunches while his poor wife can’t dress
decently. I m ashamed of you encouraging him.”
As a matter of fact, my dear, he asked me to
go t° lunch to discuss business.”
“Oh, indeed! Lily, please tell the girl to
bring in the pudding. Well, James, I want you
to understand that I entirely disapprove of any
business dealings with Mr. Jimmins or Mr. Bau-
deman. I dare say they were both scheming to
rob you. Will you take some stewed fruit—that
is, if your gorgeous lunch has left you any appe-
tite. Georgie, pass your father the milk, and
for goodness sake keep your eyes off the pudding.
Well, James, what about this Mr. Baudeman?
Willy! ”
“Oh, just as we sat down, he caught sight of
•Jimmins, and left his lady friend -”
“Lady friend. What was she like? How was
she dressed ?”
“ I don’t know, and I don’t care ! ”
‘Of course not; you seldom care to answer
anything I ask you. There, George, you’ve spilt
the milk. Leave the table at once. Willy ! not
so much sugar. You keep all your talk for your
sly lunches with Mr. Jimmins. I’ve a good mind
to tell his wife how he carries on in the city.
Business !!! You men always make business
the ; excuse for eating and drinking. I’m sure I
don t want to hear your ridiculous story. I suppose
you would like me to be one of those meek and
mild women who are frightened to open their lips
to their husbands. . . . Goodness me ... I would
like to know what would become of this house if I
•didn t slave night and day. ... No, Willy, you
have had quite enough pudding. Put your knife
and fork straight. . . . Yes, James, I suppose
I m to be snubbed because I take an interest in
my husband s acquaintances and doings, and verv
peculiar friends I must say. Lily, tell the girl to
clear away ; and help her yourself, you lazy girl.
go and do your home-lessons, and teli
Georgie he 11 get a slapping if I see any more sulk-
mg\Y ' lT’, Jan ? es > if you have told all you
want to about that absurd lunch, I wish you would
get up and give the girl a chance to clear away
R.P.


Cured Her When a Little Girl.
Cured Her Again When a Mother.
Takes Out All Disease from the Blood;
Gives Strength: A Splendid Tonic; An Ind.spensable
Household Medicine
Ayer’s Sai'saparill^
w
r
. Kv*^ 1 ""' 'Wi
. i Y>
if
»
V
“I first used Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla when a little girl for debility and poor-
ness of ttebSSdL It strengthened me greatly, built me
well and strong. After a recent attack of typhoid fever I found myself
and again I thought of this wonderful strengthening medicine. So I began its
use, alTwith gfeat and lasting benefit. All my robust health is back again
thanks to Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It is a splendid tonic, purifies the blood, makes
it rich, and is an indispensable household medicine.
This is a practical experience which Mrs. H. A. Steinberg of st
Bast Adelaide, So. Australia, has had with Dr. Ayers Sarsaparilla. With this
she sends a photograph of herself and child, which we reproduce above with her
permission. Indeed, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is
a
The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Perhaps Mrs. Steinberg describes your condition, also. Perhaps your blood
is thin, making you pale and weak; perhaps you are depressed, discouraged.
Then there is a remedy that will build you up, made you strong and vigorous
again. And it is a wonderful medicine for the children, too ; giving them good
flesh, rich blood, and steady nerves.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Takes Out All Impurities from the Blood.
AYER’S PILLS are gentle, safe, thorough.
A POLICY FOR TH€
COMMOHWERLTji
Being a scries of articles reprinted
from “Tbe Bulletin.” v/itb an
appendix dealing With tb« Fiscal
QOgStioQ-
PRICE 6d.; posted, Bd.
ã
PLAIN HOME TALK.
UMBBACIHff
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
Bt Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
JO Plates. S 6 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou_-
gand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all orcasions and
everybody ; public, speaking made easy, is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art or Wrestling, post, Is.
Love and Parentage, Sd posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties,Love, Dress, etc. Is 6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to. Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book ok Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How t* Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets ok Ancient and Modern Maoic. Is §d post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40illus. Is 6.1 pasted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Lktikr
Writer, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and Bis Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, ls6d post.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE.— SIR, ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
tlie numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
bv him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu- ,
].... Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from bun—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
t
PILLS
I,TOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Slornnch,^
1 Fulness and Swelling after
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath Cos en ess^i“ r THE FIRST DOSE
turbed Sleep and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations. .&.c. sufferer is
WITT GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Lfei y £
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be WOR-H
BEECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregul&rity of the system, bor a i *
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few' doses will[work wondprs^ upon ( edJncTf appetitefand
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Comp exio , o of the human frame. These
arousing with the Rosebud op Health the V hol , _ ' Q j (j ie best guarantees to the
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of socij#, J 1 ptt lUediein e in
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham's Pills have the Lai pest bale oj a j
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND
Sold ICvery where, in Boxes, ls lid, and *4s Od each.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle, are universally acknowledged
■X'O DEFY GOMT’ETITION,
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&c
SPIRITS.
&0.
WATERS,
MINERAL
MANUFACTURERS OF
::JKI I
-'k'-V;
s. FREEMAN * SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR,
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WYNYABD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
c<
33
ON
Six Shillings (Post Free)
Price,
ä
The Universal Remedy for Acidity ot the Stoiuacn,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
■ -1
Sold Throughout the Wona.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
O
iris:
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
wa
as s
IRISH MO SS
ssssis:-5
k
URE3 wksle
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.


SYDWJESIT
Rubber Works
manufacturers of
Sheet Rubber,
Washers,
Valves,
Gras Tubing,
Rollers,
Buffers,
and Every Description of
Mechanical Rubber Goods.
Works :
CAREY STREET, off Birkenhead Road.
City Office :
RERDRIAU and CO.,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Go. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
The Ways of Many Waters
Collects the dashing- ballads and verses of sailor-men’s
and wharf-men’s life which E. J. Bra i> y has contributed
to The Bulletin and the Sunday Times, Sydney. It is
the first attempt on the part of an Australian verse-
writer to chant the life on the sea and the margins of
the sea; though there is one horse-poem—the story of
Hou Jack Bowlin Steered ‘ Jones.’ ” The volume is
bound in buckram, with gilt top, in a size that will go
into a pocket without squeezing; and the price is 55.,
post-free.
the WORTHINGTON
. ... IS THE ORIGINAL ...
WORTHS MGTOW COMPOUND.
‘dlAind
Sole Australasian Representatives:
SIMPSON BROTHERS.
—
WORTH
TRADE MARK.
Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
mm-
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
<©HE JJb&OT
J. & J. MAX FIELD, Prophs.. SHEFFIELD.
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MARK.
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
‘“THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
60
DYEING
HE LADIES.
w. c. zecigd-rudgke & go..
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOJtK S'J ItUlOL'. SVDNISY
10pp. Centenary Hall).
Country
• •
ry Orders by post Irani alt the colonies promptly
attended to.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
GEORCE & MARKET 8TREET8.
Boax-d and Residence, 8a. per Day.
LUNCHEON)
12 o’clock till 2.30. J
S3!
DINNER, TEA
5.30 till 7.30.
ONE SHILLING UPWARDS.
Perfect Cuisine and First-class Attendance.
Special FISH LUNCHEON and DINNER on FRIDAYS.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS
EPPS’S
grateful—comforting.
CO C O A
BREAKFAST -SUPPER.
N.S.W. Fresh Food & ice Co. Ltd,
gVTV%TT!X7
Fish and Game, hard frozen and well packed, forwarded to all parts of the State.
People residing in distant localities where Good Butter is unobtainable, are recommended to obtain their supply from the above Company proprietors of the
well-known “ Golden Star ” brand, and Sole Agents for the famous “ Berry ” brand. Both kinds are Pasteurised, and have excellent keeping qualities.
Our Bakehouse Goods, for Balls, Parties, &.c., are conceded to be the finest manufactured. Sent well-packed to any town in N.S.W
price Lists and Particulars sent, to any Enquirers. PATESON Mana er
Head Office
HARBOUR ST., SYDNEY.
n m R
I » B A if .kt
■ n a
-ii H B JWr.K fi W
MINING SCREENS.
Double Crimped Wire Cloth.
A Large Stock of all Sizes ....
Write for Samples and Particulars.
ä
1 " ’ ’ '*■ °
r
I
f|j|- ' s|||^
å
MINING ENGINEERS
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS OF
AGENTS for Knowles Pumps, Ingersoll Rock Drills and Air Compressors,
" Gates Rockhreakers, Nagle Engines and Boilers, Buffalo
Blowers and Exhaust Fans, etc-, etc.
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
■u <J is
,'m ut n m'* ft* a j a a «
•i an a 0' a<* a S &Z «'
a<* a'* a % a a * i
3 «'(f a s Q'H IJ M wsi V
rf B',t» *3i wft w
j «a a>» u‘m-n a au c :
i ! o a> m a- y ■% a-a t
.4 s* a uf a » i
o s « a a *'a wir e »Y
watt a *■* s i ** a I
•» a ifu a e
4 ncim * W C b a'a *> It
;?o b » a u 's baa a sj
7 da n'i' *■>•- »z> »i j a ,•
iVif b-u a’tf « ; w x n J'U
3 wtf a * a * JO a il Wu
rr-y-r«,L-i wn
p.
GORY
å
74 Clar@n®@ St., SYDNEY; MELBOURNE, us Bounce st.,
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS.
s..eA f e"« SJ . A. FAY & CO.’S Woodworking' Machinery.
Largest Stock of Woodworking Jlcichines in Australasia.
Baud Saw Machines
Circular Saw Benches
Tenoning Machines
Sandpapering Machines
Planing and Moulding Machines.
Vertical Shaping Machines
Mortising Machines
Scroll Sawing Machines.
es and Furnishings of Every Description for above
and All Other Woodworking Machinery.
. .
elites
BUI®
Co
