

McE WAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best,
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity-”
The Lancet.
R. O. WATKINS «SE- CO.,
10*7 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
M iinng and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
RUSTON’S Compound Dredge Engine
C( M
Wood Split Pulleys
All Sizes Kept in Stock,
SOLE AGENTS:
H. dUTNRID<S€ Ltd.,
71 Clarence St., Sydney.
SEND FOR CATALOG.-*®
NOW READY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth
Being-a reprint of a large number of articles from
The BuLLKTiKj/in which this paper has attempted to
outline a solvent, honest and democratic policy
for Federated Australia.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° so ntt im, SYDNEY
Have in Stock and to arrive, the following:: Huston, Proctor & Co.’s Compound Dredge Engines and Boilers, Centrifugal
Pumps, Steel Wire Ropes, Bucket Lip Steel, Tyre Steel, Mild Steel, Manganese Steel for Pins and Bushes, &c.
Buckets, Crab Hooks, Links, Grab Hook Points, Tumblers, Ac., made to order. OSBORN’S STEEL^CASTINGS.
ENGINES & BOILERS, &c., FOR GOLD DREDGING
THORNE’S
That’s All!
A 1 WHISKY
HELIDON SPA.
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
TOOTS •&: CO. llitd., Sydney.
' ★
%
I
1
HOBART;
Hadley s Orient Hotel.
JJJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS,
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. largest Hote
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF to
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
RESERVE EXTRA. RESERVE SPECIAL. RESERVE EXTRA SPECIAL. SUPREME
SANDEMAN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
jWFBB.gR s-srPTNi
PETTY’S HOTEL
IS UNSURPASSED
by that of any other in Sydney for
Comfort, Privacy, Convenience and
Healthy Situation.
The Sanitary Arrangements are of the
meet perfect description.
The Hotel is under the Direct Management and
Supervision of
MRS. WILLIAM GANNON, Pnorarantßsa,
Telephone 274. Church Hill, Sydney.
10s. per Day or £3 3s. per week.
SPECIAL TERMS CAN BE ARRANGED FOR
FAMILIES AND PRIVATE APARTMENTS.
Pioneer
ƒ
LEATHER
belting]
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWIGI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
Branches:—P. Frankel & Co., F.dward-st., Brisbane, Q. ;
H. Summers, Barraclt-st., Perth, W. A, ; H. K. Fysh and
Qo., Collins-st., Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter & Co., Auckland ;
Blackburne & Smith, Cashel-st., Christchurch, N.Z.
Fair girls and gray horses
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
“THREE-STAR” WHISKEY.
Agents : J. BARRIE JOHN'STON ft eO., ILoftus Street, Sydney.
i—ni—a»w«i»i in 11l I'li'i-'
EMPIRE HOTEL, SYDNEY
most situated.
oiard-buput
Estbd. 1795. 25 Years BRANDY.
m
m
PROOF
USE
BLIGH ST., SYDNEY
AT THE CLUB, IN THE HO3KB,
PQR THE SICK AN© THE SOUND,
EVERYWHERE, AND FOR EVERYBODY,
IOOMERANC BRANDY
IS TC3Ea:E! BEST._^
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10kS.
Mr. Skinner hag a very extensive* and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
•oloniea; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s CrobrocatioQ
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints it. MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons ar#
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n)brocatioi>-
KAY EYE AR EYE EN
LAGER
The Bulletin
Vol 22 -No. 1133 j
[Saturday, November 2, 1901.
Registered at the General Pest Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


LUNGS, the
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
sdf
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SIN G EES
. ' „ and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
. . Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous dru<j . .
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, In Tins, Is 6d ; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland—post
free on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
THE BED PAGE.
“ TVT°* not ' °^ en that I get a chance to go
I to a theatre,” said the Hawker, when
I met him one night sharpening a
match to stick in his coat as a substi-
tute for a button. “ Appears to me galleries don’t
‘ pack ’ like they used years ago. I like to see a
big, jammed, sweaty crowd' that’ll discuss a play.
Don’t mean the young fellows who babble silly
filth about the stage women; or the idiot who
acts as chorus; or the hearty man flushed with
beer and onions who sees a double meaning in
everything, and nudges you in the ribs and fills
your ear with his mouldy whiskers to tell you
that he’ll try and remember that one. By the
way, don’t remember old Swanks, do you ? Before
your time, I suppose. At any rate, they used to
have him at the Victoria. Chap I knew used to
run a ’bus after the play out to Redfern for a
shilling. ‘ Queen’s Own ’ he called her. Only
’bus—oh, yes, Swanks had charge of the gallery.
Big, sooky-looking fellow he was, with ears like
little turn-over tarts. Well, one night a lucky
digger style of chap, in lavender pants and velvet
collar, comes in during the performance. Farce
it was. ‘ Turn Him Out,’ with Charlie Burford in
it. You see, in those days they gave a show and
no mistake. A big drama or a grand opera, a
farce, and a ballet with a name lots longer than
the skirts, —with a'change of bill four or five times
week.
“ I think I ’ll have beer ! Don’t suppose this
salicylic acid they talk about will hurt a man
much. Pretty well all this sunshiney-looking
bottled honey is doctored with it, and you can’t
lick it to brighten up sick wine. Do you know in
the old days it was a regular thing at harvest
time—about December or so—for the farmers to
■supply the hands with neat rum. At least, it was
Called rum. Old chap used to work in a spirit
store near the Haymarket told me they had the
devil’s own trouble making up the stuff. Men
wouldn’t look at the real West Indy. When all
the ingredients were put in the cask, and you
started to rock it to mix ’em, long tongues of
blue flame would dart out of the bung hole. By
the time reaping was finished most of the men
would be tearing round with their arms above their
head thinking they were ’wild bullocks. Then
they’d crawl to creeks and drink ’em dry, and——
“Oh, yes, this fellow comes in and lights up a
cigar. There were no firemen in those times, so
when Swanks gets a whiff of the smoke and sees the
gleam, he flung himself straight at it. But the
smoker runs his fingers through his long, straggly
beard, and shoos Swanks off like you would a dog.
Swanks gripped the beard with his left hand,
drives the cigar into the fellow’s mouth like a nail
into a plank with the right, and while the chap
spluttered and belched smoke and steam through
the nose and eyes, Swanks kept his mouth shut
tight. But what I can’t stand in theatres nowa-
days is tli© eating. Like to see people eat hearty.
Don’t think there’s anything so pleasant or so
soothing as to lie and hear a horse munching his
feed. A sound-toothed horse, mind you ; not a
parrot-mouthed brute that gobbles and slushes
his hard tack, and gets poor as a rake on good grass,
and leaves a man with his cart
* * •* • *
“ Yes, but when everybody around you in
the theatre is guzzling and scruffling in a
covert, stealthy way with lollies and things,
the goose-pimples get that hard and sharp that
they tear your shirt. Chap alongside me to-night
—face like leather, hands waxy—fellmonger, I
suppose, had a bag of those glue-pats they patch
windows.Vith. Says to the girl with him, ‘ ’eve a
joo-joob,’ and she scuffles down in the bag and
has one. He keeps taking them and flicking
them off the palm of his hand, to be packed into
his cheek till he had a glistening lump like a blind
boil. Fruit! I missed lots of the play just
noticing in what a lot of ways people eat oranges.
Some feel a fruit all over till they come to what
seems to be the right place. Then, chawing out a
bit of peel the size of a threepenny-bit, they
absorb the juices by hideously-prolonged pro-
cesses of suction. Others just rip ’em asunder
and bury their face to the eyebrows in the pulp.
Some strip the fruit naked and eat the segments
one by one, straining the pips through their
teeth and drippling them down the coat-collars of
people ip front. Just behind me a big chap, with
a mass of hair and whiskers that made his eyes
look like those of a native cat peering out of a
log, was gulping dates. By the slushing and row
he made affyone would have thought he was
getting satisfaction and to spare out of them. And
when I looked round, all a-creep, I saw him stow-
ing the stones in his waistcoat pocket—to be
picked over on the way home, I suppose. But the
peanuts ! when a man who is ashamed or some-
thing to be seen eating them openly takes a few
in his hand the moment the lights go down, and
perspires in the effort to husk them noiselessly.
It’s worse than sleeping on chopped horsehair.
The play ? Just one of those tinted operas made
up pretty well on the lines of the patent medicines
I hawk around sometimes. Crowded so full of
diversions that what with trying to listen to the
music that reminds you of everything, and watch-
ing the gilded tommyrot, and wondering why
everybody on every stage listens for loud sounds
in the same strained way, you scarcely remember
what you ’ve seen and heard.
“ Oh, I don’t mind—the same. People who go
out to enjoy themselves are curious. The other
Saturday I took a trip to the Hawkesbury River in
an excursion boat. Magnificent day for it. Big
crowd of all sorts of people. One old man I
liked the look of was seated on a box near
the bows. Very bloodshot eyes and livery, in-
flamed appearance all over. Hair stood straight
out from his head, with a tendency to hook at the
ends. Eyebrows like prawns’ feelers. I remarked
that the sea was nice and calm. He jumped off
the box and yelled that it was just his luck.
‘ Here’s a man wearing his pancreas out and
straining his heartstrings till the strands are start-
ing Saturday after Saturday, and I’m if I can
be sick! Best thing in the world to be sick!
Why, if I could only be half as ill as that young
fellow ’ —he pointed to a youth leaning over the
rail with his face in an expression for all the
world like that of a tired ’bus horse being led from
his manger to do an extra run— 1 I’d be happy as a
sandboy ! ’ He glanced so vindictively that I re-
tired unsteadily and swiftly to the shelter of a
funnel. There I found a quartermaster, or some
sort of an adult in an infant’s cap, and explained
to him the troubles of the fiery man. ‘Tell you
what,’ said the mariner in a friendly, confidential
way, ‘ if you ever want to be sick and can’t, why a
clout aside the head with a sheep’s-pluck ’ —but just
then I noticed that all the bandsmen were blind.
Name of some institution on their caDS. Charity
or economy ? Couldn’t tell which.
“ When we got into the river, the day had spread
its tail like a peacock, and nearly everybody went
into a stuffy cabin near the keel to eat a faded
meal. Those who remained on deck clustered
densely about two men who were arguing politics
with vehement incoherence. The leader of the
govt, was a man in an imitation sealskin cap,
with a long face as amateurishly-fashioned as
that of a heathen god. His long arm clad in
alpaca wavered unsteadily under the weight of a
hand like a grab-winch. He maintained, in sup-
port of his policy, whatever it was, that he was
the father of eleven children, of which this one
present—a rather pleasant - looking girl of 20
or so—was a sample. The other man—old,
puckered, with a solitary tooth like a weed-
clad pile, a quivering upper ljp shaped like
a turtle’s beak, and with a world of shrewd-
ness in a small blinking eye, also wore
a skull cap and carried a helmet in his hand.
He impatiently waved aside the domestic achieve-
ments of the wooden-faced man, and asked if
boots cost ss. a pair and a man could not earn ss.
where was the ss. to come from? And then a
weak, underdone sort of a man overwhelmed
with whiskers tried to explain something in a ner-
vous shriek, but the old man butted at him like a
goat. The wooden-faced man meanwhile bat-
tened on to a man who was in difficulties with the
clogged stem of his pipe, bailed him into a comer,
and raved and pranced about the benefits of
eleven children and decimal coinage.
* » » *
“On the voyage back, while all the people not
otherwise engaged tripped the wobbling deck in
kitchen lancers, I found a cosy nook in the stern.
Stretched at full length on his back, and with his
eye—large, dark, and glistening like a seal’s—
fixed on a ring-bolt, a man was entertaining a
very drunken friend with an entirely new and
most picturesquely blasphemous version of, the
scriptural history of King David and the man he
put in the front of the battle. When the friend
rolled off the grating and lost interest in the story
in attending to a bruised elbow, the seal-eyed
man, without removing his gaze from the ringbolt,
commenced to talk of the geological formation of
Australia with such a swing of technical detail
that I asked if he were a geologist, or whatever
you call them. He laughed and said I No fear—
been at sea since I was a kiddy.’ But it just
shows, doesn’t' it, that you never can tell what a
man gets interested in. Look at Shandy, for
instance ; have never seen anybody with such an
appetite for watercress as Shandy had—regular
passion for it. They say that there’s a lot of iron
and stuff in it, and people get a craving for Stuff
like that just the same as horses will rush the
trough in which blacksmiths cool iron. Anyhow,
he was a long, narrow sort of chap that seemed to
have shot up into the air too far, and looked as if
he was bending right over to do it again and
better. Had an eye like an opal, and such a tract
of crinkled chin that every barber who saw it must
have thanked his lucky star Shandy did not
patronise him. And when you’d see him in one
of those little eating-houses swooping down on the
watercress like a plague locust, you could not eat for
wondering how such a mass of chin could be moved
so quickly without shaking all his joints apart.
Of course, there’s nothing much in eating water-
cress, but Shandy had a way of spinning it in the
bowl, and the herbage would pass into his mouth
in a sort of everlasting thread. I used to meet
him round about the warehouses, with a little
striped bag of studs on cards, and combs, and
soap and odds and ends. Had periodical attacks
of some wild, raging sort of religion. Last time
I saw him was in a bank, writing something on a
deposit slip. His striped bag, filled to bursting
with cheap razors, lay alongside him. When I
touched him on the shoulder he yelled like a Red
Indian. From the corner of his mouth hung a
shred of watercress. On the deposit slip he had
formally deposited in the custody of the bank his
soul, or some tommyrot like that. While I was
trying to make it out he dashed off an advertise-
ment about a gentleman of quiet tastes wanting
board in a Christian family, and signed it Quietus.
Heard last trip that he got a place, smashed all
the furniture, and cut his throat the night he
moved-in. Lot of the young chaps where I get
my stock were chaffing me to-day about the lone-
liness of a game like mine. Why, damn me, they
train them in those big places to be nothing better
than sheep-dogs. Why, look at that young Blobbs !
‘ ‘ What, did n’t I tell you ? The big ‘ house ’ was
fairly on the totter in the backwash of improvi-
dent speculation, so they naturally commenced to
Riink about retrenchment. Of course, these big
firms can’t rush a thing like that—have their
creditors round ’em like sharks in no time. In
the case of many of the young fellows, things were
pretty simple. Easy to have a lot of rules made,
so as ahy ordinary mortal can’t help breaking
them —and there you are. But this Blobbs was a
Earagon or an archangel, or something—anyhow,
e steered inside the rules so gingerly that there
was no getting him over the edge by ordinary
means. At last they packed him out here to work
off a lot of sluggish, out-of-date brushware on
commission. He arrived with a couple of port-
manteaus, bulging with resplendent clothes and
.high collars,_ and top-boots, and his heart thump-
ing with pride. He practised elocution and atti-
tudes and deportment all the way out. He felt
how he would revolutionise commercial methods.
He’d show them how to move lines; he’d get
through so swiftly that the cable would grow red
in the fervour of his indents. And it was not
until the price asked for the quarter-acre
brass-plate he had designed staggered him
that Blobbs realised that the firm had
made no provision for rent or anything of that
sort. So at last he rented a sample-room within
hailing distance of the planets. Then he hired
one of those travellers’ chignon sort of traps—
commence like a buggy and end up as a box-
waggon. It was drawn by an unnaturally tall
horse in a shrunken hide that left a lot of the car-
case exposed, and with chronically gurgling in-
sides. A boy in an unpleasantly advanced state
of neglect drove it.
“ Day by day Blobbs in his significant ap-
parel was driven from ‘house’ to ‘house,’
and day by day the heads waved him off.
At the end of a fortnight, the boy said things
in unmeasured terms, and the owner of the trap
summoned him for its hire. Then he set out on
foot to do the retails. He talked brushware and
displayed samples for weeks without turning a
hair. It seemed as if the whole city had entered
into a conspiracy against him, and that the com-
munity had firmly resolved to polish its boots
with banana-peel and send out its clothes to be
beaten like carpets, and to let its hair stand on
end for ever. It was a strict condition of Blobbs’
tenancy that no one should have fires in thebuildi
ing or remain after 6 p.m. There was nothing
else for it but to camp in the sample-room,
and to do so Blobbs had to lock himself in at
6 o’clock in the evening, and remain there quietly
without a light, while the watchman, with some
indefinable suspicion, Went his rounds with an
erratic frequency that played the very devil with
Blobbs’ heart. No' Italian regicide, jailed in an
observation cell, underwent more torture while it
lasted. If Blobbs made the least movement, even
to turn in the packing-case, in which his bed was
cunningly devised, the sound would seem to
reverberate through the building, and the watch-
man’s step would seem to hesitate near his door.
So he would lie there until his nerves stood up like
the bristles on his brushes, and through the dreamy
hours, in which he was afraid to sleep lest a snor9
should betray him, Blobbs would weave wild
schemes for moving his hairy incubus ‘into the
stream of commerce. After a few minutes’ in-
voluntary doze he would start up, his heart still,
to listen for what seemed countless hours, in fear
that his dreadful secret had been revealed. It
never occurred to him to abandon the brushware.
Everything was against that —training, instincts,
and all the rest of it. His only thought was the
interests of the firm. It would be so humiliating
to the firm if news went round that their trusted
representative slept in a packing-case in a sample-
room. *
* * * *
“ After many nights Blobbs revolted—to an ex-
tent. He went out and split his last shilling in a
sixpenny hangout at the theatre. When he came
out the streets were gleaming wet. In the door-
way of the building the watchman stood yarning
to a policeman. Robert was explaining something
that called for exuberant exposition and stepped
out into the roadway. The watchman, fascinated,
followed. This was Blobbs’ chance, and he flew
through the doorway like a wet streak. In the
dark Tie stumbled over the watchman’s tea-can,
and at the rattle both the watchman and police-
man rushed in. There was a lift in the building.
The architect, foreseeing that no one but the
watchman, who had nothing else to do, could ever
dream of using the stairs, had made that means of
ascent in precipitous zigzag flights. In a con-
vulsion of fear Blobbs tore up and up. Sometimes
his heart thumped like a steam-pump. Then it
stood still, and there were whirring and bunging
noises in his ears. The sweat poured into his eyes
and sparkled on his hands.. But he could not stop,
and he blundered to the top several flights ahead
of his pursuers, and jobbed at his keyhole. At
last he was in, the door was closed, and he
lay sobbing with his face buried in the long hair
of a hearth brush. On the landing the watchman
and the policeman altercated, puffed and gasped
broken, angry words. Blobbs heard them, growl-
ing and panting, try the doors. After a while
the policeman had misgivings or something—
thought that perhaps the thing (whatever it was)
had not come so far up. So he hastily ran down
some stairs, and fell down the remainder to the
ground-floor. , Meanwhile, the watchman lingered
on the topmost landing. Three times he com-
menced to descend the stairs. Three times he
changed his mind, and came back with a perturbed
scuffle towards the door of Blobbs, who felt as if
he were being alternately dipped in a limpid
spring and in vats of boiling fat. When, for the
fourth and what seemed from the heavy impact of
heels to be the last time, the watchman’s footsteps
retreated, Blobbs in a spasm of relief sat upright,
banging his head against a case.
“Then everything was clear to the watchman.
Heknew and felt rage—seething rage thatreddened
his vision, and urged him to tear Blobbs’ flesh. He
had been imposed upon, tricked by a miserable
creature whose ill-fortune drove him to immure
himself for 14 hours in a dreary attic where there
were not even the noises of the street to break the
monotony. He roared threats and tugged and
kicked at the door, wrenching off the knob like
ripe fruit. When the trembling Blobbs opened
the door and commenced to explain in a voice
like variations of ‘Home Sweet Home,’ the
watchman fell upon him with a whirlwind of in-
coherent reproaches. ‘Mighter goter man the
sack, yer dorg yer ! Moren a man’s billet’s worth,
yer cow yer—l ’ll chuck yer out, neck and crop ’ —
and he did. On the edge of the stairs Blobbs
made a frantic effort to maintain his dignity—for
the sake of the firm. The watchman aimed masses
of brushware at him, knocking him down the
stairs. The tumult resounded through the build-
ing. Robert heard, and dashed up the stairs. •
Shapeless things flew past him. Some struck him
with an angular aggressiveness that bruised and
blinded him. Other great masses met him with
the force of cannon balls, caressed him as lightly
as fluff, and fell to the floor with resounding
whacks. Robert became frenzied, and when a
mass of something definite rolled against him, he
fell upon it and scratched and tore, and kneaded
it with hands and knees, and head, until a huge
packing case, hurled by the watchman after the
person and chattels of Blobbs, bunted him off his
victim and carried him down several flights of
stairs.
“When his hopes were at their zenith Blobbs
had constructed with wires a sort of sample trophy
of brushware. This had stood in a corner of the
sample-room, and it was not until the watchman
commenced to sweep the place with his feet that
he discovered it. Then he dragged it to the top
of the stairs and hurled the hairy thing with
terrific violence after the rest. Blobbs pushed it
past him with the adroitness of a tradesman.
Robert, much damaged by the case, was reascend-
ing the stairs to tear the soul out of the person
unknown who had resisted arrest, when the weird
trophy bumped into him. And he was still trying
to stem it with his baton when Blobbs, stimulated
by the approach of the watchman, leaped
wildly over him and escaped to the street.
What became of Blobbs ? Oh, after days mouch-
ing round, trying to rescue the brushware, and
trying to figure out whether drowning in fresh-
water was more dignified than suicide in salt-
water, he disappeared. But I met a chap the
other day in the park. He was waiting for his
Old Age Pension. Apparently, he had about 15
years to wait, but he did n’t seem to mind that a
bit. His eyes had muddy shores, but the whites
were clear as health could make ’em. The parts
of his face not sparsely covered with a growth like
whitethorn in bloom were greasily ruddy. The
dome of his hat was mangy, and the tide of
natural pearl around the rim was at the spring.
Had a suit of mixed tweeds, rendered quite water-
proof by his own oil. He blew a cloud of ashes-
from his pipe, by way of pointing my duty.
“ ‘ Did he ever get a job ? ’ ‘No; couldn’t say
he’d ever tried. Plenty of people to do all the
work in a bit of a place like this.’ ‘He was not a
native, then?’ ‘Yes, country-bred and bom.’
Where ? ‘ Oh, jest over there ’ —and he waved his-
hand towards North Shore. But did n’t he ever
get run-in by the police ? ‘ Sometimes, not
often. Y’see, I chucks me whole weight on a
copman, and, when wonst he’s took me single-
handed, he’s had enough, see ! ’ It was not hard
to realise that the constable who would undertake
a second journey under the weight of that un-
savoury parcel of blubber must either be a zealot
or an ex-carcase-delivery-man.
* * * *
“Beginning to feel fowl-housy, I suggested
that he should go and get a drink. He took the
coin, and lolled back on the seat. Wasn’t he
going ? ‘ P’raps, but it was a long way up to a
pub.’ I pointed out that it no doubt was, up that
path, but could n’t he go down there (to Woolloo-
mooloo). Yes, he did n’t mind that so much ;it
Bloped a lot. And he languidly arose and moved
off, taking the fullest possible advantage of the cir-
cumstance that his boots were heelless. Did it
ever strike you that a chap like that is
a veritable masterpiece of nature. He is con-
stitutionally a reservoir of animal heat. He
wastes (in the sense of energy) nothing. Every-
thing he absorbs is converted into fat. Disease
germs that would riot in the blood and tissue of a
man less generously endowed are drowned in
boiling oil when they attempt to attack him.
The grease that oozes from every pore of his skin
repels predatory insects. He is impervious to
moisture. His joints can never stiffen and his
marrow defies rheumatism. Even the cold that
he catches in a draughty doorway must leave him
in despair because he is too indolent to cough.
The only thing that might wreck him would be
the total stoppage of food and drink. But that is
scarcely likely to happen, since his huge bulk puts
him to so great advantage in the scrimmage for
sustenance which other people unconsciously
carry on for his benefit.
“Just contrast him with the ordinary work-a-day
sort of man, under what may be regarded as
pretty fair conditions of these times. After
45 years of family raising and hard graft he
has- nothing but rheumatism —several sizes too
large for the shrivelled husk it wracks. In
the asylum he is a felon, or rather a pawn
in the game disciplinarians are playing for
promotion. So the old-age pension of 10s.
a-week and freedom are a foretaste of
Elysium. In the full tide of opulence he resolves
himself into a committee of ways and means.
How will he spend it all ? And this is
the proposal of one battered veteran after
goodness only knows how many delicious
hours’ computation: A room, 3s. a week ; one
square meal a day, fid. —3s. 6d.; leaving 3s.
fid. for 14 meals, tobacco, beer and sundries.
To any ordinary person acquainted with the
generous proportion of the average 6d. meal,
the idea of that one square feed a day in the
case of a system that actually does not require
a great amount of aliment seems all right. But the
person acquainted with the sixpenny meal is also,
doubtless, aware of the fact that in nine cases out
of ten it is the spoils for the victors. When the
burly navvy or wharf-labourer comes in and
energetically fills the intervals of waiting by
drinking all the sauce, scoffing all the greenstuff,
butter, pepper, and sundries, the proprietor grins.
Certainly, his smile is sickly, but that is the end
of it. He must live, however; and since his
profits are usually in direct ratio to the leavings,
the chances are that when once he becomes aware
of the identity of a pensioner, upon that feeble
old man he will seize as legitimate prey for ex-
perimentation in culinary economics. In the
contest the elderly person of no assertion and less
digestion will, of course, go to the wall.
“ Ruin this time, if you don’t mind. It’s what
my father drank out on the Oxboro’, and he was a
' snug old party. Never less than a pint a day,
and a quart when he could get it. You can see
his tombstone in old Windsor cemetery —aged 93.
Well, I believe a man inherits his father’s drink,
same as his constitution, and his diseases, and his
little tricks of holding his hands, and so on.—
Not bad ! —Must you be going—sorry—you’re
splendid company, young chap, and not too d d
talkative. So long ! You’ll see me round again
about Christmas.”
BILL SPUDS.
Singularly enough, it turns out that almost at
the Very time when the Rev. Dill Macky was
engaged in controversy with Father Masterson,
S.J., over the body of the naughty Anna, a
decision which precisely settled for loyal Catholics
the guilt of Anna was given by the Sacred College
at Rome. To this venerable body was submitted
the case, -not of Anna, but of Caia, also a naughty
lady. Caia was unchaste before her marriage :
she repented and was absolved at confession ; and
she subsequently declared upon oath to her bride-
groom that she had never been unchaste. De-
manded of the Collegium, sitting under the
presidency of a Consultor of the Index-Congrega-
tion, “ whether Caia had acted rightly. ” Decided:
“ She acted rightly at the first. For it is not
certain whether she then knew that Titus
(the husband) would require bodily chastity as
a condition of marriage. And, as she had received
from another source the forgiveness of her sin, she
was justified in availing herself of a reservatio
mentalis in her reply to his enquiry.” This
decision was given on March 11, 1901; was pub-
lished in Analecta Ecclesiastica, a theological-poli-
tical monthly, published at Rome, and edited by
Felix Cadene, a domestic prelate of Leo XIII;
and is quoted by Eng. Church Times, which
declares it is based '“upon the authority which a
loyal Yaticanist Catholic is bound to accept,” and
is “ presented to the world stamped as living and
modem, and as the utterance of the Ecclesia.
docens.”


DITDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP
THE ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUS DIP.
M‘DOUGALL BROS., 8 Spring- Street, Sydney.
Agents: 3XT.25. L. Wfc. -A-. Go., LOCAL AGENTS EVERYWHERE
WOOL
SEND
YOUR
WOOL
WINGHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
If you want to get the best possible results.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd*
Wool and Produce Brokers.
Consolidated Charge!
for Selling Wool J
2i Per Cent
/Includes all Charges excepting
\cartage from steamer’s wharf.
Fat Stock Salesmen, Stock & Station Agents.
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.
try orders.
Tails. Plaits,
FRINGES, Best Natural Curly Hair, 3/6, 8/6,
7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each. TAILS and PLAITS,
20in. lone:, 5/6, ; Extra Thick, 7/6 ; 24in.,
10/6 ; Extra Thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings Worked Up, 2/6 per oz.
Don’t be misled. Our Plaits and Tails are
twice as thick as sold elsewhere at same
price. Send Color of Hair. “ Only ONE
Address ” W. H. WIGZELL,
110 WILLIAM-ST., Corner of Palmer-st.,
Sydney. Cable trams toill stop at door. All
work guaranteed Illustrated catalogue
post free. Prompt attention given to coun-
Wigs made on shortest notice.
LADIES.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FR BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
Address— L.D.l
\
CWtt.
XYXS
I do not ask you to spend
money to test -whether my
remedy does or does not oure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’
Dance, etc. All I ask of you
is to SEND for a FREE
Bottle and to try it. I abide
by the result. A safe remedy-
approved by the Medical
Profession.
H. G. ROOT, 28,Endslelgh
Gardens, London, N.W.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Eight Different Articles,
comprising Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket (a good
trick), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin
and Card Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard
Fish (gives definition of your character), That Wonderful
Cinematograph or Book of Living Pictures, Mafeking
Grub (or nerve-strengthener), That side-splitting Look
and Laugh Glass, and, last of all, The Spider and the Fly
(an ingenious mechanical toy). Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-street, SYDNEY.
/V H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
HAVE THE
BEST.
■1
fl fl
■ I
a s
()
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE
Is built by a light, handy machine, easily operated, which will weave
THREE CHAINS OF FENCE AN HOUR.
The Lateral Wires are two-ply cable of best Gal. Steel Wire intersected by Crimped Steel Pickets
securely interwoven at any desired distance apart, forming a perfect Web Fence which will hold
securely all kinds of Stock.
FOB CATALOGUES AND PABTIOULAKS
‘CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE PENCE CO.,
128 Franklin St., Melbourne; 143 Sussex St., Sydney.
NEITHER CRACK
& tJ
ft®*
ssoe
*8
sao7
CBB
080 a
NOR BURN.
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
GUARANTEE Should any of our Celebrated CAN’T-B-BEAT Briar Pipw Crack or Burn a
uUAKAIN New One will be Exchanged lor it immediately on Application.
New une wu. o a TOBACCONISTS. By POST, Is. 2d.
Mick Simmons, haymarket, Sydney.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY, Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge: 3 3Pe** Cent, to *lxe Growers.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge id. per U>. to the Buyers.
On Our Selection.”
By “ Steele Rudd.
VOICE OF
NATURE.
When a person is afflicted with
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Backache
Sciatica
Blood Disorders
Anaemia
Indigestion
Jaundice
Biliousness
Sick Headache
General Debility
Gravel
Bladder Diseases
Bright’s Disease
It signifies that Nature is crying
aloud for help, and saying
“ Your Liver is out of
Order.”
“Your Kidneys are not
doing their work.”
“Restore them to health or
your suffering shall not
cease.”
Nature invariably keeps her
word. She will not he outraged.
So long as the Urinary and
Biliary Poisons which cause
these diseases remain in the
system, health caUnot be re-
gained. When the kidneys and
liver are fulfilling their ap-
pointed functions, the poisons
which cause these diseases are
expelled in a natural manner.
Anyone will tell you that the
only medicine which will per-
manently cure you, and one
which never fails is
The Great
Kidney and
Liver
Specific,
WARNER'S SAFE CURE.


TATTERSALL’S.
Address: Care GEO. ADAMS, Hobart.
SANDHURST 0. November 27.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
above.
Please allot me
shares in the
Name __
Address
Newcastle C. Dec. 12.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
I ■■ ■;! '
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name
Address
Summer C.
Dec. 26
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name.
Address.
Carrington S. Dec. 28.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALIa.
Please allot me_
Name
.shares in above.
3
Addresa
Brighton P. Jan. 1.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name _
£
Address
«
s
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars
Address t£ Tatter sail,” care G-eo. Adams, Hobart.


The best cough drops are drops ol
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
The next time you
take cold, dose your-
self with a lot of
home remedies and
dilly-dally along un-
til your cough is
deep-seated and you
are threatened with ,
pneumonia or con-
sumption. That’s
one way, to be sure.
sdf
Here’s another way: Take
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
at bedtime and be all right the next
morning. Isn’t this the better way?
Then continue the Cherry Pectoral a
few days until your throat and lungs
have completely healed and all danger
of future trouble is past.
Another grand thing about Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral is that it cures hard
coughs, the hardest kind of old coughs,
even after all other remedies have failed.
Put up in large and small bottles.
When it hurts your lungs to cough,
then apply one of Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral Plasters directly over the painful
lung. It will quiet the pain, remove all
congestion, and greatly strengthen.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Aver Co . i ew-tt m—~ ii c t
eflooe
JIA
A[±, «
o^6^
Beware-- t
l/AiT/£rioNs
sd
The Hotelkeepers’ Friend.
A
Soda Water, Id. per doz.
Lemonade and Ginger Ale, 3d. per doz.
HOTELKEEPERS MAKE THEIR OWN SUPPLIES OF
DERATED WATERS.
No skilled labor required. Anyone can learn
to operate the Machine in ten minutes.
TESTIMONIALS.
“ To the Daylesford Mineral Water Co.
“ Dear Sirs.—The Machine purchased from you is per-
fect. The stuff turned out is splendid. It is the best
speculation I have entered into since I joined the Licensed
Victuallers.—Geo. Nicholls, Royal Hotel, Swan Hill.”
Mr. Klug, Hotelkeeper, Charlton, says :—“ It is worth
its WEIGHT IN GOLD.”
Mr. P. Kennedy, Ooolgardie, says “ Profits saved by
making my own supplies of Aerated Waters with the
Machine pay the rent of my hotel.”
Mr. Lewis, Heidelberg, Victoria, says :—“ I have made
thousands of dozens of the best Aerated Waters with the
Machine, and it has not required sixpence worth of repairs.
No Hotelkeeper should be without one of them.”
Mr. W. Atkinson, Hotelkeeper, Wentworth, N.S.W.,
says:—“lt is the greatest money-maker yet discovered
for hotelkeepers.”
Mr. Burk, Yalgo, W.A., says :—“ Since getting one of
your Machines, and making my own soft stuff, I have
saved its price ten times over.”
W. H. Jones, Peak Hill, W.A., says :—“ Machine great
success.”
E. Davis, Peak Hill, W.A., savs :—“ Cannot speak too
highly of effectiveness and simplicity.”
G. N. Murdoch, Abbotts, W.A., says “ Value of
Machine indisputable ; quality and cheapness of stuff
unquestionable.”
T. H. Williams, Mossman, Queensland, says:—“ Highly
successful, and recommend to all hotelkeepers.”
J. S. Davidson, Bundaberg, Queensland, says :—“ Great
saving compared to previous cost of stock.”
A profitable business awaits pushing men in many small
centres of population, where a deeply-felt want exists for
a good quality of Aerated Waters. Observe the profits.
Call and see these Machines- or write for Circular describ-
ng them, also Price List.
Daylesford Hepburn Mineral Water Go-
-407 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Next Distribution of the Profits at 31st December, 1901.
Policies Effected before the close of the year will participate in the Bonus to be then allotted.
Amount of Cash Bonus divided among the participating Policyholders for the single year 1900 was £537,895,
(All bonuses vest immediately on policies attaining a duration of two years.)
Intending Proposers should note the above carefully, and send in their applications early, either direct or through
any of the Society’s Agents, so as to reap the benefit of this year’s bonus.
DIRECTORS : Thomas Littlejohn, Esq., Chairman ; The Hon. A. VV. Meeks, M.L.0., Deputy-Chairman ; Ths
Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.O. ; Benjamin Short, Esq.; Senator J. T. Walker; J. Abbott, Esq. ; and
E. E. Winciicombe, Esq., M.P. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teecb, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
HKOH'sSV
Commercial
Bugsy,
£l4 10»r
H. Hillj.er,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
H3T Send lor a
Catalogue.
fsd
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest .
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., OONOORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
r.
mm
WHOLESALE
Distributing Agents
New South Wales —
M. RUTTY & CO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Queensland—
Titos. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Philp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Go.,
Launceston
New Zealand—
D. Benjamin & Co.,
Dunedin, Wellington
and Christchurch.
m
George and Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAY.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY.
TERMS. The convenient
system of paying: for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
LETTERS and TELEGRAMS ADDRESSED to “ THE
MANAGER *’ will RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
<iAimd,
3HX
f
THE
PLUM’
p ENTLEMEN. —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“ RAZOLES ” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price
/ Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21a.
\ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s j Pair Razors, Iv9ry Handles, in beautiful oase, 30a.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part op the World.
|3F~ Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
I’ll Try If
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand
Price, 10s. 6d.
BOLE AGENTS.
The Result
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers a Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock. _
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
fW Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to any part of Australasia.
CRAIG &
AITKEN4:
New South Wales Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company
When In town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description oi
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, ±'s; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, i 7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies’ the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every descriptio nof vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and Si TOLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any linns who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 p si
cent more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Cloveland-street, Rodforn, SYDtfj&Y
OKU SI’KKIAL Xo. 2
£8 18/6
dsf
Delirered at any Wharf or
N.B.W. Hail ways, Station
£lO 10 1-
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Three-Bag Crop.
We’re cleaning up a three-bag crop,
And “ Good enough ! ” says we ;
Just fork the stack and watch it drop,
The grain’s a sight to see—
A sight to cure the fly-bung eye
I’ve had this week or two,
Just to stand and watch the cups go by,
And see the wheat slide through.
For it’s togs for me and the boys and the missus—
It’s white-man’s food to eat;
And the graft comes willing
When the bags are filling—
Five bushels to the bag of wheat! wheat! wheat!
Thirteen shillings to the bag of wheat!
You pick your season—wet or dry—
Take “early” against “late,”
Then plough and sow accordingly—
It’s just a gamble straight!
Of course, a bit of graft and pluck
Won’t do you any harm ;
But, after all, it’s mostly luck
That runs a mallee farm.
Ho ! see the mortgage all a-row—
A hundred bags of best!
And, Lord ! it gives a man a glow
To get that off his chest.
So shake her up, you handleman !
Hi ! chaffy, clear away,
And dish the tally, if you can,
You put up yesterday !
For it’s togs for me and the boys and the missus—
It’s white man’s food to eat —
And the graft comes willing
When the bags are filling—
Five bushels to the bag of wheat! wheat! wheat!
Thirteen shillings to the bag of wheat.
VIC.
E.R.P.
The Old Reaping’ Band.
There was a good graft, and we followed it, too,
So confident, careless and free,
Up country and down where the waving grain
grew,
And sure of a welcome were we !
But good-bye to the rioketty reapers of yore,
And the sheaves that were bound by the hand ;
Good-bye to the rattle we’ll follow no more,
So-long to the double lock-band !
It was tie the stuff well, and ’twas gather it clean,
And sling the sheaves far enough back ;
And ’twas “ Nobody stick up the bloomin’
machine
If he isn’t in want of the sack ! ”
So farewell to the lunches and soda-drawn tea,
And the sugar that mostly was sand ;
Good-bye to the junk that was salt as the sea,
So-long to the old single-band !
We sweated and sweltered, and cursed at the graft,
For harvesting wasn’t a joke ;
But we stood the sheaves up for a sun-shade and
laughed
When a cog or a driving-bar broke.
But farewell to the clatter of stones on the roof,
And the dog-curse maliciously planned ;
And the sigh for the maids that were never aloof:
So-long to the old “ lightning” band !
Scarce is the graft that is worth a regret,
No matter how early it dies,
If soienoe but kill it; for vigorous yet
From its ashes shall others arise.
So good-bye to the freedom we revelled in then,
And the wages that we could demand ;
Good-bye to the bosses that welcomed the men,
So-long to the double lock-band !
V.
BEN SUN.
The Irony of Fate.
Paddy Rooke was the boss o’ the shearin’ shed ;
’E was sinewy, straight and tall,
While I was employed as the shearers’ cook,
And was skinny and plain and small.
It wasn’t my fault that the meat was tough,
An’ the tar got inter the stoo ;
Yet ’e kicked me the length o’ the shearin’ shed,
An’ ’e walloped me black and blue.
An’ I brooded on my wrong,
An’ I oursed both load an’ strong,
An’ I felt that Life was nothing but a sham,
An’ I wished that I was ’e,
Or that Paddy Rooke was me.
An’ I railed at Fate, wot made me wot I am.
Tilly Brady, she lived at the ’Arf-way ’Ouse,
An’ a plum of a gal was she ;
An’ I seen ’er tip Paddy a hartful wink
As she sugared an’ milked ’is tea.
Then ’e jined the “ Horstralian Mounted ’Orse,”
With a uniform like a toff,
An’ e’ went to the wars to fight the Boers,
And she went to see ’im off.
An’ I watched ’er pipe ’er eye
As they kissed an’ said, “ Good-bye,”
An’ I felt that all the world was only sham.
An’ I wished that I was ’e,
Or that Paddy Rooke was me,
An’ I moaned the Fate wot made me wot I am.
But Paddy got ’it with a cannon-ball,
And it scrunched up ’is bloomin’ bones;
An’ they laid ’im out on the starry veldt,
An’ they covered ’im up with stones,
While I got spliced to the Brady gal;
But she turned out a blinded sell,
For she’s always a-wishin’ that I was ’e,
Till I wishes ’em both in—well —
In a place both ’ot an’ deep ;
For I sit an’ groan an’ weep,
And I still think all the world’s a rotten sham :
An’ I wishes I was ’e,
An’ that Paddy Rooke was me,
An’ I cuss ray Fate, wot made me wot I am.
N.S.W.
THOMAS E. SPENCER.


THE MICA LUBRICANT CO., SOUTH SHIELDS, ENG.
not score the rods, but put a mica surface on them, similar in appearance to electro plate.
Solegent for Australasia : R. A. HERVEY.
Dep6t, 171 Clarence-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
BALL AND WELCH
PROPRIETARY LIMITED.
Visitors to Melbourne during the Coming Racing Season will find
their Requirements Catered for in all Departments of the Ladies and
Gentlemen’s Trade. We keep Large and Well-Assorted Stocks of the
Following Goods :
Ladies’ Gloves in Kid and Fabric, Hosiery, Umbrellas, Parasols, Handkerchiefs, Laces,
Ribbons, Trimmed Millinery, Waterproofs, Mantles, Costumes, Corsets, Dress Goods, Mourning
Goods, English and American Boots and Shoes, Fancy Goods, Perfumes, Soaps, &c.
Gentlemen’s Tailoring, Mercery, English, American and Italian Hats, Ties, Gloves,
Umbrellas, Walking Sticks, Best English and American Boots, Boys’ Ready-Made Suits, Mercery,
Ties, Hats and Boots.
Manchester Goods, Blankets, Flannels, Carpets, Linoleums, Furniture, Bedsteads, Bedroom,
Dining and Drawing Room Suites, Ice-Chests, and Furniture of all descriptions.
We keep all the leading makes in medium and good qualities in all departments, and the
Public can rely on all goods offered for sale by us being the quality and makes represented.
Our Flinders-street Warehouse, occupied as the Head Branch of our Business, being situated
opposite the Prince’s Bridge Station, is central and convenient of access for both Town and
Country Customers.
A penny-tramwill bring Inter-State travellers from Spencer-street or the wharf, and we shall
consider it a favorif Visitors to Melbourne will call and inspect our premises and stocks, whether
they require to make purchases or not.
FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE
VINOLIA SOAP
FOR DELICATE, SENSITIVE SKINS.
FACTS.
VINOLIA SOAP _ t
is unsurpassed for the complexion.
VINOLIA SOAP J J „
is guaranteed pure, and will stand all tests.
VINOLIA SOAP j uj , t
yields a most soothing and abundant lather.
VINOLIA SOAP
is made from the finest materials.
VINOLIA SOAP
keeps the skin as soft as velvet.
IN FIVE KINDS. SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Vinolia Cream
. FOR ..
ECZEMA, ITCHING FACE SPOTS, Etc.
Editor Baby reports:
“An emollient antiseptic cream. For acne
spots on the face, cmd particularly for
eczema, it is undoubtedly an efficacious
remedy, frequently healing eruptions and
removing pimples in a few days. It relieves
itching as if by magic.”
Vinolia Powder
.. FOR ..
REDNESS, ROUGHNESS, TOILET, Etc.
Editor Lady’s Pictorial reports :
“ Vinolia Powder is a very soothing pre-
paration, superseding the old toilet powdlers,
which are apt to cause acne by blocking up
the pores of the skin.”
White, Pink, & Cream Tints.
N FOUR SiZrc;
GOOD HAIR R’On. ALL!
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. ‘ Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
fOT For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
asr For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quietly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT
HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
u On Our Selection.” By “ Steele Rudd.”
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
■X'O DEFY COMPSTIXIOKT.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OB MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS %?r.
French’s Acting Edition.
.■■■in
sdf
Bare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
Hoolis Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
STEAM
ENGINES
FROM 5 H.P. TO 100 HP
DYNAMOS
MOTORS
FROM 1 H.P. TO 60 hp.
CAN BE SUPPLIED PROMPTLY
FROM STOCK.
NOYES BROS.
31 O’Connell-st., SYDNEY; 17 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
Smelting;
Co.
(TjTMTTJ
of Australia
tJAPTO (Ljtjl&e llawarra), near
SYDKTBY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODU CJUirtSl
OF
fine silver.
Up;,
'
. * i
it
■ '
.
■MI
V
. -f*
P" 1 ’ * •
' S
ww < ss&s*
j
-
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co, of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILLAWARRA”
.. BKAND Oii\ .
SOFT LEAD,
Purchasers of
' /
all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLUJ
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to P. S. Mouse, Manager, The Smelting Company of Austialia, Ltd., DAL’IO, N.3.W.


The “ Cambooya case,” which embraces
charges of roll-stuffing, perjury, subornation of
witnesses, theft from a police-station, personation,
and other acta, implying (if proved) penal servitude
for somebody, has been once more buried in
Parliament. Daniels has spent a small fortune m
prosecuting his case during the last tnree years.
Curious “gauntlet” recently flung down
in a North Coast (N.S.W.) paper :
CHALLENGE.
T CHALLENGE the world to decipher and demon-
-1- strate from prophecy and history the self-opening
iron gates, Acts 12, and the royal and democratic
worm9 ' W. MARKS.
The wail of a neglected wife at Christ-
church (M.L.) was that her husband didn’t own a
humpy of his own, so lie took her to his mother s,
where they gave her only bread and bad butter
for breakfast because she wouldn’t assimilate the
maternal parritch. Abuse was always on tap,
and when harangued for wasting the washing-
blue, and for not being able to account for a little
bit of soap that the dog bad chewed, the tan-
bride grew tired of wedded bliss. On baturdays
hubby used to give her a whole saxpence to spend,
and then went to the theatre with his sister.
Marriage on these hilarious terms was voted a
failure by the court, and the wife got a separation
order.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
pre>s your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. # Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs.
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per box. Prepared by
AI BERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
g een label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
OR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE'S
rHLOROPYNE.
Caution.—Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGrHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, *»•. beMS oa
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWH€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say ChIokODYNB.. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
sd
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
ABE LI A NC ICS
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Hells will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
FT
HOTELKEEPERS!
MAKE YOUR OWN
VERATED WATERS.
rpHE “ AUSTRAL” /ERATED WATER MACHINE occu-
pies only Four Feet Square, will produce 150 Dozen per day of
Finest Waters (LEMONADE, GINGER ALE, SODAWATER, &c.)
at a Cost below Fourpence per Dozen. This machine
supersedes all others for SIMPLICITY and USEFULNESS, as it
requires no skilled labor to work it.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
214-216 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
fds
PLAIN HOM€ TALK-
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Obromos. 200 Illustrations. 1200 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1901 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted to any address for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Glog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aubt. Miners’ Gui-DE (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic, Is 6d, post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Ooates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
Balzac’s Droll Stories, Is 3d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid.
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Pa, Ma and Baby, by Gust&ve Droz, posted 2s.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Metal Working, Brazing, etc., Is 3d.
Send for my Illustrated Big Book
Catalogue-pest free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
Dr. C’arlsgon’a Electric Belt
will All your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkgon’3 Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
f
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and (Wans in t.nilv wonderful.
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC. organs is truly wonaenm.
Price— ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
CALLORWRITE- QWHi RATE DRUG STORE,
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
Now
Ready.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMON WEALTH
Price 8d Posted Bd.
NATURES TRUE REMEDIES.
Nature has provided a TRUE REMEDY for Every
Complaint. It is, therefore, unnece sary to contaminate the
System with Mineral Poisons, which leave the System Weak
and Debilitated. Sufferers frc m Blood and Skin Diseases,
Nervous Affections, Piles, Rheumatism, and Affection of
the Liver and Kidneys, Chest and Lungs, Consumption,
General Debility, Costiveness, Influenza, Melancholia, iEnemia,
can rely on a Cure from these Remedies.
ALFALINE
REMEDIES
Are a guaranteed
Cure for the
above Complaints.
They have Cured
Thousands, and
stood a Test in
Australia for over
20 years. They
have never been
known to fail in
a single case, and
they are purely
NATURE’S
REMEDIES.
itttMNpsfrt
kccnmufp
WHINED
ALF&UNE
HERBAL
REMEDIES
Have been Awar-
ded several Gold
Medals, and
More Testimon-
ials than any
known remedy in
Australia.
A Special
Guaranteed Rem-
edy for each
Complaint.
HESS RASSMUSSBFS CHIEF LABOEATOEY.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Are a Guaranteed Cure for All Nervous Affections, Weak Spine, Brain and Nerves, Pool
Memory, Tired Feeling, and General Debility. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Course. 23/6.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
Are a PERMANENT CURE for the Most Chronic Blood Diseases, Skin Diseases. Blotches,
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, etc. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
Purify the Blood and Build up the Weakest Nervous System. A Guaranteed Cure for
ASnemia, Wasting Diseases in Females. A General Blood and Nerve Tonic
for both sexes. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS
Are Guaranteed to Cure Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn,
Biliousness, and the Liver and Kidneys. BOXES, ONE SHILLING. Posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills —Guaranteed to
cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lum-
bago. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 12s. and
235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage—
This Suspender imparts Strength and Vigor,
at the same time as it supports the parts.
Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills—A
Wonderful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Con-
sumption, Bronchitis and Influenza. Boxes,
posted, 35., 65., 12s. and 235. 6d.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and
effectual Electric currents unequalled as a
cure for all Spinal and Kidney Affections ;
425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Sufferers can only obtain the Alfaline Herbal Remedies from
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office or Branches, the addresses of
which appear below. Letters should be addressed and Cheques
and Money Orders made payable to Herr Rassmussen’s full
name— Hans Peter Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head
Office or Branches. Register all letters containing money.
All Remedies sent unobserved, packed in plain cover.
Correspondence held confidential.
ALFALINE
PILE POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
FAT-REDUCING
POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/*
ALFALINE
HAIR-RESTORER,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
CORN CURE, 1 /-.
OINTMENT, 1/*.
-
A USEFUL BOOK
SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmussen’s
valuable book, The
Alfaline Guide to
Health, which con-
tains valuable in-
formation for all
Complaints, and
copies of Testi-
monials, will be sent
free in plain cover,
on application.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD OFFICE,
(HANS PETER RASSMUSSEN)
547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Alfaline Remedies can only be obtained from his Head Office and hia
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES :
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke-st.
BRISBANE—3O9 Queen-st.
ADELAIDE—IS Pulteney-st. .
W. A.—PERTH, 481 Hay-st.
KALGOORLIE—Hannan - st.
BOULDER ClTY—Piesse-st.
N.Z.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington
FREMANTLE—Henry-st.
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of the ALFALINE REMEDIES.


SUNLIGHT
SOAP
15 REALLY
• THE CHEAPEST
IN THE END.
Linens, Cottons and Woollens are soon reduced
to holes when washed with ordinary soar confin-
ing alkali tn a tree state.
SUNLIGHT SOAP does not contain any alkali
in a free state and is really the cheapest in the
end, as all articles washed with it last much
longer than if washed with ordinary soap.
SHYER-MOUNTED PURSES
. . AT . .
FREETRADE PRICES
Silver-mounted Crocodile Com-
bination Purse and Card Case, in
Green, Brown or Tan, finely
finished, 15/- each.
dsf
!E*o3 1 Free
Silver-mounted Crocodile
Purse and Card-Case Com-
bination. 5/6. 20 Patterns.
Please send for
Illustrated Catalogue.
J ewellers & Opticians j
Of \
go King ST, Sydney. 1
Telephone 3642.
Dtr*ost Free
ONE THOUSAND
LATEST DESIGNS
to select from.
4/6 TO 30/-
EACH.
Novelty' Purse, real Crocodile, with
Silver Mounts and Glove Hook,
12/6. Exceptional Value.
((
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
the FEDERAL
Balmoral
BOOT
lOfi
dsf
Onr new “Federal'’
Balmoral is the best Root this season. It is made
of finest Dongola calf, with kid legs, is leather lined,
the soles are fair stitched and standard screwed.
The “ Federal” Balmoral is made purposely for ns,
and yon can't get it elsewhere. In all the new fashion-
able shaped toes. Price carriage paid to any address
in the Australian Commonwealth or New Zealand is
half a guinea pair. Yonr money baolc if not satisfied.
The DON Cash Trading Co.
JOHNSTON ST., COLLINQWOOD,
MELBOURNE.
A POLICY
FOR THE
COM MOIM WEALTH
Price, 6d; posted, Bd.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Hennessy’s
Hold
the Largest
Stock on
Earth
of
Genuine
Bottled
Brandy.
THE
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
CD
! >
/a
r*
, M(iM f
\M> va l At
SO
>A
%
ia«
MS
sgataea
GOLD MEDAL
g^wlTH
•0*»
ERiCKtfc
/'<"
TO
gf
&B
j&| RmmomwJNG\
w
m
1901
7
“ When the Pan American Exposition opened P & B
Ruberoid Roofing was on eleven buildings, including the United
States Government Building, on which upwards of 20,000
square yards were used. They are constantly having trouble
with the cheaper Roofings. These are being torn off in many
instances and Ruberoid substituted.
“STEPHEN W. TRENCH.
“ New York, July 19th, 1901.”
BY CABLE
{“ New York, Oct. 12th, 1901.
“ Ruberoid received Gold Medal over all
competitors at the Pan American Exposi-
tion, Buffalo, N.Y.”
P* B
RUB€ROIP
ROOFING
Is superior in every respect to all portable roofings. Be sure you get
TN€ GENUINE ARTICLE.
50 Agents with Stocks
all over Australasia,
E. RICH & CO. L
Sydney
Brisbane
mm
VJt
A*
ro
UU
UMIQm
r\
*2
GOLD MEDAL
jft'&WZXS
'J-'
f'Q%
a u


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper,
Vol, 22.— N0. 1133,
SATURDAY. NOVEMBER 2, 1901.
Phtcb 6d.
MR. REID’S ANXIETY ABORT THE POOR MAN
"If you come down on the great struggling masses in this or any other country, the poorest country as country as well as the richest; if you down come down on the great breathing workingman.
whose only espital is his flooting strength that is renewed by sleep; if you come down on the poor to bear the burden of the taken of the State, the poor, who make up the wealth and
strength of grery nation-(loud and prodonged cheers)-I say, ladies and gentlemen, that if you come down," etc.
G.H.R. (to the "Poor Man"): "They've shut me out, but if you will make a back for me Im think I could get through the window or over the fanlight somehow."
POOR MAN: "But you remember I gave you a legup six or seven years ago when you promisel to make me Jolly and Fat; and look at me now!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
44 Austrdlhi for the A ustvnliiuis
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ••• & 0
Half-yearly ... ... nan
Quarterly ... ... ••• (Job
Hotice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia.,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
€l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of\\d. postage, the subscription
to Tiie Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal l\ote,
One Pound Note, of stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The. whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
"Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Made anti White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions : under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. — L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
South Africa.— R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 32 Hout-st., Capetown. Gwelo News Agency
Rhodesia.
77ie~$$ul2e?zoi.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1901.
The New Boom.
That the only possible result of a con-
tinuance of the present financial career of
Australia is national insolvency, and a stop-
page of payment of the interest on the public
liabilities, and a great commercial cataclysm,
is almost too obvious to be worth arguing
about. The questions of real interest are :
(1) What chance is there that the present
financial drunk will be checked in time 1 and
(2) if it isn’t checked, how long, in the ordi-
nary course of things, can the disaster be
postponed ? The six Commonwealth States
have added about £44,000,000 to their
liabilities since the year of the great collapse
—-the year when Australia decided that it
had received a lesson which it would never,
never, by any chance forget. Despite the
great increase in population, it owes a good
deal more per inhabitant than it did then. It
had a year or two of comparative sobriety cer-
tainly, but it was only a year or two. It is
now .spending money that isn’t its.own faster
that in 1892, before it received its solemn
warning, and far more than twice as fast as
in 1896. Not that Australia was more than
partially sober in 1896, but all the same the
increase is monumental. This is how the
two years compare :
LOAN MONEYS EXPENDED.
During year During year
ended ended
June, 1896. June, 1901. Decrease.
S. Australia .. £533,157 £422,343 £110,814
Tasmania .. 113,278 283,537 170,259
Queensland .. 592,158 1,212,020 619,862
Victoria .. 218,796 939,782 720,986
Westralia .. 650,708 1,495,292 844,584
N.S. Wales .. 1,270,898 2,879,727 1,608,829
£3,378,995 £7,232,701 £3,853,706
This huge increase, too, had nothing what-
ever to do with the cost of the Sydney land
resumptions. They only came into the
account at a later date, and it is partly—though
only in part —owing to them that the
Commonwealth States have borrowed
£7,500,000 in the past four months, and are
out on a wilder orgy than ever.
* * * *
But not only has borrowing increased ;
the whole system has deteriorated. At one
time loans were issued because the country
required money to pay for reproductive
works. Now this country has so many
works in proportion to population that it is
hard to find anything reproductive to build.
But it owes so much publicly and privately
that unless it continues borrowing it must
send away goods to the value of about
£16,000,000 a year more than it imports,
to pay interest. This is an awful responsi-
bility for a small community to face— most of
all a community which believes in high
wages and short hours, and which has little
to export except the produce of the worst-
paid Gibeonite on earth—-the person who
goes on the land. Britain is our chief
creditor. To pay in goods means that Aus-
tralia, with its barren soil and its long sea-
distances and costly freights, must put its
goods on that distant market so cheaply that
they can sell in competition with those of
more favored and more adjacent countries,
where there is no short hour or minimum
wage movement. Australia can’t pay in
raw material unless its people are willing to
work 10 or 12 hours a day for 20s. a
week, or somewhere thereabouts—and as a
matter of fact the man on the land, who
supplies the bulk of this country’s exports,
generally does that. But if it borrowed no
more, and paid all its interest-bill in produce,
a far larger proportion of its population
would have to work for 12 hours a day, and
20s. or so per week. The country floats
loans nowadays largely to postpone this
problem, and ingenious politicians invent
public works to set against these loans.
And this is the result:—
Total Loan Money Spent on Unproductive Works.
To 1892. To 1901.
Tasmania .. £3,136,877 £4,206,256 £1,069,379
Victoria .. 2,693,240 3,868,148 1,174,908
S. Australia .. 4,829,604 6,077,613 1,248,009
Westralia .. 411,538 3,089,563 2,678,025
Queensland .. 6,741,166 11,084,705 4,343,539
N.S. Wales .. 7,836,260 12,887,885 5,051,625
£25,648,685 £41,214,170 £15,565,485
Up till 1892, only about one-sixih of the
loan-money was applied to works which
yielded no revenue. In the period between
1892 and 1901 more than one-third was
thus applied. And as these are loans the
interest on which has to be .paid wholly out
of taxation, the tax burden is steadily in-
creasing. And as more of the revenue goes
in interest less of it goes in public works,
and to counterbalance this more of the
public works expenditure is charged to
ioans.
* • * •
Going back only six years it is remarkable
how the craze has grown for propping up
the battered credit of Australia by virtually
putting loan moneys into revenue. That is
really what it amounts to, though the object
is threefold : the revenue, burdened by the
increasing weight of interest, is relieved by
the transfer to loan expenditure of under-
takings which used to be paid out of taxa-
tion. Work is found for the unemployed.
And the borrowed cash helps to solve the
ever-aching problem—how to send a surplus
of about £16,000,000 worth of produce to
England every year, and sell it in that over-
burdened market against our cheap com-
petitors, so as to pay the annual interest
bill, and yet keep up the fiction that Aus-
tralia, though bound by its debt obligations
to be a huge supplier of cheap produce, can
still pay the highest wages in the world's
market. This is how the great swindle has
grown and expanded since 1895 :
Loan Money applied to Unproductive Works in the
Commonwealth and virtually used as Revenue.
Year to Year to
June, 1896 .. £1,403,570 June, 1899 .. £2,048,179
„ 1897 .. 1,857,713 „ 1900 .. 2,181,991
„ 1898 .. 1,745,225 „ 190 l .. 2,649,548
* * * •
It is the fashion to meet all warnings of
possible danger with the assurance that
Australia, so tar, has met all its obligations,
and that the past is a guarantee for the
future. But, so far as concerns meeting the
drain of interest out of our own resources,
Australia has hardly even begun to encoun-
ter its obligations yet. Some of the States
haven’t begun at all. Taking the last ten
years, this is the extent to which the States
have liquidated the liability for interest on
their public debts out of their own re-
sources, so far as the figures are supplied by
Coghlan’s “ Seven Colonies,” his “Statistics
of the Seven Colonies,” and his “Statistics
of the Six States of the Commonwealth :
Ten Years, 1892-1901, inclusive.
Amount of
Loan Moneys Interest paid Interest paid
Expended. on Debt, out of State’s
resources.
Victoria .. £8,319,231 £18,527,432 £10,208,201
S. Australia.. 5,222,867 9,460.989 4,238,122
Queensland .. 9,249,029 12,774,025 3,524,996
Tasmania .. 2,213,023 3,072,497 859,474
N.S. Wales .. 22,626,308 23,210,198 553.890
Loan Money
brought into
State over and
above Interest.
Westralia .. 10,283,601 2,574,308 7,709,293
£57,914,059 £69,619,449
Taking all things into account, the result is
that the six Governments of the Com-
mouwealth had to provide, in 10 years,
£69,619,449 as interest on their public
liabilities. Almost all of this had to be
remitted to England. The only way most
of it could be remitted was in the shape of
produce—largely produce in the sale of which
Australia has to compete with nations that
have better soil and lower freights. There-
fore, in order that the produce might sell in
the British market under these drawbacks,
it was necessary for Australia, if it paid this
bill in its own goods, to become a cheap-
labor country in an aggravated form. Aus-
tralia’s legislators shelved four-fifths of the
difficulty by borrowing £57,914,059 of the
money, and only faced the other fifth of the
problem. Wherefore it will be a much larger
problem a little later on.
* * * *
Australia has had two booms within a very
few years—the one which broke in 1893 and
the one which will break presently. Until the
country began to be struck, in the premoni-
tory days of 1891, with a difficulty in the
British loan market, it carried its debt-
burden easily for the sufficient reason
that it borrowed every year enough
to pay the interest, and something more
to go on booming with. Then came a
series of lean years—years of sackcloth and
repentance—when the country borrowed
only enough to pay the largest part of its
interest bill, and liquidated the rest out of
its own resources. They were cold and
bitter years, but if Australia had paid the
whole of its interest bill out of its own re-
sources—as it will have to do some day—
they would have been a vast amount worse,
and very few shillings a week would prob-
ably have been regarded as a liberal wage for
a week of 64 hours, with other things in
proportion. And then there came the
period of revival when, in the words of the
blatant politician, “the soundness of the
country asserted itself,” and “ its solvency
was triumphantly vindicated,” and other
things of the kind happened. That was the
period when Australia began to borrow
more vigorously again, and gave up the
attempt to pay even a reasonable section of
its interest bill out of its own means. Here
are some extracts from Coghlan’s statistics,
which illustrate the position :
When the Boom was Fadino.
New Surplus to
Loan Money keep tlie
Expended. ** ' boom going.
1891- .. .. £10,137,817 £5,829,971 £4,307,846
1892- .. .. 6,490,457 6,116,207 374,250
The Years of Sackcloth and Repentance.
Deficit.
1893- .. .. 4,483,830 7,086,180 2,602,350
1894- .. .. 2,992,743 6,916,974 3,924,231
1895- .. .. 3,378,995 7,080,877 3,701,882
Period of Gradual Recovery.
1896- .. .. 5,952,460 6,991,636 1,039,176
1897- .. .. 5,514,843 7,215,736 1,700,893
1898- .. .. 5,607,986 7,288,488 1,680,502
Period of Rapid Recovery.
1899- .. 6,122,227 7,435,705 1,313,478
1900- .. 7,232,701 7,657,675 424,974
£57,914,059 £69,619,449
Surplus to
keep new
First half of boom going.
1901- .. £7,500,000 £3,900,000 £3,600,000
(about)
* * * •
So the dog has gone back in a general way
to the unpleasant substance mentioned in
the Scriptures, and the sow that was not
washed, but only sponged over, has resumed
business in the old mudhole. Last year
Victoria and South Australia reduced their
loan expenditure a little—only a little—but
the ‘other four States made increases that
more than compensated for this. The usual
signs and ear-marks of the good old boom
again begin to be apparent. Comparing the
year just ended with the one immediately
preceding, the exports of the Commonwealth
decreased about £4,000,000 and imports in-
creased nearly £6,000,000. In 1899 the six
States paid £13,500,000 of their foreign
interest liabilities by excess of exports ; in
1900 only £3,500,000. In two, if not three
States, the area under crop has begun to
diminish slightly, and the old tendency to
throw up the heavy and comparatively
profitless job of agriculture, and take to
Government works, again manifests itself.
And, as usual, the new boom is described as
the emergence of the country, by its own
efforts, from a period of gloom and de-
pression. In which respect it is so like the
old boom that the difference between the two
isn’t worth mentioning.
An Agricultural Minimum Wage.
Under the heading of “ Labor Legislation,” this
item was wired over from Maoriland last week
Labor legislation has had considerable attention during
the past week. On the one hand, the Industrial Concilia-
tion and Arbitration Act has had a set-back ; on the
other, the Factories Act has been pushed forward. The
latter measure was the subject of an all-night sitting on
Thursday, on which occasion the House worked with
exhaustive diligence, and was led by the Minister for
Labor (the Premier) with tactful generalship. The result
is the first appearance on any statute-book of a legal
eight hours’ day. That is a great triumph for organised
labor. At the same time, by exempting all country avo-
cations from the operation of the law, all interests are
consulted. This single piece of legislation, which has
drawn the legislative line hitherto regarded as beyond
the wit of man, is sufficient to make the session of 1901
memorable.
Australasia now possesses one eight-hour law from
which all purely country industries (agriculture,
dairying &c., most especially) are omitted ; one
minimum wage law from which country industries
are omitted ; and a whole multitude of laws for the
benefit of the worker, from almost all of which
country industries are omitted with a persistence
Worthy of a better cause. And nobody, or hardly
anybody, dreams of not omitting them. They are
left out instinctively and as a matter of course.
Yet the country worker, whose hours are long in
inverse ratio to his wages, which are short, calls
for legislative assistance quite as much as the town
worker. Why doesn’t he get it?
* * • *
Leaving Maoriland out of the reckoning, Aus-
tralia has to export, chiefly to England, not only
enough to pay for its imports (which are absurdly
large because it hasn’t yet learned how to manu-
facture for itself hundreds of things which it
should manufacture), but £8,000,000 worth per
annum to pay interest on its private, and almost
as much more on its public, borrowings. Even
now it has to be, in proportion to population,
almost the largest exporter in the world, and if it
ceased foreign borrowing it would have to further
increase its exports by several millions a year
—or else correspondingly diminish its imports, it
doesn’t export largely of manufactured goods like
the United States, but almost wholly raw pro-
duce, and as the most ignorant of races can tear
raw produce out of the ground in some sort
of fashion, there is plenty of competition in
that line. The Australian has to plough and
sow and harrow nearly four of his barren acres to
get the same amount of produce that the American
gets off two, and the German off little more than
one, therefore he needs to be a remarkably cheap
laborer if he is to hold his own. He has also to
pay about twice the sea-freight that they do before
he gets his goods on the British market, so again
he needs to be an extra-cheap laborer. He needs,
or will need before long, to be about the cheapest
toiler on the land among the white races of this
earth. Practically the whole recent history of this
country is the history of a continuous struggle to
get lots of goods on the English market at such a
low price that they will sell in competition with
all comers, so as to raise the money to pay the
interest with and to pay for imports.
• * * *
If Australia, under present conditions, gave its
country workers a decent minimum wage and
decent working hours it would doubtless involve
an increase in local prices, but that would
only be a small item in the consequences. The
country would also cease to produce cheaply
enough to hold its own in the British market
against long-hour and low-wage competitors, and
the sudden cutting off of the resource that pays the
interest bill would bring about the promptest kind
of national bankruptcy. A little might be done by
cutting down rent, but a very large proportion of
the agricultural community has bought its land
cheaply off the State, and pays no rent. Some-
thing might be done by cutting down railway
freights, but a great deal of what was taken off in
freights would have to be put on again in taxes,
and they couldn’t nearly all belaid on the wealthy
classes, for in these times the wealthy classes of
Australia have no very large amount of money—
their wealth consists more in schemes for getting
money. The Australian can’t hope to start
paying his interest bill in manufactured goods
for many years to come; America is nearer
to the English market, and the American has
a vigor and ingenuity in this kind of business
which the Australian shows no present sign of
emulating. And, under these circumstances,
what are the prospects ?
• • * *
Apparently, the first thing is to learn to manu-
facture for ourselves—by “artificially coddling
exotic industries ” with a Protective tariff or by
any possible means—so that there will be less im-
ported manufactured goods to pay for witli the
products of the ill-paid country worker. The
second thing is to discourage the absentee of
every kind by every possible means—the absentee
landlord, money-lender, squatter, bank, insurance
co., and all other varieties —so that there will be
less interest on private loans to pay for out of the
products of the same sweated producer. Thirdly,
it is essential to put an end to all foreign borrovv-
ing, so that there will be no increase in the public
interest-bill, that has to be liquidated in
the products of the worst - paid class of in-
dustry on earth. Otherwise, there is nothing in
view to prevent Australia becoming almost the
lowest-wage white man’s country on this globe.
It is at present in the amazing position of having
to send abroad about tivo-thirds of its entire pro-
duce to pay interest and to pay' for imports ! It
lias to send away about one-seventh to pay
interest alone. It has to sell most of this
in a market which is open to all the cheap-
labor countries on earth, and most of its
competitors are nearer to their market, and
are blessed with a more productive soil. A coun-
try like that can’t pay decent wages to its primary
producers, and it doesn’t. The energy of its re-
formers is directed almost wholly to providing
decent wages and decent conditions for the com-
parative handful of industrial workers in its city
factories, and the much larger population which is
“on the land” gets what wages and hours and
accommodation Providence sends it. The joke in
The Bulletin’s “ Aboriginalities ” column about
the Australian farmer who pays 10s. a week for
15 hours’ labor per diem is partly joke and
a good deal tragic earnest. A debtor country,
which has to pay its way by supplying Britain
with produce dragged out of a soil which is
inflated with pride when it averages 8 bushels to
the acre, and with the cost of 16,000 miles of
freight deducted from the proceeds, can’t be a
land of high wages. And a debtor country which
has to grow two-thirds of its produce under these
conditions is likely to be a country of miserably
low wages, so far as the majority of its
population is concerned. Will some reckless
reformer propose an eight-hours’ day and a mini-
mum wage of even 30s. a week for the agricultural
employee, and listen to hear something drop ?
The Interesting Consumptive.
Until a few years ago the sufferer from phthisis
was merely an “ interesting” invalid. For many
persons he is an attractive invalid still. His
disease does not usually confine him to the house.
He can walk about and chat; he can teacli in
Sunday-school; he can play ping pong; and all
the time look pale and interesting. His hectic
cheek-spots are not usually regarded as danger-
signals. His disease is a Respectable d isease, located
inaplacewhich can be mentioned without blushing,
and his hacking cough is a melancholy appeal to
public sympathy. When at the last he comes to
spit up half-a-pound of blood and lung in a single
paroxysm, he does it in comparative privacy ; and
his funeral is numerously attended by those who
have seen in him only an unfortunate victim of
malignant Fate.
• • • *
The notion that consumption is “catching”
begins to take root, however; and when the
public really wakes up to the fact that, in most
communities, phthisis is far more to be dreaded
than leprosy, “the poor consumptive” will probably
have a much less pleasant time during his lingering
journey to the grave. The residents of Roma, in
Queensland, for example, commence to realise that
there are some risks attached to living in a town-
ship renowned as a consumptives’ sanatorium.
Roma, where Petek Jackson, the pugilist,
lately died of phthisis, is reputed to have
a climate eminently suited for the treatment
of the disease. The consumptive sojourners
in Roma at present number over 50, and, as
far as is known, none of the local residents
are any the worse. The Govt, is supporting as
many as 20 patients on farms, and the farm people
have apparently not suffered, though they breathe
the same air, use the same eating and drinking
utensils, and, generally speaking, take no precau-
tions whatever. The patients walk about the town,
and expectorate in the streets, hotel-bars—any-
where. There is not one hotel in which some con-
sumptive person has not slept. Indeed, it appears
that the hotel proprietors at present cannot refuse
to accept consumptives as boarders. But the ap-
proach of phthisis is so insidious that one never
knows when the germ has taken root; and even.


Roma grows uneasy. A building which had been
used as a sanatorium was sold some time ago tor
50 per cent, less than its original value.
Jackson’s fate, by-the-way, was only that of nearly
all the consumptives who go to Roma. I hey either
die there, orreturntotheir homes just in time to cue.
In New South Wales the suburbs oil the Muson s
Point line are favored as residences by consump-
tives ; and at Hornsby, the terminus, so many
phthisical persons reside that the suburb is
shunned by others on that account. In the trains,
morning and evening, you may see numerous con-
sumptive people more or less obviously ailing ;
and some of them are not particular where they
expectorate. When the carriage-windows are
kept closed, as in winter, the risk to the healthy
is certainly grave. * *
It is time that people generally recognised that
the consumptive, as a source of disease infection, is
practically more dangerous in Australia than
either the leper or the smallpox-patient; for the
simple reason that smallpox and leper patients
are quarantined, while phthisis patients go
everywhere unfettered ; and phthisis is still
the most fatal disease in this country. Con-
sumptives should be put under surveillance
for the good of the community, however we
may pity them. Distinct cases of phthisis should
be reported to the Board of Health ; the patients
should be warned against transmitting infection
per sputum-, and hotels and public conveyances
should only be open to them under definite restric-
tions designed to safeguard healthy travellers. It
will be rough on the consumptive; but the public
health comes first. Which fact, to do many
intelligent phthisical patients justice, is already
quite recognised by themselves.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Man Who Writes to the Papers.
Nowadays the Australian papers are inundated
with letters like the following (which appeared in
a Sydney daily) from people who evidently fancy
that the Federal tariff, with its great mass of
revenue duties in addition to its Protective im-
posts, was got up for Kingston’s amusement: —
Sir, — The Federal Government require two millions of
money, and consequently have to raise eight millions,
thanks to the “ Braddon Blot.” Would it not be possible
to raise one million by a tax of 10s. per bale on wool
exported (a trifle over a farthing per pound), and another
million by raising four millions through excise and
Customs duties ? If above could be carried out, it would
mean the reduction of the proposed duties by one-half. —
Yours, etc., G.A.F.
It is a solemn fact that nine Australians out of
ten appear to believe, like the writer of
the above, that the tariff was devised be-
cause the Federal Government wanted money
for its own expenses, and even the tenth one is
only vaguely aware that it was the great
necessities of the States, and of New South Wales
as much as any other, that made the Kingston
tariff necessary. A customs tariff that yielded
£5,000,000 would give "the Federal Government,
under the Braddon “Blot” proviso, £1,250,000
for its own expenses, and that, with its share of the
excise, would be all it wants. It could almost pull
through if it applied the old Reid tariff of N.S*. W.
to the whole of the Commonwealth. But it has to
raise heaps of money to hand back to the terribly
embarrassed State Governments—and N.S.W.,
which makes the most row, is not the least em-
barrassed of the lot. N.S.W. cheerfully granted
old age pensions (to start at the beginning
of the financial year during which the Federal
tariff came in force), and trusted to that tariff
to supply the money. Certainly the State
legislators didn’t provide a penny of it. It
raised the wages of many State employees,
and O’Sullivan’s minimum wage on State
contracts is regarded with justifiable pride.
It borrowed so liberally that this year’s
interest bill is fully £lOO,OOO more than last
year’s. It had the second largest deficit in Aus-
tralasia, and it resolved that it wasn’t worth while
providing for it, or the extra interest, or the extra
wages, for the Federal Parliament would find the
cash. It struck noble attitudes over its Old Age
Pensions and increased wages, and said (while
leaving the Federal Parliament to find the money)
that these things showed how strong, solvent, and
progressive the State had become under an en-
lightened policy, &c., &c. And Kingston and
Turner are doing their best, amid great obloquy,
to find the money—yet N.S.W. has heaped up
obligations at such a rate, without providing for
them, that N.S.W.’s share of the tariff-revenue
promises even now to be £300,000 less than the
State Treasurer reckons that he requires, and
both Kingston and Turner have despairingly
given up the attempt to wholly fill the gap.
So the State Government gets the credit
and glory of granting Old Age Pensions and
other concessions, and the Federal Government
has mud thrown at it liberally as a brutal extor-
tioner for trying to find the means to pay them
with, and the people who voted the Old Age Pen-
sions, and left the Federal Government to find the
money, write to the papers about it.
* .
A Proposed Pise 1 Referendum.
W. M. Hughes, who represents some of the
Sydney suburbs in the Federal House of Repre-
sentatives, suggests that it would be well to submit
the Barton Government’s tariff to a popular vote.
The idea certairdy has much to recommend it,
though a good deal depends on how it is proposed
to lay the mattter before the people. The
Referendum differs materially from an ordinary
election. The latter is a function where the
people choose between (say) Smith and Brown,
and the fact that the alternative of Smith is
Brown, and the alternative of Brown is Smith,
is obvious to any ordinary voter. The Referen-
dum, on the other hand, may be a proposition
without any alternative. So far, the Foreign-trade
party has only proposed that the people of Aus-
tralia should be called on to declare by a national
vote whether they will have Barton’s tariff
or not. Apparently, if Barton’s tariff
is rejected the Calico Jimmy party will
profess that that means that the Reid tariff,
which wasn’t placed before the people at all, is
accepted. If the question was put in one line:
“Will you have Barton’s heavy tariff or
not ? ” a very large number of people would vote
“ No” with enthusiasm. It would read like the
question : “Do you prefer to be heavily taxed, or
not to be taxed ? ” and on that subject the great
multitude has -no doubts whatsoever. But it is
admitted, even by George Reid and M'Millan,
and all the Foreign-trade leaders, that a tariff
which will yield between £8,000,000 and £9,000,000
is absolutely necessary, unless this country is
going to default in its interest-payments. There-
fore, it is necessary for the Reid party to prepare
its tariff also, and then it would be a fair thing to
hold a Referendum on these four questions—the
matter can’t be put into less :
(1) Are you in favor of the Barton Government’s tariff?
It is framed to yield about £8,500,000 the State*
can’t get through with less. Its framers allege that it
will create new industries and supply employment and
wages ; and its enemies, without wholly denying this,
declare that it will raise prices so greatly as to more than
counterbalance any advantage thus gained. You can
form your own opinion on these points.
(2) Or are you in favor of the Reid tariff, also calcu-
lated to raise about £8,500,000 ? Its framers guarantee
that it won’t give assistance in the way of creating any
industry or finding anybody employment and wages ;
and its enemies cordiallv agree with them. Its enemies
say that it will'also raise prices. You can form your
own opinion on these points. . ...
(3) Or do you reject both proposals, with a view to the
drafting of some new scheme quite different from either,
but also calculated to raise £8,500,000 ?
(4) Or do you simply propose to reject them both and
have no alternative scheme at all ? Australia, if it re-
pudiates its public debt, lock, stock and barrel, can do
without any tariff. Do you vote for Repudiation ?
That is the case to be put before the public by
Referendum, if there is any real demand for a
Referendum. At the same time it is highly im-
probable that it is the case which the Calico
Jimmy party wants to put before the public. The
community would reject almost any taxation pro-
posal if it was put before it in the form of the
question: “Do you prefer to be taxed or not?”
and if the Barton tariff was sent to the people by
itself that would be the question. “Do you pre-
fer to be taxed this way, or to raise an equal
amount the other way ?” is a different question.
The average prisoner, when requested to say
whether he prefers to be fined £5 or not, would
answer enthusiastically in the negative. If asked
whether he would prefer to be fined £5 rather
than do 14 days, he might answer quite as cor-
dially in the affirmative. So far, the importers’
proposals for a Referendum include no mention of
the 14 days.
The Voice of the Freacher.
An English clergyman in S’Africa writes a long
letter to Manchester Guardian on the subject of
the war. He fully believes in the justice of it
from the British standpoint, but makes scathing
remarks after this fashion on the muddlement of
Salisbury, Chamberlain and Co., and the brutal
and incompetent Ketchener, whose reputation,
built up against ill-armed savages, seems likely to
be buried with many more in an African grave :
There are just two points on which I feel impelled to
write to you, and they both relate to an essential mistake
which we are making about the Boer people. They are
not a people to be cowed, nor are they a people to forget.
This bears, for one thing, very relevantly on our conduct
of the war. Every piece of terrorism, every “ severe
measure,” has so far recoiled on ourselves.' The burning
and pillaging committed by our troops, and to which I
can testify (having ridden hundreds of miles in their
track), has merely put the very devil into the Boers. . . .
From what I have personally seen of the ravages inflicted
by our troops on the Free State by tire and pilfering,
there are revelations yet to be made to the British public
which will fulfil Mr. Kruger’s forecast and indeed
“ stagger human itj'.”
I know nothing personally about “ concentration ”-
camps, having never visited one. However, I have, when
riding on the veldt, met convoys of women and children,
and have also seen them huddled by scores in open
trucks which stood by the hour at Springfontein railway-
station until the line could be cleared for forwarding
them to the Bethulie Camp. The last-mentioned con-
tingent had come in the same day from Fauresmith owing
to “ clearing ” operations in that district. . . . What will
never die from the memory of survivors is the horrors
which we have allowed to fall upon them, not, of course,
intentionally, but through sheer muddlement. The
Government returns as to the mortality in these
camps furnish only too convincing proof, and I
venture to predict that Miss Hobjiouse’s findings
will be virtually endorsed by the Ladies’ Commis-
sion,' which has now sailed. It is the same kind
of neglect which caused the hospital scandals, and which
I have with my own eyes witnessed going on in the fight-
ing districts and in the near presence of the enemy. A
General sets out to “clear” a given stretch of country 7.
He is going to scoop human lives wholesale into his net,
but has no notion of what he will do with them when
caught. The capture effected, he dumps the unfortunates
down on the nearest camp, whose officer is at his wit’s
end to provide for them. Then the troubles begin ;
children die for lack of milk, women are untended in
child-birth, and the Government have to compile a set of
“ returns ” which make an Englishman’s ears tingle as he
reads.
We have now the blended stupidity and cruelty of
these “rebel” executions. I am not surprised to see
that some dozen leading farmers were afterwards'
banished from the Cradock district. Probably, as the
South African News suggests, they refused to attend
when ordered. I hear that the Murraysburg district is
seething with fury. Yesterday’s papers report a specially
fierce and successful attack on a military train in that
neighborhood. It will yet be found that the putting up
of the scaffolds for Coetzee and Marais was equivalent to
building recruiting offices for the Boer commandants.
May God inspire our rulers with humaner and wiser
counsels, but the average British officer exercising mili-
tary law appears, from what I have seen of him, to regard
himself as a viceregent of the Almighty without His
responsibility. . . .
It is the demand for “ unconditional surrender,” the
brutal announcement that we mean to be “ top dog,” to
“ fight to a finish,” and not leave them a “ shred of inde-
pendence” which is nerving the Boers with the courage of
despair. We shall find them on these lines as intractable as
Philip and Alva found their forefathers. If we were not
wholly in the right when the war began—-I speak as an
Outlander— we had, at least, a great deal of it on our
side—l think we had the bulk of it. We are now trans-
ferring that quantity to the side of the Boers, and history
may come to curse us as it has long cursed Spain.
The “ Tied” Hotel Question Again.
N. S. Wales Upper House threw out the Bill for
the abolition of “tied” hotels by a majority of
two. The majority also made the mistake of
giving reasons for its conduct, and denounced the
measure as a scheme for the repudiation of agree-
ments and covenants, for the confiscation of
securities, and for the standing of vested interests
wrong end up. Of course, all this was the merest
imbecility, but the Upper House says things like
that in its sleep. It is an automatic drivelling-
machine, and it is only necessary to put a liberal
idea in the slot and the machine throws out a
foolish remark on the instant. There is no
question of depriving the brewer of his
security; the trouble is that the brewer
won’t give back the security, even when
the loan is fully cleared off. He has so fixed
things that when he gets his money back he still
keeps his publican enslaved, and the object of the
Bill was to make him surrender the security like
any honest money-lender when the loan is paid.
New 7 South Wales has now to consider, for the
hundredth time, what it will do with its
Upper House. That body isn’t entrenched behind
a property franchise, like the Upper Houses
of Victoria, Tasmania and S. A. It can be
abolished any day ; when it rejects the Bill for its
own abolition it is only necessary to have a
Parliamentary recess of a few weeks, appoint say
80 new members pledged to vote for abolition, and
then let a great Upper House of about 150
M’s.L.G. hold its first and last session, and com-
mit an ungraceful suicide. It can’t be too often
reiterated that the existence of an Upper House
in the Parliament of a federated State is contrary
to the weight of imperial precedent, and a gross
outrage on British Imperial traditions. The only
other Federation in the British empire is Canada,
and six out of the eight divisions of Canada get
along with one House of Legislature apiece. The
flat refusal of the Australian State Upper Houses
to fall in line with the precedents of the British
empire in this matter is a lamentable and dis-
loyal and revolutionary circumstance. Nobody
professes that the Council originates any
valuable work, and when it amends or re-
jects the Assembly’s measures the country always
demands that it should be coerced into agree-
ment. A House which excites public contempt
when it does nothing and public indignation
when it does anything, is a ridiculous anomaly.
Yet, if the Council isn’t abolished, it must either
be allowed to block legislation urgently de-
manded by the people, or else it must be enlarged
to about 1000 members with a prospect of
further indefinite increase. Democrats petrify
so rapidly in its motionless atmosphere that
it requires to be swamped afresh after every
election to keep it in touch with the popular sen-
timent. Washington, or some other ancient
personage, is credited with having said that an
Upper House is a necessary complement to a
Lower one just as a saucer is of a cup—“it is the
place into which we pour our legislation to cool.”
Nowadays, however, the public drinks its tea out
of the cup, which makes all the difference.
«
The Blight of Phthisis.
That Premier See recognises to some extent the
horror of the facts set forth in The Bulletin last
week with regard to the Liverpool concentration
camp for the consumptive poor was shown by the
reply which he gave to a medical deputation on
the subject the day following. Facts in regard to
the ravages of phthisis, and the cruel treatment of
poor phthisical patients, were put before the
N.S.W. Premier by several medical men, and
Mr. See promptly promised to establish a
temporary hospital on the sea coast, and
to bring before the Public Works Committee
the question of setting up a permanent building.
Dr. Camac Wilkinson very clearly set out the
importance, from an economic point of view, of
the State doing something to save its consumptive
citizens ; and he had the satisfaction of finding
his medical colleagues agree with him as to the pro-
priety of a coast site for a hospital for phthisis.
When, some little while ago, Dr. Wilkinson con-
tended that proximity to the sea coast would not
necessarily unsuit a locality for the treatment of
consumptives, his view was opposed with some heat
by others, and something of a split in the medical
ranks was threatened. Fortunately that was
averted. In the light of most modern experience
Dr. Wilkinson appears to be right, as practical
experiments in England have shown that con-
sumption can be successfully coped with
under what used to be regarded as un-
favorable climatic conditions, if the food
and fresh air supplies are sufficiently generous.
Indeed, in cases of lung trouble, no arbitrary rule
a; to the effect of situation on the health can be
set down. Some patients will flourish in the
humid air of the sea coast; others pine except in a
dry, inland atmosphere. Writer can adduce from
personal observation the cases of two people who,
in the dry climate of Bathurst, suffered from
respiratory troubles, which a visit to the coast at
once alleviated; and (in the same town, at the
same time) of two others who had been obliged to
take refuge inland from chest troubles which
made life in Sydney, to them, intolerable.
The first State consumptive hospital of N.S.W., if
John See keeps his promise, will, at any rate, be
on the sea coast, and experience of its working
should give fresh valuable data as regards
the suitability of a moist atmosphere to phthisical
patients. The temporary hospital, or even the
permanent one, within the metropolitan area, will,
however, not by any means solve the problem
completely. That central station should be aided
by branch sanatoria, under as varied climatic
conditions as possible for sufferers ; these sanatoria
should embrace, to be properly effective, the range
of climate afforded by Sydney (sea level, moist,
equable weather); Pennant Hills (000 ft. altitude);
Katoomba (3300 ft.); Kiandra (5000 ft.); Bathurst
(2000 ft.); and Bourke (sea level, with very hot,
dry conditions). N.S.W. would thus lay a worthy
foundation for future Federal action to deal with
the consumptive as a national problem. Ulti-
mately, the Commonwealth, if true to itself, must
undertake the campaign against the most deadly
enemy of the Australian race, which yearly sends
5000 victims to the grave, yearly keeps at least
25,000 citizens as prisoners* of disease.
-*■ ♦
Wow! Yah! Yow!
Now is the time when the sojourner or peregrina-
tor in Queensland pauses nightly on his verandah,
or at the threshold of his tent, to listen to the dogs
of greed and monopoly baying the newly-risen
moon of White Australia. Listen to the black
dog howling ! That is the Q.N. Bank, up to its
ears in mortgages, and ready to send all Australia
and the Australian race to perdition if only its
shareholders may rake a few more shekels
out of its reconstructed ruin by the aid
of Kanaka semi-slavery. That spotted dog
is the Colonial Sugar Company, which advocates
white labor in N.S.W., supports black labor in
Queensland, and is supported by coolie labor in
Fiji—a leopard-dog which changes its spots to suit
the chance of dividends (averaging £160,000 to
£lBO,OOO per annum) Yonder striped dog is the
Philp Ministry, bound body and soul to
the banks and syndicates which smother Banana-
land, and reiterating “ White men cannot,
cannot, cannot cut cane ” —though white
men do cut it continually, and even lately-
deceased Minister Chataway, when associate
editor of Mackay Sugar Journal, admitted, in a
letter dated 27th December, 1893, and published
in Brisbane Courier :
If anyone made the statement that white men cannot
work in the fields anywhere south of Townsville it is
obviously untrue. White men can work in fair comfort,
except during three or four months of the year. In proof
of this, I may say that besides whites cutting several
thousand tons of cane this year, white farmers grew,
cut, and delivered at the mills at least 15,000 tons of cane
which were never touched by a colored laborer. The
trouble is that white men will not accept such wages as
an agricultural industry can afford to pay. Men who are
accustomed to eight hours a day and a shilling an hour
will not work 12 hours a day at cane-cutting and earn
only 30s. a week and their rations.
Out of their own mouths the White-Kanakas are
condemned. Yet all the moribund “ Chambers
of Commerce,” all the Govt.-fed “National
Associations” and “Progress Committees” and
other pretentiously-named organisations behind
which the Tooley-street Tailors lie wire-pulling
in ambush, lift up agonising voices in a prolonged
and melancholy chorus of “ Wow ! yah ! yow ! ”
4
The anti-tariff ravings of the Melbourne Argus
must put a strain on the credulity of its woolliest-
headed readers. Take some extracts from the
leading article of October 15 :
We repeat the assertion that the tariff will not raise the
price of any one article which our country workers pro-
duce. On the contrary, the price of hops, of eggs and
cheese and other articles is likely to come down ; there
will be a great struggle in the Melbourne fruit markets
with imports from Tasmania and South Australia. The
tariff does not help the mine-owner nor the miner in one
solitary particular, but it penalises the enterprise of the
investor and reduces the spending power of the worker’s
wages. It darkens every home by curtailing the pur-
chasing possibilities of every housewife’s shilling. Is this
the way to advance Australia?
To the Argus’s solemn inquiry The Bulletin
would reply that if the farmer is going to sell his
produce at lower rates than before, what time the
value of the housewife’s shilling suffers a ruinous
reduction through things selling at higher rates
than before, Australia is obviously going to the
devil. The Argus case can be crowded into these
three propositions :
The Commonwealth supplies itself sufficiently with
farm produce.
When an extra-heavy tariff is put on farm produce it
will become cheaper than it was without the tariff.
Therefore when, by the operation of prohibitive duties
on boots, etc., Australia learns to supply itself sufficiently
with them also, the inference is that they will also become
cheaper.
There is no extra charge for this inference. The
Bulletin is a generous-minded paper, and would
share its last inference any day with a mentally-
impoverished brother publication.
4.
The third chapter of the Vic. fellmongers’ protest
against the minimum wage ended the other
day in Melbourne. The first act was the
closing up of three large fellmongeries, all
accompanied by many painful wails about their
inability to pay the minimum wage fixed by law ;
the second was when the law expressed its utter
lack of sympathy with the employers on strike ;
and last week the third stage was reached when
one of the protesting firms resumed operations,
paying the legal wage without any apparent
difficulty—and giving a Saturday half-holiday
into the bargain, which is more than the Act
stipulates for. The other two would also have
resumed if a shortage in the supply of skins didn’t
create a difficulty. It seems that during the
temporary hitch the butchers began to do their
own fellmongering, and found they could do it as
well as the professionals, and that they saved
Is. 6d. on each skin. So, though the same amount
of work is done, it has largely passed into new
hands. That protest against the minimum wage
is likely to prove a costly experiment for the
protesting parties. They probably never really
meant to close up for good, but they acted their
part so well, and the eternal farewell which they
uttered to the smellful sheepskin was so pathetic
and lifelike, that people believed it was all over,
and made new arrangements. And the people
that all this realism was intended to impress—the
Wages Board—weren’t impressed in the slightest.
♦
Since the appearance of the Federal Tariff Melb.
Argus has gone completely off its head. From
its issue of October 17 :
It is frequently said a high duty must be placed on
doors to prevent the importation of prison-made doors
from America. ... As a matter of fact, America’s cheap
dc.ors are not the result of prison labor but of cheap
material, first-class machinery, good tools, skilled work-
men and large' consumption. Australia may impose a
duty of 100 per cent-., and the American doors can under-
sell'those made locally. A protective tariff can only
increase the cost of doors and buildings and make rents
higher.
So it appears that* America, by reserving to itself
its home maiket under a prohibitive tariff, and
thus guaranteeing steady employment to skilled
mechanics, enabled it to turn out, while paying
high wages, about the cheapest door on earth :
and the logical Argus concludes therefrom that
“a protective tariff can only increase the cost of
doors.” Also the Fatman’s paper girds at Allan
M'Lean for saying that trade adds nothing to
the wealth of the world. “Does it not? Why,
the wool might as well be left to rot on the
sheep’s back.” The Argus evidently doesn’t
understand that wool is first shorn, then washed,
combed, woven, made up into flannels or cloth,
and that all these processes are manufactures, not
trade. They increase the value of the wool, while
the carting of that staple, or of the finished cloth,
to and frq, increases its value nothing, though it
raises the cost very considerably. Isn’t it about
time the Argus applied for an old-age pension ?
A humorist, signing himself “ George White,”
actually got a letter into Sydney Telegraph lately
denouncing Protection after this fashion :
At the present time we have an object-lesson as to the
result of highlv-protective tariffs in two countries which
are highly protected—the United States and France.
The U.S. are themselves producers of gold ; their output
is about £18,000,000 per annum, and yet, as a result of
their protective policy, they are driven to import gold,
which they do not want. We ourselves have sent them
from Sydney by the. last three successive steamers to San
Francisco £1,500,000 of gold. The result is that the
Treasury at Washington is overburdened with gold, of
which it has accumulated about £100,000,000 worth, and
the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury is anxiously devising
means to rid himself of at least some portion of this
enormous mass of unproductive gold by buying up U.S.
bonds not yet due, and anticipating interest on the U.S.
debt. But it is clear that so long as the U.S. policy of
Protection is continued the imports of gold must continue
and the abnormal position become more and more acute.
In France, which is also a highly protected country, the
Bank of France is overloaded with £98,000,000 of gold,
and is making Strenuous efforts to unload some portion
of it by making it compulsory for its customers, to whom
it had hitherto' paid in bank-notes, to take part payment
in gold. France also is stemming the tide by lending
largely its surplus capital to Russia.
When a protected country grows so rich that it
really doesn’t know what to do with its pile of
gold, it is truly a horrible example of the woes of
Protection. These two States had better adopt
Foreign-trade principles with all speed, lest their
pyramid of cash overbalances at the top, and falls
on them, and their backs are broken by t’ e shock.
.
“The Tariff Kills a Large Industry” was the
heading which appeared in big letters in a recent
issue of Sydney Telegraph. The observations
underneath it went on to explain that certain
customs regulations (which certainly seem rather
foolish and cumbersome) re empties and cases will
ruin the export trade in aerated vvaters, and
thereby “ destroy a large industry ” which employs
“over 1000 hands.” But in 1900 N.S.W. only
exported £2191 worth of locally manufactured
aerated waters (£l7B worth less than in 1899), and
it imported £0640 worth (£43 worth more than
in 1899). If the tariff stops imports, then it cer-
tainly appears that the industry will be a few
thousand pounds better off, even if the whole
export trade falls down as dead as Ananias
in the presence of Peter. Anyhow, the pretence
that an industry employing 1123 hands depends
on the miserable little fragment of export trade
that exists in Sydney, and will perish without it,
is a painfully silly fish-narrative.
The recent agitation to introduce the Gothenburg
licensing system into Sydney’s resumed area is
one of tliose fatuous and abortive catch-penny pro-
posals which any party in power is glad to clutch
at, regardless of merit or demerit. A very cursory
review of temperance legislation shows that
experiments made in small areas are absolutely
worthless. What earthly use would it be to
establish, by way of experiment, the Gothenburg
system, or even prohibition, in an area such as the
Rocks while there are innumerable hotels under
the old licensing laws encircling the area and
separated only by a street ? In Great Britain
there are several instances of local prohibition in
small suburbs or wards of cities, due to re-
strictions imposed by the owners of the


The equitable life assurance society
of the United States*
LIBERAL TERMS TO AGENTS OF GOOD STflMfllMß
In order to improve the position of its Agents in Australia, and to better conserve
the business, tlie Equitable now offers RENEWAL CONTRACTS to
first-class agents, thus giving them a pecuniary interest in their business for
several years, instead of for only one year as at present.
For particulars, refer to
S. W. D’ARCY-IRVINE, Manager for New South Wales and Queensland,
Equitable Building, Sydney ; or to
G. G. McCOLL, Manager for Victoria and Tasmania,
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
g
For the II ices, dee.
Very powerful, as ust d by
Officers of the Eritish Army
in South Africa. Easily
focussed by the patent
quick draw.
Magnifying 5 times, 65s ; Aluminium, Sis.
Magnifying 6 times, 73s ; Aluminium, SJs.
In Solid Leather Sling Cases.
WOOD, “The Optician,
Only address in N.S. IF.,
299 Ceorge-St., Sydney (opp. Hunter-St.)
and EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, *
Elizabeth St., Melbourne
n
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk OTRipa
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shifts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Halt-dozen, free by Post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Applioation
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q'laad
estates, but these amount to practically
nothing, as the close proximity of these districts
to non-prohibitive areas offers abundant facilities
for the purchase of liquor. To take the oft-
quoted instance of successful local prohibition
in the town of Pullman (U.S.) : by walking across
the street into the town of Kensington the inhabi-
tants of Pullman can buy all the liquor they want.
Similar circumstances would render the trial in
the Rocks valueless. Though countless temperance
reformers during the last century have tried to
find a solution of the great problem, up to now no
satisfactory scheme has been evolved. No doubt
the Gothenburg system has its advantages;
nevertheless, even temperance reformers admit
that it is not complete. As for prohibition ideas,
they are exploded. The new Government
spirit monopoly in Russia ' sheds a light
oil the problem, and it is worth while to
use that light in seeking for the solution.
The most significant feature of the experiment is
the fresh indication it affords of a growing sense
on the part of civilised states “ that the liquor-
traffic is of so dangerous a character that it cannot
safely be entrusted to the private trade, and also
that it is irrational to let the profits of this
monopoly pass into private hands.” The great
principle of the elimination of private profits from
the sale of drink is applied to the full extent.
This is the most promising idea up to date. It is
a national policy, and a national policy is wanted.
To reform two. or three streets and let all the
old evils rage in a hundred adjacent streets is
merely playing with the problem.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Lyceum “ The 10.30 Down Express."
Her Majesty’s “The Christian King.”
......... “ The French Spy.”
Criterion “Said Pasha.”
Empire ........ Fuller Co.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's “ Lady Hnntworth’a Experi-
ment.”
Her Majesty’s “The Gondoliers.”
Theatre Royal “ Hearts are Trumps.”
® IJO[7 “ Tom, Dick and Harry."
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
Town Hall Dolores Song Recitals.
Exhibition Buildino. .. The World’s Fair.
New Olympia (off
Prince’s Bridge).. Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus.
Wilson Barrett ntade his re-appearance in
Sydney under heavy circumstances on Saturday
night. The “Christian King” ia a play that is
full of armour and scripture and drawbacks.
Alfred the Great, as pourtrayed by Mr. Barrett,
is an ancient Saxon copy-book full of oppressive
maxims and weighty instances. His conversation
is that of an armed tract walking about in a
troubled land, or a moral pamphlet that has been
called to the throne in evil times. The play is
principally a procession of events, each of which
reflects a separate and disconnected dazzle on the
leading character, but it isn’t a play of any definite
human interest. All through it there is a large,
attitudinising Alfred with the limelight on him—
Alfred musing on his own unworthiness—Alfred
resisting the Danish siren who wants to be his
best girl—Alfred in the red sunset reflecting on
his unfitness to wear the crown of distracted
“ Engle-land ” —Alfred smiting the table a
severe biff as he directs all his private
wealth to be used to feed the poor
Alfred vowing to give half his riches to the poor
when he hasn’t any—Alfred calling on God 16
times—Alfred in a picturesque but useless atti-
tude on foot on the field of battle—Alfred on a
rampant horse on the field of battle (the public
gets, a glimpse later of an artificial horse ramping
by itself after the armv has departed)—Alfred
pardoning everybody—Alfred on deck on the
field of battle—Alfred seeing visions of the future
greatness of his country—Alfred on the field
of battle generally—a great, stilted, elocution-
ary Alfred doing everything except forgetting
his own greatness. Almost every time Alfred
finished speaking, the writer mechanically got out
threepence to put in the plate.
* * * *
Wilson Barrett is not a brilliant elocu-
tionist at any time, and he is not at his best in
the “Christian King.” He is a clean-shaved
monarch m a hairy land ; not because Alfred was
olean-shaved, but apparently because Wilson Bar-
rett is. Alfred goes without any serious attempt at
disguise into the Danish camp, and though he is
there as a spy, he sings a song of Saxon victory,
which naturally causes the Danes to rush at him
One might as well sing the Boer national anthem
to Fitzgibbon, of Melbourne Board of Shirks by
way of averting suspicion. He is saved, not by
his presence of mind, for he has very little, nor
by his faith, but because the girl who loved him
and who had tried to murder his wife, kills the
Dane who is about to give him away, and lies
about his identity to King Guthrum, and
finally buys his liberty by agreeing to give
up her body to that massive Pagan. She
delivers the body in a dead condition. This is
seemingly, intended to show the futility of faith’
and the advantage of having a prompt and self-
sacrificing girl who can do the perjury while the
man with the limelight on him keeps his soul
clean.
• ♦ • *
Fictorially, the “Christian King” is a
notable event. It is decorated with three tableaux
that have a great deal to say for themselves, and
the company, as a rule, does its best with its few
acting opportunities. Miss Lillah M’Carthy, the
passionate Zebuda with the dagger and the
poison-bottle, is an oasis in the great holy desert
of Alfred’s morality. Miss M’Carthy was a good
actress when Australia last saw her; she appears
to be even better now. Miss Edyth Latimer
plays the Queen brightly and naturally. James
Carter Edwards, Basil Gill, Ambrose Manning
George Majeroni, and several others represent
certain large and medium potentates of those
rough times in a capable fashion. They look in
keeping with the picture, while Alfred doesn’t.
Perhaps the recollection that Alfred was aged
about 22 at his accession, combined with Mr,
Barrett’s persistence in looking about 50, may
partly account for his want of perspective, so to
speak.
** * *
Horace Stanley’s drama, “ The 10.30
Down Express,” now blowing-off steam at Sydney
Lyceum, is not a play on railway life. The paste-
board engine appears only in one scene, and then
it appears mildly. The first act is brightened by
Ivy Gorrick as a Lost Woman in the nice, red
cloak tha,t signifies a hardened soul and unrepen-
tant spirit. She is killed straight off by her hus-
band, while good cousin Jack, whose name has
somehow or other got into tl:e marriage certificate
as that of the husband, is arrested for the crime.
Jack has previously putin a claim to marry heiress
Bessie, because he “is one of England’s bulwarks ”
(the dustman is also a bulwark, because he keeps
the nation from getting typhoid, but he doesn’t
aspire to marry heiresses on that account). How-
ever, the bulwark is taken to gaol, and Bert
Bailey, who saw the crime through being hidden
in a boat, is arrested as an accomplice. There is
no evidence against him, so, according to stage
law, he is judged guilty. There is no great evi-
dence against the hero either, except that he is
supposed to have married Ivy Gorrick ; it is pre-
sumed that anyone married to Ivy would want to
kill her. Later, the bulwark escapes and goes on
his knees to the villain to save him, after which
this paper lost all liking for the bulwark, and
didn’t trouble to wonder why the Queen decided
at this moment to send him a free pardon. The
stage sovereign always acts erratically in these
respects. Anyhow, in the next act he is married to
Bessie who has given up her billet as an heiress. He
also becomes a signalman, so that the villain may
deposit him on the rails, while the train that bears
the incriminating photographs which show the
villain to have been Ivy Gorrick’s real husband,
jerks along in the distance, and then emerges
gently in a larger edition from the side
scenes. The heroine having waved a red rag
then humps her bulwark along the lines a little
way, and the train noses at them till it finally
stops “just in time.” Later, the bulwark fills in
time by going to sea, when, with his usual luck,
his ship is posted as overdue. The heroine starves
gently among the washing which Ethel Buckley
takes in for a living. She is also lured to the hut
on the hill, and has a knife flourished at her, and
is tied up before an explosive substance and
rescued just in time, while the gunpowder goes off
harmlessly behind a rock. As soon as the bang
has subsided, the good characters all maintain
that their troubles are now over.
* • * *
Ivy Gorrick, though she appears only in
the first act, has more opportunity to show
her ability than in any previous play.
Also, she does show it. Bert Bailey
and Ethel Buckley act the usual comic
lovers, and Ethel looks very graceful when she
disguises herself as a sailor-boy in order to tell her
fiance that she is in love with herself. Temple
Harrison acts with considerable force as the
broken-down gamekeeper with the lost child.
Harrison is a wrecked personage in almost every
drama, and he invariably has a strayed child on
his gloomy soul. Helen Fergus is cruelly placed
as an ancient damsel on the look-out for a hus-
band, and engaged, when not occupied in the
search, in writing novelettes. When she becomes
a dissipated lady in a bicycle suit and a wheel-
barrow, the humor is dreadful.
# -* * *
“Said Pasha” continues to mildly amble
along at Sydney Criterion. Miss Josephine Stan-
ton has a, shapely voice and a pleasant figure, and
the public is waiting with some eagerness to see
, ( e D in a piece not quite so feebly impossible as
Said Pasha.” If “Said ” would even get up and
be vigorously impossible, he might take ; but his
harmlessness is hopeless. “Dorcas” is still said
tp be in preparation. The Bulletin urges
Dorcas ” to come without any more preparation,
even if she has to arrive with her hair in papers.
It doesn’t know “Dorcas” at all, but she is an
earnestly-required lady all the same.
** * *
Charles Holloway takes possession of
Sydney Royal on Saturday with a view to reviving
the “ French Spy ” for six nights. Other large and
notable improbabilities will follow.
** * *
Something new under the moon (the
Australian moon) has occurred—an open-air per-
formance of Shakespeare’s pastoral, “As You
Like It.” “Mona,” a private house at Darling
Point Road, Sydney, lent its grounds for two
nights and afternoons last week to that arch-flirt
Rosalind, divers banished noblemen, a fool (who
is wiser than many a cabinet minister), a pessi-
mist, some shepherdesses, lords, pages, and
foresters. They flirted and plotted and got bushed
in the name of charity—the Sick Children’s Hos-
pital Charity. And though so experienced and
capable an actor as Diver was Orlando and the
elocutionists Holman and Campbell were Touch-
stone and Jacques respectively, and though
the Palace Theatre managers dominated the ar-
rangements, the open-airing of the play can’t
be pronounced quite the success that Shakespeare
made the play itself. The weather will always
make its own arrangements. A chill night of
clouds and broken moonlight for the first produc-
tion, a pleasant one for the second, and for the
matinee a screamingly hot wind, a thunderstorm
and hailstones. In a little hollow between two
gigantic Norfolk pines, against a background of
shrub and palm, the stage was set. Stage furni-
ture consisted of prone tree-trunks and stumps,
and on either side of the pines the thick forest of
Mona gave natural dressing-rooms to the players
and cover for the musicians. The play ground
was well lighted, electric wires being run
overhead between the pines, but the audience
sat in depressing darkness, its units peer-
ing at their neighbors during the intervals
to find their identity, and Shivering in the chill
night. Orlando Diver wrestled well, and marred
the trees with writing love-songs on them, and let
himself be wooed right gracefully. Amiens (Mr.
J. S. Edwards), who has a pleasant tenor, did his
songs justice. Mrs. Ernest Coombe, as Rosalind,
displayed a Junoesque blonde presence, and the
highest-class legs ever displayed by any Rosalind,
professional or amateur. The other lady
amateurs were pretty and clear-voiced. Audrey
munched a turnip. Miss Curr, as Phebe, showed
promise of bigger things.
** * *
A great crowd at Melbourne Princess’s on
Saturday to welcome the Broughs, and a general
feeling of thankfulness for what was received.
“Lady Huntworth’s Experiment,” as The Bul-
letin stated not long since, is just a three-act
comedy by R. C. Carton, a particularly clever
playwriter, in whose work there is no bile, nor
any note of serious interrogation. This is a
comedy of character sketches, farcical arrange-
ments, and kitchen interest. Lady Huntworth’s
former husband threatens fora moment to become
a painful blackguard, but immediately thereafter
he gets overcome by drink, and is laid aside under
the sink in the scullery. After which re-assuring
episode Cecil Ward gathers up the limp
bundle of sin and humps him out into
the darkness, where he is said to repose
on the dry bed of a ditch until the
third act. The man in the ditch was Lady Hunt-
worth’s first Experiment, and she found him a
loathsome failure. For 10 long years he only
staggered home at night in order to be helped
upstairs by her ladyship. She nursed him through
many attacks of jim-jams, and kept a stiff upper
lip, whilst he spent all her money. Finally he
began to mingle his alcoholic anathemas with acts
of violence, whereat she started forth on her own
and took a situation as cook at Rev. Robert
Brough’s vicarage, under the name of Caroline
Somebody. In the comedy she is not so much a
woman with a past as a female with a tray, and,
when the plot thickens, she is mostly engaged in
washing-up.
• • * •
The cook-lady (Mrs. Brough) is free to
marry again, because her entertaining husband
had invented a divorce-case, which she didn’t
defend. And the four principal males in the
comedy are anxious to woo and win her as she
washes up. Even the soddened peer of the realm
seeks a re-union on the ground that she has come
into another fortune. A funereal man-servant, to
whom she has revealed new meanings in cutlets
and fritters and taught the difference between
’aricot and ’ash, makes gloomy overtures to
the cook. Also Rev. Brough desires her to
be his own little eggs-and-bacon till death
do them part. Likewise, Cecil Ward, the nephew
of Brough, offers the cook a warm personal friend-
ship with no ulterior motive in it, which is prac-
tically an assurance of a proposal in store for any
woman, of Caroline’s very keen intelligence.
“ Lady Huntworth’s Experiment ” has no special
results, except laughter in front of the house.
Miss Emma Temple elopes casually with a curate,
and Miss Susie Vaughan makes a favorable first
appearance in Melbourne as a terrible maiden
aunt, who discovers Cecil Ward hiding in the
broom cupboard. Leslie Victor re-appears in an
improved form as the lord who dosses in the ditch,
and Miss Gillies Brown is an amusingly exag-
gerated Keziah. The other people from Sydney
repeat their share in the successful little piece.
** * «
.‘‘Hearts are Trumps, at Melb. Royal,
strikes one as being a drama of such exceptional
vastness and complicated mechanism that it will
need half-a-dozen performances to get it thoroughly
fit, in a horsey way of speaking. “The White
Heather ” was probably less expensive than the
show which Bland Holt staged for the first time
On Saturday. Spectacle is piled on spectacle,
until the gorgeousness of the first act is
squashed out of recollection, and the
events' that took place between 9 and
10 p.m. are as dreams of long ago. At
11.30 on Saturday night Miss Harrie Ireland
was hanging over an Alpine chasm with Bland
Holt tied to the other end of the rope, and just as
the managerial schemer was about to cut the rope
and drop Harrie into eternity for the sake of her
insurance money, a curate came flying over the
abyss from an adjacent Alp to rescue the girl.
After which Bland was swept away by a land-
slip, and Providence erected the proceeds of an
avalanche to his memory. ,
** * *
“ Hearts Are Trumps,” by Cecil Raleigh,
has bright dialogue and a panoramic story to
recommend it. The sensations are comparatively
rational, and the company get some inducement
to make the most of their characters. Miss Ross,
as the titled mother of Miss Ireland, and a mar-
tyr to the baccarat habit, loses her money with
great expression. Also, she betrays considerable
motherly feeling when her fine, tall child appears
in brown tights at the Frivolity music-hall, with
a view to sacrificing the esteem of her family
connections for a salary of £4O a week. Mrs.
Bland Holt is effective in a music-hall star
capacity, and Holt (of the avalanche) is
a deeper and more serious Jew money-
lender than usual. Walter Baker on this
occasion hides a large portion of his identity
in the character of a battered old Australian mil-
lionaire, who turned out to be a long-lost rela-
tive. Miss Florence Seymour, Styan, Albert
Norman, and 30 other people, appear in the cast.
About 20 female gamblers wear gorgeous apparel
without getting their bare names or necks into
the programme. Brunton’s scenery is admirable
in many different stagings, and when the sunrise
on the Swiss Alps is a week older, this journal
will endeavour to say which particular section of
“Hearts are Trumps” is the prime part of the
joint.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s (Melb.) a revival of
“The Gondoliers,” advertised for Saturday, was
postponed on account of something the matte,r
with Kenningham’s foot, and “Florodora” broke
out again in the same old place. At time of
writing “The Gondoliers” is under orders to
transpire next Saturday (2nd Nov.), but mean-
while the people of the gay-tinted island where
the bottled perfume comes from are having
their bumps felt by Tweedlepunch. A new
item in the festivities of Cyrus Gilfain is
a song and dance by the hunky kid who revealed
her remarkable young voice in “The Casino Girl.”
Otherwise “Florodora” is mueh the same as it
was before, when Kenningham and Brownlow
happened to be ou 1 ; of the bill. Brownlow left
Melbourne some days ago to take the place of
Bathurst, on tour—Bathurst being violently ill, it
was said. But, inasmuch as the last-named bari-
tone is now filling Brownlow’s place at Her
Majesty’s, it would seem that the other baritone
has changed sicknesses with him.
** * *
“Tom, Dick, and Harry,” and its system
of doggerel rhyme advt. appear to be flourishing
with a great flourish at the Bijou, and no change
of programme will cast a shadow before until next
Saturday at the earliest. Wednesday of this week
was to be a soldier and sailor night, when mem-
bers of the local Scottish Regiment could get
admitted at half-price if they came in full evening
dress as regards their legs.
* iff * *
Fitzgerald’s circus building, which holds
5600 mortals, when they are all there, was crowded
every night last week. Melbourne, although a
fickle show-town in some respects, remains ever
faithful to the entertainment that radiates from
Dan Fitz. and his veteran piebald pupil, Commo-
dore. The circus, these times, is not overloaded
with horse, yet it begins and ends with remark-
able displays of that noble animal. The gymnasts
are indispensable, the girl-juggler grows on
acquaintance, the elephant and lion supply a want,
and the greyest jokes of the arena would be missed
if they were gone, but the gentleman that pays
the rent and provides the expensive fittings is a
party by the name of Gee-gee. Take away the
horse and the equestrian performers have nothing
left to stand on.
** * *
At Melb. Town Hall, delightful Dolores,
assisted by pianist Newell, has been singing for
the last week or two, and to-day (Thursday) is
probably the end of her season. This time Mdlle.
Dolores doesn’t appear as Trebelli in brackets,
therefore the fact that she was the incomparable
Trebelli before she took to brackets may as well
be stated for the information of any who have not
caught on to the new name.
At Poverty Point.
Tyrone Power’s unfortunate venture at Melb. Princess’s
should be one more object-lesson to managers in the use-
lessness of preliminary puffs and photographs where there
is nothing startling to ski-te about. Power’s first piece
was about the most advertised thing that Melbourne has
known. It started with a £260 house on the Saturday,
and the Monday’s advts. in the dailies were a column
long. Yet you canit always make the public believe
that a duck is a goose.
Tyrone Power’s schedule is a bit of a revelation.
Insolvent, who opened Melb. Princess’s Sept. 7th, and
is said to have had £260 in the house on his first
night, states that he “ became unable to pay his debts
about 25th Sept.” He sets down his professional expenses
at £l2OO per month, his house-expenses at £6O per
month, and his debts on Oct. 23rd at £1623. The sole
assets are scenery and theatrical properties, valued at
£250, and held as security for £385 of rent due to G. Mus-
grove. So Tyrone Power’s expenses during his six weeks’
term of management were £lB9O, of which £1373, in-
cluding £2OO borrowed money, remains unpaid after
reckoning the £250 of scenery and props, as cash security
There were six weeks’ receipts at the theatre (beginning
with the £260 first night house) to pay the £617, or, say
£Bl7, difference. How much capital) then, did Tyrone
Power put into his business at the outset? Tyrone
Power’s managerial expenses appear to have begun at the
photographers. He owes the photo, man £B9. Two
florists want £l7, which suggests that the tributes of
floral esteem were large and frequent (a M.L. paper, by the
way, foolishly remarked that there were three eartioads
of them one night). Drapery firms figure on the schedule
for £2OO ; the unpaid liquor bill is 16guineas, and so on.
Orchestras don’t always strike—they sometimes do
worse. Writer remembers a night at the old Alexandra
when the unpaid musicians, instead of “going out,” re-
mained in, blaring hideous sarcasms and cacophonous
derision through their trumpets and things at the actor-
manager every time he tried to get something pathetic
romantic, or noble off his swelling chest.
People in Melbourne have lost confidence in Dan Fitz-
gerald’s tame she elephant. When the circus was making
itself at home on the new pitch, the lady elephant who
was disgusted with all the worry and racket attendant
upon furnishing the new home, gave way to her feelings
and, catching up a casual laborer, held him high in the
air as if to fling him out of the electorate. When Lizzie
was persuaded to let go, the man had to leave for the
hospital.
Stage hands at a recent Melb. charity matinee saw one
of their jokes go woefully astray. A budding actor-author
was just completing the performance when, amid cries of
“ Get work ! ” and other mild pleasantries of a like nature
from the gallery, a “property” bouquet, composed of
oolored rags and other materials, was handed up from the
front. The posy was plainly labelled for the aspiring
author, but the gentleman was so flustered that he
failed to recognise the fake, and presented it with
a profound bow to a lady performer. She, thinking- that
an affront was intended, indignantly refused the proffered
gift, and afterwards rushed from the theatre to go
straight home and cry her eyes out at the insult put upon
Lauri’s disregard for his own skin, when he throws
himself about in “ The Casino Girl,” is said to be due to
rivalry with Ward. The business is not in the original
version, and was introduced by Lauri to “ build up” his
part. The eight or nine stalwart people, who have to
stand round and catch the tubbv George feel their
responsibility mightily, for he trusts them so absolutely
that any one man’s failure to get a grip at the right
moment would probably mean serious injury to the fat
little funny man.
The amateur dramatic people of Fremantle (W A )
seem anxious to perpetuate the noble traditions of the
place Some time ago was given “ The Kleptomaniac,”
shortly afterwards followed by “ The Pickpocket ” Next
came “ The Ticket-of-Leave Man,” and then “ Trial bv
Jury.” To crown all, Dampier then happens along and
plays “ For the Term of his Natural.”
Wilson Barrett went through the latter part of his
Adelaide season suffering great pain from an obscure
growth near the optic nerve. He was finally obliged to
telegraph to Melbourne for the surgeon who had <dven
him relief there, and who joined him in Adelaide in’dine
to travel back with him.
In regard to the Adelaide sensation (a
young man reporting himself as having been par-
tially grille 1 with a hot door-key and robbed) the
police have informed the press that they Vdl
take no further steps, adding, cynically, that
householders need feel no alarm. To which the
friends of the victim reply that he is a level-
headed young fellow, with no conceivable object
m inventing the yarn ; and that the key-burns
are actually to be seen on his neck and chest


stocks Kept of —-
RAND ROCK DRILLS & AIR COMPRESSORS
BY THE SOLE AGENTS—
N. GUTHRIDGrE, LTD., 71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
And at 486 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE; WELLINGTON, N.Z.;
214 HIGH STREET, FREMANTLE; KALCOORLIE.
fdg
TRAMWAYS. TRAMWAYS.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop. Ltd.
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material.
Locomotives from 10 to S5O h.p. TEj
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel Sleepers,
Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical advice gratuitously
rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated Catalogues and Photo-
lgraphic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different parts of the World, upon
application. . A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
Stock Exchange, London, 17th July, 1901 :
“ Notwithstanding’ its comparative youth, the Colonial
Mutual Life has achieved, in the short time of its
existence, a status and reputation that places it amongst
the leading life offices of the world.”*
* * • *
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
fillan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
» • • *
What Luck ! In ’B5, when sinking for coal at
Ballimore, near Dubbo, boring was stopped through the
outflow of water, which turned out to be the finest
natural mineral water in the market, called Zetz Spa.*
• • • *
A very successful trial of the Gardner Electric
Drill took place at the works of the Austral Otis Com-
pany, South Melbourne, a few days ago. The drill,
although only temporarily fixed, bored 8A inches in three
minutes through hard basalt. A number of prominent
mining men witnessed the test, and expressed themselves
as greatly pleased with the machine. The Austral Otis
Company have been appointed Sole Agents in Australasia
for the Gardner Electric Drill.*
* * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * * •
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Qdinink Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
» * * *
If further proof is needed that Luhrig Tanners
are the best and most economical machines for dressing
fines and slimes, it will be found in the fact that the Tas-
mania gold mine, Beaconsfield, Tasmania, has decided to
increase the number of these machines in the extension
of the present mill and reduction works. When com-
pleted it will have over 100 head of stampers at work, and
60 Luhrig Yanners, including the additional 24 of the
large type. Before finally adopting plans the Tasmania
board sent its manager to inspect the chief reduction
works in other States. Messrs. W. and J. Lempriere, of
Melbourne, are the Sole Agents for the Luhrig appli-
ances.*
o » * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Pootscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sorts of iron-work.*
• * * *
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Bucuu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Ohemistst
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Arsenic, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting Charges.
Hv. Markwald,
178 William-sfcreeb,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st.,Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; 27 Kajle-street,
Brisb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellinjton, and
Auckland, NX.
The Wild Cat Column.
Queensland proposes Issuing a little local loan
of £100,(XXI at 3J per cent. This country lias been having a
great time in the loan market since 1st July, 19J1. Here
are the loans floated or announced during the four
months, barring certain small local sales in Adelaide and
elsewhere, of which'ho exact record is available :—
N.S. Wales ..£4,307,760 S. Australia .. £850,000
Westralia .. 1,500,000 Federal loan
Queensland .. 1,474,213 (proposed).. 1,000,000
Tasmania .. 650,000
This makes a total of £9,781,973 either actually borrowed
or announced—about £7,500,000 has already been bor-
rowed—in four months. The actual borrowings of July,
August, September, and October break the record for the
whole of last year, and last year broke the record of every
previous year since 1891. And it is understood that both
Victoria (for probably £500,000) and Maoriland (for pro-
bably £1,000,000) will shortly be holding out the cus-
tomary hat in the usual quarter—just to round things
off, as it were. A shade over a million of Australian loan
moneys has already gone in discounts and expenses this
year, for this country’s credit is low just now, and its
3 per cent, bond for £100 fetches about £90 net.
» * * •
The National Bank of Australasia (Melbourne)
shows, for the half-year ended 30th Sept., 1901, a con-
siderable increase of profits, an addition of £ per cent, to
the ordinary share dividend, and a larger addition than
usual to reserves. Progress since 1895 has been thus : —
, o) ftj
t Til! O O Ol
lagg £ £ 5 S g
Profits. | o|
-c
O P) £ Q P5
Sept., 1895.. £13,763 .. “ .. £109,558
March, 1896.. 10,523 .. 7644| £100,000 12,437
Sept., 1896.. 11,706 7644J .. 16,498
March, 1897.. 14,712 ... 7644J .. 23,566
Sept., 1897.. 18,275 .. 7644* .. 34,196
March, 1898.. 15,472 .. 7614J .. 42,024
£45,456 forfeited capital added to reserves, 87,480
Sept., 1898.. 17,602 .. 764 4£ .. 97,437
March, 1899.. 12,324 .. 7644J .. 102,117
Sept., 1899.. 19,246 .. 7644J .. 113,718
March, 1900.. 22,152 .. 7644J 68,000 60,226
£4978 forfeited capital added to reserves, 65,204
Sept., 1900.. 27,065 £17,887 7644J .. 66,737
March, 1991.. 28,448 17,887 7644j ... 69,654
3| per cent.
Sept., 1901.. 32,050 20,867 7C44J .. 73,192
The profits represent £4 Is. 9d. per cent, on the share-
holders’ funds" as at the beginning of the half-year (capital
£1,498,220, and reserves £69,654 ; total, £1,567,874)—a
very material advance on the £3 12s. 8d. per cent, earned
in the previous half-year. The National Bank, having
completely emerged from the reconstruction period, is
now fast regaining its old position. It is a substantial
concern, with over £6,000,000 of deposits and £2,920,814
of liquid assets, including £1,502,943 cash and £763,640 of
State and municipal securities. At the same time, its
future depends, like that of most of the reconstructs, on
the rebuilding of the reserves. They stood at £680,488
when the unpleasant thing happened in ’93, and, if they
are to assume anything like solid dimensions again
within a reasonable time, it is necessary to treat the ordi-
nary shareholders in a grudging spirit, and not to be too
friendly even with the preference crowd.
It is a notable fact, by the way, and one that
looks none too well for business generally, that the
National Bank’s figures show a decline in a number of
directions. Compared with six months ago, note-circula-
tion, Government and private deposits, liquid securities
and advances have all diminished somewhat. This
doesn’t necessarily mean anything of great importance,
but a similar tendency is noticeable just now with
many institutions.
* * * •
The Colonial Bank of Australasia (Melbourne)
reveals a further material improvement in its earnings.
Beginning from the date when it raised the interest on
its reconstructed deposits to 3 per cent, and made its final
provision for losses, progress has been as follows :—
p Dividend on Total
.rronis. Preference Shares. Reserves.
March, 1899 .. £5,601 3 per cent. = £4,561 £1,040
Sept., 1899 .. 7,078 3 „ „ 4,561 3,557
£3,060 forfeited capital added to reserves 6,617
March, 1900 .. 11,472 4 per cent. = 6,081 12,008
Sept., 1900 .. 12,019 4 „ „ 6,081 17,946
March, 1901.. 13,718 5 „ „ 7,601 24,063
Sept., 1901 .. 15,069 5 „ „ 7,601 31,531
The earnings are equivalent to £6 12s. 7d. per cent, on
the shareholders’ funds with which the half-year com-
menced. This is a very handsome rate, and the Colonial
Bank could have paid a 5 per cent, dividend on both pre-
ference and ordinary capital (preference capital, £304,044;
ordinary ditto, £133,213; total, £437,257; 5 per cent,
dividend thereon, £10,931) and still had £4138 to add to
its reserves. But it was undoubtedly the wiser course to
let the ordinary shareholders wait a little longer. The
last of the reconstructed deposits (£111,358) are being
released at the end of this year, and it is unwise to dissi-
pate cash needlessly till this liability is met. Moreover,
so much money disappeared in the bad days that the
total shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves) are even
now less than £469,000. This isn’t much for a bank of
the Colonial’s age and reputation to inspire confidence
with, and it is highly advisable to give the reserve every
possible chance to grow up again.
Further, despite the increasing prosperity of the
Colonial Bank and the fact that its new deposits
have increased by a little over £15,000 during the
half-year, cash and liquid securities (£497,834) are
£133 663 less than they were six months ago. This
is, doubtless, partly owing to the repayment of re-
constructed deposits. It is also, no doubt, partly
owing to the fact that the cash resources of Australia
have shown a diminishing tendency of late. The Colonial
Bank holds £374,266 cash and £11,845 of State and
municipal securities, and this second item would stand a
good deal of strengthening with advantage.
» • * •
The County of Bourke Permanent Building and
Investment Society (Melbourne) from September, 1895, to
September, 1901: —
Business Losses on Total
profits. properties. reserves.
1895 „ — £14.686
1896 .. £121 £4,511 10,296
1897 .. 1,731 5,657 6,370
1898 .. 3,758 2,917 7,211
£66,812 capital written off, of which £2,449
was added to reserve . 9,660
Profits on
Business sale of
profits, properties, Dividends, etc
etc.
1899 .. £4,888 £1,746 6 per cent. = £5,889 £10,405
1900 .. 6,010 1,861 6 per cent. .. 5,889) 19 n o 7
Written off 300 /
1901 .. 7,363 3,169 6 per cent. = 5,889) lr ,n n
Written off 300 / 10,4SU
The County of Bourke Permanent Building and Invest-
ment Society has a paid-up capital of £98,150, and as
its deposits are less than £10,000 (they were about
£160,000 when the bank panic struck it, and it was
forced to suspend), it now trades almost entirely with
its own funds, and can’t be again rushed by a scared
public. The only drawback about its apparent splendid
prosperity is that the £6770 added to reserves was almost
wholly derived from recoveries from capital previously
written off as lost, and the earnings of the current busi-
ness, until the present year, didn’t leave any great margin
over and above the dividend. Still they leave a very
handsome margin this year, and the improvement seems
likely to be permanent.
* • • *
“A Protectionist” (Wedge Bay, Tasmania):
The reason why N.S.YV. has, in the last 29 years, had
more loan money coming in over and above the interest
that went out than Victoria was simply that N.S.W. s
heaviest borrowing has been in recent years, while Vic-
toria’s heaviest borrowing happened a long time ago. If
£10,000,000 was borrowed last year at 4 per cent, only
£400,000 has gone back in interest; if it was borrowed 20
years ago, then £8,000,000 has gone back in interest. If
Victoria borrowed another £10,000,000 now, the in-
flux of money over and above the outflow of interest
would rise at once from £1,983,000 to £llg>B3,ooo.
• » • • *
The Colonial Permanent Building and Invest-
ment Society (Melbourne):
Loss on Written off Total
Business. Properties. Deficit.
September, 1897 £1397
„ 1898 £284 £9827 11,508
„ 1899 559 12,067
„ 1900 548 12,615
„ 1901 519 1005 14,169
The paid-up capital is £48,000, of which £33,831 is still
intact—on paper anyhow. A certain amount of progress
is being made at reducing the liabilities to depositors and
mortgagees, though it can hardly be described as rapid
progress. These are the figures :
Owing to Creditors other than Shareholders.
September, 1898 .. £57,911 September, 1900 .. £52,796
„ 1899 .. 54,949 „ 1901 .. 51,670
Two matters which stand out conspicuously here are
that the loss on the actual business of the society is a
fraction more this year than it was in 1900, and the
amount paid off the liabilities is a good deal less. In 1899
the liabilities were reduced by £2962 ; in 1900 by £2153 ;
in 1901 by only £1126. This is the natural result of the
state of suspended animation which the institution (like
many other institutions) has drifted into. Australia is
full of building societies that are doing no new business
and getting no new deposits, but merely realising their
foreclosed properties (their assets are almost all foreclosed
properties), and gradually paying off their old depositors.
As the institution grows smaller in this way the earnings
grow less, even though the remaining properties may be
increasing in value, and as the office, manager, board of
directors, gas-bill, and many other charges remain just
the same they swallow up the profits. Australia
is full of the tail-ends of once great building
societies —fragments whose assets now, in many
cases, yield a very respectable return per cent.
But it would take four or five of them to make a respect-
able institution, and the earnings can’t stand the cost of
four or five managements when there should only be one.
If such a concern as the Colonial Permanent B. and I.
Society could persuade its shareholders to take up
£50,000 worth of preference shares, pay off all the old
liabilities, keep the foreclosed properties till better times
arrive, and go into active business again on a basis
that would enable it to get a moderate amount of new de-
posits, it is quite possible that it could pay moderate
dividends on both its old and new capital. Half the
Australian building societies nowadays are comatose con-
cerns that have to hire a manager and office merely to
look at the foreclosed assets.
a * • •
The Australian Mutual Investment and Build-
ing Co. (Sydney) was one of the landmarks of the boom,
and 10 years ago its 25 per cent, dividends were the pride
and glory of that noble profession which consisted mostly
in A buying land from B on bills, and selling it to C on
bills, and discounting the bills with D, who generally had
no money of his own, but did the discounting with F’s
deposits. Whereupon A was enabled to declare a big
dividend, and as the chief shareholders in A were
fenerally B, C, and D, things were comfortable for every-
ody except F. The Australian Mutual Investment and
Building Co., having made almost the record boom of the
business, has also made almost the record burst. These
are its doings in recent years :
Loss on Loss on Accumulated
Business. Property. Deficit.
1894 £99,562
1895 £5,946 £93,176 198,684
1896 174 94 198,952
1897 1,161 7,740 207,853
1898 736 2,381 210,970
1899 467 92 211,529
1900 255 211,784
The co. has a paid-up capital of £57,058, so the prospective
loss to the creditors, even if the remaining assets realise
their book value (which is not invariably the case with
assets), is about £155,000. The co. owes £183,941 to de-
positors and others, and the paper value of its assets—
mostly unsold lands—is £29,215. No interest, of course,
has been paid to depositors for many years. The losses
are comparatively small nowadays, mainly because almost
everything is already lost. The depositors received 6d. in
the £ in 1897 ; Id. in the £ in 1898 ; 3d. in the £ in 1899 ;
and Id. in the £in 1900. Altogether an historical concern.
* * * *
Tooth and Co., Limited, brewers, Sydney:—
Profits, T , .
less Dividends. Reserves
Depreciation. reserves.
March, 1897.. £40,055 7 percent. =£31,500 £78,441
Sept., 1897.. 33,074 7 „ „ 31,500 80,015
March, 1895.. 40,278 7 „ „ 31,500 88.793
Sept., 1898.. 33,625 7 „ „ 31,500 90,918
March, 1899.. 40,741 7 „ „ 31,500 100,159
Sept., 1899.. 35,706 7 „ „ 31,500 104,365
March, 1900.. 37,979 7 „ „ 31,500 110,844
Sept., 1900.. 36,451 7 „ „ 31,500 115,795
March, 1901.. 39,898 7 „ „ 31,500 124,193
Sept., 1901.. 37,269 7 „ „ 31,500 129,962
Tooth and 00. have £104,522, which represents the largest
part of its reserves, separately invested in State and other
good securities —a precaution that few breweries are
guilty of. The brewery reserve fund is apt to be invested
in depreciated public-houses.
* » * »
Lead got down to £ll ss. in mid-October, a fall
of 10s. in a week, and of £6 7s. 6d. in 12 months. Nobody
seems to have the smallest idea what the future is to be.
Meantime the Pinnacles, which was only kept going
by the unexpected discovery of a good run of easily-
dressed stuff, has sent all hands off ; and Block 10, which
must have been losing from £2OOO to £3OOO a month,
is only keeping open because the metal buyers will not
cry off contracts, which run a little past the end of the
year. The British has proved a very good body of ore at
the 500 ft. —hitherto not u ached —and was considering
whether it could not start milling again when the slump
to £ll ss. drove those thoughts out of its head. The
prospecting in this mine, away from this one point—
Howell’s 500 ft. working—is still unsatisfactory. The
Junction is in the middle of a reconstruction, whose de-
tails have already been discussed, but there is still no
move towards the amalgamation of the mines of the
northern group, without which cheap enough work is
impossible. Not one of the co’s, for one thing, can
afford to engage the first-class manager that is
necessary. For some time past there has been a
shocking waste of money. The North mill and re-treat-
ing plant (last remark doesn’t apply to this) are nearly
completed ; but the lead market must improve before it
can make divs. B.H. Prop, is now trying the Hunting-
ton-Heberlein desulphurising process at Port Pirie ; it is
stated that it improves the lead-extraction (it is a mid-
process between concentration and smelting), but no
figures are available. For the present the co. is not
doing anything with the ridiculously-boomed Carmichael
process of the same character. The co. has not got
through its trouble with the local Miners Association
yet. The men want a fairer contract form, and they
are thoroughly justified in seeking it, for the present one
is grotesquely lop-sided. The complaint as to poor pay
is less sound ; the average is much above the standard
miner’s pay of 9s. The men who really deserve pity are
the companies seven-and-six a day laborers ; how they
exist on the money in a place where living is so dear is a
mystery. The A.M.A. contains some members who
threaten ; but its numbers are now weak, and its influ-
ence has been greatly reduced by its acceptance of log-
rolling outsiders as members. The Central (Sulphide
Corporation ) still does well ; it is stated to be also satis-
fied with the new zinc-extraction process (Metternich)
which it is using. In fact, about the most satisfactory
feature in the present gloomy situation is the firmness of
the zinc market. The South is ready at last to use its
extended ore-dressing plant ; but it is significant that
here, too, development-work has been much reduced.
♦ * * •
The Overflow, N.S.W. : Sanguine anticipations
have not been realised. They seldom are anywhere ; with
a N.S.W. mine, never. The reconstruction of the co.,
arrangements for new plant, erection of same, and starting
of smelting operations were all duly chronicled, also that
the smelter had been blown-in successfully, and that the
first matte had been tapped. Then came an ominous
silence, so strange to the amateur mining juggins, and so
familiar to men who have been there before. But the
truth has to come out at last, and the best possible polish
is always put on failures. “ Some little difficulty was ex-
perienced through an insufficiency of experienced furnace-
men ; the furnace had to be blown-out after three days
owing to the failure in the delivery of ironstone flux, and
it will take another week to arrange a satisfactory de-
livery from the co.’s own leases.” The man who supplied
the ironstone flux defends himself and wants to know
why they have gone so many miles further away for it,
and what about the eating-out of the bricks of the furnace
before it had been running three days? Something of
this sort happened before at the mine, and apparently
it has occurred again. “ The matte and bullion tapped
were of a high-grade quality, but the quantity produced
could not be estimated, owing to a large absorption by
the crucible.” It is always something. Often the metal
is in the tailings, sometimes in the slag, at others in the
concentrates ; occasionally it is escaping in flue-
dust, but alas ! too often it is not in the ore to start
with. The Bulletin does not say this of the Overflow, of
which it has always held a comparatively good opinion,
but that it is a mismanaged concern, and always has
been, is beyond the shadow of a doubt, and, good as the
mine may be, it is not good enough to work it as a
smelting proposition so far away from a railway. It
wants a better mine than the Overflow has yet proved
itself to stand a long road-haulage for fluxes and a much
longer one for coke.
* * * *
Grassy Gully, N.S.W., still keeps up its repu-
tation as a mine of humor. “It is officially reported that
Mr. Kavanagh, one of the directors, has just returned
from a visit to the mine ; he confirms a recent good report
by the manager, and explains that the richest stone occurs
alongside the richest portion previously mined, only being
separated by a few inches of rock. The newly-discovered
make of gold is in three veins aggregating 12in., which
are comprised in 2ft. 6in. of stone ; this makes the reef
double the width it was previously thought to be.”
Apart from the official report of Mr. Kavanagh’s
return, the rest of the information is as clear as
a Chinese puzzle. Then there is Mr. W. H. O.
Lovely’s report:—“ Five men at work on rich
ore and keeping the battery going two shifts ; battery
yielding one ounce gold per ton, and the tailing slimes
run 12dwt. and 1 to 4 ozs. per ton respectively, making a
yield of above 2oz. per ton. It would be much higher if
it were possible to break the ore separate from the mul-
lock adjoining it.” Wages are estimated at £25 per week,
and the value of yield from battery and cyanide plant
£lOO per week. This is the mine of which, fully a month
ago, the manager undertook to astonish the share-
holders with its “ astounding richness.” Every report,
no matter from whom, gives itself away. For instance, take
this present one. The battery is going two shifts on rich
ore, and the yield from it and the cyanide plant, from ore
worth over 2oz. per ton, is only £lOO per week. Fifteen
tons of 2oz. ore would be worth more than £lOO, and a
10-head battery, as this mine has, should crush that in
24 hours. “ Owing to the limited amount of development
done, it is advisable to keep a couple of men in each of
the bottom drives, so as to open out the good stuff below.”
Well, if this does not show the insignificance of the mine,
it certainly does of the management.
• » * »
Peak Hill Proprietary, N.S.W. : Chairman to
shareholders : “ Negotiations for the disposal of the co.’s
property, or the formation of a large co., in London, are
still proceeding; meantime operations at the mine are
being confined to the crushing of ore obtained by
tributors and the cyaniding of tailings. Should negotia-
tions now pending in London not succeed, active opera-
tions will be resumed at the mine.” They have been
pending for a mighty time. How long have the
public wearied of reading of what a magnificent div.
would be declared if only baronet Samuel succeeded in
placing the mine in London, whither, it was given out,
he had gone for that special purpose, and of how cheap
the shares were with this result in view ? Hope deferred
in a London flotation of a N.S.W. mine makes share-
holders’ hearts grow sick, and the flotation of this one
there is beyond even hope. While the war is on, even a
cork-mine would not float in London.
* • * *
Croydon notes to October 10. —Recent crush-
ings : Golden Gate 3 and 4 South, 1231 tons, 23710 z.
17dwts.; G. Gate 5 S., 533 tons, 8930 z. ;G. Gate 5 and
6N., 126 tons, 2280 z. ; Homeward Bound 2 N., 40 tons,
70oz. G. Gate United cleaned up again for a 2.)0z. per
ton return, and declared div. of 2s. per 40,000 th share.
G. Gate 5 S. paid div. for Sept. (£1700), making £4400 for
quarter, or £20,000 altogether, the mine having turned
out to date 13,8480 z. from 8551 tons.——G. Gate 3 and 4
S. yielded to date during past three years 2 tons lqr.
241bs. gold from about three acres of ground worked out
of an 8-acre lease. Big lease taken up on Highland Mary
line of reef to be worked by English capital. Reef
cut off by intrusion which has now been located by
Iguana diamond-drill bore. Yield of lode down to break
valued at over £3,090,000. ——Leases on Iguana also likely
to be floated to work reef located by bore. This reef
down to break yielded nearly £250,000 bullion.
Morgan’s Block pump expected to arrive by incoming
mail steamer, when mine will be unwatered and shaft
sunk on reef—supposed to be close at hand. Prospects
of field very bright, provided deep works on G. Gate lode
bottom successfully.
» .• * •
Great Boulder : Main lode intersected at 1400 ft.
level, value 28dwt. and pierced by a diamond bore at
1500 ft., value 15dwt. 00. now testing the lease which
runs around the northern boundary of the Ivanhoe, the
ore-shoots of which dip into the deeper ground of the
lease but do not exist, or, if they do, have little or no
value in the upper ground. Stated that some consterna-
tion was recently caused amongst London shareholders
by a rumor that the main lode of the Boul-
der was rapidly dipping west into the Golden
Horseshoe ground,- and this despite the fact
that in the deeper levels the lode is nearer the
Boulder main shaft than in the levels above. The lodes
in the Boulder, as well as in other mines, have a tendency
to dip to the east; the notable exception is the Golden
Horseshoe lode which came in from the Boulder, but
there are evidences, of course not admitted by the G.H.
crowd, that, sooner or later, the lode will resume its
original course and get back into the mines from which it
came. Six additional furnaces are being put up on the
Boulder. This probably does not mean an increased ton-
nage, but that it is intended to discard the old 30-head
stamp-mill, now almost worn out, treat the whole of the
ore from the mine per sulphide process—and get ready
for the time when the tailings, which have for the last
two years been such a magnificent asset, become ex-
hausted.
■ * * »
Lake View Consols, W. A.: “ The management,
it is reported, is in conflict over the present policy of
working the mine. The consulting engineer, Mr.
M’Kinnon, has officially reported that the mine cannot
keep up the present output. This the manager, Mr.
Hartman, stoutly denies, and he challenges the directors
to have an independent examination made of the pro-
perty. Intense interest is manifested here over the
controversy. It is reported that the Board has requested
Mr. Hewitson and Mr. Hamilton to inspect and report.
When interviewed to-day, Mr. Hartman declined to
communicate any information for publication. Mr.
Hamilton was also seen, but he stated that he has not
yet received any official request to act.” And this is
published in the eastern papers, which for months,
no doubt from the same source, have been booming
the great capabilities of this mine—that the plant
was being so enlarged as to treat one-half more tonnage
per month ; that the gold-production would be oorre-
spondingly greater ; that while it was now turning ovef
14,0000 z. per month from 10,000 tons the gold production
when the larger plant got to work would be over 18,000 oz.
per month ; that the yield, great as it was, could, with-
out doubt, be maintained for long to come without any
perceptible strain on the apparently inexhaustible ore-
reserves in the mine; and that development in
different directions and various depths warranted
the policy of the management. That M'Kinnon is
right and Hartman wrong is well known throughout
the field ; probably to none better than the newspaper
mine-boomers who sent along the wires to the opposite
effect. The same remark will apply to other mines there,
particularly the Horseshoe and the Ivanhoe, whose plants
will soon be much bigger than the mines. The game of
making a market for shares by putting up big plants has
been played all over the world, but nowhere probably to
such an extent as at Kalgoorlie. Big as the mines are,
there is not one of them, except the Boulder, sufficiently
developed to justify an increase of plant. The Boulder
is the only mine that has done its development first, and
although it is more than double any other mine on the
field in size, it does not want any bigger plant to
deal with its ore reserves. In all other cases the cart has
been put before the horse, involving an expenditure of
hundreds of thousands of pounds long before it was
wanted, and if, as likely, these plants are never wanted,
the money will be thrown away. Of course the object
usually is to work the market and not the mines.
« • • *
Bucldand River dredge (Vic.): Well as this
dredge has been doing, the shareholders are told it will
do much better when it reaches the richer ground ahead.
Never a dredge started but that it had better ground
ahead, and the public have long tired of the wheeze, par-
ticularly in view of the cold-blooded fact that, in quite a
number of cases, dredges which started with an average
yield of 30 and 40 ozs. per week, and were going to reach
better ground ahead, have now to put up with less than
half their former yields.
* * * •
Things have not been too rosy in Zeehan (Tas.)
district for the last few months, owing to low lead and
silver prices. The local galena still keeps up its high
average of silver and lead. There are but two mines now
working on wages, others being under tributors,
whose presence enables lessees to comply with labor
conditions when shareholders refuse to pay calls. The
tonnage raised is well maintained, but the net proceeds
are woefully small. Storekeepers, publicans and middle-
men generally are all in the dumps. To keep
their spirits up the Tas. press has hit upon the happy
idea of valuing the ore raised at the total London value
of the metals it contains. For instance, the British
Zeehan, a Bull-owned mine, exported for the
quarter ended Sept. 30th ore valued by the press
at £20,782, for which the co., after deducting all
smelting charges, freight, etc., received only £10,575.
The export for Aug. in that quarter was 379 tons, contain-
ing 33,1980 z. silver and 172 tons lead, which the press
valued at £73Bu, and for which the co. got £4390. The
Mines Department returns are only a trifle more reliable.
Instead of obtaining from the lessees the net price
received by them for their ore, and adding to it the rail-
way freight to the port, and publishing the same as the
actual value to the country of the ore exported, the
department takes the gross total value and tonnage as
published by the press and deducts only £4 perton from it.
Yet the average deductions for the ore of the whole dis-
trict amount to about £6 per ton. The average monthly
output is 1500 tons, the gross value whereof the press
usually states at £30,000, but the net value is really about
£20,000. This sum has to support a population of 5000,
and pans out at £1 per week a head, which explains,the
present pallid looks of local business people, not to men-
tion the abnormal increase of compulsory teetotalism.
* « » •
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grim wade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.


PAVIP JONES* COMPANY
IMPORTERS
OF THE
CELEBRATED
ORIENT
ft
BOOTS
AND
<SEOR<SE STREET,
(opposite G.P.0.)
SYDNEY.
-
HI
fd
Hand
Cameras
From
Pocket
Cameras
,ri . .
i&BJ
II
m
v.:
!
VISIT OUR SHOWROOM
or send for Illustrated Catalogue Free.
Stand
Cameras
To
£5O
Kodaks
66 KING y- SYDNEY
Home Cigarettes.
THE LATEST BULLETIN.
They are the Sweetest, the Nicest, the
most Commonwealthiest Cigarette.
All Tobacconists.
SOCIETY
Softgoods Sargood has been presented
with the blessed flag which was hoisted at Melb.
Exhibition building last May when the Duchess
of York gave the signal for the general flutter of
Union Jacks over the State schools of Victoria.
This, in consideration of said Sargood’s splendid
loyalty in organising the universal flutter, and
providing a considerable quantity of the “Grand
Old Flag ” material from his warehouse stock.
Probably it isn’t all the reward that Sargood ex-
pected for his trouble, but he must make the best
of it. The Bulletin would suggest that he have
it made up into a vest and a pair of pants at his
factory.
* * » •
Probably the selection of Lord Dundonald
to boss the Australian forces would be a fair
success as military appointments go. Dundonald
was the cavalry commander with Gen. Buller’s
army in Natal, and his confession of contempt for
the old cavalry methods in which he had been
trained brought him under favorable notice some
12 months ago. But then the lord who shows
symptoms of ordinary intelligence is very apt to
be credited with more brains than he really has.
Seen through an atmosphere of astonishment, his
“broad views” appear much broader than they
are. He gets over-praised to the same extent as a
parson who talks common-sense concerning Jonah
and the whale.
♦ • * #
A returned M.L. cohentingenter cele-
brated the receipt of his back-pay by running off
with the wife of an ultra-Jingo magnate. The
husband feels his injury so keenly that he is
becoming quite a pro-Boer. But lie should re-
cognise that a little allowance must be made for
habits acquired in extending the Empiah.
A DEFINITION.
SHE (to hoy): “ You don’t know what a bachelor is, Harold?”
HAROLD : “Yes, I do. A bachelor is a man who does not marry his wife”
The method adopted for collecting money
for the national war tombstone in S.A. is for two
r eturned troopers to travel round the country with
a lecture, a bioscope, a horse, and a dog—who has
himself been to the war—with a money-box tied
to his neck. Thus the provincial penny is raked
ia. What a squalid monument it will be!
„ „ . #
In a young Sydney municipal!,,; a royal
row raged the other week over the disfigure-
ment of its new Council Chambers by the per-
petuation on the wall m huge letters of the
Mayor’s name. The Mayor maintained his right
to do as he pleased, and supported his action by
remarking that when Edward VII. and Julius
<'aesar entered London their names were em-
blazoned on the walls ! !
The King has pardoned the Australians
in S’Africa found guilty of mutiny ; the Empire
just now can’t afford to lose its Antipodean supply
of farm-burning patriotism. There has been, so
far, however, no revision of the court martial
sentences on Boer prisoners. In their case Jack
Ketchener does his work in peace.
* * * *
A returned cohentingenter, charged with
two thefts at Mt. Morgan (Q.), confessed guilt,
and, in extenuation, pleaded “ the life I’ve been
leading the last 18 months.” Precisely : the
curses we sent against the Boers are coming home
to roost.
■ * * *
More Pink-hill ! Colonel Porter, of the
Maoriland 7th Contingent, wires Seddon :
Engaged Botha’s force 6th inst. Battle lasted eight
hours. Enemy, 2000 strong, defeated at all points. Maori-
landers charged and captured first position, important
hill on enemy’s right flank, held it under exceedingly
heavy fire concentrated from front and flanks. Maori-
landers were first in action ; their courage and relia-
ance being highly estimated. They are consequently
always employed to carry out most hazardous duties.
Contingent’s casualties, two killed and seven wounded.
Battle, eight hours ! Enemy, 2000. Maori-
landers—?? Exceedingly heavy fire. Two killed,
seven wounded—nine effective shots ! Ye gods !
It recalls a battle which present writer once saw
between two large parties of Chinese on the
Etheridge river. The fight lasted 24 hours, and
in the end one Chinaman was so badly hurt that
he had to stay in his bunk for over two days with
slices of fowl’s gizzard tied over his sore knee.
* * * *
Mr. O’Neill, Bathurst (N.S.W.) Police
Magistrate, rose up with a loud begorra, the other
day, to condemn the State education system as
Godless ; to remark that, whilst Roman Catholics
went to visit cemeteries out of piety, the Pro-
testant tribes only frequented them from levity ;
and generally to orate as a pulpiteering Boanerges.
Coming from a man in a’judicial position this
language naturally caused comment, and Attorney-
General B. R. Wise had to rebuke the flamboyant
sectarian. The rebuke was a model of mild,
fatherly reproof. Addressed to the right sort of
man, it should have more effect than the most
savage of censures ; but it is very doubtful whether
Mr. O’Neill is that sort of man.
• * * •
Decided in two cases at Port Adelaide
recently that a foreign seaman has no redress in
the Courts here against his captain for brutal
treatment, where he has signed (as, of course, he
always has) the ship’s articles under his own
nation’s maritime law. Wherefore, Captain
Czilnlski can continue to hammer the head of
Antonio Yvtzkoff with a belaying pin indefinitely,
even in Australian waters, so long as he is careful
that the A. B. does not live to get back home to
complain there.
* * * *
yr- • *j , „
‘ o-ajL ■ P Sd to have
P a . ld W J 5090 “ compensation to passengers
injured m the Jolimont accident, which, at the
XtSl
and the man with the cherished remnants of a
black eye was supposed to have quite a soft snap,
* * * *
A well-known Sydney physician is said to
have bought a large property on King’s Tableland,
between Lawson and Wentworth Falls, for the
purpose of establishing a consumptive home.
Dr. Ross, member for Molong, N.S.W.,
talks nonsense when he says that smoking is “at
the root of all the cancer that exists.” Women, who
don’t smoke, are just as subject to cancer as men.
Occasional cases of lip and throat can-
cer can be attributed to abuse of smok-
ing causing local
irritation ; and
that is all.
it *
C.M.G. : Re
th e ex pensiveness
of babies. They
certainly come high
in some families,
and are hard to have
and heavy toehold,
but there is proof
that your babies may
be dirt-cheap if you oil;,
see that they are born
to the right woman.
A Ballarat servant-
girl held the
record a few
years back.
She bore her
baby, attended
to it, clothed it
and kept it, and
also kept her
place. At six
years old the
youngster had neither been
registered, baptised, nor chris-
tened. Then came a tardy prosecution,
and the mother said she had been too busy to
,attend to everything. Asked why she had not
stirred up the father, she answered in as many
words that she “ couldn’t understand a girl, being
down on a chap just because he happened to be
the father of her baby ! ”
* * • *
Money-lender Cohen, an ex-mayor and an
ex-M.P., is the Snow tramway-grab candidate for
Adelaide mayoralty, and Alderman Wells is the
champion of munieipalisation. The fight, which
will be bitter and strenuous, takes place on
December 1. Every ratepayer has a vote,
while some with property in each of the six wards
have half-a-dozen votes.
• • * •
Claimed by Cardinal Moran that of 1000
supposed “incurable” patients treated at St.
Vincent’s “Hospice for the Dying” at Sydney,
440 had been discharged as cured. Verily the age
of miracles is not past.
A movement is again afoot to start
a Woman’s Club in Sydney. Entrance
fee, five shillings. That ought to provide
powder-puffs and looking-glasses anyhow,
and what more does woman want in her
club ?
* * * *
North Sydney’s Mayor, in a vain
attempt to justify the decision of the coun-
cil to defile the harbor foreshores under
its control with hoardings, alleges that the
N.S.W. Railway Commissioners and the
Harbor Trust are also sinners. As a
matter of fact, the Harbor Trust has set
its face against vandalism : and the Rail-
way Commissioners will probably be
taught their duty by Parliament. Mean-
while, North Sydney still reaches out
eagerly for the £264 a year which is the
price of its degradation.
“Gadfly”: lie consumptive remedies. In
De Quincy’s “ Suspiria de profundis ” he says he
was given up as a hopeless consumptive by two of
the most eminent men of that time —his weak
chest and a hereditary tendency to phthisis
seemingly bearing them out. His cure he ascribes
to his liberal use of opium, and he certainly lived
to a comparatively old age, using opium to the
last. Has such a treatment ever been otherwise
recommended ?
• * * *
The N.S.W. “Crown” took a point
against itself in court the other day that it had no
jurisdiction to try an alleged post-office offence,
as the Federal Government possessed exclusive
rights of control in postal matters. So far the
Federal Government has set Up no judicial sys-
tem ; if, then, the contention is correct, it would
be possible for a letter-sorter, until the Federal
court is created, to embezzle as much as he
pleased. Yet N.S.W. Supreme Court is now
seriously considering the matter on its legal merits.
AN OBVIOUS UNTRUTH.
VOICES FROM THE WATER : “ Come in, Sonnie,
it’s fine and Warm.”
SONNIE (from Drought-land): “’Taint, or you
girls wouldn’t have them clothes on.”
How can members of N.S. VY. Leg. Assem-
bly, who are really responsible for the govern-
ment of Norfolk Island, spout night after
night about the rights of free Australian citizens,
while by their silence condoning the form
of authority existing on the island ? The magis-
trate possesses and exercises the power to try all
civil cases without a jury, and a fundamental part
of the unfortunate Constitution of the place is
that there can be no appeal from his decision !
• * % *
“ Monowai ” : Re Sydney harbor adver-
tisements. It is amusing to find the Herald and
Telegraph posing as virtuous defenders of the
aesthetic, when they are themselves the greatest
offenders. Between them they have made Syd-
ney Agricultural Ground the biggest eyesore in
Australia, and their hideous posters defile many a
beautiful country road. Comtnonsense is wanted
in the matter. To abolish advertisements
on railway-stations is doubtful policy. But
all harbor foreshores must be absolutely
clear of them, all country roads, and places
of any pretension to natural beauty.
What it needed is an Advertisement Board (say a
member of each art society—three strong bruisers
to keep the peace between them), with power to
prohibit all advertisements (1) in unsuitable places
(2) that do not reach a certain artistic level.
* » * *
Labor member Roberts states that “ a foul
moral murder ” was committed in connection with
the loss of the barge Gwydir in Spencer's Gulf
and the drowning of three men, and he threatens
to stonewall all Government measures in S.A.
Assembly until an independent enquiry has been
held. The Marine Board blamed the captain of
the tug-boat, but the Supreme Court exonerated
him, the Judge advising the Board to fly for
higher game.
* * * *
Latest Sydney jokeling is to tell a friend
that a telephone message has come while he was
out. Will he ring up 39 Paddington and ask for
Miss Jessie ? 39 turns out to be the Zoo, and the
only Jessie on the premises is the elephant. The
inanity spread to such an extent that the Zoo
people were almost driven out of their senses by
repeated requests for “ Miss Jessie,” and had to
arrange with Paddington Exchange not to put
anyone on to 39 without an understanding.
Whereupon irascible persons, whose best girl was
named “ Jessie,” or who were confident of having
charmed some Jessie or other by their manly
beauty and deportment, loudly demanded the
“ manager,” and in one instance a city doctor who
was asked by three different persons to ring up
“ 39 ” made a scene.
* * * *
The young English semi-millionaire aris-
tocrat Cecil, still a- minor, who, it is cabled,
has been guilty of contempt of court by
marrying, in defiance of his mother’s wishes, Miss
Jessie Bain, daughter of a Scottish sharebroker,
has made a good start in life. No man ever went
far wrong who married a Scotchwoman named
Jessie.
* * * *
“Liverpudlian”: Extract from S. M.
Herald interview with Mr. Lever (Lever Bros.,
soap-makers, Port Sunlight, Liverpool):—
If Parliament attempts to legislate on the rate of wages
to be paid, it can only be disastrous for every working-
man other than the limited number Who are just in their
prime of life.
Parliament doesn’t interfere with the rate of
wages in England, and at Port Sunlight the
Lever firm won’t take on a man who is over
40, not even for a week’s casual employment.
SONNET.
Earth is so fair, and life (all said) so sweet
That the mere joy of living’s infinite—
Our very tears are pleasures, viewed aright;
Our direst pains but pause on wingfed feet,
And so away. Each hour comes on replete
With opportunity of new delight.
Bright day draws gently on to quiet night,
And sleep woos forth the sting of each defeat.
Oh, I have laughed in flow’ry Spring, and known
The crowning charm of deep autumnal days,
The glad companionship of sea and sky !
Dearest! one hope remains now—one alone :
Bid me to live, e’er all my life decays,
Or in your pitiless mercy bid me die !
TAS.
FRANK MORTON.


A Great Literary Undertaking'.
The “Library of Famous Literature,” which
had such a large sale in England last year through
the London Standard, is now available to
residents of New South Wales. The work is in
20 volumes, and has been recently brought out
under the editorial direction of Dr. Richard
Garnett, C. 8., late Keeper of Printed Books in
the British Museum; with him have been
associated prominent men of learning representing
Germany, France and America. The work con-
tains selections from the world’s great writers,
ancient, mediaeval, and modern, with biographical
and explanatory notes and critical essays by
many eminent writers, and ranks as a very
encyclopaedia of literature. Our parents thought
much of the volumes in which Charles Knight
gave "his “Half-hours with the Best Authors ; ”
but his latest development of that work, ad-
mirable as that was, is as important by com-
parison as, say, the “Dictionary of Natural
Biography ” is to the tentative biographical
dictionaries which preceeded it. The generous
manner in which the idea of the “Library of
Famous Literature ” has been received by authors
may best be indicated by the fact that no fewer
than 300 copyright works are “sampled” in its
pages—for the editor’s aim has been to represent
the most recent as well as the most ancient in
literature. The great anthology will prove a
useful supplement to many private libraries. A
number of sets were reserved in London for
distribution in Australia, and these are now
available. The supply is very limited, and only
those who apply promptly will be able to take
advantage of the remarkably low prices and easy
terms that now prevail. The work is handsomely
illustrated witli colored and other engravings,
and should appeal to all who love good books.*
J.D.K.Z. GIN.
+
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
but absolutely the test in the world. One size
only—largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 16'5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Sydney.
RAFFAN’S catarrh remedy
Invaluable for Restless Exhaustion.
RAFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY
Excellent in “ Breaking-up” of the System.
RAFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY
Specially in Dyspepsia and Sleeplessness.
RAFFAN'S CATARRH REMEDY
In Extreme Depression and Headache.
RAFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY
A Specific Influence on the Nervous System.
2/6. RAFFAN, Carlton, Melbourne.
g
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette, and Sailing List with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Collins-st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
SILVER STAR STARCH.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
9
£15,000 still stands at credit of Bulb
Accident Relief Fund. The Miners Accident
Relief Fund wants to take this over, when, of
course, the administrators will pay any outstanding
Bulli claims. But those who run the Bulli fund
object, one of their reasons being that they are
still paying expenses of management. What are
the expenses of management ? What is consumed
in this way, who are the managers, and how much
work per month is entailed?
* * * •
The Sydney woman imprisoned for a time-
payment debt, the other day, will have conferred
a benefit on society if her case prompts some
M.L.A. to call for a return of the number
of persons now in Darlingburst Gaol confined
for debts—maintenance, alimony, costs and other
accounts. In some cases the amounts are trivial,
and the State loses more by the prisoner’s keep
than if it paid the amount owing.
PERMANENT
DEFICIT.
“Say, uncle, how
much does it if
take to keep a wife?"
“ Oh, you can’t specify any particular sum—it
always takes a little more that a man’s yot.”
What seems to be the Real Tired Girl of
Australia was presented recently in Molong
(N.S.W.) police-court. She was a servant girl
named Mary Ann, and had left several places
under the same exhausted circumstances. On
entering a billet she toiled arduously at first, but
then sagged into a sleepy state and dozed off and
on for days—apparently till her engagement ter-
minated. ' In her last billet she felt the tired feel-
ing coming on so badly that she implored
her mistress to send for the police and
give her into custody for being the tiredest
girl in these parts. She was accordingly
charged with being too drowsy to adequately
maintain herself. There was a difficu'ty about
knowing what to do with the Genuine Australian
Tired Girl, but the Salvation Army people at
Orange offered to take temporary charge of her.
The Bulletin has an idea that there is a consider-
able awakening in front of the Tired Girl. For
getting an enormous amount of work gratis, and a
subscription as well, out of a tired sinner, and
keeping her awake by shouts of “Hallelujah,”
and by passing the hat in the middle of the night,
the Army has no equal.
* * * *
In a community which checks the baby-
supply. on the plea that the little germ of a sinner
is a nuisance in its early stages, it is interesting to
read, set forth solemnly in a Sydney daily paper,
instructions as to the treatment of pet dogs : —-
“ The least possible trace of vaseline may be applied to
their jackets, and polished off with a clean handkerchief.
. . . Brushing and hand-rubbing get up a beautiful gloss
on their coats. . . . Eyes should Vie w ished, and if noses
are dry a little vaseline well rubbed in with the finger.
Long-coated dogs need more attention. They must have
extra combing and brushing. The soap used should be
the best toilet, as common soaps are unsuitable. As to
Maltese spaniels, the hair so carefully kept down the
centre of the back must be sponged downwards from the
parting, while hot towels and warmed soft brushes
should be used for drying. . . . Great pains should be
taken to dry the inside of the ear thoroughly. . . . The
shaving of poodles is, of course, an ever-recurring task,”
etc., etc.
On the score of trouble, it would appear that the
woman who keeps a pet dog should be only too
glad to swap it for twins.
• * » *
One provision of Peacock’s new old-age-
pension scheme is to empower magistrates to hand
the money over to parsons or J’s.P. on behalf of
the pensioners “as a guard against the wasteful
expenditure of the money.” Which calls for
a sub-clause defining the maximum of a 7s.
pensioner’s compulsory contribution to plate or
mission-box. Also another sub-clause to make it
reasonably certain that a certain class of J.P.
won’t be entrusted with any pensioner’s money.
As people are being fined for spitting on
Sydney footpaths, why shouldn’t it be the same
with those who spit in trains, trams, and ferry-
boats? The decks of the boats and cars are fre-
quently in a disgusting condition from this cause.
• • • *
“ Crutchy ” : Re Sydney footpath legisla-
tion. While the authorities are about it, I think
they should start prosecuting those who drop
banana and orange skins about Sydney pavements,
especially near fruit-shops. lam myself a cripple
for life through this cause, and I don’t think six
months’ “ hard ” would be a day too much for
anybody who thus, out of sheer brutal indiffer-
ence, endangers the limbs, and even the lives, of
others.
* * * •
Sydney tram authorities charge double
fares on the “owl cars” (Brisbane name, bor-
rowed from Yankeeland, for all-night trams). So
far they are paying the men employed only ordi-
nary rates. Surely all-night work is worth double
time or time-and-a-half rates.
A scheme, probably engineered
by struggling tooth-pullers, is being
proposed in Maoriland, to extend
the lodge system to dentists. At
all events, the lodge members
won’t crowd to the dentists, as
they do to the doctor, unless
there is something wrong. And
the dentists will probably
equalise things a bit by stuffing
as few, and pulling as many as
they decently can, of the lodge’s
teeth.
• • •
A W.A. chemist has been
fined for treating with a lotion
the eyes of a young customer,
on the ground that this was
surgical treatment. “If defen-
dant had dropped water into
the eyes, that would be a sur-
gical act,” said one doctor, in
the witness-box. Protecting the
public against imposition is one
thing, buttressing up a medical
monopoly another thing. The
• campaign against quackery seems to
be degenerating into the other thing.
■» * * *
“ M. 8.” writes re Sydney medical Mayor
Graham’s threat to enforce the law against mem-
bers of his own profession who fail to report
infectious cases to the Board of Health :
Has it ever occurred to the Mayor to prosecute the
Health Board for neglect by its own officers in these
cases ? The occupier of the infected premises goes to the
trouble (per Act) of making a statement as to what school
his sick child goes to ; whence he gets his milk-supply,
and the doctor fills this in, and mentions any other likely
source of infection in the neighborhood. But the subur-
ban health officials are usually council-clerks or corpora-
tion-laborers, who, upon receiving a report of an infec-
tious case from the local medico, are. supposed to rush off
to the infected premises with a bucketful of carbolic
wherewith to sprinkle the first drain that takes their
fancy. That’s about all they do, and it’s called “ disin-
fection.” Indeed, it doesn’t always get that length. I
know of four cases of scarlet fever, in separate houses,
reported some months ago, yet up to date no local health
official has visited the premises—not even the ir.an with
the squirt. I also know of many cases wherein, though
in accordance with the Act, the children have to stay
away from school because one in the family has scarlet
fever, the father of the family fondles his sick little one,
and yet goes to work as usual to mix with fellow-
employees ! Present scribe, in fact, utterly fails to see
what practical good has resulted from the new Health
Act beyond notification for the purposes of statistics.
• • * *
N.S. W. Assembly has voted, without
opposition, £ll7, in payment of the children’s
luncheons at the recent Sydney Young People’s
Industrial Exhibition. The children were brought
there to give displays in the interests of the pro-
moters, whose balance-sheet is said to show a large
sum to c redit. The correspondence of this money-
making affair was passed through the P.O. free.
How easy it is to get at N.S.VV. Govt, if you only
know tiie ropes !
* * • »
The first step towards putting into effect
the N.S.W. Inebriates Act was made last week,
when a visiting committee for licensed inebriates’
homes was appointed. So far, however, no place
has been gazetted as a home, and the victim of
the drink-mania has still to gibber in the streets
and police-cells, unless he is fortunate enough to
have friends with “sand’’enough to put him for
a‘spell into a lunatic-asylum.
* * * *
The protest of the music warehouses against
a 15 per cent, tariff on trombones and trumpets,
and other brazen instruments, will hardly meet
with public sympathy, despite the plea that a
baud (when it gets away from a theatre) develops
a rich vein of human sympathy, and is always
blowing the debt off a hospital, or the mortgage
off a School of Arts. A little less brass music in
the streets would be a welcome result of the tariff.
* * • *
Part of the price Queensland pays for its
Kanaka is a high murder-rate. Of seven homicides
recently executed in the State, six were colored
men.
* * • ♦
A curious case in a Sydney suburban hos-
pital. A girl of ten (disease, tubercular menin-
gitis) relapsed into unconsciousness last May, and
only recovered her senses the first. week in
October. She was kept alive by artificial feeding
for over four months. The 1 doctors hope for re-
covery now, but, as in all tubercular diseases, a
recurrence is always possible.
A growl from “ Civil Servant ” :
Re N.S.W. Lands Minister Crick’s recent remark that
the Premier would sack him if he struck for an 8-hour
day. The “ House ” laughed at the joke, and the House
patronised the 8-hour day demonstration ; yet I, a
Government employee, in a responsible position, have to
work from 9 a.m. to 10 p.m., minus an hour each for
lunch and tea. When these hours were first required of
me I was informed that they were necessitated by a
temporary pressure of work, blit that was 15 months ago !
Some months ago I received £2O odd extra, with an in-
timation that no more overtime would be paid. This
payment was nominally 2.) months’ overtime, and was
considered fair compensation for nine months’ extra
work of three hours a day, all Saturday's and holidays,
and many a Sunday. Certainly Is. 6d. tea-money is
allowed, but 4Jd. an hour for four hours’ work is farcical.
The work shows no signs of diminishing ; yet there is talk
of reduction of staff, but none of reduction of the £6OO to
£2OOO salaries enjoyed by a dozen favored ones in the
Department. Casual labor at Bs. per day commands Is.
6d. an hour for overtime, yet skilled labor and responsi-
bility must meekly accept Is. 6d. for four and often five
hours of overtime.
• * * *
The 900 odd appeals arising from the
re-grading of N.S.W. Public Service are about to
be heard by the Board. The appellants have
been granted the right of being represented
by counsel, and are deeply exercised as to
whether to take advantage of the permission.
They find there is much to be said on both sides.
To employ a lawyer may look like a confession of
distrust in the Board, or of personal incapacity to
argue the matter, or of consciousness of a weak
case; on the other hand a lawyer man may
gracefully and unblushingly put the merits of
Brown to the Board in a fashion which the
average Brown himself would not have the face to
adopt.
* * it *
Sydney tailoresses have at last succeeded
in enforcing their demand for better terms from
the manufacturing clothiers of the city. It means
an advance of from 324 to 100 per cent, on the
cruelly sweating rates in force in August last, the
date when the women began to organise. Since
the Federal tariff will keep out the foreign cheap-
labor product, there should be no difficulty in
maintaining the rates.
• * » •
“Alpar”: A large per centage of the
R..C. youngsters attending N.S.W. public schools
belong to the R.O. teachers in the service. When
I was skull-driving, I never reckoned on any
good results from 8,.C. children, because they
SIMPLE FAITH .
THE CLERIC: “ Yes ! I knew your father well.
Is he alive yet?”
THE BHOY: “ Not yet.”
were continually being shifted from my school to
the convent-school and vice versa. Sometimes I
had’em, and sometimes the church had its large
hand down. I’ve often pitied the kiddies because
thus they never got a fair show, and had to be
extra bright to be “in the swim ”at all. I found
they had great memories, perhaps owing to the
quantity of Catechism they had to remember.
» ♦ * .
The escaped and recaptured convict,
, i *• j, • • , • , • i • .-i
Sparks, has gained his point in having his trial
made a public onewind the theatrical exhibition
in open court,’ which Chief Commissioner Chom-
ley feared would take p ace, will now even uate
held ta public, and that the greater publicity, the
less responsibility for all concerned.
* * * *
As a variant on the small-girl outrage lie a
Brisbane youth, aged six, came home with a
solemn yarn of how he and Billy Blank were
playing near a water-hole in Victoria Park, and
Billy fell in. Two constables vainly dived in
the place indicated. Then Bill came strolling
along ; he had been playing a blameless “ wag ”
miles away, and hadn’t smelt water for days,
Bill’s mate has a future as a war-correspondent
or pro-Kanaka leader-writer on the Courier.
* * * *
Dr. J. Gr. Barrett, eye-expert, stated
before the Victorian select committee on railway
management that, when he visited Europe, he ob-
served that State-owned railways were nearly
always in advance of those owned by private cos.
in the precautions they took to ensure the safety
of passengers by scientific examination of the
sight and hearing of employees. Yet, his bitterest
foe could hardly accuse tlie medico of an undue
political leaning towards State socialism.
“Yon Kotze ” writes from Berlin
Let me draw
the attention
of Mr. Drake
to a novel and
sinful device
for enriching
the postal ex-
chequer much
in vogue in
this part of the
world. The
curse of the
pictorial post-
card has in-
deed struck
Europe heavily
There is not a
roadside inn,
not a respect-
able country
house, that
does not own
its special card
with views of
the neighbour-
hood. And, in
addition, ten
thousand dif-
ferent humor-
ous devices,
serious de-
vices, indecent
devices, reli-
gious devices,
and so forth
are flooding
the market.
Even the most
inveterate non-
writer of let-
ters sits him
down nowa-
days, when he
is travelling or
boozing, and
sends a dozen
or so pictorial
memo s. to
friends and
enemies. The
NOT MASHED ON NOBILITY.
THE CAPTAIN: “Is the Lord with
you? ”
MRS. SOPE: “Garn! I'm a re-
spectable married woman livin’
with me ’usban ’!”
craze is already years old, but shows no signs
whatever of weakening. The letter-carrier swears,
but the P.M.G. is happy indeed. Also, the small artist
earns many an honest shilling by drawing blushsome
sketches of very equivocal situations, and undutiful
nephews remember their neglected aunts and cousins ;
while the inevitable collector has struck a new and well-
nigh inexhaustible field. In short, everybody is happy
bar the letter-carrier aforesaid.
“Ria”: Be N.S.W. public-
school teachers’ grievances.
Schools from 10th class up-
wards receive “cleaning-
allowance,” but provisional
schools (sometimes larger
than 9th or 10th publics,
and with as great an enrol-
ment) are totally neglected
in this direction. Yet the
inspector will “slate’’the
teacher if the school is not
scrupulously clean. Also
the teacher of the public
school, in 98 per cent, of
cases, gets a higher screw
than the poor provisional
teacher, who, though he
may be classified, has to
wait sometimes two or
three years for promotion
from his paltry £BB a
year.
HIS TROUBLES.
The parson said : “ Your sinful Past
Will make for you a fiery rod.”
I smiled, and thought upon the vast
Amused indifference of God.
V.J.D


PE ICES.
ĝf
g
Same old fair-sex argument: Who scores
the greater nowadays—the pretty or the attractive
woman? Meanwhile, the sensible woman “gets
there” by visiting the Toilet Salon of Mr. H.
Westall Guest, Bourke-street—thereby proving
that real charm is in a good complexion, luxuriant
hair and well-modelled features. With a little
expert assistance the attractive woman preserves
her charm, and the pretty woman becomes attrac-
tive.*
’Tis her alluring style, at present, to so
gown herself as to display as much of her shapeli-
ness as possible. Given a fine day for the Cup it
will be found that Woman, arrayed in soft,
clinging dress creations, with her undulating
form perfected by the P.D. Corset, will dazzle the
male person with the frankness of her contour.
The P.D. at once transforms any reasonably
shapely wearer into something like a goddess.
The P.D. figure on Cup-day will be the prettiest
part of the show.*
Cablegram from London
A big struggle has commenced for the control of the
tobacco trade. All the wholesale tobacco merchants in
London reduced their prices to-day, in order to fight the
new American combination.
It is added that the Americans are willing to drop
a million pounds in cutting prices in order to cap-
ture the English tobacco trade. The invasion of
England by American capital is growing to very
large dimensions these days, and Britain will take
to Protection again before long in sheer self-
defence.
CHARLES
HEIDSIECK
Original Brand CHAMPACNE
BV SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO
HIS MAJESTY KING EDWARD VII.
AS SUPPLIED TO
THE BRITISH ADMIRALTY and WAR OFFICE.
ALL LEADING CLUBS and HOSPITALS, &e., &0.
Australian Representatives —
SWIFT & CO., 7 Spring St., Sydney
A WOMAN'S LETTER.
Sydney, October 29, 1901,
Mr Dear Arini,—
Everyone who has more than a quarter-inoh of
forehead must sometimes meditate curiously upon
the eagerness with which we (we are Australia
facing the dawn) seize upon trifles and let our-
selves be tickled with straws. A few days ago
the cable told us that the wife of President
Roosevelt had announced that she can dress on
£6O per year. The announcement is probably one
of Reuter’s little foxes—“little foxes that gnaw
the vines ” —or probably it is a half-truth. Mrs.
Roosevelt might have said that, if necessary—say,
if hubby had only a salary of £l2O a year—she could
manage to dress on half of it, or, peradventure, she
mentioned to a dress chronicler that she managed
on £6OO per year for dress, and a nought fell out
of the reporter’s note-book. But all over Australia
newspapers have fairly flung themselves upon the
straw (or fox) and are commenting upon it from a
dozen points of view, all in perfect good faith.
Ponderous editors of mill-stone dailies give a
snuffle of authority and order a leaderette in which
oocur the words “management”—“economy”—
“good example.” Their wives read it disgustedly
and say, “Why, she’d give £6O for just one very
middling evening dress ! ”
> Roosevelt, since he became President, doesn’t
seem to have done anything worth mentioning,
except ask a negro to dinner. I came across men-
tion of this negro, Booker Washington by name,
some months ago, in an article on the color pro-
blem in the States. Booker Washington is an
ex-slave who educated himself and founded a
Normal School for young negroes at Tuskeegee
(doesn’t that word call up a picture of Indians
chasing bison ?). “A prominent Southerner,” so
goes the mention, “ was asked how he had
addressed the principal and faculty of Tuskeegee
when he met him on the street. He was most
enthusiastic in describing what Washington had
done, and to what good use his scholars put their
knowledge. He contrasted them favorably with
white boys, and yet this man said : ‘ Now, when
I meet the man who has done all this I can’t call
him “ Booker ” like I would an ordinary nigger,
but, by thunder, I can’t call a nigger “ Mr.,” so I
just say “ Professor.” ’ ”
Society of Artists’ Annual Exhibition opened
this week, oils, water-colors, pastels, black and
white, and sculpture—2l2 exhibits in all. As you
enter the main room, Longstaff’s portrait of
Marjorie—Mr. J. C. Williamson’s little daughter
—confronts you, and you think, “ Isn’t Fogtown
lucky to get Longstaff ! ” The child is seated in
a straight-backed chair, her little hands lie
easily on her lap, the head is inclined
towards the right ; the soft, rose-like
face and golden hair are framed below a big
stand-up, pink bonnet. The draperies are of old,
rose-pink silk, and a wisp of white lace crosses the
bare arms. This picture is flanked by the dusky-
green “Fairy Tales” of Mrs. Peters on one side
and a brilliant canvas, “ The Grate,” —deep blue
sea, a man and a woman, she in a crimson robe—
on the other. Then in order come Sid. Long’s
floor-to-ceiling canvas, a portrait of Mayor
Graham in his official robes. Then Julian
Ashton’s laterally-long, principal exhibit, “The
Wave,’ a greenish-blue sea-scape with warm
boulders in the foreground. The “ wave ” dashes
upon a sunken rock, and its long, level, incurving
line is broken laterally, and seethes in a great burst
of white foam and spray. The Gallery will be
open to the public to-day (Thursday). Mrs.
Barton, Mrs. Wise, Mayoress Graham, Mrs. J. 0.
Williamson, and other ladies will give “At
Homes” during the course of the show. The
committee intends to take a plebiscite as to .the
best five pictures.
Mrs. Ernest Coomb'S, who was the Rosalind in
the under-the-Norfolk-pines production of “As
You Like It,” is the wife of a Sydney bank-
manager. Physically, she is an ideal Rosalind,
and might well cry, “ Alack, for my doublet
and hose ; why can’t I wear ’em every day ? ”
“ Mona,” where the play was produced, is in-
habited by Mrs. Rowe, the widow of Major Rowe.
Once upon a time it held a fine collection of pic-
tures—at least they were considered fine in those
days. The grounds glimmered with thousands of
fairy lights. Acetylene gas lighted the stage,
which was just mother earth, and scores of moths
and a scared bird or two blundered above the
players’ heads. The poor support given by the
public to the production is not likely to make
Messrs. Love and Broun give us more Shakes-
peare under the moon. By-the-way, Mr. Broun,
the assistant manager of the Palace Theatre,
marries Miss Cruickshank, daughter of a
deceased naval surgeon, presently.
On Friday night, in a parting storm of cheers
and flowers, the Italian singers took leave of us—
for a little while. “La Boheme” and the mad
scene from “ Lucia ” were given to a record audi-
ence. Signor Dani had a score of button-holes
thrown to him, and something on cardboard that
gleamed as gold and flashed as a diamond was
handed over the footlights to the high C man.
Another of the male principals got a bright,
stuffed bird, balanced on a twig within a hoop.
Madame Sapio carried off several baskets of
flowers, including an armful of arum lilies.
Signor Hazon, the ever-youthful Bracy, and
proprietor Williamson, were drawn on to the
stage by the voices from on high, and the last
spoke a short, phlegmatic speech, giving credit to
anyone and everyone but himself. It is difficult
to make Father Williamson enthuse. He is deeper
than a patty-pan, and his eloquence is not of the
small-pot-soon-hot type. Last night of the opera
the audience was a combination of local society,
musicians and other-Staters eri route to the Mel-
bourne race carnival. There was nothing
startling in the way of dressing. A middle-
aged lady with an eagle nose wore a
wreath of pink baby roses. She gave the im-
pression of strong individuality, because she
clearly didn’t care what people thought. Pink
roses are muoh misused just now. To-day, in the
early forenoon, a thin, sallow girl in a holland
frock was about town wearing a wreath of full-
blown ones round her neck.
Miss Lillah M‘Carthy, as Zebuda, in the
“ Christian King,” doesn’t look the Norse maiden
that we’d conjured up from our childhood’s
memory of Viking history. Her long black hair,
black brows, carven features, her snaky grace,
and the way she stands, “like a lance at rest,” her
robes and turban, all make for a reminder of
women in Jewish and Roman history. Deborah
or Judith might have looked so and acted
thus. She’s a lovely pagan, and good old
Taffy, if he ever had to choose between a
Zebuda and an Elswitha, must have had
a terrible struggle with himself. “ Moral
qualities rule the world, but at short
distance the senses are despotic.” With a
loud, deep sigh we are forced to endorse that.
But Elswitha has her own charm. Miss Edyth
Latimer acts her very prettily as an Opheliaish
girl: geutle, obedient, who still wears her hair
down, and isn’t any more grown-up after she has
got a baby in a wooden cradle. Miss Latimer,
who was a little girl from Manly, has got on capi-
tally in her profession since W.B. took her hence
(being “ fetched ” by her reciting) three years ago.
There isn’t much millinery in the “Christian
King.” When the Danes are lving down you
think of a herd of steers at rest. I 1 hey must have
done a lot of dehorning of their own or neighbors’
cattle so that each fighting man might wear a
pair of horns above his ears.
Major “ Jack ” Antill ought to be much obliged
to the Boers—or Providence. He might have been
scattered by pom-poms on the veldt, but he
wasn’t. He brought his personable, middle-aged
self (after Pole-Carew’s example no soldier above
the rank of captain will marry before middle age)
back from the Karroo (whatever that may be) and
got married to a tall, fair-haired, dimpled girl
with a complexion and a smile. Instead of a
Boer bullet he got a billet as a bridegroom ! She
is the eldest daughter of the Wills-Allens, of
Gunnible station. Her gown was of Brussels lace,
chiffon and satin; and she wore diamond screw
studs in her unpierced ear-lobes. The reception was
held at the Australia Hotel. Bridesmaids carried
bouquets of crimson poppies with streamers
and bows of red chiffon, and by the time the cake
was cut they looked as if they had been boiled.
The poppy off its stalk declines to live
more than 20 minutes. Major-General and
Mrs. French, the latter faithful to her violet head-
gear, were present. Also, Mrs. Lassetter with
two green and crimson parrokeets transfixed
under the brim of her toque, and Mrs. Burdekin
in heliotrope, and a crowd of majors and captains
with their wives.
Another marriage: Miss C. R. Dibbs, one of
Sir George’s flock of daughters, to Captain
Waldron, of the Imperial Bushmen, on Saturday
last. Mr. W. Hickson was best man. The bride’s
gown was white duchess satin, trimmed with
Brussels lace, and the four bridesmaids wore white
Indian muslin and big white hats, and carried
white bouquets.
Marrying a scientist carries certain penalties—
for the bride. A nice girl wedded a local
fashionable doctor a few weeks ago. On the
honeymoon she learned that she must not wear
open-work stockings, for fear of microbes ; or low
dresses, for fear of bronchitis ; or kiss anyone, for
fear of contagion ; must not shake hands with un-
gloved hands for the same reason ; or speak into a
public telephone for fear of tubercle ; musn’t hire
a pair of opera-glasses when she leaves her own
at home. It was all “ Thou shalt not.” When
she came home she found her bed with its four legs
ankle-deep in jars of disinfectant. Many hus-
bands who are not scientists or medicine-men
have tried to induce their wives to curtail the tails
of their walking gowns, but got no more satis-
faction than “you don’t know what you’re talking
about!” It’s different, though, when the wife is
a bride— that clay is mostly soft to the hands of
the potter.
From Paris comes a new form of fortune-telling
“by the whole figure.” It sounds tempting, and
the new profession should be rushed by oleaginous
men with dark curls and ox-eyes. Further, the
form-reader will stand on velvet as a prophet.
He will be able to foretell that the blushing
damsel with plump arms, &c., is sure of, at least,
one husband, and that the venerable spinster with
the obtrusive shoulder-blades will find that the
gentleman whom she advertised for in Gkanny
has strictly honorable intentions—in fact, irri-
tatingly so.
Final speech of an Australian war-correspondent
after his last lecture to a London audience:
“Ladies and gentlemen,— I have travelled 49,000
miles and addressed 200,000 people—according to
my manager- ana ..ave had a real good time.
But next week it will be my privilege to sit where
you are, and say as I walk out, ‘ What a rotten
show ! 5 ”
We want a minimum-wage for teachers. But
probably it would be fixed at eighteenpenceaday.
If a board, of the class which pays its governesses
£2O a year and its cooks £6O, “had the fixing, it
wouldn’t go much beyond that figure. A junior
resident master recently went up North to a
private school. He had to teach mathematics,
Latin, French, and all English subjects at a
salary of £4O. “Board and residence in term
and during short vacations.” A highly-repu-
table Sydney agent engaged him for the billet,
and here’s an extract from that agent’s letter
evidently in reply to one of remonstrance on the
J.M.’s part : —“ A resident master (unless special
exceptional arrangements are made) has to under-
take house-duty, including Saturdays and Sun-
days. If you have two evenings to yourself you
have as much as resident masters usually have,
and those two could surely he utilised for outside
teaching” Italics mine. This young man with
his “ Latin, French, mathematics, and all English
subjects,” ought to be worth, say, the wage just
awarded as minimum to the fettlers of W.A.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent: —
“The deluge in Melbourne on Sunday week
played havoc with the new-season goods of the
blithe spring girl. A beautiful sun lured the
crowd out, and then the flood-gates of heaven
opened, and, an hour or two later, forlorn wretches
of the feathered sex were streaming home through
the suburbs, looking like fit subjects for the appli-
cation of the rules for the restoration of the
insufficiently-drowned. I camped for two hours
under one verandah where several blighted girls
were openly and noisily weeping over ruined
headgear.' While we awaited the abatement of
the storm and the draining-off of streets, an open
drag, loaded with theatricals, two-thirds of them
ladies in what were recently most expensive
frocks and top-hamper, drove past through the
raging torrent, like a band of mixed bathers
fresh from the sea. Accepting the inevitable
with the best grace, the pros, drove through
the downpour, along the street-river, singing
hilariously, but at the deep crossing the drag
bumped heavily, and a small comedian who was
doing funny business on a back seat made the hit
of his life by going plunk into the billows. The
drag had to anchor while the small comedian was
fished' out of the storm waters with a crooked
stick, amidst howls of applause from the
verandahs and balconies.
“I never before in my life met such an agree-
able aggregation of nice old men with their nice
young wives as those composing George Reid’s
Freetrade meeting at Melb. Town Hall the other
Monday evening. Every second clean, prosperous,
middle-aged Freetrade importer in this city seems
to have a wife young enough to be his niece, and
they all assisted- the veterans to admire George
Reid, shaking tiny handkerchiefs at the stout
comedian, and even throwing flowers at his in-
growing toes. If G.H.R. had been a popular
pianist ‘ with a’ayrick’ead of’air,’or a beauty-
tenor, he could not have created a greater flutter.
I got in early by strategy, when all the exits and
the entrances were barred and bolted and tyled
and guarded by a regiment of police ; and found
the place packed tight with the elite, some in
evening dress. It was like a fashionable audience
at a five-shilling concert, and not a bit like the
average political-meeting crowd.
“ At Mr. Reid’s anti-tariff meeting (Oct. 21),
when he silenced an old-age interjector with a
jeer re ‘artificial teeth on the free list,’ sensitive
hearers felt as they do when some burly larrikin
hawker savagely threatens to kick his tottering
old moke off his feet. However, if man in his wis-
dom scarifies these remarks as henfoolishness, on
the grounds that ‘all is fair in politics,’ I meekly
withdraw my yapping—till woman gets her vote.
“The young widow of the late Mr. J. A. Wal-
lace, M.L.C., is a niece of Sydney’s George Reid,
and a daughter of Mr. Hugh Reid, of Melbourne.
Mrs. Wallace, gentle and nice-looking, is an
active kirk-worker. Her step-daughter (young,
pretty Miss Wallace), like her brothers, will, pre-
sumbly, now enjoy fuller control over the wealth
inherited from her own mother, the first Mrs.
Wallace (nee Monahan). One of the Wallace
boys, by the way, married the nurse who tended
him through his illness.
“President Wrixon, of the State Parliament,
is able to do more entertaining than his shrimp-
like predecessor, for he has a wife who takes
kindly to the business, and a family of rather
festive tendencies. Mrs. Wrixon, with her
saintly brow and general Puritanic appearance, is
not a giddy elf, but she is the right kind of
mamma, and takes her turn at the helm with a
rigid sense of duty. The Wrixon boys are chips
of the"maternal block, and turn up unfailingly to
every social shivoo in Melbourne. At the semi-
official garden-partv given by the President and
his partner, at ‘ Raheen,’ Kew, last Thursday,
several Caulfield Cup stunners were aired in the
way of frocks, the hostess herself showing forth
in a cloudy blue voile built on silk and frescoed
with black cob-web lace.
“There was a bright military hop at the
Prahran Town Hall, on Thursday night, when
the officers of the Victorian Garrison Artillery
hosted joyously. The dais party would have been
entirely obscured from sight but for the diamond-
sparkling of the evergreen and omnipotent dowa-
ger of Cliveden. Outside this radius, Mrs. Jus-
tice Hood scintillated quite on her own, her gown
being daffodil faille, with finest point lace, and
mky ehoux. Her daughter, a small brunette, was
worth a second look, in sheeny silk and em-
broidered chiffon. But the most remarkably -
froc-ked woman was Mrs. Walter Clarke, youthful
and grey-haired, in a rare rig-out of black-and-
silver spangled net, with mauve encrustations,
and additions of blue furbishings. A head-dress
of blue, black, and white reared above the grey
structure.
, . Gnce more Sydney was in it—a tiny matron
hailing from t’other side obtaining extraordinary
comment at this scarlet hop. She was a weird
ethereal figure in an angel-like gauzy chiffon.’
Heaven only knows how it was glued on:
hooks and eyes being too, too coarse to do
the important part of hitching. A tangle of hair,
the shade of barley-sugar, threw a pale, golden
shade on the nape of the neck, and a pale grey
dove was glued down on the left temple.
A complexion of pale pink and cream was
the most uncommon thing in flesh-tints ever seen.
There are not too many fascinating sirens
working their incantations on the hearts and
pockets of male visitors at the World’s Fair, and
the majority of these seem to contrive an early
disappearance to the adjacent aquarium, where
couples wander into cunning corners and forget the
W orld entirely. The most of the shearing is per-
rormed by precocious juveniles, or elderly spin-
sters raffling the eternal cosy. All the same, the
crowd files into the exhibition every evening and
swells the stall takings. Cynics say that the tug-
of-war, amusing hundreds in the grounds, is no-
thing to the tug of coat-tails in the building.
“First night of revived ‘Florodora’ Miss
Vallange and sisters Ruby and Telsie Madden
looked extra fresh and dainty in all-white, as they
strolled in, holding up their skirts to show lacey
petticoats and satin shoes. The matron of the two
had a green ribbon twisted belt-wise. Little Miss
top-heavy with an imposing red Alsatian
bow, wore long red chiffon sash ; while belle
Kiiby, crested with one white rose, affected no
relieving color.
wi!l:b C \) V A lliamson ! Vm told > has bought and,
when in Melbourne, intends to live in a pictur-
esque reef house at Camberwell, on Tara estate,
subdivided d °hn O’Shanassy, but now
hill A su burbs grow in popularity. The
K ?l aC w™ S have amoved to Kew, long favored
by the Wrixons and Frank Madden.
“Ormond Professor Petersen, successor to
black-browed Marshall Hall, is slim and fair,
with pointed blonde beard, elfish eyes, and quaint,
inflected Scotch voioe. People speak of his odd
‘accent,’ but ‘intonation’ is the correct word.
He is very like a Danish or Swedish Varsity man,
who (judging by specimens met in Australia) are
amiable, accomplished conversationalists, with
fair beards, great fondness for music (light as
well as heavy), and a passion for discussing Con-
tinental operatic performances. In spite of
German education and a Hungarian wife, Peterson
is a canny Scot who will do good business for his
Conservatorium. Minus the musical originality
and magnetism of hymner Hall, the harmonious
pilgrim advertises his firm, so to speak, and
enlists students all over the State by
acting as judge at musical competi-
tions here, there, and everywhere. But his
second Wagner lecture (Oct. 22nd), with its mild
‘musical illustrations’ and small-sized limelight
views seemed rather milk-ancL-watery. Even
bland ‘Waxellency’ stinted his oratorical honey
when called upon to return thanks for such very
small mercies. One hears that blarneying John
wearies of being ‘nice,’ complaining that in
return man gets but ingratitude—and his salary,
of course.
“Toorak has a tasty morsel to digest. The
announcement of a marriage which took place
months and months ago only appeared last week,
and the secretly-joined pair have thrown much
dust in the eyes of their fashionable friends by
keeping up the pretence of a playful engagement.
Some laugh over the affair, thinking it clever—a
perfect comedy. Others frown, and say the whole
business, the secrecy and deceit, is awful. One of
the most jaundiced of the circle paid half-a-crown
at the Registrar’s office to see the real date of the
knot-tying. It was half-a-crown thrown away.
The public announcement was quite correct.
“ Mrs. Cox (formerly Miss Stanbridge), Dayles-
ford’s very own heiress and daughter of the soil,
plans dairying operations at her childhood’s
home, builds luxurious milking-sheds, and puts
her faith in butter. Socially, however, she wastes
no light whatever on the gloom of her native dis-
trict.
“The train from Melbourne to one ot the out-
suburbs, the other evening, brought a daintily-
apparelled lady, in a fancy dress, who sought the
station-master in a shower of tears, because the
train went no further, and she wanted to get to
the next town to a fancy-dress ball. The sympa-
thetic official got a cab for the distressed one,
when there stepped up a furious man, in pointed
moustachios and goatee, and a vindictive smile,
with ‘ Hold ! madam ! I command you to return
home ! ’ The lady shrieked, and urged the driver
to start at once, when the threatening person tore
off his disguising horsehair, and lo ! it was her
husband ! Then there were tears and recrimi-
nations, from which the bystanders gathered
that the husband had shadowed his pleasure-
loving wife all the way from Melbourne. After a
while the lady became excited and threatened to
deposit herself under the next train, leaving her
children to the mercy of the world. Then
hubby also lost his temper, and rebuked the
giddy matron by slaps ; and the local bobby, who
wasn’t used to the ways of Melbourne sassiety,
locked up the pair in separate cells, where they
passed the night without even the gratification of
abusing one another. .
“ That mad-house doctor in the Hawtrey pro-
duction is true to life, with his owl-like pretence
of medical acumen and spotting of non-existent
symptoms. I know of a deaf damsel taken to a
city aurist, t’other day, by her anxious grand-
mother. Doctor marched into his consulting
room, made straight for Granny, and shouted :
‘You’re very deaf!’ ‘How do you know?
questioned the maligned ancient. ‘By the ex-
pression of your eyes and your whole attitude!’
By this, the pompous medicine man perhaps
meant that his supposed patient had a vacant,
listless demeanor, but she soon let him know that
ears and tongue were still going strong.
“A nurse was recently attending a foreign
matron at a critical hour. The patient was so ill
that the nurse, gulping down her professional
tears, broke the news gently to the husband. He
threw his hands and his eyes up to Heaven : ‘ Ah !
you must get the deer vife bettor, for she is my
second pardner, and if she die I vill have to get
anoder —dat vill be tree,’ he exclaimed with a deep
sigh. The shocked nurse rushed from him and
worked like a Trojan to get that patient back from
the jaws of death.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


Warner’s Safe Cure.
FEDERAL TARIFF PRICES.
The proprietors of Warner’s Safe Cure beg to
announce that, as they have a branch laboratory
in Australia, Warner’s Safe Remedies will not be
subject to the duty of 25 per cent., which will
have to be paid on all proprietary medicines
imported into Australia.
The wholesale prices of Warner’s Safe Remedies
have been slightly advanced in New South Wales
so as to make prices uniform throughout Australia,
but this advance is so small that it will not be
necessary for the public to pay more than two
pence per bottle over and above the prices paid
before the Federal tariff came into force.
Warner’s Safe Cure is the only lemely known
to science which will unfailingly cure all diseases
of the kidneys and liver. The following diseases
are cured by Warner’s Safe Cure, because they all
all arise from the retention in the system of
urinary and biliary poisons which it is the province
of the kidneys and liver to expel: Rheumatism,
indigestion, gout, neuralgia, biliousness, lumbago,
siek-headache, backache, sciatica, gravel, jaundice,
bladder troubles, blood disorders, anaemia, Bright’s
disease.*
There is one place in Sydney where the
business of money-lending is carried on in an
equitable manner and where those in need of
financial accommodation can rely on being
decently treated. The sensible man who wishes
to get rid of his monetary worries at a minimum
of cost and trouble to himself goes to the offices of
the Australian Equitable Investment Co., Ltd.
The co. has a large capital for investment at low
interest, and is always open to advance money on
risks which, the banks would decline; and acts
generally as a medium between the banks and
ordinary money-lenders. Men in business can
obtain assistance for their venture at a figure
which will leave them a fair profit for themselves.
The co. advances money to any extent on deeds of
land, bond warrants, merchandise, stock in trade,
scrip, interests under wills, furniture and all classes
of security. Press notices which have been pub-
lished from time to time express the favorable
opinion which generally exists regarding the co.
Mr. J. E. O’Brien is the Managing Director, and
the co.’s offices are at 45 Elizabeth-street, between
King and Hunter-streets.*
f
BULLETIN SUBSCRIBERS-^-
Who are unable to read small printed matter, or to see fine
stitching or writing, whose distant vision is dull and who suffer
from persistent headaches or pains after close application— you
may rest assured that you are suffering from Ageing or
Impaired Vision, and Need Glasses. You should visit
us, and have your sight scientifically tested, and be supplied
with Glasses adapted to your individual case.
TO COUNTRY READERS wno cannot visit us personally, we send, Post Free to any address, with full instruc-
tions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT. By its use
you can Test your own sight and determine for yourself' the style and quality of the glasses you may need.
Write for it to-
H. A. BARRACLOUGHy Consulting: Optician,
371 Georg? St., Sydney,
next door to the A.J.S. Bank,
King and George Streets.
And at 232 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.,opposite Agb Office.
FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
Lightest Wines
Australia.
in
Supplied to H.R.H. the Duke of York.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Lord Ketchener.— Bulletin copyright and
guaranteed to stick.
“Jumbo” Armstrong has taken “silk.”
A godsend to the N.S.W. junior bar !
Said that Max Hirsch was responsible for
the ground-work of G. H. Reid’s tariff speech.
The father of N.S.W. Justice Cohen was a
proprietor of the ably-conducted Sydney Aus-
tralian, whose first editors were W. C. Went-
worth and Dr. Wardell.
Candid Mr. Crick, debating “ the honor of
the House” : “ Why, the teetotallers in the House
are increasing. If it wasn’t for me the refresh-
ment-room would go bung.”
A private letter from London says that
“ Bertrand, the murderer, who spent 30 years in
Darlinghurst prison, is doing splendidly in Lon-
don, in the mining business. ”
Clement Wragge, recognising that humor
alone won’t run a show, now intersperses his
lectures on meteorology and the Stiger-Vortex gun
with sea-songs, accompanying himself on the
banjo.
A western N.S W. settler celebrated his
recent elevation to the “ Bench ” by having a
large gold scarf-pin made, bearing, in raised letters,
the legend, “M. Hooligan, J.P.”
Eden Jawge, who has suffered much from
the unkindness of newspapers in his climb to
fame, wishes N.S.W. Assembly to pass a Bill
giving itself power to deal with critical editors by
fine or imprisonment.
Ranfurley, unlike some of our Australian
Governors, desiring to prolong his term, has got
M.L. Government to request the Imperial
authorities to assent to the prolongation. That is
the old constitutional practice.
Edward Greville, who takes leave of ab-
sence from N.S.W. Leg. Council, has been for
years the Chesterfield of that slow-going body.
Ere health gave way, he was a frequent speaker,
concise, scholarly, and dignified. Till the last his
suavity of manner was conspicuous.
J. H. Carruthers is gradually getting a
party about him in N.S.W. Assembly. He is
biding his time to quietly elbow Lee out of the
way. One of his principles is to be particularly
kind to young members.
Jenkin Coles, the proud and titled S.A.
Speaker, sprained his ankle lately when being
tossed about in Spencer’s Gulf awaiting the mail-
boat. This calamity is expected to greatly
facilitate the outer harbor movement.
There seems a fervent desire in some
quarters to hurry N.S.W. Chief Justice Darley off
the bench. The sturdy veteran has several times
had to deny an announcement that he was about
to take 12 months’ holiday and retire. Whom
does the Ministry desire to appoint ?
The recent George Reid testimonial in
Sydney only panned out some £250 or so. It was
intended to raise more, to recoup Yes-No’s losses
whilst attending the tariff debate in Melbourne.
A Foretaste of the Nation’s Gratitude and a
Warning re Laying to his Book—at the Bar.
Ex-Minister Arthur Hodgson, still alive at
83, and figuring as a public man in England, took
as a bride a Woolloomooloo girl, and was the first
to settle with a white woman on the Darling
Downs (Q.). He was a member of N.S.W.
Parliament and had a portfolio in two Queensland
Ministries.
The action of the British Government in
dismissing RecTvers Buller from his command of
the Ist Army Corps is a regrettable piece of
cruelty. What future is there now for that vast
army of loyal British infants, the Buller Smiths
and the Buller Joneses who were named after him
when he was in his zenith ?
Reported that Mr. F. Bridges, Chief In-
spector of N.S.W. Schools, and temporary member
of N.S.W. Public Service Board, is to be ap-
pointed Federal Public Service Commissioner.
Mr. T. W. Turner, of Fort-st. (Sydney) Public
School, will, it is also said, be one of the six
“ inspectors ” under the Act.
State Agent Grainger (S.A.) has got
himself into trouble for poking fun at the dignified
and decorous Lords of the Admiralty in an official
communication. So far, those high and mighty
officials have been too startled by the tone of his
letter to reply, and nervous legislators fear that
the result will be a loss of trade to S. A.
What a fiery, wild Radical M‘Millan
is becoming! Even Sydney “D.T.” can’t keep
pace with him, and mildly apologises for his state-
ment that there was “ a conspiracy ” to construct
the Federal tariff for Victorians. M‘Millan seems
desirous, now that he has his knighthood safe, to
tread the John Norton path of fame.
A Sydney suburban doctor, certifying that
John Norton was not able to attend at Parliament
House, to answer the charge of libelling the Legis-
lature by stating that some of its members had
their legs tangled in hop-vines one night, particu-
larised that John was suffering from “ nervous
prostration and injuries to eye and face.” An un-
kind House laughed loudly when this was read.
Mrs. Todhunter, who recently died on her
husband’s station, near Warren, N.S.W., was a
niece of John Skinner Prout, the artist, some of
whose pictures now hang in the N.S.W. National
Gallery. The artist arrived in Sydney in 1840 and
worked over a large part of Australia. On return-
ing to England he was elected to the Royal
Academy. His “Tasmania Illustrated” is in
high repute.
Judge Meymott, whose daughter married
last week at Burwood (N.S.W.), was a pupil of
the great Chitty’s, and practised for many years
in England. As District Court Judge in N.S.W.,
he put up a record of good legal work accompanied
by striking disregard for conventions. He spent
some time as Parliamentary draftsman, and re-
signed the post with a high reputation for accuracy
and logical sequence of thought.
Minister Kingston incurred the everlast-
ing wrath of Melb. pressmen by his secretiveness
on tariff night. When they pleaded with him to
make their lot lighter by supplying necessary
figures earlier in the evening C.C.K. sternly
refused, and as it was late before he finished
telling Parliament all about it, many a suffering
pressman invented a special imprecation for his
benefit whilst trudging home sometime a.m. to a
distant suburb.
Some official people try to soften the
asperity of Gov. Le Hunte’s shortage of cash in
New Guinea by assuring him that he will obtain
an early transfer to one of the Australian State
Governorships. But M‘Gregor was twice as
big a man, and worked twice as hard and many
years longer in Papua, and his transfer was to a
fever-trap on the Gold Coast. Which, considering
Dr. M‘Gregor’s splendid record, was a mean and
even brutal act.
Tomlinson, convicted of the White
Cliffs coach robbery, is tall and slim, with re-
markably sloping shoulders, and ought to be
easily recognised; yet the passengers, coach-
driver and bike-man spent more than an hour in
company with the robber on that moonlit night,
and will not identify one with the other. They
all knew Tomlinson well, three of them familiarly.
Local opinion is that Tomlinson is certainly not
the man who committed the actual robbery.
Suggested by Geelong (Vic.) Advertiser
that something should be done by the producers of
the State to mark their appreciation of the late
James Harrison’s invention of cheap ice-making,
which enabled Victoria to become a large exporter
of perishable produce. The inventor and great
journalist (it was James Harrison who made
Melb. Age a power in the land) died poor, leaving
a widow and family. As the inscription on his
tomb reads, “Onesoweth; another reapeth.”
The Duke of York, it is cabled, irritated
French Canadians by not farewelling them in
French. If the Duke’s French is as bad as his
English, they should rather thank him for saving
the life of a language. Canada is just now on the
verge of a race problem. Those of French race
are increasing so rapidly in numbers as to threaten
to swamp the British-descended in the land.
Already the French have taken possession of nine
hitherto English-represented seats in Parliament.
“ Baldy ” Davis lately told N.S. W. Assem-
bly that he had lost £150,000 in a western grazing
property, and, after 40 years’ work, had, from a
“bloated squatter,” come down to an “ordinary
M.P.” The Bulletin knows of a man who, after
putting nearly £lOO,OOO of his own money into a
Queensland squattage, left it after long years with
nothing but a suit of clothes and a billiard-cue,
and owing the bank £250,000. But he is a battler,
and has since made a solid half-million in mining.
The King, moved thereto, it is said, by
dread of an incurable malady, has lately taken to
“ Christian Science.” There is, no doubt, a scien-
tific basis in this creed, to the extent that will-
power, or faith, is able to conquer most forms of
pain and most diseases unmarked by organic
lesion. But in Mrs. Eddy’s Christian Science
teaching the truth is mixed up with, a huge mass of
rubbish, some of it merely silly, other silly and
dirty. For instance, the daily bath is, according
to Mrs. Eddy, no more necessary than to take a
fish out of water daily, and cover it with dirt, in
order that it may thrive better 1
PAPA BUNKER.
Mr. N. Lockyer, N.S.W. Collector of Cus-
toms, had a big share in the drawing-up of the
“ purely Victorian tariff ” which the Reidites rave
about. And his departmental chiefs, with a
thoughtfulness not always found among poli-
ticians, gave him credit for his work. Said George
Turner, in his budget speech, “ The gentleman
who mainly prepared the figures was Mr. Lockyer,
of N.S. Wales. He is an able man, and I have
been astounded at the interest he has shown and
the trouble he has taken in his work.” Later,
Mr. Kingston felt it necessary to “mention Mr.
Lockyer, whose high intelligence has been chiefly
devoted to the all-important question of the
necessary calculations.”
Murray Smith, the Victorian apostle of
Freetrade, is the son of an English ship-owner
who dropped dead in
his office m the Forties,
on hearing of the loss
of a valuable vessel
and cargo on the
Australian coast.
AN UNCONSCIOUS HUMORIST.
(Scene: The Saddling-Paddock.)
SEEDY PERSON: “I say, guv’nor, do
you know anything? ”
Admiral Sir James Brisbane, the transfer
of whose remains from Devonshire-st. to South
Head cemetery has evoked congratulations from
the present Admiral, was not Sir Thomas Brisbane,
the early Governor of N.S.W. Sir James was
Commodore of the first battle-ship that entered
Port Jackson. He died in Sydney in 1826, and
was highly eulogised in a Government Order of
the day. “His name will be handed down as a
record to posterity,” said the Order. His identity
is already almost lost.
Lieut.-General, and periodic Agent-
General, and perpetual Victorian pensioner
Andrew Clarke, claims to be the first member
elected as a working man’s candidate in Australia.
South Melbourne sent him as a Radical into the
first Vic. Assembly. He had come out as A.D.C.
to Gov. Denison, and probably Lady Denison’s
habit of laughing at the pretensions of local
snobdom influenced him to take up the cause of
the working men as against “the other class.”
The working men certainly stuck to him while he
stuck to them.
It was certainly foolish of N.S.W. Parlia-
ment to become officially aware of John Norton’s
blow at its alleged dignity. Too late, the House
will find that it would have been much better to
have let the matter severely alone. The only
John, in his most flourishing days, was hauled up
every three months for hurting somebody’s,
“dignity,” but he came out in all cases without
any damage worth mentioning. Then the ag-
grieved took the cruel course of leaving John
alone ; and his star began to set.
Statements can always be explained away,
for no statement is so definite as to be incapable
of being misunderstood. It is a politician’s Dan
O’Connorisms—the glowing ' bits of rhetoric into
which he is betrayed after a good dinner—that
haunt him in future days. Thus, during the cen-
sure debate, Joe Cook quoted Barton speaking for
G. H. Reid in the old days:—
I believe in Mr. Reid because he is a man who will
ever strive to crown the brow of New South Wales with
the rich garlands of freetrade, and will never deface her
shapely limbs with the shackles of protection.
Down Bourke-st. (Melb.) passed the other
day, with representatives of the newest Parlia-
ment in the world, a member of about the oldest
survivor of all Parliaments—Quayle, who holds a
seat in the Manx House of Keys. Quayle, an old
Eureka Stockader, is having another look at the
land where he made his first “ rise.” _ He draws
some nice comparisons between Victorian and
Manx politics. They have had woman-suffrage
for 15 years. Their land-tenure system is practi-
cally that of perpetual leasehold ; and the largest
landholder has only 600 acres. Out of a £90,000
revenue (for last year), they pay the British Govt.
£lO,OOO for military protection, the rest goes
mostly in public works. There is no borrowing
policy ; the revenue is raised solely from a few
customs duties and the land-tax—amounting
to about a farthing in the £ on unimproved value.
Quayle is proud of his House- alleged to be 200
years older than the English Commons—and his
opinion of the Vic. House of 48 Rich Landlords is
unprintable.
Premier John Greeley Jenkins is now
S.A.’s principal after-dinner speaker. Originally,
“Jinks” was a book-agent, an accompanying
business advt. being a lecture on ‘ ‘ American
Humor,” which he has delivered in nearly every
town in Wheatland. Like Kingston, Jenkins has
gone grey through office cares, though he only
completed 50 years of life last month.
His Ministry is generally supposed to
be in a minority in S.A. Assembly, but
the cute Yankee, according to a Tory
opponent, has hitherto contrived to
so set his opponents by the cars that
dislodgement is impossible.
Mr. Alfred Clint, son of Mr. v
Clint, scenic-artist of Sydney and
Melbourne, is now in M.L.,
painting for Dix’s Gaiety .Co.
The history of the Clints is a
curious instance of the per-
sistence of an hereditary im-
pulse to art. The famous
George Clint (the Painter
of Players), one of Eng-
land’s best portraitists,
gave it the start. His
son, Alfred Clint, was a
well - known landscape
painter; his grandson,
Alfred Clint (now in
Melbourne), is one of the
best-known of Australian
scenic-artists; and his
great grandson, Alfred
Clint, jun., is now making
a good start in the same
profession.
To Hector Macdonald,
when he had shown unique
capacity and extraordinary
courage, Lord Roberts, in 1877,
offered a Y.O. or an officer’s com-
mission. The alternative shows
the silly system on which the
British army is managed. For his
courage, Macdonald deserved the
V.C. ; for his capacity, the com-
mission. As a matter, not of
grace but of business, he
should have got the latter
on the principle that capable
war-leaders are so few that
the utmost must be made
of the promising colts.
Sarcasm from Sydney D.T. :
Now that the Governor-General is so much in Mel-
bourne, he outshines all smaller gubernatorial lights at
great social functions and entertainments. A Lieutenant-
Governor, be he ever so elegantly arrayed, suffers from
the diminished glory, and escapes that distracting public
curiosity which, to a man of the strikingly retiring dis-
position of the present vice-regal representative of
Victoria, must be an extremely painful experience.
S.M. Herald, which gave G. B. Barton a
few casual lines to carry him to the grave, had
one-third of a leaded column about Frank Ben-
nett’s death. But whilst Barton was a writer,
Bennett had the virtue, the supreme literary gift,
of being a Newspaper Proprietor. It is of more
importance to be able .to buy brains than to have
them by nature. The late Mr. Frank Bennett
was a kindly soul and a “ real good sort,” but he
would have been equally admirable as a whole-
sale grocer, and equally happy.


MfICONOCHIE’S
CELEBRATED
Worcestershire
Sauce.^g—
Most Delicious
and Cheapest.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Australian Representatives:
SWIFT Sc CO.,
7 Spring Street, Sydney.
THOS. WHITELAW & GO.
WALL PAPER MERCHANTS
TELEPHONE 376 8.
LONDON,
SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE
Artistic Wall Papers.
Novel Ceilings in
Plaster Effects.
Latest Designs and colorings
Absolutely Fireproof.
A Charming Assortment.
The full London and Continental Collection of the above Goods are now on view at the Firm’s
New Warehouse and Showrooms 391 GEORGE ST«, SYDNEY.
These Decorations comprise the most delightful Assortment ever shown in Australia. Invited.
Clients will find our Art Goods art most inexpensive Patterns forwarded on application.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Hotel
Australia ——^
RATES:
12s. 6d. per Day,
and upwards.
This Hotel has popularised hotel-living in Australia.
During our enervating summer, the cool and ele-
gant drawing rooms, the charmingly - arranged
dining room, the readiness and perfection of the
attendance, and the splendid appointments of the
Hotel throughout, prove a boon and blessing to
visitors. The Hotel is so loftily-built and situated
that residents sleep in a distinct atmosphere—a cool
light air, entirely free from the dust and impurity
ct the city.
SMITH (Late ol Menzies’), Manager,
Oastlereagh-st., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. —ln th* case of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value,
A new variant of the story of the woodman
snapped by a log comes from Traralgon (Gipps-
land) district. The axeman had felled a tree, and
was trying to split Bft. of the butt with maul and
wedge.s. He had got a wedge well in at crib-time,
when he perched on his log for lunch. Suddenly
the wedge jumped from the green log, as wedges
sometimes will, and the splitter was snapped from
behind with a vehemence beside which the
grip of an alligator would be a tender caress.
The poor man stayed sitting on that log for about
three hours, and was then found unconscious.
Wedges were driven home to release him, and he
is now lying on his face in hospital, wondering if
he will ever dare to sit again.
• * * *
“A.G.”: Have visited a couple of Govt,
agricultural farms, and have been amused at the
way the “wonderful results” are obtained. The
modus is very simple. The “students” —they all
have to work —stack about £lO worth of manure
on about 20 sq. ft. of land, and, after working it
in carefully, put down —say, wheat. Then, taking
the return from this particular patch, which has
been kept well watered, as a basis, it is calculated
that the surrounding country will produce an
enormous number of bushels per acre. Likewise,
they raise—at an absurd expense to the State-
some thundering big pumpkins, and things. It is
all grossly misleading, and wants looking to.
Almost incredible, also, that these people are
allowed to compete, at shows, with struggling
cockies, who can’t afford big pumpkins. There
would be something on going oil the land if Govt,
would find manure and water.
• * * *
A quaint wail from a way-back woman :
Dear Bulletin. — I should like to ask, through your
columns, why are some bushmen so much fonder of dogs
than of children —even when the children are their own ?
My husband is a N.Q. police constable, and he has two
cattle-dogs which he prizes extremely, though the brutes
are quite useless, except for killing fowls and eating beef
and eggs. He will come off duty at 1 a. in. and take his
dogs for a walk until 3 a m., yet, if at any time I ask him
to mind his child for a while, he will wither me with a
look and ask me is he to work day and night? If the
children ask him to play, he is always too tired, and he
has nothing but a snarl for them, and if I speak one word
against the dogs killing my fowls and ducks he goes and
gets drunk, and I find him under the house with his dogs,
and they are full of fleas, which get on me when I tie
them up. Now, how can a wife respect a man who thinks
more of his dogs than his children ?—X.X.
* * • .* *
Johnny Bicycle spreads the gospel: —
At North Rockhampton, a Kanaka, rejoicing in the name
of Johnny Bicycle, has, by himself, built a small wooden
church. And here, every Friday night, he holds forth to
a congregation of a couple of dozen of his own color.
Johnny’s sermons are none too bad, either. The “ sacred
edifice ” has at each end of the roof a cross cut from ki ro-
sene-tin, and the inside walls are decorated with highly-
colored pictures of saints of the sort seen in many R.O.
houses. The pulpit is draped with cream-colored art
muslin ; and altogether, as the unaided effort ' f one
“ boy,” the place is a marvel.
DAIRYING VERSUS GRAZING.
SOKAWN: “ S’pose yer doin' a big thing in milk just now?"
BRAWN: “ No ; we only fatten
“C.H.G.”: (“ Jaynol,” B. 21/9/’01) con-
founds the bell-bird with the bell-minah, or honey-
eater. The bell-bird’s diet consists of insects and
seeds, whereas the bell-minah prefers honey-dew,
a sweetish inseetal secretion upon the foliage of
gums. The bell-bird’s extraordinary ventriloquial
powers account for “ the mysterious notes coming
from various quarters.” Sometimes the note is
low, as if at a distance. Then, by degrees, it in-
creases in volume until it is apparently overhead,
the bird being all the time hidden in an adjacent
gum. Color of male—crest, brownish-black ;
forehead and lower throat, white ; upper breast,
brownish-black ; lower breast and abdomen,
white.
AT THE AGRICULTURAL SHOW.
MR. JUSTOUT : “ You can’t tell me, my good fellow, what pigs are; my father at ’ Ome had a
great many pigs on his farm.” A VOICE : “ Oh, anyone can tell that.”
“ 0.P.R.” : A grazier at Toulbung
(N.S.W ) claims to have successfully crossed a
goat with a merino-sheep. I saw a “ fleece ” that
had been shorn from the alleged hybrid. 1 lie
“ wool 99 is extremely coarse and heavy, and is cer-
tainly not pure sheep’s. The fleece is being sent
to Sydney to be exhibited at a wool-broker’s.
* * » *
“0.0.” : Can any reader say why the
wallaroo and kangaroo don’t inter-breed ? Though
the wallaroo more particularly affects rocky
and hilly country, the two varieties are often
intermixed. Yet, though there is no more appar-
ent difference between them than between a brown
cob and a bay thoroughbred, I have seen nothing
I could distinguish as a cross.
« * * *
“Jaf" : The correct version of the yarn
about the horse shod with gold. When “Johnny”
Cameron was returned as first member for the
Ovens (Vic.) district, his friends and supporters
hired a creamy horse from a travelling circus, and
had it shod by a station blacksmith with shoes
made of gold. Cameron was then escorted by
nearly 3000 miners to the Star Hotel, Beechworth
Alleged that the shoes are now in the possession
of a Riverina lady, but more likely they went into
the ‘ ‘ pot ” long ago.
. * «
“ Pelican ” : Says the old
man to me: “Step up to the
house, me boy. Me daughter,
Cis, married Tom Biles to-day,
and it’s a dance we are havin’
to wind things up.” I went,
and had a high old time—
leaving the old man slumbering
on the floor when 1 departed.
About a week after L met
Biles and asked him how the
wife was. “ Wife be blowed,”
said, he, “ I aint married. It
was only a put-up ’tween me
and Cis. Cis’s pal, Annie
Moore, had a masher as says
‘ I’ll marry you, Annie, when
Tom marries Cis.’ So we fixes
the rig. He takes Annie to
the chapel, and I drove off
with Cis as if to the parson.
No 1 th’ ole man didn’t know,
an’, as I paid for the liquor, he
didn’t care. Anyways, Annie
got hitched all right.”
» * *
“ V.R.” : I know a China-
man who has an old grey mare
to carry oranges for sale. The
moke will stand for hours,
whilst John carries a few dozen
“ olangee” up to any wayside
selector’s ; but should any
would-be pilferer approach Old
Misery, as she apparently
dozes, he generally gets a sen-
sation ; for the old girl springs
suddenly to life, and becomes
a regular cyclone of kicking,
squealing, and biting.
“ Pros.” : During last winter I found over
30 wombats dead in the Blue Range, Yio. The
bodies were all infested with very large ticks like
those I have seen on stock along the coast about
Mallacoota Inlet. The ’bats varied very much in
color—black, brown, grey, reddish, sandy ; one
was almost pure white.
41 * ♦ *
Jack was working at the windlass, and
was in the act of pulling his mate up the shaft after
firing a shot. When the mate was half-way up
Jack’s dog and a strange tyke started to fight,
whereupon Jack pegged the windlass and went to
see fair play. Meanwhile the shot went off, bang-
ing lumps of rock against the bucket, in which
the mate remained suspended and swearing.
When the mate was at last hauled up, the dog-
fight was supplemented by a man-fight.
“ Lar.” : When I was in charge of Kanakas
on a sugar-plantation up North, and had to make;
’em rise in the morning and start yakker, one of
the women used to refuse to proceed to the cane-
brake without a saucy green silk parasol, which,
barring a shell-necklace, constituted her whole
rig-out.
• • • •
Letter from a shearer at Winton, North-
west Queensland :
I’m writing this at my bedroom window at the pub.,
facing the barren, brown downs, broken by a dried-up
billabong lined with stunted, parched coolabahs, with a
few hungry hills on the heat-glimmering horizon for
background to the despairing scenery. The downs are
spotted with snow-white bleached skeletons of horses and
cattle—the victims of the last severe drought—and a few
still-hairy, half-decayed carcases are also scattered about.
No need to bury or burn cadavers up here. Two days’
sun almost turns them into mummies ; the crows and flies
do the rest. These fresh victims were probably con-
valescing from the recent severe drought, and were too
weak to battle against this renewed attack of the wither-
ing fiend. Across the way, a living skeleton of a cow is
nibbling the dry hark off a coolabah rail fence, while in
the street a feW goats are devouring some fresh horse-
droppings. These goats will follow a stable-fed horse for
miles, in anticipation of a feed. It’s a ghastly sight! Not
a vestige of greenness anywhere. If this continues, many
stations out here won’t have a single sheep to shear
next season, and travelling on horseback will be abso-
lutely impossible. As for footing it, with creeks and
tanks all empty—well, a fellow might as well suicide at
once. Almost every day news comes in of men being lost
and found dead from thirst. Do you remember old
“Paddy the Snob,” who was wool-rolling at Oondooroo
the year we were there ? He was found dead between
Bouiia and M’Kinley, a while ago. Took the usual
“short-cut” that so often leads to destruction in this
hellish country, and died of thirst. He was found undc-r
a tree, and on his billy was scratched with a knife : “ Pat
Daley. Perished.” “Perished,” you see, instead of
“ perishing.” He knew! . . . We cut-out of Aiding
ham a few days ago after only a fortnight’s shearing,
and down below, in the bar and on the verandah,
most of our fellows are fighting, cursing, blaspheming
and drinking, drinking, drinking !—notwithstanding the
fact that this may be their last shearing cheque for a year
or two to come. When their cheques are melted they’ll
jump their horses over the bar, and then, maddened and
weakened, will lave to foot it away across those endless
downs to God knows where, perhaps to meet the fate of
poor old Paddy. But the men must drink to break
their awfully hard and monotonous existence. Th?y
don’t read, and most of them have lost all ambition, and
are resigned to end their lives out here, fighting droughts,
heat, flies, crows, banks, and absentee station-owners.
Without a spree occasionally most of them would go
stark mad. I wish to God I could get out of this living-
hell to-morrow. I’m longing to see real, live green
grass once more, and to get soaking wet in a good shower
of rain. The cursed flies are getting into my eyes, nose,
and mouth. They, too, are dying for something wet.
The ink-pot is already chock-full of them, so I must close.
* * * *
“Yarrum”: At a N.S.W. country pub,
t’other clay, I struck a dish I was much taken
with. Didn’t know what it was, as it didn’t ap-
pear on the menu. That night, interviewed the
cook—a superior person —and she told me, in con-
fidence, that it was “curried concawah.” She
didn’t know the correct name of the bird, which
was a*grey thing, frequenting honeysuckles ; but
it was locally called “concawah,” on account of
the resemblance of its prolonged squeak to that
word. Anyhow, it was excellent.
* * * *
“ Y.” : Lived once in small N.S.W. town,
where, for a long time, bandicoot constituted the
leading dietary article. It started with the
lawyer, who bought up all he could get; and,
when telling us of the “ delightful flavor,” would
smack his chops and pass a flabby hand over his
capacious stomach. So, as I thought that what a
fat lawyer relished wouldn’t be a bad thing for
me—a lean catechist—l tackled bandicoot. Then
recommended it to the local banker, who took it
on, and ’coot was soon in such demand that the
price rose from 6d. a-head to 4s. 6d., and hard to
get at that.
* • » *
This year Wimmera (Vic.) crops are being
smothered with “ red poppy.” Its appearance
dates from a couple of years back. Prior to that,
cockspur, star thistle, Bathurst burr, and the
“ white weed,” or dwarf species of the everlasting
daisy, held sway each in turn. Very often a flower
plague is the result of the mischievous pining o
home-sick exile for some remembrance of his nativ
land. Scotchmen are the worst offendersm *
respect, and to their nostalgia we are indebted io
the thistle. The English daisy and the briar rose
are other agricultural pests imported for senti-
ment’s sake, and now most heartily cursed.
* * * *
Maoriland “ fancies ” itself more and more
every year. It is now asked by Wellington Pos r
to believe that it was the Garden of Eden, on the
ground mainly that —
At Rotorua, and many other places Pacific,
Nature had cooking-places all readv prepared, thus the
peopling of the world may have begun from Polynesia,
for we know that all the conditions are there with all tne
possibilities for development ; and that a better supplied
and arranged establishment could not be designed for
scattering a primitive people over the world.
In short, if the Deity didn't start the human race
in M.L. it made a big mistake.
* * * *
The pilchards which have for some time
swarmed in Port Phillip afford good sport to the
blue barracouta, a sober, methodical tish, which
refrains from rushing open-mouthed at the shoal
and swallowing all he gets, but systematically
spots a fat victim and chases him until near
enough to bite off his tail. Left thus helpless, the
pilchard is leisurely assimilated. If the ’couta be
caught and opened atter a meal, his victims will
be found methodically stowed like sardines in a
tin—the heads all one way, the tails mutilated or
missing.
“Thurla”: Be bell-bird (B. 12/9/01).
“Jaynol” is correct. “Scutum” is evidently
alluding to the crested wood-pecker which has
a green back and yellow breast. It is the male
bell-bird that utters the bell-notes; the female
makes only a harsh, grating noise. The male is
slightly larger than the ordinary woodpecker, with
light-grey plumage, crest, and black throat and
breast, but the hen is a plain drab.
* * * *
“ Yarrum” : What a lot of things that could
be grown profitably in Australia are neglected !
now that there is a stiffish duty on hops farmers
ought to grow all we need. The hop certain’y
thrives well on N.S.W. south coast. At Nelligen
(Clyde River) some years ago I knew a Kent man
to have a splendid crop. There was then “ only
one thing,” he said, “ that stopped him from going
in for it largely.” There is nothing now. [But
Tasmania grows hops in plenty already. Ti e
trouble is that brewers use so little of them.]
*
T. CARADOC KERRY, Owner of the wrecked
yacht Ariadne.
Photo, by Yerex, Oamaru.
“ Edson ” : Be a recent, discussion on
“ Au-sterile,” and the fate of the human race in
inhospitable lands, note Prof. Baldwin Spencer s
description of the country the Spencer-G i Hen expe-
dition lately passed through, from Barrow to
Tennant’s Creek : “Simply abominable—a waste
of mulga scrub and white-ant hills, varied now
and again by miles of porcupine grass.” Speaking
of the local aborigines, however, Prof. Spencer
declares he finds them physically “ the finest
Australian natives he has ever seen. Winch
bears out my theory: while there’s life there s hope.
* * * *
“ Old Cove ” : Things are altering ! The
Australian still dearly loves a horse—to save his
legs—but he likes to sit behind it—on wheels. In
these parts, owing to the previousness of events,
marriages are often made in haste, but every self-
respecting couple (or trio) must commence matri-
monial life with a horse and trap, though they
“doss” on a sheet of bark in a hay-shed, and
camp the kid in a candle-box. Also, a swagman
—a real, genuine swaggie—passed last week carry-
ing an umbrella, and the last traveller that called
here insisted—positively insisted—on earning his
dole at the wood-heap.


for
Colds
WOLFES
1 ’ SCHfI APPS.
Hot with
Lemon
at
Bedtime.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Janos
Fok liver COMPLAINTS, OBESITY, &c.
The "VIENNA MEDICAL PRESS" says:-
“ Hunyadi Janos may be regarded as a specific for obesity.
Average Dose. — A wineglassful before breakfast , either pure or diluted with
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
- ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
USED IN THE ROYAL HOUSEHOLDS.
“CEREBOS SALT
Besides being the most Dainty, Dry, and Economical
Table Salt, “Cerebos” contains the strengthening and
constitution building properties which are wanting
in White Bread, owing to the removal of the Bran.
It is, therefore, invaluable in the daily food of
growing children, delicate mothers, and all brain
workers.
Wholesale Agents: -HARRISON & ATTWOOD, 334 and 336, George Street, SYDNEY.
Sold by Grocers and Stores.
“ Frawth ” : Re “ Fraulein ” and her
snake-bitten dog (B. 8/6/’01). A few years back I
was watching a mob of sheep being driven through
a gate at Ponto. The dog was rounding them up
when I was attracted by his furious barking.
Rode over and found that the object of his atten-
tion was a death-adder some 10ft. away. Suddenly
the reptile doubled itself and sprang—striking the
dog and rebounding to its former position, I lie
dog howled pitifully for a few minutes, then
showed signs of being sick, and in 12 minutes was
dead. Mr. Kennedy of Ponto (who, only the
previous week, had refused £25 for the do") can
corroborate. [Mr. K. could doubtless testify to
the loss of the dog, and the offer of £25, but there
doesn’t appear to be any evidence but “ Frawth’s”
own about this marvellous 10-foot spring of the
adder. —Ed. B.]
Since the conquest of Constantinople by
the Turks there have been 38 Sultans, of whom
only four have died natural deaths. What a
record!
In an interview with a Herald (Melb.)
reporter (3/10/’01) a just-returned Fifth Con-
tingenter stated that when Steele and two others
tried to get their comrades to'agree not to go out
with General Beat son again, about 300 decided
to follow their advice, but afterwards backed out.
The portrait herewith is that of Miss
Lilian Wheeler, a comely and capable Australian
actress (boni in Castlemaine, Vic.), who is going
to seek her fortune in London. Australia sends
all its best young artistes to London, and gets
back consumptives, shoddy and Governors. The
photo, represents Miss Wheeler as Mrs. Ford in
‘‘The Merry Wives of Windsor.” Though still
very young, she has played a multitude of good
parts and played them admirably—as Desde
niona, Miladi in “ Three Musketeers,” and Dolores
in that beautiful but unappreciated play, “The
Flesh and the Devil,” she was even more than
admirable. The writer will always remember “ the
Flesh and the Devil ” by reason of Henry Diver’s
picturesque Duke, of Alva and Miss Wheeler’s
rendering of the lady who called on him and laid
the information against a certain short, thick-set
Dutch patriot who shall be nameless. Every year
“stars” without a quarter of Miss Wheeler’s
capacity are imported from England, at high
salaries, but the local artiste is mostly crushed by
the uprising of somebody who says, briefly : “ She
can’t act; why, my sister used' to go to school with
her.” The Bulletin trusts that Miss Wheeler
fully realises her folly,in selecting this country as
a place to be born in, and won’t do it again.
According to Rev. Dr. Corlette,
there are in Sydney plenty of single-
roomed dwellings, the rental of which
—about 3s. a week—is on a par with
the low-grade rents in the Olerkenwell
slums of London. “ Advance Aus-
tralia !”
The two smiling, curly-headed
lads who tramped from Invercargill to
Dunedin (M.L.) to see the Duke, and
who were widely paragraphed, treated
like lordlings, and publicly presented
to the royal couple, have bioken out in
a fresh place. Thirsting for more glory,
they valiantly secured a boat and some
fog-signals and started manoeuvring up
the coast. Their adventures terminated
rudely in the police-court, where they
were ordered to an industrial school.
“Lillipilli” : I have seen N.S.W.
inquests at which, by a farcical theory,
the whole aim of 14 or 15 people, mostly
officials, has been to sift matters till
a cause of death could be laid bare ;
and I have seen such presided over
by drunken coroners. I have seen, also,
drunken doctors trying to stagger
through evidence, with a possible ver-
dict of “murder” at the end. Does
the Department know ?
The advertisment of the Aus-
tralian Mutual Provident Society, ap-
pearing in another column, forcibly
reminds one that the first year of the
twentieth century is fast drawing to a
close, and also directs attention to the
fact that the next Annual Distribution
of the profits of the Society will be
made at 31st. December next. To
those of our readers who are already
members of the Society this announce-
ment will not occasion any surprise,
but to any who may be uninsured
they should seize the first favourable
opportunity of securing a policy in
this well known institution, and
thereby reaping the benefit of the
bonus to be declared for this year.
Those who already carry assurances
on their lives, if they consider the
amount so carried insufficient for the purpose,
should lose no time in effecting further assurance.
The amount distributed in cash-bonuses for the
year 1900 was £537,895, a sum larger than has
ever been divided in a corresponding period by
any other mutual life office in the British
Empire. It will be well, therefore, for those
contemplating assuring their lives to do so with-
out any further delay.*
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
Meoro : Y es, but a careful paper always knows
whom to interview C.L.A. : The old man is dead now, so
better say no more about it.... F. : The difference between
those politicians is in the tall hat which the one wears and
the other doesn’t. On mature consideration,The Bulletin
prefers the comparatively-polished M.L.0., who scorns to
practise dissimulation in his attire. Let every self-satis-
fied capitalist proclaim himself to the world by wearing
the honest bell-topper which denotes the swollen head
within it.... Rifle Smoke : Pay you better to take, not a
leaf from “ Lindsey Gordon’s grave,” but a leaf from
Lindley Murray’s grammar.... Baldur : The local paper
would love you Plain Bill : Absolute rubbish,
William Omen: “ Absit omen !”... .A.O.H. : You and
the others don’t comprehend. Kipling didn’t print those
lines as poetry, but as a forcible statement gaining atten-
tion by novelty of style.... Roland : Brunette poem with
one tooth declined.... Frank D. : Don’t imitate Boake ;
better him, if you can.... Drace : Long, thin poem like a
snake’s skeleton, and as juicy.... Eye : Pretty in a
fashion, but no special Australian interest. The B.
accepts ail very good stories, and some merely good ones,
When they are distinctly Australian.... Mopoke : Idea
mournfully rejected. There’s not an artist on the
premises capable of depicting a Tasmanian tiger with
definite views on the tariff problem Telsic : Story
of the country hoys who stole their father’s ducks to get
money to go to Sydney Art Gallery lias somewhere an
air of inherent improbability. It must have been to the
Central Mission Sunday-School that they wished to g 0....
E.A W. : From the Sydney newspaper controversy, and
your letter, it might be thought that there were some 30
pubs in the locality known as “ The Rocks.” As a matter
of fact, there are but nine P.W.D. : In short, a news-
paper should have no privilege in regard to free speech
which is not enjoyed by the meanest citizen. put
should have no less... .H.0.R.8. : Not so dusty ; tut too
musty... .Jeanne : Sent in confirmation, not in complaint.
.. ..Jadee: What unspeakable ass chose the egregious
Batten’s “poem” for Ooolgardie A.N.A. recitation com-
petition—
“ Australia’s national baptism
Is taking place to-day ;
Let loyal hands dismantle her—
Her trousseau place away I ”
(II—1!) Has the A.N.A. no literary brains at a 11?....
Pet: Australia is not likely to see Marie-Lloyd again.
Certainly not under engagement to Rickards G.C.L. :
Earlier than that. Parkes was Sydney correspondent for
Melbourne Argus in 1849, and one year later he founded
the Empire. (2) There are, we believe, but two files of
Svd.nky Gazette of 1803-4 known to be in existence. It
was printed by Howe.... “In the Cells” and.“ Morituri .
Who are you ? You send a batch of MSS., with no name
MISS LILIAN WHEELER as Mrs. Ford in “ The
Merry Wives of Windsor.”
Photo, by The Crown Studios, Sydney.
and no address.... .R.A.K. : For “ Melbourns Oup ” read
“Henley” or “Goodwood,” and “Diplomacy” might
well be a reprint of a Robber-Shots or Grab-Bits article.
Other yarn has same defect, though not to so great a
degree J.M.H. :An attractive story, which we most
reluctantly sacrifice on the altar of Pharisaism. The
Bulletin intends, some day, to take out a license from
some church dignitary, as a religious paper. Then it can
print anything.... Itam : The Wilcannia incident was just
a plain habeas corpus one. Prisoners must be committed
to nearest court of gaol-delivery, and gaolers must sur.
THE TAILOR GOT IT ALL.
Disgusted Cabby (to magnificently-dressed individual who has just tendered his fare): "A
lob! You can’t afford to ride in cabs.”
render all untried prisoners to the court. Else men might
be kept shut up indefinitely awaiting trial Tickler .
These lines from your description of Fatman—
“ A great girth, puffed with pride,
Gives him the front to put on side ;
When lordly commands he would speak,
A bloated face gives him the cheek
Deeply the vulgar to impress,
His well-cut clothes give him address.
CP.D.Q.: Sorry we like neither “ The Ring” nor the
verse T.H. (something or other): “Fortune” shows
some insight, but treatment not good enough seeing how
very old the theme is.... Via: Capable condensation is
good, but the telegraphic style adopted in that black
item is unendurable....C.A.L. : The predecessor of the
present Vic. Chief Commissioner had given the police the
option of dispensing with their heavy overcoats whilst on
winter night-duty, but Mr. Chomley attempted to thrust
the burdensome garments upon them in any case, and
the men made a successful revolt against the order.
However, no doubt the Commissioner meant well : lie
had seen so many fine young constables dying of phthisis.
Nereus : B. will deal with matter shortly.. ..J.I.G. .
No one who has ever read Charles Maokay’s simple little
verses “Never grow old to me,” would tolerate your
lines..’. ,L.A. : Not up Crowded : Last line endorsed.
R.B.R. : Unsuitable Hugh M. : “ Good-bye”
feeble ; considering “Murder.” Patric : Tolerably
rhymed ; but wants novelty and distinction Ernest C.:
Do learn your rudiments.. . .8.5.8. : Futile scratches....
Alice: One may d0....N.Z. :No capacity.... Grant :
Considering “Puget,” “Cattle,” “Chyack, Glasgow.
Croeme Dhu : Not strong enough Permit: Subject
needs stronger treatment... .Deeby : Try for more terse-
ness and “g0.”....Cecil J. : Hideously prosy and con-
ventional Lapwing: Each separate item should bear
name and address of correspondent Selim : Half sugar,
half slime !....F.P. W. : Metre wobbles too wildly
Viking : Good, though practically all of it said many times
already Meera : The bearings of the yarn are none
too clear Grant Her. : Much obliged for good wishes.
Jack-a-Olubs: Andrew Carnegie, Scotland, would
probably find him. He is just now buying up Scotland,
closing 'its beautiful scenery to the people, and giving
them tracts in exchange.. .. “ The Past ” : Thought too
thin : reads like diluted Olive Schreiner Annam : You
only spoil it H.R.M. : “Ooinatos” too foreign
F.S.P. : Sent to the wrong shop Johhn : You know
littie about it Melbourne : We, on the other hand,
regard it as a shining instance of official foolishness. If
Fireman Graham will be fit to return to his billet in the
new year, what can the dept, or the public gain from his
being sentenced to a period of idleness? The punishment
amounts practically to a fine of 25 per cent, of his year s
wages with a three months’ holiday thrown in as consola-
tion for the loss. Granting that the fine was an advisable
warning against carelessness, why not have kept the man
at work on half-salary for six months? Lillie: Doesn’t
matter whether you’re 15 or 50 ; but alleged poem hasn t
cut its teeth yet J.G.D.: Utterly useless.. .. J.W.8.:
Inquiring. B. can’t publish such an ex parte statement—
The Gadfly: Story of the praste who got a drunken
wether of his flock into a dangerous position, and then
talked vivid Sheol to him, declined: for one thing, it
would set a had example to other enthusiastic pastors
Petronius : You say that “ Shakespeare's women are
sickening, weak-kneed slaves.” How about Portia, Rosa-
lind Lady Macbeth, Juliet, and a dozen other of the
Bard’s lady-creations ?..... B.N.F. : Why shouldn’t a girls’
club be established over a milk-shop ? You would make
the same remark if it were associated with a green-
grocery or a baby-linen business Indra : Will print—
Sunnyasse : Treatment not strong enough. At the very
beginning you can see the end W.E.P.: Good idea,
handled with some insight, but you fail to get near “ the
tears of things.’’ Backblox : Really, we don’t think
anything of your flag-idea. We hope ultimately to get a
real Australian flag, not one which will commemorate
King Edward, or Queen Victoria, or any other potentate
who has never been in this country Jacy : “Figure”
too ancient... .First Shot: Good bush poetry, anyway....
V.H.G. : “Sea” condemned Dominie: Received....
GPB : Sorry we couldn’t trace it.... 2Sizi : Du 11....
Eko : But nobody did get the V.O. “for potting Boers.”
J.R.: “Babu” wrote from India; hence the five
months’ interval. Your notion about “personal hos-
tility ” amounts almost to specific delusion.. ..A.M.R. :
Yes, it’s very ancient. First told, in Australia, of the
outspoken Dr. Moorhouse, then Bishop of Melbourne
Brigit O : Some power and insight, but rather shapeless
and inartistic Jack-a-Clubs : Great lack of skill, but
the root of the matter is in you. Will oonsider.... Geo.
S. : Magniloquent balderdash.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Tusker : Again— Tub Bulletin doesn’t claim to be an
absolutely original paper ; but it tries to be as original
'as possible. It never consciously uses another paper’s
matter without acknowledgment, but it hasn’t time to
read and remember the contents of all the countless
thousands of papers printed. Therefore, it is occasionally
imposed upon by people who trade chestnuts off
upon it for money. The Bulletin always tries to be
honest, both as regards literary matter and drawings.
It never steals pictures—it is not on the same plane with
Robber-Shots and Prig-Shots and Thief-Bits— and that
is one reason why it has lived and prospered where other
papers have died... .Walter T.C. : One, or both, will do..
Father John : Joke about St. Peter, the Devil, and
the Freetrade soul passed on to George Reid, for use
when he has become a Protectionist....
Amongst the Coal Pits.
When a special commissioner was visiting the
Bulli district he had the pleasure of meeting Mrs.
Henry Marsh, wife of a well-known and experi-
enced miner, then engaged at the Woonoona pit,
a mile or so outside Bulli. Some of the experi-
ences Mrs. Marsh told him of proved most
interesting.
“I have lived in this district for twelve years,
said she, “ eight of which we have been in the
house we now occupy. I well remember that just
about eleven years ago, after the birth of twins,
T became very ill. An operation was performed
but I was left very weak, and a victim to nervous
debility and exhaustion. I experienced sharp
pains between the shoulders, a wheezing in my
throat, and sometimes I would have to loosen my
clothes to enable me to breathe. I have been
laid up for three weeks at a time, and was often so
bad that I could not walk straight, and had to
hold on to the furniture to help myself along.
Frequently I lay awake till three in the morn-
ing."
“ No doubt this further injured your health ?
“Indeed, it did, for when I got up I felt as
though I had not been to bed at all. Dreadful
neuralgic pains shot from under my eyes into my
head, causing almost unendurable agony. Take
what I would, I could not find a cure. Then I
read about Dr. Williams’ pink pills in the Sydney
Daily Telegraph and decided to try them.
After using them for a weak I really felt greatly
improved. I was slightly stronger, and the pains
in my head and back grew less. The action of the
pills also brought away some congealed blood,
the color of black ink, from beneath my breast,
where I had been operated upon. I continued
the pills carefully according to directions, and
was before long restored to perfect health. I
never want to lie down now, I feel bright and
fresh, and since my recovery I have planted
a nice little garden, which I take a delight in
tending. I confidently recommend Dr. Williams’
pink pills to every woman.”
Ladies afflicted with ill health will find Mrs.
Marsh’s advice invaluable. Dr. Williams’ pink
pills enrich the blood, tone up the nerves,
strengthen the spine, and build up the constitu-
tion in such a way as to remove every symptom
of disease. They cure chronic dyspepsia,
neuralgia, sciatica, rheumatism, anaemia, debility,
consumption, bronchitis, disfiguring skin diseases,
effects of influenza, pneumonia, measles, etc.
Bold by chemists and storekeepers and by the
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place,
Sydney, one box two and nine, six boxes fifteen
and three, post free. Write a description of
your case and receive valuable information.


President Roosevelt has
caused a sensation iD the
U.S. by inviting a fellow
citizen of the name of
Booker Calor to dine with
him.
This will give a fresh im-
petus to the Great Ameri-
can Poultry Joke.
Here you have »
picture of Mr.
Booker taking
preliminary
steps ~
towards returning President Roose-
velt’s hospitality This is merely
thrown out as a suggestion to Puck,
Judof:, at. al
n. Hop's Ur* og'(*ST u J)V-
Ur*/, , //1 S 't'Pfof
3>*RK
J i> WowT l\£<jK er IT i
lil ' *
COMBINED STATE AND COMMQNWEAMJjB)
yBCMPH ¥ —Suggested as a sido-Show at Remington.
“ It is not possible,” croaks an Australian
paper, “to forecast the effect of President
Roosevelt’s action.”
■One Thing is certain : The make-up of “ Brother
Jonathan ” will have to be materially reconstructed
if this sort of thing goes on.”
the Far-reaching
tariff.
Youngster (who claims all the
empties as his perquisites , to
“ Bot-lo ” wan): “No more
A SEASONABLE MISCONSTRUCTION.
Parson : “ A ss. postal-note, please. ’
Clerk ( pleasantly) : “ I’m afraid you’re too late.”
Parson : “ Too late ! Why, it’s only one o’clock ! ”
: “ Oh, I meant too late for the Cup-sweep ! ”
bottles fox a penny here I There's a tariff on
bottles , also an increased tariff on grog
Therefore, the governor doesn’t perduce
empties quite as rapid as he used, and so the
market is starved You’ll pay tuppence
a-piece, or leave 'em ” “ppence
SUCH IS . LIFE.
Jacob, who, for eight yearn,
occupied the position of ourang-
<*urang Ja> Sydney Z«& »
dead.
CARTOONLETS.


Bis. B&Kei' fobvp^*t2 i, 1
"We b«s«« c k TRoMlsjj* wl
kWaVs Vb 7 ««frsrff% bl css.W, T > '7
Farl'.w,er,f w,ltbe
ot*r o»7Stt
(^ ,dc ) : j
> '■ dvft-er%
s^^ssl°^^
Jgs CQ rye 'force
fayier y<?« W
r-fc 4- Bojfujf
J|( c y : Stride tye piyK if
ICm Sf/ixja fooitj'K
ikuK yiir’ff W
«5 "I© Sl/o^ 7 f>K,ce S
ajl -
tesl
<«■ C $
f^a.coc.K‘— jf^ u
ita.oK; oj Cottle,' ‘
{Keww : Qxn'T i*iyse^
iVfc 'to or
fajl W oiu»7<A c,i^se-ifr
' "If ldsJ7 [olou^
frje&J7s Dear oU
fke T 3ol^/
Ol7 »r
I Bwlorj :
Irrj goitfa
f O/ ReVe»;ue,
Jt-qo - \
11/e Wsov\\ fiJiY'
To
sc l/ooi f>ic7ic att"
Jj||y<taU 07 lui^U rT'Hf^y
rai7s -faJI
SHjful crowd zT flertjw^tSr 7i rnor e
1.7^ e a w^b
sa,»d to run bed" m
te «?«<!.. 9
A i f<2W
/ jjeojale Seery
ji *fo &ncy
MELBOURNIANA.


A. SAUNDER
Watches, Clocks, Jewellery,
and Silverplate at FREETRADE PRICES.
Saye 25 per cent, to 6'J per cent. Showrooms: 815 GEORGE-STREEI-, SYD.tEI*
FBE ETiR ADE
PBICES.
A. SAUNDERS
itrong, Reliable LEVERS, Challekow,
’’he Unrivalled Lever, in Black or Nickel, 2US {
Serfeot timekeeper. The London Lever, new i"P
nodel, 255; in Solid Silver, £2 2s; m Doable CaM,
■•2 ios £3. Rotherham LEVERS, £3 10s, £4.£>
“4 £7 £ 8 Gold WATCHES, £4 4s, £5 ss, £6 6s,
iv’iol: £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O. Mind, we guarantee
mu the utmost satisfaction, otherwise we wil
exchange watch for you.
lend for illustrated book of particulars, post tree.
NO
ADVANCE.
iMs
•9
Solid. Gold CHAIN (Single or Double) £2 10s £3,
/?o kw £ i £4 10s. £5. 15ct. Solid Gold, £d 10s, £o,
£6 10s ’£7 ’ £B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
’ ’ Send for Price Illustrated Book.
A. SATJIN DERS.
2-Bar Gold, Diamond Cut Amethyst, 22s 6d; 15ot.
Gold, £2.
Registered Gold 2-Bird Amethyst BROOGH,
20s : Pearl Set Bird, 22s 6d ; 15ot. Gold, £2.
15ct. Gold Bar and Scroll BROOCH, Pearls and Red
Stone, 355; quite new.
-v ZTI
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Buckle BROOCH, Set with S blue or red
stones, 12s 6d; latest style.
A SAUNDERS.
BgSSt&3@gjF?»t
Name or Motto free.
Six different patterns, similar.
m p*/
A, SAUNDERS.
Latest Secret Name BROOCH, Bed Lor: Bte
Stone. Three similar patterns, 20s and 2a
Any Name Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
026 Latest Half Moon and Star Gold
BROOCH, Pearlette, Pearls and Red or Blue,
Stones, 21s \ 15ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold BROOCH, 2 Hearts, 2 Bars,
Diamonds, l r < s 6d \ vptv neat.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold, 80s; 18ot. Gold, 85s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. 2-Bar Pure Diamond Double Cut, £2.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, ‘2-Bar ScroU Diamond and
Ruby Set, £2; very choice.
&
A. SAUNDERS.
Newest Solid Gold Name BROOCH, T®
Raised Blowers each side (Any Name) 15ot.
Gold, 15s; Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
Extra Strong 15ct. Gold, Diamonds, RubiM, and
Pearls, £3 ss) Five Diamonds, £4, £5.
ƒh
Curb Gold Chain/
Snap Padlock, 255, 80s,
.85.% £2 ss, £3; 15ot. £2los,
£2. £4, £4 10s, £5, £6, £7
10s, £B, £9, £lO.
10s extra for Key Pad-
lock.
ATI with Safety Chain.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bamboo Gold BRACELET, all the style, price to
width, 20s, 255, 80s, £2, £2 10s; 15ct. Gold £3, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
TyrAMOND BRACELET, 15ct. Gold, three Pure Double
Cut Diamonds, with Safety Chain, £5.
9ct. Gold Square or half-round BRACELET, 3 Red or
Blue Stones, £2 ; very neat and cheap.
A. SAU .INKERS.
Nicely Chased Gold BRACELET, 255; very neat and pretty.
THE FEDERAL TARIFF.
THIS I HAVE ANTICIPATED.
MY CASH PURCHASES have been
enormous, and I am in a position
to sell at FREETRADE PRICES.
£32,000 worth of Watches, Jewellery,
and Silverplate to choose from. It will
save you 25 per cent, to 60 per cent.
This Is a consideration.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Wish Bone and Arrow, with Red
Stone, 12s 6d.
55
Swm m
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Bar, Raised Flowers, 5s 6d; Larger,
6s 6d; Largest size, 7s 6d.
These are indeed very pretty.
cßHiipiilMp
IliiiliiilliiiliilllMO
A. SAUNDERS.
2-Bar and Garnet BROOCH, 15s, larger
size, 21s; very strong and neat.
Gold 2-Bar Ivy Leaves, Chain and Heart,
10s 6d ; very neat.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mizpah BROOCH, 2 Hearts, 10s
larger, 12s 6d; a nice Brooch.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Solid Gold, Pure Double Cut
Diamonds, £lO.
9ot. Gold, two Twisted Bars, Bell and Chain,
12s 6d; Amethyst Heart, 13s 6d.
f» ft 3 9 O Q
Gold 2-Bar BEOOCH Scroll, Pearl Set with Bed
Stone, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS’ Latest Turquoise and Curb Gold Chain Padlock Bracelet, the very late.r London styb
In nice Silk Case.
m- ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 235, 30s, £2,
£2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £5 ;
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
ALL GUARANTEED.
11
14
15
12 13
A. SAUNDERS’
FREETRADER PRICES.
10—Round LINK, 9ct. Gold, £2, £2 10s,
£3 ; 15ct., £4, £5.
11. —Rope Pattern, 9ct, Gold, £2, £2 10s,
£3 : 15ct., £4, £5.
12. —Curb Pattern, 9et. Gold, £2, £2 10s,
£3; 15ct„ £4, £5.
13. —Rope and Ball, 9ct. Gold, £2, £2los,
£3; 15ct., £4, £5.
14. —Curb and Link, £3, £4, £5, £6.
15. —Chain and Rond' l 1 £< to £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Pearl and Turquoise
Floral and Ribbon BROOCH,
£2 10s.
London’s Newest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Pearl and Turquoise
Heart BROOCH, £2 2s.
The Latest Style.
Post Card Gold CHARM, 10s.
Any Name Free.
Bilyer, gilt, 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold LOCKET, 15s;
15ct. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Dinna Forget,
10s 6d.
O ur Own Registered
Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, 2 Hearts, Diamond,
and Ruby, 355; 2 Diamonds, £2 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ot. Gold Shield LINKS,
10s 6d ; Silver, 2s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS (Regis-
tered) Gold LINKS, 20s ;
L6ct. G Id, 82s 6d; Silver and
Sold, 10s t all Silver, ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ot. Gold Shield and
Dumbbell DINKS, IS# fid;
15et. Gold, 525 a ;
Silver, 8s fid.
15ot. Solid Gold Opal LINKS,
■with. Initial, £2 10s.
Extra Strong.
A. SAUNDERS.
Beautifully Chased, Oct. Gold,
large size LINKS, 22s 6d.
Plain, 21s, or with initials
nicely chased, 22s 6d ;
15ct. Gold, £2 ; Silver, 4s od.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Full Set of STUDS, Link Collar
Stud, and 3 Fronts, 9ct., 365.
Similar style, 25s and 80s |
15ct. Gold, £2, £2 10s, £3.
ATiTj FREETRADE PRICES.
9ct. Gold Stone
RING, 10s;
3 similar patterns.
Solid Gold Turquoise
and Pearl, 20s.
Newest Style.
WVnseNT.
Mizpah Gold
CHARM, 4s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ot. Gold Hearts, 12s 6d ;
15ct. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Solid Gold LINKS.
Plain 17s 6d, 20s, 255;
15ct. Gold, £2, £2 ss, £2 10s.
Monogram, 2s 6d extra.
Gold Shield Link and
Dumbbell, 15s 6d;
15ct. Gold, 80s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Signet Plain RING,
9ot. Gold, 20s, 25s ; 15ct. gold,
80s, 85s; 18ct., £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. SoUd Gold,
Pure Double Cut Dia-
mond, £3;
other size stone, £8 10s,
£4, £B.
18ct. Solid Gold,
8 Opals, 4 Diamonds, £5;
Smaller Diamonds,
£2 10s, £3, £3los, £4.
18et. Gold Buokle RING,
Diamond,
and 2 Rubies or
Sapphires,
£2 10a.
18ot. Solid Gold Diamond
Band, £2, £2los, £8;
15ot. Gold, 80s.
18ct. Buttercup
Single stone Diamond
BING,
£B, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDEBS.
18et. Gold,
8 Pure Diamonds,
2 Opal Hearts, £4 10s.
Latest Style.
A. SAUNDEBS.
Solid Gold Band,
Opal, 17s 6d ;
15ct. Gold, 80s ;
18ct. Gold, £2.
Send for Size Card.
A. SAUNDEBS.
18ct. Solid Gold,
5 Pure White Double
Cut Diamonds,
£5.
Splendid Value.
GENT.’B BING.
Solid Gold, Amethyst, 25s ;
15ct. Gold, £2;
18ct. £2 10s.
18ct. Gold Extra Strong
Diamond, and 2 Bed
Stones, 255.
15ct. Gold, Diamond,
and 2 Bed Stones, 20s.
D'tfef
•Si)
18ct. Solid Gold,
Extra Strong and Heavy,
1 Diamond, 2 Bed or Blue
Stones,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4, £5.
18ct. Solid Gold
MARQUIS RING,
Diamonds and
Rubies, Sapphire and
Opal Centres,
£lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
18ot. Solid Gold,
5 Pure Diamonds,
£8 10s, £lO, £l2 10b,
£l5, £2O, £25, £3O.
Smaller, £5, £O. £7,
£7 10a, to £3O.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ot. Gold, 5 Opal*.
First-olass, £2 10s j
Size larger, extra
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-ma.de Wedding RINGB and KEEPERS.
9ot. SoM Gold, 7s 6d, 10s each; 15ot. Gold, Us;
extra heavy, 25s ; 18ot. Gold, 80s |
extra heavy, 80s, 85s, 405., 60s. Bend foe MM.
rr-
CALL AND SEE OUR JEWELLERY EXHIBITION—A
OR SEND FOR OUR 1901 COMPLETE ILLUSTRATED FREETRADE PRICE BOOK,
SPLENDID DISPLAY;
POST FREE ANYWHERE.
A SAUNDERS,
LEADING ART JEWELLER,
815 & 817 GEORGE-ST.,
Nearly Opposite
Bailway Station.
SYDNEY.


mmam
IciT 51 Ikl MttQ»
fgh
gf
1111111 1
i cl
pi-Ji tve, «-■ *•’
FITZGERALD BROS. NEW CIRCUS.


Hot? Nonsense ! Get under a shady tree-
with a good book and one of Mick Simmons-
C. 8.8. briar pipes, and you will be as cool inside-
as a water-melon.*
Notwithstanding the tariff on “Primus"
kerosene gas-stoves Brandt Bros., 236 Pitt-St.,
charge old prices. They cook for a large family
at Is. per week. If used with their oven, from.
12s. 6d. each, baking and boiling is done simul-
taneously.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian,
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
We learn that a most useful Veterinary
Book is attached to every bottle of Condy’s
Fluid. This Book contains instructions for
curing most of the ailments and accidents
affecting Horses, Dogs, Sheep, Cattle, Poultry,
and Birds of all kinds.
Condy’s Fluid is an absolutely certain cure
for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs, Broken Knees,
'Urease, Thrush, Cracked Heels, and Mud
Fever in Horses.—Scab, Foot Bot, Fly, etc.,
in Sheep.—Rinderpest, Hoove, Foul in the
Foot, Wounds and Sores, Foot and Mouth
Disease, and Diarrhoea in Cattle.—Distemper
Mange, Ganker, and Eczema in Dogs.
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists and
Stores. Beware of local substitutes, all are
inferior. Insist on having Condy’s Fluid.
fg
GO TO HELI.-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but)
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagen,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, prioe*
lis gratis.
HATS. HATS. HATS.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fatted with this
valuable invention.
Catalogue to B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTCR BRADL€Y » CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Meld at the Auction Jiooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-sb
fOR THE COMPLEXION
An emollent, soothing and healing Re-
paration for preserving and beautifying the,
Skin in all climates; it cools and refreshes
the Face and Arms in hot weather, remove*,
Freckles, Tan, Sunburn, Redness and Rough-
ness of the Skin, heals all cutaneous Erup-.
tions and Insect Stings, produces
SOFT, VELVETY SKIN,
Imparts a luxuriant beauty to the com-
plexion and a matchless whiteness to the
Heck and Arms unobtainable by any other
means. It has been known for the last 75
years as the most curative and harmless
preparation ladies can use. Ask Stores and
Chemists for Rowland’s KaJydor, of 67,
Hatton, Garden. London.
SIMPSON’S JUMP SEAT SULKIES
The Strongest, Lightest*
and Easiest - Riding
Two-wheeled Trap or.
earth. i
SIMPSON, Coachbuilder, 73 KINO STREET, NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Victoria’s Pecksniff Ministry only carried
the reduction of the maximum Old Age Pension
from 10s. to 7s. by one vote —35 for 10s. a wee k ;
30 for 7s.
Brisbane Street now spells it “ Kanka.”
But not, be it noted, on purpose, for the Street
is rabid Kanaka. In which connection “ Street ”
is an excellent name.
The Labor parties in all the Australian
States and in the Federal Houses contain, propor-
tionately to size, the greatest number of lay-
preachers as well as the greatest number of total
abstainers.
Though Queensland Parliament is sitting,
only half-a-dozen members were on the platform
at the recent Brisbane pro-Kanaka meeting. The
elections are too close and the Commonwealth
voting was too decided for that.
South Australia, in Parliament and in the
Press, is protesting vigorously against the Federal
desire to pay £3OOO a year to the Military Com-
mandant. The general idea is that as Canada can
get a good man for half the money, Australia
should be able to do ditto.
A newly-elected member of N. S. W. Assem-
bly received instructions from a small centre in
his electorate to purchase a dozen second-hand
overcoats, moderate in price, and as much alike as
possible, to be used as uniform great-coats for the
town band. It is with problems like this that the
State politician now wrestles.
THAT GOVERNMENT SERVICE.
CISSIE : “ Isn't he a nice johnnie?”
GIRLLE : “ Yes. I wonder what he’s doing for a
living. He's too well-dressed to be of inde-
pendent means, and doesn’t seem to have
enough brains for a profession.”
CISSIE : “ Oh, I suppose he is in the Civil
Service.”
“Eko”: Looking at the collection of
Federal flag designs, shown in Melbourne lately,
I came across one that woke up a dormant brain-
cell—five silver stars on a blue ground. To my
knowledge I had never seen it before, but some
hereditary influence made me raise my hat to it.
Then I recognised it as the flag under which
dad had fought and received a wound nearly 50
years ago, when the Republic of Victoria began
the career that ended at the Eureka Stockade on
l)ec. 3rd, ’55.
The threatened insurrection up North for
the retention of Kanakas, would, if it were
not absurdly impossible, be a brand - new
example of the hoisting petard. When Fede-
ration was in the air, soon after the Q.
shearers’ strike, the most alluring point in the
programme was Parkes’ statement that Federal
troops would be available to repress turbulence in
every part of Australia. The petard would work
if the first duty of the Federal troops was to
“ deal it out ” to Kanaka bosses.
The great curse levelled at the tariff by
the Sydney importing crowd recalls the emphasis
with which they attacked the Dibbs advalorem
duties in the early 90’s. Some of those who
shrieked loudest were all the time in mortal fear
lest the impost on their particular items should be
removed, and Dibbs was occupied all his time with
trembling Freetraders, who crawled into his office
under cover of strict secrecy, and pointed out how
terribly they would suffer if the duties were taken
off after they had so carefully prepared themselves
for the awful tariff.
The natural dishonesty of municipal
institutions is strikingly evidenced in Victoria.
The Vic. Government recently wrote off as bad
£1,642,711 of the money it had lent to water trusts
and other local bodies. The irrigation trusts
alone were relieved of £1,057,571 of the debt they
had incurred to the State, and left owing only
£316,600. And now the State finds it as hard to
collect any interest as ever, and unless it passes a
law giving the Treasurer power to himself levy
special rates on the irrigated land it might as well
write off the balance and drop the whole business.
Cabled that Horace Tozer, speaking in
London, has expressed “ Australia’s gratitude for
the splendid work of the Duke of York in con-
solidating the Empire.” A tozer, a palpable
tozer; and the same crawlsome falsehood is to be
repeated by the Australian Agents-General,
wriggling like a tin of sand-worms before the
little Duke, hailing him as the concrete expression
of the Imperial idea, the impressive and over-
awing type of British Majesty. The Bulletin
begins to imagine the airs put on by the West-
minster Abbey worms when they meet relatives
from plebeian graveyards.
“ It might be better,” writes a little hurdy-
gurdy organ run by the naval and military clique
of Australia, “ this year, for the Com-
monwealth Parliament to present the
Admiralty with £1,000,000 (1) as a
contribution to the maintenance of
the Australian fleet, and (2) for
the consideration of four men-of-
war suitable as training ships;
or (3) for the presentation of
the Katoomba cruisers to the
Commonwealth, if they are
replaced by more modern
ships, as in-
dicated in
H.E. Admiral
Sir L. Beau-
mont’s des-
p ate h to
H. E. the
Grovemor-
Genera 1 ;
but all the
naval force
to be under the
Admiral of the
station.” The cool-
ness of J. Bull and
his parasites ! Aus-
tralia is asked to spend
£1,000,000 on scrap-
iron, sold at inflated
rates, and then to
still leave the
scrap-iron in its
original custody.
More than likely a
big factor in the ensuing
Q. elections will be see-
tarianism. The Ministry
is taking—or allowing a
mob of parsons to take—
a mongrel plebiscite of
parents of children at-
tending several big
State schools on the
question of State Bible-
thumping. The question
is about the only one
likely to cause a real
split in the Labor
Opposition ranks.
Already in one
electorate Orange
and Green are
sparring over it. If
the Laborites let them-
selves be sooled at one
another’s throats on the
subject more fools they! The Ministry, of
course, has no convictions on the subject and only
twists the pups’ tails for its own ends.
T’other day Softgoods Sargood stated in
all three Melbourne dailies “that these high
duties are not needed is proved by the fact that
my M.L. firm commenced to manufacture boots
long before any duty was thought of, and now
employs some 300 hands, although the duty is only
per cent., as compared with the late Victorian
of from 25 to 150 per cent.” Next day, some
officious person fished up the sworn evidence,
before the Arbitration Court lately, of Sargood’s
Maoriland manager, stating that the 22f per
cent- ad valorem duty was “ not sufficient to pre-
vent importations increasing at the expense of
manufactures.” A freetrader requires a good
memory.
THE SOUTHERN CROSS.
S.M. Herald wants the tariff to be
decided—not by “a counting of noses” in the
Federal Parliament, but by an appeal to the
people—the unholy Referendum, in fact. That
tax on printing-paper has radicalised the Herald.
In the light of cable accounts that the
Boers are able to import over sea cannon and
ammunition, Ketchener’s proclamation that they
have no regular army in the field, and must be
treated as brigands shows up as the coolest of
bluff.
Sydney D.T. can’t find a single “ Billite ”
in Sydney and suburbs now. But, then, it
couldn’t find any trace of a supporter of the See
Govt, before the last State election. The King-
street daily should remember that election—it
was only about three months aero.
Since the Tied Houses Bill was rejected in
N.S.W. Council the lobbies have been relieved of
the presence of gorgeous beer-canvassers, and
the brewers, who were quite willing that the
measure should be passed, are doing their best to
bear up bravely under a Great Sorrow.
Chief Justice Griffith denounces as a crime
against Australia any attempt to revive the ques-
tion of religious instruction in State schools. It
is well to find Sam Griffith staunch to an early
principle. He helped Lilley in the old days to
popularise the free, secular, and compulsory doc-
trine.
One thing is pretty sure—while they have
to pay 4d. per lb. duty the importers won’t bring
twopenny tea to Australia. While tea was free in
N.S. Wales a lot of them did import such rubbish
—and divided the huge profits they made on it
between their own pockets and newspaper adver-
tising.
The Pecksniff Ministry of Victoria has
apparently reached a hopeless state of drift. The
Old Age Pensions (Permanent) Bill is still before
the Assembly. Two-thirds of the session has
gone, and practically not one measure passed.
The Convention Bill, for the reform of the State
Constitution, is hung up—in the hope that it will
die of suffocation. Educational reform, infant-
life protection, public service reorganisation,
grants to shires, conciliation and arbitration, re-
classification of railway employees, inspection of
boilers and of scaffolding, and prevention of
adulteration in foods are also neglected promises.
The Exported Products Bill was promptly thrown
out by the House of Fat, and so the season has not
a single useful measure to credit.
Tasmania’s Leg. Council has a vast amount
more horse-sense than its dreadful Victorian
brother. The Vic. House of 48 Rich Landlords
threw out the Exported Products Bill, intended
to prevent the export of bad produce, which, by
damaging the repute of all Victorian goods,
brings down values all round, and makes the
State lose many thousands annually. Tasmanian
Council also had an Exported Products Bill sent
up to it, and, instead of rejecting the same, it
seized it with both hands and added this clause to
make dead sure that all was right:—
The inspector may forbid the export of any product
which he may consider unfit for human food, or in
such condition as likely to injure other products ex-
ported at the same time, or of such inferior quality or
condition from any cause as to be unfit for the purpose
to which it is usually put.
Premier Jenkins, of S.A., is making some
progress with his measure for cutting down the
two Houses of the State Parliament, but with the
party which wants no reduction at all, and the
party which favors a reduction of each House,
and the party which wants to preserve the Assem-
bly as it stands and abolish the Council, and the
party which wants to refer the whole business to
an elected Convention, Jenkins is steering in
troubled waters. About 30 legislators would be
quite enough to run S.A.’s State concerns, and
then they could be paid ,£4OO or £5OO apiece, at
which figure good men should be procurable.
But 30 legislators, divided into an Assembly of 18
(six of them Ministers) and a Council of 12, would
be about as ridiculous as an army of three men
divided into seven regiments, a general staff and
a brass band.
“F.” : The political labor movement has
so greatly helped the industrial agitation for
an eight-hours’ work day, that a common
rule of 48 hours a week for male workers seems
likely to be soon attained. It is time,
therefore, that some more especial attention
should be given to the sweating of women.
Mean employers, who dare not sweat 11-stone
men, banded in to 11,000-stone unions, take
general advantage of her helplessness to sweat
8-stone women. The male workers should
stretch out both hands now to lift their
sisters out of the ruck. One most valuable
bit of assistance would be to make a little
easier the hours and conditions of work of
the woman who takes the job of being the
working-man’s wife, Reform in that direc-
tion would relieve a good deal of the sweating
by big employers. Too often the female
factory hand sees in marriage only the nro-
spect of longer hours and harder labor.
In view of the loud assurances ot the
Queensland black labor gang that, if the
Kanaka Bill is passed, financial institutions
will never again advance a penny to any
sugar-grower—did these institutions cease
making advances in 1891, when the supply
of Kanaka labor was positively stopped ? If
they did, what happened ? If anything very
bad happened, how was it that the sugar
industry expanded so remarkably during that,
period ? And if there is such a terrible down-
fall impending, and the sugar industry is.
only half as lost as it is alleged to be, how is it
that the local capitalist continues to give such &
high price for the shares of the Colonial Sugar
Co. ? A very large amount of this co.’s property
is in Queensland, and if that property is prac-
tically destroyed, then Colonial Sugar Co.’s scrip ■
should be getting down fast towards waste-paper-
rates. But it isn’t —and the market talks every
time.
SAVED (FOR THE PRESENT).
“At last a division was obtained, so close as to-
make the Government wince. The 7s. maximum was
carried by only one vote, and even then Ministers had
to rely upon such arch-Conservatives as Mr. Gillies and:
Mr. Madden for their main support.” — AGE.
N.S.W. Minister for Labor, in inviting
“anybody who knows that the Factories Act is-
being evaded to let the department know,” forgets,
the fate of various individuals who, because they
did their duty by the State against the interests of
a private employer or a departmental boss, have-
been sacrificed "without a word of Government
protest.


Beethoven on the
Kreutzer Sonata, Op. 47 ; Ada-
gio Sostenuto Adante con
Variazioni, i resto
Moonlight Sonata, Op. 27
Adelaide
Coriolan Overture
Egmont Overture
Leonore Overture No. 3
Namensfeier Overture
Prome.heus Overture
Die Weihe des Hauses Over-
ture
Konig Stephan Overture
Konig Stephan Triumphal
March
-Fi'delio, Abscheulicher
Fidelio Potpourri
Trauermnrsch
Turkish March from Ruins of
Athens
Andante Favori, Op. 35
8an.... .. . Chorus from Mount
of O.ives
Klavier-Concert No. 3, Op. 37 ;
Allegro con brio, largo, Alle-
gro Molto
Klavier-Concert No. 3, Op. 37 ;
Allegro con brio, rondo Alle-
gro
Klavier-Concert No. 4, Op 58 ;
Allegro Moderato, Rondo
Vivace
Nocturne, Op. 42 ; Allegro,
Minuet, -Andante quasi Alle-
gro
Septet. Op. 20 ; Adagio, Allegro
con brio
Serenade, Op. 25 ; Andante
Serenade, Op 41 ; Scherzando,
Adagio, Allegro Vivace
Sextuor, Op. 81 ; Allegro con
brio Adagio, Allegro
Sonata No. 1 ; Allegro, Ada-
gio
Sonata, Op 2, No. 2; Largo
Sonata, Op. 2, No. 3 ; Allegro
Assai, Scherzo and Trio
Sonata, Op. 10, No 1 ; Allegro
Molto Adagio Molto
Sonata, Op. 10, No. 3 ; Minu-
etto and Trio, Largo
Sonata, Op. 13 (Pathetique);
Grave, Allegro Molto, Alle-
gro, Adagio
Sonata, Op. 14, No. 2, Allegro
Sonata, Op. 22 ; Adagio
Sonata. Op. 26; Marcia Fune-
bre, Andante and Var, 1 and
5, Scherzo and Trio
Sonata, Op 3r, No. 3 ; Allegro
Sonata, Op. 49, No. 2 ; Tempo
di Menuetto
Sonata, Op. 8r; Les Adieux,
I’ Absence, Le Retour
Symphcny No. 1 ; Adagio Mol-
to, Allegro, Andante Cana-
bile, Menuetto Adagio, Alle-
gro Vvace
Symphony No. 2 ; Adagio
Molto, Allegro con brio. Lar-
ghetto, •‘scherzo, Allegro
Molto
HE STATEMENT that the J&b ian will
play any piece of music ever composed
is so broad and sweeping that it many
times fails to impress the leader with
its wonderful significance. As a means
of affording a better idea of the enormous
repertoire of the ALoli .n we present herewith
paitial list of the works of a single composer,
BEETHOVEN, that are included in the Hiolian
music catalogue.
These are all arranged from the full orchestral
scores, complete and unabrid o ed. Many of them
are never attempted upon the piano, and are played
only by large orchestras ; yet it is possible lor any
one to play them on the correc ly, and with
all the changes of tempo and expression.
Visitors always welcome. If unable to call, send for
catalogue C, giving full description.
is
Henry M. Birge & Co.,
Sole Agents for Australasia
323 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
The AEolian is sold at no other Address
in Sydney.
VITADATIO
THE WORLD’S GREAT
BLOOD PURIFIER.
4
A MINER WRITES :
Pains in Back and Limbs.
65 Years of Age.
And Cured By
VITADATIO
„ Perth, 4th January, 1901.
Mr. PALMER.— J
I want to say that I think that vour medicine,
VITADATIO, is the best in the world. ' I have suffered
with dreadful pains in my back and limbs, and WEBBER’S
VITADATIO cured me. Now I can work, eat, sleep, and
tell everybody that VITADATIO is good. I used eight
bottles, and am going to keep it in my place, so that I will
have some always at hand if I ever get bad again. I have
done a lot of work underground— wet and cold—and
think it was that brought on my complaints.
You can say it acts on young and old, as I am 65, and I
know of a young man who was nearly blind, who is
getting his sight again through using' VITADATIO.—
Yours, &e., GEORGE ROBERTS.
Late of Euro gold mine, near Laverton, W. Australia.
Witness—W. J. Fist.
for further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney .
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
&
Those
suffering
from weak
and sore eyes,
and blight, should
""
SINGLETON’S OINTMENT
Never Fails. Restores Eyelashes.
- ALL CHEMISTS.
American Naoktha Launches for Sale
One 18ft., one 16ft.—Quite New. '
Sharpies’ Cream Separator & Dairy Supply Co.,
143 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN .
The First
Australian Stamp.
STAMPS
Highest Cash Prices Paid
to any amount for
CKc! 03" Rare Stamps,
Us3d or Unused.
hgf
F°L Sa i e_ lT he Sfc °ck of STAMPS, ALBUMS, etc.,
in the Southern hemisphere.
BMYTH & N2GOLLE, 14 Hunter-at., Sydnay.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENS-
■ LAND, ROCKHAMPTON.
MATRIMONIAL JURISDICTION.
Mb. Justice Pqweb.
No. 17 of 1901.
Between
In Forma Pauperis.
ELIZABETH ANN WRAG-GE Plaintiff
and
ARTHUR DARWIN WRAGGE Defendant
and
ADIE O’CONNOR Co-Defendant.
TAKE NOTICE that this action was on the
1 hirteenth day of March 1901 commenced against
both of you in the Matrimonial Jurisdiction of our
Supreme Court of Queensland Rockhampton by
Elizabeth Ann Wragge of Rockhampton Married
Woman for a dissolution of her marriage with the
Defendant Arthur Darwin Wragge And that the
Court has authorised service of the Petition and
Writ of Summons in the said action on both of
you the Defendant and Co-Defendant by leaving
at the Registry of this Honourable Court copies
of the said Petition and Writ.
Dated at Rockhampton aforesaid this Twenty-
second day of October 1901.
J. F. FITZGERALD & WALSH,
Solicitors for Plaintiff
55 East Street Rockhampton Queensland.
To the abovenamed Defendant
Arthur Darwin Munro Romaine Wragge
And to the abovenamed Co-Defendant
Adie O’Connor.
SPOONER’S
y
SPOONERS
V
*
*
i aunt leather boots
GLAZED At 05 «
0/rfMri*** *■•+ #>»« »«•
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
H'or Cleaning- and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
lARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
inrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storebeepert.
Boot Shops, SaddUrt, tie.
COPE’S NAVY CUT and PRAiRIE FLOWER
(SPECIAL MIXTURE)
As supplied to the ARMY and NAVY.
TOBACCOS
Manufactured in England.
Agents—Virgoe, Son and Chapman.
REST THE BURDEN
of your correspondence
on the
New Century
Typewriter instead of on your steno-
grapher, and you will get more work,
cleaner work, better work. It has no
equal for speed, lightness of touch and
durability. Fine new catalogue sent
free.
United Typewriter & Supplies Co.,
11 4 Pitt-st., Sydney, F.S. W., Aus.
hfg
jjjorld’s Record jjrder]
The LARGEST TYPEWRITER ORDER
for the WHOLE WORLD . . .
Has recently been placed with UNITED TYPEWRITER
and SUPPLIES CO. by the Austro-Hungarian Govern-
ment for
500 New Centurys
The New Century has been extensively ordered by N.S.W.
Government Departments, and is the Machine adopted by
His Excellency the GOVERNOR-GENERAL, and also
the State Governor, Sir Frederick Darley, K.C.M.G.
V.SEND FOR CATALOGUE
United Typewriter*! Supplies ft).,
(By appointment to His Excellency the Governor-General)
ll4 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
KGD. LABEL.
The Greatest Discovery of Modern Times
. . FOR . .
ALL EYE COMPLALNTS
f rom any cause whatever.
ASK FOR
ROSE’S
Celebrated Eye Lotion
A CERTAIN CURE for Sandy Blight, Granulations, Bunged Eyes,
Dimness of Sight, Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids, Weak Eyes caused by
Dust, Sun-Glare, Overwork, &c., Swelling Blight resulting from stings
of dies and insects.
Used with equal success on the Eyes of Cattle, Sheep, Poultry, &c.
Largely used by Rifle-Shooters and Literary Men.
Testimonials from leading Commercial and Professional Men throughout Australia.
Sole Proprietor . . .
H. A. ROSE,
Dispensing:
Chemist,
531
George St., Sydney
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
BSTBeware of Imitations.
Price 6s.
Post Free.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
BY
“Steele Rudd.”
m
P'J
iff
7 ;
vi
■So l / r>
üBBt
VfrtlC
T Y
? E.S
V
CALL
ON US
FOR FULL
PARTICULARS
OF OUR . . .
SOIIP
in
CllllltE
TUBS.
IMP NOISE. NO VIBRATION
. . . AND . . .
Double the Life of your Vehicle.
The Tyres we supply—the Kelly—are manufactured
from the finest Rubber, and will last five
years on a private vehicle. They are also wired
on in such a manner that it is impossible for them
to come off.
v:
IF YOU OWN OR DRIVE A VEHICLE
a . ' E „ VEHICLE Section of the Kelly Tyre
»ena or call at once for ARTISTIC BOOKLET and PRICE LIST. '
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Australasia, Ltd.,
150 Clarence St., Sydney,
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, BRISBANE, and CHRISTCHURCH (N.Z.).


COLLINS’ PATENT
lii
Has the following: «j*s?
the ordinary Tan ISiish —
A Flange projects round one half stand
and prevents the loss of any anottiall —
fine or coarse.
No experience is required to use it.
A boy can pan off a& easily' as tfo& EMSffit
skilful miner.
Double the amount of work can tie dome
in a given time than with the old oidh.
Sold by all Storekeepers oml Iron-
mongers throughout Australia..
If you have any difficulty in procuring"
the Collins’ Patent Dish in your own
district write to—
R. JOHNSON CLAPHAM
& MORRIS, LTD.
78 Pitt-St., Sydney, and
231 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
Manufacturers under License from the
Patentee.
M
■ ;i j|M
Ss)
SAHJTfIS”
'ml
FLUID
11-
TFI
M
•4 • (iflt.-r ■'•'S ; V,y • . «■-/
* *'
,% “SANITAS" $
„ 4k-
SANIIAS" ..; ‘SANIIAS
OUH TWO HtCiSlthED TRADE .
SANITAS
NON POISONOUS.
DOES NOT STAIN.
DISINFECTANT, antiseptic.
AND DEODORANTcomkinIo
A PEOPLES HEALTH IS A.NAI luty'S WtAtfH
r Ht EANITA'O .-COMPANY l IM»TED
•B BELHNAL i,RtEC*, EONuON-t U |
ALSO
Powder, Soaps,
Sulphur (fumigating) Candles,
and all kinds of Disinfectants.
"The list of ‘SanDas’ preparati ns is now so great as to com-
“prise a complete antiseptic and disinlectant armamentarium.
"The composition of most ot these is Pased on ‘Sanitas,’ a
"deservedly popular pleasant, and moreover active compound.”
l.Axn-T. August ‘24th, 1895, p. 501.
« HOW TO El SIN FECT.”
Look sent i REE on application.
OF AIA, OHKMISTS, AND
The “SANITAS” Co., Lid., BethnalGreen, London.
hfg
*3
Reader, why not be able to use the
most. mysTC’ ovs ami powerful force of
nature? ]’y my method you can learn
to Hypimt y,e n a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many mar\ellous feats
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism yon can cure disease
'conquer pain ; win reluctant affection,
[gratify jour nutrition*, ami produce
| amusement hv the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book f rm a mammoth
.illustrated l-ESSCN OT Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
[of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is I he most elaborate
ami expensive thiucr of the kin l
ever publ shed. For a short
time I wi 1 seod this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (‘tamps' to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hvpnotize. It is a c auce of,
a life-time. Address—
hgf
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Castro’s Last Sacrament
By ALBERT DORRINGTON. 4s 6d.
HORDERN S Have Not Raised
Pricas cn Account of the Tariff.
pr- SO PLEASE ORDER AS SOON AS YOU CAN.
HORDERN’S try to please their customers arid will hold to their old E reetrade
Prices as lo»sf a, possible, and will continue to deliver Goods CARRIAGE I'REE by
the PARCELS POST to any TOWN in NEW SOUTH WALES.
(If Ladies and Gentlemen residing in the Country tell their Sydney Relatives or Friends
to come in to us, and select for them, they will receive every attention.)
HORDERN BROTHERS,^*-
Sr I) NICY’S Lie A DICKS OF FASHIONS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt Street, Sydney.
CHARLES READ & CO.,
BUSHMAN WATCH
m
I
h
Camden Buildings,
420 George St., Sydney.
Three Doors from
Strand Arcade.
A Saving: of
25 per cent.
JEWELLERY,
SOLID SILVER GOODS,
SILVER-PLATED WARE
Write for 80- Paged Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
1%
OO K.W. Three-phase Generator
GANZ& G«-
DYNAMOS, MOTORS.
EVERYTHING ELECTRIC.
Expert Advice Free.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
The Austral Otis Engineering Go. Ltd.
SOUTH MELBOURNE.
She yiost Refreshing 3rir.!c in Australia.
Montserrat
Lime-Fruit Juice
ai)6 Cordials • • •
(TRADE MAR )
The DANCET Bays:-j‘ «
c unsel the public to drink
Li e-fruit Juice whenever and
wherever t ey list, tis a iar
more wholesome drink than
a..y form of Alcohol-*’
“ M ntssrrat” Lime-Fruit Juice, either with water or se ated water, i
delightful thirst quencher.
Sole Consignees -EVANS, L6SCHER & WEBB, LONDON.
EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
Agents Elliott Bros., Ltd., J. Connell & Co., Sydney; D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
fgh
fgh
Dothing Succeeds [ike Appearance.
UP-TO-DATE STYLE FOR UP-TO-DATE PEOPLE.
The A nit
To Order
42s
With
Extra Trousers
Holds the Commonwealth’s Record
.. FOR. .
STYLE, FIT & FINISH.
Send for Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms to our only address -
OPP. G.P.0., BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE.
A Wealth of Luxuriant Hair is ensured for those who use
CAPILLA Hair Took
All Chemists and
Storekeepers—
-2s 6d per Bottle.
Obtainable in
Melbourne at
Stops the Hair from
Falling: or Going: Grey.
C. SWIFT’S, 292 Co’HnS'Stre3t, Melbourne.
W. RICHARDS,
Sole Proprietor-
-168 P.tt-street & 14- Imperial Arcade,
Sydney, N.S.W
The National Aspoct of Production.
Some remarks by a correspondent- whose
is illegible :—•
Dear Bulletin,—How is it that both sides in the fisc,
battle ignore the national aspect of the matter, and ba~
all their arguments on the economic side of the question ';
As far as economics are concerned, I am personally an
absolute Freetrader—a believer in real Freetrade, not th
bastard systems of England and, worse still, N.S.W. But,
however strongly I am convinced of the economic sound-
ness of this principle, it clashes so materially with my
national aspirations as an Australian that I am forced ti
cast my economic considerations aside, and take on a
plainer system which can cook and wash and look afte r
the national household. Australia, in the first instance
extends almost from the equator to far into the temperat
zone. Everything desired by the heart of man is capahl
of being produced within her limits. If the Millenniur,
could be declared by proclamation in the Commonwealt:
Gazette, I would certainly say, let us have Freetrade
but there seems to be no immediate likelihood of :
universal peace, so I go strongly for a protection which
would amount to absolute prohibition. My object it
this : Under prohibition Australia would be forced to
grow everything she consumes, and that is the natural
and proper position for a country which may at any time
be cut off from the rest of the world. Not only should
those industries already worked in a dilettante fashion be
extended until they supply all local requirements, but
enterprises which would mean an absolute, or rather,
apparent money loss, such as iron-mining and tea-grow-
ing, should be established. Nobody can say that a month
hence Australia will not be embroiled in a European war,
and the navy of Great Britain may be too busy
otherwise to protect Australia’s commerce. Where will
our tea and our iron and all the rest of the things we
consume come from then? Thanks to the measure of
Protection which has been given to some of the States in
the past, the people will not be left with nothing but
meat, wheat and ’possum skins; nevertheless, many
articles are not manufactured in Australia at all, and
when these wear out there will be none to take their
place. The picture is not overdrawn. Britain is the first
consideration in a war-emergency and properly so. She
is utterly dependent on foreign nations for her
very food, and even if every cargo boat has to be
escorted by a battle-ship, she must live and, if anyone is
to suffer, it must be those parts of the Empire which are
better able to feed themselves. In England the economic
overshadows the national. The situation of the
United Kingdom is such that only a small proportion of
the articles consumed are produced there, and Freetrade,
with its concomitant, a great navv, sits like a
nightmare on the chest of the nation. This is not the case
in Australia. We can grow everything, make everything.
Having provided the means of doing so, we want a navy,
not for the huge purpose of protecting thousands of ships,
but simply to keep an enemy out of our ports. Is it
better to grow your vegetables in your own yard, or to
get them from a distant Chinaman and pay an expensive
police force to keep him from being robbed on the way to
your gate ?
Summing-up by the late Irish Judge
Morris in an abduction case: —
“ I am compelled to direct you to find a verdict of
guilty in this ease, but you will aisily see that I think
it a trifling thing, quite unfit to occupy my time. It is
more valuable than yours. At any rate, it is much better
paid for. Find, therefore, the prisoner guilty of abduc- !
tion, which rests, mind ye, on four points—the father was
not averse, the mother was not opposed, the gurrl was
willing, and the hhov was convaynient.” Verdict —guilty :
sentence—the rising.”
A “nut" from Edmund Burke for the
cheap Australian Jingo :
I cannot conceive any existence under heaven—which
in the depths of its wisdom tolerates all sorts of things
tha't is more truly odious and disgusting than the im-
potent, helpless creature, without civil wisdom or military
skill, without a consciousness or any other qualification
for power hut his servility, bloated with pride and
arrogance, calling for battles which he is not to fight, and
contending for a violent dominion which he can never
exercise.
Said on the authority of Henri Vangeois,
a leader of the French “ Nationalist ” party, that
the British bullet which found Villebois-Mareuil
did valuable service to the French Republic, as
Mareuil intended the S’African campaign as a
'point (Uappui for a revolution.
Before Melbourne Practice Court a
a novel point was unsuccessfully taken against
the conviction of John Rose, lately fined
for “profanity.” The appeal relied on the fact
that the magistrates who signed the information
had omitted to put full stops between the letters
J.P. and P.M. following their signatures 1
They have a poor opinion of Ms.P. in Lis-
more, N.S. W. A man applied for an hotel license,
and produced testimonials from M’sL.A. The
P.M. said “he would sooner take a testimonial
from any other man than an M.P. The last place
in the world that one of these should be produced,”
said his Worship, “ was in a court, and to attempt
to introduce them showed bad taste.” To such a
depth of degradation have honorable members (!)
sunk in their desire to pitchfork “poor relations”
and bedraggled friends into billets !
Compulsory arbitration need have no
terror for the employer. Grumbling at its opera-
tions is more likely to come from the other side.
The first trade dispute arbitrated on in N.S. W.
under Barton’s Act (since expired) was that of the
Helensburgh colliers and their employers. The
men did not find the award at all to their liking,
and were at first much incensed against the labor
member of the Court (P. J. Brennan). After a
while, however, matters settled down. Arbitration
Courts will certainly tend to industrial peace, but
they will not, if properly administered, favor any
side.
“Yang Anyut ” : Re multiplicity of offices.
A friend of mine in British North Borneo was at
one time deputy-commandant of constabulary,
supt. of fire-brigade, supt. of gaols, postmaster-
general, harbor-master, assistant private sec. to
the Governor, inspector of slaughter-houses, in-
spector of markets, inspector of gambling-farm,
inspector of brothels, inspector of weights and
measures, inspector of opium farm, inspector of
turtle egg-farm, assistant immigration officer,
chief boarding-officer, &c. In his spare time, he
assisted in the Govt. Treasury, managed property
for absentee landlords, sub edited the Govern-
ment Gazette, took photographs professionally,
and dealt in native arms and curios. He was,
besides, a good botanist, entomologist, and
taxidermist, and acted as interpreter to the
Supreme Court. And all this at 18 years of age !
A Maoriland man has issued the plans
and specifications of a new religion. The central
ideas appear to be that people are only to marry
in leap-year, and that they are only to have
children in leap-year. Three years out of the
four they are to swear off the lusts of the flesh,
and the fourth year the twins are to bellow in
the land, and perambulators are to rush over the
face of the earth like the cataract that goes down
at Lodore. The Bulletin hasn’t exactly got the
hang of the advantages that are to arise from
this arrangement—but there are certainad vantages.
The trouble is that the infant hasn’t been con-
sulted as to whether it wants to be born only in
leap-year or not. And the infant is like the wind
and bloweth where it listeth—both infants do,
if they are twins ; and it arrives casually, like the
locust, at no fixed date, and furiously drives its
go-cart over the tail of the domestic cat, and
there is no arguing with it. In this country the
infant is born when it darned well pleases, and it
will probably keep on like that.


Only a Few Days More.
NOTICE OF WITHDRAWAL OF THE OFFER.
The time has now come when the offer of the “Library of Famous Literature” on the exceptionally generous terms set forth, in these announcements must
be finally and irrevocably withdrawn. The response on the part of the public of New South Wales has been so prompt that the copies available for this State will
be exhausted earlier than was expected. When the last copy has been applied for no more can be secured and no orders for this work can be accepted on any terms.
In older to place residents of every part of the State on an equal footing, an effort will be made to accept all orders posted not later than the date of withdrawal.
This date will be widely announced in the daily press of New South Wales, but readers of these announcements are warned against further delay if they intend to
take advantage of this opportunity.
If the Order form printed below is posted at once one of the few remaining copies can be secured. To-day there is still time to act. Next week will be too late.
If there are any who are inclined to think that they may at some future date secure the “Library of Famous Literature” on some other terms than those
now offered, and if they delay accepting the present offer in that expectation, they will be doomed to disappointment. When this offer has been withdrawn, no more
copies of the ‘ Library can be secured on any terms. Those who delay, and thereby miss this chance of a lifetime, will only have themselves to blame.
CUbai your neighbours Chink.
THE PURCHASER AS CRITIC.
Several pages of* “The Sydney Bulletin ” would be required to contain all the letters received -from
early purchasers of the “Library of Famous Literature” in New South Wales. Here some brief extracts
from a few of them :
“A CAPITAL WORK.”
226 Clarence street, Sydney.
A capital work in every respect. It has one fault- asit
raised a desire, already in the minds of some members of
my family, for closer acquaintance with celebrated
writers, hence more expense.
JAS. GREGG.
“ PLEASED WITH THE BARGAIN.”
28 Botany-road, Alexandria.
The books arrived in good condition, and I am well
pleased with my bargain.
WILLIAM LEE.
"A VALUABLE COMPENDIUM OF THE
BEST LITERATURE.”
North Sydney.
A valuable compendium of the best literature of the
world. It should serve to whet the appetite for a more
intimate acquaintance with the greatest writers of all
the ages.
(Rev.) G. NORTH ASH, M.A.,
Chaplain New South Lancers.
“WOULD NOT PART WITH IT FOR
DOUBLE THE MONEY.”
Public School, Oulcairn.
I have pleasure in stating that I am very pleased with
the work, and thoroughly satisfied with my investment.
I would not part with it for double the money.
O'. YOUNG.
“PERFECTLY SATISFIED.”
Homebush.
I am perfectly satisfied with purchase.
H. ROGER ARNOTT.
“EVERY MAN OF INTELLIGENCE
SHOULD POSSESS IT.”
Forbes-street, Darlinghurst.
Have not had time to do more than glance through
Vols. I. and 11., but what I have seen has greatly im-
press! d me. I consider every man of intelligence should
possess a set and study its many gems of thought and
rare beauties with close attention.
D. MOSES.
“ALL THEY ARE REPRESENTED.”
Minmi.
I found the books well packed and in good condition.
I am well pleased with them, and consider them all they
are represented to be.
ALFRED HARVEY.
“A HANDSOME ADDITION TO MY
LIBRARY.”
Livingstone-road, Petersham.
I am highly gratified with my purchase. The books
make a very handsome addition to my library. The con-
tents, I am sure, will afford much pleasure for many
years to come. They only want to be seen to he appre-
ciated by all lovers of good works. The books are clearly
printed and admirably got up.
F. J. N. REILLEY.
“ALL THAT YOU HAVE REPRE-
SENTED.”
Please accept my thanks for the prompt delivery of
above. They reached me in good order, and lam very
pleased with them. They are certainly all that yon have
represented them to be.
T. RUSH.
“AN INEXHAUSTIBLE SOURCE OF
PLEASURE.”
Bathurst.
I am more than satisfied with the work, which I think
will prove to be an inexhaustible source of pleasure and
profitable entertainment.
W. M. BISSELL.
“AN ADMIRABLE PRODUCTION.”
3 Cambridge-street, Paddington.
lam very pleased with the “ Library.” It is an admir-
able production, and one that I am proud to possess.
RAYMUND AUSTIN.
“FULL OF INSTRUCTIVE MATTER.”
Buckingham-street, Sydney.
Am exceedingly pleased with the books, the contents
seem so full of instructive matter.
W. A. GUNNER.
“SIMPLY SPLENDID, BOTH IN APPEAR-
ANCE AND CONTENTS.”
Beresford-road, Homebush.
I cannot express the pleasure I feel at possessing: such
a delightful set of books. They are simply splendid both
in appearance and contents.
G. GRAHAM.
“A VAST AMOUNT OF INFORMATION.”
98 Pitt-street, Sydney.
The books arrived safely, and though I have only had
time to glance cursorily at them, they appear to contain
a vast amount of valuable information, and will prove of
great value to the literary man.
H. PEDEN STEEL.
“CANNOT SPEAK TOO HIGHLY OF THE
VOLUMES.”
Carlisle-street, Ashfield.
I have much pleasure in thanking you for the prompt-
ness with which you delivered the “ Library,” and I
cannot speak too highly of the valuable reading contained
in the volumes.
R. N. DAVIES.
“MORE VALUABLE THAN ALLMY
BOOKS.”
Newcastle.
Referring to the “ Library of Famous Literature ” : —lt
is a purchase with which lam more than satisfied. It is
less expensive, but likely to be more valuable to me than
all the rest of my books.
(Rev.) J. DOWNEY.
10s.
First
Payment.
fgh
Free
Delivery
In Sydney.
The announcements concerning the “ Library of Famous Literature” which have recently been
appearing in the press of New South Wales have aroused unusual interest on the part of the public,
and thousands have applied for Specimen Pages and full particulars. In response to the thousands of
inquiries which have been received, and which continue to pour in from every part of the
State, thousands of handsomely illustrated Prospectuses, together with an Order Form giving
in detail the terms and prices, have been sent to all parts of New South Wales. For the
benefit, therefore, of those whose desire for information concerning the work itself may have
been satisfied by the announcements appearing in the press, and who now desire only information
concerning the terms and prices, a complete Order Form is printed below. Those who still desire to
secure Specimen Pages before giving their orders will be accommodated as long as the sunnlv of
Specimen Pages last. J
For the moment prompt delivery of orders can be made from the supply of books now in Svdnev
But this offer will be withdrawn before another issue of The Bulletin appears. Readers of The
Bulletin are hereby warned that this is the last opporunity to secure this great work There is
longer time for hesitation ; there is barely time for acceptance. The Order Form printed below should
be posted to-day.
This is the Last Issue of “ The Bulletin ” in which this announcement will appear.
TEAR OFF ALONG THIS LINE.
CASH
PRICES.
For those who wish to pay
cash for the work an additional
discount is offered.
To such the 20 volumes will
be despatched upon the receipt
of one of the followingamounts:
Bound in
ulotn „ .. .. £7 12a
Half Persian Calf .. £9 14s
Three-quarter Bed Le-
vant Morocco (which
is specially recom-
mended .. .. £ll 17s
Full Morocco .. .. £l6 7s
The special Bookcase will be
sent for 18s. additional, if de-
sired.
THE BOOKCASE.—For the
convenience of Subscribers to
Tub Library op Famous Lite-
rature a convenient bookcase
has been specially prepared to
hold the 20 volumes. It is sub-
stantially made in solid wood,
and is 20 inches in width by
three feet in height. The book-
case is sent to the Subscriber
first, and can be set up in five
minutes. The bookcase weighs
551 b.
ORDER FORM.
The subscriber should fill in and cut out this form and send
it with remittance of io/- (or cheque in full, exchange
added) to Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, Sydney.
Cheques and Money Orders should be drawn to the Order of the Bank of New South Wales.
MONTHLY PAYMENTS PLAN.
TO THE MANAGER.
Messrs. GORDON & GOTCH,
Pitt Street, Sydney (P.O. Box 1612 j.
Arrangements for Payment of Monthly Subscriptions.
"pOR the convenience of subscribers under the Monthly Payments Plan an arrange-
J- ment has been made with the Bank of New South Wales by which payments
may be made at Sydney, or at any branch of the Bank in New South Wales. The
subscriber is thus saved the trouble and expense of making remittances by post
Only the first payment need be sent to Messrs. Gordon & Gotch. All subsequent
payments can be made at nearest branch of Bank of N. S. Wales.
Prices under Cask Platt
Subscription given below.
Please send me “The Library of Famous Literature” at the special prices named below.
I enclose 10/- and I agree to complete my purchase of the work a s follows:
For the Cloth Bindings
For the Half Persian Calf
For the Three-quarter Levant Morocco (i*eSS2&eO
For the Full Morocco ...
Fifteen further payments of io/- per month
13/-
16/- „
23/
oi wi, °* sm ■“ , i fc
&£" Please also send me the Special Bookcase made to contain the twenty volumes of the Library for which 1 1
agree to make one further payment of l#l- one month after the payments for the books are completed 1
Strike out
three of
these
lines.
Strike out if Bookcase
is not desired.
Signed
Occupation or Profession
S.B. 4.
Please address the package to
Add> ess
goo is will bs sb pped, carriage forward, from Sydney.
Choice of
Binding*.
The subscriber is offered the
choice of four different styles
of binding-:
1. CLOTH, with handsome
design and lettering in gold ;
a binding suitable for those
who wish to obtain the work
in its cheapest form.
2. HALF-PERSIAN CALF,
gilt tops, panelled backs, silk
head-bands ; a valuable addi-
tion to the decoration of the
study or drawing - room ; a
strong and attractive leather
binding.
3. THREE-QUARTER RED
LEVANT MOROCCO, bur-
nished gilt tops, full gold
Roger Payne backs, raised
bands, finished extra ; a superb
binding for a moderate price,
and particularly recommended.
4. FULL MOROCCO,
EXTRA, rolled gold edges,
hand-tooled, with inside gold
roll, Oxford spring back ; a
sumptuous edition for presen-
tation purposes or for those
who desire the finest bindings
obtainable.
Those who have examined
all styles of binding have in
the majority of cases selected
the Three-quarter Red Levant
Morocco, which we specially
recommend, both on account
of its great durability and
general attractiveness.
THE 20 VOLUMES OF ‘‘THE LIBRARY OF FAMOUS LITERATURE” AND SPECIMENS OF THE VARIOUS STYLES OF BTNDTNT I mav
AND ORDERS MAY BE BOOKED AT THE FOLLOWING ADDRESSES- BINDING MAY
BE EXAMINED,
Sydney: Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, 123 Pitt-street.
Messrs. W. H. Paling & Co., Ltd., 338 George-sfcreet.
Dvmock’s Book Store, 428 George-street.
Newcastle : Messrs. W. H. Sproull & Co., Booksellers.
Messrs. W. H. Paling & Co., Ltd.
W. Maitland: Messrs. Compton & Pankhurst, Booksellers, High-street.
Bathurst : Messrs. J. R. &A. Jones, Booksellers.
Goulburn : Mr. H. T. Downes, Bookseller.
Grafton : Mr. G. C. Syer, Bookseller.
Lismorc ; Messrs. Syer & Co., Booksellers.
Residents of Queensland may obtain full particulars by addressing Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, Queen
Street, Brisbane.


Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER . . .
Exultant birth-notice, probably of No. 1,
in an English paper:—
B. 0., of ,in the full joys of paternity, begs to
announce that his wife gave birth to a daughter
yesterday. Both are doing well.—DEO GRATIAS
A Critical Case.
A Senior-Inspector of Police Submits his
Evidence.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills add one more
name to the long list of their wonderful cures.
It is for those once placed on the verge of the
grave, and who have been given a longer term
of life by the timely use of this wonderful
remedy, to give the Pills their due of praise. All
who use them give them a good name, but it
is only those who, after a long and dangerous
sickness, feel through their use the rich blood of
perfect health in their veins, that can bring
warmth and conviction and the clear ring of
manly and vigorous truth to their words. Such
a man is Senior-Inspector W. T. Langworthy, of
Yass, New South Wales, who writes as fol-
lows : —“ Dear Sirs, —For many years I have been
a sufferer from rheumatism, constipation, giddi-
ness, violent pains in the head, and a ‘liver,’
colds, chills, and worse than all, lumbago; of
course, I got temporary relief from doctors and
chemists. At last I read your pamphlet on Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and 1 considered the
vegetable ingredients would not hurt, and took
four—then three, and no pain. The change was
wonderful. Instead of leaning against the wall to
put on my trousers, as usual, through giddiness, I
was able to stand upright, and I felt a desire to
turn a somersault upon the bed as a boy would.
You will laugh. Well, sirs, it is a fact. I have
used them now occasionally for three years, and
carry the little bottle with me on the road when
travelling. I recommend them to everybody,
with good results. Whenever I look at the
little bottle, I feel that I owe one debt to you,
and now I will repay it by expressing my
gratitude.” (I have no objection to my
testimonial being used relative to the benefit
I derived from Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills.—W. T. Lang worthy.) Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood purifier
and a positive cure for biliousness, indigestion,
constipation, headaches, sallow complexion,
liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils,
blotches, and female ailments. Sold by chemists
and storekeepers, Is l£d per bottle, or six bottles
6s. 6d. Sole proprietors, The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd. (Australasian Depot), 58 Pitt-street,
Sydney. Packed in amber bottles, and the full
name blown thereon.*
Knowledge in five minutes. Book,
“Business, Memory and Figures.” Sydney
Daily Telegraph says: “It is crowded with
curious short cuts of calculation, valuable
memory aids, hundreds of wise saws and modern
instances, which, if followed out, should lead on
to fortune.” Is. postal-note; J. 0. Cox, Darling-
st., Balmain, Sydney.*
“Piles and Their Cure.”—The pamphlet
by Albert Sharp, entitled “ Piles and the Wav to
Cure Them,” without operation, sent free, on
application to the Sydney Depot, 257 George-
street.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
It’s a fine thing to pick the winner of the
Cup, but it is still better to select that which
helps one to be the winner of everything desirable
in life. D.C.L. whisky does this by keeping all
the human functions at their highest point of
effectiveness. And the straight-tip is: intensify
the keenness of your perceptions and strengthen
your confidence by consulting that brand of
whisky ere entrusting your coin to the temporary
care of Ikey Mo. Back nothing until you have
taken one small nobbier of D.C.L.—and don’t take
too many nobblers afterwards.
Crudely defined, a planet is “a celestial
body moving about the sun,” and Planet is the
name of a new mechanical body moving about the
lawn. It takes Divine power to set the celestial
body in motion, but a child can move the mechani-
cal body with ease. It is beautifully built in
three sizes, with regulating screw (we refer to the
mechanical body), and for 155., 17s. 6d., or 205.,
according to the size of it, we can give you the
pleasure of moving the Planet Lawn-Mower about
your lawn, leaving law, order and neatness in
your track. M'Lean Bros, and Rigg, Ltd., 107
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.*
The Bulletin acknowleges receipt of the Ade
laide Steamship Co.’s Guide for 1901-2. The work is
well got-up, tastefully illustrated, and, besides all pos-
sible information as to the fares and freights between the
various ports and the condition of the service carried on
by the co.’s fleet of 25 steamers (to say nothing of its eight
steam tenders and lighters and tugs), contains a lot of
really interesting and valuable information about the
Commonwealth generally. Anyone desiring to deceive
his friends with the idea that he is a travelled individual,
who has been all over the continent, should procure the
Guide, after which he can lie fluently and reliably about
the particulars of climate, the names of the streets, the
post-offices and chief buildings of every town and district
worth lying about.
Take
REUTER’S LITTLE PILLS.
For all LIVER complaints-
gfh
fgh
MODEL 59.
RED BIRD BICYCLES
Just landed for the coming' season, replete with every new idea. Riders who know something are rushing 11s
for them. First Shipment all sold. Something new in cycle construction. EASY TERMS. “
Branches in every State. GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Risking the prediction that Cup places will fall
to veteran horses, this scribe takes eight as having
chances—San Fran, Hymettus, Wakeful, Nitre, George
p"fhlh'i Ck > Revenue, Flagship, Australian Colors.
Rrobablj the burden will beat San Fran (9.7). The
i*T?i°\f h< f rSe ha u IVOVl VO V fcwo bi £ handicaps—Sydney Cup
and Metrop.—but the performances were rather lucky
than masterful, and next Tuesday he will have the worst
of the weights with both Wakeful and Australian Colors
ban r ran, perhaps, stays two miles better than either of the
pair that ran him close in Sydney Cup ; all the same the
difference in weight should more than counterbalance his
possible advantage in stamina. Hard to sav whether
rllwf'/a m 10) I fu“° l Tf ki ' l(U - v treated than Australian
Colors (8.9), on their Randwick running, when the then
four-vear-oid mare gave 121 b. to the three-year-old colt.
Presuming that the handicapper “ brought them
together in his Melb. Oup allotments, it is clear that
recent form gives Wakeful the better show. ' The race
between them should be close, but one naturally prefers
the chance of the flying mare.
* • • •
Hymettus, on- the Caulfield running (in Stakes
and Cup), has nothing the better of Wakeful, for although
an extra 31b. may give no extra trouble to the big-
hearted giant, 41b. off the back of the comparatively
little mare should count for a full 640 z. in her favor.
Again, Wakeful has already finished a good third in a
Sydney Oup, whereas Hymettus, whose legs are un-
doubtedly near the end of their racing career, has never
yet gone two miles in public. The writer takes Wakeful
to beat all the well-known performers in the coming Cup
• * • •
Nitre is a possible winner on her best form, her
appearance, and her private reputation ; and George
Frederick is a real good animal—for all that he has been a
frequent disappointment. Flagship’s chance is a question
of staying power. The four-year-old was a respectable
third in the Caulfield Oup, and with 6.9 up he ought to
finish at the front end of the field next Tuesday.
• * » *
At time of going to press, betting indicates the
stable is very sweet on Revenue’s Cup-chance. Said that
m an early-morning gallop with Wakeful, on Aspendale
Course, he heat the mare easily, which gives the race the
appearance of being entered on the book of Fate, hut
we’ve had these sure things before—the latest was Lan-
caster. Revenue hasn’t won a race for three vears, and
went under badly in last Melbourne Cup, though a great
weight of money was unloaded on him. There’s nothing
tempting about this from the general public point of
view, despite that his brilliancy as a 2yr.-oid induced an
offer of 2000 gs. from one of'the shrewdest of turfites
If Revenue has been well tried with Wakeful (and the way
the money comes from the right quarter makes it appear
so), then this five-year-old son of Trenton—Water Lily
■Ft be serio . u sly reckoned with. ’Twas thought when
the big* commission went on Revenue a day or two before
the Cauifield Clip that Mr. McDonald looked upon Wakeful
as a certainty for that race, which would have brought her
Melbourne Cup load up to 9.6 instead of 8.10. But there
appears to be very much more in it than that, for, on
Monday night, while very little was available about
Revenue at fours, Wakeful lengthened out to tens with
big parcels on offer.
* * *' 9
To fancy Revenue for the Cup is to believe that
the stable has made no mistake in judging the private
form of the Trenton-Water Lily horse. Punters can
take it for granted that Revenue has been tried with
Wakeful, and the mare, being a generous, headstrong
lady, she is not likely to have deceived her trainer in
private out of sheer cussedness. Besides, the watch is a
check on such possibilities. The public have seen Revenue
do nothing- estimable since March ’92, when he scored his
third and last win as a two-year-old. He ran wretchedly
in the Cup last year, hut the Revenue of 12
months ago was the sickest-looking nag you
ever saw. As h= stood in his stall in Fleming'tori
bird-cage, the flies settled on his woe-begone counten-
ance and his eyes were full of tears. How he ran last year
i- a matter of no importance. Revenue has been a deli-
cate horse, but it was good enough for Manager Leslie
Macdonald to buy him at the sale of the late W. R.
Wilson s stud. The stable always had a great opinion of
Revenue, fit and well. The 5-year-old was fit and well a
iveek ago, and will probably remain so until Cup day.
t\r lS * s 7.10, and he will have the advantage of
Wakeful’s company and moral support in the struggle
Therefore the words of the prophet are :
Revenue 1
Wakeful " 2
Flagship * * 3
Australian Colors .. * 4
* * • «
Put your bit on Revenue, although the price he short •
You’d better win a little than attempt to win a lot, '
If you back a rank outsider,
’Cause you got it from the rider,
Why, when the race is over, you’ll disconsolately snort:
Put your bit on Revenue ; he’ll win it in a trot—
That is, if nothing happens to upset the precious “pot.”
Put your bit on Revenue, at 4 or 5 to 1,
The stable lads declare he cannot lose ;
Though the mare’s a trifle gayer,
Sure, the colt’s the stronger stayer,
And bravely he’ll be going when the rest are fairly done :
Put your shirt on Revenue, and pawn vour Sunday shoes
For Revenue’s the monte that will flabbergast the Jews!
What’s the “ form ”of Revenue ? In truth, it isn’t much •
He has no claim on “ paper ” to be favorite at all; ’
But the “ form ” good punters follow
Has been sometimes beaten hollow
By a very, very dark ’un that they didn’t care to touch :
Put your faith in Revenue, although the odds be small,
Aye, stand alone on Revenue, whilst unbelievers fall.
The straightest tip is Revenue, the market tells a tale ;
There’s evidence convincing in “ quotations,” now and
then.
By Trenton-Water Lily,
He will race the others silly !
Barring accidents, etcetera, the dark ’un cannot fail :
Put your pound on Revenue, on Revenue, ye ken,
And, when you draw your winnings, bless the present
scribe. Amen.
F.
* • * .
Something has got to win the Derby next
Saturday ere the Melbourne Cup comes to pass. Haut-
villers, Ibex, Grasspan and Haymaker are likely to
provide the finish for the blue ribbon race, and of these
the two first-named seem to be the only youngsters of
possibly brilliant) merit, the possibility, even "in their
cases, being very slight. Ibex was not entered for the
Cup, so if he wins on Saturday the Cup chance of Haut-
villers, with 7.12 to carry, will look poor indeed, whereas
Grasspan (7.6) and Haymaker (6.13) may be still worth
considering. A few pounds more or less go for a good
deal with a young 3-year-old in a two-mile ding-dong
struggle. Nevertheless it is reasonable to reckon that
this year’s Derby colts can be counted out of the Cup
In competition with older horses all of them, save
Ibex, have cut second-rate figures. Hautvillers, after
winning the A.J.C. Derby in good time, ran moderately
in the Metrop. two days later, when the pace was faster.
Grasspan and Haymaker were nowhere in the Eclipse
Stakes at Caulfield, when Hymettus nearly succeeded in
giving 311bs. to Bonnie Chiel, the winner. In short, the
8-year-olds thus far have been seeminglv outclassed.
Present scribe guesses that Grasspan is the sturdiest of
the lot, and will win the Derby from Hautvillers, Ibex,
and Haymaker. Also Grasspan should finish among the
first half-dozen or so in the Cup, but some of the others
will probably be lengths ahead of Grafton’s respectable
offspring.
• * * *
Rich Maribyrnong Plate, at Flemington to-day
(Saturday), would look a fair thing for the Bill of Port-
land—Fishwife filly Fishery', if she could be relied upon
to get well away, which the little flier rarely does. She
failed to do so in the Debutant Stakes, and also in the Gwyn
Nursery, and in the latter, after wiping off the big lead,
came a cropper at the turn. Flemington touts declare
that the first time she moves with the others a swallow
won’t catch her. Another two-year-old in the same race
was Donald, by Wallace from Ilortense, who cost a
thousand guineas as a yearling. Dirk Hammerhand’s full
brother, Troubridge, winner of recent Gwvri Nursery, will
be among the first, and is unquestionably the best colt
Adelaide has produced for a long time. Brakpan is
regarded by many as very good goods for the race on the
strength of his Mona Nursery triumph, and will probably
start favorite. But his brother, Grasspan, also won Mona
Nursery last year, and, although reckoned a “cert.”
before the plate, failed to secure a “ drum.”
* ¥ * *
Monday’s seratchings for the Cup were plenti-
ful. Juggler went out as the result of a broken leg, sus-
tained while doing- a trial spin that morning. Writing
before final forfeits, and making every allowance for
sweep influences, it is probable that not more than 25 will
line up. Taken by and large, the quality of this Cup field
is about the poorest in the history of the race.
* » '* *
“ Tout ” : The halt and the lame are at time of
writing as much in evidence as ever in this Saturday’s
Derby and Tuesday’s Melb. Cup. Turf scribes write of
Ibex as “ under a cloud,” Haymaker is, or was, “ slightly
lame,” Hautvillers looks “ a trifle light,” Bonnie Chiel
(never of robust appearance at best) “ hasn’t got over his
Cauifield Cup gruelling,” and Rock Gun is “badly
affected in the pins.” These are five of the seven left,
which makes it appear as if Grasspan and Manlock will
have the fun to themselves. Past experience of such
things teaches that more than one of the quintette of
cripples will be found very much alive in the race. Ibex
has done little work since winning the Guineas, but that’s
what he seems to thrive on most, while Grasspan is served
best when dealt with the opposite way ; he fairly revels
Jj 1 rd F aft ’ failure to fill a place in Eclipse Stakes
t other day was due to being shut in without a chance
of getting out till too late. Caulfield Cup saw him
finish seventh, but as he was nowhere in the first mile he
must have travelled the rest of the journey at a scorching
pace to get as far up as he did. Manlock is much of a
mystery. Toorak Handicap distance proved too big a
task for him, but he triumphed in the Windsor, which makes
it seem that sprinting is his forte. Given Hautvillers up
to what he was in the Craven Plate at Raridwick, this
writer would like his chance best of all, but if he is below
that standard (as the betting indicates) the winner
should come from Grasspan or Ibex.
* * * *
Wild followers of coincidences in racing are
bound to back George Frederick for the Cup. The son of
Carbine didn’t get his name from the Duke of York-he
got it, in fact, from his former owner, George Frederick
Gray but he’s the namesake of an English Derby winner
that wets named after the child who has since grown into
the little Duke. In the event of G.F. pulling off the big
event, we shall have an awful assortment of Australian
press-comment in various shades of “ loyal ” drivel.
* * ♦ *
Looks as though most of the “double” boobs
will get struck this year, Hymettus having been a
fairly popular first choice. Punters who have achieved
“ one leg in ” with an Ikey of no importance—and very
fevv Ike.v’s are of financial importance when the wind
blows cold—can now amuse themselves by wonderin<>- how
they stand on the other leg. Keep in touch with the
red-faced man who has undertaken to pay out “ five
kindred quid” if the second half of the “ double ” gets
home. Deal gently with him when he proposes to hedge
a bit on the wager, but see that he pays the hedging
money in advance to you, as the bookmaker. The joy of
being the bookmaker to whom Ikey appeals in his'dis-
tress ! The delight of laying off £250 of the £SOO bet
that cost only 10 or 20 shillings ! But, O 1 the unutter-
able gall of striking the “double” with a blasphemous
person who had nothing to lose by the transaction when
he took your money.
* • * *
Concerning what might have happened if
the thing had been that wasn’t: Owner McDonald
of Wakeful stood to win heavily from Mo. on
the Caulfield Cup. So far. Me. has not managed
to rake in either a Caulfield or Melbourne mu fr
but has won Caulfield Guineas five times ; V.R.C. Derbv’
Maribyrong Plate, Australian Cup three times; A.J.o!
St. Leger twice ; Sydney Cup twice ; V.R.C. St Le»er
and Champion Shakes three times each; Newmarket
Handicap, Champagne Stakes three times; Debutant
Stakes, Adelaide Birthday Cup, Toorak Handicap • Oak-
leigh Plate thrice ; and Futurity Stakes twice. Last year
his Kinglike looked a moral, but went under just as badlv
as brother Bonnie Chiel this time.
* • » •
Owner Paterson had no intention of running
Hymettus for the C. C. and had arranged to send him to
the stud. Trainer Heywood entered him as an after-
thought. The first wager laid by whale “ Oxy ”on the
Caulfield Cup was £ISOO to £7 10s. against Hymettus
* * » '
Only other nag but Hymettus credited with two
Caulfield Cups is Paris, who scored in ’92 with 8 8 up and
in ’94 carrying 9.4. A few weeks later he was sweeping
along like a tornado in Melbourne Cup with 9.12, when he
stumbled on to his head and just missed being placed
Hymettus won first in ’9B with 7.6, hut this year he car-
ried 8.6, and will carry 9.1 for Melbourne Cup, which is
anything but excessive for such a high-class 6-year-old
Of 22 Caulfield Cup winners not one has captured the
Melbourne Cup, neither has any second in the O O done
so, but two thi ids, Dunlop and Bravo, did the trick.
* * » •
.The Betting Ring ”in Australia is a very un-
financial crowd of Ikeys just now, therefore, if the
favorites are fairly successful on the first three days of
V.R.C. meeting, the public will have to whistle for'any-
thing like reasonable odds on the last day. This dearth
of capital among the raucous “ metallicians ” means that
owners of good horses can’t afford to fool about in the
hope of “ bringing off a coup” next time. When there is
a plump stake available for the winner they must go for
it. The size of the stake has never been a more important
consideration than now. “Patience” and “cleverness”
being bad policies under the circumstances, punters had
better close their ears, as a rule, to the whisper of the
“knowing” person who affirms that something or other
didn’t win because “ the money wasn’t right.” Of course
there are exceptions to the rule. One stable scratched
its- horse for Caulfield Cup because the money wasn’t
right. The so-called “ leviathans ” of the ring couldn’t
® e ® fc . heir wa y clear to “ pooling ” a wager of £BOOO to
£IOOO against the ’orse in question, and the “clever
division ” scratched it some days before the race.
* * * m
One rash tipster advertised before the Caulfield
Cup that his selected horse would be able to “ fall down
during the race and then win.” Others of the humorous
fraternity invited the public to pay a fee of 10s. or ss. for
the name of the animal which was going to “ walk in ”
at a “ long price.” And the race, when it came to pass,
was practically reduced to a match between the first and
second favorites ’ one of them beating the other by half a
“ Tatt.’s ” No. 1 sweep (55.) on Melbourne Cup
shows several possibilities of wonderful luck for syndicate
investments. For instance, 38,918 drew Flagship, 38,957
Hymettus, and 38,977 Silk Lace —a chance of two favorites
and a non-starter for a parcel of 60 consecutive tickets.
* * * *
“ Lucre ” : Looks as if the winner of Melb. Cup
will come from placed horses (Hymettus, Wakeful, and
Flagship) in Caulfield Cup. Weight of money on first
favorite, Revenue, should cause him to be respected,
especially as he and Wakeful are similarly owned. Reve-
nue hasn’t faced the barrier for a single race since
figuring in last Melb. Cup, when coin went on him from
the same quarter as now and just as freely, but he didn’t
get near scoring then ; why he should do better this
time, in the total absence of public form, is a puzzle.
Australian Colors cau hardly be thought much of since
Saturday’s private go with Khaki, when that nag beat
him pointless. Probably Australian Colors wasn’t in
working mood (he’s often that way lately), but he’d need
to brace up a heap to have a chance on that form. Grass-
pan’s licking in Caulfield Cup wasn’t so bad as it appears.
A photo, of the field turning out of the straight reveals
Grasspan with only five of the 23 behind him, and
those in front well strung out, even at that period.
Grasspan did remarkably well to finish eighth under the
circumstances. Melbourne Cup might bring him better
luck.
• * * *
Eleven starters for Moonee Valley Cup (11 fur.),
and three fell at the turn into the straight. They didn’t
all fall over one another as the result of one and the same
jostle. Cluster and Gosport fell the first time the field
turned into the straight, after which there was no acci-
dent until the other nine horses arrived at the home turn
for the second time. Then Peeress fell. And yet the
newspapers persist in speaking of the Moonee Valley
circus ring as a racecourse.
* * * •
Obit. : Once forefront jock, Tommy Hales, aged
54. He had won almost every notable Australian event
bar Caulfield Cup, beginning at 13 years of age. From
1872 to 1894, when he rode last, he had ridden 1678 races,
and won 496, finished second in. 332, and third in 195.
Altogether, he had scored 1023 places in 1678 mounts.
Total stakes won by the dead champion were £168,340.
This is an Australian record never even approached by
any other rider. After leaving the saddle, Hales ran a
stud-farm and station in the Riverina, but was not a big
success at breeding. He died (worth much money and
property) of bronchitis and acute congestion of the liver,
on Saturday afternoon, after many years of suffering from
asthma.
• • * *
Jockey Ernest Cubitt, a worthy young’ fellow of
his type, seems to have been pitched into the Yarra and
drowned the other Saturday night, but the inevitable
“suspicions” of the Melbourne police are not likely to
result in the arrest of the murderers. Cubitt won some
money at Caulfield races, and foolishly allowed it to be
known that he was carrying the winnings about with
him when he came up to town in the evening. At mid-
night he left Her Majesty’s Hotel, sober enough, and
started to walk home to Caulfield, taking the Yarra bank
for his shortest cut. This was his usual way when he had
missed the last train. Numerous spielers, touts, &c.,
must have been aware of Cubitt’s risky practice, and
some of the stone-broke fraternity probably went ahead
and waited for the poor devil. Anyhow, Cubitt’s body
was found in the river two days later—his watch had
gone and his pockets were moneyless. He had indeed
taken a short cut home.
* * * *
At Moorefield, Saturday, TJ.S.A. jockey Ames
further maintained his reputation by landing the “shop ”
and course double (exactly the same as that at Rosehill
two weeks before), and making a good second on Daimore
in the Welter. Ames’ first mount, Portland Light, in the
Flying Handicap, lined-up at a long price in a field of
five, with a steadier of 9.5. The gum-chewer kept his nag
nicely behind till into the straight, when he came like a
flash and pipped favorite (Plain Tom) by a neck, just as
that prad’s backers were starting to collect the money.
Similar navigation won the big race for Glenore even more
easily. Ames has now scored four wins in eight mounts
without the slightest help from handicaps or running.
* * * •
Shooting at N.S.W. National Rifle Association,
last week, was phenomenal and consistent. Possibles
were more plentiful than ever, and records were conse-
quently frequent. A. Carter (Victoria) won “ The Vic-
torian ” (10 shots at 600yds.) with the “ possible ” 50. R.
Wallace was second—one less. First N.S.W. “King’s”
match went to J. T. Lake (5.A.)—228 of a possible 215.
Vagaries of light and wind hampered shooting somewhat,
but this total bears favorable comparison with (if it does
not actually excel) the best ever previously done
in these parts or at ’Ome. South Australian champ.,
Carter, was second (221), and Victorian G. Waugh third
(220) The “New South Wales” (7 shots at 700 and 800
yards) fell to A. C. Wiseheart with 1 less than the possible
70—a record. In “ the Westralian ” (10 shots at 400yds.),
16 possibles were registered. The shoot-off produced
something brilliant. The absolute winner (B. Voight, of
Queensland) notched 31 consecutive bull’s-eyes before
landing the prize ; his target was a curiosity. J. T.
Lake (S.A.) and A. Carter (Vic.) tied for the premiership,
but in the shoot-off (at 900yds.) Carter was successful
with 2 points to the good.
* • * *
The progress of Sydney senior cricket: On
Saturday, Sydney notched a brilliant win against North
Sydney, which closed its innings with eight wickets for
322. The gall of the thing is that Quist—Sydney’s biggest
scorer, with 105—was, for a long time, North Sydney’s
most consistent player. Deery contributed 65 (including
five s’s and seven 4’s), and the necessary runs were com-
piled with five wickets to spare. Sydney’s batting was a
revelation. Previously, it had gone down before Leich-
hardt-Balmain and Paddington, without the slightest
glimmer of Saturday’s top-notch form. Crack wicket-
keeper Kelly topped individual scores with 115 for Pad-
dington against Burwood, and C. Gregory hit up 100 for
Waverley against Glebe. O.G. has now made two centu-
ries, his totals being 57, 150, and 109—the highest aggre-
gate in the grade.
* * * *
Bruiser Denny Moloney collided with Bill
Davis, of Bananaland, at Sydney Golden Gate A.O. on
Saturday night. Davis was wary and wily and showed
a bag of tricks that mystified Denny greatly. However,
Denny never missed a chance to score, and rushed and
floundered around and flung himself at his fleeing
opponent. In a wild rally after a succession of squalls
Davis caught Denny a jolt on the point which spread-
eagled him, but the Irishman came up instanter, shiver-
ing from the bash, and they swirled, and grunted and
slogged round the ring while the audience howled
joyously. At the end of round 16 the Davis crowd
“skied the wipe” and Moloney went round
to collect the cash. Moloney isn’t a boxer,
merely a man-eater who was suckled on bash and
brought up on stoush, and a confirmed bruiser who takes
a smashing like whisky and is right on top of his man all
the time he isn’t on the floor, lie drifts round town with
half-a-yard of bright green handkerchief streaming like a
pennant from his pocket, and his ties are wonderful
creations in every color but orange. He declares he’ll
fight anyone for anything worth carting away, irrespec-
tive of weight, class, rank, hue or odour.
* * * •
The contest between “ Cocker ” Tweedie and
coon Williams for the light-weight supremacy of South
Australia, drew a big house at Adelaide. Only Boz.
difference in the weights, and both men eager, things
hummed from the start. Tweedie was a will-o’-the-wisp
and dodged the negro’s disaster-laden smites at exactly
the psychological moment. Occasionally they started to
mix things, hut Tweedie was always missing when any
danger appeared. In the ninth round Tweedie won, and
told the crowd that he would tarry with them a little
while and “ tap the claret ” of anything of his own weight
available. And the crowd yelled, “ Amen.”
Botha’s troops, the oable states, have again
escaped “in a fog.” Same old fog.
There seems to be a slump in South African
hangings, or else the cable no longer keeps tally
of them. Commandant Seheepers (“ the worst
villain of them all ”) whom the daily papers had
agreed must be hanged, has been sentenced to
banishment only.
Sydney sculptor, James White, had re-
cently on view at his studio the clay model of the
prize group intended for a monument at Perth to
the memory of the Westralian warriors who fell
in S’Africa. Two soldiers are figured ; one stand-
ing grimly with his rifle at the “ ready,” while
from this man’s water-bottle drinks the other,
wounded and half lying on the ground. The
composition is very simple and forceful, and the
modelling as clever as anything Mr. White has
yet done. The group should be a striking one in
the bronze.
A contingenter, returned per Afric, sup-
plies this item to Sydney Sunday Times :
“ The hard-working fighters for the Empire had to go
without food when there was a scarcity, but Boer
prisoners were not allowed to go short.” “ And what was
the result?” “ Well, knowing the silly sentimentality that
prevailed on the subject, the soldiers would rather shoot
the Boers than take them prisoners, because it paid them
better to do so. I remember a party of 50 men being sent
away with 19 Boer prisoners t.o a place some 10 or 12
miles distant, where food was scarce.” “ Did they arrive
all right with the prisoners?” “ Not very much.” “ Why,
what happened ?” “ The Boers were shot on the journey,”
was the grim reply, “and they did not eat any more of
the short supplies.”


FREETRAPC PRICCS.
BEST BIL.VER PLATE AFTERNCOM TE\ FORKS,
/€
3/(
THE HALF-DOZEN, IN SILK-LINED BOX, POST FREE.
A Large Selection to Pick from.
Exclusive Designs.
jt
a.y
&
y
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY CO.
187 PITT-ST., SYDNEY
(Next Shadier’s Cafe.)
STOP!
Think twice before you buy another but
W F' The
WHY ? Because the latest model Massey is far in advance of any Bicycle yet put on the Australasian
market in material, construction, and easy pedalling. Just ask any Massey rider if this is not so, or, better
still, call upon one of our agents and get the features explained to you—also easy terms.
West Australian Depots: Hay Street, Perth; and Hannan Street, Kalgroorlie.
throughout N.S.W., Victoria, South Australia, Queensland, New Zealand. - ®!
mm
\
r
r §
ttotharjks
we
rj£/er
use
GLOBE TEA
rjpHIS is the old-fashioned system of selling Tea.
It is practised a lot to-day, but the people who
patronise the Tea-Agent get very poor value for
their money.
GLOBE TEAS
—
are sold to you direct, and for your money you get
its value in Tea. You don’t get one shilling's
worth of Tea and sixpence worth of Tea-Agent for
your eighteenpence. Be wise, and send your order
direct to us.
ATCHERLEY & DAWSON
Tea Merchants,
284 George St., Sydney.
true**
economy
Send Orders to
Read Office« «
Oaruour street
Thrifty and careful housewives should
use no other than
- The ========
N.S.W. Fresh Food & Ice Go’s
Pasteurised Milk.
RICHEST « PUREST « BEST.
By Special
fg
Appointment.
G. H. SMITH and SON,
TROPICAL HELMET
with special air-space,
in white drill, (See. and
in all colors in felt,
10/6 and 12 6
Hat and Cap Manufacturers
and Importers,
302 Ceorge-st, Sydney
Bombrero Soft Felt Hats,
All Shades and Sizes.
Soft Felt Homberg-s.
In all Sizes and Colors.
Straw Hats. Stetson Hats.
Polo Caps, Military and Naval
Caps, Livery Hats, Clerical Silk
Hats, Etc., Made to Order
T7V)R the person who is not a millionaire, there i»
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Pose
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
XNj W. GREENER’S New Book, “ Sharpshooting- for Sport
~ j l ' ul War.” All Riflemen should read this Book.
Price 1 2 posted.
Greener’s New Rifle, 310 bore, made expressly
for Cadet Corps, very accurate ; 10 shots in 2 inches at
1 0 yards at last Bisley Meeting, price £3 3s.
Sporting Martinis to take 44 Winchester Cartridges
Adapted for Kangaroo Shooting, &e.
Greener’s Lee Enfield Rifles, Govt. Viewed, Guaran-
teed First Quality.
These Rifles are in the hands of many of the best rifle
shots in the States, and in every case are giving great
satisfaction. Twent.v-one consecutive bull’s eyes made
one of these rifles at 700 yards ; 98 out of possible 105
at 400, 500 and 600 yards made by Mr. Jordan, Capt.
Warrnambool Rifle Club ; 104 out of possible 105 at 400,
500 and 600 yards by Mr. George H. Tolley, of Stawell.
Greener Guns from 9 to 30 Cuineas always in Stock.
Prices and Catalogues on Application.
Clias '\/X7~. Ends, a,ixcX,
Representing W. W. GREENER,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Or
V.
X3r
Ck. 'Vesnould GAIN a few pounds-
. which we can do without—by raisins*
our prices by the amount of the Federal
Duties.
Dr y^ e . should LOSE largely our repu-
■ tation which vve cannot do without
treating our customers asgenerously as
possible if we raised all our prices.
HAIR BRUSH, Solid Silver Baclfj 15/C
Note our Advertisement Prices, and you will find the same old FRSETRADE PRICES
“Fx. & R.” Watches, which will be charged extra from tst November.
London Prices.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
Vice-Regal Jewellers. HUNTER ST., SYDNEY
The- amateur photographer, in fear that
the pestilence of hoardings will soon destroy all
the beauty spots of the country, is just now very
active with the camera. To aid him in his work,
Harrington and Co. Ltd., photographic mer-
chants, 66 King-st., Sydney, have arranged a
series of demonstrations for amateurs. The first
of these was well attended, Mr. J. Harrington
acting as lecturer. Those interested are invited
to attend the rest of the series.^
Tb«
Callagbai}
Boot
■
i m
-
■
a*
m
Honest Wear
In every pair.
THIS
BOOT IS
photoqraphed
FROM
STOCK.
Our Boots can be
EXCHANGED if not
correct, as we wish
DISTANT customers
to be as pleased as
those in town.
Your money RETURNED if you
are not satisfied with the
Boots.
Calf Lace, full goloshed, medium wide welts, bespoke appearance, 21/-; post paid 22/-
an \\ Ulow Calf Lace, full goloshed, fast color cyclists, perfect fitting, 22/6 ; „ ’ 23/6
All Sizes and Fittings.
Have you ordered
a pair yet t
CALLAGHAN & SON
I 395 George-st., Sydney.
Queensland’s own Yes-Noer is the doughty
MacPaterson, who represents Brisbane in the
Federal Parliament. In State politics he was noted
for making fierce speeches in the House against the
Ministry, and clearing out before a division. The
Melb. scribe who classed him as doubtful on the
tariff question knew what he was writing. Pater-
on is doubtful on every question until the cat
jumps.
M‘Lean Bros, and Rigg, the Melbourne iron-
mongery firm, have received an enthusiastic testimonial
t° tj ie efficacy of their “ Registered Key-Chain ” system.
j?" s< fuattah wrote in wonderment to thank them for
se iding along the bunch of keys which he lost in London,
siv months ago, and never hoped to set eyes on again.
Ine chain register is simple enough in theory, but the
practical working of it, as a system of lost-key recovery
bmeans of a 5s. reward, was not brought to its present
perfection at one fell swoop. Time was when M‘ Lean
and Co. merely sold the chains, without recording the
purchaser’s name and address. This led to painful results.
Here and there a dishonest purchaser would fix up a
worthless bunch of keys and claim os. reward for finding
them.
Among all the masses of loose verbiage
and vague unfixableness which Reid and importer
MMVlillan poured out at the Sydney Town Hall
meeting last Monday, the one item that is
definite enough to be identified is that Schweppes,
the soda-water people who represent a cer-
tain amount of absentee capital in Sydney, will
be compelled by the tariff to discharge 200 or 300
hands. And as they don’t employ 200 or 300
hands, or anything like that number, in this
country, this is just the usual Dry-Dog-isin.
Sydney Telegraph, in its issue of 6th
Sept;, published its idea of a tariff—a Freetrade
tariff in accord with its principles. And it
proposed to raise £7,414,000 by customs against
the Barton Government’s £7,388,000 ; and
£8,972,000 by customs and excise against the
Barton Government’s £8,942,000. It also pro-
posed a free list only half the size of the Barton
Government’s free list. But, while taking more
money from the people, that tariff had one advan-
tage tha.t, in the Freetrader’s view, amounted to
everything. It was guaranteed not to aid any
local industry whose products might damage the
importer’s business, or help anybody to obtain
wages or employment. That was the great, un-
speakable beauty which made it precious in the
eyes of the tribe of Calico James. The sinfulness
of providing anybody with work at a local in-
dustry makes Calico dames shudder every time.
Reason why Freetrade papers fight the
Barton tariff so savagely is largely a pocket one.
Sydney D.T., on its “audited circulation,” will
pay £0000 to £8000 a year on printing-paper duty.
S.M. Herald probably as much, or more; the
News a good deal less, but still Something very
substantial. The rage for big sheets has lately cut
into the profits of the Sydney dailies, ' and
with the threat over their heads of having also
to pay postage, no wonder they express a frenzy
of sorrow for the burdens of the poor under a
tariff which will force their proprietaries to
economise a little in cigars and champagne. If
they can’t kill the paper-duty—and the chances
are they can’t—the Sydney dailies will have to cut
down the size of their blankets or reduce dividends
considerably. Melbourne dailies will not pro
portionately be so much affected as they do
not give the public nearly so much waste paper
for a penny.
“ J.D.” : Heard George Reid’s great Free-
trade screech from Sydney Town Hall steps on
Monday night. Quote : “People ask what they
shall do with their boys. Well, my advice is to
treat your boy as you treat a pup : if he won’t go
into the water then churk him in! (Cheers.) And
you’ll find that, as in i!;e case of the pup, after
you’ve chucked him in two or three times,
you will hardly be able to get him out of
the water.” (More cheers.) Why doesn’t someone
correct George Reid’s unnatural history ? Surely
it needs correcting. Writer has coaxed dozens of
pups to go in the water and learn to swim, but
never yet “chucked ” one in without making the
animal afraid of water ever after—even as the
Great Dry Dog himself fears that fluid. The only
time writer remembers the “chucking-in” process
proving even a partial success was when, as a very
small boy, he tried to cast a half-grown Newfound-
land into the Murray and ‘chucked’ himself in
instead. The dog magnanimously waded in and
dragged the biped to shore by the seat of his
little wet pants. N.B.—Mr. Reid is cordially
advised not to emulate this exploit ; his dog isn’t
big enough yet.
Mentioning Barton’s name at the Sydney
Freetrade meeting on Monday, G. H. Reid
always paused for the hoots; and they always
came; it was part of the arrangements.
How the Carey jumps : Sydney “D.T.,”
reporting the big Freetrade demonstration, gives
Solemn Lee four inches in the third person, chippy
Carruthers nearly a column in the first person.
For Solemn Lee'this is the Writins' on the Wall.
On Tuesday evening last, at Sydney Ex-
change, Commander Worcester, of the P. and O.
S.S. India, read an interesting dissertation on the
possibilities of water-conservation in Australia
and of artificial rain-precipitation by concussion
combined with sudden lowering of temperature.
To this end Captain W. advocates the use of car-
bonic anhydride—liquid carbonic acid —in copper
shells containing 501b. of the acid with a bursting-
charge of “tonite,” fired by a Bickford time-fuse.
For the discharge of these shells the use of the
Zalinski pneumatic-gun is suggested ; and, in
view of the extreme Australian importance of the
matter, The Bulletin hopes this theory will soon
be put to practical test.
As to Protection increasing prices. Prior
to 8th October last, mowers, hay-rakes, and ploughs
paid 15 per cent, duty in Victoria, and windmills
25 per cent., whereas in N.S.W. all these were
duty-free. Yet compare Melbourne importers’
catalogues with those of Sydney houses. The
prices for identical implements are in many cases
exactly the same. Apparently, the Melbourne
importer and Yankee exporter pay the duty out
of their own pockets. They can’t pass it on to
the farmer because of the competition of similar
implements made in Melbourne and Ballarat
manufactories. Protection doesn’t increase prices
after the local article gets on the market, but Free-
trade increases middle-men’s profits all the time.
There was no doubt as to the success
of George Reid’s Freetrade demonstration
on Monday at Sydney Town Hall. The Hall
was packed in every sense of the word, and com-
plete arrangements had been made to secure an
altogether harmonious gathering. Freetraders
were admitted free ; others couldn’t get in at any
price, even on the production of a useful inter-
jection. The great crowd had come just to
hear G. H. Reid’s quips and jokes, and made
no pretence of concealing the fact. So soon
as the Freetrade leader had concluded, and
Solemn Lee arose to support a motion in
denunciation of the tariff, the people rushed from
the hall and left Lee to patter, and Carruthers to
chatter to empty benches. Their troubles about
the tariff : they wished to hear more jokes outside.
At the overflow meeting Reid was more successful
than inside. The big hall was too much for his
voice, and, in the effort to be heard, his humor
lost its bubble, and fell somewhat flat. In the open
air he recovered some of his true form. Whilst
Reid was fairly funny, he was quite eclipsed by
John Haynes, who delivered a slashing wigs-on-
the-green speech. Altogether the demonstration
afforded irrefutable proof that the people of Syd-
ney are determined to patronise any humorous
entertainment offered to them free.


Releasing the Upper Richmond.
THE ESTATE OF KYOGLE: A PERFECT
DAIRYING COUNTRY.
As soon as it became evident that the squatty
Kanaka and spindle-legged Hindoo could not
spread the soles of their dirty feet over the rich
lands of the Northern rivers of New South Wales,
many sugar cane growers drifted, perforcely, into
dairy-farming. The move proved to be a paying
one; others followed suit, not out of sympathy
with the White Australia enthusiasm so much as
a desire to chip into an industry where it can be
pursued to profit. Every mother’s son of us is
anxious to follow a calling that promises a mini-
mum of risk with a maximum return for energy
expended and capital invested. Dairying on the
Clarence, Richmond, and Tweed not only pro-
mised this, but fulfilled it right out. Besides
that, it is a little man’s calling and a ready-money
business ; every member of the family, except the
baby, can do a bit—he mostly sucks.
* * * *
A more thriving population doesn’t exist in the
State of New South Wales than in the far
northern rivers districts. Every second man you
meet seems to have a mission to invite you to
drink, if not whisky, then milk—never water or
cold tea. • This generous disposition wells up
from the hearts of the residents because the
farming community, upon whom the trades-
people depend, are pursuing an easy-going branch
o. the agricultural industry. These dairy farmers
THE JERSEY BULL, MAGNET’S PROGRESS III., IN THE HOMESTEAD PADDOCK.
do not gamble on a three years growth of sugar-
cane, or put all their eggs in one wheat or maize
basket, and, perhaps, see the crops go smasli
by a frost or flood ; they do what is infinitely
more reliable and sensible, namely, graze and
otherwise feed pure-bred or grade dairy cows, that
yield milk rich in butter-fat (wice a day.
« • * *
In the old cane-growing, timber-getting days,
butter was made and sent to Sydney for local
consumption. It was packed in tubs and resembled
rusty, streaky bacon, with a flavor and an aroma
that left everything to be desired. Naturally
under those conditions dairy farming did not
expand ; but as soon as the refrigeration system of
butter-making was intro-
duced, and monthly cheques
for the percentage of butter-
fat in the milk paid, then
dairying for the world mar-
ket became an accomplished
fact. The principal district
in the north to make dairy
farming one of the staple
industries of the State was
the Richmond River. First
came the land along the
river banks, next the Big
Scrub, and now the Upper
Richmond—perhaps the best
of it all. Before coming to
the greater Upper Rich-
mond country it will be as
well to note the strides in
dairying on the river and Big
Scrub during the past few
years Tn 1894 the dairy
cdws in the Rous and Rich-
mond district totalled 19,8(54
head, increasing in 1901 to
rather more than 50.000. For
-the year ending 31st March,
1894, only 1,213,705 lbs. of
butter were made, while for
this year, ending 31st March,
the output of butter totalled
<5,50(5,(515 lbs.
* * *
That development has been
made practically without
touching the magnificent
dairying country between
Casino and the Macpherson
Range. The reason simply
being because the land has
been used as big squattages. Noted brands
of horses and beef cattle have roamed the
black soil plains and chocolate ridges ; picturesque
homesteads have dotted the landscapes, if you
' view it through a high-range telescope ; and a few
aboriginals have been able to survive, through the
general conversion of things. This is all very
well from the lordly pastoral standpoint, but it i 3
not putting the best country to the best possible
use; it is not advancing Australia, except to the
crack of a stock-whip. However, the scene is
changing; one of the huge properties, hitherto
noted for its Devons, Durhams, and blood horses,
is now about to be partly transformed into homes
for white men.
* * • •
The estate that we allude to is that of Kyogle,
so named because the plains turkey (aboriginal
name for the bird) abounded on the run This
property comprises upwards of 42,000 acres, is of
basaltic origin, and carries a soil fit to grow any-
thing without manure from now to the end of the
century. It is no exaggeration to say that the
soil is equal to that of the Darling Downs,
Queensland, or the Big Scrub, while it has a better
rainfall and milder winter than the one, and no
clearing to engage in before getting a return, as in
the other. This estate starts about 14 miles from
Casino, at the north-western end of Runnymede,
and it is here that the sub division is to be made.
The Richmond River runs through it; there
are treeless, black-soil plains and open forest
ridges, lightly timbered; and the surveys have
been so made that every farm site has a river
frontage, and a portion of both plain and ridge.
The winters on Kyogle are short and mild; the
rainfall is good—averaging 44in. to 48in. per year,
spread over 200 days—and there is a general
absence of hot northerly winds in the summer.
When the pioneers went into the Upper Rich-
mond country in the early days they knew what
they were about. So, too, did Mr. C. C. Lance,
when he spied out this land for dairying. It
would be fit for Moses to lead the people of
Israel to, and they are not inclined to go any-
where that does not promise to flow with milk and
honey.
* * * *
Kyogle extends fully 14 miles along the course
of the river. As you enter the estate at the
Runnymede end you pass over Brummy’s Plain —
a pasture void of trees and weeds and thick of
grass ; the only stones that are to he found are on
the road, and they had to be carted from ——
knows where. Off the road and you are on to the
garden—the garden of the State. There is a good-
sized creek and a fine lagoon—besides the river, on
BRIDGE OVER FAWCETT’S CREEK, WITH CARTS RETURNING FROM KYOGLE CREAMERY.
Brummy’s Plain; the plain is broken here and
there by gentle ridges, lightly timbered, but no
brush. Six miles on Kyogle from Runny-
mede is situated the creamery, on the banks
of Fawcett’s Creek; overlooking the creamery
is the homestead, nestling under Fern-
mount; the hill that gave the name to the
property before it was called Kyogle.
When you are there you have a panorama of rich
country, both for fertility and natural beauty
equal to anything anywhere this side of Paradise.
Behind you is Brummy’s Plain and the river, with
its creeks and lagoon ; ahead of you is seven miles
of Kyogle Plain, with the river, creeks, and gras3 ;
while to the left are the farms and cultivation-
bespeaking the richness of the soil and the mellow-
ness of the climate. Why, in July and August,
stiff winter months in most parts of the Common-
wealth, oats for green feed were three to four feet
high ! No wonder, therefore, that Mr. R. -T.
Cullen averaged 14s. 6d. per cow of 70 head during
July, and £2 each for six-months’ pigs—sold on
his farm to Queensland buyers. Mr. Cullen was
manager of Kyogle Creamery, but he looked at
the soil, his rising family, and the advantage of
milking cows for himself in preference to separat-
ing milk for his employers, so he took on a herd of
Kyogle station-bred cows and heifers from Mr.
Smith, the former proprietor, and has been in a
good frame of mind since.
Kyogle sub-division, comprising about 8000
acres, is to be offered in lots of from 120 to 200
acres at the School of Arts, Casino, on the 28th
November next. The auctioneer is Mr. J. B.
M'Dougall, in conjunction with Messrs. Hind-
marsh and Dunn, Lismore. Mr. Dow, ex-Minister
for Agriculture, Victoria, who recently paid a
visit to the Clarence and Richmond Rivers,
writing on the estate in the Leader,
said that if a person blindfolded were
to take a map of the sub-division and stick
a pin anywhere on it, not a prick could be made
on a farm site that was not as good as
any land he had seen, and each site
equal to the other. The property, for the
time being, is worked partly for beef-cattie
grazing and dairying. As the dairy herd grows,
so, doubtless, the- pint-pot brand of Devons and
Durhams will diminish. The owners have already
imported nearly 1000 head of dairy stock, from
the Bega and other parts of the south coast
districts. The bulls are to be available for the
farmers on the estate, 24 of which are Jerseys and
two milking strain short-
horns, specially selected
by Mr. A. L. Manning,
Bega.
• * •
There is a plentiful
supply of good timber on
Kyogle for fencing and
other purposes ; a sawmill
is to be erected, so settle-
ment should not prove
very costly. Blood-wood,
tallow - wood, red - gum,
spotted-gum, and similar
woods abound; also, a
sprinkling of cedar and pine. The roads are good,
and the State Government is so appreciative of
the district for permanent settlement that a sur-
vey for the extension of the Lismore-Casino
line from Casino towards the tablelands is
ordered. At present there is one creamery at
Kyogle, but as it is at Fawcett’s Creek, between
three and six miles of the subdivision, a new one
is to be erected ; there are already three dairy
farms in full swing, and four others in course of
equipment. Two of the dairymen there are from
the South Coast, and of the four others about to
establish themselves two are from South Aus-
tralia. The great advantage of settlement is, of
course, the fact that the stock have a wave of kan-
garoo and couch grass to feed on the moment, they
arrive; no waiting to clear, burn-off, and the
grass and fodder crops to be sown and grown
before stock can be put on and got into profit.
Good plains, good ridges, good rainfall, good
river, good creeks, good timber, good roads only
need good men and good stock to make the Upper
Richmond advance Australia at electric motor-car
pace.
* * * *
The sub division provides for between 50 to 60
farms, absorbing from 7000 to 8000 acres, and is
open to inspection at any time, by anyone,
whether intending purchasers or not. Those who
wish to view the farm sites are invited to do so, as
a man is specially told-off to facilitate inspection
in every way. Really, the country is worth a
visit without a view to settlement, for it is cer-
tainly one of the most beautiful parts, not only of
New South Wales, but Australia. Those pro-
ceeding by boat should disembark at Coraki,
and proceed from thence to Casino, where
arrangements for specially taking visitors to
Kyogle have been made. A coach runs daily from
Coraki to Casino; also a daily coach plys be-
tween Lismore and Casino. The new railway from
Lismore to Casino will speedily alter that mode of
locomotion. Coaches also run daily from Tenter-
field to Casino. The sub-division is 14 miles from
Casino, and the road out gives an excellent idea
of the country. Any information concerning the
auction to be held on Thursday, November 28,
will be gladly furnished by Mr. H. W. Chambers
(secretary), the Estate of Kyogle Office, Royal
Exchange, Bridge-street, Sydney; Mr. M'Dougal,
Casino ; Messrs. Hindmarsh and Dunn, Lismore ;
or Mr. Alex. Campbell (manager), Kyogle, Upper
Richmond River district.
CATTLE GRAZING ON KYOGLE PLAIN, MACPUERSON RANGE IN THE DISTANCE, AS VIEWED FROM KYOGLE HOMESTEAD.


Banking. Public Companies, See.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.——
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
*
K
BILLS
discounted.
3XT.S.-W.
(Qont deplete QJi|. Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74 CASTLEREAGH ST. t 74
* SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager,
>—Til IS—'
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Lite Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. O. J. Kobbrts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,491,989.
Policies issued 85,372 —assuring £26,085,340.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,576,850.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —pauitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
7lie Bank of north Queensland
LI MIT HI».
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philpfe Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £706.000
Capital Paid-up ... .. £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 900 ... £350,000
Queensland Smelting (Jnmpg.
** (LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
OUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
I 5 Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, ap,ly to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
ior Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
Qeiu Zealand Insurance Qo.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL .. ■ • • • £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL'and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest Colonial Company*
J A. minnett, 81 pjtt st., Sydney.
Jl)€ TrGst€€s, €*ccGtorS,.
AND
Agsocv Conjpaov Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
£150,000 0 0
£90,000 0 0
£150,000 0 0
lAPITAL SUBSCRIBED
JAPITAL PAID-UP
tESER.VE LIABILITY
tESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) ...
unount. at Credit of Estates. Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1901 16,388,976
£BB5B 7 3
5 3
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
mith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
!. M. ’Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manage!
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
The
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED.
nA PTTAL PAID-UP .. .. •• •• ..£385,187
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS. 245,119
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 55,009
£685,306
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Kdwd. D. Day. Ass. Mngr., \V. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Ocean
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors Sydney : Sir W. M‘Millan, lion. A. W. Meeks.
Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq. Wellington : 11.
Beauchamp, Esq.
Managers : Melbourne, D. Clynk ; Adelaide, W. N.
,I‘Fvrlank ; Brisbane, K. Wilson; Perth, A. W.
'AiuiiiiiAß; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montefiore.
j J ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Established 1879.
TUB
Qnited Australian (Qutnal Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices :
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital .. £500,000
Subscribed Capital 251,260
Paid-up Capi.al 40,873
virg, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance.
AGENTS REQUIRED WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
Alfred Webster, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
THE SAVINGS BANK IN VICTORIA
I HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR percent., in sums of £lOOO to £BOOO, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria,
and £voiio to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
pavings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Sbipplng.
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Sat., Nov. 2,
Konoowarra, Tues., Nov.
Leura, Saturday, Nov. 9,
12 Noon.
5, 5 p.m.
12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tuesday, November 19, 5 p.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Gabo, Tues, Nov. 19,5 p. m., takes pas-
sengers & cargo for transhipment to
S.S. Buninyong, leaving Sat. Nov. 23
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Tyrian, Saturday, Nov. 2,12 Noon.
Gabo, Tuesday, November 5, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., Nov. 9, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian, Saturday, Nov. 2, 12 Noon.
Peregrine, Sat., Nov. 9, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GEItALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from
weekly. Passengers
booked through.
Townsville
and Carjro
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal , Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL. CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows ■
Name of Steamer.
SALAMIS
ABERDEEN
DAMASCUS
Commander.
A. H. O, Douglas
A. Robb
R. B. McKilliam
Tons
Regr.
4500
3700
3700
Leave
Sydney
at 3 p.m.
Nov. 1
NoV. 22
Dec 13
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
“‘EiSKS.SS'&.naon »M 1 avoid th, ho.t
of the Red Sea. . .
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Dalqety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY^
Huddart, parker & IJo s yu
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORI'S.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Ratea^
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
hfg
- Cl JXE V
line
A
via
San Francisco,
California.
SPLENDID NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS,
SIERRA
SONOMA **
VENTURA
Over 6000 Tons each.
8000 H.P.
Length, 425 feet,
Passengers booked through to American, Canadian and
European centres at current rates.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts., SYDNEY.
THE "ATX RED” MAIL ROUTE
TO LONDON.
THE ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
OP THE
CANADIAN-AUSTRAUAN LINE
Under contract with the Governments of New South
Wales, Queensland, and Canada, leave Sydney every
four weeks as under, for
BRISBANE, HONOLULU, VICTORIA and VANCOUVER.
UUllll'-V/Wiij, wv '
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
This is the Imperial Route Home, as well as the most at-
tractive. It avoids alike the heat of the Red Sea and the
cold of Cape Horn. The railroad journey between the
Pacific and Atlantic Oceans (Vancouver to Montreal;
occupies about 4 days, and is made
WITHOUT CHANGE OF CARRIAGES,
through the grandest scenery in the world —over the
Selkirk and Rocky Mountains, across the Prairies, and
along tlie North Shore of Lake Superior. , .
Passengers have- the choice of a number of overland
routes, enabling them to visit the principal cities of
Canada and the United States.
For Railway Maps, Guide Books, and all other informa-
tion, a PP 1 >' I^°N STEAM SH |p COMPANY 0" N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital
£2,500.000
United lQS(iraiK€ Co
(LIMITED.)
Head Office:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS
SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£.500,000.
Fire_ Insurances swSfw
ture, etc. Rents also assured.
H/Tnrmo ‘RiciVc! on Wool, Merchandise, Hulls
marine Jllbib of VesselB) Freights, Passage
Money, etc.
Rates very Row.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
The Commercial Banh intl Compuui /
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up ..
Reserve Fund ..
Reserve Liability
£1,000,000 0 0
1,010,000 0 0
1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon H F. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon! R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
E. W. Knox, Esq.
Auditors :
Hon. F. T. HuMphery, M.L.C.
E. S. Cape, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. 11. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G.; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ; Hon. H S
Littleton Manager, Nathaniel Cork
,nches throughout the Colony of New South Wales*
n Queensland.
incies throughout the world.
TIME TA.BLB,
THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
ARRIVE
STEAMERS LEAVE
nxr. id. l.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin screw.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
REGULAR SERVICE to SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. DRESDEN, 4527 Tons,
LEAVING SYDNEY, 14th NOVEMBER NEXT.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities - Maximum Speed,
Safet.v and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents. _ , ~
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
Publications.
NOW READY at Turner & Henderson, SYDNEY.
Toilet & Troubles of the Skin & Hair
by Dr. ALFRED NEALE ; new edition, post Is Id.
TRICHOLOGY, a Study of the Hair, post 7d.
THE BALLET GIRL
hfg
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send stamp for Illustrated, Lists of Books and Novelties.
Madame Panza,—
913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
FOREIGN STAMPS.
Tsm 32
fi
/'HIEAP SETS. —40 Japan, Is 6d ;
47 Spain, 2s ; 10 Bulgaria, tid ;
16 Heligoland, Is : 8 Egypt, 6d ; 30
French, 9d ; 12 Indian Telegraghs,
6d ; 9 Labuan Pictorial, 2s 6d; 11
Canada, 6d; 9 Canada Duty, 6d; 5
Bolivia,ld. Packetsso, 15;100,256d.
Stamps Purchased. New Catalogue
of Stamps, Albums, etc., Gratis.
CHARLES DONNE, 346 Little Coliins-st., Melbourne.
>|j JUUnSCe/f
TTlclbournc '
Jh« best House for
musk. Pianos.Vtotins and :
aUTTlusfcal sundries
Collins St..
T\EAR SIR,—I have been cured of Weakness ami f'e
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, anil will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBERT
E. PARKHURST, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Shipping.
fHEADETAIDE STEAMSHIP CO
(LIMIT 101 >).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT I’IRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports J
S.S. Cintra, Friday*
November 1.
S.S. Allin-ra, Friday,
November 1.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNS VIBLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Adelaide
(Captain D. P. Davies),
Saturday, November 2.
Jiest and Cheapest Ito ate to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. ami Howard Smith Co.,
Ld. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THU POPULAR PASSENGER UNIS.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOYVN MAIL LINE Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Maokay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL POUTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON-Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURICETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Norrnanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passeuf/er A ceoniinodution, A ttenda nee and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. 11. Smith an 1 Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and YV. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO. Ltd., Agents, In Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
D AND O. COMPANY’S
■■ ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Bi imFsi), have Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission lo call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
» Leaving two days earlier oil account of Melbourne Races.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £33 IDs. to 177
Ditto Ditto Return, 17110 s "to £l2l
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific, and
Messageries Maritimes Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with tha
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE. FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and POUT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS* (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
“E. AND A.” LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
, -n<—mu— m&nmm w. - j hiwlum 1 "*«■ —*>v-
|li‘|ligraith,|l|‘Eacl)arn&j2o.
PROP. LTD.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS
KALGOOELIE, 4500 TONS,
COOLQARDIE, 3500 TONS.
SA l L l(> ItTNI GHTL Y I etween
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
West Australian Ports.
Passenger Accom modat ion Unsurpassed. Liberal Cuisine.
M‘ILWRAITH, MEACHARN AND CO.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany and Fremantle
fydney Agents—BUß.yS, PHILP & CO. Ltd.
GENTS.^
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.—L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
A POLICY FOR THE
Now Ready.
Price <id. ;
Posted, Bd.
commonwcalth


A number of Foreign-traders who engi-
neered stubborn opposition to woman franchise
sought, last week, to ring up Sydney women to pro-
test against the Barton tariff. Miss Rose Scott in
r ®ply : —“Let women concentrate all their avail-
able funds, energy and influence towards one
main object—their right to elect the men who
make tariffs.”
amusements.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
w Lessee and Director .. .. Mr. H. HALLA.U.
General Manager .. .. A. MIDDLETON.
Unparalleled Success of the
JOSEPHINE STANTON AMERICAN COMIC OPERA
AND MUSICAL COMEDY 00.
Every Evening at 8 o’clock,
s -A. X D P A. S XX a.
Day Performances Every Wednesday and Saturday at 2.30.
Ladies and Children Half-Price to Matinees.
PRICES—4s.. 2s. 6d., and Is.
LJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ ■ Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
THE WILSON BARRETT'SEASON.
UNDOUBTED SUCCESS of Wilson Barrett’s Latest
and Greatest Play, entitled,
THE CHRISTIAN KING;
Or, ALFRED OF ENGLE-LAND.
Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. ;
Family Circle, 25.; Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
THEATRE ROY AL, SYDN E Y.
■ Under the Direction of Mr. Charles Holloway.
SATURDAY, NOV. 2, and for Five Following Nights,
Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S
COTERIE of POPULAR PLAYERS in a Grand Revival of
THE FRENCH SP/.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is. Early Doors 6d. extra. Plan
at Elvy’s.
Em pi r e theatre, Sydney.
33rd WEEK ! STILL BOOMING.
JOHN FULLER’S VAUDEVILLE COMPANY.
Immense Success of the One-Act Drama,
NED KELLY, OUTLAW.
THURSDAY NIGHT, Benefit Tendered by Messrs. J.
Fuller and Sons to Mr. WILL STEVENS, the Sad-Eyed
Shriek. Mammoth Programme, including Comic Singing
Competition for Non-Professionals ; Prize, Sifver Watch.
Prices—2s., Is., 6d. Doors Open, 7.15.
Y CE UM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. William Andbrson.
MAGNIFICENT SUCCESS
achieved by
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION
in the New Sensational, Up-to-Date Melodrama,
THE “10.30" DOWN EXPRESS.
PRICES—3s, 2s and ONE SHILLING. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
pRIOR TO HER DEPARTURE TO EUROPE.
ALICE HOLLANDER.
ALICE HOLLANDER.
(AUSTRALIA’S GREAT CONTRALTO.)
Town Hall, Saturday, Nov. 16.
Plan at Paling’s. 45., 25., Is. J. EDWARD SYKES.
T l '' 0 *- 1 THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor .. .. Mr. Harrv Rickards.
THE CRMT.S, the BMost Marvellous Acrobats in the World.
WILL WHITBURN, Australia’s own Comedian.
PROFESSOR DE WYNNE. JOHN COLEMAN.
JAMES BAIN. IDA MAY.
NEVA CARR GLYNN. JESSIE WILLIAMS.
CLAUD SULLIVAN. HOWARD CHAMBERS.
ERNEST SULLIVAty. - DORA TAYLOR.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Saturdays & Wednesdays.
DIJOU THEAT R E, MELBOURNE.
Lessee .. .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Sub-Lessee .. .. Mr. William F. Hawtrey.
TENTH WEEK of
THE HAWTREY COMEDY CO.
sth WEEK of the Funniest of Farcical Comedies,
TOM, DICK, and HARRY,
Preceded by “ A HIGHLAND LEGACY.”
PRICES —55., 35., 2s. and Is. Plan at Allan’s.
Rl CK ARDS’ NEW OPERA HOU3 e 7
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager. Mr. (Tarry Rickards.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY
COMPANY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, THE TYLER FAMILY,
in their Unique and Unequalled Risiey Act.
FRED. BLUETT, Comic Vocalist and Eccentric Dancer.
Re-appearance of FRANK LEON, England’s Greatest
Character Comedian and Champion Dancer of the World.
And Miss LIZZIE KIRK, the Fascinating Young English
Serio and Comedienne, and all Our Great Co.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING,
First Time in Australasia, the New Modern Melodrama,
HEARTS ARE TRUMPS.
Popular Prices, 33., 2s. 6d., 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Box
Plan at Allan’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
PRINCESS’S TH EATRE, M ELBOU3N E.
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
Under the Direction of .. .. Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative Mr. Allan Hamilton.
EVERY EVENING,
THE BROUGH COMEDY COMPANY.
First Production in Melbourne of
LADY HUNTWORTH'S EXPERIMENT.
An Original Comedy in 3 Acts by R. C. Carton.
PRICES : Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, ss. ; Stalls,
3s. ; Amphitheatre, Is. (Early Door Amphitheatre, Is.
extra.) Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzie’s, and The Grand.
Her majesty’s theatre, melbourne.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager. Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas.. Mr. E. J. Tait.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S FAMOUS ROYAL COMIC
OPERA CO.
FRIDAY, NOY. 1, LAST NIGHT of THE CONDOLIERS.
The Cup Attraction will be Australia’s Record Success,
FLORODO (Ft A.
For Six Nights, Commencing SATURDAY, NOV. 2.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, ss; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
FITZGERALD BROTHERS’
CIRCUS <3c MENAGERIE.
MELBOURNE SEASON—I9OI.
ENTHUSIASTIC APPLAUSE !
ENTHUSIASTIC APPLAUSE i
ST. KILDA ROAD, ST. KILDA ROAD,
In a Special Building Erected under the Superintendence
of Mr. DAN FITZGERALD.
THE GREAT JUMPING HORSE,
NEWHAVEN,
Winner of the High Jumping Prize at Bendigo Show,
with the Record Jump of 6ft. 9in.
Will Jump Over 6ft. Every Evening in the Ring.
HAL QEORQE.
FRANK JONES.
Reps.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It dri\es away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
In Queensland Parliament :
Mr. L Esin a : Did you charge me in that speech last
night ?
Mr. J. Hamilton : I did.
Mr. I.esina : You did not.
Mr. J. Hamilton : I did.
Mr. I.esina : Do you charge me now ?
Mr. J. Hamilton : Yes, I do.
Mr. Lesina : Then you are an infamous and deliberate
liar.
______ Publications.
THE SUCCESS OF THE SEASON.
The Commonwealth Annual.
PURELY AUSTRALIAN. TRUE TO OUR
NATIONAL LIFE.
JR ItICIS, Is . Post Free 2d. extra ; Queensland, Ud.
ft
ft
What THE PRESS Says.
Sydney Morning Herald.
“We have no hesitation in
saying that the production
is not only a credit to Mr.
Rowlandson, the publisher,
or to the writers whose aid
he has enlisted, but that it
is an achievement in illus-
trated periodical literature
which would do
credit in every way
to a much older and
larger community
than ours. In fine,
The Commonwealth
Annual is heartily
to be commended,
not only because it
is Australian, but
because it shows
good work all
through.”
Sydney Daily Tele-
graph.
“ The Common-
wealth is the best
shilling’s worth of
its kind that has yet
been offered to the
Australian public.”
Bulletin.
The Common-
wealth is a creditable attempt to win popular favor, many
well-known Australian writers and draughtsmen are
represented; the process engraving is noticeably good,
and, taken all round, The Commonwealth is a splendid
shillingsworth.”
Sydney Mail.
“ The best shilling’s worth in the way of magazine or
annual yet produced in Australia, comparing favorably
with the efforts of American and English publishers. The
result is in every sense a credit to all concerned, and the
enterprising promoter will have general good wishes as to
the success he has boldly bidden for, and in seeking which
he has evidently spared neither labor nor expense.”
Town and Country Journal.
“ Our people want educating up to their magazine, and
Mr. Rowlandson has wisely determined to make a reputa-
tion with his wonderful shilling’s worth of stories and
pictures before venturing into the deep waters that have
hitherto beset the monthly. It has been shown in The
Commonwealth Annual how possible it is to produce a
local article that, while equal to the imported one in every
respect of literary work, of letterpress and illustrations,
is at the same time double the size. It is hoped that, in
this case, The Commonwealth will be bought to read and
keep as well as to be posted abroad.”
Freeman’s Journal.
“ We regard The Commonwealth as far and away the
finest illustrated magazine every presented to the Aus-
tralian public. In every way it is racy of the soil —as in
art, literature and mechanical get-up it is worthy.”
Evening News.
“ Far and away the best publication of its kind as yet
been published in Australia. Essentially and truly Aus-
tralian, and is a thoroughly creditable Australian pro-
duction in every respect.”
The Age (Melbourne).
“ The idea which has promoted the issue of this hand-
somely got-up, excellently printed, and literary meri-
torious publication by the N.S.W. Bookstall Co., is a
praiseworthy one. The selection of sketches, stories,
verses, and essays, is sufficiently varied to attract all
classes of readers.”
The Argus (Melbourne).
“ The N S.W. Bookstall Co. now publish an illustrated
annual, The Commonwealth, which makes a bold bid for
support. The verses of Roderic Quinn and Arthur H.
Adams are all of superior merit. Only praise can be
accorded to the many reproductions of the fine pictures
of the Sydney Art Gallery.”
And Hundreds of Others, all Highly Praising.
N.S.W, BOOKSTALL CO.
861 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
° T “ I niiioEioion.
For circulation among adults only.
Post free to any address, Is. 6d., from the author
C. P. W. LONGDILL,
Land Agent, Gisborne, Poverty Bay, New Zealand.
SSW The above book contains an idea that will revolu-
tionise our social life. Worthy of consideration from
every denomination under the s in.
Agents wanted throughout the world.
Missing Friends.
WALTER AYLWARD.
■yyOULD WALTER AYLWARD, formerly
OP
CARRICK ON SUIR,
COUNTY TIPPERARY, IRELAND,
and subsequently of Melbourne, but late of
Teetulpa Goldfield, South Australia, or any
person knowing his whereabouts, kindly com-
municate with the undersigned, who have good
news for him from his sister.
GAVAN DUFFY & KING,
SOLICITORS,
69 CHANCERY-LANE, MELBOURNE,
VICTORIA.
It/T ARY ANN and BELLE WALKER, from Lurgan,
County Armagh, Ireland, who either went to Syd-
ney or Melbourne. Please send address, or anyone know-
ing whereabouts communicate with
W. F. WALKER,
462 Wait 181 St., Ns w York City, N. Y., U.B.A,
Mr. John Tomlinson, wiring to The
Bulletin from the Miners’ Arms Hotel, White
Cliffs, N.S.W., says that “paragraphs that Tom-
linson (the young man convicted of the recent local
coach-robbery) was a Deadwood Dick reader are
false and unfair.”
Wanted.
WANTED, for the Christmas Number of
“THE TRAVELLER” (the journal of the
Commercial Travellers’ Association of Victoria),
an ORIGINAL AUSTRALIAN STORY, about
4000 to 5000 words. Accepted Story to be the
sole property of The Traveller, and guaranteed
not to have been previously published. Will pay
up to Five Guineas. Send MS. to Editor,
Traveller, 190 Flinders-street, Melbourne. If
return of MS. is desired, stamps should be sent
accordingly.
Medical
The Euorasy Company’s Book
. . ON . .
DRUNKENNESS.
The Eucrasy Company, of Sydney, extracts from whose
hook on the disease of drunkenness have been published
by this paper from time to time, have lately issued the
third edition of their pamphlet, explaining the action of
Eucrasy, and pointing out their method of curing those
addicted to the liquor habit.
The Eucrasy cure is one of the oldest, having been
before the public since 1882, at which time sanatoriums
were in successful operation in many cities in America,
and the succees of their remedy is shown by hundreds of
grateful patients all over the world.
A well-known merchant, residing at Newcastle, says
“ I have much pleasure in testifying to the excellent
qualities of Eucrasy. I felt even after the first dose a
different person, and may say now that lam cured. The
craving has entirely gone, and I can with full confidence
recommend it to anyone, no matter what hold the liquor
habit may have of them.
“Thanking you sincerely for your kindness, I am,
yours faithfully,
Any reader of The Bulletin can obtain this book free
by addressing THE EUCRASY CO., 62 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
the ttbw
EDISON TALKING MACHINES.
h
The Bijou Phonograph
With Complete Outfit, including 6
Assorted Records, £2.
The Standard Phonograph
With Complete Outfit, including-24
(2 dozen) Assorted Re-
cords, 2 Blanks, £5 108.
Undoubtedly the Best
Value ever offered.
Extra Edison Records,
20s. per dozen ; 12s. per
half-dozen. Concert (5|
inch) Records, 6s. each,
60s. dozen.
Send for Catalogues con-
taining 3000 selections.
BE EVPS A. CO , ADELAIDE an' mill
ARE YOU WEAK,
Low-spirited, Tir. d of Life ?
Have You utterly failed in Your efforts
to regain health ?
THE LANGSTON REGENERATOR WILL CURE YOU.
Its effects are almost instantaneous, and the good
effects go on increasing from day to day.
ARE YOU A SUFFERER from bad health in any of
its many forms ? Do you feel nervous, fretful, timid,
and lack the power of will and action ? Are you sub-
ject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless,
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy ? Are your
kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a dis-
ordered condition ? Do you feel generally debilitated?
Do you suffer from Rheumatism, Neuralgia, or other
aches or pains ?
- -■ A
Write to-day for the Doctor's Calendar ; beauti
fully illustrated, and of vital interest to all.
Seek the Truth, it Costs Nothing:.
No matter what you are suffering from, the
REGENERATOR restores the shattered consti-
tution like magic.
address :
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
Cor. RUSSELL and COLLINS STS., MELB.
THE HEALTHIEST
TOBACCO.
In
three
Strengths.
S
✓5
e#
m
Cj
“ABSOLUTELY
PURE.”
Mild
Medium &
Full.
ff V
a
Name of Dearest Agent post free from M. RUTTY & Co. Sydney.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR.
A great proportion of all Australians have Catarrh in either the first stage or
chronic form. Probably 20 per cent, of all the people we meet have but one good
nostril—the other is clogged*with catarrhal deposits, or by some weakness whose
parent was a neglected cold. This forces them, perhaps unconsciously, to breathe
through the mouth, and, unless attended to, will result in a life-long annoyance
and serious trouble. Horae treatment with our Medicator will restore the organ
to its natural condition, and enable it to perform its functions properly and
healthfully. It relieves and cures Catarrh, Hay Fever, Cold in the Head, and all
Nasal inflammations. It soothes, cleanses, heals; contains no injurious drugs.
Pamphlets Free on request—a postcard will do.
Medicator, with Complete Treatment, post free, 10/-
kSN HOME CATARRH CURE CO.,
229-231 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
9
Medicatok.
• '' r %
£ ■
R
/v
II
Registered
by the
Medical
Board
of N.S.W.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON.
HAVING had 30 years experience in all parts of the
world, and also having lately made an extended trip
through Europe and America, he is in a position to
treat every case submitted to him according to the
methods of the most recent and eminent Specialists.
Every Case treated on its own Merits,
Sufferers at a distance, unable to describe their cases to
their own satisfaction, should write for Dr. Watson’s
“ Guide to Diagnosis A,”
whioh will enable them to give exact and full particulars, so as
to enable him to report fully a 3 to the disease and its radical
and rational method of treatment.
Consultation Free or by Letter).
The publication of crowds of symptoms, testimonials and
puffs of one’s skill and attainments savours too much of self-
praise; so the public should look with a doubtful eye upon all
those who “doth protest too much.”
Dr. Watson doos not pretend to say that “ One Pound is
sufficient to send," as stated in certain advertisements, for he
considers that the public are quite satisfied to pay a fair price
for fair and legitimate treatment.
R
a
137 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
Pimm mention this Paper when writing
.V.VV.Yi
m
IWIW
Vi


ADVANCE
AUSTRALIA I
is the Battle-cry, and the
Pass-word is
SEIGEIS
which braces up the nerves, clears
the brain, strengthens the body
and ensures a perfect assimilation
of food. Miss Mutrie, Kensington
Park, Adelaide, S.A., writes, “ I
had been given up as doomed
through Indigestion when I
first began taking Seigel’s
Syrup, but the Syrup
completely cured me.
sth
fgh
Rider agents wanted
throughout Australia,
, one in each town to ride and
exhibit 1902 Model Cycle.
Finest Grades, £2 6s to £4
10s, carriage paid.
’OO & ’Ol Models £1 6s to £2los.
Great Factory Clearing Sale at
HALF FACTORY COST.
Every
We
proposition for good Rider Agents.
'Write at once for our bargain
list and Special Offer using
2}£d stamp or id postcard.
. ADDRESS DEPT. 152-C
'Maud Cycle Co., Chicago, U.S.A.
Machine fully guaranteed
have a wonderfully liberal
Concerning an old familiar figure of
George-street, Sydney:—
“ Mother Fivebob ”is dead. She used to sit near the
Royal Hotel selling matches, and her cry in a thin, high-
pitched voice: “Two boxes a penny ’ere—a penny a
box!” was well known. A cheery old party, with an
affable “ Good day, me son 1” to anyone addressing her,
she had violent prejudices on some points, and any
derogatory remarks as to Mother Church were resented
fiercely. St. Patrick’s Day was her great festival, when,
doffing the familiar hood and apron, she came out
resplendent in green silk from top to toe. She left a
neat little sum behind, which goes to the church of which
she was such a fervid adherent
Editor Bulletin.—London Daily Mail
quotes you as saying that General Elliott, who
defended Gibraltar against the French and
Spanish, “ was, by a queer chance, the best de-
fensive engineer in Europe.” But, considering
that Elliot was originally an artillery officer,
educated at the R.M.A., Woolwich, there was no
chance about the matter. Generals Lawrence and
Wilson, who respectively defended Lucknow and
Delhi, had also been artillery officers —as well as
Lord Roberts —to say nothing of one Napoleon
Buonaparte. True, in the British Army an
artillery officer rarely gets the chance of an im-
portant command, but, when he does, he generally
comes out on top. —Palman, Q.M.F.
BRAUN ORE SAMPLE-CRUSHER
and PULVERISER.
gfh
Combination of a Jaw and Roll
Pulveriser working together.
May be operated by either hand or power.
Jaws, 3£ in. wide; Roll, 6 in. diameter; Belt
Wheel, 16 x in. Total Weight, 2851b5.
Write for Particulars to—
PARKE & LACY CO., Ltd.
60 Glarence-St., Sydney, n.s.w.
MINING- ENGINEERS & MACHINERY
MERCHANTS.
JLllenburxjs Foods.
PROGRESSIVE DIETARY, unique in providing nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers of YOUNG INFANTS from
birth upwards, and free from dangerous germs*
The “ AHenburys”
The “ AHenburys ”
The “ AHenburys”
Milk Food No. i
Specially adapted to the first three months of life.
Milk Food No. 2
Similarly adapted to the second three months of Hie.
Malted Food No. 3
For Infants over six months of age.
Complete Poods,
STERILIZED, and
needing the addition of
hot water only.
To be prepared for use by the
addition of COW’S MILK,
according to directions given.
No. 3 Food is strongly recommended for Convalescents. Invalids, the Aged, and all requiring a light and easily digested diet.
The London Medical Record writes of it that— “No Better Food Exists.”
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING Free on application to the Wholesale Depot, 484, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.
FOLDING
Kodaks slip easily
into the . .
■ ■
POCKET
Loaded & Unloaded in Daylight.
Prices - CTs*. to SL 3 lOs
KODAKS
NO DARK ROOM WORRIES,
Send for Price List and mention this paper.
KODAK Ltd., 284 Collins St., Melbourne.
fg
S.D. & Co.’s Lady’s 10-ct. Gold Keyless
WALTHAM LEVER WATCH, with best-
finished f-plate movement, patent safety
barrel, expansion balance, jewelled,
strong Solid Gold Engraved Hunting
Cases, perfect Keyless Action, sunk
seconds, and enamelled dial, £6 10s. In
14-ct. cases, with movements as above,
£9 10s. In 18-ct. cases, with finest
quality movement made, £l4 10s. In
Silver Hunting Cases, £3 ss. Open Face,
£3. All above have specially-made heavy
cases.
i
S.D. & Co.’s “ EXCELSIOR ” KEYLESS ENGLISH
LEVER is unsurpassed by any watch. It is compact,
convenient, and reliable, dust and damp-proof, has
best J-plate movement, fully jewelled in rubies ; real
Chronometer balance, heavy, Hall-marked Silver
Cases, each guaranteed for 5 years, £6 10s ; in heavy
18-ct. Gold Cases, £22 ; Open Face, £lB 10s ; also
made Keywind Hunting, in Massive Silver Cases, at
£5. Strongly recommended. Silver Keyless Hunting
Rotherham English Levers, £6 10s. Keywind
Hunting Rotherham English Levers, best quality,
£4 10S.
GOOD WATCHES.
Every one of us is a slave to the Watch. That being so, why should we be ruled by an incompetent
master ? If you want a good Watch at a Reasonable price, we can recommend all those we describe
here. You will find that our prices have not been advanced on account of the Tariff,
ninety-nine shopkeepers in a hundred are charging higher prices now. Come in and see our Enormous
Stock of Watches, all of which you can have at the old Prices.
/
mmmiiM.
mm
%
mrnm
S.D. & Co.’s “ECLIPSE” WATCHES have finest
quality f-plate, full-capped dust-proof movements,
jewelled in 8 holes. Extra heavy Sterling Silver
Cases, and are perfect timekeepers. The best watches
at the price ever sold. In Hunting Cases, £2 ; Crys-
tal Front, £1 10s. Ladies’ sizes, with Elegantly
Engraved Cases, Open Face, £llos ; Hunting, £, 2.
hfg
S.D. & Co.’s Ladv’s Magnificent 18-ct. Gold
Keyless “ NONPAREIL” WATCHES are truly
a speciality among specialities, much recom-
mended to ladies who desire a unique, compact,
and elegant, inexpensive Gold Watch. The
entire watch is most exquisitely finished, fine
full-jewelled movement, 18-ct. Gold, Strong
Cases, Perfect Keyless Action, convenient and
reliable. Hunting Cases, £7 10s. Open Face,
£6 10s. Warranted for 3 years.
%
/
This shows our Gentleman’s size Solid Silver Hunt-
ing Case WALTHAM LEVEE WATCH, f-plate, 11
jewel movement, Brequet sprung, compensation
balance, £3 108. ; in 10-ct. Gold Hunting Cases,
g, 9 108. ; in 14-ct Gold, £,12 10s.
EACH WATCH OAEEIES OUE GUAEANTEE.
hgf
This is a Lady’s 14-ct. Gold Filled WAL-
THAM LEVER WATCH, made for us by the
Waltham Coy. The movement is a Jewelled
f-plate one, and the Hunting Case is guaran-
teed to wear for 25 years, surely a reason-
able time for such a low price— viz. , £4.
Gentleman’s size, £,5 10s.
ƒ
412 GEORGE 6T 5Y Dnf T
h
S.D. & Co.’s 18-ct. GOLD KEYLESS
“ PRINCESS ” WATCH has finely-fin-
ished Jewelled movement, strong solid
18-ct. gold Engraved Cases, Perfect Key-
less Action, £5 10s. Half-Hunting, £6.
Open Face, £4 10s. Also in Silver Half-
Hunting or Full-Hunting Cases. £2 10s.
Open Face, £2. Warranted for 2 years.
RT DAWSON
LIVERPOOL
S.D. & Co.’s English Hunting Lever Watches con-
tain special patented improvements ensuring dura-
bility, timekeeping, and freedom from accident in
wear. The movements are full-capped, dust-proof,
jewelled in rubies, and the cases are strong sterling
Silver, hall-marked, £3 10s., warranted for 3 years.
Special quality, with chronometer expansion balance,
and 3 pairs extra jewels, £4 10s.
All Watches sent Free and Safe
by Registered Post on receipt of
Remittance,


WOOL. PRODUCE. GRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
• A - C: * 3 -" A.S SBLLI3V Gr BROKERS ONLY.
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (f) PER CENT.
■WAREHOUSING
'(lncluding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
- will be
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb :
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
, under
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing. Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT.
Every inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by the Company.
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent when
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
Mitchell’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills, Buncle and Sons’ Chaifcutters.
Donald’s Patent Woolpress.
AGENTS FOR McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
STRENGTH
FOR
THE
WEAK.
Dr. JAMES WILSON writes: “I have thoroughly examined and tested Hale’s
new Patent Electric Belt, and I am satisfield that not only is it a genuine article, but
It generates an electric current capable of overcoming the resistance of the body. I
consider it a valuable agent, especially for ladies and gentlemen of tender skin, as no
metal substances come in contact with the body, and I am only too pleased to recom-
mend a genuine electric appliance.”
“ I)r. FOWLER presents his compliments to Messrs. Arthur Hale and Son, and
has much pleasure in stating that he has carefully examined their new improved
Electric Belt, and finds that it is perfectly genuine as to electric properties.”
Dr. DEWAR writes : “ I have examined Hale’s new Electric Belt, and find that
It is capable of generating a powerful electric current, although no metal substances
come in contact with the skin. I consider this a great improvement, as it prevents
the irritation so often caused by other appliances.”
PERCY NEWELL, L.R.0.5., L.R.C.P., writes: “There is no doubt about the
Electricity, as my patients constantly feel the current.”
“THE MEDICAL MONTHLY,” August, 1893, says : “The firm of Arthur Hale
and Son, of 105 Regent Street, London, W., has distinguisned itself in the develop-
ment of electrical science as a medical agent. By an entirely new method of applica-
t on they have succeeded in producing an Electric Body Belt, which for comfort,
e.ficacy, and genuineness, is unquestionably far superior to any previous invention.”
'a?
y
m
Hale & Son's Improved and Patented Electro-Galvanic Belts and Appliances are
Nature's Chief Restorers. Our Plain Belt, our Special Belt and Suspensor for Gentlemen,
and our Abdominal Belt for ladies are guaranteed to be the most Scientific and Genuine
Electric Appliances yet produced. They will speedily relieve and Cure Nervous Exhaus-
tion, Rheumatism, Pain and Weakness in the Back, impart tone and vigor to the whole nervous
system, and make life a pleasure. We invite all sufferers, no matter what the disease or ailment may be,
to call or send for our Free Book, entitled, “ Modern Treatment of Disease by Electricity.”
Consultation Free.
———«=»o«=
HALE & BON, Medical Galvanists,
105 Regent St., London, W., and 44 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
Please mention this paper.
ERASMSC
- PERFUME
Is delightfully fragrant and pleasant to use.
A DAINTY, DELICIOUS DELICACY.
. . . ASK YOUR CHEMIST FOR IT . . .
FALIERE’S PHOSPNATINE
Sl>- PHOSPMATitfEgCjQ
r?fL~ fauere
tazr
The Only
Food
containing
Phosphate
of Lime .
For INFANTS and
INVALIDS.
AN ESSENTIAL REQUISITE IN THIS COUNTRY.
LIFE HAS
A RELISH
SAUw
When our meals are
seasoned with
SA t/CE
TZEIIEj
FREEMAN & WALLACE
This is the only Medical
Institute in Australia with
a bona fide capital that
stands behind guarantees
as evidence of faithful per-
formance of ail contracts.
Electro-Medical apd
Surgical IpStittite—
lIM AN AGE which is so remarkable for its progress in all departments of Art, Philosophy, Manufacture and
IN AIM AGt. ™ surprising to find the practice of Medicine so deplorably in the rear, while thousands
of practitioners in the healing art prefer to remain in the conventional groove of their predecessors. The Freeman
an§ Wallace Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute consulting staff rise superior to the alse code of ethics which
tyrannically bind the medical profession, and announce to the public that upon all special complaints they still con-
tfnue to by the afflicted at their old address, Co/'. Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
Til 7 , '' ‘T , PPi
AJ'f.
* •
.
Ufa I
EXPERTS FREEMAN AND WALLACE ,
The Specialists who conduct the largest practice in Australasia.
oncrui UnTIPC No one should hesitate to consult .us, as consultations either by >otter or ln
OrElrlAL NU I 11/E. person are given FREE OF CHARGE, and Strictest Privacy is always assured.
OUR COMMONWEALTH POCKET DIARY.
Everv Fanner, Miner, Mariner, Station-hand, Book-keeper, and other Toilers should send for a copy of this
Useful Memorandum Book. POST FREE ON APPLICATION—ALL COLONIES.
400-PAGE MEDICAL WORK (Illustrated, containing 80 Engravings, Many Useful Prescriptions,
Hints on Sick Room, Accidents and Emergency) Price 6d (POST FREE) ON APPLICATION.
Heart, Kidney, Liver Affections,
Nerve and Brain Complications.
Gravel, Bladder and Spinal Affections.
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Epilepsy, Gout.
Rupture and Piles Cured without Operation.
Blood and Skin Diseases.
HEAtm »
L ' r ' '*
frfj|
. weo1 cM- »“ ‘WW-iiEticm;
c. ,
luE 1
iTiiffMWli «***'' SSSiI
r * it®
■ ■
«S£*..„ ' c.k
:« SUBCECAL INSTITUTE. VICOIi «»«i I>s rf,y
ppppS " "" ■
»F
SytaeaiaftSi
g»£
-# ft wars
K
':
S«
MU
H l m
fia
WHY WE ADVERTISE!
Because Advertising is the legitimate means vouchsafed to enlighten people,
to acquaint each other with their avocations and wants. If a man has a
Speciality, and has devoted years of his life and expended large sums of money in studying that Speciality and in
purchasing the necessary appliances, etc., for treating certain diseases, it would be absurd for him not to announce
the fact, and disseminate the knowledge universally, We have no apology to offer for informing the world through
this advertisement and otherwise of the means of relief we can afford to sufferers who need our help. Therefore,
however opposed to your own preconceived ideas and to those of your medical advisers, our method of treatment
may be, the fact still remains that it is successful, and this is verified by the thousands of testimonials received from
grateful patients. We make no secret of our mode of practice. We only claim to have utilised in a common-sense
way the result of scientific research and long experience. If you listen to the counsel of your sceptical friends and
jealous physician you may omit consulting us, but remember if you allow the disease to run riot in your system, you
are guilty of culpable neglect, and are alone responsible for your future pitiful condition.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration by Government
Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, Great Britain
and America Open to Inspection by Dr. Wallace, our Physician-in-Chief.
Late Consulting: Staff, Homcepathic Hospital, Melbourne.
Late Medical Staff, British Army.
HOME TREATMENT,
-If you live out of town and cannot visit us, this need not deprive
you of the benefits of our wonderful treatment, because in the new
system of combining medicine and electricity a complete Electro-Medical home treatment is provided for. Scarcely a
day passes that the news does not reach us of some wonderful home cure of a person living so far away that a per-
sonal visit could not be made. Write a plain statement of your condition, explaining your feelings and symptoms as
clearly as possible, and from it we will be able to accurately diagnose your case. It only costs you the trouble of
writing, and twopence postage to get the opinion and advice of Australia’s Leading Specialists.
DO NOT BE DRUGGED TO DEATH BY QUACKS
When there are so many quacks and impudent pretenders in the field of Medicine, who arrogate to themselves
the monstrosity of giving counsel and advice in matters of which they are profoundly ignorant, and who have
nothing to recommend them but their audacity, sufferers cannot be too careful whom they consult. Although
liberty of choice belongs to all, discrimination is necessary. In consulting THE FREEMAN AND WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL AND SURGICAL INSTITUTE patients may feel assured that they shall receive the advice
of those fitted by superior skill and education, the result of special study. Our reputation and unparalleled
success as Specialists entitle us to your confidence.
Medicines forwarded to all parts of the WorId—CONTENTS
FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
°X Elizabeth $ BatbGrStSts, Sydoey
For privaoy Patients may address “ Messrs. F. & W.,” 225 and 227 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
N.B.—QUEENSLANDWRB are hereby Informed that a person advertising as Dr. Wallace
in Brisbane ie in no way connected with the Institute.


Forty Years in Queensland.
'
Everybody Knows, and Everybody will Believe
MR. JACOB PEAREN’S NARRATIVE.
(A reporter’s special visit.)
Hushed in silence so delightfully soothing
to the city business man, the charming sur-
roundings of Humpybong a sea side
pleasure resort near Brisbane seems to
possess every fascination to beguile the
senses of the visitor. It was at VN oody
Point that a reporter halted at the gate
which led to a house called Bay View, and
on looking into the garden he espied- a
robust old gentleman, with sunburnt face
and brown muscular arms, busily engaged
in digging.
“Are you Mr. Pearen?” asked the
scribe, with an inward feeling that he could
not possibly be the man whom he sought.
“ Yes; Jacob Pearen is my name. I
thought everybody around Brisbane knew
me, for I have been living in this btate
close on forty years. In Gyrnpie, too, I am
well known, having gone there with the
great gold rush in ’67- lam doing a bit of
gardening, you see, and I am very thankful I
am able to do it. About this time three
years ago I was lying in a helpless condition
with a plaster on my back.”
“ So I believe, and I hear that your suffer-
ings extended over a long period.”
You are quite right. I was working in
the garden one day, apparently in good
hea tli, when I was suddenly seized with a
terrible pain in the small of my back, which
almost paralysed me. When I had partly
recovered from the first shock I took the
garden rake and put it under my arm to
help myself indoors. It took me all my
time to reach the house, and when I did get
there I did not stir out agaiu for several
days I had medicines and lotions from a
chemist, but the pain did not ease off at all.
I became so ill that I had to go to Brisbane,
where I was laid up for two months, receiv-
ing medical attention all the time. When
the medicine from one doctor did not do
any good my friends said : ‘ So-and-so is a
good man ; try him.’ And I went on in
that way till four doctors had handled me,
and I did not feel any better for their treat-
ment, so I was brought home again. I
started taking chlorodyne till I could take
sixty or seventy drops, but all the comfort
I got only lasted a quarter of an hour, and
then the agony came on again with greater
violence. Every physic I tried was worse
than useless, for between them my internal
organs were frightfully deranged. Twelve
mouths last June I went over to my
daughter’s place. It was a cold, drizzly
morning, and the doctor said I had no right
to go out. His words proved only too true,
as in a few days afterwards I got terrible
pains in the hips, and my medical adviser
said it was sciatica, which I had contracted
through catching/jold. The most excruciat-
ing agonies used to flit from one hip to the
other day after day, and then the pains ex-
tended right down both legs to my feet. I
was a perfect cripple, being quite unable to
stand or move my limbs. A rope was sus-
pended over my bed so that I could l’aise
myself up, but when I wanted to turn I had
to get somebody to help me. Some days I
was as helpless as a baby, and had to be fed
with a spoon whilst lying in bed.”
“ Were you able to digest your food, Mr.
Pearen 1 ”
“ I could net digest even the lightest of
diet. My che3t was so heavily compressed
that I could not breath properly, and closely
following the taking of food came acute
pains in the stomach. Then I used to vomit
the food, and I felt a little easier, but this
meant losing strength. I lost nearly three
stone in weight, and my face was quite
pinched and haggard. My mouth was
clogged up with a nasty stuff which made
my breath very disagreeable, and there
were such horrible dizzy sensations in my
head that the ceiling seemed to be spinning
round. I had very little sleep at any time,
but at one period I did not sleep a wink for
three weeks, and at the end of that stretch
my nerves were completely shattered.
There is no doubt that I was at death s
door, and nobody thought I could possibly
recover. Friends used to say : ‘ Poor old
Pearen is dying ; the doctors say he cannot
last much longer ; ’ and so it seemed that 1
was on my last journey. One of my
physicians said I must go into a hospital;
but I said I will go and die in my own
house ;so I came home. I was yelling out
with pain one day when a lady came rushing
into my room, saying she could hear me in
the opposite paddock. ‘ I cannot help it,
I said, ‘I am in such awful agony.’ ‘ Hid
you ever try Clements I onic i ’ she asked.
‘ I don’t know anything about it,’ I replied ;
‘ but I suppose it is the same as quack
medicines ? ’ Not at all,’ she said.
‘Clements Tonic cured a fiiend of mine
when she was nearly dead,’ and then the
lady gave me particulars of her friend s
cure. That day 1 sent to Brisbane for a
bottle of Clements Tonic, which was for-
warded by next mail coach. After drinking
three-parts of the bottle I fancied a smoke
a luxury I had toabandon when I was taken ill
—and from that ve y hour I made such st eady
progress that I have been smoking my pipe
ever since. I sent for more Clements lonic,
which carried me further on the road to
health every day. The lumbago and sciatic
pains were less tormenting, and all the
aches and agonies in my body subsided.
My nerves were completely steady when 1
had taken a few bottles of Clements lonic,
which gave me calm sleep every night, and
an appetite for my food which I had not
known for many a year. My mouth and
breath became clean and sweet, constipa-
tion troubles were overcome, and my food
was never again vomited. Clements lonic
made iny digestive organs healthy, for the
distressing symptoms of that complaint
were entirely removed, and the people
round here said they could see me putting
on flesh every week. I was so far gone that
it required a fair amount of perseverance
with Clements Tonic to bring me back to
life, but I stuck to it till my diseases were
thoroughly cured and my health and
strength iestoied to the degree of perfection
which enables me to do this heavy work with-
out feeling any inconvenience. My friends all
expected me to die, and I'm sure that if I
had gone to the hospital I would have been
dead long ago, because I would never have
heard of Clements Tonic there, but which
actually saved my life. You are at liberty
to publish these facts in every paper, and
pamphlet in the universe as you plea-c.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Jacob Pbarkn, of “Bay View," Woody Point,
Brisbane, in the State of Queensland, do solemnly
md sincere y declare as follows : —That I have
jarefully read the annexed document, consist-
ng of three folios and consecutively numbered from
one to three, and that it contains and is a true ana
aithful account of my illness and cure by Clements
Conic and also contains my full permission to publish
n any manner my statements which I give volun-
larily, and without receiving any paj ment; and I make
;his solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of
die Oaths Act 1867.
s<?te<rl£
V-/HS
Taken and declared before me at Woody Point,
Brisbane, this twenty-sixth day of August, one
thousand nine hundred and one.
MICHAEL O’SHEA,
A Justice of the Peace
HQZjNEgLft
'i/" ' /
PTwki,'
lb/ , v .
7
U
// ,
j/,
5^
4
Crozjine Blacking
is the best dressing made for all bright finished leathers.
It is easily applied with a cloth, and produces a polish that is unequaled for brilliance
and permanence. Men, women, and children who use “ Crozine once want Crozine
always, as it is the most satisfactory waterproof dressing made for all vaneties of shoes.
Sold almost everywhere. Made and guaranteed only by
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS, Boston, Mass., U. S. Ai
A Policy for the Commonwealth.
PRICE, 6d. ; Posted, Bd.
Caood Tailoriog
SUMMER.
Netv Neat Designs in Worsteds
and Tweeds.
PURE INDIGO SERGES.
FANCY TROUSERINGB, VESTINGS, &C.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post tree.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Mercers,
73 AND 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
Bledlcal.
NOTICE <
To sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism,Sciatica, i
Lumbago, aud all pains of Head, Face, oi j
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy. ,
PATERNOSTER'S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingokstre & Truman, of
71 Old Keut Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists '
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
soi.d in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstri? & Truman,
71 Old Kent Hoad, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
THE NEW FRENCH REMEDY
THERAPION.—IgI
popular remedy, as employed in the Continental Hospi-
tals by Ricord, Rostan, Jobert, Velpeau, and others,
combines all the desiderata to be sought in a medicine of
the kind, and surpasses everything hitherto employed.
THERAPION No. 1 maintains its world-renowned
and well-merited reputation for derangements of the
kidneys, pains in the back, and kindred ailments, afford-
ing prompt relief where other well-tried remedies have
been powerless. .
THERAPION No. 2, for impurity of the blood, |
scurvy, pimples, spots, blotches, pains and swellings of
the joints, gout, rheumatism; and all diseases for which
it has been too much a fashion to employ mercury, sarsa-
parilla, &c., to the destruction of sufferers’ teeth and ruin
of health. This preparation purifies the whole system
through the blood, and thoroughly eliminates every
poisonous matter from the body.
THERAPION No. 3, for exhaustion, sleeplessness,
and all the distressing consequences of dissipation, worry,
overwork, etc. It possesses surprising power in restoring
strength and vigor to those suffering from the enervating
influences of long residences in hot, unhealthy climates.
TUCDADIAM may be procured of the
I nEh l»Hr I w principal Chemists and
Merchants throughout the world. Price in England, 2s. 9d. |
and 4s. 6d. In ordering state which of the three numbers
is required, and observe that the word 11 Therapion
appears on the British Government Stamp (in white
letters on a red ground) affixed to every genuine package
by order of His Majesty’s Hon. Commissioners, and with-
out Which it is a forgery.
QS RI CORO'S
ftB6^H ce °f L \ FC-
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope.
Agents for Australasia —PERRY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne ; Wholesule Agents for New South Wales —
Australian Drug Co., Ltd., O’Connell St., Sydney. All
Chemists, or Box 165, C.P.O.
CURES COUGH.
• Cured my sou of a dreadful Cough.’
Mrs. Johnston, Belloek, Fermanagh.
GIVES REST & SLEEP.
HAYMAN’S
BALSAM
of Horehound
Safe and Pleasant for Children.
* NOTHING LIKE IT FOR A COLD.’
Mr. W. IHrd, Norwich.
> STOPS COED.
A Modern Scientific Triumph, the
“ELECTRICON”
The first and only absolute safe and successful
means ever perfected to apply pure Metallic Galvanio
Electricity direct to the ears, permanently curing
DEAFNESS
and completely banishing all distressing
MEAD NOISES ~
by restoring natural life, strength and activity to the
affected parts of the ear and to 'he nerve of hearing.
Simple—harmless—positive. Cure guaranteed or no
expense. For full information and complete descrip-
tion, address with stamp—
The L. R. VERNON COY.,
6O-64 Hunter-st., Sydney.
Business Announcements
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Be.'t,
Cheapest, and Most Stjlish OLOTUIN'G in Auttralia.
252 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
Oui' Suit to order at 42*. is
marvellous value; made from
all-wool Tweeds.Vicunas,or fast
color Series ; it is perfect fitting
and beautifully finish* d.
A splendid Suit to order from
any class v-f material £.‘{ ,‘{s. To
measure, capital Trousers, >ery
good patterns l'i«. (id.
Dress Suits, to measure. £7#
Clerical Suits, to measure, £.>*
Hiding Bre* ches, j£ss.
Hiding Habits, Ac,
We supply ready made. Men’s
{ capital Tweed Suits Sis. A Sssa.
I Fam us Ballarat Sir'll,
' Indigo dye.iMs.
All-wool, fawn. grey, or brow*
Sergeiette ;“ults,39s.
Excellent l weed or Seige
Trousers, its, lid.
All-wool blue and black Vicuna
Sacs and Vests. 19s 6d.
Men's Grass Cloth Summer
Suits. 19s. (id. W ite Drill
Sacs and Trousers. 10s. (id.
Khaki Suits, shrunk, l’<£s (id.
Black and Grey Alapaca S. cs,
(is. 9d. White and Brown Drill
Trousers. 3s. 9d.. 4s 9*1., 5s (id.
Travelling Trui ks, Ba s and
Hugs in great variety
Men’s White t-hiits, colored
front and cuffs. ?2s 9d.
Fancy Blouse Shirts, new
designs, ss. (id.
White Matte Shirts, collar and
pocket. 3s. (»d.
So t Alpine Hats, 4s. 6d.. all
colors.
Hard Hats. 4*. (»d. Caps. Is.
It'eiino Undershirts or Pants,
ls.9d,
Neckties,allshapes and colors.
White Shirts to measure.
6* 9d., 9s. fid
Is.
Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
We like to write letters; so don’t be afraid to ask for any
Information. Our book, “ The Philosophy of Press ” a- i
patterns of all kinds and self-measurement forms posted tree
Write for them.
g
*
2Wf>
GOUT
pills.
for GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Puodt & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
An«t.i*aHn.n Colonies.
€V€RY MAN
Should send for a VALUABLE PAMPHLET explaining
how all NERVOUS and ORGANIC derangements may be
SUCCESSFULLY TREATED by a NEW METHOD. It is
EASY and PLEASANT, and will effect a PERFECT and
PERMANENT CURE. Sent post FREE. Address-
THE BOTANIC INSTITUTE, VICTORIA CHAMBERS,
ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
ItHEI
mf
by using Wilson’s Com-
mon Sense Ear Drums.
Wonderful Results obtained in
cases considered beyond any
treatment. Soft, comfortable,
and invisible when in use.
Head Noises Relieved.
Pamphlets and Australian
Testimonials Free.
J. CHALMERS, Sole Agent.
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
hh^
DEAF
am
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter ot
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. 3:
Address— A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
With Patent RUBBER FEE!
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par•
ticulars, die.
¥
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
m
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles,
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one of these
Cahinets. Price 25/-
Head and Face Steamer, 3/6.
Can be forwarded to any address.
J. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne
Dr. LANGSTON'S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A TESTED AND INFALLIBLE REMEDY,
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CUSES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hyp®
dermic injections. Call or write lor treatise, posted.
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory ol
SURGEON LANGSTON
M-R.C-S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
“ The Best Australian Book of Sea and Sailor Verge."
The Ways of Many Water
By E. J. BRADY.


Dee Bubleteen : Whaffoh shuttem out
Chinaman by poll tax ? White man no glo
vegetlable; only Chinaman glo ’em. Shuttem
out Chinee labourla, gleat vegetlable industlee
pelish, allee same sugar industlee. Whaffoh no
givee time for vegetlable industlee to gettem rid
of Chinee labourla and puttee on white labourla,
say ten year.—Yours, Ah Philp.
Daily paper item :
Chew Moy, storekeeper, of West Maitland, stated that
he never had a naturalisation certificate. He never paid
poll-tax, as he landed at Brisbane and came into N.S.W
over the border. Tin Yow, the bankrupt, said that he
always had two names ; Chong- Beong was his birth name,
given him by his mother ; Tin Yow was the name his
father gave him. He denied having bought his certificate
of naturalisation. Another Chinese obtained it for him.
David Oyoung, partner in Hop War and Co., said that his
Chinese name was Oyoung King. The English called him
David Oyoung. He was married to a Chinese woman.
He had not a certificate of naturalisation, but a friend of
his gave him one a long time ago. He had used Ah
Cheong’s since then. He had used Ah Bum’s certificate
of naturalisation. Ah Bum arranged to bring his wife
from China, and sent his certificate of naturalisa-
tion. He understood that Ah turn’s wife was
too ill to travel, and the agent sent witness’s wife out on
Ah Bum’s certificate. His wife came to this State as Mrs.
Ah Bum. After his wife arrived, he gave the certificate
hack to Ah Bum. The real Mrs. Ah Bum came to Sydney
about three years ago. She got in on Chew Moy’s cer-
tificate. Chew Moy came down from Maitland and landed
Mrs. Ah Bum as his wife. Chew Moy was married, and
his wife was in China. Chew Moy was going to get his
wife out, but his mother would not let her come.
And it is this evasive kind of person, who has
two names of his own naturally, and is commonly
called by a third one, and often trades under a
fourth, and doesn’t mind if he is called by ten
more, and who looks exactly like 100,000,000 of his
countrymen, all with two names each, and most
of the names Hop or Fat or Wow—this party who
is as undefinable as one prawn in an ocean—con-
cerning whom Vic. Chief Secretary Trenwith pro-
poses to take strong measures to prevent persona-
tion. Trenwith is going to stand on the shore, in
a manner of speaking, and not allow any one
prawn to pass itself off dishonestly as another
mw m
mm
m
9,
1
v* Photo from Life.
Original may be seenat 118, Kegent Street, London, W.
it
<sJa
W!
db
wt (
A,
sJLst
|§f !
|J|;
Y%
Unuer Royal Patronage.
KOKO FOR THE HAIR
111 is a tonic, cleansing, invigorating preparation, causes the hair to grow
luxuriantly, keeps it soft and pliant, imparts to it the lustre and freshness
of youth, eradicates dandriff, prevents hair from failing, is the most
11 cleanly of all hair preparations, and is perfectly harmless.
OLD PEOPLE LIKE IT
HI for its wonderful power to invigorate decayed hair, and Induce an entire
111 new growth when that is possible.
MIDDLE-AGED PEOPLE LIKE IT,
111 because it prevents them from getting bald, keeps dandriff away, and
111 makes the hair grow thick and strong.
YOUNG LADIES LIKE IT
ID as a dressing, because it gives the hair a beautiful gloßsy lustre, ensures a i
luxuriant growth, and enables them to dress it and keep it in any stylo
111 that may be desired.
CHILDREN LIKE IT,
lii because it keepß the hair and scalp cool and clean, allays irritation, and
||i keeps the hair in whatever position desired
THEY ALL LIKE IT,
because it is as pure as crystal, perfectly colourless, concerns no poisonous
substance, no sugar of lead, sulphur, nitrate of silver, or grease, and docs
not soil or colour the scalp, lace, or the most delicate fabric in clothing,
produces a wonderfully pleasant and cooling effect on the head, and no
other dressing is needed to give the hair the most beautiful appearance
possible. Try it once, and you will use no other. It contains no
colouring matter or dye.
KOKO is sold in 1/-, 2/6 and 4/6 bottles everywhere.
Australian Depot, Koko-Maricopas Co. Ltd., 14, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
CAUTION— See that this Begistered Trade Mark is on every bottle
h
VSaJWy
WS)
Beanie’s Bronchitis Cure.
A TvrnTTß REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure It is most com-
fortine in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
*“d * c ““i' lBte °“ re is certain ' BEWARE or* COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION
TA rnTTTCJ dttt n
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr W G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
mv case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
ftrat the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with nightsweats,
nain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. 1 had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
mv ease to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
. course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
feave nvy bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept'my very best thanks.-Yours
Westminster Bridge-road. S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir. —I suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good atonoe,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a oold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGB.
1 • ’-1 Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OP VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vio.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.”
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as direoted, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir.
"Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.'
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL,
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNES BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows: —“As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let. my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since 1 commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night, at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was muoh better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply."
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronohitis Cure. —I remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Years’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
fpr five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from whioh I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.**
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILBfik
A SEVENTEEN YEARS* CASK.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLESL
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes : —“ After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s
medioine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:—“l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma."
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist,* Geelong, Victoria.
MMPjT- office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally .
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food ■**
Infants
9
BENQBR’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it Is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, & e., every where.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by a
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE ACED.


THE
ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the World
solely for Toilet Soap was obtained by
r*s
-'\X'
9fl
fRASgA
A.lt F. PEARS
Reduced Fac simile
of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the
jurors of the
Paris Exhibition,
1889.
>
SOAP MAKERS,
Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND TO
His Royal Highness
The Prince
of Wales.
EDWARDS’
HARLENE
i
R
E
ghfghfg
THE GREAT HAIR PRODUCER AND RESTORER.
The Finest Dressing, Specially Prepared and Delicately Perfumed.
Has the distinguished honour of being used in almost every Royal
Palace throughout the World.
h
Monsieur Philosophow is commanded by
HER MAJESTY
THE QUEEN OF GREECE
to forward cheque for the six bottles of
“ Harlene ” duly received.
Princess Marie of Greece wishes six bottles of Edwards’
Harlene ” for the Hair sent immediately.
Crown Prince's Palace, A thens, Greece.
H.R.H. PRINCESS MARIE OF GREECE writes: Messrs. Edwards’
Preparation, “ Harlene” for the Hair, has given entire satisfaction.
Palace of Prince Royal, A thens.
H.R.H. The PUKE OF SPARTA requires six bottles of Edwards’ I
“ Harlene ” for the Hair sent by express pa#«sT post.
Esterhazy Uteza,3o , Buda-Pest.
H.R.H. PRINCESS HOHgMI»OHE writes J Please send me three bottles I
of “Harlene’’for the Hair by return. " Crete.
H.R.H. PRINCE GEORGE of* GREECE (High Commissioner of Crete)
writes: Please to forward three bottles of “ Harlene ” for the Hair at once.
a/e a and (3 times a/6 size), 4/6 per Botile^ewerywj^^^l
X/.,
EVERY HOUSEHOLD and TRAYELLINC TRUNK oucht to contain A BOTTLE of
ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’
V*
For Preventing & Curing by Natural Means
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
TESTIMONIAL “ I have been a nurse for ten years, and have nursed cases
of scarlet fever, pyaemia, erysipelas, measles, gangrene, cancer,
mentionahle disease. During this time I have not been ill for a sjngle da y, and
this I attribute to the use of Eno’s • Fruit Salt/ which hasheptnyblood m a
pure state. I recommend it to all my patients during
value as a means of health cannot be overestimated.
THeIfFECTofTnJs ‘FRUIT SALT’ ON A DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS, AND ISKhE
IS SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. IT IS, IN FACT, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, AND AN UNSU
CAUTION.—See WUhOUt * yOU aVe “
Prepared on* J- C.ENO, the ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C- ENO’S Patent^
The Derelict.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At 3 o’oloek on Sunday mosninf Casey, ®
Flinders-laue doorway, besought the tud of the
constable who had found him sheltering from the
rain, to tell him when the first issue of the
morning papers would be out. §
“You better get home, old man, began the
constable.
“ That’s wot I want ter do,” gulped Casey.
“ Well, run along then. Where d’ yer live? ’ ,
Casey shook his head, dolefully. “Dont
j cnow _that’s w’y I wanted ter advertise. W’ere s
th’paper place?” „
“ Oh, rot! —you’re not so bad as all that.
“Ye’sh, I am,” protested Casey; “I’ve bin
tailin’ coppers ’bout losin’ me home an’ fam’ly all
ni’—an’ none of ’em ’ll believe me.”
“You’ve lost yer mem’ry,” grinned the con-
stable
“No—me home. All gone like smoke!
wailed Casey, miserably, as they both backed to
the wall to escape another shower.
“ When did yer lose ’em ? ”
“ I didn’t lose ’em—they just went.”
The policeman laughed, and another bulky form
tramped up from somewhere and, after getting a
short explanation, joined-in. Casey shrank
further into the shadow and listened until they
both began to question him.
“How did it all start, Casey?” inquired the
sergeant, after a highly-diverting cross-examina-
tion ; “tell us th’ whole yarn, an’ p’raps we can
help yer. ”
“I left ’ome in Richmond—Sat’d’y mornin’,”
commenced Casey, wearily. “ Got back’bout one
this mornin’ an’ th’ ’ouse was empty—family all
fone, an’ nothin’ but a dead cat in th’ front garden.
knocked-up th’ man next door an’ asked ’im
w’ere me wife was, an’ he tole me t’ go t’ blazes
an’ slammed down th’ winder. Then I threw
stones at th’ front door o’ th’ man on th’ other
side, an’ w’en ’e poked ’is ’ed out I asked ’im fer
th’ loan of ’is spade t’ bury th’ cat, an’ did ’e know
w’ere me wife was ? ’E tole me ter go some place
I didn’t ’ear, an’ w’en I asked ’im ’nother time ’e
tole me t’ go ’way or I’d be killed. Then I started
lookin’ fer a paper place, an’ I bin talkin’ t’ silly
coppers all ni’. Wot’s th’ day now ? ” he sighed,
drowsily.
“Sunday.”
Casey moaned. “Got t’ wait f* th’ Monday
papers ! —too long. Wot’ll I do ?”
“ You see if yer can get a cab to take ’m out,”
the sergeant instructed the constable, and resumed
his beat.
“Come on, Casey,” commanded the constable,
catching him by the arm through force of habit.
- Casey woke with a smothered yell. “ Oh-h,
don’ run me in, copper—ole boy !” he entreated.
“ Shut-up—l’m only lookin’ fer a cab t’ take yer
home.”
“ Got none !” sighed Casey, hopelessly.
“Yes, y’ave—somewhere.” The policeman
linked his arm through that of his prize and
trotted him along.
“ I don’ know where it is.”
“Never mind,” murmured the hopeful con-
stable, towing strongly through the rain-mist.
Just then a cab trotted slowly up from the
direction of St. Kilda, and was immediately hailed
by Casey’s appointed guardian. After a short
parley and the jingling of silver, which Casey un-
earthed from the depths of his trouser pockets, he
was assisted into the cab, which immediately
drove off towards Richmond.
The constable stood on the kerb in the dawn
and laughed.
• 4i * *
About daybreak the cabby pulled up in a dingy
back-street of Richmond, and, after waking up his
sleepy fare, helped him to the kerb, and drove off,
leaving the silent street to Casey and the dissi-
pated cats, scurrying home from their midnight
revels.
Casey, the bereaved, at last arose and wandered
up the street to his aforetime happy home. Then
he clung on to his own front fence and cried aloud
at the utter desolation of it, oalling the heavens to
witness that he had been a kind husband and
father. Then he broke down altogether, weeping
unrestrainedly on the threshold, for it was as yet
an unearthly hour, and the street was like a dead
street in a dead city.
When he had recovered somewhat, he wandered
aimlessly round the empty house, like an idle
ghost with plenty of spare time on its impalpable
hands. Finally, he crawled into the fowl-house,
and there, under the empty roost, sank to his
unhonored slumbers.
4i 9 * *
He was awakened by the sound of a shrill, angry
voice. After listening sleepily for a while, he
peered through a crack, and beheld his lost wife
declaiming to the sympathetic woman next door.
“ Yes —I ’spose ’e’s in th’ lock-up. ’Corse —as
you know—Casey an’ me ’ad fixed up ter move
next Monday. Well, th’ vanman come t’ me on
Sat’dy—after Casey ’ad gone t’ work, yer under-
stand—an’ ’e said, if we didn’t move then, we
couldn’t be moved fer ’nother week —so I moved.
I waited ’ere fer Casey all yesterd’y, upter 11 larst
night, but ’e never come. You just wait till I
catch ’im / ” she snapped, viciously, and the
woman next door nodded approval, and chimed-in.
And Casey, prostrate in the darkest corner of
the fowl-house, remembered things, and listened
quietly, until he screwed up courage to wriggle
out through a hole into the lane, and fled.
• • • •
A friend of his met Casey, the other day, in
town, looking unkempt and miserable. Casey
produced a newspaper, and pointed out a para-
graph, in which he was described as “Missing.”
Asked for an explanation, Casey, after exacting
an oath of secrecy, told his story.
“ W’y don’t yer go ’ome now ? ”
“Don’t know where it is, an’ wouldn’t go if I
knew.”
“ But th’ p’lice ’ll grab yer any minit now,
CftSGy
Casey’s face lit up with a look of dawning peace.
“I’m just goin’ V give meself up,” he smiled.
“ I won’t go near my wife without a big copper
with me. Comeanavadrink ! ”
He was last seen trying to surrender himself to
a busy constable, who was wearing a cold gleam
of suspicion in his official eye, and didn’t appear
to be paying much attention,
v.
KODAK.
Lewis Litton addresses to Sydney City
Council a valuable memorial on road-paving. He
contends that the essentials of “ metal ” paving
are a strong foundation, a fresh (not decomposed)
stone, and a hard and clean superstructure, using
both large and small metal, and (in Sydney) with-
out clay binding. As a practical man of 34 years
experience, his views are well worth attention.
A Tale of Two Churches.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They had both oome away from the rich man’s
table feeling unsatisfied. He was a clerk in the
rich man’s office, and she was the rich man’s
favorite daughter. The moon stared down
whitely at herself in the water, and the wavelets
lapped lazily shorewards.
“ Before next month’s moon shines in that water
you will be his wife,” said the clerk, bitterly.
She sighed a sigh of soft, pleasant sorrow.
“If I had only dreamt that I should have
known you,” she said, “ I should never have been
engaged to him. Now, honor demands that I
shall marry ham. He has been true to me for a
whole voyage to England and back.”
“ But he is not back yet,” said the clerk.
“ But he will be—this week.”
The clerk leaned forward and whispered some-
thing. ,
“John ! ” murmured the maiden shrinking.
He whispered again—a little longer this time.
“No, no, no /” she replied.
He only smiled. He was sure of his victory.
Voices came down from the portico—the rich
man’s voice and others. The clerk hurried fhe
last part of his whisper: “St. Michael’s churoh,
and go straight in ! ” he said.
“ Straight in ! —oh, John ! ”
“Darling!—Half-past two, Wednesday after-
noon, and—St. Michael’s church. Darling ! ”
• • • a
Wednesday afternoon came, sulky and blustery.
Kitty donned a “ travelling costume ” of grey and
a large feather. Also, she could not resist bring-
ing two girl friends, who wore fawn and carried
handkerchiefs. They started out ten minutes
late, eager for the bride to observe girlhood’s
privilege to the last.
“It seems bold,” they said, “for the bride to be
quite to time.” Then, being women, they hurried
all the way and arrived to the minute. It vexed
Kitty. “ I should so like to have been a weeny
bit late,” she said.
“ It does look nice for the man to be waiting,
silent and glum and almost desperate,” they
agreed. So they waited in the porch for five
minutes.
Then Kitty took the door-handle into her hands,
and immediately began to tremble. Up the aisle
they went, the bride’s eyes drooping ground-
wards. Near the altar she looked up. There was
an atmosphere of dust, an old woman, and a
broom. The pale, impatient bridegroom was not
visible. Kitty gasped. “Well, I neverl” said
her friends.
Kitty gasped again. “It was three he said,”
she told them quickly, wishing she had not
brought her friends.
“So, after all, we shall be first,” they said.
They all sat down in the second front pew and
waited. Kitty’s face went from white to red and
back again many times, and not one change was
lost on her friends.
“If he is not here at three sharp,” the
bride said, grudging the half-hour’s grace she was
granting, “we will not wait. We all have shopping
to do.”
• * * *
The clerk went straight to St. Michael’s.
Going, he cast a glance over to St. Stephen’s.
The doors were open.
“Another wedding, I’ll be bound,” he re-
marked.
He took the church aisle grimly. It wanted
five minutes to half-past two. There was a small
christening party in front of him. Two or three
godmothers, a father and mother, and a long
sweep of white robe. He had to stand while a
speck of cambric and lace was arranged over a
small red face.
“It’s a wedding,” said a godmother, looking at
the clerk.
The words passed on. They all looked at him,
and they all whispered : “ It’s a wedding.” Then
some one said, “ Let’s wait.” And they all sat
down in the front pew.
The clerk stood at the altar, and put his hands
behind him. At 20 minutes to three he folded them
across his chest. At a quarter to three he dropped
them to his sides. His face was quite white, and
a Byronic corsair smile ran across his lips once or
twice.
The clergyman, white-robed and waiting, sat in
a high-backed chair with his eyes on some lost
sheep on a window. At last even the baby grew
impatient. He screamed, and the sound brought
the cold perspiration to the clerk’s brow. It was
ten minutes to three. He counted up to a hun-
dred, said the Lord’s Prayer through, and turned
his thoughts into the matrimonial service.
The clergyman rose and retired to the vestry.
John’s eyes went wildly to the lost sheep. He
folded his hands behind him and wished he might
whistle —or say something. When three struck,
the christening-party gathered themselves to-
gether. “Poor man ! ” they said, examining the
clerk’s back.
At ten minutes past three he wished he might
smoke, at a quarter past he turned sideways on
the christening-party, and at twenty past he
strode out of the church.
“Poor fellow! ’’they said. In the church porch he
stood still and lit a cigar. Then he went into town.
Half-an-hour later he met her. She. held two tiny
tissue-paper parcels in one hand and her lips were
evidently saying gay things to two giddy little girls
in fawn.
How was he to know they were bridesmaids
mulct of a bride? He blew out some smoke and
looked his bitterest. Then he strode onward down
the street.
It was not till two months later that Kitty
learned which was St. Stephen’s and which St.
Michael’s edifice. She was a bride then, and her
bridegroom, whose faith had been tried for the
term of a voyage to England and back, had chosen
St. Stephens church for the ceremony. It was
too late then for her to do anything, but forget.
N.S.W.
LILLIAN TURNER.
Trouble has arisen in Maoriland over the
question of the general-store employees’ wages.
The Grocers’ and Drapers’ Union has each a
minimum wage, and the boot-shop assistant
has another minimum figure. In the country the
general-storekeeper’s assistant sells everything,
and the employers want to put him on thq, lowest
scale, while the employees demand to be placed
on the highest. The remedy is a special classifica-
tion for the general-storekeeper’s assistant.
Ernest Favenc, writing in Sydney Daily
Telegraph about matters geographical, points
out that in Gordon’s “Grammar of Geography,”
published about 1750, the map of North America
gives the name New South Wales to the region
south of Hudson Bay, as distinguished from
“ New North Wales ” —the territory north of the
bay. Thus Australia is not even original in the
f absurd designation of its own Mother State.


LIKE A
KNIFE THRUST
V
C 3
8S
o
m
m
c &
-0
T ' V
" o j5->
Sharp, piercing pains in the back —Unable to move without
torture —As tired in the morning as at night.
No rest night or day.
Kidney trouble, of course —a bad case.
’Twould have been better if it had been attended to long
before it was.
Didn’t matter, though, in the end—DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS fixed it up in a jiffy.
And, by the way, did you ever hear of a case of kidney
trouble that
fjoan’s Backache Kidney pills
wouldn’t cure ?
Bead what this Sydney resident says about it. You can
easily verify the statement:
Mrs; Hughl M‘Donald, 64 Wellington-street, Chippendale, this city,
states“ About eighteen months ago my husband caught a cold in the
kidneys. He had been fishing one wet night, and came home feeling very
bad. In a short time it developed into inflammation of the kidneys, and he
took to his bed. We called a doctor in, but under this gentleman’s treat-
ment he grew worse, and his condition became so alarming that I lost no
time in sending for one of the best Sydney doctors. The pains in the
poor fellow’s back were frightful, and they also struck into his hips, and,
being unable to get ease from his agony, the moans and groans of him
were terrible to hear. He had to lie on his face all the time. The medi-
cal man we called in arrested the progress of this terrible illness, but somehow he
grew no better. After a time I saw an advertisement telling about Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, and I went down town and procured a box at New-
man’s Pharmacy, King-street. Then I induced him to take a dose. After that
he went on with them, and they put him on his feet again. He still kept on with
them, and at length returned to his work, a cured man. That happened over
twelve months ago, and he kept in the best of health until a month or two ago,
when he got wet, and the cold settled in his kidneys. He took some of the pills
as soon as he felt himself getting bad, and they cured him. He says he would
not be without them in the house.”
For sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box
(six boxes 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of price, by the
proprietors, Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
BUT BE SURE THEY ARE DOAN S.
SERIOUS CHANGES
ARE TAKEN IN NEGLECTING A SIM-
PLE CASE OF PILES.
Any person takes serious ohances in neglecting
an attack of piles. This ailment has a tendency
to become chronic, and there is also a further ten-
dency of ulceration and forming fistula, which we
know are most difficult to cure.
The safest remedy for any form of Piles,
whether itching or protruding, is Doan’s Oint-
ment. In using it there is no detention from
your daily occupation, and the many cures it has
made have made it famous in every corner of the
world. Any chemist will tell you that it enjoys a
greater demand and more enthusiastic popularity
than any Pile Ointment ever placed on the
market.
Mr. J. J. Gannon, 108 Denison-street, Newtown,
this city, states: — 11 1 have been bad with itch-
ing piles for a good many years. It was only
itching piles at first, but after a time an irrita-
tion of the skin seemed to come from it, and I
had an itchiness to bear in more parts than one.
Between the two, my torture was terrible at
times. I had the greatest difficulty to get rid
of it, having been treated by chemists, doctors,
and trying everything obtainable which was re-
commended for itching skin troubles. Some time
ago I resolved to try the remedy which cured Mr.
Gulliver. I knew Mr. Gulliver, and knew that
he was not the man to make a false statement,
and if he recommended a thing it must be good,
so I got the remedy which cured him—Doan’s
Ointment. This remedy did me good soon after I
started using it, and by the time I had used two
pots I was quite cured. It is now three months
since I used the Ointment, and I’ve not had any
sign of the piles or the skin trouble since. It is
my opinion that Doan’s Ointment will eure any-
body of itching piles.”
It cannot be repeated too often that Doan’s
Ointment will cure Itching Piles. IT WILL
CURE THEM ABSOLUTELY. But don’t
take our word for it, ask Mr. Gannon. He knows.
It is for sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers
at 2s. 9d. per pot (six pots, 15s. 3d.), or will be
post on receipt of the price by the Proprietors,
Foster-M‘Clellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney,
N.S.W.
But be sure it is DOAN’S.
Night-Waves.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Waves of the Dawn sweep creaming
Thrill’d through with a golden song ;
The Waves of the Noon lie dreaming
The shimmering coasts along ;
And swift in the black Pelorus
The tides thro’ the rock-race flow :
But wild is the wailing chorus
That rings where the Night- Waves go.
The Waves of the Dawn are, lovers
A-kiss as they swing and roll;
But Waves of the Night are rovers
That come to our ports for toll—
Off-shore where the channel blackens
They tramp and I watch them go,
And never their quickstep slackens,
And never a wave swings slow :
To Nor’ard their army reaches
And under the Western stars
It growls on the silver beaches,
And staggers across the bars.
The bays that were darkly sleeping
Churn white when the Night-Waves pass
A-roar, with their vanguard leaping
And Death in their close-packed mass.
The tread of the burdened bearers—
The grief of the March in Saul-
Black robes and the pallid wearers—
A coffin—a dead-black pall—
I see and hear ; and I fear them—
These songs that the Ocean’s soul
Wails out, that the men who hear them
May know that the Night-Waves roll.
They march to the North and Westward,
And shuddering to their blast
The fisherman’s wife clasps breastward
Her child, till their song is passed.
The crash of their music deadens
The cry of a mangled foe,
And ever a blood-trail reddens
The path where the Night-Waves go
To pillage and loot and ravage,
And scream at a harbour-light—
For cruel are they and savage,
Yet beautiful in their might.
I saw a light to the Nor’ward—
Full white like the Star of Day,
But Waves of the Night leaped forward
And threatened the star away.
I heard a song to the South’ard—
But, lifting their grey manes old,
The Wolves of the Darkness smothered
Its tune as their ranks patrolled
•The seas in their search for plunder—
A murderous, ruthless crew ;
They march with their shields a-thunder
And howl as the night-wolves do.
The moon swings high in her season,
To shine on a sea of pearls
That croons, with a summer breeze on
Its bosom, the songs of girls—
Songs dear to the hearts that cherish
A passion that thralls and numbs—
Night goes, and the moon-songs perish,
Yet never a Night-Wave comes.
But when in the deep Pelorus,
The tides thro’ the darkness surge,
They march to a moaning chorus—
A song that is half a dirge.
Red-lipped are the waves foretelling
The march of the ranks of Day ;
And warm are the Noon Waves swelling
To burst on the reefs in spray ;
But fierce, where the channel blackens,
The hosts of the Night- Waves go,
And never their quickstep slackens,
And never a wave swings slow.
M.L.
QUILP N.
Hardy old Ca.pt. William Jackson Barry
(now 82) has induced M.L. Govt, to undertake
the publication of his comprehensive book dealing
with the history of the Australian colonies. The
captain arrived in Sydney in 1829, and is still
battling for a crust.
Baden-Powell never had a more ardent
adorer than Melb. Argus. There was a time
when that paper constantly contained evidence to
support this writer’s belief that the staff prostrated
itself twice a day before a pottery bust of the
Hero of Mafeking which adorned Editor Wil-
loughby’s table. Yet this is how the Akgus was
forced to talk of its fallen god at a late date :
Another South African celebrity who has attracted un-
commonly little attention is General Baden-Powell ....
the official world ignores him. The fact is that “ 8.P.” is
rather out of favor with the authorities. If my infor-
mation is correct, “ 8.P.” is not likely to obtain any high
command in the immediate future, or if he does it will
not be in South Africa.
Poor jumped-up “8.P.” is like the battered top-
hat that reminds a man of the night he made a
braying ass of himself.
The following books worth reading about
the South African War will be posted direct
from London to any Australasian address
(with delivery in about 11 weeks), on re-
ceipt by The Bulletin of order with
stamps or postal note for prices annexed. The
African cables about the war are notoriously un-
trustworthy, and the information which reaches
this country is poisoned at the source in the
interests of the syndicates and politicians who
made the war. Every Australian should strive to
understand the real facts of the Boer struggle
for liberty. The books recommended are:—
J. A. Hobson’s “Psychology of Jingoism,” 3s. (a
statement of what lies beneath the surface
of the Imperialistic idea and its manifestations);
J. A. Hobson’s “The War in South Africa,
its Causes and Effects,” 3s. (a clear state-
ment, of the disgraceful manner in which the
British Government and nation were deluded);
Methuen’s ‘ ‘ Peace or War in South Africa,” Is. 6d.
(a handbook of parties and events in S’Africa,
showing the true facts of the present situation);
H. J. Ogden’s “The War against the Dutch
Republics,” Is. 6d. (a sort of unofficial Blue-book
of the history of the war and its controversies).
The four books will be sent for Bs. 6d. to any
Australasian address, direct from London.
An Arbitration Case.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The little settlement of Wenlock Wells—out nor’-
west, beyond civilisation—-was represented, in the
white, by Michael O’Shannassy, deserter. The
other inhabitants were a tribe of aborigines, who
had wandered there from the interior.
“ Take these things,” said Michael to the king,
“ and appear in state, as you ought to ; ” and he
handed him a pair of seamen’s india-rubber knee-
boots, an oilskin sou’-wester, and a telescope with-
out lenses ; “and this,” he added, throwing in a
map of the city of Dublin; “it is the chart of
magic ! In return, keep me in food, and I will
take Yaba, your daughter, to wife.”
“It is agreed ! ” said the king.
“With these,” said Michael to Yaba, pointing
to a barrel of rum and an armful of furnishings,
stowed in the humpy, “ we shall do.”
In course of time, Yaba bore him a son, whom
they called Moola. A handful of white people,
too, found their way to the settlement; among
them, Bridget O’Mahony and Father Kildane,
and Michael became friendly with Bridget. “A
man should keep to his own color,” he solilo-
quised.
“The place,” muttered the priest, “would not
yield me a glass of potheen, let alone a church ; I
will return.” But, before doing so, he married
Michael and Bridget.
“Return now to your father, the king” said
Michael to Yaba, “and take the boy witn you;
otherwise, if Bridget be the woman I take her
for, she will make it hot for you.”
That night, at the council, the king appeared
in state, and issued his decree.
“ This affront on my family,” he cried, “ cannot
be forgiven ! Let Michael, the white man, take
back Yaba, or be clubbed ! Take him when he
carries not his weapon of fire.”
After that Michael carried his gun. But six
months made him forgetful, and when he was
chased one day by the tribe, the rum asserted
itself at an unlucky moment, and he fell dead
beneath a tree. . . . And there he was buried.
“ It was a trick to cheat us,” the king declared.
“His spirit but waits to be born again! Entice
the woman, Bridget, to pass by the tree, so that
his spirit may enter into her ! ”
. . . “Lie aisy thin, if ye can,” sobbed Bridget,
as she concluded her lamentations over the spot
the next day, “ for ye wanted the praist badly !”
“ It is well,” said the king ; “ look-out—we will
have him yet!”
It was with Bridget in the manner of women,
and in a few months she bore a son.
‘ ‘ What did I say ?” yelled the king. “ ’Tis he !
he is back again, disguised as an infant! The
hair of flame, and the one eye that seeks the other!
Justice shall yet be done ! Sorry shall he be that
he kept not Yaba when she was young and
lovely !”
The course of 20 years had brought a few more
white stragglers to the settlement, and a publican’s
license for Mrs. O’Shannassy.
The king scoured the country with his telescope,
and consulted the chart. “Time is up!” he de-
clared. “ Yaba shall be kept in suspense no
longer, and Moola, who is troublesome with the
young gins, requires a father’s club. Let Michael
now make his choice !”
The place was in an uproar! What would
young Michael choose ?
TheO’Shannassys tried compromise—sustenance
for Yaba, her person to remain sacred. Yaba
herself refused it —indignantly, and in tears.
“There’s only one thing,” shouted Harry the
Bull-Whacker (once in a eattle-stealing case) —
“ Harbitration —and I’ll be Judge ! ”
When the idea was understood, it was agreed -
to, and the place swelled with importance.
“ A pint of rum,” said Mrs. O’Shannassy, aside ;
“ two if we win, Judge darlin’! ”
“Right!” said Harry.
“A roast wallaby—killed but a week” —
suggested the king.'
“ No ! ” said Harry.
“Any gin in the tribe, bar Yaba?”
“ No ! ” shouted Harry.
“The right to club old Nulla, my wife’s
mother,” pleaded the king.
“No! ye murderin’ devil!” roared Harry.
“ What about rum ? ” he whispered.
“Baal rum,” said the king, sadly.
“Be off with ye!” yelled Harry; “would ye
dare to bribe a Judge ? ”
The Court and the settlement disposed itself for
the hearing upon fallen logs in a neighboring
hollow.
“Bosun Bill” —the one-time pearler—rolled to
his seat, with a half-emptied bottle in his pocket.
“ For the defence ! ” he shouted.
Feeling ran high. As points were made, on
one side or the other, they were greeted with par-
tisan cheers.
At an impressive moment a young gin shrieked.
“Remove the youth, Moola ! ” commanded the
Judge.
“If there ain’t order,” he thundered (rising),
“while I gives the verdict, I’ll . . .” (And Tie
mentioned it. It secured silence.) “I’ve give
great consideration to what was put forward by
the king,” he roared, “and the oncommon like-
ness between the two men is pretty nigh good
enough to settle young Michael! On t’other hand,
Bosun Bill is pretty nigh as strong. What’s his
argyment ? * Twins they are, ’he says, ‘by differ-
ent mothers ! ’ Mind ye, there’s much in that.
‘Likewise,’ says he, ‘if Michael had meant to
come back agin, he warn’t the man to fall into
the trap the king laid fr’im—he’d a chose a differ-
ent woman for to throw ’em off the scent! ’ And
that’s weighty, too, that’s what it is—weighty!
But I remimbers one thing what proves to me
that this young Michael ain’t the man what was
buried. ’Tis this : t’other Michael had his squint
in the right eye, while this ’ere young un’s in the
left! The verdict is for the O’Shannassys ! ”
Thus the feud was settled; and Harry the
Bull-Whacker reigned long and respected in
Wenlock Wells.
G. M. TRAIN.
The notion that Queen Victoria’s eldest-
born was a really brainy woman is well sustained
by the observations attributed to her by the
German authoress, Madame Von Preuschen :
“ What is the good of talent to me, or genius, or
ardent longings, endeavors, and strivings ? Have I even
the time, have I strength enough, with all.these thousand'
empty, hateful duties of etiquette, which kill the human
soul and nourish the propriety puppet in us ? And even
if I did accomplish anything great in art, would anyone
believe in it ? Would it not be always thought—as with
all art work done by crowned heads, from Nero down-
wards—that it was not done by mine own hands ? Oh,
what a curse rests on us Royalties—what a'curse for
those who would like to be human ! ”
“ Who would like to be human!” The pathetic
aspiration of a woman who was evidently very
human !


Was Very Weak
Lost Flesh Rapidly,
Took Quantities, of Medicine, Failed all the Time,
Was Quickly Cured with
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
A
4k
m
!
" Some time ago I had a very severe attack of influenza which left me
greatly weakened. I lost flesh rapidly and was in a very bad way.
“I took quantities of medicine, but constantly -grew worse all the time.
Finally, I tried Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and began to improve from the start.
“I took about six bottles and was perfectly cured. I have used this remedy
in my family a great deal and I know it to be a thoroughly reliable health-
giving compound and family medicine.”
John Murrell, Railway Station Master, of Sunnybank, Queensland, sends us
this letter together with his photograph, which we reproduce above.
This is a strong letter, one which must remove all doubt. It is additional
proof that Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
You ought to profit by it greatly, for if you are weak, have lost flesh, are with-
out appetite, and feel languid and depressed, here is a quick and certain cure.
Perhaps the trouble is with your blood and you are suffering from headache,
boils, eruptions of the skin, scrofula, and rheumatism; or if you are suffering
from weakness of any kind, here is a prompt and most perfect cure.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Removes 111 Effects of Hot Weather.
AYER’S PILLS —A Vegetable Laxative for the Whole Family.
26
YEARS’ SUCCESS
AS THE
UNIVERSAL REMEDY
FOR
Coughs, Colds,
r A sthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Consumption,
HAS MADE
AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY IN THE HOME
OR KIT OE EVERY COLONIAL.
It saves many Lives.
There is no difficulty in obtaining it , so
when you ash for Owbridge’s Lung
Tonic , insist u'pon having it , as
other so-called remedies are
often substituted.
Prepared by
W.T. OWBRIDBE, H.P.S., Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottles, at IS.lid., 2«.9d., 45.6 d. & 1
by all Colonial Medicine Vendors.
COPYRIGHT.
THE WORLD’S MEDICINE.
y^^ T r=^
For Bilious and Nervous Disorders, Flatulence and Pain in the Stomach,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, a sense of Repletion and Discomfort after Eating,
Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flushings of Heat, Loss of Appetite,
Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Scurvy and Blotches on the Skin, Sleep-
lessness, Disturbing Dreams, Low Spirits. Loss of Energy, and Nervous
Dyspepsia in all its forms. THE FIRST DOSE GENERALLY GIVES
RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction, for in countless
cases the immediate effect has proved remarkable.
Every Sufferer, is earnestly invited to make a trial of BEECHAM'S PILLS, which will fully
justify their reputation of being
Worth a Guinea a Box.
FOR FEMALES of all ages these Pills are simply invaluable, as a few doses will restore
free and regular conditions, and effectually remove the causes of much suffering to the sex. For a
Weak Stomach,
Impaired Digestion,
Disordered Liver,
BEECH AM’S PILLS act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will be found to work wonders on
the most important organs in the human economy. They brace up the nervous and muscular
systems, revive the long lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into
action the, too often, slumbering energies of mind and body. As a blood purifier it is not
too much to say that THEY HAVE NO EQUAL.
One of the'best guarantees that can be offered to the nervous and debilitated is that
BEECHAM’S PILLS have by far the largest sale of any
Patent Medicine in the World, being Over Six
Million Boxes per Annum.
This has been achieved Without the Publication of Testimonials, the convincing fact
is that Beecham’s Fills Recommend themselves.
Prepared only by the Proprietor, THOMAS BEECH AM, St. Helens, England,
and sold by Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers, everywhere.
In Boxes, 1/1J and 2/9 each, containing 56 and 168 Pi.ls respectively,
with full directions.
S. FREEMAN * SONS L"l™
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.'
HEAP OFFICE : WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
m
■
m
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and ipost gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS 1
MAGNESIA:
A
Sold Throughout the World.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORO’S MAGNESIA-
« o ' w *"i® To/v '' s
IRISH 10SS
FOR -The besl" remedy-
INFLUENZA, J
COUGHS,
Ask for Benin 1 ng ton's
and seetkatyou get it
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA.


PERDRIAU & GO.,
Rubber Manufacturers
(Established over 20 Years),
ARE STILL TO BE FOUND AT
Their OLD and ONLY Address:
270 George Street,
SYDNEY.
fgh
LADIJE&,
W . o. ■pll.'Dßl'n &c CO.
PYISUS & CLEANERS,
40 ¥oin< st it *?;»<; i’, svdnhjy
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post irom all the colonies promptly
attended to.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaeonsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
mHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house to the
J- Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
J-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
Tub bulletin Booklets, No. lIL
THE CIRCLING HEARTHS,
A New Collection of Verses by Roderhj Qumt
Enveloped; Is. 9tf. post-free.
sgg" Only 600 copies are printed for sale. “ The Hidden
Tide,” a companion booklet by the same author,,was
sold out almost immediately on publication ; and many
orders have been refused.
Post-free for postal note mr stamps of any province.
Orders received now will be forwarded immediately on
publication.
The Bulletin Newspaper Go., Ltd.,
214 George Street, Svdney, Australia.
Sole Wholesale Agents : Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
gfh
gf
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Worthington Pumps
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send fox* Catalogue.
GENUINE
BELTING.
BENNIE, TEARE & CO.
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
PERTH
OOOLGAROIE
AND
Representing in Australia
TANGYES LIMITED
STOCKS CARRIED
IN ALL THE STATES.
fĝfgf
hf
KEMP S PATENT SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL DO ‘ EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT/
It will stay on the sheep’s back as long: as required. It will NOT injure the wool. It will dissolve out under
the ordinary scouring process.
Manufact¥®ehs and Sole Agents:
FELTOD. SRIMDE $ CO
BLA CK, BET), and BLUE (in 8-gallon Cases)- —
PRICE IN MELBOURNE .. .. .... ; 3 /e per GaHon.
f> SYDNEY (E. Rich & Co. Ltd.) « 3/0
» BRISBANE <E. Rich & Co. Ltd.) , „ .. 3/0
n HOBART (Win. Crosby & Co.) .. _ , M m
COMPRESSORS
hgf
ƒ
Bngerso 11-Sergeant Rook Drills and Air Compressors hold the highest
average records throughout the world. They have met and defeated in fair competition
every machine brought against them, and have never failed to sustain their reputation for
doing the most work at the least expense. Write for Catalogue to
The Representatives in Australia of
ROOK
DRILLS
“ New Ingersoll.”
-
■
&
' v-■ -v . '-'i - r. . y ,,v • - • 4 -
LACY C°. Y . L™
IF*. G-REGORT <Bc
74 Clarence Street SYDNEY & MELBOURNE
, " 1
435 Bourke Street
ƒgf
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants.
PRINCIPAL AGENCIES :
Blake Steam Pumps
Woodworking Machinery
Tamite Emery Wheels
Sturtevant’s Pahs and Forges
Pickering, Governors
Ludlow Valves
Schuttes’ Korting Injectors
“Champion” Lubricating Oils
Hoyts’ Leather Belting
Genuine “ Atlas ” Metal
Empire Laundry Machinery
Stratton’s Steam Separators
American Tool Go’s Lathes
\
Goubert’s Eeed Water Heaters
. THE
easy
•TOQ!WCRkSO
iMfe®
> I
"
vm
