

’S ALE.
LAMB’S RUM.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
JR. o. 'WA.'PJESLSIWS «S£ CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Over 2700 Hydro-JExtraetars Sold, and at worlr
“Bodge” tadard
111ood Split pullens
All Size.%kept in Stock.
SOLE 1 AGENTS :
N. Ltd.,
71 Clarence St., Sydnay.
SJ-JXD FOR CATA.LOG.~m,
A Policy for the Commonwealth
Being a reprint of a large number of articles front
The Bulletin, in which this paper has attempted to
outline a solvent, honest and democratic policy
for Federated Australia.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° 85 Pitt street, SYDNEY.
SOLE FOB, B R OAD BE N steam r HI YDR O** ETRAOTOR Si
These machines have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying 00<^8 ’ ar
Salt, Chemicals, the Production of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARIS SIOOKED. Send to,
Testimonials and full particulars.
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
TOOTH: & CO. Ltdl., iLgents, Sydney.
-s&i
★
gf
dg
HOBART
■
adieu’s Orient |jotel
ENFOLDS
WINES
Adelaides Purest
Penfold's Wines are
THE SAFEST STIMULANT
D?Andrew Wilson.
FR.S.E&c LONDON. '
‘•i'muvi
RESERVE EXTRA. RESERVE SPECIAL. RESERVE EXTRA SPECIAL. SUPREME
SAN DEMAN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
241 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Eight Different Articles,
comprising Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Gasket (a-good
trick), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing river 100 Coin
and Card Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard
Fish (gives definition of your character), That Wonderful
Cinematograph or Book of Living Pictures, Mafeking
Gruh (or nerve-strengthener), That side-splitting Look
and Laugh Glass, andj last of all, The Spider and the Fiy
(an ingenious mechanical toy). Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
X7lO George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON. Manager.
JUST pUBLISHED f
The Bulletin Story Book
Price, 4s. 6d„ direct from the Pvblishers.
PIONEER
dg
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 2£ , 3 3£ 4 5 6 8 10 12 inch.
-/? -19 il- 1/2 l/S 1/11' i-i 3/4.' 4/-
1/2 1/4 3/7 1/10 2/2 211 3/5 4/5 5/7. 6/9.
Agents in every State.
Made by \ .
J. C. LUDOWIOI 8c SOM, LTD.,
117 York-Street, SYDNEY.
JOHN JAMESON
“THREE-STAR” WHISKEY.
Agents : J. BAERE JOHNSTON & CO., Loftus Street, Sydney.
mu—M 11 ' 1 ~"H" if r'T~i mrrr -rri|T- —«**
EMPIRE HOTEL, SYDNEY
3VLOST CENTRALLY SITUATED.
OTARD-DUPUY
Estbd. 1795. 25 Years BRANDY.
IPMP
PROOF
f
10 BLICH ST., SYDNEY
THE SPIRIT OP THE TIMES.
ONE COMMONWEALTH ONE STIMULANT-
ERANG BRANDY
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10hS. s CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
oT various sizes supplied.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n)brocatioQ
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints ii.. MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s CnjbrocatioQ.
KIRIN
LAGER
The Bulletin
Vol. 22. No. 1139. j
[Saturday, December 14, 1001.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


NOW READY.
PRICE, FIVE SHILLINGS.
Tbc BGlletii) Reciter.
*/ The best book of verse-recitations
ever published in Australia.
Will H. Ogilvie
Ethel Mills
Jack Mathieu
Dora Wilcox
- J. Craivford
- “ McG .”
- R. Stewart
Partial List of Contents:
The Billiard-Marker's Yarn - Edmund Fisher
Off the Grass
The Brumby’s Death
That Day at Boiling Downs
After the Flood - - »
A Stranger at the U
The Man with Rubber Pedals -
In the Dead-Letter Offioe-
How M’Dougal Topped the Score
Thos. E. Spencer
The Woman of the Future - - “ P. Luftig ”
Stokin' - - - « “ Quilp N."
Bucked Off Its Brand - • R. A. F.
The Ballad of Stuttering Jim
Samuel Cliall White
The How-We-Beat-the-Favourite Affliction
N. M. O'Donnell
Gig Fours - . -
Christmas Belle » •
My Mate Bill
The Jester of the Damned -
Skeeta - -
The Currency Lass -
The Sick Cab-Rider
Father Riley’s Horse
O’Toole and M’Sharry
Faces in the Street -
The Bush Missionary
A Scotch Night
. - “McG."
“John Garew"
• G. H. Gibson
- J. H. Greene
- Bancroft Boake
Roderic Quinn
- Edmund Fisher
A. B. Paterson
Thomas E. Spencer
Henry Lawson
• W. T. Goodge
Will H. Ogilvie
And Sixty Others.
A Handsome Volume Bound in Fawn Cloth,
with Red Edges.
Illustrations by “Hop,” A. J, Fischer, Fred
Leist, D. H. Souter, Hugh McCrae, and
Norman Lindsay.
Order at once by sending Five Shillings in
Postal Note or Stamps (of any Australasian
State or Province) to the Publishers—
CIK Bulletin newspaper Company, Eta.,
2M George Street, Sydney, Australia.
«
Cfte Bulletin Story Book.
Price, 4s. 6d. post-free from the Publishers.
♦ — .
Oil Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd”). New
Issue. With about eighty illustrations by
Mahony, Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher
and Fullwood ; 6s. post-free. “ The
jolliest book yet printed in Australia.”
fair Girls and Gray Horses, with. Other
Verses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. New Issue. Blue
cloth, blue edges, with portrait; ss.
post free. v ** A charming presentation
volume.
Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
Stories;
By Albert Dorrington ( “ Alba Dorion ”).
A handsome volume of 350 pages, bound in
cloth, decorated; price 4s. 6d. post free.
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, gilt
toil; 55., post free. *»* The best book of
Maoriland verse yet published.
Th.e Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J. Brady. Buckram, gilt top; 55.,
post free. *** Australia’s best book of sea.
and sailor verse.
Send Id. stamp for The Bulletin Book Circular.
— 4
THE BULLETIN BOOKS.
Sole Distributing Agents :
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
Special Wholesale Agents :
New South Wales .. .. Edwards, Dunlop & 00., Ltd.
Queensland Edwards, Dunlop & Oo. f Ltd.
South Australia .. .. E. S. Wigg & Son.
Westralia E. S. Wigg & Son.
Auckland and district .. Wildman, Lyell, & Arey.
Others to be appointed.
Por the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
gf
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
Z). A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS,
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
, . Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous drug . .
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, in Tins, 1s 6d; from the Proprietor, Cl. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland— post
free on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE, and FELTON, GKIMWADE & CO.,
Melbourne, Agents.
THE RED PAGE.
Newer Australian Books.
Stephen Kyrle, by Mrs. T. R. Andrews (Melb.,
Geo* Robertson). A remarkable ebullition in
lxxvii chapters and 383 solid pages, on the infan-
tile plane—Victoria sent to the Diclcens via
Harriet Beecher Stowe. The title-hero “stood
some six feet four inches in his socks, and he was
as strong, muscular, and supple as a Roman
gladiator. His head, held erect in a way that
suggested strength and courage rather than pride,
was shapely, and large in proportion to his great
height." He lands in Melbourne in 1852, goes to
Spring Creek diggings, fails, succeeds, drinks,
gets into gaol, gets out, and is finally (in quite
modern times) saved from a “life” sentence at
Pentridge by the remarkable talent as a sculptor
which his gold-digging and bush-ranging career
did not in the least prepare us for. For the body
of Stephen Kyrle two women strive—a dark bad
angel, who gets him for a long time ; and a
fair good angel (with singular mawkish affinities to
Little Nell), who gets him when he comes out of
Pentridge. The book fishes everything reasonable
and unreasonable into its net, and is full of good
morals and strange episodes (two chapters are de-
voted entirely to the death and funeral of the
good little girl’s good little dog). So ’tis odd if
the “ Wild Colonial Boy ” audience does not read
Stephen Kyrle with satisfaction.
The Wisdom of Esau, by R. L. Outhwaite and
C. H. Chomley (Melb., E. W. Cole). Life on a
Vic. mallee farm, with all the incidents, and a
fair plot to make them more palatable. Not an
inspired book; but a piece of solid, conscientious
workmanship, with interest enough to be read,
and value in its illumination of an aspect of Aus-
tralian life. A body of similar books would form
a very acceptable second rank in our Coming
Literature.
The Wonder-Child, by Ethel Turner (Lond.,
The Religious Tract Society). Another of this
friendly writer’s stories of children gambolling
against a fainter background of adults. The local
musical phenomenon is worked in ; also the Afri-
can war and the Bush Contingent. Mrs. Cur-
lewis’s talent and style enable her to make read-
able story-copy from the common paragraphs in
our newspapers. Perhaps her treatment grows a
trifle mechanical ; but her interest is maintained
as formerly.
The Warrigals ’ Well, by Donald Macdonald and
J. F. Edgar (Lond., Ward, Lock and Co.), bears
on the cover the name of Donald Macdonald only
—which seems decidedly unfair to lately-deceased
Edgar. It is unfair also to the public, who may
purchase the book under the impression that it
was written by Macdonald solely. This is pro-
bably the impression sought for ; since Macdonald
has won some reputation by his account of
the Ladysmith siege, and Edgar is com-
paratively unknown. Edgar gets his due
credit on the title-page and in a preface;
but Macdonald should see that he gets it every-
where where authorship is announced. These
little devices are familiar to the less scrupulous
class of publishers ; but reputable writers should
not countenance them. And Edgar is dead.
Not, unfortunately, that The Warrigals 1 Well
(the alliterative title has nothing to do with the
story) brings credit either to Edgar or to Mac-
donald. J. F. Elgar was a bright jour-
nalist ; Donald Macdonald is a serious jour-
nalist ; and their book does not rise above the
plane of journalism. The story tells how the
agents of a London syndicate discovered a gold
mine in the Northern Territory; but it is so
overlaid with extrinsic incident that it loses
all narrative interest. Instead of a breathless
recital of adventure, we have a hotchpotch
of descriptions of fauna and flora, a gold-
robbery from a mail steamer, encounters with
blacks, a badly-managed cipher episode, and a
great deal of dull intrigue. Almost throughout,
the book is heavily written ; and the characters
are shadows who never become really alive. The
gold-mine is found on paper ; but it is a lead-mine
that is offered to the public in print. The idea
and the materials are good; but they needed
better hands to write the story.
Love and Longitude, by R. Scot Skirving (Syd-
ney, Angus and Robertson), is another example of
that restless energy, that formidable enterprise,
which carry the Scottish race to the front of
the World’s Work. It represents the leisure in-
cursions into literature of an Edinburgh medico
well known in Sydney. For the rest it is a moral
and informing representation of what passes with
sober-minded people for romance, and, unjess for
the gratification of the author, there is no great
reason why it should have been printed. The
appendix on navigation is verra humourous.
When Winds Awake, by W. M. Whitney
(Sydney, Wm. Brooks & Co.) is a collection of
commonplace verses without literary title to per-
petuation. D. H. Souter contributes five decora-
tive illustrations, of which “Pegasus” is less
stiff than the ugly others. The effort to print the
booklet attractively deserves praise, though the
success is doubtful.
Recent Reading.
Several of “McGv’s” “Men Who Write The
Bulletin ” are now travelling Australia; and the
other day the police were so impressed by one of
them that they walked into the office and de-
manded assurance of his good faith. On being
assured that the Man was really “Titus Salt”
and “Silas Snell” and all the other local heroes
rolled into one, and did really (as he seems to-
have claimed) write the leaders and the verses
and the wild-cat column, the police representative
borrowed the third edition of Ellis’s The Criminal
and departed. Having brought The Criminal
back like an honest police person, and being
invited to contribute a commentary, the Force
affirmed that the official habit of silence had so
grown upon it that it could not open its lips
even when it tried ; but, generally not-speaking,
it thought that if Ellis relied less upon books and
more on the living model he would get his subject
in better perspective. And there may be some-
thing in that. Nevertheless, as a handbook to
the science of Crime, Ellis’s book is the best
available by the ordinary English reader; and
this new edition is considerably enlarged. The
cardinal deductions remain unchanged by re-
vision—
The only education that can avail to prevent crime in
any substantial degree must be education in the true
sense, an education that is as much physical and moral
as intellectual, an education that enables him who has it
to play a fair part in social life. . . We seem to be
approaching a point at which it will become obvious that
every citizen must be educated to perform some useful
social function. . .
All education must include provision for the detection
;*nd special treatment of abnormal children. We cannot
"catch our criminals too young. . .
The making of children is the highest of all human
functions, and that which carries the most widespread
and incalculable consequences. It is well to remember
that every falling away from health, every new strain and
stress, in man or woman, ma.v lay an additional burden
on a man or woman vet unborn, and perhaps wreck a life
or a succession of lives.
Ellis asks particularly/after Joe Brass’s (Svrlney)
Confessions of a Thief, parts ii and lit. Can any-
one say if these were ever published ? or did not
Joe s romantic work (not literally to be relied on
say the authorities) exhaust itself with the first
part ?
Frederic Harrison’s views on the proclamation
of martial law in Cape Colony— •
Speaking as a lawyer, as one who had had occasion to
study constitutional law for thirty years, he advisedly laid
down three propositions, all of which were, he said, sus-
tained by the highest of English Judges, from Coke to
Lord Chief Justice Cockburn.
T re i ~ l ‘ That if a ".V British subject
r?,L U tt° death not in war, not as a spy, and not in the
course of actual military operations, but put to death
after a mock trial for treason, or for some such civil
offence, every man who ordered, aided, or abetted in his
death, was liable to be tried by a jury on a charge of
murder. He was thus liable, even after years had
elapsed, and although an Act of Indemnity might be
passed in general terms.
2. That unless any man charged with such death could
satisfy a jury of his countrymen that the act was a bona-
nae military necessity for the carrying out of some direct
military operation, and was not a mere act of revenge of
terrorism, or of usurpation of civil law, the accused,
whether soldier or civilian, general or governor, was un-
doubtedly guilty of murder.
_3. That if any mock court-martial arrogated to itself
the prerogative of civil government and pretended to
pass sentences of penal servitude, such proceedings were
not only null and void, but were in themselves crimes,
and every man—soldier or civilian, officer of "justice or
police-vyho attempted to give effect to such sentences,
who unlawfully arrested, tried, or imprisoned such
prisoners upon such civil charges, was himself liable to
criminal justice.
We could not, said Mr. Harrison, play fast and loose
with English law. If we did, it vanished. Defy the prin-
ciples of liberty under the law, and there would soon be no
principles left to defy. What was done in Cape Colony
to-day might be done in Ireland to-morrow, and in Ena-
land the day after.
Where was anarchy going to stop when once proclaimed
°f. British soil ? If law were to be abolished in South
Africa by a single Minister in his orchid house while his
colleagues were playing golf or amusing themselves at
Monte Carlo, why might it not be abolished the next day
in Australia or m Canada by some Minister, or even in
Ireland, Scotland, or England ?
He would ask on what was the Throne, the House of
Lords, or Parliament, or civil government going to be
based hereafter if the most venerable conditions of British
freedom were to be trampled upon because our soldiers
could not get the better of 50,000 Dutch farmers ?
Mill’s “Liberty,” and Descartes’ “Method”
and “Metaphysical Meditations,” are new volumes
m the Scott library at Is. 6d. Mill seems ever-
green ; and he is commended to the notice of the
Commonwealth Cabinet. The interest of Des-
cartes is nowadays chiefly personal and historical:
science has passed him.
Writes William Archer—
Let us suppose Mr. Maldonado called upon to justify in
cold blood his little ebullition of temper [in Pinero’s new
play, when he calls England “the suburb of the uni-
verse ”]—what would he say ? His case, I fancy, would
run something like this : “ What is the essence of suburb-
anism ? Is it not imperturbable self-satisfaction, inacces-
sibility to ideas, social cliqueishness and ineffi-
ciency (outside of a narrow routine) in practical affairs
amateurishness in art, inertia in politics, soullessness in
religion, and, in general, a sheepish, mechanical sub-
servience to the dictates of Mrs. Grundy? What
is suburbanism, if not this? And what, if not this
is the English character? You plume yourselves’
with John of Gaunt, upon your insularity, and
yet you cannot endure to be told that you are insular
Because you live in an island you think (and it has
hitherto been true, in a sense) that you can afford to be
second-rate in everything ; and oh ! how second-rate you
contrive to be ! You are second-rate in statesmanship
generalship, scholarship ; second-rate in science, in art’
in literature, in commerce, in engineering. Even in the
sports to which you pay a mad devotion you are being
forced to take a second place. What can be more
dismally suburban than your Royal Academy, unless
it be your popular theatres, with their garish vulgarity
and their sloppy sentimentality ? When by chance a
really fine thing is done among you, your moral paladins
are shocked and your aesthetic pundits set themselves to
carp, and belittle, and pick holes, in the truest spirit of
suburbanism. Morally, aesthetically, intellectually, your
national note is self-complacent inefficiency. Again I
declare that England is the suburb of the universe ; and
if you try to drown my remark by blaring out ‘’Rule
Britannia,’ I add that you thereby prove my case.”
Maurice Hewlett’s New Canterbury Tales show
some loss of power and charm as compared with
earlier books— Little Novels of Italy, for example.
The trick of style is less well justified, and the
author’s vitality throbs less keenly. The Prioress’
tale of a Christian child done (almost) to death in
Jewry gives a few pages to modify this judgment;
but the others, though deserving, have not the
high desert we have known. Occasionally a
gallant line comes—
... a moonfaced, sidling, cuddling, snoozleing, snug-
gling, coaxing, adoring, mothering, greensick little slip
of delicacy, fifteen years old, and no more, by Cock and
the Prophet Jonah . . . (133)
Note a rare possessive—
... a head of brown hair softer and sunnier than anv’s
of his own family. ... (268)
The sixth edition of the Orient-Pacific Line
Guide, a handsome 400-page volume with many
maps and illustrations, merits every commenda-
tion. It is well written, admirably printed, and
of absorbing interest to tourists.
Another new book is published for Louis Becke
(pandering to the B.P. with his tongue in his
cheek) — By Rock and Pool. Becke’s work nowa-
days is comparatively poor—acceptable journalism
unworthy of perpetuation. Few can write so
much as he, and continue to write well. Here is
a Becke bibliography for correction—
By Reef and Palm, London, 1894 ; His Native Wife
Sydney, 1895, London, 1896 ; The Ebbing of the Tide’,
London, 1895 ; A First Fleet Family (with Walter
Jeffery), Sydney and London, 1896 ; The Mystery of the
Laughlin Islands (with Walter Jeffery), 1896 ; Pacific
Tales, London, 1897; Wild Life in Southern Seas. London,
1897 ; Rodman the Boat-steerer, London, 1898 ; The
Mutineer (with Walter Jeffery), Sydney and London,
1898 ; Ridan the Devil, London, 1899 ; The Naval
Pioneers of Australia (with Walter Jefferv), London
1899 ; Old Convict Days (edited), London, 1899 ; Admiral
Phillip (with Walter Jeffery), London, 1899; Tom Wallis,
London, 1900 ; Arrecifos, London, 1900 ; Tessa ; The
Trader’s Wife, London, 1901 ; The Tapu of Randerah
(with Walter Jeffery), London, 1901 ; By Rock and Pool
London, 1901.
And this, they say, is the way American poli-
ticians make their speeches :
Three weeks before the late President McKinlev left
Canton for Buffalo Exhibition he and Mr. Cortelyou" were
sitting in the study, the President smoking and the
Secretary at his desk reading papers, and neither of them
speaking. Suddenly the President took his cigar from
his lips and said :
Expositions are the timekeepers of progress.
Mr. Cortelyou wrote down the epigram, but said
The President smoked a few minutes, and then remarked
apropos of nothing at all: ’
Amity is better than animosity.
The Secretary made another note, and Mr. McKinlev
lapsed into his thoughtful mood. Suddenly he again
broke the silence with : *
Reciprocity is better than retaliation.
The President finished his cigar, went upstairs, and
returned to find on his table on a large sheet of paper
the three phrases, one at the top, one in the middle and
the third lower down, type-written. Mr. McKinley ’read
the epigrams, and turning to Mr. Cortelyou, said, with a
smile, “ We have begun the Buffalo speech, I see!”
Away from home we hear the news—
The Australians have more slang phrases than the
Americans (says the Baltimore Sun). Their most common
ejaculation is “My word ! ” Among other slang phrases
are the words “ screw ” for salary or income, “narked”
•J a , nsTy > “ cush ” for comfortable, and “putting on
side ” for putting on airs. If a man is assaulted by high-
waymen and robbed he is “ stuck up,” and if he has no
money whatever it is common to say he “ has not a
bean.” “ Good iron ”is an expression of incredulity at a
preposterous story. People ask you to “hang up your
horse ” instead of hitching it. If a person fails “he has
gone bung,” and if he is well off “he is pretty well in.”
Americans use the expressions “on the jump” or “on
the go”; the Australian says he is “on the wallaby.”
An Australian dude is a “ tofi,” a tramp is a “ swapman ”
or a. “sundowner.” Luggage is always called “swag,”
and the common word for food is “ tucker.”
Asquith s sarcastic reference to Lond. Spectator's
blunder over the Rhodes cheque incident—
A respectable weekly newspaper of blameless antece-
dents and growing infirmities was selected to be at once
its vehicle and its victim. It was a piquant variation upon
those stories about cocks and bulls and other eccentric
members of the animal creation with which that journal
was in the habit of regaling its unsophisticated readers.
This must make the ghost of Richard Hutton
walk uneasily.
Little items—
r To . Ef Jf on : Comment seems rather foolish. What has
Lambert s acquisition of French technique to do with his
capacity to represent Australia artistically ? That
depends upon his spirit and sympathy. The means and
artifices of black-and-white art have no nationality :
they are mere moulds into which an artist pours any
message he chooses. . . . Stephen Gwynn on Pater’s
style : “ Its ‘ delicate blandness,’ to borrow aphrase from
Manus, is the product of a stuffy' atmosphere : I should
like to hear it characterised by Dr. Johnson. There are
china-shops and this is one—where a bull would be a
blessed apparition.” . . . Stephen Phillips : “ A deliberate
rebellion against the Elizabethan tradition is the best
hope for English poetic drama. That, at any rate, has
always been my view ; and I have tried to act up to it
and enfranchise myself from the Shakespearean ideal.
But people can’t, or won’t, see that. . . My whole case,
as against the Elizabethan drama, is that i claim to be
judged rather by the cumulative effect of a whole work
than by isolated, and even irrelevant, patches of splen-
« S r ' T ; TookfellovfB correspondents are asked to omit
Mr., Esq.,’ “ Dear Sir,” “Yours truly,” and similar
epistolary conventions. These no longer mean courtesy ;
they mean nothing, and they waste time and space. . . .
r,^^"hate ver you do, never talk to a musician about music.
•!? It 1 • P• Sousa, of whose band it has been
said that Listening to Sousa of a summer evening at
Manhattan Beach would be dangerous to any girl but an
American.”
The Inky Way.
Proposed Q. legislation in regard to Sunday
papers penalises the publishing, distributing, selling, or cir-
culating of any newspaper on Sunday first offence, fine
£10; second offence, fine £lOO ; third offence, fine £2OO and
the plant becomes forfeitable. An exception is made in
favour of a Sunday special giving* “ pressing news of great
public importance,” but no paper can publish more than
three such Sunday specials in one year. In Westralia,
legislation to silence the two existing Sunday sheets is
promised. In Sydney, it has been pertinently asked why
the citizen who buys Sunday papers cannot get a glass of
milk or an orange for his children. The spasm of reac-
tionary legislation and reactionary sentiment which is
crossing Australia just now, is worthy of the Middle Ages.
And now that Sunday trams run in Edinburgh, the
crusade against the Sunday newspaper is reallv too
stupid.
Lismore has now a daily paper—the Evening
Post. There are several country towns in N.S.W.
with dailies, usually anaemic little sheets. At
Bathurst, whose adult male population can he
judged from the fact that it returns only one member to
the State Assembly, there are three daily newspapers.
Broken Hill, with three or four times the male popula-
tion, has only one daily, and it is able to be a creditable
production. In the old days, before the concentration of
interest in the N.S.W. capital, there were several pro-
vincial papers which rivalled chose of Sydney in import-
ance. Under Federation energetic country newspapers
ought to regain their old influence—to the profit of the
community. But the curse of the country press is the
extreme competition. So soon as a paper begins to pro-
vide a bare living for its proprietor-editor-manager,
another one springs up to cut into the business. The
country newspapers, if they studied their own interests,
would concentrate. With one paper where there are now
two or three there would be a living in provincial press-
work.
Max O’Rell has settled down to join the edi-
torial staff of Paris Figaro.
Journalist Galbraith, Thames (M.L.), has in-
vented a shorthand system, and claims verbatim pro-
ficiency in 12 months. It is the dream of many a news-
paper man to invent a new shorthand system, but so far
Isaac Pitman’s position is not seriously threatened.
The West Australian, the conservative journal
of Groperdom, claims \to have first enlightened the
Westralians in 1833, and is junior only to the Sydney
Herald, amongst Australian dailies. The W.A. recently,
with much speechifying and drinking, started a new three-
decker Foster machine. Lady Lawley, wife of the Gov.,
set the new machine in motion and named it King
Edward VII!
Francis Lawley, a distinguished journalist who
died in London last November, was at one time appointed
Governor of N.S.W. Originally private secretary to
Gladstone, Lawley lost heavily in Stock Exchange specu-
lations, and, to give him a chance to recoup his losses,
Gladstone offered him the Governorship of N.S.W. But
the appointment caused a rancorous debate in the
Commons, and was cancelled. Lawley then took to
journalism, and was Times correspondent during the
American Civil War.
-S'. M. Herald has sent a special commissioner
(Kirby, a former sub-editor) to inquire into the Kanaka
traffic in Queensland.
“Vulcan”: Re Mahbub Ali’s “When I was
fifteen I had shot my man and begot my man!” S.M.
Herald printed neither “that” nor much more of the
kind. Such bits are as the spice to Kipling’s curry—
S.M.H. dished up hash. I confess to having spent a
humoursome half-hour in comparing the expurgated
S.M.H. version with the real Kim.
Steve O’Brien, a Bulletin contributor and lately
sub. of Brisb. Worker, has gone to edit the famous Eagle
at Charters Towers. Part of the history of the Eagle is
written in blood and beer, not without blasphemy.
Various lively scribes have had a finger in the paper’s
destiny ; and a former Bulletin poet, the six-named Von
Kotze, proudly recites his share. But Won Kotze was a
mild editor comparatively.
Of The Golden Fleece, a new Sydney wool-trade
review, F. J. Broomfield makes quite a creditable maga-
zine-graced with resplendent allusions to all the Arts
and many of the Sciences.


NPDOUGALL’S sheep dip
THE ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUS DIP.
M‘DOUGALL BROS., 8 Spring: Street, Sydney.
Asents: 3XT.25. Xj. A. 00., JLm±cL. LOOAL AGENTS EVERYWHERE
WOOL
SEND
YOUR
WOOL
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
If you want to get the best possible results.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.
Wool and Produce Brokers.
CO 21 Per Cent.
Fat Stock Salesmen, Stock & Station Agents.
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd-,
Circular Quay, Sydney. _
BRAUN ORE SAMPLE-CRUSHER
and PULVERISER.
dg
Combination of a Jaw and Roll
Pulveriser working together.
May bo operated by either hand or power.
Jaws, 3J in. wide; Roll, 6 in. diameter; Belt
Wheel, 16 x 2& in. Total Weight, 2851b5.
Write fob Particulars to —
PARKE & LACY CO., Ltd.
60 Clarenoe-St«, Sydney, n.s.w.
MINING ENGINEERS & MACHINERY
MERCHANTS.
HAVE THE
BEST.
!"!!SSS!
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE
Is built by a light, .handy machine, easily operate 1, which will weave
THREE CHAINS OF FENCE AN HOUR.
The Lateral Wires are two-ply cable of best Gal. Steel Wire intersected, by Crimped Steel Pickets
securely interwoven at any desired distance apart, forming a perfect Web Fence which will hold
securely all kinds of Stock.
FOR CATALOGUES AND PARTICULARS
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE PENCE CO.,
128 Franklin St., Melbourne ; 143 Sussex St., Sydney.
NEITHER CRACK
% «
6 806
B&07
5808
NOR BURN.
tBB
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
GUARANTEE. —Should any of our Celebrated CAN’T=B-BEAT Briar Pipes Crack or Burn a
New One will be Exchanged for it immediately on Application.
T Sold by all Tobacconists. By Post, Is. 2d.
Mick Simmons, haymarket, Sydney.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Officess 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores; PYRMONT.
Sole Charge : 3 Per Cent, to tlie Growers.
We are the Onlp Selling Broken who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Supers.
On Our Selection.” Bj “Steele Rudd.
A LETTER FROM A MINING ENGINEE
“Ontario,” Nicholson Street,
Burwood, N.S.W.,
March 8,1900.
Gentlemen,—
“On the Ist Sept., 1898, I became over-heated,
then suddenly exposed to a piercing cold wind, I
caught a chill, the result being that I was deprived
of robust health, and for about seven months my
life was despaired of. During this time I had been
through the hands of eight medical men in private
and public hospitals. The majority of them held
out no hope, some of them declaring that I had
kidney, liver, heart and lung troubles. In the last
Hospital, my medical attendant said 1 had Bright s
Disease of the kidneys, that he could do nothing
for me, and that I had better be taken home, as I
could not recover. Rather a dark prospect this,
considering that, in addition to the troubles
enumerated above, I had dropsy to a fearful extent.
I had been tapped in the lower part of the abdomen
five times, several gallons of water being drawn off,
but all to no good purpose. In a few days after
being tapped, I swelled up in my legs, abdomen,
and stomach, larger than before. The dropsy
began to make its appearance in my hands and face.
My body swelled to that degree that I sickened to
look at myself, and many times wished I could die.
Friends who visited me sympathised and bid me,
as they believed, a last farewell. But an angel of
mercy came in the shape of Warner’s Safe Cure.
A lady friend strongly recommended me to give up
hospitals, doctors and medicines, and take only
Warner’s Safe Cure. On the 3rd April, 1899, I
began to take Warner’s Safe Cure. A.s soon as I
began to take this medicine my appetite began to
return. At the end of four weeks, when I had
drank four bottles of Safe Cure, the water began to
come away. I reduced in circumference around
the abdomen from 54.jf inches to 41| inches, and my
legs reduced in proportion. I felt like a new man.
My spirits returned. I began to get regular sleep,
still reducing in size until not a vestige of lung,
kidney, liver or dropsy trouble could be seen or
felt. Tam now in the best of health, and am firmly
convinced that Warner’s Safe Cure has, in God’s
hand, been the means of restoring my lost health
and strength. I would gladly write, talk, or smg
the praises of Warner’s Safe Cure, but will con-
elude by stating that I shall be only too happy to
answer any questions, either by letter or otherwise.
I feel I owe a duty to the world at large m making
known the almost miraculous cure effected in my
case by Warner’s Safe Cure. I also feel a deep
debt of gratitude to the discoverer of Warner s Safe
Cure, and trust this humble, unsolicited testimonial
may be made public for the benefit of suffering
humanity. I am well-known all over the Australian
Colonies, and my old mining contemporaries will
rejoice to learn of my restoration to health.
S. E. RICHARDS,
Mining Engineer.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne, Vic.
WHEN YOU HAVE
READ THIS LETTER
The following complaints all arise
from the retention in the system
of urinary and biliary poisons:
you will see that even Bright’s Disease
of the Kidneys can be cured by taking
6
a
Warner’s Safe Cure is the only medi-
cine known to science which will CURE
Bright’s Disease, and not only does it
cure this most fatal of kidney diseases,
but it is a remedy for
and for all complaints arising from any
disability of the kidneys and liver to
properly perform their allotted task of
extracting from the blood the urinary
and biliary poisons, which, retained in
the system, are the cause of so much
Rheumatism
General Debility
Bright’s Disease
Bladder Diseases
Blood Disorders
Sick Headache
Biliousness
Indigestion
Dyspepsia
Neuralgia
Backache
Sciatica
Lumbago
Anaemia
Gout
Gravel
WARNER’S
SAFE
CURE
Cures all these by restoring the kidneys
and liver to health when the causative
poisons are removed in a natural
manner.


TATTERSALL’S.
Aadreas s Care GEO. ADAMS, Hobart.
Summer 0.
Dec. 26.
dO,OOO Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
.shares in the above.
Name.
Address.
t •
Carrington S. Dec. 28.
50,000 Subscribers at 5«
To TATTERSALI*
Please allot me.
_flhares in the above.
Name.
Address.
Brighton P. Jan. 1, 1902.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSAIik
Please allot me.
Name
.shares in above.
£
>
Address
Launceston C. Jan. 22.
dO,OOO Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL
Pleaae allot me shares in above.
Name _________________
Addres*L_ ___
* « «
Hobart C. Jan. 29.
60,000 Subscribers at 6.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me.
-shares in the above.
* •
Name
Address,
Anniversary H. Jan. 27.
60,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL
Please allot me,— shares in the above.
Same
<G
Address _
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tattersall,” care Cteo. Adams, Hobart.


For while you sleep those 30
drops of SEIGEL’S SYRUP
are cleansing and invigorating
your system. You will rise “ like
a giant refreshed.”
“ Having used
St IGEIS
g^MP
for 12 months,” says Mrs. J. Johnson,
168, Lydiard Street, Soldier’s Hill,
Ballarat, Victoria, “I can testify to
iHj&noDe
I
, ri
JBewme !! ‘-
9 OF iMI&CTIONSa.
fdg
COLLINS’ PATENT PROSPECTING DISH
dg
Has the following advantages over
the ordinary Tin Dish—
A Flange projects round one half and
and prevents the loss of any metal —
fine or coarse.
No experience is required to use it.
A boy can pan off as easily as the most
skilful miner.
Double the amount of work can be done
in a given time than with the old dish.
Sold by all Storekeepers and Iron-
mongers throughout Australia.
If you have any difficulty in procuring
the Collins’ Patent Dish in your own
district write to—
R. JOHNSON CLAPHAM
& MORRIS, LTD.
78 Pitt-St., Sydney, and
231 Elizabeth -St., Melbourne.
Manufacturers under License from the
Patentee.
XJSB
SPOONEE’S
fdg
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
| Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and I*.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
i Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
LS 'old by all Storekeepers,
‘ Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Next Distribution of the Profits at 31st December, 1901.
Policies Effected before the close of the year will participate in the Bonus to be then allotted.
Amount of Cash Bonus divided among the participating Policyholders for the single year 1000 was £537,895.
(All bonuses vest immediately on policies attaining’ a duration of t\Vo years.)
Intending Proposers should note the above carefully, and send in their applications early, either direct or through
1 any 0 f Society’s Agents, so as to reap the benefit of this year’s bonus.
DIRECTORS * Thomas Littlejohn, Esq., Chairman ; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.0., Deputy-Chairman; The
Hon R J Black, M.L.C. ; Benjamin Short, Esq.; Senator J. T. Walker; J. Abbott, Esq. ; and
F E WiNCHCOMBE. Esq., M.P. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Head Office : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
df
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10s.
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
Send for a
Catalogue.
gd
Bent*Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
PLAYER’S
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
WORLD
FAMED
m
ii liiHii
WHOLESALE
Distributing: Agents
Neiv South Wales —
M. RUTTY & CO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrence & Go.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Western Australia —
Lionel Sam9on & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland —
Thos. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Philp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
Hew Zealand—
D. Benjamin & Co.,
Dunedin, Wellington
and Ohristohuroh.
MARTELLS
“A genuine
old Brandy
made from
Wine.”
Uedical Press.
THREE STAR
"Particularly suitable
for Medicinal
Purposes.”
The Lancet
BRANDY
THE
‘PLUM’
gdf
THE
‘PLUM’
FNTLEMEN —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
Gr E like a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kmd of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had themi m use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7a Od.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
r single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21a
Price | sin | le Eazol> i n i vory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful ease, 30a
Registered and bent Post Free to ant part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
COPE’S NAVY CUT and PRAIRIE FLOWER
(SPECIAL MIXTURE)
As supplied to the ARMY and NAVY.
Manufactured in England.
TOBACCOS
Agents—Virgoe, Son and Chapman.
Price 6s.
Post Free.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
BY
" Steele Rudd/*
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNJEIf
When In town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, 15; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
8-Spring Sulkies, i 7 16s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies* the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double’Buggies, £2O. Backboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies' Phaetons (single and double). Dog Garts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for ie39
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 pet
cent more for your requirements.
9/81 83?
s 'on lYioaas a no
gd
Relirered at anjr Wharf ®r
tf.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A. Drover’s Dream Realised.
With the saddle for my pillow, and the dewy grass
my bed,
Not a roof to form a shelter but the starry sky
o’erhead:
I lay in peaceful slumber near the campfire’s ruddy
gleam,
And while I bathed in gentle sleep, there came to
me a dream.
In my vision there before me stretched the
Steeplechasing track,
The noisy Saddling Paddock, and the Grandstand
at my back ;
And I heard the “bookies” laying on Priora six
to four —
It was even money Playboy, twelve to one against
Galore.
I was riding Jimmy Gov’nor (that’s the name was
on my brain) —
Jetty black and shone like satin, he was of the
“ Outlaw” strain ;
I could hear the bell a-ringing, warning starters
to prepare
For the Christmas Hunting Contest, and there
was no time to spare.
The conditions of the contest were as follow after
this —
Each lady chose a rider, for his fee he charged a
kiss ;
The prize, a golden bracelet, was around the wrist
to twine
Of the lucky girl whose champion would be first
to cross the line.
There’s a maiden young and pretty with a head of
flaxen curls,
Her shapely lips are ruby-red, her'teeth are set
like pearls,
Her eyes are dew-wet violets, as pretty as can
be—
To ride and win the golden band she somehow
fancied me !
So I mounted Jimmy Gov’nor, and I rode him
past the stand ;
There my lady beckoned to me with her gingham
in her hand ;
When I rode across she whispered, “Ride the
best race of your life !
For if you win the bracelet, Jack, you’ll also win
a wife.”
Now her promise made me anxious, and my spirits
rose and flew,
And it seemed to raise the spirits of old Jimmy
Gov’nor, too.
For I felt the old horse tremble as we faced the
barrier start, ,
And his mighty heart was throbbing- like the
throbbing of my heart.
The flag went down, we started ! In my dream I
felt the force
Of her promise, that was urging me to send the
old black horse :
You bet I did, I sent him like a wild and sweep-
ing flood,
Till his sides were gored and blistered, and my
spurs were red with blood.
His jumping it was splendid, and he made the
pace so fast,
That before two miles were finished there were
only two could last ;
One was the veteran Fairfield : he galloped like
a toft ;
At my girth the Streak was racing, and I could
not shake him off.
In the straight I leaned and whispered, to the
grand old horse I spoke,
“If you win, I win a fortune, if you lose the race
I’m broke ;
’Tis not for their golden sovereigns that you face
this cruel strife,
But you’re racing, lad, to win for me a lovely little
wife! ”
And he seemed to understand me, for he tossed
the white foam back,
And he made a desperate effort down that
phantom racing track,
And he left the others standing—how romantic all
did seem —
He won the race and I a wife • • . alas, twas but
a dream !
When I wakened from my slumbers, and my
dream was realised,
I was utterly disgusted, disagreeably surprised ;
From my infancy to manhood a somnambulist I’ve
been,
The greatest sleeping prowler I, that ever you have
seen.
I had wandered in my slumbers, and was riding
on a log
That I straddled Toddy Sloan style, with my back
up like a frog ;
And my heels were bruised and blackened, just
from spurring blasted wood—
The way my thews and sinews ached can quite be
understood.
The maid for whom I’d ridden was a nasty, baldy
calf
That stood nibbling at my laces ; I declare it made
me laugh !
I had dreamed my lady kissed me— twas the calf
that licked my face—
As I rode that fallen gum-tree in that “waking-
sleeping ” race!
And now, when round the camp at night we tell
of dreams we’ve had,
Of dreams of love, of dreams of hate, of dreama
both good and bad,
Yeu’ll hear my mates laugh loud and long, when
through the smoky fog,
I tell them of that blessed race upon that cursed
log!
JOHNNY PINTPOT.


WOOL. PRODUCE. GRAIN.
he New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
A.& SEILLIM GJ- BROKERS ONTLY.
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (|) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
'(lncluding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
■ will be 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
V under ... ... ... ... ... Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing 1 . Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
■W:E3[3SI_A/37.
Every inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by the Company.
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent when
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
Mitchell’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, eic.
Alston’s Windmills, Buncle and Sons’ Chaifcutters.
Donald’s Patent Woolpress.
AGENTS FOR McDOUGALE’S SHEEP DIF.
fg
df
nothing Succeeds [ike Appearance.
UP-TO-DATE STYLE FOR UP-TO-DATE PEOPLE.
The Suit
To Order
42s
With
Extra Trousers
Holds the Commonwealth’s Record
..FOR..
STYLE, FIT & FINISH.
Send for Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms to our only address
OPP. G.P.0., BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.
Price SIXFEBTCE=Fosted, Bc3L.
VINOLIA SOAP
FOR DELrCATE, SENSITIVE SKINS.
FA CTS
VINOLIA SOAP
IN FIVE KINDS. SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Vinolia Cream
.. FOR ..
ECZEMA, ITCHING FACE SPOTS, Etc.
Editor Baby reports:
“An emollient antiseptic cream. For acne
spots on the face, and particularly for
eczema, it is undoubtedly an efficacious
remedy, frequently healing eruptions and
removing pimples in a few days. It relieves
itching as if by magic. ”
FOUR SIZES.
Vinolia Powder
.. FOB ..
REDNESS, ROUGHNESS, TOILET, Etc.
Editor Lady’s Pictorial reports :
“ Vinolia Powder is a very soothing pre-
paration, superseding the old toilet powders,
which are apt to cause acne by blocking up
the pores of the skin.”
White, Pink, & Cream Tints.
N FOUR SIZES
TOOTH & CO.,
Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I'O DEITY COMPJBTITIOK!'.
WINES The Be “ B Z h onbJ ° J SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS °r oßue
French’s Acting Edition.
gf
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
Kxtra Special Catalog lie of
lloohs Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
ELECTRIC
MINING
MACHINERY
OE EVERY DESCRIPTION.
KRUPP BALL MILLS
NOYES BROS.
31 O’Connell-st., SYDNEY;
17 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
DA.PTO (Lalse
(r/i MIT 151)).
Illawarva),
near BYDMEY.
SMELTERS.
• • •
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
I
MAKERS OF
“S. Co of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILLAWARRA”
. .BKAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
i\u'dittneia of all olaases of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULL
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES, PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to P. S. Mouse, Manager. The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.


A witness at Collingwood (Melb.) Court,
t’other day, confidently gave “Galway” as his
religion. Come to think of it, there are many
people of the Galway and Belfast creeds.
The number of those who describe them-
selves as “atheists” and “agnostics” in Maon-
land has largely decreased, according to the cen-
sus; hut, on the other hand, those who “decline
to state religion” have increased by over .3000
since last count.
One charity home, near Sydney, seems
to he a most hopeless fire risk, and, in the event of
an outbreak, the loss of life would be tragic.
When the head man’s attention was directed to
this he is said to have replied “ that he trusted in
God.” The authorities should be responsible for
the safety of all these places. People who, without
taking all necessary human precautions, ‘trust
in God,” are as dangerous as lunatics.
“R.A.K.” : What an ideal breeding-place
for cancer, consumption, etc., is a little, badly-
ventilated chapel. I knew a woman who, after a
year’s illness, has just died a terrible death from
cancer; and it turns out that, for at least two
years, she had sat twice every Sunday, at chapel,
next to another woman affected with this terrible
disease, and had drunk from the same communion-
cup. Yet, when separate chalices are suggested,
the parsons either smile contemptuously or screech
with holy horror. “ Religion, ” dirt, and disease
always did have a good deal in common !
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEC
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion V If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releasee
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there majt be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but .1 WILL,. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send atonce for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm, Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, l/3jd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents •• ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
sate*
Caution.— -Genuine Chlorodyna
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BftOMCHITU
DIARRHCEA, bean oa
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED EON DON NEWS o!
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion o a
others, I should say Chi.orodynk. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to tne
relief of a large number of j simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.’
30 Days’ Trial.
m
/
&
•m*
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
KELTS and
A PI’IjIA JVC US
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely wliat we promise.
NOTICE —Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free),.giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH sHaHS,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
German Electric Appliance Agency-
-63 Elizabeth Stkekt, SYDNEY.
-^av(\.vYiy\vv
mi
iS
HOTELKEEPERS!
MAKE YOUR OWN
DERATE DWATERS.
rpHE “ AUSTRAL” AERATED WATER MACHINE OCCll-
pies only Four Feet Square, will produce 150 Dozen per day of
Finest Waters (LEMONADE, GINGER ALE, SO DA WATER, &c.)
at a Cost below Fourpence per Dozen. This machine
supersedes all others for SIMPLICITY and USEFULNESS, as it
requires no skilled labor to work it.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
214-216 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
dgf
PLAIN NOME TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1200 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman w'ho
anticipates a bright future, and washes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1901 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted to any address for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made tor all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d. '
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. 0100 Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic, Is 6d, post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevassh’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. Plow to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
6. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
Balzac’s Droll Stories, Is 3d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 ill ns. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid.
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Pa, Ma and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Metal Working, Brazing, etc., Is 3d.
Send for my lllutrated Big- Book
Catalogue post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney. ■
Dr. Clarkson’s Electric Bell,
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, D.ys-
ueDtic Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts the combined treatment of Electricity' with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-IN VIGORATOR
w
1
* •
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is truly wonderful.
k THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC. y
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
Now
Ready.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH
Price 6d Posted Sd.
NATURES TRUE REMEDIES.
Nature has provided a TRUE REMEDY for Every
Complaint. It is, therefore, unnecessary to contaminate the
System with Mineral Poisons, which leave the System Weak
and Debilitated. Sufferers frt in Blood and Skin Diseases,
Nervous Affections, Piles, Rheumatism, and Affection of
the Liver and Kidneys, Chest and Lungs, Consumption,
General Debility, Costiveness, Influenza, Melancholia, MCnemia,
can rely on a Cure from these Remedies.
ALFALINE
REMEDIES
Are a guaranteed
Cure for the
above Complaints.
They have Cured
Thousands, and
stood a Test in
Australia for over
20 years. They
have never been
known to fail in
a single case, and
they are purely
NATURE’S
REMEDIES.
dgf
ALFALINE
HERBAL
REMEDIES
Have been Awar-
ded several Gold
Medals, and
More Testimon-
ials than any
known remedy in
Australia.
A Special
Guaranteed Rem-
edy for each
Complaint.
HERR RASSMUSSBFS CHIEF LABORATORY.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Are a Guaranteed Cure for All Nervous z 4 (T ctions, Weak Spine, Brain and Nerves, Foot
Memory, Tired Feeling, and General Debility. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Course, 2d/6.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
Are a PERMANENT CURE for the Most Chronic Blood Diseases, Skin Diseases, Blotches,
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs. Gravel, etc. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
Purify the Blood and Build up the Weakest Nervous System. A Guaranteed Cure for
iEnemia, Wa-ting Diseases in Females. A General Blood and Nerve Tonic
for both sexes. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS
Are Guaranteed to Cure Costiveness,
Biliousness, and the Liver and Kidneys.
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn,
BOaES, ONE SHILLING. Posted, 1/6.
Alfnline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to
cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lum-
I ago. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 12s. and
23?. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Aifaline Electric Suspender Bandage—
This Suspender imparts S:r ngth and Vigor,
at the same time as it supports the parts.
Price 215., posted.
Aifaline Asthma and Cough Pills -A
Wonderful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Con-
sumption, Bronchitis and Influenza. Boxes,
posied, 35., 65., 12s and 235. 6d,
Electric Beits —Containing powerful and
effectual Electric currents unequalled as a
cure for all Spinal and Kidnev Affections ;
425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Sufferers can only obtain the Alfaline Herbal Remedies from
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office or Branches, the addresses of
which appear below. Letters should be addressed and Cheques
and Money Orders made payable to Herr Rassmussen’s full
name— Hans Peter Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head
Office or Branches. Register all letters containing money.
All Remedies sent unobserved, packed in pi in cover.
Correspondence held confidential.
ALFALINE
PILE POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
FAT-REDUCING
POWDERS,
Boxes, 3 - and 6/-
ALFALINE
HAIR-RESTORER,
Boxes, 3 - and 6/-
CORN CURE, 1/-.
OINTMENT, 1/-.
i <u
HERRRASSMU&SfiWS
HEP.BM
“-5S
A USEFUL BOOK
SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmussen’s
valuable book, The
Alfaline Guide to
Health, which con-
tains valuable in-
formation for all
Complaints, and
copies of Testi-
monials, will be sent
'free in plain cover,
on application.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD OFFICE,
(HANS PETER RASSMUSSEN)
547 QEORQE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Alfaline Remedies can only be obtained from his Head Office and htl
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES :
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke-st.
BRISBANE—3O9 Queen-st.
ADELAIDE—IS Pulteney-st.
N.Z.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A.—PERTH, 481 Hay-st.
KALGOORLIE—Hannan - st.
BOULDER ClTY—Piesse-st.
FREMANTLE—Henry-st.
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of the ALFALINE REMEDIES.


MONKEY
BRAND\
50 A P
Makes Tin like Silver'}
Copper like Gold;
Brass like Mirrors;
Windows like Crystal;
Crockery like Marble.
Cleanses and polishes'at one and the same time.
Si Does not polish thetdirt in, polishes the dirt out .
Cleans and Brightens everything, but
Won’t Wash Clothes .
rm
Solid Gold MOTTO BROOCH, 11s 6d.
Also, same style • iyith Souvenir, Regard,
Good LlaCk, and Mizpah.
•^SfeMKaii
m^Ssss-
New Gold Bird BROOCH, Bs.
Gold Curb Chain BROOCH, 4s.
SAME OLD
FREETRADE
PRICES.
[Jewellers! Opticians
(go King ST, Sydney.
Solid Gold and Real Amethyst, 8s 6d>
Solid Gold BROOCH, 6s 6d. Post Free.
Solid Gold
Lover’s Knot
and Heart
BROOCH, 5/6.
A Policy for the Commonwealth.
PRICE, 6d.; Posted, Bd.
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIJIPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Hoarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
|0 YOU WISH to LEARN a Profitable
Trade in a day, and add to your income,
or start in a fascinating business requiring very
little capital ? If so, send three stamps for my
pamphlet entitled, “AN EASY INDUSTRY.”
Gives particulars. SUITABLE FOR EITHER
SEX. Box 131 G.P.0., Wanganui, New
Zealand.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
For
Uniform
Quality
Absolute
Purity
Excellent
Flavor
Hennessy’s
Brandy
Stands alone.
THE
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
g
’ I
I tv. 1 *'
%
'OO/t
m
0.
Sii
SB»
SS
Ulfrjgi
m
i>*
111
i»,iy
•%
Vl'';
m
S\h
n
Mi
Vi
1 \V •*
U
mm
.i i/M
J * v»
V N «'
Vl'
At
5
SCfcfc
**
fg
Intelligence
From Abroad
rWe are in receipt of advices from Europe to the effect that a
■j large quantity of Ruberoid Roofing was used in the extensive
L additions recently made to the Imperial Palace at Vienna, Austria.
ROOFING
fd
ROOFING
QUERY
If P& B Euberoid Eoofing is good enough for tbe Emperor of Austria and his
household to live under, it should mean a lot to you. Besides, it’s cheaper than Iron.
E. RICH « CO. LTD.
O’CONNELL STREET
SYDNEY
BRISBANE


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vor. 22.— N0. 1139,
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 14, 1901.
Price 6d.
GENERAL HUTTONS APPOINTMENT.
(Scene: Heaven — Hansard Department.)
OFFICE CHERUB : “’YER RING, SIR ?”
RECORDING ANGEL : “FLY ROUND, AND BRING ME A NEW BiG-D. BOOK AND A FEW ABLE-BODIED CLERKS. RUSH GENERAL HUTTON IS
RETURNING TO AUSTRALIA.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Aiistrftlians. ff
Printed and Published by Willtam Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... Q 2,
Half-yearly ... ... et
Quarterly 0 b b
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, 8. Australia,
Westralia and Iffaoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postaqe on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
€l, with 2s. 3d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of postage, the subscription
to Tiie Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—li'd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of Tiie Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have Tub Bullbtin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to 3. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
" Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short. Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tub Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Jilach and White.
Anyone supplying to Tun Bullbtin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and, adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street <(■ Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. — L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 33 Hout-st., Capetown. Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 14, 1901.
The Tariff and the Labor Party.
Very slowly and wearily the tariff debate
potters along in the Federal Parliament.
The little knot of obstructive Foreign-traders
talk for hours on almost every item, and on
two occasions, by way of variety, they
blathered for 12 hours on no item at all—
merely on the proposal that the House
should adjourn. Every attempt on the part
of the Government to get a small item
through with less than three or four hours
conversation is denounced by the Foreign-
trade press as an attempt to stifle free dis-
cussion, and to shove the tariff along by
“brute force”; and the Sydney morning
papers, which have for many years demanded
and enjoyed 50 per cent. Protection under
the N.S.W. postal law, urge that the sense-
less stonewalling policy should be carried
out to the bitter end in the name of “ com-
mercial freedom.” And in between times
the same press denounces the Federal
Government for not making better progress
with public business. When the tariff tortoise
has at last crawled through* the House
of Representatives—which will probably be
some time next year—it has to get through
the Senate, where it will presumably meet
with the same difficulties and make about
the same pace. And already the obstructive
party is complaining about the protracted
character of the session and similar griev-
imces.
mm**
The spectacle of William M‘Millan lead-
ing the fight against a tariff which tends to
establish Australian industries is an interest-
ing feature of the case. M‘Millan is not
an Australian. He represents a great
absentee syndicate of English importers, and
to this syndicate, quite naturally, the estab-
lishment of Australian manufacturing indus-
tries, which would enrich Australia and
supply employment and wages to the Aus-
tralian people, and damage the M‘Arthur
importing business, is utterly abhorrent.
The importer wants to see Australia rich
enough to buy his foreign goods, but if it is
a choice between Australia being so poor that
it can only buy a moderate amount of
his goods, or so rich and self-dependent
that it won’t want any of them, his interest
certainly lies in leaving the country poor.
And, allied with the representatives of the
absentee importing interest, are certain
foolish Labor politicians who yearn to let in
free the products of nigger and Chinese labor
in the name of White Australia. These
individuals —mostly from New South Wales
—propose to cut down the tariff by
£1,000,000 or more per annum, and if they
succeed they will create such a scarcity of
money that the abolition of the Old Age
Pension system will very probably follow, as
the shortest way out of the difficulty. The
N.S.W. Labor party voted for the payment
of these pensions with an enthusiasm
which was beautiful to contemplate. The
enthusiasm with which its representatives in
the Federal Parliament vote against putting
up the money to pay them isn’t at all
beautiful to contemplate. A sad and foolish
tendency to hope that things financial will
come right of themselves is characteristic of
the Labor party, and of many other parties.
* m * *
If the Foreign-trade contingent in the
House of Representatives, which is mostly a
New South Wales contingent, has its way
the effect promises to be startling. The
Federal tariff has, so far, yielded more
revenue than was expected of it, and even
with all this extra revenue the Cornstalk
financial situation is about as bad as it can
be. The deficit of 30th November, 1900,
was £44,277- At 30th November, 1901, it
was £437,776. But for the wholesale
annexation as revenue of the rents of the
unpaid-for properties in the resumed area of
Sydney, the shortage would be already
approaching £600,000. The exact situation
is as follows :
Five months Five months
to November, to November,
1900. 1901.
Revenue .. £4,134,588 £4,159,715
Expenditure.. 4,178,865 4,597,491
Deficit .. £44,277 £437,776
And the loan expenditure has been increas-
ing just about as gaily as the deficit. This
is the account to date :
Five months Five months
to to
November, November,
1900. 1901.
Ordinary Loan Expenditure ..£993,838 £1,225,816
Extra, for purchase of Resumed
Properties Nil 291,133
£993,838 £1,516,949
• * * »
Last financial year N.S.W. enjoyed, in-
directly, the benefit of the Federal tariff just
as it does now ; there was such a remarkable
rush to import heavily with a view to getting
ahead of the tariff that in June alone the
customs collections at Sydney increased by
over £107,000. Yet last year ended with a
deficit, according to the Government Statis-
tician, of £334,880. This year things pro-
mise to be worse, and among the States
which issue progress reports of their expendi-
ture N.S.W. is, just now, almost the most em-
barrassed. Yet the war-expenditure has been
comparatively small, and no money has
been fooled away on ducal celebrations and
similar ornaments. Most of the extra expen-
diture has gone for purposes of which the
Labor party cordially approves. Old Age Pen-
sions have been the largest item. There have
been additions to the road vote to make the
ways easier for the man on the land ; reduc-
tions in railway freights for the same pur-
pose ; increased wages to many Government
employees, mostly those engaged in manual
labor ; and more education expenditure.
Also there is a big bill to pay for interest on
last year’s loans—carried through by the
Labor vote. Likewise, there is ahead an
extra expenditure of about £120,000 a year
by reason of the new loan raised to pay for
the Sydney resumptions, and an almost
equal annual expenditure will shortly be
incurred through the granting of the eight-
hour day to railway and tramway employees.
All these are matters which were cordially
approved of by the State Labor party in
N.S.W., but it made no attempt to provide
the money to pay for them. And the
N.S.W. Federal Labor party has mostly
allied itself with the representative of the
rich absentee class to fight against any
serious attempt to provide the money.
* * * *
And, curiously enough, the N.S.W.
Federal Labor party has, to a great extent,
allied itself with the bebaubled agent of the
rich absentee importing co. to prevent work
being found for the class it represents. At
almost every item of the tariff the voice of the
M‘Billion has been raised, with the soured
and querulous complaint: “This duty is
prohibitory and will stop importation.” The
duty which stops importation may be bad for
the bloated absentee importing firm, but it
must create local manufactures and employ-
ment for the class which sends the Labor
party into Parliament. Yet, a large section
of the Labor party votes consistently with
the M‘Billion to prevent imports being
stopped, and to keep its own constituents
out of work. In this matter it shows itself
the simple and child-like dupe of the
M‘BiLLiONclass. It demands such high wages
and such short hours for the Australian
worker that his product must be turned out
at greater cost than that of most foreign
workers—so much greater that even the cost
of importation isn’t sufficient to make up the
difference. Therefore, the importer, when
he sees a new Australian industry starting
under Freetrade conditions, can always cut
down his prices until he kills it dead. The
same Labor men refuse to make good the
difference by import duties, and thereby
seek to kill off Australian industries for the
benefit of the M‘Billion order. That
representative of an absentee class, which
makes from 10 to per cent, dividends
out of the Australian people, leads his Labor
following by its foolish nose to denounce as
an enemy and a monopolist and an extor-
tioner the local manufacturer, who seldom
makes over 8 per cent. The spectacle of a
considerable section of the Labor Party voting
against providing the money for the Old Age
Pensions, against providing the means by
which the State can give its railway
employees an eight-hour day, and against in-
creased employment for the workers, also
voting for the absentee importer with his
huge profits and for the free influx of cheap
labor goods and nigger and Chinese products,
is a solemn one.
• • • •
Even the excuse that the new duties are a
heavy burden on the masses has already
almost fallen through. When the Federal
tariff came into force there was a sudden and
very considerable increase of prices. In
many cases the importer added on two or
three times the duty—an act of extortion
which, apparently, only further endeared him
to a certain class of alleged democrats. But
already the bottom has dropped out of the
movement, and prices are getting back to
their old level. In many cases they are not
only getting back there, but have actually
arrived. The chief loser is the importer—
the rich English and German absentee, to
whom a large section of the N.S. W. Labor
party appears to have sold its soul and its
judgment and its other mental faculties. To
the foreign importers’ representatives it
matters very little if the Old Age Pension
scheme falls through, if the concessions
granted to the railway workers have to be
rescinded, or if the State treasury is practi-
cally bankrupt. It is much better for them
that wages should be low and a large section
of the people unemployed, than that wages
should be high and the people employed in
industries which will make the importer
wholly superfluous. The Bulletin doesn’t
accuse the importing class of taking this
brutally selfish attitude without good
authority. The leader of the great fight
against a national tariff and a national policy
himself acknowledged, almost in so many
words, that he fights against the tariff with
the full knowledge that he is fighting to
keep down local industries—mainly N.S.W.
industries—which would supply work and a
decent weekly wage to the community which
is foolish enough to send him into Parlia-
ment. Consider this item (Sydney Tele-
graph report, December 3) :
Sir William M'Millan : “ Victorians were making a
mistake in agitating for high duties, AS THEY WOULD
RESULT IN NEW SOUTH WALES BECOMING A
LARGE MANUFACTURING STATE and securing the
trade from their Victorian rivals.”
* * * #
That surely is a sufficiently broad intimation
that the M ‘Billion, who votes consistently
against the high duties which would make
N.S.W. “a large manufacturing State,”
doesn’t want it to become such—that he is
the direct enemy of N.S.W. industries. It
is also a sufficiently broad intimation
that the Labor member who votes with the
M‘Billion party is voting to keep down
Australian industries and to prevent Aus-
tralians getting employment,, all for the
benefit of the rich absentee trader. And
the people who send the Labor members
into Parliament want new industries that
they may have employment. They can’t
always live on building unproductive public
works paid for out of loans, and buying
M‘Billion’s imported calicoes with the
proceeds, and repairing at Mort’s Dock
the ships that brought the goods
that were paid for with borrowed money.
If N.S.W. isn’t weary of these servile
representatives who vote, at the bidding
of the wealthy foreign importer, against the
policy which he himself admits will make
N.S.W. a large manufacturing State, then it
is a patient country, and takes much ill-usage
in a Christian spirit. Surely that State
didn’t elect its Labor representatives that
they might run on little errands for the
wealthiest crowd of monopolists with which
it is afflicted.
Insolvent Friendly Societies.
Australia is a country which doesn’t take its
financial legislation seriously. It occasionally
passes an Act to put something right by the plain
and obvious process of making the parties con-
cerned pay up the shortage. But in nine cases
out of ten the parties concerned don’t pay up any-
thing, and the Act is either allowed to remain a
dead letter, or is repealed, or suspended. In this
manner Premier Lyne gained great kudos by
passing an Act providing that N.S.W. was to
begin next year to pay £400,000 per annum off its
deficit, and when next year came the Act was
postponed, and now the postponed amount is to
be reduced to £250,000, and further reductions and
postponements will probably follow. Something
similar has happened to the Friendly Societies
Act of 1899. The Friendly Societies of all the
States bar Maoriland are certainly in a dubious
position. Also, except in Maoriland, their condi-
tion is growing worse. Between 1892 and 1896
the general tendency was towards improvement;
since then the funds per member have been
diminishing at a rate which makes it almost
certain, in some States at all events, that insol-
vency is ahead —and in certain cases not very far
ahead —unless the rates are increased. The cause
of the trouble is simply that the amounts charged
to the members are not large enough in proportion
to the benefits granted—which is the simple and
sufficient explanation of the trouble in almost
every similar matter.
* * * *
The downward tendency of the Friendly
Societies in each State is thus set forth in
Coghlan’s “ Seven Colonies ” :
Funds per member.
1896. 1898. Decrease.
Westralia .. ..£l2 3 5 .. £7 15 11 .. £4 7 6
Victoria .. .. 14 6 5.. 13 4 8.. 1 1 9
Tasmania .. .. 811 0.. 805.. 010 7
1896. 1899.
Queensland .. 718 6.. 712 8.. 0 510
1896. 1898.
N.S. Wales .. 818 2.. 814 2.. 0 4 0
1895.
South Australia .. 11 2 9.. Unknown ..
1896. 1897. Increase.
Maoriland .. .. 19 4 6.. 19 10 0.. 0 5 6
In every case, there has been some increase of
membership, but, except in Maoriland, it has gone
along with a decrease of financial solidity,
wherever the figures for comparison are available.
New South Wales is certainly not in the worst
position as regards funds, though it is much worse
than Maoriland, Victoria, or South Australia.
And it isn’t falling astern nearly so fast as
its neighbors. All the same, it was officially
announced that, in 1899, hardly any of the N.S. W.
Friendly Societies were solvent, and, in one or two
cases, the deficit ran to over 10s. in the £. The
average deficit was over Bs. in the £, which is a
truly awful state of affairs, and the whole shortage
was over £1,000,000. The Societies showed no
inclination to help themselves in the matter; the
Australian reluctance to pay up and the tired
Australian tendency to let it slide supervened in
every, or almost every, case.
* * * *
So in 1899 Parliament took a hand with a view
to protecting those new members who were con-
stantly joining what were practically insolvent
institutions —as a rule, without any knowledge of
their insolvency. It passed an Act giving the
societies two years in which to adopt such in-
creased rates as would give them a chance to get
back, in course of years, to a solvent basis, the
penalty being that, in case of non-compliance, they
would cease to be registered as Friendly Societies.
The Societies made no protest at the time, and
the Act passed amid a general impression that a
troublesome subject was at last disposed of. It
didn’t call for any great sacrifice or any violent
effort, but merely demanded that a beginning
should be made towards putting affairs right.
And, almost unanimously, the Friendly Societies
just went on letting things slide, and paid no
attention whatever. The time came in sight
when they must either begin to put their house in
order or else wind up, and instead of making a
move towards getting on to a sound basis, they
hollered for a suspension of the Act, so that they
could jog peacefully along their old insolvent
road for a while longer. And the See Govern-
ment promptly gave way and compromised. Its
new measure dropped the unpleasant question of
solvency, and dropped it m a rather clumsy
fashion, the main provisions of the Bill being
these
(1) New members were to pay rates declared by any
actuary of five years standing to be sufficient, and their
funds were to be kept separate, and be liable to pay only
the new members’ claims.
(2) The old members might pay their old, insufficient
contributions into their own insufficient fund, provided
that they didn’t reduce these contributions and make
them still more insufficient. Their own claims must be
met out of their own fund. (This suited the aged “ old
members ” all right, as they would, in the natural course
of events, die first, and the old fund might last long
enough to pay their, claims. The younger among the
“old members” would probably find the fund defunct
when their claims began to fall in.)
(3) On this arrangement each society might be regis-
tered till next valuation And then, if the position
of the old members’ fund had improved ever so slightly
—if the deficit had been reduced from 12s. in the £
to 11s. 9d. in the £ ; or if there was no improvement,
but if, even at this late hour, the old members agreed to
increase their contributions to a figure which any actuary
of five years’ standing held to be sufficient, then the
society might be again registered and allowed to go on
indefinitely.
(4) And if neither of these things happened, then the
society might either holler for a further suspension of the
law, or else be wound up—the new members who had
paid sufficient contributions being thus, in a measure,
sacrificed to the selfishness of the old members who
hadn’t.
• • * •
This seems about as far as concession could
reasonably go. But even this didn’t satisfy the
old members. What they wanted was that new
members should pay an increased rate ; that the
old members should still pay at the old low rate ;
and that instead of the new members’ fund being
kept separate their extra payments should help to
make good the old members’ deficiency. They
wanted separate accounts but only one
fund, and the See Government gave way
without any demur. Furthermore, there is
to be no State standard of solvency after
all. Any scale of contribution is to be held to be
sufficient, if any actuary of five years’ standing
can be persuaded to certify that, in his
opinion, it is sufficient! This opens a fine
large field of usefulness for the actuary who
will certify that the smallest premium rate is
large enough. The much-amended new measure,
as passed by the Assembly, doesn’t demand that
any Friendly Society shall put itself on a solvent
basis at any time—not even 25 or 150 years hence.
Apparently even the institution whose funds show
a deficiency of 12s. 7d. in the £ as regards the old
members may be re-registered if it reduces that
shortage to 12s. 3d. in the £, and after that may
go on indefinitely. And if its position has become
worse instead of better, it may still be re-registered
and go on indefinitely if its rates are certified as
sufficient by an actuary who has been practising
his profession for five years. And here there
is great scope for an actuary who is far gone in
beer and doesn’t mind much what he certifies.
Taking one thing with another there is so much
lamentable shirking of the difficulty that the whole
matter might almost as well have been left alone.
A great deal of time has been wasted, first in
enacting that the societies must put themselves
on a sound basis, and, secondly, in enacting that
they may remain on the old unsound basis if they
want to.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Coast Hospital Again.
The eternal N.S.W. Coast Hospital scandal
cropped up again, last month, before a Par-
liamentary Committee. Presumably, it will
never be at rest till the meddlesome and
offensive person Glynn (who made such an
amount of trouble over a trifling matter of
feeding convalescent typhoid patients with fish,
which was sworn to be putrid; vermicelli,
solemnly declared to be so full of weevils that
the insects formed a scum when it was put in
the soup; and vegetables stated on oath to be
slimy and fermented), is prosecuted and gaoled
for bringing about disclosures which have seri-
ously disturbed the Public Service Board, and
cast discredit on the Board of Health. What
right has any miserable probationer-storekeeper


to cause all this trouble and disgrace to a public
body ? A meddlesome Parliamentary Committee
is now inquiring into the matter, and causing
more unpleasantness by dragging to light such
unsatisfactory and unpleasant evidence as the
following:—
George Edward Brodie, Chief Inspector of Accounts,
swore: “ I saw a minute from Dr. Thompson . . .
censuring the storekeeper (Glynn) for having carelessly
condemned fish and other food . . . a statement was
made by Mr. Kidman that the fish was not bad, and he
sent along certain samples . . . but the whole procedure
was worth nothing, because the fish taken from the
Coast Hospital was not sealed up, and Kidman could have
got fish from anywhere, and could have supplied the
samples.”
Fred. O. Glynn swore : “ The contract said * fresh
fish ; ’ but the only fish I was supplied with by Arthur
Kidman was fish of an old, stale character, that had been
on ice and partly thawed . . . three parts of it would
have to be condemned. ... I sent the goods back two
or three times. About a week after I was there Mr.
Willman seemed particularly strong on my receiving it.
I had it referred to the medical superintendent. He
immediately caused it to be sent back. . . . Butter has
been absolutely rancid. I took portions of the butter to
the chief cook and the matron, and took their opinion
before I submitted it to the doctor. They always
coincided with me, but in 19 cases out of 20 it was the
other way with Mr. Willman —he always wanted to say
it was not too good, but that he did not think it was bad
enough to reject. The flour was analysed by the Govt.
Analyst, and it was proved to be unfit for human
consumption. Even the soap which was sent to
the laundry was green and had to be dried. . . .
These supplies were sent out repeatedly. It was
a constant thing every day, as delivery books
will show. We sent in samples to the Board of Health of
the fish and vegetables. Daily reports were sent in as to
the character, quality and condition of the material. So
far as I could see, it had absolutely no effect at all. . . .
When I went to Kidman’s store, I found that there were
three old stores in a back lane, in a dirty, ill-lighted con-
dition. All the vegetables were on a cement or concrete
floor. The place was very dirty. Two horses were
stabled in front of the doorthe droppings and urine lay
in front of the floor. ... I remember bacon and hams
being rejected because they were maggotty. ... I heard
Willman telling Kidman (through telephone) that he
could not do anything, that he would have to report him,
but was trying to do the best he could for him.
Then one 0. A. Simms took up the tale. Mr.
Simms was lately secretary to the Board of
Health; but, after the exposure, the P.S.B. shifted
him, without explanation, to be a common clerk
in the Mines Department. Presumably, the
Board’s heart was too full for speech. Under
oath, Mr, Simms told a pitiful tale:—
I cannot tell you . . . how often these goods came in,
but they came in frequently, and Dr. Violette’s descrip-
tion of them was nearly always the same—that they were
unfit for food. . . . Every day a short memorandum
came in dealing with two or three lines of food. The
practice had been in existence for several years, and they
came in with unfailing regularity. So much so that
they bore no special importance . . . but Dr. Violette
sent in several long reports. Certainly, in the majority of
cases, the provisions which were submitted were quite
passable, such as in my opinion should not have been con-
demned —notably fish. ... In some cases these samples
of condemned fish were brought in by Kidman himself.
... We had no guarantee that the fish he brought was
the fish rejected beyond his statement and his offer to
make a statutory declaration that it was so. ... I sub-
mitted all specific letters from Dr. Violette recommend-
ing punishment of the contractor to Dr. Thompson. ... I
was against punishing the man, and I told Dr.
Thompson so, and he concurred in most instances,
having in mind the samples of food that were quite
good, and such as might reasonably have been
accepted. I considered his (Dr. Violette’s) judgment
was defective. Dr. Thompson, when visiting the
hospital, did not go through the wards and make inquiries
of the patients. He simply visited the offices. . . I have
not the slightest doubt, speaking from the knowledge I
gained at the Public Service Board inquiry, that Kidman
did supply bad provisions from time to time. But to say
that he systematically supplied putrid food every day is
to assume an absolutely untenable position. I do not
believe it—not from my knowledge of the man, but
because I think it incredible that a man would do such a
thing. I cannot see his object in it. . . We practically
took little notice of these daily memoranda, we were so
accustomed to them by usage.
What a streak of humor runs through that evi-
dence ! Almost every day for years the officers
in charge of the Coast Hospital complained that
the contractor was supplying the patients with
bad food, and there was no counter evidence save
that the contractor occasionally brought in or sent
in samples which he said were the ones rejected.
And all that time the wretched officers of the
Board of Health just let things “ rip.” The com-
plaints were so frequent that they became accus-
tomed to them. The only time anybody woke up
was when officer Glynn took matters so seriously
that the scandal began to be troublesome. Then
Glynn lost his billet, and it wasn’t till he had
been out of work for many months, and The
Bulletin had drawn attention to his case at
great length, that he was reluctantly supplied with
another job—at a reduced salary.
The Butter-Box Superstition.
The demand that timber should be admitted free
into the Commonwealth with an especial refer-
ence to Maoriland pine, said to be absolutely
essential for the manufacture of butter-boxes, has
evoked a very reasonable protest from Queens-
land. The Queenslanders point out that in their
own butter-trade they use their own pine, which
is quite as good and almost as abundant as that of
Maoriland. The same timber grows plentifully in
the northern parts of N.S.W., but as these two
States do very little in the butter export trade,
the value of the local pine for this purpose is not
much known. Moreover, the industry m Queens-
land has long' been hampered by want of
roads, and N.S.W. makes importing an article
of faith and neglects local products on prin-
ciple, because its fetish and its _ one test
of prosperty is “trade,” and when it imports
timber from Maoriland that is trade, while using
the local article isn’t. So the energetic Maori-
landers, who are spreading their industries
everywhere under their splendid system of Pro-
tection, finding that Victoria had a large butter
export trade and no pine forests of its own, seized
the opportunity, and an impression has arisen
that Australia is wholly dependent on Maoriland
for the casing wherein to pack the product of the
cow. The impression grew so strong that the
Maorilanders even conceived the idea of squashing
the Commonwealth and bringing it to a humbler
frame of mind by putting an export duty on pine,
the idea being that Australia would thereby be
reduced to exporting its butter wrapped up in an
old newspaper. What the Queenslanders desire
to point out is that the saw-milling industry is
almost the largest factory industry in their State,
coming a very close second to the sugar-
refining business; that, allowing for the hands
employed in timber-getting and conveyance
it employs more white men than any other manu-
facturing industry, sugar not excepted ; that the
business is an important one, and deserving of
encouragement in all the States ; that the Com-
monwealth possesses timber suited for almost
every purpose,-and, if reasonable care is taken to
replant the forests as they are cut out, it will
always possess it in reasonable abundance.
Therefore they ask the Commonwealth to protect
the whole industry, to abolish the proposed
exemptions, and not to grovel to any extraneous
State by reason of any imaginary dependence on
outside supplies for butter-boxes or other sub-
stances. And their case seems good enough to be
worth consideration.
N.S.W. Western Lands Problem.
The Bill of Minister Crick for the smoothing of
the Western lands difficulty looks like a reason-
ably good attempt to deal with a very bad
problem. No amount of legislation will make
some parts of the West fit for a decent white
man’s habitation. But as the white man has gone
there, the matter now on hand is to alleviate his
case as far as possible. It is proposed to place the
whole West under the control of one Board, which
will assess rentals. Leases may be extended for
as much as 42 years, with power reserved for the
State to resume if, by some apparently impossible
contingency, any of the land should be wanted
for closer settlement. There is no compulsion
upon the State to renew leases. Where the
squatter is hopelessly mortgaged and is merely
being driven by his creditors to seek a re-
newal in order that he may spend 42
years in working off a dead horse, and
sweating himself and his employees, and
taking the last possible blade of grass off the
State’s property, the Minister has power to re-
quire, as a condition of renewal, that sufficient of
the debt shall be written off to give the State’s
tenant a fair show. This is strictly logical. The
financial institutions lent money on the old lease
which is expiring, and they got the security they
stipulated for. The State isn’t bound to make
them a present of a new lease, especially as its
object is to grow men in the West, if possible—■
not mortgages. The lessees are to be bound to
keep down rabbits, and in some parts this will
probably be their chief duty. There are places in
the West which might almost as well be aban-
doned but for the necessity of keeping a watchful
eye on the weary, endless rabbit. In theory there
is much to be said against Crick’s Bill, but
theories that are good in many other places are of
little account out on the road to Tibooburra.
Long leases and large areas and great land
monopolies are all objectionable, but if a man
wants a long lease of hell, or a large area of hell,
or desires to peg out a big monopoly on the floor-
space of the Bottomless Pit, it seems almost as
well to let him have it if he will pay anything for
the privilege. Some parts of the West are less
objectionable than others, but, after all, it is mainly
a question of the difference between the bottom
shelf of Gehenna and the shelf above. So long
as there are great areas like the A.A. Co.’s
property and the Bibbenluke estate to be resumed
and cut up in the comparatively well-watered
East, no man of any feeling wants to see the
agriculturist beguiled out into the Never Never
Land, to grow hopeless and loony and uncivi-
lised among its plains and horrors. And the
agriculturist himself appears to be of much the
same way of thinking. The men who really know
the West seem to be unanimously agreed that
anybody can have their share of it for 42 years on
very moderate terms indeed.
The Complication of Colors.
Part of the price paid by Australia for its ad-
mission of the colored inferior races is the compli-
cation of the problem of dealing with its own
aborigines. So far as the mass of the people are
concerned, there is now a general desire to deal
kindly, and as justly as possible, with the primi-
tive inhabitants of the land, however badly the
intention may be carried out. But good inten-
tions are badly frustrated in those places where,
in addition to the aboriginal colored man, there is
a Kanaka and Asiatic population. Thus in
Northern Queensland —the most color-stained
patch of the continent —a genuinely humane at-
tempt to do some measure of justice to the
aborigines is being rendered almost nugatory by
the presence of other colored races. The report
for 1900 of Dr. Roth, Protector of the Northern
aborigines, makes tin's clear. He says :
I look upon the opium-habit as a cancerous sore, slowly
but surely eating its way into the bosom of the com-
munity—a danger fatal alike to the black and to the
white. ... But I regret to state that the supply of
opium to aboriginals continues apparently with unabated
vigor in spite of the vigilance of the authorities and the
increasing severity of the fines inflicted. . . . The police
have to cope with the ever-increasing smartness of the
Asiatics (the main suppliers).
Then follows a list of convictions of opium-sellers,
the convicts being named :
Charley Ah Lam, Ah Sue, Ah Way, Ah Chong, Ah
Yet, Ah Sam, Ah Young, Mow Quay, Ah Hoey, Ah Way,
Ah Wong, Charlie Ah Tie, Ah Long, Ye Yek (Ah Sing),
Ah Yua, Wah Lu, Aii Luey, Ah Sing, Ah Sam, Mollimon,
Sam Yin, Ah Yen, Jimmy Ah Kong, Jimmy (Aii Sam), Ah
Ki, Ah Quey, Ah Sam, Ju See You, Lum Foo.
Which list seems to indicate that Asiatics are
more than the main suppliers—that they are the
only suppliers of this deadly drug to the abori-
gines. Other evils arising from the contact of the
two colored races are exposed by Dr. Roth when
he laments
The formation of Chinese camps, which are anything
but conducive to the health and morals of the European
residents, and certain destruction in the near future of
the once robust native population, by their supplying
opium and other abominations among them. One of the
most repulsive cases of leprosy that I have seen came
from these camps.
Vice and vice-disease statistics collated by the
Protector help to show the terrible moral and
social consequences of the admixture of Kanakas,
Chinese, Malays, and aborigines in the far North.
There is no room for doubt that with an exclu-
sively-white intruding population, the N.Q. native
might be given a show : the presence of the
Kanaka, the Hindu, the Chinese 'and the Malay
makes his doom certain. The fact should suggest
some wholesome reflections to the kind Christian
clergyman who wishes to bring the extraneous
nigger to our shores for his “ moral elevation.”
O
Insolvent Municipalities and Municipali-
ties that are going Insolvent.
Municipal Government in New South Wales is
an amusing burlesque. Take, as an example, the
case of Camperdown—one of the 41 or 42 or 43 fly-
speck municipalities in and around Sydney. A
year or two ago it was a place with good pros-
pects and the worst possible intentions. It had a
population of 7200, and only 14 miles of streets to
keep in order, and its rates, even when it began
to go definitely to the bad, remained at Is. 4d. in
the £ (including 4d. for street lighting). And this
is its record in recent years :
Total
Income. Expenditure. Deficit. Debt.
1897 .. .. £2,868 .. £3,431 .. £563 .. £22,892
1898 .. .. 3,151 .. 3,461 .. 310 .. 23,432
1899 .. .. 3,048 .. 3,656 .. 608 .. 24,007
In these three years, the miserable spot got £550
of financial assistance from the State—an absurd
thing in the case of a thickly-peopled city muni-
cipality—else its situation would have been much
worse. It collected its income so feebly that, in
1899, about eight months’ rates were outstanding.
Of its debt £15,500 carried 6 per cent, interest,
and about £6OOO was a bank overdraft at 8 per
cent. No attempt was ever made to raise enough
money to make ends meet. In 1899 the general
rate of Is. in the £ produced £1946, and interest
on the municipality’s debts absorbed £1498. When
its principal loan fell due it doesn’t appear that
any serious attempt was made at renewal—it was
just allowed to fall. So the creditors put in a re-
ceiver who sold the ridiculous town hall for what
it would fetch, and who now collects the rates
on behalf of the creditors, and is a mixture of a
bailiff and an indignant Asiatic despot. As his
business is solely to look after the creditors he
naturally put a stop to street repairs and improve-
ments, they being matters which cost money.
Consequently, the alleged Mayor reports that
in this thickly-peopled city municipality the main
street has worn into holes “large enough to bury
a horse in,” and traffic has practically left it. It
was proposed to close a number of streets as being
no longer safe, but it was found that the law
didn’t permit of this, so it was resolved to
humbly approach the bailiff, or man in posses-
sion, with a request that he would in his great-
ness and magnanimity, allow £l7 10s. to be
spent in “ballast to fill up the larger holes.”
Nobody proposes to levy enough rates to meet all
legitimate outgoings and something over to reduce
the debt, and to negotiate with the creditors
for a renewal on that basis—the weary ten-
dency to let-her-slide is against any such energetic
measures. And the bulk of the innumerable
municipalities of Sydney are wandering more or
less definitely towards exactly the same position
which Camperdown occupies. Out of the 41
councils enumerated by CoGHLAN.as helping to
misgovern the N.S.W. capital and its suburbs, 26
had a deficit in 1897 ; 22 m 1898; and 26 in 1899.
Seven had a deficit each year, and 20 had a deficit
two years out of three. The whole crowd went
£153,440 to the bad in three years. Truly, it will
be a great day when Parliament gives the people
a chance to abolish the whole 41 absurdities by a
popular vote, and makes a Greater Sydney, .with
a sane municipal constitution, and no holes in its
streets large enough to bury a horse or a tram-
car in.
4
The recent letter of N.S.W. Labor-leader
M ‘Go WEN on “Federal Finance” was probably
the most unutterably silly thing any Australian
has got off his chest this year. After carefully
enumerating the anticipated deficits of five of the
States under the Federal tariff, and carefully
omitting the huge anticipated deficit of N.S.W.,
the puerile James went on thus: —
The last alternative is assistance from the Common-
wealth. As all the States, except N.S.W., are necessi-
tous—that is to say, according to the Treasurer’s state-
ment and recent statistics, they will not be able to make
ends meet—the only source from which assistance can be
drawn to help them is N.S.W. This brings me to my
contention during the Federal elections— viz., that the
financial provisions of the Commonwealth Constitution
would bring ruin to the States unless N.S.W. foots the
bill.
Think of any sane man talking glibly about
N.S.W. (which, by its own Treasurer’s calcula-
tions, appears likely to have the biggest shortage
save one in the six States, which has the biggest
accumulated deficit, and whose last year’s deficit
was the biggest in the Commonwealth save
Queensland’s) footing anybody else’s bill !
N.S.W. has just the same difficulty about
footing its own bill as its neighbors’ have,
but its politicians seem specially addicted to this
kind of silliness. George Reid, who never could
keep his own accounts square, also talked loftily
about his willingness to “finance” the other
federated States. Of course, neither he nor
M‘Gowen ever really dreamed of paying a copper
on behalf of any other State. It is merely a large,
offensive attitude they have got into. And the
apex of the whole gorgeous foolishness is reached
in M‘Gowen’s suggestion that it is the financial
provisions of the Commonwealth Constitution
which are causing this scarcity of money. Seeing
that N.S.W. has had 14 deficits in the last 21
years; Queensland, 11; S.A. and Westralia,
10 each ; and Tasmania and Victoria, nine each ;
and that the Commonwealth, taken as a whole,
has had eight deficits in the last eleven years, it
is somewhat rough to blame the new Federal
Constitution because the usual thing seems likely
to happen again.
4
N.S.W. Acting-Justice Pring went far out of his
way to “horse-shoe” the two prisoners he lately
sentenced to death. To one he said :
The offence you have committed under such circum
stances as have been described is one that for awful
atrocity simply baffles the power of language to describe.
The penalty for it is death, and the Legislature has wisely
thought that in the country, where little girls go about
unprotected, frequently three or four miles to school, it
is necessary to protect them by such a penalty for such
an offence as yours. It is intolerable that filthy, disgust-
ing brutes like you should lay in wait for children and
treat them as you did in this case. Your request will be
submitted to the authorities. I have no power to com-
ply with it. His Honor then passed sentence of death,
with much, &c.
To another he remarked :
This crime of yours is one of the worst it is possible to
commit. There is nothing which indicates a greater
degree of cruelty than this attempt to poison. It evinces
such a horrible, cruel deliberation that it is almost im-
possible to understand that a human being could be guilty
of it. In your case it is rendered all the more terrible
because you have attempted this crime upon one whom
you were bound by every tie to save from trouble.
Why in the name, of the majesty of the law are
Judges permitted to go on in such a fashion ? Do
such Judges talk for mere advt. of their own im-
portance, or to prejudice any chance the con-
demned man may have with the Executive?
Either notion is unworthy—the one a horrid
pandering to notoriety, the other a contempt of
the final Court of Appeal. Judges would serve
better their own dignity and the ends of justice
by reserving their moralisings for the breakfast-
table, and on the bench keeping their judicial
duty strictly in view.
4
The truly remarkable O’Sullivan is to the fore
with a project for a Sydney City railway “exten-
sion to cost £1,155,000. It isn’t to be a main
railway—only an extension. Trains coming into
Sydney will still stop at Redfern, and the weary
passenger (who may have come from Brisbane or
Melbourne or Bourke, and who wants to get
really into the city) will still have to struggle out
of his train, and curse O’Sullivan on the plat-
form, and make his way with his luggage into
another train to take him the last mile of his
journey. The City railway, which should be about
the most profitable in the whole system, is actually
estimated, under these ridiculous circumstances,
as not likely to pay working expenses, let alone
interest. And no wonder. If it was a mile or so
added on to the present run a penny or 2d. could
be added to the fares for the extra distance, but
when once the public is thrown out of its train it
would just as soon take a cab in the old way as
scramble into a new train to have a separate
penn’orth. The receipts of the “extension” are
estimated at £38,000 a year, and outgoings over
£9l,ooo—say £40,000 for interest and £51,000 for
working expenses, leaving a deficit of £13,000 on
expenses alone. As an example of how not to do
it this is unique.
4.
“V. R. -man ” writes :
The Vic. railway-man has been fooled again, the classi-
fication so Jong promised, so often postponed, having
been put off indefinitely. The men feel the injustice of
it all the more strongly after reading of the success of
their N.S.W. brethren in obtaining the eight-hours-a-day
and other privileges. The Vic. men will soon begin to do
as the N.S.W. men did—talk strike. They would now,
only that the various associations are largely bossed by
the old “compensation” men, who don’t want to run
risks with their accrued pension-rights. On Sunday (17th
Nov.), meetings were held all over the State, and the talk
was pretty plain. Hundreds, thousands of men have
been hanging on to the hope that their long-deferred in ■
crements would come when the Classification Bill was
passed. Present writer has been in the service over 13
years. His yearly wage is £l4O Bs. It has been the same
for 10 years (when not less, as it was during the depres-
sion). The feeling amongst the men now is that, if the
Bill is dropped, it may he years ere anything is done.
The new Commissioners (there are to he three again) will
want a year or two in office “ to get the hang of things.”
Then the men will have all their battling over again—
conferences, deputations, etc., without end. Human
nature —-even railway human nature, which is very
patient—can only endure up to a certain limit, and that
limit has been nearly reached.
4
Warden Gibbon, of Adelaide Marine Board,
proposes to add to the local shipping by-laws a
provision making it a criminal offence for any
shipmaster to take his vessel out of any port in
the State without having her hatches properly
secured. A step in the right direction, which
should be taken also by the other Australian
States. But in matters concerning the safety of
the “shellback” (mostly regarded as a mere
money-making machine), Australian legislatures
are slow to move. The number of instances in
which insecure hatches have brought about total
loss will never be known, for the simple reason
that usually nobody is left to tell the tale. In the
rush and scurry of the present-day shipping-
industry, the securing of hatches is never thought
of by the shore people intent upon getting a
vessel away to advertised time. That’s the mate’s
business when the ship gets to sea. But, before a
vessel is allowed to leave, the Marine Board cer-
tifies her seaworthy, and “Jack” ships on that
understanding. Now, no ship is seaworthy with
unsecured hatches. Yet vessels are continually
allowed to leave our ports (even in heavy weather)
in this condition. The same (Adelaide) Marine
Board, by the way, reports, as a result of its
inquiry into the loss of the barge Gwydir, that
“the evidence given showed a direct lack of
systematic and efficient inspection of ships, and
their equipment generally at the larger South
Australian ports.” And it’s the same in the other
States if only the local Boards were honest enough
to admit it.
♦-
The extraordinary statement recently made by the
Times on the subject of train wrecking in S’Africa
is one of the most remarkable eye-openers in the
history of modern warfare. If the Times is to be
credited, it is clear that, even with 250,000 men in
the field in Britain cannot guard the
railways. There is only one obstacle, says the
Times, which prevents the Boers from absolutely
destroying the communications. That obstacle
consists in the fact that the stoppage of supplies
by destroying the railways would mean starvation
to the women and children in the concentration
camps, and the Times declares that of late train-
wrecking commandos, while deliberately destroy-
ing the line in order to secure supplies of arms and
ammunition for themselves, have allowed the sup-
ply trains for the concentration camps to pass un-
molested. The British public is asked to believe
that certain sections of the line have been kept
open by arrangement with the train-wrecking
commandos. “It has been an understood con-
dition between drivers and guards and the train-
wreckers that as long as certain supplies—such as
coffee, sugar, and flour—were dropped at a certain
convenient spot on the line, that particular section
of the line should not be tampered with, and these
burghers have never once broken faith when the
conditions have been complied with.” If this
statement is true, it proves that the Boers are
simply levying tribute upon the army of occupa-
tion, and that, so far from the war being over,
even the main lines of communication are at the
mercy of the commandos.
<♦
N.S.W. Education Minister Perry is credited
with blocking B. R. Wise’s announced Bill deal-
ing with the scandalous death-rate among ille-
gitimate children. The Bill is a comprehensive
one, placing all dependent children under the
State Children’s Board, including those on the
training-ship Sobraon, the Industrial Schools,
and other institutions now controlled by
Minister Perry. It provides also for wider
powers in rescuing the poor illegitimate
from an untimely grave, and comes close
—perilously close, in Minister Perry’s eyes—to
establishing State foundling hospitals. Whether
he objects to parting with institutions under his
supervision, or whether, representing the “ God-
fearing” element in the Cabinet, he objects to any
sympathy for the child of “sin,” the fact remains
that he has blocked the Bill, arguing that the
Govt, has no time for the measure. Surely a
glance at the statistics recently published in these
columns would convince the Minister that few
measures are calling more urgently for instant
consideration than this one. At present the mor-
tality amo ig illegitimates in N.S.W. would force
the superintendent of a Boer concentration camp
into a green-paint fabrication.
The Gold-Buyers Bill has been an interesting
item in the Vic. Assembly pow-wow. Clause 19
decrees that a person offering unwrought gold or
amalgam for sale may —not necessarily must —be
required to declare the locality and the nature of
the ground where he got the stuff. Ex-Minister
Foster, also Bailes, of Bendigo, affected to
regard this clause as a great injustice to the
patient fossicker who, having struck a patch, is
asked to give the show away to a crafty buyer
with myrmidons waiting round the corner to rush
the find. But, as there didn’t seem to be any
danger of anybody rushing a district whose pros-
pector couldn’t arrange to get a £6 lease of
his Tom Tiddler’s ground ere divulging the
locality, the plaintive cries of Foster and Bailes
failed to melt Clause 19’s heart. Another
matter for Bailes’ lament was a new clause intro-
duced by his colleague Lazarus to prohibit the sale
of gold by children under 14. The youngster who
“specks” gold in the creek must sell the dust
through his father or any other person of over 14
if he wants to turn it into cash. Bailes protested
against this injustice to fossickers of tender years.
He himself specked gold before he was 10, he
said—overlooking the fact that there is nothing in
the present Bill to prevent babes from doing like-
wise. If Bailes meant the House to infer that
he used to “doin’’ his own gold-dust before he
was 10, it explains why he eventually sank to be
a member of Parliament.
At latest, the Adelaide tramway boodlers
had carried the municipal elections, a large
majority of the aldermen returned being in favor
of jobbing away the trams to Snow’s syndi-
cate. Also, the syndicate’s Bill was making
good progress through Parliament, despite a most
desperate Labor stonewall. A very few years
lienee, the syndicate’s supporters will probably be
crying out for State purchase at a high figure, and,
if the deal comes off, the division of the profit will
be suggestive of 20 crabs reaching out for a
drowned passenger on the shore.


The equitable life assurance society
of the United States.
LIBERAL TERMS TO AGENTS OF GOOD STANDING
In order to improve the position of its Agents in Australia, and to better conserve
the business, the Equitable now offers RENEWAL CONTRACTS to
first-class agents, thus giving them a pecuniary interest in their business for
several years, instead of for only one year as at present.
For particulars, refer to
s. W. D’ARCY-IRVINE, Manager for New South Wales and Queensland,
Equitable Building, Sydney; or to
/ Gr. G-. McCOLL, Manager for Victoria and Tasmania,
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
dfg
The New
Field Glass
For the Races, &c.
Very powerful, as used by
Officers of the British Army
in South Africa. Easily
focussed by the patent
quick draw.
Magnifying 5 times, 65s ; Aluminium, 84s.
Magnifying 6 times, 73s ; Aluminium, 85s.
In Solid Leather Slino Cases.
WOOD, “The Optician/
Only address in N.S. W.,
299 George-St., Sydney (opp. Hunter-St.)
and EQUITABLE BUILDINGS,
Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Sci)d Os yoGr
•v^PHOTOCRRPH.
IF you send a Photograph of yourself (or friend) to Mr.
Mark Blow, The Crown Studios, Sydney, and also
send the following “ COUPON," he will reproduce from
the Photo, a
Very Beautiful and Artistloally-Finiehed
Pcripapcpt Cplargcnpept
in Monochrome, equalling a rich Steel-Plate Engraving,
handsomely mounted on an Indian Tinted Plate, sunk
mount, and as good in every way as Enlargements now
being supplied at from 30s. to 50s. each ; and will care-
fully pack it and send it, Parcel Post Paid, to any address
in Australia, Tasmania or New Zealand for 10s. 6d.
YOUR PHOTO. RETURNED WITH ORDER.
Cut out the following Coupon and send it with your
Photo.
[Bulletin]
COUPON,
To M. BLOW (Photographer to His Excellency
the Governor-General, Lord Hopetoun),
The Crown Studios, George Street Sydney,
Please have the enclosed Photograph Enlarged
and Mounted, as per this Special Offer, and forward
it to me, carriage paid, to the following address, for
which I enclose 10s. 6d. in full payment.
Name
Address
Write your Name on the back of the Photograph, to
avoid errors.
The Name of the Crown Studios is a guarantee of
Good Work and a Faithful Reproduction.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Lyceum “ The World’s Verdict."
Her Majesty’s “ Quo Vadis ? ”
Empire Fuller Co.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s Italian Opera (last nights).
Theatre Royal “ The War of Wealth.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
Bijou “ The World’s Entertainers."
New Olympia (Prince’s
Bridge) Fitzgerald Bros. Circus.
Wilson Barrett is closing his season at
Her Majesty’s (Sydney) with a series of revivals,
whereof the “Silver King” and the “Manxman”
have been the most notable up to date. Barrett’s
“ Silver King ” drives somewhat heavily, like
Pharaoh’s chariot with the wheels off struggling
through the damp places in Exodus ; but his Pete
—which seems to be rather an improvement
on the % Pete which used to be—has much to
recommend it. And the “Manxman” is a play
which always fills the present writer with cynical
enjoyment. In that drama Philip Christian
refuses to marry Kirry, daughter of Mr. Publican
Cregeen, and is sorry afterwards. Kirry marries
Pete, and is sorry afterwards. She leaves that
noble, but ignorant and badly-dressed person, and
flies to Philip— and is darned sorry she fled.
Philip gets the woman he has longed for—and is
wretched. The parties concerned being all miser-
able, Kirry drifts back to Pete, but is too depressed
to remain. Finally she wanders to the house of
her father, old Publican Cregeen, where she was
never happy, and settles down in the capacity of
a beautiful woman who is miserable everywhere,
and who might as well be wretched in her father’s
public-house as any other place. The writer tries
to admire hero Pete, and fails dismally. Pete
has every good quality save grammar, a collar, a
white shirt, a pair of boots that won’t make him
sound like an iron-shod elephant, and a knowledge
of when not to bellow up the stair as if it was a
speaking-trumpet. A boiled shirt, a collar, and a
good ten-and-sixpenny hat, applied at the right
place, might be the three hairs in the
scale that would turn Kirry’s admiration
into love; but Pete doesn’t know. Wilson
Barrett’s Pete is perfect in this sense, that the
writer can’t imagine any way in which he could
be a kinder husband, a truer gentleman, or a more
weary individual to live with. Ambrose Manning’s
Publican Creegan is the same excellent character-
sketch as aforetime ; and Kirry, the girl with the
unlimited oapacity for being wretched, takes well.
The moral of “ The Manxman ” appears to be that
the wages of sin are death, and that these wages
are just as hard to collect as any other salary.
• * • *
Wilson Barrett’s season is supposed to
close at the end of next week. In the interval
“ Silver King,” “ Quo Vadis ?”, “ Virginius ” and
one or two other solid productions will have a
look in.
“ Florodora ” is filling in a casual
fortnight at Sydney Eoyal. Whether
the present version is or is not up to
previous “Florodoras ” is a sub-
jeot on which much valuable
publio disagreement has
been wasted. The pre-
sent writer has no de-
finite opinion on
thesubjectand
is getting on
pretty well
without one.
At all events,
the present
caste, which
includes Lauri,
Bathurst,
Kenningham,
Hugh Ward,
and Misses
Grace Palotta,
Maud Chet-
wynd, and
Carrie Moore,
is quite as
good as the
rather thin
little opera de-
serves. Miss
Palotta, in particular, is a dainty vision of
loveliness, and the Scented Isle is the brighter
for her presence. “ Alice in Wonderland ”
is to be Williamson’s Xmas spectacle at the
Royal. It is being organised in that manager’s
usual lavish fashion, and there is a blessed novelty
about the subject which is full of promise. If
another “Cinderella” panto, had turned up, this
paper would have run amok to a dead certainty,
and might possibly have shot a solicitor. There
is a limit to the amount of “ Cinderella ” that the
most patient community can stand.
** * *
Sydney Empire has this week some new
singers, and a capital trio of acrobats described
as the Moroney Bros. The dramatic sketches
have been dropped from the programme, but a
good farce is shown each week.
** * *
“Honour Thy Father,” now doing its
second week at Sydney Lyceum, is a play wherein
Miss Ada Guildford is the erring daughter in a
sinful green dress, and is accompanied occasion-
ally by a nicely-got-up infant, for which the hero
is supposed to be responsible. All through the
drama Ada is in a chronic state of being cast
somewhere or other. She is cast adrift in act 1.,
and later on is cast into the Thames by the villain
in the presence of half-a-dozen persons. No par-
ticular notice is taken of the villain’s conduct in
this respect, though he is severely reprobated
when, later on, he casts her beneath the horses’
feet. (The programme here tells the audience to
“ Lift her up tenderly.”) The scenery behind the
horses’ heads then breaks out into an apotheosis
of Ada on angel wings. She has been cast down
all through the drama, and is now going up
for a change. Anderson’s drama is evidently
written with a painful attempt to inculcate virtue
in young women, but it misses its mark, because,
if Ada had been less inclined towards morality,
she would not have troubled the villain to make
her an honest woman, and thereby tempted him
to cast her down so often. She would have been
perfectly satisfied with being a dishonest woman
in easy circumstances. Some mention must be
made of Broadmead Asylum, where a lunatic
invents a vicious chair that puts people’s eyes out,
and is allowed to leave it in the waiting-
room. The lunatic is also permitted to wander in
and out of the room and entice persons to this
chair at will, and to carry about a supply of acids
necessary for the blinding process. The chair is
afterwards removed to the villain’s drawing-room,
where it is further equipped with a bronze mask,
that falls over a sitter’s head and puts out his eyes
by another process. It is taken very much as a
matter of course that titled persons should have
this sort of furniture in their baronial halls.
* » * *
H. R. Willard takes the part of the villain
with the casting-down propensities, and loses his
eyesight in a graceful and aristocratic fashion.
Sterling Whyte makes the best of that
dreariest of characters, a lower-class parent. Miss
Ivy Gorrick, as the virtuous heroine, acts more
naturally than she speaks. She takes the unsatis-
factory role of the heiress who laments that she
does not see Ada in the simple village garb of old
days instead of in the bright-green dress of sin.
The heiress wears a very nice dress herself, and
does not reflect that she ought to be grateful she
can do so without having to sin. Temple Harri-
son manages the trying dialect of an English
peasant well enough, and Ethel Buckley and Bert
Bailey fill the other comic parts. Nobody is
absolutely natural, for it is impossible to be so in
a drama of this kind, but the above-mentioned
are as little like confused wax figures as the case
will admit.
## # *
Mr. J. A. Crain’s benefit at Queen’s Hall,
Sydney, on Saturday, 14th, should be a success.
The bill is long enough for a pelican, and it
includes the names of some of the very best
artists in Sydney. Next New Year’s Day will be
the 30th anniversary of Mr. Crain’s first appear-
ance on the stage, as Manrico, in “ Trovatore,” at
Mortara (Piedmont, Italy). He has also done a
good deal of journalistic work, much of it in the
columns of The Bulletin. Some further parti-
THE MOORE-TYSON BREACH OF
PROMISE FIZZLE.
“ Your Honor,” said counsel, in a voice choked
with emotion, “I am pleased to say that an
amicable settlement between the parties in this
case has been arrived at.” (Breaks down.
There was not a dry eye in court — i.e., not in
any head adorned with horsehair).
culars of Saturday’s show will be found in the
advertising columns of this issue.
** * #
In the Sydney Tivoli “first part,” where
the chorus wanders about the stage, Chas.
Walker’s foghorn voice is heard in “Give Me
Them Clothes,” and Miss Florrie Ranger sings
a deadly uninteresting patriotic song, “Pattern
to the World,” in a dress that seems as if
it were trying to be a vivandi&re costume,
but couldn’t get there. Harry Gray ends
the programme with humour which, like Moody
and Sankey’s Hymn-book, is ancient and modern.
Mademoiselle Nadine, the “celebrated Parisian
Chansonette,” does some clever toe-dancing in
the limelight, but strikes the audience most when
she appears, like Joseph, in a garment of many
colors, and sings a ditto re her willingness to dance
with “M’sieurif M’sieur will not tell his wife.”
Lizzie Collins, who appears with the still cleverer
Albert Athas, is a bright, large-voiced songstress
without any of Lottie’s unique charm, but with a
certain amount of her own. The re-appearance of
Miss Lizzie Kirk, however, pleased this authority
as much as any larger-lettered item.
m* * *
Oscar Asche, son of the proprietress of the
Imperial Hotel, Sydney, has “struck it” in the
London theatrical world. His sudden celebrity
as the ‘ ‘ heavy lead ” in Pinero’s new play has led
to a newspaper discovery that the new man
acquired all his acting with the Benson
travelling co., of which his clever wife, Miss Lily
Brayton, was also a member. But it wasn’t at
the Benson “school,” as it is called, that the
handsome Oscar Asche began to learn how to turn
his brains and fine physique to dramatic account.
He went from Australia to Norway, in the first
place, and studied stage business on the plain,
straightforward lines of Ibsen, whose characters
do the most unnatural things in a matter-of-fact
way. After that, Asche went to England and
took instruction from Walter Lacy, a master of
elocution and robust, romantic style. With the
Benson co. he got practical experience, whilst
developing his own ideas of dramatic technique.
This seems to be the explanation of Oscar Asche’s
success—a success that promises to grow into fame.
He started with a strong personality, set himself
to acquire the art of naturalness on the stage,
and then became an actor.
** * *
All the talk about Musgrove and William-
son acting, or rather managing, in secret part-
nership is dispelled by the news that Musgrove
has engaged three companies—panto , comic-opera,
and comedy—for Australia. Besides, the Wil-
liamsonian intention to run Amy Castles as a con-
cert star next season is a counter move —and a most
effective counter move, all things considered—to
Musgrove’s capture of Melba.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s (Melb.), the demand for
Italian opera seems wayward and uncertain.
“Otello,” billed for three nights only, drew a
great house to the third performance, and is being
played again this week—on Thursday. But
Ponchielli’s “La Gioconda,” a more frankly
melodious work with a delightful ballet to com-
mend it to people of moderately musical taste,
was no tiling of a success compared with Verdi’s
majestic masterpiece. They were knocked by
“Otello,” whereas “ Gioconda” merely tickled
them. Perhaps the libretto of the latter opera
is too awful for any public that nowadays
meets it for the first time. “La Gioconda”
surpasses “II Tro.” and “ Ernani ” in tragic
lunacy. The heroine is a sort of Maritana
afflicted with a blind mother in a dingy black
dress, and the tenor’s other girl is a married lady
who gets lured to his full-rigged lugger by a
champion villain, after which the said villain
brings her husband along to catch her in flagrante
delicto, as the programme narrative expresses it.
Also, the Mantana spinster starts to murder her
rival, but is checked at the outset of her crime by
perceiving a rosary which her blind parent had
given to the other lady as a preservative. So the
jealous husband takes over the task of killing his
wife, but when he thinks he has got her dead, and
summons the famous ballet and the admirable
chorus to inspect her corpse during some
Government House festivities, the supposed
victim is not defunct at all. Her spinster rival
has saved her by exchanging her dose of poison
for a sleeping-draught, in order to spare the
tenor’s feelings and leave him with two girls
instead of one. Finally the spinster donna (Bene-
detto) takes the poison herself, after promising to
marry the champion villain in consideration of his
sending her loved Larizza away with the other
woman. In an Italian way of speaking, the “La
Gioconda ” libretto is a little bit too thick.
* * * *
“La Traviata,” which transpired on
Saturday, is a sweet old opera wherein the leading
airs sound like quotations from a volume of concert
music and the orchestration often runs on the lines
of a banjo accompaniment. Those airs are probably
immortal. They were.composed in the “II Trova-
tore ” time, when Verdi was full of song and senti-
ment, and each new “mash” suggested a new
tune to the man of naughty forty. But it is
doubtful whether “ La Traviata ” gains or loses in
effect by its slavish fidelity to the tale of
“ Camille.” One likes a grand opera to be backed
up by pale moon and painted foliage in some of the
scenes. All the action of “La Traviata ” happens
within three stage walls. It is a small-sized opera
in every respect, and, although the declamatory
section of Williamson’s co.—Larizza, Benedetto,
and CatadOri —would perhaps be too furious to be
trusted to carry on amidst such fragile furniture,
it is certain that the unemotional Dani, Sapio, and
Bozzoli err in the opposite direction. They sing
the music very fetchingly, nevertheless. The
sweet airs that fall to the baritone in the second
act, and the hackneyed duet for tenor and soprano
in the final are things to be heard on Friday for
the last time. “ Fedora ”is due on Saturday, and
then comes the last week of the brightest and most
fruitful operatic season that Melbourne has
known.
*# * *
At the Royal there was a change of bill
on Saturday, when the “War of Wealth’’came
along to fill in the yawning gulf before Xmas.
This is the drama which begins and finishes on
North Shore, Sydney, and spends the rest of its
time at Redfern Railway Station and a bank in
George-st. Most of the dialogue relates to in-
vestments and securities, and the principal situa-
tion introduces a crowd of sordid depositors who
want their money back from Walter Baker because
they have heard on good authority that they can’t
get it. And, just as Baker’s bank is about to burst,
Bland Holt arrives with £lOO,OOO concealed about
his waggon, and Albert Norman calls upon the
excited customers to present their cheques, what
time Manager Baker lies insensible on the floor.
Then they rush to convert their paper into coin,
and the widow and the fatherless sit upon Baker’s
body to count their money, and the wicked
director, who had compassed the bank’s ruin on
account of Mrs. Bland Holt, is handed over to
justice in the last act. Brunton’s scene paintings
would be ample apology for a more improbable
story than “The War of Wealth.” Also the per-
formance is strong and hearty, except in the case
of Miss Ross, who has dropped back into her
languishing flop-hat style.
** * *
The Brough season, at Melb. Princess’s,
was to end with a revival of “ Sowing the Wind ”
on Wednesday of this week, and to-night (Thurs-
day) the theatre will be,gin to be closed for the
preparation of George Musgrove’s big Xmas show.
The Broughs gave “Mrs. Dane’s Defence” for
seven nights. H. A. Jones’s story is a
powerful warning against the foolishness of
taking one’s Past to the wrong locality for inter-
ment. Likewise it goes to show that marriage is
apt to prove a dismal failure whether the lady be
quite respectable or otherwise. In fact, it would
be a very useful play if it offered any reasonable
suggestion for making both sexes happy without
making them regret it afterwards. Mrs. Brough
(as Mrs. Dane) and the young man who worships
her in a labored monotone are the least satisfac-
tory members of the cast, Miss Susie Vaughan,
Miss Temple, and the somewhat rigid Garry
being the most satisfactory, whilst Brough, Miss
Chatteris, and Leslie Victor follow the leaders
round the track.
m *• * #
The World’s Entertainers are doing well
at the Bijou. Charles Sweet’s humorous intrusion
appears to be more popular than even the two
men who bounce themselves on a billiard-table,
although the sweetness of Charles, which is linked
by a pair of baggy pants, seems rather long
drawn out. Henry Lee impersonates the same
half-dozen characters as before, and his eminently
unlikely Shakespeare is received with confiding
applause, but the fact that he hasn’t attempted
Barton or George Turner, or any other local sub-
ject, throws a shadow of doubt on his claim to talk
like Kipling, Chamberlain, and Lord Roberts.
** m *
At the Opera House nothing has occurred
to weaken the general opinion that the Craggs
amount to a full half of an entertainment in them-
selves. For which matter Louis Lohr bears
witness that in days of yore he ran the Craggs as
a whole show at Adelaide Exhibition-building, and
scored an enormous success. Eight Craggs, two
Allisons and a Peggy who stands in her Pryde
alone, are chief items of the expensive bill at
Rickards’s, and they ought to be a strong enough
crowd without reinforcements. But on Saturday
somebody else will arrive from America.
** # *
All this while, Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus
remains an old-established fact at the Fitzes’
township, on the south side of Princes’ Bridge.
The “Arab wonder,” whose name begins with
Hadji, the Dunbars, the slim and pleasing Lady
Juggler, and the hurricane acts that don’t act in
the least like a hurricane, are produced eight
times a week. Also, a Beautiful White Lady
on a stately black horse is said to be “of
Dusseldorf,” and is an elegant vision in any case.
Likewise, a Clowns’ Ballet was lately added
to the show to make it more various. The Clowns’
Ballet is the prettiest thing the Fitzgeralds have
put into their big ring thusfar. It comes from
Germany, has a quaintness altogether different
from the humor of a French clown ballet, and a
feeling of circus fairy-tale in its happenings. The
Ballet, which takes 50 women and men to put it
through, will be continued over Xmas.
A sign of the times—a sign of Sydney
Daily Telegraph, anyhow. “G. A. Wood ”is
permitted by the D.T. to make a few observa-
tions :
Your Capetown correspondent writes about the “ con-
centration camps.” He has just “run across” the
statistics of mortality for the month of Sept. They were
published in the D.T. several weeks ago under the head-
ing, “ The Horrors of War. Terrible Infant Mortality.”
You pointed out that the figures meant “an
average death-rate of about 433 per 1000 per
annum.” Your correspondent remarks on these figures
that “ the low death-rate is a fresh testimonial to the
extreme care that has been taken to entertain the
nation’s by no means grateful guests.” The notion seems
to be that Lord Kitchener will be acting with quite exces-
sive humanity if, in the course of a year, he exterminates
more than one-third of the whole child population. On
the same sheet you print “ a graphic story ” from Mr.
D. J. Amos, of the Imperial Bushmen. Mr. Amos tells
how he and his comrades attacked a small party
of Boers, who were defeated, and ran away. The story
then proceeds as follows :—“ Ah ! here’s open country at
last. Johnny Boer won’t follow us here, for we are
superior to him in point of numbers, so we halt for half-
an hour, and burn a stray farmhouse as some slight relief
to our feelings. It is now raining steadily—a rain that is
like melted snow—and the unfortunate women and
children, whom we found in the farmhouse, are left
behind in the wet, without blankets or shelter of any
kind. Forward once again into the rain and darkness;
it’s much too cold for us to ride, so we sling our rifles to
our saddles and trudge forward on foot.”
I make no remark on this “ graphic story.” I have no
language at all equal to the occasion ; and if I had I am
quite sure that you, sir, would not print it. I only beg
permission to ask one question. Is there not in Sydney
enough English patriotism to protest against a policy
that is bringing everlasting infamy upon the English
name ?
Just think of the change in public feeling which
permits the Randal-handle organ giving circula-
tion to instead of throttling such foul blasphemy !


stocks Kept ~ F
RAND ROCK DRILLS & AIR COMPRESSORS
BY THE SOLE AGENTS—
N. GTJTHRIDGE, LTD., 71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
And at 486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE ; WELLINGTON, N.Z.;
214 HICH STREET, FREMANTLE; KALCOORLIE.
dfg
TRA.ttIWA.YS. TRA.MWA.Trs.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop. Ltd.
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material.
Locomotives from 10 to 250 h.p.
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel Sleepers,
Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical advice gratuitously
rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated Catalogues and Photo-
graphic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different parts of the World, upon
application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
* * * •
N. Guthridge, Ltd., of 71 Clarence-st., Sydney
(also Melbourne ; Fremantle, Kalgoorlie, W.A. ; Welling-
ton, N.Z.), have added to their list of agencies those of
the New Explosives 00., Ltd., London, and the Pulso-
meter Co., Ltd., Beading. . . . This company is now in a
position to supply all special mining requisites, principal
among them being “Wilfley” concentrators, “Little
Giant’’and “Slugger” drills, “Rand” air compressors,
Gelignite, “ Rackarock,” “ Rendrock,” “ Sun ” brand
fuse, electric and other detonators, “ Ivanhoe ” mining
steel, “Globe" lubricating oils, special marlined steam
hose, steam pumps. Large stocks of all the above-men-
tioned specialities are carried.*
• * * *
Financial Standard, London, 23rd July, 1901:
“ For years past we have noted the gratifying reports of
the Colonial Mutual Life, and cannot otherwise than feel
the liveliest sense of admiration of the successful work of
the society.”*
• • * *
See for yourself. The Australian Medical
Gazette of January, 1891, compares Zetz Spa to the cele-
brated Vichy waters of France, and states that it is
valuable for gout, rheumatism, gravel, catarrh of the
bladder, diabetes, dyspepsia, splenic and hepatic dis-
orders.
• * * «
Vanning Tables.—The very newest and what
gives exceedingly fair promise of superseding all other
tables is the machine known as the Wesley-Baird Vanning
Table. The table is of South Australian invention, and
has given excellent results on Broken Hill ores and ores
containing pyrites, carbonate of copper and tin. Like all
tables, the best work is done on “ fines,” and more espe-
cially when the product is properly classified. The
Central Mining and Tramway Co., of 424 Little Collins-
street, Melbourne, and 40 Hunter-street, Sydney, are the
sole agents in the Eastern States. The table has a capa-
city up to 30 tons per day.*
» * • *
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
fillan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
* • • *
A very successful trial of the Gardner Electric
Drill took place at the works of the Austral Otis Com-
pany, South Melbourne, a few days ago. The drill,
although only temporarily fixed, bored inches in three
minutes through hard basalt. A number of prominent
mining men witnessed the test, and expressed themselves
as greatly pleased with the machine. The Austral Otis
Company have been appointed Sole Agents in Australasia
for the Gardner Electric Drill. *
* * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address : “Option,”
Melbourne. *
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 7A
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* » * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ’’ brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footsoray
works, and he is now' in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts,nuts,forgings, andallsortsof iron-work.*
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Arsenic, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting Charges.
Ny. f^arkwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ;68 Currie-xt., Adel. ; V liajle-street,
Brisb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
Auckland, MZ.
The Wild Cat Column.
N.S.W. Statistician Coghlan reports, now that
the returns are all in and the figures finally revised, that
the six States of the Commonwealth showed these re-
sults for last financial year :
Victoria .. „ .. Surplus .. £249,914
Tasmania .. .. ~ .. 131,249
Westralia .. .. .. Deficit .. 87,210
S. Australia (and N. Territory) .. „ .. 120,180
New South Wales .. ~ ~ .. 334,880
Queensland .. .. .. „ .. 528,188
Net Deficit .. .. £689,295
The problem of where this country is going to becomes
more interesting every year.
* • * *
The State Treasurers continue to issue their
monthly financial returns in a way that makes comparison
practically worthless. Queensland, N.S.W. and South
Australia follow the sensible course of showing only the
purely State revenue— i.e., the revenue from State
sources and the amount of customs, excise and postal
revenue returned to the State by the Commonwealth
Treasurer. Victoria and Westralia mix State and Com-
monwealth revenues together, and the State Treasurer
therefore includes in his accounts income which is no
longer his. Tasmania shows its accounts both ways. All
the States issue monthly returns save S.A. which gives
its figures quarterly. N.S.W., Queensland and Westralia
issue monthly expenditure returns ; the other States
don’t. N.S.W. and Queensland are the only States which
issue monthly statements of loan expenditure. If a
Federal Statistician were only appointed, and he could
persuade all these confused Treasurers to supply him
monthly with full particulars of State revenue, and State
ordinary and loan expenditure, and publish them along
with the corresponding Federal statistics, he would be
an important blessing. Meanwhile available figures
are
State revenues only, as compared with total revenues
for corresponding period last year.
To Nov. 30, 1901. Increase.
N.S. Wales ( 5 months) .. £4,159,715 £25,127
(Rents of resumed area included.)
Decrease.
N.S. Wales ( 5 months) .. 4,046,121 £53,377
(Rents of resumed area not included)
S. Australia ( 3 months) .. 522,177 103,981
Tasmania (11 ~ ) .. 731,599 232,329
Queensland ( 6 ~ ) .. 1,542,980 304,102
Total revenues, as compared with total revenues
for corresponding period last year.
To Nov. 30, 1901. Increase.
Victoria ( 5 months) .. £3,281,615 £270,475
Westralia ( 5 „ ) .. 1,397,428 177,225
Maoriland (8 „ ) ... 3,387,312
Tasmania (11 „ ) .. 895,922 _ 68,006'
The position of three States, which publish ex-
penditure returns, can be accurately determined :
New South Wales (5 months).
30th Nov., 30th Nov., Increase.
1900. 1901.
Revenue .. .. £4,134,588 £4,159,715 £25,127
Expenditure .. 4,178,865 4,597,491 418,626
Deficit .. £44,277 £437,776 £393,499
The financial state of New South Wales is therefore
£393,499 worse than it was at the corresponding date of
last year (last year ended with £334,880 deficit). And if
it hadn’t been that the See Government annexed as
revenue £113,594 rents of unpaid for properties in the
resumed area, the five months’ deficit would be already
over £551,000. Even in November, with the extra cus-
toms revenue coming in, income didn’t cover expendi-
ture. Further, this is how the loan expenditure looks :
To 30th Nov., To 30th Nov.,
1900. 1901.
Ordinary Loan Expenditure ..£993,838 £1,225,816
Purchase of Resumed Area of
Sydney 291,133
£993,838 £1,516,949
Total increase of expenditure, £941,737, against £25,127
increase of revenue 111
Queensland (6 months).
30th Nov., 30th Nov., n
1900. 1901. Decrease.
Revenue .. £1,847,082 £1,542,980 £304,102
Expenditure.. 1,325,932 1,061,649 264,283
Surplus .. £521,150 £481,331 £39,819
Queensland has still the whole year’s interest on its
public debt to pay. Last year ended with a deficit of
£528,188, and things are already £39,819 worse than they
were at the corresponding date of 1900. On the other
hand loan expenditure for the five months is £462,882
against £519,532 up to 30th Nov., 1900, a decrease of
£56 650 The net result is that revenue has decreased
£304 102, and expenditure £320,933, which means a
general improvement of £16,831 in the financial position.
Westralia (5 months).
30th Nov., 30th Nov., .
1900. 1901. increase.
Revenue .. £1,220,203 £1,397,428 £177,225
Expenditure .. 1,210,898 1,282,357 71,459
Surplus .. £9,305 £115,071 £105,766
As regards the other States, the one that
presents the most lamentable aspect is Tasmania.
Even if there had been no Federation, and it had
retained the whole of its excise, customs and postal
revenue, it would have shown a decline of over £68,000,
and with its share of the Federal expenditure to provide
for, and a reduced tariff and the loss of its inter-State
customs ahead, the position could hardly be much worse.
Under these circumstances the Government had a hazy
idea about doing something extra in the way of direct
taxation, but promptly thought worse of it, and decided
to let the State finances slide.
* * » *
South Australia is starting to sell 3J per cent.
Treasury bills on the local market, with a view to raising
£850,000. Every State except Victoria has now floated a
good-sized loan this financial year, and Victoria will
probably be heard from before long.
» • * *
The Westralian Bank (Perth, W.A.) shows a
large increase in profits, the half-year just closed being
the best on its record. Some recent figures are as
follows
t,. Written Total
Profits. Dividends. off Eeserves .
Dec., 1895 ..10,973 17* p. cent. =£7,000 £130,188
June 1896.-12,284 17* „ = 7,000 135,472
£25,000 Premiums on new Shares issued.. 160,472
Dec., 1896 ..16,703 17* p. cent. =£8,750 £3,000 165,425
June, 1897.. 19,686 17% „ = 8,750 3,000 173,361
Dec., 1897 ..18,251 17* „ = 8,750 182,862
June, 1898.. 18,542 17* „ = 8,751 192,654
March, i 899 29,762 17% „ =13,125 209,291
Sept., 1899.. 13,737 17* „ = 8,750 214,278
March, 1900 11,779 17* „ = 8,750 217,307
Sept., 1900.. 12,811 17* „ = 8,750 221,368
March, 1901 11,787 17* „ = 8,750 224,405
Sept., 1901. .19.955 }^ ce ”,
The earnings represent £l2 6s. Id. per cent, per annum
on the shareholders’ funds as at commencement of half-
year, as compared with £7 6s. Bd. per cent, for half-year
to March, 1901. Paid-up capital is £lOO,OOO, so, in pro-
portion to capital, the VVestralian Bank has the largest
reserves in Australasia. It is also the largest dividen
payer, and has been so for the past seven years or more.
The Westralian Bank holds £1,794,944 of de-
posits, over £1,000,000 of which bear no interest, which
probably accounts, in part, for its extraordinary profits.
Its cash reserves are enormous (£1,097,888, equal to 54
per cent, of all liabilities to the public). It also holds
£49,400 in State securities—an item which, judging by
the appearance of things, it could well afford to increase
to £200,000 at least. The deposits have increased by
nearly £60,000 during the half-year, and the note-issue by
over £20,000. Taking one thing with another, the
Westralian Bank is a remarkably fortunate institution.
• • * *
The English, Scottish and Australian Bank
shows a further improvement for the 12 months to 30th
June, 1901. This is distinctly the best year the institu-
tion has enjoyed since 1896, when it wrote off its reserves
and part of its capital, and had a general cleaning up,
and started afresh :
(4 per cent, paid on terminable deposits and perpetual
debentures, and 3 per cent, on inscribed stocks.)
Busi- Profits on
ness Repurchase Dividends, Total
Profits, of Deposits. &c. Reserves.
1897 £10,870 £10,870
1898 6,034 £29,175 Written off £8,816 37,263
1899 15,411 21,032 „ 6,582 67,124
(Interest on Deferred Inscribed Deposit Stock
increased to 4* per cent.)
1900 38,465 8,678 2* per cent. = 13,486 100,781
1901 42,907 579 {^fflce^s’bonus'S }l 24 ’ 387
The reserves are made up of—Reserve fund, £61,904 ;
special reserve, £48,562 : undivided profits, £7627 ; and a
sum of £6294 set aside for further repurchase of deposits.
The profits represent £6 14s. per cent, on the
shareholders’ funds as at the commencement of the year
(capital, £539,437, and reserves, £100,781). During the
past year new deposits have increased by £196,287 (from
£1,875,513 to £2,071,800). The reserve of State securities
has increased by £99,000, and now stands at £138,851 ;
and the cash reserve is £829,152, equal to about 30 per
cent, of all callable liab.lities to the public. The old
reconstructed deposits keep diminishing, the progress
made with the repayment being as follows :
Reconstructed Reduction
Deposits. during year.
June, 1897 .. £3,384,694
„ 1898 .. 3,267,149 .. £117,545
„ 1899 .. 3,218,490 .. 48,659
„ 1900 .. 3,176,074 .. 42,416
„ 1901 .. 2,941,659 .. 234,415
Total reduction in four years is £443,035.
* * * •
It is reported that the Colonial Mutual Eire In-
surance Go., of Melbourne, one of the most prosperous of
the Australian offices, will probably take over the United
Australian Mutual Fire 00. of the same city. Latter
hasn’t paid a dividend since 1896, it has only £293 of re-
serves even on paper, and it created them by writing up
the paper value of its properties by £3672 in 1899. It has
no reinsurance reserve, and altogether its prospects look
very blank. Yet it has a respectable little business—
there are three smaller cos. in Australasia which are
prospering handsomely. In the matter of losses its luck
was good enough ; according to the Year Book, in 1895 its
proportion of losses to net premiums was the third lowest
among 20 offices enumerated ; in 1896, fifth lowest; in
1897, third lowest among 17 offices ; in 1899-1900 it was
again third lowest. But its expenses, as reported in
the Year Book, look appalling. In 1895 it had the
heaviest expense rate of all; in 1896, the highest save two
offices; in 1897, the highest save one office ; for the 18
months to June, 1899, and again in 1900 it had the
highest expense rate —about twice the Australasian
average. Much the same thing happened again in 1901.
The Colonial Mutual Firs is an excellently managed office,
whereof Mr. Hague Smith is the secretary in Sydney, and
its balance-sheet, published in this issue, is a striking
example of economical working. It could probably make
a steady £4OOO a year profit out of the United Australian
Mutual’s business, but the business appears to be of little
use to the U.A.M. itself.
«r * * m
The Universal Permanent Building and Invest-
ment Society (Melbourne), shows a material improve-
ment for the year ended 31st October, 1901, and for the
first time the debit balance is somewhat reduced :
Depreciation, &c., Total
Loss. Written off. Deficit.
1895 £3,220 .. £337 .. £3,557
1896 2,042 .. 589 .. 6,188
Profit.
1897 15 „ 7,752 .. 13,925
Loss.
1898 557 7,503 .. 21,985
1899 222 .. 1,365 .. 23,572
1900 129 .. 694 .. 24,395
Profit.
1901 782 .. 86 .. 23,699
The Universal Permanent Building and Investment
Society has a paid-up capital of £128,648, so, on paper at
all events, about £105,000 is still intact. But for two
serious troubles the position would look very favorable.
In the first place, £171,699 worth of securities are
still put in at book value, and though a very strong
revival has set in there may still be a good deal of depre-
ciation to face. This wouldn’t matter so much if the
business profits could be set against it, but the co.
owes £38,000 on 4 per cent. B debentures—interest on
which is paj'able out of profits. Profits not having
hitherto been available no interest has been paid, but as
soon as the necessary earnings are realised this liability
must be faced. The A debentures at 5 per cent, and B
debentures at 4 per cent, are a heavy load to
carry. The most promising part of the show is that
earnings are increasing somewhat, and the load of
liabilities is being steadily reduced. The net liabilities to
debenture-holders, depositors, mortgagees and bank, less
cash on hand, have been as follows :
1895 £156,907 .. 1899 £106,223
1896 143,843 .. 1900 96,925
1897 119,645 .. 1901 86,906
1898 110,108
This is a very material shifting of the dead weight of
liabilities, and with reasonable luck the Universal should
have a fair prospect in a few years (perhaps a good many
years) of getting on a dividend-paying basis again in a
small way.
* * • *
A small lawsuit, in which the Australian Metro-
politan Life Assurance Co. was lately concerned, led to an
interesting cross-examination of the managing director,
Terence John Harrold. It transpired, among other
things, that the manager and a director, Dr. Ure, owned
more than half the shares between them. An annual
meeting was attended by two shareholders, both em-
ployees of the co., and the manager and directors. Ap-
parently the co. is mainly the manager, directors, and
these two employees, who elect themselves, and meet
annually to report to themselves what they have done,
and to decide unanimously and with enthusiasm that
their own management is Al. This is the co. which
bought an office building in Brisbane for about £13,000,
and created (on paper, anyhow) a large and pros-
perous assurance fund by putting it in the
balance-sheet as worth £30,000. Most of the
little proprietary life offices which have lately swarmed
into existence in these States appear to be owned almost
entirely by the directors and staff, who meet once a year
in one capacity to rigidly overhaul their own doings in
another capacity and remorselessly sack themselves if
they have done wrong. Also, three such offices have
greatly improved their position (on paper) by writing
up the office building.
* * • *
The Intercolonial Investment, Land, and Build-
ing Co. (Sydney)
Profits. Dividends. W^ ten Reserves.
1892 .. £1,006 £7,293
1893 .. 831 £5OO 7,624
1894 .. 1,822 1,000 8,446
1895 .. 3,209 3,557 8,098
1896 .. 6,854 10 per cent. = £3,200 769 1 12 754
Forfeited capital (£1781) added to reserves / ’
1897 .. 6,123 10 per cent. = 3,295 1,000 14,592
1898 .. 4,916 8* „ „ 2,785 \ 47035
Forfeited capital (£512) added to reserves J
1899 .. 4,235 7 per cent. = 2,325 \ 49 494
Forfeited capital (£l6) added to reserves f ’
1900 .. 4,392 7 per cent. = 2,339 21,214
1901 .. 4,911 7 „ „ 2,448 23,677
The reserves are a miscellaneous collection : reserve fund,
£15,500 ; dividend equalisation fund, £3500; forfeited
share capital, £2,310; and undivided profit, £2367. It
would be a vast amount more business-like if these were
all combined to make one respectable reserve ; especially
the policy of leaving forfeited capital lying around loose
in the balance-sheet, instead of appropriating it to any
fund, is somewhat remarkable. The Intercolonial Invest-
ment, Land, and Building (Jo. has a paid-up capital of
£35,802, so the shareholders’ funds total £59,479, and its
position looks solid. At the same time it has a growing
overdraft—£2o76 in 1899 ; £5914 in 1900 ; and £6531 in
1901, which is not a desirable feature in the case.
* * * *
Significant of the “depression” in the lead
market is the diminution in the number of men at work
in the Broken Hill mines. At end of 1900 there were
7260 men at work on the surface and underground ; but a
census taken the other day'showed only 4860—a decrease
of 2400. The mines temporarily shut-down, of course,
show the biggest difference. The British staff has fallen
from 622 to 4, the North from 234 to 14, and the Junction
North from 250 to 15. The Sulphide Corporation, how-
ever, has increased its hands from 870 to 950 and has
added 200 men to its Cockle Creek staff. Directly
dependent on the B.H. mines, and in addition to the
4860, are the Proprietary’s 1250 men at Port Pirie, the
Sulphide Corporation’s 600 at Cockle Creek, and Block
14’s 350 at Port Adelaide, swelling the gross to 7060. Not
since ’9s—when the Barrier was in the throes of the
sulphide difficulty and it was a toss-up whether the field
would live or die—have so few men as at present earned
their living in the mines.
* * * *
It is not likely that there will be any strike at
Broken Hill, but there will be much grumbling ; and no
wonder. The cos. that seek to cut wages are working the
poorest mines left open : and the clearest-seeing of the
men realise that most, if not all, of these cos. would just
as soon shut down altogether, as the Junction, British,
and others have already done. Many of the shareholders
would, as a matter of fact, rather lock up and wait for the
metal recovery that is bound to come some day. And the
men are helpless also in another way : except as to the
mechanics they are wretchedly organised, and have no
fighting funds. The surface laborers—the poorest paid of
all, and the men who do the most cruel work in the open-
cuts —are scarcely touched by the unions. Even the
miners are only moderately organised ; and though some
of their officers are fire-spitters, the rank-and-file includes
the largest proportion of old hands—the men who battled
so magnificently through the great strike of ’92, and
drank so much bitterness then that they hate the very
word “ strike.” That ’92 strike .narked the failure
of unionism under modern industrial conditions, and the
men, thinking the unions of less value than they really
are, turned to politics for salvation through compulsory
arbitration and otherwise. So the unions weakened ; and,
compulsory arbitration having not even yet quite arrived,
the workmen go down between the two stooh. Yet an
arbitration court, if there were one, would most likely,
in view of the smashing falls in lead prices, award the
B.H. co’s the relief they seek ; though much of the work
is so hard, the cost of living so high, and the conditions
of life so wretched that a court with even a lawyer at its
head might well blush as it pronounced this sentence—
7s. for working in the open-cuts, and Bs. for risking
everything underground.
* * • •
“Sessil”: Emmaville (N.S.W.) tin-field has
fallen on rather evil days. Some months ago, the “ Y
Waterhole ” syndicate informed its 50 to 60 tributors
that it required 15 per cent., instead of 10 per cent, as
hitherto exacted. This, of course, is the God-given
mission of syndicates. Tributors bucked, and in two
months syndicate surrendered. The property of the
celebrated Gulf Lode Tin-Mining Co. —the richest, for a
time, in Australia —is now quite deserted. It is a mining
c.p., and its Sydney owners neither work nor let it. Close
by is old-hand M. W. Carr’s “ Red Cross.” Carr has been
18 years on the lode. His stope is 30ft. ; his vein aver-
ages 3in., and his returns 74 or 75 per cent, from lode tin.
The country is granite, surrounded by quartzite, and
carries some galena and wolfram. Saw some splendid tin
specimens, similar to those accepted by the “ Dock ” from
same claim. Tent Hill battery is at work yet. At “ Nine-
Mile,” co.—fortified with Govt, aid—sunk 159 ft. on true
bottom (others say on dip-sidling of old bed). Found
very little wash, so hastily humped its machinery and
silently stole away. Developments awaited with despair
by local people. Latter are also getting up petition
against further extension of three months idleness craved
by the Little Plant Silver-mining Co. This nervy cor-
poration gutted its property for a time, and spent at the
rate of £12,000 a year in the district. Then it was in
such a hurry that the Govt, inspector shut it down, and
gave it a month to make its mine secure. Co. seems to
have turned sulky—has received further extensions, con-
sisting of 12 following months, and is yelling now for
three more.
» * * *
North Nymagee (N.S.W.): The latest: “ Coun-
try passed through composed principally of mineralised
slate with small veinlets of quarts and yellow sulphide
ore through it. The water is highly mineralised and is
very strong in copper. This proves that we are in the
vicinity of good copper ore, which may be met with at
any time.” It does nothing of the kind. It is one thing
to have water impregnated with copper in solution, and
quite another to find a good copper-lode. For instance,
Blayney mine, if the copper in the water was any proof of
the richness of the ore body, would be ten times as big a
show. There are some good copper-mines with very little
copper in their water, and vice versa.
» » » *
Yambulla Goldfield, N.S.W.: “ Three practical
miners from Westralia have arrived here. Many miners
are of opinion that Yambulla will rival Wyalong, but
capital is required for the further development of the
resources of the field.” Quite a number of small crush-
ings of Ito 3oz. ore have taken place. Reefs small but
consistent. If several of the blocks were to amalgamate,
they might make one co. with working capital enough to
deal with the sulphide zone which, sooner or later, the
mines there will have to face.
* * » *
N.S.W. dredges have bumped terribly the last
few months. The pity of it is that those who suffer
are chiefly poor people whose hard-earned pounds mostly
went to fill the pockets of the dredging expert and pro-
moter. Particularly on Shoalhaven River and its tribu-
taries the inevitable (as here pointed out 18 months
ago) has come with a vengeance. The Terraces
closed and sold to Araluen Consolidated. Shoal-
baven Gold Dredging Co. closed. Braidwood Pro-
prietary getting a little gold and has a big law-suit
pending. The Colombo’s recent for a week
is not much more successful than its sister dredge higher
up. The Federal has closed down because it could"not
get gold to pay expenses. The Araluen dredges are
getting more gold than any of the others, but a dreadful
lot goes in repairs and keeping offices in Svdney. Araluen
Junction, which is not in Araluen proper but some miles
on the Muruiya side of the valley, will soon have the
dredge laid up, as there is not enough water, but “ will
have splendid returns as soon as such and such a
face is cut out,” and so on. And so with many other
N. S. W. dredges. The successes will probably not average
one in ten. It is bad enough in M.L., the declared home
of the dredging industry, where to-day there are more
dredges silent than working—where the boom has faded,
thousands of people have lost money in it, hundreds
of families have been ruined by it, and where
at last foundries are looking for other work than
dredge-building. The public rushed into a thing they did
not understand. Because it was new it could not fail.
Most, if not all the money, could have been saved by
patience, caution, and a little discrimination ; for the
ground, whether in a river, beside it, or on an alluvial
flat, could be tested as to its gold contents as well as its
suitability for dredging for less shillings than it takes
pounds to build a dredge.
* * * •
Those who are sticking to the Araluen Junction
Gold Dredging Co. (N.S.W.), are going to make another
bid for fortune, but whether they will reach the goal this
time remains to be seen. A fresh co. has been formed
out of the sludge of the old concern, and has acquired the
dredge and assets fo» £llOO. The new co. is in 30,000
shares of 2s. each, Is. per share payable on application.
Shares were first offered to the original shareholders, and,
failing them, to the public. The dredge will be moved at
once on to the Araluen Creek, where good and consistent
returns are, in the usual way, anticipated. When weren’t
they?
• • * *
Chillagoe Railway and Mines: Since writer’s
last reference to this gigantic fiasco, meetings of share-
holders have taken place, directors’ proposals have been
rejected, and they have felt themselves so offended that
they promise all to resign next year and to submit them-
selves for re-election. They have made other promises,
none of them very substantial ; all, barring John
Moffatt, agreed to find £50,000 to help the co. out of
its difficulties. Good, old man Moffatt declined
on the ground that he had held his shares all along and
was therefore not in a position to put up more than the
liability represented by his holding. There is no way out
but reconstruction—which probably means making
all the shares contributing to the extent of 4s. or
ss. each. Many fools are now engaged in buying
Chillagoes because they are cheap. Some started
with that idea when they were 10s., others when they
were down to 55., and now they have the opportunity of
continuing the operation at 2s. If they like to wait a
little longer, they will probably get them for a shilling,
and, if they exercise much patience, they will probably
receive thousands at a gift. How many of these men
ever realise, in their blind faith in Stewart, that the
debenture-issue already represents a liability of some-
thing like 10s. a share, for this money must some day
either be paid or the property lost! The security is not
regarded as too good, or the £lOO debentures carry-
ing 6 per cent, interest would not be selling at £7O
to £BO each. Imagine anybody buying Chillagoes
with such an anomaly staring them in the face, with
the copper-market rapidly falling, and with little hope
of any substantial help from the men who sold their
shares at a big profit. Herbert J. Daley, one of the
few well-known mining men who condemned this scheme
in its infancy and several times since it started, recalls
the fact per medium of the Argus. He said of the group,
some three years back, that, although some rich ore
had been extracted, and was still obtainable in
limited quantities, its occurrence was confined to
short shutes and irregular deposits, and in many
cases the veins were too small for profitable mining.
“ Bob Moore ” unhesitatingly condemned the Chillagoe
mines every time he went there. G. A. Stockfeld said
of them ten years ago that the deposits were irregular
and erratic, that they did not live in depth, that their
treacherous character was accounted for by the formation
surrounding them, that the mines were too widely
separated to be of any value, and if the ore of the various
groups were all in one, then it would not be a huge mine.
Over three years ago, when the Chillagoe boom started,
he revisited the camp, and reiterated his opinion after
another exhaustive examination, but was laughed at for
his pains.
(Continued on page 27.)


DAVIP COMPANY
BOOT IMPORTERS.
OBIEOT BOOTS
16/6 to 28/6
VICI KID BOOT
(as Illustration)
28/6
6EOR6E STREET
(OPPOSITE G.P.0.),
SYDNEY. (
gfd
THE :
RULE
IS
VISIT
HARRINGTON’S
PHOTOGRAPHIC SHOWROOM -
. IT you want a Good Reliable "
~ CAMERA ~
HARRINGTON & CO., LTD.,
66 King Street, Sydney,
93 Queen St., Brisbane; 179 Collins St., Melbourne;
504 Hay St., Perth, &c., &c.
Hand Cameras
Stand Cameras
Pocket Cameras
Kodak Cameras
FROM ss. TO £5O.
Home Cigarettes.
THE LATEST BULLETIN.
They are the Sweetest, the Nicest the
most Comm on wealthiest Cigarette. ’
All Tobacconists.
SOCIETY
As Australians will know, the Duke of
York was accompanied on his tour by a literary
man whose business it was to act as “ghost ” and
put words into the mouth of his harmless, in-
sipilicaiit little master. But now that the
utterly -commonplace Duke has got back to
England, the Australian press actually has the
gall to print cablegrams setting forth the Duke’s
opinions concerning the political and social con-
ditions of this country ! Just as if the Australian
people really believed the Duke aforesaid capable
ot forming conclusions upon any subject more
profound than whether it was time to light
another cigarette or uncork another whisky-and-
* * * »
Moore, who shot solicitor Abigail’s man-
aging clerk in Sydney, last week, and then
smcided was apparently a nervous man driven
mad by the sloth and costliness of the law. And
He was an inefficient man as well as a nervous
one, for in a city that is full of solicitors he only
succeeded in damaging a clerk who was, appa-
Tik 7 ’ .. ,n n° way responsible for his troubles.
Alter all, though, it is a foolish person who goes
shooting at lawyers these times. A dead lawyer
is out of his misery, anyhow ; alive one lingers on
to note the increasing scarcity of litigation and
the growing tendency to arbitrate or settle the
case out of court, to curse Torrens’ Act, which
cheapened and simplified conveyancing*, and to
see the constant inrush of new solicitors in a pro-
fession where there is less and less to solicit, and
new barristers who have no bar to go to except the
threepenny one. And now that it is proposed to
a olish the free lunch, even the threepenny bar
may soon cease to be what it was.
AT ROSEN BLOOM’S MUSIC ALE.
“ Von’t you sing something, Mrs. Snciderthal? ”
“ Well, I'll try."
“ Certainly I Certainly I That's vat I meant."
Since Dutton raged some years ago among
the fat cavalry officers who couldn’t ride and the
fatuous infantry officers who couldn’t swear, the
comc-opera eiement has gradually crept back into
JN.b.W. military forces. In a Sydney police
court case last week, before a plain-clothes magis-
trate named Snnthers, one gallant officer was fined
40s. for calling another gallant officer “a d-
liar and ad oad.” But it was explained that
the words were spoken in a quiet way ” ; other-
wise, doubtless, the stain of them would have had
to be wiped out in gore.
* * * *
During the plague which seriously
threatens to recur, in view of the many bubonic
rats lately found dead—the filthy practice of keep-
mg poultry in upstairs rooms in Sydney was for-
badell - Now, within a stone’s throw of the Town
Hall, poultry may be seen fluttering and roosting
at a wire-netted window on the third floor of
certain premises. The old-world peasant, with
his pig under his bed, has an equal in the Austra-
lian who keeps hens in .a bedroom.
* * * *
The returned N.S. W. cohentingenter is still
demanding an extra Is. 2d. per day, and is
resolved to make Premier See’s life a misery till
he gets it. The question is whether he was to
get 4s. 6d. a day, which was how most people
understood the matter, or 4s. 6d. together with
Is. 2d. a day of Imperial pay, making ss. Bd. a
day in all; also any trifle of loot that came in his
way. The cohentmgenter wants to get his ss. Bd.,
and to pose as a self-sacrificing patriot at the
same time, hence the deafening row. The spec-
tacle of the Cornstalk troops— the best-paid army
in the world—demanding Is. 2d. a day over and
above their bargain throws an interesting side-
light on Australian discipline, and may possibly
convey a valuable hint to foreign nations. They
will probably arrange to invade Australia at some
period of scarcity when the Government can’t
afford to pay more than 3s. 6d., and thus take
Australia’s five-and-eightpenny army at a disad-
vantage.
* * * •
At Newington, Parramatta River, N.S.W.
Govt, treats its aged citizens as a gentleman
should. There are cottages for old married
couples, where, amid comfortable surroundings,
life’s sun may set in brightness. Many people
who go over Newington Asylum are moved to
hope that when their twilight comes they will
be able to claim and share one of the cot-
tages with “the missus.” But a missus is
essential; the cottages are for married
couples only. This was made pathetically
clear to one old man, on the wrong side of 70,
who, with his wife, had long shared a Newington
cottage. The wife died, and the widower was
told that he must be removed to Parramatta
asylum. After sorrowfully thinking over the
prospect, he asked for leave of absence for three
days, and at the end of the time presented himself
at the gates—smiling, confident, debonair —
accompanied by a bride about 80, whom he
had wooed and won, expecting as a dowry
renewed right of tenure of a Newington cottage.
But callous Authority interfered with this little
plan, and the couple were separated—the bride-
groom being sent to Parramatta, and the bride
remaining at Newington.
• • • *
As here surmised, the death-sentence on
Kuhnell, the supposed Red fern poisoner, has been
commuted. Capital punishment will, however,
be inflicted on Campbell, the sex - maniac,
as by hanging him the Law hopes to make some
sort of illogical atonement to society for its crime
in ever allowing the miserable wretch his freedom
after a first offence had shown his dangerous in-
sanity. But no matter—while Australians are
burning the farmhouses of men and women
nghtly struggling to be free, ” there is no room
for any fuss about such a little thing as the
hanging of a madman.
* » • •
By an error in the recent Act consolidat-
ing the N.S.W. vagrancy laws it would seem that
a conviction in certain cases is to be followed by a
surgical operation.
* * * *
As the Criminal Court-house at Darling-
hurst, which has done duty since 1842, is now
considered unsafe, it is being partially demolished
and re-built, the original stone and decorations
being preserved and used again. The interior
will be much altered. Among other changes, the
dock from which so many eminent criminals, from
John Knatchbull to Prank Butler, have gone to
their doom will be modernised.
* • * ,
Near Henty (N.S.W.) a baby girl, six
weeks old, was found lying close to a gate by two
farmers, Who were attracted by her feeble cries.
She was carefully wrapped in shawls, with a
bundle of baby clothes and a feeding-bottle along-
side ; also a note stating that mother was in diffi-
culties, and forced to part with baby, that baby’s
name was Dolly, a,nd she hoped some kind person
would send the little one to Albury orphanage.
By the merest chance “some kind person” hap-
pened along just as the ants were crowding on to
• * * *
A recent case in Vic. Supreme Court cried
shame on society. The mother of an illegitimate
was discovered perambulating Collingwood with
the dead infant in her arms. It was in a dirty
state, and had been accidentally burned. The
mother had taken it to the hospital, where its
wounds had been dressed. But society makes no
provision for the keep of such children, and the
mother friendless, homeless, moneyless—wan-
dered about till a policeman arrested her for being
illegally m possession of a dead baby, or some-
thmg of that sort. At her trial, the woman—
though charged with manslaughter—was unde-
fended. Mr. Justice Holroyd told the jury that
the mother of every child was bound to bestow
due care upon it, and to feed and clothe it pro-
perly. And when she can’t do that she is a
guilty woman ! Por less than was wasted on the
ducal shivoos a well-equipped Foundling Hospital
might have been established. Society has the
power to do its duty and neglects it; but it
punishes those who offend from sheer impotence.
One Howell, fairly well-known in Syd-
ney, has been sentenced at Nowra (N.S.W.)
to nine months gaol for obtaining sums of money
from local magnates by representing himself as a
London Times man seeking biographical records
of the great men of Australia. This ancient
swindle is always worked on the strength of the
London Times. The weird improbability of the
JLimes sending out a man to beg guineas from
Alderman Blank, of Blankyville, as the price of
printing his biography side by side with that of
the last dead statesman, never seems to strike the
bucolic mind.
NO AGNOSTIC.
THE NEW PAUSON : “ Just getting home from
school, my lit le lamb?”
LITTLE LAMB : “ Yes.”
T.N.P.: "And do you go to Sunday-school, too? ”
L.L.: “ Yes.”
T.N.P.: “ Which one? ”
L.L.: “ Ther one wot gives ther best picnic.”
The churches which go in for the hysterical
business, so marked during the recent simul-
taneous mission in Sydney, are really cutting their
own throats by preparing the way for big defec-
tions at the call of fakirs like Elijah Dowie,
Theocratic Unity Horos, and other adepts in
humbug. Much better the old, solemn way, with
no jokes and no hysteria. It is safer and surer for
the Plate in the long run.
“FIGHT ON!”
Jones reads
that the tailor-
esses have forced
the manufactur-
ers to pay 4½d.
more for making pants, and, determined
not to be a party to his surrender to the
beastly working classes, decides not to wear ’em.
One incident of the Sydney simultaneous
mission suggests a valuable clerical reform. Too
long has tyrant custom ordained that a clergyman
must be allowed to inflict his sermons for so long
as he pleases on a suffering congregation. In
future every pastor, ere holding forth, should take
a vote of his audience as to whether he should
“ Shut Up,” or “Let Her Go, Gallagher.”
* * * *
What the ingenuous clergyman said to the
ladies at a big feminine meeting in Melbourne is
the best smoke-room story of the recent Spring
season. And everybody sees the joke bar the
clergyman;
At a recent Sydney “Parliamen-
tary picnic ” — hie —the Govt, launch
managed to run down the cable of th.i
Spit punt and dislocate the ferry service.
Accidents at these “picnics” are very
common. Many months ago a Govt,
launch with a gallant Minister, some ladies,
and some gold-top aboard, ran down a very
prominent labor member who was fishing
(without ladies or gold-top) and nearly
killed him. That gave somebody a fright,
as press publicity was narrowly escaped, and
the Govt, launch picnic temporarily lost some
of its frequency—also some of its hilarious-
ness. But it seems to be breaking out again
badly.
Telling (and probably true) statement by
a mission parson:
At the time of the boot-box tragedy, in Melbourne, no
less than 600 mothers viewed the head of the victim in
the morgue to see if it would throw any light upon the
whereabouts of their lost daughters!
The number of disappeared daughters (or sons) in
Australia is one of the symptoms of the “ casual-
ness ” of the national character.
* * * *
Another tram - accident verdict against
N.S.W. Railway Commissioners—damages this
time £l2OO and costs. By the time the Com-
missioners reckon up costs and damages for the
year they will be rather pleased that fair hours for
the tram running-staff are to be enforced for Iho
future. With shorter hours, decent provision for
meals, and more time for rest, a decrease in
casualties may reasonably be expected.
» * * •
In Kalgoorlie (W.A.), there is one street,
the lower part of which is a row of small, detached
cottages, mostly built on the same plan
—a door, with a window on each
side. The inhabitants of
these cots are perfect ladies,
of various nationalities,
who are to be seen lol-
ling about in bright-
colored raiment of
more-or-lessreveal-
ing type. At
nig n t, the
whole row is
brilliantly
lit up ; a
“scarlet
stain” occu-
pies each
window, and
the passer-by
is addressed
sotto voce, in
foreign ac-
cents —if a
policeman
doesn’t hap-
pen to be in
sight.
Visitors to
Kalgoor-
1i e are
taken along
to see this
street as one of the
sights of the town. The
ladies keep to their premises,
and are, to the eye of the law,
simply “looking out de vindow.”
So they go unmolested, and have
done so for years. A syndicate of
foreign gentlemen—perfect gentlemen
—run the show and import the ladies.
Coolgardie had them in the
days of its champagne and
four-in-hands, but when
the gold left Coolgardie
the ladies left also. Kal-
-goorlie doesn’t somehow
seem to be equal to the
task of throwing them out. An
effort was lately made to transfer
the lot to an outside quarter of the
town —like a Japanese yoshiwarra,
but it failed.
- * *
Egged-on by their best girls, Tasmanian
amateur Tommies are on strike against wearing
their new scarlet uniform. Want kharki, and
won’t be happy till they get it. “We aren’t no
tlmi red ’eroes ! ” Good girls !
* * * *
A Bulletin correspondent:—
Recently saw in Liverpool-street, Sydney, a policeman
and two other men carrying a drunken woman to the
lock-up. They had her heels in the air, with her head
dangling about anyhow. And when they wanted a
spell” they deposited her, face-downwards, in the dirt.
She was apparently insensible, so that her carriers had
not even the excuse of resistance.
OASIS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have heard that a lover, seized
With ardour for his mistress dear,
Is like one parched who, water near,
Would fain risk all to be appeased.
And sure a maiden ought, I think,
To pity such a grievous drouth,
And try at least if with her mouth—
(Art thirsty, Sweetheart? Come and drink !)
LALAGE.


J.D.K.Z. GIN.
+
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
on ly—largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 16'5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Sydney.
RAFFAN’S sulphur liver PILLS—1/-
Cures the Backache in 10 Hours.
RAFFAN’S SULPHUR LIVER PILLS-1/-
Promptly cures Malarial and Rheumatic Conditions.
RAFFAN’S SULPHUR LIVER PILLS—1/-
Is attracting attention for Internal Tumors.
RAFFAN’S SULPHUR LIVER PILLS-1/-
Gives a Freshness and Freedom from Eruptions.
A TONIC LAXATIVE.
RAFFAN, Pharmacist, MELBOURNE.
gdf
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette, and Sailing List with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Collins-st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
South Australia is the only State that has
done anything serious in the way of cutting down
the local Legislature, and the Upper House has
undone a good part of the work. The Assembly’s
proposal was to reduce its membership from 54 to
42 and the Council from 24 to 18 (the Council
altered this to 21). The Assembly’s proposal for
a double dissolution next year, both Houses to
start fresh, disappears. The deadlock clauses,
copied from the Federal Constitution, disappear
also. When all is finished, there is no visible
reform, except a reduction of membership and a
paring-down of the miserably insufficient Minis-
terial salaries. There is a chance now for the
Premier to make a rousing fight; but, alas,
Jenkins isn’t a Kingston.
Not content with expelling Tocsin pub-
lisher, Edward Findley, Vic. State Ministry has
resurrected for that print’s special benefit an obso-
lete law which compels every newspaper proprietor
to find £3OO security that he will publish no
sedition. No other paper is asked to provide
security. Several State Labor members offered
to act as sureties, but Magistrate Panton wouldn’t
accept them. Federal members were thereupon
secured in King O’Malley and Fowler. The
P.M. somewhat aggressively asked Fowler what
he was worth. “ About £18,000,” replied Fowler.
“ About £lB,OOO ?” repeated the Magistrate with
some awe. “Yes, about that,” sharply returned
Fowler, “but I can’t say to within a few
thousands.” The sureties were then accepted.
To the other attractions which make The
Australia the premier hotel of the Southern Hemisphere
there has been recently added a cosy corner and lounge
fitted up in Moorish style, and placed right against the
coolest and most up-to-date of bars.*
“APENTA.” 8
The Best Natural Aperient Water.
A Specific
For The Certain Belief Of
HABITUAL and OBSTINATE CONSTIPATION and in
DISORDERS of the LIVER and BILIOUS ATTACKS.
“ How McDougal Topped the Score”—
“My Mate Bill” —“The Billiard Marker’s
Yarn” —these and many other famous recitation-
pieces will be found in “The Bulletin Reciter.”
Cloth-bound and illustrated, price ss. post-free
from Bulletin office.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk stripe
Mattalassk and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTGASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE
SILVER STAR STARCH
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
gdf
and Troubles.
“ Jeff.”: Apropos the additions to Sydney’s
Prince Alfred Hospital. The people who run
that institution contend that it is for the training
of medical students first, and the benefit of the
sick poor second. They claim to use the body of
every patient who receives medical assistance
there—whether such assistance be paid for or not
—as a subject for the training of the students,
unless the health of the patient forbids it. The
argument is that the original bequest out of which
the hospital grew was for that purpose, therefore
all the moneys paid by Govt, and subscribed by
the public are for the same purpose; and the
patient who refuses to be used as a subject is told
to leave the hospital—unless he or she is too ill to
be removed. But the rule is—No student, no
treatment. Parliament ought to make it clear
that it is absolutely optional on the part of the
patient whether he or she be used as a subject for
the training of students.
• * * *
At one church in Carlton, Melb., the
parson and the elders, to show their great faith,
insisted upon leaving the place of worship un-
locked at all times. Once it was robbed, but still
the brethren persisted in keeping open house.
But finally .the church was cleaned out again, seats
and all, and now the doors of the House of Prayer
are fitted with formidable locks. Alas! only
the church which has absolutely nothing worth
stealing can afford to have complete faith !
• • * •
One S.A. contingent came back from
Africa calling itself “the Fighting Fifth,” and
has been much paragraphed and pictured under
and over that title. Hobson deolares this war
has killed the sense of humor in England.
* * * *
Why does Sydney go to great expense to
put iron railings around her parks ? Absolutely
inartistic, without being ugly enough to be inter-
esting, they serve no useful purpose. Hyde Park,
for example, is never closed, and it would not be
likely to suffer from straying cattle ; so, why the
railings ? If some sacrifice must be made to the
god Terminus, the low wall that supports the
rails would surely answer all necessary purposes.
THE SYDNEY ANTI-SABBATH-BANANA
CRUSADE.
(1) John Smith and family seek the unholy Sabbath banana at the Daao’s shop, but find
themselves confronted by the parsons and the bobbies. (2) But only the bobbies are ashamed ;
they arc .so ashamed of the mean and tyrannous duties imposed on them that they are forced to
seek stimulants.
*<f L 0
FRUITERER- .
The population of Adelaide and its suburbs
has become so permeated by teetotalism that
brewers’ profits have fallen greatly, and the
adverse influence of the analysis of local beer pub-
lished by the Govt, analyst has still further
injured the Bung interest.
The usual series of jokes on the obtuse-
ness of customs officials and the new tariff has
started. Sydney ’Varsity received a collection of
Egyptian antiquities for the Museum, and the
customs charged on them, as “ fancy goods, n.e.i.
25 per cent, advalorem. It is said that the JJeps.
maintains that equally good articles are made in
Melbourne. But on the Uni. officials declaring
that the relics of the past were absolutely value-
less, the collection escaped taxation.
* * • *
Scene, King-st., Sydney : Very tall, mas-
sive, and expensively-attired lydy of 30, from a
fashionable suburb, steps down from tram-car
containing a lot of more or less “ dressy
women. On alighting she (to make the other
cats jealous) at once drops her heavy silk
train on a pile of street filth, and sweeps it
nearly all after her to the sidewalk. Larrikin,
with brush and pan (pointing to her train), “I
say, lydy, that’s wot I'm ’ere fur ! ”
* • • *
Sydney advfc. :—
COOK, Japanese or Cingalese, 35s., hotel, Moun-
tains ; Cook, 20s., South Coast ; Cook, 20s.,
hotel, sub.
Note the wages : Black man, 35s. ; white man, i
20s. ! „ /
“Yarrum” writes :
If, in some Australian farming communities, the breed-
ing of children got a quarter as much attention as that of
stock, it would he well for the future of the State. I
know a little spot, once noted for its strapping men and
women, now peopled by a race of pigmies, runts, and
imbeciles. Talking to “ leading man ” Pother week, he
explained how he was related, by marriage and other-
wise, to every family of the hundred or so in the district.
Also, he was related to the blacks, and had no hesitation
about saying so. In Tas., N.S.W., Queensland, Vic. and
S. A. the same evil is observable—too close inter-marriage,
and consequent racial deterioration.
A good all-round woman :—
YOUNG LADY, passed matriculation, competent
telegraph-operator, wants position post-office,
governess or barmaid, city, country. Cosmopolitan,
Argus.
A police-pensioner who wishes to spend
his time and his pension outside the State of
N.S.W 1 . must obtain permission to do so, but
the gilded pensioner of
the Civil Service has no
need to ask—he simply
goes, and his pension
is remitted to
him without
trouble.
THE DEPRAVING EFFECT OF HANDWEAR.
CIS (the girls are allowed picket-money to dress, on): "Go on, Maud! I know its not very
tempting, hut gloves are always useful .”
The fact that the Carrie Moore-Tyson
breach-of-promise case didn’t go on was the worst
disappointment Sydney has met with for years.
And, with a refinement of cruelty, the public was
allowed to come down to the court, and see the
curtain go about half-way up—and then find that
there was to be no show, after all. Plaintiff didn’t
even offer to pay the disappointed audience’s
tram-fare. The community is justly indignant at
the owner who scratches his horse on the morning
of the race, but when there is only one horse, and
it scratches itself after the race is started, the
position justifies the crowd in breaking something.
0 * * *
“Justice”—good old “ Justice ’’—writes
to Melb. Age re the command of the Victorian
men in buckram, which seemingly is going to pro-
vide a fat salary for somebody other than Tom
Price. “Justice” is peremptory in his request
for a solution of this horrible mystery. “I
now write,” says “Justice,” “to ask what
Colonel Price’s crime is that he has not been
given the command ?” Somehow, this demand for
information reminds the present scribe of an
elderly uncle of his, with a red face and a ban-
daged toe, who used to lie upon a couch, crying to
Heaven and people in general—“ What have I
done that I should have the gout?” Nobody
could think of a better reply than “Nothing.”
As a matter of fact, there were worse men than
uncle who lived and died without suffering any
gout whatever.
0 * * • *
The latest caper of the unspeakable Vic-
torian J.P. is to beseech Govt, to label him with
a gold badge on his watch-chain. He would pre-
fer the country to foot the bill, but if that can’t
be worked he is willing to give a guinea apiece for
the pretties.
• * * •
Broken Hill has given birth to a print
styled Freediscussion (one word), conducted in
the interests of Socialism. “Hy,” “hys,” and
“hym” are used for “he or she,” “his or hers,”
and “him or her”; and the editor recklessly
offers prizes of 25., Is. 6d., Is. and 6d. for 1000-
word essays on “Sport: its advantages and evils,
physically, economically, morally and spiritually.”
Also of 35., 2s. and Is. for “ not more than 32
lines of poetry, in either English, Irish, Scotch or
Cornish,” on the subject —ye gods !—of the
“ Mines Equity Cases, or Equitable Assessment
of Mining Property.”
* » * •
“Rypo”: Re that subscription-list and
bazaar-tickets-grievance of railway men. A still
worse feature of the case is the “send-off” or
“presentation” subscription-list in the case of
transferred or retired officers of the various Govt.
Depts. A “boss” retires, or is transferred,
whereupon the “toady” section of the men get
up a testimonial, and the others are afraid to stand
out. Thus the boss, who doesn’t care a hang for
the men, gets a present from them, while the men
—most of whom are glad to see the back of the
“boss ’’—give him “ a token of regard.” Ugh !
A peculiar mental aberration ia that of a
Melbourne man, whose wife died over a year ago.
He goes every night to a large box in which he
has stored her belongings, dresses him*
self in his wife’s clothes and main*
tains an imaginary conversation
with her for an hour or more.
Occasionally he goes for a walk,
k but is promptly pounced on by
* the local policeman and led back.
In every other way he is quite
sane, and successfully conducts
a large business.
The “ necessary and just ” policy of farm-
burning in S’Africa is illustrated by a N.S.W.
cohentingenter’s recent letter. After describing
the hunt of a Boer convoy, wherein the hunters
found themselves the hunted, and had to retreat:
We halt for half-an-hour, and hum a stray farmhouse
as some slight relief to our feelings.
Which recalls the “ man ” who, having had a bad
day, goes home and kicks his wife. What is
likely to be the effect on Australia’s criminal
statistics when these easily annoyed gentry come
home to “ relieve their feelings ” at our expense ?
A REBOURS!
Gray grief and sin shall burden man,
And souls be bitter hard to save,
So long as we shall live our span
From out the cradle to the grave ;
But we may lose our galling weight,
And cheat Remorse and still Regret,
When man can grapple with his Fate
Backward—from bier to bassinette !
O.K.
W.H.O.
CHRISTMAS EVE IN THE FIELDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Here ’neath the trees, while all the world seems sleeping,
My spirit to an ancient influence yields,
I muse upon some shepherds vigil keeping
’Mid the strange mystery of the star-lit fields.
And though lik.e them to kneel in adoration
Perchance our doubting hearts forbid us, still
We all can echo the sweet salutation ;
“ Peace ever be to men of kindly will! ”
ALICE J. MUSKETT.


cc
If yoG woOfd
STAND ON VELVET”
BCiy YoGr
BOOTS
. . AT . .
IDark
poy’s.
*
AMERICAN BOOT. GE. Keith. Black Calf Balmoral, made in
Pointed, Medium and Square Toe* ; welted. Price, 16/8.
Do you like Coffee^
Perfect, Pure,
Fragrant, Exhilarating Coffe
Then Try
T.tN. SMITH'S
Coffee Essence
Winners of the GRAND PRIX against all
other makers at the PARIS EXHIBI-
TION, 1900.
Australian Representatives:
Wl FT & COMPANY.
7 Spring: Street,
Sydney
The Bulletin’s Christmas number has
been a great success. Copies can still be obtained
from the office at 6d. each, accompanied by the
necessary postage.
Sanitary enthusiasts advocate shorter
skirts for women, as they—the skirts, not the
ladies—would not collect the dust and “detri
menta” like the long trains, which sweep the
dirty pavements. In regard to grace of outline,
neither long nor short frocks matter if the P.D;
corset be worn. To the queen in her regal robes,
and the comic-opera girl in her gauzy sauciness,
the P.D. corsets are equally essential.*
To be fragrant and daintily perfumed with
Parma Violets is the latest town-scent fad.
Fashionable women use Westall Guest’s Violet
Bath Salts in their baths, for shampooing, and
as a perfumed sachet for their clothing. This
preparation is quite the latest and choicest luxury.
Sample packets 3d., post 4d.; boxes containing
12 packets 25., post 2s 6d. H. Westal Guest,
cb«*nist, 229 Bourke-st., Melbourne.*
-|-0 INTERSTATE VISITORS and OTHERS.
J. M°CLUSK Y
(of ADELAIDE),
Has RE-BUILT the ROYAL EXCHANGE, SYDNEY,
Corner of George and King Streets,
with Bars and Dining; Rooms thoroughly
up to date.
A WOMANS LETTER
_ Sydney, December 9, 1901.
My Dear Arini,—
As Xmas draws near shop-windows are filled
with things to eat and things for children to play
with. Windows which before showed all that was
fair and fine in muslin, lace, and chiffon, now hold
golden-maned dolls and white-maned rocking-
horses. Windows that held eatables in puri-
tanical labels now flaunt “nicies” in gold and
blue dress, with portraits of lovely women and tags
of tinsel and loops of ribbon, and red lions
rampant. Canned fruits from Columbia show the
eagle with his beak wide apart, a Xmas lustre on
his plumage, and a peace-on-earth-good-will-to-
men label in his claw. Then there’s the giant
strawberry, tomato, and pine-apple from our State
in gold frames, so to speak, or accessories that
show them to 25th of Dec. advantage. Also the
mothers of girls in service are falling sick with
strange unanimity, and are writing for their off-
spring to come home till after Xmas.
The streets and theatres are gladly suffering an
invasion of bronzed men in new grey clothes. Of
one of these, it is told that he is most suspicious
of townsfolk, and, before he goes into a crowd,
leaves everything in the way of money and
jewellery at his hotel office. Well, he went to
the first night of “ Florodora’s ” revival with abso-
lutely nothing in his pockets save a potato, carried
for rheumatism. Now he rejoices in his fore-
thought, for even his anti-rheumatic potato was
filched in the crush.
Although every woman who calls herself a lady
is getting ready to go to the mountains, there are
plenty of texts for talk between packing and the
making of sunbonnets—Amy Castles, the collapse
of the Moore-Tyson case, the Gov.-General on
trailing skirts, the epidemic of women’s clubs.
Also,Melba has written a nice letter to Mr. J.
r'-i WiUiamaon, ' n "which she regrets that she
failed to come to terms with him. “I cabled to
my brother-in-law,” she writes, “to get from you
your best and final offer, and am much disap-
pointed that the reply did not meet my views.”
The terms on which she comes to Mr. Musgrove
are most satisfactory— to Melba. She takes all
but a crumb of the profits. Melba won’t sing
during Cup-week, as she wants that space to
go Cupping “with the boys and girls,” and hold
receptions under the gums while the billy boils,
and someone reads Ogilvie’s “The Bush, My
Dover, to her. Melba’s tenor, Arens, is a nice
man with a fine voice, but already people who
will jump at conclusions are saying that the
tenor who is to support Amy Castles is
A dense, wet heat hung over the face of the
land (Kipling) the morning that the case, Moore
V-Tyson, was called before Justice Owen. “Is
there more than one defendant ? ” asked the suave
Judge (with that innocence that only Judges and
fair-haired, dimpled ingenues may assume success-
fully). A big crowd sweltered in the Court, and
was staggered to hear Mr. Want announce “a
friendly termination on a basis highly satisfactory
to both parties.” Mr. Justice Owen said “I am
ver y glad to hear it,” but that did not represent
popular opinion by a long way.
At one of the side doors Miss Carrie, very pale,
but looking eager and expectant, stood and
watched the crowd pour out into the street. She
was in white-silk muslin frilled at the back right
up to the waist, and big white hat. A good-
looking young solicitor, and a group of fair
maidens, regular jury-quellers, attended her. So
far, the terms of the settlement have been kept
secret, but, for one thing, Carrie retains the
diamonds and gets the trousseau which has lain in
limbo at Farmer’s. The defendant did not show
u P i 1 < n Court, but the same night he occupied a box
at “ Florodora,” and seemed to quite enjoy the
importance of being Ernest.
All the principals in “Florodora” are the
plumper for their absence from Sydney. Miss
Palotta and Miss. Moore are markedly so, and to
the latter’s great improvement. Her shoulders are
no longer show-bones, and she has discarded wigs
and wears her own hair ; it is parted on one side
and just hangs curly to the shoulders. One of the
six pretty maidens wears a costume, in the land-
mg-on-the-island act, that is most freakish and
fascinating. It is pink, with black points.
Those black-gloved arms and hands suggest
black magic. The black-barred elbow-cuff
(“elbow-cuff” is good) and big, black hat
and something about the corsage—well, if some of
my friends, the impressionable ones, wore that
toilet it would tincture their morality; they would
play ping-pong with the Ten Commandments and
come to a bad end.
Concerning “ Florodora ” merely as a picture. If
I saw it for six consecutive nights, as some persons
have done, I’d require to go for recovery (from a
color orgie) to the dead monotony of the Old Man
Plain The new lighting apparatus, lately
brought from America, has done wonders. Rain-
bows and sunsets have been materialised and laid
down for flooring; green and gold, and crimson
and rose flutter and wax and wane in glorious play.
I saw a miscellaneous collection of Simultaneous
Missioners (parsons and their women-folk) land
at the French wharf, after their trip round the
harbor in the Govt, yacht, t’other day. Four
cabs stood at the gate as the procession filed out:
they are probably standing there still, for there
was not a fare among the whole cargo. The mis-
sioners straggled away along the quarter-mile of
wharf as cheerful-looking as milkingcows, and made
for the tram. Never saw so many married parsons
in any sort of procession before; and never got such
a good look at so many parsons’ wives either
before or behind. Result: Disillusioned. Con-
olusions : Can nevermore admire the parsons’ taste
in~ women—nor the women’s taste in parsons.
Reflection : Not one “ squeezable ” woman (per-
sonal opinion only) in the whole half-hundred.
The men are most to blame; for consider their
opportunities!
Forty fair Hobart ladies are just now indulging
in a simultaneous mission, the object being to
establish a Tas. Ladies’ Club on latest London
lines. At the first and only meeting held to dis-
cuss the matter, Lady Havelock presided, and
three motions were carried in a hurry : 1. That
no male ever be admitted to the club. 2. That
the entrance fee be one guinea, yearly subscription
two guineas. 3. That membership be rendered
as exclusive as possible—an extremely low per-
centage of blackballs to disqualify. Then the
enthusiasm, which had been fervid, suddenly
slumped, and an unaccountable shadow of regret,
or something, seemed to hover over subsequent
proceedings. With a less awe-inspiring chair-
woman than Lady Havelock, it is probable that
either the man resolution, or the money one, or
the blackballing one would have been modified,
but none was brave enough to face the glittering
eyes of the new Governoress. The meeting
stands adjourned.
Three women’s clubs have been born in Sydney
within the last month. In London, Mrs. Hirst
Alexander has schemed a scheme for a female
Imperial club. Mr. Percy Spence, Miss Theo.
Cowan, and Mr. Bailey (who, by the way, claims
to have introduced the woman-journalist into
Australia) are assisting enthusiastically. Can this
be the (W. H. L.) Bailey who, after he left here,
introduced himself to Stead as the founder of the
Sunday paper in Australia, and got the reply—
“ Sir, you are an enemy of the human race ! ”
“ The Manxman ” is a dolorous play, but in it
Wilson Barrett is at his best. Portraying the
domestic virtues suits him, and at the end of the
last act real case-hardened old theatre-goers grow
tearful and choke somewhat. It is wise of him to
leave his enemies for Providence to pay out. We
should all do that (at the same time, if one sees a
chance of giving Providence a helping hand one
shouldn’t hesitate). Basil Gill, as Philip Chris-
tian, has a terrible deal of silent waiting, watch-
ing and staring, but he contrives to let you see
what long sharp teeth the fox has that gnaws at
his vitals. Ambrose Manning, as Caesar Creegan,
evolves a splendid Pharisaic mouth, wide, hard,
smug and crescent-shaped. The men who wrote
“Hell open to Christians” and the “Mustard-
Pot-of-Charifcy-that-Maketh-the-Soul-Water-with-
Devotion ” had mouths like that. Miss M'Carthy,
in blue, and the white pigeons with pink legs that
fly into the farm-scene are charming.
Society of Artists will open its Exhibition for
a while longer than it originally intended, in
order to show a big historical picture now being
unloaded from the Orizaba. It is the work of the
portrait-painter, H. J. Thaddeus, and represents
Pope Leo XIII. receiving the oath of allegiance
from the Cardinals. The figure of the pontiff
dominates the canvas, which holds, also, portraits
of Prince Colonna and Count Pecci. When the pic-
ture was exhibited in Rome and London persons
whose opinions count greatly admired it. Invita-
tions are now going forth for a private view. The
painter himself, very big, all in white drill and
an explorer s helmet, looking like a man-’o-war in
mufti, accompanies his picture. He painted the
picture of Gladstone that the Reform Club
secured, and various Royalties. He has the least
taste in life of a Cork brogue, though Florentine
by domicile ; is 38 and unmarried.
Mrs. J. C. Williamson’s “At Home” at the
Society’s Rooms was the most successful in the
Society’s annals. The “ Florodora ” and Barrett
co. s attended. - Amongst the crush were Mrs.
Justice Simpson, Mrs. “Jack” An till, Mrs.
Burdekin, Miss Darley, and Mrs. Want.
A plump young lady in the front stalls at “ East
Lynne,” the other night, performed a smart bit of
lightning-change in full view of the audience. In
deference to the satisfactorily-growing custom in
front-stall society, she had removed her big, new
hat, and, woman-like, put up her hand to feel if
i? r ™* r . was right. She felt something more
than hair and hair-pins— a housemaid’s cap, no
less, which, in her hurry to rush away and weep
with Lady Isabel, she had forgotten to take off
before pinning on her Sunday hat. You should
have seen that bit of lace disappear ! But you
would have needed quick eyes. It vanished much
more quickly than the large human smile the
audience wore.
Irresponsible Australian chroniclers of Ada
Crossley say that she shares contralto honors with
Clara Butt. Australian musicians visiting London
find that Clara’s share is—about 98 per cent. To
Ada are left the rest of the honors.
It is noticed that a certain Im Pay, an indefatig-
ablejsquire of dames, invariably wears a bouttoniere
coming into town of a morning, but he is never
seen going home with a bouttoniere.
You remember “Bushie,” the fine collie that
went away with the first Bushmen’s Contingent.
Like his fellow travellers who fell, or who are
waiting for their pay, the dog was soon forgotten.
A letter from England tells that Bushie was
handed over to an attendant of the late Queen’s.
Perhaps one of the Hindus. Possibly the little
Hindus, or the young John Browns, ride him ;
and mayhap he has the mange, and perchance as
he lies dreaming of sheep and rabbits and a sun-
burnt land, one will kick him, saying “ Dingo ! ”
Edwin Geach of the straw hat, drowsy voice and
sleepy blue eyes, was in town for a few davs
arranging for the Arnold co. to open at the
Palace. Whilst in London with war-lecturer
Macdonald, the pair went to lodge at a house in
Bedford-street in one of a mile of terrace houses
owned by the Duke of Bedford. In that street
Australians fairly swarm. Well, the landlord re-
ceived them warmly: “ You are not the first dis-
tinguished Australians I have had,” quoth he to
the lecturer. “De Rougemont and Mr. Mark
Foy stopped with me when they were in London.
Do you know them ? ”
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ What struck me most forcibly at Flemington
during the recent races was the shocking increase
of donkeyfied British affectations amongst the
swarm of pretty Australian girls. A certain
fatuousness of expression familiar oil the face of
the Bwitish peer, who habitually says ‘ Haw,’
and dazzles the democracy by hanging two large,
glittering front teeth out for public inspection, is
making itself visible amongst the otherwise pre-
possessing features of the Australian girl whose pa
has got money to burn. You might have detected
the expression all over the Lawn on any of the
big race-day*. It is secured by dropping the chin
slightly, drawing down the lines of the mouth, and
half-veiling the eyes, and the effect produced
implies that the wearer detects a bad
smell, and has a rather unpleasant taste
in her mouth as a result of coming in
contact witli so many nasty, common people
whose.. existence is not ‘ weckognised anywah ’
worth mentioning The accent that goes with
this expression is simply ghastly. For instance :
‘ Deah me-ah I had noo ideah they weserved seats
foah ennybody heyah.’ This kind of thing is not
produced without an effort; the smallest remark
is accompanied by painful contortions, and I
should say the performer would be quite prostrated
after a five minutes’ conversation.
“The Australian johnnie boy, too, becomes more
and more like the comic artist’s ideal ‘Bwitish’
dude, with blue blood in his veins, or else there was
an enormous number of imported bounders in
Melbourne for the horse-parades. The herein-
above alluded to tombstone incisors were plentiful
enough to suggest that fashions in dentistry areas
arbitrary amongst the ‘ naicest ’ Percies as
fashions in lies. Hitherto I had regarded those
particular teeth as characteristic only of the Aus-
tralian rabbit and the British ‘ heir.’
“ The latest dodge in a Melbourne tea-room is
to take your drop of hard-stuff in temperance dis-
guise. The innocent tea apparatus comes along,
and you pour your spirit out of the teapot in the
most innocent fashion in the world. The fact
that you take neither sugar nor milk passes with-
out comment, and a perfumed handkerchief does
the work of overcoming the pungent odour of the
intoxicant. Neat, isn’t it ? Only in one Collins-st.
cafe does womankind take her nip of brandy in the
straight and full view of the world.
“ At the recent races, many men wore Panamas
and kindred hot-weather hats, bent up in front, or
picturesquely slouched. Broad-brims, white or
Tuscan, are the tiles for our boys. f Young Aus-
tralia, with his dark hair, fairly regular features,
and tallish figure, should be a handsome fellow,
take him altogether; though he doesn’t get full
credit for his looks because he’s sallow and slight.
Ugly brown or black boxers and hard, rigid sailor-
hats are very trying to the most prevalent thin
brown face, but top that same face by a picturesque
Panama or creamy sombrero to show up its dark
coloring, and you’ll see that the Australian
brownie, less vivid and tropical than Southern
Frenchman or Italian, has nevertheless a certain
neatness of feature and daintiness of texture all in
his favor.
“At the Henry Bracy matinee, Mrs. G. B. W.
Lewis and her bright pupil, Miss Unie Russell
(who, by the way, is said to have had offers from
both Wilson Barrett and Tyrone Power), gave the
Juliet and Nurse scene. The Russell novice—a
slim blonde, with rippling, flaxen floss hair, blue
eyes and dainty stage-gait—has been trained from
youth up in elaborate dancing as well as dramatic
elocution. At present, Miss Russell, pretty,
dainty and winsome, with her Dresden china
coloring, impresses one as an ideal stage figure
for light comedy. To me her Juliet seemed
disappointingly shallow and trivial, especially
when lamenting the supposed death of Romeo,
but the young thing looked like a spray of blue-
bells in a cornfield, her crinkly maize hair falling
over her pale-blue robe and dainty blue satin feet
peeping from under her skirt. Robust, slap-dash
Mrs. Lewis did ‘Nurse’ capitally.
“Among the big crowd at the Bracy matinee
were Austral Salonites, beaming on the debut of
their member and protege, Miss Russell. Susie
Vaughan, in black, leaned over the back of
the d.c., looking exactly like her middle-aged
stage self as she chatted to slim, mild Leslie
Victor. Bessie Thompson (Mrs. Dartrey),
who did mature matrons for the Broughs last
time they came, was perhaps too polished,
caustic and cultured in her dowager methods.
Miss Vaughan, on the other hand, is ever ready
to assume virago attitudes and termagant tones.
Having it out with hubby in ‘The Magistrate,’
her gestures were those of a suburbau shrew
rather than of His Worship’s lady with baronets
and colonels on her visiting list. Mrs. Bracy did
a little comedietta, mostly monologue, crisply,
albeit in the hollow, superficial style which
sooner or later mars the acting of comic opera
people ; and Mr. Bracy made a nice little speech
for his wife who prompted him in wifely fashion—
a natural, unaffected little interlude. The
‘ Musical Burglar ’ was on hand, also ‘ Josephine
Gassman ’ —such a big, dark woman, and so little
skirt and corsage ! In the daytime female
shoulders and legs are unromantic. Her pican-
ninies are darlings, especially ‘lrene,’ with comic
whites to her eyes. She and ‘ Bill ’ fought and
squalled like cats ’cause they both wanted the
presentation box of sweets.
“Melbourne has come to the conclusion that
the freezing Countess looks her best riding.
In a white linen Beaufort coat, a smart tie, a
block habit skirt, and a white Panama hat, she
sits her hack proudly to perfection. Her genial
Lord rides by her side in all-grey, with a pincbed-
up face that is never without its amiable smile.
Even people sitting on the tram-dummy and
being rattled along pretty smartly, are recog-
nised by Lord Hopetoun, and get a quick glance
and smile of recognition. Her Ex., on the other
hand, never seems to see anybody.
“At the Mills-Price wedding, which is quite
ancient history by now, the dowager of ‘ Clive-
den ’ had the place of honor beside the bride’s
warrior papa. The colonel got through his part
of the business promptly and cheerfully. A bevy
of five bridal nymphs wore white, and bore high
black sticks garlanded like may-poles. An air of
festivity prevailed, and the leading lady having
duly signed the register, which converted her
from Lorna Price into Mrs. Mills, waved her
bouquet in the air every time she caught a guest’s
eye.
“ The other day a fashionable bride-elect issued
invitations for her coming sacrifice to Hymen, aud
put the usual penny stamp on the envelope. But
the swagger cards were over-weight, and all the
guests were, therefore, charged excess. The bride
and her parents heard of this with deep regret,
and actually went to the trouble of penning
apologies and enclosing stamps to all the invited.
What a task ! And what a strange form of penny
wisdom!
“Signorina Marchi, the tail, shapely beauty of
the Italian Opera Co., is believed to have become
engaged to an officer of the Puglia, whom she met
here first, and then came across again in Brisbane.
There were some congratulations up North over
something or other —more than likely this. By
the time the news filters through Italian, half-
and-half Italian, and plain English, the freshness
is about gone. It leaks out through the same slow
channel that Signorina Bassicli is a great student,
and the most serious person of the company off
the boards. She certainly looks as though she
were.
“ Madame Slapoffski is often seen in the circle
at the Opera these nights, wearing a magnificent
cloak, and generally an Empire kind of dress
hanging slack from the corsage. Herr Slap.’s
forelock in repose pretty well conceals the con-
ductor’s identity. We knew him best, when in
the ‘Princess’ sphere, by that madly-swinging
forelock, that danced from side to side, and bobbed
and waved as frantically as a gum-leaf in a high
wind.
“There is much fun to be got out of watching
the two Conservatorium cliques at the Opera.
Peterson and co. barrack right bravely for the
Italian school, but the Marshall-Hall clan swear
by the German and English makers of music, and
only attend regularly to profit by the Italians’
faults.
“Prof. Peterson seems to be running Melb.
University Conservatorium of Music on ‘Kirk’-ish
lines. The recent programme of the annual
students’ concert was headed ‘Sixth Session,’ and
the incidental circular, without making direct
reference to the unsaintly policy of Peterson’s
predecessor, Marshall Hall, stated that the
Session’s record ‘ encourages the hope that the
Conservatorium is about to enter on a new period
of usefulness and success.’ Some of Marshall
Hall’s old pupils who appeared at the ‘ sessional ’
concert must have, read that circular with grave
interest.
“ Polo, the game of sweating ponies, collisions
and swears, begins its course on Wednesday (11th)
at Caulfield, for the summer season. Why the
hottest of all games should be played in the
steamiest period of the year, is, and ever will be,
a mystery to hard-thinkers. But since the Gov.-
General is going to take an interest in it, and
also going to play, and afternoon-tea is to be
laid on, the fashionable will rally despite heat-
waves and dust-storms.
“Now that one can look back on a gay and
festive season and calculate things, it is home
upon the mind that the only two Federal Ministers
in no way represented at any of the social shivoos
are Alfred Deakin, the nimble-minded, and
Charles Kingston, the Sphinx. Mrs. Deakin still
eschews the limelight of Social Life, and Mrs.
Kingston hugs a retired existence. Once or twice
only has Alfred, who behaves in Parliament like
the terrier of the Ministerial benches, barking and
biting at any trespasser or intruder who threatens
the peace of the heavy-weights alongside him,
shown up at a function. Then he was completely
out of his element, and disappeared at his first
chance.
“ Talking of Federal feasts, no one tnroughout
the States has entertained so lavishly as the
Malcolm McEacharns. Unlike the Sargoods,
who scatter their shivoo invites broadcast in
sassiety and the world of political pests, the
Mac’s have lorded it at smaller but extremely
swagger banquets, where their hospitality has
been of a particular and highly discriminative
quality. The Bartons are placed above “the pale
spectrum of the salt ” every time; in fact, the
devotion of the shipping king and political infant
to the Prime Minister has been for the last few
months singularly touching.
_ “ Melbourne artists are beginning to push their
pictures under the notice of the public, which
steadfastly declines to go as far as Eastern Hill
and pay a shilling admission to the Vic. Artists’
Society’s shows. The foyer at the Princess’s
Theatre has been converted into something of an
art gallery since Brough’s season started. A
number of purchasable little works by .T. A.
Mather and others hang around the walls, and a
numbered ticket on the corner of each suggests
that a list of prices is available in the vicinity—
probably at the refreshment-bar. Not a bad idea
to put paintings in the way of the capitalist whose
artistic sense has been stimulated by a love-scene
on the stage and by seeing a man between the
acts.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


g
BULLETIN SUBSCRIBERS-*^
Who are unable to read small printed matter, or to see fine
stitching or writing, whose distant vision is dull and who suffer
from persistent headaches or pains after close application you
may rest assured that vou are suffering from Ageing ov
Impaired Vision, and Need Glasses. You should visit
us, and have your sight scientifically tested, and be supplied
with Glasses adapted to your individual case.
TO COUNTRY READERS who cannot visit us personally, w |^ n _ d ’J^/meaSURIINO*
onH Prioe List our marvellously-accurate and popular SELF SIOMT-MEASUKINU ha i bn i. cy ids use
you can Test your own sight and determine for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you may need.
Write for it to—
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Consulting Optician,
371 George St., Sydney,
next door to the A. J.S., Bank.
King and George Streets.
232 COLLINB ST„ MELBOURNE, opposite Aob Office.
And at
“Rejected by the Society of Artists.’ 1 —
We have, for absolute sale, nine very choice oil
paintings, by Captain H. Forrest, of Hobart, five
of which have been rejected by the Society of Artists,
and which have had laudatory notices in the Aus-
tralian Field of Nov. 30th, and pronounced by
Mr. George Taylor, art critic for the studios of
London and New York, and other competent art
critics, as being of greater artistic merit than some
that are on exhibition. J. Leigh Jones and Co.,
257 George-st., Sydney.*
FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN
Australia.
Wines
in
Supplied to H.R.H. the Duke of York.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The Bulletin regrets to hear that Tom
Durkin is lying seriously ill, of jaundice, in Mel-
bourne Hospital.
N.S.W. Assembly will have to make Mr.
J. C. L. Fitzpatrick Chairman of Committees, or
be talked to death.
Having left the State Legislature, Mr.
G. H. Reid, K.C., now gets a share of the N.S.W.
Government briefs.
There are in the air a number of small
signs, showing that Cardinal Moran may not
return to Sydney after all.
The Dutch royal row in a nutshell : The
Queen’s consort was hired as an animal. Now he
is accused of being a beast.
Editor Doidge, of Cootamundra (N.S.W.)
Liberal, is mentioned as a probable chairman of
the Western Lands Commission.
Minister Kingston, mildly disapproving of
an Argus report:—
Your report reeks with recklessness and is foul with
malice.
Possible successors to the N.S.W. Chief
.Justiceship: B. R. Wise, Jack Want, Justice
3tephen, Justice Owen, C. E. Pilcher, and R. E.
O’Connor. '
“ They run in all shapes. ” Some of the
published photos, of a “ distinguished visitor ”
severely recall those of Frank. Butler, of Blue
kopje fame.
There is at last open talk of the Pope’s
ill-health —a serious symptom. Eminent per-
sonages are always “ quite well ” to the public
until they are on the point of death.
According to Henniker Heaton, Marconi
is so wrapped up in his work that he won’t marry
his over-the-water (U.S.) fiancee “until he can
convince her by wireless telegraph.”
That hard-up confraternity, the lawyers
of Sydney, are just now praying that there may
be shortly another clergyman named as co-
respondent, “ for the good of business.”
General Hutton coming back again. O,
for the fun of it! The General (to obese N.S.W.
officer): “ Good God, man! you can’t ride, and
you are too blanky blanky fat to walk ! ”
There have been four deaths in N.S.W.
Leg. Counoil in the session of 1901 —Garran,
Dalton, Hyam and Thornton —and five members
have resigned mostly to take seats in the Federal
Parliament.
Federal. Customs Minister Kingston has
entered his 52nd year. Twelve years ago it was
prophesied by Cockburn that at 50 he would be
tame and docile. Cockburn’s prediction is mani-
festly a vain thing.
The late George Thornton, of N.S.W. Leg.
Council, lived whilst four monarchs reigned in
England, and saw N.S.W. in turn convict settle-
ment, Crown colony, self-governing colony, and a
State of the Commonwealth. Four monarchs and
four Constitutions!
If it is proposed to name the Federal
capital after a member of the first Federal
Ministry why not submit the names to Federal
ballot ? Probable result: Kingston first, the rest
nowhere ; loyalists satisfied, and Australia accept-
ing the inevitable with loyal resignation.
ON THE WAY TO TOPHET.
CHORUS OF WOBBYGONGS: “ Hullo! Another fisherman!”
Hughes (N.S.W.), M.H.R., has passed his
second year Bar examination, and will soon have
the right to wear a wig. Holman, another of the
brilliant “youngmen” of N.S.W. Radicalism, is
also rapidly qualifying for the Bar.
Of the new Westralian Cabinet, selected by
A. E. Morgans, the only native of Australasia is
Col. Secretary Matthew Lewis Moss, barrister,
bom in Dunedin, M.L. And Moss has been badly
defeated on standing for re-election.
There does not seem to be a happy poli-
tical life ahead of Mr. Arthur Lynch, the new
M.P. for Galway, and ex-Melboumeite. He is
threatened on one side by the British Government
with punishment as a traitor for fighting with the
Boers, whilst the extreme Fenian section in Ire-
land refers to his “ pseudo-military harlequinade,”
and denies that he ever commanded an Irish
company in the Transvaal.
Who would believe, nowadays, that
S’James Fairfax, of S.M. Hekald, was once upon
a time an enthusiastic volunteer, an aggressive
amateur military blazer, a warrior pal of George
Dibbs and W. C. Windeyer ? But he was.
G. L. Jessop, the lively English batsman,
was accosted, the other day, in a Sydney street by
a man who wanted somebody denounced ana
“ dealt with.” He was mistaken for John
Norton, to whom he bears some resemblance.
The bones of millionaire James Tyson
were removed to the “ family vault ” at Campbell-
town, N.S.W., last week. Probably the poor old
man is now turning in his new grave at the
thought of how his money is being played up.
The painstaking and capable J. W. Israel,
Tas. Auditor-General, a nervous little lamp-
lighter sort of man in flying coat-tails and a
worried look, is now Federal Auditor-General. As
his name implies, Mr. Israel thoroughly nose his
business.
Henry Gilmour, alleged to be the third
man engaged in the Bridge-st. (Sydney) burglaries
and police assaults, for which Montgomery and
Williams were hanged in ’94, has been sentenced,
at Paris, to life-servitude, for burglary and
attempted murder.
“ Jawbone ” Neild says he offered N.S.W.
Premier Lyne to take the presidency of the Old
Age Pension Board without emolument, but
that economical Minister preferred to pay
a big salary to someone else. Doubtless Lyne
recalled the fate of the Premier who had made the
last contract for gratuitous services with the gal-
lant Colonel. :
William O’Brien, Irish M.P., now on a
visit to Australia for his health’s sake, is at once
one of the most brilliant and most disinterested of
a Party, whose prominent men are, as a rule, too
fond of playing a lone hand. As journalist and as
orator, Mr. O’Brien has won a reputation, and he
did no damage to his name when he refused to
join in the howl against Parnell in that leader s
dark days.
Obit. : The Hon. Henry Isidor Joachim
Raphael Rooke, M.L.C. (Tas.). Though born in
Spain 60 years ago Mr. Rooke was no Spaniard,
either in speech or demeanor, for dignity knew
him not. He was considered the funny man of
Tas. Parliament, and delighted in shocking the
Tory respectability of the Grubbs and Crosbys
and Doderys of the Council.
Members of the family of the late Mr.
Cox, M.L.C., will indeed be much obliged to Mr.
Clarendon Stuart for his devilish well-meant letter
to the Sydney press, explaining how very hard it
was, in the little village of Wimborne—after which
Mr. Cox’s N.S.W. estate is named—to discover
some obscure old folks who dimly remembered
that some Cox or other had gone to Australia some
time or other.
About Mr. Harry Sholl, the W.A. postal
official’s son, who died, a Perth paper solemnly
publishes this:—
As a discreditable and wholly unnecessary allusion has
been made to the possibility of the late Mr. Harry Sholl
being still alive, an allusion which, under the circum-
stances, must cause infinite and unwarranted pain to the
members of his family, we have much satisfaction in pub-
lishing the following, &c., &c.
It is rarely that a paper commits itself to stating
its great satisfaction that a man is dead and not
alive.
Judge Williams’ sarcastic remark to the
Geelong jury that “much valuable time would
have been saved had
they given their verdict
before hearing the evi-
dence,” recalls Judge
Molesworth —first of the
name. He was presiding
at the Supreme Court,
Port Fairy (Vic.), where
juries, at that time,
were notorious for re-
fusing to convict. After
one particularly scan-
dalous “ not guilty ” de-
cision, the Judge, speak-
ing in his gravest and
most severe manner,
said : “ Gentlemen, after
that verdict, I should
not be at all surprised
if the sea should to-
night sweep this town
out of existence.”
Whereupon a barrister,
of the old school, gravely
interrogated him : “But
does your honor really
believe that there is any
danger of such an occur-
rence ; as I had in-
tended to sleep here to-
night?” The Judge
made no reply ; the bar-
rister kept to hisoriginal
intention —and the
Judge also slept in the
town.
Cabled that some gilded Englishmen have
offered to “put up” a yacht for the King if he
will challenge for the America Cup. If Edward
can’t run the race on his own revenues, he had
better keep out of it on pauper lines. The idea
of letting-out the royal stomach as an advt.-
lioarding for such pushing bounders as the
Liptons!
Yet another Scotchman (Dr. David Arthur
Welsh, ye ken) has been appointed to a lucrative
post at Sydney University. Dr. Welsh, appa-
rently a rather distinguished man, is the new
Prof, of Pathology. In the University medical
school, or at the Alfred hospital, no man stands
the faintest chance who has not been raised on
parritch. At the present moment The Bulletin
has in its mind at least one case of gross
favoritism. In the instance alluded to nothing
could be said against the personal character of
either man, but between their qualifications there
was indeed a great gulf fixed.
——
"SIMPLE SIMON" FRASER.
The pure-merino Sydney Freetrade crowd
in the Reps, mostly batch together under the pre
aidenov of Drydog Reid at a big house at bt.
Kilda. Editor Willoughby, of the Argus, lives
next door, and he and George Reid (when the
latter is in town) may be seen almost any morning
fixing up the policy of the Commonwealth over
the back fence.
A. E. Morgans, Westralia’s new Premier,
forms one of the few recorded instances of a M.P.
becoming head of a Ministry without hawing pre-
viously served in a Cabinet. Morgans, lived half
his life in Central America, and is a mining mag-
nate. He has been in the Assembly for 4£ years,
and enjoys the distinction of having beaten
“ Smiler ” Hales for Coolgardie seat.
Lord Hopetoun on Lord Rosebery :
The most brilliant statesman and the most polished
speaker Scotland has produced in this generation..
There is one thing that a Scotchman is not
niggardly with—praise for another Scotchman.
By-the-way, Hopetoun’s speech on this occasion
was quite in the Rosebery vein. Has he also
learned the value of “ skilled assistance ” ?
It is now stated that the rumor of B. R.
Wise’s appointment as Aoting.N.S.W. Chief Jus-
tice was circulated ‘by request.” An Actmg-
C.J.-ship looks at sight a risky transaction for
Wise, who has a leading place at the Bar, and. a
large assured income. A year’s “Acting” in
such a high and responsible position might mean
disaster on the Bench, and difficulty in ' getting
in ” again at the Bar. It is as hard for a barrister
as for a jockey to get back into inside running
once he loses his place. The fields are always
jostling and changing.
The Argus has something further to say
about a certain well-advertised person who went
up like a rocket and came down like a load
of bricks:
The official view, I believe, is that B.P. has been quite
sufficiently praised and rewarded for the defence of
Mafeking, which was altogether a much less remarkable
episode than it pleased the public and the newspapers to
imagine. It is also hinted that a good deal of the credit,
which the press showered on Baden Powell, for the de-
fence of this frontier post, really belongs to others.
In making S’African reputations the pen is
mightier than the sword.
James Sialk, alleged to be 106 years old,
and a Waterloo veteran, died recently in Bendigo
(Vic.) benevolent asylum. Even if his figures are
correct,' James was a very young soldier of 20 at that
memorable battle. . But only the obscure person
whose age has to be taken at his own valuation
lives to be 106 ; public men, whose date of birth
is known, seldom reach 90, and "when they reach
95 the fact is regarded as a marvel. The peerage
is a pretty tough crowd, yet out of 815 British
peers enumerated by Whitaker at the end of
1900, only 11 dated back before Waterloo. The
granddad of the crowd only reckoned 93 years ;
two were 90, and one 89.
Pretty little Queen Wilhelmina, of Hol-
land, it seems from the cables, has made a big
matrimonial mistake.- - Her recent illness was due
to her husband’s insults, and two of her courtiers.,
have fought duels with him in her championship
(both of them being worsted). A queen-regnant,
as a rule, has a small chance of a happy wedded
life : she must marry someone of “ royal blood,”
and as no man of real dignity will live in a
position of dependence on his wife, it is generally
some poor - spirited scallywag scrap of small
royalty who grabs the billet. In the case of
this particular marriage, for instance, there was a
“saving clause” that in the absence of a male
heir after five years the arrangement should be
“off” without the formality of further divorce
proceedings. English experience, despite the
traditiou maintained with such splendid hypo-
crisy, did not provide any exception to the un-
happiness of this type of marriage.
Coadjutor-Archbishop Kelly, facially
and characteristically, suggests a chastened
W. B. Dailey. The forehead, nose ana
chin are similarly moulded, and there 18
that mesmeric merriment in the eyes wmeh
drew and held .the company of W.B.D.
The Archbishop has the reputation of
being an orator. His first remarks were
not rhetorically articulated —they were,
rather, precise, modest, explanatory and
careful; nevertheless, they gave more
than a hint of a reserve of force and
fluency. He will draw the multitude to
hear him, and his voice has the compass
for a multitude. The Cardinal is read in
the daily press; his coadjutor, it is be-
lieved, will be heard from pulpit and
platform.
Mr. Panton, Melb. P.M., often ex-'
poses a dignified flank to the gibes of the
heathen ; but as a rule the heathen is too
awed to aim straight. Once, though, a
severely-ad monish ed habitual drunkard
got a straight left home. Mr. P. had
prosed for many minutes ere he asked if
the incorrigible had anything to say before
being sentenced. No, he had nothing to
say ; but he’d like to ast a kweschin, if
the dignitary didn’t mind. The P.M.
didn’t mind, and said so ; whereon the
drunk grinned again and waded in :
“Warr I wanted ter arst yer, Mister
Panting, is this : Ain’t Panting a nick-
name or an erlias, or a psoodonim, or
son-ethink like that ? Your real name
is Gawd ; now, straight dinkum, ain’t it ?”
When “ Mister Panting ” recovered him-
self he gave the blasphemer seventeen
thousand years’ solitary, together with all
serial rights and a half-share in the book-
profits.
It is to be hoped that the death of
poor old Sydney native George Thornton,
aged 82, will kill the inane joke about his
being present when Captain Cook
arrived. Hardly a man has figured in N.S.W.
public life but fired that ancient gag at a
grey-haired opponent. It was Thornton’s thorn
in the flesh. If for years back he attempted a
modern thought, he was summarily dismissed
with a reference to Captain Cook. Parkes
plagiarised the idea with regard to all his op-
ponents. Reid played it off on several occasions,
but the death of Thornton should close up this
joke.
Tas. Premier Lewis, front-named Neil
Elliot, has, it appears, now definitely decided
that Neil, the name he is best known by, shall
stand. For years there has been a persistent
family-circle effort to have him styled the Hon.
“Elliot,”but the “Hon. Neil” persists in stick-
ing. “ Sir” Elliot would certainly have sounded
Grander, but, as only a C.M.Gr.-ship arrived at
>uke-time, the “ Sir ” (and presumably the
Elliot) has been indefinitely postponed.
Trenwith, the one-time strong leadei of
Vic. Labor party, seems doomed. He erred in
joining the present Ministry. By nature he is a
lazy man. It was only his passion for debate, and
for the display of his peculiarly powerful logical
faculty, that carried him on to what he was before
his elevation to office. He is wholly devoid of
ambition, and when he found himself in a position
where he could “ take it easy,” physically and
mentally, he “let her rip.” As a result he has
been the worst sort of failure, as a Minister. In
order to preserve what is called the solidarity of
the Cabinet, Trenwith has had to subscribe to
planks whioh have alienated all his_ old labor
friends. So much is this the case that it is doubt-
ful whether he will be returned for Richmond in
future.
Extract from a N.S.W. country paper,
read in connection with a recent libel action. The
gentleman in whose journal these words of mild
reproach were published wanted damages . for
things another editor had been saying about him :
The badly-ballasted dandy who is the happy supposed
possessor of a literary filth distributor, otherwise termed
a newspaper. Since this journalistic gewgaw was
snatched out of obscurity by some kindly-disposed per-
son, and was emptied without any qualification into the
alleged possession of a newspaper plant, he, like other of
his clownish kin, endeavored to improve nature’s work
by making a bigger ass of himself than nature made of
him in the first instance, but he discovered he could not
do impossibilities, like any other skurvy skunk or social
worm. The esteemed innocent of Woolgoolga, friend of
the courtesan, and compeer of the demi-monde. He
must have reverted to the days before Providence
emptied him out of a butcher’s sausage basket
into the possession of a newspaper, and thought
of the days of his goat-raising industry. For a
nincompoop like him, who is merely a blind pimple
on the face of society, to pose as an influencer of public-
feeling is ‘-brass” tq the fullest degree. . . Licentiousness
and obfuscation are net indispensable concomitants
of a newspaper man’s career. Still, persons of this class
first pose as Hercules defending virtue, and, secondly,
they are staggering under a load of liquor, and profaning
all that is good, entirely dead to the knowledge that in
the most degenerate there is such a thing as moderate
decency and a sense of shame. ... In a measure we
could excuse putrid slobberings of a certain journalistic
hobble-de-hoy on the grounds of the completeness and
density of his ignorance, and the fact of his being a per-
fect nonentity. . . . We do not feel that we are acting the
part of sensible citizens by descending to the level of
squelching literary lizards of this class.
The eloquent plaintiff was awarded damages—one
farthing.


MACONOCHIE’S
Fresh Herrings
Kippered Herrings
Herrings in Tomato Sauce
Findon Haddocks
PRESERVED FISH OF ALL KINDS.
MARMALADE
UNIVERSAL PICKLES.
BOTTLED FRUITS
POTTED MEATS
SALMON and SHRIMP PASTE.
WORC€ST€RSNIR€ SAUC€
Maconochie Bros., Ltd.
LONDON.
Australian Reprrsbntativbb—
Swift Co., 7 Spring St., Sydney.
THOS. WHITELAW & GO.
WALL PAPER MERCHANTS, ——a.
TELEPHONE 3768.
LONDON, ‘
BYDNEY,
MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE
Artistic Wall Papers.
Novel Ceilings in
Plaster Effects.
Latest Designs and Colorings.
Absolutely Fireproof.
A Charming Assortment.
The f:i
These
11 London and Continental Collection of the abore Goods are now on view at the Firm’s
New warehouse and Showrooms—39l GEORGE ST. Sydney
Decorations comprise the most delightful Assortment ever shown in Australia.
PaUerm . rn
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Hotel
Australia
RATES:
12s. 6d. per Day,
and upwards.
For the Summer Season.
The innumerable visitors who have stayed at “ The
Australia” during Summer months have nothing
but praise for this famous Hotel. Ladies with
families obtain every comfort and attention at
a very reasonable cost. The rooms, furniture and
appointments of “The Australia” are unsurpass-
able. The Hotel has been built with every attention
to the needs of the climate. Hence, on the hottest
Summer day, the coolness of its rooms is asrefresh-
!■? M a cold bath.
T URE SMITH (Labs of Msiuitw'), Manager,
OhotUtrsagh-si., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. In the case of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., • always give date and
p ace o experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
The monotony of the fashionable dawdle
on Melbourne Block, the other afternoon, was
relieved by the appearance of a composed old
party sitting on the kerb placidly shaving his
corns. In answer to the policeman’s “Hi, move
on—you mustn’t do that here,” he glared in
amazement, and said : “ Well I’m ! Here’s
off back to Wandin!” and lie sailed awajr with
hi. boots under his arm.
• * • *
The luck of children ! Some kids wt>re
playing round a well at Nelson, Vic., when
one, an 11-year-old boy, got astride the windlass.
Another child turned the handle, and the lad fell
down the well, 90ft. deep. The child ron were
frightened and ran off, and not till two hours later
(lid the boy’s mother know what had happened.
1 here was a rush to the well; and, a faint answer
being received from below, a young man descended
upon a piece of fencing-wire and brought the boy
up—much bruised, but with not a bone broken.
In a few days he was all right.
THERE IS NO RELIGION HIGHER
THAN TRUTH ,
APPLICANT FOR BILLET: “ It's pretty hard, boss,
that after laying out all them Boers a man
shouldn't be able to find a living in his native
country. ”
PEACEFUL HUMANITARIAN (with severity): “ Do
not come to me, sir, with a boast of the
number of enlightened and devoted patriots,
whom,” dec., dec.
A. FOR B. (climbing down with alacrity): “To
be straight with you, boss, I've never been
within ten miles of them Boers but once, and
then they sent me home with nothing on but
an old shirt and part of a pair o' pants.”
(Engaged.)
Mr. C. A. Benbow, of Sydney, who lately
wrote to the Rhodesian authorities re the possi-
bility of stocking N.B.W. with the S’African
eland, has been informed, in reply, that local
hunters would readily undertake, for a sufficient
consideration, to supply as many young elands as
lmght be required. One man, it is stated, “ has
offered to capture and deliver at Salisbury, tame
to handling, young eland and quagga (Burchell’s
zebra) at £4O and £25 per head respectively, and
would doubtless undertake to capture a number
at a less figure.”
W.S.T.” ; Re the proposed acclimatisation of
the eland in Australia. I believe that if, as su°--
gested, these animals were to be turned out on
the Great Western Plains they would prove as big
a nuisance as the marsupials would be if they got
there. In the far west the eland could not exist
—for want of feed ; but in the Central Division
the animal would be a serious trouble. With its
stilt like legs it could simply walk over the wire-
fences round the wheat and crop areas, and as it
has a stomach of “silo’’-capacity, it’s easy to
imagine ■ what havoc would be wrought in a wheat-
held. Besides, who wants the beast—unless it be
the cranks that introduced the rabbit, the
sparrow, and the Scotch thistle ?
* * * .
The manager of Jirnkee Hydraulic Sluicing
Co. s show at Tongio W. (Vic.) was killed, the
other day, through being struck by a stream of
water from the sluicing nozzle ; he was lifted up,
hurled oOft., and dashed against the face of a
cutting. You have to get in the way of a sluicing-
head, with the pressure all on, to realise what
hard tack water may be. Present writer once
saw a man struck in a somewhat similar wav to
the above, but, fortunately, he happened to be
well away from the nozzle. Nevertheless, the
victim had the few clothes he was wearing at the
time simply swept off him. He was picked up
trouserless and with his flannel stripped over his
head, and spent weeks in bed as a result of that
shower-bath.
* * • *
“CrippsO.": Re trees lifting things as
t ley grow, “H.P.” (B. 9/11/’01) is right. I have
never seeil an instance of lifting, whereas I have
otten noticed trees which have grown around
foreign substances—such as fence-wires, iron
spikes, &c. Enclosed photo, shows how a “she-
oak wasn’t lifted by another tree in the fork of
which it had fallen, but is apparently growing
through the solid trunk of the latter, the fork in
which the former originally rested being now some
feet higher up.
“Spunps”: Re weight-lifting perform-
ances. In ’75 “Jewboy” (lOst. 71b.), at
Hasiem s store, Molong, carried seven
bags of potatoes (about lOowt.) 12
paces. They were the old bolster-
shaped sack, and the performer
stood erect and rigid while we
packed them—one on each shoul-
der, two across, two parallel, and
one on top. (Haslem and Sandy
iiogers, of Bathurst, still alive to
verify.) Again, the other day, at
store (Bathurst) a teamster
( Burly” Newman) tossed a 36-
gal. cask of beer (over 3cwt.) on to
ins dray. It is mainly knack and
use. I hat is why I backed our
grocer, little Mac. (Bst. 101 b.), to
lift sugar against “Burly” thus:
A 701 b. bag of sugar to be taken
in one hand, shoulder-high, arm
bent, then arm to be extended
perpendicularly to its full length
and drawn back again. The one
who did this oftenest to win. The
struggle was supei b, but the team-
ster succumbed at the tenth lift,
which the other barely managed.
Mac nevertheless then bet the
publican that he would lift the bag
15 times; and, though beaten be-
fore on the 10th lift, he actually
did manage to struggle through
the whole 15 times. Then, concen
trating every remaining ounce of
energy, he hurled the bag with
terrific force at the publican. It
struck him on his “thinking box ”
and he dropped instantaneously—
to the dodge. The bag was stuffed
with kapok and weighed about 20
ounces!
“Pi ” : To “ Crackaback ”
(B. 16/11/’01). lam but a stripling,
and never weighed more than lOst
41b., yet I have lifted and shifted a log,
estimated to weigh 4 tons, about 30yds
with a 7ft. ironbark sapling 3in. thick at the
wedge-end. {But that was a matter of lever-
age—which is beside the point raised by “Cracka-
back.”—Ed. B.]
A man, recently out Betoota (Q.) way
buying horses for S’Africa, says that he was
shown a water-hole where it is estimated 30,000
cattle have perished during the present drought.
Nothing is to be seen on most runs below Jundah
but skeletons. One station, which had 24,000
head, now has 300 ; and another has but 2000 ’left
out of 40,000. Five adjoining stations lost a total
of 100,000. Out there the wind piles up dust
against yards and buildings to such an extent that
they become useless. A yard on Mooney Plains,"
which cost £5OO, is entirely buried. At other
places the dust accumulates up to the windows of
houses, and has to be shifted with scoops.
* *■ * •
Mr. Reid, of Tintinalogy station (80 miles
from White Cliffs, N.S.W.), lately found the
fossil jawbone of some animal which must have
been of enormous size, the teeth being about 2in.
square.
MRS, ROBINSON , Secretary Tailoresses'
Union .
Photo, by Nada Studios, Sydney.
Some characteristic natural-history notes
by H. J. M Cooey, who after long silence, turns
up again as good as new :
Dear Bulletin, —Does the kangaroo lap up water?
?“[’katica]ly No ! Yet the jackals of science have been
and fher« nJv /say ' with a loud yell, that there is not,
“,i he ™ never was on this earth, a herbivorous mam-
Zapped its drink. The habit of lapping is rigidly
confined to the order Canidce and Felidae. Fauci- the
kangaroo lapping water like a dawg ! Likewise fahcv it
growling over and devouring a full-grown eniu’l Does a
Scotchman lap whisky ? I don’t.
falHhb. The man who regards Krefft as an in-
error ° n . A “ strahan snakes is absurdly in
des 9 rl P tlon of the commonest of our
snakes, viz. , Diemema supercihosa, is glaringly inacourai e
and incomplete. In 1894, by the prodSoTof examntes
found at Cootamundra, N.S. W., I virtually cansized his des
Sd ” of r Zt'?b
un meci , the first three or four anterior sub-caudals
P^T' h - Th j B mak , e - S it - work ouL identically
of one scale ™* eehls Australis with the sole exception
oi one scale on the neck ; and this one scale, forsooth
willthoronvhl 68 biemenia ! Snake authorities
w a thoroughly understand the absurdity I am pointing
»f n*' entific : ja ? 13 who 80 often velp'at me—
ZhiJh -I s P lmt f nia be allowed to stand as a valid genus
validly lav D \ retl ™Zata is the only species it can
referred the °ther species must be
referred to Pseudechis. Again, Krefft speaks of examples
BufaSmcS haVin ?i ‘‘ all the entire.’’
has failed to enlie ® Constant sfcud V of our snakes
Ist L,l ena . le me fco meefc with such an example
right C whlt n f e e AUStrah i. a n° P roduce one - If Krefft be
niava hafc be< \ om .® B °f Denissonia nigrescens? Krefft
plays the very devil with, and practically capsizes his
thf 8 es ;;, r, i P 8 t q 1 5 nS a rivr hOUfc i- a ?P ar ® ntly knowin g' it- On top
’ 1 ? 95 > afc Mount Harris, N.S.W., I discovered
with the I firsMB SUP f b Snak l (H°PZ° ce phctlus Zerbus)
Test dividS l irm enor B ub-caudals entire, and all the
. n . This, as every snake-expert knows
StockdLe CaP p ZeS lur I u re v fc ’ 8 £ enus Iloploceplalus. Will
and tell us „, Pu ')‘ Vak l a ’, °. r tbe versatile Meston speak out,
or ‘‘strike, ’’ or P bftef at ” “ Bnake ? Als °> does ifc kick >
19Ao/on he Thfv: b - eeding 0f ka Uf?aroos and wallabies (B.
m/iu/Ul). There is no apparent valid reason whv the
crosf ar The and the ., wallab -V should not inter or
on paper h h£ dlst !! lc , t ' ons between them exist only
nak P ed P wo,dd he e n a L Wa ” aby with . the nostril interspace
I - ? u !. d . be a kangaroo, while a kangaroo with a
hairy nostril interspace would be a wallaby, quite regard
less of size or color. But, then, the only- specific distinm
nattve^T^zn 01 ® (Dasyurus rnaculata) and the
wel « cat /^'. wu . mwM f; is that the tail of the former, as
Z nJ. l h d b « dy, i S s ? 0 t ted ’ whereas the tail of the latter
is not; and they don’t inter-breed.
i w '« Ur !f- las J a Bui ’Lktin writer interestingly mentioned
that, finding two snakes coupling, he killed one and the
other returned some time after and pulled its dead mate
some into a hoUow iog m 1888 , at Braidwood,
r"' l , 1 f ° und two snakes (Hoplucephalus ramsaaL
Krefft) together and killed the femal£ Three hours
iink7 a , r nd 1 f ° Un< ? the dead re P tile amoved about 60
links, and a male snake caressing and fondling it
Previously to this, in 1883, at Rockley, N.S.W., I had an
almost similar experience—-the snakes concerned how-
ever, being Pseudechis porpKyriacus. Again, in 1897 at
Burrmgbar Tweed River district, having found togetheJ
two of the last snakes mentioned, I killed one, hung it on
spph’p 6 ’ and T he male t for such subsequent dis-
-Be«CtZn f ProVed 1 J 1? be )’ soon returned, pulled the female
t. e o ce ’ and began to fondle and caress her. I at-
tempted to say in The Bulletin at the time exactly what
his ruth!ess k No ld |’r a Ub v® edit ° r B ! ;am P ed me out with
ms rutniess No. 11s. Years previously I tried under
Klrfc' 7 i ’''’ri 1 3.'f;'l'“ l 7 !"*«» Darwin-like
s“T,^.s„Twi h ; t r P id“o!r , “'' g di “” v “ i i " to
Assr, «;
caught an eel which, as taken out of the water, weio-hed
111 b., and measured 3ft. lOin. Have known eels on
summer evenings to come out of Wollindilly River a
distance of two chains. As a fish-perjurer, I don’t rank
brother^-’ 1 anticipate abundant assistance from all
rabbß ~ndS tr h!nua niT .’’ i a su PP° sed cross between a
Yount w b A V p ot ’* tur " 3 “P a ff a in» this time at
oallv That Al y?'’ me Ba .V> emphati-
cally , that there can never be a cross between marsupials
Mds R on s^d^ UpialB Vm 6 Pe i riod of gestation rigidl/for-
bids it, so does everything else. This “ strange animal ”
is simply a well-known bandicoot that travels under the
name of Peragale lagotis, and is identical with the bandi-
coot which ornithologist Gould recommended strongly for
domestication in England nearly- 50 years ago. b y
* * * *
Wool-king McOaughey recently ordered
tbf! Railway Commissioners 700
_^2l-^_ rai 113 sbee P Qu f °f Narandera district.
MR. H. E. HOLLAND, President Tailoreices'
Union.
Photo, by The Charleston Studios, Newcastle.
As Mac is an acknowledged authority on an out-
back season, this early emigration looks ugly for
those squatters who mean to stay and chance it.
* * * •
L e “Eller’s” statement (B.
0/11/ 01) that at Burragorang he found two men
who trapped between 400 and 600 parrots a week,
and sold them at an average of 6d. each. The
tacts are that 500 parrots were not sent from both
places together in a year. Hayes Bros., of Burra-
gorang, and Wonsons, of Wilton, send, between
them, at most about 40 parrots a-week during the
trapping-season. And they are experts who feed
the wild parrots during the breeding-season, and
m 6 'Tr,/! aware that there’s no market for anything
like 500 parrots a week.
* » * •
Snake-story from Hamilton (Vic.) way.
A country station-master was leisurely disrobing,
the wife of his bosom being already between the
sheets, when suddenly a wild yell from under the
bed scared the lady into a faint. The yell was
followed by the unexpected appearance of a total
stranger who rolled from under the bed and
began a frantic fight with himself on the floor in
the middle of the room. The third party proved
to be a gentleman who had hidden under the bed
with the intention of getting awav with the family
plate in the silent watches of the'night. A four-
foot black snake coiled round his leg was the sulii
cient reason of his untimely appearance.
* • • •
Hp ” : Re record shout (B. 23/11/'01).
About 10 years ago a man at Warracknabeal
“ arried > and > to celebrate the event, he
left tdOO with one of the local publicans to pas-
tor drinks for all v/ho would have them. “Wai-
rack. was a great place for drink in those days,
one publican (not the one above-mentioned) talcing
some £l3OO in 14 days as a pretty regular thing.
* * * -
A S.M. Herald writer attributes to a
i^" - Patriot ” the introduction of the European
rabbit. Bunny was introduced by Thomas Austin,
of Barwon Park, Geelong, Vic. Austin emigrated
1832 ’ l 7 ® 114 to Port Phillip in 1836,
• n ,o„, Uoed the rabbit in the early sixties, and died
in 1871.
* * * *
The devouring rabbit goes slowly West,
and is now fairly established in Westralia. Al-
ready advance scouts of the bunny legions have
been captured in the South and N.E. goldfields
districts. It is safe to prophesy that bunny will
spread the length and breadth of Westralia. The
prospector and the miner are pleased at the ap-
proach of opposition to the meat-ring, but the
settlers, who have seen things in the past, are
very uneasy. The Groper does not seem to care
much ; he has been beaten by the t’otherside man,
and supposes that the other evils of the East will
come as a matter of Destiny.
* * • *
Spring ’ : The march of bunny. At
Douglas Park, near Wilton, 45 miles south of
bydney, writer, last month, shot at 25 rabbits in
one hour. I his at a place where the cheap-excur-
sion shooter had almost exterminated everything
from a wallaby to a bull-frog, and where, up till
18 months ago, a bunny was a novelty
* * * *
This is from Los Angeles (Cal.) Standard.
Read it, ye dull bush liars, and be abashed
u Th i? , horrible new s comes from Kansas that a bov
climbed a corn-stalk to see how the corn was getting
along and now the stalk is growing up faster than the bov
;an climb down. The boy is “plumb out of sight.”
I hree men have undertaken to cut down the stalk witli
axes, and save the boy from starvation, but it grows so
fast that they can’t hit twice in the same place. Tbp
Doy is living on nothing but raw corn, and has already
thrown down over five bushels of cobs.
THE SWAGMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Place side by side with johnny-cakes or damper
Tlnee bags containing sugar, flour and tea,
A billy and some “ neck,” and swaggie’s hamper
" ill, with a pannikin, completed be.
Then spread you out a blanket and some sheeting,
And roll within a little diliy-bag,
A change of togs, a coat for Sunday meeting—.
And there you have his ordinary swag.
Build you a fire beside some eucalyptus,
l.y No Han’s Creek, and ’neath the starry dome,
here dingoes wander whence their lonely crypt is-
And there you have his customary home.
Take j'ou a man sunbrowned, with thews of iron,
A cheerful heart, stout as an ironclad,
And dress him like a wheel without a tire on—
And there you have the nomad on the pad.
Then give him but his health’s assets for hawking,
And his condition labels him “ for hire ; ”
Turn him adrift on horny feet f*w walking,
And to complete him, call hin. hong Maguire.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.


CLEA US
the BLOOD
through the
KIDNEYS
WOLFFS
f ' SCHrtAPPS.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBL, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University. writ-B—
-“ Hunyadi Ja 10s Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has prove d specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipation,
venous obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.”
Average Dose : — A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION
Note the name “Hunyadl Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor
ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the on the Red Centre Par*
of the Label.
There is one place in Sydney where the
business of money-lending is carried on in an
equitable manner and where those in need of
financial accommodation can rely on being
decently treated. The sensible man who wishes
to get rid of his monetary worries at a minimum
of cost and trouble to himself goes to the offices of
the Australian Equitable Investment Co.. Ltd.
The co. has a large capital for investment at low
interest, and is always open to advance money on
risks which the banks would decline; and acts
generally as a medium between the banks and
ordinary money-lenders. Men in business can
obtain assistance for their venture at a figure
which will leave them a fair profit for themselves.
The co. advances money to any extent on deeds of
land, bond warrants, merchandise, stock in trade,
scrip, interests under wills, furniture and all classes
of security. Press notices which have been pub-
lished from time to time express the favorable
opinion which generally exists regarding the co.
Mr. ,T. E. O’Brien is the Managing Director, and
the co.’s offices are at 45Elizabeth-street, between
King and Hunter-streets.*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin,
s. bottles. Made in London. *
UoED IN THE RO.AL HOUSEHOLDS.
CEREBOSSALT
Besides being the most Dainty, Dry, and Economical
Table Salt, “Cerebos” contains the strengthening and
constitution building properties which are wanting
in White Bread, owing to the removal of the Bran.
It is, therefore, invaluable in the daily food of
growing children, delicate mothers, and all brain
workers.
Wholesale >lg(?«&.--HARRISO . & ATTWOOD, 334 and 336, George Street, SYDNEY.
Sold by Grocers and Stores.
4 4 Hemi ” : Re inspection of the dairying
industry. Recently toured Taranaki district, the
Maorilandhomeof thebusiness. Ninety per cent, of
the yards are veritable quagmires, the sheds filthy
and extremely primitive. About same proportion
of the workers are women and children, whose
stolid, expressionless faces bear sad tribute to the
soul-wearing nature of their occupation. At the
recent dairy conference at Palmerston N., one of
the members read a paper on the subject, which
described in plain terms the unhappy lot of these
“white slaves,” but little or no notice was taken
of the effort by the spiritless press. Fat Man also
has his grip on the factories. With
of a fairly-paid manager, the hands receive starva-
tion wages, and work about 17 hours per day.
One case : Married man, with family, in receipt
of 255. per week, asked for a rise, and was told
that the directors had refused his request, but
that he would be allowed free butter for his
household.
THE LATE ALFRED FAIRFAX.
Photo, by Creelman, Sydney.
Mr. Alfred Fairfax, who died the other
day at North Shore, Sydney, aged 77 years, was a
cousin of the present head of the S.M. Herald
Fairfaxes, and arrived in N.S.W., from Warwick-
shire, Eng., at the age of If! years. He began life
as a Herald emnloyee, but afterwards went into
commerce for himself, and made a fortune. His
hobbies were cricket and yachting, and the latter
pastime he supported most lavishly until he lost
his all in his bold and historic gold venture at the
Star of Peace mine, Hawkins-hill. But, despite
irreparable disaster after a long and prosperous
career, he bravely held up his head, and to the
day of his physical break-down was ever the same
charming-mannered, cheery, generous soul, and
straight, ardent sportsman. His obsequies were
largely attended.
Sydney Telegraph, in its leading article
of 4th Dec., poured out a fearsome blast of rage
on ex-Premier Lyne for “slandering N.S. Wales.”
Lyne had merel y told the simple and quite obvious
truth—that N.S. W. needs all the revenue that the
Barton Govt.’s tariff is likely to give it, and that
under the old order of things it couldn’t pay its
way. As N.S. W. has had 14 deficits in 21 years,
this doesn’t require much argument. The great
difficulty in the way of reform in N.S.W. is that it
is impossible to put anything right till it is first
admitted to be wrong; and it is impossible to say
that anything is wrong without the Telegraph
having a dark and indignant suspicion that the
speaker is a hired Guy Fawkes from Victoria
trying to dynamite the Calico Jimmy industry.
The Sydney tail'messes’ strike has been
definitely ended, and the strikers may claim a
victory on almost every point : they have enforced
their “log” of. wage rates, and have» secured
official recognition of their union. In the contest
with Mr. Samuel Hordern, on other minor points,
the strikers tried to push the attack too far home,
and it was a certainty from the beginning that
they would be repulsed. When the Labor
Council refused to help them to maintain the
untenable position that.the forewoman, the em-
ployers’ representati v-e in each factory, should be
forced to join the employees’ union, the tailoresses
were obliged to withdraw. But, despite their
want of success on that point, they have every
reason to congratulate themselves on the general
results of the struggle. Throughout, the leading
spirit among the strikers was Mr. H. E. Holland,
editor of the Socialist paper, the People.
He claims, by the way, to have originated
the phrase, “Reid the Wriggler,” and is a
s eaker with a fine power of invective. The
other strike leader, Mrs. Robinson, secretary of
the Tailoresses’ Union, has shown during the
struggle good organising power and quiet reso-
luteness.
The appointment as Federal Commandant
of Major-General Hutton —the man who damned
the man who damned Chicago—has been con-
firmed.
“ A.P.” w rites :
Much trouble is being experienced by Vic. Railway
Dept, this wool-carrying season, owing to unskilful load-
ing and lashing. As many as 15 bales have been known
to fall at one time from a truck. The dept.’s usual good
luck has so far prevented any of the straying bales from
getting under the train wheels. It only needs a change
of the luck once for an awful smash to occur ; and a good
deal of wool is carried by “ mixed ” trains. The want of
skill shown in the loading of wool is said to be the result
of the dept.’s policy of employing a large amount of
“casual” labor at small country stations. Those em-
ployed are not experts, nor do they feel the responsibility
a permanent hand would. There is no danger of future
punishment in the shape of fines and “ records ” for them.
Ex-linen draper Gurr, who believes that
Sunday-school teaching has qualified him for the
position of Education Minister, made a hideous
exhibition of his incapacity in.dealing with the
State School Teachers Bill, in Vic. Leg. Assembly.
Though for weeks he had been closeted with his
officers, having the facts pumped into him, he was
utterly unable to handle the matter before the
House, and so broke down over the very first
question asked him that the Premier had to come
to his assistance. From that out Peacock took
charge of the Bill, and the well-groomed Gurr sat
and smirked. Gurr is the fussiest, silliest, and
best-dressed Minister of the Crown ever seen in
Victoria. Once upon a time, in Australia-, the
fool of the Ministry was always made Post-
master-General ; now-a-days he is invariably to be
found at the Education office.
M‘Millan, cursing wildly about
the horrors of Protection :
There were hat-mills in Victoria, the proprietors of
which did not know what to do with their money.
Duties on such goods as these constituted a public
robbery.
The Victorian hat co., be it noted, pays 10 per
cent. divs. to local shareholders, who spend their
money in the country, and has a tiny reserve of
£1487. And M‘Millan’s bosses, "the bloated
absentee importing firm in London, also pay 10
per cent. —sometimes more —and spend the money
in England, and their big reserves leave the hat
co. quite out of sight. As an example of the
blastiferous insolence of the rich absentee’s agent
and fugleman, who takes Australia’s wages to curse
Australian industries, and apparently regards the
existence of an Australian industry as a personal
injury, the above is a very beautiful sample
indeed.
How the cheap-labor crowd bite ! Laun-
ceston (Tas.) Examiner contemptuously describes
the present movement for a White Australia as—
“thrusting a few thousand Kanakas back into
barbarism so that an Australian worker shall have
an opportunity of taking the ‘ nigger’s ’ place and
doing a ‘nigger’s’ work in a cane-brake.” How
dearly these Britain-bred and Bull-bossed, but
Australian-supported papers seem to love Aus-
tralian workers 1
THE LATE G. H. COX, M.L.C.
Photo, by J. Hubert Newman, Sydney.
William M'Millan, in the Federal Hau.se
of Reps. (Sydney Telegraph report, Dec. 3) :
Victorians were making a mistake in agitating for high
duties, as they would result in N.S. W. becoming a large
manufacturing State, and securing the trade from their
Victorian rivals.
Of course, it wouldn’t pay M’Millan’s class for
N.S.W. to become a large manufacturing State,
for then the importer would be superfluous. So
M’Millan fights against the high duties. There-
fore, by his own showing, he and his N.S.W. fol-
lowers (including a number of Labor men) are
fighting to keep down the industries of their own
State. N.S.W. should note the fact.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on JUS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
Smilax : An opera is never realistic. Why not
start with an objection to old man Faust having any
singing voice whatever?... .H.G. : Your yarn about the
two amateur touts who thought they were “clocking”
Revenue in a gallop at Flemington is the silliest of inven-
tions. You say “it didn’t transpire till afterwards that
Revenue had never been at Flemington that day.” The
horse never was there, or was suspected of being there,
any day till he went and won the Cup X.O. : But you
can’t tell the truth in Parliament. By a polite fiction,
which the Speaker is supposed to always enforce, every
member must be accounted an honorable member, and all
his statements accepted as truth, and Parliament as a
body must be reckoned as absolutely irreproachable.
There is a big bar to truth-telling in those little regula-
tions. . . .Martin F. : “ Bounder” is probably from nautical
“brass-bounder,” a ship’s officer—more particularly a
bumptious or pretentious one. “ Fantod ” is also salt-
water for a fussy or fantastic officer “A Stakeholder” :
Have no means of ascertaining, but the Chief Justice is
the taller of the tw0.... Charles S. : The amours of beetles
are insignificant... .A.G.D. : Cheer up 1 the mood will
pass. (Verses already f1ed.).,.. J.L.M. : A de.ad dog is
better than many living “ poets.”... .G.H. : Not enough
original value in “ Little Dock ” ; “ Islands ” garish verbi-
age merely ; “ Sensual ” too .. .H.E.D. :
“ And when your face is sad and tearful,
When cares, to break your heart, combine
Oh ! mother do be bright and cheerful
For others’ sake—if not for mine.”
How on earth can the mother of such a bard be cheerful?
Drop down a well, and give the old lady a chance to
brighten.. . .M. Free : You should send that yarn to the
green-paint and-garbage press... .E.L.P. : But we are
not at all convinced that the Colonel Lynch, late of the
Boer army, who has been elected for Galway, is the
Melbourne man with whom you seek to identify him....
H.G.M. : Just two corrections—(l) Gen. Butler was not
asked “to steal the Boers’ country,” and so couldn’t
refuse to do so. His offence was, that when a war
against the republics was mooted, he pointed out what
was needed for that war, and he was dubbed a pro-Boer
and recalled. Subsequent events have more than borne
out his opinions. He would, no doubt, have fought as
determinedly as Buller or Roberts against the Boers had
he been left in S’Africa. (2) Analogy is absurd, and if it
were not so, its value would be destroyed by the fact
that the British War Office knew of the Buller despatch
before appointing him to the Aldershot command, and
sacked him only in fear of hysterical newspaper clamor.
If you don’t take our word re these facts, you can
get verification from any London daily'-newspaper file....
E.S. : Quite out of our style ; “ The Wreckers ” is such a
chesnut that it is now told by comic parsons as a sermon-
joke—the very last stage of decrepitude for a wheeze....
Wurrym : We meant exactly w hat we said. We get
almost enough articles about new voting systems to fill
Tun Bulletin’. Half the population seems to be worrying
over little voting-system fads, while the reform that the
country really wants has hardly a friend—simply because
it would cost a little taxation. A simple one-adult-one-
vote is good enough to go on with Currency Crank:
Regret can’t spare the space... Yarraby : England and
some other countries had a maximum wage law—a law'
to prohinit any man getting more than so much a week.
Your informant mixed the two things up. Can’t find the
W.A. information asked f0r.... Papoose : Too far-
fetched C.H.R. : But, then, the A.M.P.’s cash bonus
for 1900 was £'537,895, and the reversionary bonus
£1,000,000. The advertisement spoke the exact
truth. You don’t know your subject—that’s all
H.J.M. : Once more, do spare us your hysterics 1 Why
shriek at a poet because, as a poet, he oversteps strict
technical fact? Also, please don’t tackle every subject
under heaven! Buzz: In a spirit of savagery’, we in-
flict your query' on the public: “If a dog bark better
than wattle-wood ; and wattle-bark be better than dog-
wood ; surely a dog what’ll bark wood would bark
wattle ? ”.... Brian : “ Revive the ancient Irish language.”
Certainly; also the ancient English of the days of Ciesar.
And what is the matter with the ancient Australian lan-
guage? Seoro :W. P. Manning, of Sydney, was not
knighted “at the request of the Irish party in the Com-
mons.” The influence which obtained a knighthood for
the ex-Mayor in question came from certain English
notabilities to whose Australian business he attends....
Sesame : 13 paragraphs, each occupying exactly a full
page of MS. Boil it down !.... A.R.C. : Quite right for
Lie police to arrest every drunken person they see
in the street. Once a man is drunk, who can
(ill what may happen to, or through him?
L.W. : That's nothing. Why, a Queensland Labor mem-
ber in the softgoods trade is advertising trousers at
Is. lid. and 2s. lid X. : As a proof of bona-fides, let
each pro-Kanaka or pro-Jap. politician produce a Kanaka
or Jap. or Chow or Hindoo son or brother-in-law. Then
it will be time enough to take all their fellow-man-and-
Cbristian-brother heroics seriously... .B.S. : “ Bush fire ”
lacks fire : it’s a modest back-yard blaze. “ A Careless
Creed” is not careless and rollicking, but tame and
fed out of the hand A.E.I. : A 'sparkling bit
from the Book of Revelations, but though it’s ail very
true, and very neatly put, we can’t print it. Town Tones,
of New York, might be glad of it E.W. Lack. : It was
y our privilege as a juiyman to give the minor Judge in
question a piece of your mind by telling him courteously
to mind his own business. The average juryman, unfor-
tunately, is too deeply impressed with the unaccustomed
grimace of horsehair to maintain his rights... .Seth :
Subject too “ strong” to be accentuated I>y illustration..
..A.M.W. : Wherever the Federal Parliament is settled
must spell inconvenience for two-thirds of the members.
....Lignum: “False! Great Heavens! Can it be!”
Now, are you AV-ls-n B-rr-tt : n disguise?....R.A.K. :
No Q. Kanaka means no Q. Kanaka missionary : it’s a case
of “ ruin ” to both industries. Hence that parson’s wail-
for his disappearing bread-and-butter... .F.P.D. : Swollen
head means attenuated copy.... Meousis : The great mor-
tality’ of the S’African concentration camps is doubt-
less due to the ignorance and callousness of the
Boer mothers, who, in feeding their young, babies
on sardines, invariably force them to eat the tins....
Max.: Too Swinburnian—or rather Swine-burnian....
Agart: Uninteresting female corpse. Why kill a woman
when she makes such good copy alive ?....G.F.B. : The
advertised T. P. is one part brains, one part green fiaggery,
and the balance skite... .G.A.: Unsuitable.. . .Alfred W. ;
Absurdly grandiloquent style ; and, though you call your-
self “ prizeman and fellow ” of a certain college, you spell
badly and grossly misapply terms Soojee : Your yarn
explodes prematurely.... P.J.P. : Well-groomed verses,
with nothing in them... .Lance F. : Exasperating blare
about a matter of no importance Will J. : Verses well
enough put together, but you seem to aim at obscurity.
The unintelligible is not the esoteric.. .C.B.J.': Question
if, after all, N.Q. is hotter than X.S.W. The highest
therm, reading at Charters Towers, week before last, was
98'8, which the local papers termed “most oppressively
hot.” Mt. Drysdale and Bourke, N.S.W., have this season
already experienced 115° and 112° in the shade respec-
tively. And that’s only the overture to the N.S. W. sum-
mer. .. Miner: Too long-winded. And whereas the
destruction of vegetation is apparently increasing N.S.W.
desert area, in W. California and Nevada they plant salt-
bush and beat the desert... Joseph : Best idea about, the
Lost Ten Tribes is Hawley Smart’s : that the Jews, being
unbelievers, you can’t take their word that any Tribes
ever were lost N.S.W. Mongrel Tariff : N.S.W. Statis-
tician Coghlan says (“ Seven Colonies ” for 1900, pages
412-419-420) that, taking Australasia as a whole, the in-
habitant gets 10791 b. of food per year, and that the cost
is £l2 15s. lid. Also, that the inhabitant of N.S.W. (the
one allegedly Freetrade State) gets 10381 b. of food per
year, at a cost of £l3 15s. 2d.—in other words, that the
inhabitant of the Freetrade State gets less food than the
inhabitants of the Protectionist States, and pays more
for it. You can argue the point with Coghlan if you want
further information lvea (M.L.): Probably priut
E.T.W. : Would lack point Esmi : Don’t use such
spongy paper. Can’t interlineate.... R.W.T. : One hadn’t
enough point. The other better, but would need too
much alteration... .L.H.F.: Will make a par 0n1y... Geo.
M. : Not enough story Le Chat: You are doubtless
very young, so there may be hope ior you Clare : Some
delicacy of touch, but interest Loo slender Outlaw:
You call it a “ coursing incident,” and say the hare wanted
to put the dogs “ off the scent.” Greyhound co u sing has
nothing to do with scent F. Declare : Too diilicult to
decipher Vatu : Yarn, little merit; verses, no merit.
D.N.I. : Empty of interest Myra : You decided
to give The Bulletin the first offer.” No use offering-
such an infantile production anywhere 1.. .. Weider :
Would need too much re-writing Salma: Hopelessly
clumsy and involved A.N.F. : Has a good lilt, but is
otherwise very dry hash.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
E. J. Kelly (M.L.): Too faint for reproduction....
John R. D. : May d0....T. Boughton : Picture would
have no point to emphasise.. ..L.H.F. : Don’t see point.
... F.H. : Stale, stale steal.... J.A.P. : When photo-
graphically reduced the face-lines would be a mere blur.
Try some subject which is obviously specially-Australian.
. ...JohuGow : Not one Australian in 500 eats mangoes
—more’s the pity—and your joke is ancient, anyhow. ..
Quilpen : Handed to artist Jas. R. : Neither available.
....P.C.B. : Unavailable. Such gruesome actuality is
inadmissible in an illustration R.H.D. : Can do noth-
ing with it Unavailable. —W.J.P., E.F. (S.A.), W.J.P.
TAILORESSES’ STRIKE.
HARDSHIPS OF A WORKER.
The recent strike of tailoresses in Sydney has
brought to light many instances of long hours,
arduous work, and poor pay, and the request of
the workers for higher wages has, upon this occa-
sion, met with widespread public approval. That
troubles, however, which may afflict a tailoress
are not confined to strikes can be gathered from
the following particulars, given by one of the
trade, Miss Jessie Kersop, of Charles-st., West
Benalla, Vic., to a reporter :
“ I have had a good deal of experience in the
business,” she explained, “for I have worked
at it for over four years, but twelve months
ago troubles came upon me in the shape of
fainting fits and weaknesses, the result of anaemia,
and 1 was forced to temporarily abandon my
trade. During my illness several doctors were
called in, but notwithstanding the tonics I took I
gradually declined until 1 was so weak that I had
to take to bed. My cheeks were pale and thin,
my breathing was greatly interfered with ; it was
a trouble to eat any tiling, and attacks of retching
helped to prostrate me.”
“No doubt your absence from business also
tended to distress you ?” said the reporter.
“ Yes, it did, for I wanted to get back to work,
But just at this time a friend strongly advised me
to give Dr. Williams’ pink pills a trial. I did so,
and found they suited me admirably ; every dose
seemed to make blood, and one box strengthened
me greatly. I continued taking them for some
time longer, until quite cured, and now I am able
to work at my trade as actively as ever. My
appearance has greatly improved, and I feel ever
so much brighter and stronger.”
To women workers, growing girls and tired
housewives, Dr. Williams’ pink pills for pale
people bring perfect health, bright spirits and
rosy cheeks; they enrich the blood, tone up the
nerves, strengthen the spine and cure debdity,
weak heart, consumption and decline, liver and
kidney troubles, dyspepsia, rheumatism, neu-
ralgia, skin diseases, blood poisoning, effects of
fevers, etc. ; sold by chemists and storekeepers,
and by the I)r. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s-
place, Sydney, two and nine per box, six boxes
fifteen and three, post free. Beware of cheap
substitutes, colored pink. Prematurely exhausted
men will find that the genuine pills bring a return
of abundant strength and vigor.


MORE CASTLES IN THE AIR.
Since the Amy Castles boom, every school-girl in Australia
has V>een struggling to reach that top note.
ANOTHER GENTLE REMINDER.
Tiresome Citizen : “ Er —by-the-bye— where’s that North Shore bridge ?
O’Sullivan : “ It’s in that pigeon-hole.”
V-i TRAMWAY FACE— Or
the Sydneyite op the
/ FUTURE. 4
He will develop great agility of move- /
ment, and have an extra eye or / /
two behind. //
MR. KEARNEY AND THE KING.
“I trust that your Majesty will inquire
into tiio matter,.and have the three meu re-
ferred to released as soon as possible."
The Government Statistician is obtaining-mea-
surements of children in the public schools wW.
the view of ascertaining by careful research how
the future Australian is likely to develop Two
doctors are at work, one of each eex, and it i a
expected that it will be necessary to have exami-
nations made regarding about 20.000 boys and
girls.
G. R. DIBBS RETIRES FROM THE ARMY
Extract from his farewell SDeeeh • u t~ i • *
not forget that you belong to that intrenirl h C ? nc J uslon y m 7 comrades, do
but never die! ” ° hat mtre P ld band of who surrender
Stwj" 9 /faf^s-e«rrf>rc'?/y
4> s/*re yW f**c~ SfzAjfycQ^.
CARTOONLETS: THE OLD GUARD-AND OTHER MATTERS.


THE SHADOW ON THE WALL.
PEACOCK: “THAT SHADOW HAUNTS ME. CAN I SQUARE THE SUBSTANCE WITH A PORTFOLIO, I WONDER?"


A. SAUNDERS
WATCHES, JEWELLERY. AND SILVERPLATE AT FREETRADE PRICES.
SAVE 25 TO 50 PER CENT. SHOWROOMS: 815 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
A. SAUNDERS.
BAIR BRUSH, Pure Silver, in Silk-lined Case, 80s.
FREETRADE PRICES. NO ADVANCE.
AINSAS*
A. SAUNDERS’ FREETRADE PRICES.
NUT CRACKERS and PICKS in Silk-lined Casa,
Chased and Silver-plated, 15s 6d and 20s.
VERY USEFUL.
A. SAUNDERS.
SOAP BOX, Silver-plated, Nicely Chased and
Embossed, 12s tid.
FREETRADE PRICES.
&
A. SAUNDERS’ FREETRADE PRICES
LADIES’ FRIEND, Pure Silver-mounted,
in Silk-lined Case, 18s 6d. Smaller, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
©LOTH BRUSH, Pure Solid Silver-
mounted, 15s 6d, 17s 6d.
COMBS, Pure Solid Silver-mounted, Beal
Tortoiseshell, 20s ; Imitation Shell, 10s 6d ;
Similar, 5s 6d and 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Manieure Set, Pure Solid Silver-mounted, 20s.
Smaller, 12s 6d.
NO ADVANCE IN PRICE.
pore Solid Silver CSiased PHOTO
FEAMKS in every Style and Shape.
FOs, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, and 255.
A very acceptable present.
freetrade prices.
A. SAUNDERS.
MIRROR, Solid Silver-mounted,
Heart-shaped, Velvet-lined, 12s 6d.
Other Styles, 15s 6d, 20s, 80s, £2.
FREETRADE PRICES.
Pure Silver Hair BRUSH,
Best Bristle, 15s 6d.
You save money buying
from A. SAUNDERS.
A. BAUNDEBS.
Indies’ Sliver-mounted WALLET CARE
CASE, 20s. Similar style, 16a.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Hair Brußh, Pure Silver, Best
Bristles, 12s 6d. Splendid Value.
A. BATTNDERB.
CHILD’S CUPS,Pure Solid Silver,
in Silk Case, 80s, 85s, £2, £2 10s;
Silver Electro-plated, 12s 6d, 15s,
80s. Without Case, 7s6d, Bs6d, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ PURSES, Pure Silver-mounted, Lizard
Skin, 20s, 265. Other styles, 10s, 12s od, 15s.
Our Stock of First Purses is large and Assorted.
A- SAUNDERS. 1
FREETRADE PRICES. SAVE 25 to BO PER CENT.
Solid Silver 4 o’clock TEA SPOONS, in Case, 15s, 20s j with
TONGS, 20s, 255, 80s, £2 ; Silver Electro-plated, with
TONGS, 12s 6d,.155, 20s.
Or Cake KNIVES or FORKS, 20s, 255, 80s. Most Useful
for Afternoon Cake. All in Silk-lined Cases. Post Free.
THE FEDERAL TARIFF.
THIS I HATE ANTICIPATED.
MY CASH PURCHASES have been Enormous,
and I am in a position to sell at FREETRADE
PRICES. £32,000 worth of
WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELLERY, and
SILVERPLATE
to choose from. It will pay, and save you 26 to 60 per
cent. This is a consideration.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
ACnimdaKO THE WELL KNOWN JEWELLER
. oaunuers, AND silversmith.
815 and 817 GEORGE-STREET,
Nearly Opposite Railway Station.
A. SAUNDERS.
FREETRADE PRICES. SAVE YOU 25 to 60 PER CENT.
Full-sized TOILET SET, Beautifully Chased, and Ornamented, in three patterns, “ Watteau ” as
above, “ Cherub,” and “ Floride,” Chased and Embossed Designs, Containing two Hair Brushes,
Hat and Cloth Brush, Mirror, Shoe Hook and Lift, £l2 10s. A most acceptable Ladies’ present.
-
r v 9 *~L^ ’ "y^_V>
<*,
~ i ■ , IM , i i
.«•' /
. . v'*
FREETRADE PRICES. SAVE YOU 25 to 50 PER CENT.
A. SAUNDERS’ Newest Style in Pure Solid Silver Chased and Embossed,
4 o’clock Sugar Cream SPOON and TONGS, in Silk-lined Case. We
Stock three patterns similar to Illustration, £4 10s. A useful present.
$B3MlE=^
A. SAUNDERS’ Pure Silver Pencils. We stock in every style, ss, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
Gold, 10b, 80s, 80b, 80s, £2. Shall be pleased to send post free anywhere.
FREETRADE PRICES. NO ADVANCE.
Mar SEND YOUR ORDERS TO A. SAUNDERS.
A. SAUNDEBS.
PUFF BOX, Pure Solid Silver, Pretty and
Ornamental, 255.
Silver-plated on White Metal, 17s 6d.
Silver Tops, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s.
NO ADVANCE. FREETRADE PBICES.
A. SAUNDERS.
TTATR BRUSH, Pure Silver,
best Bristles, “Cherub” Design,
18s 6d. Other styles, 20s, 255,
30s, £2. Send for Pattern
FREETRADE BOOK.
Pure Solid Silver Badger
Hair SHAVING
BRUSH, 12s 6d. Other
styles, 15s and 20s.
A Nice Present.
dfg
A. SAUNuiAto.
Smelling Salts BOTTLE, Pure Silver,
255. Other styles, Silver Top, 2s 6d,
ss, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s
ZJ
CS,
SSj
S 3
Sifl
A. SAUNDERS’ FREETRADE PRICES.
Dessert KNIVES and FORKS, Silver-plated. Nicely
Chased, £2 16s. 12 Pairs, £4 10s, £5, £5 10s.
A Useful Present.
A. SAUNDERS’ FREETRADE PRICES.
Two Peppers, Mustard, Pure Solid Silver, Beautifully
~ and Finished, in Case, £2 10s.
m
A. SAUNDERS. NO ADVANCE.
Jam SPOON and Butter KNIFE, Pure Solid
Silver, in Silk-lined Case, 15s 63.
G-ent.’s “ COMPANION,” or Letter Book,
Pure Silver Mounted, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Solid Silver-mounted PEPPERS and
SALTS, in 8 sizes, 4s 6d, 8s 6i, 7s 6d.
’ FREETRADE PRICES.
SAVE 25 to 50 PER CENT.
Ladies’ TOILET TABLE, Pure Solid Silver Pin TRAY, Artistically Chased
and Ornamented, 10s 6d. We stock in large quantity.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted KNIFE RESTS, in
SUV-lined Case, 16s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS'
FREETRADE PRICES.
df
g
A. SAUNDERS’
FREETRADE PRICES.
THIMBLES, Silver Steel-
lined, ‘2s 6d, 8s 6d, 4s 6d.
I DO NOT INTEND TO ADVANCE MY PRICES,
FREETRADE PRICES-NO ADVANCE.
bh>
NOW IS THE TIME TO BUY ALL ARTICLES
AT FREETRADE PRICES.
A. SAUNDERS’ fIATTB SERVES,, Pure Solid Silver, Pearl Handle, in three styles, 7s fld, 10s, 12s 6d. The very latest London style.
]
Pure Silver-
mounted
HAIR PIN
HOLDER, ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALTS, Pure Silver-mounted, White Cut Glass,
in Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d.
Call and See our Jewellery Exhibition—A Splendid Display; or send for our 1901 Complete Illustrated Book, Post Free anywhere.
A. SAUNDERS.
SAVE 25 to 60
PER CENT.
LEADING AST JEWELLER.
SAVE 25 to 50
PER CENT.
815 <& 817 GEORGE-STREET
Nearly Opposite
Bailway Station,
SYDNEY.


m#nr-n i 1
ISiS^ISSiSSP
ffljaarI Igaßljijglffi- jui ’! iffiffijf Bp
‘ 'l
4 " '/T^S
jfwjjpP IMB|«SSBiMS!BH^a
afcaagsigMteMffl
■Bllll!^^
8B
: ;fij -J^-f; 'u.' ; 'iH’i^rir:Uu>s-^&.MHw
■
FITZGERALD BROS.’ MEW LONDON SENSATION, MOW LOCATED AT MELBOURNE.


A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
We learn that a most useful Veterinary
Book is attached to every bottle of Condy’s
Fluid. This Book contains instructions for
curing most of the ailments and accidents
affecting Horses, Hogs, Sheep, Cattle, Poultry,
and Birds of all kinds.
Condy’s Fluid is an absolutely certain cure
for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs, Broken Knees,
Grease, Thrush, Cracked Heels, and Mud
Fever in Horses.—Scab, Foot Rot, Fly, etc.,
in Sheep.—Rinderpest, Hoove, Foul in the
Foot, Wounds and Sores, Foot and Mouth
Disease, and Diarrhoea in Cattle. —Distemper
Mange, Canker, and Eczema in Dogs.
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists and
Stores. Beware of local substitutes, all are
inferior. Insist on having Condy’s Fluid.
dfg
GO TO HEL3--
I (J()T<A NI > for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagco,
foreign stamp importer,
74 Jilizateth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis. „
hats. hats.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fatted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
JBRI3BA3XTE.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRAPLEy f CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Roonn, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradlet & Co., 324 George-st
In The Golden Fleece, a new wool monthly
published by John Bridge and Co., Sydney, the quality
of the incidental literary matter is much higher than la
usual in such a connection—a fact due, doubtless, to the
editorial supervision of the exuberant “Fred’ Broomfield.
The little sheet is typographically compact and tasteful,
exhibits a good show of ads., and bids fair to keep its head
above water.*
Those who go forth during the holidays to
recuperate and have a good time, shooting in the
country, fishing at the watering-places, or sailing
upon the face of the waters must remember
D.C.L. to keep it handy. Not only will this pure
whisky assist them to recuperate and add to their
enjoyment, but in any sort of emergency, from
snake-bite to hysterical female, it is invaluable.
The man who camps out and is not provided with
a flask of D.C.L. runs a grave risk.*
Christmas morning is usually ushered in with a
blast of penny whistles and the tinniest of tm trumpeto,
and paterfamilias, lying in bed, hears and thln^. c °“:
placently of the difference in price between the whistles
which he has bought and the tricycle which he huited at
a month before. He works it out and feels good ail o\er.
By the time he is dressed, however, the eternal screeching
and blasting has begun to pall; afterbreakfast ltwornes
him so that he can’t bring his mind to contemplate the
benefits of economy ; by dinner-time he is fretful, irritable
and snappy. Dinner soothes him and brings a fitful
peace; but afterwards the infernal, unslackened dm
works him up to a condition bordering on homicidal
mania. Along towards tea-time he is alternately
slamming doors and cramming wads of wool into his ear*.
His punishment troes on through Boxing Day, and next
morning a shattered remnant of a man, who starts-
violently when asked what he wants, orders a boy &
tricvcle at 9s fid. and a girl’s at 275. 6d. from M Lean
Bros, and Rigg, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.-
CWfcftND'S
Salyo°r
fOR THE COMPLEXION
An emo’ient, soothing and healing pre-
paration for preserving and beautifying the
Bkin in all climates; it cools and refreshee
the Face and Arms in hot weather, remove*.
Freckles, Tan, Sunburn, Redness and Rough-
ness of the Skin, heals all cutaneous Erup--
tions and Insect Stings produces
SOFT, VELVETY SKIN,.
Imparts a luxuriant beauty to the com--
plexion and a matchless whiteness to the.
Neck and Arm 3 unobtainable by any other
means. It has been known for the last 75
years as the most curative and harmless
preparation ladies can use. Ask Stores a>- 1
Chemists for Rowland’s Kalydor, of 07
Hatton, Garden, London.
SIMPSON’S SULKIES & BUGGIES
Good Work
Lowest Price
Cash oi%
Factory and Showroom: 73 KING STREET, NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Kingston is right. N.S. Wales isn’t “ the
Mother State.” In her Federal dealings she has
shown herself to be, not the States’ mother, but
their mother-in-law.
Q. Home Secretary Foxton, thegrizzler of
the crowd, is to be opposed at next election by
Labor-man Turley, ex-wharf-laborer, one of the
brainy men of the Opposition.
The Bulletin being now on Ketchener’s
Index Expurqatorius does not circulate openly in
S’Africa. All the same, it is in more demand,
and “gets there” to a greater extent than any
other Australasian paper.
Says Melb. Argus :
The sooner New Guinea becomes part of the Common-
wealth for purposes of private enterprise, the better.
A very good argument for looking this colored
gift-horse in the mouth. “ O private enterprise !
—or public theft,” as Randy Bedford hath it.
One Harding, another of the Freetrade
hacks, comes forward in N.S.W. press to advocate
a Blaok Australia. The glamor of G. H. Reid’s
humbug is being gradually rubbed off Freetrade
by this constant confession of typical Cobdenites
that they are for cheap labor, black or white, all
the time.
Latest dodge of the Queensland pro-
Kanakas is to form the Tommy Tannas into a
“ union,” which will send a deputation to
the Federal Parliament to beg that things
may be left as they are. In this attempt
to organise the United Niggers the plan-
ters are playing a rather dangerous game.
The theatrical deputation will have no
genuine political effect, and the “ Kanakas
Association ” may devote its organisation to
other uses—say, a strike, accompanied with
violence, for higher wages.
The M.L. Govt, proposes making a
charitable grant of £llO,OOO to the deben-
ture-holders and £20,000 to the share-
holders of the Midland Railway, and i
receives only curses in return.
When the State agreed to give
land worth £1,250,000 to the Mid-
land Railway Co. the co. entered
into certain agreements, and
these provided for the forfeiture
of the whole show if the work
was not completed in a certain
time. It was forfeited, and the
co., by the decision of the Privy
Council, has no claim to any
compensation whatever. It has
also used actionable language for
five years, and, taking one thing
with another, it would be much
wiser lor M.L. Govt, to stick to
its bond and not part with a
copper.
Mrs. Lance Rawson writes to
Brisbane Courier stating that, at the
little suburb of North Rockhampton alone,
she knows of six Kanaka families, includ-
ing 30 children and four grandchildren
—this despite the fact that the census
only mentions one Kanaka woman in
the district, and says nothing of any
children. She adds :
The names given are but a few of tha
many to be found at North Rockhampton,
on the Yaamba-road and Park Avenue,
where there is quite a little colony of
Kanakas, their wives and children.
The lady gives these facts as an argument in favor
of the Polynesian individual, but they seem rather
to show the necessity of getting rid of the un-
desirable nigger before his multiplication makes
Queensland so much spotted that it is liable to be
mistaken for a coach-dog.
Q. Govt. Two-babies-two-votes Bill is, as
seen from the start, a slaughtered innocent. The
Philp gang will now go to the country saying that
the Labor party refused to pass a genuine demo-
cratic measure, and a lot of fatuous voters will
believe it.
The week in South Africa : Sunday, De
Wet is “located”; Monday, he is “closely
watched” ; Tuesday, he is “ cornered” ; Wednes-
day, he is “ surrounded ” ; Thursday, he is “in a
tight place”; Friday, he is “hard pressed”;
Saturday, he “escapes.”
The Commonwealth Minister for Home
Affairs should be pulled up sharply in re his
proposed junketing in search of a site for the
Federal capital. £3OOO is the estimated cost of
the trip. Members who go on such a razzle would
empty the milk-can 3 of an orphan asylum.
Sydney D.T. describes as a “ triumph for
the Freetraders ” the utterly disreputable action
of the Opposition in coalescing with the Labor-
party to destroy the revenue tariff on cotton
goods. Since this revenue impost was essentially
a Freetrade one, its rejection is, if anything, a
triumph for Protection.
Premier Philp’s demand that the Kanaka
Bill now through both Federal Houses, be re-
served for the King’s assent, is a vain hope. For
he will, in England, be confronted with the same
argument which has dogged him in all his tirades
against the measure: Why did the Queensland
representatives in both Houses advocate the Bill.
At the tail-end of the session, when there
is already ten times more work on hand than can
be got through, Queensland Govt, introduces its
Agricultural Bank Bill and Workmen’s Compen-
sation Bill. The Philp Govt, often introduces
reasonably democratic measures, but always when
it is too late for them to have a ghost of a chance
of becoming law.
The Tory Argus says the only thing to
save Victoria is a Coalition State Government.
It is so long since the Argus pets had office that
they have forgotten what a Treasury bench feels
like. They don’t ask for the whole loaf now—only
a crust —iust to show that there are still a few
mouldering Freetraders and stodgy immovables
in State politics.
About the last act of the Maoriland
session was the passing of a Bill authorising the
purchase by the State of the privately-owned
Manawatu railway. The price fixed is £951,845,
equal to £11,331 per mile. So the State, after
paying at the outset a very large share of the cost
of the line in land-grants and other assistance,
proposes to buy it back at £3390 pervmile more
than the average cost of the lines built by the
State ! The private-railway business generally
ends in the State being left like that.
Pastoralists’ Review still breathes
slaughter on the Kanaka question:
If there was not civil war, it would not be for want of
the will, but because the forces on the side of the Com-
monwealth are overwhelming. The Queensland planters
resent the way in which they are being treated so
strongly that it would he a relief to their feelings to
fight.
On the whole, it is a very good thing—for the
blatantly Jingo Review— that its friends did not
manage to carry, in the Senate, a postal prohibi-
tion of seditious papers.
THE SPECIAL
CREATION.
“ They would end by making
him feel that either he had been
specially created to occupy the position of Governor-
General of Australia, or that the position of Governor-
General of Australia had been specially created to be
occupied by him.”
Australia: “ Great Scott! has it come to this?”
Though Queensland’s Ministers can pass
and get consent to syndicate or other private-
benefit bills to take immediate effect, yet with four
months before them they say it is impossible to
pass and make effective a new franchise. And the
Federal one-vote franchise came into effect with
instantaneous ease, without dislocation of local
rolls or departments. No will, no way.
Chamberlain: “I would quit public life
instantly if I believed my so doing would enable
the country to honorably and speedily terminate
the war.I'’ 1 '’
A patriot he yet may be.
The land that lost him would be blessed.
And plainly Joe begins to see
How he may serve his country best.
A great joke in the House of Reps, was to
see Sudden Solomon, forgetting all about his
alleged Freetrade principles, rush to vote with
the Protectionists on the salt duty. S.A., you
see, is more largely interested in salt-production
than any other State; hence the Sudden One’s
eagerness to forget he is a Freetrader when salt is
on top. As with Reid re N.S.W. sugar, so with
Solomon re S.A. salt.
"ART IN ITS INFANCY"
“Mr. G. H. Reid, in opening? a Victorian horticultural show, said he was sorry
the president had referred to the fact that he was probably we. I-known to them
through the illustrated newspapers, but he was glad of the opportunity of coming
out and showing them how different he was from those caricatures. (Laughter.)
He did not, however, put them down to any malice. Art was still in its
infancy. ” —AGE.
“ Keep the limelight steady , Billy, arid give him a show.
As might have been expected, it was re-
served for one of the 48 Fat Landlords to offer the
buffeted Vie. old-age pensioners the most brutal
insult yet flung at them. Old Nat. Levi, who so
often vainly wooed the Assembly electors, moved
the addition to the Pensions Bill of a clause
depriving pensioners of their voting rights, thus
stigmatising them as paupers. The insufferable
impudence of wealth !
Premier See, upbraided for enforcing the
Calvinistio law forbidding the sale of fruit and
gingerbeer on Sundays, impudently replies that
the law is there, and must be respected. But the
law equally prohibits the sale of Sunday news-
papers, and yet, in that regard, it is never en-
forced. For the reason that John Norton and
the poor, speechless, Sabbath banana are very
different propositions.
Our poor little sister, Tasmania, proposes
to allow Lloyd’s the concession of establishing a
wireless-telegraph monopoly between herself and
the mainland. The V.D.L. Co. and railway
syndicates have the land ; cable-extension co’s
have the water; and now it is proposed to
yet another syndicate a lien on the air ! Tas-
mania should at once be arrested by John Forrest
and placed under medical observation.
It will always be possible to get men of
some sort as co-hen tin gen ters. Out of four or five
millions of people there will always be plenty of
fools—men without any sense of justice, honor,
or humanity, who would prefer to ride to hell
rather than walk to Heaven, and who would elect
any day to loot and kill rather than to work.
You will always, also, have on hand the title-
hunting political snob to engineer them.
The worst that the bitterest enemy of Q.
Labor Opposition could wish it is that the
general election will place it in power. Con-
tinuous Ministerialism has disorganised the
finances, dodged taxation, depleted the Treasury,
and accumulated railway and other promises
aggregating millions. If Labor gets into office it
will have to face heavy taxation and severe
retrenchment, which will ruin its prospects for a
decade to come.
Senator Dobson, of Tasmania, almost wept
in his admiration of the people of India, and pro-
tested to the last against their exclusion from
Australia. Yet, if anyone proposed to give these
Hindu races self-governing powers, Dobson would
probably call him a traitor ; and if anyone sug-
gested that they should be granted the first right
of free human beings—the right to decide their
own political destiny, instead of being conquered
and owned by Britain—Dobson would certainly
call him a wrecker of the Empire. If Dobson’s
colored friends are not tit to govern themselves,
then Australia has every right to regard them as
an inferior race and to shut them out.
N.S.W. Industrial Arbitration Bill, to the
surprise of many people, has passed into law.
Trouble for a long while threatened over clause
36, giving an Industrial Court power to order that
preference ip employment .should be given to
trades-unionists! The. Upper House threw this
clause out with great apparent determination.
Then Premier See.consulted the Labor party and
suggested to them that the clause was not worth
fighting about, and the majority of the caucus
seemed to agree with him. But the Trades and
Labor Council demanded that the caucus should
make a stand. Without clause 36, it was urged,
trades-unionists would prefer not to have the Bill
passed at all. So the Laborites, with some re-
luctance, told John See that clause 36 must be
won ; and John See, with some reluctance, told
the Upper House that it must give way ; and very
much to John See’s surprise the Upper House did
give way.
The See Govern-
ment in N.S.W., like
the Reid Government,
is introducing an Audit
Bill, providing for a
new method of keep-
ing the public accounts
—not for keeping them
honest, but just for
keeping them. But
what N.S.W., like all
the other states, needs
is a Bill to prohibit
the spending of loan-
money on unproduc-
tive works, to establish
a sinking-fund for the
repayment of the pub-
lic debt, to prohibit
the use of trust-funds
by the Treasurer, to
abolish foreign borrow-
ing, to put all the
miscellaneous sho r t-
ages into one big de-
ficit, and then set aside
the proceeds of certain
special taxes for its
extinction, and to pro-
vide that the country
shall raise enough re-
venue to pay its way.
It doesn’t need new
devices for ruling-off
the old fraudulent
accounts more beauti-
fully than ever with
red iuk. It wants
honest accounts, even
though they may be
dog - eared and have
blots on them.
The cheap nigger-labor party made a big
fight in the Senate for its beloved Kanaka.
Walker (N.S.W.), Ferguson (Q.) and Symon
(S.A.) tried hard to get the Kanaka made a per-
manent institution north of the tropic of Capricorn,
and were beaten by 16 to 10. Charleston (S.A.)
and Sargood (Vic.) then demanded that the exist-
ing Kanaka should be allowed to stay here and
multiply'indefinitely ; proposal lost by 27 to 2.
Finally Ferguson (Q.), Jawbone Neild and Walker
(N.S.W.), and a few sundries, endeavored to get
the Kanaka trade extended for seven years, and
went down heavily with a wooden sound, ilk®
Neild’s poems falling from a high roof into the
street.
Irvine’s uniquely-impotent no-confidence
motion on the Peacock Ministry having failed, it.
is likely that Outtrim, who held the portfolio of
Railways in the M'Lean Govt., will attempt to
oust the Govt, before the session ends. If the job
is taken in hand by Outtrim, one of the solidesfc
intriguers in Vic. Parliament, the Peacock crowd
is liable to go under. Should the Peacock Minis-
try manage to creep into recess a reconstruction
will have to take place. Trenwith, Morrissey,
Gurr, M'CuJloch, Attorney-General Gillott,
and, possibly, Burton will have to quit.
Trenwith has proved altogether too indolent;
Morrissey is too weak to carry out what he
knows ought to be done; Gurr is silly to
the last degree ; M Culloch is indifferent, and
wants to resign; Gillott seems incapable of
handling the work of legal adviser to the House ;
and Burton is a much-misunderstood man. dur-
ing the recent crisis M'Culloch hustled round and
got each of the Ministers to sign a document
expressing his willingness to resign if Peacock
thought he could reconstruct. So far, 1 eacock
has steadily declined to throw his colleagues over-
board, but, whether he likes it or not, the feeling
of the House is in that direction.


(Hassenet, the Great
French Composer, gives the
following description of
The fI2©LIAN
|ispjso O GIVE to a musical work an absolute and exact interpreta-
€Cg)’| tion jto make clear the composer’s most intimate thoughts, to
bring into play a wealth of execution which only the orchestra
can give —in a word, to translate all the shades of coloring intended
by the composer—this is the achievement of the — Massenet.
The claims we
make for the JEo-
lian are strong, but
not stronger than the
evidence we offer in
support of them. The
patronage and en-
dorsements the iEo-
lian has received tes-
tify to its merits,
and make it worthy
the investigation of
all music lovers.
The yEolian plays all classes of music,
making instantly and always accessible any
selection you may desire to hear, played just
as you desire to hear it played, for the ex-
pression is under the absolute control of
the player. The yEolian can be played
by any one. It requires no musical know-
ledge whatever on the part of the per-
former.
The cheapest yEolian plays nearly seven
thousand pieces—and plays them well, too.
Grand.
Henry in Biigt k Go.,
Sole Agents, for Australasia^
323 GEORGE ST„
SYDNEY.
Sendfor Catalogue
/rations and
fd
containing Illus-
full particulars.
The iEolian is sold at no other
address in Sydney.
c
Koh-i-Noor
Copper-
Gilded
Letters.
For Signs and
Shop-fronts.
ABSOLUTELY
PERMANENT.
Sole Agents :
J. Leigh Jones & Co
257 George St.,
“SANITAS”
NATURE’S
GREAT DISINFECTANT.
Non-Poisonousm
Does Not Stain Linenm
[fluid, powder, soaps, &C .
Of all Chemists and Stores.
Valuable book, "HOW TO DISINFECT.”
free on application.
The “SANITAS" Co., Ltd.,
BETHNAL GREEN, LONDON.
I’ll Try It.'
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover-)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand
Price, 10s. 6d.
BOLE AGENTS.
The Result.
CRAIG &. AITKEN, N.S .W. Barber’s Supply
House, 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
* The Best Australian Boole of Sea and Sailor V erse.’’
The Ways of Many Waters
By E. J. BEADY.
AUSTRALIAN .. .
STAMPS
Highest Cash Prices Paid
to any amount for
03d or Rare Stamps,
Used or Unused.
The First
Australian Stamp.
I'LNNI 0
For Sale—The Largest 9took of STAMPS, ALBUMS, etc.,
in the Southern hemisphere.
SMYTH & NIGOLLE, U Swter-it., Sj
The Gentlewoman, September 9, 1899: —
Ammonia.— l am afraid you have been taken in. There
are several imitations. Unless you see the name of
Scrubb and Co. on the bottle it is not genuine. A table-
spoonful or two in the bath, according to the quantity of
water, will cleanse your skin and make the bath more
refreshing.*
In a display so teeming with novelties and
specimens of the finest Art Jewellery as is the Xmas
Show at the Goldsmiths’ and Silversmiths’ Alliance, it is
perhaps invidious to single out for special mention any
particular line, but a leading feature is certainly that
section allotted to December’s Lucky Stone, the Tur-
quoise—significant of prosperity in love. Every con-
ceivable form of novelty for the adornment of the female
form divine is to be found here ; nor have the require-
ments of the sterner sex been overlooked. The firm’s
expert buyers have ransacked the markets of the Old and
New Worlds for seasonable novelties. With their
usual foresight, too, this up-to-date firm suc-
ceeded in completing their purchases prior
to the imposition of the much-talked-of
Tariff, so that this “ bogey ” holds no terrors for those
visiting the white and gold shop at 90 King-street.
Limits of space forbid anything like detailed mention of
the vast selection of novelties in brooches, bangles, muff-
chains, necklets, pendants, chains, rings, scarf-pins,
studs, clocks, watches, solid silver and electro-plate,
toilet and table ware, Parisian goods, leather goods of all
kinds, and a specially fine assortment of the latest
fashion in photo, and miniature pendants. In short,
those in search of Xmas and New Year gifts—novel,
pretty, and last, though not least, at reasonable prices—
cannot do better than call at, or write to, The Gold-
smiths and Silversmiths Alliance, 90 King-st., Sydney.*
A SLUGGISH LIVER IS A LIVING DEATH.
VITADATIO
"WHI Cure Y ou.
FIVE YEARS’ SUFFERING CURED
BY VITADATIO.
FEELS SPLENDID.
Shepparton, July 31, 1899.
Mr. S. A. PALMER (Vitadatio).
Dear Sir, —I have very great pleasure in certifying to
the MERITS of your VITADATIO. I have suffered for
the past five years, off and on, from JAUNDICE, EN-
LARGEMENT OF THE LIVER, and an INTERNAL
GROWTH of some kind, which the doctors did not seem
to understand, and all the medicine I took before
VITADATIO had no more effect upon me than so much
water. My husband and son induced me to try your
VITADATIO, and after the second week I had been
taking it a quantity of blood and lumps of stuff which
looked like pieces of liver came away. I now feel
splendid and am able to get about and do my work.
I am an old resident of Shepparton, and all my
neighbours can tell you how bad I was.
I EARNESTLY RECOMMEND your VITADATIO to
anyone suffering as I did.
Yours gratefully,
0. OURREY.
Witness to signature : W. J. Ford, J.P.
I hereby certify to the correctness of the above
testimonial.
Wangaratta. D. H. K. H'Guinnbss.
For further particulars,
s. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
Apropos Cardinal Moran’s remark that, so
far, no R.C. has been appointed to N.S.W. Pub-
lic Service Commission. Australians should
strenuously resist any proposal, no matter what
its source, to have a direct or implied religious
test for Civil Service positions. The cry from
Calithumpians, or any other sect, that they have
only got so many men in the service, and should
have more, implies a demand for certain conces-
sions to men, not because they are able, but
because they are Calithumpian.
The imported Chinese egg found one
friend in the Federal Parliament, after all. News-
paper report of debate :
On the item, “ Eggs per dozen 6d.”
Mr. Conroy (N.S.W.) objected to the duty.
The item was agreed to without further discussion.
And thus was lost the most beautiful opportunity
that the Cobdenites have ever had of showing
their consistency and of taking a grievous burden
off the pore working-man. There is but one real
Freetrader now. His name is Alfred Conroy.
ARE row BALD?
PAPILLA
Stops the Hair from falling 1 :
Stops the Hair from going grey.
Promotes a luxurious growth of Hair.
Eradicates Dandruff and Cures Itclrng
Scalp (both of which are sure signs of
approaching Baldness).
Don’t Look Old Before Your Time !
CAPILLA HAIR TONIC is not a highly-perfumed preparation—it is
a MEDICAL TREATMENT for the Scalp and Hair.
CAPILLA is the ONLY Hair Restorer on earth that is actually guaranteed to CURE
BALDNESS (providing there is a slight down on the scalp). Testimonials and full direction for use
enclosed with each bottle. Sold in one size only— 2/6 per bottle ; by post, 3/2; inter-State, 3/5 ;
or the Full Course of 6 bottles for 17/2, inter-State, 19/2— under cover. Stocked by all up-to-date
Chemists and Storekeepers.
W. RICHARDS,
Solo Proprietor and Manufacturer,
168 Pitt-st., and 14 Imperial Arcade,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TAKE! UNTO SUBSTITUTE.
REST THE BURDEN
of your correspondence
on the
New Century
Typewriter instead of on your steno-
grapher, and you will get more work,
cleaner work, better work. It has no
equal for speed, lightness of touch and
durability. Fine new catalogue sent
free.
United Typewriter & Supplies Co.,
UU Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S.W.,Aus.
g
[|]orl(fs flecord Jjrderj
The LARGEST TYPEWRITER ORDER
for the WHOLE WORLD . .
Has recently been placed with UNITED TYPEWRITER
and SUPPLIES CO. by the Austro-Hungarian Govern-
ment for __
500 New Centurys
The New Century has been extensively ordered by N.S.W.
Government Departments, and is the Machine adopted by
His Excellency the GOVERNOR-GENERAL, and also
the State Governor, Sir Frederick Darley, K.C.M.G.
V_SEND FOR CATALOGUE^
United Typewriter Co.,
(By appointment to His Excellency the Governor-General)
114 PITT STREET, SYD NEY
# CALLAGHAN
M
m
V
\
%
%
i
BOOT
Constructed with as much
care and accuracy AS IP
MADE TO ORDER for
each and every
Customer.
THIS BOOT
IS
PHOTOGRAPHED
FROM
STOCK.
CALLAGHAN BOOTS can BE EXCHANGED
if not correct, as we wish DISTANT customers
to be as pleased as those in town.
W Your money RETURNED If you are not satisfied with the Boots.
Finest French Calf LACE, medium wide welts, bespoke appearance, 22/6; post paid, 23/6
Tan Willow LACE, full goloshed, fast color eyelets, 23/6; post paid, 24/6.
Have you ordered
a Pair YET ?
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 George St., Sydney


A Japanese matrimonial advt. :
“lam a beautiful woman. My abundant undulating
hair envelopes me as a cloud. Supple as a willow is my
waist. Soft and brilliant is my visage as the satin of the
flowers. lam endowed with wealth sufficient to saunter
through life hand in hand with my beloved. Were I to
meet a gracious lord, kindly, intelligent, well educated,
and of good taste, I would unite myself with him for life,
and later share with him the pleasure of being laid to
rest eternal in a tomb of pink marble.”
A clerical contributor to a Sydney religious
paper:—
It has always seemed a degradation and an insult to
women that their dresses should be described in the
newspapers at all. Should not the woman be so im-
measurably superior tt> her dress, that the latter is un-
noticed in comparison with the former? Would it not be
an insult to an artist if a critic should elaborately describe
the frame of his picture, passing over, as if color-blind,
the beauties of shape and tint on which the artist has ex-
pended his best efforts?
Would, then, the reverend writer have the papers
confine their attention to the shape and tints of
the lady herself, as “ Mrs. Blank, in an aureole of
gold brown hair and pink cheeks, looked charm-
ing. Her bust, &la Medici, was the finest in the
room. Her shapely feet were particularly notice-
able, and ” so on.
.N ervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
5 of this issue *
Business Announcements.
ORNAMENTAL NAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 6s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair,
pr Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of 'Australasia.
CRAIG & AIXKEKT,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Bydney.
A Silver Watch for Nothing.
Tjr-E HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE of OUR
vv FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s and Gentleman’s) to every MAN, WOMAN or
CHILD who sends us the Correct Reading of the follow-
ing puzzle :
T*M* H**LS *V*RYTH*NG.
The only condition is that if your answer is correct you
purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to wear
with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY. Simply forward your answer, and
enclose stamp and addressed envelope (2d.), so that we
may inform you ii you have won the Watch. There is no
need to cut out this advertisement.
We are making this offer solely with the object of
introducing and advertising our goods. Testimonials
supplied. Address- Manager^
English Watch L Jewellery Co., Pitt Street, Sydney
Blitter Cooler and Meat Safe.
Reduces the temperature
15 degrees by capillary
action of water.
Price - * * 5/- each
Postage, I/- extra.
ICE-CREAM
FREEZERS
which require no labor,
15/- each;
postage, 1/6 extra.
Send for Catalogue.
Brandt Bros,
dfg
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
And at 422 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
CALVERT’S
20 per cent.
CARBOLIC
SOAP
Cures and prevents Insect
and Mosquito bites.
The strongest Carbolic Toilet Soap.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
&
Those
suffering
from weak
and sore eyes,
and blight, should
SINGLETON’S OINTMENT
Never Fails. Restores Eyelashes.
ALL CHEMISTS.
It
dfg
Our New “Booklet No. 2” tells all
about this wonderful Belt. Send 2d.
in stamps for a copy.
Cures without
Drugs!
Still the
otters Come.
19 Gwendoline St.,
Treherbert,
' Rhonnda Valiev, Glam.,
Feb. 22,1901.
"Merck Electric Co.
Dear Sirs,—Two years
go next April I bought
me of your Dr. Pierce’s
dalvanicChain Belts,which
was, I am pleased to say,
(lie means of restoring me
to a grand state of health.
A few days’ use of your Belt
did me more good than all
the medicines I ever took ;
in fact, medicine was of no
use whatever. Electricity
is the remedy for me.
Yours truly,
I Stephen Davies.
Address— PiE C ■ ELECTRIC CO., 206 Post St.,
San Francisco ; 1145 Broadway, New York, U.S.A. ;or
W H. SOUL & CO., 160 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
THE COLONIAL MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE COMPANY,
ULIIMIITJEID.
TWENTY-THIRD ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
Presented to the Shareholders at a meeting of the Company held at No. 60
Market-street, Melbourne, on Wednesday, 20th November, 1901, at
12 o’clock noon.
r THE Directors have much pleasure in presenting to the Shareholders the Revenue Account and Balance-sheet for
the year which ended on 30th September last.
The business of the Company for the period embraced in the accounts now submitted has been of a most satisfac-
tory character, and has established a record in its history.
The Balance at the credit of the Revenue Account is .. £30,035 10 3
which has been applied as follows :
To Reserve Fund (making £50,000) .. £12,500 0 0
~ Capital Account (making £50,000) 12,500 0 0
„ Dividend of 8 per cent, per annum 4,000 0 0
„ be carried forward 1,035 10 3
£30,035 10 3
The Directors have deemed it advisable to take advantage of the favorable result of the v-ar’s operations to
increase the Capital of the Company by £12,500 in order that the security afforded to Policyholders may be further
strengthened, and the necessary steps have been taken in terms of the Articles of Association to effect that object.
The Capital paid up will, therefore, now stand at £50,000.
By the addition of a like amount of £12,500 which has been placed to the credit of the Reserve Fund, the total
amount of that fund will also stand at £50,000.
It will be observed on reference to the Balance-sheet that during the year the liquid assets of the Company have
been increased by further additions to the amounts invested in Government and Municipal Debentures and on Fixed
Deposit.
The Directors take this opportunity of congratulating the Shareholders on the sound position of the Company.
The retiring Directors—the Hon. J. F. Levien, M.L.A., and Mr. W. Essington King—were re-elected. The
retiring auditors, Messrs. Thos. Brentnall and W. M. Hyndman, were also re-elected.
By order of the Board, WM. L. JACK, Manager.
Melbourne, 9th November, 1901.
REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT
For Year Ending 30th September, 1901.
Premiums .. £135,504 5 8
Interest, Fees, &c 2,810 9 0
Balance from last year .. ... .. 2,247 0 2
£140,561 14 10
Reinsurances and Returns .. .. £20,634 6 8
Losses (paid and outstanding) .. .. 52,789 16 5
Brokerage and Commission .. .. 16,493 3 2
Expenses of Management—
Including Charges, Stationery, Advertis-
ing, Rent, Salaries of Principal Office,
Brandies, and Agencies .. .. .. 16,541 10 1
Fire Brigade, Stamp Duties, License Fee,
and Underwriters’ Association .. .. 2,555 3 6
Directors’ and Auditors’ Fees (all offices) 1,251 11 8
Furniture, Fittings, and Stationery,
written off 260 13 1
Balance 30,035 10 3
£140,561 14 10
BALANCE SHEET.
Dr.
LIABILITIES.
Authorised Capital—2so,ooo shares at £1
each £250,000 0 0
Subscribed Capital—
-100,000 Shares at £1
each .. ... .. £lOO,OOO 0 0
Less Uncalled Capi-
tal 62,500 0 0
£37,500 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. .. 37,500 0 0
Amount owing by (he Company on open
accounts and reserve for unadjusted
losses .. .. .. .. .. .. 8,647 11 5
Unclaimed Dividends 112 1 4
Balance from Reserve Account .. .. 30,035 10 3
£113,795 3 0
Contingent Liabilities: Amount of all Policies now in
force.
Cr.
ASSETS.
Government and Municipal Securities (at
cost) £37,500 0 0
Fixed Deposits 60,000 0 0
Cash in hand and at Bankers .. .. 6,565 12 2
Heal Estate (book value) .. .. .. 5,089 12 11
Branch and Agency Balances .. .. 6,249 18 2
Investing Shares in Building Societies .. 2,104 4 3
Bills Receivable .. .. .. .. 255 12 6
Debts Due to the Company other than
as abovementioned 5,248 3 8
Furniture, Fittings, and
Stationery .. ~ £1,042 12 5
Less written off .. .. 260 13 1
7Bl 19 4
£113,795 3 0
AUDITORS’ CERTIFICATE AND REPORT.
We hereby certify that we have audited the accounts of THE COLONIAL MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE COM-
PANY, LIMITED, for the year ending- 30th September, 1901, and that the above Balance-sheet is, in our opinion,
correct. The balances at the Branches have been taken on the last Certificates of the respective Resident Secretaries.
We also report that during such audit we have not observed or become acquainted with any breach of the Companies
Acts committed by the Company, or any Director, Manager, Auditor, or Shareholder thereof, and that, so
far as we are in a position to form an opinion, the Balance-sheet and Accounts have been drawn up in accordance
with the provisions of the Companies Acts, and present a correct view of the state of the Company’s affairs, and that
all our requisitions, as auditors, in respect to the above, as well as the private Balance-sheet, have been duly com-
plied with.
THOS. BRENTNALL, F.I.A.V. \ AudUors
Dated this 9th day of November, 1901. W. M. HYNDMAN, F.S.A.A., Eng./ Auaitors -
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH—7B PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
Mr. WM. TROTTER (Paterson, Laing, and Bruce, Limited), Chairman Local Board.
S. HAGUE SMITH, Secretary.
< * ,
300 K.W. Three-phase Generator
GANZ&Go
DYNAMOS, MOTORS.
EVERYTHING ELECTRIC.
Expert Advice Free.
Sole Agents for Australasia.:
The Austral Otis Engineering Go. Ltd.
SOUTH MELBOURNE.
Absolutely Unique in Quality..
<W& Express
CIGARETTES
(Virginia Grade)
No. 555
No. 999
Of Most High-Class Tobacconists and Stores.
If unobtainable locally, write to
M. RUTTY & Co., 68 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO., 44 Worship Street, London, England. [s—ll—23]
Medical.
RHEUMALGIA
rphe new cure for Rheumatism, Lumbago, Gout, Sciatica,
Neuralgia, and similar ailments
IS
a lotion compounded from herbs
PURELY AUSTRALIAN.
3S. 6d. POST FREE.
Rheum algia Remedy Co., Bathurst,
Wholesale depot for N.S.W. and Q.
DRUNKENNESS
or the Liquor Habit, Inebriacy, and Alcoholism in any
form) CURED BY EUCRASY. Can be given secretly or
otherwise. Placed in a cup of tea, coffee, or in food, its
presence cannot be noticed. WARRANTED PER-
FECTLY HARMLESS and easy to administer. It oper-
ates so quietly and with such certainty that the patient
undergoes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware his com-
plete reform is effected. An overdose is harmless, and it
does not impair or injure the health in any way.
DRUNKENNESS IS A DISEASE, and EUCRASY is a
safe, sure, and speedy Antidote. Write for book of par-
ticulars and testimonials from living witnesses—sent post
free (sealed) to any address, 2 stamps.
THE EUCRASY CO.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Cures
Baldness
Prevents Hair Falling Out, Removes Dandruff,
Stops Itching, and Restores Luxuriant
Growth to Shining Scalps, Eye-
brows and Eyelashes.
A TRIAL PACKAGE FREE,
df
MLLE. RIVA,
The Famous French
Contralto.
GEO. N. THATCHER,
Covington Ky., U.S.A.
Prominent Ry. Official.
The above cuts plainly show for themselves what the
remedy will do.
It has cured thousands, and no one need fear that it is
harmful. We do not ask you to take our word for it or
any one else’s. Send for the free trial package and learn
for yourself just what this wonderful remedy actually
does.
The remedy also cures itching and dandruff, sure signs
of approaching baldness, and keeps the scalp healthy
and vigorous. It also restores gray hair to natural color,
and produces thick and lustrous eyebrows and eyelashes.
By sending your name and address to the Altenheim
Medical Dispensary, 4360 Butterfield Building, Cincinnati,
Ohio, U.S.A., enclosing a Id. stamp to cover postage,
they will mail you postpaid a free trial package of their
remarkable remedy.
Remember a letter to America requires 2£d. postage.
Write your name very plain and be sure to give your full
address so there can be no mistake in delivery.
CURES
GOITRE.
Remarkable Discovery that
Cures this Dangerous and Dis-
figuring Disease Without Pain,
Operation or Inconvenience.
TRIAL PACKAGE SENT FREE.
Dr. John P. Haig, a well-known Cincinnati physician
has had marvellous success with a remedy that cures
Goitre or Thick Neck ; and owing to the fact that most
t
Mrs. Lillian Brown, who was entirely cured of Goitre
after suffering for 22 years.
sufferers believe Goitre is incurable Dr. Haig sends a
free trial package of his discovery so. that patients may
try and know positively that Goitre can be cured at home
without pain, danger, operation or any inconvenience.
Send your name and address to Dr. John P. Haig, 2562
Glenn Building, Cincinnati, Ohio, U.S.A. and he will
forward the trial package post-paid. Do not fail to get
this wonderful remedy.
In Rio Janiero, Brazil, S.A. 60,000 patients in that
infected district were cured with this same remedy, and
wherever used its success has been marvellous.
Remember a letter to America requires 2Jd. postage.
Write your name very plain and be sure to give your full
address so there can be no mistake in delivery.
TAEAR SIR, —I have been cured of Weakness and De
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBERT
E. PARKHURST, Pitt-street, Sydney.


Banking. Public Companies, &e.
Upon - all - Classes -
Sppnrify M
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
gdf
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3vr_s,'W'.
moat deplete D.«I.C°-,[^-
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
*74. CASTIEREAGH ST. f *7A.
SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
_____
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Robbrts,
C.M.G., M.L.0. ; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Millkr.
Accumulated Funds, £2,491,989.
Policies issued 85,372 —assuring' £26,085,340.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,576,850.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eouitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE*
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Pe Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp& Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250 900 ... £350,000
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, ap iy to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 62 Market-street, Melbourne.
Qeui Zealand Insurance go.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Laryest Colonial Company.
J. A. MINNETT,
Manager.
81 Pitt St., Sydney.
Tb* TrGst€€s, €*€cGtorS,
AND
Cori)paoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £160,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) ... ... ... £BB5B 7 3
Amount; at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1901 ... J. 6,388,976 5 3
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. : (
C. M. Otfie&r, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.O.
JAMES BORROVVMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Royal Bank of Queensland
LIMITED. J
CAPITAL PAID-UP £385,187
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 245,119
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 55,000 i
£685,306
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day.. Ass. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors—Sydney : Sir W. M'Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks.
Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq. Wellington : H.
Beauchamp, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montefiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
* 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Established 1879.
THE ~
United Australian mutual fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices :
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital .. £500,000
Subscribed Capital .. 251,260
Paid-up Capital .. 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance.
AGENTS REQUIRED WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
Alfred Webster, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £BOOO, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Shipping.
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South A ustralian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Sat-.., Dec. 14, 12 Noon.
Buninyong, Tues., Dec. 17, 5 p.in.
Lenra, Saturday, Dec. 21, 12 Noon.
Adelaide
wallaroo
pout pirik
POUT AUGUSTA
Steamer Early
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Steamer Earlj
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Tyrian, Saturday, Dec. 14,12 Noon.
Konoowarra, Tues., Dec. 17, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., Dec. 21, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian, Saturday, Dec. 14, 12 Noon.
Peregrine, Sat., Dec. 21, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT / I
GERALDTON l
CAIRNS. &c. (
Lass o’ Govvrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargro
booked through.
Lowest. Current Fares anil Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Go., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL. CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
All the above have splendid accommodation, and wil
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-elass passengers carried.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY
Huddart, parker $ |}o’B [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, MORA KT,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Cu’-rent Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
-A. 3XT D
&
A
LI3XT E
via
San Francisco,
California.
BPLENDID NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS,
SIERRA
SONOMA
VENTURA
Over 6000 Tons each.
8000 H.P.
Length, 425 feet,
Passengers booked through to American, Canadian and
European centres at current rates.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
THE “ALL RED” MAIL ROUTE
TO LONDON.
THE ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
OF THE
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
Under contract with the Governments of New South
Wales, Queensland, and Canada, leave Sydney every
four weeks as under, for
BRISBANE, HONOLULU, VICTORIA and VANCOUVER.
Connecting- at Vancouver with the
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
This is the Imperial Route Home, as well as the most at-
tractive. It avoids alike the heat of the Red Sea and the
cold of Cape Horn. The railroad journey between the
Pacific and Atlantic Oceans IVancouver to Montreal)
occupies about 4 days, and is made
WITHOUT CHANGE OF CARRIAGES,
through the grandest scenery in the world—over the
Selkirk and Rocky Mountains, across the Prairies, and
along the North Shore of Lake Superior.
Passengers have the choice of a number of overland
routes, enabling them to visit the principal cities of
Canada and the United States.
For Railway Maps, Guide Books, and all other informa-
tion, apply to
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, G-eorg-e Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500^000
Total Capital .. .. £2,500,000
Musical Instruments, &c.
Melbourne
Jhe best House for
music.Pianos.Vwlins ami
all musical sundries
Collins 51..
Cheapest House in Australia
™?. EDISON
PHOnOGRfIPHS and RECORDS
REEVES & CO.
KINO WILLIAM STREET, ADELAIDE.
“BIJOU,” with 6 Records £1 17 6
EDISON “ STANDARD,” with 24 Records .. 5 IO O
EDISON “ HOME,” with 30 Records.. .. 8 IO O
COMBINATION A 1 “ GRAND,” taking both
Large and Small Records, with 12 Records,
6 Concert (siin.) Records, and Large Horn IO 10 O
EDISON RECORDS, English and American, 20/- perdoz.
CONCERT (s±in.) RECORDS .. .. 60/-
Send for Catalogues containing 5000 Selections to
choose from. Illustrated Catalogues of Electric Fans
(complete with Battery, £5), Electric Bike Lamps, Flash-
Lights, Scarf-Pin Lights, Vapour Bath Cabinets, etc
Free. ’’
Records can be posted to any address, postage 1/6 per
dozen. Machines carefully packed and forwarded to anv
part of Australasia. J
TIME TABLE
THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
gdf
]\r. D. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Opinion, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
G.M.S.
Commander.
s y dne .v) jaide
1 P'“- I 2p,n
Dec. 28 Jan.
Jan. 18 Jan.
Feb. 8 Feb
Mar. 1 Mar.
Mar. 22 Mar.
29 |
Apr. 12 Apr.
May 3lMav
- !
*P- LUITPOLD 6288 Oesselmann
’FRIEDRICH d. G. 10568 M. Eichel
*G. KURFURST . 13182 Iteiinkasten
’BREMER .. 11500 R. Nierich
’BARBAROSSA 10769 F. Mentz
’KONIGIN LUISE 10568 O. Volger
*P. R. LUITPOLD 6288|Oesselmann
’Twin screw.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
REGULAR SERVICE to SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN NEW
GUINEA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. NUEN TUNG, 1341 Tons,
LEAVING SYDNEY ON 24th DECEMBER.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
Publications.
NOW READY at Turner & Henderson, SYDNEY.
Toilet & Troubles of the Skin & Hair
by Dr. ALFRED NEALE ; new edition, post Is Id.
TRICHOLOGY, a Study of the Hair, post 7d.
THE BALLET GIRL
g
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Smd stamp for Illustrated Lists of Looks and Novelties.
Madame Panza,_^
BOX 913, G-P.0., SYDNEY.
foreign stamps
fdg
WESTERN'
ĝ
'AUSTRALIA’
uaaaHMa!
rtHEAP SETS.- 40 Japan, Is 6d ;
47 Spam, 2s ; 10 Bulgaria, 6d •
16 Heligoland, Is : 8 Egypt, 6d ; 30
French, 9d ; 12 Indian Telegraghs
6d ; 9 Labuan Pictorial, 2s 6d • n
Canada, 6d; 9 Canada Duty, 6d • 5
Boh via,4d. Packets 50, }s; 100,2 s 6d
Stamps Purchased. New Catalogue
of Stamps, Albums, etc., Gratis.
CHARLES DOMNE, 346 Little Collins-st., Melbourne.
WHEN WINDS AWAKE
JUST OUT. Pi ice, 2/6 ; post free, 2/8.
VERSES by W. M. WHITNEY, with Five Full-page
/ Illustrations by D. H. Souter. The verses have a
true native ring and display graceful vigor of fancy The
book is daintily printed and artistically bound.
WILLIAM BROOKS & COMPANY, Limited
SYDNEY.
cb
Rider Agents wanted
throughout Australia,
one in each town to ride and
exhibit 1902 Model Cycle.
Finest Grades, £2 5s to £4
10s, carriage paid.
I Models £i 5s to £2los.
Great Clearing Sale at
HALF factory cost.
E ™- ry u Mac 11De full y guaranteed
. w e have a wonderfully liberal
proposition for good Rider Agents.
Write at once for our bargain
Special Offer using
254 d stamp or id postcard.
1 ADDRESS dept. 1 52- C
Mead Cycle Co., Chicago, U.S.A.
Shipping,
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Warrego,
Friday, December 13.
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday,
December 21.
(Without Transhipment).
BRISBANE
MACKAY
Townsville
And Ports North to Oairns
S.S. Rockton, Friday, Deo. 13
S.S. Adelaide,
(Captain D. P. Davies),
Saturday, Dec. 14.
Pest and Cheapest Itoate to Goldfields,
f. ,f , f Uo ° n tickets are interchangeable after the
nrst Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and Howard Smith Co.,
. * i 1 * Adelaide and YV.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A. U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
aitions to be ascertained on application.
G. s. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. IN. Cov. Ltd.
royal mail coastal service.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
mi nniTDK-t. eir Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Maekay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS —Weekly
and ROCKHAMPTON-Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Urii
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
sivnw™’ NEVV CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
A N*> MELBOURNE, Weekly. *
SYDNEY ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
rortnightly.
Passenger Aceominodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
g i'a efe are interchangeable after the
ofthim a Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
sul.brf A t d n Sc 8 ' Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
For J AHaI conditions to be ascertained on application.
AhJn Ad ® la,de and VV. Australia all tickets are inter-
ch S“ e Adelaide S.S. Co. only,
strept q v ft . an< * 00 ’ Ctd., Agents, In Bridge-
Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
P f AND o. COMPANY’S
" ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOE MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIItIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
lU,;n°T- he |“ b J° lned dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line'Steamersi have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY
Steamer.
Commander,
AUSTRALIA 16901 F. J. Cole
' • 6527 F 0. A. Lyon, R.N.R.
ROME .. 5545iE. Street .
HIMALAYA 6898 W. L. Broun, R.N.R
CHINA ... 7912 T. S. Angus
Syd n y,
Noil
'Dec.
/Dec.
. Jan.
Jan.
. Feb.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON-Single, £3B 10s to £l7
n . . /T ,. Return, .£7llos to£l2l
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific, and
Messageries Maritimes Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
_G3JMt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows • -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIEU DE THUY, Principal Agent.
E. AND A.” LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer. |Tns Commander. ILeave Sydney.
GUTHRIE . J 250 W. G. M'Arthur .. January 4
EASTERN .. 3600 Winthrop Ellis 25
AIRLIE ... 2500 St. John George.. February 15
AUSTRALIAN .. 3000 P. T. Helms .. March 15
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific and other Steamship
Companies.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.’
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
(l) < |luiraitb,|D < Eaciiarn & (Jo.
PROP. LTD.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS
KALGOOELIE, 4500 tons,
COOLGAEDIE, 3500 tons.
SAIL FORTNIGHTLY between
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
West Australian Ports.
Passenger Accommodation Unsurpassed. Liberal Cuisine.
M‘ILWRAITH, IVPEACHARN AND CO.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany and Fremantle
Sydney Agents—BUßNS, PHILP & CO. Ltd.
GEINTS.
Adpkess, L.P.1., 300 Collins St., Mclbourna
» POLICY FOR THE Now Ready.
Price (id. ;
Posted, Bil.
COMMONW€RLTN.


The Foise
Of a woman in perfect health attracts the eye at
once. Such a woman is all too rarely seen. The
most of women bear s. ars of suffering on their
faces which no smile can hide, and often in their
very carriage betray the ill-health which op-
presses them. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills have
been weighed in the balance and not found
vbvvc
wanting. As a remedy for
female ailments they are
unexcelled. Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills make
weak women strong, and
sick women well, brighten
the dull eye, round out
the hollow cheek, and give
strength. They cure when
other so-called remedies
fail. Thousands testify to
their merit ! “ For many
years I suffered from head-
aches, morning nausea and
biliousness. Tried many
medicines; some would re-
lieve me for a time—that
was all. I saw Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills ad-
vertised and doubtfully
gave them a trial, but my
doubts were soon removed,”
states Mrs. S. Gardiner,
Richmond, Victoria.
“After the first few doses
the nausea fled, and very shortly the headaches
disappeared. Altogether, I used two bottles.
They cured me, and I find they keep
the system splendidly toned.” Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood purifier,
and a positive cure for biliousness, indigestion,
constipation, headaches, sallow complexion,
liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils,
blotches, and female ailments. Sold by chemists
and storekeepers, Is l£d per bottle, or six bottles
6s. 6d. Sole proprietors, The W. H. Comstock
Go., Ltd. (Australasian Depot), 58 Pitt-street,
Sydney. Packed in amber bottles, and the full
name blown thereon.*
“ The Bulletin Story Book,” a solid, well-
printed cloth-bound volume of over 300 pages;
containing many of the best stories and literary
sketches which have appeared in The Bulletin
during 20 years, will be ready on Ist. December.
Price 4s. 6d. ; post-free from Bulletin office.
The Dunlop Tyre Co. intends making a big effort
to get “ Tattersall ” to run a consultation on the Warr-
nambool to Melbourne road race next September. This
race is of great interest to all wheelmen throughout
Australasia, and last year attracted an entry of 140 riders,
67 of whom started, despite wet weather. No doubt one
of George Adams’ big sweeps on this classic road-race
would tend to greatly stimulate road riding, which, after
all’s said, is the backbone of cycling. It is to be hoped
that “ Tattersall ” will give this big Warrnambool to
Melbourne road event a trial, for, in writer’s opinion, a
consultation on this genuine long distance road race
would be a great success, as the tickets would have a
ready sale amongst the hundred thousand odd cyclists in
Australasia.*
Mr. C. J. Pittman, ooachbuilder and wood-
bender, of Morehead-st., Redfern, and Young-st., Water-
loo, has his large factories fitted with every latest appli-
ance, and going as busy as beehives. In the repairing
department, every kind of vehicle can be seen in every
stage of repair. In the manufactory, a first-class staff is
hard at it with the most up-to-date machinery. The
smithy is particularly well-fitted. The wood-bending de-
partment is very interesting ; expert workmen being
engaged in bending timber to all shapes and designs.
Pittman is a name synonymous with first-class work in
the building of vehicles.*
The grape crop in South Australia promises to
be very large this season, and many of the wine-makers
of that state are making large additions to their crushing
plant, and cellar accommodation. Thomas Hardy and
Sons, Ltd., the largest growers (and holders of some
million gallons of wine) are increasing the capacity
of their cellars by about 100,000 gallons. This splendid
firm have lately opened a branch office at Grosvenor-st.,
Sydney, where they are showing samples of their choice
ports, their sweet white wines, and their robust clarets
so long famous throughout Australasia.
A farthing a mile ! That is what you can go to
London for by Dalgety’s White Star line. The Suevic,
the Afric, the Medic, the Runic, and the Persic take you
and all your luggage, and feed you on good tucker all the
way, for a farthing a mile 1 The ships are so big that an
ordinary wave is frightened to hit ’em. Their promenade
decks are immense. In fact, the Suevic’s deck is more
like a forty-acre paddock than anything else ; and you
cannot realise what 12,000 tons mean until you stand on
the Suevic’s bridge when she is at Circular Quay, and
look thence over half Sydney.*
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER ....
G°
REUTER'S
LITTLE
PILLS
FOR THE LIVER .
So
FIRST ALWA.YS
0N HIS RED BIRD BICYCLE
DON WALKER won the Austral Commonwealth Stakes. You can win on a RED BIRD because it is so
easily pedalled. Call and see our latest model, and note our long terms.
Branches in every State. GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Hardy’s Tintara Wines
Absolutely Pure; Fully Matured; 700 Medals, etc.
Adelaide:
CURRIE STREET
Melbourne:
COLLINS STREET
Sydney :
GROSVENOR STREET
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The first test-match is the one which the
Maclarenites should surely win if they are to make any
show in the other four. It finds them at their fittest for
batting purposes, and their freshest in the bowling de-
partment, whilst the Australians are comparatively in the
dark as to the merits of several “ possibles.” Two months
hence the selection of a best Australian XI. would be a
much easier matter than it is this week, though, at time
of writing, there doesn’t appear to be any need for worry-
ing over questions of precedence. A good Australian XI.
ought to do the trick easily.
Early prophecies of heavy scoring by the
Britishers seem to be based solely on their walloping of
Home-made soft stuff this past year or two. The 1899
record of test matches in England doesn’t suggest big
scores for Maclaren’s crowd. Out of 23 men who batted
against Darling’s XI. in the tests of two years ago only
five men averaged more than 40 runs per innings, and
only two of that quintette—Hayward and Lilley—are in
the present English team. Tyldesley and Quaife played
four innings each for an average of less than 15 runs.
Jessop had a couple of tries to do something wonderful,
and the results were 51 and 4. And, seeing that the ban-
tam smiter’s average for last English season was only 36J,
one is at a loss to understand how he ever came to be
boomed.
* * • *
“Slog”: Australia’s team for the first test-
match consists wholly of the ’99 team. This would
seem to indicate that in two years Australian
cricket has not produced a man fit to represent it in a
test match. Yet all the important fixtures of the season
have been won by the new blood. The main reason for
sticking to the old men is alleged by unkind critics to be
the coming tour of the twelfth Australian XI. Individu-
ally Darling, Gregory, Jones and Howell have not earned
their places. Poidevin, in the match against Maclaren’s
team, made (for once out) almost as many as Noble,
Trumper, and Gregory put together. Gregory has failed
altogether, and Stuckey or Hack has better claims than he.
As regards bowling, Howell has taken one wicket for 242
in club cricket, and was practically a failure in the two
big matches. With Clarke unavailable, Saunders (Vic.),
M'Beth (N.S.W.), and Travers (S.A.) have all done better
than Howell or Jones. Although the team as selected
should win easily, it is disheartening for the rising stars
to find themselves ignored. The selection committee
might easily have included at least one bowler and one
batsmen from the junior brigade men:
• • • •
Generally felt among cricket followers that,
after seven or eight were chosen, selectors of the
Australian team for first test match would have trouble
picking the best from many of the same quality available.
Whatever selection was made, heaps of adverse criticism
were expected, but didn’t eventuate. List published in
Monday's papers never brought a kick ; it is—to a man—
the Australian team that went ’Ome in ’99. Fact that
Britishers' strength is mostly in their batting is provided
for with variety in the Australian bowling, and strength
in the fielding. In batting there'll be no tail, for the
weakest—Jones —has proved himself up to making big
compilations when required. So far N.S. W. reps,
opposed to present English team have lost 31 wickets
for 1401 (average 45 T 9) while the visiting side’s figures
are 60 for 1165 (average 19'41). Darling being away from
first-class cricket so long, absence of top-notch form with
Trumble so far, and Noble's leg make cricket cranks
somewhat anxious.
• * • *
English champion bowler Lohmann’s death in
S’Africa, cetat 36, evidences how long consumption may
be held at bay with helpful surroundings—Lohmann
having taken the disease to S’Africa eight years ago. In
May last he piloted a S’African 11 through England. On
three different occasions he visited Australia with an
English team, and earned the reputation of being among
the finest all-round players ever seen.
* • * *
Sydney local grade cricket resumed Saturday.
Batting had a big day out. Sydney against Glebe were
6 down for 351—spite of the fact that three had gone for
15. Quist and Deery (for fourth wicket) accumulated
265. Deery notched 148, and Quist was there all the
afternoon for 168. Playing his first season for Sydney,
Quist has already made two centuries. Waverley com-
piled 350 against Leichhardt-Balmain, of which brothers
S. and O. Gregory contributed 205—Sid 115 (not out) and
Charlie 91. Prior to this, L.-B. hadn’t been beaten,
while Waverley’s list showed one defeat. North Sydney’s
total, opposed to Central Cumberland, was 345, of which
117 came from Iredale’s bat. Bilowell (picked for the
test) shaped badly, getting no wickets for 99 ; thus far
this season he has only captured one for 242.
• * • *
On Saturday Man-o’-War (late Pearson) romped
away with Warwick Farm “Farm” Stakes and Pace
Welter, heavily backed each time. Betting indicated only
the winner and another tried in the last event. Man-o’-
War was bred by recently-deceased jock. Tommy Hales,
who sold him to Messrs. H. E. A. and V. White, a foal at
foot with Corvette. Corvette owes origin to Martini-
Henry and Lady Vivian (imp.) Trainer (Tom Payten) of
Man-’o-War scored another race same day (three out of
five) with Hoop Iron, who gathered in Warwick Farm
Handicap and a big load of bets. Previously, the nearest
Hoop Iron got to winning was two seconds. This time he
showed vastly improved shape and pace and is among the
most promising 4-year-olds in the Loan State. With
(penalties included) 6.12 in Summer, and 6.10 in Tatt’s.
Cups, he looks worth an investment in one or other,
especially as he finished the journey (lrn. 21 f.) full of
going. Hoop Iron is a gelding by Metal from Nurse Girl.
» * • +
The public ought, to bless cup-winner Revenue
and Leslie Macdonald for having burst up the “ Press ”-
created fiction that preliminary gallops in public are
essential to the preparation of a horse for a big race. The
running of “byes” is nowadays exalted into something
like a virtue. Newspaper reporters, being too often
pimps for owners and Ikeys (owner and Ikey are often-
times one and the same robber), are in the habit of
referring to these precious gallops in public by “un-
wanted” ones as “the sharpening-up” process,
whereas it is a mere process of gulling the uninitiated and
deceiving the handicapper, if possible. As far as the
casual punter is concerned, a “ stiff ” favorite is not more
of a fraud than an outsider “ out for an airing.” He loses
his money for certain, whichever of them he may happen
to back. He stakes his coin on a competitor that carries the
owner’s colors, and represents a starting fee and jockey’s
fee, and when these open professions of genuineness are
delusive, the punter is the victim of a swindle. Horse-
reporters have been trying to blind him to the. truth
about “sharpening-up” tactics, but this victory of
Revenue in Melb. Cup ought to be an eye-opener for
every juggins. Revenue has been trained privately: all
his life. Within 2£ years previous to the Melb. Cup he
had made only six appearances in public, and the last o
those six failures happened 12 months ago. He was
brought to Flemington course from his private training
quarters on the morning of the Cup un-“ aired,” and un-
“ sharpened,” but not, O, not unbacked—and he won his
race all the better for not being a frequently beaten
animal.
* * * •
Impression prevalent that Melbourne suburban
race meetings are only a hand-to-mouth game is
apparently wide of the mark. Sec. Ashe, of Mentone
R.C.—giving evidence against Vic. Railway Commission-
ers recently—told that his club’s gross takings at each of
the year’s ten meetings averaged £577, supplying a net
profit, of £225.
* » • *
Interesting that recent winner, Goldfinder, at
Albion Park (Q.) races, was trained by the old-time jock
“ Paddy ” Pigott, now housed at Goodna. Pat landed
two Melb. Cups—one with Haricot, in ’74, and t’other
with Chester, five years later.
* * * *
Wellington Park (M.L'.) stallion St. Leger died
recently. St. Leger, by Doncaster, first saw light in
England, and was brought oht 21 years ago as a foal with
his dam Atlantis, by the Auckland Stud co. Sir Hercules
Robinson selected him. Though he proved a failure as,a
racer he was a big success at the stud, where he began
early. St. Hippo, St. Paul, and Waiuku —three of the
best M.L. has seen—were sired by St. Leger, who also got
St. Crispin, Nestor, Bluejacket, St. Laura, St. Andrew,
Clanranald, Formosan, Cruciform, Nobility, and numerous
others. At N.Z. Stud co.’s dispersal, 10 years since,
Messrs. L. D. Nathan and Thomas Morrin secured him
cheap for 400 gs. He was always heavily insured.
* * * *
Hard luck. At Taieri (M.L.), Nov. 9, race for
Stewards’ Purse was set going 10 minutes before time.
Transport won, with Wild West second. A protest sent
the starters back to the post, and this time positions of
the two named were reversed. They’d treat it differently
in the Commonwealth. Something similar occurred at
the * Oxboro ” years ago, but the kick of the second nag’s
owner had no effect.
• • * *
M.L. top-notch 3yr.-old Menschikoff’s record so
far will take a heap of wiping out. In 18 starts he has
landed the money 14 times, and pulled up second on four
occasions over all distances from 4 furlongs to lj miles.
* • * *
The pioneer of the Sloan jockey style in Maori-
land, L. Hewitt, scored nine wins at the late C.J.C.
meeting.
• • * •
Carbine stock is looking up in England (writes
a Bulletin correspondent). There are but few young
Carbines in training, yet not a week passes but they win
races. Record for week, Oct. I—7 : At Newmarket,
Semper Vigilans (4 years) won the 52nd Triennial Stakes,
and Pistol (2 years) won the Hopeful Stakes. In the
Boscawen Stakes, Fowlingpiece (2 years) was beaten by a
neck by Glass Jug, finishing lengths in front of Royal
Lancer, the second-best two-year-old colt of the season.
At Nottingham, Carabine won Nottingham Handicap of
£5OO, beating a big field of good-’uns. Mannlicher (Car-
bine—Memoir) is preferred by John Porter to his stable-
mate, Pietermaritzburg, for the Cesarewitch, both having
been handicapped at 6.13. As Pietermaritzburg has just
annexed the £lO,OOO Jockey Club’s Stakes, the punting
public thinks it has a good thing in Mannlicher, and has
made the Duke of Portland’s plodder a strong favorite.
A year ago there were no buyers of the young Carbines,
now there are no sellers. And the old horse’s stud-fee
for next season has been doubled.
• • • •
Inter-State glove mill, “Snowy” Sturgeon
against Melbourne mass of tissue, Preston, at Sydney
Gaiety A.O. last week didn’t reach anticipations as a fight,
but clinched previous opinions of Sturgeon’s capabilities.
Weight difference (in Preston’s favor) was every oz. of
2st. —“Snowy" scaled 10.8. Sturgeon opened cyclonic
like, nearly carrying Preston off his feet with a heavy
left jolt on the jaw, and the thing looked done, but
Preston gathered himself up, and, though running in to
some stiff punches, managed occasionally to drive a left
home hard enough to make “ Snowy ” quake, and once
floored him with a jab on the mouth of mule-kick force
that (’twas afterwards said) shifted a couple of teeth.
Sturgeon recuperated well, and was boss of the show ever
afterwards. The second round r had hardly opened When
the fight was over. A left hook on the side of the face
rattled the Melbournite badly, and coming in quickly
with the right somewhere about the same spot on the
opposite side of the phiz “Snowy” won a battle which
wasn’t as easy as it might have looked to some, and which
brought a lot more friends round him.
* * * *
Vanquishing of podgy Preston has set bruiser
“Snowy” Sturgeon talking. He'll fight any 11.4 man—
particularly Yankee Scanlan or Mick Dunn. Snowy’s
“ castor ” has been “shied” in too late; Scanlan has a
handful ahead With “Starlight,” Monday coming; and
M'Coll (again) in January. When Scanlan came here,
Sturgeon kept out of his reach behind a 10.7 limit, and
Armidale piek-and-shovel man . M‘Ooll was the only
N.S.W. bruiser gritty enough to take the unknown on.
Mick Dunn, ’tis said, has fought his last fight. Oribb’s
death shocked him, besides which a badly damaged hand
wouldn’t let him fight if he wanted to. Possibly
Sturgeon may hitch on to the young comer—ex-waterman
Johns—who is willing and clever enough to make a big
showing, if he doesn’t actually win.
* * * *
Australian light-weight champion, Hegarty, has
been in ’Frisco for months, and has not yet been able to
get a match. Booked for one, he broke a small bone a
few days before the date, and since then has vainly tried
to arrange another fight. In private letters Hegarty
says that a pug can do nothing in America without a
manager, and that the managers of the land want all the
profit to themselves.
• * * *
The Jeffries-Ruhlin fight, at ’Frisco, for the
world’s pug supremacy was a perfect farce. Jeffries
weighed 15st., and Rhulin 14.4. The Teuton appeared
thoroughly scared, and simply raced round the ring, pur-
sued by the man with the shaggy head ; but as he ran he
dealt Jeffries heavy blows on the body and gashed his lip.
This went on till the third round, when a whole cyclone of
swipes sent him reeling to his corner. Round five saw the
rag go upamid a storm of hoots, howls, and dreadful curses
from men who paid as high as 2j dollars to see a fight,
and had seen something like a cur dog-walloped.
♦ * * *
News by late Yankee mail is that the famous
colored bruiser, George Godfrey (“ Old Chocolate”), died
recently. Godfrey was the first man to meet and be
beaten by Peter Jackson in America 13 years ago, in
19 rounds of banging heart punches. Godfrey was
always an honest fighter, and scored many brilliant vic-
tories. He had in Boston a family and a home that he
cared more about than anything else, and would get
down to hard work between fights so as to keep want
from the door.
» * * *
Sydney swimmer Reade last week twice clipped
the world’s best for 1000 yards. In a trial—clocked by
N.S.W. Swimming Association’s official timekeeper, W. T.
Kerr aijd other prominent swimmers—Reade put up
13.38 2-5, beating 13.43, the best previously done.
Unfortunately, through being accomplished in a bath
much smallerthan allowed by English conditions,it wasn’t
accepted as a record. Fastest approved, performance before
Reade’s was Jarvis’ 14.10 in 99. At East Sydney swim-
ming meet on Saturday, Reade had another cut, but
finished slower in 13.511-5, through doing first half easier
on the advice of friends, instead of swimming in his own
way. Reade is unquestionably the speediest swimmer
Australia ever saw, and, on time, has something in hand
against champion-of-the-world Joey Nuttall. But Sydney
doesn’t nowadays grow sports of the old brand who took
up Larry Foley, Bill Trickett, Beach and co. So, as Reade
isn’t in a position to go ’Ome on his own, he’ll probably
blaze locally for a while and then drop out, and Australia
will have lost another possible world’s champion.
*;* * *
Reports that Australian and world’s champion
swimmer, Fred. Lane, is done are much short of fact.
Writer saw him propel faster than ever at Sydney Domain
baths, Saturday, and cover the hundred In 60.4-5 —4-'
better than “ Mud ” Bishop’s Australasian record, and
only 3-ssec. slower than Englishman Derbyshire’s world’s
quickest. Lane has never done as well as this before,
and looks like going- better.
y * * *
Old Timer: Recently deceased Hon. George
Thornton was president of N.S.W. Bowing Association
for the past 23 years. Said to have taken to aquatics in
’33, figuring in whale-boat races. He created the “ Aus-
tralian Subscription Rowing Club,” the first of its kind
in Sydney, and did much for old-time scullers and scull-
ing, having financed Dick Green’s trip to England in 1863,
and offered to provide the wherewithal for a return-
match with Chambers.
* * * »
Final of Austral wheel race in Melbourne this
Saturday absorbs as much attention as a big horse
struggle. Heats last Saturday were exciting and bristled
with surprises. Don. Walker fulfilled anticipations horn
of previous racing present season, and shaped brilliantly ;
his return to form recalls what he did years ago,
and is remarkable. When Zimmerman was top of
the Yankee heap, cycling enthusiasts talked of
financing Don to America to take the flier down,
but, before a move was made, Zimmerman came
here, and went under to the Australian, who fairly para-
lysed the crowd with his phenomenal finishing sprint. It
was a revelation to “ Zimmy,” who didn’t think the
world held a man his equal. Walker subsequently
dropped back, and hasn’t shown a glimmer of that
brilliancj- until the last month or two. The biggest set-
back on Saturday last was the defeat of O’Cal-
laghan, who, as‘ second favorite, carried a great
load of coin. J. W. Parsons was another public “ cert.”
that went under. Great old plugger Bilmartin’s showing
proved a huge improvement on what he did the previous
Saturday, and at time of writing it isn’t possible to get
better than threes about his prospects. Bill has a good
solid bit on for himself, too. Only N.S.W. rider to qualify
was R. W. Lewis who, with 70yds., looks well in. Limit
(300yds.) man Scott had last year’s final all his way but
for falling ; he shapes as well as ever, and won his heat
in convincing style. Megson (five miles champ, of the
continent) tips A. 0. Middleton, and Megson ought not
to be a bad judge.
* • • *
“Plugger” : M. Lewis, on the 250yds. mark, is
said to be the “ Revenue ” of this year’s Austral—and he
looks it. Jack Parsons, who had also been put about as a
“ good thing,” didn’t look it, even before he was required
to make a winning effort in his heat, and couldn’t raise the
necessary steam. But Ken Lewis’s brother is a horse of
very different stamina. If Don Walker, or any other, can
give him his handicap a lot of people who ought to know
will be very much surprised.
'*• * ♦
Mark Foy’s Panhard motor-car experiment to
Melbourne Cup and back was successful. Actual running
time (going over) for 588 miles was 38J hours. Only
previous trip of a similar nature was W. J. C. Elliott's
On a Dion tricycle, the running of which occupied
39 hours. Frequent night travelling materially affected
the Panhard’s rate of progression. Coming back, running
averaged 35 miles an hour, with roads, as a rule, ex-
ceedingly bad.
* * * •
World’s champion chops at recent Tas. Axe-
men’s Carnival were exciting and unusually interesting.
Victorian cracks competed, but M.L. representatives
didn’t. Underhand chop (blocks 6ft. 4in. girth), first day,
looked like being a big struggle between Clark (Tas.) and
Blanc (Vic.). Blow for blow sounded, and chip for chip
flew. Thousands looking on were worked to high pitch.
Blanc got the axe fast in the middle of the second scarf,
but Clark, running out of wood, left the finish soft for
his opponent. Blanc’s time was 4.45. and Clark’s 5.38.
Third man (Buckingham) occupied 5.50. Second day saw
t’other champion chop—2ft. blocks this time. Bryan
opened well, and turned his log in 2.2. Blanc was last to
get the first scarf in, taking 2.30. M'Carthy turned at
2.24. Absence of condition told on Bryan at the end of
4min. ;he was then furthest through. M’Carthy and
Blanc kept going in fine form, with the result that Mac.
won in 5.1, with Blanc second (5.7), Bryan third (5.17),
and Buckingham fourth (5.19); Clark didn’t finish.
M’Carthy, by the way, won the Commonwealth Champion-
ship at Hobart, specially got up for the Jook o’ York’s
edification.
* * * •
Maori footballer, Billy War brick, recently
succumbed to consumption at his brother’s home, Bay of
Plenty (M.L.) Billy was ailing long, and lost tissue
rapidly for some time. He owned a capital physique till
lung trouble compelled him to forsake athletics. He had
a lease of Lavender Bay (Sydney) floating-baths for years,
and only returned to M.L. five or six weeks ago. Was
one of the Maori team that went ’Ome a few years since
and did so well. The whole family were splendid speci-
mens of athletic manhood, first-flight Rugby players.
* * • *
Gunn, winner of Yic. Rifle Association’s King’s
prize t’other day, has, during 12 years’ shooting, got
among the first 30 for the Queen’s prize on nine occasions.
He was fourth in that event last year, with an aggregate
of 292—notching seven bull’s-eyes after missing with the
first three. His weapon is a special Fulton Lee-Metford.
* * • *
W. Martin and D. J. Walker on Red Birds got
home at the Austral meet, Saturday. Bill collared the
ten miles’ scratch race, and Don the one mile Blue
Riband. Both riders won their heats in the Austral
Wheel Race.*
The Bulletin’s Christmas number has
been a great success. Copies can still be obtained
from the office at 6d. each, accompanied by the
necessary postage.
Each Australian State is being given, as
vacancies occur, a military Governor —which, of
course, is a part of the Chamberlain plan for
making Australia a good ground for the Imperial
recruiting-sergeant.
Obit., C. H. Cox, M.L.C. A type of the
successful man on the Australian land, with a
passion for everything that grows or grazes. He
sought to represent N.S.W. landed interests in
the first Federal Senate, but failed, though his
enthusiasm for the farmer and his political services
in the State Parliament earned him the support
of many.
Ex-Mayor James Graham, of Sydney, is
being gradually relieved by kind friends of some
of the burdens of office. A while ago he was
Mayor of Sydney, M.P., University lecturer,
president of half a dozen societies, a practising
doctor, and aspirant for a place in a coalition
Ministry. Belmore electors a few months ago
relieved him of his political work ; now Sydney
Municipal Council has elected another Mayor,
Mr. T. J. Hughes. Dr. Graham doesn’t alto-
gether appreciate his friends’ kindness, but he
should. A thin man can’t do too many things at
once. As to Mr. Hughes, he has brains, leisure,
municipal experience, and enthusiasm, is well-
endowed with the world’s goods, and will please
the city with a charming Mayoress.
From Frank Harris’ new London paper,
The Candid Friend :
The whose heart is not very strong, has been
very much worried about it lately. When he wag at
Homburg last year, he drove over one day to Nauheim to
be examined by Dr. Schott, who is one of the greatest
authorities on all cardiac affections. He has been sum-
moned during the last few days to London, as His Majesty
is anxious to have his opinion and advice again.
The Lancet, by the way, denies a recent state-
ment in the Medical Press and Circular “ that
papillomatous growths have on three occasions
been removed from the King’s left vocal cord,
and that an immediate operation of another
nature has since been rendered necessary. _ A
papillomatous growth is a kind of wart, which
may degenerate and become ‘malignant’— i.e.,
cancerous.”
The Christmas annual supplement to the
N.S.W. Charities Gazette and General Intel-
ligencer this year is a well-got-up appeal for
funds to give the 2216 adults and children, who
receive a weekly grant of food from the Bene-
volent Society of N.S.W., something extra for
Christmas dinner. In addition to this little army
there is another of children, destitute old people,
and women who have had to take refuge in the
midwifery section of the Asylum—all absolutely
dependent on the Society for food and shelter.
The Society appeals for even the smallest contri-
butions to help a good work; and everyone should
strive to give at least one small child a real good
time on Xmas Day.


SILVER
SCENT
BOTTLES
XMAS NOVELTIES
. .IN..
SILVER WARE
..AT..
Freetrade Prices.
OR4WM HALF SIM
Silver Hall-Marked
Scent-Bottle, plain
•J ALL SOLID
lU/W SILVER.
OUHMLF SIZE.
Silver Hall-Marked
Scent-Bottle, engraved
■f ty e ALL SOLID
■ w SILVER.
MAW* HALT SIZE,
SILVER
HALL-MARKED
SOENT-BOTTLE,
Plain —
9/6
Engraved —
11/6
ALL
SOLID
SILVER.
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY CO.
187 PITT=ST., SYDNEY
(Next Shadier’s CafS).
BE STEADFAST
DON’T ALLOW ANYONE TO PUT YOU OFF
THE M»SSEY-NARRIS BICYCLE
There 13 no machine which will give you such satisfaction as the “MASSEY.” It is, in faxit, so
well built that it is practically indestructible. The terms are made to suit the buyer sin
WEST AUSTRALIAN DEPOTS: Hay Street, Perth; and Hannan Street, Kalgjoorlie.
BRANCHES throughout N.S.W., Victoria, South Australia, Queensland, Now Zealand.
4=
PIKE BROS.
Brisbane. Townsville. London.
.. . RENOWNED SPECIALITIES .. . ___
SUPERIOR READY TO WEAR
INDIAN TROPICAL CLOTHING.
Exceptionally well cut and highly tailor-finished .
Made to our Special Order and Measurements in India .
FINEST ASSAM SILK A o
COAT and TROUSERS -
COATS—Single, D.-8., and Norfolk shapes. '
INDIAN TWILL FLAX 1 7
COAT and TROUSERS - ■ ■ / W
COATS—Single, D.-8., Norfolk and Patrol shapes.
A Perfect Fit ensured by customers sending Height, Chest, Waist and Inside
Leg Measurements.
BSiT Write for New Illustrated Catalogue (Commonwealth issue) and Samples,
/
\f
/ j
r J
s\.n lay
3tem .j*
Che jIS.W.
fresh food k Jce Co. <£td.
SYDNEY
zxmm
HY endure the scorching heat when
you can obtain grateful relief in our
Ice ? We can supply it delivered at
your nearest Railway Station or
Wharf at reasonable cost. Our Ice
is packed in boxes specially constructed to pre-
vent waste in transit. It is made from distilled
water. Absolutely pure, like all our other goods.
• • Price of Ice, carriage prepaid, furnished
on application.
« « Ask for a copy of our General Catalogue.
THE INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT, LAND AND
BUILDING COMPANY, Ltd.
14 Moore Street, Sydney.
ASSETS..
CAPITAL (Paid-up)
.. £82,953
35,802
LIABILITIES (Exclusive of Capital)
RESERVES and UNDIVIDED PROFITS
.. £22,227
23,677
DnUOTOBfI: WM. MoOOURT, M.L.A. (Chairman); ALEX. CAMPBELL, M.L.A. ; G. DYSON, J.P.;
J. T. LAWLER, J.P. ; D. J. MONK.
Bankers THE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Auditor - - F. E. McLEAN, F.5.1.A., PUBLIC ACCOUNTANT.
Balance-Sheet for the Year ending Oc'iobsr 31st, 1901. Cr .
LIABILITIES.
Subscribed
Capital £57,043 0 0
Capital Paid £35,802 5 3
Capital Suspense Account .. 2,309 18 1
Reserve Fund 12,500 0 0
Dividend Equalisation Account 3,500 0 0
£54,112 3 4
Deposits with accrued Interest 12,271 8 2
Sundry Creditors .. .. 3,424 4 6
Bank of New South Wales .. 6,631 2 5
22,226 15 0
Balance Profit .. „ . . .. 6,614 12 2
£82,953 10 6
ASSETS.
Freehold Properties £29,220 6 10
Borrowers’ and Purchasers’ Balances (after
deducting Suspense Account) .. .. 53,515 18 10
Office Furniture and Goods on hand .. 190 8 2
Cash in hand .. . 26 16 8
£82,953 10 6
LOANS Granted on Approved Securities, Repayable by Instalments.
DEPOSITS for Ito 3 Years Received at Current Rates. Latest Balance-Sheet and full information on
application at the Company’s Offices, 14 Moore-street, Sydney.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
SILVER
IT
TOILET . . .
REQUISITES.
STILL AT FREETRADB PRICES.
We have not altered our Prices.
vb
Chased Sterling Silver MANICURE
SET, in Morocco Case, 25/-
SILVER-BACK HAIR-BRUSH, Hand-drawn Bristles,
from 15/6.
FIRST
SECOND
THIRD
FOURTH
FIFTH
Too busy.
Don’t want to.
Pays better not to.
Makes new customers.
New customers remain.
Increased buyers mean Increased sales—increased
sales mean success.
PLAIN FIGURES,
LONDON PRICEB,
BTRIOTLY CASH.
FAIRFAX « ROBERTS,
Vice-Regal Jewellers, 23 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
Of 137 men who went to S’Africa in the
Second Contingent of Australian Bushmen, only
eight are left fighting, (18 having been dolled, and
the rest invalided home. This disastrous state of
affairs is attributed in some quarters to the
“abuse” of our soldiers as scouts for British
regiments. A heavy price to pay for a little glory.
“Mr. McCulloch, Victorian Minister for
Public Works, suggests that the Commonwealth
should immediately offer 5000 more men for ser-
vice in South Africa.” The Bulletin suggests
that the Commonwealth should offer—M'Culloch.
M'Culloch can be very well spared. We can do
without M‘Culloch. If the ardent M'Culloch will
only go and lay his bones on the African veldt
The Bulletin promises him precisely the same
reward as the others get— i.e., a week’s cheap
sympathy from the M'Cullochs who stay warm at
home and shi’iek “loyalty ” to the Other Fellow —
and then oblivion. By all accounts of the
war it is plain that the Australians have
been used shamefully. Instead of being or-
ganised into a battalion, they have been
split up into detachments to scout for English
regiments—served and cockered at the expense of
the “colonials.” To the Australians has
fallen all the meanest, most miserable
work—they have been used as scullions
to the array ; and bumptious English brigadiers
have rubbed in their ignominy by calling them
“ white-livered bastards.” For protesting against
suchtreatmentsomemen were court-martialledand
sentenced to death; the sentence was commuted to
penal servitude ; and it needed the intervention
of King Edward himself to secure their release.
The Bulletin wants the opinion of those men
about sending Australians to this farm-burning,
children-slaughtering war. But, in the meantime,
by all means send a contingent—a contingent
of M'Cullochs. Send all the Fat Men, who
have no objection to seeing others doing dirty
work while they sit at home in safety and
ease. Send all the “ loyalty’’-prating poli-
ticians. Send all the “ loyalty ’’-shrieking
journalists. Send the wealthy subscribers of
hundreds and thousands—who risk money of
which they have plenty, but will not risk a shred
of their blessed skins. Let’s see the Fat Men’s
Contingent go to Africa. Let’s see Boodle
scouting on one biscuit a day, and shivering under
one blanket at night. Let’s keep our bone and
muscle at home, where we badly need it. But
cheers, loud and lusty cheers, for the Fat Men’s
Cohentingent !
“Piles and Their Cure.”—The pamphlet
by Albert Sharp, entitled “Piles and the Way to
Cure Them,” without operation, sent free, on
application to the Sydney Depot, 257 G-eorge-
street.*
FOR. the person who is not a millionaire, tnere »
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY At
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“El is’King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
“ SHARPSHOOTING-
For Sport and War”
b
By TF. W. GREENER.
Hits the Mirk!
1/- NETT.
If you wish to know how to guard the
Empire—if you are one of those who will
rally round the old flag—read this book.
It teaches all about Rifles and Rifle
Shooting, how to aim and make allowance,
&c., and it contains chapters on Ranges
and Rifle Clubs, with a history of the part
played by the Armed Civilian in the past.
The Best Shilling’s Worth ex er Published,!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations for 1/- nett.
Of all Booksellers, or C. W. Buckland, Agent
for W. W. Greener, 317 Collins St., MELB.
Jl
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath, invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
] ifl
Perseverance : 10,743 tons for 14,1470 z., the
record production for a month, and a div. of 10s.,
amounting to £87,500, declared. The mine paid no
other div. this year and none at all last, but turned
out a little div. of Is. in ’99, none at all in ’9B, and
one of 4s. in ’97. Since the machinery started in
August last year it has cleared off a debt of about
£lOO,OOO incurred in building the largest sulphide plant of
the field, The mine, the writer is credibly informed, is
looking remarkably well in the upper levels, i.e., above
the 400 ft. ; the 500 ft. level to date has been disappointing,
and the 600 and 700 ft. no better. Development is being
pushed ahead, but if the lower levels continue poor, and
there is not much encouragement in this direction in the
adjoining mine (Lake View) the Perseverance will not
pay many 10s. divs. before it is worked out. Without
any payable ore so far revealed in its lowest levels, the
Perseverance has to-day a market value equal to the
Great Boulder, which has no poor or barren levels, and is
opening up at 1200 ft. one of the best levels in the mine.
* * * •
Lake View Consols: 10,104 tons, 14,4120 z.
About the usual average, and good enough if it can be
maintained, but of this there is much doubt. Many
months ago it was here printed that to largely increase
the gold output by increasing the plant was next to im-
possible, and that the move was unwarranted,
anyhow. Sometime afterwards consulting engineer
Mackinnon warned the directors in London that
this was the true position ; but manager
Hartman said the proposed increase was “ quite
justified,” and asked for an independent examination
of the mine. The names of Hewitson and Hamilton,
of the Associated and Great Boulder respectively, were
suggested, and the former seems to have undertaken the
task which he expects to complete, it is said, next week.
“ It is evident that his examination of the property will
only be a cursory one and he will have to depend in a
great measure uuon the mines assay-books for his values.
Nevertheless if the directors are to decide between the
very diverse statements of Hartman and Mackinnon as to
the mine’s ore reserves, a thorough sampling of the differ-
ent levels is absolutely necessary.” Meanwhile, the public
has decided whom to follow. Mackinnon, without a
doubt. When writer made the statement, some months
ago, the shares were standing at £9, and within a few
days of Mackinnon’s declaration leaking out they fell to
£7; and they have been down to £5 10s. No doubt in
anticipation of a 10s. div. before the end of the year,
they are now standing at £6, but' even that depreciation
amounts to three-quarters of .a,million ; and, as this has
taken place in the face of an unaltered monthly output of
14,000 odd oz., the inference is very clear.
» * ■» *
W.A. mines in Switzerland : A native of that
country sends along a copy of a Swiss paper in which
Chaffers, Mt. Wagahong and Paringa shares are exten-
sively advertised for sale, and the marvellous prospects
and potentialities of each set forth in eloquent language.
Our correspondent wants to know if they are good
enough for a very near relative to buy. The Bulletin
unhesitatingly replies No. The prices wanted for these
shares in Switzerland were double what they can be bought
at to-day, so those who were caught by this means of
selling worthless paper have already lost half their
money, and have a good chance of losing it all.
m m m •
Great Boulder South: “Judging by surface
improvements which are taking place the management
has great faith in the future of the mine.” Same remark
may be applied to about 50 other co.’s which have for
years past been trying to find gold outside the defined
payable gold-bearing area of Kalgoorlie. They all started
with great faith in the future and have spent in the
aggregate certainly more than a million of money only to
establish a very ugly past. This mine has only its name
to recommend it, and as there are several mines between
it and the Great Boulder, and it is about half-a-mile away
from that mine, even the name is a lie.
• • . • *
The Argent (Zeehan) with £9OOO, and Hercules,
with £5OOO output for Nov. are the chief gleams of hope
amid the gloom that now envelopes the ancient glory of
the Silver West. A new and apparently important find
(Dec. 4) is reported at the Argent.
* * * *
The Tasmania’s monotonous monthly tale once
again : Crushed 2400 tons for 30520 z. ; value, £11,471.
Div., a shilling—the mine’s 189th distribution. New
Golden Gate, 1550 tons, 850 oz.
.- * • *
Tasmania’s Nov. exports of minerals reached
£184,168, an increase of £61,577 over same month last
year. Total for the 11 months of the year, £1,623,143, an
increase of £182,727 over first 11 months of 1900.
Mt. Lvell : Net profit earned last half-year,
£125,000 ; £lO,OOO added to reserve, which now stands at
£50,000, invested in Govt, debentures and in fixed
deposit. A 2s. 6d. div. declared, also Is. 6d. bonus per
share. Why this? Why not say 4s. at once and be done
with it? Anyhow, it makes 10s. 6d. for the year, and if
there was any hope of this being continued for any length
of time, Mt. Lyells would be a magnificent investment at
£3 155., the present price. Chairman Bowes Kelly
told shareholders that there had been a fall of £3
per ton in copper, and that standard brands were
then only worth £62 10s. per ton, but that the
sudden fall was attributed to speculative dealings
of market operators. No doubt the meeting went
away satisfied that copper would soon be at £7O again.
Alas! since that meeting, held but a fortnight ago, other
falls have taken place, and at time of writing copper was
down to £55 per ton, and the quotation for three months
was no higher. A fall of £2 7s. 6d. in a day, over £7
since the time of that meeting, and more than £2O lower
than copper was for some time last year. The situation
is getting mighty serious, although no allusion is made to
it by any of the Australian dailies, and the fact that Mt.
Lyell shares still stand at £3 15s. makes writer wonder
whether it is the div. that kept them steady, or
if the fall has been brought about by the Ameri-
can syndicate to force other copper co.’s into the
“ combine.” Private cables have been received
to the latter effect. Anyhow, it is the biggest fall
that has taken place for years, and it looks as if the
syndicate, big as it is, is not strong enough to keep up
the price of the metal. If copper goes to £5O and stays
there Mt. Lyell cannot be worked to pay, and this can be
said of nearly every copper-mine in Australia, the most
notable exception being Great Cobar.
* * * »
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemist 9.
* * * *
The Sabbath tipster : “The rise in copper has
helped to strengthen Mt. Lyell, which are worth, say,
755.” Ye gods ! and this in face of a drop of £5 in cop-
per in a few days, £lO in a few weeks, and £2O in a few
months!
* • * *
Waihi, M.L. : Last month’s return a record,
within the shadow of £40,000, or a total of £385,000 for
the 12 months—bringing the grand total got from the
mine up to £1,905,000. Shares steadily rising the last
two months. They went to over £lO last year, after
which the share capital was increased. They are now
about £6 10s., and it is not unlikely that they will go tc
£lO. when another issue of shares will probably be made.
• * * »
N.S.W. Public Service Association, having
lost all hope that Parliament will do anything definite
re the insolvent Civil Service Superannuation Fund,
has drafted a little Bill of its own. The Associa-
tion’s solution of the difficulty is the same old Borrow.
Treasury bills are to be “ floated ” (apparently given tc
the Service) for the amount involved, bearing 3 per cent,
interest. Being an easily-negotiable security, the impe-
cunious civil servant can pass on the bills for cash, at, if
necessary, a small discount. The Service argues that
another million or two to the public de t of £75,000,000
won’t matter much, and that the 3 per cent, interest is
already accumulating on the full amount of the Super-
annuation Fund. The idea should he adopted if only to
give a beautiful completeness to the N.S.W. system of
borrowing b.v having the State’s Treasury bills palmed off,
at a discount, on a sniffing and suspicious landlady for
Chawley’s board bill.
* • » *
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buciiu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.


A financier is a pawnbroker with imagi-
nation. —Pinero.
England . . . the land of lean women
and smug men . . . the suburb of the Universe ”
—Pinero.
Writes a London correspondent :
The London police .deserve credit for their parental
management of the local “ anarchists.” At their precious
‘demonstrations” there is not even an arrest of the
ringleaders ” of these bogus ruffians. The men in blue
treat them as mere bank-holiday “ disorderlies,” and give
the order to “ Be off with you ” in a cheerful, muscular
manner. The life of a professional anarchist in London
is not without its pleasures as longas he can find a secret
silly association to supply an income of £2 or £3 a week.'
He just walks around in a slouch hat and an old brown
velveteen coat, and drops mysteriously into a ch»ap
Italian restaurant for his meals. Lingers long over his
meals, and plays dominoes with other members of other
brotherhoods. Is sometimes, but not often, accompanied
by one or two mild, well-to-do looking men of the
Juggins type ; and on these occasions he has the manner
of a conspirator developed to the fullest extent, and sits
£ with his ears pricked, as though expecting the news of
Somebody’s assassination to arrive at any moment. The
Jugginses are presumably contributors to the secret fund
for wrecking the universe.
Now, all you jolly bush boys !—“ The
Bulletin Reciter ” will be ready on Ist. December,
with a lot of the best recitation-verse that ever
appeared in The Bulletin; and a frontispiece
by “ Hop ” showing the Gray "Roo Reciter on his
bush platform—besides other pictures. Price, 5s ;
post-free from Bulletin office.
The New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency
Co., Limited, report : —Wheat--At the near approach of
the season much interest is naturally evinced now that a
record harvest is assured chiefly in regard to the basis of
values likely to rule. The general opinion is that 2s. 3d.
to 2s. 3&d. will be the millers' opening rates, but these
prices are somewhat disappointing to the growers and
probably large stocks will be held both in the country
and metropolitan warehouses in hopes of higher values
being obtainable later on.*
Tuberculosis.— Mr. A. R. Beck, Easfc-st.,
Brompton, Adelaide, writes to The Bulletin :
“ Re your article (28/9/’01) from British Medical
Journal about the open air treatment for consump-
tion. It does seem a farce to theaverage intelligence
when doctors have come so completely down, from
former drugging processes, as to assert that nothing
is required but fresh air, and expect to be paid for
telling that. Where tuberculosis shows itself in
other forms besides lung trouble, nobody would be
foolish enough to believe that fresh air alone could
cure; why should it be able to cure the disease in the
lungs with a much better chance than in other parts
of the body? Surely a specific is required to cure
such forms of tuberculosis, and such a specific would
thus be a great thing for lung trouble also. Mr.
Beck further states that he himself was cured by a
specific for tuberculosis of both lungs, together with
fistula in anus, and says that he is willing to give any
information wished for, and subject himself to any
medical examination in the interest of humanity. *
V
ms
# I do not aßk you to spend
Money to teat whether my
remedy does or does not oure
Fite, Epilepsy, St. Yltus’
Dance, etc. All I ask of you
is to SEND for a FREE
Bottle and to try it I abide
by the result. A safe remedy—
approved by the Medical
Profession.
H. G. ROOT, 28,Endsleigh
Gardens, London, N.W.
The Secret Service would be a gainer by
including such men as J. W. Holdsworth, of 101
Swanston-street, Melbourne. At tracing missing
friends, next-of-kin, &c., and conducting private
inquiries of an intricate and delicate nature,
J.W.H. (the Australian “Sherlock Holmes”)
has no equal.*
THE FEDERAL JEWELLERY GO.
—t;--
m
TO
Si
lIP
Solid Silver Match- 3oxes, 4/6, 6/6,
6/6 to 10/6
23 & 25 STRAND ARCADE,
Solid Silver Shaving Brushes, etc., in Handsome
Case, £5 ss.
cvb
9ct Gold Bird, Ohain
and Trinket, 7/6
Silver Oigar-Cutter,
11/6, Gold 21/-
18ct Wedding Ring, 9ct Gold Links,
any size, 25/- 16/6
Solid Silver Smelling Salt
Bottle 17/6, large size 25/
b
Fancy Bell, Heart and
Bean PIN, 9ct. Gold
8/6
Pretty Bird BROOCH, 9ct. Gold, 17/6
15ct.Gold Pearl-Set BROOCH, 35/-
Gent’s
Solid Silver Sovereign
Purse, 7/6 and 9/6
Set. Gold SLEEVE-
LINK, 21/-
Absolutely NO DUTIES Charged on Anything.
m' All Goods Sent Post Free. WRITE TO-NIGHT 1
All our Jewellery is the best English Hall-Marked.
Prices and Designs sent on application.
vc
RUPTURE CURED, TWO GUINEAS.
Thousands have been Cured at their own homes for this small price. Greatest Inven-
tion of the Aire. Established over a QUARTER OF A CENTURY. Known around
the World. Security and Comfort to the Ruptured. Different from all others. It
does the work ! Investigate! “ Booklet No. 1,” giving full information, will be sent
for a 2d. stamp. Address :
MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS COMPANY, San Francisco or New York, U.S.A.
Australia—W. H. Soul & Co., ISO Pitt-street, Sydney, N.B.W.
UNDER DISTINGUISHED
vc
ROYAL PATRONAGE.
vbvb
c
bb
li
■
m
m
iJfS
m
FORTH
From H.R.H. PRINCESS HOHENLOHE,
(The German Ambassador’s Daughter.)
“ * KOKO’ for the Hair is the BEST Dressing I
know. It keeps the head cool, promotes growth,
and Is in EVERY way excellent.
Piuncess HOHENLOHE.
Recommended and Used byfl.M. The
Queen (of Greece). Princes* Victoria
(of Schaumburg Lippe), Princess
Hohenlohe, Princess Marie
(of Greece), Princess Henry Keuss,
Bear-Admiral Tinklar. &c.. &c.
KOKO FOR THE HAIR
ill I s a . tonic, cleansing, invigorating preparation, causes the hair to grow, keeps it soft and pliant, imparts
to it the lustre and freshness of youth, eradicates dandriff, prevents hair from falling, is the most
(H cleanly of all hair preparations, and is perfectly harmless.
PEP P6()PI,E _IJKg IT
111 for its wonderful power to invigorate decayed hair, and induce an entire new growth when that is possible.
MiPDEE-»GED PEOPEE UKE IT,
111 because it keeps dandriff away, and makes the hair grow thick and strong.
YOUNG INDIES IJKE IT
ill as a dressing, because it gives the hair a beautiful glossy lustre, and enables them to dress it in what*
|M ever form they wish, where it will remain.
CHIU)RIN LIKE IT,
||l because it keeps the hair and scalp cool and clean, allays irritation, and keeps the hair in whatever
*l' position desired.
THEY ALL UKE 1T ?
| because it is pure a 6 crystal perfectly colourless, contains no poisonous substances, dye. sugar of
lead, sulphur, nitrate of silver or grease, does not soil or colour the scalp, face, or the most delicate
fabric in clothing produces a wonderful, pleasant and cooling effect on the head, and no other dressing
is needed to give the hair the most elegant appearance possible. Try it once, and you will use no other.
b
Is., 2s. 6d., and 4s. 6d., of all Chemists, Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
Australian Depot: Koko-Maricopas Co., Ld., 14,Castlereagh St.,Sydney,N.S.W.
CAUTION.-See that this Registered Trade Mark is on every bottle. r
b
CHARLES READ & CO.,
mm
N WATCH.
' '■ s. <2i wfcSim-M •«."
-' $
£ OUR FAITHFUL '/
I TIMEKEEPER
, METAL
' CASE •
Will run for 20year^
wmr
Camden Buildings,
418 George St., Sydney.
Three Doors from
Strand Arcade.
A Saving; of
25 per cent.
JEWELLERY,
SOLID SILVER GOODS,
SILVER-PLATED WARE
Write for 80-Paged Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
HEALTH, STRENGTH, HAPPINESS
HEALTH
Few recognise the BLISS of being in PERFECT
HEALTH, until SUDDENLY certain symptoms are
noticed, slight at first, but gradually RECURRING,
causing annoyance and SUFFERING, the individual
being forced to admit he is unwell, and finally compelled to acknowledge that PERFECT
HEALTH is a PRECIOUS BOON.
STRENGTH
What a blow to a man who discovers he is LOSING
his STRENGTH and VIGOR, and THAT perhaps at
a period when he most NEEDS ALL his physical
and menial capabilities to battle through life. They
are PRICELESS to him. He must by every means endeavor to REGAIN THEM.
HAPPINESS
Does happiness consist in Wealth? No. Who can
be happy without HEALTH and STRENGTH?
Wealth materially assists the endurance of suffering-,
but PERFECT HEALTH, STRENGTH and VIGOR
should be the natural inheritance of EACH individual, and are invaluable gifts, tending to a
happy existence and long life. THE HEALTHY, STRONG MAN CAN contend, and SUCCESS-
FULLY, with the billows of life. BUT HOW • CAN THE WEAKLY AND SICKLY ?
Health, Strength and Happiness If constant study, combined
with intelligence and a
thorough practical knowledge of the many ailments to which the human subject is a victim, THEN I SHOULD
be able to achieve that result AFTER THIRTY YEARS’ PRACTICE, enabling me to bring to bear unlimited
and VARIED EXPERIENCE in all ACUTE and CHRONIC CASES of NERVOUS EXHAUSTION, CHEST,
SKIN and SPECIAL DISEASES OF MEN XND WOMEN. PERFECT SYSTEM OF ACCURATE DIAGNOSIS
AND TREATMENT BY MAIL FOR COUNTRY PATIENTS A SPECIAL FEATURE.
Dr. WATSON’S Fee is Strictly Moderate. He recognises the fact that the Public is
prepared to pay a Reasonable Fee for Assured Skill in the treatment of Complaints of
whatever character.
Consultations from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Daily. ABSOLUTELY FREE.
A “GUIDE TO DIAGNOSIS X,” Posted Free, lI-
DR. H. S. WATSON,
(Please Mention
This Paper.)
137 ELIZABETH ST., HYDE PARK, SYDMEY.
From a Lighthouse.
Straight before us starlit waters, stretching far
beyond our sight,
Overhead the white clouds sailing through a sky
of misty light;
And we idly watch the ripple 3 where the star-
reflections quiver,
Watch the shadows on the sandbanks where th
mangrove hushes shiver,
Listen to the weird-voiced curlews calling from the
scrub and plain,—
And our hearts are filled with longing just to
greet a friend again.
Oh ! the life that lies behind us! Oh ! the years
that stretch before !
In our manhood we are exiled —driftwood on an
alien shore,
Dreaming of the far-off cities and the friends we
used to know,
While we watch in saddened silence by the
lantern’s steady glow.
Comrades gone beyond our greeting, do you ever
give a thought,
In your careless, jovial lifetime, to the friends
whom once you sought?
Years that you have half forgotten, days you never
thought to mark,
By our hearts are garnered safely ; in the silerce
and the dark
We have made them our companions, tinged the'r
sweetness with our pain;
For we know that youth is over, and that man-
hood ’s on the wane,
And the best years we have wasted, squandered
with a spendthrift hand
Till we drifted, wrecked and hopeless, to an un-
familiar land.
And throughout the long night watches, when the
white stars blaze above,
Visions come to us and haunt us of an unforgotten
love, —
Loyal hearts that loved us dearly in those joy >u -
years of old,
Hands that helped us, lips that blessed us, now,
alas ! grown still and cold :
And the mourning waters mock us, and the star-
lit midnight falls,
And across the barren sand-wastes ring the hope-
less curlew-calls.
N.T.
M.S.


Few Style 16c. Gold
Brooch, set Pearls
and Sapphire, £3.
No. FlOB.
Gold Links, 17s 6d.
Silver, 4s 6d.
bb
4/2 GEORGE ST SYD/vry
All Goods sent Free and Safe by Post on receipt of
remittance. Write for our Illustrated Catalogue.
No. F9B»
9c. Gold Links, £llB.
Silver, Is (id.
' New Style 16c. Got*
set Pearls and
Ruby, £2 7s Od.
No. F 5713. Fine Quality Pearls and 15c. Gold Necklet of Exquisite Design, £l4 10s
Others, equally pretty, at £8 10s, £lO 10s, £l2 10s.
Gent.’s Sisrnefc Ring,
9c. Gold, £1 10s ;
18c. Gold, £2 17s 6d.
No. F 2995. Hair-Pin Box,
Out-Glass and Solid Silver.
12s 6d.
No. 247. 9c. Gold Tooth-Pick, 8s 6d ; Solid Silver, Bs.
9c. Gold Safety-Pins, 4s 6d, 5s 6d and 6s 6d
(according to size).
No. F 4404. New Design, 15c. Gold Brooch, set
with Rubies and Diamond, £3 10s.
No. F 5892. The New Flat Pen3il-0 .se, Engraved, 9c. Gold, £1 7s 6d.
No. F 1945. 15c. Gold and Pearl set
Hearts and Knot Brooch, £2 2s.
X
m
s
mki S -
No. F 1572. Magnificent 5-Light Candelabra, in Best
Silver-plate, £5 5s ; 3-Light ditto, £3 15s.
No. E 9136. Solid Silver Sweet or Cake Forks, 3J- inches
long, 3s each.
Massive Silver Cake or Fruit Basket, Saw Pierced and
Embossed, £l3 10s ; others at £B.
No. E 9533. Small Silver-plated Saw
Pierced Sugar Basket, Glass-lined, 8s 6d.
No. E 7168. Best Silver-plated and
Out-Glass Butter Dish, 12s 6d.
No. F 2504. Dinner Gong, Polished Oak Base, Real Horns, Silver-plated
Mounts, £1 12s 6d.
No. F 548. Finest Silver-plate on Hard Metal
Hot-Water Kettle, £6 10s.
BRACES THE NERVES LIKE BARS OF STEEL
CONSTANT INCREASE IN APPRECIATION
CONSTANT IWCEeXse
IN SALES
A PERFECT ORGANIC CLEANSER.
Kutnow’s
Powder,
1891.
V
“The Nerve Invigorator. 11 '
KUTNOW’S
POWDER,
1901.
u The Liver Stimulator
Are You Prepared
to be Convinced?
TTfIW 1 W® suppose you want good health ? Is it your
HU W • wish to have a clear skin and a healthy com-
plexion ?
Would you like any unsightly pimples and skin blotches
removed ?
Is it your wish to have a good digestion and a keen appetite ?
Would you like to feel that the food is not only properly
digested, but that the body is nourished, and new strength,
vigor, and health infused into the system ?
Would you like the liver stimulated, the kidneys freed of de-
posits, the bowels properly cleansed, and the blood purified ?
Do you wish to feel young again ?
Would you like the realise the joyous sparkle of nerve life as
it infuses the body with its glowing vitality ; to feel the magnetic
enthusiasm of youthful energy; to be happy, light-hearted, and
full of joyous impulses ?
Is it your desire to be free of everlasting headaches, despond-
ency, brain-fag, inertia, languor, and general nervous debility ?
Would you like to feel thorough enjoyment in your work, to
rise with a clear, active brain, to feel confidence and strength in
all your undertakings ?
We naturally take it you would. May we then give you a
hint ? We are not wizards, but you may make a test of the
greatest health restorer in the world by sending for a trial bottle
of Kutnow's Carlsbad Powder.
The trial bottle will not accomplish all the change desired
instanter, but it will suffice to prove conclusively that at last you
have discovered a valuable bracer of the nerves, and a perfect
cleanser of the system generally, which if continued will banish
all derangements of the digestive and excretory organs.
You will find that’s HOW to get good health.
“ Eradicates Stubborn Diseases.”
The extraordinary complicated diseases resulting from neglect
of precautionary measures pass the wit of man. It is not the
business of Kutnow’s Powder to claim that it can cure all the
ills of mankind from Housemaid’s Knee to Impecuniosity. One
solid, incontestable fact, however, remains in the world wide
testimony of sufferers from painful and distressing derangements,
viz., that KUTNOW’S POWDER not only prevents disease by
its marvellous cleansing properties, but absolutely eradicates
diseases that have become stubborn through neglect. If in
robust health take KUTNOW’S POWDER on rising, and you
need never be ill; if ill, depressed, irritable, languid or sleepless,
take “. Kutnow,” and the trouble will quickly vanish ; the blood
is purified, the heart beats more vigorously, the liver quickens
into action, and the kidneys are regulated into increased effi-
ciency. Thus does the man become himself again, lives, breathes,
and enjoys his being, eats well, sleeps well, and works well.
Donald Nichol, Esq., President of the Engineering and
Sanitary Association for London and Middlesex, writes :
“I am free to say to the acting authorities of the several-
hospitals and infirmaries, of which I am a Governor, that great
benefit cannot fail to arise by the use of your Effervescent
Carlsbad Powder.”
KUTNOW’S POWDER is sold in capsuled bottles at 2/9 by all
first-class Chemists and Medicine Vendors everywhere. See
that the Registered Trade Mark, “ Hircliensprung ” (or Deer
Leap), and the autograph facsimile signature “S. Kutnow &
Co., Ld.,” are on the label and carton. Only these ensure
genuineness. Insist on “KUTNOW’S,” and firmly refuse any
substitute —they are worthless, and often injurious.
Unimpeachable
Testimony from
Those Convinced.
“The Vicarage, Friskney 5.0., Lines.
“ I find your Effervescing Carlsbad Powder very useful. It
has certainly been of benefit to me during a long and serious
attack of gout. (Rev.) H. CHE ALES.”
“Paarl, Cape Colony.
“I am now using the second bottle of your Corlsbad Powder
which I obtained from Messrs. Lennon and Co., Cape Town,
and am exceedingly glad of being able to state that your pre-
paration is the best I have as yet taken to prevent the formation
of Uric Acid in the blood and to remove gall-stones and other
dissolved products from the system. I cannot praise it enough,
and will advise all those who suffer from Liver complaint and
Kidney troubles to try your Povfder. Please accept my sincere
thanks. J. C. VOIGHT.”
“6, Londen Road, High-street, Walthamstow.
“Entirely unsolicited, I am anxious to bear my testimony to
the wonderful results of your ‘Carlsbad Powders.’ For a long
period had been suffering from indigestion. Seeing your adver-
tisement thought I would give them a trial, and am more than
satisfied with the result. Life is a pleasure, am free from pain,
feel very much stronger, and can, with the utmost confidence,
recommend them. As an act of justice to you as well as suffering
humanity, cannot withhold my testimony to the worth of your
powders. S. FOOTMAN.”
Proprietors :S. KUTUOW and COi, Ltd., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C. Proprietors in U.S.A. : KUTNOWBROS., Ltd., 853 Broadway, New York.


Ferrodor,” the paint which, after severe tests,
was selected out of some 20 others for re-painting the
Hawkesbury Railway Bridge, near. Sydney, and the
Victoria Bridge at Brisbane, is also being extensively
used in the other States. “ Ferrodor ”is made by special
process from a rustless material, and is the only certain
preservative-paint for gas plant and holders, water and
other tanks, boilers, lamp and telegraph-posts, bridges,
&c. One ton of “ Ferrodor ” will cover as much as two
tons of red lead. It is also non-poisonous, stands great
heat or cold, does not set free the glycerine in thinning-
oils, does not oxidise or destroy the oil used as a medium,
remains elastic and allows for the expansion and contrac-
tion of metal, is free from all substances deleterious to
metal, adheres perfectly to all metallic substances, and
can be supplied in any color. The sole agent for Austral-
asia is R. A. Hervey, corner of Clarence and King streets.
Sydney.*
b
try orders.
Tails. Plaits,
FRINGES, Best Natural Curly Hair, 3/6, 5/0,
7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each. TAILS and PLAITS,
20in. Iona:, 5/6, ; Extra Thick, 7/6 ; 24in.,
10/6 ; Extra Thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings Worked Up, 2/6 per oz.
Don’t be misled. Our Plaits and Tails are
twice as thick as sold elsewhere at same
price. Send Color of Hair. “ Only ONE
Address”:— W. H. WIGZELL,
110 WILLIAM-ST., Comer of Palmer-st.,
Sydney. Cable trams will stop at door. All
work guaranteed Illustrated catalogue
post free. Prompt attention given to coun-
Wigs made on shortest notice.
Public Notice.
The English, Scottish and
Australian Bank, Ltd.
Registers for Terminable Deposit Receipts and
Perpetual Debenture and Inscribed Stocks of The
English, Scottish and Australian Bank, Ltd., will be
CLOSED against Transfers from the 18th to 31st instant,
both days inclusive, and the warrants for the payment of
the Six Months’ Interest to the 31st instant, together
with additional interest at the rate of 1J per cent., for
the year ended 30th June, 1901, upon the Deferred
Inscribed Deposit Stock, will be obtainable on and after
2nd January next, at the respective offices of the Bank,
where Customers conduct their business.
Dated at Sydney this 12th day of December, 1901.
N. F. CHRISTOE,
Manager,
A copy of “A Policy for the Common-
wealth,” The Bulletin’s particularly suc-
cessful pamphlet, will be posted from this office to
any Australian address on receipt of Bd. in stamps
(of any State).
“““'™"""“situations Wanted.
THOROUGHLY PRACTICAL CUNMAKER, with Know-
ledge of the Cj cle Trade and Sporting Goods gener-
ally, will be open to an engagement after next April.
Man 3' years’ experience in England and Australia. Ad-
dress : Manager. Gun and Tool Departments, Army and
Navy Co-operative Stores, Bombay, India.
Missing Friends. ___
MUMBY, GEORGE HUMBLE.— For-
merly of Broken Hill, N.S.W. Please
communicate with McDonell & Moffitt, Solici-
tors, Mutual Life Association Buildings, George
and Wynyard Streets, Sydney.
ANTED present address of Miss' BESSIE
KNIGHT, who left Cobar in 1886.
Address—
“CUSS MEDI,”
Bulletin Office.
JAMES CANNY, last heard of in North
Melbourne. Father anxious to hear from
you.
Wangaratta, Victoria.
A NY PERSON knowing the address of ALBERT
EDWARD GREEN, last heard of at Coopernook,
Manning River, would greatly oblige by communicating
same to
Mrs. O. HARNETT, Ley Farm,
Teffont, Salisbury, Wilts, England.
EROM ADELAIDE.—Dear M. and SID
come back. I did not intend you to go.
Miss Sid. lam very miserable. Write in pity
for me.
Government Notices.
Department of Mines and Agriculture,
Stock and Brands,
Sydney, 29th November, 1901.
STOCK ACT, 1901,
AND
THE PASTURES AND STOCK PRO-
TECTION ACT, 1898.
THE attention of Owners, or persons keeping
HORSES, CATTLE, or SHEEP (al-
though the number should only be one head), and
Butchers, Dealers, and Salesmen, is called to the
Notices in the Government Gazette of the 26th
instant, respecting the RETURNS which must
be made between the Ist and 10th JANUARY,
1902, of the Stock in their possession on the 31st
day of December next. Failure to furnish the
RETURN renders those concerned liable to a i
penalty of £2O, which, if incurred, will be strictly
enforced. FORMS OF RETURNS can be |
obtained from Clerks of Petty Sessions and
Inspectors of Stock, or at any Police Station.
ALEX. BRUCE,
Chief Insp., Stock.
Sd 9
Amusements.
FITZGERALD BROTHERS’
CIRCUS & MENAGERIE.
THE SHOW OF ALL SHOWS.
MELBOURNE SEASON—I9OI.
THE GREAT LONDON SENSATION,
THE HIGH DIVING HORSES.
ST. HILDA ROAD, ST. KILDA ROAD,
In a Special Building Erected under the Superintendence
of Mr. DAN FITZGERALD.
THE GREAT JUMPING HORSE,
NEWHAVEN,
Winner of the High Jumping Prize at Bendigo Show,
with the Record Jump of 6ft. 9in.
Will Jump Over 6ft. Every Evening in the Ring.
HAL GEORGE. \ „
FRANK JONES. / Ke P 9,
-THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE!
■ Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
THE WAR OF WEALTH.
Popular Prices, Bs., 2s. 6d., 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Box
Plan at Allan’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutne.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
LAST NIGHTS of THE WILSON BARRETT SEASON.
Thursday, Dec. 12, Friday, Dec. 13, THE SILVER KING.
Saturday, Dec. 14, Monday, Dec. 16, Tuesday, Dec. 17,
Wednesday, Dec. 18, Afternoon and Night, QUO VADIS?
Thursday, Dec. 19, One Night Only, HAMLET. Friday,
Dec. 20, One Night Only, OTHELLO.
Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. ;
Family Circle, 25.; Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
LAST 3 NIGHTS of the
ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
LAST 3 NIGHTS of the Brightest and Best Musical
Entertainment ever given in Sydney,
FLORODO R A..
Popular Prices—3s., 2s , Is.
Early Doors (6d. extra), Open 6.50. Ordinary Doors,
7.30. Commence 8. Plan at Elvy and Co.
EMPIRE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
“ Lessees and Managers .. John Fuller and Sons.
40th WEEK. STILL GOING STRONG.
FULLER’S EMPIRE COMPANY.
Every Evening, at 8. Saturday, 2.30.
AN AMUSING BRIGHT PROGRAMME.
FIRST PART, SUMMER. HUMOROUS FINALE.
VAUDEVILLE OLIO.
SCREAMINGLY FUNNY FARCE.
Spring, Summer, Autumn, Winter Prices —25., Is., 6d.
Children Half-price except 6d. seats. No Early Doors.
LYCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. William Anderson.
LAST 2 NIGHTS of a Great Sensational Play,
HONOR THY FATHER.
SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.—SATURDAY, NEXT,
DEC. 14, Grand Revival of Arthur Jefferson’s Great
Sensational Surrey Success, THE WORLD’S VERDICT.
PRICES—3s, 2s and ONE SHILLING. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
December 21, 23, and 25,
THE
ELYSIAN
CREATION,
THE ARCADIAN NIfiNTS.
QUEEN’S HALL, PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite Criterion Theatre).
Saturday Evening, December 14,
J. A. CRAIN’S BENEFIT.
A REMARKABLE PROGRAMME,
including
COMEDY, MUSIC, VAUDEVILLE and
CARICATURE,
by
SYDNEY’S LEADING ARTISTS.
83T See Day-Bills. Admission—3s., 25., and Is.
Brinsmead Grand used. Paling & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents.
TIVOLI THEATRE, 3YDNEY.
Sole Proprietor .. .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
First Appearance of
MR. S. HOLDSWORTH
(Direct from America).
MDLLE. NADINE. ATHAS and COLLINS.
LEON and KIRK. THE 4 RIANOS.
ROY MURPHY, &c., &c.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Saturdays & Wednesdays.
RICKARDS’ NEW OPERA HOUSE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Mr. RICKARDS’ NEW TIVOLI SPECIALTY COMPANY.
The Marvellous CRACCS (8), Acrobatic Wonders
of the Universe.
Miss PEGGY PRYDE, London’s Clever Comedienne.
JAMES The ALLISONS, LUCY
Two of England’s Cleverest Duettists and Dancers.
CHARLES PASTOR, NELLIE RANDALL, LES
LUCIOLES, EDGAR GRANVILLE, THE WILLIAMS
SISTERS, and the Whole of the Great Tivoli Company.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr. E. J. Tait.
AN UNPARALLELED MUSICAL TREAT.
LAST FEW NIGHTS of
J. 0. WILLIAMSON’S GRAND ITALIAN OPERA CO.
(Prior to their Return to Europe).
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 13, LA TRAVIATA.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 14, FEDORA.
ORDINARY SCALE OF PRICES prevailing at this
Theatre, viz., 55., 35., 25., and ONE SHILLING.
GOOD HAIR FOR ALL!
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY' IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
AST For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
AS" For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & Go.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONBULT
HOLLAND FOR ALL DIBEABEB OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
HARDY BROTHERS.
SHOWROOMS
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY; and
118 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE. .. .
■H
Sffi U
Large
Shipments
of the
Latest
London
Goods
for
Christmas
Presents
Just
Opened.
New
Illustrated
Booklet.
Post
Free
on
Applica-
tion.
b
b
Large
Stock of
Latest
London
and Con-
tinental
Designs.
Turquoise
and
Pearl Set
Jewellery.
Goods
sent on
approval
to all
parts of
the
State.
'V
M
m
Goldsmiths, Jewellers and Silversmiths.
The W.A. Boodle Party.
The queer, coil into which Westralian politics
have developed during the last few weeks has not
been altogether unforeseen by the readers of signs
and omens. Right through the piece, the
machine god has been A. E. Morgans, capitalist,
investor, exploiter of mining properties, and
master of finance. Suave, polished, much-travelled
and hospitable, he has seldom made mistakes —till
now. In South America he earned the
title of “ The Friend of the President ”;
presidents change very often over there, but
Morgans usually managed to be the friend of the
man who had concessions to giveaway. Morgans
has long been ambitious to become W. A. Premier
and, deeming the psychological moment had
arrived—the Coronation will take place next June
gently worked up Pi esse, as Leader of the
Opposition, to move a vote of censure on the
Leake Government. The result—a majority of
one in a House of which 46 of the 50 members voted
—left PinssE with the task of forming a Ministry.
Personally, Piesse is unpopular, and politically
he was, when sent for, rather more unsavoury
than usual, for the report of the Board
of Inquiry into charges levelled against John
Davies, the suspended Manager of Railways, had
splashed a lump of mud about the size of an eagle
on Piesse’s political coat-tail. He offered
portfolios to men whose seats were far from
secure, and they were afraid to face their con-
stituents, and didn’t expect a Piesse Ministry to
last a month, anyway. Failing to form a Ministry
Piesse suggested that Morgans be sent for. The
suave Welshman's schemes had worked out as he
anticipated, but he overlooked the weakest
spot in the web he had been weaving.
Morgans is the apostle of private enter-
prise for public works. Now, Westralians
have had more than enough of the system.
The Great kSouthern railway purchased from the
company by the Govt., and a white elephant at
that—the Midland railway, under offer to the State
for over a million and in doubtful repair along its
whole course—the Kurrawang Syndicate tram-
way, the promoters of which bought material from
Govt, and partly paid for it with Govt, water and
owed the rest —the Canning-Jarrah line, with a
ruling gradient of somewhere about 1 in 15, also
purchased by Govt.—these matters have made
private enterprise smell witli a very lofty perfume
in Westralia. Therefore, when Morgans, who
owns large interests on the Pilbarra goldfield,
and is known to be anxious to construct a
private railway from Port Hedland to Marble
Bar, sought to form a Government, the elec-
tors began to think things out loud. Morgans
proposed a coalition, but the Leake crowd,
only beaten by one vote in the House, and
certain that the vast majority of the community
was on its side, refused with emphasis. The new
Premier formed his Ministry with some difficulty,
mostly of men with shaky seats and no political
record. Out of three Ministers who have, up to
time of writing, been opposed at re-election, two
have lost their seats which seems to end
Morgans’ alleged majority. Forrest’s Ministry
lasted 10 years and 46 days ; Throssell’s 95
days: Leake’s 178 days. Morgans’ looks the
most hopeless of the lot.
At Poverty Point.
In the first days of the Amy Castles boom, that lucky
young- lady was described as a rising Melba, with a great
operatic career before her. The one point on which all
the Melbourne boomsters agreed was the desirability of
sending her “ dramatic soprano ” voice to Europe to be
trained for operatic triumphs, and on the allegation that
she would in the not far distant future become a Queen
of the lyric stage, 14,000 people fought for the privilege
of hearing her warble at Melbourne Exhibition Building.
That was 2£ years ago. And now, we are told, Rev.
Father Robinson, the boss of the original boom, has
arranged with manager Williamson for an Australian
concert tour, which Miss Amy is to commence next
autumn.
Asa managerial spec., The Bulletin would back Amy
Castles against Melba for a ton of money. Amy will
likely enough cost J. O. Williamson not much more per
week than Musgrove will pay Melba per night. Already
we hear the voice of the smiling padre “ Tickets for
the Amy Castles’ concert are to be had at the dhure.”
“ D.R.U.G.” : The drug used by the hero in “ Man and
his Makers ” is not morphia, but hasheesh, which acts
differently on different individuals, always accentuating
the natural tendencies. In Joh.i Radleigh, it brings out
especially his underlying poetical vein. Wilson Barrett
is the last man to write about a drug without first
inquiring fully into its nature and effect. [The drug is
not stated in the play, but opium is inferred. No known
drug would give the effects portrayed by Mr. Barrett, nor
is it possible to give any scientific explanation of a
fortnight’s “horrors” in the case of a drug-taker who
has only been indulging for a few weeks. If the poem
so frequently quoted in “Man and his Makers” is the
result of a drug, the pharmacopoeia has anew terror.]
A certain foreign tenor, who, years ago, “knocked”
Australia with his high note, was so afflicted with the
native modesty of the tenor that he had his letters from
Italy addressed (rough translation) : To the Most Magnifi-
cent Tenor, Signor Chief Singer of Mr. ’s
Grand Opera Cos., Melbourne, Australia.”
About the most interesting item in the programme of
Mrs. Bracy’s benefit performance at Melb. Princess’s last
week was a song by her evergreen husband. Henry
Bracy, in his fifty-somethingth year, might have been
mistaken, and probably was mistaken by some people,
for a 35-year-old stranger introducing a fresh young
sugary tenor voice to public notice, He sang “When
Other Lips ” and “ Take a Pair of Sparkling Eyes ” quite
charmingly. During his long absence from the operatic
stage the “old man ” must have been nursing his voice
back to its early prime.
Apropos Phil May’s approaching appearance on the
English stage, it is printed that he only aspires to minor
parts. ‘ He will take the rdle of the apothecary in “Romeo
and Juliet,” of Pistol in “Henry V.,” and should
“Richard III.” be represented he will have the somewhat
insignificant character of the Lord Mayor.
A considerable percentage of the Melbourne audiences
that heard Dalia Bassich as Desdemona, in “ Otello,”
judged her identity from the programme, and thought
the Bulgarian lady was De Vere Sapio.
Dan Barry is still going strong. His advt. in Kadina
and Wallaroo Times announced a grand production of
“ Soldiers of the Queen ” in honor of “ British courage ”
and the Battle of Waterloo. This stirring drama had
been played, said the advt., for six consecutive months
in Melbourne. Also, the Kadina and Wallaroo critic
stated that “ Soldiers of the Queen ” had so worked on
Lord Hopetoun’s feelings that»he sent an autograph
letter to Dan thanking him for the production. Dan’s
tongue is as honeyed as ever, seemingly. “We must not
forget,” said the local critic, “ to give a word of praise to
the efficient orchestra ; and last, but riot least, we must
remember to thank the genial Dan himself for the grace-
ful compliment he paid us, as a community, in his
pleasant oration.” Happy Wallaroo !
Said that Musgrove is “coining money” at London
Shaftesbury Theatre with a farcical comedy called “ Are
You a Mason ? ”
Musgrove’s tremendous baritone, Max Eugene, who is
taller and broader than any other singer in Australia, has
a passion for canaries, and carries a whole aviary of them
wherever he goes. His chief distress, as a consequence
of the breaking-down of the s.s. Monowai, is stated in
the pathetic plaint: “ Ah, most sad, I lost two of my
canaries! ”
“ Trial By Jury,” which cropped up again at a Melb.
benefit matinee t’other week, is always interesting as
showing the source of Arthur Sullivan’s musical humor.
The music in “ T.8.T.” is churchy-churchy. It could
hardlv have been written by a man who had not graduated
as a chorister, and studied anthems with his tongue in
his cheek.
The Solidarity-Labor Municipal Council at
Broken Hill is now declared by the local
Solidarity-Labor paper to be an absolute failure.
The fight for the Queensland Premiership
grows interesting. Rutledge, father-in-law to the
Kanaka Courier, is first favorite. Foxton, a
colleague, is fighting tooth and nail to down him ;
while Works Minister Leahy seeks, by various
means, to bind the rank and file to his elevation.
Thynne, the Tom Slattery of Q. politics—T.S. is
very thin—may decide the issue. As to Philp,
nobody seems to take him into account.
The Senate first struck out the educational
test from the Aliens Immigration Bill, then re-
jected M‘Gregor’s proposal to put in an absolute
prohibition clause ; and finally, after further con-
versation and consideration, restored the original
clause and passed the Bill. There were two
stupendous holes in M‘Gregor’s proposition. It
provided for the exclusion of the person born in
Asia or Africa, but it left free access for the North
American nigger and the South American half-
breed. And (what was still worse) Australia has
had the broadest possible intimation that the in-
sertion of M‘Gregor’s clause would wreck the Bill
utterly in England and leave Australia open for
an indefinite period to niggers of all kinds. The
classes who wanted the Bill wrecked worked man-
fully for the adoption of the absolute-prohibition
idea, and it found friends in many strange quar-
ters ; and Sydney Telegraph gave way to bitter
rage when all was over, and headed its leading
article “The White Australia Bubble.” Thus
does an unwise paper get mad in large print and
give itself away.
A brand of spirits which has received the com-
mendation of practically every other market in the world
may, from some accident of fashion, get less than its due
credit in someone country. Martell’s Brandy is a case in
point. Yielding to none in excellence, it is a special
favorite in the Mother country, and in N.S. W. people are
now beginning to realise that its extraordinary popu-
larity elsewhere is due to sheer merit. According to the
leading Government Analyst of Great Britain it is im-
possible to produce a purer or more genuine brandy than
“ MARTELL'S."*
Mr. Justice Cohen has been appointed
President of N.S. W. Industrial Arbitration Court.
Judge Backhouse’s name was suggested in many
quarters, but was not favorably canvassed in
either labor or employing circles. When the
Broken Hill strike leaders were put on trial it was
at the special request of labor representatives that
Judge Backhouse was sent up to try the cause, as
he was understood to have strong democratic
leanings. After the trial some of the Labor
leaders complained that it was the Judge’s
summing-up, and not the evidence, which secured
a conviction. All things considered, the appoint-
ment of Mr. Cohen was a wise one. If this
involves, as it probably will, an addition to the
Supreme Court Bench, Murray, Backhouse, or
one other of the District Court Judges should go
up.


HOLD YOUR (USE
w
E
L
L
IN
HAND
CATARRH Causes DEAFNESS
Buy Ramey’s ltiedfeator and
prevent this. “A Sovereign
Remedy” for half-a-sovereign.
post free (remit by postal note or
coin securely wrapped and
registered). Treatment includes
Medicator, Inhalent to last tour
months and Nasal Ointment.
20 page booklet i “What is
Catarrh?” and treatment of hay
fever, etc., post free on request.
K HOME CATARRH CURE CO., 229-231 COLLINS ST.
I MELBOURNE.
bbbb
LADIES
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FR
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
BOOK
Address— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
NOW READY——^
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK; Price, 4s. 6(1.
THE MICA LUBRICANT CO., SOUTH SHIELDS, ENG.
bearings jferfecfcTy cool? 8 % C Hghoer? n They 6 do
not score the rods, but put a mica surface on them, similar 4 in appearance to electro-plate.
EoU S (vt for Australasia: R. A, HERVEY. Depdt, 171 OlaremSi-st., Sydney, -iV.S. W
?AU
THE SALT OF THE EARTH
Is as nought compared
with the appetizing
qualities of
SA UCE.
SA
‘JHlenburgs Foods.
A PROGRESSIVE DIETARY, unique in providing nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers of YOUNG INFANTS from
birth upwards, and free from dangerous germs.
The “ Allenburys ”
The “ Allenburys ”
Milk Food No. i
Specially adapted to the first three months of life.
Milk Food No. 2
Similarly adapted to the second three months of lile.
Complete Foods,
STERILIZED, and
needing the addition of
hot water only.
The “ Allenburys” Malted Food No. 3
- For Infants over six months of age.
To be prepared for use by the
addition of COW’S MILK,
according to directions given.
No. 3 Pood is strongly recommended for Convalescents, Invalids, the Aged, and all requiring a light and easily digested diet.
The London Medical Record writes of it that— “No Better Food Exists.”
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING Free on application to the Wholesale Depot, 484, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.
The FEDERAL
10
Balmoral
BOOT
Our -new Federal
Balmoral is the hast Boot this season. It is made
of finest Dongola calf, with kid legs, is leather lined,
the sol's are fair stitched and standard screwed.
The “Federal” Balmoral is made p urposely for us,
and you can’: pet it elsewhere. In all the new fashion-
able shaped loes. Price carriage paid to any address
in the Anstralian Commonwealth or New Zealand is
half a guinea pair Your money back if not satislied.
The DON Cash Trading Co.
JOHNSTON ST.. COLLINOWOOD,
MELBOURNE.
Musical Instruments, &o.
JJOWARD & 00. repair any instrument.
Queen-street, Woollahra.
TiyrANDOLINES, from Is. weekly. Write for lists.
HOWARD & 00., Woollahra.
E _ RASS INSTRUMENTS, from Is. week. HOWARD &
CO., Woollahra. Write for lists.
ly/TUSIOAL BOXES and ORGANETTES, from Is. weekly.
-“-L HOWARD & 00., Woollahra. Write for lists.
YOU can hang yourself on our VIOLIN and BANJO
STRINGS. HOWARD & 00., Woollahra. Try them,
BOUT 50 tons of MUSIC @ Id., 2d., 3d. and 6d. each
Lists free. HOWARD & 00., Woollahra.
A
AUTOHARPS, from Is. weekly. HOWARD & CO
•“- Woollahra. Write for lists.
GUNS and RIFLES, 2s. 6d. weekly. Write for lists
HOWARD & 00., Woollahra.
ELUTES, from 6d. each to 20 guineas. Cash or terms
HOWARD Hr. CO . Woollahra.
HOWARD & 00., Woollahra.
■\7TOLINS from Is. weekly, 1500 in stock. Write for lists.
v HOWARD & 00., Queen-st., Woollahra.
BANJOS from Is. weekly, all kinds in stock. Write for
lists. HOWARD & 00., Woollahra.
A OCORDIONS from Is. week, 1000 in stock. Write for
-a- lists. HOWARD & 00., Woollahra.
A NGLO CONCERTINAS, 30s. to £12125., cash or terms.
Write for lists. HOWARD & 00., Woollahra.
rpYPEWRITERS, 2s. 6d. weekly, brief and foolscap.
J- HOWARD & 00., Woollahra.
PHONOGRAPHS from Is. week, also other talking
machines. HOWARD & 00., Woollahra.
BICYCLES from 2s. 6d. weekly. HOWARD & 00.,
Queen-st., Woollahra. Write for particulars.
PIANOS and ORGANS, cash or terms. Write for list*.
HOWARD & 00., Woollahra.
HOWARD & 00. extend their easy terms all over the
colonies. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD & CO., largest time-payment firm in the
colony for everything. Queen-st., Woollahra.
-yTOLINS and FITTINGS of every kind.
HOWARD & CO.,
Queen Street, Woollahra.
UNDER*THE ROYAL PATRONAGE OF
H.M. THE QUEEN OF GREECE.
H.R.H. PRINCESS MARIE OF GREECE.
H.R.H. THE DUKE OF SPARTA.
b
H.R.H. THE DUCHESS OF SPARTA.
H.R.H. PRINCESS HOHENLOHE.
H.R.H. PRINCE GEORGE OF GREECE.
(High Commissioner of Crete, &c., &c.)
EDWARDS
b
FOR
THE
HAIR
Photo d specially for the "Harlene , o. t by Langlier, Bond St., W #
Haymarket Theatre, London.
Miss JULIA NEILSON
writes —
" I am at present trying your ‘ Harlene 'for my
hair, and / find it one of the best Hair Tonics and
Restorers I have ever used, and I have tried many.
Will you kindly send me two more bottles."
THE GREAT HAIR
PRODUCER and RESTORER.
THE FINEST DRESSING SPECIALLY PREPARED AND
DELICATELY PERFUMED.
A LUXURY AND A NECESSITY TO EVERY MODERN TOILET
“ Harlene ” Produces Luxuriant Hair. Prevent its Falling Off and Turning
Grey. Unequalled for Promoting the Growth of the Beard and Moustache.
The World Renowned Remedy for Baldness. For Preserving, Strengthening?
and Rendering: the Hair Beautifully Soft, for Removing Scurf Dandruff, &c.,
'also for Restoring Grey Ha ; r to its Original Colour.
■ '-?£-< ■ 4
Crown Prince’s Palace, Athens.
H.R.H. PRINCESS MARIE OF GREECE
writes—“ Messrs. Edwards’ Preparation, ‘Harlene’ for the Hair, has given entire
satisfaction. H.R.H. wishes six more bottles of ‘ Harlene ’ sent as soon as pcssible.”
Kitegyhaza, County Bikis, Hungary.
COUNTESS DENIS ALMASY
writes —**Please forward me three more bottles of‘Harlene,' as T am particularly satisfied
with the two bottles sent me to Switzerland, and have been using it ever since.”
Full Description and Directions for use in Twenty Languages supplied with every
Bottle. 1/-, 2/0, and (three times 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle, from Druggists, &c.,
all over the World. *•
s/
Photo’d specially lor the ’‘Harlene Co., by Langfier, Bond St., W.
Garrick Theatre , London.
Miss VIOLET VANBRUGH
wr ites —
‘‘ I am very pleased to testify to the excellent
qualities of ' Harlene ,’ it is most refreshing and
invigorating and I have found it very Stimulating
to the Growth 01 my Hair.
" P.S.—I hope fate will never take me to any
quarter of the globe where I should be unable
to procure • Harlene.' "
EDWARDS’ “HARLENE” Co., 95 & 96, High Holborn, London, W.C.


An Influenza’s Legacy.
WEAK & HELPLESS.
THE BIGHT THING AT THE RIGHT TIME.
The Case of
Mrs. I- BLENKINSOPP. *
(A IAMBTON NARRATIVE.)
While most people in the Commonwealth
are employing their brains in mathematical
efforts to ascertain to what degree their per-
sona' interests will be affected by the new
tariff which has been submitted, it is grati-
fy mg to note that Mrs. Isabella Blenkin-
sepp of Church-street, Lambton, was will-
ing to devote a little time to our reporter
on another matter.
“ I think,” said Mrs. Blenkinsopp, “ that
it is a duty I should perform for the bene-
fit of everybody around me to let them know
how I got over the physical difficulties
which once beset me. When I left my
native town of Durham I did not know what
sickness was, but after being out here
awhile I found that the hot climate took a
lot of the energy out of me, besides making
me weaker, and more liable to contract any
disease that happened to be about. Four
years ago I fell a victim to an epidemic of
influenza which was laying low many people
in these parts but after being reduced to a
perfect wreck the influenza left me.
“ Did it take long to recover from the
effects of that complaint?” queried the
writer.
“ I was so long about it that I thought I
was never going to get better, and most
of my neighbours were of opinion that I
would not live. It was evident that my
system was thoroughly upset, for whenever
I took a little nourishment I felt dreadfully
ill for hours afterwards. My food, instead
of digesting in the ordinary way, seemed to
ferment in the stomach, an opinion which I
formed through the manner in which I
swelled out with wind, and I met with
severe pains at times which almost bent me
double. These stomach pains were supple-
mented by a feeling in my chest as if I had
swallowed something heavy and indigesti-
ble, and the effect of this affliction was to
hinder my breath from being easily ob-
tained. Indeed, the choking sensation
which came over me at times was so bad
that I have actually had to gasp for breath,
and the exertion which w'as involved in this
way had the effect of bringing on a violent
palpitation of the heart. I made sure that
s nnething very serious was wrong with that
organ, though for many a night 1 could not
sleep for the painful throbbing which was
going on, and after beating in this way for
smne time the beating of my heart died
away till its pulsation could hardly be felt,
and there I lay in dreadful anguish wander-
ing if it was going to stop altogether. Now
and again I dozed off into a restless slumber
which I would rather have been without, be-
cause I dreamt about such awful things, and
when I woke up again I could not decide
in my mind whether I had been dreaming
or whether the horrible thoughts were real.
I sank into an unbearable state of nervous-
ness, as I was too timid to stay in the house
alone for fear of something happening, while
the slamming of a gate, or the sound of
voices, gave me such a start tha,. I could not
keep myself from tremb’ing. A miserable
life like this was surely not worth living, I
thought, e>pe ially as I was tortured with
frightful agonies across the kidneys, which
almost paralysed me when I walked about
a little, besi >es having a perpetual twitch-
ing between the shoulders. My aching head
felt too heavy to hold up, while
giddiness came upon me so suddenly that I
was always careful to be within reach of
something to hold on to in case I might fall.
First thing in the mornings I was disgusted
with the taste in my mouth, and I never
looked at my tongue but what it was covered
w.th a nasty fur. How monotonously the
time dragged a ! ong only myself can tell as
I was too drowsy and feeble to interest my-
self in anything, altho igh there was nothing
I could think of doing, as even an hour’s
reading was put out of the question by the
swollen and hazy condition of my eyes. The
colour of my skin became almost yellow,
but what distressed me more than anything
else was to find myself getting weaker aud
weaker, till the last drain of vitality had
ebbed away. If I was sitting on a chair I
had to catch hold of something to raise my-
self up, and for two weeks I was helpless in
bed, and with a very remote chance of ever
getting up again. A doctor was in daily
attendance, but the medicines which be
prescribed for me were not helpful in the
least, and I really thought that nothing
would cure me.”
“ Your present robust appearance proves
that you were wrong in that belief.”
“Of course it does,” was the hearty re-
sponse, “ but I have to thank Clements
Tonic —not any other medicine for being so
happy and healthy for the past few years.
I was recommended by a person who had
suffered like myself to take a course of
Clements Tonic, and in doing as I was ad-
vised I am sure that my life was prolonged,
for nobody’s physical condition could be
more satisfactory since Clements Tonic
cured me. My doctor seemed to be highly
pleaded with the wonderful improvement
which suddenly took place, but I did not
tell him it was Clements Tonic which was
accountable for it, although that was really
the truth, as the throbbing of my heart
ce'se l to trouble me shortly after commenc-
ing on my new medicine, and I felt a sense
of animation and increased vigor run through
my veins as each dose of Clements Tome
was taken. I lost the fearful worries which
had helped to keep me awake at night, as
my nmid v\ as pacified and made contented
by the wonderful intiuence which Clements
Tonic had over me, and considering than
the powerful properties of that medicine had
eradicated my nervousness, it was only
natural that I should sleep soundly without
ever being disturbed >.y dreams. 1 Such a
remarkable release from suffering I had
ceased to hope for, and when my appetite
returned, and I did not feel upset in any
way after eating, I knew that Clements
Tonic had put my digestive organs in a
healthy state once more. '1 he stomach pains
and flatulence were matters which speedily
gave way to the curative properties of
Clements Tonic, and whatever had caused
the suffocating sensations in my chest was
also removed, and never returned. Daily
acquiring strength by a further use of
Clements Tonic, I was relieved of the weary
aches in my limbs, and the pains left my
shoulders and other parts of my body, so
that I was altogether free from my afflic-
tions. The symptoms of my kidney de-
rangements were also stamped out by
Clements Tonic, and as I was raised from
a miserable wreck to the possessor of com-
plete health and strength by the use of that
medicine, I think it only right to inform
other sufferers how much I am indebted to
Clements Tonic, and you can publish the
facts of my cure in any way you deem best.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Isabella Blbnkinsopp, of Church-street, Lamb-
ton, near Newcastle, in the State of New
South Wales, Commonwealth of Australia, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, consisting
of four folios, and consecutively numbered from one
to four, and that it contains and is a true and faithful
account of mv illness and cure by Clements Tonic,
and also contains my full permission to publish in any
way my statements which 1 give voluntarily, and
without receiving any payment; and I make this
solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
game to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of
the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subsciibed and
day of November,
one, before me,
declared at Lamht n, this ninth
une thousand nine hundred and
A. L. PAYNE, J.K
Zhe jifost Refreshing ZDrink in JTusirctlia.
Liroe-Frait Jaice
ai)s Corbials . • .
(TRADE MARK)
The LANCET Bays:— «• ye
counsel the public to drink
Lime-Fruit Juice whenever and
wherever toey list* it is a far
more wholesome drink than
any form of Alcohol.”
“ M ntserrat” Lime-Fruit Juice, either with water or aerated water, is
del'ohtful thirst quencher.
Sole Consignees -EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON.
EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
Agents:—Elliott Bros., Ltd., J. Connell & Co., Sydney; D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
Price, Six Shillings (Post Free).
Business Announcements.
YOU SHOULD ALWAYS WEAR . . .
AERTEX
CELLULAR
with the cell side next the skin in the case of
UNDERWEAR.
There is not a more health-keeping form of covering
for the body, and certainly none more comfortable
—even luxurious.
Besides UNDERWEAR, we Stock . . .
Pyjamas, Hosiery, etc.
And all Kinds, Shapes, Descriptions, and Colors of
Shirts
—from the White, linen-fitted Dress and Ordinary to
Fancy-pleated Neglige, and Out-door Shirts for Tennis
and all uses. „ _ _
Sole Agents in N.S.W. :
David Braham & Co.,
73 and 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
A Modern Scientific Triumph, the
“ ELECTRICON”
The first and only absolute safe and successful
means ever perfected to apply pure Metallic Galvanic
Electricity direct to the ears, permanently curing
DEAFNESS
and completely banishing all distressing
HEAD NOISES
by restoring natural life, strength and activity to the
affected parts of the ear and to the nerve of hearing.
Simple—harmless—positive. Cure guaranteed or no
expense. For full information and complete descrip-
tion, address with stamp—
The L. R. VERNON COY.,
60-64 Hunter-st., Sydney.
b
*9
i
Reader, why not he able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many mar\ellous feats
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can curedisease
conquer pain ; win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I ha' e
just issued in book f mi a mammoth
illustrated LEBBCN Of Key to
Hypnolism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever ] übl shed. For a .‘hort
time I wil send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps! to cover
postage. Order to-day .and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a c ance of |
a life-time. Address—
bbvb
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ARE YOU WEAK,
Low-spirited, Tired of Life ?
Have You utterly failed in Your efforts
to regain health ?
THE LANGSTON REGENERATOR WILL CURE YOU.
Its effects are almost instantaneous, and the good
effects go on increasing from day to day.
ARE YOU A SUFFERER from bad health in any of
its many forms ? Do you feel nervous, fretful, timid,
and lack the power of will and action ? Are you sub-
ject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless,
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy ? Are your
kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a dis-
ordered condition ? Do'you feel generally debilitated ?
Do you suffer from Rheumatism, Neuralgia, or other
aches or pains ?
r
Write to-day for the Doctor’s Calendar ; beauti
fully illustrated, and of vital interest to all.
Seek the Truth, it Costs Nothing.
No matter what you are suffering from, the
REGENERATOR restores the shattered consti-
tution like magic.
address :
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
Cor. RUSSELL and COLLINS STS., MELB.
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A TESTED AND INFALLIBLE REMEDY,
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C.S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
€V€RY MAN
Should send for a VALUABLE PAMPHLET explaining
how all NERVOUS and ORGANIC derangements may be
SUCCESSFULLY TREATED by a NEW METHOD. It is
EASY and PLEASANT, and will effect a PERFECT and
PERMANENT CURE. Sent post FREE. Address—
THE BOTANIC INSTITUTE, VICTORIA CHAMBERS,
ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
££ RX CORO’s
CSSE** f C “ 1
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout lh.' World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions , regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 128. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope.
Agents for Australasia —PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales —
Austral! m Drug Co., Ltd., O’Connell St., Sydney. All
Chemists, or Box 165, C.P.O.
Business Announcements
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO TIIRUE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Beat
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia.
STUART&PO.
PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
262 & 264 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station!
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from '
b
Our Suit to order at 4»s
marvelous value; made from
a 1 wool Tweeds. Vicunas, or fast
col .-Series; it is perfect flttlnjr
and beautifully finish'd *
A splendid Suit to order from
any class * f material £; 3, To
measure, capital Trousers rerv
good patterns l'is. (id. ’
Dress Suits to measure
Cleric il Suits, to measure £ >
It ding Breeches.2ss.
Hiding Habits. Ac.
We supply re idy made. Hen's
.capital Tweed Suits j>( s , A-
-1 Famous Ballarat Ser e Suits
Indigo dye,a.is.
All-wool, fawn, grey, or brown
Sergerette suits. SOs.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, ss. I Id.
All-wool blue ami black Vicuna
Sacs and Vests. 19a lid
Men s Crass Cloth Summer
Buits, ISs fid. W ite Prill
Sacs and Trousers, it). e><l.
Khaki Suits, shrunk, I ,'s (id
Black and (irey Alapaea s cs.
bs. 9d. Wiiite and l’.ruwi. 1 rill
Trousers. 3s. 9d., 4s 9.1. 5s (id
Travelling Trui ks. Ba s and
Rugs in great variety
Men's White splits, colored
front and cuffs tfs 9.1,
fancy B 1 use Shirts, new
designs. ss. <,d.
White Matie Shins collar and
pocket. 3s. (id.
So t Alpine Hats, 4s. 6d. all
colors
Hard Hats I . (pi. Caps Is.
Veiino Undershirts or Pants,
ls.9d.
Neckties,all shapes and colors.
I>.
White Shirts to measure. Gents’ splendid ]• a 1 moral Roots,
{Js. 9d . Os. t»d-
VVelike to write letters; so don’t be afraid to ask for any
Information. (Mir book, “'I he Philosophy if i »osn ”a- t
patterns of a 1 kinds and self-nm smoment foi ms posted five
Write for th'ni.
BLAIR’S
GOUT $ RHEUMATIC
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO & NEURALCIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and a-e certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. ljd. and 2s. 9d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
pin
DEAF
by using W Ison’s Com-
mon Sense Ear Drums.
Wonderful Remits obtained in
cases considered beyond any
treatment. Soft,, comfortable,
and invisible when in use.
Head Noises Relieved.
Pamphlets and Australian
Testimonials Free.
J. CHALMERS, Sole Agent,
229 Collins St.. Melbourne.
b
(DEAF]
bvbvbv
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head No is: s, no matter of
■how long standing. Are the same
fto the ear*: as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Wo n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. $
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
b
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole A cents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English
American and made to order
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues , Par-
ticulars, &c.
DENYER BROS.. Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
b
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles,
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c , should have one of these
Cabinet s. Price 25/-
Head and Face Steamer, 3/6.
Can be forwarded to any address.
J. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne
THE NEW FRENCH REMEDY
THERAPION.
This suc-
cessful
and highly
popular remedy, as employed in the Continental Hospi-
tals by Ricord, Rostan, Jobert, Velpeau, and others,
combines all the desiderata to be sought in a medicine of
the kind, and surpasses everything hitherto employed.
THERAPION No. 1 maintains its world-renowned
and well-merited reputation for derangements of the
kidneys, pains in the back, and kindred ailments, afford-
ing prompt relief where other well-tried remedies have
been powerless.
THERAPION No. 2, for impurity of the blood,
scurvy, pimples, spots, blotches, pains and swellings of
the joints, gout, rheumatism, and all diseases for which
it has been too much a fashion to employ mercury, sarsa-
parilla, &c., to the destruction of sufferers’ teeth and ruin
of health. This preparation purifies the whole system
through the blood, and thoroughly eliminates every
poisonous matter from the body.
THERAPION No. 3, for exhaustion, sleeplessness,
and all the distressing consequences of dissipation, worry,
overwork, etc. It possesses surprising power in restoring
strength and vigor to those suffering from the enervating
influences of long residences in hot, unhealthy climates.
THERAPION
may be procured of the
principal Chemists and
Merchants throughout the world. Price in England, 2s. 9d.
and 4s. 6d. In ordering state which of the three numbers
is required, and observe that the word “Tiikrapiox”
appears on the British Government Stamjj (in white
letters on a red ground) affixed to every genuine package
by order of His Majesty’s Hon. Commissioners, and with-
out which it is a forgery.


NOW!
THIS IS THE TIME TO SEND ORDERS FOR YOUR
SUITS FOR CHRISTMAS.
C. G. HATTE
has enlarged the TAILORING DEPARTMENT and increased the staff to cope with the
trade for the Season.
Gent.’s Tweed Suits— to measure—fit guaranteed, the best value procurable— 42/-
Gent-’s West of England Serge Suits, fast colors, perfect fitting— 63/-
(ALSO IN FANCY WORSETS, SCOTCH TWEED or VACUNA.)
Fancy Stripe Trousers— hundreds of patterns to select from—fashionable designs, only 12/6
Also the Latest and Best in Shirts, Hats and Boots.
Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms Free. Having purchased before the Federal Tariff
was announced, all our Goods are DUTY FRE£.
o. Gr. HATTE, HXT ewtown
bb
The VOLCANIC
DERATING
MACHINE
A GREAT SAVING
. . TO . .
Hotelkeepers, Cafe Proprietors, eto.
JErated Waters of the highest quality
produced with the utmost rapidity
WITHOUT SKILLED LABOR.
Absolutel y the best and simplest
Machine in the market.
• PRICES GREATLY REDUCED •
Write for descriptive Pamphlets with testimonials
from people who have used the Machine /or years.
W. JAMES, Proprietor
/Office : 101 QUEEN ST., MELBOURE.
I Depdt : 130 CECIL ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL ™ ■*, ™„„ _
George and Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAY.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY.
TERMS. The convenient
system of paying for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
LETTERS and TELEGRAMS ADDRESSED to “ THE
MANAGER” will RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
When you come to Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Rooms ; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp—from Is.—and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7.3 o—from Is.
upwards. Silver grill at work.
31
ROSES
e
Ineffective Com
BlichtlnfiamedEyesSLik
Weak Eyes Dimness E t _ s
cw*h*
531 GEORGE ST
TABLISHED IB
EGD. LABEL.
The Greatest Discovery of Modern Times
. . FOR . .
ALL EYE COMPLAINTS
- —arising from any cause whatever.
ASK FOR
ROSE’S.
Celebrated Eye lotion
A CERTAIN CURE for Sandy Blight, Granulations, Bunged Eyes
Dimness of Sight Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids, Weak Eyes caused by
Dust, bun-Glare, Overwork, &e., Swelling* Blight resulting from stings
of flies and insects.
Used with equal success on the Eyes of Cattle, Sheep, Poultry, &c.
Largeiy used by Rifle-Shooters and Literary Men.
Testimonials from leading Commercial and Professional Men throughout Australia.
Solis Proprietor ...
H. A. ROSE, "SjjXKf 531 Ceorge St., Sydney
Sold h V all Chemists and Storekeepers. KWBeware of Imitations.
STRENGTH for the WEAK
and NERVOUS.
“ THE MEDICAL MONTHLY,” August, 1893, says : “ The firm of Arthur Hale
and Son, of 105 Regent Street, London, W., has distinguished itself in the develop-
ment of electrical science as a medical agent. By an entirely new method of applica-
tion they have succeeded in producing an Electric Body Belt, which for comfort
efficacy, and genuineness, is unquestionably far superior to any previous invention.” ’
WE INVITE ALL intending purchasers of our IMPROVED and
PATENTED ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELTS and APPLIANCES
to a FAIR TRIAL and TEST before payment. Call upon us if possible.
If it is not convenient for you to call at our offices, request a friend or an
acquaintance in this city, or one coming from your own town, to do so for
you. We will first show you that our IMPROVED and PATENTED
ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELTS and APPLIANCES are genuine pro-
ducers of a continuous GALVANIC CURRENT by a MOST CRITICAL
TEST with the GALVANOMETER. And if you or your representative
cannot feel the ELECTRIC CURRENT from the GALVANIC
CHAINS in our ELECTRIC BELTS and APPLIANCES, we are will-
ing to place £lO 10s. to the credit of each of any two Charities you may
mention, either in this city or your own town or city.
We most cordially and respectfully invite any PHYSICIAN or
ELECTRICIAN to inspect our IMPROVED and PATENTED
ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELTS and APPLIANCES, which we are
now offering for sale to the AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC.
27
u
Hale & Son’s Improved and Patented Electro-Galvanic Belts and Appliances are
Nature's Chief Restorers. Our Plain Belt, our Special Belt and Suspensor for Gentlemen,
and our Abdominal Belt for ladies are guaranteed to he the most Scientific and Genuine
Electric Appliances yet produced. They will speedily relieve and Cure Nervous Exhaus-
tion, Rheumatism, Pain and Weakness in the Back, impart tone and visror to the whole nervous
system, and make life a pleasure. We invite all sufferers, no matter what the disease or ailment may be,
to call or send for our Free Book, entitled, “ Modern Treatment of Disease by Electricity.”
Consultation Free.
HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists,
105 Regent St., London, W„ and 44 OASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
Please mention this paper.
r~p-pq —pi
FREEMAN & WALLACE
{ This is the only Medical
j Institute in Australia with
: a bona fide capital that
■ stands behind guarantees
! as evidence of faithful per-
■. formance of all contracts.
Electro-Medical ai?d
SOrgical iQStittite
IN AN
AGE which is so remarkable for its progress in all departments of Art, Philosophy Manufacture and
, .... Science it is surprising- to find the practice of Medicine so deplorably in the rear while thousands
of practitioners in the healing art prefer to remain in the conventional groove of iheir predecessors The Freeman
and Wallace Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute consulting staff rise superior to the false code of ethics which
tyrannically bind the medical profession, and announce to the public that upon all special comnlaints they still con-
tinue to be consulted by the afflicted at their old address, Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets Sydney'
f ** 'J
J .
Vf :
m •
aw*
V, o
E*' ' ■' ' 4 > ,
i:
>*>.
v
r* V rii4rSS»*?
•RHteSi. ‘
v-
Y
fl
l i *
! *4
S 3
P 1
P
mis*
.. JM * : JZ:f}‘'
tlSi
0-3 !
.
fk%hy-ir
ifcSK#S '■.
* %
SPECIAL
EXPERTS FREEMAN AND WALLACE ,
The Specialists who conduct the largest practice in Australasia.
NOTICE.
No one should hesitate to consult us, as consultations either by letter or in
person are given FREE OF CHARGE, and Strictest Privacy is always assured.
OUR COMMONWEALTH POCKET DIARY.
Every Farmer, Miner, Mariner, Station-hand, Book-keeper, and other Toilers should send for a copy of this
Useful Memorandum Book. POST FREE ON APPLICATION—ALL COLONIES.
400-PAGE MEDICAL WORK (Illustrated, containing 80 Engravings, Many Useful Prescriptions,
Hints on hick Room, Accidents and Emergency) Price 6d (POST FREE) ON APPLICATION.
\
Heart, Kidney, Liver Affections.
Nerve and Brain Complications.
Gravel, Bladder and Spinal Affections.
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Epilepsy, Gout.
Rupture and Piles Cured without Operation.
Blood and Skin Diseases.
HEALTH
m
pB
All .ACE
fflt
T
S a
PH
STRENGTH ElECTfin.
-mec
Eh
> ■ :\P.
:
i r M
Ij EH f t 11, . -
\JD SURCICAL INSTITUTE. VIGOR
AND
| 1
.
-
a n
-
WHY WE ADVERTISE ! ? eCaUSe Advertising 19 the Jegitimate means vouchsafed to enlighten people
" . " ", . 7 ' ‘ to acquaint each other with their avocations and wants. If a man has '
Speciality, and has devoted years of his life and expended large sums of money in studying that Special it va „ r fi‘
purchasing the necessary appliances, etc., for treating certain diseases, it would be absurd for him not fo,,
the fact, and disseminate the knowledge universally, We have no apology to offer for informing the world ™
this advertisement and otherwise of the means of relief we can afford to sufferers who need our help Th P r f “
however opposed to your own preconceived ideas and to those of your medical advisers, our method'of
may be the fact still remains that it is successful, and this is verified by the thousands of testimonials received
grateful patients We make no secret of our mode of practice. We only claim to have utilised in a common
way the result of scientific research and long experience. If you listen to the counsel of your sceptical friend* ?
jealous physician you may omit consulting us, but remember if you allow the disease to run riot in your svsfenf ,
are guilty of culpable neglect, and are alone responsible for your future pitiful condition. 3 ’ 3 011
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration by Government
Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, Great Britain
and America Open to Inspection by Dr. Wallace, our Physician-in-Chief.
Late Consulting Staff, Homoepathic Hospital, Melbourne.
Late Medical Staff, British Army.
HOME TREATMENT. —If you live out of town and cannot visit us, this need net-.
- ■ ...... you of the benefits of our wonderful treatment, because in the new
system ot combining medicine and electricity a complete Electro-Medical home treatment is provided for l !
day passes that the, news does not reach us of some wonderful home cure of a person livin<>- so far nvn 'tw y
sonal visit could not be made. Write a plain statement of your condition, explaining you? feel and
oloarlv qc nnccihlo nnH frniri if. uro will bo nblo * SJ lliptOlllS &S
costs you the trouble of
", , :r, r : ' .yuui uuuuiuun, explaining your fee
clearly as possible, and from it we will be able to accurately diagnose your case It only cosl
writing, and twopence postage to get the opinion and advice of Australia’s Leading Specialists.
DO NOT BE DRUGGED TO DEATH BY QUACKS
When there are so many quacks and impudent pretenders in the field of Medicine, who arrogate to themselve*
the monstrosity of giving counsel and advice in matters of which they are profoundly ignorant I S
nothing to recommend them hut their audacity, sufferers cannot be too careful whom they consult VUh mch
liberty of choice belongs to all, discrimination is necessary. In consulting THE FREEMAN A\ V i !
ELEOTOO-MEWCAL AND SURGICAL INSTITUTE patients may feel assured thatfhey shah itefve the
of those fitted by superior skill and education, the result of special study. Our reputation and mirnral eed
success as Specialists entitle us to your confidence. ipai eled
Medicines forwarded to all parts of the WorId— CONTENTS
FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
% Elizabeth *| Batl>(irstSts, Sydney
For privacy Patients may address “ Messrs. F. & W.,» 225 and 227 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
N.B.— QUEENSLANDERS are hereby informed that a person advertising as Dr. Wallace
in Brisbane is in no way connected with the Institute.


THEE fa.m:oxjs RBMBUY
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain. „ _ . .
BEWARE OF COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. O. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l are writing to tell you
about the wonderful oure ‘your medicine has effected in
my ame. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
Several oocasions there was Mood in the expectorated
matter. I bad been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my oars t» be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my hed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE'S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Viotovia.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Heame’s Bronohitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Via
“Mr. Hearne.—
“Dear Sir, —I am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
oold that she entirely lost her-voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four battles to Eng-
land to mv mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.’’
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
clued by Hearne’s Bronchitis (jure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong,—
“Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured ftie. I wag very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a ds.y as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At ithe end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, l was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.’
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows :—“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne's
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walfc-into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. _ I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a hotlle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night's rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
Erescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
ut I am happy to say that the oough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“ WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Years’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearn#.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. I am more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small'bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER
COMPLETELY CURED.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“ Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scaroely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write y«u this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well. —Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILEBL
A SEVENTEEN YEARS' CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charlevilie,
Queensland, writes : —“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three, bqttles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 16 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he statesl
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma."
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist,, Geelong, Victoria.
br/vnch offi ce . No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally .
LOADED & UNLOADED
IN DAYLIGHT.
No dark room required
for changing films.
Photopapliy - -
- - Simplified.
EASTMAN’S
KODAKS
LIGHT, COMPACT
PORTABLE.
Kodaks all Prices, 6s.
to £8 18s.
Send for Price List and
mention this paper.
KODAK Ltd.
234 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food f ° r
Infants'
9
-
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritions,
but is most edsily digested, and is so delicious that it is
•cloyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Dhsmists, Sc., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
. AND
THE AGED.
“P.A.,” discoursing on Barmaids, takes
a very extreme view :—
Half a lifetime passed in hotels convinces me that an in-
tending'barmaid might as well, asarule, take to the “town ”
at once. Let a woman be ever so virtuous physically, the
degrading influence of a bar sullies the purest minds. No
woman should be exposed to the filth and profanity of a
bar-room conversation. The smell of smoke and spirits
have a terrible effect on women’s nerves and they awake
after a late, “ busy ” night, so shattered that brandy-and-
soda before breakfast is absolutely necessary. And the
brandy course once begun, the downward road is easy.
The girl who spends her youth and beauty in such a
service is, in 10 years, either on the town or
taking in washing. Bung has probably used her
as his mistress and worked her 15 hours a day.
Then, when drink has a heavy hold on her, and
her good looks go, she is cast aside like an empty bottle.
I have known girls of 20 or so to take a daily bottle of
spirits, with occasional wines and beers as well. Others
I have known who drank, with customers, as much
as 25s. worth per day. They have to vary the drinks to
keep reasonably sober, so the mixture by the end of the
day would mean whisky, benedictine, all kinds of wines,
sarsaparilla, quinine, soda, lemonade, absinthe, gin, beer
and stout. They must drink with customers, for some
men have such a hoggish desire to show off that they
will be offended if the barmaid refuses, and com-
plain to the “boss” that she is stuck-up; so the girl’s
very living depends upon making a slush-tub of her-
self Of course, the life is often looked upon as one of
pleasure, gaiety and ease, but even the greatest fool of a
girl soon gets tired of the brilliant conversational efforts
of the boozy imbeciles who call her “ my darling ” and
tell her azure stories. No one but a contemptible coward
would take advantage of a girl’s helplessness to insult her
thus, but the hotel world is full of such dastards. No
one but “ mugs and outsiders call barmaids “ darling."
The real “ boy ” is always the quietest of the gang. He
gets his work'in after the show, so does not need to make
a fool of himself before people. However, apart from the
degradation, sweating, and ..often starvation of our
women, the sale of drink should not be made any more
attractive than necessar}'. The law forbids saloons to be
made merry by music, therefore they should not be made
attractive by thg suggestion of licentiousness which
women’s presence offers. Fifty per cent, of drunken-
ness is due to this attraction. If whisky were sold
down in a damp,, mouldy,, candle-lit cellar, in tin
pannikins, served by niggers or blear-eyed boozers, its
consumption would go down about half. The barmaid is
a lure and a snare, who goes down to destruction with
her prey. A man who dared to put a girl in a bar in
U.S.A. would have his saloon torn down about his ears,
and would be considered as low as if he took money for
her prostitution. Of course, it may be said that a woman
who is degraded enough to serve drinks in a saloon, listen
to the filthy talk, find inhale its second-hand cigar smoke,
is not fit for anything else, but it is the duty of the law
to protect her from the consequences of her own folly.
Robert Brothers writes of Port Augusta
The smelters started work at Port Augusta on Sept. 27.
I am waiting to see whether this will lift the blighted
town to its feet and put a little stiffening * nto
column. Geographically, Port Augusta should be t
capital of South Australia, and so it would have been, i
think but for the sandy desert to the west. Things were
promising here once, but local enterprise was like a
foolish man who built his house on the sand. Port
Augusta built too many houses on that shifting founda-
tion. Yet the people have not ceased to hope, relying on
the chance of a transcontinental railway passing througn
th In one-fourth the houses are empty, and
in various stages of collapse. For protection, some are
boarded up at the windows and doors, and some are
nearly falling ; some are down. As the houses, so are the
fences. Apathy has fastened on the place, and you can
almost see a Presence which broods and broods, rort
Augusta nourishes unswerving hatred to Adelaide and its
centralising influence. On every hand you see tokens of
retrogression—from the man who discourses to you ot
what has-been to the falling cement on some of the best
buildings. The country roads stretch out, spread deeply
with sand ; and no vehicle seems to make use of them.
Sand, sand everywhere, and not a blade of grass. There
are sparse green bushes, and sparse wattles, and the sand
spreads away to the feet of the black and ragged Flinders
Ranges. Wandering among those sand heaps I discovered
the future of Port Augusta. I was in what seemed a
park or paddock, when my foot kicked something hard,
and I found that it was the top of a post of a wire fence!
A few paces further on I saw the top of a sculptured
stone, and I read “ Sacred to the memory I needed a
spade to read further. There were many buried head-
stones there —some more exposed than others ; and some-
times I found the spikes of railings showing an inch above
the sand. It was a buried burial-ground—with no
flowers, no cultivated trees—only sand, and native shrubs
that had sprung up after the burying-ground had been
buried. In that dreary spot methought I could see the
insidious sand-heap creeping over the whole of Port
Augusta ; and I trembled for the Port Augustans, whom I
knew were too slow to get out of its way.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.


Pleasant and Refreshing to the Taste
and
Truly Beneficial in Effect
CZJps i
r.
.«♦
* *•.
•f's
Ss
£C
'SS6UU<«€USSSS4;4<St4/J<.
lIP
■Mm
w
©
!?>-. \f rf
fie
f
is above all things a natural remedy; that is, it assists nature to
perform the functions essential to health in an absolutely natural
way, without any injurious or weakening effects. Its perfect
freedom from every objectionable quality and substance makes
it the ideal laxative. California Syrup of Figs,
NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE,
acts gently and painlessly upon the Liver, Stomach and Kidneys,
thoroughly cleansing the system, promoting healthful regularity,
and leaving the organsjermanently strengthened. It is the best
and most pleasant remedy for Constipation. Sluggish Liver,
Biliousness, Indigestion, Depression, Feverishness, Loss
of Appetite, Headache, and all kindred complaints, speedily
restoring health, appetite, energy and good spirits.
Ask for CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS, and look for the
Name and Trade Mark of the
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP COMPANY,
31 & 32 SNOW HILL, LONDON, ENGLAND.
Australian Branch— 7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
Of all leading Chemists, i/i£ and 1/9.
ERASMIC ——-
PERFUME
Is delightfully fragrant and pleasant to use.
A DAINTY, DELICIOUS DELICACY.
. . . ASK YOUR CHEMIST FOR IT . . .
THE
ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the World
solely for Toilet Soap was obtained by
B
fRAHC
A.Bt F. PEARS
Reduced Facsimile
of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the
jurors of the
Paris Exhibition,
SOAP MAKERS,
BY
Special Appointment
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND TO
His Royal Highness ,
The Prince
of Wales.
The Quick and Lively Pill
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
John Strang ways and Jerry, his mate, left
Bandaloora with big cheques, the results of three
months’ fencing, and pitched a camp between two
billabongs, about three miles off an unfrequented
road.
John was making pills. “ When we get fairly
goin’, we’ll get a lot o’ circulars printed,” he said,
mixing up the bulk-pill on a sheet of bark. By
his side was the prescription—“ known only to
Dr. Strangways ”: —
One dish flour,
2 tablespoons quinine,
2oz. croton oil.
Mix up with the water of boiled gum leaves.
“By’n’bye we’ll be able to take a hoffis, Jerry,
an’ ’ave a brass plate on the door: * Dr. Strang-
ways may be ensulted at all hours.’ We’ll adver-
tise in the noos-papers then, an’ print cerimonyals
from grateful suff’rers.”
“ S’pose we don’t get any ? ” asked Jerry, poking
some boiling gumleaves down in a kerosene tin.
“ Yer ain’t got no more intellect nor a goanna,
Jerry. Why, there’s scores o’ blokes wot’d swear
ceremonyals to order jes’ for a chew o’ terbacco ! ”
John cut the pill-stuff into segments, and Jerry
made them round by rolling them between his
palms. Then he dipped them into a tin of cochi-
neal, to color them, and finally laid them on a
sheet of bark to dry.
It took them a week to make a thousand.
“Even that’s five quid,” said John, hopefully.
“When we get machinery, we’ll do much better.”
“They ain’t sold yet,” Jerry said.
“No trouble to sell ’em out-back,” said the
doctor, confidently. “You’ll go ahead o’me to
the stations, an’ camp at the huts. Incident’ly
yer’ll mention how you was suff’rin’ somethin’
awful from inderjeschen, lumbaygo, rooinatics,
hydattis, backache —an’, above all that tired
feelin’. By accident, yer runs ag’in a trav’lin’
dootor. You could scarcely crawl at the time,
you was that bad. His name was Strangways—
Dootor Strangways, from Shercargo—an’ he give
you some of nis Patent Quick and Lively Pills.
Wal, says you, after talcin’ two boxes you felt a
new man; an’ after you’d swallered two more you
was better’n you was afore you took bad. You
was quite stunned by the magic work o’ them
pills. You b’lieve, says you, that this Dr. Strang-
ways once saved the life of an old Indian chief
while trav’lin’ with troops in the Punjab, an’, by
way of gratitude, he gave the doctor the formuliar
for them pills.”
Meanwhile John was writing on the boxes.
“Dose, 2 pils after a feed, an’ the rest o’ the
box when yer turn-in.”
“If them pills don’t’ave some effect on the
cove wot takes ’em I’ll be surprised. You only
want these fellers out ’ere to feel some effect after
talcin’, and the pills’ reppertations made. ”
“’Sposin’ that effect’s injurious?” Jerry sug-
gested.
“Don’t matter if it’s murd’rous. S’long’s they
feel some effect, they’ll reckon they’re bein’ cured.
Some real gen-u-ine pills is that mild # in their
effect they can’t be felt. Consequence is, they’re
put down as hogwash. Now, the principle o’ my
patent pills is that they’ll be felt. That, I say, is
the mainspring o’ the pill-trade. The next thing
is to make yer client b’lieve he’s real bad, an’ if he
don’t take pills he’ll be a blanlcy sight worse afore
he’s better. Size him up on the quiet, an’ if he’s
only gorra toe-ache or weak mem’ry, give a lecture
on giniril parralalusis, or something, an’ ring in
the toe-ache an’ weak mem’ry as symptoms.
That’ll make him find more symptoms, an’ he’ll
soon be dead sure he’s got sev’ral diseases that he
hasn’t. Thinkin’ of ’em will make him melon-
colly, which’ll be proof positive he wants tonin’
up. Then he’ll start physickin’ —first one thing,
an’ then with another, till he really is bad. We
mus’ get some books printed, Jerry. Fine thing
to make fellers sick.
“There’s some people wot thinks they can’t
keep ’ealthy ’thout bein’ a sort o’ walkin’ drug-
store. It’s not natch’rel for their bodily functions
to keep right if they don’t take something. Them
Patent Pills o’ mine’ll supply a long-felt want.
Takin’ of ’em will ease their minds. Remember,
when givin’ yer testermony, that they’re a splen-
did thing for that tired feelin’, an’ for melon-
lcolyer and bashfulness ; and so on. Spots afore
the eyes vanish after takin’ one box—etcettra an’
so forth.
“ Dagnose their cases, Jerry, an’ wotever’s the
matter with ’em, them pills is the very spesserfick
for it. Always tell ’em to beware of imitations.
None gen-u-ine without Doctor Strangways’
written signature on the lid.”
* * * *
Next morning Jerry was gathering gum-leaves
up the creek, when loud voices were heard at the
camp. He rushed out of the gully, and then
stood with his mouth open, peering from behind a
tree. About 20 shearers—cutting across country
from one shed to another —had struck the pill-
factory. They had overhauled the business, ap-
parently, and read the advertisements, for they
called John a low-down dog-poisoner, played
football with the pills, and dabbed the dough on
the doctor’s head ; and while some abused and
jostled him, others wrecked the camp. Jerry
bolted up the creek and hid in a hollow log.
At last the shearers went away—laughing
boisterously. Jerry hurried to the camp. He
found the doctor tied to a tree, stark naked, and
painted from head to foot with cochineal. He
walked round him, and looked him up and down.
Then he shook his head sadly. ‘ ‘ I’m afraid yer
in a bad way, John. Better take a pill.”
John glared savagely, and ground his teeth.
“ How’s yer pulse ? ” said Jerry, taking hold of
John’s ear. “ See any spots afore yer eyes ? Feel
tired-like, or melon-kolly ? ’Ave bad dreams, or
anything like that ? ”
“ Lemme go, blast yer ! ” John roared,
“ Mos’ chronic case I ever see,” Jerry con-
tinued, unperturbed ; “yer’ll want a hextra
pow’rful course o’ Quick and Lively pills ”
With a great effort, John burst the straps that
held him, and the next instant Jerry was lying
on his back with several teeth loose. John
rushed down to the waterhole to “transmo-
graphy” himself. He felt better afterwards, and
came back to apologise to Jerry.
But Jerry was gone—swag and all.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
Advts. from a recent Saturday’s Age :
TNVALIDS sung to, by young lady, good voice, with
or without accompaniment. Particulars, Roy,
Age office.
T ONELY Tourist, rich, but honorable. Seeks an
acquiescent, sympathetic Companion ; good
talker preferred. Destiny, Age office.
TX7IIJj Harry X. please write to Mary Z.,
"V Port Welshpool, S. Gippsland; husband
drowned.
When Everything Has
Happened.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She was saying: “ I always thought Love could
overcome all obstacles.”
He stopped her: “ The great fault to be found
with love is that he conquers too much, too
easily. He’s Love the Conqueror in his relations
to man; Love the impotent in relation to circum-
stances. In spite of poets we.cannot live on love,
though love would hold in contempt any anxiety
about ability to provide the necessary bread and
butter. It’s this way, dear : I’m broken and use-
less —couldn’t earn a certain pound a week at any
occupation. I asked you to be my wife, in view
of expectations. I thought it no hardship for you
to wait. I see the folly of it now, and, as an
honest man, can hold out no hope of our marry-
ing. I’m in deb 1 :, with a taste for strong coffee
and good cigars as my only assets. You are—24 ;
I—2B. I can’t ask you to wait longer. I blame
myself for keeping you waiting so long. All this,
being interpreted, means —Grood-bye.”
Without a gesture which might betray her
thoughts she asked, “ But what about the secre-
taryship ? I thought ”
“ So did I until I got this letter,” showing it to
her. It was an apologetic statement that the
position had been given to Saunders—a relation of
the Minister’s.
“But, Don dear, I’m earning nearly two pounds
a week: couldn’t we manage on that till, till you
get something to do? You have brains and
education, and ”
“Yes,” he muttered, “brains and education,
the two worst mantraps. If I had not set up to
be clever I might have been—a decent brick-
layer. It’s too late to learn bricklaying now.”
*“ What a pity that we can’t always be fifteen—
or fifty : at fifteen we don’t care what happens, at
fifty ”
“Everything has happened, eh ?”
“ So it’s to be good-bye ? ” she said.
“I see nothing else for it.”
She saw her dream vanish with a smile on her
face. The smile disturbed him ;he was at a loss
to account for it, being only twenty-eight. She
let him kiss her, and with a shiver, watched him
depart.
He left her and wandered to the Quay, with a
half-defined notion of suicide, till the. thought of
fiving pain to “ his people ” turned him home to
ed.
In the afternoon of the next day he was handed
a wire. It read: “Trouble in office; Saunders
resigned this morning. Am instructed to offer
you secretaryship. Reply at once.”
The words danced before his eyes. He grabbed
his hat, and rushed to her rooms. Now he could
marry her, and take her away from the hateful
typewriter. They would live in that red-brick
cottage after all. And, yes, he could publish his
book—the book that was to bring him fame, if not
fortune. He knocked at her door, without
noticing the furniture-van before the front of the
house. In answer to his knock, she came, dressed
for a journey. He thrust the telegram into her
hand, and tremblingly watched the color steal
from her face. He spoke inanely :
“You look pale.”
“Yes,” she said, handing him back his tele-
gram, “people usually do when they reach the
agf of 50. I—l married the ‘ boss ’ this morning.”
D.H.B.
Some Melbourne suburban councils are
moving for local services of motor-omnibuses. It
looks as if the motor-’bus, with its capacity for
easily threading crowded thoroughfares and can-
tering at a 30-mile gait along empty streets, while
needing no special track, may in time oust the
cable, and even the electric trams.
The Order of Theocratic Purity, just now
being exposed in London by means of the criminal
prosecution of its high priest and high priestess,
was, from sworn statements, a particularly
gorgeous kind of religious organisation. Part of
its dogma was that female adherents had to be cor-
rupted by the high priest, and male adherents by
the high priestess—in fact, this seems to have been
the greatest part of the religion; the rest was
mostly flummery. The peculiar affinity between
some forms of religious mania and sex-mania, and
the delight of the public in the works of these
novelists and dramatists who produce strong
mixtures of religion and rortiness, give the
psychologist much to seriously ponder over.
“Jaf”: Concerning the miserable failure
of Junee (N.S.W.) waterworks scheme :
In its infancy, Junee depended for water on the pre-
carious visits of water-trains, but, after many deputa-
tions, conservation works were undertaken by Govt., and
completed, not for the few thousands so airily first sug-
gested, but for little shore of £50,000. Yet, for three
years, the reservoir l emained as dry as the Sahara. Then
a creek was diverted to it, and the reticulation-pipes
promptly burst in many places within a distance of 18miles.
Mr. Hamlet, Govt. Analyst, visited the reservoir the
other day, and promptly declared the water unfit for use,
on account of the large quantity of mineral and animal
matter contained therein. This, however, he thinks,
could be expelled, by a system of aeration, in perhaps 10
or 12 years ! Cost, to date, of this huge failure, is a shade
under £60,000, and still Junee has to take its whisky
neat.
The paragraph subjoined, sent to The
Bulletin by a correspondent, will severely stir
the gall of the artistic fraternity :
Artist James W. Curtis, of Melbourne, died the other
week, and his rich, particular patron, T. W. Stanford, has
issued a booklet (written by James Smith) in appreciation
of the dead man’s work. Curtis “created” nothing,
neither did he leave his meaning open to conjecture. He
saw nothing worth considering except the truth when he
looked at a landscape, and he depicted it with a regard
for detail not less skilful than scrupulous, and with just
as much genius as lies in a constant capacity for taking
pains. He loved his art. None of liis detractors can
have a stronger devotion to their art, and very few of
them, maybe, could rival the conscientious Curtis’s work
if they tried. Fashions in painting, or schools of
painting, change with the times. Curtis was old-
fashioned in his methods, and he found some sincere
admirers. Mr. Stanford, for whom the late artist
made fully 150 landscape pictures, was not the
only patron who had given him wholesale orders.
The “ Appreciation ” states that, when Curtis was a
young fellow in London, a lady employed him for
some years on a series of water-color drawings. After
her death he went to Melbourne and worked for photo-
graphers and newspapers. Just at a time when his
outlook was particularly gloomy Mr. Joe Syme, of the
Age, who wanted a lot of pictures for his big, new family
residence, appointed Curtis his artist in ordinary. It
was only of late years that Mr. Stanford “took up’’the
unassuming Curtis. They travelled Australia together,
the capitalist suggesting bits of country for pictures, and
the artist making sketch selections from them. Seventy
of the paintings from these sketches were presented by
Mr. Stanford to the American University which bears his
brother’s name. So Curtis achieved a record, anyhow.
Alas for the artist who sells a ton of pictures at a
time to any one man ! And alas, also, for the man
who buys a ton of pictures from any one artist.
Pictures, unless from the brushes of men of great
genius, are things best seen one at a time.


ft
SAID DOAFS!
' W I
Y
cri cr: HHc
c
con err*, j r— :
«<=?
era car
err
»w
e
IfiUAP..
n
te
n
**='G=r«
O
ci cfeT I
1
y
m
/J
And I got Doan’s
66 1 said Doan’s.”
“ You’re a younger man than lam ; let me give you some advice. When
a man asks you for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, sell them to him without
any talk. He knows what he wants. I know what I want. I have used
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for years, and I know all about them. I don’t
know anything about yours. I want Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and I
want to see Jas. Doan’s signature on the wrapper. That signature is a guaran-
tee of the genuineness of the medicine.
“The last time I was here you tried to sell me something else when I
asked for Doan’s pills ; now you are trying it again. I tell you plainly I won’t
have your substitute. I asked for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and
that’s exactly ivhat I mean to have l ”
OAN’S
The Kidneys are the most important organs of the body,
because they filter the blood.
When they are sick, the whole body is sick.
Dizziness, pains in the back, neuralgia, rheumatism, tired,
all gone feeling, dropsy, diabetes, bad blood, inflammation of the
bladder, sleeplessness, nervousness, headaches, etc., come from
the impurities of the blood which the kidneys should have taken
out. Good health can only be obtained when these very impor-
tant organs are well. The blood must be fresh, clean and pure,
with not a taint of poison in it.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills heal the kidneys and help them
to work naturally and to remove absolutely all disease-breeding
impurities. They cure disease by curing the kidneys.
Thousands of Sydney people know this now.
Here is one of them
Mrs. Fred. Russell, 7 St. Andrew’s-st., Balmain, this city, says :—“ My husband
had been bad three or four years with kidney trouble. He was such a sufferer tlmt he
could not stand up straight, and all his movements were fraught with great pain.
Unable to sleep at night, he used to try all manner of positions, and would get up next
morning thoroughly done up and unrefreshed. The best position for him to lie in was
face downward, but he would soon have to change that. Sometimes the pains were a
lot worse than others. To stand up straight was worse than hard work. When well —
before he got bad, I mean—he used to do heavy work, but he had to give up, his back
having well-nigh crippled him. He went to hospitals one after another; and when
they failed to give him ease from his terrible pain he tried all manner of remedies
advertised excepting one. We spent a lot of money in plasters and liniments and other
things for outward application, but he was still as bad as ever after using them ; aye,
worse. It is now over twelve months since that lucky day when we got Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills at Newman’s Pharmacy, King-st. At that time he was unable to sit
down or lie down, and when he walked he held his back all the time. His pains were
frightful. Well, the first few doses of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills rid him of those
terrible pains, and after a time he became much improved. In all he took six boxes.
Then he left off the medicine, and has taken none since, and that is over six months
ago. A few days ago he said to me, ‘ You never hear me complain of pains now;
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are simply grand.’ ”
For Sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s, 9d. per bex
(six boxes, 15s. 3d.) or will be posted on receipt of price by
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
BUT BE SURE THEY ARE DOAN’S.
A Song of the Plains.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh ! this is the song of a flyer,
Whose wheels are a dream to see;
Though many a rig lifts higher,
There’s nothing that moves so free.
And over the level distance,
I wager the townships know
The throb of her heavy pistons,
And smile when they hear her blow.
For never a load can hold her;
She drives by the clock—on time—
A-rocking and all a-shoulder,
And every chain a-chime.
And never a build flies fleeter—
With half her long journey done,
She snorts when the light grades meet her,
And sways on the downward run.
A whisper afar through the dead-light
That lies on the lonely gums—
A dazzling beam from her headlight,
And a shuddering rail that hums—
A muffled roll like the throbbing
Of myriad screws off-shore,
And a laboring, rhythmic sobbing
That grows to a pulsing roar—
A strident call where the levels
Dip down, and the red roads cross—
A furnace and two red devils,
A barrel that gleams a-toss. . . .
And so, you have seen us racing,
You’ll stare till our tail-lights wheel,
But only the night-winds, chasing,
Can follow our flying steel.
The whispering trees are bending—
Some mimic our reckless speed,
And circle and race, pretending
They’re giving the mail a lead.
And out in the clearings, grasses
Moan sad in the draught we bring ;
And every post that passes
Lifts higher the wires that sing
Of speed and a rosy morning
To follow, oh, far behind !
The twinkling red waves warning,
The glittering green “ drive blind ”
Green light and a long bridge thunders,
And housed on the river flat
A youngster awakes and wonders
“If ever I’ll drive like that! ”
The shadows that shun the sunlight,
Fly fast when they hear our stroke;
But we fly faster with one light
That jeers at the shadow-folk.
Thrown clear in its flashing flicker,
The quivering metals shine ;
And, cursing, the wheels turn quicker,
And tear at the stubborn line
That swings o’er the plain-land, gleaming
Through village and lonely town —
They watch out west for our steaming,
And laugh when our brakes go down.
The grappling cranks are heaving—
Each coupling-rod sweeps grand,
And softly her sheaves are weaving
A tale of the overland.
Oh ! this is the song of a racer,
Who never was taught to climb,
And never a rig can pace her —
She drives by the clock—on time—
To waken the summer silence
Or shatter the night-mist’s pall—
For many a ringing mile hence
The people will hear her call.
And e’en when her day is ended,
And daintier builds outstrip,
She’ll come in the moonlight splendid,
And blow where the crossings dip,
And men laid dead in the distance
Will turn in their rest, I know,
To hear the rush of her pistons,
And smile when they hear her blow !
M.L.
QUILP N.
Freeman’s Journal (Syd.), referring to
the landing of Coadjutor-Archbishop Kelly:
“Simultaneously with his Grace’s arrival is
stamped on the pages of Australian history—
Catholic and profane—one of the most noteworthy
events,” &c.
In New York and ’Frisco street-expecto-
ration means a fine of up to 500d01., or 12 months’
gaol! The Americans evidently fail to grasp the
comic element which we in Australia appear to
find in the attempt to deal punitively with this
filthy and dangerous practice.
England forgets its returned soldiers just
as thoroughly as Australia. A recent applicant
at a London police-court told the magistrate that
he could get neither employment nor his arrears
of pay. He was handed over to the police “ mis-
sionary,” who gave him food and a bed. The
glory of the hero’s return !
According to “Cachalot” Bullen, Kipling,
“ who used to take a glass regularly,” was ren-
dered a total abstainer by seeing, in Manchester,
two 15-year-old girls “ reel out of a public house,
stagger across the pavement, and fall into the
gutter.” Sounds a bit claptrappy, and, in fact,
KipKngesque. But, then, Bullen was addressing
a total-abstinence society, and the cold-tea-
anecdote is mostly lie !
Mrs. Nicholson, whose husband gave the
name of “Nicholson’s Corner” to a block of
buildings, corner of Bourke and Swanston-streets,
Melbourne, 60 years ago, died the other day in Syd-
ney. They made much money at the “ Corner,”
chiefly out of groceries, and stuck to it.
“ W.H.1.” to “Alex. M.” (B. 31/8/’01).
Recent statistics from a large London hospital
hardly corroborate the notion that people die
mostly during the “small” hours of the morning.
(Hospital statistics, of course are not conclusive,
as most of the cases are abnormal.) A 10-years’
average amongst 1500 patients gives 26 per cent,
of deaths between midnight and 6 a.m., 19 per
cent, between 6 a.m. and noon, 31 per cent,
between noon and 6 p.m., and 24 per cent,
between 6 p.m. and midnight. A curve-chart
shows that the death-rate was highest between 3
and 6 a.m. and 3 and 6 p.m.
A Platonic Friendship.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“On Monday there’s the court —Nixon’ll get two
years, if not more; so that vengeful spirit
will be tamed. - Tuesday —■ take delivery of
those sheep; and Wednesday, the dance at
Morris’s —to which I shan’t go. Wonder why I
don’t hear from Eva ? It’s she that’s keeping it
up now, not me —— ”
For nearly an hour the thin spiral of smoke
ascended from the bunk to the blackened rafters,
then Morris’s overseer turned his face to the wall
and slept. The wind sighed and moaned through
the sbeoaks; two mopokes kept up a distant,
lonely conversation ; and down about the water-
hole a restless little wagtail was jigging and
chattering around, as if it was noon instead of
midnight. A moon-ray pierced through a crack
in the slabs and played over the sleeper’s face.
The brow was puckered, then came a frown, and
lastly, an expression of wistful longing, as the
eyes opened and stared in a half-puzzled, half-
vacant way, at the intruding ray. He slept
and dreamt again . . .
The overseer usually “lay it in” on Sundays,
but, when the sun rose next morning, the smoke
was already ascending from the chimney of the
slab hut. The inmate was whistling as he filled
the billy and set it on the fire—a tangled, inco-
herent melody ; pathetic, comic scraps of opera,
coon-songs, all jangling one upon another. Now
and then he stopped, with his eyes fixed on
vacancy.
“I won’t write till Wednesday ! Why should
I ? Might get a letter this evening.” The
whistling went on. “It’s five years since that
Smith girl said ‘ I was under the whip,’ and twice
I’ve ‘ cut my stick ’ —to the world’s end each time
—only to crawl back again. Bet I’m not the only
one, either! Why can’t a fellow become in-
different ? If she wasn’t in that accursed hos-
pital—don’t believe I would care—at least, not so
much ! I’ll write to-morrow, anyhow, just a
casual, polite inquiry as to how she’s getting on ;
and I'll ask if anything out of the common
occurred on Saturday night or Sunday morning.
Never did take any notice of dreams, but some-
how, after last night, I feel every way but com-
fortable ! ”
A fragment from “Florodora” silenced the
native songsters that hailed the spring sunshine.
It broke off suddenly. “One thing is clear, if I
wasn’t still under the whip I wouldn’t experience
half-a-hundred different sensations mixed up with
a chaotic nightmare which worries the soul out of
me. Creditable kind of business—damned if it
isn’t —’nother man’s wife ! Anyhow, I’ll write to-
night—can’t stand this uncertainty. Two minds
to ride into Turrawong and send a wire—but that
would be too strong. After all, it’ll be nothing—
wish I hadn’t quarrelled with her! Curse my
sensitiveness—and a fat lot she cares ! ” He
strode out of the hut towards the creek for the
usual morning plunge, so pre-occupied that he
didn’t notice the absence of canine joy which
generally greeted him.
Stripped and plunged, he swam leisurely down
the hole for about a hundred yards, breasted an
old gum log, pulled himself up and sat-down.
Close by was a cattle-pad running down to the
water. Something made him look up, and just
where the pad went over the bank a tuft of
dark hair caught his eye. Steadying himself, he
rose, and with the help of a limb, reached the
summit. His dog was lying across the track-
dead.
This qnexpected incident, for a time, rid his
mind of thoughts concerning his woman friend.
“ That he didn’t take one of our baits—l’ll lay a
hundred to one ; and also, if Nixon wasn’t fast in
gaol, I’d put it down to him, and forewarned is
forearmed; but as it is, don’t know what to think—
things seem to be all at sixes and sevens ! ” And
again his thoughts reverted to the old channel.
By the time he got back to the hut the fire was
out and the billy dry ; but he took no notice.
Going to the table he alternately thought and
wrote, then, throwing himself on his bunk,
smoked. ‘ ‘ Never met a woman quite like her—
she’s been pretty good to me, too. I needn’t have
cut up so rough about that trifle.”
Arising, he tore up what he had written, went
out, caught and saddled a horse, rode to the gate,
returned, re-entered the hut, wrote again, and
went out. Two miles from the hut he came upon
a road; dismounting, he walked up and down.
It was now late m the afternoon. A mailman
rode up, gave him a telegram, and took his letter.
He choked back the disappointment—“ That’s
all, I s’pose, Daley ? ”
“ That’s all, sir! ” and, passing the time of day,
gave a dig of the spurs. There was a snort, a
fleck of foam, a cloud of dust, and the mailman
vanished in the timber.
“ Oh, well, I’ve written—can’t do more! What’s
this uninteresting bit of business ? ”
“ Sydney, Sunday.
“ Mrs. Mackenzie died at 2 a.m. this morning. Asked
to remember her to you and say good-bye."
“ Dora Eastwood.”
A long, long pause— — A jackass laughing dis-
cordantly, whilst back in the scrub the scream of
a curlew broke the gloomy silence. A deep groan
—he wheeled his horse and rode slowly homeward.
Entering the hut, he looked round, his eye
resting on a photo, over the bunk. He took it
down gently and gazed a long while. “ And asked
to remember her to me. She couldn’t say any
more before them. I wonder would she if there
had been no one but Dora Eastwood ! H’m !it
was her hospital, I b’lieve ; and now I shall never
know whether she cared two pins or not. Eva
Mackenzie dead ! They thought me a lonely
man before, but while I could hear from her,
and see her sometimes, and knew she thought
of me, Life was never lonely—but what’s it going
to be like now ! This morning there seemed a
choice between lunacy and indifference —a fine
hope I had of being indifferent! —but now ”...
He walked out on to the little verandah, and lean-
ing against a pine post, gazed at the golden beauty
of the west.
“She was fond of pretty sunsets ! ” A solitary
tear trickled down his tanned cheek, and then,
with a wistful bitterness—“ Would to Heaven
Nixon’s vengeance would help me now ! ”
There was a sudden sharp crack ; a filmy white
wreath floated up from the edge of the scrub, and
Morris’s overseer, with one hand clutching his
breast, fell back on the rough boards. “ Thank
God ! ” he whispered—and there was a smile on
the bloody lips, and in the closing eyes, looking
their last into the glittering amber of the west,
a light, which the glazing mist of death could nob
utterly subdue.
INDRA.


Cures all Diseases of the Skin
Eczema, Salt-rheum, Tetter, Rashes, Pimples,
Blackheads, Boils, Ulcers All Due to Impure Blood.
Head how this young girl was cured with
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Asf*
£
y.
/,
»pj
Mrs. May Watson, 9 Rose Road, Surry Hills, Sydney, New So. Wales, sends
us the above photograph of her daughter, together with the following testi-
monial :
t -u was suffering terribly from eczema on both h,er hands and feet.
I had tried many remedies without success. Remembering I had received great
help from Di\ Ayer’s Sarsaparilla myself, I began to give it to my daughter.
Soon she showed signs of improvement, and after taking a few bottles the sores
disappeared and she is nowfree from the slightest symptom of the old complaint.
She is as fresh and healthy as any girl could wish to be. This makes me strongly
recommend this wonderful medicine to any one needing a good blood-purifier.”
Such cures always follow the use of
The World’s Greatest Family l^ediclns.”
You cannot feel well unless your blood is pure, and it must be rich, too. Dr.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla will give you both of these, pure blood, rich blood. That
is what you need and what you can quickly have if you will only give this old,
reliable remedy a good trial. Get your blood right and you will no longer suffer
with depression, nervousness, general debility, or some form of skin disease.
AYER’S Sarsapari Ila
• * ,
Brings Comfort and Good Cheer.
Is your tongue coated? Are your bowels cbnstipated? AYER’S PILLS.
■J
StfXffIOSPHATJWE
si
mums
The Only
Food
containing
> hosphate
INVALIDS.
ISITE IN THIS COUNTRY.
S. FREEMAN # SONS LffitEE
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPEOIAT/mS:
BATH OS BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN'S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE: WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
b
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Our©
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
m
A
Sold Throughout the World.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
gfh
£9 lOs.
Tel., 2710 Redfern,
This Special No. 3 Sulky
with Wing' Boards weil
adapted for country roads
and hard usage. Will give
univeral satisfaction.
Pittman’s Commonwealth
Steam Coach Works
176 and 178 Morehead St., Red fern.
THE THREE CAUSES:
BECAUSE Pittman’s Vehicles are articles of real worth
and true merit.
BECAUSE they are always in ready demand.
BECAUSE when their superior qualities have once been
demonstrated, you will have no other
than Pittman’s Vehicles.
0•" Send for Illustrated Catalogue and Price List.
Full Description & Prices of Vehicles free on application
“ Ax Ounce of Fact is
1
Worth a Shipload
of Argument.”
And it is an acknowledged, well-proven fact that BEECH AM’S FILLS
are an absolutely unrivalled remedy for *
Bilious Attacks,
Nervous Disorders!
Liver Complaints, Indigestion,
and many Kindred Ailments.
WHsm”****™*^^i srmwi aiiimrmnHßwnMMMWi« «■ iwiibmmm——
Therefore don’t me misled by the “ shiploads” of specious “ argument ” advanced by
those interested in the sale of untried preparations of mushroom growth. Remember,
£
(!/
u
\>
J
■WORTH A
have been tried and trusted over 50 years. The annual sale exceeds six million boxes, and in
spite of all competition they become more popular every day, and this is nob due to
“argument” and persuasion, but to the FACT that
THEY RECOMMEND THEMSELVES.
UJiS
RUTH
OZINE
BOX
, % h 4*
5?"
///'
Crozine Blacking
is a waterproof polish that produces a brilliant and permanent
gloss, which will not rub off. Shoes polished with “ Crozine
Blacking” wear long, because it is an oil dressing, which softens
the leather. “ Crozine Blacking ”is guaranteed to be absolutely
free from all harmful substances, and will, be found to be the
most satisfactory dressing made for all walking boots and shoes.
Sold almost everywhere. If not found, write at once to
C. L. ItAITHAWAY £> SONS, Boston, Mass., C.SA.
fgh
fg
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
BONNt NOTOM'S
IRISHJMOSS
*=iis§p?i»aEr-
rn^mm
Ok
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING*
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.


SUNSHINE AND WATER.
Plenty of both is what YOUR GARDEN wants.
You needn’t bother about the Sun—THAT’S ALL RIGHT—
IT’S THE WATER TT
asoH Naaavo
We’ve been selling
Garden Hose for
20 years, but never
so cheap as we in-
tend selling this
season.
OUR PRICE list:
I x 3 Ply-Rubber Hose, 50ft. Coils, 235, 255, 30s, 365, 42s per Coil.
k Cotton-covered (Eureka) 50ft. Coils’, 15.°, 20s, 22s Gd per Coil.
Controlling Nozzles, Is 9d ; Hose Unions, Reels, &c.
The Ball Nozzle Sprinkler, is 6d each.
PERDRIAU. and CO.,
Samples of Hose
Post Free.
hfg
ONLY
ADDKESS :
270 Ge©rg© Street, Sydney
hfg
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W- C- IBXjXJTaXIDa-lEJ & oo„
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STRLuII’, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by pout / rum, ail the colonies promptly
attended to.
VISiTQreS TO MELBOURNE
WOl find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
mHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
J-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
TNGT9N.
TRADE MARK*
- -
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send, for Catalosne.
GENUINE
BELTING
BENNIE, TEARE & CO.
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
PERTH
BOOLCARDIE
Representing in Australia,
TANGYES LIMITED.
STOCKS CARRIED
IN ALL THE STATES.
$
ANTISEPTIC
x,- - THROAT PASTILLES.
in Kins St.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUI.—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST—SUPPER
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
It will stay on the sheep’s hack as long as required. It will NOT injure the wool. It will dissolve out under
the ordinary scouring process.
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
FEETOII. CMVIK * CO.. IQECBOURHE.
BLACK , BE />, BLUE (in 8-gallon Cases) —
PRICE IN MELBOURNE .. .. .. { _ 3/Q pe r Gallon.
„ SYDNEY CE. Rich & Co. Ltd.) „ „ 3/0 1,
„ BRISBANE (E. Rich & Co. Ltd.) M „ 3/0 „
n HOBART (Wm. Crosby & Co.) „ 4/3 „
I":-
■
f*e*-*m*
Ottumwa Winding Engine.
Catalogues Free on Application.
LAUNDRY
AND
WOOD-WORKING
MACHINERY,
ENGINEERS’ FITTINGS,
MINE and MILL SUPPLIES
% -
■r^oo.
c ® s*
■SJ
/Ve
Hrs.iv
Manufacturers and Importers
OF ALL KINDS OF
MINING MACHINERY,
STEAM ENGINES
BOILERS.
AND
P_ GRBGO IRTS" && CO.,
74 Clarence Street SYDNEY & MELBOURNE 435 Bourke Street
h
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants.
PRINCIPAL AGENCIES:
Blake Steam Pumps
Fay’s Woodworking Machinery
Tanite Emery Wheels
Sturtevant’s Fans and Forges
Pickering Governors
Ludlow Valves
Scliuttes’ Korting Injectors
“ Champion ” Lubricating Oils
Hoyts’ Leather
Genuine “ Atlas ” Metal
Empire Laundry Mae! aery
Stratton’s Steam Separators
American Tool Co’s Lathes
Goubert’s Feed Water Heaters
TH ..
*tefejjijlll fi
j fiiwplSMSfl .- f
.. 5.'/ .
’■?■ -ieS>---* , >rsi
