

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
BEAVER STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
9
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Min mg and Contractors’ Plant,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and
—FOB —
Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
ĥ
Send for
Prices and
Particulars.
Descriptive
Catalogues
on
Application.
Most
Up-to-Date
WINE !
WINE !
WINE!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLPEST
AUSTRALIA.
<3T Send for Samples and Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
KIRGHNER & CO
Sawing & Woodworking Machinery,
Vertical & Horizontal Band Mills,
Grand Frtac,” Pariß, 3000-
HOLD THE WORLD’S RECORD
(HIGHEST POSSIBLE AWARD.)
SOLE AGENTS I
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., w Pitt street, SYDNEY
THORNE’S
That’s AH!
V/;#
HELIDON SPA.
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
TOOTH & CO. Xjtd., Agents, Sydney.
RACKARQCK
lAft^ce s ,
HOBART.
ttX
Hadley’s Orient [jotel.
JJOTICB TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMFOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite Sfc
Kilda Bailway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hote
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF lo
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
RESERVE EXTRA. RESERVE SPECIAL. RESERVE EXTRA SPECIAL. SUPREME
SAN DEMAN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
241 FITT STREET, gYDTVTEY.
PETTY’S HOTEL
IS UNSURPASSED
by that of any other in Sydney for
Comfort, Privacy, Convenience and
Healthy Situation.
The Sanitary Arrangements are of the
most perfect description.
The Hotel is under the Direct Management and
Supervision of
MRS. WILLIAM GANNON, Proprietress,
Telephone 274. Church Hill, Sydney.
10s. per Day or £3 3s. per week.
SPECIAL TERMS CAN BE ARRANGED FOR
FAMILIES AND PRIVATE APARTMENTS.
is
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
as
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. C. LUOOWICI & SQM, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
Branches:—P. Frankel & Co., Edward,st., Brisbane, Q. ;
H. Summers, Barrack-st., Perth, W.A. ; H. K. Fysh and
Co Collins-st.-, Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter & Co., Auckland ;
Blackburne & Smith, Cashel-st,, Christchurch, N.Z.
Fair girls and gray horses
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
JOHN JAMESON
“THREE-STAR” WHISKEY.
Agents i J. BARRE JOHNSTOSN & CO., Aaftns Street, Sydney.
EMPIRE HOTEL, SYDNEY
3VCOST CEUTBALLY SITUATED.
OTARD-DUPUY
Estbd. 1795. 25 Years BRANDY.
801
m
m
PROOF
'ft
wm
USE ~
:
10 BLICH ST., SYDNEY
What Price WATERBURY Watches ?
LOW PRICE.
What Quality WATERBURY Watches?
HIGH QUALITY.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10AS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in ’the
•olonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and s d fc for Banquets and
Private Bails £ e “ ble Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
E diswan - Lamp.
I SWAN
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
BcCve no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EH & SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch • 16 Carrington-street,
WyWYAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q’nsland Depot—Central Buildin s Edward-st., Brisbane.
The Bulletin
V01.22.-No. 1132. J
[Saturday, October 26, 1901.
Kegistered at the General Past Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Ready Ist December.
PRICE FIVE SHILLINGS
Che Bulletin Reciter.
THE BULLETIN RECITER will be not only
1 the best book of recitations ever produced
in Australia, but for Australasians it will
be the best book of recitations in the world.
THE BULLETIN RECITER will contain
* some of the best verse, suitable for drama
tic recitation, which has appeared in The
Bulletin during twenty years,
T
tbe Bulletin Reciter.
HE BULLETIN RECITER will be illus-
trated by prominent Australian artists in
black-and-white.
T HE BULLETIN RECITER will reflect
a most every aspect of Australasian life,
Upwards of Two Hundred Writers will be
represented.
the Bulletin Reciter.
JHE BULLETIN RECITER will include
those > famous _ pieces-" The Billiard-
Markers Yarn, ’ “My Mate Bill,” “Off
the Grass,” "How M'Dougal Topped the
Score, and many others equally to be
appreciated. J
T H ? , B ' JLLETIN RECITER will be pub-
lished on Ist December, in a handsome
cloth cover ; price, ss.
Cite Bulletin Reciter.
M AY be ordered from any bookseller, or
wdl be sent post-free immediately on
publication in return for P.O 0 costal
note or stamps (55.) by the Publishers- ?
Che Bulletin newspaper go. em.
214 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.
Ready Ist December.
Price Pour Shilling's and Sixpence.
Che Bulletin Story Book.
"THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK will be the
*■ best book of stories published in Australia.
It is culled from all the,stories and sketches
which have appeared in The, Bulletin during
twenty years. ,
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK wifi contain
picked by Albert Dorrot-gton,
Louis Becke, Henry Lawson, A. B. Rater-
son, Arthur Davis, Louise Mack, and many
others.
the Bulletin Story Book.
r T"'HE BULLETIN SiORY BOOK wilt contain
P icke d stories by J. S. Eyoon, Ronerac
Quinn, John Reay Watson, Edward
Dyson, and many others.
r pHE BULLETIN STORY BOOK will cotttain
1 picked stories by Mabel Holmes, Alex,
Montgomery, Frank Rocxiw, J. F.
Millington, and many others.
Cbe Bulletin Story Book.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK watrepre-
-1 sent the work of upwards of One H**wdre»
Australasian Writers, sarioews and
humourous, and, as in the case of The Bulletin
Reciter, every author represented wUI share in
any profits of publication.
HE BULLETIN STORY BOOK will be
published on Ist December, in a handsome
cloth cover ; price, 4s. 6d.
Cbe Bulletin Story Book
MAY be ordered from any bookseller, or will
be sent post-free immediately on publica-
tion in return for P. 0.0., Postal Nate, or
Stamps (4s. 6d.) by the Publishers—
Cbe Bulletin newspaper go., EM.
214 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.
T
The Bulletin publications.
Sole Distributing Agents for the Trade:
Edwards, Dunlop, and Co., Ltd., Sydney and
Brisbane.
Special Wholesale Agents for the Trade:
New South Wales: Edwards, Dunlop, and Co.,
Ltd., Clarence-st., Sydney.
Queensland: Edwards, Dunlop, and Co., Ltd.,
Edward-st., Brisbane.
South Australia: E. S. Wigg and Son, King
William-st., Adelaide.
Westralia: E. S. Wigg and Son, Hay-st., Perth.
Maoriland: Wildman and L*ell, Queen-st.,
Auckland.
Ison’s Eumenthol Jujubes
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
(BEGISTERED).
IN TINS, Is. 6d.
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
e. HUDSOJsr, chemist, ipswich, q.
I SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QDEEN’S PLACE.
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia.
THE RED PAGE.
Literature and Tobacco.
TO say that literature is closely associated
with tobacco is a feeble and unworthy
periphrasis. Shall vye not rather acclaim
their identity, since their association is
too intimate and subtle ever to be recounted.
Tobacco is the rolling’ cloud, literature the emerg-
lng lightning. Is there a novelist among us who
does not smoke? A journalist? And, .saving
Mr. Swinburne, a poet ? But it will be said that
literature was produced during thousands of
years by non-smokers like Homer, Virgil, Dante,
and Chaucer. There is no gainsaying it. Admit
that certain people figured on an ancient Egyptian
tombstone were not smoking, but onlv blowing
glass. Concede that no tobacco pipe ever found
not even one which was plucked from the jaws of
an ancient Milesian in a tumulus at Kildare, can
boast a greater antiquity than Elizabeth. Yet
the Greeks are known to have inhaled the smoke
of dried coltsfoot to cure chest troubles, and the
lhracians and Scythians are reported to have
enjoyed the smoke of certain fragrant nlants and
of hemp-seed. They had no tobacco,‘but they
may have had what we have lost ? What of that
rare
Nepenthes which the wife of Thone
In. Egypt gave to Jove-born Helena ?
The ages give and take away. Horace knew not
tea, the author of Beowulf was a stranger to
bananas ; and we, also, are born too early for
delights yet unimagined by the epicure.
Is not literature itself a great narcotic? A few
days ago three bookmen were discussing the
question whether books really influence men in
their lives and conduct. Two maintained that
the moral influence of literature is a mere delu-
Sl °n- The third indignantly met their denial;
and the wrangle was only settled on the basis that
literature is at least a, great narcotic.that it
soothes and liberates the native energies of the
mind. What are those companions of our waiting
and agitated hours; what are those precious
fragments of verse and prose which we brin»
forth at odd moments, chanting them to the wind
or to the rumble of a train, amid the racket and
suspense of business ; what are these but the in-,
stmctively selected narcotic grains of literature ;
and what is our sensuous enjoyment of them if it
is not comparable to the paradisaical calm and
aloofness of the smoker ? Is it for any other result
that one murmurs a passage like this from
Hyperion:
His palace bright
Bastion’d with pyramids of glowing gold,
And touch’d with shade of bronzed obelisks,
Glared a blood-red through all its thousand coilrts.
Arches, and domes, and fiery galleries ;
And all its curtains of Aurorian clouds
flushed angerly ; while sometimes eagle’s wings
C nuee.n before by gods or wondering men,
Harken’d the place ; and neighing steeds were heard,
A of heard before by god# or wondering men ?
Or wherein, but in its simple power to empty the
nnnd of worry alid fill it with vast spaces and
cadences, dwells the magic of Milton’s
Where the great vision of the guarded mount
Looks towards Namancos and Bayona’s hold ?
By long use and habit these unattached peace-
makers and anaesthetists present themselves
silently, swiftly, when the care of little things and
the unhappy frustrations of the hour become too
much for us. In . all fine poetry and prose there is
secreted a narcotic principle that never dies -that
pervades its very fragments. In a few discon-
nected words, whose context is forgotten, whose
meaning when taken alone is nothing, this blessed
influence will survive; There is a passage in one
of Mr. Francis Thompson’s poems which begins :
On Ararat there grew a vine. . . .
Often and often above the clamour of the street,
and the never-so-wise charming of our industrious
singers, we have enjoyed the vastness and cadence
of those dissevered words; “On Ararat there
grew a vine.”
It was the narcotic in that blessed word Meso-
potamia that drugged the old lady into peace of
mind for so many years. We office heard a bishop
preach a sing-song sermon on the text “In the
valley of Achor, by the way of the sea.” And
still, after infinite removal and lapse of time, we
see the light fading out of the great eastern win-
dow of that northern cathedral church, and recall
the warmth and the seclusion and the morocco
scent of the hymn-books, as the voice repeats,
th f ! I v : ,n nd JTI in ? offc nasal undulations—“ln
S hlvi / ° f , A ? h ? r ’ by the wa y of sea.” Not
vaeue anH U i C 16 the mind to some such issues of
onf of it o PLI T- tent consolat ion is to have missed
one ot the achievements of literature. Even
Byron won to it when he wrote the stanza:
A king- sate on the rocky brow
Arm * 1 lo l ok '!,°’ er sea-horn Salamis,
And ships by thousands lay below
And men in nations. Ail were his :
■He counted them at break of day,
nut when the sun set, where were they?
, under the spell of tobacco, com-
™ ® ted a subtier spell to many a sentence in
11S - essays. For example, to these •
"' as fel t along- the line of the Elysian
by no Inn J ar J‘ lv * 1 $ OD - was announced
Asnl odel ,nd 'cat«>nB. From their seats of
altd ktorimf thagentder and the graver ghosts-poet
Wirii , r ! °\ m ‘ ,an or of Roman lore—to crown
tho !• u,)Udu !S' chaplets the half-finished love-labours of
ShkSt o!iMt - Mal '“ expected*: him
Peterhnn«p o ?? d to , encounter, huh the sweet lyrist of
iws Ui ’. r ll ' he had barely seen upon earth, with
Ohfist’s l,ov P Vi u tO ,S r u et And—patron of the gentle
the mild r«t o °f^ Uld - have b^n his Patron for life,
fron h .aspirations leaned foremost
welcoine into Hvn h ASCU apla " chair ' and Prepared to
of the man wSp h f h l ! py e ? ln P ah J' the matured virtues
self 1 -f whose tender scions in the boy he had him-
w ° n Uarth ' 80 P ro Phetie a lly fed and watered.
r.uo ol^B lull us by their very ripple
whTrh f. u? " les ° f tiie , mind - But the words-
vn Ith 1 not merel > T W our easily-satisfied
youth, but throughout life, are written only by
the greatest. Give a man the ultimate word or
cadence of words for his feeling, and the pleasure
ot that feeling is heightened or its pain mitigated.
It is no longer crude and little, but is lifted and
enlarged and touched with at lea k st the luxury of
woe Horace’s Eheu, fwjaces, fostoume, Postvume,
has tor centuries been a charm to reconcile men to
their little span. Unfailing, unrivalled, come
t lose cheerily mournful words down the populous
centuries. Shakespeare, who does not mention
tobacco, has thrown into one immortal speech the
suggestion that life without some narcotic, be it
physical or mental, or some veil and alleviation
to winch you may give any finer name you please,
is unbearable For. when L&o.has set his infam-
ous snare, and already sees Othello’s life withered
beyond cure, what words does he place in the lips
o*- this triumphant, despoiler of a life: “Look ”
says lago, “where he oomes.” And as his victim
ente.rs the room he mutters :
„ „ Not poppy, nor manfiragora,
HoraH the drowsy syrups of the world,
hhaH ever medicine thee to that sweet sleep
Which thou owed’st yesterday.
.It,is one of the regrets of Biography that Dr.
Johnson did not smoke. His case was peculiar.
He approved, but refrained. In this he seems to
have been influenced by the general reaction
against tobacco which set in with the eighteenth
century. bnuff alone was sanctioned by the
elect.... . Dr Johnson rebelled against this law,
yet kept it. He said: “Smoking has gone out.
lo be sure, it is a shocking tiling, blowing smoke
out of our mouths into other people’s mouths,
eyes, And noses, and having the same thing done
t° us. Yet I cannot account why a thing which
requires so little exertion, and yet preserves the
mind trom total vacuity, should have gorip out.
Every man has something by which he calms
himself: beating with his feet or so.”
It was not social convention that kept Professor
Huxley from smoking for forty years. For that
period, he told a sectional meeting of the British
Association, tobacco had been a deadly poison to
him. ‘As a medical student I tried to smoke,
but at every attempt tobacco stretched me upon
tile floor. On entering the Navy I again triecl to
smoke, and again met with defeat. I hated
tobacco. I could have almost lent my support to
any institution that had for its object the execu-
tion of-smokers. A few years ago I was in Brit-
tany with some friends. It was a miserable,
drenching day, and they looked so happy and
comfortable with their pipes that I thought I
would try a cigar. I did so. I smoked that
cigar ; it was delicious. From that moment I
was a changed man, and now I feel that smoking
m moderation is a comforting and laudable prac-
tice, and productive of good. There is no more
harm in a pipe than there is in a cup of tea.”
A grain of nicotine, we have been told by our
severer counsellers, kills a cat. But “ a grain of
theme,” it is said, with happy adaptation, “killsa
frog instantly ” When Pope Pius IX. received a
certain Englishman of high rank in private audi-
ence, he offered him a cigar. “You will find this
very good,” he said. “ Thank you, your Holiness
but lam not addicted to this vice.” “It isn’t a
vice, cuttingly replied the Holy Father, himself
or , Probably you would be.” George
i O ,V h , e i OUnder of Quakerism, was not a Pope,
f e did not smoke. Yet once, when pressed to
; ke placed it between his lips, drew one
nil, and returned it to his companion—to show,
w;fh e f)7 e n ghtl > r ?, marke d, that he had “unity
with the Creation. —From The Academy.
A New Religion.
THE Hau-haus will look askance at C. P. W.
Longdill, a land and insurance agent of
Gisborne, M.L., who has invented “A
Aew Religion”—“for circulation among
adults only.” The new religion is exposed in a
70 pp. pamphlet, recently printed at Auckland,
which has this for the author’s last word—
Hence it will be seen that the only way to regenerate
mankind, and to restore them to perfect manhood and
womanhood, is by having a season each leap-year for
physical love, and to lead continent lives during the in-
tervening periods.
The author claims the leap-year idea as his own
exclusively—Longdill’s Leap-Year Love-Season
(patent applied for). The spectacle of the New
.Kchgiou.s swain waiting until he reaches a year
divisible by 4 before crooking his finger to a
n> mph, and murmuring “ Long dilly, dilly, come
and be loved ! is not without its peculiar charm ;
yet one can understand that there may still be a
ceitain human unrest, all too human unrest,
among votaries when the Gregorian calendar
misses leap-year.(as in 1900), thus necessitating a
close season of eight years.
The religion of Leap-Year Love is buttressed'by
an analogy with • “ the Ajave (A. Americaia),”
which ‘ only flowers once in from ten to seven-
teen years, according to climate, and then dies”
having waited, apparently, a trifle too long. A
considerable if vague support appears to be
inferred from the fact that during the breeding
season the male stickleback (Gasterosteus
luminus) ” is “‘beautiful beyond description.’
lhe back and eyes of the female are simply
brown ; the belly white. The eyes of the male,
on the other hand, are of the most, splendid
green colour .... and the whole fish ap-
pears as though it . was somewhat translucent,
and glowed with an internal incandescence.” It
is important that ‘‘the males of Plagiostonious
fishes . .. . are provided with claspers which serve
to retain the females,” and that “during the
season of love a musky odour is emitted by the
submaxillary glands of the crocodile, and pervades
their haunts.”
Answering his own question, “Why Leap
Year? the author affirms his belief that “it has
been ordained by God from the beginning, that
from this epoch, this shall be the year of love and
marriage of the human race for all time . .
Further,
There is no doubt, therefore, that as all. animals
ana plants have their love seasons, which vary in dis-
tance apart in harmony with the requirements or habits
of the various species, Leap Year is the love season of the
human race. Otherwise how did the custom of woman
proposing during leap year originate ?
This argument is unanswerable ; and we may
learn from its modern cogency how much our
morals owe to the march of civilisation, —
since before 1582, when leap-year was introduced
to the calendar, myriads of human beings must
. have perished miserably in their lusts, lacking the
criterion of love-seasons supplied by Pope Gregory
Xlll,—who plainly “builded better than he
knew.’’ A corroborative argument (which Mr.
Longdill does not adduce) may be found in the
old Scottish custom of leaping over a broom-stick
at the ceremony of marriage. C. P. W. Long-
dill is a humble land and insurance agent ; yet
the greatest religions of the world have had the
lowliest beginnings; and Gisborne, M.L., may
still become the goal of pilgrimages as pious and
as numerous_as those to Jerusalem and to Mecca,
Will .future ages witness a new crusade to win the
Holy Sepulchre of G. P. W. Longdill from infidel
Maorilanders ? or will rapt and believing Maori-
landers jealously exclude infidel Australians from
some holy Caaba on the site of a sacred land and
insurance office ?
These things are beyond our ken. Meanwhile,
Mr. Longdill proceeds slowly, and records that
Rams seem to make love to the ewes by tapping them
with tfie fore-leg in the brisket. ...
“ Rams seem to make love to the ewes by tap-
ping them with the fore-leg in the brisket. . . .”
Marvellous Maoriland !
S. A. Rosa writes of the Federal Treasurer’s
English:
We can hardly wonder that’the London Athenaeum
exclaims against what it terms (however erroneously)
“the Australian ‘will’ tor ‘shall’” when, we find so
eminent an Australian statesman as George Turner mis-
using the words. In delivering his first Federal Budget
he said ( Hansard p. 5678, col. 1): “ There are only a few
items with which I will trouble the House.” The will
should have been shall. As Mr. Turner was stating that
he intended to trouble the House he should have in-
dicated, by the use of, “ shall,” that he was compelled to
do so by the force of circumstances. In reply to an
interjection from Mr. Reid, Mr. Turner said, “ Yes, I will
giv.e the details of. it in a minute or two.” This will
should also have been shall, which, besides being better
English, would have implied that Sir George was impelled
by a sense of duty, or of respect for the House, to give
“ the details ” (of the new Federal expenditure). Only
when the speaker desires to express his absolute mental
independence should will be used in the first person.
(There are a few exceptions, which prove the rule). When
there is any outward compulsion, even of obligation,
shall should be used. Mr. Turner’s “ I will trouble
the House ” was as ungrammatical as the drowning Irish-
man’s exclamation, “ I will be drowned and nobody shall
save me.”
“I propose,” said Mr. Turner ( Hansard , p. 5692, col. 2),
“ toask for authority to borrow £1,000,000.” We propose
to ask for a thing-when we-offer to ask for it if some other
person, or persons, first approve of our asking for it; but
asikfr. Turner was announcing that it was his purpose to
ask for the authority to borrow the £1,000,000, he should
The use of “ lot ” in Mr. Turner’s phrase—“ We i
taking over a lot of their [the States’] Treasury work ’
is improper. “Lot,” in this sense, is rightly c.ondeninec
as a slipshod colloquialism. “ Deal ” would have been i
less objectionable word, or “ much’’—which latter wore
would probably have expressed exactly Mr. Turne
meaning.
In the following sentence Mr. Turner ungrammatical
uses the adjective “ such ” instead of the adverb “ so
“ I want to see the accounts of the Treasury kept in sue
a simple manner that any honourable member requirir
information may always be able to get it without dif
culty.” ( Hansard , p. 5674, col. 2.) “Such” applies
the nature of a thing; “so,” to the degree. “Such
simple manner ” means “ a simple manner of a particula
nature ” ; but “ so simple a manner ” means a manner o
so great a degree of simplicity that certain results wi
follow. Therefore, Mr. Turner should have said, “in
simple a manner that,” etc.
“ VVe can,” said Mr. Turner, have less drills, which wi
mean less pay.” The first “less” should be “fewer.
Tlie ungrammatical use of an adjective of quantity
bulk for an adjective of quantity in number has been
exposed and condemned by nearly every English gram
marian.
Mr. Turner has evidently forgotten that the word “cir
cumstanees ” means “ conditions that surround.” Other
wise he surely would not speak of being “ under these
circumstances ” ( Hansard , page 5674, column 1). In the
circumstances, Mr. Turner !
Mr. Turner says : “ Those figures have been very care
fully checked, and, I think, are reliable.” When the
course of a sentence is diverted by a change in the tnooc
or tense the nominative should generally be repeated or
another nominative supplied. In the quoted sentence
ii ij ,?- urner should have said, “I think they are.’
Reliable ” is a word of questionable propriety : George
Saintsbury says, “ The mere grammar of style teaches us
not to say reliable where we can say trustivorthy."
Mr. Turner said: “ I shall be only too pleased to help
them [Queensland and Tasmania] to devise some scheme
by which we can give them assistance.” “Only too
pleased” is an absurd colloquialism that one hardly
expects to find in the Budget speech of a Federal Trea
s 4!‘ er - If M>\ Turner will be too pleased, then his pleasure
will be either a nuisance or a danger. The “ only too
pleased ” colloquialism is, when analysed, found to. be
actually as impolite as it is foolish. On page 5691 of the
Commonwealth Hansard Mr, Turner is reported as
saving ; “ If there is anything I can explain to them [the
members], I shall be only too glad to do so.” Did Mr.
Timer lament his (presumed) weakness for becoming
glad? If not, then he should have said, “I shall be
extremely glad.”
Possibly Mr. Turner cannot be expected to excel in
grammar as well as in finance ; yet I may be forgiven for
suggesting that ten minutes each morning, devoted to
assiduous study of the elements of syntax would probably
give ; readers of his next Budget speech occasion for
gratitude.
Frank Wilkinson (who for some time represented
Sydney Telegraph as African war correspondent,
and acquitted himself creditably if not brilliantly)
writes a short history of the N.S.W. Lancer
Regiment and the First Australian Horse, under
the title Australian Cavalry (Angus and
Robertson; 25.) As a literary performance the
book is poor. Strange, slipshod statements
abound: e.g. (p. 2) —
. . . Some such syllogistic fallacy as this :
Disciplined British troops were opposed to undisciplined
burghers;
Undisciplined burghers are hard to. beat; therefore
Discipline is a negligeable quantity.
Reasoning such as this bears its refutation .on its face.
It violates every law ever yet formulated by the logician
for the mystification of the illogical, and contains a self-
evident fallacy in every line. It is no syllogism at all.'
®ht, as constructed by Mr. Wilkinson, with
Mr. Wilkinson’s remarkable comment, it is a
characteristic example of Mr. Wilkinson’s hasty-
nasty writing. Apart from the English,
Australian Cavalry is a collection of military
facts and statistics which will be doubtless in-
teresting to the military persons concerned. The
coloured frontispiece, representing a pinkish Lan-
cer on a reddish horse bounding gallantly over
yellowish grass, is calculated to make sdrvant-
girls weep with admiring rapture.
Alice Eyton writes— .. :
Did you see the Eight-Hour procession march through
the streets of Sydney ? What was the predominant note
of that long, straggling array?—lndifference ! What
was the predominant note of the crowd that looked on ?
—lndifference ! The same people but recently cheered,
and cheered again, at sig'ht of military trappings, at
sound of martial music, at thought of 'the pomp and
gior.v (?) of war ! Now they see the result of bloodless
revolution. They are mute ! No enthusiasm ! Only an
occasional abortive cheer, a jibe at some familiar face, a
sorry witticism, a blank mind.
And the men forming the procession ? They
appeared to me one never-ending line of apathetic,
sunken, lead-coloured faces, pipe in mouth ; with
stunted, or overgrown, slouching figures. You
could count on your two hands, those who looked
thoroughly healthy, who betrayed the slightest idea of
what it meant to be a Man—heir to the achievements of
the Past, the repository of future possibilities. I
am not going to retract my confession of faith in Aus-
tralia. But the signs are ominous. Why should we fall
away from the strength of pioneers ? Why, at very in-
fancy, show signs of decadence ? Have we forgotten that
we must still do battle ?
Fight ! fight ! fight !—but not abroad ! Our Own
Country is our Foe, and our Beloved !
W. M. Whitney, a Sydney writer, some of
whose work has appeared in The Bulletin, will publish
shortly a book of verses to be called When Winds Awake.
Mrs. Junor, widow of the late Charles Junor, desires it
known that she has opened a book-shop in Hunter-street,
Sydney.


IVTDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP
THE ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUS DIP.
M'DOUGALL BROS., 8 Spring: Street, Sydney.
Agents: 3ST.Z. L. 3VE- -A.. Co., Ltd.. LOCAL AGENTS EVERYWHERE
WOOL
SEND
YOUR
WOOL
TO
WINCHCONBE, CARSON & CO. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
If you want to get the best possible results.
A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC.
THE
fOUiS* Velveteen.
NOTE WELL!—Each Yard of Genuine “ LOUIS” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L"0"U"l“S i *l 1,0 other
way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
try orders.
Tails. Plaits,
FRINGES, Best Natural Guriy Hair, 3/6, 5/6,
7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each. TAILS and PLAITS,
20in. lone:, 5/6, ; Extra Thick, 7/6; 24in.,
10/6; Extra Thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings Worked Up, 2/6 per oz.
Don’t be misled. Our Plaits and Tails are
twice as thick as sold elsewhere at same
price. Send Color of Hair. “ Only ONE
Address ” W. H. WIGZELL,
110 WILLIAM-ST., Corner of Palmer-st.,
Sydney. Cable trams will stop at door. All
work guaranteed Illustrated catalogue
post free. Prompt attention given to coun-
Wigs made on shortest notice.
LADIES
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FR BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
"ST. ALBAN’S,
113 Macleay St., Potts Point
Board and Residence.
Suites. Hot Water Service. Home Comforts.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Eight Different Articles,
comprising Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket (a good
trick), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin
and Card Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard
Fish (gives definition of your character), That Wonderful
Cinematograph or Book of Living Pictures, Mafelcing
Grub (or nerve-strengthener), That side-splitting Look
and Laugh Glass, and, last of all, The Spider and the Fly
(an ingenious mechanical toy). Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
X7lB George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
( )
HAVE THE
BEST.
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE
Is built by a light, handy machine, easily operated, which will weave
THREE CHAINS OF FENCE AN HOUR.
The Lateral Wires are tivo-ply cable of best Gal. Steel Wire intersected by Crimped Steel Pickets
securely interwoven at any desired distance apart, forming a perfect Web Fence which will hold
securely oil kinds of Stock .
FOR CATALOGUES AND PARTICULARS
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE CO.,
128 Franklin St., Melbourne ; 143 Sussex St., Sydney.
NOR BURN.
NEITHER CRACK
s 8
saoa
*
o* Jy
or
«Boe
saor
CBB
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
GUARANTEE.—ShouId any of our Celebrated CAN’T-B-BEAT Briar Pipes Crack or Burn ■
New One will be Exchanged for it immediately on Application.
Sold by all Tobacconists. By Post, Is. 2d.
Mick Simmons, haymarket, Sydney.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Ch.arge : 3 Per Cent, to the Growers.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Buyers.
u On Our Selection.” By “ Steele Rudd.”
WOMEN AND
WARNER’S
SAFE CURE.
The health of women is of supreme im-
portance. The daughter of to-day becomes
the wife of to-morrow, and it is abso-
lutely essential to the welfare of the race
that good health should be hers; good
health which brings happiness and en-
sures vigour in posterity. A woman’s
nervous system is very highly strung.
Her mechanism is far more delicate and
complex than that of a man, and there
is little to wonder at when it breaks down
under the continuous high pressure of
modern life.
Most women require some aid to enable
them to support the daily stress and
strain, and this aid is found in WARNER’S
SAFE CURE a medicine wonderfully
adapted to their delicate organisation—
which has for twenty years secured the
grateful endorsement of women in all
walks of life in all parts of the civilised
world.
Read the following Letters:
“Charlton,” George Street,
Norwood, S.A.
October 1, 1900.
Dear Sirs, — ...
About seven years ago I contracted a severe
internal complaint, and was in a very critical
state The doctor attending me told me that if I
lived I should be a sufferer all my lifetime. His
treatment was quite useless in giving me relief.
After two or three years I got tired of paying
doctors’ fees for no benefit, and heanngof Warner’s
Safe Cure I gave it a trial. I took, in all, five
bottles and am thankful to state I am perfectly
cured ’ The medical man was genuinely surprised
at such a wonderful result. lam now as well as
it is possible to be, and give Warner’s Safe Cure
the whole credit for accomplishing what doctors
deemed impossible. Hoping that ladies, suffer-
ing as I did, will profit, I am writing to you now.
Mv mother considered that her life was saved by
the use of Warner’s Safe Cure in a somewhat
similar complaint. } ANNIE HARRIS.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Ltd.
8 Carlton-street, Prahan, Yio.,
March 12, 1901,
Dear Sirs, —
I am pleased to report the benefit I derived,
from the use of Warner’s Safe Cure. After many
years of pain and suffering from kidney and liver
complaint, I, who was accustomed _to minister to
others, was brought to a bed of sickness myself.
The doctors could give me no hope of relief or
recovery, and said that I had but a short time to
live. I tried various advertised remedies, but all
failed to give me relief until I tried Warner’s Safe
Cure. From the first bottle I began to improve
in health. The pains gradually left me. I con-
tinued to take the medicine for some time, until I
was perfectly cured, and sound in body and mind.
I may state that the doctors were more than sur-
B 1 to see me up and about again. I have
of many other cases during my professional
career, which were in like manner cured by the use
of Warner’s Safe Cure.
Yours obediently,
EMMA DARVELL,
Ladies’ Nurse.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Ltd.
Broken Hill, N.S.W., October 11, 1900.
Gentlemen, —
I have great pleasure in testifying to the good
results I have obtained from the use of Warner’s
Safe Cure. For some time I was suffering great
agony with terrible pains in my side and around
my body. After trying several remedies, which
failed, I used Warner’s Safe Cure, and am happy
to state that I am now quite restored to health.
You may make this public and accept my thanks
for the good results I obtained.
(Mbs.) ELIZA BUTLER.
Messrs. H. H. Warner and Co., Ltd.
Morewell, Victoria,
JDecember 8, 1900.
Dear Sirs, —
I am pleased to be able to testify to the great
benefit I derived from the use of Warner’s Safe
Cure when suffering from insomnia and rheumatic
pains in my body and legs. I have only used a
few bottles, and the results have been simply
marvellous. Yours truly,
(Mbs.) ISABEL FRASER.
Messrs. H. H. Warner and Co., Ltd.
Fitzroy Street, Tam worth, N.S.W.,
September 25, 1900.
Dear Sirs, —
I owe my life principally to Warner’s Safe
Cure. I suffered for years in New Zealand from
bronchitis and lung complaint, and have been
in the District Hospital in Wellington three
different times. At last I was ordered to a warm
climate, but I still suffered much with pains in
my chest and back. One day I read a pamphlet,
and thought I would try Warner’s Safe Cure.
After I had taken the first bottle I found myself
stronger, and continued till I had used seven
bottles. I then came out to N.S.W., and am now
in perfect health. I earn ray living by selling a
hair restorer of my own recipe and make, and am
walking about most of the day. lam well known
in the district, and I always recommend Warner’s
Safe Cure.
Yours thankfully,
(Mrs.) TERESA NOLAN.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Ltd.
100 Chestnut Street, Richmond, Vic.,
March 11, 1901.
For years I was a great sufferer from liver com-
plaint, which caused severe pains in my back and
sides and great mental depression. I was not able
to follow my calling. Hearing on reliable
authority of the beneficial effects of Warner’s
Safe Cure in kidney and liver complaints I gave
it a trial. From the first I derived great benefit,
and was ultimately completely cured. About
twelve years ago my husband used Warner’s Safe
Cure when suffering from weak and bleeding kid-
neys. Two bottles restored him to health and
strength.
. Yours truly, JANE DAY.
34 Carrington Street, Sydney,
July 31, 1900.
Some time ago I was suffering from severe
pains in my back and kidneys, and being tired of
medical treatment, which did me no good, I, on
the recommendation of a friend, tried Warner’s
Safe Cure. Three bottles and a half cured me,
and I have never been troubled since.
Yours obediently,
(Mrs.) MARY J. FIELD.
113 Edward Street, E. Brunswick, Vie.
April 30, 1901
Dear Sirs, —
I have pleasure in giving evidence as to the
efficacy of Warner’s Safe Cure. For many years
I suffered from kidney and liver complaint. Fre-
quently I was quite prostrated and unable to do
my household work, my whole system being
affected, especially my head. The doctor who
treated me did me no good. I was advised to try
Warner’s Safe Cure and Warner’s Safe Pills.
After taking a few bottles of the medicine I felt
quite a different woman, and am now in the en-
joyment of as good health as I ever had in my
life.
Yours truly, (Mas.) E. NELSON.
Messrs. H. H. Warner and Co., Ltd.
“Camrock,” Elwood Street,
North Brighton, Vic.
April 29, 1901.
Sirs, —
I have found Warner’s Safe Cure to be a most
wonderful medicine for giving health and strength
when suffering trom that languid and tired feeling
which most women are subject to, and which
makes one unfit to attend to household duties,
or to any other business. In my case, Warner’s
Safe Cure had an immediate and lasting beneficial
effect. I strongly recommend Warner’s Safe Cure
to any ladies who may suffer in like manner, feel-
ing sure that they, too, will derive great benefit
from taking a course of this medicine.
Yours truly, (Mrs.) E. BADE.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Ltd.
Findon, Adelaide, S.A.,
October 2, 1990.
Dear Sirs, —
Several years ago I was a continual sufferer
from kidney complaint. I was hardly ever free
from shivering attacks and severe pains in my
back and head. I was not able to go about my
duties, and was frequently confined to my bed.
Reading of some wonderful results brought about
by Warner’s Safe Cure, I gave it a trial. I felt
much benefit from the first bottle. After taking
half-a-dozen bottles, I was a new woman. I feel
quite sure that Warner’s Safe Cure saved my life.
Yours truly, (Mrs.) ELLEN RELF.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Ltd.
The secret of the remarkable effects of Warner’s Safe Cure is that it causes the liver and kidneys to become perfectly healthy.
When these vital organs are doing their work thoroughly, all poisonous acids and other waste products of the body are removed
naturally, and such diseases as Indigestion, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Backache,
Sciatica, Anaemia, General Debility, Blood Disorders, Gravel and Bladder Troubles can no longer exist, as they are all caused by
the presence in the blood of these impurities.


Address:
Care GEO. ADAMS,
Hotoart.
MELBOURNE 0. November 5.
100,000 Subscribers at 20
To TATTERSALL.
above.
Please allot me
shares in the
Name
Address
MELBOURNE 0. November 5.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please a ll°t me ___ shares in the
above.
- ■ Name :
Address
s
MELBOURNE 0. (SPECIAL)
(DEAWN MOENING OP EAOE) 100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me— __ shares in above.
Name
Address
£ : : ~
dhsd
ALSO
OPEN ON
Sanahurst 0., 27th. IXTo-v , 100,000 at 5.
Newcastle 0., 12th Dec., 50,000 at 5.
Summer C„ 26th Dec., 50 000 at 5.
Car rims’ton. S., 28th Dec., 50,000 at 5.
Brighton IP., Ist Jam., 25,000 at 5.
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tattersall,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


h
If you stop eating you
will surely get thinner
and thinner, until at last
you starve to death. Grass
won’t answer, although
it is good for the horse.
You must have a food
suitable to your needs.
Ayer’s
Hair Vigor
is a hair food. It
won’t take the
place of grass or
bread. It is good
for the hair, and
that is all. It
feeds the hair
with hair food. The
hair can’t keep from
growing. It stops
e falling out because it is
hearty and strong. And
it always restores the early
rich, dark color to gray hair.
We say that “gray hair is starved
hair ”; and the only way to treat it is
to supply the best kind of hair food.
This is where Ayer’s Hair Vigor differs
so greatly from other hair preparations;
it feeds the hair. Just keep that in
mind all the time you are using it.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell. Maas.. U. S. A.
4
Suites
KT'C'De
ili.ll „
AlkJ
(TT\
Beware !!l
.oFlnriATioNS
sdh
KRHSK
’ Friend.
Soda Water, Id. per doz.
Lemonade and Ginger Ale, 3d. per doz.
HOTELKEEPERS MAKE THEIR OWN SUPPLIES OP
/ERATED WATERS.
No skilled labor required. Anyone can learn
to operate the Machine in ten minutes.
TESTIMONIALS.
“ To the Daylesford Mineral Water Co.
« Dear Sirs.—The Machine purchased from you w per-
feet The stuff turned out is splendid. It is the best
speculation I have entered into since I joined the Licensed
Victuallers. — Geo. Nicholls, Royal Hotel, Swan Hill.
Mr. Klug, Hotelkeeper, Charlton, says “It is worth
its WEIGHT IN GOLD.” , ,
Mr. P. Kennedy, CJoolgardie, says Profits
making my own supplies of Aerated Waters with the
Machine pay the rent of my hotel.”
Mr. Lewis, Heidelberg, Victoria, says I have made
thousands of dozens of the best Aerated Waters with the
Machine, and it has not required sixpence worth of repairs.
No Hotelkeeper should be without one of them.
Mr W Atkinson, Hotelkeeper, Wentworth, N.S.W.,
says:- “It is the greatest money-maker yet discovered
for hotelkeepers.” „ ... .
Mr. Burk, Yalgo, W.A., says “ Since getting one of
your Machines, and making py own soft stuff, I have
saved its price ten times over.”
W. H. Jones, Peak Hill, W.A., says “Machine great
E° Davis, Peak Hill, W.A., says : —“Cannot speak too
highly of effectiveness and simplicity.”
G N Murdoch, Abbotts, W.A., says : Value of
Machine indisputable ; quality and cheapness of stuff
Ut T*. H. Williams, Mossman, Queensland, says:—^“Highly
successful, and recommend to all hotelkeepers.. (
J. S. Davidson, Bundaberg, Queensland, says. Grsat
saving compared to previous cost of stock.
A profitable business awaits pushing men in many small
centres of population, where a deeply-felt want exists for
a 800 D quality of Af.ratbd Waters. Observe the profits.
Call and see these Machines, or write for Circular desenb-
ng them, also Price List. _
Daylesford Hepburn Mineral Water Uo-
J 407 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
381- per Halt-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE St SONS, Brisbane, Gland
Australia!? MGtCal ProVideot Society
MONET TO I>END
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combmed
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street, Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMEROl^Secretarj^^
sdh
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 109'
H. Hill’er,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
Send for a
Catalogue.
s*
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Beet and Cheapest.
H. TTTT.T.TER. 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOUSNE-ST., OONOOBD, SYDNEY,
Buyers of Light Vehioles, send particulars. Quotation
by return-post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
ipi
&5R
i
(0
WHOLESALE
Distributing? Agents
New South Wales —
M. RUTTY & GO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Queensland—
Thoe. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Phllp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand—
D. Benjamin & Co.,
Dunedin, Wellington
and Ohristchurch.
iy
s
tr
s
xs>
sdh
Highest Grade of Quality & Finish.
|pr~ Every Pipe Guaranteed.
PRIZE MEDAL, Paris Exhibition, 1900.
Australian Agents:
RUTTY & CO., New South Wales.
J. E. HUNT, Victoria.
THOMAS BROWN & SONS, LTD., Queensland.
HART LAWRENCE & CO. PROP. LTD., South Australia.
A. G. & E. T. KNOX, West Australia.
■
wmm
BIBS’ HOTEL
George and Market Sts-*
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAT.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAT.
TERMS. The convenient
system of paying for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
LETTEKS and TELEGRAMS ADDRESSED to “ THE
MANAGER ” will RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
FALIERE’S PNOSPNATINE
\f~?HOSPWTMm
faueresjJ
...w~
The Only
Food
containing
Phosphate
of Lime.
For INFANTS and
INVALIDS.
AN ESSENTIAL REQUISITE IN THIS COUNTRY.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company
When In town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulk-ies, £7;
8-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every descriptio n of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.— Do not be
misled by a,ny firms who say they will deliver tor less
than we ean. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 pe*
cent more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Rodfern, SYDN&Y
OUK SPECIAL No. 8
£8 18/6
g
Delivered at any Wharf «r
N.B.W. Bailwaye, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“They Sleep at Sea.”
They sailed away one summer day
With flaunting flags and streamers gay ;
I sent them laughing down the tide
(My heart was young—my heart was wide) —
I knew full well some evening bell
Would ring them home to haven free
With wealth of gold and love for me—
Dear Ships—Dear Ships at Sea !
They sailed to laughing lands afar;
Their streamers kissed the alien star;
Their canvas caught the wintry gale;
They blenched beneath the bitter hail:
And I —l pled with One o’erhead
The while they tossed in agony,
The sport of Ocean’s wanton glee—
Dear Wrecks —Dear Wrecks at Sea !
And now no more my song I sing
Of sails that mock the seagull’s wing ;
For ribs of steel and sturdy keel
Beneath the eddy rock and reel:
And I —l dream that down the stream
I float to where my loved ones be,
With hands outstretched that wait for me—
Dear Dead—Dear Dead at Sea 1
N.Q.
P.L.
Nocturne.
All my hopes reach forward to some exquisite
Forever,
Some fair realm of innocence beyond all earthly
seas,
Sitting here with Dora, while the Night rests on
the river—
Night, with pinions folded, and soft breath that
stirs the trees.
All my life is rounded, and harmonious, and
completer
Than of old I dreamed or hoped my life could ever
be;
And the joys that Love has brought are infinite
and sweeter
Than of old I dreamed that any grace could bring
to me.
For my heart was wearied with a sad, unending,
aching
Hunger for surcease of pain that quiet Death
should bring;
Bowed with bitter care I was, each nerve went
nigh to breaking:
Not for me the splendors and the solace of the
Spring 1
Then dear Dora came, and touched with lissom
fingers lightly
That dark load, which fell from me, and there was
no more pain;
But her calm eyes soothed me, and her lithe arms
drew me whitely,
And I found my youth, my hopes, my very self
again.
Sitting here with Dora, through the shadows come
the glowing
Tones that lovers only catch, the world a world
away !
And our souls are strained to silence, and our
hearts are overflowing :
Night repays with rapture desolation of the day.
Ah ! the lovely laughter of the gentle God that
nests now
In my heart, my master, but my captive self-
confessed !
Ah ! the tender fragrance of the sunny head that
rests now—
Bowed to be the nearer Him—so gladly on my
breast!
“Tell me, dear,” ... I murmur; but her lifted
eyes arrest me—
(Eyes abrim with love-content, Boft as a brooding
bird’s:
In their depths are drowned for aye the terrors
that oppressed me.)
Dora whispers, “Love of mine! why ask me!,
what are words ! ”
Just above the hill-tops a pale shred of moon
comes peeping;
Out away to southward stretch the spacious
breadths of sea;
All the arid world is dumb, and half Earth’s woes
are sleeping;—
Heaven’s awake. And Heaven below holds just
my love and me !
TAS.
FRANK MORTON.
Maoriland now exports frozen Stewart
Island oysters to London. It needs a robust taste
to stand these huge, tough molluscs; but there
once was an English King who liked his a month
old, so perhaps the new industry may succeed —in
London.
Latest medical idea is a European congress
on sea-sickness, now being held at Ostend. Dr.
F. Madeuf, of Paris, is the convener, and the
King of the Belgians (a monarch very fond of a
little trip incog, to any place where the women
are fair) is patron.
“Dram”: Instead of the cumbersome
“ wireless telegram,” I suggest Cliogram. Clio.
from the Greek for a wave. [Why not airgram ?
Also, why not simply air-letter or air-word ?
There are already 25 times more terms in the
British language than any average man knows,
and somebody is always inventing new ones. This
is called “enriching the language,” and it is
already so rich that its own people can’t digest
it.]


THE MIGA LUBRICANT CO., SOUTH SHIELDS, ENG.
Lubricants and Packings for all purposes. Patent Mica Grease saves 90% in cost of lubrication, and keeps
bearings perfectly cool. Patent Mica Packings last twice as long as ordinary, and are 25% lighter. ! I’hey do
not score the rods, but put a mica surface on them, similar in appearance to electro-plate.
SoTeAgent for Australasia : R. A. HERVEY. Dep6t, 171 Clarence-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
In 1 lb. Flat Oval Tins.
Manufacturers:
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
PURVEYORS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO lIIS MAJESTY THE KING.
THE
‘PLUM ’
f p
THE
‘PLUM’
/''j.ENTLEMEN. —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, vve know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6(1 cake.
Price
/ Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 109 6d ; Pair, ii
\ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s ; Pair Razors, Ivoi
beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21a
y Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any pabt of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
" Ml Try It."
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. 6d.
BOLE AGENTS.
The Result.
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Ourly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to any part of Australasia.
CRAIG & AITKEIVH:
New South Wales Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Evil Effects of
Some Soaps on
the Complexion.
PREMIER VINOLIA SOAP is not colored with
poisons, rendered transparent with Chemi-
cals, or semi-transparent with resin and
sugar, nor does it turn yellow in spots,
revealing putrid fats. It is not charged
with powerful penetrating perfumes that
gratify the sense of smell to the detriment
and injury of the skin. VINOLIA is purest,
safest and* best. Laundry soaps should
never be used on the skin.
.In Five Kinds : Sold Everywhere.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I’O DEFY COMPETITION.
27ie Best Brands Only oj SPIRITS.
&c
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS
Catalogue
Free . . .
French’s Acting Edition.
h
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
Jlooks Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
TX7TT T A TVTTMD A TMj l
W XJLjJLi xx JM JJJauCxJJJIi,
book and MAGIC arcade .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
STEAM
ENGINES
FROM 5 H.F. TO 100 H P
DYNAMOS
MOTORS
FROM 1 H.P. TO 60 hp
CAN BE SUPPLIED PROMPTLY
FROM STOCK.
NOYES BROS.
31 O’Connell-st., SYDNEY; 17 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
EJA.PTO (liake
(LIMITED),
11 awarra).
near SYOKTEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OF
fine silver.
' - r,otyg Jgpty VUf :
"*->w "*7—-
MU
»% ;1
-
'
illli'iiiiiiiliti illiltillMßiiirii iMii iilinf ini ii '' .
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co, of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILL AWARRA”
..BKAND
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS' SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
I<or all information regarding Rates, eto., apply to P. S. Moesk, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.
LEAD HULL UN


Dooleyisms : “ Th’ difference between
Christyan scientists an’ doctors is that Christyan
scientists thinks they’se no such thing as disease,
and doctors thinks there ain’t anything else. It
the Christyan scientists had some science, and the
doctors more Christyanity, it would’nt make anny
difference which ye called in—if ye had a good
nurse. ”
The latest addition to Maoriland’s cable
tramways, making the fourth passenger cable line
in the province, will shortly be opened at
Wellington. Its total length is 36 chains, and the
total rise 387 feet, giving a steady grade of 1 in. 5£.
This grade is steeper continuously than any of the
three Dunedin lines, though there are sharp
pinches in the Roslyn and Kaikorai routes, while
the Mornington Extension is a hair-lifter (grade
about 1 in 2). The Wellington tram, however,
will be a safer line, as the-centre-rail-brake will be
attached—similar to that in use on the Rimutakas.
In its short length the line pierces three tunnels
and crosses three viaducts ; in fact, it is over and
under all the way. But, though M.L. boasts of
some of the stiffest grades in Australasia, Switzer-
land can go several better, the Glion tramway in
that country having a maximum grade of 1 in If.
The Bulletin’s latest publication —
“ Dreams in Flower,” a book of verses by Louise
Mack—contains all the best poetical work of this
writer for the last ten years. Price half-a-crown,
post-free from this office.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounds d with inflammation and swollen that when you
pie s your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CIJRC YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and FILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, l/lsd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents •• ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look foi the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
gieen label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
f HLOROPyNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &g., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS o«
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlokodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
p*
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
KELTS and
A TELIA NCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTICE. —Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
41
iKini (([(til
HOTELKEEPERS!
MAKE YOUR OWN
DERATED WATERS.
“ AUSTRAL” AERATED WATER MACHINE occu-
pies only Four Feet Square, will produce 150 Dozen per day of
Finest Waters (LEMONADE, GINGER ALE, SODA WATER, &c.)
at a Cost below Fourpence per Dozen. This machine
supersedes all others for SIMPLIOITY and USEFULNESS, as it
requires no skilled labor to work it.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
214-216 Queen-st,, MELBOURNE.
PLAIN HOtye TALK.
BMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chrotnos. 200 Illustrations. 1200 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects eoncerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The«new 1901 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted to any address for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post-.free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free la.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His, Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust.'Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book op Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic, Is 6d, post free.
Art op Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book op Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry,- 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic ls 3d post free.
How TO Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevassb’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
Balzac’s Droll Stories, Is 3d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness- and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid.’
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Pa, Ma and' Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is fld.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Metal Working, Brazing, etc., Is 3d.
Send for my Illustrated Big: Book
Catalogue—post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
X
i
Dr. Clarkson’s Electric Belt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give yjou new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest-state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other bodj r appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repajrs.
Dr. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy, and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs ; a , unnr i orP „i
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC. organs is truly wonderful.
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. \ RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £1
OALLORWRITE- QWL
RATE drug store
CORNER EI/IZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
Now
Ready.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH
'rloe Bd
oated ad.
s
4>
LF
mm
&
«4
NATURES TRUE REMEDIES.
Nature has provided a TRUE REMEDY for Every
Complaint. It is, therefore, unnecessary to contaminate the
System with Mineral Poisons, which leave the System Weak
and Debilitated. Sufferers from Blood and Skin Diseases,
Nervous Affections, Piles, Rheumatism, and Affection of
the Liver and Kidneys, Chest and Lungs, Consumption,
General Debility, Costiveness, Influenza, Melancholia,
can rely on a Cure from these Remedies.
ALFALINE
REMEDIES
Are a guaranteed
Cure for the
above Complaints.
They have Cured
Thousands, and
stood a Test in
Australia for over
20 years. They
have never been
known to fail in
a single case, and
they are purely
NATURE’S
REMEDIES.
m
•lUl»Tt9^r. :
imum£
-
- '■'. .
ALFALINE
HERBAL
REMEDIES
Have been Awar-
ded several Gold
Medals, and
More Testimon-
ials than any
known remedy in
Australia.
A Specials
Guaranteed Rem-
edy for each
Complaint.
HERR RASSMUSSBFS CHIEF LABORATORY.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Are a Guaranteed Cure for All Nervous Affections, Weak Spine, Brain and Nerves, Poor
Memory, Tired Feeling, and General Debility. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Course, 23/6.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
Are a PERMANENT CURE for the Most Chronic Blood Diseases, Skin Diseases, Blotches,
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, etc. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
Purify the Blood and Build up the Weakest Nervous System. A Guaranteed Cure for
iEnemia, Wasting Diseases in Females. A General Blood and Nerve Tonio
for both sexes. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS
Are Guaranteed to Cure Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn,
Biliousness, and the Liver and Kidneys. BOXES, ONE SHILLING. Posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to
cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lum-
bago. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 12s. and
235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage—
This Suspender imparts Strength and Vigor,
at the same time as it supports the parts.
Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills—A
Wonderful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Con-
sumption, Bronchitis and Influenza. Boxes,
posted, 35., 65., 12s. and 235. 6d.
Electric Belts —Containing powerful and
effectual Electric currents unequalled as a
cure for all Spinal and Kidney Affections ;
425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Sufferers can only obtain the Alfaline Herbal Remedies from
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office or Branches, the addresses of
which appear below. Letters should be addressed and Cheques
and Money Orders made payable to Herr Rassmussen’s full
name— Hans Peter Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head
Office or Branches. Register all letters containing money,
All Remedies sent unobserved, packed in plain cover.
ALFALINE
PILE POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
FAT-REDUCING
POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
HAIR-RESTORER,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
CORN CURE, 1/-.
OINTMENT, 1/-.
Correspondence held confidential.
US KEBR RASSWISS
HEBBALALFAUNIPI
SSMUnIN
A USEFUL BOOK
SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmussen’s
valuable book, The
Alfaline Guide to
Health, which con-
tains valuable in-
formation for all
Complaints, and
copies of Testi-
monials, will be sent
free in plain cover,
on application.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD OFFICE,
(HANS PETER RASSMUSSEN)
547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Alfaline Remedies can only be obtained from his Head Office and hi*
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES :
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke-st.
BRISBANE-309 aueen-st.
ADELAIDE—IS Pulteney-st.
W. A.—PERTH, 481 Hay-st.
K ALGOORLIE—Hannan - st.
BOULDER ClTY—Piesse-st.
N.Z.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington.
FREMANTLE-Henry-st.
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of the ALFALINE REMEDIES.


BRAUN ORE SAMPLE-CRUSHER
and PULVERISER.
gh
Combination of a Jaw and Roll
Pulveriser working together.
May be operated by either hand or power.
Jaws, 3} in. wide; Roll, 6 in. diameter; Belt
Wheel, 16 x2k in. Total Weight, 2851b5»
Write for Particulars tot-
PARKE & LACY 00., Ltd.
60 Clarence-St., Sydney, n.s.w.
MINING ENGINEERS & MACHINERY
MERCHANTS.
Silver Gilt BROOCH, set wi h Real
Turquoise. Any Initial 3s d each.
Solid Gold Pigeon BROOCH,
90b., 5s 6d ; 15et., Bs.
awVT«®
Real
Turquoise.
Silver
Gilt.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
Gem Safety PIN, with 1 Ply, 2s each
» „ 2 „ 3s „
„ ~ „ 3 ~ 4s „
Twin Ply PINS, with Chains, 4s ~
Jewellers & Opticians
soKingST^Sydney.
Butterfly Bar BROOCJH, 6s 6d.
ALL. GOODS POST FREE.
m
s
Silver Gilt, Turquoise Set, Bird or
Butterfly BROOCH.
Special Value - - - - 4s each.
“ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Sore Eyes! Blight!
USED 300 YEARS.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
Never fails . Restores Eyelashes .
HAD FROM ALL CHEMISTS.
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT.”
AsK your Chemist for this little book.
A Modern Scientific Triumph, the
“ELECTRICON”
The first and only absolute safe and successful
means ever perfected to apply pure Metallic Galvanic
Electricity direct to the ears, permanently curing
DEAFNESS
and completely banishing all distressing
HEAD NOISES
by restoring natural life, strength and activity to the
affected parts of the ear and to the nerve of hearing.
Simple—harmless—positive. Cure guaranteed or no
expense. For full information and complete descrip-
tion, address with stamp—
The L. R. VERNON COY.,
60-64 Hunter-gt., Sydney.
:nnessy’s
THREE STAR
The
Excellence
of all
Bottled
Brandy
bearing:
this Label
is
BRANDY
Guaranteed.
THE
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
i
1111
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, £3 3s. per week or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica-
tion to The Manager.
Latest Novelty in Corsets ..
[Patented and
Registered.]
THOMSONS
Unbreakable Waist. Natural Hinge.
Extract from Madame Schlld’s
Fashion Journals for March .
*
“A New Corset. —This novelty is a very clever arrangement of
the nature of a hinge at the waist, so that the wearer does not break
the steels when stooping. This new Corset is called ‘The Graciosa,’
is extremely comfortable to wear even from the first, it fits the body
at once, and is as easv as a glove. It is boned with RUSTLESS
* SILVIDE,’ and the bones cannot push through. 1 '
Made in Colors, White, French Grey, and Black. '
Makers: W. S. THOMSON & Co., Ld,, U 2, Fore St., Eng.
Makers ol the Celebrated New Model * Glove-Fitting,’ & ‘ La Noblesse ’ Corsets
Of all dealers throughout the World.
LEARN TO HYPNOTIZE!
gh
Reader, do you desire to become a Hypnotist? Do you want to know liow to utilize th c most
powerful and mysterious force of nature? Do you value control over others? Do you value the
means of securing friendship, love and personal influence? Do you value the power to conquer
pain and banish sickness, to reform a misguided friend, to gain business success, to win wealth,
position and happiness? If you do, you must learn to Hypnotize. Why not? No other accom-
plishment is so easily acquired. It can be mastered in a few hours time, without leaving your
home. It costs nothing to find out all about it. The greatest Hynotist of the century has just
issued in book form a large and exhaustive TREATISE, OR INSTRUCTOR IN HYPNOTISM,
covering the whole ground of his Science, aud he will send it while the edition lasts, absolutely
FREE TO ALL who apply. The book is profusely illustrated, containing beautiful and artistic
engravings, and shows as never was done before the principles, features, wonders
and uses of thi3 mysterious Science, all in a popular and pleasing style. It tells
you just what Hypnotism is, and what you may accomplish with it. It shows you
how you may sway the minds of others, perform astounding feats,
and produce amusement by the hour. New and instantaneous
methods. Success absolutely guaranteed. Remember this grand
work costs you nothing. It benefits everybody who reads it. It
places you in touch with the wonder-science of the age. Read
it anyhow. It is absolutely FREE. Apply at once to—
PROF. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
I
There is no question about it that • • •
CROUZELLE STUDIOS, LIMITED,
< ... TURN OUT . . .
The Very Best Portraits
At Strictly Moderate Prices.
No Bales or Gifts, but Real Good Value from a Real Good Firm,
Our only Address is 308 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
TEL. 2761 FOR
HORSE-OWMBRS, &c.
Jatpgs & Sods’ Horse apd Cattle Remedies-
Assorted Medicine Chests -from £1 upwards. «*■
Single Article forwarded Post Free.
Obtainable OWL DRUG- CO., BATHURST and LIVERPOOL STREETS; All Leading
Chemists; or at SYDNEY OFFICE, IMPERIAL ARCADE.
MELLtN’S
FOR INFANTS
FOOD
AND INVALIDS.
Is adapted for use from birth.
Send for Pamphlet and Samples to GOU.IN & CO.. 562-4, B° u i ke Street, Melbourne,
172 Clarence Street, Sydney, Grenfell Street, Adelaide, and Wellington.
Tallin's Food Company lor Australia and New Zealand. Ltd., 56, Cannon Street, London, Eng.
rm
*a
m
(fro
m
a
MB
ifvm
ttnr,
I/Hr
ms
'ii
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Go.,
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only and
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
GORDON MARE, Secretary.
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
28 Years in the Establishment.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a "Newspaper.
Vor, 22.— N0. 1132.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1901.
Prion 6d.
THE AUSTRALIAN LOAN-DRUNK DISEASE-GOT ’EM AGAIN.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
** AirstrnUu for tlie A ustrfiliimsA*
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBER?
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ••• °° r
Half-yearly ... ... n a ft
Quarterly
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
lVestra.Ua. and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
nostaqcon Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
€l, with its. Sd. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of ljft. postage, the s?i6scn>Uora
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease of in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post O ffice, a special 1 hynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed'to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph , illustration , or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles ,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns m length,
or, say, 8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission
To Amateurs in TilacJc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
an y interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but, unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. — L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
South Africa.— R. A. Thompson and Co., 8 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. 11. Solomon
and Co., n Uout-st., Capetown. Gwelo News Agency
Rhodesia.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1901.
The Great West.
The report of the N.S.W. Western Lands
Commission raises one question vvhich really
contains all the rest : Is the West an asset
or a liability 1 It is a gruesome tale that the
Commission has to tell. The greater part of
the West is temporarily bankrupt ; it is by
no means certain that it isn’t permanently
bankrupt. It isn’t merely a case of
drought. The additional trouble is that the
West seems to have broken loose, and
become movable instead of fixed, and to be
wandering about casually, and liable to fall
on other parts of the country and over-
whelm them, and no one has any certain idea
how to catch it and chain it up again. When
the pastoralists rushed it, not so very many
years ago, it was a rather dry and decidedly
lonely place, but otherwise it was not so
seriously unlike any other place. There
were no rabbits, no sheep, and only a thin
scattering of herbivorous animals. Nature,
having been practically left alone, had man-
aged, in the course of a million years or so,
to accumulate enough vegetation to hold the
country together. It was a sad-looking
vegetation—a mere scurf of greyish-greenish-
ne.ss in many places—but its roots kept the
Western division from rising up and leaving
for parts unknown.
* * * *
Then the squatter came, and the sheep
came in numbers far ahead of what the
country could bear, and the rabbit came
after the sheep. And the squatter, having
thoughtfully made tanks, these animals were
enabled to live where they might otherwise
have died. They attacked the scanty vegeta-
tion with fury, and used it up. As the
report sadly observes, drought succeeded
drought, and, in the absence of grass, the
stock ate the dismal native herbage out by
the roots. Whether the droughts of the
last few years are the usual condition of
the West —a condition that may be expected
to last for the rest of Time, with only
an occasional accidental break—it is not
easy to say. Pastoral settlement overran
the West during a period which was dotted
over with comparatively good years, but
whether these good years were an extraordi-
nary episode after, perhaps, three centuries
of regular drought, or whether they were
a frequent episode which happened to be
followed in this case by an unusual series of
droughts, local records don’t go far enough
back to show. But the probabilities appear
to be that drought is the normal state of
things. At all events, the West broke loose.
The roots of the feeble herbage which held
it together being eaten out by an unnatural
influx of animals which the country was
wholly unfitted to sustain, the West became
a sandstorm rather than a district. A gale
lifts up an area something like a small Ger-
man principality and throws it into the air
promiscuously. Houses are being buried.
A high fence is silted up by the moving
land-drift at the shortest notice, and another
fence erected on top of it shares the
same fate. A costly tank may be filled up in a
day, and sheep are buried, in addition to the
other modes of dying open to them. The
sandstorm digs out as well as fills in—under-
mines fences, leaves trees tottering high in
the air, balanced on anetwork of exposed roots,
and carries away the soil bodily off homestead
leases and conditional purchases. The pre-
vailing winds are from the west, and so the
western district, having broken away from
its anchorage through man and beast fooling
recklessly with the anchor, is moving east-
ward.
* • * *
Even if a few good seasons arrive the
situation is problematical. If the West is to
become again a settled locality (not settled
by population but permanently settled down
in one place) apparently the native vegeta-
tion—the kind which can hold its own against
drought—must have a chance to recover.
When the white man first went out there the
vegetation had apparently been doing
nothing save recovering since the beginning
of history, with only a moderate amount of
native game to contend against. And even
under these favorable circumstances nothing
so very great in the way of a recovery had
been effected. When the next series of good
seasons arrive—supposing they do arrive in
any definite sense—the upspringing vegeta-
tion will have the sheep and the rabbits to
contend with, and whether the West can
make any real recovery under these condi-
tions is a problem.
* * * *
If anyone could accurately estimate the
losses and gains of the pastoral industry of
the Western district it might be found that
N.S.W. has made something out of it, or,
again, it might not. The great dry land has
swallowed up the capital and labor of innu-
merable pioneers. Not only has all the
natural increase of the last eight years dis-
appeared, but 10,000,000 sheep have
vanished besides. The same country has
partly swallowed up a multitude of banks
and financial institutions, and the capital of
many private Shylocks as well. Its popula-
tion is diminishing ; the people, as well as
the sand, are blowing eastward again. It
has supplied a certain amount of wool and
other produce, many lunatics, a good deal of
poetry, a peculiarly hideous brand of
liquor, and that literary myth commonly
described as Billjim. But if the loss
of time, life, and money is set against
these products it is possible that the
Western plains are rather a liability than an
asset. Certainly, they looked like an asset
at one time, but that is no evidence. While
banks and financial institutions were raking
in 4 per cent, deposits freely, and lending
the money at good rates on western lands,
and while their western mortgages were still
regarded as good security, it appeared as if
the West was making N.S.W. rich. A
valueless mortgage, ora bogus bank-note, both
make the holder feel rich until he finds out
their valuelessness. But a great deal of the
money that was allegedly made in the West
was made by one man buying a property at
£50,000 and selling it to a still more sanguine
individual at £lOO,OOO. And when the pro-
perty finally got down to be hardly worth
accepting as a gift, the West, despite the
money some people made there, may easily
be a minus quantity on the whole.
* m * *
The proposals of the Western Lands Com-
mission are, in the main, that there should
be an effort made to share the loss. The
Government is to give extended leases at a
low rental. The banks and other institu-
tions which hold mortgages over the country
are to agree to write off part of the money
owing to them. Further, there requires to be
a hard and fast agreement against overstock-
ing when a good season comes again—if any
sudden outbreak of vegetation is eaten out
again wholesale as soon as it appears there
is no chance for the exhausted country to
make a genuine recovery. The campaign
against the hopeless, innumerable rabbit
needs to be kept up vigorously, and there is
some talk of planting belts of timber to stop
the westward movement of this wildly
unfixable territory. And these things
appear to be about all that can be done in
the matter. The West is one of the things
commonly described as the “great natural
resources of this new land.” It is
a sorrowful resource just at present,
and apparently there is very little hope
that it will ever be the resource it was once
supposed to be. Any general writing-down
of mortgages will be a severe shock to the
outward appearance of many an institution
which is still “ saving its face ” by reckoning
these assets at their paper value, but it will
not do any real injury. It is a question now
of writing-down most of the West to its real
value, if that can be arrived at, and every-
body concerned must take a hand in the
process if any good is to be done.
A Decaying Industry.
The fire and marine insurance industry is one which
no Australasian Government has yet attempted to
protect and encourage, yet it deserves encourage-
ment and protection quite as much as any other,
and more than many others. When a foreign
firm sends an agent to Australia and starts new
soapworks, it is to be regretted that the soapworks
were not started by a local firm, so that the profits
as well as the wages might remain in the country.
Still, the circumstance has alleviations. It may
cause soap to be made in the country that would
otherwise have been imported—therefore it may
cause a large amount of our money to be expended
here in wages when it would otherwise have gone
to England, or Germany, or America, to pay
wages to people in whom we feel no special interest.
Therefore, while it is best of all to have our soap-
works i n Austral ia owned by Australians, it is better
to have them here owned by foreigners than not
have them here at all. In the first case, the
wages and profits belong to Australia; in the
second case, the wages at least belong to Aus-
tralia ; but the worst case of all is when the soap
is imported, and both the wages and the profits go
abroad. But fire and marine assurance belongs to
a different industrial category. It is a kind of
business which has to be done here almost as a
matter of necessity. The only question is whether
it shall be done by Australian companies, whose
profits are spent here, or by British, German,
Austrian, French, Dutch, Chinese, Japanese, and
miscellaneous companies, whose profits are spent
abroad, so that the departure of these profits will
add a little more to the incredible sum which this
country has to send away for the support of the
multifarious absentee.
* * * •
There was a time when Australian fire and
marine insurance was mostly done by Australian
institutions. It is not so now. When the local
institutions were still mostly small and weak the
huge British companies came and squatted largely
in the land. They bought out some of the local
concerns. In other cases, local concerns died
from pressure of competition, or, as happens
in every country, from sheer mismanagement, and
(largely through the pressure of foreign competi-
tion) no one found it worth while to start new
institutions in their stead. The British offices
that started business in Australia were mostly
large, solid concerns, which had grown up in the
days when there was no foreign competition in
their own land, and with their great resources and
their great English revenues they could tide over
bad years. Many of the local offices, when
they struck a bad year and this heavy foreign
competition simultaneously, went under. The
British competitors brought nothing of any value
to this country that wasn’t here before. They
employed no labor that wouldn’t have been
employed in the same line of business in any case.
They did nothing that wouldn’t have been done
by the local companies in any case. They brought
their name and reputation, and their stationery,
and they took away their profits, and that was the
most of the story.
* * * »
In 1884 there were thirty fire and marine
insurance companies belonging to the Australian
mainland and Maoriland doing business in these
parts. The Tasmanian companies are left out of
the calculation because, until recently, some of
them did not publish revenue accounts, and the
amount of business they did 16 years ago was an
unknown quantity. The figures which follow give
some evidence of the size of the industry in these
old days:
New South Wales Companies (1884).
Net Premium Income.
Pacific £250,300
United .. .. .. .. .. 46,454
Australian Mutual Fire .. .. 22,167
Australian General .. .. .. 21,317
Sydney Marine 14,452
Sydney Lloyds .. 12,025
Mercantile Mutual 11,570
City Mutual Fire .. .. .. 7,8Q8
Industrial Mutual Fire 2,611
£388,704
Victorian Companies (1884).
Victoria £93,378
Australian Alliance 46,345
Southern 42,990
Colonial Mutual 31,341
National .. .. 24,786
Victoria General 18,599
Australian Mercantile Union.. .. 14,817
United Australian Mutual .. .. 14,299
Indemnity 10,989
Metropolitan Mutual 623
298,167
South Australian Companies (1884).
Adelaide £101,978
Mercantile Marine and Fire .. .. 37,224
South Australian 26,404
Equitable 2,798
168,404
Maoriland Companies (1884).
South British £283,072
New Zealand 217,650
National 211,939
Union 133,605
Colonial 50,059
Standard 49,731
Equitable of M.L. 19,516
965,672
£1,820,847
* * » *
And this is how things are now, as far as concerns
the Australian mainland States and Maoriland:—
New South Wales Companies (1900).
Net Premium Income.
North Queensland £75,310
United 70,779
Mercantile Mutual 34,506
Australian Mutual Fire .. .. 29,641
£210,236
Victorian Companies (1900).
Colonial Mutual Fire 95,253
Victoria 82,477
Australian Alliance 51,798
United Australian Mutual .. .. 15,803
Victoria General 10,481
— 255,812
Maoriland Companies (1900).
New Zealand 342,036
South British 215,730
National 102,264
Standard 55,475
Farmers’ Co-operative 5,649
721,154
£1,187,202
There is nominally another New South Wales
company, the City Mutual, still in existence, but
as the London and Lancashire (of England), really
owns it nowadays it can no longer be regarded as
an Australian institution.
* * * *
During the past 16 years, therefore, the fire and
marine insurance companies of ano
Maoriland have decreased from 30 to 14. South
Australia’s four offices are all dead. New South
Wales’ largest surviving concern is mainly run by
a great Queensland firm, but, reckoning it as a
Cornstalk institution, N.S.W. now owns four
companies and Victoria five. Sixteen years ago
the premium income of the purely Australian
companies was £855,275 ; it is now £466,048 this
despite the fact that population has increased
about 40 per cent., and business should have shown
at least some corresponding expansion. And the
insurance companies of all Australia now do a
business that is not quite two-thirds that of the
companies belonging to the one little State
of Maoriland—a place with much less than
one-fourth of Australia’s population ! The
tendency of the Maorilanders to support local
institutions, as distinguished from the tendency
of Australians to rush after anything that is
English, is one of the causes of the remarkable
prosperity of the two bleak islands. During the
last 14 years no new fire or marine insurance com-
pany has started in Australia and survived,
though 17 old ones have died. Sundry new ones,
however (such as the Hull and General, N.S.W.
Assurance, Sydney Mutual, Australian Traders’,
Queensland Mutual and Queensland General),
have started and either perished young for want
of support, or were absorbed by the persistent
Britisher.
* * * •
During the last 10 years, 10 millions of the fire
insurance risks in the city of Sydney alone have
passed into the hands of foreign institutions.
And unless some emphatic steps are taken to
protect the valuable Australian fire and
marine insurance industry, by a licensing
system which will prevent the further
influx of foreign institutions, by a heavy absentee-
tax on extraneous offices, or by some other means,
the extinction of the business seems a very adja-
cent possibility. The matter is one in which the
Labor party in Australian politics takes little in-
terest, yet there is no other party which should be
so deeply interested. There are two ways in
which the working class of any country may come
to be poor, wretched, hopeless, and underpaid.
One is through the wealth of the country being
badly distributed ; the other is through there
being very little wealth in the country to distri-
bute. Everything that tends to draw profits or
interest or rents out of Australia diminishes the
country’s wealth and in a poor country no legisla-
tion, however advanced and intelligent, will
prevent the working classes being ill-paid and
miserable. The sheep that has no wool can’t be
shorn, and the wealth that is absent can’t be taxed
or distributed in wages. For these reasons the
fact that a once-big Australian industry, hav-
ing been run on Freetrade principles, is going
where industries run on Freetrade principles
generally do go, is a matter that the Labor party
can’t afford to neglect. When a country begins,
through any cause, to suffer from the dead weight
of poverty, it is the man at the bottom who feels
the weight most. Also, it is the man at the
bottom who feels it first.
The Plot to Blacken Australia.
“White Australian ” writes from Cairns (Q.) :
It is singular that the Mulgrave Central Mill (Cairns,
Q.) carriers’strike should occur just as the Kanaka Bill
is before the public. It looks like a carefully-engineered
plan to gain public sympathy for the mill-owners against
the tyranny of the White Australian policy. The “ un-
reliability ” theory is supposed to be supported by the
little strike of 20 men, though white labor in the imme-
diate neighborhood has just completed a railway-line
from Port Douglas to Mossman, and the men inside the
Mulgrave mill, whose work is infinitely more oppressive
than the carriers’, did not come out. The events leading
up to the strike should be studied. This season the Mul-
grave co. put Hindoos to do work that hitherto was done
by white men. This the Cairns Labor people objected to,
and the matter was ventilated in the House, and the
Mulgrave mill manager was advised t.Q employ w'hite men
instead of Hindoos. Subsequently, some Bundaberg
“ farmers’ sons ” were “ obtained ”to do this work. Why
the “ farmers’ sons ” were “ obtained ” is a mystery, con-
sidering the numbers of men in search of work around
Cairns. These “ farmer’ sons ” didn’t work a week, and
their leader, who went to Cairns allegedly with White
Australian views, not only changed his views, but was in
such a hurry to make it known that he signed a paper to
that effect, which Brisbane Courier is now booming for
all it is worth. The “ unhealthy climate ” theory is dead
now, thanks to Lord Hopetoun, who publicly states that
he had to go to Cairns to get back his health 1 And
against the argument educed from the Mulgrave carriers’
strike, as to unreliability, is the fact that in Bundaberg
district —hotter than Cairns —the leading mills employ
white labor exclusively for carrier and inside work, at the
moderate pay of 225. 6d. per week of 63 hours ! It is an
open secret that efforts are to be made to evade the tacit
understanding that white labor alone should be employed
in the State-aided central mills, and this affair at the
Mulgrave is the first move of the Black Austral ians.
“ R.P.” on another aspect of the same question :
There is a deliberate effort to foster the erroneous im-
pression in the Southern States that the climate of
Queensland is distressingly hot. You may find travelled
Queenslanders in every town from Townsville and
Charters Towers to Brisbane, who will tell you that they
riever feel the heat in their State as badly as in Sydney or
Melbourne. Speaking for myself, I may say, as the result
of some dozen or more trips to Far Northern Queensland,
that during all months of that year, except December or
January, I have never suffered from the heat as much as
in N.S.W. This applies to all the Eastern country
in which are the sugar districts, and four-fifths
of the population. In the Western districts much
the same climatic conditions prevail as in the corre-
sponding sections of N.S.W. ; but I doubt whether any
Q. western town can equal Bourke in its summer heat
records. The reasons why whites do not at present work
satisfactorily in the cane-fields of Queensland are not
climatical, but economic, moral, and racial; they will not
do “ niggers’ ” work—not because they cannot, but
because their morale for work is destroyed before they
enter a cane-field by the feeling that they are degrading
themselves to do that which the local sentiment —a senti-
ment fostered in every way by the planters and their
press—makes “niggers’” work. The same sentiment
made all unskilled manual labour more or less dis-
graceful to a white man in some of the slave
States of America. If the Hindoo spreads over
the cane-fields of N.S.W., cane-cutting there also will
become niggers’ work, with the same results so far as
white labor is concerned. Remove the nigger from the
scene, and the white men—if paid a reasonable white
man’s wage—will cut cane as reliably on the Johnstone
River as they have ever done on the Richmond.
A Queensland planter (Bundaberg) on the plot:—
Until quite recently, the Queensland Central Mills
have been worked entirely with white labor, but within
the last 12 months there has been a significant agitation
amongst the irreconcilable section of private mill-owners
to make white labor appear “unreliable” in certain
localities. It will be news to many Southerners, who
may have been misled by our Tory press, to know that
the following large mills in Q. have always employed, and
do at present employ, white labor only in manufacturing
operations : —Nerang, Bauple, Isis, Gin-Gin, and Invicta
Central Mills, Huckley and Knockroe (C.S.R. Co.’s mills),
Doolbi, and Bingera private concerns. These are all in
the south. In the north the white-labor mills are : Race-
course, Marion, Pleystowe, Plane Creek, Eton, Proser-
pine and Mossman Central Mills. The Mulgrave Central
Mill is the only one of its class that does not use white
labor exclusively, and this is probably due to the Fiji “ in-
fluence” of the C.S.R. Co.’smillsin the immediate vicinity.
The total manufacturing cost of labor and rations, &c.,
last year at the white labor mills only came to “ £1 Bs.
llfd.” per ton of sugar (vide Sugar Journal, Sept., 1901).
There is not the slightest excuse for colored labor in
sugar manufacture any more than for work connected
with meat works or wool sheds. Barton’s tariff, so far


as sugar is concerned, is the most statesmanlike remedy
ever put forward to solve the vexed colored - labor
question.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Federal Looting of New South
Wales.
The ghost of the old legend about the conspiracy
on the part of the other States to loot N.S.W.
reared its drunken head once more last week.
Said George Reid —the man who claims to have
brought the Commonwealth into existence :
Under this wonderful tariff the people of New South
Wales will pay 36 per cent, of the whole taxation.
Then Sydney Evening News promptly took
up the parable in its leading article of 10th
October:
The great debate in Melbourne upon Mr. Reid’s motion
censuring the Federal tariff has begun, and the two
leaders have already spoken. Mr. Reid made a telling
attack, or an attack which should have been telling, but
for the fact that New South Wales has been selected as
the victim of the tariff framers. Had it been thought
that New South Wales had enough influence to seriously
imperil the tariff, that tariff would not have been so
drawn as to make New South Wales pay 36 per cent, of
the total Australian taxation. The other States, before
they marched to the plunder of New South Wales, pro-
bably made certain, by a careful count of heads, that the
crib was a safe one to crack.
This is the sort of silly and unscrupulous rot
which imposes on the ignorant, and which is
evidently intended to impose on the ignorant.
It most distinctly implies that if N.S.W. pays
36 per cent, of the taxation it will be
grievously wronged in some way. The fact
that N.S.W. has 36 per cent, of the white
population, and therefore should pay 36 per
cent, of the taxation—that there is no looting,
and no cracking of any crib, and nobody march-
ing to the plunder of anybody else—all this
is carefully suppressed. So is the fact that
N.S.W., if it pays 36 per cent, of the taxa-
tion, will get back its corresponding proportion
of the surplus. If the public could possibly
believe that the Foreign-trade papers and the
Foreign-trade politicians of New South Wales
really represented the popular feeling of the
State, then New South Wales would be an object
of scorn, as the big, currish braggart of the Com-
monwealth. Its pot-house arrogance about the
wealth of the “Mother State ” as compared with its
allegedly bankrupt partners ; its pitiable small-
dog whine about the robbery proposed to be per-
petrated on New South Wales when it is asked to
supply its fair share of the Federal revenue
according to population—just as much per head as
its allegedly much poorer brethren ; its lamenta-
tion that the Federal Ministry (in which Victoria
has less representation in proportion to population
than any other State) is run by Victoria ; its con-
stant weeping about how its own big State has
been in some way struck or damaged or wronged
by its very small neighbor down South —all these
unmanly groans and wails are calculated to make
the community feel very sick. If the Foreign-
trade press would try to be a man instead of a
miserable injured Mother Gummidge a lot more
public respect would come its way.
+
The Slaughter of the Children.
The murder record in the British concentration
camps in South Africa, since information about
these horrois first began to be reluctantly supplied
by the Salisbury-Chamberlain Government:
July : 1412 deaths out of 91,940 white persons (mostly
women and children), or at the rate of about 184 per
annum out of every 1000.
August: 1878 deaths out of 107,425 prisoners, or at the
rate of about 210 per annum out of every 1000.
September: 2411 deaths out of 109,418 prisoners, or at
the rate of over 264 per annum out of every 1000.
This is the slaughter of women and children in-
discriminately. But, take the children separately,
for the two months during which separate in-
formation was supplied:
August: 510 deaths out of 22,036 children detained as
prisoners, or at the rate of 278 per annum out of
every 1000.
September: 1964 deaths out of 54,326 child prisoners,
or at the rate of 433 pe.- annum out of every 1000.
It was in July that the Salisbury Government
cheerfully admitted that its brutish Kitchener
had shut out the red-cross nurses from his awful
death-traps, and gave as a reason that things were
so satisfactory that nurses were quite superfluous.
Since then the mortality has gone up in a hideous
fashion. At the present rate the children of the
Boer nation will be practically all killed off inside
three years ! The death-rate among adults and
children is now 22 times that of New South Wales;
it breaks the worst known records of the cholera
or the Black Death ; the prisons of the Inquisition
weren’t worth mentioning by comparison; and even
Alva never managed to establish such a death-
rate during his rule in the Netherlands.
And this is in the cool season of the year ; what
things may be like when the glare of summer
shines down on these loathsome dens is beyond
imagining. Kitchener’s savage policy of de-
stroying private property wholesale, and penning
up women and children, whose homes and food
supplies have been burnt by his orders, to die
of disease, exposure, bad food, and neglect in his
concentration camps is a disgrace from which the
good name of Britain will not recover for cen-
turies. And yet even he finds apologists. Con-
sider this beautiful slab of servile degradation
from a Sydney morning paper ;
The foregoing figures indicate a tremendous infant
mortality. Roughly, they mean an average death-rate of
about 433 per 1000 per annum. “ But,” as a returned
soldier recently stated to an interviewer, “ you cannot
conduct a war on kid-glove principles. It is terrible to
see the suffering. Everybody I saw at the front did his
best to alleviate misery-i-but misery, gaunt and horrible,
is ever present all the same. Measles and fevers never
seem to leave the refugee camps.”
Think of that now ! “ Everybody did his best to
alleviate suffering.” And making war on women
and children, burning their homes, and shutting
them up under conditions bo awful that the
mortality is in a fair way to wipe out the whole
community inside four years is what the Jingo rag
calls alleviating suffering! What would it be like
if it wasn’t alleviated ?
♦
The Proposed Nigger-Labor Upheaval.
The Barton Government’s sugar duties have
aroused a shriek of indignation in Queensland
nigger-labor circles. Probably anything except
unlimited nigger, accompanied, if possible, by an
excise duty on white-man-made sugar, in order to
suppress the objectionable European, would have
made the Brisbane black-labor crowd angry, but
in its present mood the rage of an Orange-and-
Green mob on the anniversary of Aughrim is a
holy calm by comparison. The tariff proposes, in
the first place, that there shall be a duty of £lO
per ton on sugar not made from cane. This is
intended to counterbalance the fact that much
beet sugar which comes here from the continent
of Europe is aided by a State bounty, and
cane sugar made here by white labor without
the aid of a bounty cannot fairly be called
on to compete against this. Incidentally
this duty gives the British empire—which
grows much cane sugar and practically no beet —
a leg up, a fact which should appeal to a
country which has just sent away about two dozen
farm-burning contingents. Cane sugar is to be
taxed £6 a ton. Also there is to be an excise of
£3 a ton on locally-grown sugar, with the proviso
that after Ist July, 1902, a rebate equal to £2 a
ton will be granted on all sugar made by white
labor only, reducing the ■ excise to £1; and,
after Ist January, 1907, a rebate equal to the
whole duty is to be allowed on the white product.
In other words, after next July white-man-made
sugar receives £5 per ton Protection and the
Kanaka and Chinese product only £3; after the
end of 1906 the white product receives £6 per ton
Protection and the black product still only £3.
The Barton Government believ es in protecting
our own nigger against the foreign nigger,
but it believes still more in protecting the
white man against all niggers. It is a
fair and honest device, and shows that the
Federal Government adheres firmly to its White
Australia policy. And Queensland in general,
which sent an almost solid White Australia dele-
gation to the Federal Parliament, will assuredly
stand by the Government—unless it has doubts
that the proceeding isn’t drastic enough. But up
in Queensland the Black Labor remnant (which
runs Brisbane and its daily papers) has thrown its
tall hat to the winds, and torn its frock-coat up
the back, and is talking civil war and red revolu-
tion, and has dreams of sending a Black Labor
army to burn Melbourne, and leave the Barton
Ministry a cinder among the ruins. Its language
is that of South Carolina before the Civil War,
combined with the curse of the gentleman who
held that Carthage should be destroyed. Even if
Queensland was solid for Black Labor it couldn’t
do a quarter of the things that the Kanaka Rem-
nant is talking about; but with Queensland voting
in a huge majority for a White Australia the situa-
tion is supremely ridiculous. This state of things
shows that the White Australia movement was
made none too soon. The United States black
labor problem led to a four-years’ war, and even
that left it unsettled. The Australian problem,
if it had been allowed to grow for an equal length
of time, might have done the same. In fact, but
for the Chinese Restriction Acts and educational
tests, which greatly hindered its growth, it might
have already almost reached the necessary
dimensions.
♦
More Northern Territory Shindykit.
One John Brown, representing the North
Australian Exploration Syndicate (agents, J. S.
Botters— good old Butters— and Co., of Mel-
bourne), advertised recently in the Melbourne
papers that things were going on splendidly in
London with the formation of a large company to
“develop” the property. Then the advt. went
on to furnish particulars of the property to be
developed:
The area secured is, by comparison, equal to a strip of
country stretching from Melbourne to Echuca, varying
from 30 to 40 miles wide ; it reaches from the Gulf of Car-
pentaria to within 20 miles of the telegraph and the route
of the proposed overland railway from Adelaide to Port
Darwin, which has already been built from the southern
end at Adelaide to Oodnadatta, 688 miles, and from the
north at Port Darwin to Pine Creek, 145 J miles.
The total area is 6234 sq. miles, practically four
million acres. The Roper River, one of the
largest in Australia, runs through the whole length
of the property, and has many tributaries, including the
Chambers, the Strangways, the Hodgson, the Elsey, the
Childers, and others ; there are also the Wickham, Lim-
rnen, and Towns rivers further south running direct into
the Gulf. The Roper was surveyed in the Omeo steamer
in 1870 by Messrs. Pickham and M'Lachlan, officers of
the S.A. Govt., and in 1885 in the B. A. Govt, steamer,
Palmerston, commanded by Capt. Carrixoton (now
captain of the Coogee), who checked the previous sur-
veys, and added additional valuable information. This
survey must have cost over £lO,OOO. Copies of the charts
in the hands of the syndicate show that the river is navi-
gable for vessels of 1000 tons for 70 to 8 ) miles close up
to the Leichhardt Falls, and above the Falls by smaller
craft for an additional 40 miles, thus being the great
waterway to the interior of Northern Australia. The
syndicate has exclusive grazing and mineral rights over
the whole area, and all leases (save one) are for a period
of 42 years.
That seems to be the lot. The syndicate has only
got a 42 years’ lien on almost the- best river in
Australia, and practically all the good lands on
both sides of it. And this process of giving away
huge parchment leases, and holding syndicate
meetings in a Melbourne office, and floating com-
panies in London, is called “developing the
Territory.” Unfortunately, that great, neglected
but valuable asset can never be developed by
Butters or Secretary Brown putting advertise-
ments in the Melbourne papers. It wants a
Federally-owned transcontinental railway first of
all—a railway built out of revenue, not loans, so
that having no interest to pay, it can carry pro-
duce very cheaply. It wants a Federal land tax
on something like the S.A. plan—small estates
exempt, with a graduated increase on large ones
till the very largest are liable for about 3d. in the
£, with absentee tax added. It wants this tax
applied to leaseholds as well as freeholds. And
then the small white settler —the genuine agricul-
turist or grazing farmer—should get his land for
next to nothing to induce genuine settlement, so
that the country may yield a revenue, and the
railway may have enough business to make it
pay. With some such policy as that there will be
real prosperity and a real population in the
Territory, and the scalp of Butters’ shindykit
will wave from the highest tree-top. But it is no
earthly use taking oyer the Territory without a
fixed resolve to get rid of the large syndicates—by
resumption, or by taxing them out, but to get rid
of them somehow. It can only be made to pay by
promoting settlement, and the Butters’ clan has
most of the best land already locked up against
settlement.
+
The Chinese Egg.
By way of a reasonable test of the sincerity of the
Freetrade party, it would be interesting to have it
define its attitude towards that comparatively
recent invader, the Chinese egg. Though the
Chinaman may be objectionable on moral grounds,
the Chinese egg is as moral as any other egg, and
probably as healthy ; and it has to be objected to
for fiscal reasons or not at all. It is a compara-
tively recent institution in N.S. Wales—that
general dumping-ground of the refuse of all
nations. In 1896 the Chow, of China proper and
Hongkong, sent us 11,425 dozen eggs ; in 1897 he
sent 18,794 dozen ; in 1898, 39,102 dozen ; in 1899
he dropped to 31,471 dozen; but in 1900 the
heathen egg supply of New South Wales went up
to 74,365 dozen. In 1896, the Chinaman supplied
less than 3 per cent, of the Cornstalk egg imports ;
while in 1900 lie furnished over 12 per cent. The
reason is obvious enough. The declared value of
the Chinese egg is just about half that of other
imported eggs, and by extra cheapness the Mongol
is wiping the floor with his competitors. Even
after paying freight and all charges, his product
is declared to cost only about half as much landed
in Sydney as the local article costs. Of course
the retail buyer doesn’t get the Chinese egg
visibly cheaper than any other kind, but the
middle-man makes a large profit out of it ; there-
fore, while it is obtainable (and it is obtainable in
steadily increasing quantities) he isn’t likely to.
buy the local product. And the Sydney Tele-
graph is much interested in the local product.
On a Saturday its poultry advertisements often
run to two or three closely-printed columns.
It gets up hen-laying competitions, and
it has a hen-column, and it enjoys a
large circulation among fowl-breeders and fowl-
enthusiasts. There is every reason to believe that
a time will come, if the Freetrade system continues,
when the local fowl won’t be wanted any more by
reason of Asiatic competition and cheap freights,
to say nothing of the great improvement in chil-
ling arrangements and other preservative devices
which now enable the Buddhist fowl to deposit his
egg on the Cornstalk’s doorstep almost as fresh as
that of the purely local bird. In its own small
way, that local bird helps to support innumerable
households, and it can’t be superseded by its
Chinese rival without knocking another prop from
under the local farmer. And the great increase
of Chinese supplies, which threatens to under-
mine an innocent and happy fowl, hasn’t even the
merit of reducing the price to the consumer. Yet
every genuine Freetrader must needs barrack
for the continued free admission of the Chinese
egg, even though its advent doesn’t reduce
prices, and even if it wrecks a valuable local
industry, and knocks out the Telegraph’s
columns of hen advertisements. Will the Free-
trade party, and especially the Freetrade Laborists
who don’t profit by the import business and have
only the satisfaction of seeing another local
industry damaged and paying the same price as
before, make a stand for the free Chow egg ? And
if it won’t, what is the use of having a Freetrade
party? The “Freetrade” Sydney Evening
News actually claims credit for its efforts towards
suppressing the cheap Chinese egg ! Yet it would
be a most excellent thing if the working man
could get eggs at 3d. a dozen to feed his children
on ; it is against the Freetrade policy to tax the
food of the masses. Why do we not find the
Freetrade press barracking for the cheap Chow
egg?
♦
The Secret of Britain’s Greatness.
Britain built up its shipping-trade by its Naviga-
tion laws. For nearly 200 years—the period
during which Britain grew from being a country
which carried on its trade in Dutch ships, to being
the owner of one-third the world’s mercantile
marine—no foreign ship was allowed to trade to
any British colony without special license, no
foreign ship was allowed to bring any goods to a
British port except the goods of its own country ;
and, at one time, no vessel was allowed to trade
to British ports unless the master and the
majority of the crew were British. So Britain
grew till she became the world’s greatest sea-
carrier, and had a grand time. It was not till
well on in Queen Victoria's reign that Britain,
having extinguished her old rivals, abolished the
last remnants of the Navigation Laws. Even
then they were only abolished out of sheer neces-
sity. The last of them to go, in 1854, was the law
which prohibited foreign vessels engaging in the
British coastal trade. At that time Britain had
gone into the coastal trade of so many other coun-
tries that, instead of being afraid of competition
along her own shores, she had become afraid lest
other States should follow her example and shut
her out from theirs. So, by way of establishing
a precedent which would enable her to insist on
retaining free access to the waters of foreign
States she threw her own waters open to all
comers —with a satisfactory conviction that she
had got so solid a hold on the business that nobody
could come to any extent worth mentioning.
King O’Malley’s proposal that Australia, being
in the same situation as Britain when she created
her Navigation Laws, should to some extent follow
Britain’s example should therefore commend itself
to all good loyalists. If Britain’s example isn’t
good enough for us to follow, then the Duke’s visit
was wasted, and all those signed photos might as
well have gone into the ash-bin.
♦
The Patient and the Students.
A correspondent writes to The Bulletin on a
much-vexed question:
When a woman goes to Prince Alfred Hospital (Sydney)
to be treated as an out-door patient for diseases peculiar
to her sex, she’s taken into a room or ward, where a
number of young gentlemen stand around in white coats.
She is placed on a lounge, and surrounded by a screen.
She is covered with a sheet, and the surgeon makes
the necessary examination. When it is concluded
he covers her face with the sheet, and makes some
soothing remark about lying still and being all right,
while as many as four and five students are brought in
one after another to be taught how to make these sort of
examinations. They are made solely for the benefit and
experience of the students, and have anything but a good
effect on the patient, whose permission has never been
asked, and who was quite unaware that she was expected
to submit to the treatment.
The indoor patient is no better off. The outdoor
patient is surrounded by a screen always, and there are
never more than two present at a time ; while the indoor
patient does not always have even the small mercy of a
screen. Each specialist has about 10 or 12 students with
him, and in many cases the presence of a screen would
interfere with their view of the proceedings, so the
feelings of the patient are sacrificed to the interests of the
student. The consequence is that some poor women
who are afflicted with both modesty and poverty
are driven away. They never get over the in-
dignity of that first unauthorised examination, and
they never go back. Then some night they are taken
in a cab to Sydney or St. Vincent’s Hospital incurable.
“ You should have come six months ago ; we can do
nothing for you now! ” says the medico, hopelessly.
It is claimed that if patients didn’t like the treatment
they could object, and no pressure would be put on them
to submit, and they would not be deprived of the use of
the hospital for so doing. But, on the other hand, it is
strongly asserted that patients who refuse to allow
students to practise on them are refused further treat-
ment. And it is generally admitted that neither the
hospital authorities nor the specialists ever inform
patients that they are free to object, nor is the fact
posted up on the walls or the gates. The authorities
claim that the hospital is attached to the University, and
was originally intended as much for a training-ground for
medical students as for the benefit of the sick poor, and
it is therefore taken for granted that all who come there
are willing to be of service to the students. The practice,
it is maintained, is absolutely necessary in the interests of
the public, medical science, and the students. It
would be of no value to students to hire healthy
women for examination : they have to see the disease and
learn to recognise it at sight. There might be plenty of
diseased women available for remuneration, but the sup-
ply would be uncertain, and the effect of having to rely
upon such a supply disastrous to the training of the
students, which already spreads over too much time.
Now I am not convinced by this reasoning. My ob-
jection to the present system of taking things for granted
is that by it many honest and sensitive women are trapped
into suffering what is to them a life-long humiliation. It
is a disgrace to Sydney’s most splendid charitable insti-
tution that its patients are subjected to such cruel indig-
nities. When patients are admitted it should be clearly
explained to them that in return for free, or exceedingly
cheap, treatment they are required to assist in the trainfng
of the students by serving as subjects ; and then there
would be no misunderstanding, and no disgrace to the
hospital.
Acting in the interests of the rotten-butter makers
and vendors, Vic. Leg. Council rejected the Ex-
ported Products Bill. Out of the 48 members, 28
only were present when this particular outrage
was committed. The Bill had been very carefully
considered and greatly improved in the Assembly.
In the form in which it reached the Council it
would have prevented any but wholesome meat
and rabbits being shipped to England ; it would
have stopped the exportation of cart-grease as
butter, and made it an offence for anyone to mark
mixed or milled butter as factory-butter. Most
of the mixed butter is made in the back streets
of Melbourne. It consists of small inferior
parcels of butter sent from all parts of the coun-
try, and butter made from cream sent to Melbourne
by farmers who use the hand-separators. This
cream frequently reaches the city in a stinking
condition, and in a state of fermentation.
Nicholls, M.L.A., speaking on the subject in the
Assembly, declared that he had seen cream landed
in Melbourne full of maggots half-an-inch long.
Butter manufactured from this stuff is doctored
with other butter, put into new, clean cases,
branded with the name of some fictitious factory,
and shipped to London where it does incalculable
harm to the Australia butter-trade. The Exported
Products Bill would have forced the manufacturers
of this horror to label it for what it was. As
usual, not a single reason was advanced in the
Council for throwing out the measure. One mem-
ber after another simply rose up and remarked
literally, or in effect, “This bill is unnecessary.
No one has asked for it.” Leg. Councillors in
Victoria never get beyond those two assertions in
throwing out useful measures.
♦
Some recent controversial letters in the Argus
threw a needed light on the workings of Mel-
bourne Tramways Act, which is one of the least
printed and most easily misunderstood of the Vic.
Statutes. From this correspondence it appears
that sec. 42 of the Act lately referred to in The
Bulletin as a proviso which had “ never been re-
pealed or modified in any way,” became a super-
fluously misleading section when the Melbourne
municipalities elected to build their own lines and
lease them to the co. in accordance with sec. 57.
Secs. 42 and 57 were alternatives, and the latter
was adopted. The corporations seem to have
made the best of the Government's bargain
with the T.C. monopoly when they decided to
form a trust and build their own tramway lines.
It is comforting to know_ that the Tramway co.,
on inquiry, turns out to 'be an honest monopoly
so far as concerns section 42 of its precious Act,
but there is still more comfort in the discovery
that recent scheming for an extension of the
monopoly’s lease of life looks certain to be
defeated. In 1915, or thereabouts, the Melb.
Tramways will become public property if the
public keeps an eye on the schemers meanwhile.
♦
Just as a counterblast to the yells that are being
wired all over the Commonwealth that Queens-
land is in favor of Black Labor, Higgs, the
white-labor Radical senator, topped the poll with
29,452 votes, whereas Cowley, the straight-out
Kanaka candidate, could only poll into tenth
place with 18,265 votes. Not a single declared
Kanaka advocate was elected to the Senate!
Fisher, who represents Wide Bay district, which
includes the great Southern sugar district, beat
Annear, the Kanaka candidate, by 4844 to 3955.
White Australian Bamford, who represents the
Black North, beat Brown, the Kanaka candi-
date, by 3350 to 3133 ; M‘Donald beat the quasi -
Kanaka man in Flinders by 3936 to 2325 ; Page
beat another quasi-black advocate by 2996 to 2609
in Maranoa; and Wilkinson, on the white
ticket, beat the Kanakaphile in Moreton by 2588
to 2086. Yet we are asked to believe
that Queensland wants black - labor. If any
further evidence is needed as to what Queens-
land really voted for, the aggregate vote
polled for straight-out white Australians in the
divisional elections was 32,739, while the more or
less black candidates polled in all only 26,784.
This is the voice of Queensland per medium of
what amounted to a White Australia referendum,
not the voice of the Ministry, the Courier, or the
Q.N. Bank, which latter has sugar securities to
boom or claim compensation for from White
Australia.
♦
Ti-ie latest fake in the way of a protest against the
Federal tariff :
Mr. Kirwan (W.A.) has received a telegram from Kal-
goorlie, from the representatives of capitalists with 80
millions invested in Australian mines, which reads as
follows : “ Consensus of opinion here is that the tariff
will paralyse the mining industry. One immediate effect
has been the stoppage of the expenditure of three-quarters
of a million contemplated by three Kalgoorlie mines.”
This protest starts with a flagrant lie, for there
are not in all Westralia 80 millions of capital
invested in mines. There may be companies with
scrip that professes to represent something like
that amount, but that is quite a different thing.
And the pretence that the Federal tariff inter-
feres with the mining industry is the saddest kind
of an invention. Westralia gets most of its
mining machinery from S.A., Victoria, and
N.S.W. It has hitherto paid duty on all this,
and the Commonwealth tariff makes it all free—■
unless Westralia’s State Parliament exercises the
povver unfortunately granted to it to levy border
duties for five years. The Commonwealth, at all
events, does its share to help the Westralian
mine-owners. It has also made the great
bulk of Westralia’s imported food supplies,
which mostly come from the eastern States, free—
unless the W.A. State Legislature exercises its
temporary power to tax these supplies. Of course,
it is always possible to get some one to send
a telegram saying that a whole community is
shocked and ruined—it can be done for the price
of the telegram and a pint of beer—but the
message that Kirwan received is a very un-
convincing effort in this line.
—— ♦
To-day’s English sentiment in regard to the Boers
merely repeats yesterday’s English sentiment with
regard to the Yankees. Witness Dr. Johnson as
reported by Boswell in April, 1778 :
From this pleasing subject he (Johnson) made a sudden
transition to one upon which he was a violent aggressor ;
for he said, “ I am willing to love all mankind, except an
American;” and, his inflammable corruption bursting
into horrid fire, he breathed out threatenings and
slaughter, calling them “ Rascals—robbers—pirates,”
and exclaiming he’d “ burn and destroy them.”
Miss Seward, looking at him with mild but
steady astonishment, said: “ Sir, this is an instance
that we are always most violent against those whom we
have injured.” He was irritated still more by this delicate
and keen reproach, and roared out another tremendous
volley, which one might fancy could be heard across the
Atlantic. During this tempest I (Boswell) sat in great
uneasiness, lamenting his heat of temper ; till by degrees
I diverted his attention to other topics.
Yet these Americans, like the Boers, were only
fighting for independence. A hundred years
hence the English will admit the Boers were
right, just as to-day they admit the Yankees were
right. In the meantime—fire and slaugV/v.
orphans and burnt homesteads.


BAKER
&
BOUSE PROPRIETARY, LIMITED, JJONOR
hfd
the KING,
rx~v
-
Have JUST LANDED the Celebrated
No. 15 Popy Prcn)o
This is a Camera we can thoroughly recommend,
and can safely say that no Amateur should be
without one.
Send for Catalogue. Price £4.
375 <>sorge St., Sydoey,
And at Melbourne, Adelaide , and Brisbane.
AND CELEBRATE HIS BIRTHDAY,
• 9tli NOVEMBER, 1901. •
the First since his Accession to the Throne.
PAIN’S FIREWORKS
of every Description, at Million Prices.
BOXES at Is., 2s. 6d., 3s. 6d., 55., 7s. 6d., 10s. to 40s. each.
Chinese Fireworks and Crackers In any Quantity.
GOD SAVE THE KING.
MYERS & SOLOMON, Sole Agents,
42 MARKET STREET.
SAWMILL MACHINERY.
BAND or CIRCULAR MILLS, very heavy for
hardwood timber. Complete Outfits of any capa-
city. BAND RESAWS. ENGINES. BOILERS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
PULP MACHINERY. GRIP PULLEYS.
FLOUR MILLING MACHINERY.
“ALLIS” ROLLER FLOUR MILLS on the
UNIVERSAL BOLTER SYSTEM.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 24 Clarence-street, SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Lyceum “ The 10.30 Down Express.’”
Her Majesty’s “ The Christian King.”
Criterion “Said Pasha.”
Empire Fuller Co.
Palace “ World’s Entertainers.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ The Charity Ball.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Casino Girl.”
Bijou “ Tom, Dick and Harry.”
Theatre Royal “ Taken From Life.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
New Building (off
Prince’s Bridge).. Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus.
Town Hall Alice Hollander Concerts.
Exhibition Building... The World’s Fair.
The new American opera company gathered
a great audience at Sydney Criterion on its.
opening night. At the same time it was not a
very enthusiastic audience —especially towards
the end. “Said Pasha” is not an opera in the
ordinary sense of the term. It is a musical
comedy, or rather, a musical variety show, in
which the funny man makes his hair stand up in
terror, by way of the same time-honored joke that
Hiscocks’ blackened Federal Minstrels used to
perpetrate 15 years ago. There is no plot in it,
and no continuity. A series of detached jokes,
some of them none too new, are held together by
a thin thread of music, without any definite con-
sequences. There are the usual two knockabout
adventurers, of whom one violently bosses the
other, after the manner of the Insect and his
mate; but they do nothing remarkable. The
music is respectable, but very few of the items
are likely to clamour after a haunting fashion in
the public’s ear. The loudest laugh arises
after a song about a Sydney tram-conductor,
but it isn’t a durable song, or one which
will stand very much repetition. The thin
little production ends very early; it is short as
well as thin, and when it has departed it is almost
impossible to remember what it was about, for it
really wasn’t about anything. For a piece to be
about nothing is a drawback; for a piece to be about
nothing in no particular kind of way is a still greater
drawback. “ Said Pasha ” calls up memories of
“Evangeline” and “ Morocco Bound,” and other
faint and disastrous shadows of the past. It
hasn’t anything like the resources of the “ Trip
to Chinatown ” or the “ Belle of New York ’’—not
that their resources were very remarkable either.
Yet, to speak severely of the frail little thing is
very like firing a howitzer at a moth, and a
good many remarks that might be made are con-
sequently hung up.
* * * *
The star of the company, Miss Josephine
Stanton, creates a favorable impression, and
deserves to be surrounded by a better and brighter
opera. She is a comely and well-shaped lady,
with a voice that is strong rather than sweet, and
either her singing capacity is only moderate or her
chances of showing what she can do are limited.
But, so far as her opportunities go, she seems to
be a bright and capable actress, and there is a
pleasing vivacity about her, and her limbs cover a
multitude of circumstances. George Kunkel, the
low comedian of the programme, and Charles Van
Dyne, the lower comedian, brighten the proceed-
ings a good deal by doing nothing new, but
doing it as well as anything so old could
reasonably expect to be done. None of
the other voices or personalities stand out
very strongly, and the male part of the chorus
requires strengthening; but the orchestra does its
duty manfully. The programme supplies the
cheering intelligence that “Dorcas” is in active
preparation—not that the writer ever heard of
“Dorcas” before.
* * * *
All in chain armour (or a good imitation of
it) and raised vizor, “II Trovatore” took the
stage at Her Majesty’s on Saturday night.
Verdi’s music encompasses a 15th century story by
a Spanish dramatist. None knew better than the
Spaniards of bygone centuries the arts of love and
jealousy, revenge and cruelty. A gipsy woman is
burnt alive for having bewitched the infant son of
the Count di Luna. Her daughter, Azucena,
dedicates her life to revenge, and steals tile
Count’s infant son, whom she brings up as her
own bantling under the name .of Mannco. When
grown he becomes a conqueror in war and love,
and is preferred by Leonora, a lady of quality, to
the reigning Count di Luna, who is Mannco s
elder brother. After that, jealousy and revenge
carry the day, and also the castle in
which Leonora has taken refuge rather than
marry the Count. He storms the pre-
mises, captures the lovers, and puts the darbies
on the gipsy Azucena, who evidently loves her
chain-armoured stolen property. Leonora pro-
mises to marry the Count if he will spare Mannco.
She hurries to the prison to liberate her lover, but
the Troubadour won’t have life without her love,
and, to avoid keeping her promise to the Count,
she swallows poison concealed in a ring. By now,
the Count is all gall, but regains some cheerfulness
when he beheads Manrico. Then the gipsy, for
whom the faggots are piled, tells the hidalgo whom
he has murdered, and drops dead on the straw of
her prison pallet, exclaiming that her mother is
avenged. *
Signora Benedetto’s clear, sweet soprano
galvanised the dead-and-gone Leonora (she did
live in many times and lands), and her acting had
the sinuous, snake-like charm with which this un-
emotional lady has invested her roles. She was
encored several times, but one of the encores was
almost a tumult. In the convent-scene the
Signora’s long, black velvet gown pulled a
lighted torch from its moorings as she
ran off the stage, and the blazing thing
fell right on her train. She actually drew it as
far as the exit, and only knew it was there when
turning round to bow. If the dress had been
inflammable there would have been a real fire
horror, and so the audience thought when it put
a lot of muscle into its encore. Signora Marco-
mini, as the gipsy Azucena, looked like a hand-
some Maori. The part gives her the best show
she has yet had. Her voice has the range of a
soprano, with an advantage over the latter as to
lower register, and she acted with such feeling as
to leave the impression that a big, big heart beat
under her bizarre Romany necklace and red
bodice. In the prison-scene the audience loved
her for her rendering of the ever adorable “ Home
our Mountains.” Commendatore Larizza, as the
Troubadour, looks a fine figure of a man, fit to
break a lance—the other fellow’s lance —in the
tourney, or to twang a guitar under a damsel’s
window. True, he would put a terrible robustness
into his twanging, and his entreaties that she would
ope her casement and drop him a glance might
sound like strong-lunged commands to get out of
the house before the fire reached the third storey.
In the Miserere Scena, the unseen tenor sang the
plaintive “Ah che la Morte” tenderly, as one
who puts his sorrow into his song. Signor Bozzoli,
as the Count di Luna, played with his usual
frowning earnestness, and made “a profound sen-
sation ” (as Reuter says) with his rendering of II
Balen. By now all the amateur baritones in all
the suburbs are pegging away at the “ Tempest of
the Heart.” Signorina Marchi looked nice ; and
Signor Tondini, as Ferrando, did as much as any
personable, light basso could do with his aide-de-
camp role.
* • * •
As already mentioned, Wilson Barrett
will wear the royal crown of Engle-land at Her
Majesty’s on Saturday in his capacity as Alfred
“The Christian King.” Mr. Barrett’s pedantic,
and, presumably, ancient way of spelling Eng-
land is already making this paper feel half-in-
clined to sympathise with Alfred’s Danish enemy
—not that sympathy at the distance of all those
centuries would have much effect on that hairy
intruder.
* * * *
Robert Brough and co. were still produc-
ing the “Magistrate” at Sydney Royal when
this issue went to press, but the days of that
burdened administrator of justice were numbered.
Unless something unexpected happened to pro-
long his stay, he is now only the recollection of a
dead circumstance and the memory of a departed
voice that used to fine the drunk ss. The
“ Magistrate ” was about as good a work as could
have been selected with which to close the season.
It is a happy reminiscence of the days before the
slimy and bottomless octopus of the problem play
overtook Pinero and began to swallow him up.
The problem play is a weariness because
it never solves the problem, and never even
states distinctly what the problem is. It is
a depressed thing wandering in a circle, like
a funeral that has got bushed owing to the driver
being intoxicated, or out of his mind. To close
the season with anything of that kind would have
left Sydney thinking of its vanished Brough as a
depressing circumstance that went away. Now it
remembers him as a person who made it shriek
with merriment in the last moments of its
acquaintance with him, and it will hope for his
early return to make it shriek some more.
* * * *
At Sydney Palace they have progressed
from politeness to piety. A feature of Saturday
night’s performance was sacred music by a
“Celestial Choir” of boys, with Miss Frances
Gwynne as soloist. The singing was dainty, and
the item was well received. A rumor that next
week Scripture readings, with a ballet of surpliced
clergymen, will form part of the programme is
officially denied at the offertory office. In addi-
tion to the choir, there are several changes of pro-
gramme : the Musical Burglar, for instance, has
one more rent in his coat.
* * * *
The projected hanging of a small, short-
skirted child has pleased the public taste so much
that it has been decided to keep “The London
Arab ” on at Sydney Lyceum a few nights longer.
After that the execution will be off, and this
medley, which consists of 10 melodramas crushed
together, will give place to “The 10.30 Down
Express.” Latter sounds like the pasteboard
tram once more sauntering in on a railway-line
made by black chalk-marks.
» * * *
Sydney Empire staged “The Waif of
London ” as a dramatic first part on Saturday, and
Miss Dora Mostyn proved to be a satisfactory
waif. Mr. Denis Carney contributes largely to
the fun of the second or variety part of the pro-
gramme.
* * * *
At Sydney Tivoli this week vocalist James
Bain reappears, and a boy comedian, Claud
Sullivan, supplies a ditty concerning a plumber,
which is received nightly with a fair amount of ap-
preciation. The Bulletin, however, is not greatly
struck with the child phenomenon at any time.
Dora Taylor possesses a small, light voice and a
small, light figure, which observation is meant
less as a reflection on her vocal powers than as a
compliment to her toe-and-heel work. The Craggs
(there are eight of them, though only six are de-
picted in the photo, on the programme) continue
worthy of the large letters in which they are billed.
* * * *
The temporary Circus-building erected for
Fitzgerald Bros, on the South Melbourne side of
St. Kilda Road, close to Princes’ Bridge, is the
right thing at the right place. As soon as the
octagonal “ Olympia,” or whatever they call it,
was properly fixed up, everybody remarked that a
Eermanent building of similar character ought to
ave been part of the municipal plan for im-
proving the approach to the Bridge. Under
present arrangements, Tom Fitzgerald is a public
benefactor, to a greater extent, though at less cost,
than J. G. Williamson was when he converted a
lot of shabby little shops into a handsome frontage
for his theatre in Exhibition-street. Fitz., having
hired a ragged, dirty tract of land from
Melb. City Council, proceeded to level it and
adorn it with attractive approaches to the show.
The Circusian Brethren take the financial risk and
the neighborhood gets a benefit anyhow, seeing
that the bit of country can never resume its
original hideousness. The picks and shovels of
civilisation have done valuable surface work, apart
from the removal of rubbish heaps and the decent
burial of numerous skeletons. Fitzgeralds hope
to have their tents pitched around their iron
Olympia for many weeks to come. In the new
building the performance is brighter and
altogether more attractive than it looked when
under the canvas. The roof is built to show off
gymnasts to better advantage, and the trapeze
arrangements are more slick. In the centre of
the circus a tank excavation, 30ft. x 15ft., and some
16ft. deep has been made for the accommodation
of certain diving ’osses—but the steeds that
plunge into the still waters are another story,
likewise the “Siberia” show whereof brother
Tom has been talking in a deep, prophetic tone
since he returned from Europe a year agone.
Brother Tom, by the way, has ceased to be
mistaken for Father Tom now that his moustache
is breaking out again.
• • • •
The only new matter of remark in the
Melb. show world last Saturday was Fitzgerald’s
Circus. The wisdom of dedicating a vast iron
temple to the worship of gee-gee proved itself
some time before 8 o’clock, when the interior was
packed, and the name of the people turned away
from the pay-boxes was Legion. Any pitch
for the Fitzes’ shows has always been a good pitch,
but the location of this sudden building is
evidently the best they have ever struck. More-
over, the general get-up of the establishment is
gay and festive beyond one’s wildest dreams of
hippodrome, and six flunkeys of the girl-persua-
sion are ranged in silent splendor at the entrance
to the arena. The circus is mostly the same series
of items as before, improved by long practice and
new costumes. The lady juggler, who suffered
from influenza the first time she came to Melbourne,
is a more expert vision than of yore. Also, Adelina
Antonio seems to have added plumpness to her
previous proficiency. On Saturday night a
particular success was scored by the swinging
Dunbars. Another extra-sized burst of applause
fell to six horses from Hungary, and in the whole
collection of 21 turns the weak spots were not
visible to a nak ed eye.
** * *
Three Melbourne theatres will hang out a
new programme next Saturday night. At Her
Majesty’s there was a highly pardonable decline
of rush for “The Casino Girl” when the true
character of that glittering frivol came to be
noised abroad. A “musical comedy ” which has
no narrative worth mentioning, and no attractive
melodies to speak of, is likely to catch cold in
Melbourne, more especially when the floating
population of visitors have sampled it elsewhere.
On Saturday (26th) “The Gondoliers” will be
staged with an almost quite new cast. Even an
old cast would be welcome in “ The Gondoliers.”
** # m
At the Princess’s, where “The Charity
Ball ” has been rolling heavily along like the stone
that gathers no moss, a notable change of manage-
ment will date from Saturday next (26th). The
Broughs are coming, and to say that Melbourne
will feel glad to see its Broughs is to understate
the case. A long pent-up enthusiasm awaits
them. “Lady Huntworth’s Experiment” will
introduce the latest edition of the Brough co. to
notice at the Princess’s, and the season will last
seven weeks.
** * *
Wilson Barrett’s season at Adelaide
Royal has been got through with only four plays,
except for a single night of “Hamlet”; and
Adelaide, not too well pleased at seeing no new
pieces but “Man and his Makers,” has given a
fair but not extravagant support. Besides which,
the comic opera co. had taken away most of the
small city’s money. The Tivoli, left under the
charge of Treasurer Larkin while Manager
Marcus visits the U.S., does steady business with
a good all-round but not star: y company.
Certain writs are coming out amongst
society in Brisbane; and an expectant public
holds its breath.
The latest attempt to steal Adelaide’s park-
lands comes from the City Council itself, which
wants Parliament to let it enclose 70 acres of
the people’s breathing spaces for the purpose of
establishing public abattoirs. The other day it
asked the Legislature to allow it to lease an
area of park lands to a kerosene co. for the erec-
tion of hideous stores. At present the Corpora-
tion uses much of the park area for rubbish-tips.
It isn’t only little girls who get hallucina-
tions. A Melbournite of about 30 years, who lives
with his parents, startled ma one recent morning
with a thrilling yarn about his imaginary gallant
exploits in defence of the household against
a batch of burglars during the night. Ma, much
impressed, went to the long-suffering police, and
two officers came and investigated the “ facts ”
which were soon confessed by the soi-disant hero
to be romance. Male hysteria is, however, rare,
and it hasn’t the nasty vindictiveness of the
female outrage story.
Last Tuesday the papers broke out with a
wild, weird tale of the librarian of an Adelaide
suburban institute who was seized and gagged by
two burglars, and then hung up by the hands and
fried with a door-key made red-hot in the gas-jet,
till he revealed the whereabouts of £lO5, which
he had withdrawn from the savings-bank, in view
of his impending marriage. At time of going
to press full details had not crawled over from
Adelaide, and it is impossible to say as yet what
evidences there were, in the shape of the foot-
marks of the hot door-key on the librarian’s body,
to support his statement. But it is briefly stated
that the police are investigating the case, which
possibly means that they are inquiring if-any
returned contingenters have been seen there-
abouts.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Owing to the handing over of many depart-
ments to the Federal Government, the revenue of all the
States shows a decrease as compared with last year, and
the expenditure should certainly show one also. It is
difficult to form a clear idea of the financial situation
except as regards those States which publish expendi-
ture as well as revenue accounts. They stand as follows :
New South Wales.
Quarter to 30th Quarter to 30th
September, 1900. September, 1901. Decrease.
Revenue £2,263,791 £2,183,815 £79,976
Expenditure 2,561,626 2,429,487 132,139
Deficit £297,835 £245,672 £52,163
The decrease is wholly caused by the transference of
departments to the Federal Government; but for that
there would be an increase of £221,564. And as the
Commonwealth has relieved the State of an almost equal
expenditure, it had really about £220,000 more cash to
spend. Yet it has already acquired a large deficit, though
not so large a one as at this period of last year. And it
has spent £713,529 of loan money for the quarter, which
is £154,139 more than for the corresponding quarter of
1900. In other words, revenue has diminished by £79,976
and expenditure has increased by £22,000, but the
lamentable position has been disguised by charging more
of the expenditure to loans.
Queensland.
Quarter to 30th Quarter to 30th
September, 1900. September, 1901. Decrease.
Revenue £1,210,297 £1,018,024 £192,273
Expenditure 794,272 643,179 151,093
Surplus £416,025 £374,845 £41,180
Queensland charges the interest on its public debt half-
yearly, so it accumulates one surplus which disappears on
31st December and another which vanishes on 30th June.
The situation is that last year closed with a deficit of
£528,188 ; that things are already £41,180 worse than
they were at the corresponding date of 1900, so, unless
prospects change very suddenly, this year will be even worse
than last ; and that the abolition of border duties makes
the revenue outlook for the remaining nine months of
the year even poorer than it was for the very bad
quarter just ended. And, whereas Queensland’s loan
expenditure last year was the largest since 1891, this year
promises to be worse ; the loan-money spent during the
first three months of the new financial year being
£309,135—£34,950 more than for the corresponding quar-
ter of 1900.
Westralia still lumps the State and Common-
wealth figures together, with these results:
Westralia.
Quarter to 30th Quarter to 30th
September, 1900. September, 1901.
Revenue .. ..£721,758 .. £816,813
Expenditure .. 730,934 ... 760,254
Deficit .. .. £9,176
Surplus .. .. .. £56,559
The loan expenditure is not stated, but for the financial
year just closed Westralia had the biggest loan expendi-
ture on its record, barring that of 1896 and 1897. It got
through £1,495,292 of borrowed money against £878,329
for the year ended June, 1900. This meant £8 6s. per in-
habitant of loan money, expended in one year—even the
maddest of the other States (Queensland) only spent
£2 Bs. Bd. per head while Victoria only spent 15s. Bd. per
head. Westralia’s loan expenditure alone last year was
£1 per inhabitant more than Victoria spent out of re-
venue and borrowings combined ! It is questionable if
there ever was anywhere quite such a financial madness
as that of Westraiia. It looks like a world’s record.
The Tasmanian slump continues. For Septem-
ber the State and Commonwealth revenue collected in
the island was £10,886 less than the State revenue for
September, 1900, and so far as the financial year has gone
(nine months) the revenue has dropped £62,579. The
State and Commonwealth collections in Victoria are
£186,842 more than for the corresponding period of last
year. Neither of these States supplies any expenditure
returns. As regards South Australia, the branches of
revenue which are left under State control yielded
£363,177 for the quarter just ended, as compared with
£386,881 for the corresponding quarter of 1900—a fall of
£23,704. S.A. had a deficit of £22,365 last financial year,
and it begins the new 7 .year badly enough.
* '* * *
The Royal Bank of Australia (Melbourne) shows
a further material improvement for the half-year to 30th
September, 1901. Reckoning from the time when it
wrote off its old reserves and cleaned up its boom losses,
results have been as follows :
Total
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
March, 1897 ..£3398 3 per cent. = £2250 £1,148
September, 1897 3625 3 „ „ 2250 2,523
March, 1898 .. 3865 3 „ „ 2250 4,138
September, 1898 4088 3 „ „ 2250 5,976
March, 1899 .. 4315 3 „ „ 2250 8,041
September, 1899 4624 3 „ „ 2250 10,415
March, 1900 .. 5843 4 „ „ 3000 13,258
September, 1900 5863 4 „ ~ 3000 16,121
March, 1901 .. 6488 5 „ „ 3750 18,859
September, 1901 6700 5 „ „ 3750 21,809
The increase in profits has been continuous, and they now
equal £7 18s. 9d. per cent, per annum on the share-
holders’ funds as at the commencement of the half-year.
The Royal, though only a small concern with £150,000
paid-up capital and £171,809 of total shareholders’ funds,
is a very solid institution, with a growing business.
Deposits have increased by about £30,000 since last
March. The holding of State securities has also in-
creased by £30,000, and now stands at £60,000. The
total reserve of cash and liquid securities is £241,300-
equal to nearly 33 percent, of all direct and contingent
liabilities to the public. The Royal of Melbourne shows
the highest rate of earnings upon its funds of all the Vic-
torian banks, and the highest rate of all the banks be-
longing to the Australian mainland, the Bank of Adelaide
alone excepted. If it adheres to its present careful policy,
and keeps its dividends low until the losses of the boom
time have been fully repaired, it should have a large
future before it.
» * * *
The commercial class which desires to remove
obstructions in the way of commerce should put its
shoulder to the wheel in the matter of federating the
railways and getting a uniform guage, uniform
management, and uniform rates. The latter
are certainly wanted very badly indeed. As a
casual example, the N.S.W. Parliamentary Committee,
which recently considered the question of a State railway
from Oockhurn to Broken Hill, went into the question of
freight charges on four different railway systems—those
of Queensland, N.S. Wales, Victoria, and South Australia.
It dealt with thirty kinds of goods, covering among them,
the bulk of the railway trade, with these results :
(1) The highest rate on 18 articles was that of Queens-
land ; N.S. Wales had the highest rate on five articles;
on one Queensland and N.S. Wales were level; S.A.
had the highest rate on three articles and Victoria on
three.


stocks Kept of_
RAND ROCK DRILLS & AIR COMPRESSORS
BY THE SOLE AGENTS-
N. GUTHRIDGrE, LTD., 71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
And at 486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE ; WELLINGTON, N.Z.;
214 HIGH STREET, FREMANTLE ; KALGOORLIE.
TMA.MWA.YS. TRAMWAYS.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop. Ltd.
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Representing ORLMSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramwav Material
I4F“ Locomotives from 10 to S5O h.p. “Ml
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories Steel Sleen-rs
Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical advice gratuitously
rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated Catalogues and Photo
graphic Albums showing Tramways constructed m different parts of the World
application. a e icm ’ U P° U
*■ LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
h
N. Gutbridge Ltd., of 71 Clarence-st., Sydney
(also Melbourne ; Fremantle, Kalgoorlie, W.A. ; Welling-
ton, N.Z.), have added to their list of agencies those of
the New Explosives Co. Ltd., London, and the Pulso-
meter Co. Ltd., Reading. . . . This company is nowin a
position to supply all special mining requisites, principal
among them being “WilAey” concentrators, “Little
Giant” and “Slugger” drills, “Rand” air compressors,
gelignite, “ Rackaroek,” “ Rendrock,” “ Sun ” brand
fuse, electric and other detonators, “Ivanhoe” mining
steel, “ Globe ” lubricating oils, special marlined steam
hose, steam pumps. Large stocks of all the above-men-
tioned specialties are carried.*
* * * *
About the best brand for sheep now in the
market is Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and
is considerably cheaper than any other. It will dissolve
in the scour, and should certainly be used by those who
hope to get a good price for their wool. E. Rich & Co.,
Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* » * *
Local Government Journal, London, 20th
July, 1901: “The Colonial Mutual needs no endorse-
ment ; its stability is beyond question ; its policies are
drawn in the most liberal manner that experience can
possibly justify.”*
» » » *
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
Allan and McOreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
* * * *
The Great Curse in these colonies is indigestion,
and the Great Cure for it is Zetz Spa Water taken with
meals. It is rightly called the “ Premier Natural Table
Water.”*
* * * *
A very successful trial of the Gardner Electric
Drill took place at the works of the Austral Otis Com-
pany, South Melbourne, a few days ago. The drill,
although only temporarily Axed, bored 8J inches in three
minutes through hard basalt. A number of prominent
mining men witnessed the test, and expressed themselves
as greatly pleased with the machine. The Austral Otis
Company have been appointed Sole Agents in Australasia
for the Gardner Electric Drill.*
• * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,”
Melbourne.*
*****
If you want to borrow money, go to N.B.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor HorsAeld Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * * *
Ward off inAuenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* * * *
If further proof is needed that Luhrig Vanners
are the best and most economical machines for dressing
Anes and slimes, it will be found in the fact that the Tas-
mania gold mine, BeaconsAeld, Tasmania, has decided to
increase the number of these machines in the extension
of the present mill and reduction works. When com-
pleted it will have over 100 head of stampers at work, and
60 Luhrig Varfners, including the additional 24 of the
large type. Before Anally adopting plans the Tasmania
board sent its manager to inspect the chief reduction
works in other States. Messrs. W. and J. Lempriere, of
Melbourne, are the Sole Agents for the Luhrig appli-
ances.*
• » * •
Mr. Mepban Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, Aanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, Aurning, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts,nuts,forgings, andallsortsofiron-work.*
* * » *
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buchu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Arsenic, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting Charges.
Ny. Markwald
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; 27 Eagle-street,
Brisb.; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
Auckland, NZ.
(2) South Australia charged the lowest rate in 18
cases; Victoria in eight; N.S.W. in three ; Queensland
in one. , . ,
(3) The rates vary so widely that if one ton of each
variety of goods (30 tons in all) was sent 35 miles by rail
in each State the cost would be £27.25. sd. in Queens-
land ; £2l 6s. 4d. in N.S.W ; £lB 9s. Bd. in Victoria ; and
onlv £16175. 2d in South Australia.
(4) Some of the discrepancies are enormous. Jam and
preserves, rate for carriage of one ton, 35 miles : Queens-
land, £1 9s. 2d.; N.S.W., £1 Is. 9d. ; Victoria, 16s ; S.A.,
Bs. 4d, Sugar: N.S.W., 16s. 4d. ; Queensland, 15s. sd. ;
Victoria, 12s. Bd. ; S.A., ss. sd.
These discrepancies appear to go on no fixed rule.
Queensland and S.A. have the smallest population per
mile of railway, therefore the poorest chances in the way
of traffic, and they should, consequently, have to charge
the highest rates to make ends meet. Yet, while one of
these thinly-peopled States charges the highest rate, the
other charges the lowest. Also Queensland, which charges
the highest rate, has a far larger goods traffic than S.A.,
which charges the lowest. Another point is that the
latest available returns (June, 1900) show that, of the four
States, S.A., which charges the lowest rates, has the best-
paying railway system; and Queensland, which charges
the highest, has the worst-paying system. The Federal
Government might find these points worth considering.
• • » *
The Brisbane Permanent Building and Banking
00. (Brisbane, Queensland), paid-up capital £112,685
•p Dividends and Written Total
fronts. Dividend Tax. off. Reserves.
1893.. £23,024
1894.. £3,363 2£ per oent. =£2,814 £1,362 22,211
1895.. 3,280 2J „ „ 3,172 568 21,751
1896.. 2,642 2* „ „ 2,957 1,926 19,510
1897.. 3,410 2£ „ „ 2,980 2,705 17,235
1898.. 4,019 2J „ „ 3,289 1,262 16,703
1899.. 4,711 3J „ „ 3,881 332 17,201
1900.. 5,618 3§ „ „ 4,464 315 18,040
1901.. 6,193 4 „ „ 4,758 667 18,908
The profits are by no means remarkable as yet, but
affairs appear to have improved greatly within the last
five years. The Brisbane Permanent Building and Bank-
ing 00. does business on a large scale. The shareholders’
funds total £131,593, and it owes £148,606 to depositors.
The reserve of cash and Government securities
is £16,754, or including £10,558 of fixed deposits
the total liquid securities (if the fixed deposits are liquid
and not reconstructed for a long term in the Q.N. Bank)
amount to £27,312. The rest of the assets are property
and mortgages. An institution doing business on this
basis is always in danger in a time of panic. -The Brisbane
P. B. and B. 00. has already experienced this ; in 1891
it had £287,945 of deposits—almost all lent out on mort-
gage—and, when the panic came, its deposits steadily
dropped for seven years, till in 1898 they were down to
£137,447. As a matter of course, it had to reconstruct,
though it came through the trouble better than most in-
stitutions. The co.’s prospects appear reasonably good
on paper, but Queensland at present is in a precarious
state, with drought, tick, Governmental mismanagement,
the Q. N. Bank, and the biggest debt per head on this
earth all on its shoulders, and it is difficult to say what
may happen. ■
« • * *
A. Shadier, Limited (Sydney), the co. formed
to take over the big bakery business formerly run by
the well-known person of that name, publishes its first
annual and most lamentable balance-sheet. It took over
a going concern which was supposed to be highly profit-
able, yet its first year’s gross profit was only £3026, against
expenses £4192, leaving a loss of £1166. And this is
without paying anything off the formation expenses, or
making any allowance for bad debts, depreciation of
plant and buildings, or writing anything off goodwill, or
making any allowance for deterioration in the value of
leaseholds, except an amount off one lease, which
sum the auditor declares to be insufficient. If goodwill
and formation expenses were written off, the loss would
be £5139. Then the directors appear to admit that £lOOO
requires to be provided for bad debts (it is a truly
lamentable thing for one-sixth of the book debts to be
found bad at the end of the first year), and £1683 allowed
for depreciation. These items, added to the ones already
specified, would leave the co. with a loss of £7822 at the
end of its first year, which absorbs more than half the
original paid-up capital. That the goodwill should be
wholly written off is beyond question. To put down any-
thing for the goodwill of a business in this condition is a
mockery.
Under these circumstances, Mr. Shadier has
agreed to surrender 5000 fully-paid £1 shares received by
him as part payment for the business. Out of the £5OOO
capital thus written off the loss and depreciation are to
be provided for, £lOOO written off book debts, and some
small sums off goodwill and formation expenses. These
latter appear to have been wildly exorbitant; £lll5
expenses in the formation of a co. with a capital of
£14,894 is a ridiculous item. Then the co. is supposed to
be left with a reserve fund of £2OB. But in reality, with
the purely paper items eliminated, the accounts should
be presented thus:
Liabilities. Assets.
Capital .. .. £14,894 Leaseholds, Plant,
Less written off .. 6,000 Buildings, &c... £19,120
Book Debts .. 5,100
£9,894 Stock .. .. 2,102
Debentures .. 8,000 Cash .. .. 446
Owing to Bank .. 6,385 Deficiency.. ... 2,822
Sundry Debts .. 5,311
£29,590 £29,590
What A. Shadier, Limited, evidently requires is to write
off enough capital to clear away all the paper assets ; to
practise strict economy and good management; and to
raise enough new capital (if it can be obtained) to pay off
the debentures and bank overdraft. A concern in its
state can’t afford to pay interest on £14,385 of borrowed
money. Apparently, if depreciation and the bad debts
actually made during the year had been allowed for, the
co. would have earned £3026 and spent some £5OOO or
£6OOO ; and when a co. only earns about lls. or 12s. for
every £ it spends very strong measures are needed.
* * * *
The Colonial Finance, Mortgage, Investment
and Guarantee Corporation (Sydney) continues its career
of misfortune after this fashion :
Loss on Depreciation Accumulated
Business. written off. Loss.
August, 1897 .. .. .. ..£124,318
„ 1898 .. £4,124 £2,756 .. 131,198
„ 1899 .. 3,180 4,356 .. 138,734
„ 1900 .. 3,539 1,351 .. 143,624
„ 1901 .. 2,573 2,665 .. 148,862
The chief asset of this company— whose balance-sheets
bear the honored name of “ Bruce Smith, chairman ”
seems to be its intense resolve to pay everybody in full,
no matter what happens. It keeps putting fresh capital
into the concern with an energy worthy of a better insti-
tution. Out of its original 100,000 shares, only 21,712
have been forfeited for non-payment of calls, and the
representatives of the other 78,288 have kept things going
after this fashion :
Accumulated Paid-up
Loss. Capital. Deficit.
August, 1898 .. £131,198 .. £127,859 .. £3339
„ 1899 .. 138,734 .. 137,334 .. 1400
Surplus.
„ 1900 .. 143,624 .. 146,806 .. 3182
„ 1901 .. 148,862 .. 153,676 .. 4814
If the creditors of the Colonial Finance, Mortgage,
Investment, and Guarantee Corporation don’t shout the
board at least one sixpenny drink when the final settle-
ment is made, they are a crowd to which gratitude is an
unknown quantity. The co. was founded in 1888, when
the boom was on its last legs, and it only paid three
moderate dividends before the collapse struck it. As
early as 1892 it began to make calls with a view to
covering losses, so it has no bloated past to reproach itself
with.
* * * *
Sydney Telegraph’s share-list seems to run its
leading articles on Freetrade very close in some respects.
Looking down it casually last Tuesday writer gathered
that Paddington Brewery had “ reserves and balance ”
amounting to £7776, which was certainly the figure in
1897, but it is now £21,369. It set forth that the Mercan-
tile Mutual Fire Insurance Co. £1 shares are fully paid-
up, and were consequently selling at a big discount;
whereas they are only paid up to 45., and sell
at nearly 200 per cent, premium. It described
the reserves of the Fresh Food and Ice Co. as £19,397
when they are really nearly £37,000 if depreciation fund
is included, and only about £l2OO if it isn’t. Melbourne
Tramway Co., Mort’s Dock, Balmain Ferry Co., Com-
mercial Bank of Australia, and a few other concerns that
really have reserves or undivided profits, appeared
as having none. The Melbourne Tramway Co.
has nearly £300,000 of one kind and another.
Australian Gaslight Co.’s reserves appeared as
£124,568, though the balance-sheet seems to show
them as about £114,000 odd. The reserves of
the North Coast Steamship Co. were set forth in the
Telegraph as £25,769, which was the figure at the end of
1899; it is now £28,002. The reconstructed deposits of
the Commercial Bank’s Asset Trust were given as
£3,551,000, which was quite correct at the end of 1897,
though it is now rather out of date. The A.J.S. Bank’s
reserves showed up as £69,076, though its total reserves
amount to over £220,000. These are the results of a 10
minutes’ inspection of the Telegraph’s share-list.
Probably it would repay closer investigation,
• * • *
The Mutual Fire Insurance Co. of Tasmania
(paid-up capital, £37,500) is a small concern which does
business in Tasmania only, and consequently has a
smaller field of operations than any other co. in
Australasia. Nevertheless it produces some remarkably
good results, as under :
Total
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
September, 1898 £17,417
„ 1899 £4978 7 per cent. = £2756 19,639
„ 1900 4403 7 „ „ 2756 21,286
„ 1901 3793 7 „ „ 2756 22,323
The reserves are composed of reserve fund, £12,000 ; con-
tingency fund, £3500 ; reserve for unexpired risks, £2830 ;
and undivided profit, £3993. The company’s investments
at interest are compressed into one line: “ Mortgages,
£56,894.” They yield at the very respectable rate of
£5 os. 9d. per cent, per annum, and there is no reason at
all to doubt their solidity, but for a company to have
practically all its funds invested in mortgages looks like
doubtful policy none the less. Despite unusually heavy
fire claims this year profits amount to over 10 per cent, on
capital. The Mutual Fire of Tasmania is a small office (its
total premiums last year were £5659) doing business on a
small island, but it seems a very strong and safe institu-
tion none the less.
* * * *
At Red fern (Sydney) police-court last week a
woman was sent to gaol for a month because she could
not pay some time-payment-furniture arrears. Imprison-
ment for debt is supposed to have been abolished in
N.S.W., but time-payment merchants (in many cases
shameless sharks) are able, under the Tovvns Police Act, to
send their debtors to gaol, if a magistrate can be induced
to administer the law as it stands. Fortunately that is
not often.
• * • •
The rise in Baker’s Creek shares may be partly
owing to some improvement in the mine’s prospects, but
it is probably mainly due to the fact that a shilling div.
seems to be on the board.
* * * *
The Occidental, Cobar, cleaned-up last week
(battery and cyanide) for £4OOO worth of gold ; the Mt.
Drysdale clean-up was about £3BOO. The Occidental,
after squaring all accounts, will begin paying divs. in
December—and thence regularly, the management says.
The mine is now in great shape, and, with its greatly-
enlarged dam full, has ample water for many months. It
is, by the way, just about time that something in the way
of divs. was heard from the Oobar Gold Mines Ltd. (old
Fort Bourke), which has been steadily battering away at
its big lode for two years or more with 100 head of stamps,
and which, between battery, cyanide and filter-presses, is
said to be turning out between £6OOO and £BOOO worth of
gold monthly.
* » * •
The late Johnny Wallace, M.L.C., of Mel-
bourne, was a member of the first syndicate that dropped
money at Chillagoe in the old days, but he was not a
warm believer in the modern Ohillagoe R. and M. spec.
* * * *
Kalgoorlie mines: “The lack of official news con-
firming several recent important developments in the
leading mines has drawn attention to the present system
of publishing reports locally some time after particulars
have been cabled to London. Certain co.’s require their
managers to await the receipt of a reply to a cable, how-
ever long the delay, before giving publicity to any infor-
mation. It is contended that in the case of those mines
having Australian boards of directors great discretionary
powers should be exercised, thus putting the Australian
shareholders on the same footing as those abroad.”
Great Scott ! what is going to happen ? What has
suddenly come over the wire-hummers of Kalgoorlie
that this wail should be uttered ? There must
be something in the wind. The practice of London
keeping Australian shareholders in the dark has hitherto
gone on without a murmur. In fact, Australian
newspapers seem to like it and to regard it as the right
thing to do. But there is more than one way out of the
difficulty. The Bulletin’s is to force the situation.
Instead of painting in exaggerated colors every good
development, why not tell the simple truth about a few
bad ones ? The custom is to conceal everything bad and
to exaggerate everything good. For instance, it is well
known out there, though not a newspaper word has been
said about it, that the lode from which the Golden
Horseshoe gets the great bulk of its gold, and which came
from the Great Boulder mine, looks as if it were going
to swing back into that mine again. A good thing for
the Boulder, but a very bad one for the Horseshoe.
Besides, at about 1000 ft. in the Great Boulder there is
already a lode which is hard to identify, and which may
have come in from the Horseshoe where its existence has
not been established at that depth. Why not, too, give
up preaching that all the wonderful consignments of rich
ore from the Associated Northern come from develop-
ments, and that not a foot of stoping has been done—
when it is well known that the gold chutes have such a
course, and are so worked, that more ore is likely to be
got from this so-called development work than from all
the stoping put together ? Hey 1
* * * *
Associated Northern : Several London news-
papers have started in to boom this mine beyond its worth,
good as it is. Among them is the Statist, which ought
to know better than to smirch its good reputation by talk
so tall as to have a fishy flavor about it. It gives the
co.’s record up to April last for ore sent away as 3925
tons, containing approximately 31,0000 z. gold, and it all
came from development work only. A table is given
showing the weight and gold production from each
parcel, the total being 4552 tons for 36,9090 z. ; aver-
age per ton, Boz. 2dwt., and total value, £128,212.
“Only the Iron Duke area has, so far, been at all
developed upon, and it is noteworthy that, with no
reduction plant whatever, the co. should have se-
cured about £130,000 from ore, nearly all derived
from development work.” True, this co. has several
other leases, including the Iron Monarch and the
Menindie Hill, but these are not worked, for the very best
of reasons—they are not considered worth it. They are
duffers surrounded by duffers—altogether outside the
gold-bearing belt, and quite valueless. Developments in
the Iron Duke have disclosed two rich chutes of ore, one
close to the Hannan’s Brown Hill boundary, and the other
near the main shaft. The Statist thinks that were
it not for the unfortunate state of mistrust that
exists in the W.A. market, more attention would
be given by speculative investors to these shares,
and they would have reached the market appreciation of
the Golden Horseshoe. The directors are recommended
to pursue the policy of increasing shipments, and to do
some stoping as well as shipping ore only from drives and
winzes. “There appear to be large quantities of ore
available, and, by marketing it to smelters, large profits
can be secured without interfering with the progress of
development in depth.” This would sound remarkably
well if development work did not take up the best part of
the chutes, and if the mine had not been so worked that
its value and ore tonnage can be measured to the nicest
accuracy. If the Statist bought Northern Blocks at £4 a
share and waited, it would then forcibly and feelingly
understand that it is possible to carry drives and winzes
on ore chutes and leave little behind for stoping.
* * * *
Peak Hill (W.A.) : These shares have fallen in
London to a little over £2, and for every drop that un-
mitigated boomster, “Moses Moss,” of London Truth,
has some excuse, and predicts a “ rapid recovery.” The
last excuse was on account of the shortage of water and
a strike amongst the miners, and he gave the returns for
the two previous months —July and August respectively
—2391 tons for 23860 z., 2172 tons for 16360 z. It will be
seen that, although for the last month there was a big
falling-off in yield, there was but a slight reduction in
tonnage ; so how could the shortage of water or the
strike of the miners have anything to do with-that? The
persistent, and yet inconsistent, way in which “ Moses
Moss” has boomed this mine for three years
has always been a mystery to the writer ;
no doubt to some people the reason is as clear
as noonday. Writer has just received from the mine a
sketch of it, which clearly shows that it is a basin of
kaolin, which, in any other country, would be regarded
as an alluvial deposit. There are quartz reefs below it,
but, wherever these have been opened, they have proved
barren, and none of them are being worked. What is left
of the basin is being mined by open cut, and probably
another 30,000 tons, for a much less number of ozs., will
exhaust the basin and end the life of the mine. Despite
this fact, it has a valuation of over £600,000 —at one time
it was worth on the market over two millions ; and it has
only given, in four years, 10s. Bd. in divs., the last of
which was paid over a year ago. At less than 2000 oz. a
month the mine must be working at a loss.
Oroya, W.A. : These shares have doubled in
value within the last two months. The first spurt in
them was due to the striking in a bore-hole what is
believed to be a continuation of the Brown Hill and
Northern Associated run of gold. The second and bigger
spurt was on account of finding a rich continuation of the
old lode worked in the mine. Statements vary as to its
value, but the market talks in the right direction, and it
looks as if the Oroya will yet become a gold-producer, if
not a div.-payer.
* * * *
Cosmopolitan, W.A. : A few weeks back writer
remarked how steadily these shares had been rising from
£1 till they reached 355. A set-back started immediately
afterwards in face of a spurt in most other Westralians.
No newspaper reason appeared. In fact, by several it
was declared that the mine was looking better than ever ;
shares fell from 355. to 28s. in a fortnight. The cat has
now got out of the bag—the reef has pinched from
several feet to a few inches. Months ago writer was told
of a big break in the country which would likely be met
with in main shaft, and it looks as if that has come about.
No statement has appeared in the press about the
pinching of the reef —that is only in accordance with the
usual custom. The truth is generally revealed after the
shareholders have been nipped, and we may expect to
hear all about it next month. Had the reef increased in
size and richness the fact would have been pictured in
variegated colors. The Bulletin has also been furnished
with some details of Bewick, Moreing and Co.’s connection
with this mine. They received 100,000 shares for which
they agreed to erect a modern 50-head stamp mill on
the Englishman’s lease, and they also “ chucked” in the
Diamantina, a lease on the south end of the Englishman.
All chutes of gold strike north towards the Cumberland
lease, which, ’tis said, will be the mine, if the reef lives to
(say) 700 ft. The mill should not have cost more than
£30,000 to £40,000, so even at present prices of shares
B.M. and Co. have a long way the best of the bargain.
They usually do, until it is often asked how much longer
this cute and enterprising firm is to be allowed to play
the game of erecting batteries on proven good mines for
shares which generally represent several times the value
of the plant erected. The manager of the Cosmopolitan is
W. Hayes, formerly of Parkes and Grenfell, N.S.W.
» * * *
Mt. Garnet Freehold : Half-yearly meeting last
week in Melbourne. Cost per ton of copper for period in
question is given as £37 10s, thus made up : Smelting
per ton of ore, 31s 9d : matte bagging and bags, 2s 6d ;
mining, 7s 5d ; development, 2s sd; transport charges,
6d ; water supply, 7d ; assay-office, 6d ; electric, 2d ;
general works, sd; management and offices, Is 7d. No
doubt the meeting dispersed under the impression that
£37 10s represented the total cost of the production of a
ton of copper, whereas it does nothing of the kind. It
means the total cost of a ton of copper in the form of
matte, which will need something to turn it into copper.
That something will depend on its grade. It could
not be worked-up on the mine without adding much to
the cost of a ton of copper. At present it is being sent
away on camel-back, by no means a cheap form of transit.
It is then sold to other smelters, and there are none run
on philanthropic principles. Then there are realisation
and other charges, of which not a word seems to have been
said at this meeting, and no allusion to them has been
made in the papers. Early next year this co. expects to
be able to make copper on the mine, and is building
a number of reverberatories for that purpose. Much
later than that they expect to have the railway
completed. As the ore is running about 6 per
cent, copper and lOoz. silver, the two furnaces may be
run without loss, but there can’t be much profit while the
matte has to be sent away, and coke and other supplies
brought in, by camel; if a profit was being made we
should have had it more clearly set out in the report or
by the chairman. A shareholder desired to know whether
the overdraft of £20,000 had been reduced, and, as the
question is skilfully evaded, it may be taken for granted
that the overdraft is still there. Better to go slow till
the railway is finished. The Garnet’s object-lesson
should be the N. Lyell, which, after sending many thou-
sands of tons of rich ore to the Mt. Lyell smelters, giving
them a fat flux, swelling that co.’s divs., and paying none
of its own, is about to start its own smelters.
• * * *
The Govt, battery is to start at Tarcoola early
next month, and after then the working conditions are to
be strictly enforced on the various mines.
* • * *
Mount Flora copper-mine, 60 miles E. of
Mackay, Q., after lying idle 35 years, has been re-opened.
Ore from the surface and to a depth of 30ft. is said to
have yielded from 18£ to 35J per cent, copper.
• * * *
During Sep., 69 dredging olaims, representing
3336 acres, were forfeited or surrendered in southern
M.L. Innumerable wild-cats are now feeding on their
own tails, and much allegedly-valuable machinery can be
bought as old scrap-iron.
* » * «
“The Australian mining goose has been cooked
in London market certainly for another four years,” writes
a Bulletin correspondent. “ There may be a gosling or
two tastily served up during that period, but it won’t be
worth talking about. The English public that made the
boom in Westralia is now getting lost in the thickets that
abound in the West African jungle, and will only emerge
to dance on the Rand to the tune piped by Werner, Beit,
J. B. Robinson, Edmund Davis, and the Consolidated
Goldfields of S’Africa ‘ school.’ All of these, particularly
Beit, have ground staked out, both by English and Dutch,
in the country which was kept a close reserve by Kruger,
because he didn’t want any additional wrangling and
stock and share juggling to that already going on in
Johannesburg. This country, the writer was informed
by no less a person than Dr. Hatch, who wrote the
standard work on the Rand, will prove even richer and of
greater extent than anything yet opened up.” (And that,
of course, is why the benevolent S’African and London
Stock Exchange gang was in such a desperate hurry to
confer the blessings of Liberty on the poor Uitlanders,
downtrodden by the dirty, brutal, nigger-flogging Boers.)
“ Certainly there is no one in London at present capable
of running the Australian markets like the Whittaker-
Wright crowd, and it is equally certain that the English
speculator will never put up money to any extent unless
the market is being run. The English speculator remains
stolidly unmoved at the output of a Mt. Morgan or
anything ten times richer than Mt. Morgan unless he
knows, or thinks he knows, that a Whittaker-Wright or a
Percy Tarbutt, or an Edmund Davis, or even a Frank
Gardiner is going to put prices up. There is too much to
be made for years to come by such operations in the
‘ jungle ’ and in Kaffirs for London to care about Aus-
tralia to any great extent, meanwhile.”
» * * •
“The financial world was completely staggered,”
writes a Bulletin correspondent from London, “at the
‘ bust ’ which, by some apparently superhuman interven-
tion, was averted when Yankee rails crashed last mid-
summer. The secret history, not hitherto written, is
very simple. Practically the whole London Stock Ex-
change had been caught, either directly or indirectly, in
the shortage of Northern Pacifies by the combination
engineered by Pierpont Morgan. Morgan was chuckling
on the Saturday morning, on the Continent, when he
received an intimation that it would be as well for him to
call at Lord Rothschild’s private house on the Sunday
evening. He did so, meeting a pleasing little coterie, and
was told by Rothschild that he and his friends would
refuse in future to handle any paper issued by the Pier-
pont-Morgan house unless the ‘ shorts ’ were released at a
figure which, although much above the intrinsic value of
the stock, certainly did not resemble those that Morgan
had in his mind’s eye. Strange to say, not one of the
great financial houses represented at Rothschild’s resi-
dence that quiet Sunday evening were directly interested,
but Rothschilds were not going to allow a crisis to run
riot unless it had been brought about at their direction.
It was the first time in his life, perhaps, that Morgan
ever learned that there was another power in the universe
besides himself and the Almighty. He is reported not to
have liked England so much afterwards.”
jfc % * *
“Chillagoes, Bs. 6d.” How must that strike
the rich man who has, or had, 60,000 of them locked up
for a rise to £5 ?
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, — Your “Wild Cat ” contributor
of about four months ago sums up Rhodesia pretty
fairly, except that he errs about the gold returns. In
the Globe and Phoenix, Matabeleland, we have a mine
that ranks among the world’s best, having yielded an
average of over 5000 oz. monthly for the past six months,
50770 z. July, and 57020 z. June, being the returns for the
past two months. Matabeleland returns for June give
a total of 12,5920 z. from six mines, and the July returns
totalled 13,3840 z. Mashonaland has three producers—
Alice, Ayrshire, and Reyende— and these for June and
July totalled 45320 z. ; which, with the Matabeleland
output of 25,9830 z., gives for these two months an output
of 30,5150 z. These returns—with white labor, paid 255.
for eight hours, black labor scarce, and explosives and
material at prohibitive prices—speak for themselves ;
and, in days to come, Rhodesia, with a beautiful climate,
plentiful water, and a magnificent soil, will surely
prosper.—Ex-Aus, Umtali, Rhodesia, 24/8/’Ol. [But will
our contributor, when he next writes, tell about Rho-
desian mining conditions—especially rates of royalty, and
so on. That, no doubt, is the fly in the ointment.— Ed. B.]


DAVID JONES«COMP»Ny
IMPORTERS
OF THE
CELEBRATED
ORIENT
f
AND
BOOTS
SHOES
(SEORSE STREET,
(opposite G.P.0.)
V SYDKTEY.
■
nr
Sp
The New
Field Glass
For the Races, the.
Very powerful, as used by
Officers of the British Army
in South Africa. Easily
focussed by the patent
quick draw.
Magnifying- 5 times, 65s ; Aluminium, 84s.
Magnifying 6 times, 73s ; Aluminium, 85s.
In Solid Leather Sling Cases.
WOOD, “The Optician,”
Only address in N.S. lE.,
299 Ceorg-e-St., Sydney (opp. Hunter-St.)
and EQUITABLE BUILDINGS,
Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Home Cigarettes.
THE LATEST BULLETIN.
They are the Sweetest, the Nicest, the
most Common-wealthiest Cigarette.
All Tobacconists.
Society
LEROY
LAQUEUR
BRANDY
The Kanaka cause must be at its last gasp.
Cant has come to its aid. Says a correspondent
of Sydney D.T. :
In North Australia the climate is, to a large extent,
more or less unsuited to white labor, and are we not all,
whether white or black, children of our Father which is
in Heaven ; for lie maketh His sun to rise on the evil and
on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the
unjust.
Quite correct. And that is the reason why the
Unjust invented umbrellas. And—the moral is
obvious.
* * * •
Scotchbyterian parson Frackleton gave a
strong pro-Kanaka sermon on Sunday week in
Brisbane :
During the service the choir, under Mr. J. N. M‘Cal-
lum, gave special anthems, “Leave us not,” and “Ye
shall dwell in the land ” (Stainer), and Miss M‘Callum,
with considerable expression and effect, sang “ Woe unto
them,” from “Elijah.”
The Scotch parson jokes wi’ deeficulty.
• * * *
Bishop Goe’s episcopate has been a dismal
failure, and no sooner is the burden of the Old
Man of the See lightened than up spring three
new dioceses—Bendigo, Wangaratta and Gipps-
land—like Minerva, ready-armed, from the brain
of Jupiter. Jupiter happens in this case to be a
certain Canon Hindley, a square, rasping-voiced
man, of high ability. Meanwhile, England is to
be ransacked for a nice, fat gentleman to drop into
the Melbourne hole, while the poor shows of
Bendigo, Wangaratta, and Gippsland are to be
distributed locally. Victoria can create a Madden,
but not a Goe.
* * * *
Archbishop Carr has been telling them
about “divorce” again in Melbourne —hoping
Federal legislation will uphold the “sanctity and
N.S.W. FINANCE IN DOMESTIC LIFE.
HE : “ Well, my dear, I think we can manage a trip to the Cup this year. I've just got an
account of £50 paid me.”
SHE: “But, John, toe owe three times that for rent and to the tradesmen, and you have an
overdraft besides.”
HE: “ Oh, that’s all right, Maria; we'll put those little items to a suspense account.”
indissolubility ”of the marriage-tie. Said Dr.
Carr:—
The defenders of those lax laws said that it was a great
hardship for people to have to live together when they
• n , o *' matx< h lluli such people had their remedy,
Sss, s r K..:z as s.‘a«iis not
One aim only I. visible in all. the Church's horror
of detorinaS to have
believe its work irrevocable. The law that puts
asunder those whom the priests have joined to-
gether aims a heavy blow at priestly prestige, and
ridicules the Church’s pretensions to infallibility.
This is what the Church is mad about, and the
Archbishop’s quoted words are practically a con-
fession of the fact. The condition of the people
does not matter a snap ; man may live alone, and
woman vegetate in an unnatural state—it is only
the Church's forms that really matter. Priestly
vanity is the one human emotion worthy of
respect.
* • * *
The John See Ministry, looking at it in
the collective jaw, does not seem a likely body to
pause from faked-figure discussions to put a sudden
stop by Act of Parliament to the hideous
defilement of Sydney Harbor and other beauty-
spots with advertisement-hoardings. But if
legislation does not protect the people from the
outrage of having scenery which is a national
possession ruined by glaring puffs of tea and
obscene-disease medicines, there ought to be
enough public spirit in the community to ensure
the general destruction of these disfigurements
some dark night, and a general agreement to pass
by the shop of the man who resorts to this
vandalistic form of advertisement.
* • * •
Apropos the harbor-advertisement leprosy.
The recent yachtsman’s aquatic funeral in Port
Jackson was a charming spectacle, until there
intruded among the white-winged angels of the
sapphire waters a boat whose sails carried the
device, “ Bile Beans for Biliousness.”
* * * *
Fred. Dickson, the erstwhile genial
accountant of the Melbourne University, was
always a favorite with the students. They pre-
ferred to deal with him rather than with Registrar
A’Beckett, who had the reputation, rightly or
wrongly, of being crabbed and difficile. It will be
remembered that when A’Beckett’ obtained the
appointment John Madden, Preacher, was also a
postulant for the billet. A’Beckett is a brother of
the Judge of the same name. If his Wax. had got
the job it is not at all likely that things would
have been allowed to drift as they have done.
But, on the other hand, Victoria would never
have known the wondrous glory of Madden.
* * * •
Alleged that shortages (arising from
various causes) in Melbourne University accounts
amount to a sum alarmingly large. A rumor, too,
is abroad that the financial muddlement was in
part due to a little secret arrangement, designed
with a view to showing always a poor mouth to
the Government when the annual grant came
before Parliament. A public inquiry into the
affairs of the institution is urgently needed.
* * * ♦
A big Sydney public institution is said to
have been victimised after somewhat the same
fashion as Melbourne University. The report
goes that, as the sum involved can be raised by
friends, there will be no public scandal.
Melb. Queen’s Memorial Fund Committee
decided, t’other day, to forthwith invite designs
from sculptors here and abroad for a statue to cost
£lO,OOO. The committee has only got in hand a
little over half the price of the statue, and there
«»°• r?r- * ■ r ™ > h » nowi*™ <»
“JKbf X
eV, Tfi
T ? S
P a Y the balance while the Jingoes claim all the
® CoUnt ° U loyalty 18
* * *
Country news, in S. M. Herald :
ROCKLEY, Wednesday,
Last quarter there were 28 births, 8 deaths, 3 marriages,
The lambing has been exceptionally good.
“ THE BULLETIN ” AT CROAJINGOLONG
ATHENAEUM.
All these are right-thinking persons, and deeply
shocked at this paper’s opinions. They only read
it that they may be able to explain to weaker
brethren, who might otherwise be led astray, the
utter falsity of its doctrines.
The hideous mortality rate in the concen-
tration-camp still keeps up (of 54,326 children in
September 196 j died !), and the British press and
politicians still explain effusively that it is all the
fault of the Boer women. Which recalls Bumble’s
remark that the paupers “die just to aggra-
wate us.”
* * * *
Magnificent war ! Private A. Lancaster,
of Ballarat (Vic.) City Engineer’s office, who
lately returned from active service in S’Africa,
brought with him a trophy in the shape of a Boer
baby’s “ bootee ” ; history as follows
On 17th Feb., 1900, at Paardeplats, the 4th Vic. Con-
tingent were chasing a Boer convoy, and a Cape cart,
covered, was seen going at a gallop. Some of the men
shot at the horses in the cart, with a view to stopping it,
and it appeared, when they examined the cart, that they
had shot a Boer women through both knees. She was
sitting in the cart sheltering a baby. The bullet passed
through both her knees and the lower part of the baby’s
body, and the child was killed. Mr. Lancaster brought
away one of the baby’s “ bootees ”as a relic. The next
day he was shot, and, when he left the scene of battle,
the baby’s “ bootee ” was the only souvenir of the war
which he carried away.
* » * *
Furious call for Ber-lud by a “ right-
thinking person ” in Adelaide Advertiser :~
To the Editor. —Sir, —Leon Czolgosz, the anarchist, has
been sentenced to death, and up to the present time has
escaped lynching. There is no warrant in Scripture for
the electrocution of the ruffian. On the contrary, *
“ Whosoever sheddeth man’s blood, by man shall his
blood be shed.” No definite time, and no special mode
are named. Exemplary punishment (not necessarily ven-
geance) is required as a warning to evildoers. The law
relating to capital punishment should be amended to
meet special and exceptional cases of brutality. Leon
Czolgosz should have been sentenced to death by guillo-
tine or axe, after the space of 21 years. Immediately
after the death sentence had been passed, he should have
been taken to a public pillory, and in the presence of
spectators flogged with “forty stripes, save one.” On
every anniversary of his dastardly act the same punish-
ment should be openly and publicly inflicted. Such a
course would stop the future commission of such offences.
—I am, &c., Zacharias J. C. Barker.
It takes your true religionist, with a Biblical
name, to hoard up vengeance and deal out savage
torture to a lunatic for one-and-twenty years.
* • • •
A feature of George Reid’s first budget-
speech was the promise of a big Sydney interna-
tional exhibition. Now that the Great Promiser
has gone to a higher sphere, where he finds it
more difficult to cash his post-dated political
cheques, “Sid ” Law has taken up the idea. But
the practical difficulty stands in the way that a
spendthrift Government can’t scrape together the
cash for a splash of that sort just now,
» • * *
Old age pensions in N.S.W. have created
a new calling. Last week a “professional
corroborator ” was sent to gaol. His business was
to furnish pension applicants, for a fee, with
declarations corroborating their grounds of claim.
♦ * * *
General Hector Macdonald “knocked”
Melbourne’s Naicest endways by turning up to
all functions in a brown slouch hat. The bell-
toppered crowd who were waiting on the plat-
form when he arrived didn’t know him as he
stepped out of the carriage, and were standing
aside to let him by. The General was utterly un-
military in his acknowledgments, and his free-
and-easy style nearly made several Leg. Council-
lors, who have spent a life-time in the effort to
acquire Dignity, faint on the spot. He collared a
big bandsman by the shoulder in a rough,
brotherly way, shook hands with anybody who
chose to coine along, and was no more impressed
by the gilded persons who saw an opportunity for
self-advt. in his visit than he was by casual Aus-
tralians who simply felt interested in a plucky
fighter. The General is said to be here on a
pleasure-trip, but it is a peculiar coincidence that,
after five months’ delay (which the Govt, is unable
to explain satisfactorily) in the appointment of a
Federal Commandant, the screw should be re-
raised to surpass that which Macdonald is now
getting in India ; and, further, that he should
suddenly come to a quarter of the globe in which
he appears to have no particular personal interest.
* * * •
The Mayor of Ballarat (Vic.), is a strict
teetotaller and a right-thinking man, and is
striving to throw an interesting gloom over that
place. One of his ideas is a bye-law to ring a
curfew bell at 9 o’clock, when children under the
age of 18 must go home. He will not have any grog
kept in the Town Hall, and visitors are offered tea
or coffee. At a council meeting, t’other day, the
King was toasted in coffee by all except one
councillor, who, furious at such chilling blasphemy,
produced a whisky-flask from his pocket, much to
the disgust of the Mayor.
* * * *
It is characteristic, seemingly, of an Aus-
tralasian Govt, not to care about books —except
the faked national account-books. Hori Grey’s
valuable collection, bequeathed to Auckland
library, has not yet been unpacked, but lies
higgledy-piggledy in odd corners with the cob-
webs and dust of years for a covering.
_ Editor Bul-
letin. Th e
public has, pro-
bably, no idea
that public
school-
teachers of
all ranks
in Sydney
andsuburbs
are (by vir-
tue of an
unwarrant-
ed official
request)
contribut-
ing towards
the cost of
cleaning
school
premises.
It should
be hardly
necessary
to point
out that
this money
is collected
without lawful
authority, and
that its expenditure is not publicly accounted for.
And, significantly !—teachers who have refused to
submit to this exaction have been officially “re-
minded” that they are expected to do so. Of
course, it’s easy to understand what the non-fulfil-
ment of the departmental “ expectation ” means.
As a body, I think we teachers are satisfied to
leave the common principle of administration in
the hands of those in authority ; but this practice
of dipping the administrative hand into the exe-
cutive pocket is quite another matter, and calls
for powerful protest.—Loup-Gaiiou.
* * * *
One of those disastrous persons who
would rather kill a man than not do him a good
turn lately transpired in the Westralian Assembly.
George, M.L.A., rose to ask the Attorney-General
if he would do something, as a man and a brother
should, to protect Mr. Justice Parker from un-
merited outrage. He had heard that a certain
paper had prepared an article grossly attacking Mr.
Parker (a newly-appointed Judge, who isn’t what
might be called wildly popular); and that Parker,
hearing of it, and probably feeling that the law
gave him no adequate protection against such
things, had paid a large sum to have it suppressed.
George was so broken up with grief that he read
the article to the House, so that it might
see the full dimensions of the outrage com-
mitted upon Parker. Now, Judge Parker says
indignantly that he never paid anything to have
any article suppressed, and that he never
even heard of the thing before. So the
result seems to be that George, in his wild
yearning to do the Judge a good turn, has held
him up as a weak man who submitted to black-
mail, and has also published a large mass of
violent abuse against Parker which probably no
one would otherwise have heard of ! And the
abuse being read in Parliament, where such things
are privileged, Judge Parker has no redress. The
world is full of friends like that.
* » * *
“ Parramatta ” writes :
Among the items passed by N.S.W. Assembly among
“charitable allowances” were—Salvation Army, £500;
Westmead Home, £750 ; and Sydney Rescue Work
Society, £5OO. Westmead Home is a purely R.O. institu-
tion ; the L. F. Heydon crowd run it. The Rescue Work
Society is an institution run by G. E. Ardill on out-and-
out anti-Rome principles. On these votes Haynes,
M.L.A., challenged the Government with aiding
denominational institutions. See explained that all
were subject to Govt, inspection, and their accounts sub-
mitted to the “ Inspector-General of Charities.” Let
Haynes ask Mr. See the name of this Inspector-General of
Charities. He will find that there is no such person.
Also, when did a Govt, officer last visit Salvarmy sweat-
ing shops or Heydon’s fledgeling, or Ardill’s Rescue
Home ? The last time Ardill’s places were “ inspected ”
was in 1897, by the Public Service Board, sitting as a
Royal Commission, and the report—well, j'ust look it up
for yourself.
* * * *
Shocks and distractions have arisen in
Melbourne through the conduct of a lady, who
seized upon the son of a N.S. Wales M.P. in the
street, and demanded that he should be handed
over to her as her long-lost husband. At least,
defendant claims to be the son of a M.L.A. —and
no evidence to the contrary is just now available.
He is at present out on bail upon a charge of
wife-desertion, and denies being anybody’s
long-lost husband, and declares his intention
of pursuing the lady—described as a nice-looking
person of 32 —for perjury with the utmost horrors
of the law. Her story is that he married her in
Sydney under the name of John Reade, and when
his writing was compared with that of John
Reade, whoever the latter might be, on the
marriage-certificate, the experienced Mr. Pan-
ton, P.M., intimated that certain facts ap-
peared to stick out conspicuously, and that a
very strong impression of some kind or other had
arisen in his mind. He sternly impounded the
documents, and seemed to imply that something
large and remarkable was liable to happen to
somebody. The lady says, by the way, that she
doesn’t want to keep the man she has found ; she
only desires to prove his identity so as to facilitate
divorce proceedings. Under the circumstances,
it seems that the court might just as well grant
her a divorce from John Reade on the ground of
desertion, and attend to the other questions
afterwards.
*** v *
The nerve of some people ! A burglar
who had his leg broken by a policeman’s bullet at
Waverley (Sydney) last week tried to escape by
hopping off on one leg, the broken limb dangling
as he ran. After capture he was put into a
delivery-van, but again tried to get clear by
jumping from the fast-moving vehicle, and
hopping away till he fell exhausted.


J.D.K.Z. GIN
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
only—largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 16'5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Sydney.
*6
99
1
TheWhiskyof The Wise
g
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette, and Sailing List with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Collins-st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
SILVER STAR STARCH.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Australia's
Leading Tonic
Beverage.
Dear Bulletin. —lie this par., published
in Bulletin 19/10/’01:
R. D. Meagher, M.L.A., has been elected to Sydney
City Council, polling 316 votes out of 2284 on the roll.
The choice, and the sma’lness of the vote, indicate pretty
clearly what Sydney thinks of its “ reformed council.”
Surely that is not the only deduction. May not
that curious result indicate (1) that the citizens
don’t think at all on municipal subjects ; (2) what
Sydney thinks of Mr. R. D. Meagher and Mr.
Blake; (3) that Sydney (that is, the half-million
of the real Sydney) has no chance of expressing
its thoughts in one small ward of the little
Sydney; (4) that the vote of “316 votes
out of the 2284 on the roll ” only indicates the
apathy of that particidar ward of Sydney.
The “reformed council,” no doubt, does as well as
it can for a body with wretchedly inadequate
powers, ludicrously insufficient funds, a legacy of
debt, bad system, mismanagement, and incom-
petent servants from its predecessors, and only
nine months of municipal existence. Anyhow, at
the general election, when all the city was bursting
for reform, the percentage of votes polled in
Sydney was but 50 per cent, of the actual number
on the rolls. A Combined Sydney may arouse
more interest, but the little spot called the City
of Sydney for municipal purposes, and of which
many of the ratepayers are non-residents, can’t
do enough to keep itself warm. —Yours, G-eebung.
In N.S.W. Civil Service are some strange
smells, but one of the most unearthly odours that
ever arose in it is just now making itself felt
around the Technical College. The Public Service
Board has sought to disinfect the thing with
whitewash, but the stench refuses to keep down,
and is getting along with seven-league boots
CHANGE OBTAINED HERE.
ELDERLY ADONIS: “ Ah, that would he a change! ”
10 'ftrds publicity. When are the papers in that
reoent inquiry to be produced in Parliament ?
* * * *
A civilised piece of legislation, introduced
in Vie. Leg. Assembly by little Dr. Maloney, was
badly mangled by Attorney-General Gillott ere it
got through. Maloney brought down a Bill to
amend the law so as to enable the father of an
illegitimate to register it in his own name, and to
confer upon it the same privileges as if it had
been born in wedlock ; whereupon barrister
MacKinnon and onion-grower Levien objected
that the Bill proposed to damage the marriage tie.
Gillott, in his smug police-court style, moved that
a father should only be allowed to register his
illegitimate child in his own name if the parents
afterwards married. Maloney opposed the amend-
ment, but the instincts of the House was against
him, and he was forced to accept Gillott’s clause.
Dear Bulletin.— The “ cost of
babies,” apparently, doesn’t trouble
us much in the bush. Within a score
of miles of me just now are four
families with, respectively, 13, 14, 16,
and 21 children —all living, and all
“introduced ” without other aid than
that of the “handy woman,” who has
never even heard of “obstetrics” or
“aseptics.” Women reared in the
bush, and living an active life, get
over their troubles with far greater
ease, and with less ill consequences,
than their city sisters. —B.R.
* * * *
THE END OF THE MONTH.
All the shadow? of the previous days
Do deepen on this fatal date,
When lender meets the man who never pays,
And both at once their woes relate.
P.M.
* * * *
The Federal tariff free-list should certainly
give G-. H. Reid a circus-joke outfit. Free items
include arsenic, artificial teeth, brimstone, human
hair, ice, bacteriological serum, artificial limbs
and eyes, tomahawks —and turtles.
* * * *
“Vulcan”: Re Vic. Customs book-sup-
pressing farce. Seems to me that the Minister,
though well-meaning, blundered badly. If he is
consistent in a determination to prevent the circu-
lation of “improper” works, he cannot stop at
Balzac, and the following will have to be sup-
pressed : The Bible, Shakespeare, Dryden, Defoe,
Swift, Butler, Fielding, Prior, Beaumont and
Fletcher, Sterne, Massinger, Jonson, Johnson,
Smollett, Burns, Byron, Wycherley, Rossetti,
Swinburne, the majority of the “classics,” and no
small proportion of the “moderns.” What is
left ? And, once begun, where is the crusade to
be stopped ?
• * * *
Solemnly chronicled by Sydney D.T., as
proof positive of the entire respectability of the
N.S. W. amateur championship boxing tourney:
“Of the 500 or 600 onlookers fully three-fourths
were in evening-dress.” Why, the hangman works
in evening dress !
* * • *
The native flora of the N.S.W. public
parks is being utterly destroyed by flower-sellers.
At Kuringai Chase, recently, a plantation of
waratahs was completely denuded in one night, a
cart being used to remove the spoil. This sort of
thing should mean gaol every time.
“ Demon ”
is out in his facts and
figures as to the Mel-
bourne detective force.
Its strength is 32, not 18 —
and, in addition, there
are 22 plain - clothes
police, to all intents
and purposes detec-
tives. There may
be 27 racecourses
in and around
Melbourne,
but they
don’t all
hold meet-
ings every
day, as
“Demon”
would imply.
Gaming-houses,
Chinese lotteries,
&c., are watched
mainly because they
are the resort of crimi-
nals. The statement that a “ d.” must report him-
self at2 p.m., under any circumstances, is nonsense.
The rule is continually relaxed under justifying
conditions. There may be room for improve-
ments in the men and methods, but T)emon
has not struck the defects. The remodelling of
the branch on scientific lines, and separation from,
the routine branch of the service, is what is
needed.
w • * *
A visit to Rookwood (Sydney) Asylum for
the poor, by a Bulletin man, did not disclose
anything to justify the complaint from “ Carolus,”
recently published. The asylum-building was
once intended to be a reformatory for bad hoys,
which was, perhaps, one of the reasons why it was
located within sight of the big metropolitan ceme-
tery, so that the fear of death {which is the begin-
ning of wisdom) should be instilled into their hearts.
Excepting this proximity to the graveyard, there is
nothing to find fault with at Rookwood. The
asylum has spacious grounds, prettily planted
with flowers and vegetables ; its situation is airy
and wholesome. The buildings, practically all of
one storey, arranged on the pavilion principle,
are admirably ventilated, and kept thoroughly
clean. No fault could be found with the bedding
or with the laundry arrangements, though the
need of a steam-laundry is severely felt in damp
weather. The food seemed clean and wholesome.
It only costs 5s. a week to maintain an inmate at
Rookwood, though many of the wards are hos-
pitals for various types of chronic and incurable
diseases. But the institution grows its own
vegetables on a small irrigation farm, and also
keeps pigs, poultry and cows. Economy is thus
secured without stinting the sick, who are allowed
eggs, milk, brandy, chicken-broth, and other
delicacies as ordered by the doctor. Mrs. McDer-
mott is the matron superintendent, and the in-
mates seem to like her rule. If the writer ever
comes to a penniless old age he would certainly
prefer Rookwood, despite its graveyard view, to
any other of the State asylums for the poor.
* « • *
“Ex-R.E.” writes concerning the recent
Newcastle (N.S.W.) accident, involving the death
of Mr. Allsopp, engineer, by the sudden break-up
of the new reversible turbine engine from which
he hoped to make fame and fortune: —
The machine was running at the speed of 6000 revolu-
tions a minute when the revolving-disc (made of cast-iron)
flew to pieces, one of which hit Allsopp on the head and
killed him. But it is astounding that anybody calling
himself an engineer should have subjected a substance so
brittle as cast-iron to such a strain. If that disc, flying
round 100 times in a second, was but a foot in dia., every
point Of its circumference would move 314ft. per second ;
but if, as is more likely, it was 3ft. or so in dia., its cir-
cumference would have been moving 942 ft. per sec.—a
pace that would cause even flawless cast-iron to fly ; and
the trouble is that you can’t get an iron-casting without
flaws. Poor Allsopp seems to have forgotten that there
is such a thing as centrifugal force.
* * * *
Invermay (Vic.) tragedy developments had
some curious features. James O’Reilly (75) and
his wife Bessie (72) were charged with killing
their daughter. The police exhumed the girl’s
body and had it examined without any representa-
tive of accused being present, and one witness was
pumped whilst too drunk to sign his name. The
Crown had sense enough to suppress this witness.
In the end the police proved nothing. They
seem to have started with the idea that it was
necessary to hang someone, and to have fixed on
the handiest person—the old man. As he failed
to fill the bill the old woman was roped in too, in
the hope of getting at least one neck. But the
evidence wasn’t strong enough to hang a cat, and
there is a pretty strong impression that the young
woman, after all, died a natural but unexplainable
death.
DIDN’T KNOW WHAT
TO DO.
MR. UPTOSNUFF : “ There go
the Oldings. Their family seems ever on
the increase.”
MRS. U. : “ Yes, she’s like the old woman who
lived in a shoe—had so many children”
MR. U.: “ Well!"
MRS. U. : “ Well, she didn’t know what to do,
of course.”
The Australian Churchman is convinced
that outrages upon missionaries in China are still
to be expected, and considers this
is a fact, which our readers will consider a call for more
urgent prayers. It should give increased interest to the
prayer-meeting in the Chapter House and the valedictory
meeting to Miss Oxley, who is returning very shortly to
her station in China.
There is in this missionary business a good deal of
the spirit which prompts audiences to go tp a
circus to see men swallowing swords, or somer-
saulting over bayonets—a spirit which is an
atavistic survival of the bloodthirstiness of pri-
meval man. A missionary can’t rouse any en-
thusiasm unless he or she is setting off for a
dangerous place, but then a big crowd rolls up,
fascinated by the prospect of a report coming out
in a year or two of some revolting outrage on
the departing one. d
* * * *
The Marrickville tragedy .’’tvas a great
windfall for the picturesque reporter. Sydney
D.T. man thus got grimly to grip with his sub-
ject :
With a terrified scream she closed with her maddened
husband, and they struggled desperately about the room,
the woman meantime screaming- for help. The man con-
tinued to shower blows upon her, but their force was
broken owing to the fierce nature of the struggle. They
grappled together for several minutes, and the man
stumbling near the doorway gave the woman an oppor-
tunity to break away, and she rushed shrieking out of
the house.
It is almost a premium upon murder to have the
gory deed written up in this earnest and adequate
style. One can picture the reporter sitting in the
D.T. back-room stabbing his pen viciously in the
ink-pot and wishing that it contained blood—or
Beer. There is, however, a drawback to this
vivid, lurid style of narrating simple incidents.
There is a gruesome story of a conscientious
French reporter who tried to cut his editor’s
throat in order to be able to describe realistically
the feelings of a homicide.
* * • e *
“ The ‘ light-cure ’ for lupus,” writes The
Bulletin’s London correspondent, “ has just
received a tremendous ‘boost,’ thanks to the
engineer of London Hospital where the Finsen
system is installed. Up to now the Finsen
30,000 candle-power lamps (electric arc) costing
£lOO each have treated 214 cases. Of these, 40
have made complete cures, the remainder are
nearly all being successfully treated, and there is
not one case which has not yielded in some
degree. The engineer aforesaid has invented a
new ‘ curing light ’ which costs but £2O, and
affects three times the area treated by the Finsen.
The latter costs two shillings per hour per
patient; the former twopence. Again, the new
lamp takes but 10 or 12 minutes to do what is an
hour’s work for the Finsen. Further, this wonder-
ful Aladdin’s lamp is handy, allows the patient
to ‘lie comfortable,’ and it can be brought with
ease and celerity into any angle. It would appear
to be as great an improvement upon the Finsen
as the latter was upon our former medical im-
potence in curing the ‘ disease of the wolf.’ ”
* * * *
A supposed burglar broke into a house in
a N.S.W. country town, t’other night. The
house-mother awakened her husband, who grappled
desperately with the intruder; then she loaded
a gun, and was about to shoot when the burglar
surrendered. There is talk of presenting him
with the Royal Humane Society’s medal for
saving the husband’s life at the expense of his own
liberty.


CL€hftU//S * chtJerve&fh
PRICES
hg
ĝjgh
Do you like Coffee^
Perfect, Pure,
Fragrant, Exhilarating Goffe
Then Try
Till. SMITH'S
I edal Coffee Essence,
Winners of the GRAND PRIX against all
other makers at the PARIS EXHIBI-
TION, 1900.
Australian Representatives ■
WIFTA. COMPANY
7 Spring: Street,
Sydney
To seaside visitors.—Guest’s Face Massage
and Vaporising outfits are invaluable. No one
who values her complexion in the least should go
away without one. Each case contains a
Vaporiser and full assortment of Westall Guest’s
toilet preparations. Full directions In each case.
No difficulties. Price 215., extra quality 425.
H. Westall Guest, Toilet Specialist, 229 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.*
All Drapers Everywhere.
A WOMANS LETTER.
Sydney, October 22, 1901.
My Dkae Abini, —
The fashionable dressmaker is the most ex-
hausted woman at present in Australia. She
wishes there was no Melbourne Cup, or that the
time between now and then was elastic, or that
she was not called upon to help decorate the Cup
at such short notice. To the woman whose Cup
dress “has come home” other women are pil-
griming—to see it spread out on the bed. “ And
here’s the hat I’ll wear with it. Wasn’t I deter-
mined to have something different from anyone
else ? My Derby hat isn’t home yet, but it’s a
dream trimmed with—what do you think—trails
of hops in three shades of green. (A dream
trimmed with hops!) And here’s my shoes
(bother the grammar.) Just look at the laces, a
finger wide and stitched with silk. Sally sent
them to me from Paris. I don’t think anyone else
has got them. And here’s the newest thing in
cloaks—a dust-cloak by day and a theatre-wrap
by night. Of course, I’ve got a chiffon boa and a
change-parasol cover, and ”
Then the pilgrims file out of the shrine and
drink tea, and talk gowns and horses. A local
young man went round last week amongst his
friends, exclaiming joyfully, “I’ve drawn a
horse 1 ” He had 20 invitations to drink within
an hour, and his hand was swollen with
shaking before the inviters and shakers learnt
that the horse was drawn in pencil on a sheet of
notepaper.
To return to the dressmaker. If she had the
trick of using (or misusing) words, and had time,
how she could write ! Because she is the con-
fessoress of such a lot of women. It seems to be
an overwhelming necessity to some women to tell
their most private (and what ought to be sacred)
domestic matters to some other woman—the
costumibre preferred. Perhaps the fact that the
other woman is making a nice frock for you brings
to the surface all that is grateful, confiding, and
idiotic. Anyhow, whether it be sheer love of talk
(to a good listener) or a desire for sympathy, or
the dramatic instinct to excite wonder and pity,
the fashionable dressmaker is made a magazine of
dangerous explosives. ‘ ‘ And Saturn said nothing,
but went on making oysters a thousand years.”
That has always seemed to me a specimen
of splendid silence. “Oysters and a thousand
years! ”
The tariff duties may keep much gold lace and
swagger out of Sydney Harbor. Men-of-war
entertain largely, and the new duties will be like
Ossa on their wine, whisky, and tobacco. But
the revenue—think of what it means to the re-
venue ! The intrinsic value of good whisky is, I’m
told, seven or eight shillings a gallon, and
at that figure Jack, the glorified and the plain
Jack, has been used to getting it, and now his
contribution to the revenue on this item will
be about 200 per cent. A Freetrade philan-
thropist tells me that the raisins for poor Jack’s
plum-duff will carry a duty of 3d. per lb., which
means nearly 100 per cent, as the average price of
raisins go. But it seems to me if Jack prefers to
use the produce of Spain and Portugal, while he
can get fine, rich, clean Australian raisins, made
by his own countrymen at Mildura and other
places, it isn’t worth while weeping over his
troubles.
Mrs. J. C. Williamson entertained the lady
principals of the Italian Co. at luneh last week.
Also Signora Dani, a plump, grey-eyed, pretty
woman, was present. Likewise Signora Hazon
and Mrs. George Henderson. It was a crowded
table and an interesting. The Italians, with the
exception of Signorina Vaccari, have great masses
of black hair. Signora Benedetto’s is of the
blackest possible shade, and their complexions are
of the clearest olive or dead white. They have
picked up very little English during their three or
four months out of Italy, although some of them
speak French and German. Someone was trying,
in French, to make the Marcomini understand
that Sydney climate was injurious for the com-
plexion, and that lady, striking her cheek, replied,
in English, “Yais, yais, ver bad for de meat.”
Through Madame Sapio, who interpreted. Signora
Dani wished to know why some Australians said
“no ” and others “neow.” Isn’t that up against
us ! Signorina Marchi, wearing red and black
and a pair of big hoop earrings, looked like
Rebecca that someone in Scripture mashed at the
well. After lunch Madame Sapio read a letter
from Mr. Williamson, thanking the soprani and
contralti for their work, and for the generosity
with which his wishes had been carried out.
We are all glad to hear that London is “ re-
discovering” Mr. Titheradge. London is wont
to “snow-under” the actor who returns to it
again after 20 years’ absence. Pinero, at a
rehearsal of “The Second Mrs. Tanqueray,” in
which Titheradge played Aubrey to MTrs, Patrick
Campbell’s Paula, did, for him, a most unusual
thing, when he applauded the daffodil man for his
fine, original Tanquerayness. The Times also
compares Titheradge and George Alexander
(the original Aubrey) very much to the former’s
advantage.
How refreshing to'hear of probate being sought
on the will of an artiste who has been years off the
stage ! Mrs. Georgina Lyster, the widow of the
impresario, who died in Melbourne, recently, left
real estate valued at £1525, and personal at £6075,
in trust for the benefit of her daughter, Mrs.
George Dickson, of Sydney. Mr. Armes Beau-
mont, the tenor, gets a bequest of £l5O.
“Said Pasha,” “the operatic conceit,” shows
some fine color-blendings in the harem scenes.
'The dresses are all brand-new —made in Sydney—
the long Maoriland tour made the renewal neces-
sary, and the new robes do our costumibres credit, :
especially as they don’t make regularly for
•Sultanas and odalisques. Miss Stanton was
warmly received. Her voice is a pretty, light
soprano, and there is much of the Vital Spark in
her acting. For the song “ Kentucky Babe ” she
is encored over and over again. Miss Bertha
Nilsson (the Ideal for whom the hero has been
seeking, as of old they sought for the Holy Grail),
looks queenly enough, but her speaking voice
would be better if lower and slower.
Mr. G. Carlisle Taylor, who marries Miss Jean
Sawers, daughter of the general manager of the
Bank of Australasia, in Melbourne this week, gave
a farewell “ At Home ” to friends in this State at
the Hotel Australia on Monday afternoon. It
was held in the winter garden, and was extremely
Somebodyish. De Groen’s band played in one
corner, and a fortune-teller was behind a screen
in another.
Miss Daisy Chamier, who used to be a Sydney
infant prodigy on the piano, has returned from
years of foreign study, and gave her first recital
last week. Her infancy has matured to nice,
plump young womanhood, and her prodigious-
ness, musical of course, has developed along
chastened and technical lines. Her favorite com-
Eoser is evidently Schumann, and she interprets
im with insight and delicacy. She is not a florid
performer, and what little mannerisms she has
are daintily artistic. “Come hither, my dainty
Ariel,” she seems to be saying as she droops her
face very low over the keyboard. Mr. Edward
Sykes, Miss Katherine Pell, and Mr. Henry Weir
assisted at the recital. If Miss Chamier will
eliminate the Greek-cum-Madonna style from her
hair-dressing she will do herself a good turn.
Eyes like hers want rings of hair above them, and
a head like hers isn’t improved by a close-fitting
suit of hair ironed down and knotted on the top
of the spine.
Miss Flo. Greaves and Miss Daly held an exhi-
bition of their pictures before sending them to
N.S.W. Society of Artists’ Exhibition, which
opens next month. Like most young artists, the
two girls paint at the top of a high building, so
close under Heaven that they must often hear the
angels padding about aloft. However, a crowd
of well-known, well-dressed persons climbed the
stairs, and looked knowledgeably at the oils,
pastels, and water-colors.
Toxteth House, Glebe Point, formerly the resi-
dence of the late Wigram Allen, is now a convent.
The Sisters of the Good Samaritan have just
secured it. Their former quarters were in the
way of the new remote central railway station
and had to go. Toxteth House has over 70 large
rooms, and stands in beautiful gardens. Curiously
enough, there was already a chapel in the grounds.
Governor-General Hopetoun is said to spend
£12,000 a year in excess of his official salary.
Now that is real altruism, for the G.-G. doesn’t
get good fun or good health out of his billet, and
his wife doesn’t seem to like us overmuch. It is
probable that the State Governor’s salary will be
fixed at £5OOO, with salaries for private sec. and
A.D.C. at £350 each. The understudy Gov.
won’t be able to give many balls with boar’s head
and champagne on the supper-tables if he doesn’t
get at least that wage. By the way, Lord Lam-
mgton has had a little fortune left him by his
grandfather’s widow, and “the ladies of Queens-
land ” have sent to Grizel, the little daughter of
Lord Carrington, a present of a necklet in gold
fetter-links. Now, why this dwelling on the birth-
stain ! And what has Miss Grizel to do with
“ darbies” or the memories thereof ?
Lady Francis Hope (May Y ohe) about whom there
has been so much talk and print in San Francisco,
was here a year or so ago (she was staying at the
Australia Hotel) with her nice-looking, fresh-faced
husband. She looks as if she has a fifth or so of
negro blood in her, but she’s handsome, with a
good figure, a white face, and black hair and eyes.
It should interest the crowds of Australians who
continue to go to England for musical study, that
Mrs. Lewis, widow of the late Sam. Lewis, the
tri-millionaire money-lender, has founded 15
musical scholarships at the Royal Academy,
tenable for three years, and open to all British-
born subjects.
A Sydney bank-clerk was recently told to send
in his resignation because an infuriated husband
had been complaining to the manager of his (the
clerk’s) alleged indiscretion with complainant’s
wife. The manager said it wasn’t the giddiness
that he took exception to, but the possibility of
bloodshed on the bank premises disturbed him.
His nerves would not bear it. Few bank-managers
have such a fine capacity for getting upset by
other people’s troubles.
Oh, that the overworked, underfed bus-horse
could find a tongue like the Biblical ass ! Or that
he could yelp like a dog with a trod-upon paw.
Then would our streets be made hideous with
horse-talk or horse-screams, and the Common-
wealth would arise and insist upon eight hours
a day and three square meals for the laboring
horse. For the sake of the ’bus-culler I shall be
glad to see the motor-car come in for passenger-
carrying. It might do some good if State-school
and Sunday-school teachers would say a
daily word to their pupils on the blessed-
ness of pity for dumb beasties. There’s a terrible
lot of unnecessary cruelty. A youth whom the
police lately tracked for some offence to his hut
in the bush had three or four live rabbits nailed by
their feet to the table “for amusement.” Lately
as I was looking at a big live turtle in a Castle-
reagh-street doorway, a young man, very well
dressed, came up and exclaimed, “Good for
soup ! ” He then jumped on the creature’s back,
and stamped as if on a pavement. Even sup-
posing that it didn’t hurt, the instinctive cruelty
jnade him seem more of a reptile than the turtle.
All true patriots will rejoice to hear that,
according to the D.T., the hen-laying competition
inaugurated in Australia is receiving “world-
wide attention.” The eyes of four continents are
on our hens. The noise of cackling here is heard
above the roar of cannon in S’Africa. Competition
will extend over six months, and while the hens
will not be bustled or hurried up in any way, the
duration of the trial will be kepc from them in
case they might loaf for the first five months, and
rush matters at the last. How the desire for
higher, newer things affects even the hen ! An
advanced hen, somewhere in Sydney suburbs, has
laid her proud owner two heliotrope eggs. Now,
as soon as that hen lays an egg with an etching of
Sydney Harbour on it, or a tracing of the Federal
Flag ,
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Wonderful and woeful were some of the sights
making memorable Caulfield Cup. Some hats sat
like inverted soup-plates on the head. Some
over-frilled frocks stood out from the wearer’s
form divine, like much decorated shades on a
standard lamp. Chiffon ends did side-strokes
like an expert swimmer. Net, tulle, and lace
ruffs stood out around certain moist necks like the
fur of a startled cat. Trains of diaphanous stuff
trailed along the ground like sea-surf over the
sands. Hand-painted aprons in more than one
instance stretched ostentatiously over dainty
white silks. Yellow silk petals covered one frock
so that the wearer emulated the white and gold
roses climbing the lawn trellis.
“S’Rupert, looking, after his globe-trotting, of
rather a Nile-green complexion, introduced a
fashion in pale yellow kid gloves—the latest from
London. His dame starred it in strawberry-pink
voile, with a pantomimic ruff of white chiffon fill-
ing in her slender neck. Innumerable jewels,
chiefly emeralds and pearls, hung in a variety of
charms over her laeey vest. Strawberry tints pre-
vailed above all else. Mrs. Andrew Chirnside, a
rare visitor to town, wore the most exquisite turn-
out in this shade. Sassiety by one accord voted
for voiles, dull grounds, sheenless fabrics. The
booky and theatrical world went for silks of every
description and tremendous reefs of coral.
“The Countess Hopetoun and Carrie Moore
starred it on the lawn—Her Ex., tall, cool, ele-
gant, in the eternal grey, which had little har-
mony with its blue-chiffon octaves ; Carrie, on
the other hand, small, soft, fluffy, winsome,
in an embroidered white silk and chiffon outfit,
with a blue toque and gamp.
“ The Y.R. party was a big one—actually three
women in it with the Countess. Two were the
daughters of Gen. Sir Robert Low, mild-looking
girls, dressed in two shades of blue muslin. The
third was Mrs. Philson (Lady Lygon’s double), in
ficelle voile. A lesson in the cut direct was fur-
nished on the Terrace, when an exalted personage
refused the friendly hand of a squatteress. Hun-
dreds saw it.
“Among the gay birds of Sassiety’s most gilded
circle, none sported more showy plumage
than Judge Williams’ daughter, Muriel. ‘This
beauty was the most conspicuous person
in the assemblage. Like a good shopman,
she knows how to set her wares off ; and
her remarkable black and white striped silk
frock was a bull’s-eye affair in more senses
than one. Topping it was a theatrical —a regular
Floradora —hat in the same bull’s-eye tone, a big,
bold George Reid style of bow occupying the back
area. There wasn’t another dazzler as gorgeous or
as lovely in the whole throng of pretties. A
glorious confection in strawberry and cream tones
of Melbourne’s leading booky’s dame was the talk
of the day. It was fresh from Paris.
“Once more the Sydney Johnnie with the drain-
pipe neck annexes our youth, wealth, and beauty.
He smokes elephantine cigars, and sends up his
rakish wreath, as he gives an ear to beauteous
matron or maid on the terrace. Much of Saturday
he spent under the pinkish glow of a strawberry
dame’s gamp.
“ The crowd on the Terrace, and the length of
the ‘sweep promoters,’ led to much sartorial
sorrow, for wanton trains, flowing out willy-nilly
ways, were torn to shreds, and their tattered
remains lay, in sad reproof of the fashion, on the
tiles. However, one became resigned to have
one’s tail cut off, when the Countess stepped into
sight with a yard or two of salvage showing at her
skirt’s beam-end.
“Of the inter-State visitors at Caulfield Cup,
President Baker’s daughter was among the most
noteworthy. This Adelaide girl is inclined to be
buxoui, pretty, and lively. She wore a grey frock
and a heterogeneous hat, with blue and violet
mainsails.
“Alice Hollander, the Maoriland contralto,
seen at her first Melbourne concert (Oct. 17tli),
looked a comfortable, comely, white - frocked
young woman with dark hair, serious brown eyes,
'and solid, not-too-winsome platform manner. Her
voice is mellow and rich, especially in the middle
register, but the singer seems to suffer from a
shortage of sympathy, or else lacks the faculty of
expressing it. In ‘O Divine Redeemer,’ the
vocalist’s thoughts were set on the favorable pro-
duction of her pet low notes, so that when one of
those deep-downers had to be unearthed, the sen-
timent, written by Gounod into his song-prayer,
failed to get expression.
“Pale, slight pianiste Una Bourne, in sparse
white frock, was brilliant in a Kullak octave
study, and brainy in a Chopin group, but, to my
mind, she needs to be more hearty and less heady.
Reginald Gooud tossed off his songs in a truculent
spirit, not becoming to one of his slim build;
while short, squat, violinist Kahn, his head ‘ brim-
ming over with curls,’ looked about as artistic as
a Dutch cheese. The mention of truculence re-
minds me that Surgeon O’Hara heard the Hol-
lander concert from the balcony. What madness
impels a man to part with his mo. ? Male owners
of decorative mouths are not too common, and the
well-featured few are generally inspired by their
women-kind to clean-shave from the start. Thin
men who mow their countenances late in life are
prone to resemble seedy actors, while flesh-potters
are mistaken for bruisers. Mrs. O’Hara also
sampled the Hollander, as did warbler Olive
Kingston and many other songsters.
“ T’other night, when the Hopetouns saw
‘Tom, Dick, and Harry,’ they seemed to enjoy
themselves all the better for having put some of
the suite into the opposite box, to divert part of
the public glare from themselves. Hopey’s pet
farce-plum seemed to be Ruby Ray’s advice to her
supposed lover re his fancied disguise. She says,
tragically, with a descriptive hand-sweep : # * H>
won’t work; take it all off! ’ Her horrified
hearer (a perfect stranger) runs his eye over his
red beard, his blue serge, and his barred socks,
and moans, blushfully; ‘ Take it off ! Take it off !
She must be mad ! ’
“Lady Hopetoun has tried hard to gush and
frisk ever since Himself fell into poor health. It’s
pathetic to watch her struggles to thaw socially
and keep the big water-wheel of social duty going.
She gets on better when it’s only a matter of
humoring her convalescent and keeping him
cheerful. The naturally-sedate Countess was the
smiling, hopeful one of the Hopetoun pair when
Royal-visit worries were palpably setting hubby’s
teeth on edge, and even now, whenever they’re
together in public, she’s a model of wifely duty, so
heartily does she laugh at the good man’s jokes.
“Victorian professional musicians are out after
Ormond Prof. Peterson’s scalp. Marshall-Hall’s
successor is very canny and very Scotch, and
assiduously rakes in the bawbees outside his pro-
fessional radius. The prof, has sat in judgment
at Ballarat and Bendigo musical tugs-of-war for a
•consideration, and competed with the ruck in
other ways, and the un-official experts tear their
hair, and accuse him of poaching outside his pre-
serves, and making much more tough the lot
austere that waits on men of crotchets here. The
case against the Ormond monopolist seems fairly
convincing. Mr. Petersen receives close up to £BOO
a year as a hired man at a public institution, and
in doing musical odd jobs outside he appears to
be taking unfair advantage of the land. Where,
by-the-way, is the Melbourne Musicians’Union
that was established with such beating of trum-
pets and blare of drums a year or so ago ?
“Arthur Snowden has publicly contradicted
the report of his approaching marriage to the
widow of baritone Barker—the most popular
singer of his day. There is a bond of sympathy
between widow and widower—nothing more.
“ The day General Macdonald left Melbourne,
he was entertained at Parliament House. An old
lady was presented to him as a friend of
his infancy. At first, the Highlander was
incredulous, but when he heard the lady’s maiden
name, See., and found she had nursed him as a
baby, eye-witnesses testify that he literally cried.
Then, instead of going back to Government
House for his luggage, he asked Premier Peacock
to send for it, as he meant to spend every minute
left in the company of his dear old friend.
“When Mrs. Cornwall and York was here-
abouts she sent for an old Scotch body (a former
servant) from an inland town and yarned by
the hour. Then she summoned the meenister’s
wife from the same hamlet, and, in the course of a
long interview, made things pleasant for the old
darling.
“ Local Baptists mourn the departure of their
most popular preacher, a histrionic bachelor, who
habitually drew big Sunday-night crowds, thanks
to artistic ‘immersions,’ conducted in a ferny
fountain, ’mid rippling sweet musio and the flap-
ping of damp, white gowns. Lately his reverence
engaged himself to a young thing who (so much
the worse for herself and wooer), was not related
to any of the deacons. To them her suitor
officially confided his love-story.
“The elders, having other views for their
bright gospeller, refused their blessing, and
when the headstrong lover sent in his resignation,
accepted it with a snap. Then the congregation
took a hand, and flouted the tyrant deacons ; but
the parson—wise man !—means to ‘ take to the
wallaby-track,’ all the same. It’s always a dark
day in ‘ Amen Corner ’ when a bachelor shepherd
‘throws the handkerchief.’ Last time it hap-
pened hereabouts, patriarchs prayerfully ‘disci-
plined ’ the meenister, while ewe-lambs of the
flock flooded him with tear-blotted anonymous
letters. Poor Mr. What’s-his-name ganged his
ain gait, and, after a worried year or two, took
ill and ‘fled indignant to the Shades,’ leaving a
plucky girl-widow, who openly rejected the con-
dolences of her some-time opponents.
“A certain personage, who is just now under a
severe cloud, always seemed to be so brutally
frank that even a whisper against him comes as a
surprise. He was a church-reader. First time he
arrived to ‘ take the lessons ’ at a church his head
would be well thatched. Next Sunday he would
be bald, and after service he made a point of con-
sulting wardens as to whether they preferred him
with or without his wig. This child-like and
bland gospeller married a rich wife, and in
recognition of services rendered to the church by
the zealous bridegroom and by the bride’s moneyed
clan, a choral marriage service in the cathedral
was tendered to the happy pair.
“To a persevering penman on the hunt for
gossip, who worked his way through more
than one Cerberus-guarded door, till he arrived at
Minister Kingston’s, the cheery greeting came in
the well-known tones, ‘ Not to-day, Baker ! ’
“ The fact that Bendigo and Ballarat have both
again elected teetotal Mayors has highly pleased
the hotelkeepers whose houses are nearest to the
respective town-halls, because no whisky in the
mayoral cupboard means a continual stream of
thirsty souls to the liquor-shop. One Yic. cold-
water Mayor, who had the Gov.-General at his
‘ ball ’ not long ago, couldn’t make out how the
male guests became at times so scarce that the
ladies languished along the walls in droopful
rows. At last, however, somebody led his Wor-
ship to a window, and showed him the missing
ones popping in and out of the hotel across the
way. Said that Hopetoun enjoyed the joke im-
mensely. Yours affectionately, Akenehi.


(JitiZGns’tifeAssurance Company [united.
Premier Industrial-Ordinary Office of Greater Britain.
POLICIES IU FORCE EXCEED 216,000.
IMMEDIATE SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS.
Absolute Security.
Moore and Castlereagh Streets,
Sydney.
Annual Bonuses
Resident Secretaby,
W. J. BLOOMFIELD, 8.A., LL.B.
Warner’s Safe Cure.
FEDERAL TARIFF PRICES.
The proprietors of Warner’s Safe Cure beg to
announce that, as they have a branch laboratory
in Australia, Warner’s Safe Remedies will not be
subject to the duty of 25 per cent,, which will
have to be paid on all proprietary medicines
imported into Australia.
The wholesale prices of Warner’s Safe Remedies
have been slightly advanced in New South Wales
so as to make prices uniform throughout Australia,
but this advance is so small that it will not be
necessary for the public to pay more than two
pence per bottle over and above the prices paid
before the Federal tariff came into force
Warner’s Safe Cure is the only emely known
to science which will unfailingly cine ail diseases
of the kidneys and liver. The following diseases
are cured by Warner’s Safe Cure, because they all
all arise from the retention in the system of
urinary and biliary poisons which it is the province
of the kidneys and liver to expel: Rheumatism,
indigestion, gout, neuralgia, biliousness, lumbago,
sick-headache, backache, sciatica, gravel, jaundice,
bladder troubles, blood disorders, anaemia, Bright’s
disease.*
FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN
Austral
W
L
A
CHtEST
ES
IN
N
Supplied to H.R.H. the Duke of York.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Tasmania has alive and working two ex-
Premiers over 80 years of age—Adye Douglas and
Reibey.
Premier Lewis (Tas.), will be 43 on
Monday next, and Judge Boucaut (S.A.), will be
60 on Tuesday.
Mr. Want, K.C., appears for Carrie Moore
in her breach-of-promise case, with Mr. Wise,
K.C. on the other side.
The death of Dick Speight, in Westralia,
recalls that in his halcyon Melbourne days he had
a pair of brisk bull-terriers named Brandy and
Soda. Do they still live ?
Tomlinson, the convicted White Cliffs
coach-robber, was a devoted reader of Deadwood
Dick literature. “ And the god that ye took from
a printed book be with ye, Tomlinson ! ”
Mr. Justice Cohen was “ noticed” by the
newspaper reporters at the Sydney amateur pugs’
set-to last week? Does His Honor hope to tread
the Madden way to the Chief Justiceship ?
S.A. has eight King’s counsel, and four of
them are immersed in Federal politics—Downer,
Symon, Kingston, and Baker. Gordon now has
practically a monopoly of the pick of the civil
cases, despite his heavy work as Attorney -General.
Ex-Mayor Tucker desires to run for
Adelaide mayoralty again in the Snow tramway-
scheme interest, if Aid. Wells (who favors muni-
cipalisation) will guarantee to keep the contest to
a duel between the pair of them. Election takes
place December 1.
Quite a number of new Federal civil
servants are arranging to marry while the glow of
their incomes still lasts. The salaries are not, as
a matter of fact, gorgeous, but to the man who
has been a junior at the N.S.W. Bar any settled
screw justifies wedded bliss.
Someone riled Premier See in N.S.W.
Assembly, t’other evening, and then a voice was
heard: “Ha! he’s bellicose to-night.” Which
remark was resented by the Premier (who is not a
very distinguished philologist) as an affront. The
point is a tender one with him. He takes a
Turkish-bath daily to keep it down.
BREECHES.
“ Good-bye, Lizzie! Take back these braces you
worked for me. I’m going to enlist in the
Melbourne Highlemders."
The funniest thing about General Hector
Macdonald’s Caledonian smoke-night in Mel-
bourne was the face of teetotal Jimmy Munro (of
Federal Bank fame), while someone was reciting
verses about a Scotch parson, who tried to make
his township sober by substituting dissolving-
views and lecturettes on the Holy Land for the
usual Bacchanalian New Year’s Eve. The Scotch-
men turned up, and when coffee was served, each
Scot calmly produced a flask and filled his cup
wi’ whusky. Old Jimmy’s countenance was a
study during the recitation.
G. H. Cox, M.L.C., was 78 on Sunday-
last He is one of seven sons of the late George
Cox, of Mulgoa, and was a member of the first
N.S.W. Parliament under Responsible Govern-
ment, in 1856 —Daniel Cooper being the only
other’member now living. Mr. Cox is the ‘ ‘Father ”
of N.S.W. Leg. Qouncil, having been appointed
by Charles Cowper in 1863.
One of the comedy treats of the first
Federal Session was G. H. Reid’s masterly acting
of a supposititious scene between Barton and
Chamberlain. The “No” Reid took the part of
Chamberlain, the “Yes” Reid that of Barton.
“No ” Reid sternly set forth what must be done.
“Yes” Reid gently murmured, “Yes, Mr.
Chamberlain.” If G. H. Reid had only less bulk,
what a delightful accession he would be to
Brough’s company !
“ X. 0.” writes :
That “ leading R.C. politician ” who denounces Cardinal
Moran for mischief-making is a bad judge. Every little
fight serves to rally the faithful, and makes them cling to
the building, or school or church, or other fund. Writer
thinks the Cardinal an able man, and admires the way he
keeps his flock together by giving them something to
fight the other side over. Let alone, they would pro-
bably grow luke-warm, or fight among themselves.
Foreign war, but peace at home, appears to be the
Moran motto.
The Bulletins asked to print an assurance
by Miss Annie Golding that the conversion of Long
Bill Lyne, John See, and the N.S.W. Protectionist
party generally, to womanhood suffrage, was
mainly due, not to Miss Rose Scott, but to Miss
Bella Golding, Miss Annie Golding, “and their
followers of the Newtown branch.” An assurance
like this gives gratifying proof of woman’s fitness
for the game of politics, the main rule of which is
to take care that no one else gets credit for any-
thing—from the Creation downwards.
Whilst old hands agree that the present
S.A. Assembly is the most verbose collection of
second-raters ever known in S.A. history, Wood,
M.P., himself a drivelsome local preacher, wants
Parliament to pass an Act enabling parsons to
occupy seats in the Legislature. Holder was a
local preacher, and could talk by the yard;
Foster, Works Commissioner, is an ex-parson
with a long tongue; and Caldwell, who chatters
until his fellow-members fall asleep, occasionally
thumps a pulpit.
“Pukaki” : Seddon seems to be losing his
head faster and faster. His last exploit is to pub-
lish a book, at public expense, re his tour in the
Islands. The book, it is understood, was first
headed “A Premier in search of Health, ” but that
title was dropped, at the cost, it is said, of sup-
pressing a first edition that was ready for issue.
The work consists largely of pictures of Dick in
sundry positions and sundry company. The rest
is chiefly extracts from goody-goody speeches made
by Seddon to various islanders.
“G.R.H.” : Down South there is a Pooh-
Bah, over 80 years old, who manages to satisfac-
torily fill the following offices : —Chairman Land
Board and Licensing Bench, Member Pastures
and Stock Board, Returning Officer, Commis-
sioner for Affidavits for N.S.W. and Vic.,
Justice of Peace for N.S.W. and Vic.,
Visiting Justice to local gaol, Guar-
dian for Marriages of Minors,
Treasurer Race Club and Benevo-
lent Society, President Agricultural
Society, Trustee Recreation-
ground, Executor of numerous
wills and general adviser-in-
chief to everybody. The old
gentleman is both wealthy
and generous, so it
cannot be the hope
of financial re-
ward which
makes him carry
such a load.
The Bulle-
tin begins to
understand the
mysteries of Eng-
lish Bits litera-
ture. A sausage
man (“ sausage and
mashed potato for two-
pence half-penny”) of the
Strand was claiming com-
pensation for the resump-
tion of his premises. He ex-
plained the magnitude of his
business, and went on to men-
tion that the rooms over his
shop were let at a considerable
profit. “Would he not be a
strange man who would live over
a sausage shop ?” Mr. E. Boyle,
K.C., wanted to know. “He
would have to have a very strong
stomach.” The sausage man
(“sausage and mashed, 2d.”)
demurred. “ Why,” he de-
clared, “Mr. Roberts, of Illus-
trated Bits, whose offices were
over my shop in Fleet-street,
used to ask me to leave the
door open to let the smell come
upstairs.” Picture this Temple of
Letters, and the savory fumes en-
circling the presiding deity, and the
Bits publications become more comprehen-
sible.
Among the “ distinguished ” visitors at
the tariff-debate was a Mr. W. A. M‘Arthur,
member for Mid-Cornwall in the Imperial Parlia-
ment, and one of the Liberal whips. Many
thought it was the M‘Million’s principal, come
out specially *to watch the wreck of his importing
business and deal with the demand of the firm’s
Sydney tailoressesfor the Victorian standard wage.
The spectacle of a thousand weary employees of the
late “ natural industries growing robustly in the
fresh air of Freetrade ” on strike to have their
wages levelled-up to those of the ricketty pro-
tected Victorian ditto would be a lovely com-
mentary on Dry-dog blatherskite.
The Montpelier Estate, Neutral Bay, Syd-
ney, now being subdivided, is historic through its
association with Henry Parkes. The old man
leased it as a large block from the Cooper family
for 99 years. He then sub-let to various people,
who built houses. Parkes had mortgaged his
lease to an insurance co., and, having failed to
pay his interest, the co. shut down on leaseholder
and sub-lessees. One of the latter, having lost
his house, used to follow Parkes to all his meet-
ings and make things very warm, “swindler”
being about the mildest term used.
Says a certain Australian legislator: “Some
people take me for an Oirishman, but it’s aisy to
till be me axcint that Oi’m not.” But when
amongst his constituents (he represents an
“Oirish ” electorate), he plays a different tune :
“Shure it’s proud Oi am of the Oirish blud
that runs in me veins.” Then it’s “Wliur-
roo !” and “Bedad !
it’s the great mimber
he is entoirely !”
NOT LIKELY.
DOOLEY : “ Did you read about the dreadful
accident in the papers ter-day?”
MALONE : “ Oi didn't.”
DOOLEY : “There wuz a man run over by a
thrane cut clane in halves; wan half of his
body rolled down wan side of the imbank-
ment, the other half down the other side.
They say it wuz a terrible soight."
MALONE : “ An' wuz he killed?”
DOOLEY : “Oi don’t know; the papers didn't say."
The rage for self-advertisement afflicts
municipal bodies as much as individuals. When
General Hector Macdonald struck this effusive
continent the first telegram he received read :
Stawell Borough Council welcomes you to Australia.
The mighty Hector was gratified, but it took him
half-an-hour to find the place on the map after he
had exhausted the W.A. gazetteer.
Rev. Dr. White, who has been Presbyterian
minister at Singleton (N.S.W.), for 54 years, is
still mentally and physically a marvel. During
his long incumbency he has never missed a church,
funeral, or christening engagement, though in the
early days he had to travel scores of miles on
horseback or on foot, and at the time, too, when
bushrangers held the Upper Hunter district in
terror. When the old gentleman’s jubilee was
celebrated people smiled at his assurance that he
was looking forward to his next jubilee, but now
they’re beginning to think he’ll make his words
good.
“S.S.” : The Smiths are no longer in it in
Melbourne—the Macdonalds have swarmed all
over them. In a recent issue of the Age the name
Macdonald cropped up Id times, quite apart from
two cols, of oratorical gush about one Hector
Macdonald, a professional slayer from abroad.
Same day I was introduced to three Macdonalds,
listened to a speech by a Federal member, one-half
of whose name is Macdonald, and read portion of
an Australian book by Edgar Macdonald ; in the
evening I went to see “Tom, Dick and Harry,”
and found two Macdonalds figuring in the curtain-
raiser.
At present, an S.A. Act provides that a
Supreme Court Judge may retire on a pension of
£l3OO a year, if he has served 20 years and is
physically incapable of performing his duties.
Lawyer von Doussa has introduced a Bill to allow
any of the present judges to claim the pension on
either ground. Way and Boucaut have each
served 20 years, but are physically fit, while
Bundey, who is a confirmed invalid, has three
years to go ere he completes the requisite term of
service. No one seems quite to know whether
the Bill is meant to help Boucaut or Bundey to
pensioned ease.
“J.D.” writes concerning “Hawk’s”
comment (B. 12/10/’01) on his recent paragraph re
the late “Larry ” Petrie :
“ Hawk ” says I erred about Larry Petrie. How ? I
wro te—“ He lost his left arm (previously injured) at a
Riverina woolshed.” “ Hawk ” apparently didn’t note
the parenthesis. At all events, Larry’s left arm was am-
putated at the shoulder in Wagga hospital 11 years ago,
on account of an injury sustained at Leitch’s Berry Jerry
station. As to the alleged “ blackmail for dummying,” if
“Hawk’s” uncle was in the habit of employing dummies,
the allegation is, perhaps, correct. Nothing extraordinary
that confessed anarchists should endeavor to levy toll on
wwconfessed land-thieves.
Cabled that Boer Commandant Sclieepers
(who for some time has been said to be suffering
from that cruel trouble, appendicitis) has been
captured by one Vogan, of these parts. This will,
no doubt, be A. J. Yogan, a restless mortal better
known in the four corners of Australia than in
Melbourne or Sydney. He toured Papua, where
the natives nearly killed him. He lived
in N.Q., and wrote the “ Black Police,”
a novel, to show up the horrors of
the treatment of the Queensland aborigines.
He spent some time on W.A. gold-fields, where
he acquired much fever and but little gold. He
was one of the first to volunteer for service in the
Transvaal, and once got so far as being made a
sergeant in the Imperial Bushmen’s Contingent,
but finally departed as a free-lance.
Kingston is nothing if not mysterious.
From the inception of the Commonwealth until
the week before last he had not visited Adelaide,
and then he disembarked at a Hills station, dis-
appeared for two days, and was only seen again
when the time came to return. As the tariff dis-
cussion was then in full blast, the incident pro-
vided a fine opportunity for political gossips.
Maoriland Radical, George Fisher,
is aggressive, physically as well as oratori-
eally. He has a family of gigantic sons,
and in the old days, after a tirade against
the squatter Tories, would get into the
backyard and thump at his eldest son, Bill,
with the gloves. The thud of Fisher’s right-
handers could be heard 100yds. off. Occa-
sionally young Bill would get one home on
the old man, and the rally that followed
gave sounds worthy of the Golden Gate.
In those days, “Digger Dick” and “Our
George ” were united by common sympathy
—squatter contempt. Now they have drifted
apart. Fisher is still the friend of the wharf-
laborer, but Seddon is now the churn of
Chamberlain.
The most irascible member of N.S.W.
Leg. Council is non-practising barrister H. C.
Dangar, who shears many sheep and no clients.
Dangar, short, broad-shouldered, stiff-necked,
firm-lipped, keen-eyed, florid, strong-jawed, grey-
haired, sits back on the Opposition bench and
scowls at the Labor nominees as though they were
so many rascally selectors on the Dangar runs.
Toryism is with him a superstition. In private
and commercial life, squatter Dangar is most
genial and generous, arid rare good company
Temperance-Lecturer Woolley (who .*-as
once State Attorney at Minneapolis) told a gather-
ing of Christian Endeavorers at Adelaide Town
Hall, this month, that he hoped “the hand that
was held up at a Christian Endeavor meeting
would never be stretched out to shake that of a
publican.” Fortunately, Mayor Ware was not in
the chair, for he both brews and sells beer.
Marshall-Hall, when at Melb. University,
used to give much of his spare time to answering
communications from budding composers, asking
for musical advice. On one occasion, he received
a question, by letter, from a country church
organist, inquiring in which of two ways it would
be better to place a certain musical passage. His
answer was on the back of a post-card, terse and
to the point. It simply stated —
It does not matter a damn. —Marshall-Ham.
This so shocked the coming Mozart that lie for-
warded the post-card to the University Senate,
with a letter of complaint. That august body sat
in solemn conclave on the offending document,
and decided to write to the Prof, asking for a
report on the matter, which was accordingly done.
The answer was prompt and as follows :
The Chancellor and Senate of the University of Melbourne.
Sirs —I have the honor to acknowledge your communi-
cation of , asking for report on post-card, forwarded
to you, and. in reply, beg to state that it really didn’t
matter a damn. —I have the honor to be, sirs, your
obedient servant, G. W. Marshall-Hall.
From an English paper’s account of the
obsequies of the Empress Frederick : —
After the recitation of the “ De Profundis ” in German,
there was a pause. “The Princes all stood silent, tli3
veterans stood breathless in their sombre rows. At ti.e
coffin’s foot the Kaiser stood silent too. Among the many
lights and shadows, his rigid body loomed greater than
it had ever seemed before. He had lowered his swoid
across his breast till the point rested in his left hand.
His chin was lifted up and his eyes were closed. A light
fell upon a young but most proud and royal face. He
might have been some knight of old taking his oath of
chivalry. Every eye in the little church was fixed upon
his face. All was so still ; the living were as silent as the
dead. Thus he stood for some minutes. Then his head
bent slowly forward till his chin fell upon his breast, and
his shoulders hunched as though from a heavy blow. He
forgot his kingdom in his grief. Down upon one knee he
dropped, without any noise, and, seeming to kiss the shell
that hid his dead mother, buried his face among the
silken draperies, resting his head upon his hand. There
was a little rustle among the Princes, and each man
looked at the next. Then the Crown Prince, who stood a
little apart from the rest, seeing how his father knelt,
kneeled down too, and all the Princes behind him like-
wise fell upon their knees. For full three minutes, that
seemed like three full years, the Kaiser knelt, pressing
his face closer and yet more close into the coffin’s side.
He rose up, no longer a son heavy with grief, but an
Emperor, and without a single word, and without a back-
ward glance, walked proudly down the nave and out of
the church.”
But, for all that, it is notorious that the Emperor
was not over-fond of his mother, and he abhorred
the morganatic marriage which she made after the
death of his gallant and hand’some father, who
personally had the goodwill of all the world—eve>»
of the French nation.


m
m.
BULLETIN SUBSCRIBERS^
Who are unable to read small printed matter, or to see fine
stitching or writing, whose distant vision is dull and who suffer
from persistent headaches or pains after close application—you
may rest assured that you are suffering from Ageing or
Impaired Vision, and Need Glasses. You should visit
us, and have your sight scientifically tested, and be supplied
with Glasses adapted to your individual case.
TO COUNTRY READERS who cannot visit us personally, we send, Post Free to any address, with full instruo-
tionsand Price List, our marvellously-accurate and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT. By its use
you can Test your own sight and determine for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you may need.
Write for it to —
H- A. BARRACLOUGH, Consulting Optician,
371 George St., Sydney,
next door to the A.J.S. Bank,
King and George Streets.
And at 232 COt-UNS ST., MELBOURNE, opposite Age Office.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
DAVID STORER & SONS 7 Three Colors-BLACK, BED and BLUE
Registered
Trade
Mark.
no oouvi
Is the Only Absolutely
©ACE Wool-
-oHrt Marking
The Perfect Sheep-Marker.
SHEEP BRANDING OIL
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. —In the case of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
AN AEOLIAN HARP.
CHAP WITH LONG HAIR : “ Good day, sir.”
COOKY : “ O’day.”
C.W.L.H.: “ I’m a piano-tuner, and would like
to know if you have a piano that needs
tuning.”
COCKY : “ Well, I ain’t got a pianny, hut there’s
some wire-fencin’ at the back there that could
do with a tightenin’.”
“Trotter” : Recently, in Mackay (Q.)
district, I was at a farm worked by the father,
three daughters (18, 10, and 14), and a son (12).
The girls (barefooted) cut, trashed, and loaded
200 tons of cane. The same trio have cut,
trashed, and loaded 21 tons of cane in six days.
On another farm, I saw a boy, a girl, and a
Kanaka cutting, trashing and loading while the
old man drove the dray and stacked the cane.
These three loaded a dray in 45mins. Quite
common in the district to see women and girls and
children working in the cane-field.
“Alpha”: Near Pambula (N.S.W.), re
cently, a cow dropped a calf, but no milk was
forthcoming until six weeks la ter, when calf No.
2 appeared on the scene. Can be vouched for by
local residents.
Once
“D.H.R.” : Re rain-producing,
knew an old blackfellow who, every time
it rained came to the station and de-
manded “two fella stick tobacco,” on
the pretext that he had produced the
moisture.
» » * *
Cootamundra (N.S.W.) has pro-
duced a pony which, at 12 months old,
stands only 2tin. high, and weighs 1071 b.
The Kanaka has, at least, one weakness
in common with his white brother—he loves a
widow. A week after the death of “Johnny,”
at North Rockhampton, there were nine candi-
dates for the hand of the much-married and
often-widowed Mrs. Johnny, with her 10 “ pledges
of affection.” The suitors ranged in age from 19
to 40—the lady herself being a grandmother of six
months’ standing. The “boy” who got her is
about 25, and a sailor, and the couple were married
by a C. of 15. clergyman, the eight rejected
swains providing the marriage-feast.
* * * *
Remarked with pride by prominent Q.
alien-coddlers that the physique of the S.S.
Island “boys” improves greatly after a few
years’ residence in Q. In proof of this they com-
pare the build of the older and more experienced
Q. boys with that of the new arrivals. There is
an undeniable superiority on the part of the
former, but the reason is plain to anyone who
understands the conditions of the traffic. Half of
the new arrivals are ill-grown, weedy youths of
whom 30 to 40 per cent, die off during the first
few years of plantation toil. The survivors are
necessarily men of superior stamina, but there is
no denying the fact that the average apparent
gain in physique is largely accounted for by the
planting of most of the Polynesian “weeds” in
the quiet plantation cemetery.
♦ • • *
The report of N.S. W. Western Lands
Commission states that in the last ten years the
number of sheep in the districts inspected has
fallen from 15,400,000 to 5,704,000—a decrease of
nearly two-thirds.
* * * *
“ Shaker ” : Despite the enormous loss of
stock, the late drought in Queensland has not
proved scch an overwhelming disaster to the
pastoral industry as has been represented—chiefly
for political purposes. Prices have so risen that
the total capital value of the stock now depastured
in the State is probably greater than it was before
the drought set in, and the big cattle-properties
around the Gulf, which were not seriously affected,
are simply coining money. Also, there is every
prospect of the pastoralists now obtaining that ex-
tension of their leases, which they have been
demanding, on various pretexts, for years.
• * * »
“ Bilby ” : A farmer in Avoca district
(Vic.), was carting a load of wheat when a bag
from the top fell off. He was in a place where no
assistance could be got, so, putting all his strength
into the job, he got the bag back into position,
though it weighed 2401bs. Would like to know if
this feat has ever been equalled—barring by pro-
fessional “strong men.” The same man, during
harvest time, works from 4 a.m. to 8.30 p.m., and,
when Saturday night arrives, goes to bed and
sleeps right on through till Monday, only waking
up to eat. And this in the hottest season of the
year, in a one-storey house with an iron roof !
Here’s a solid fact: A white
fantail of mine, having got some distance
from the house one day, was attacked by a
hawk, and, just managing to escape the
first swoop, started for home at the
“double.” There was a-strong,jvvind blow-
ing towards them from the house, and the
hawk was faster than the pigeon while
travelling against it, but going with it
latter’s greater spread of wing helped him
wonderfully. The pigeon evidently per-
ceived his own advantage, for, when over-
hauled on the home run, he would turn
sharply and make a short run with the wind,
then double again towards home. By
repeating this dodge, the quarry gained so
much that I believe it would have escaped
—even if I hadn’t chipped in with a gun.
* * * *
“Billycan” : To Yril(B. 8/6/’01), re
marching power of men. My mate and I
“humped the drum ” from Esperance Bay
to Kalgoorlie—over 250 miles in 10 days.
In January, too (’95), and over the most
God-forsaken track in W.A. We had no
waggon, but had to hump our tucker and
water ourselves —when we were lucky enough
to have any.
Dear Bulletin. —Let me in turn contra-
dict “Dan Creed’s” contradiction of “Gnome’s”
statement re periodical “explosion” in White
Rock mine. The “ boom ” actually occurs as
described every day when the sun is shining; and
here is the explanation: A square galvanized
(plain, not corrugated) iron-tank, used when the
mine was working for baling purposes, stands on
the top brace, and the sun playing on it about 1
o’clock p.m., causes an expansion, which results
in the mysterious “ boom.” Probably the sun is
also responsible for the expansion of the “lode,”
since the mine shut down in Sept., ’9B. —
Exponent.
* * * *
At Morchard, near Orroroo (S.A.), half-a-
dozen men were in a little parlor playing euchre,
when a shot smashed the window and caused a
stampede. Investigations next day showed that
this was the work of a somnambulist who after-
wards woke up on top of Coomooroo Hill six miles
distant. He had previously walked a couple of
miles into Morchard, and had in his sleep negoti-
ated all kinds of fences.
A PUBLIC CHARACTER.
MR. WESTLEY : “ O, my photo’s always coming
out in the paper.”
MR. CONN: “Fes, I saw it in to-day’s Howl.
What was it again — liver-pills or Syrup?”
In a recent horse-stealing case at Lawler’s
(W.A.) the prosecutor swore to a bell-strap found
amongst accused’s belongings as being one which
he had placed round the horse’s neck the previous
day. Questioned by the Bench, he said that he
had taken it from olf the neck of a dead camel a
few days previously, and that he could identify it
by the smell. The Bench took a sniff, and testified,
by the twist of its features, that the evidence was
strong.
m • * •
A caution to squatters who lay phosphor-
ised pollard on travelling-stock-routes and public
roads is the recent decision in a case at Deniliquiu,
by which a pastoral co. was mulct in full damages
for loss of sheep incurred by eating poisoned pol-
lard, laid by said co. on a t.s.r. The conten-
tion that the reserve was rented by the co. availed
nothing ; and, in any case, why are these reserves
not restricted to their ostensible purpose, instead
of being 1 eased at a nominal rent to pastor alists ?
* * * *
“Louis M.” : Re immersion of dog in
water as cure for snake-bite (“W.J.8.,” 8.,
6/15/’01). Don’t know about snake-bite, but have
seen a strychnine-poisoned dog thus saved : —■
Secure the animal’s muzzle with strap and hand,
to prevent swallowing of water, and keep him
under till he ceases to struggle. Then promptly
lay him out, with head well down-lull, and
“pump.” I should prefer to use an emetic
(tobacco or salt), but I regard the “immersion
cure” as a reasonable one if adopted in time.
The lockup-keeper of
Fitzroy (Melb.) watch-house
was absent on leave when a
drunk was run-in one night,
accompanied by a dog. There
was trouble in separating the
pair, so they were both shoved
into the cell. The arresting
constable then, according to
rule, went for a superior
officer to inspect his charge.
He returned with a senior-
constable, and they entered
the cell in the dark. Where-
upon the dog attempted to
sneak out, and brushed against
the leg of the senior, who,
thinking it was the prisoner
trying to escape, jammed the
door shut, forgetting that the
key was on the outside. The
traps struck matches and
yelled for help, while the dog
yapped, and a female derelict
in the next cell warbled “Wait
till the clouds roll by.” Then they
tried to lift the comatose drunk from
his bunk to make sitting room, but the dog
resented this interference and sampled the
senior’s leg. Several times they heard the
footsteps of a visiting bobby in the corridor,
and hailed vigorously—only to be told, “Make
less noise, ye dhrunken divils, or I’ll turn
the hose on yez ! ” At last, after eight solid
hours, a bobby, arriving with another arrest, per-
ceived the key in the door and let them out.
• * * *
“ Les. O.” : Re snake-bitten dog and
water-cure (B. 15/6/’01). Isaac Ferris, of Smith-
field, saw a black snake bite his terrier on the
shoulder, and the dog at once lay down in Pros-
pect Creek, staying there all the afternoon with
only his head above water. After three days’
sickness he recovered.
* * „* *
Queensland Parliament is being moved to
destroy the prickly-pear on Crown lands. In
America they are coping with the pest _by
perfecting methods of extracting the spines
from the pear and using it for-fodder. If pear
can be as easily prepared for fodder as scrub it
would be a fine stand-by for drought seasons.
* • » *
“ Wallaroo ”: Once knew a bronzed,
heavy-booted female who ran her farm solus, while
hubby—one of the “ born-tired ” genus—did the
pot-jostling. She used to hand-reap her wheat,
thrash with a flail, and clean by washing in creek.
In between crops, she took the old man tin-minmg,
but never let him near the sluice-box. Said “ the
old cove lost half the tin.”
“ Ajab ” : The Westralian Governments
talk of erecting a rabbit-proof fence across a great
part of Westralia is idle. Bunny will reach the
N.W. squatters ere the fence can be started. tie
was recently caugbt 80 miles N.E. of Kurnalpi.
* » * •
Someone has been “ pulling the leg of
the author of “Theßedemption of David Corson,
which deals thus with Australia’s bunny :
In Australia, when drought drives the rabbits south-
wards, tile ranchmen, terrified at their approach, bar e
only to erect a woven-vvire fence on the north side of their
farms to be perfectly safe, for the poor things lie down
against it, and die in droves, too stupid to go round,
climb over, or dig under.
Poor tired bunny ! Unfortunately this broken-
down type of rodent is not frequent.
* * * •
“ N.D.VV.”: The breeding-rate of the
rabbit in Maranoa district (S.Q.) was under six
per litter, but since the change in the season and
the abundant growth of herbage, the rate n;is
much increased. One of the destruction-staff
mentions having found a burrow with 11 young
in it ; then trapping the doe in the burrow and
taking from her eight young to which she was on
the point of giving birth. Also, an inspector
states that he took 42 young from four does, a,nd
it is authentically reported from a Border-station
that 16 belly-young were taken from one doe. As
far as I know this is a record.
, * * *
John Egan, miner, late of Beech worthy
Vic., was a quaint suicide. He had been “bulling ”
some old workings at Silver Creek, and awoke the
other morning to the fact that he was tired of life.
Going below he took with him a blanket and a
tin of charcoal, established himself at the face in a
dry drive, pegged his blanket across the drive,
making the space in which he remained as air-tight
as possible, then lit the charcoal. After which he
lit his pipe, settled him down to a steady view of
his prospects in the near future, and so died. He
was found sitting against the side of the drive,
with his old familiar pipe still between his teeth,
and £lB in his pockets. Egan is described as “ a
great reader,” and was known locally as “The
Philospher.” The Philosopher’s stone is now
visible in Beech worth graveyard.
* * m *
“ J.H.C.” to “Scotty W.” (B. 5/10/’01) :
It would cost me about £2O to get there and hack,
so that I would belaying you £3O to £lO. Can’t
you get a few land-owners who are as sceptical as
yourself to make it worth ray while to visit
Narandera and initiate them into my method of
exterminating rabbits ? Your other conditions I
would accept. And as this method will not cost
more than Id. per acre for labor, tucker and
material, it would be much to the interest of your
backer to learn it for a “ tenner.” But that
would not be fair to me ; I would be grasping the
shadow and losing the substance.
♦ * * •
During a trespass-case out Walgot.t way, a
station-overseer went into the box and swore that
lie could identify, by its face, at a glance, any one
of his mob of about 10,000 sheep.
TIT-FOR-TAT.
HIM: “Here’s another miser-bachelor dead. You
never hear of a married miser.”
HER: “No; they’re too common. All marred
men are misers.”
At Ballarat Oval, t'other day, during a
festival, James Morrissey was found flourishing
poisonous black snakes. He had four of the rep-
tiles, and was arrested, presumably, for being
drunk when in charge of a bunch of serpents. In
court, he declared that he had discovered an anti-
dote for snake-bite, and was permitting the rep-
tiles to bite him in order to advertise his cure and
establish confidence. He had allowed one snake
to strike home, and had been pretty bad in his
cell, but had pulled through all right. James
pleaded that his “drunk” was merely to assist
the antidote ; he was drunk on scientific prin-
ciples, and for the public good. But he was filled
ss. all the same, just as if the spirit of scientific
investigation was the same as an} 7 other tangle-
foot.
• * • *
North Island Maoris are sad at heart over
the recent deaths of five notable natives. All
were recipients of medals from the Duke during
the Rotorua visit, and all sickened shortly after
his departure. Those medals were as deadly as
K.O.M.G.- ships.
THE SWAGMAN'S FAREWELL TO MATILDA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The swagman sat upon a log beside a waterhole
And eyed Matilda on the ground with anguish in his soul.
He drew his hand across his eyes as far across the plain
Came wafted down the forest aisles the whistle of a train.
Again he looked to where she lay insensate on the clay,
While slow the lengthened shadows barred the even of
the day.
He saw how shrunken was her form, how wrinkled, old,
and worn,
And felt a tugging at his heart as if its strings were torn.
He tried to speak and say “ Good-bye ” as darkness round
him fell ;
And but the night-winds heard him moan his husky-
voiced farewell.
“ Farewell, Matilda ! you have been my partner all these
years
Upon life’s journey through the West, with all its smiles
and tears ;
Together in the time of drought we faced the blighted
plains;
Together fought the roaring floods of stern, submerging
rains;
In unity the track we sped till at our resting-place
I found a solace from the world within your warm
embrace.
I fondly dreamed that ever thus ’twould be, till at the
last
Together we’d be found asleep when life for us was past.
But now, alas ! the times are changed, and this can never
be,
For where your form was welcome once you now meet
obloquy.
“ The shrieking train with thunder roar whirls through
the solitude,
While bikes fly like the wind along each line of latitude.
And now that auto-cars have come —a vision flashing by—
Soon flying ships on ether’s sea will speed across the sky 1
Marconi’s wireless telegraph will call from the bureau
Electric engineers—to shear, to reap, to plough or mow.
And he who would be in the van must lay Matilda down,
And with a neat rosella pack dwell in a postal town.”
The swagman paused and bared his head beneath the
darkened sky ;
Then raised Matilda in his arms and breathed a last good-
bye.
The brand of Cain was on his brow, but anguish in his
soul,
As, with a frenzied cry, he cast her in the waterhole.
A startled night-bird gave a scream and flapped across
his sight—
“ Matilda’s ghost!” he gasped, and fled, a madman,
through the night.
Now, when the summer drought came round and all the
holes had dried,
They found in one a nomad’s bones—Matilda by their
side.
The jury they empanelled there to solve the mystery
Have not upon a verdict yet been able to agree.
Although unanimous that one had thrown the other in—
Which was the one ? —God only knows, who knows the
Swagman’s Sin.
JACY HILL.


THOS. WHITELAW & CO.
WALL PAPER MERCHANTS ——
TELE PHON E 3768.
LONDON,
SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE
Artistic Wall Papers.
latest Designs and Colorings.
Novel Ceilings in
Plaster Effects.
Absolutely Fireproof.
A Charming Assortment.
The full London and Continental Collection of the above Goods are now on view at the Firm’s
New Warehouse and Showrooms—39l GEORGE ST,, SYDNEY.
These Decorations comprise the most delightful Assortment ever shown in Australia. lnvited.
ClienU trill find mir Art Goods are most inexpensive. Patterns forwarded on application.
The tariff includes-Acetylene gas buggy-
lamps and generators for house-lighting. Messrs.
Brandt Bros., 236 Pitt-street, Sydney, will not
raise prices until present stocks are sold. Their
Ice Cream Freezers require no labor. Prices 15s.
and 255. each. Catalogues free.*
Harbinger of spring. Droning herald of
the warmer days to come. It sails gaily in at the
open window, bumps against the walls, buzzes
along the ceiling, circles the room a score of times,
finds the kitchen with unerring instinct, makes
several tours round it, and, finally, settles on the
meat for the family dinner —with ghastly conse-
quences. That is the common —the all-too-com-
mon—blow-fly. The best way to outwit it is put
your meat where it can’t be reached, i.e., in a
meat-safe. Plenty of air and no admission for
flies. Hanging meat-safes, from 12in., 4s. 9d. to
18in., Bs. 6d., 20in. 11s. 6d., at McLean Bros,
and Rigg, Ltd., 109 Elizabeth-street, Mel-
bourne*
Simpson’s factory, at Newtown, Sydney,
has been going for the past ten years, sending
vehicles all over Australia, Tas., N.Z., Fiji,
Nor fold Island, India, and California. Up to a
few days ago the firm was paying from 20 per
cent, to 110 per cent, to get its sulkies into
Australian States but now ! The firm expects
to do great business with the “ Patent Jump-Seat
Sulky,” a splendidly comfortable sulky which
does away with all “ horse and cart ” motion.
Another special vehicle is the “ Gilgai,” a cross
between a buck-board and a buggy, combining
the usefulness of the one and the comfort of the
other. Two ordinary men can easily carry a
“Gilgai,” but the vehicle itself will carry a half-
ton.*
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For GOUT and RHEUMATISM.
Professor Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University—
“ Hunyadi Janos has invariably shown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
Which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never gives rise to un-
desirable symptoms even if used continuously for years.”
Average Dose. —A wincglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with 9
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
Mote the name “ Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor*
■ ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
“ G.J.M.” : The kangaroo doesn’t “ lap.”
It “ sucks ” its fluid like any other Australian
native. Noteworthy that only flesh-eating animals
lap their liquid. V egetarian creatures all drink
as the kangaroo does.
“M.J.D:”: Re query of “Xerxes” (B.
29/6/’01). When sitting at a tank at nigl it waiting
for a shot, often I did not know a ’roo or wallaby
was in till I heard it lapping like a dog. A roo
takes much longer than a horse to drink.
* * » *
“ Werrimee ” : The skippers of the little
Richmond River (N.S.W.) steamers have much to
put up with. Perhaps the boat is late and hurry-
ing to get to the wharf before night, when an old
woman stops her to say “ What’s the time ? Our
clock’s stopped.” A “ flag” (father’s old shirt or
mother’s apron) brings the vessel in to another
wharf, and a boy accosts the captain : “Please,
father says will yer ask Mr. Dougherty for ’is
corncracker, an’ fetch it with yer? ’’ At another
place a cargo of a dozen eggs or a bit of fresh pork
has to be taken in and landed further down, or
perhaps it’s a note to the storekeeper to send up a
pound of tobacco. At election-times there’s some-
body waiting at nearly every cookie-wharf to
know “who got in,” and it is common to see
kerosene-tins hung over the water on the end of
clothes-props. These are boat-hooked on board,
taken along, and brought back full of treacle. No
message required.
• * • *
“P.X.”: Found alongside a track out
here (far west N.S.W.) lately, a wedge-tailed
eagle in a tight place. Apparently when swoop-
ing at prey he had got himself tangled in a fence,
and a projecting wire-end had hooked him
through the wing-sinews. He had been hanging
helpless for, I should judge, a couple of days, but
still showed plenty of -fight. Was 7ft. from tip to
tip. Have seen ’roos and emus caught in the
wires, but never before one of the hawks.
* * * *
The record raft for the Tweed River—l3o
logs of mixed timber, valued at £3O0 —was lately
piloted down from Byangum, single-handed, and
without a kedge, by one Mick Smith. By-the-by,
where are the raft-experience liars ? That pro-
fession should be prolific of “good’uns.”
* * * * *-
A huge landslip, lately destroyed the
beautiful Pohokura pah, at the mouth of the
Urenui river—one of the most charming bits of
scenery in Taranaki (M.L.). With a great roar
the hill broke away and slipped into the river,
sending large boulders and quantities of fish into
the paddocks on the other side.
THAT WHITE AUSTRALIA—THE
HAWKER.
A BLACK PAGE FROM THE NEVER NEVER.—
“AND HER HUSBAND AWAY DROVING!"
The Indian press is raising a howl against the
Federal Immigration Restriction Bill. First, the
howl declares that the legislation is unnecessary, as
only 41 Asiatics left India for Australia during
the last three months. Which argument kills itself,
for if Hindoos are not emigrating to Australia an
Exclusion-Bill will do them no injustice. Secondly,
it goes on to say that the Hindoo does not interfere
in the labor market, as he goes in for peddling
and domestic’ service, and marrying into the
families of Australian pro-black-labor legislators.
Which is partly true. The bye-ways of Victoria,
in particular, are broivn with the multitude of Ram
Chunder, the peddler, and it is hardly safe in bush
districts for any man to leave his home, because of
the way Ram curses his female belongings ivhen they
ivon’t buy his trash.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on lIS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
P.W.C.: Social science would be easy to master
if human nature and the complex processes of human
existence would only conform to the apparently axiomatic
theories of the political economist. The trouble is they
don’t. Theoretically’, if the f.o.b. value of an article is
Is. and a new duty of 3d. is put upon it, the retail price
should go up at least threepence. Practically, however,
it often doesn’t. The foreign producer of the article, in
many cases, recognises that if the consumer is called
upon to pay’ all the duty, the effect will be to force the
article out of use ; so, to keep his market, he abandons a
share of his profit and thus pays part of the duty....
E.G.S. and F.H. : It is his son’s portrait. This is the
437th time that dismal old conundrum has reached u 5....
W.M.M. : One verse as a dreadful warning :
With all the fervor of my heart
I loved this little peach.
To me she was the first to start
The power of love to teach.
The other 12 are even more shocking Warragul:
You’ve mixed the question up. If the grocer buys 84s.
worth of tea and sells it in a week at 1405., that’s 565.
profit on a capital of 84s.— 60 per cent, per week— which
is really 3120 per cent, per annum San Remo: Good,
but too lengthy... .Jabez : Writer also arrived home in
the dark the other night, and tried to propitiate the
doormat under the impression that it was a dog, but that
sort of joke can’t be spread into a column yarn....
Sigma : You “ would prefer to see the tariff settled by a
board of importers and manufacturers, with an odd
banker or wool man.” Would you, really ? Wouldn’t
you include any artisans, or farmers, or stock-raisers, or
ship-owners, or any’body who knows anything about the
requirements of the public revenue ? What you really
want is a board of prophets. Failing that, an intelligent
and honest politician, who has studied the tariffs of the
world and their results, is worth 400 of the class you
talk of. A man may have imported cloth or made boilers
under one set of tariff circumstances for 40 years without
having the least knowledge of anything beyond....
S.L.G. (Perth) : Sorry to be unpleasant, but, so far, this
paper bets' its little copper on the Leake Government.
Of course, Leake can’t be as popular in some
quarters as Forrest. He can’t blew eleven millions
of loan money to buy support ; it is already blcwed
Glenard : Unsuitable ; appreciations of Australian writers
hung on a poor string of stor.v... G.M.B. :No cream on
your milk A. Hope : Tragedy of a boned turkey and
Belinda not well-baked enough... .Dingo : Some promise.
Try* again, and boil, boil, boil down. Catch your ox of an
idea and put it in a teacup.. . .F.F.T. : Rolled Goldsmith :
Prettv, but no core X.O. : But it isn’t so. Sydney
Smith is whip ; Spruce Smith doesn’t even ahvays vote
with the party J.A.W. : “ Aftermath Twins.”
Too confoundedly novel... .Sam’l C. : Mild little watery-
eyed rhymes with a cough....F.W.H. : All chop—no
chop Katie : ’Tis a name we love, anyway... .France :
“ Those snake-entwining tresses” —aha ! “ That heaving,
throbbing bosom oho ! “Lips” no more, unless
you send a marriage-certificate John P. : Mystery-
poem only wants a skin to be a sausage.. ..P.M. : Verse
holds but one of the four elements. Oblige by adding
ether, fluid, and flame W. Alex. : Affecting in its
simplicity, but not a thing for cold print... J.W.H.
(Melb.): The question is not one we care to haggle
over. It is worth avoiding, whenever possible....
Theta : Touch not strong enough C.O. : Rau-rau
is a tobacco smoked by Maoris, which has the aroma
of a slaughter-house living next to a land-grant
railway job.. . .Friend in Q. : But your “ beautiful facts ”
represent only a barren hypothesis —incapable of demon-
stration ... .F.L.G. : Probably* wasn’t suitable for repro-
duction Cunnamulla : Fairly humorous, but ver-
bose and overdone P.J. O’R. : Awful scribble
G. O’B. : Mendacity, pure and simple! J.O.P. :
“ Fame ” would hardly go. Other is worth considera-
tion Owl-Light: Crude, but gritty. Judgment sus-
pended . ..D.H.R. : None of them up to mark A.J.B. :
The idea of legalising lotteries, under a proper system of
guarantees and of unclaimed prizes reverting to the State,
has been often here suggested... .W.S.S. (Eng.) : The B.
never publishes serials.... E.B.F. : There is the baby
of an idea, but it doesn’t come to maturity
H. : On consideration, “Victory of S.” reads un-
realistic. You don’t get London mean-street clannishness
in vagabond Australia... .Killaloe : Not up to mark... .
Ahau : “Temptation” not up. Others graceful, imagi-
native —passed in. Your muse, by the way, seems to read
nothing but Greek, and occasionally to misread. King
Owl ipi is, as in “ Temptation,” can’t serve as a type to be
envied. lie was about the most generally-miserable
person that ever walked the face of a globe, or a fable.
D.H.B. : Will, print “When everything has hap-
pened.”... .11. Evans: “Heart’s Irony” for print....
Ksmi : “ Rooms ” true enough to life, but it is crude,
blunt, over-squalid... .L.M.P. : A good and well-written
sermon, but no story....Waihora : “ Nell T.” a good sub-
ject weakly treated. But every’one can’t be a Bret Harte.
...Kodak: Will print Casey... .C.E.: In some Aus-
tralian States an ordained clergyman is ineligible for a
seat in Parliament, but in all of them the lay’man
who thumps the pulpit on Sundays, and uses it
as a political advt. all the time, is not only
eligible for a seat, but for the Premiership itself....
Pluff : Hardly do, but you might try again... . .Ki-ti:
Can’t swallow that ! Ping-Pong : Funny, but too crude
and jumblesome... .R.E.J. : “All hands were killed!”
Where?—and when? T.H.H. : We can’t throw any
light on the matter. Complain to the proper authorities.
E.J.S. : No use without confirmatory cutting from
press account, cutting to include title and date of
paper... .Andys : Take pains and practise... .Leodride :
Ditto.. ..Tweedy : Not up.. ..A.T.R. (Auckland): Bit flat.
... .Maccaroni: “ One drink to fill the burning, aching
void !” is human ; the rest is merely promising.... Andax :
No value W. Bernard : Lacks spirit in the telling.
. ...F.E.S. (Melb.): Your song, which was not “after
lolanthe,” made us sad indeed A.H. (Melb.): The
marriage of an unremarkable actress to an actor who
ought to be named Todd is not a matter of large Austra-
lian interest... .Ben Sun: “Misunderstood” hardly
strong enough.... Arbitration : Idea old, and joke poor as
Lazarus.. . .An Idolator : Sorry, but we don’t take enough
interest in Parson Dill Macky even to object to him
except on rare occasions Mar.: Thanks; but
no domestic-tragedy knife-hammer-and-blood-gout illus-
trations for us. The papers, in the absence
of political excitement, started to sensationalise
on one of those incidents a few weeks ago, and since then
there have been fresh cases almost everyday Right
Angle : Under consideration E.G. : Too awful to need
consideration.... Banool : Funny enough, but the demand
for jokes about that kind of cart is limited Spring :
Painfully crude’ bit of dramatic criticism W.H. (Pil-
barra): If you could blot out a lot of the admissions made
in Westralia’s own Parliament, then your story might
stand some kind of a chance Yulcan : But one isn’t
privileged to make such remarks on a case sub-judice....
Ooopernook : The Bulletin is run to make money, not to
be read free at public reading-rooms Jack-a-O. : Can’t
understand stampeding par. Please re-write Zero :
Please don’t send mouldy chestnuts T. Junior : Rea-
soning faulty. What is bad for the pocket of one man is
not necessarily good for that of some other X. : Medi-
ocre 8.5.8. A. : Has pathos. May use Brixton B. :
“Mosquito”—squashed. Others may do Prospect
Good : “ Rivals,” some grace of fancy, but execution
faulty Cora Lynn : Rhythm too ricketty Nymsic :
Rather spirited, but somewhat clumsy, and too long for
Bulletin, anyhow C.E. (Turramurra) : Scientific refu-
RE CERTAIN “ BUSHMEN ” SENT TO S’AFRICA.
SERGEANT-MAJOB : “ Where are you going, man?"
BUSHMAN : “ To change my saddle, sir; the stirrups are too short."
tation of the O’Sullivan only possible in a daily paper with
lots of space D.M.A. : Returned..... J.C.H. : Will try
and use “ Swagman.” Send in Miss P. again Annam .
You’re a persevering man —that’s the best we can sa.v about
you... L.F.: Off your stilts Ghost-S.: Considering
Spring : About the Hindoo mechanics, can you give us any
proof? G.M. (M.L.): “ Toitois Pakeha” unreal : you
give to the Maori girl the emotions of a Bow Bells
heroine. “ He, She and Fate” is an old, old story. i°u
can write : try' to get out of the ruts... .Zero : Nearly all
Chestnut Proculus : There is something in that maniac
idea : but you haven’t got hold of that something, and a
few pretty phrases don’t compensate for the mi55....800
Ridley : Stick to prose, Robert !....Mup. : Conventional
motive and feeble handling.. .Tim : Too crude... Glenara.
Awkward in places, but under consideration.... Marie
S. : Yes, when we use them. We’ve had that clairvoy r ante
item from several quarters... .H.D.L. : Too long and
prosy.... W.X.: Hardly worth print 8.5.8. : A London
Journal story’in an insufficient Australian disguise....
THE HAND-BALANCER'S RETURN (at a
late hour). He creeps softly upstairs.
J.B. : “Memory” rather flat and confused Queenie :
Mocking us? Taurangi : Heard before Norton
M. : Considering “Spring.” V.H.G. : Keep
it for the next world : no use in this
one Justin: Wants more original force.
Wells : Die quickly anywhere—on ant-bed for choice
Young ’Un : One will do Rufus S. : Anyone knowing
the address of Walter Tyrrell, please communicate with
this office Ben S.: “Quarryman” is over-long and dull.
Wants varied metre and dramatic pith. “ Heath ” and
“ Song” weak; “ Good-bye ” possibly too agricultural
Edgar M. : Too much froth and grandiloquence H.
Petersen : Thanks. Couldn’t use. Shall we return ?
Deeby : Two long-winded. Try to get your items into a
quarter the space John F. :1. Lord Carrington. 2.
£132,000,000. 3. Doubtful if Napoleon ever made any of
the observations attributed to him. 4. They were simply
told to clear out, and, presumably, hauled down their
flag before doing so L.M.D.: “This M.” for print,
though the scenery’s rather tame Savanaka: An
improvement, but still not on acceptance-mark
Elijah 11. (Australia’s old friend, “the
Rev.” John Alex. Dowie), has so far made nearly
£1,000,000 out of his new religion—a more profi-
table spec, than even a liver-pill.
“ It is a thankless task, this conferring the
blessings of liberty upon ungrateful peoples who
want the goods delivered.”—Detroit Free Press.
Selections from the Great Authors.
The great success of the distribution of the
first edition of the “Library of Famous Litera-
ture,” edited by Dr. Richard Garnett, C. 8.,
will, no doubt, be repeated in Australia. This
work was first offered to the public by. The
Standard, in London, and over 10,000 copies
were subscribed for in a few months. With Ur.
Garnett were as ociated M. Leon Vallee, of the
National Library, Paris ; Dr. Alois Brandi, of the
Imperial University, Berlin ; and Mr. Donald
G. Mitchell, of America. To the first volume
is prefaced a fine faesmile from a manuscript of
Demosthenes. Among its illustrations are
portraits of ancient and modern personages and
scenes. The master-pieces, including translations,
are from Greek, Indian, Latin, Egyptian, and
other literatures, and include compositions by
modern writers and bearing on ancient themes.
Dr. Garnett himself writes an introduction on
“ The Use and Value of Anthologies.” Among
the modern authors, from whom selections are
taken, are Tennyson, Matthew Arnold, George
Smith, Charles Mackay, George Borrow, Professor
Jebb, Keats, Landor, Hawthorne, and Ruskin.
“On first looking into Chapman’s Homer,” is
selected as an example of Keats’ self-identification
with the classical spirit. “ Achilles and Helena,”
is an example from Landor. Mr. Ruskin’s
“ Greek Myths ”is also printed. The illustrations
are admirable, and the work is issued in the
highest style of the book-maker’s art, the paper,
printing, and binding being of the very best.
Announcement is m.-ide in our columns to-day
that a supply is in hand in Sydney, and that for
a short time immediate delivery of the work will
be made to prompt applicants.


RESTING ON HIS LAURELS.
"JOKER" REID: “THERE! NOW YOU KNOW WHAT TO EXPECT. I’M GOING TO GIVE YOU ANOTHER SMASHING IN 'COMMITTEE.”


THE SOAP CRISIS.
Ihe New South 'Wiles Laundry Assbciation, considering the high
duties that have been imposed upon laundry supplies, have resolved
to enforce a general rise in price.
This will lead to radical reforms in men’s evening-dress.
(See picture.) No. L —Full dress, with Crimean Shirt.
No* 11-—Double-breasted dinner-jacket; shirt dis-
pensed with altogether. No. ILL—reaper
shirt-front and collar, not altogether trust-
worthy as to button-boles,
'Cadger (in itr'tet) : " Give us a match,
mister 1 ”
Mister : “ Can’t afford it now. there’s
a heavy duty on ’em.”
Parson : “ My dear friends ; I hope to-
day you will subscribe twofold when
the plate goes round, as, owin’ to thefl
''tariff” But he got no further.
The congregation, who had been
having tariff all the w.eek, had flee
A suggestion to the North Sydney aldermen
anxious to raise revenue by harbor-advertise-
ments. A good round sum might be realised
by “ personal ” efforts on their part.
Lady (in ihop) ! “Tie a string round
my parcel, please.”
•■Shopman : “ Can’t afford it, mum ;
Barton has put an enormous duty on
•string.”
Prominent Sydney Prerraider : «• n
Barton ! Our firm will only clear .£l5OO
over the tariff, when we stocked up to
clear £50,000! ”
In the matter of Crickville anxioUs
speculators are looking for pub. sites in
(close proximity to the Cold-Tea Town.
VThe D— L (to Crickvillian) : “Don’t
you think your tea would be im-
proved by a stick in it 1 ”
I TMPOyiiai^tAnouncFn
7 Vrfw'/rsfa jd/yj V} ) f "'H 7f 7
j u o fs UNKEeSruclw eviLt S^fly
hi q h-cl^j’ kkr ‘ a - l - s^', rt af^ e
I Old J-atts-dii .2/ tperSfuare
yard ‘
CARTOONLETS.


YOUit Wedding Presents can be Supplied by A. SAUNDERS,
The
Reliable
Jeweller & Silversmith.
A
RES
fr.h
f
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT.—FIoraI China, real
Silver-plated Mounts, 20s.
Similar designs, 15s, 255, 30s. Very
pretty and acceptable present.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER.—Beautifully Chased and Orna-
mented pure Silver, Electro-plated on hard
White Metal, 15s 6d. Large size, 20s.
Four o’clock TEA SET with Covers, pure Silver Electro-plated on White
Metal, first-class English Make, £2 10s.
Similar Styles, £2, t'2 15s, £3, £3los, £4.
D
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG CRUETS, pure Silver Electro-
plated on hard White Metal, beautifully
Chased, 30s, 355, £2, and £2 10s.
Cheaper Style, 20s and 255.
Handsome and Useful Present.
A. SAUNDERS.
4-bottle Lunch or Dinner OKLTKT, pure
Silver Electro-plated on hard VI hite
Metal, 21s. Similar Styles, 255, 355, 35s
Ladies kindly call and see our Beautifully-stocked Showrooms.
A. SAUNDERS.
/.A DIES’ FRIEND. —Pare Solid Silver
Mounts, 18s 6d.
Very useful and acceptable presents.
jkgh
Biv
!*£ &fg£r m
A. SAUNDERS.
FOLDING BISCUITS.—Pure Silver Electro-
plated on White Metal, £3, £3 10s, £4.
Can be used for Cake or Sandwiches.
A. SAUNDERS.
OAK BlSCUlT.—Silver-
plated Rims and Lids, with
Enamelled Lining, 15s Gd ;
with Ornamented Fluted
Rims, 20s; Plain, with Shield
only, 12s 6d.
A SAUNDERS.
CAKE DISHES.—The very best finished pure
Silver Electro-plate, in various patterns,
20s, 22s fid, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
4 o’clock TEA SPOONS and TONGS in Silk-lined Case,
Embossed, 12s 6d. Extra Quality, 15s, 20s, 255.
The Silver-plate we guarantee to give every satisfaction
In Pure Solid Silver, 6 Spoons only 255, with Tongs
30s, 355, £2, £2 10s.
8
a*r
el
CMP
fr
Old Plate
Made
Equal
To New.
m
mb
1
£
A. SAUNDERS.
TEA POTS.—Pare Silver Electro-placer], on White
Metal, as pattern, 25s and it' s.
Different Pattern, 355, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALAD BOWL and SERVERS, with Silver-
plated Mounts and Handles, 30s.
Similar, 20s and 255.
Pretty Floral China, 255, 30s, £2 and £2 10s.
3
MffliiflililllU
a
A. SAUNDERS.
MANICURE SETS.—Pure Solid Silver, Chased
Mounts, 15s ; larger sizes, 2)3, sss, and 80s.
A
A. SAUNDERS.
JAMS. —Pure Silver Electro-plated on hard
White Metal, nicely Chased with pretty Red
Glass 12s Gd ; with Fluted Edges, 15s Gd •
Double Jam, 255.
m
3hcb
m
*®CJ\
V*'-'
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE.—Pure Silver Electro-
plated on White Metal, 16s 6d ; Chased as
above, 20s, 255, and 30s. Post f ree.
V,-'- HS
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER. —Pure Silver Electro-plated on
White Metal, nicely chased, 8s 6d. Round, 10s.
$3
A. SAUNDERS.
SALTS.— Silver-plated Stand, Colored Glass,
with Spoons, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s pair.
“Just What I Want!” SPOONS AND FORKS. A. SAUNDERS can fill that want with a First-Class, Reliable Article.
EXTRA STRONG. Guaranteed to give you every satisfaction.
Ai QUALITY is the very Highest Standard. Pure Silver Electro-plated on Hard White Metal. DINNER Spoons or Forks, 17s 6d half-
dozen ; DESSERT Spoons or Forks, 12s 6d half-dozen ; TEA Spoons, 7s 6d half-dozen.
B QUALITY is a Second Quality. Pure Silver Electro-plated on Hard White Metal. DINNER Spoons or Forks, 12s 6d half-dozen ;
DESSERT Spoons or Forks, 10s half-dozen ; TEA Spoons, 5s half-dozen. . T
SOLID WHITE NTOKEL SILVER, Wear White throughout. A Splendid Knockabout Spoon to save the Better Article. DINA Eli
Spoons o ■ Forks, 4s half-dozen ; DESSERT Spoons or Forks, 3s half-dozen ; TEA Spoons, Is 6d half-dozen.
Packed and Sent post free to all parts of the World. Kindly send your Orders to A. SAUNDERS.
A. SAUNDERS.
Small Size BUTTER.—AII Metal, Pure
Silver-plated, beautifully chased, 20s.
Extra ornamented, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
ENTREE DISH, Makes Two Dishes, Pure Silver Electro-
plated on hard White Metal, 355. A Useful and Acceptable
Present. SHALL WE SEND YOU ONE ?
A. SAUNDERS.
CRUET (Breakfast).—Pure
Silver Electro-plated on White
Metal, 10s 6d ; with 4 Bottles,
15s 6d and 17s 6d.
Makes a very nice present.
Call and See our
Displayed Showrooms!
WHISKY FLASK.
Silver-plated Bot-
tom and Patent
Top, 10s 6d, 12s
6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
A Warming Friend.
SERVIETTE RINGS, Pure
Silver-plated, 3s 6d. Simi-
lar Patterns, 2s 6d and 3s.
Wish Bone Design, 4s 6d,
5s 6d, and 6s 6d. Solid
Silver, similar to Pattern,
7s 6d, 10s, and 12s 6d each.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER KNIVES.—Two Silver-plated, with Pearl
Handles, in Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d. Other styles, 7s 6d,
10s 6d, and 12s 6d, in eases. JAM SPOONS. —Same
price ; without case, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, 5s 6d and
6s 6d each.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOAST RACK.—Pure Silver Electro-plated
on Hard White Metal, 12s 6d. Other styles,
similar, 8s 6d, 10s, 15s, 20s.
m
s. "mar
JBII
iimiiisH
loss
rr
ftpcW
trmpl
A. SAUNDERS.
DINNER CRUETS.—First-class Pure Silver on
Hard White Metal, as pattern, with Shield,
£2 10s ; extra quality, £3, £3 10s, and £4.
Other patterns without Shields, 355, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAMS. —Floral China, Pretty Design, with pure
uilver Electro-plated Stand, 15s 6d ; double, 255.
Latest Designs.
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT WATER KETTLE and STAND,
can be used as a Teapot.—Pure Silver-
plated on White Metal, Beautifully
Chased and Ornamented, 355.
Embossed and Extra Chased, £2, £2
10s. Other Styles, £3 and £3 10s.
Handsome and Useful Article.
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller & Silversmltli,
A BEAUTIFUL DISPLAY OF PRESENTS.
MIND
Nearly
Opposite
Railway
Station,
Sydney
Send Your A.ddresa.
Given. OLD PLATE MADE EQUAL TO KTEW.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TEEM"
WE
$
&
$5-
BILLS
discounted.
3ST.S,"W
fnontdepieteo>|.Co.,Gt<l.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
' SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
-til 15-
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.G.; Brucb Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,491,989.
Policies issued 85,372 —assuring £26,085,340.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,576,850.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
#l9 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
The Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
lanager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P Canny. (Messrs. Burns, PM P & Lo. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ••• A7OU.UWW
lapit.al Paid-up ... ■ £lOO,OOO
teserve Liability of Share- ■ Ann
holders 250 000 ... £350,000
Queensland Smelting Compy,
** (LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
T3UYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
D Cornier Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
;tc. For tariff, ap t .ly to GEO. V. S. DUNN Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the 13ianc
Jffice, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
|eui Zealand Insurance Qo.
FIRE and MARINE.
£1,000,000
420,000
CAPITAL
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES
Largest Colonial Company.
A MINN SL. 81 Pitt St., Sydney.
Jl)€ Trost€€s, €*€c<»tors,
AND
Conjpaijy Lin>it€d,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE LIABILITY
RESERVE FUND (used in Company s
business) •••
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 80th June, 1901
£150,000 0 0
£90,000 0 0
£150,000 0 0
£BB5B 7 3
£6,388,976 5 3
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman: R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Royal
Bank of Queensland
LIMIT JED.
CAPITAL PAID-UP ..
RESERVE LIABILITY OF
RESERVE FUND (Invested
£385,187
SHAREHOLDERS.. 245,119
in Government Stock) 55,000
£685,306
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Ass. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors —Sydney : Sir W. M'Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks
Adelaide : L. A. Jbssop, Esq. Wellington : H
Beauchamp, Esq. . , , „
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N
M'Farlank ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W
Farouhar ; Wellington, N.Z., 0. M. Montefiorb. _
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Established 1879.
IJnited Australian |||utual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices:
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital £500,000
Subscribed Capital 251,260
Paid-up Capital 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance.
AGENTS REQUIRED WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
Alfred Webster, General Manager.
E. B. McKbnny, Secretary.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £BOOO, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
ana £ OR FiyE yEARSi
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Shipping.
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Yictorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Saturday, Oct. 26,12 Noon.
Gabo, Tuesday, October 29, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., Nov. 2, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tuesday, October 29, 6 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Gabo, Tues, Oct. 29, 5 p.m., takes pas-
sengers & cargo for transhipment to
S.S. Buninyong,leavingMelb. Nov. 1
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Leura, Saturday, .Oct. 26, 12 Noon.
Burwah, Tuesday, Oct. 29, 6 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Nov. 2,12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Saturday, Oct. 26,12 Noon.
Tyrian, Saturday, Nov. 2, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
OAIENS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter"
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
kgh
kgh
LINE
via
San Francisco,
California.
SPLENDID NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS,
SIERRA
SONOMA **
VENTURA
Over 6000 Tons each.
8000 H.P.
Length, 425 feet,
Passengers booked through to American, Canadian and
European centres at current rates.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts., SYDNEY.
time table,
THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
THE “ALL RED” MAIL ROUTE
TO LONDON.
THE ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
OF THE
GANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
Under contract with the Governments of New South
Wales, Queensland, and Canada, leave Sydney every
four weeks as under, for
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
This is the Imperial Route Home, as well as the most at-
tractive. It avoids alike the heat of the Red Sea and the
cold oi Cape Horn. The railroad journey between the
Pacific and Atlantic Oceans (Vancouver to Montreal)
occupies about 4 days, and is made
WITHOUT CHANGE OF CARRIAGES,
through the grandest scenery in the world—over th“
Selkirk and Rocky Mountains, across the Prairies, and
along the North Shore of Lake Superior. , .
Passengers have the choice of a number of overlanu
routes, enabling them to visit the principal cities of
Canada and the United States. .
For Railway Maps, Guide Books, and all other informa-
tion, STEAM BHlp COMpANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amoun tof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. • • £2,500,000
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund.. ..
Reserve Liability ..
.. 2,000,000 0
.. 1,250,000 0 0
~ 2,000,000 0 0
Total .. .. .. 5,250,000 0 0
Directors:
Hon. Ciias. K. Mackellar, M.L.0., President
Senator James Thomas Walker.
William Alfred Cotter, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Henry Normand MacLaurin, M.L.O. &
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L C. ?,
Auditors:
F. W. Uther, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
TUB 3XTBW
EDISON TALKING MACHINES.
The Bijou Phonograph"
With Complete Outfit, including 6
Assorted Records, £2.
The Standard Phonograph
With Complete Outfit, including 24
(2 dozen) Assorted Re-
cords, 2 Blanks, £5 10a.
, Undoubtedly the Best
Value ever offered.
Extra Edison Records,
20a. per dozen ; 12a. per
half-dozen. Concert (5J
inch) Records, 6a. each,
60s. dozen.
Send for Catalogues con-
taining 3000 selections.
B£E.V_£S i CO , ADEUMDE and BBSKUi HUL
J 2
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismat, Imrie & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, CALLING at PLYMOUTH and
LIVERPOOL Via CAPETOWN,
Calling at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz.: —
SUEVIC, 12,500 tons, to Sail about 23rd NOVEMBER,
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
PERSIC, RUNIC, MEDIC, and AFRIC.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
general y is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only,
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins an “ °P en
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric light
throughout. , .
For rates of freight, passage money, Sc., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA.
Uuddart, parker & bine
—TO—
MELBOURNE,
LAUNCESTON,
HOBART,
WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZISALAND PORTS.
Pares and Freights at Lowest Current Sates.
IST. 33. H..
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin screw.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
REGULAR SERVICE to SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. DRESDEN, *527 Tons,
LEAVING SYDNEY, 14th NOVEMBER NEXT.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Sa, f etv and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents, , ~
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
Publications.
NOW READY at Turner & Henderson, SYDNEY.
Toilet & Troubles of the Skin & Hair
by Dr. ALFRED NEALE ; new edition, post Is Id.
TRiCHOLOGY, a Study of the Hair, post 7d.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, 13.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
"Post Free, Is.
Send >• tamp for Illustrated Lists of Looks and Novelties.
IViadaiiie Panza,
•cv COX 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
FOREIGN STAMPS.
raw
*
pHEAP SETS.—4O Japan, Is 6d ;
47 Spain, 2s ; 10 Bulgaria, 6d ;
16 Heligoland, Is : 8 Egypt, 6d ; 30
French, 9d ; 12 Indian Telegraghs,
6d ; 9 Labuan Pictorial, 2s 6d; 11
'Canada, 6d; 9 Canada Duty, 6d; &
Bolivia,4d. Packets 50, Is; 100,2 s 6d.
Stamps Purchased. New Catalogue
of Stamps, Albums, etc., Gratis.
CHARLES DONNE, 346 Little Collins-st., Melbourne.
CCf
Melbourne
Jh« best House for
music. Piimos.viotinsand
all TTlusftal sundries
Coll ins Si..
DEAR SIR,—I have been cured of Weakness and De ,
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBERT
> E. PARKHURST, Pitt-street, Sydney. '
Shipping.
THE
ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO
(LI MIT Bl>).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping’at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Allinga, Friday,
October 25.
S.S. Wollowra, Friday,
November 1.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Adelaide, Saturday,
October 26, at Noon.
Best and Cheapest ltoute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and Howard Smith Co.,
Ld. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
A- U. S- IM. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE -Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via I3ris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, 10 Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
PAND O. COMPANY’S
■ ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
Steamer.
♦INDIA
OCEANA ...
BRITANNIA...
AUSTRALIA...
VICTORIA ..
Commander.
Sydney,
Non >
* .Leaving two uays earner on aeuuum ui
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £33 10s to £77
Ditto Ditto Return, £7llos to £l2l
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific, and
Messageries Maritimes Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritime^
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORI
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs/
etc. and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
“E. RND A.” LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
■passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-racific Railway and Steam-
ship Company.
; For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
(|| < |luiraith,||) < Eacharn&Co.
PROP. LTD.
the favorite steamers
KALGOOBLIE, 4500 tons,
COOLGAB3DIE, 3500 tons,
SAIL FORTNIGHTLY between
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
West Australian Ports.
Passenger Accommodation Unsurpassed. Liberal Cuisine.
M‘ILWRAiTH, M'EACHARN AND CO.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany and Fremantle
fydney Agents—BUßNS, PHILP & CO. Ltd.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
) Address.— L.D.l., SOO Collins St., Melbourne
IA POLICY FOR
l';rice (id. ;
Posted, Bd.
COMMON WCALTH


A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
>\Ve learn that a most useful Veterinary
Book is attached to every bottle of Condy’s
Fluid. This Book contains instructions for
curing most of the ailments and accidents
affecting Horses, Bogs, Sheep, Cattle, Poultry,
and Birds of all kinds.
Condy’s Fluid is an absolutely certain cure
for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs, Broken Knees,
Grease, Thrush, Cracked Heels, and Mud
Fever in Horses.—Scab, Foot Rot, Fly, etc.,
in Sheep.—Rinderpest, Hoove, Foul in the
Foot, Wounds and Sores, Foot and Mouth
Disease, and Diarrhoea in Cattle. —Distemper
Mange, Canker, and Eczema in Dogs.
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists and
Stores. Beware of local substitutes, all are
inferior. Insist on having Condy’s Fluid.
mma
GrO TO HELL-
<I IGOTiAN'D for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price*
lis gratis.
hats. HATS. hats.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WRLTCR BRAPLCy # CO.,
furniture and fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 G-eorga Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION 4. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art. •
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Meld at the A action Itooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Waltek Headley & Co., 324 George-stj
pa JpEARUY TEETH
OR PEARL DENTIFRICE.
Known for 75 years to be the Best and
Purest Tooth Powder, as it contains no
acid or gritty substances which ruin the
Teeth and produce premature decay; it
WHITENS THE TEETH,
Prevents and arrests decay, strengthens the
gums, and gives a pleasing fragrance to the
breath. It penetrates to the hidden flaws
and crevices of the teeth, and preserves and
beautifies them for years. Ask Stores and
Chemists for ROWLAND’S ODONTO,
of 67. Hatton Garden, London.
owns
OPOftro
high-grade
FARM—^
* •
P L EMEN
Massey-Harris Co. Ltd
35 BROADWAY,
George-strect West, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
A Federal Labor Senator to The Bulletin
on the censure debate : “I do not think the Govt,
need fear. I hope not, anyway. We don’t want
to give the pro Kanakas any more time to
organise. ”
The Government, by keeping strictly
silent while G. H. Reid was on his feet, quite
spoilt his want-of-confidence speeoh. And Reid
Tuliy admits it. To the Opposition leader hostile
interjections are as the breath of life.
Queensland Govt, has at last been goaded
into attempting the local suppression of John
Norton. Last week Minister Foxton introduced
a Bill to “ deal with ” Sunday papers—to prevent
such papers from being printed or sold.
Second reading of the Cloncurry syndicate
railway-grab Bill passed Queensland Assembly by
33 votes to 24 ;17 members were absent They
may wish to take credit for not having voted for
the Bill. The public will draw its own conclu-
sions.
One member of the Maoriland Federal
Commission makes no secret of the fact that his
opposition to joining the Australasian Common-
wealth was due to a fear that the new nation
would “cut the painter” shortly. Maoriland’s
present rulers are very anxious about that painter,
and even discourage “Natives’” associations lest
they should be seed-beds of anti-imperialism.
Queensland Government uses all its honey
on the Kanaka laborer; the white worker has none.
As a means of retrenchment, the Philp-Leahy
crowd proposes to discharge 25 per cent, of the
fettlers on the railways of the southern and
western districts. The step will seriously increase
the risks of railway-travelling, and throw many
deserving men out of work.
THE BLACK-DRAUGHT.
“Yet the House has declared against any subsidy being given to steamers
which employ colored labor even to the smallest extent. The Orient line is liable
to be cut off, for instance, because of certain colored stokers. What is most to be
deprecated is the idea of a collison with the British Govt, on this subject. It is
the British Govt, which enters into these postal contracts—because it has the
largest interest in them —and the British Govt, has repeatedly expressed its great
unwillingness to declare that the Hindoo subjects of the King are absolutely de-
barred from suitable employment in H.M.’s service. It does not wish them dis-
criminated against.”—ARGUS.
MEDICINE-MAN: “Here, take this!”
AUSTRALIA: “ Wha’ for? What price your doctoring, old man? You
gave India the Civil Service, and cooked him. You made China
take your opium, and cooked him. You’ve tried to doctor the
Boer; and now you leant me to take the nigger!”
George Turner dealt a home thrust at the
Opposition during the Federal tariff debate when
he quoted the calculations of Nash (Sydney D.T.),
the foreign-traders’ journalistic joss in N.S.W., to
show that a Reid tariff would have to be on almost
identical lines with the Turner-Kingston tariff so
far as the burden on the people was concerned.
The logic of the Q. Kanakapßile: “Twenty-
five years of experience has conclusively shown
that it is impossible to grow sugar without black-
labor.” Also, “Give us a few years more grace and
we will be able to do without the Kanaka.” They
have been blowing hot and cold for 25 years, and
if time is given them the infants of to-day, grown
old and gray, will hear the time-worn cry “A
few more years ! ”
If the Philp crowd is so sure that the
State is with it on the Kanaka question [vide
Philp’s public utterances) why doesn’t it go to
the country on the one question—Black or White?
Or, better still, why doesn’t it take a Referendum
on the Kanaka, and overwhelm the Federal
Parliament with the result ? Philp, when told
this, suddenly grows hard of hearing, and goes
on with a Syndicate Railway Bill.
Sydney Sunday Times cries bitterly
because England continues to buy butter, and
mules, and canned pork from countries where
pro-Boers abound, instead of sending all orders to
loyal Australia. Behold the working creed of the
Australian Jingo : to send his brother to the war
in return for a canned-goods order. So much (of
somebody else’s) blood poured out—so much
butter-money poured into the cash-box.
Now that the unspeakable Kitchener has
taken to flogging and hanging Boer prisoners, the
Transvaalers must begin to regret their misplaced
leniency to Dr. Jameson and his brigands of a
few years ago. Their lives were forfeited by law,
yet they were neither hanged, flogged, fined, nor
even imprisoned for any length of time—in fact,
though their crime ranked as murder, they were
treated as gently as if it had been a plain drunk.
The Senate’s present calm acceptance of
second place in the Federal legislature—as House
of review—is only on the surface. Against the
motion to adjourn over the no-confidence debate
several senators protested, while Higgs urged
that the Senate had as much right to censure the
Government as the Representatives, and that its
censure should have an equal effect. Some day,
perhaps, on this very point there will be a willing
fight between the two Houses,
N.S.W. freetraders taunt the Victorians
in the Federal House of Reps, with “blindly
following ” the Barton Government, and with the
next breath roar out that Barton studies Victoria
and Victoria alone. Thus, the Vic. member is
frightened off the Opposition benches: he would
have to credit his constituents with a very poor
estimate of the veracity of the Reidites to dare to
vote against a Government which is represented
as loving Victoria so exclusively.
Launceston Examiner, dishes up again a
good old Foreign-trade argument—that instead of
protecting our little tobacco industry it would be
cheaper to abolish it, pension off the employees,
and, by importing all our tobacco, get so much
more revenue in import duties. But, if so, why
not go a step further: abolish all industries, pen-
sion off everybody, import everything, and put a
10 per cent, duty on everything, pay the pensions
out of part of the huge customs revenue that
would ensue, and run the country with the
balance? When the chief end of a country is to
have lots of imports, the folly of producing any-
thing becomes apparent at once. Producing any-
thing helps to diminish imports.
“ Kiwi ” writes
from Maoriland :
The Farmers’ Union is
becoming a formidable
organisation in Maoriland.
Though professedly non-
political, its chief plank
seems to be uncompro-
mising opposition to
trades-unionism and labor
legislation, and it has
already begun clamoring
for the exemption of far-
mers from the operation
of the Workers’ Compensa-
tion Act. Meanwhile, the
organisation of labor is
proceeding apace, chiefly
to enable workers to take
advantage of the Concilia-
tion and Arbitration Act,
as, unless registered as a
union, they cannot come
under the law. There are
now about 30,000 labor
unionists in Maoriland,
and there is every likeli-
hood that at no distant
date there will be a politi-
cal struggle between them
and the rapidly develop-
ing forces of the new Tory-
ism as manifested in the
Farmers’Union. The first
tussle will begin if Premier
Seddon (who is placed in
an awkward fix between
the two parties), intro-
duces his promised Bill to
exempt landowners from
the Workers’ Compensa-
tion Act.
Much muddy mag-
niloquence has been
evoked by the Federal
flag business. The latest
from a Sydney news-
paper correspondent:
“ I therefore hope that
our Federal Parliament
will submit the whole of
the designs to the public,
and then to our father-
land, and let them say
what they think best for the new-born Empire’s future
flag.
By “ our father-land” the gentleman no doubt
means our Uncle-land. The Bulletin is in favor of
settling the flag controversy by adopting some
such chaste design as that of a rampant kangaroo
poking its tail into business which doesn’t concern
it, and being badly singed in consequence.
N.S.W. Lands Minister Crick recently
gave Dr. Ross some very specious reasons why
land was not thrown open in Walgett district,
Central Division, but ingeniously avoided stating
why several areas on Crown leases in Warren
district, which have been surveyed since July,
1901, and were then due for selection, were not
thrown open to the public. A certain, not very
long ago, predecessor to. Mr. Crick could give
ample information on that point.
The fate of the Womanhood Suffrage Bill
in N.S.W. Upper House was linked with that of
the Compulsory Arbitration Bill. If the old men
THE FRIENDS OF “ THE POOR.”
“ Mr. Reid explained that the necessaries of life were to be subject to
the tariff equally with luxuries , so that the tariff would piess very heavily
upon the poor.” Also , the Argus, the S.A. Register, and the importers:
“ The tariff will press heavily on the poor.”
had thrown out both measures Premier See
would have prorogued Parliament, and irrigated
the Council (swamping not necessary) with a
sprinkling of Radicals in favor of Womanhood
Suffrage and Compulsory Arbitration. The meek
acceptance of the Arbitration Bill has shelved the
female franchise question for a session—perhaps
for a Parliament.
London Times lets in light on Downing-
street dictation to Australia :
In the Post-office Bill it was proposed to forbid the
employment of Asiatics on board mail steamers. The
Secretary of State at once pointed out that this was ultra
vires, inasmuch as it violated all existing contracts, and
international law. The Government, therefore, dropped
it.
Now that Parliament has forced the Federal
Government to “ pick it up again,” what is
Chamberlain going to do ?
An attempt was lately made by Propsting,
M.H.R., to induce the Tasmanian Assembly to
repeal the Coupon Abolition Act of last session,
but Tasmania evidently knows when it is well off,
and Propsting only mustered seven votes.
Premier Jenkins, of 8.A,, now promises, in
response to a loud and general demand, to intro-
duce a Coupon Abolition Bill. The uprising
against the ingenious middleman, who lives by
coming between the man who gives discount and
the man who receives it, is becoming general.
The hoof of the syndicator is soon felt.
Stated in Q. Assembly that a Queensland railway
employee, who joined the Ohillagoe syndicate’s
service, was told to perform an unlawful action.
He refused, and was sacked. The Government
re-engaged him on the State railways, where-
upon the syndicate’s engineer wrote to the Q.
railway authorities, saying he “considered it a
very unfriendly act for the authorities to employ a
man his co. had sacked .” And the humble rail-
way department straightway sacked the man
again.
Said that one of the things which the
Premiers “ from dominions beyond the seas ” will
discuss during the coronation visit to London will
De Imperial trade-reciprocity on a basis of Pro-
tection. England has carried her Freetrade
burdens long enough, and well-informed poli-
ticians predict a tariff before the dissolution of
this British Parliament providing for reciprocity
with Australia, Canada, S’Africa, and India.
Since Barton knows no more about trade and
finance questions than a child, he ought to take
Kingston with him when he steps into Mr.
Chamberlain’s parlor.
Bruce Smith managed to work in a final
protest last week against the dreadful “education
test ” for undesirable immigrants. He was greatly
troubled lest a Government might start examining
Frenchmen in Italian or Russians in Spanish.
The poor man hasn't yet grasped the fact that no-
body proposes to examine any European immi-
grants, though the day may come when this
country will have to shut down on Russians or
Greeks or any other people. In fact, it may some
day be necessary to block all the Smiths, and then
the education test —in the Manx language—will
meet the case every time.
' During the second-reading debate of the
Industrial Arbitration Bill in N.S.W. Leg. Coun-
cil, Hawken, M.L.C., one of Reid’s awful crea-
tions, fired off this fine, vague jargon :
He wanted to know upon what basis the bill was built.
If they found that it was built upon a basis that had
caused a scourge and curse to the human race, then, as
an Australian community, they were bound to scout it.
In his opinion, it was built upon a socialism which bad
been a curse to the Eastern world, and it would result in
repression of trade, and prove inimical to the interests
not only of employers and employees, but the citizens
generally. That being so, he was bound to protest
against it in the interests of democracy and of true work-
men.
The gravamen of Premier Reid’s payment
of £350 to J. C. Neild was that the payment was
made without Parliamentary sanction. The
offence was certainly aggravated by Reid’s per-
sonal promise in the House that there would be
no payment. But the £46 Premier See paid to
reproduce copies of the likeness and proceedings
of R. Atkinson Price, M.P., was paid in direct
contradiction of an order of the Printing Com-
mittee, a body founded by Act of Parliament.
An example was, it was thought, made of Reid ;
but it would seem that the habit is inveterate in
N.S.W., and that several Ministries must be
wrecked before it will be broken.
People used'
to the N.S.W.
Dibbs, Parkes,
Reid, Lyne duels
are natu rally
puzzled at the
number of ex-
Victorian Pre-
miers now prow-
ling round. Some
of those still living
—Gillies, Munro,
Shie 1 s, Berry,
Duffy, Turner and
M‘Lean. As for
ex-Ministers, Par-
liament and other
public institutions
are crowded wi-th
them. It wa a
always the dodge-
with Parkes and'
Reid to keep the
same set of tame
puppets at back.
Failure to do this
is probably re-
sponsible for the
numerousness of
the decaying ex-
Premier down south;
Poor old Senator Neddy Pulsford arises
to ask “ with all the earnestness I can com-
mand” what is to be done with all the
surplus cash that the State Treasurer of
N.S.W. will have when he gets the State’3
share of the proceeds of a huge and iniquitous
Federal tariff. He throws out a gentle suggestion
that half-a-million or so, more or less (a mere
trifle, of course) might be given to the Railway
Commissioners to reduce fares with. And, mean-
while, the “surplus” has been spent nearly twice
over already, and the Treasurer is getting grey-
headed wondering how he will make both ends
meet.
The Govt, cow kicked out vigorously at
those who tried to milk her over the Warburton
(Vic.) railway land resumptions. One gentleman
claimed £6OO for about naif an acre of agricul-
tural land. The trust offered him £75. He re-
fused ; went to arbitration, and was awarded the
£75, but has to pay all costs. Another asked for
£3OOO for acres; it took the arbitrators six days-
to settle his case ; awarded £260, and the bulk of
the costs to come out of that. A £2500 claim was-
settled for £5O ; and a man who claimed £364, and
refused £96, emerged from the arbitration with
£5O and all costs to pay. Out of a total of £9ooo'
claimed only £682 was awarded. In the good old
Gillies days, the Government hadn’t developed'
this quarrelsome habit. It was an affable body,
and just paid up.
When the Federal tariff rose on the
horizon Sydney Telegraph hustled round to
interview “leading citizens,” who advertise with
it, and collect opinions. Among others it col-
lected this one from W. H. Lever, the soap
monarch :
England is now the only freetrade country where we
have works. I see so many evils in a protectionist policy.
You begin to protect the manufacturers, and then you
have to protect the working-men. There are always
these difficulties in a protectionist country. Where our
working-men in England have gone to the United States,
they have never been tempted to remain. They always
want to come back. The wages may be a little higher,
but the man finds he is worse off. I believe that to-day
the'working-man in England is better off and happier
tiian is his fellow in protectionist countries, though his
wages may not seem so high.
Now, if they have “never been tempted to re-
main,” why on earth do they remain ? And if
they “always want to come back,” why don’t
they come ? The whole reason why there are now
more English-speaking people in the United
States than in Great Britain itself, is that that
emigrant Briton didn’t come back.
Reid’s sudden rush into holts with the
Barton Government over the tariff placed his
Sydney journalistic jackals at a considerable dis-
advantage. They had to rush things, and, of
course, overreached themselves and fell in. After
the first Saturday ■ under the tarift the alleged
country correspondent began to yelp like this
in S.M. Herald :
FEELING IN WINDSOR.
Windsor, Tuesday.
The feeling against the Federal tariff is very strong in
this district, and the duties came as a shook to the
working classes. The increased price on the commodities-
of life which have been charged by the storekeepers have
caused the cost of living to be fully 30 per cent, higher
than previous to the imposition of the duties.
The farmers, who in general were ardent protectionists,
cannot understand how they have not benefited, as their
produce, instead of increasing in price and giving them a
better return, has become cheaper, while their imple-
ments and the cost of living has greatly increased.
Feeling is very strong among them against the present
system of taxation, and will be the means of turning a lot
against Protection in favor of Freetrade.
The beginningand the enddon’thangtogether. The
commodities of life have become fully 3i) per cent,
dearer, and yet produce is cheaper. Presumably
in the Herald office 11 >ey don’t regard “produce”
such as grain, vegetables, meat, potatoes, butter,
milk, eggs, etc., etc., as commodities of life. The
Freetrade paper is always trying to prove that
Protection is bad because it makes prices go up
and also bad because it makes prices go down, and
this struggle to be in two places at once makes
it look ridiculous.


ESTABLISHED 1853.
*
PALING’S
PIANOS
ARB TKK BEST
338 George Street,
SYDNEY, October 26th,
To Every Lady
1901,
in New South Wales.
W. H. PALING & CO., Ltd.,
Importers of
Pianos,
Organs,
Music
and ALL
Musical
Instruments.
Dear Madam,
You are thinking about purchasing a new Piano,-
we shall be pleased to hear from you. May we ask you to
pay us a visit? If you cannot do so, please send for
our beautifully illustrated art Catalogue.
Yours faithfully,
W. H. PALING & CO., Ltd.
P.S._We take old pianos in exchange and allow full value for
them.
VITADATIO
THE GREAT BLOOD HERBAL
REMEDY.
GRAVEL
CURED AFTER TREATMENT BY SEVEN
MELBOURNE DOCTORS.
9 Barkly Avenue, Malvern,
Victoria, Dec. 24, 1900
Mr. S. A. Palmer,
Dear Sir, —I consider it my bounden duty to let
Buffering humanity know what Webber’s VITADATIO
has done for me. For the last 10 years I have been a
terrible sufferer with that agonising- disease, gravel, and
of late years I have gone through almost unbearable
agony, which reduced me to a mere shadow. I was
completely helpless at times with weakness, and having
little or no sleep, I could do nothing for myself. I was
treated by (7) Melbourne doctors, and they all told me
that an operation was the only means of relief, they could
do nothing else for me. I kept lingering on, afraid of an
operation. At that time I was living at 44 Wilson-street,
South Yarra, and well-known. A lady living in the same
street sent me a message and advised me to try
VITADATIO, saying it had done wonders for her mother-
in-law, who suffered from gall stones, and that it would
cure me. I told my husband, and he advised me to get a
bottle at once. I did so, and after taking the third
bottle the disease began to come away like pieces of chalk,
and continued to come away for about two months. By
that time the pains had completely left me. I continued
taking VITADATIO until I was quite strong and well, and
it js now eighteen months since I took the last bottle, and
I have had no return of the old trouble since. I have
lived at the above address for the last twelve months, and
both m3' husband and myself have told everybody we
know about VITADATIO and my complaint. I am
thankful I have avoided a dangerous operation, and am
now in good health. I Shall be glad to give any further
information to anyone calling on me at my above
address.—Yours gratefully,
(Signed) JANE VINCENT SPENCER.
27/12/1900.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
184: Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
” —TIEi RBCIGiOn.
For circulation among adults only.
Post free to any address, Is. 6d., from the author
C. P. W. LONGDILL,
Land Agent, Gisborne, Poverty Bay, New Zealand.
633" The above book contains an idea that will revolu-
tionise our social life. Worthy of consideration from
every denomination under the sun.
Agents wanted throughout the world.
AUSTRALIAN . . .
STAMPS
Highest Cash Prices Paid
to any amount for
O'd or Rare Stamps,
Used or Unused. >
The First
Australian Stamp.
For Sale—The Largest StoofiSf STAMPS, ALBUMS, etc.,
in the Southern hemisphere.
BMYTH & NICOLLE, 14 Hanter-#t., Sydney.
Newspaper envoys from all the States are
going to Melbourne in a body, to prove to the
Federal members and the Federal Ministry
that, in the tangled words of S.A. Regis-
ter, “in the interests of true democracy
and popular education, it is to be greatly
regretted to note the introduction of 10 per
cent, duty on printing paper—the raw material
of the newspaper and publishing establishments.
This will weigh heavily upon the rural press and
journals devoted to special public objects.” Again
the Poor Man ! It is always the poor man. Of
course, the rich city papers don’t mind a bit. It
will cost some of them up to (say) £2500 or so a
year for paper-duty ; but, bless you, they never
give a thought to themselves !
Writes a Vic. pressman who looks down
on the public chaos from the gallery :
The Victorian Opposition, under the leadership of the
dismal Irvine, has gone to pieces. The members have not
held a meeting since the opening of the session. No
control is exercised in any way over the speakers. On
important debates sometimes one member of the Opposi-
tion leads off, and sometimes another. During the
Convention debate Shiels really led the Opposition. On
several occasions, M‘Kenzie, the blind member for
Anglesey, has taken the place of the leader, much to the
annoyance of the ex-Ministers on that side of the House.
One of the evil results arising from this state of affairs is
that nearly all the Ministers are taking a day off. They
do little or nothing in their departments, and less in
Cabinet. Especially is this the case with Trenwith, who
has turned out one of the laziest Ministers that Victoria
has ever had. There is no cohesion among Peacock’s team,
and in more than one important debate on liberal pro-
posals, brought forward by private members, Attorney-
General Gillott has been violently opposed to his
colleagues. Indeed, when young man Robinson
introduced his Bill to permit municipalities to levy rates
on land values only, Gillott led the Tories of the House
who attacked the Bill with great vigor. But then it is
said that Gillott is not anxious to retain his portfolio—in
fact, that he is trying to lose it, and has great hopes that
he will succeed ere long.
N ervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
5 of this issue *
*4
't'
o
r
v.%
OLD
SUNBU,
FINq
CHA
<?
&5.C
O/yr
S
H
Y
Pf *0p
R, ETORS .
t y
Missing Friends.
A. J.T., with love ; all is forgiven.
E.M.A. & A.A.
IF EDWARD O’GRADY, known as EDWARD STEVENSON,
■ son of the late Mrs. Johanna O’Grady, of Wall ring, in
the State of Victoria, will communicate with THE
TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS AND AGENCY COMPANY
LIMITED, of 412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, he
will hear of something to his advantage.
R«
SOUP RUBBER
VEHICLE
If
You
are
Interested
in
Rubber
Tyres
for
Vehicles
send
for
Artistic
Catalogue
and
Price List.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre
Co. of Australasia, litd.,
150 Clarence Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth,
Brisbane and Christchurch (N.Z.).
wmm
; .1 \
•«K'
as
1/j
• « J
■nhk^
We are
now
Fitting
SOLID RUBBER
TYRES TO ALL
CLASSES OF
VEHICLES.
They save
Vibration,
Noise, and
Double the
Life of your
Vehicle.
The Tyre we are
fitting—
THE KELLY—
is the best obtain-
able, and will last
5 years on a
private vehicle.
They contain
the
Best Rubber
and are wired on —
so that it is imposs-
ible for them to come
of.
Obtainable from
£6 10s a set
upwards.


Federal
Suits
Busia
.ness
All-Wool
Colonial
or
Imported
Tweed,
Navy
Serge,
Blue or
Black
Vicuna
STonr money
back if not
satisfied
Well-Cut
and
Trimmed,
Properly
Tailored
and
Thor-
oughly
Depend-
able
Patterns
and Self-
Measure-
ment Forms
postedfrea
ghk
ghk
To Measure
Extra Pair of TROUSERS
GIVEN WITH EVERY SUIT
Great Value! Our Famous Ready-Made
Federal Sac Suit
In Good Colonial or Imported Tweeds
all-wool Navy Serge or Black Vicuna.
.20/-
Any size from 3
to 7, Special Tailor
made,fitted with Italian
Cloth inings
Padded Shoul-
ders, in and out
breast and ticket
pockets, etc.
Carriage paid to any address in the Australian
Commonwealth or New Zealand.
DON Cash Trading Co.
173 a to 214 Johnston Street
Collimgwood, Melbourne
vWhen ordering give this number, No. 0123 &
'll
.
n
CONCERTINAS
k AND£OLAS
Unsurpassed for
TOME and . .
WORKMANSHIP.
Estd.
mo.
Manufactured and Guaranteed by
WHEATSTONE* Co.
(Original
Inventors &
Patentees),
20, Conduit Street, LONDON, W., England.
Of all Dealers ; or send direct for Price List’.
FER BRAVAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
THE FINEST TONIC
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
blinglht constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
< cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
1 debilitated children.
LANCET. “A beautiful and intereating
preparation.”
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-'*/! hat all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth.”
soil) BY CHEMISTS AI.L THE WORLD OVER.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It dri\es away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
“ Here is a story that ‘ outs ’ ‘ Dr. Jekyll
and Mr. Hyde,’” writes The Bulletin’s London
correspondent, “ on the ‘ point,’ and on all points.
It birthed, grew, and died ’mid.gore and shocking
savagery, in squalid Kentish Town (North Lon-
don). Enter ‘Dr. Jekyll’—a draper’s assistant,
20 years of age, earning 20s. a week. Temperate,
well-behaved, one of the Y.M.C.A., and who had
been half his brief life in the same billet. Exit
‘Jekyll’; enter ‘Hyde’—a dashing youth who
passed himself off as a man of means, and ex-
plained his parents away as merely the caretakers
of his (Hyde’s) house. He drank, billiardised at
a local pub. nightly, and courted the inns’
daughter. The publican jibbed at marriage, for
‘ Hyde ’ drank too deeply and often. Eighteen
months passed—then came the hideous crime-
climax. On a recent evening, 1 Hyde ’ took his
18-year-old sweetheart out to supper at his mythi-
cal sister’s mythical house. Next morning the
father of .Tekyll-Hyde burst his sitting-room door
to see a shambles. The girl’s clothing had been
torn off her with such inhuman violence that only
the sleeves of her bodice,' her necklace, and her
gloves were left on the otherwise naked form.
Her mouth gagged with her own linen, twenty-six
distinct wounds on her head, and a blood-bathed
hammer completed this tragedy ‘ not needing
words’ ! Medical evidence witnessed to six
separate fractures of the skull, nine smashes on
the forehead after death, and that the gagging
was done after absolute insensibility, when the
murderer had committed a still fouler crime. He
lay dead by a bowl of oxalic acid. An intelli-
gent jury ‘deliberately’ omitted the phrase ‘of
unsound mind ’ from its verdict of suicide !”
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
| H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
PHOSFERINE
The Greatest of all Tonics.
Piioseerine is the most powerful Nerve and Recuperative
Tonic known. It removes Mental Depression, want of Tone and
Nerve Power. It lias remarkable Health-giving, Strength-giving,
Energising, and Rejuvenating properties.
No other Medicine has received,such absolute proof of its
extraordinary properties in restoring Shattered Constitutions, and
in giving back to the prematurely aged New Life and Energy.
It is an unfailing remedy for Neuralgia, Nervous Dys-
pepsia, Anaemia, Brain-Fag, Depression, Impoverished Blood,
Rheumatism, Sleeplessness, Indigestion, Influenza, Nervous
Headaches, Debility, and all disorders consequent upon a
reduced state of the nervous system.
ROYAL COMMANDS.
Phosferine enjoys the distinguished honour of having been supplied by commands to
MEMBERS OF THE BRITISH ROYAL FAMILY.
H.I.M. the Empress of Russia.
H.M. the King of Greece.
H.M. the Queen of Roumania.
H.I.M. the Dowager Empress of Russia
H.S.H theHereditaryPrincessotLeiningen
HH hrH hH HH >-H
H W W H H
.I.H. the Grand Duchess Olga of Russia.
.R.H. the Crown Princess of Rouinania.
.I.H. the Grand Duchess Serge of Russia.
.R.H. the Grand Duchess of Hesse.
.I.H. the Grand Duchess Xenia of Russia.
And the principal Royalty and Aristocracy throughout the World.
No other Medicine has been awarded this unique distinction of Royal favor,
d it speaks volumes for the wonderful restorative properties of Phosferine.
CURES
Neuralgia,
Sciatica,
Lumbago,
Gout,
Rheumatism,
impaired
Vitality,
Debility,
Brain Fag,
Weakness,
Nervous
Exhaustion,
IVlelancholia,
Impaired
Digestion, etc.
i
A
Vitalizing 1
Tonic,
Imparting
New Life
and
Energy
to the
Entire
System.
CAUTION.
GENUINE PHOSFERINE.
Ashton & Parsons, Ld., 17 Farringdon Road, London,
the original and only genuine makers of PHOSFERIIME find it necessary to
put the public on their guard against mendacious imitations of their well-known
medicine that are being offered for the sake of extra profit.
It is necessary, when purchasing Phosferine, to see that it bears the name of
the genuine makers, viz. :
Ashton & Parsons, Ltd., 17 Farringdon Road, London
Price in Great Britain, Bottles, 1/I*. 2/9 and 4/6,
Iff" The 2/9 size contains nearly •four times the 1/1A- size.
The Genuine PhOS'ferine can be obtained from Washington H.
Sotaß & Co., Pitt Street, Sydney, and all respectable Chemists.
Wholesale Agents: SAYERS, ALLPORT d; POTTER, SYDNEY.
XJSE ■—
SPOONEB’S
m
=s:::: ,a
SPOONERS
& im t
IWTENT LEATHER BOOTS
. 'GLAZED KIDS M
H,oC*Ol¥**4*A ?+■* »««
«i«iAt«i |»? wmww«
A«
autn
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL. CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing:
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
fhs gusrasy Company’s Book
. . ON . .
DRUNKENNESS.
The Eucrasy Company of Sydney, extracts from whose
book on the disease of drunkenness have been published
by this paper from time to time, have lately issued the
third edition of their pamphlet, explaining the action of
Eucrasy, and pointing out their method of curing those
addicted to the liquor habit.
The Eucrasy cure is one of the oldest, having been
before the public since ISB2, at which time san at or hires
were in successful operation in many cities in America,
and the succees of their remedy is shown by hundreds of
grateful patients all over the world.
A well-known merchant, residing at Newcastle, says :
“ I have much pleasure in testifying to the excellent
qualities of Eucrasy. I felt even after the first dose a
different person, and may say now that lam cured. The
craving has entirely gone, and I can with full confidence
recommend it to anyone, no matter what hold the liquor
habit may have of them.
“Thanking you sincerely for your kindness, I am,
yours faithfully,
Any reader of Tiie Bulletin can obtain this book free
by addressing THE EUCRASY CO., 62 Hunter Stree*,
Sydney.
Am rican Naahtha Launches for Sale.
One 18ft., one 16ft.— Quite New.
Sharpies’ Cream Separator & Dairy Supply Co.,
143 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.
Burglars and Bottles.
.The man who has once driven a burglar out of
his house with a pistol is likely to keep the
weapon handy for use in the future.
On a similar principle Mrs Elizabeth Langmaid
is never without a bottle of Mother Seigel’s
Syrup where she can lay hands on it any day.
About four years ago she was taken bad with
what was called “a complication of complaints.”
The doctors said she had an abscess on one of her
lungs and also indigestion and heart troubles.
And, seeing how she looked and felt, we should
have believed him without a moment’s hesitation.
“ You can get an idea,” she says, “how bad I
was when I tell you I lay helpless in bed nearly
nine months.
(That does give us the idea, and no mistake.
Save for the hope of recovery—which seldom
quite perishes in the mind—l would as lief be
dead, and so have the trouble over and done
with.)
“Finally,” Mrs. Langmaid goes on to say,
“when I got out of bed, all of me that could
waste away was gone. I was just a skeleton
covered by a skin. In truth they wrapped me in
wadding—for appearance and for such comfort
and warmth as the protection might give me.
“ Whatever my complaint was I always had a
dreadful pain in my sides and under the shoulder-
blades ; but the medicines I took had no more
effect on it than so much sweetened water would
have had.
“ While in this miserable condition I remem-
bered how different friends of mine had spoken
of the virtues of Seigel’s Syrup for many kinds
of ailments that nothing else seemed able to
help,
“Anyway, I was sure it would be no mistake to
try it, and so I got a bottle from Campbell & Co.’s
store in this town. Up to that time I always had
a great feeling of weariness and drowsiness after
eating, and could not shake it off.
“But, to my delight, I soon discovered that a
doSe_ of the Syrup dispelled this almost im-
mediately, and by the time I had finished the
first bottle I was greatly improved.
“As you would suppose I persevered in taking
the remedy until by degrees I got strong again.
Gradually, too, I picked up my lost flesh, and
recovered my former good health.
“ Ever since then I keep a bottle of Seigel’s
Syrup in the house, and take a dose whenever I
feel out of sorts in any way.
“ You may publish this if you like, and I shall
always be glad to hear of Seigel’s Syrup doing
for others what it did for me.”—Elizabeth
Langmaid, Market-street, Muswellbrook, N.S. W.,
Sept. 26th, 1899.
At St. Helena, recently, a Boer prisoner,
boing attacked by a large shark while bathing,
wrestled with it, and though he had an arm and a
leg bitten off, suoceeded in dragging the fish into
3ft. of water. The man was got ashore, but soon
died.
In England there are 25 open-air sanatoria
for consumptives advertising in the current num-
ber of the British Medical Journal. Most of
them stand in sheltered wooded districts averag-
ing GOOft. above sea level. A few are on the
coast, near the sea; the majority are lighted by
electricity, and their weekly fees range .from 2 to
4 guineas.
T’other day some Fern Gully (Vic.) rate-
payers were summoned to appear before the local
court of injustice at 10 o’clock on a certain day.
The cheap beaks, however, opened the court at
nine ; and had the cases called. “No appearance,
y’r warships.” Verdicts for full amounts claimed,
with costs. At 9.45 the unlucky defendants began
to arrive—just in time to see the court disappear-
ing into the nearest pub. for refreshments.
Distinctly precious items from a recent
London Tit-Bits :—
“ Nearlj' all the kitchens of the better class of resi-
dences in Sydney, Australia, are on the top floor, and the
clothes are dried on the roof.”
“Juvenile smoking seems rather approved of than
otherwise in Australia. Inoredible though it may appear,
they have already discussed the advisability of attaching
smoking-rooms to the schools.”
The contributors of this valuable information
do not appear to be aware that Sydney houses
have no roofs, or that in Australian schools
smoking-classes have been established, with
prizes graded according to proficiency—age for
age—with cigarette, cigar, and pipe respectively.
A paragraph for intending cohentingenters
(from Windsor Magazine) : —
If you go to the Nut and Bolt Works at Cwmbran, in
South Wales, you may to-day see a middle-aged man
(none too strong in health sometimes, from his exertions
on a certain fearful January night), working as a common
laborer, in order to buy enough to earn him his daily
bread ! A man of fair complexion he is, hard-working,
honest, respectable. When he is “ dressed-up ” there
appears on his coat that little Maltese Cross, with its
magic words, “ For Valour.”
This is John Williams, V.O., the man who saved the
patients in the hospital at Rorke’s Drift whilst Hook
guarded the door ! This is the man who stayed behind
in the burning place when surrounded by hordes of Zulus,
looking in the windows, watching with savage joy their
fiendish work ; the man who refused to leave the charnel-
house whilst a single sick or wounded soldier was left in
it; the man who, with the brave Hook, defied the whole
host of Zulus to enter that blazing building if they dared!
This is the man who at last smashed through the thick
wall and literally dragged the wounded soldiers after him
—Hook doing the same —one by one, till he had dropped
them all bodily into the yard just below, where the brave
Hitch was trying to keep the .savages at bay with his rifle-
fire, so as to make a clear passage for the patients to cross
into safety !
And to-day this man has to earn a scanty living as a
common laborer, and to toil as best he can at such hard
work as a nut-and-bolt factory affords, if he wishes to
have bread to eat ! We give the successful general a
splendid income, and in the end a pension, while to such
simple heroes as Williams we offer nothing better than
the workhouse !
The Bulletin always reckoned that it
would be a sight worth seeing when Reid and
Kingston collided, and so it was. The eye-glassed
one had sat down after eloquently denouncing the
educational test for the exclusion of Asiatics as a
weak, foolish subterfuge and calling wildly for
straight, honest exclusion. Then Kingston struck
the table with his huge fist and made the books
fly round his head like a halo while he told the
House how Reid arid three other Premiers, a few
years ago, agreed to stand shoulder to shoulder in
demanding straight-out exclusion, and then the fat
man sneaked back to Sydney and accepted the edu-
cational test —the same one that he now denounced
—without even giving notice of his intended
breach of faith. And then Kingston pointed his
great hand at the podgy backslider like an indig-
nant elephant scoffing at a caterpillar.
Cabled recently that the Boers still fight-
ing had been importing “ Krag-Jorgensen ” rifles
and ammunition. The K. J. is the 6 millimetre
(about Jin.) U.S.A. rifle, said by European experts
to be much superior to the 8m.in. Mauser. The
news has some local significance, seeing that Aus-
tralia, relying, as usual, on British military infal-
libility, has been in a great hurry to lay in a stock
of the now apparently obsolete Imperial rifles.
Now, if Australia buys a stock of obsolete rifles
and cartridges, it will soon have to throw them
on the scrap-heap and buy others which will, by
that time, be obsolescent. Indeed, the Krag-Jor-
gensen may, at any moment, be superseded by a
rifle with which the Swiss Confederation has been
experimenting, which has a barrel of an aluminium
alloy (not half so heavy as iron), a 5m.m. bore,
and the flattest trajectory yet obtained.


A GREAT LIBRARY.«heWORLD’S LITERATURE.
important Nows for Every Man who ever Buys a Book.
ft
a
1
ANDREW LANG
Writes on “The Progress of Litsiature
the Nineteenth Century.”
“The First Intellectual Task of the
Age.”
“And so, I say it most confidentially, the first
intellectual task of our age is to rightly order and
make serviceable the vast realm of printed material
which four centuries have swept across our path.
To organise our knowledge, to systematise our
reading, to save out of the relentless cataract of
ink the immortal thoughts of the greatest —this is
a necessity, unless the productive ingenuity of
man is to lead us at last to a measureless and
pathless chaos.”
Mr. Harrison goes on to indicate what would be
the high value of some collection, or “healthy
rational syllabus of essential books,” that would
present “ a working epitome of what is best and
most enduring in the literature of the world.”
And he adds
“Some such firm foothold in the vast and in-
creasing torrent of literature we certainly must
find, unless all that is great in literature is to be
borne away in the floods of books. With this we
may avoid an interminable wandering over the
pathless waste of waters. Without it we may read
everything and know nothing, wandering like un-
classed spirits round the outskirts only of those
Elysian fields where the great dead dwell and hold
high converse.”
w
FERDINAND BRUNETIERE
Writes on “ French Poetry.”
SIR WALTER BESANT
Writes on “Novels That Have Made History.”
The Misuse of Books.
In a memorable address delivered nearly a
quarter of a century ago, a distinguished critic of
books, Mr. Frederick Harrison, gave utterance to
these pregnant thoughts :
“Far be it from me,” said Mr. Harrison, “ to
gainsay the inestimable value of good books; but
I often think we forget that other side to this
glorious view of literature—the misuse of books,
the debilitating waste of life in aimless, promis-
cuous, vapid reading, or even it may be in the
poisonous inhalation of mere literary garbage.”
“Whether our neglect of the great books comes
from our not reading at all, or from an incorrigible
habit of reading the little books, it ends in just
the same tiling. And that thing is ignorance of
all the greater literature of the world.”
Tv"
f
r*
BRET HARTE
Writes on “ The Rise of the Short Story.”
Or. Garnett and His Distinguished
Associates.
The chief editor of “The Library” is Dr.
Richard Garnett, C. 8., who retired a few months
ago from the responsible and laborious post of
Keeper of Printed Books in the vast library of the
British Museum, after a half-century of dis-
tinguished service. His counsel has been sought
by almost every man of letters who has resorted
to our National Library for the purpose of
literary research ; he has been intimately associ-
ated with many of the great literary enterprises
of the last twenty years, and he has probably
answered more questions about books, and post ibly
knows the contents of mo?e books, than any other
living Englishman. He is more than a man of
books, however, as many volumes of the most
varied character —volumes of poetry, of humor
and biography, as well as history and libraria ship
—have amply revealed.
Though the work is in English throughout, with
Dr. Garnett have been associated M. Leon Yallee,
Librarian of the Bibliotheque Nationale of Paris,
the largest library, it is surprising to find, in the
world : Dr. Alois Brandi, Professor of Literature
in the Royal University of Berlin ; and Donald
G. Mitchell, of New York, known the world
over for his delightful volumes written under the
nom de plume of ‘‘ Ik Marvel ” ; not to speak of
many qualified assistants.
Three Hundred Copyrighted Works
Included.
The hearty interest with which the most popular
of modern authors have welcomed Dr. Garnett’s
great enterprise is shown by their readiness to
permit the inclusion of their writings—from, in
fact, above 300 copyrighted works. Their co-
operation is further evidenced in several novel
features of the “ Library.”
The chief office of the “Library” is to gather
together a thousand of the world’s masterpieces,
and to provide an endless store of the best reading.
But it goes much further than this. The plan of
the “Library” includes a series of delightful
original essays on the literature of different epochs
and different topics, all written especially for this
work by the most distinguished of living men of
letters.
These introductory studies afford just that
stimulating touch which is so often needed to put
the reader in a mood to enjoy the treasures which
the “ Library ” contains. With these aids he no
longer explores the wide waste of books at ran-
dom, but with accurate knowledge and with the
clearest possible insight.
♦
Reading for a Lifetime.
To sum up, this great work comprises in itself
a rich and marvellously varied library. It pro-
vides entertaining reading sufficient to last the
most of readers fora lifetime; while, on the other
hand, it will supplement and round out the best
private collection of books. As an introduction
to a wider acquaintance with the best literature,
or as a means for inculcating and developing a
taste for literature, especially among the young,
it must be welcomed in every home where books
are valued and read.
It is “infinite riches in a little room-”
Max Muller’s Ideal World Library.
Something of the same thought runs through
what Professor Max Muller wrote a few years ago,
when he said :
“Fewbooks I find supremely great from end to
end, while, on the other hand, there are parts and
passages, or whole poems, that I can read again
and again, wondering more and more every time
how one man could have written them.
“If I were to tell you,” the great philologist
goes on, “what I really think, I am afraid you
would call me the greatest literary heretic, or an
utter ignoramus. Take the greatest poet of
antiquity, and if I am to speak the truth, I must
say there are long passages even in Homer which
seem to me extremely tedious. Take the greatest,
or, at all events, one of the greatest, poets of our
century, and again I must confess that not a few
of Goethe’s writings seem to me not worth a second
reading. There are gems in the most famous,
there are gems in the least known of poets ; but
there is not a single poet, so far as I know, who
has not written too much, and who could claim a
place for all his work in what might be called a
Library of World Literature.”
The Bewilderment of Modern Days.
■ - I
“ But there is much more. Even those who are
resolved to read the better books are embarrassed
by the field of choice, practically boundless.
“The vast proportion of books we shall never
be able to read. A serious percentage of books
are not worth reading. There never was a time,
at least, during the last two hundred years, when
the difficulties of making an efficient use of books
were greater than they are to-day.
“So the question which weighs upon me with
such really crushing urgency is this : What are
the books that in our little remnant of reading
time it is most vital for us to know ? Every book
that we take up without a purpose is an oppor-
tunity lost of taking up a book with a purpose.
We know that books differ as diamonds and
sand on the seashore.”
HfiNRY JAMES &
Writes on “ The Rise of the Novel.” *-
Two Great Indexes.
It will at once give something of an idea of the
extraordinary range and variety of the “Library,”
and at the same time reveal how accessible is
every topic, section, or page, to note that the
“Library ” is double indexed, that is, that it has
, both a general and topical index, and that these
two indexes contain some 10,000 entries. Every
author, the subject on which he writes, the title of
his story,, history, sketch, or poem, the first lines
of every poem, every proper name or character,
and even the special and individual topics, re-
ferred to, it may be, only in a page or even a
paragraph, are all entered up, indexed and cross
referenced.
The Prophecy Brilliantly Realised.
These prophetic words, from two of England’s
most eminent men of letters, describe in very
essence the plan and purpose of the great
“LIBRARY OF FAMOUS LITERATURE,”
issued under the editorship of Dr. Richard
Garnett, 0.8. It is precisely such a “Library of
World Literature ” as Max Muller had so curiously
foreshadowed—twenty handsome volumes, bring-
ing together in a convenient and delightful form,
and still at a price within the purchasing power
of the great reading public, those supreme ex-
pressions of human genius, those single poems,
those famous chapters, those marvellous short
stories, or portions and descriptions from larger
works—in short, those great parts of great books,
“ the immortal part of their most mortal bodies,”
which, as the Oxford professor says, “make it
seem a very miracle that they could have been
composed by man.”
It goes almost without saying that such a work
would have been next to valueless if it had not
been done by men of the highest competence and
on the broadest scale. “The LIBRARY OF
FAMOUS LITERATURE” represents the best
judgment and most accomplished criticism of our
time.
+
You are Required to Pay but
10s. to Secure the Complete
Set of 20 Vols.
You Get the Books Now, You
Pay for them at Your Leisure.
DR. GARNETT, EditOr-in-Chief.
n?
MAURICE MAETERLINCK
Writes on “ The Drama. Since Shakespeare.
Illustrations That Are Interesting.
The “Library” is richly embellished with
nearly 500 full page illustrations and colored
plates, printed separately from the text, on heavy
enamelled paper. There are portraits of the most
famous authors who ever lived ; there is a delight-
ful series of pictures of “Authors’ Homes” and
the still more novel series of “ Famous Authors
in their Homes.” So, too, their haunts are shown,
the scenes of memorable passages in their books,
and places celebrated in literature or in history.
Rare-Colored Plates
The colored plates, running through every
volume, form one of the most notable features of
the “Library,” They have been gathered from
rare sources, and comprise some of the most ex-
quisite specimens of the antique art of book illu-
mination which flourished centuries ago, when
books were made by hand, and the transcription
of a single volume often represented the labor of
years.
\\\H®
EDMUND GOSSE
Writes on “ What is Great Poetry.”
The* Edition for New South
Wales is Limited, and the
Time is Limited.
Two Methods of Subscriptions.
1. * THE CASH PAYMENT PLAN, enabling
the Subscriber to save 5 PER CENT, over
the 'prices for deferred payments.
2. v THE DEFERRED PA YMENT PLAN, by
f which the Subscriber receives his Books on the
preliminary payment of 10s., and completes
his payments ( according to binding selected),
at his leisure, while the books are in his
6 j possession.
The Volumes may be Examined&Ordersbookedatthe following Addresses:
Sydney : Messrs. Gordon & Gofcch, 123 Pitt-st.
Messrs. W. H. Paling & Co. Ltd. 338 George-st.
Dyinock’s Book Arcade, 428 George-st.
Brisbane : Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, Queen-street,
Newcastle : Messrs. W. H. Sproull & Co., Booksellers.
Messrs. W. H. Paling & Co., Ltd.
Bathurst i Messrs. J. R. &A. Jones, Booksellers.
W.Maitland : Compton&Pankhurst, Booksellers, High-st
Goulburn S Mr. H. T. Downes, Bookseller.
Grafton; Mr. G. C. Syer, Bookseller.
Lismore : Messrs. Syer & Co., Booksellers.
Full Particulars upon
Application.
It is the desire oe the Publishers that
EVERYONE SHOULD HAVE THE FULLEST INFORMA-
TION CONCERNING THE “ LIBRARY OF FAMOUS
Literature” before purchasing. With
THIS OBJECT IN VIEW AN APPLICATION FORM
IS PRINTED WITH EVERY ANNOUNCEMENT J THIS
FORM SHOULD BE SIGNED AND POSTED TO THE
ADDRESS GIVEN, WHEN FULL PARTICULARS AS
TO PRICES AND TERMS WILL BE SENT, TOGETHER
with a ] 00-page Prospectus.
Application
Form for Prospectus.
(TO BE CUT OUT AND POSTED).
To Messrs . Gordon & Gotch,
JPitt-street, Sydney (p.o. box igi%)
This Form can be
sent in an Unsealed
Envelope for Id.
Please send, me the Eree Prospectus and Part iculars of your offer of ‘ ‘ ' Jl he
Library of Famous Literature.”
Signed
S.B. 3.
Address


Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER ....
REUTER'S
LITTLE
PILLS FOR
THE LIVER.
Are particularly adapted to the needs
of the family, act in such a manner as to
cause noinconvenience,specially intended
for the cure of all ailments arising from a
disordered LIVER and STOMACH.
Swallowing'.
©
Swallowing a sword is a
trick not conducive to health
or longevity. But it is not
more injurious than the
hasty swallowing of half-
masticated food, washed
down by gulps of tea or
water. Hasty eating is the
fall of health. Sooner or
later it must result in in-
digestion, or some other
form of stomach disease.
For the cure of the diseases
of the stomach, and allied
organs of digestion there is
no medicine so effective as
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills. Mr. Vine is a well-
known greengrocer, residing
in Denison-street, Kingston,
Sydney. He has a few
words to say about his
suffering and cure. “ For
some considerable time,” he
said, “ I have had a bad set-
to with acute indigestion,
which at last took me to a
doctor. The pains would
catch me sharply in the pit
of the stomach, and with
such severity that when the
doctor told me what my complaint was I could
scarcely believe him, thinking that indigestion
could never use a man so badly. His advice and
medicine, however, did me no good, and I was
advised by friends to try different remedies. I
followed this one’s advice and that; but my
complaint was still as bad as ever, when I resolved
to give Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills a trial, as I
had heard them praised so much by many
I knew who had used them. From the
first dose they acted very well upon me,
giving me more relief than anything I had
taken, and I can recommend them to all
who suffer as I have done.” Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood purifier
and a positive cure for biliousness, indigestion,
constipation, headaches, sallow complexion,
liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils,
blotches, and female ailments. Sold by chemists
and storekeepers, Is ljd per bottle, or six bottles
6s. 6d. Sole proprietors, The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd. (Australasian Depot). 58 Pitt-street,
Sydney. Packed in amber bottles, and the full
name blown thereon.*
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there 19
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY At
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General PosD
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
WW. GREENER’S New Book, “ Sharpshooting for Sport
■ and War.” All Riflemen should read this Book.
Price 1/2 posted.
W. W. Greener’s New Rifle, 310 bore, made expressly
for Cadet Corps, very accurate ; 10 shots in 2 inches at
100 yards at last Bisley Meeting, price £3 3s.
Sporting- Martinis to take 44 Winchester Cartridges.
Adapted for Kangaroo Shooting, &c.
Greener’s Lee Enfield Rifles, Govt. Viewed, Guaran-
teed First Quality.
These Rifles are in the hands of many of the best rifle
shots in the States, and in every case are giving great
satisfaction. Twenty-one consecutive bull’s eyes made
with one of these rifles at 700 yards ; 98 out of possible 105
at 400, 500 and 600 yards made by Mr. Jordan, Capt.
Warrnambool Rifle Club ; 104 out of possible 105 at 400*
500 and 600 yards by Mr. George H. Tolley, of Stawell.
Greener Cuns from 9 to 30 Guineas always in Stock.
Prices and Catalogues on Application.
Cb.EL3. "W. Buoltl a ixd,
Representing W. W. GREENER,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Can You Sprint ?
Perhaps you can, but you feel that you want
just that little bit at the finish to win. You
will be right there every time if you ride a
gh
kgh
RED BIRD
RACER
Because our New Models are
Agents in every Town.
lilt so that you can pedal faster and with less effort than on any other machine.
You can buy on Easy Gradual Payments.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
V.A.T.C. meet (ended Saturday) produced a
profit of over £2OOO. Last year’s excess was £2720, but
stakes were £5BO less and weather much more favorable.
* * • *
«Ti l ' B year’s Caulfield Cup, contested by a field
Of and run in record time, was, in its purely sporting
asp( ci, a thing of beauty and a joy for ever. Followers of
form ask for nothing better than a race so honestly
fought out as this was. To begin with, the first favorite
was the brilliant mare Wakeful, weighted at 9st. Wake-
ful, after winning Newmarket Handicap from end to end,
had captured Doncaster Handicap over the Randwick
mile with ease, and had finished a good third in Sydney
Oup. Wakeful had run away with the w.f.a Caulfield
Stakes a week previously. Her speed and stamina looked
equal to winning the Cup in her own plain, straight-
forward way. The mare was ridden with that idea. Un-
fortuiiatdy for her backers, the gay Wakeful played up
at the barrier, and, being* placed at the wrong end of the
line, far away from the inner rail, she had to strike across
the course soon after the start to obtain the coveted posi-
tion. So, instead of getting a great “ break ” on the field,
as in Caulfield Stakes, she was only a length or so ahead
of Hymettus as they belted past the stand.
The race may be described as a chasing of
Wakeful by Blunderer, Hymettus, Bonnie Chiel, Cluster,
Caledonia and 17 others, of whom Flagship made a show
towards the finish, and Juggler ran respectably.
Blunderer and Bonnie Chiel appeared to drop out of their
positions through tiredness. The “ ruck ” horses never
had a chance. Probably Grasspan and three or four of
his companions would have got nearer to the front but
for being blocked ; all the same, they were fairly beaten
by the more speedy leaders. Some distance from
home it was evident that Hymettus, of all the
pursuing steeds, was the only one that could possibly
wear Wakeful down. Half-way down the straight the
big chestnut collared the flying mare, who had been
making pace for him, but even then she wasn’t beaten.
It was struggle for struggle between them —a pair of
heavy-weights, first and second favorites, fighting it out
to the bitter end. The judge gave the race to Hymettus
by half-a-head, which meant that their fore-legs were
level as they passed the post. Honors were easy between
the two bull-dog battlers, and the backers of Hymettus
had the luck to get full money instead of half-pay. There
never was a great handicap race in which a dead-heat
would have given more general satisfaction.
The Caulfield Cup amounted to what horse-
reporters call a splendid vindication of recent running.
Allowing for a little difference in the conditions, this
struggle was pretty true to the “ form ” of the previous
Saturday, when Wakeful and Hymettus finished ahead of
the crowd in the Stakes (10 furlongs), and Bonnie Chiel
and Blunderer filled the first places in the Toorak Handi-
cap (1 mile). No accident marred the race, and none of
its features had a nasty, evil smell. Grasspan disap-
pointed his backers, but then Grasspan had done nothing
on the previous two days of the meeting to justify his
backers’ confidence.
Caulfield Cup time was § sec. faster than pre-
vious record—the 2.36 of G’Naroo in 1891. Moreover, the
performance last Saturday was remarkable for the fact
that two heavy-weights made the record. Paris won with
9st. 41bs., but then the runner-up, Devon, carried less
than 88t. Cremorne, the ’96 winner, had Bst. 91bs. on his
back when Straightfire (7st. 31b.) followed him home.
And both Paris and Cremorne took 2.38 sec. or longer in
doing the trick. .
* • » * *
Hymettus belongs to Mr. Jas. Paterson,
wealthy ship-owner, coal-merchant, and prominent sport,
and is by imported Eiridspord (now dead) from Busy Bee,
by The Marquis (imp.) from Beeswing, by Lady Kirk
(imp.) from Spa (imp.), by Leamington. At two years
Hymettus got home twice in 12 starts, winning V.A.T.C.
Nursery Handicap (7st.) and V.A.T.C. Juvenile Stakes
(8.5). Next season saw him line up 18 times, and score
thrice, securing Vic. Club Flying Handicap (9st.), V.A.T.C.
Welter (9st.), and V.A.T.C. South Yarra Handicap
(8.2). Prior to his annexing his first Caulfield Cup (in ’9B)
he got away with the Three and Four-year-old Handicap
at Flemington (8.12), V.A.T.C. Heatherlie Handicap (8.9),
and V.A.T.C. Coongy Handicap (8.12). Subsequently,
Hymettus ran second to Stand Off (7.1) in the Oakleigh
Plate with 9.2 in the saddle. Twice this season he shaped
unsuccessfully, but appropriated Show Handicap (6 fur.)—
8.1 up—at Flemington, and the Vic. Club Oup (lm.) at
Caulfield (in Aug.), carrying 9.5. Then Memsie Stakes
(lm. lfur., w.f.a.) fell to him in Sept.
* » * *
Jock Powell, up on Hymettus, had luck. The
day before, it appeared unlikely he would be able to ride
through illness. He is 25 years old, and has been in the game
15 years. Adelaide Cup, Birthday Cup, Onkaparinga Cup
(twice), Alderman Cup, Goodwood Handicap, Kalgoorlie
Cup, G.N. Hurdles, and other big helpings of turf plums
have been closed on by him at various times. Talking
afterwards, Powell said ’twas impossible for any nag to
have had a clearer run than Hymettus.
• * * *
Said that there was nothing in the stable up to
trying Wakeful. She was backed for the Cup on what
she did on her own. Caulfield Stakes was merely a test
of the estimate formed on her single-handed trials.
Wakeful is the handsomest mare seen this side of the line
for many a year.
* • * *
Interesting facts of Monday’s settling over
Caulfield Cup were that Hymettus’ owner won less than
£2OOO, a Melbourne tobacconist collected close on £3OOO,
a Oollins-street stock-broker had 2000 to 20 of “ Oxy’s ”
money, and still holds 2000 to 10 from same man about
same nag for Melb. Cup. Double books are in a bad way
as everything having a chance has been coupled with
Hymettus. Still there may be a “ turn-up.” Mo. has had
many of them before.
* » * *
Up to now there has been little encouragement
for the Sydney division to estimate their Flemington
chances by the results of the A.J.C. Spring meeting.
Recent heroes—Sequence, Lucknow, Grasspan, and
Hautvillers—have diminished in importance. They
looked brilliant in comparison with the animals they met
at Randwick, but at Caulfield they made a poor show.
Hautvillers, who is a Victorian, anyhow, may win the
V.R.C. Derby, though Grasspan and Haymaker look more
dangerous, but the three-year-olds are a moderate lot.
If anything that showed up at Randwick last September
is to win the Melbourne Oup it will probably be - Aus-
tralian Colors. Granting that the four-year-old son of
Australian Peer finished only a bad third to Wakeful and
Hymettus in the Caulfield Stakes, his effort at the finish
looks more creditable on paper to-day than it seemed at
the time.
Will Hymettus win Melbourne Cup? His
Caulfield victory left the big ’un uncommonly shaky on
his pins. Present scribe would like to bet 5 to 1 against
Hymettus for the two-mile race, whilst taking 5 to 1 that
he doesn’t start for it. No punter who saw the brave old
’orse nibbling away at the grass after he had returned to
the birdcage last Saturday can confidently predict his
victory for Melbourne Cup. There are 17 days of final
preparation on the track to be put in between the two
events, and if Hymettus can stand a thorough Cup
“winding-up” his legs must be artful dissemblers.
“ Don’t back Hymettus until he goes to the post ” is good
advice. In any case he doen’t look quite hard enough
to pull through a severe two-mile race, although he is
much more fit than was that other great generous horse
Trenton when he ran second to Arsenal in the Melbourne
Oup of ’86.
A lot of common horses that can’t possibly affect
the issue, save by causing an accident, will be started in
Melbourne Oup, more’s the pity. It was so in Caulfield
Cup. The Bulletin last week named 10 as the most
likely lot to provide the winner and runner-up. Eight of
those 10 started in a field of 23, five of them finished in
the first seven, and three of these scooped the place-money
among them. Eleventh-hour tipsters, as a rule, got
nearer to the mark. Moral: The supply of “ rough out-
siders ” with a reasonable show of winning big handicaps
is very limited just now. With two or three exceptions,
the long-priced ones for Melb. Oup are not worth talking
about as long as Wakeful, Revenue, Flagship, Australian
Colours, and Hymettus gallop well in the market.
• * * *
Latest well-backed one for Melbourne Cup is
Revenue. _ A big commission from the right quarter
brought him down to short figures, and best price going
Monday last was sevens. Same sort of move was made
on same nag last year, but he never looked a possible
winner at any stage. Inference from the manner in
which those who should know best came at him is that he
does well in private. With silk up, however, it’s quite a
different thing. A five-year-old, bred to stay, and having
only 7.7 to bring home, Revenue should be good goods,
but he is a long way from it on public form.
* • • *
The wail of the owner and the punter is loud
over the disinclination of Ikey Mo. to bet to any extent
on either Caulfield or Melbourne Cups. The slightest
smell of a commission causes a terrible shrinkage of the
odds. Asserted positively not a single stable had £5000
™ an y horse for Saturday. A few years back
£10,000 could have been secured easily. Wakeful
stable only gathered up £3000 in all' the States
before the price fell to eights. In Carbine’s
year all the public were on him, and yet owner
Wallace secured £30,000. Hymettus went down to tens,
with even less money than Wakeful. A Sydney Mo in the
Vic. Club rooms last Friday night laid a few wagers at 90
to 20 against Wakeful, and, later, seeing another Mo
backing the mare, fell over himself in an effort to grab all
available at 85 to 20. Immediately the Chosen lay a
tenner or a pony their satellites are sent all over the
place to back it so that the Children can’t lose. There’s
nothing in owning horses now, and won’t be till the tote
comes along with bigger prizes and more equitable
betting.
* • «
Ikey Mo. has reason to perpetually wail his
‘losses.’’ After winning Caulfield Stakes, Wakeful
"5°PP® d 9 to 1 to 5 to 1 and at the Victorian Club on
the Saturday evening an investment of a solitary £100
brought her down to fours. At this rate the punting of
a thousand or so would foreshadow ruin to the whole
tribe of Ikey.
* * * *
28 starters for the Gwyn Nursery at Caulfield
last Saturday, and Fishery, a handsome daughter of Bill
of Portland and Fishwife, was backed at 3 to 1 to beat the
fieW Given a fair run for all of them the odds against
the favorite were absurdly short, but the foolishness of
punters was emphasised by an accident. Three of the
mob toppled over, and the 3 to 1 chance was among them.
Kinglike, the colt that scored a brilliant win in
the Eclipse Stakes at Caulfield last year, and has never
done anything since, was a starter for the Ooongy Handi-
cap on the Wednesday of the recent Caulfield meeting.
He whipped in the big field. The story is that the
severe race of 12 months ago broke Kinglike’s heart, or
ruined his constitution—but Time is a great healer of
hearts, anyhow. Also, it is unlikely that Leslie M'Donald
would pay for the privilege of galloping the horse in
pubhc if there were no hope of getting him back to
form.
• * •
T Winner Reynaldo (by Horatio—
Letitia) of Wyuna Steeple at Caulfield, Saturday, was
once owned up Wagga way by Mr. M‘Donald, who ran
him about the border till he broke down. After a spell
he was utilised as a hack, &c., till three months ago, put
up for sale at Wodonga, Brewer got him as a gift.
? ey 18 ful1 brofcher to Polonius, sold by Mr. M‘Donald
tor £300.
* * • *
S.A. League of Wheelmen’s Spring meet on
Saturday was fairly profitable. Ten Miles Australian
premiership was wildly contested. Bathurst (NSW)
man Mutton came away with Bilmartin, and after a mad
tussle the great old plugger won by lOin. Four yards
from home they were locked, and it was only by one
great last effort Martin won. Time, 23min. 26sec.
YValnes, Symonds, and McDonald’s tyres blew out. ML
champion Sutherland didn’t start. Mutton won the’
Three-mde Handicap, and M'Donald snatched the
f M ayorS^le m. by3 . ln - f^? m plu gK er Bill. Martin won
the Ten-mile Championship last year. The mile is the
priated her professional bike supremacy not yet appro-
* * • .
Bill Martin, who rode at the opening of
Adelaide cycling season, never looked better in his life
In winning the half-mile he made a spurt which showed
ttiat when the hot weather—which was always to Bill’s
liking- comes along, the plugger will rival hi's last year’s
performances. Walne is not yet himself ; in Adelaide he
looked pale and worn. Martin, by the way. is on
excellent terms with S.A. League officials; awhile ago
We u e compe ? le , d t0 dod ff e d <>wn a side lane whin
William hove in sight. Aunger and Wilksch, two local
lads, showed splendid form, and should win big events this
season.
* • . .
Third round of Sydney first-grade cricket began
w! Urd i ay ' { Bai T, lnK surprises, wins for Paddington and
Waverley from Burwood and Glebe look certain. Batting
Wasn t extra good in any match, and in some
cases it was much below the average. North Svdnev
came very much to the front, notching 322 in 3ihrs
against Sydney—made up of inter-State men M‘Beth and
lightning-bowler Marsh, as well as Charley Turner and
one or two change ” men of repute—Fenton and
Richardson among them. Hopkins (son of late Comp-
troller-General of Stores) accumulated 128 and Walter
Duff 93, for North S y dne y . For Waverley against Glebe!
bowler Newell gathered in 5 for 26, and Howard 4 for 43
* . * • *
Sydney dailies are raving that the coming
Bn 4 1S J\ ? ara won fc be stron ff enough in bowling. As far
a8 N - S : vy - la „ con £ ern ® d ,; t won’t require to be particularly
powerful. Marsh and McBeth, since season began, have
done nothing hair-raising, and show no promise of doing
so. Howell hasn’t figured in first grades, and can’t be
sized up. M. A. Noble is far ahead of all of ’em, and
even he’s no great shakes. ’
* * • *
Roberts-Weiss agony is over, and Roberts has
gone Ome again. The Britisher conceded 5500 in 21,000
Weiss led throughout 24 afternoon - and - evening
sessions, and ultimately finished 1811 to the good.
Closing night saw Weiss open with 640 to win. His first
good break reached 170, then 50, 212, and 195. Roberts’
top effort was 267, and his neit 98.
* • • *
Forty-second gathering of N.S.W. National
Rifle Association began Monday with some remarkable
shooting First stage of the King’s match provided a
record—36 shooters made the “ possible ” at 500yds and
a big number notched 34 and 35. Previously the Associa-
tion gave £1 each for “ possibles,” but they’ve dropped
that since the introduction of the -303 rifle rendered
scoring' of seven consecutive “bulls” easier than with
other weapons. Of the possible 105 in the first stage of
“ the King’s,” two competitors—Mr. A. Carter (Vic.) and
Const. D. Scott—totted up 100. High merit of the shoot-
ing generally may be gauged by the fact that 125 scored
90 or over.
* * * *
The finals of N.S.W. Sports Club amateur
boxing championship competitions were slogged off at
Queen’s Hall, Sydney, Saturday night, in a decidedly
tame manner. Boxing finals are always unsatisfactory,
and there seems to be no way of avoiding it. A certain
number of men draw byes. If they are good ’uns, they
romp right over the bashed and bruised victors who
struggled through a number of gruelling rounds the night
before. If they are wastrels who would have been slugged-
out in the first scrap, they have no chance against the har-
dened veterans who have slogged their way right through
by sheer grit. Bantam Post was belted right out in
one act by Harry Clifton. Featherweight Simpson,
Otto Cribb’s brother, made a rather miserable exhibition
against the bull-necked and deep-chested Clifford. His
one redeeming point was skilful ducking, but Clifford
followed him ruthlessly till Simpson took refuge on the
floor till the referee counted nine, when he climbed on to
two unsteady legs, and for the rest of the time hung
round Clifford’s legs till he was knocked down and
counted out. The fight between M’Tigue and Welland
began promisingly, notwithstanding that Mac. had one
arm in bandages. Things were humming nicely when
Mae. accidentally placed one arm round his opponent’s
leg, and was promptly disqualified. The intervals between
the contests were filled in with rapier and sword exhi-
bitions, which were by far the best parts of the show.
m m * *
Yankee bruiser, Scanlan, opened business with
local negro, Ike Stewart (11.4), at Sydney Golden Gate
A.O. on Saturday night to a crowded house. Scanlan
was taller, at least a stone heavier, and had the advantage
of several inches reach, but all the same he had far from
a walk over, and, although Ike was beaten, he managed
to tear away the great funk that wrapped the stranger
round and flapped out over the souls of Sydney pugdom.
The first round was very willing, and Ike ladled out bruise
and bash just as effectively as the other fellow from Murka.
Bounds two and three were absolutely the black’s, and,
had the fight ended there, Ike would have adhered to the
shekels. In round four Stewart began to give way, but
the fighting was still fierce enough to move the case-
hardened audience to roars and howls. Sydney audiences
always howl when hair, and blood, and hunks of pug are
flying about. In round four Scanlan got one home and
laid the Austral right out, but he came up again and gave
his opponent a couple of trimmers. The Yank, finished
artistically by planting a left on one section of the jaw,
and before the reeling Stewart could recover, a weighty
right on the other side stretched him out as one in a
dream, while a droning voice counted ten. If Saturday
night’s exhibition was Scanlan’s true form, and writer is
very suspicious it was not, M'Ooll and his backers are going
to win a lot of money comparatively easily on November 18
at Newcastle. There were flashes of science and spurts
of power that indicated that the Yankee had banked his
fires till the market was fairly rigged.
* • * *
A first-class bruiser, when he is at its best, is
like a first contingent when it is departing—simply loaded
down with assurances that he shall never, never want for
anything. When he slumps ! One-time Victorian
sterling bruiser, Peter Newton, proceeds to address those
who promised wildly in the days of long ago : “ During my
travels many friends invited me to stay at their places for a
while. If they feel that way now, I shall be only too
happy to go to town or country, as things are not too
good with me at present, and it would do me a lot of
good.” Painful trouble in the legs keeps Peter down,
and has reduced him to poverty. Will some of the
“ many friends ” of his days of affluence kindly send along
their addresses ? That other great Peter (Jackson) found
about three friends, out of all the armies of admirers, to
stand to him in his day of broken health, and they were
the ones who could afford it least.
» * * *
The great Dunlop road-race from Warrnambool
to Melbourne was won by A. Nioa (40min. start). The
first five men rode Dunlop tyres.
* * * *
The first five men in the Warrnambool road-
race rode Dunlop tyres.*
French dairy-farmers threaten to invade
England with their milk, and, alarmed at this
new blessing of Freetrade, the onee-faithful Cob-
denite papers cry out “ that the impoverishment
of British agriculture is attributable to foreign
competition.”
Seven pounds seven shillings is recorded in
the first year’s Commonwealth expenses as having
been spent on the funeral of the late Minister
Dickson. That is certainly modest—so modest
that if it was worth spending it was not worth
entering up as an historical record. It has been
the custom in the U.S. that members who died
during the currency of a session were buried
wholly at public expense.
On Tuesday last the Bank of N.S.W.
proceeded to do honor to Messrs. Lamport
and Hazel ton, the manager and assistant of
the Henty branch bank that was attacked by
armed robbers some time ago. Inside the
head banking chamber was a crowd of faces,
most of them with shaven chins and a grey-
ish tinge in the hair. The counters were covered
with red cloth and draped with Union Jacks. Dr.
M'Kellar made a speech, in which he related
many successful attempts on the bank’s wealth,
which went to show that men like Lamport were
somewhat scarce. They dated as far back as
1859, when the Deniliqum branch was robbed by
way of setting a good example. Then he
went on to say he wouldn’t have censured
Lamport very severely if he had surrendered,
and dwelt upon the value of the example
set by the square-headed, heavy-jowled young
man with the mousey hair and moustache, to all
the officers to risk their lives in “ our service.”
Next he enumerated the gifts: 12 months’ leave
of absence on full pay, a gold watch and chain,
suitably inscribed, and a cheque for £5OO (wild ap-
plause at the mention of the cheque for £500),
which he handed over, and which Lamport put in
his waistcoat pocket. He then presented assistant
Hazelton, who yelled loudly and threw a chair at
the retreating robbers, with three months’ leave of
absence on full pay, a gold watch and chain, suit-
ably inscribed, and a cheque for £lOO (more
and proportionate cheers at mention of cheque
for £100). General manager Russell French, on
behalf of the staff, presented Lamport with a
dress travelling case, gold sovereign-purse, field-
glasses, and gold sleeve-links. To Hazelton
the staff gave a dress travelling case and a gold
sovereign-purse. Then Inspector-General Fos-
bery, in a bob-tailed coat and grey pants,
announced that the Government would award
gold medals for valor. The statuesque DJbbs of
the Commercial Bank passed over a cheque for
£25, and was followed by Manager Adams of the
A. J.S. with a similar cheque, which Lamport put
into the same pocket. Then the recipient re-
marked that he thought some people were taking
an exalted view of things. After this there were
songs and champagne and flashlight photographs.
After declaring for weeks that the Federal
tariff was the outcome of a dark Victorian con-
spiracy to loot the other States, and a “sop” to
Melbourne, and the device of a Victorian-bossed
Ministry to prop up the “ricketty ” industries of a
bankrupt State, the Sydney Freetrade papers
suddenly broke out last Tuesday with the
news that Victoria had arisen unanimously
against the accursed thing, and had repu-
diated it at a great public meeting. And
then they forgot all about Victoria’s alleged indig-
nant repudiation of the tariff again, and went
right on talking of it as a hideous Victorian con-
spiracy once more. As a matter of fact, Victoria
is showing very little enthusiasm either
way. . There certainly was a quiet sort of
meeting in Melbourne, allegedly to protest
against the tariff, but only one or two
tenth-rate Victorian politicians attended, and
the speakers were almost all from other States.
It was mainly a few extraneous politicians pro-
testing to a Victorian audience. On the other
hand, nobody seems to be boiling with joy over
the tariff down in the Cabbage Garden. Not
that that makes any difference to the Calico
Jimmy party’s argument. The Sydney Free-
trade papers said that Victoria was over-
whelmed with joy at the tariff and that proved its
utter badness, as being a Victorian conspiracy
against the peace and happiness of Australia.
Then they said, on the strength of last Monday’s
meeting, that Victoria hated the tariff, and that
also proved its utter badness, for even Victoria
couldn’t stand it. The Sydney Freetrade press
has swelled Victoria up to such artificial import-
ance that that State can’t sneeze now without
thereby proving something. Victoria, in fact, is
the Tom Slattery of the States. It was the Free-
trade Sydney D.T., by the way, which set up
Tom Slattery as a bogey-Machiavelli in N.S.W.


AFTERNOON TEA FORKS
10/6
kgh
13/6
SIX BEST SILVER-PLATED FORKS IN WHITE SILK-LINED BOX.
A Large Quantity of these Useful and Pretty Novelties,
IN A VARIETY OF PATTERNS,
AT 10/6 AND 13/6 THE HALF-DOZEN.
These Goods arrived before the Imposition of the Federal Duties, and are being' sold at
FREIiTHADE PRICES.
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY GO.
187 PITT-ST., SY3ME\
i (Next Shadier’s Caf6.)
SEE HOW THEY RUN.
Massey Harris Bt tytlt
Is superior to all others. The Massey runs easy and keeps running easy. The latest Ladies’ and Gent.’s
Models are worth seeing, more especially if you are going to buy a Bicycle. Think of Massey-Harris reputa-
tion, easy terms and guarantee.
West Australian Depots: Hay Street, Perth; and Hannan Street, Kalgroorlie.
»*i :i ßranches throughout N.S.W., Victoria, South Australia, Queensland, New Zealand.“a®
No thar/hs
we
r/e/er
use
ANY
ii
Tea
BUT
GLOBE TEA
rnms is the old-fashioned system of selling Tea.
It is practised a lot to-day, but the people who
patronise the Tea-Agent get very poor value for
their money.
GLOBE TEAS
are sold to you direct, and for your money you get
its value in Tea. You don’t get one shilling’s
worth of Tea and sixpence worth of Tea-Agent for
your eighteenpence. Be wise, and send your order
direct to us.
ATCHERLEY & DAWSON
Tea Mercha.nts,
284 George St., Sydney.
THE
n.S.Ri. fresh food slet Coy’s
Pasteurised milk
Used in...
Palace and
Cottage.
Absolutely Pure. Richest in Cream.
Contains ne Chemical Preservatives.
ul
an
tot'iw*
HEBBLEWHITE’S
377 George-St., Sydney.
DIRECT IMPORTERS—
SgWipg fjaebipcs, Bicycle SPpdrigs,
Lctter-Filipg CabipetS. . . .
PRICE-LIST OF SEWING MACHINES:
WILLCOX & GIBBS,
NEW AUTOMATIC
Hand Machines .. £7 5 0 No. 3 Drawer and
and £7 10s. Cover (as print).. £9 9 0
No. 1 Treadle ..8 0 0 No. 3£ Cover, 3
No. 2 Treadle and Drawers and Flap 10 10 0
Drawer .. ..8 5 0 And upwards to .. 18 18 0
NEW VICTORIA,
Silent, Light-Running Lockstitch.
Hand Machine and Cover £3 10
No. 32 Cover, Drawer and Treadle .. 4 5
No. 34 Cover, 3 Drawers and Drop-leaf 5 0
No. 35 Cover, 5 Drawers and Drop-leaf 515
0
0
0
0
NO TIME PAYMENT.
All above Prices
are on a. . . .
SPOT CASH BASIS.
Why pay Exorbitant Prices when you can Buy for Cash 1
N.S. W. ’s allegedly well-meaning Treasurer
is said to have another good resolution on hand :
he proposes introducing a Bill to define what
works are fairly payable out of loans and what are
not. At present, everything is payable out of
loans when the Treasurer feels that way, which
he always does. All the same, it is one thing to in-
clude gaols and lunatic asylums as “permanent
and reproductive works/’ while the House, by tacit
agreement, looks the other way, and another thing
to declare by Act of Parliament that they are
“ permanent and reproductive.” And, just for
that reason, Waddell’s alleged hazy good intention
is not likely to be further heard of.
A Richmond resident sued Vic. Railway
Commissioner for £l5, for damages sustained
through stepping out of a carriage that had over-
shot the station-platform, and falling 7ft. The
accident happened at night. The defence was
that “there was no negligence and no invitation
to alight.” Defendant got a verdict, with costs.
It is to be assumed from this that passengers are
not to leave railway - carriages till expressly
invited by the Commissioner or his official repre-
sentative, and any man neglecting to wait for the
invitation leaves on his own responsibility, if he
leaves on his ear.
DIAMONDS
ARE
FREE
From all Customs impositions
—truly impositions—unneces-
sary impositions—
khg
Our £5/5/- 5-stone Ring
is a Marvel of Value.
We can therefore advertise truly, as we have done for years past, that we are supplying all Gem Goods at
PRICES.^.
RINGS, for example, we mount in our Sydney workshops. We mount them in STYLE and
FINISH that is not eclipsed by London workmen. We employ RING ARTISTS—men of exquisite
And Skill.
London
Plain Figures.
Strictly Cash.
FAIRFAX « ROBERTS,
Vice-Regal Jewellers. ' 'UNTER. ST., SYDNEY.
Tb<
Callagbai)
Boot
Honest Wear
In every pair.
||Hk &o
/ ■ r&BKH
- r
. '■ ,
; : :v
: :
1 ■
THIS
BOOT IS
PHOTOGRAPHED
PROM
STOCK.
Our Boots can be
EXCHANGED If not
correct, as we wish
DISTANT customers
to be as pleased as
those in town.
Your money RETURNED if you
are not satisfied with the
Boots.
Calf Lace, full goloshed, medium wide welts, bespoke appearance, 21/-; postpaid, 22/-
Tan Willow Calf Lace, full goloshed, fast color cyclists, perfect fitting, 22/6 ; „ 23/6
All Sizes and Fittings.
Why not mail
your order to-day ?
CALLAGHAN & SON
y 395 Georgo-st,, Sydney.
At Poverty Point.
Singing-teacher Steffani, who, for practically the past
20 years, has been established in Sydney, sailed t’other
day for Europe, accompanied by Mrs. Steffani and Miss
Hetty Molroyd. Mr. S. intends to get an engagement
for the latter lady during the forthcoming Italian carnival
season. Steffani has, in Sydney, turned out some notably
good vocalists, such as Mrs. W. A. M'Donald, n&e Slattery
(one of the few true dramatic sopranos that Australia
has produced), Miss Florence Schmidt (at present doing
well in England), and Miss Hetty Holroyd (of whom much
may be reasonably expected). Miss Nellie Cooke, of
whose capabilities Steffani has a high opinion, will follow
in a month or so, and study with him in Europe. .Steffani
was originally in the Admiralty Office, which he left to
join Mapleson’s Italian opera co. at Covent Garden, and
it was there that he Italianised his patronymic of Stevens.
He afterwards played the principal bass part, “Daland,” in
the first English production of Wagner’s “ Flying Dutch-
man,” at London Lyceum, with Santley as the F.D. About
’77 he came to Australia, for Sam Lazar’s opera co., and has
remained here pretty well ever since Being possessed of a
“ long voice, he was able to tackle a great variety of
rdles, including Marcel (“Huguenots”), Oroveso
(“Norma”), the Commendatore (Don Giovanni), Alfonso
(“ Lucrezia Borgia ”), Don Basilio (“ Barber of Seville ”),
etc. Steffani is also a painter of no mean capacity, and
has frequently “exhibited.” He is undecided as to his
s>,dnei wm vmS,My him
: ' , . . ...
Apropos that orchestra strike. To the musicians toil-
ing immediately under the stage margin, unhonored and
unpaid, an impecunious actor-manager appeals in vain for
assistance. They lack the motive of personal vanity that
impels mummers to go on hoping against hope as long
as they can go on mumming They rightly regard a
theatrical show as a business to which they are bound
only by bonds of cash remuneration in accordance with
contract, and for the new manager, who has established
no claim to their present sympathy by a record of prompt
payments in the past, those sane and sordid bandsmen
care no more than if he were an hotelkeeper who had en-
gaged them to play in the vestibule of his pub. United
they perform, and together they “ strike” unless it suits
them to continue the music on spec. Why shouldn’t
they strike if the spec, looks unpromising to them ?
They know their business. For a just appreciation of
things theatrical one can’t do better than apply to a
trombone, a cornet, or a big drum, not that a first violin
can’t also be a very practical person where his salary’s
concerned.
S.S. : The cruellest thing I have seen on the stage has
been happening nightly at Melb. Majesty’s, where Mrs.
Edwin Bryer plays Mrs. Malaprop Rocks in a summer
atmosphere several deg. above human comfort. Mrs. B. is a
veteran, having reached an age at which it is no longer
necessary to repudiate past birthdays. She is also an
actress of liberal proportions, and carries more weight
than any other actress at present in active operation in
Australia ; and yet she is called upon to do her part with
a lively quartette in a breathless song-and-dance and an
energetic knock-about. The audience thoughtlessly
insists upon encores, and when the substantial old actress
resumes operations that particular turn becomes a
painful event, and provides the judicious with a burning
grievance.
Edith Crane’s dangerous roll down a flight of stairs in
“Nadjezda,” at Melb. Princess’s, was a very Yankee
novelty. Some critics have complained that Sarah Bern-
hardt’s death-scenes are too violently sensational to be
admirable. But if the startling back-fall of Divine Sarah
is “ playing it rather low ” on her enthralled audience,
what shall be said of a lady’s attempt to score a high-
tragedy effect by rolling downstairs? Miss Crane’s route
was carefully padded, of course, for the sake of her
cranium ; all the same, the advt. spoke truth when it
said that “ very few gentlemen ” would care to risk the
ea^-
A fasting man has been putting up a gruesome exhibi-
tion in M.L. country districts—a life-like representation
of a hanging. The scaffold is 16ft. high, and similar to
the legal neck-breaking apparatus, with the exception
of an “ improved trap ” (which means a lot to the person
to be dispatched). The usual formalities are gone
through, and the fasting man signs his own death-warrant,
Why a man should sign his own death-warrant isn’t ap-
parent, but the incident is stuck in on general principles,
An executioner pulls the lever, the condemned man
shoots down an incline, and dangles 7ft. from the ground.
The horrid show would be stopped by any sensible police-
man, and the people who go to see it, in the dim hope
that some day the man will make a mistake and kick
convulsively and become a blue and green corpse, should
a i B o be arrested on suspicion of a tendency to brutal
crime, and punished accordingly.
“Edson” ' The Bulletin, Oct. 6, credits Mr. Wilson
g arre tt with “occasional genius.” As one anxious to
learn j would j; ke to have one of W.B.’s flashes of genius
defin ’ d I have made something of a study of Mr.
aut hor-actor-manager Barrett, and he strikes me as the
per f ec ti o n of the Machine. Never for an instant has he
; nade v ; sib le to me anything but the smooth mediocrity
that comes 0 f i on g use and effort and close familiarity
with gfc wayg an( j means ; never once does he strike
fire _ he cannot even emit a spark. Passion, as portrayed
b him ig a matter of obvious formula—you feel he has
t £ e rec j pe f or it in his vest pocket. Look at his Hamlet!
tVhat a masterly exposition of Mr. Wilson Barrett—a
heavy clerical gentleman of certain age! The machine
ig true it rung smoo thly, its bearings are oiled regularly—
genius ! Australia is full of worse performers who
are be (- ter ac t or s
Dru lane (Lon don) Theatre, although the year has
•> . , . I „,Ai
been notoriously bad
tamed its earnings. V show a nrofit for the
Q ueen T 1^ 0 ™ ?n excess of last
J«ar ° f l 7 1 ,f et proceeds of an insurance
i;f„ rpu;_ nmcl-icallv
closing at that period.
idea of the Sydney Palace Theatre
box . r C ece f t | lr . H Eickards decided on a trip to
eri ° a pC T ’he decision, however, was not made in time
£ w , to The v y^. ld > s Entertainers,” whose agent
™ 1 k befo rehand. There is going to be a big
® d ; ; people f ro in America to this land,
jp t ,
“ Melb.” : Mr. Tyrone lower has been reading tne
Scriptures for two Sunday nights at Pastor Hughes,
St. Peters, with a chorus of delight from the lady
fashion-reporters. I regard this sort of thing as rather
nauseous. It is to be regretted that Mrs. I otter should
have been cajoled into this figuring at an English Church
service. Her style of living in Australia, and that of Miss
Nance O’Neil, showed a proper appreciation of the dignity
of the profession. It is remarkable that Coppin has
never played off the church-and-stage act. His idea of
church-and-stage was co-operating with Parson Perks, at
Richmond, Melb., in the establishment of the local dis-
pensary. Perks was before that his bitterest foe, but
came round on finding out that this play-actor was quite
a Christian,
Mr. Burns-Walker debated a new pupil at the Young
Men’s Christian Association, last Monday, when Miss
Emily Hutchinson-Cooper displayed a voice that has been
trained down so effectively that, whereas she once pro-
bably shrieked, she now certainly sings. Miss Cooper sang
the Patti valse-song and other melodies, and also duetted
with Mr. Burns-Walker in something from ‘Lucia di
Lammermoor.” She didn’t always rise to the occasion,
nevertheless the audience frequently rose to her ana
gave her enough floral decorations to stock a flower-
shop. Burns-Walker was encored several times, but
sternly refused to respond.
Died in Melbourne, recently, Adolph Gonzales, an old
Australian circus identity. Not so very old in years—
only 52—but a veteran performer in the ring.
A Melb. merry-go-round proprietor has fixed up a new
and highly-popular form of amusement called the Flying
Angels. The cherub mounts a scaffold, catches on to a
pulley running on a taut wire rope, and slides down to
the far end, bumping into a well-stuffed hay-bag at the
finish. T’other night a well-nourished angel of 18 stone,
from the neighborhood of Lonsdale-street, started on the
heavenly tour, but her avoirdupois was too much for her
muscles and she hastily descended into the mud—with
some broken ribs.
Chance or coincidence, or what? Some years ago, a
man named Thomas Peel was killed at Chiltern (Vic.),
On a recent Monday Madame Heller was giving a clair-
voyant exhibition at the hall in that town, and in reply
to the question, “ How did Thomas Peel die ? ” she gave
a detailed and accurate description of the accident,
Then she added that Peel’s mate, Andrew M'Millan,
would shortly be killed in somewhat similar fashion. One
week later something heavy fell on poor M'Millan,
and the prediction was verified. The local correspondent
of Melbourne A<jb swears to this.


ARE YOU
e
i
CAPILLA
Stops the Hair from falling.
Stops the Hair from going grey.
Promotes a luxurious growth of Hair.
Eradicates Dandruff and Cures Itching
Scalp (both of which are sure signs of
approaching Baldness).
Don’t Look Old before your time -«*
CAPILLA HAIR TONIC is not a highly perfumed preparation—it is
a MEDICAL TREATMENT for the Scalp and Hair.
CAPILLA. is the ONLY Hair Restorer on earth that is actuallly guarantee! to CURE
BALDNESS (providing there is a slight down on the scalp). Testimonials and full direction for use
enclosed with each bottle. Sold in one size only — 2/6 per bottle ; by post, 3/2 ; inter-State, 3/5 ;
or the Full Course of 6 bottles for 17/2, inter-State, 19/2 —under cover. Stocked by all up-to-date
Chemists and Storekeepers.
W. RICHARDS,
Sole Proprietor and Manufacturer,
168 Pitt-st., and 14 Imperial Arcade
SYDKTEY, UKr.S.-W.
TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
G. BRANDAUER & Co/s}
Circular-Pointed Pens. *
Neither scratch nor spurt, the
points being rounded by a new
process.
Attention is also
drawn to their
new
Seven Prize Medais Awarded,
S I
“ GRADUATED
SERIES of PENS.”
Each 'pattern being made in four degrees
of flexibility and Points.
Usk your Storekeeper for an Assorted Sample Box of either series. Works: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND.
THE ROHDE BDHH OF DOSTRDtID HINTED.
HEAD OFFICE : MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
TWENTY-SEVENTE report,
Presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General Meeting on 30th October, 1901.
THE Directors have pleasure in placing before Shareholders the annexed Balance-sheet and Statement of Accounts
■ for the Half-year ending 30th September, duly audited and certified.
The'Net Profits (including £3858 12s. 6d. brought from last half-year) amount to„
Out of which it is proposed to pay a Dividend at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum
~£10;559 9 11
.. 3,750 0 0
TV . torevwrtthat during the Half-year the business has been well maintained, and they
The Directors are please t p b 4it business to the Bank, and trust for a continuance of this support.
‘"%SKS Sf b "”“ 10 ta
nromutlv attended to and, the Directors trust, with increased convenience to the Bank s clients. . ...
"to state that the Manager, Mr. Wilson, hag been absent for some time owing to ill-health,
but they trust to see him back at an early date. q{ Board
A. ADAMSON LAING, Actino Manager.
Balance-Sheet of the Royal Bank of Australia
j) r F or the half-year ending 30th September, 1901.
Limited.
Or.
CAPITAL and LIABILITIES.
To Capital Authorised —
600,000 shares of £4
each £2,400,000 0 0
To Capital Subscribed —
First issue of 150,000
shares .. .. .. £600,000 0 0
To capital paid-up .. £150,000 0 0
~ Reserve fund.. .. 15,000 0 0
~ Profit and loss account 10,559 911
To notes in circulation
~ Bills in circulation
~ Government deposits
~ Other Deposits—Rebate and interest
accrued —
Not bearing interest £140,010 13 3
Bearing interest .. 412,449 15 7
To balance due to other banks
~ Contingent liabilities, as per contra..
£175,559 9 11
5,906 0 0
39,545 7 7
Nil
652,460 8 10
10 16 11
139,778 0 0
£913,260 3 3
ASSETS.
Bv coin, bullion, and cash
at bankers .. . .£173,721 3 3
~ Government, munici-
pal, and other public
stocks, debentures, and
funds .. .. 69,000 0 0
~ Notes and bills of other
banks .. .. .. 838 3 6
~ Balances due from other
banks .. .. .. 6,257 6 0
~ Stamps 482 17 5
By Real Estate, consisting of —
Bank premises ..
Other real estate at cost to bank
„ Bills discounted and other advances,
exclusive of provision for bad and
doubtful debts
Bank furniture, fittings, stationery,
&c., at cost, less £6lB written off for
depreciation
~ Liabilities and securities of customers
and others in respect of contingent
liabilities, as per contra
£241,299 10 2
Nil
19,572 14 1
511,979 19 0
630 0 0
139,778 0 0
£913,260 3 3
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To salaries, rent, and other charges .. £3,200 7 9
~ Balance .. •• 10,559 911
£13,759 17 8
.. £12,608 12 6
By balance at 30th March, 1901
Less dividend declared 26th
April, 1901 £3,750 0 0
Carried to reserve fund .. 5,000 0 0
„ Balance carried down
~ Profits for the half-year after deduct-
ing interest accrued on deposits and
rebate on bills current, less reserves for
bad and,doubtful debts
8,750 0 0
£3,858 12 6
9,901 5 2
£13,759 17 8
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To balance
£15,000 0 0
£15,000 0 0
By balance.. .. .. .. .. ..£lO,OOO 0 0
~ Transfer from profit and loss account .. 5,000 0 0
£15,000 0
list’s
&
ynH Effective Cure
kiCHrlMnAMEDEmtliss
Weak Eves Dimness ETS
531 CEORCE ST .
fcVmßusmp iBtyaßl
REGD. LABEL.
Tiie Greatest Discovery of Modern Times
. . FOR . .
ALL EYE COMPLAINTS
nrici "f r from any cause whatever.
ROSE’S^^.
Celebrated Eye Lotion
A CERTAIN CURE for Sandy Blight, Granulations, Bunged Eyes,
Dimness of Sight, Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids, Weak Eyes caused by
Dust, Sun-Glare, Overwork, &c., Swelling Blight resulting from stings
of flies and insects.
Used with equal success on the Eyes of Cattle, Sheep, Poultry, &c.
Largoiy used by Rifle-Shooters and Literary Men.
Testimonials from leading Commercial and Professional Men throughout Australia.
Sole Proprietor . . .
H. A. ROSE , Chemist, 531 George St., Sydney
Sold by all Chemists a,nd Storekeepers. Kif Beware of Imitations.
COPE’S NAVY CUT and PRAIRIE FLOWER
(SPECIAL MIXTURE)
As supplied to the ARMY and NAVY.
Manufactured in England.
TOBACCOS
Agents—Virgoe, Son and Chapman.
k
PHYSICIAN
Registered by the
Medical Board
of N.S.W.
SURGEON
HAVING had 30 years experience in all parts of the world, and also having lately made an extended trip through Europe and America, he
is in a position to treat every case submitted to him according to the methods of the most recent and eminent Specialists of the
whole world.
Every Case treated on its own Merits.
Sufferers at a distance, unable to describe their cases to their own satisfaction, should write for Dr. Watson’s
“Guide to Diagnosis,”
which will allow them to give exact and full particulars, so as to enable him to report fully as to the disease and its radical and rational
method of treatment.
FREE (Personally, or by Letter).
The publication of crowds of symptoms, testimonials and puffs of one’s skill and attainments savours too much of self-praise ; so the public
should look with a doubtful eye upon all those who “ doth protest too much.”
Dr. Watson does not pretend to say that “ One Pound is sufficient to send,” as stated in certain advertisements, for he considers that the
public are quite satisfied to pay a fair price for fair and legitimate treatment.
Write for small
“ Guide
( please mention this paper when writing.)
to Health,”
and Method for Self-Diagnosis.
1
137 Elizabeth-St.
SYDNEY.
*
#/
V


The Model Brewery «f the Commonwealth
BREWERS
AND
BOTTLERS
OF
ALE
STOUT
ENGLISH
ALE
SPECIAL
STOCK
ALE
AND
LAGER.
TELEPHONE:
No. 162 Paddington
No. 206 Central
WiflE SPIHIT MERCHANT -
SYDNEY,
MOORE PARK
■
7—X
rEl£fitfi)Jr£ SOS'.
Eras
mm
,o
f6O
A&*l.
o
m
ms-.
i I
&Jk:4q
m
vs..
■m
a .
4^
* ■ V >
KIMS
55f
’■r
*>*
tnrm
I
\
At-Wl
rs
£23
pry*
*0 o**
Z<
Jte
fins
m
V:A-
-’ -r~
' * ® • iwm * - < tt ji‘ - < t ♦ (I
• irfmrnT: ,••. • ;; • fHOTmr;.. - W-J
sW
s?C^v
# &
m
1
iV
Mi
.
dfj-
<?£*■
■<■■ :
•ft
OF OUR BREWERY
'
■.. r ; ■•■
e. n
Agent for
Watsop’S
Whiskies
Sazerac
BrapdieS
JObile?
Scbpapps
BolS’ (Sips
Bitters $
LiqCifOrs
Hepry(ao(iUt
Cbaippagpe.
All Brands of Wines *
in Stock.


Arthur Griffith and Allen, 169 Phillip-
street, Sydney, Patent Agents and Consulting
Engineers. Patents, Trade Marks and Copyrights
protected throughout the world.*
Knowledge in five minutes. Book,
“Business, Memory and Figures.” Sydney
Daily Telegraph says: “It is crowded with
curious short cuts of calculation, valuable
memory aids, hundreds of wise saws and modern
instances, which, if followed out, should lead on
to fortune.” Is. postal-note ; J. C. Cox, Darling-
st., Balmain, Sydney.*
The prospects of Lager Bier fife wing in N.S.W.
looked a case for the coroner until, on 22nd June last, Mr.
Edmund Reach bought the extensive plant and buildings
of the N.S.W. Lager Bier Company. Then, regardless of
expense, he entirely remodelled the brewery, and placed
it under the management of his sons, Mr. Edmund Reach,
Jun., and Mr. Arnold Resch. These two sons have spent
several years in Europe, mastering every detail of
scientific brewing. Reach’s Lager, therefore, should
quickly become the national drink of Australia.*
The V. V. briar pipe is an old and acknowledged
favorite, through its unvaried excellence of quality. Its
manufacturers spare neither time, trouble, nor expense
in bringing their pipes to the standard of perfection, with
the gratifying result that the pipes have not only caught
the Australian smoker, but have also secured the appro-
bation of the seasoned smokers of Europe. The prize
medal at the Paris Exhibition of 1900, where medals are
earned only by top merit, was taken by V.V. pipes.*
N.Z. Loan and Mercantile Agency Co. reports
for week ended 19th October that marsupial skins were in
only moderate supply, and slightly higher rates ruled.
But the market, though very firm, cannot be expected to
remain at that level. In opossum skins there is no
change of price, but quantities offering are diminishing.
The demand for tallow in London last week was very
poor, only one-fourth of the catalogues clearing. Local
shipping buyers are consequently looking sideways, and
out of 644 casks offered, only 47 were taken by local users.
Lower rates are impending, and the co. is therefore
selling all available before the slump gets any worse. At
present the slump is about 30s. per ton. Hides were
irregular. Sheep-skins were also irregular, buyers having
assumed a cautious attitude owing to certain news. At
the wool-sales at Melbourne and Adelaide the market was
not quite so good as a week ago. Sydney sales begin
next week, but there are signs that the prices of last
week will not be maintained. Owing to beneficial rains,
there is reason to hope for a record wheat-harvest.
Quotations : Prime, 3s. ; f.a.q., 2s. lid.*
Victoria Racing (Jliib.
CUP WEEK.
DERBY DAY NOT. 2.
CUP DAY NOV. 5.
OAKS DAY NOV. 7.
STEEPLECHASE DAY ... NOV. 9.
LARGE ENTRIES.
ACCOMMODATION FOR THOUSANDS.
The Conveniences for the Comfort of Visitors now
surpass anything in the World.
HOLIDAY EXCURSION FARES.
H. BYRON MOORE, Secretary.
Amusements.
FITZGERALD BROTHERS’
CIRCUS <sc MENAGERIE.
MELBOURNE SEASON—I9OI.
ENTHUSIASTIC APPLAUSE!
ENTHUSIASTIC APPLAUSE!
ST. HILDA ROAD, ST. HILDA ROAD,
In a Special Building Erected under the Superintendence
of Mr. DAN FITZGERALD.
THE GREAT JUMPING HORSE,
NEWHAVEN,
Winner of the High Jumping Prize at Bendigo Show,
with the Record Jump of 6ft. 9in.
Will Jump Over 6ft. Every Evening in the Ring.
HAL GEORGE. \
PRANK JONES. /
Reps.
Amusements.
QRITE R I ON THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Director .. .. Mr. H. HALLAM.
EVERY A - MIDDLETON.
EVERY EVENING at 8 o clock, and WEDNESDAY and
T , S f ATORDAY AFTERNOON, at 2 o’clock.
Instantaneous Success of Stahl’s Delightful Operatic
Oriental Conceit,
SAID PA-SHA..
The Initial Performance of
SAID PASHA
by the
JOSEPHINE STANTON
AMERICAN
COMIC OPERA dk MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
Full Orchestra and Chorus.
Musical Conductor, Mr. A. C. Pell.
PRICES : Dress Circle and Reserved Seats, 4s. ; Stalls,
2s. 6d. ; Family Circle and Gallery, One Shilling. Early
Doors from 7 to 7.30 p.m., Sixpence extra.
Plan at Nicholson’s.
Mr HARRY ABBOTT, Treasurer.
H E ?, MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ ■ Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
t of the GRAND OPERA SEASON. '
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S ITALIAN OPERA COMPANY.
THURSDAY OCT. 24, IL TROVATORE.
FRIDAY, OCT. 25, LA BOHEM2.
„ . Return to Sydney of Mr. WILSON BARRETT.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 26, THE CHRISTIAN KING.
Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6s. ; Stalls, 3s. :
Family Circle, 2s. ; Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
THE
LAST 6 NIGHTS
of the
WORLD’S ENTERTAINERS
(POLITE VAUDEVILLE)
SSr REMEMBER ! ! I
EVERY NIGHT and at the
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY at 2.30 p.m.
No Extra Charge for Reserved Seats.
PRICES—Is., 2s. and 3s.
Seats at Elvy’s and Theatre.
THE GOOD-BYE NIGHT—WEDNESDAY, OCT. 30th
EMPIRE THEATRE, SYDNEY
“■> Oastlereagh-street, Next Fire Station.
FULLER’S EMPIRE VAUDEVILLE COMPANY.
EVERY EVENING, at 8. SATURDAYS, 2.30
In Addition to the Vaudeville Entertainment,
Mr. W. J. Coulter's Dramatic Combination
In the Sensational Bush Drama in one Act,
RANSOM.
Headed by Miss DORA MOSTYN, supported by i
Powerful Co. |NF“ AN EVENT.
Prices—2s., Is., 6d. Children Half-price except 6d. seats
I^YCEUM
Sole Lessee and Manager
THEATRE, SYDNEY
William Andersoi
TO-NIGHT, at 8 o’clock, LAST NIGHT BUT 1,
A LONDON ARAB.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 26, First Production ii
Australia of an Entirely New Sensational Drama,
THE “10.30” DOWN EXPRESS.
PRICES—3s, 2s and ONE SHILLING. Box Plan at Elvy’s
IVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY,
Sole Proprietor .. .. Mr. Harry Rickards
THE CRACCS, the BMost Marvellous Acrobats in the World.
WILL WHITBURN, Australia’s own Comedian.
PROFESSOR DE WYNNE.
JAMES BAIN.
NEVA CARR GLYNN.
CLAUD SULLIVAN.
ERNEST SULLIVAN.
JOHN COLEMAN.
IDA MAY.
JESSIE WILLIAMS.
HOWARD CHAMBERS.
DORA TAYLOR.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Saturdays & Wednesdays.
oTjou theatre, me lbourne.
Lessee .. .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Sub-Lessee .. .. Mr. William F. Hawtrey.
NINTH WEEK of
THE HAWTREY COMEDY CO.
4th WEEK of the Funniest of Farcical Comedies,
TOM, DICK, and HARRY,
Preceded hy “ A HIGHLAND LEGACY.”
PRICES—Ss., 35., 2s. and Is. Plan at Allan’s.
RICKARDS’ NEW 6 PERA HOUSE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY
COMPANY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, THE TYLER FAMILY,
in their Unique and Unequalled Risley Act.
FRED. BLUETT, Comic Vocalist and Eccentric Dancer.
Re-appearance of FRANK LEON, England’s Greatest
Character Comedian and Champion Dancer of the World.
And Miss LIZZIE KIRK, the Fascinating Young English
Serio and Comedienne, and all Our Great Co.
"THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
FRIDAY, OCT. 25, LAST NIGHT of
TAKEN FROM LIFE.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 26, First Time in Australasia,
HEARTS ARE TRUMPS.
The Great Modern Melodramatic Spectacle.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Box
Plan at Allan's CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
■ Lessee Mr. George Musgrove.
Under the Direction of .. .. Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative .. .. .. Mr. Allan Hamilton.
SATURDAY, OCT. 26,
THE BROUGH COMEDY COMPANY,
First Production in Melbourne of
LADY HUNTWORTH'S EXPERIMENT.
An Original Comedy in 3 Acts by R. 0. Carton.
PRICES : Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, ss. ; Stalls,
Ss. ; Amphitheatre, Is. (Early Door Amphitheatre, Is.
extra.) Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzie’s, and The Grand.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager. Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas.. Mr. E. J. Tait.
EVERY EVENING. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S OPERA CO.
FRIDAY, OCT. 25, LAST NIGHT of
THE CASINO GIRL-
SAT., OCT. 26, Commences a Series of Popular Revivals
with Gilbert and Sullivan’s Delightful Opera,
THE GONDOLIERS.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, ss; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
rpOWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
( Mdlle.
<&ss<&s(§s
RETURN SEASON OF SONG RECITALS.
THURSDAY EVENING, 24th Inst.
AND
SATURDAY, 26th.
Mr. Robert Claranee Newell,
THE BRILLIANT YOUNG PIANIST, will assist Mdlle.
DOLORES,
JAMES TAIT,
Mahamr.
HORDERN’S Have Not Raised
Their Prices on Account of the Tariff.
SO PLEASE ORDER AS SOON AS YOU CAN.
HORDERN’S try to please their customers and will hold to their old Freetrade
PnVpQ a h lom? a a possible, and will continue to deliver Goods CARRIAGE FREE by
the PARCELS POST to any TOWN in NEW SOUTH WALES.
Of Ladies and Gentlemen residing in the Country tell their Sydney Relatives or Friends
v to come in to us, and select for them, they will receive every attention.)
HORDERN BROTHERS,^-
SYDNEY'S LEADERS OE FASHIONS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt Street, Sydney.
CHARLES READ & CO.,
5-stone Half-Hoop
DIAMOND RING,
Price, £5 and upwards.
6-stone Diamond and
Sapphire Ring.
Price, £3 10s. and
upwards.
6-stone Australian Opal
Ring, 22/6.
Camden Buildings, 420 Ceorge St., Sydney.
16-et. BROOCH, with Opal or
Turquoise,
Price - - - 17/6.
Three doors from
Strand Arcade.
A Saving of
25 per cent.
jewellery,
SOLID SILVER GOODS,
SILVER-PLATED WARE.
Write for our 80-paged ILL US Tit A TED
CATALOGUE.
At the Bar call for
’S. No other.
A Blood-Purifying and Life-Giving Brink.
FOR MEN, WOMEN, and CHILDREN.
Removing all Pimples and Blemishes of the Skin.
I
FAMOUS
SARSAPARILLA.
CONTAINING FOUR TIMES THE MEDICINAL PROPERTIES OF THE
ORDINARY SARSAPARILLA.
TO BE OBTAINED BY THE SINGLE DRINK AT EVERY HOTEL AND REFRESH
MENT ROOM. All chemists, Is. 6d. per Bottle.
Insist upon being served with MORTON’S. Take no other.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA.,
FISHER and COMPANY,
Pharmacy: 337 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY,
Nearly Opposite General JPost Office.
COLLINS’ PATENT PROSPECTING DISH
Has the following' advantages over
the ordinary Tin Dish —
A Flange projects round one half and
and prevents the loss of any metal-
fine or coarse.
No experience is required to use it.
A boy can pan off as easily as the most
skilful miner.
Double the amount of work can be done
in a given time than with the old dish.
Sold by all Storekeepers and Iron-
mongers throughout Australia.
If you have any difficulty in procuring
the Collins’ Patent Dish in your own
district write to-
ll. JOHNSON CLAPHAM
& MORRIS, LTD.
78 Pltt-St., Sydney, and
231 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
Manufacturers under License from the
Patentee.
hgk
A copy of “A Policy for the Common-
wealth,” The Bulletin’s particularly suc-
cessful pamphlet, will be posted from this office to
any Australian address on receipt of Bd. in stamps
(of any State).
ARE YOU WEAK,
Low-spirited, Tired of Life ?
Have You utterly failed in Your efforts
to regain health. ?
THE LANGSTON REGENERATOR WILL CURE YOU.
Its effects are almost instantaneous, and the good
effects go on increasing from day to day.
ABE YOU A SUFFERER from bad health in any of
its many forms ? Do you feel nervous, fretful, timid,
and lack the power of will and action ? Are you sub-
ject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless,
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy ? Are your
kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a dis-
ordered condition ? Do you feel generally debilitated ?
Do you suffer from Rheumatism, Neuralgia, or other
aches or pains ?
Write to-day for the Doctor's Calendar ; beauti
fully illustrated, and of vital interest to aU.
Seek the Truth, it Costs Nothing.
No matter what you are suffering from, the
REGENERATOR restores the shattered consti-
tution like magic.
ADDRESS :
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
Cor. RUSSELL and COLLINS STS., MELB.
To Music Teachers.
ATTENTION is invited to the following publications :
New Century Edition of Henry’s Pianoforte Tutor,
brought up-to-date by Claude Ridley. Farmer’s Violin
Tutor. The original work, with the addition of six
studies by Bernhard Carrodus ; these editions are
unrivalled. New Century Pianoforte Tutor, by W. A.
Jefferson, M.R.C.0., rapidly gaining popularity from its
simplicity and comprehensiveness. Ballantine’s Mandolin
Tutor. Bulch’s Cornet Tutor, and Dipple’s Flute Tutor,
all of the very first style of production.
W. PAXTON and CO., London and Melbourne.
Castro’s Last Sacrament
Br ALBERT DORRINGTON. 4* 60.
Obit. : At Rookwood Asylum, Sydney,
Patrick O’Hara, a native of Sligo, Ireland, un-
married, aged 101 years. There is another old
man now living at the asylum who is well into the
nineties.
S.A. Assembly has been discussing for the
last three months various schemes of Parliamentary
reform. The Jenkins Ministry wants to reduce
both Houses by one-third, but every other party
unanimously opposes this and submits its own
scheme. The country crowd, which forms a
majority, wants to re-distribute seats giving pro-
vincial districts more representation, and the
Laborites favor leaving the Assembly alone and
abolishing the Tory Council altogether. Holder
knew what he was doing when he proposed, last
year, that the whole matter should be settled by
an independent convention elected by the people,
for Parliament is evidently determined not to
reform itself.
South Australia is considering four dif-
ferent harbor schemes. Lindon Bates, eminent
engineer, lately recommended a million-and-a-half
scheme at the entrance to Port Adelaide river.
Merchants and wharf-owners with big vested
interests—including the wealthy S.A. Co.—want
the river deepened. Marino, the best site of all,
is 10 miles from Port Adelaide, and has the united
opposition of all other “ vested-interest ” parties.
The latest scheme is a harbor at Port Victor, with
a canal to Goolwa to tap the Murray and secure
much valuable river trade. This latter scheme is
very old, for one S.A. Ministry spent over a
million in building a breakwater and left it but
half-finished. Strange that, though different
crowds are now shrieking for Govt, construction
of an outer harbor at the cost of the taxpayer, and
the State is considered quite good enough to take
charge of this unremunerative job, it is considered
unfit to manage the profitable tramways. Tucker,
M.P., who runs the Port Victor scheme, is one of
Snow’s chief tramway barrackers.
“ Ormond ” to The Bulletin :—
In yours of 12th inst. a par. states that Yic. Assembly
rushed the Coupon-abolition Bill through; “killing the
co. by ambush.” Permit me to deny the statement. Not
long ago Premier Peacock received a deputation from the
monopolistic co., when the latter made out the best case
it could in favor of its pernicious Yankee system. The
co. also knew that during the last State election nearly
every member pledged himself to vote for the abolition of
coupons ; while some time ago a committee of Yic. Leg.
Council strongly urged that the rotten idea should be
stamped out. Both Democrats and Tories agreed that the
public should be no longer gulled by such a questionable
and mysterious snare. The co. also had the opportunity
of replying to the large deputations of tradesmen and the
public, who demanded that the unwholesome trade
should be abolished, and the Premier says he never
before listened to arguments so weak and ridiculous. All
the co. could prove was that they (the shareholders)
would lose their tremendous, and unearned, divs. if Govt,
abolished the coupons. The system had scarcely a friend
in the whole Vic. Assembly, and few solid busi-
ness men really favor the coupon system. They prefer to
trade on the merits and cheapness of their goods.


r Con)n)oQwealth Diary Post Free to aoy Part of Atistralasia
THE SPECIALISTS wbo have d°ne more
■* 1 ;
.'WMm
wp3MB: l ■■
. •
THAN ALL THE LEGISLATION RR®
Srlt
]HIS isN
Medial Institute"
vj AUSTRALIA «itH a bona fide capita!
' : sfends : bebinUsuapan|iea:tas e'Viti'ence
: Ta!lhful:perfPr4iianc'cof .a\Lpontbacts4 ; . ; ' /
r OQ
Notice,
rraef e “-
*4
4;
i
v.
Of i
’''The Founder o f the INSti ty te. <
%\
i.'The well known Corner opposite H^de.-Phrk^
'iz&beib
and
.SECTION OF WAITING ROOM
pTCc
'»sj s
c °ncfi
“Cfea
, . _
Electric Bath under Legal Medical Supervision
Testimonial from Sir Dominic Qsrkican/
’ Pt?xsidar? to (|UeeN
J entertain a Very high opinion of D R/
Wailace. both personally and in respect of ; ;
his professional attainment! /70 c
{ Dominic Corrigan. T :£ o
, v h
l .
i • by Medical Boards of
f New South Wales, Victoria. South Australia
England & America
J«\o9
. Corner in the'Typewriters’ Department- We have, been com-
-1 peiled to-addto thisdepairtment several. Smith Premier machines.
Coi)Stiltatioi) ai)d Adv/icQ Free of Charge.
Which is oo remarkable for its progress in \
alt departments of Art, Philosophy, Mann*
faoture.and Science, it is surprising to find the
practice of Medicine so deplorably in the rear,
while thousands of practitioners in the healing art
prefer to remain in the professional groove of their
predecessors. The Freeman and Wallace Electro*
Medical and Surgical Institute consulting staff rise
superior to the false code of ethics, which tyrannic*
ally bind the medical profession, and announce
to the publio that upon all special complaint®
they still continue to be consulted by the /
v afflicted at their old address, Cor. Elian* ./
hath and Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
' Specialities:
■ ll 1
Heart, Kidney, Liver Affections.
Gravel, Bladder and Spinal Affections,
Nerve and Brain Complications.
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Epilepsy, Gout.
Rupture and Piles Cured without Operation,
Blood and Shin Diseases.
Epilepsy, Paralysis, Consumption,
Diabetes, Dropsy, and
Neurasthenia.


WHEAT. PRODUCE. GRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
A.CT -A. 53 SELLINGr BROKERS OKTIjY.
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING . THREE-QUARTERS (f) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
'(lncluding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
• will be... 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb | 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
, under Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing. Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT.
Every inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by the Company.
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent when
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
Mitchell’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills, Buncle and Sons’ Chaffcutters.
Donald’s Patent Woolpress.
AGENTS POR McDOUGAI«I.’S SHEEP DIP.
STRENGTH
FOR
THE
WEAK.
Dr. JAMES WILSON writes : “ I have thoroughly examined and tested Hale’s
new Patent Electric Belt, and I am satisfield that not only is it a genuine article, but
it generates an electric current capable of overcoming the resistance of the body. I
consider it a valuable agent, especially for ladies and gentlemen of tender skin, as no
metal substances come in contact with the body, and I am only too pleased to recom-
mend a genuine electric appliance.”
“ Dr. FOWLER presents his compliments to Messrs. Arthur Hale and Son, and
has much pleasure in stating that he has carefully examined their new improved
Electric Belt, and finds that it is perfectly genuine as to electric properties.”
Dr. DEWAR writes : “ I have examined Hale’s new Electric Belt, and find that
it is capable of generating a powerful electric current, although no metal substances
come in contact with the skin. I consider this a great improvement, as it prevents
the irritation so often caused by other appliances.”
PERCY NEWELL, L.R.0.5., L.R.0.P., writes: “There is no doubt about the
Electricity, as my patients constantly feel the current.”
“THE MEDICAL MONTHLY," August, 1893, says: “The firm of Arthur Hale
and Son, of 105 Regent Street, London, W., has distinguished itself in the develop-
ment of electrical science as a medical agent. By an entirely new method of applica-
tion they have succeeded in producing an Electric Body Belt, which for comfort,
efficacy, and genuineness, is unquestionably far superior to any previous invention.”
&
7
y.
Hale & Son’s Improved and Patented Electro-Galvanic Belts and Appliances are
Nature's Chief Restorers. Our Plain Belt, our Special Belt and Suspensor for Gentlemen,
and our Abdominal Belt for ladies are guaranteed to be the most Scientific and Genuine
Electric Appliances yet produced. They will speedily relieve and Cure Nervous Exhaus-
tion, Rheumatism, Pain and Weakness in the Back, impart tone and vigor to the whole nervous
system, and make life a pleasure. We invite all sufferers, no matter what the disease or ailment may be,
to call or send for our Free Book, entitled, “Modern Treatment of Disease by Electricity.”
Consultation Free.
HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists,
105 Regent St., London, W„ and 44 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
Please mention this paper.
Price 6s.
Post Free.
BY
“Steele Rudd.
A Policy for the Commonwealth.
PRICE, 6d.; Posted, Bd.
the famous REMEDY for
ure,
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain o
Soreness m the Chest experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com
foiling in a aying irritation m the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption ha
never been known to exist where Coughs have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient
mid a Complete Cure is certain. « e» & j
BESW-A.RE! OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ON 15 BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
“Mr. Hearne. —
“ Dear Sir, —I enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
af London, England, from which you will glean that
your medioine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter-you choose, andyou can confidently
reft r anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land'. You can see for yourself v. hat an immense success
it was. -Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above:—
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
>ff the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from pu'Tu-ation, but will be
«4 plied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS’ TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“ Dergholm, Victoria.
“Dear Sir, —I wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
t was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
m! i ice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
fours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
fti.'l dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
liu a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
nay depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
vonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY."
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
iearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidh successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
Be Uev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
ii.j nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
"I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses. —P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
•
“Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M'DONALD Trinkev via
Quinndi, N.S.W.’’ ’
0
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
•
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both.—R. BASSETT, S
Victoria.”
Brochitis Cure has done us
Strath Creek, via Broadford,
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with-great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pietel\ left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
•
“ 1 have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
0
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone. —J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundab, N.S.W.”
0
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—o. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers
Queen-street, Melbourne." ’
0
“ i lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
0
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria”
0
“Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as r find it to be a most
valuable medicine. - (Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
0
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” 0
“ Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
_ “ x have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the b*st I ever had. lam recommending it to evervbodv —S
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” • y y. a.
“ 1 suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine
£u. fc I CIUI truly say that lam astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of mv brief trial.—JOHN fi’
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
“ Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas did not do
me any good; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.— H HOOD
Brooklauds, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.” ’ ’
0
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria."
0
“ Your Bronohitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronohitis Cure I got from you have nulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria ”
0
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CH AS. WHYBROW. Enochs
Point, ma Darlingford, Victoria.” s
Gratitude and Appreciation.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 109 Queen-street, Melbourne.
"Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequentlj
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Viotoril
who during' the last few years has been repeatedly work
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitii
Cure, it is bur Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Oollins-street, and the effect that it had was ac
marked that he has ever since been continually recom
mending it to others.
“We are glad to add this our testimony to the valueol
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people ever
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO."
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Please send us 3fl
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose oul
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had'given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
* THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemista’*
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Es<j. Dear Sir, —-Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months a#o, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“ I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“Editor Gkklong Advertise*.*
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.’’—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.. Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
BRANCH DEPOT
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
umall Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food f ° r
Infants
9
FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
e,'/joyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chsmists, 4 c., evorymbere.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THEACED.


SMASHED UP IN HEALTH
THREE WEEKS IN BED.
UNABLE TO STIR.
The Case of Mr. W. CONNELL.
(By at Dunedin Reporter).
When an occurrence of an unusual
character takes place, such as a high-
way robbery, the demolition of build-
ings by fire, the landing of a new Go-
vernor, the arrival of troops from the
seat of war, the unannounced departure
of an absconding bank clerk, or any-
thing else calculated to provoke a gene-
ral simmer of excitement, the patient
scribe is always ready to do his duty in
the interests of the world’s enlighten-
ment. by this desire a re-
porter recently visited Mr. William
Connell, of No. 122 Forth-street, Dune-
din, whose remarks are particularly
lucid. In answer to a. question Mr.
Connell smiled complacently, and said :
“ Yes; lam the man you are enquiring
about; but you look surprised. I sup-
pose you did not expect to spe me look-
ing so well. Thank God, I any f ound
and hearty now, and have been dur-
ing the past fifteen years. It is about
that time since I was taken very ill,
ancl I must say that my condition be-
came so critical that I despaired of ever
getting well again. I was working in
the tramway service, my duties consist-
ing in cleaning the tram-cars. Although
I invariably wore overalls and leggings,
I was many a time wet through to the
skin on cold, bleak nights'. Having no
opportunity to change my clothes, I was
obliged to go through my work as I
was—wet and chilled to the marrow.
No wonder, then, that my constitution
was completely broken down in time.
The whole of my system seemed petri-
fied with CQld, which I felt taking hold
of me for days before I was laid up.
The collapse came suddenly, for I tried
to get up to go to my work and found my
limbs refuse to move. My legs and arms
were useless, all my muscles and sinews
being contracted, My head ached and
throbbed in a dull, depressing manner,
making me feel more dead than alive.
Terrific'pains appeared right along my
back, and my shoulders felt as sore as
though they had been battered with a,
hammer. I became so helpless that I
could not pull myself off the sofa, and
t is no exaggeration to say that I used
to cry like a child with excruciating
agony in my loins. Even when sitting
in a chair’ I could not move, and for
three weeks I laid in bed unable to stir.
I was literally smashed up in health, be-
ing so weak that a child could have
pushed me down. When urinating I
noticed the water was thick and dis-
co' oured, a sure sign that I was also
suffering from kidney complaint.”
“ Were you able to take food, Mr.
Connell ?”
“Very little satisfied me, for it .only
required a mouthful or two of food to
produce pains emanating from a gaseous
fulness in my stomach. Then my chest
troubled me greatly. Quantities of gas
arose to my chest in such that
I thought it would burst/ besides ex-
tending along the breathing passages
and almost choking me. A very pecu-
liar thing happened every time I ate
anything; my head used to get com-
pletely covered with a cold sweat—a
probable result of the agonising tor-
tures I felt. If I had an inclination to
read I was prevented in two ways, the
first being that my sight was too bad,
and, secondly, my fingers were numbed
and powerless. Even my hearing was
affected, for I became as deaf as the
proverbial door-post. I was rather glad
of this latter affliction, as, whilst I was
capable of hearing, noise of any sort
was extremely irritating, and the sound
of children’s voices were intolerable.
I sank lower and lower, and
was very snappish and murky.
Previous to my illness I always
( had a disposition to be agreeahle, but
now I was quite the reverse. I was so
low-spirited and morose that I even be-
came suspicious of my surroundings,
having an inward dread of impending
d’sasder. My appetite soon fell away al-
tcge/her, my face was pale and shrunk-
en, and I had every appearance of a
person going into consumption. This
caused me no end of anxiety and worry,
especially as it was my first sickness
and there seemed every probability that
it would have a fatal termination. Even
the blessing of sleep was a stranger to
me, my aching limbs and bodily tqrtures
keeping me in a constant state of wake-
fulness. ' .both day and night I lay in a
state of stupidity, being only halt con-
scious of what was going on around me.
My lungs and chest were so stuffed up
with phlegm that I could scarcely catch
my breath sometimes, and I was often
afraid that I might fall off to sleep and
suffocate whilst in my slumber..' My
nerves were just like a fiddle unstrung
They were the only portions of my sys-
tem which showed any signs of life at
all. Try as much as I liked, I could not
keep them 'still, and if any unusual
sound struck my ears my nerves vibrat-
ed and shook for hours after. But it
was not only from the severe cold and
kidney complaint I suffered. My liver
! also went wrong, there being a fright-
fully bitter taste in my mouth, com-
bined with a constipated condition of
my bowels. My "tongue was covered
with a yellowish, moisture, the same
colour being noticeable in the matter
which I used to vomit so frequently.
Death would have been a source of re-
lief had it come, and I must confess to
wishing to die on many occasions. I
could not see any good in living with
my emaciated frame full of pam, es-
pecially as there was no apparent relief
at hand. Ail these violent and mad-
dening pains came through neglecting
my complaint in time. I was like a
man walking on and on without taking
a rest until at last I dropped. I then
thought what a fool I was not to have
tried to check the advance of my disease
when I felt it coming on.”
“Had you done so you would have
undoubtedly have saved yourself a deal
of suffering.”
“ i am sure of it. But it was not
until I was nearly dead that I consulted
a doctor. I shall never forget one day
trying to move my chair, and the conse-
quent unpleasant results of the at-
tempt. As I leaned forward, intending
to drag the chair under me, my hands-
slipped, and I fell to the floor. My wife
was out at the time, and I was so
frightfully weak and powerless that I
had to lie there till she returned and
picked me up.”
“ How did you get on when you
started- under medical treatment ?”
“Very badly. I did not make any
progress at all. All the medicine I took
were valueless. I was like a man
stretching his hand out in the dark in
the hope of reaching something for sup-
port, without any definite knowledge
of what was required. Eventually 1 was
told what I wanted to cure me. ‘ Cle-
ments Tonic will do it,’ said a friend,
and, sure enough, he was right. Aftei
everything failed, Clements Tonic drove
my cold away and restored the use of
my limbs, besides settling my nerves
and bringing back my appetite. My
lungs were cleared of phlegm, and every
ache and pain gave way to Clements
Tonic. I was soon strong enough to
work, by which time my kidney -and
liver diseases were eradicated. Clements
Tomio was my doctor, hospital, and
medicine all combined, and since T was
cured by that great remedy I have not
had a day’s sickness, Publish in any
way these statements.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, William Connell, of 142 Forth Street, Dunedin,
in the - Colony of New Zealand, do solemnly and
sincerely declare that I have carefully read the
annexed document, consisting of three folios, and
consecutively numbered from one to three, and that
it contains and is a true and faithful account, of my
illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also con-
tains my full permission to publish In any way my
statements—which I give voluntarily, without receiv-
ing any payment ; and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act of the
General Assembly of New Zealand, intituled “The
Justices of Peace Act, 1882."
Declared at Dunedin, this twenty-ninth day of
December, one thousand nine hundred,'before me,
FREDK. MALLARD, J.P.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR.
A great proportion of all Australians have Catarrh in either the first stage or
chronic form. Probably 20 per cent, of all the people we meet have but one good
nostril—the other is clogged with catarrhal deposits, or by some weakness whose
parent was a neglected cold. This forces them, perhaps unconsciously, to breathe
through the mouth, and, unless attended to, will result in a life-long annoyance
and serious trouble. Home treatment with our Medicator will restore the organ
to its natural condition, and enable it to perform its functions properly and
healthfully. It relieves and cures Catarrh, Hay Fever, Cold in the Head, and all
Nasal inflammations. It soothes, cleanses, heals; contains no injurious drugs.
Pamphlets Free on request —a postcard will do.
Medicator, -with Complete Treatment, post free, 10/-
HOME CATARRH CURE CO.,
229-231 Collins Street, Melbourne,
gh
•TOXTOTfnrpf
Business Announcements.
(aood TailoriQg.
SUMMER.
New Neat Designs in Worsteds
and Tweeds .
PURE INDIGO SERGES.
FANCY TROUSERINGS, VESTINGS, &C.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post tree.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Mercers,
73 AND 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
AWARDED “ GRAND PBIX,” 1900.
See the Marvellous results obtained with the
No. 1 Panoram
KODAK
Which takes Wide Panoramic Pictures, 7in.
x 2Jin., and is Loaded and Un-
loaded in Daylight; also the
No. 3 Folding Pocket
KODAK
Taking Pictures 3 Jin. x 4Jin., fitted with
Rapid Rectilinear Lens, Brilliant View
Finder, made of aluminium.
Send for Illustrated Leaflets, and
mention this Papers
To be obtained of all Dealers throughout
Australasia, or of—
jwKODAK Ltd.
THE BLOCK,
284 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
BKedlcal.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all painsf;pf Head, Face, or
The Old Reliable English Rented,g.
PATERNOSTER'S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkst.uk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all {
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists 1
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy* <
all Parasites of Head or Body. 4
sold in two sizes, 9d. <fc Is. 6d. ,
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S ,
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstke <St Truman, !
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all «
Chemists in the Australian Colonies. «
THE NEW FRENCH REMEDY
THERAPION
This suc-
— cessful
and highly
popular remedy, as employed in the Continental Hospi-
tals by Ricord, Rostan, Jobert, Velpeau, and others,
combines all the desiderata to be sought in a medicine of
the kind, and surpasses everything hitherto employed.
THERAPION No. 1 maintains its world-renowned
and well-merited reputation for derangements of the
kidneys, pains in the back, and kindred
ing prompt relief where other well-tried remedies have
been powerless.
THERAPION No. 2, for impurity of the blood,
scurvy, pimples, spots, blotches, pains and swellings of
the joints, gout, rheumatism, and all diseases for which,
it has been too much a fashion to employ mercury, sarsa-
parilla, &c., to the destruction of sufferers’ teeth and ruin
of health. This preparation purifies the whole system
through the blopd, and thoroughly eliminates every
poisonous matter from the body.
THERAPION No. 3, for exhaustion, sleeplessness,
and all the distressing consequences of dissipation, worry,
overwork, etc. It possesses surprising power in restoring
strength and vigor to those suffering from the enervating
influences of long residences in hot, unhealthy climates.
THERAPION
may be procured of the
principal Chemists and
Merchants throughout the world. Price in England, 2s. 9d.
and 4s. 6d. In ordering state which of the three numbers
is required, and observe that the word “Tiierapion”
appears on the British Government Stamp (in white
letters on a red ground) affixed to every genuine package
by order of His Majesty’s Hon. Commissioners, and with-
out which it is a forgery.
0«= RX CORO’S
eSSE** cE °?
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope.
Agents for Australasia—mtWf & 00., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for Hew South Wales—
Australian Drug Co., Ltd., O’Connell St., Sydney. All
Chemists, or Box 105, C.P.O.
Business Announoements
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Best
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Am trails.
LINCOLN, STUARTO.
PBOPniKTAIIT LIMITED,
252 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
' a
r
i:-
i
Wk
Our Bult to order at 425. is
marvellous value; made from
All-wool Tweeds.Vicunas, or fast
color Series ; it is perfect fitting
and beautifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order from
Any class tf material, £.l 3s. To
measure, capital Trousers, iery
good patterns, 12s. 6d.
Dress Suits, to measure. £s*
Clerical Suits, to measure. Sis •
Hiding Breeches, 255.
Hiding Habits, Ac.
>We supply ready-made. Men**
capital Tweed Suita. 21s. A 255.
Famous Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye,2ss.
All-wool, fawn, grey, or brown
Sergei ette Suits, 80s.
Excellent Tweed or Serg*
Trousers, ss, lid.
All-wool blue and black VicunA
Sacs and Vests, 19s. Gd.
Men's Grass Cloth Summer
Suits, 19s. Gd. White Drill
Sacs and Trousers, 10s. Gd,
Khaki Suits, shrunk, 12s Gd.
Black and Grey Alapaca fe;»cs,
6s. 9d, White and Brown Drill
Trousers. 3». 9d., 4s 9d., ss. Gd.
Travelling Trunks, and
Bugs in great variety.
Men's White Shirts, colored
front and cuffs, 2s. 9d.
Fancy Blouse Shirts, new
designs, ss. Gd.
White Matte Shirts, collar and
pocket, 3s. Gd.
Soit Alpine Hats, 4s. Gd., all
colors.
Hard Hats, 4*. Gd. Caps, Is,
Merino Undershirts or Pants,
Is. 9d,
Neckties, all shapes and colors.
Is.
White Shirts to measure* Gents' splendid Balmoral Boots,
£s. 9d., 9a. Od.
We like to write letters; so don't be afraid to ask for any
Information. Our book, “ The Philosophy of Dress ” and
patterns of all kinds and self-measurement forms posted free.
Write for them.
BLAIR’S
GOUT $ RHEUMATIC
FIIiLS.
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain ia quickly relieved and cured in »
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. ljd. and 2s. 9d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
€V€Ry MAN
Should send for a VALUABLE PAMPHLET explaining
how all NERVOUS and ORGANIC derangements may be
SUCCESSFULLY TREATED by a NEW METHOD. It is
EASY and PLEASANT, and will effect a PERFECT and
PERMANENT CURE. Sent post FREE. Address—
THE BOTANIC INSTITUTE, VICTORIA CHAMBERS,
ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
IfHEI
DEAF
ISEABI
by using Wilson’s Com-
mon Sense Ear Drums.
Wonderful Results obtained in
cases considered beyond any
treatment. Soft, comfortable,
and invisible when in use.
Head Noises Relieved.
Pamphlets and Australian
Testimonials Free.
J. CHALMERS, Sole Agrent,
229 Collins. St., Melbourne.
miTR
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. 9
DEAF
khg
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
kh
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English.
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belt 3
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, dec.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
■
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles,
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one of these
Cabinets. Price 25/-
Head and Face Steamer, 3/6.
Can be forwarded to any address.
J. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and infallible remfdy.
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C.S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
“ The fast Australian Book of Sea and Sailor Verse."
The Ways of Many Waters
By E. J. BRADY.


New Style 15c. Gold
Brooch, set Pearls
and Sapphire, £3.
No. FlOB.
oc. Gold Links, 17s 6d.
Silver, 4s 6d.
gk
4/2 GEORGE 5T SYDNEY.
All Goods sent Free and Safe by Post on receipt of
remittance. Write for our Illustrated Catalogue.
No. F 96.
9 j. Gold Links, £1 Is.
Silver, 4s Cd.
New Style 15c. Gold
Brooch, set Pearls and
Ruby, £2 7s 6d.
No. F 5713. Fine Quality Pearls and 15e. Gold Necklet of Exquisite Design, £l4 10s
Others, equally pretty, at £8 10s, £lO 10s, £l2 10s.
No. 247. 90. Gold Tooth-Pick, 8s 6d ; Solid Silver, 3s.
No. F 4404. New Design, 150. Gold Brooch, set
with Rubies and Diamond, £3 10s.
No. F68!>2. The New Fiat Pencil-CLee, Engraved, Do- Gold, £1 7s 6d.
Gent.’s Signet Ring,
9c. Gold, £1 10s ;
18c. Gold, £2 17s 6d.
No. F 2995. Hair-Pin Box,
Cut-Glass and Solid Silver,
12s 6d.
9c. Gold Safety-Pins, 4s 6d, 5s 6d and 6s 6d
(according to size).
No. FI 945. 15c. Gold and Pearl set
Hearts and Knot Brooch, £2 2a.
No. E 9136. Solid Silver Sweet or Oake Forks, 3£ inches
long, 3s each.
WSSS*
Massive Silver Oake or Fruit Basket, Saw Pierced and
Embossed, £l3 10s ; others at £B.
asms
gS3rXfXrIM
No. E 9533. Small Silver-plated Saw
Pierced Sugar Basket, Glass-lined, 8s 6d.
■V §
No. E 7168. Best Silver-plated and
Out-Glass Butter Dish, 12s 6d.
No. F 2504. Dinner Gong, Polished Oak Base, Real Horns, Silver-plated
. Mounts, £1 12s 6d.
ill"
P1672. Magnificent 6-Ligbt Candelabra,
Silver-plate, £5 6s ; 3-Light ditto, £3 16s,
in Best
No. F 548. Finest Silver-plate on Hard Metal
Hot-Water Kettle, £5 10s.
INDIGESTION
ERADICATED BY KUTNOW!
IT IS ABSOLUTELY USELESS TAKING DRASTIC REMEDIES whose
mission is simply to burn up the indigestible products which lie putrifying in the
stomach. Nature’s digestant, the gastric juice, when once it begins to flow freely
soon disperses the deposits, and assimilates and converts them into nutrifying
blood supplies. Unless the physiological machinery works concurrently and har-
moniously the gastric juice supply is retarded, with consequent indigestion.
YOUR REMEDY must act specifically on all the organs—it must rouse the
Liver, purify the Kidneys, cleanse the Bowels, expelling all poisonous produets.
This is exactly what KUTNOW’S POWDER achieves.
KUTNOW’S POWDER BANISHES
BILIOUSNESS
WHEN THE LITER HAS BECOME SLUGGISH AND DISORDERED,
one does not remain in ignorance of it long. It is such an important organ that
whenever it gets into an unhealthy condition all the other digestive, assimilative,
and excretory organs are likewise affected. Pains are felt between the shoulder-
blades, there is a fluttering of specks before the eyes, a healthy appetite for food is
absent ; there is a craving for stimulants, and the victim becomes bilious, con-
stipated, nervous, languid, headachy, and low-spirited.
By cleansing a disorded liver of the impurities which clog it and render it
sluggish, Kutnow’s Powder restores it to a healthy condition, and renders it fit to
perform its proper functions. With the liver again in working order, the stomach,
kidneys, and other digestive organs are also benefited, as the food is perfectly
digested, the assimilation rendered complete, and the nutrition greatly increased.
Good Effect on the Digestive Organs.
“94, Westminster Bridge Road, S.E.
“ I have already used your exoellent preparation, and am
assured that had I done so years ago I should have been
saved an infinitude of suffering from a derangement of the
digestive organs. No saline in the market can be even
approximately compared to it as a pleasant, effioacious, and
absolutely painless laxative. The stomach must be beyond
human aid that would not benefit from its use.
“ T. S. LAWRENCE.
A Nerve
Invigorator.
Liver Complaint Much Relieved.
“ Ballinamallard, co. Fermanagh, Ireland.
“ Will you kindly forward me a bottle of Kutnow’s Im-
proved Effervescent Carlsbad Powder ? I have used your
sample bottle for a patient suffering from liver complaint,
and she was much relieved after each dose. I think it a
very good preparation and very pleasant to take.
“ L. COLE, District Nurse.”
KUTNOW’S
POWDER.
Refreshing and
Cleansing .
DYSPEPSIA
REMEDIED BY KUTNOW!
DYSPEPSIA is generally due to some stomach, liver,
or kidney disorder, and it is impossible to think of any
disorder of this character that cannot be benefited by
Kutnow’s Powder. In most cases it acts as a perfect and
permanent cure. To anyone that is dyspeptic, constipated,
or a victim to liver torpor, a course of “Kutnow’s” will
furnish the same curative results as could be obtained from
several weeks’ treatment at some famous Continental Spa.
KUTNOW
REMOVES
CONSTIPATION
THE DISORDERS AND INACTIVITY OF THE
DIGESTIVE AND EXCRETORY ORGANS, described
as Constipation, usually become extremely prevalent at
about this time, as the cold and damp weather dis-
courages out-door exercise and encoui'ages the consump-
tion of the heavier foods and beverages. When the
digestive and excretory organs are deranged and the bowels
are no longer able to remove the waste matters that result
Kutnow’s Powder has an extremely purifying and softening effect on the skin,
improving the complexion and adding to personal attractiveness. Skin blotches and
pimples disappear after “ Kutnow’s ” has been taken a week or two.
KUTNOW’S POWDER may be obtained in capsuled bottles of all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors. See that the Registered Trade Mark, “ Hirschensprung ” (or Deer
Leap), and the autograph facsimile signature “S. Kutnow & Co., Ld.,” are on the label
and carton. Only these ensure genuineness. Remember that ordinary Drugs, Salts, or
Salines are only purgative, whereas KUTNOW’S is distinguished by its valuable therapeutic
nnrl diuretic force, made from the health-giving medicinal constituents of the famous
Continental springs. DECLINE ANY SUGGESTED SUBSTITUTES, THEY ARE
WORTHLESS AND OFTEN INJURIOUS. DEMAND KUTNOW, AND NOTHING
BUT KUTNOW, THAT YOU GET IT.
Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & GO. Ltd., 41 Farringden Road, London, i.C.
Proprietors in U. S. A.: KUTNOW BROS., Ltd., 863 Broadway, New York, U.S.A.
from the digestive processes these matters remain in the intestines, and some are
conveyed by the blood to the brain and nerves, which they poison and irritate.
Highly Approved by Medical Attendant.
“ Belfield, Lawrie Park-road, Sydenham, S.E.
“ Thank you sincerely for the sample of your Effervescent Carlsbad Powder which I
requested you to send me a short time ago for the use of my wife, who has been in the
habit of taking all sorts of so-called ‘fruit salts,’ but which she has now discarded in
favor of your Powder, as she finds it far more beneficial, without, at the same time, pro-
ducing the excoriating effects which she used to experience from them. I may add that
her medical attendant, a man of considerable practice in Sydenham, highly approves of
her use of your Powder.
“ J. DENNEY (Clerk in Holy Orders).”


A Question
Answered.
If the Pianola ent,
bles those who
have absolutely no
musical knowledge
to play the piano,
of what interest is
it to those who are
able to play ?
This is often asked, and when asked in our showrooms, generally resu’ts in the
purchase of a Pianola ; but more often the question finds expression only in
thought, and offers no opportunity for an answer.
PADEREWSKI HAS A PIANOLA in his home.
ROSENTHAL HAS ONE.
SAUER HAS ONE.
and only recently has ordered two more for friends in Germany, who are themselves
eminent musical critics. This certainly disposes of the question, although it fails to
give the reasou The reason is equally clear.
The Pianola increases the
--'T-
ss-
" '
repertory of even these musi-
cians from twenty-five to fifty
compositions which they can
play in concert form, to prac-
tically everything they may
desire to play. It increases
the repertory of every skilled
musician, and Givi s a reper-
tory to the novice.
The Pianola does not mar
the piano, as it may be moved
up to or away from the key-
board at will.
The Pianola does not mar
the playing, as artistic taste
receives full opportunity for
expression to which the player
can give his undivided atten-
tion.
The Pianola offers relaxa-
tion from the technical and
enjoyment of the musical.
It is true, since the player
Pianola being placed in position to play Upright Piano.
controls the expression, the great musician obtains a more artistic result from the
Pianola than the novice, because he is more critical, but in this very point lies the
secret of the Pianola’s fascination.
The player, whoever he may be, gives his own individuality to his rendition.
This causes the musical taste to develop, and it is not long before the veriest novice
finds his own playing preferable to many of the pianistic efforts in the average concert.
Expression-marks appear on the music as it unrolls, for the guidance of those who
may be unfamiliar with the selection.
In this article there has been little attempt to explain how the Pianola is manipu-
lated, the principal object being to show the desirability of the Pianola for every one
who owns a piano, whether he be skilled in its use or not.
We shall be pleased to mail a complete description of the instrument upon request,
although we urge all who have the opportunity to hear the Pianola for themselves.
Can be bought by instalments if desired. Send for Catalogue
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.
Sole Agents for Australasia,
Yhe t'ianola is sold at no other
Address in Sydney.
323 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Paris exhibition, 1900.—British Awards
The Only
Grand
Prix
I he
highest
ever made!
FOR TOILET SOAP
HAS BEEN AWARDED TO
0mU
(Established 1789.)
■acjo
<y>*BRITT REC F DM V
BP
Appointment
to
/Tm
Dime \
fier majesty Cbe Queen a«a b.r.b. tbe Prince of Wales.
20 HIGHEST AWARDS
from 1851 to 1900 inclusive.
His Friend, Charles Brown.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Charles Brown received a crushing blow. Un-
consciously, without any motive whatever, he had
peeped through the window of his sitting-room
when he returned home one evening, and had seen
what came to him with all the shock of absolute
surprise. He staggered, as though he had been
struck by a strong arm, and then rushed from the
place. As he tore madly along the street, away
from his home, the fresh, cool air soothed him.
Gradually he became calm, and so completely
mastered his feelings that, when he walked into
his house, his wife noticed nothing.
Days, weeks, months passed, and Charles
Brown made no sign. The shock that he had
received did not appear to have affected him.
But, after four mouths, there happened that which
sent the blood dancing through his veins with
delightful, intoxicating pulsation. The office-boy,
scampering home an hour earlier than usual, marked
the day with white chalk, for the ‘ ‘ boss ” had
told him to keep the change when purchasing
some cigars.
At 5 o’clock that day Charles Brown had a
visitor— a man in great trouble. With much
hesitation, he told of what haunted him. He was
heavily involved. Dishonor stared him in the face.
It meant ruin, exile. There was no hint of any dis-
honesty. Misfortune—carelessness, not fraud—
was the cause of the trouble.
Charles Brown closed the door of the outer-
office and turned the key. He came back with a
mild glow of concern and sympathy.
“Would not time brighten things?” he asked,
softly.
“Yes, time would brighten things,” the visitor
replied.
“Well, just now, I have not the money avail-
able to tide you over your little difficulties, but if
for a month the money could be obtained—only a
month —I, Charles Brown, your friend, will lend
you the money to pay back the loan, and all will
be well.”
The visitor breathed more freely ; hope leaped
into his eyes. “ But where can I obtain the
loan ? ” he asked, bitterly, hope drowned in
despondency.
“For a month—only for a month.” Charles
Brown bent forward till his mouth almost touched
the ear of the visitor, speaking very softly—“A
secret loan, perhaps not a month; a loan that
none need know about.”
The fear that shook the nerves of his visitor
was not unnoticed by Charles Brown, who sum-
moned all his mind to urge the point. “Is there
such a sum that you know of—money that is not
needed ; that will not be missed for a little time,
a month ? When it is wanted, I, your friend,
will have it for you.”
Fear faded from the visitor’s face, and hope
shone again. Money he must have. There was
money he knew of, money lying idle, money that
had not been touched for months, and doubtless
would not be required for as many more. If he
took it as a loan, only as a loan, he could tide
over his trouble. What things might turn up in
the meantime ? Perhaps fortune would smile on
him, after all. Whether or no, his friend, Charles
Brown, a man known throughout all the city as a
true man, would come to his rescue. There was
no risk, absolutely none.
The Post-Office clock struck six when Ernest
Leek, a civil servant,- given to horse-racing and
gambling in general, left the office with Charles
Brown’s words of encouragement in his ears.
At four o’clock next day he met his friend :
“Charles,! have done it!” —he trembled as he
spoke; “in my hour of need I must look to you.”
“You have never had, and never will have,
a truer friend than I shall try to be to you,” said
Charles Brown.
The month had almost passed and fortune had
not smiled upon Ernest Leek. “Wait,” his
friend, Charles Brown, had replied to an uneasy
reminder. “Wait. Have no fear, I have pro-
mised.”
The full month had passed when Ernest again
called upon his friend. “The hour is come,” he
said, trembling ; “I can’t hide the shortage any
longer.”
“ The time up ? ”
“Yes, it has come,” replied Leek. “You will
lend the money ? ”
“In a day or two. lam not ready yet.”
“In a day or two ! Man, it is a matter of
hours. In a day or two ! To-morrow at eleven
o’clock will be too late ! ”
“Is that so ? Then, my boy, it must be done.
Meet me here to-morrow at nine.”
“Charles, my friend, my saviour ! give me the
money now ! Let me feel that I have it. Let me
now, at this moment, put it back ! I will not feel
safe till it is there. My friend, my saviour ! do,
do give it to me now—now ! ” The distracted man
tugged at the arm of the other.
It may have been the hurry he was in that made
Charles Brown gaze unmoved on the face before
him. “Nine o’clock to-morrow. Train to catch,”
and he rushed away.
At a quarter to nine Ernest Leek stood at the
door of Charles Brown’s office, and his eyes
searched the street for the coming of his friend.
Nine o’clock. The Post-Office bell struck the
hour. But there was no appearance of Brown.
The minutes slipped by. Quarter-past—half-past
—ten. The great bell, with slow persistency,
tolled the hour. Still Leek waited. What could
it mean? He never asked himself the reason. All
thoughts were banished by the fear that had
possession of him. Quarter-past ten. Oh! the
agony of the time. The waiting man scanned every
face as the city’s slaves hurried on. The hands
seemed to race round the clock. In a moment of
fantasy he thought of some pony race of the past
at Kensington.
Half-past. It seemed but a minute or two, so
rapidly the hands moved round, when a quarter
to eleven struck. For two hours Ernest Leek had
waited. That time had been filled with the
greatest anguish of his life. With a strange fas-
cination he gazed at the clock. The chimes had
rung. The great bell began to knell the hour.
Leek counted the strokes—Eleven. 'All was now
lost.
As he turned away, dead hope stirred again, for
Charles Brown appeared. Was it yet possible to get
back to the office before his absence was noticed ?
If so, all was saved. “Quick, man—quick; the
money ! You are late, awfully late—l am afraid
too late ! ” and he followed Brown into the narrow
passage that led to the office. He grasped him
by the arm—“ The money, man! the money!
Every moment is risk. Quick, Charles, the
money ! ”
Charles Brown did not answer.
“Good God! What is the matter ? Can’t you
understand ? The inspector is there, waiting for
me. Give me the money. Quick ! Quick, and
let me get back ! ”
“ I have not got it ” The voice was even, and
free from emotion.
Leek looked at him dully ; he did not at first
comprehend. “Not got it?” Then the full
meaning of that fact came to him; and he was
calm with the calmness of despair. “Then I am
lost. I depended upon you.”
“ Get back to the office. Don’t wait, get back.”
“ But the ”
“Don’t wait, get back. I’ll follow,” and he
pushed him into the street.
* * 9 m
Six weeks later, Ernest Leek became a prisoner
in Bathurst gaol. A week after, Charles Brown,
returning from Melbourne with his wife, who had
spent the previous six months there, crossed over
from Harden on to the Western line to stay a
night at Bathurst. The next morning, accom-
panied by his wife, he presented himself at the
door of the gaol. An official order gained them
admittance.
Ernest Leek was in deep, puzzled thought when
the warder told him visitors had called. It was
the first time he had had any. So many regulations
were dinned into his ears by the warder that he
felt dazed and confused. He was led down a
narrow passage, then ordered to stop, and, turn-
ing, found himself facing a barred window which
looked into another, but wider, corridor. The
man standing in front, a little distance from him,
was his friend, Charles Brown.
“Charles Brown!” The voice was so altered
that Brown almost failed to recognise it.
“Yes, Ernest Leek, I have come to see you,
to see you here, here in your new home. And I
have brought someone else to see you —to see you
here. ”
Brown stepped back and revealed his wife. To
the woman and to the prisoner it was unexpected.
She, with a piteous effort, thrust a trembling hand
through the bars. The warder stepped forward
just in time to catch her as she fell.
They put her upon a bench, the prisoner looking
through the bars at them. The swoon soon
passed.
“Charles Brown,” the prisoner called out.
Brown walked towards the grating, a smile
on his face.
“Charles Brown,” said the prisoner, “you
know ”
“All! I left the banquet early on the 24th of
May. Some Providence that watches over the
injured prompted me to look through the window
of my sitting-room before knocking. I saw all.”
“ And this ? ” asked the prisoner.
“ Is my revenge—my revenge on both of you ! ”
ELLIS WALTER.
How They Part—in the Bush.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Laden with heavy swags, two men dragged their
way through the droughty country.
They possessed but one billy; it might, there-
fore, be safely augured that they were mates of
some standing. The one who carried the billy
led —he always does in the bush —and each one, as
he brought a boot forward and implanted it in
the flour-like dust, raised a small halo around
that foot; the men were also surrounded with a
general halo of the same material.
In consequence of the dust, and of having
tramped about a thousand miles in each other’s
company, their mouths had been fast closed since
breakfast. It was now mid-day, and they were
walking over a ridge which was dustless.
“The tank should be at the bottom of this rise,”
said he of the billy.
“I hope it’s better than the last water,” re-
turned the other.
“Well, in another two days we’ll be at the
river—that’s water, if you like.”
“ And bathing ? ”
“Yes, and fishing, and tucker of all sorts, and
oranges, and grapes ”
. “ And peaches, you said, didn’t you ? I’m par-
ticularly fond of peaches.”
“Oh, yes ! —plenty of peaches—and we’re
pretty sure to get that job, I’m thinking.”
“Don’t see what anyone wants with a job in a
country like that.”
This was meant for a joke, and the grimmest of
small smiles momentarily showed itself on the
faces of the two men—the first for a thousand
miles.
They had now arrived on the top of the ridge.
“See that hill there?” said the leader— “ it’s
behind that—the river.”
They passed down the decline. The tank was
fairly full, and they proceeded to unroll their
swags and boil the water for tea. Their eyes
were fixed on the billy, but their thoughts were in
the land of promise. At last it boiled, and the
leader of the expedition measured in the tea with
the lid of a small, battered canister.
“Why ! ” exclaimed the other, in an indignant
and pained voice, “you’ve put in two and a half
lids instead of two, and you know it makes it too
strong for me. I only told you this morning.”
The tea-maker muttered something unintelli-
gible. The other looked at him resentfully for a
short space, then pressed his lips together and
walked to the tank. He took a long, persistent
drink, then returned, and with the same deter-
mined look, and in silence, carefully rolled up his
swag, and as carefully fixed it on his back in the
orthodox manner, and, still without a word,
started back in the direction from which they had
come.
His mate watched him till his figure was
definitely outlined against the evening sky, and
the well-known old hat had sunk from sight on
the other side. He had not looked back once.
Something like a sigh escaped the man sitting
by the fire. He threw another half-lid full of tea
into the still gently bubbling billy—and added the
sugar.
t -n n**
J. F. MILLINGTON.
A collection of genuine “ spoonerisms ”
would be amusing. A Ballarat (Vic.) verger was
accosted, one Sunday morning recently, by a visitor
to church with the startling request, “ Would you
kindly sew me into the sheet ? ” It was a parson
in the same city who affirmed that Jonah was three
days and nights in the “welly’s bale”; but,
becoming conscious of the error, immediately cor-
rected it by saying, “ I mean the bale’s welly ” !
John Bull is so self-consciously upright
that when he wishes to do a crooked thing for the
sake of the “ higher good,” he always takes pains
to give it a fair name. You never hear of slavery
in a British possession ; it is always “indentured”
labor, or “contract labor,” or “an effort to instil
into the minds of the natives some sense of the
blessings of settled industry.” In Rhodesia the
old Kaffir custom of ‘ ‘ lobola ” —the paying of a
price to the father for his daughter—has been
revived as a civilised ordinance, ostensibly for the
moral good of the natives, but really to force the
young men to hire themselves as contract
laborers to earn the “lobola.”


A SPRING TONIC.
f
m
m
i
ILIOH3NCSS
IT is well to remember that at this season of all others the human, system
needs to be toned up and put in thorough condition to withstand the
change of the season.
BILE BEANS for BILIOUSNESS are the very best medicine that
can be taken for this purpose, as they cleanse and regulate the Liver, an
organ to which may be traced nearly all the minor ailments so many people
suffer from. If the Liver is not in thorough working order, the blood is
impure, the circulation sluggish, the digestion impaired, the sleep disturbed,
and the complexion sallow. The consequence is that there is a lack of
energy, and the sufferer becomes a victim of that worn-out feeling. To be
out of sorts in the Spring is most trying, as many people know. If you are
feeling “ run down,” and without energy for work, take BILE BEANS for
BILIOUSNESS, and they will put you in a condition that will withstand
the changeable Spring weather.
Sold everywhere at 13id. per Box.
J
A
Eradicates Scurf.
Promotes Growth.
HAIR
Prevents Hair Falling.
Contains no Dye.
am
ghk
|)othing Succeeds [ike Appearance.
UP-TO-DATE STYLE FOR UP-TO-DATE PEOPLE.
The Suit
To Order
42s
With
Evctra Trousers
Holds the Commonwealth’s Record
..FOR..
STYLE, FIT & FINISH.
Send for Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms to our only address—
OPP. G.P.0., BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE.
THE HIGHEST CLASS TOBACCO.
a
In Three Strengths s MILO, MEDIUM, FULL.
HAS NO EQUAL IN
QUALITY AND
AROMA.
1*
c
Modern Scientific
Authorities declare
“ARDAIH”
The Healthiest Tobacco !
Name of nearest Agent post free on appl cation to
M. RUTTY & Co., Sydney.
Sola Proprietors j 1 La Ca.sa de la Habana & “ Ardath ” Factohj-
Manufaoturers of Pure Tobacco, 62, LeadenhaU street, London, England.
Love-Bidden.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was sweated along in the heat all day,
He was tied to the fence for hours,
Just because someone had something to say
To a girl in the burnt sunflowers.
But the heart of a maiden is hard to change,
However so strongly tried ;
And a man rode out to the Blue-Cap Range
As a sane man would not ride.
With a drifting rein, and a biting heel,
And a blistering greenhide thong—
For even a favorite steed must feel
When the Battle of Love goes wrong !
He has ridden the flanks of the chestnut red,
And his shoulder white with foam ;
And out on the ranges he turned his head
And punished a good horse home.
Oh ! he’s won some races, has Diomed,
In time that was none too slow ;
But the fastest gallop the old horse did
Was the night that a girl said “No !”
V.K.
WILL OGILVIE.
A Government Tubercle-Farm.
The Liverpool (N.S.W.) concentration-camp for
the reception of the aged and sick poor is variously
described as an hospital and an asylum. In regard
to its two huge consumption wards, at any rate, it
is neither, but rather a culture-broth for tubercle,
into which human beings are thrown, alive and
strong, and, after a couple of years’ misery,
dragged out dead.
* * ♦ •
This great and most successful State experi-
mental farm, where phthisis is, by intense culture,
brought to the highest pitch of perfected deadli-
ness, has, on the average of the last five years,
generally 165 prisoners under sentence of death,
and it kills them off at the average rate of 67 a
year. The probable life duration of any person
thrown into the Liverpool Culture Cauldron is,
therefore, a little over two yeai-s. Since that
space of time is mostly spent in pestilent air, amid
gloomy surroundings of death and decay, chained
for most of the time to one room, it would be, on
the whole, far more humane to chloroform the
consumptives to death on admittance, than
leave them to slowly and painfully cough their
lives up during the weary months. Death then
would be more merciful, and not more sure, for
one never hears of a cured patient in this
“hospital.”
“ I should not advise you to go,” a well-known
Sydney doctor said to a Bulletin man, who, hav-
ing seen the consumptive wards at Liverpool by
day, announced that he intended to pay a night
visit to see how things looked when all the inmates
were sleeping. “And why?” “Well, I won’t
guarantee your freedom from tubercle when you
come back.” That was a serious expression of
opinion on the doctor’s part. For himself, he
said, lie would not spend half-an-hour in one of
the consumptive wards at night unless at the call
of absolutely urgent duty. Yet to these wards
men, young and old, are admitted, almost daily—
at first with power to creep out of a day to a
narrow balcony, or a little paddock of the grounds,
but soon, however, to be confined to the one room
and the one bed, day and night, until merciful
Death brings freedom.
« * * *
Entering one of the consumptive wards, from a
passage-way whose musty, stale, warm odour
told of crowded humanity near, the writer
was not tempted to linger. A large room,
quite as large as a rich man’s dining-hall, fairly
lofty, dimly lit by gas-jets, was plotted neatly
into mattress-graves. There were 36 beds in all,
arranged so closely that one had just room to pass
between. A coal fire at one end burned brightly ;
the roof was patched with ventilators; and of the
long windows many were open a little at the top.
The air was hot, moist, sickly. It lay like a
dank mist over the beds, and the lights shone
through a faint nimbus of fog. The coughing,
violent as it sounded, of the inmates, did not dis-
turb the thick body of the atmosphere or affect its
sluggish currents. The tubercle bacilli, swarming
in colonies from the diseased lungs, met no unwel-
come breaths of sharp oxygenous air, but floated
peacefully, laved in this warm, still, moist medium,
living their lives, reproducing their species, grate-
ful in their bacillic consciousness for the kindness
of Providence to their little lives. It is a fine
Home for them.
* * * *
The occupants of the beds, the food of the
bacilli, steeped in the enervating, poisoned air,
filled in weary resignation the role which had
been allotted them. From nearly every bed came
the sound of cutting coughs, but generally patient,
smothered and restrained. Once a note, queru-
lous, sharp, angry, sounded—probably the cough
of a new arrival. Over the others brooded in the
thick air the gloom of hopeless dejection.
* . * * *
It is not all old men whom the State kills in the
Liverpool Consumptive “ Hospital.” Ihe bacilli
get much young food. There has just recently
been admitted a poor lad of 19 or so—a fine-looking
fellow. Before 21 he will probably be dead, before
25 certainly. Only a miracle could keep a consump-
tive alive longer under such conditions of existence.
During the last five years nine were admitted
under the age of 20 ; 141 under the age of 30, but
over 20; 252 over 30 and under 40 ; 241 over 40
and under 50 ; 119 over 50 and under 60 ; 60 over
60 and under 70 ; 4 over 70 and under 80. The
deaths in five years of those under 40 were 125;
of those under 50, 225. So it is not the aged poor
chiefly whose remnants of lives are sacrificed at
Liverpool for the culture of tubercle, but the
young men who should be, and could be vigorous—
the breadwinners whom carelessness after in-
fluenza, or pleurisy, laid open to infection, and
who, contracting consumption, are hurried there
to die.
* * * *
Mark that the lexicon of the modern scientific
medical practitioner knows no such word as fail in
the treatment of phthisis cases. No matter how
far advanced the disease, there is generally some
hope, if not of absolute cure, at any rate of
materially prolonging life. But tothe con-
sumptive who is poor in N.S.W. the State issues
a death warrant, dated perhaps two, perhaps
three years ahead, but as sure in its execution as
when a capital criminal is pinioned and noosed on
the scaffold. The bacilli of the Liverpool wards
may bungle their cases a little—may give to one
man a few more months of coughing than is
strictly necessary ; but they ahvays kill.
So far as the conduct of the institution is
concerned there is no reason for complaint. The
matron-superintendent is kindly and capable
All that can be done, under the system, for patients
is done. The System is the murderer. The place,
in spite of having so many phthisis, cancer, and
other cases, is not conducted as a hospital, but as
a poorhouse. There are five trained female nurses
on duty during the day : two trained male
attendants at night—these not for the consump-
tives alone, but for the whole institution ! There
is no resident doctor —the medical superintendent
lives some distance away in the town ! Inmates
have two hours’ liberty per week. Recently,
as a, concession to civilised ideas, the consumptive
patients have been allowed the use of a small
paddock during the day. Those who can get there
probably receive some momentary benefit; per-
manent benefit is impossible when the nights are
spent in the foetid wards. Every consumptive
admitted must quickly die.
* * * *
These facts are familiar commonplaces in
N.S.W. Government departments. Some weeks
ago they were again brought before Parliament by
Dr. Nash, M. L.C., whose interest in public health
affairs is untiring. A humanitarian with any
share of the responsibility for such a state of
things would not be able to rest a single night
without doing something by way of remedy. But
N.S.W. Governments seem to be trained in the
school of Kitchener, and nothing has since been
done. ■
Private Brigalow Jones on the
British Army.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Seems to me,” said Private Brigalow Jones, of
the North Australian Mounted Infantry (column
on trek in the Transvaal), “the English nation
didn’t do a wise thing in letting us come here.
We put them down at cricket, and rowing, and
pretty well everything like that, and th’ only
thing left up their sleeves was their glorious
British Army. So they filled us up with yarns
about their soldiers and the wonderful things they
did, and the nations they had walloped out. You
couldn’t help reading about them, from the time
you began to read your school-books. And they
didn’t forget it when we were being drilled to
come out here. 1 You’re a fine body of men,’ said
they, ‘the pick of North Australia. But, of
course, you must not expect to be classed with the
regular British Army.’
“ But how is it out here ? I give-in that the
British officer is a marvel. You have to wait on
him hand and foot, and carry round cartloads of
beds and tables and chairs and whisky, soda, bis-
cuits, chocolate and tinned stuff for him, and just
when the time comes for him to put his military
genius to work and wipe the Boers out, like he
was shown at Sandhurst, perhaps he has mislaid
his eyeglass, and the battle goes all wrong. That’s
what they call a ‘regrettable occurrence.’
“And the British soldier! Most of them are
about 5ft. 4in. high, and they all want to be
orderlies or cooks. The British Cavalry can’t ride ;
and, as for De Wet’s Own*, they’re just remount-
agents for the Boers.
“The only thing I know of that’s left like you
read about in the school-books and histories is
their fancy names. There’s ‘the Death or Glory
Boys,’ for one. And there’s the Fighting this
and the Galloping that. Whenever a new
mounted-infantry corps is formed you will notice
they are bound to call themselves the Furious
Fourth, or the Galloping Sixth. The Galloping
Sixth passed us in single file one day on the march,
after they had stayed behind to water their horses,
and as they passed I tapped a few mounts with a
sjambock. They galloped all right. There were
horses galloping over the plain for an hour after-
wards. The Galloping Sixth were after them on
foot.
“They don’t want to stop out here fighting.
‘It’s all very well for you Australians,’ they say ;
‘ you’re used to this kind of life, and you only
came out here for amusement, anyway; but this
ain’t soldiering.’ Living in a barracks, and doing
your regular round of guards, and being able to
have a look round town, with a giri to walk out
with, and the canteen handy—that’s what they
call soldiering. There wouldn’t be any war if
they had a say in it.
“They used to tell us that one Britisher was
worth three of any other nation. I haven’t seen
much of it. It would be a poor hundred Boers I
wouldn’t back against a hundred of them.
“There’s one thing would be worth knowing:
whether all the other nations are the same as the
British. I used to think that if any Russians
came along to Australia, it would pay us to buy
them off, rather than hurt ourselves trying to fight
them. I reckon now that they will very likely be
as bad as the British, if not worse. We could
turn out about 500,000 fighting men in Australia,
which would be equal to as many Boers, so if
250,000'British can’t wipe out 50,000 odd Boers in
all this time, I reckon it would take at least
2,500,000 men to put us down. They couldn’t well
carry that many to Australia, and feed them too.
I reckon now we’re quite safe.
“I suppose before they get through with the
war now it will run them into at least three
hundred millions, perhaps four or five, and the
Boers and disease have already put about 17,000
Britishers underground, too. Now, with ordinary
luck, we could have put the job through in less
than six months, and if they had paid us a
hundred and fifty millions for it, it would have
been dirt-cheap. That would have given every
man of us a good dividend, besides the profit to
every colony that provided men. The English
would have saved a tidy bit over it, and would
have had their 17,000 men left alive, and they
could have put them to work at some other game
than soldiering, for which they might be better
suited. Of course we should have contracted to
supply only the fighting men. The English would
have had to provide the cooks and Army Service
Corps, and all that, and men for lines of communi-
cation, we only wiping the Boers out for them.
“Next war, if Toby Barton’s got anjr sense,
,he’ll put in a tender. I reckon fay the time the
British have caught De Wet, and knocked out
Botha, they’ll be real tired, and when they see
our tender, they’ll say ‘Toby, old man, we’ve had
enough of day-labor, the contract’s yours.’ ”
Then Private Brigalow Jones, modest man,
turned into his tent and wrote the account of
another heroic exploit by an Australian, for a
Sabbath paper.
J.
The Imperial Yeomanry are known throughout South
Africa as “De Wet’s Own.”


Cured Her When a Little Girl.
Cured Her Again When a Mother,
Takes Out All Disease from the Blood;
Gives Strength; A Splendid Tonic; An Indispensable
Household Medicine
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
,
mm*
§
r
m
!/
*
W
SJ
“ I first used Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla when a little girl for debility and poor-
ness of the blood. It strengthened me greatly, built me right up, and made me
well and strong. After a recent attack of typhoid fever I found myself very weak
and again I thought of this wonderful strengthening medicine. So I began its
use, and with great and lasting benefit. All my robust health is back again,
thanks to Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It is a splendid tonic, purifies the blood, makes
it rich, and is an indispensable household medicine.”
This is a practical experience which Mrs. H. A. Steinberg, of Nelson St.,
East Adelaide, So. Australia, lias had with Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. With this
she sends a photograph of herself and child, which we reproduce above with her
permission. Indeed, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Perhaps Mrs. Steinberg describes your condition, also. Perhaps your blood
is thin, making you pale and weak ; perhaps you are depressed, discouraged.
Then there is a remedy that will build you up, made you strong and vigorous
again. And it is a wonderful medicine for the children, too ; giving them good
flesh, rich blood, and steady nerves.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Takes Out All Impurities from the Blood.
AYER’S PILLS are gentle, safe, thorough.
26
TEARS’ SUCCESS
AS THE
UNIVERSAL REMEDY
FOB
Coughs, Colds,
l Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Consumption, MU
HAS MADE lj
Oxbridge's
U fundTonlc
AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY IN THE HOME
OR KIT OF EVERY COLONIAL.
It saves many Lives.
There is no difficulty in obtaining it, so
when you ask for Owhridge’s Lung
Tonic, insist upon having it, as
other so-called remedies are
often substituted .
Prepared by
W.T.OWBRID6E, M.P.S., Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottles, at ls.l id.-, 2*. 9d.. 4a 6d„ & 11s.,
by all Colonial Medicine Vendors.
COPYRIGHT.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
f£|»S
1?OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos'iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud op Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Peenham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he world. Full directions with each Box. j
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is ljd, and 2s 9d each.
ZE MEDAL DRESS
iPili
-l , i. V-
HAUTHAWAY’S
PEERLESS GLOSS
takes first prize medais at Boston, Vienna, London, Phila-
delphia, Melbourne, and all other leading cities, for pro-
ducing the finest possible polish, and absolute freedom
from all substances injurious to the leather.
It is the favorite dressing of the world for
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
shoes, as it is easily applied, retains its brilliancy, and will
not rub off and soil garments. Try it once and you will
use it always. Sold nearly everywhere. Made only by
c. l. hauthaway & sons,
BOSTON} MASS,
U. S. A.
S. FREEMAN # SONS Li^
* Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES: '
BATHOS
FREEMAN'S
BAKING
POWDER.
PICKLES.
gh
mmmrmt
The Physician’s Our©
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
.Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
•suonoajgv snoxna:
xnog ‘uopsaSTpuj ‘ujnqjxßaH ‘av[wpv9&
9qa jo j£jipTO"v joj pesjaATTixi aqi,
iDiNNEFORDS 1
MAGNESIAj
MAGNESIA
m
WM
'Sold Throughout the World.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
kgh
IRISH
IRISH MOSS
MOSS
THE WONDERFUL
CURBS WHILE
SLEEPINQ. '
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.


PERDRIAU & GO.,
Rubber Manufacturers
(Established over 20 Years),
ARE STILL TO BE FOUND AT
Their OLD and ONLY Address:
270 George Street,
SYDNEY.
60
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. C. & GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK SVUUUT, S YDNEV
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
v|B|TORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
-*- Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
i-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
The Bulletin Booklets, No. 111.
THE CIRCLING HEARTHS,
A New Collection of Verses by Roderic Quinn.
Enveloped; Is. 9d. post-free.
43T Only 500 copies are printed for sale. “ The Hidden
Tide,” a companion booklet by the same author, was
sold out almost immediately on publication ; and many
orders have been refused.
Post-free for postal note or stamps of any province.
Orders received now will be forwarded immediately on
publication.
The Bulletin Newspaper Go., Ltd.,
214 George Street, Sydney, Australia.
Sole Wholesale Agents : Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd.
SIMPSON* BROTHERS
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK.
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
immmssassesx
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Wortliajton lamps
For all Services kept in Stock.
SendL for Catalogue.
mammatt’s
SPOONS & FORKS
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERT,
K.
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
fjBBOT
J. & J. MAXFIELD, PROPBS.. SHEFFIELD.
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ TBB BXsOCOC,*’
Collins Street, MELBOTJBKE.
NEWMAN’S
ANTISEPTIC
THROAT
NEWMAN’S
In Kins: St.
1/- t*. *? ox
the host nutritious.
EPPS’S
QRATBFUIr-COHFORTINa
COCOA
BREAKFAST—SUPPER-
ERASMIC
PEERLESS
Unequalled as a Preserver and
Beautifier of the Complexion. It diffuses an exquisite
odor, and imparts a stimulating and refreshing influence-
SOAP
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
GAN OBTAIN
BY USING
-J*
m
&
&
0
&
ft« 9
SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- &. 2/6.
Sole Makers— M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Grimwade & Co.
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
COMPRESSORS
£
Ingersoll-Sergeant Rock Drills and Air Compressors hold the highest
average records throughout the world. They have met and defeated in fair competition
every .machine brought against them, and have never failed to sustain their reputation for
doing the most work at the least expense. Write for Catalogue to
The Representatives in Australia of
ROCK
DRILLS
“ New Ingersoll.”
& LACY C°. Y . L T f.
SYDKTBY, 3XT.S.-W.
11l
Ul
&
<
a.
&&
~7
V
74 Clarence Street
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE
435 Bourke Street
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants.
PRINCIPAL AGENCIES:
Blake Steam Pumps
Fay’s Woodworking Machinery
Tanite Emery Wheels
Sturtevant’s Fans and Forges
Pickering Governors
Ludlow Valves
Schuttes’ Korting Injectors
“Champion” Lubricating Oils
Hoyts’ Leather Belting
Genuine “ Atlas ” Metal
Empire Laundry Machinery
Stratton’s Steam Separators
American Tool Co’s Lathes
Goubert’s Eeed Water Heaters
ipCLWOKKi
-
a m
