

S -ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
Reid’s London Draught Stout
Pur©,
therefor©
Cadburys Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity-”
The Lancet.
R. G. WATK.IRTS SZ, 00-,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Milling’ and ContraiCtors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
RUSToFS Compound Dredge Engine.
Watcli Sep airs by Post
ST
WATCHES Thoroughly Cleaned, 2s. 6d. ; best English
Mainspring, 2s. 6d. Ail work guaranteed 12 months.
No Overcharges. Best workmanship.
Gent’s Silver Double-eased Keyless Watches. Guaran-
teed three years. 15s. 6d.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Lever Watches.
Guaranteed five years. 255.
Ladies’ Gold 'Keyless Watches. Guaranteed five years.
355. Double-cased, £2 15s.
Spectacles to suit all sights. Send for catalogue.
D. S. MAIR,
Watchmaker, Jeweller & Optfoiai
684 George-st. (Brickfield Hill),
SYDNEY.
85 Pitt Street, " SYDNEY
Have in Stock and to arrive, the following: Ruston, Proctor & Co.’s Compound Dredge Engines and Boilers, Centrifugal
Pumps, Steel Wire Ropes, Bucket Lip Steel, Tyre Steel, Mild Steel, Manganese Steel for Pins and _ Bush _ os > _ _
Buckets, Grab Hooks, Links, Grab Hook Points, Tumblers, &c,
GIBSON. BATTLE & C #
made to order. OSBORN’S STEELICASTINGS.
ENGINES & BOILERS, &c., FOR GOLD DREDGING
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISKY.
HELICON SPA.
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd., Agertts, Sydney.
h
L
Mm
ĥ
BCO’RA'FtT.
—2%-s;
(jadlsys Orient fiotel.
H
OTICE TO MELBOURVE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
RESERVE EXTRA. RESERVE SPECIAL. RESERVE EXTRA SPECIAL. SUPREME.
SAN DEMAN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
' _ 2-3 LIL PITT S'I’IFS.IEIIEST, wr £3-5?. _ ■
Telegraph-" HERVEY, SYDNEY."
—; ; '
Mthing & Contractors’
Mnchinerj / and
Explosives.
ħ
Engineers ’
Sundries, llclting,
Oils, Packings, &c.
Campbell” Gas& Oil Engines.
Clarence St., Sydney.
PIONEER
h
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWIGI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
Branches:—P. Frankel & Co., Edw&rd-st., Brisbane, Q. ;
H Summers, Barrack-st., Perth, W.A. ; H. K. Fysh and
Co Collins-st., Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter*Co., Auckland ;
Blackburne & Smith, Cashel-st., Christchurch, N.Z.
“ Tales of the System.”
k'RICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
Fair girls and gray horses.
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
C
Ltl
G
ĥ
. . STOCKS KEPT OF . .
Rand” Rook Drills
Rand Air Compressors
“Wilfley” Concentrators
“ANCHOR” ZF'TTSIEi
IVANHOB MIKTIISTG- STEEL
EXPLOSIVES
J JL3^
MELBOURNE
*B6 COLLINS ST
ħ
FREMANTLE 4 KALGOORLIE
214 HIGH ST -TM? DONALD ST
h
JOSHUA’S ■'
BOOMERANG BRANDY.
The London Times: “A Sound, Honest Brandy.”
The Lancet: “Of a Fragrance, Purity and Quality Second to None.”
The British Medical Journal : “ A Pure Product, well worth the attention of the Profession.”
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. IQhS.
Mr. Skinner has a verv extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s CrobrocatioQ
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness >of Joints it. MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons ara
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s Crobrocatioi).
The Ways of Many Waters
Collects tlie clashing ballads and verses of sailor-racin'*
and wharf-men’s life which E. J. Brady has contributed
to Tub Bulletin and the Sunday Times, Sydney. 16 i*
the first attempt on . the part of an Australian verse-
writer to chant the life on the sea and the margins ef
the sea ; though there is one horse-poem—the story •{
“ How Jack Bowlin Steered ‘ Jones.’ ” The volume i*
bound in buckram, with gilt top, in a size that will g#
into a pocket without squeezing; and the price is Be..
post-free.
The Bulletin
Yol. 22.—N0. 1109. j
[Saturday, May 18, 1901.
Festered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


New Issue of
Fair
girls
orses,
WITH OTHER VERSES.
Eg jr Will 3E3C. Ogilvie.
Completing 8000 copies.
JY'OR this new issue a fresh and more attractive form
has been devised. The book is bound in blue clatb,
decorated, with blue edges, and contains the latest
PORTRAIT OF THE AUTHOR
from a photo, by Kerry taken just before Mr. Ogilvie's
departure for Scotland.
More than ever the book of “ Fair Girls and Gray
Horses” deserves its familiar description as
The Most Charming Book of Verses
Ever Published in Australia.
Price, Five Shillings Post Free, which may be sent
direct to The Bulletin Office, 214 George-street, Sydney,
in P. 0.0., postal note, or stamps of any Australasian
province.
Sole Wholesale Agents :
Edwards, Dunlop, Ltd., Syd.nev asd Brisbax*.
For the LUNGS, the THE9AT, the VOICE
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza!
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
o
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
B. The Traciika or windpipe.
C The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lung*.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SI N G BBS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
. . . Contain \<) cocaine or other poisonous ilru» ® '
SOLO BY ALL CHEMISTS, In Tins, Is 6d ; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON. Chemist Insivinh i
free on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN'S PEACE. * * I P smoh * 1
HE RED PAGE.
P ainter's Disease.
Sydney fashion of saying formal fare-
■ well to departing brothers of the brush or
S- B P r » n K i,,to life at the memorable
A( . . jl'eeer given for Etillwood and Lawson.
"f 8 unfor Settable dinner given for Tom
Roberts one saw the mode tarnished, dm
fhdbstia eutworn. Between Bohemia and
Wh Le’t • the „- pa V lter '^ est struck his last
flf«nrw?t rian att, tude and sped over the horizon,
so ™ ew ,hat nondescript compliments
SemnL fr 'f e w y A Sb^ ug und « l 'stood to mark the
difference of We Artists dc haul from You Others
about T 8 'T aa , the now-familiar twaddle
Art “” d «»e black blot on
fl)d fliUn ! - R<)berts was a decent fellow
s?lfo dl t{ “»•» P-unter; but he did not paint up
than hi?n™ , was Personally much better
alfcrniuti’o^? 38 ' -That lie was not conspicuous for
W-nV t ? ! evotj °, n to local A rt his confreres, the
fmm tk m^- rS ’ dlo \ v ° d absenting themselves
trom the dinner. Very sensibly, perhaps—very
book S »\ nl s' no , doubt—Roberts “ laid* to hZ
*»"“ h « “»»
W7 Sf re rea f aoine remarks by Victor Daley,
viousi; t rttKoV”d?m™ 0 ' so °"' tim9 pre -
Marcus Clarke once wrote an article in which he com-
pared Australians to the ancient Greeks, and predicted a
similar glorious career for them. Marcus Clarke was a
“ as t ter ° f lron v when he chose. The fact is that Art of
an kinds m this country, is under the heavy heel of
lrade. . No truly sane Artist, howsoever brilliant, makes
ability in his own line a test of intellect. He knows that
the grea,t wide-shouldered, hard-working, hard-swearing
world will tramp along on its way whether he pipe for it
or sing for it, or paint for it, or sulk in his attic. He is)
in fact, a luxury, and a man who deals in Necessities des-
pises him. The latter, whether he sells Tallow, or
Treacle, or Tripe, is intensely in earnest. His soul is in
his business. But when he sees a Musician, or Painter, or
Writer taking himself seriously, he is amused beyond
measure, as who should say “ Observe that paltry fellow
trying to make people believe that he is of some account
in the world ! »
The time may come when the Australian Artist will not
be looked upon as a sort of harmless vagrant in his own
country. Meanwhile, let him truckle to the tradesman as
little as he can help. I have it upon good authority that
life can be sustained in this country at a cost of 6d. per
daj or less. Let the Artist, if necessary, live upon 6d.
per day and be true to his ideals. In the last resort, and
if he cannot make his way to London, there are more
picturesque places to be buried in than the Waverley
Cemetery.
From this point of view, what becomes of the
Painter s Complaint ? If a Painter wants wine,
r ranen dinners, cigars, the luxury of women, or
the solace of a wife and family, Australia will not
give these tilings liberally in exchange for mediocre
pictures. Why should she ? And if a painter uses
nis art with the object of getting tiiese things
surely he is tradesman rather than artist. In the
guise of tradesman, why should Australia par-
ticularly bother about him ? And in the guise of
an artist, pursuing Art for Art’s sake, why should
lie bother about Australia ? “Artis its own re-
ward”—the garret, the hard fare, and the stony
road are inevitable incidentals in any
community at the Australian stage of
growth. But the local painter usually
wants to eat his cake and keep it—lie wants to be
credited with single-hearted devotion to the Ideal
while he pursues the Real for all it is wortli in the
shape of physical satisfactions.
One Roberts-dinner speaker told a piteous tale
of a,n Australian, house with £12,000 worth of
furniture and one bad picture. But why should
auybody who can absorb Australian Nature
through his eyes be compelled, willy-nilly, to
purchase the inferior imitations of Nature which
for the most part, are all that local painters can
produce ? If he purchases, it is rather from good-
will than for personal profit. How many
Australian pictures are there which a man
wants to live with all his life ? Look
in the Australian court at N.S.W. Gal-
and see you can find half-a-dozen out
of half-a-hundred. And at every dawn, at every
even, Sydney skies brood,or shine over Sydney
harbour in an Atmosphere than which there is not,
has not been, a greater painter in the world. All
day the g’um-ti'ees rustle in files, or clumps, or
masses, and make the finest pictures human eye
can gaze on. Why, Australia is a pictorial para-
dise, a Nature gallery greater than all the Art
galleries of the earth throwir into one. And
since he can walk in this gallery daily, and if lie
have t ie seeing eye and the understanding soul
can fill and thrill with artistic emotion—why
why should the local Australian be blamed because
he prefers to take the superior product for nothing
instead of buying the inferior product in a gilt
frame for fifty guineas or five hundred ?
Kipling’s “Convey mys.”
n ! HE . BOOKFEL FjOW. —Dear Sir,-In a
1: criticism of his work (Bulletin 27/4/01) you
aecuse Kipling of having deliberately bor-
rowed his subjects and inspiration [Some
of hs. J3.J from various poets and poems—all
mo oor less obscure. You also give several
examples of this. But surely you ignore the fact
tha; most great poems or dramas owe their exist-
ence to borrowed ideas. “ When Homer (if there
was such a man) smote ’is bloomin’ lyre ” to the
* u rr a°>> the , world ’ 8 , h r reat ' epics, liis
Iliad and . Odyssey,” he merely elabor-
ated them from current Greek legends. Vergil
took both the matter and metre of his “HCneid ”
from Homer, and his “Georgies” (by many con-
sidered the finest Latin poem extant) direct from
Hesiod s “ Works and Days.” Lucretius (perhaps
“the greatest of them all”) got his ideas from the
Epicurean school to which he belonged. To come
to our own literature, many of Chaucer’s “ Can
terbury Tales” are merely adapted translations
from Boccaccio. It is well known that some of
Shakespeare s greatest plays are worked up and
dramatised versions of contemporaneous dramas
and tales of an inferior sort. Milton takes his
Com us (England’s greatest masque) from
Geoffrey of Monmouth’s work of half-a-cen
tury before; whence come also Malory’s
Morte D’Arthur,” and Tennvson’s “Idylls
of the King”—and there are' hundreds of
similar cases. Then why gird at Kipliug for
doing this, after the field has been spoiled by
I countless generations of poets, when men like
Vergil, nearly 2000 years before, pioneers over
comparatively new ground, found it '“paid
flatter ” to take the efforts of previous ma ters
and “ wink at ” the fact.—Believe me, etc. M. L’
Mao Caixum. 9 Elizabeth Bay road, f>/5/01.
“Justice! my lord magistrate! justice 1 ’’
clamoured the dishevelled person with the black
ine mhm!, 9 f W °i- en n ?? e < bursting through oppos-
ing ushers to fl'ng himself before the bench.
sio-rw fKof i, - 4.1 stami nered hoarsely, making
<X.'s*, ir? ”>‘‘'St 6B * "'°; ting
hv , 6 cnoked, “ I was beset
my throat \vhil i? a heth ® a - v roa( h One squeezed
week’s .°*ber took my watch and my
M ike H o° 0> ’ Punish them, my lord magistrate!
tice ! ” r6Store Property !Do me jus-
mvrooH m' Btrate regarded him blandly. “ Surely,
"t 700 the fact that, as Proud-
is Theft > ’n Jil Propnete, c’est vol! ’ —‘Property
braterl the Aventine giant, was a cele-
Cacus stole’ 6 !”' r) F jVen Hercules, whose cattle
OervL ef Q lad lmas , elf stolen cattle from
rule 7 the ~_® P f ln, . v throughout antiquity, as a
Cicero telfL fc !°- mai1 ’ the greater the thief.
Alexmdel e n US | l ( n .. hlS De Re nublica that when
Ki l- g »n he notorious pirate Diomides,
beret \\,f Q uo impulsus mare ha-
dene- !l n , Un ? rnyoparone ? ’’-VVhat the
with h scoun drel meant by troubling the seas
nauit miff P ‘u lt,Cal craft? And, “Eodem
tohl Ale tuorbem terra ’’-the fellow up and
ale T a h- d f = f f °f the same reason that you
own kf„ t hief of the Earth. To come to our
was on?; ft! Ck Shep P ar(1 ' ‘he unrivalled burglar,
lie mve i 18 mo ? t P o P u l»r men of his time, and
Turnfn th f ar freal 7 in charity. Dick
highwayman, is famous in song and
v ” r J ’™ his generosity was a byword. Possibly
Walter ? were thieves, as argued by
Then COtt M l - i l(i La y of the Last Minstrel.”
?nnn ’™ 3mCO thl ® v « r y h:is existed for more than
1 :_i. i/ ars . ’ ai ?4 the memory bf many thieves,
tZ ln P™ 130 ! 1 111 their day, is still cher shed and
mbbeJ d ’ W -’ y ,rd at ‘he footpads who have
Elizabeth o Bayro t ad?” omParatiVely nSW gr ° UUd ° £
Ihe ushers led the man away speechless.
B.
On the Road to Scotland.
POET OGILVIE was one of the most
popular passengers on the last voyage
from Australia of the Persic, s.s. He
. judged the ladies’ fancy costumes, winning
smiles from one at the price of tempered disdain
from two hundred ; and he wrote doggerel galore
for the ship-newspaper. Most of it had merely a
lively local reference, like this-
But there was one piece with a deeper note, a
piece which Ogilvie’s Australian friends will like
to read
CHESS ON THE PERSIC.
To keep the promenaders gay
From trespassing upstairs
A rope is stretched across the way
To trip them unawares.
A passenger with aspect meek
Climbed up for fresher air,
The barrier fetched him in the cheek
And chucked him down the stair.
An officer walked to and fro
Upon the captain’s deck ;
He saw the playful scene below,
And chuckled softly, “ Cheek !.”
But when that night, in reckless haste,
lie struck the same rope-gate,
His victim, with no words to waste,
Said fittingly, “ Check, mate I "
“ THE LAND AT THE BACK OF THE LEUWIN! "
It may be for only a season,
It may be a year and a day,
It may be for ever and ever
We are some of us sailing away,
But whether to riches or ruin,
To happiness, grief or regret,
There’s a land at the back of The Leuwis
That most of us will not forget.
Last week as our vessel steamed forward
We watched old Australia lie
Like a mountain of mist to thi nor’ward
And fade like a cloud in the sky,
And some of us light-hearted rovers
Looked out with a laugh to the sea,
And some of us thought of the lovers
IV ho waved us “ Goodbye ” from the Quay.
And whatever our ultimate course is,
Whatever the Fates may unfold,
Some will think of Australia's horses,
Some Will dream of Australia’s gold ;
Here’s luck to the land that we grew in,
God guard her ! range, river and plain—
Here’s “ The Land at the back of The Leu win l"
If we never should see her again !
S.S. Persic, March, 1901.
WILL H. GUILVIE.
The Decay of Christian Dogma.
J rNDOUBTEDLY the theological sensation
| I of the hour is the new volume of the
Encyclopaedia Bihlica. Two reviews—
one by the Academy, and the other by
the Speaker— are especially noteworthy. The
latter is evidently written in a state of much
alarm at the boldness of Dr. Schmiedel’s treat-
ment of a portion of the New Testament It
says that Dr. Schmiedel’s article? are “ amazingly
clever and even brilliant,” but the Doctor “shows
himself a hard-and-dry, yet almost a fierce and
truculent, Rationalist.”
The Academy refers to Dr. E. A. Abbott's
I article on the “Gospels,” which is by lar the
longest in the volume, and (it says) may “be taken
as typical of the rest. Dr. Abbott thinks that
Matthews account of the Resurrection has been
modified by later writers “so as to soften some of
its improbabilities,” and that “in course of time
sceptics and enemies detected and exposed
stumbling blocks,’ and subsequent Evangelists
adopted traditions that sprang up to remove or
diminish them.” He further claims that the
omission by the other Evangelists of the healing
of Malchus’s ear recorded by Luke is “almost
fatal co its authenticity,” and he explains it by a
corruption of the text which transforms the replac-
ing of the sword into a replacing of the ear. In
like manner he thinks that many of the numerous
miracles connected with the raising of the dead
are to be explained as “ very early exaggerations
arising from misunderstood metaphor,” “death”
being sometimes used by patristic writers in the
sense of mortal sin or death to God. The raising
of the widow’s son at Nain, however, he finds him-
self obliged to reject as “ non historical,” and he
asserts that the narrative of the raising of Lazarus
was “ mainly allegorical ” ; while he points out
that the silence of the S.ynoptists on the point has
I “never been explained.”
But, if Dr. Abbott plays havoc with the New
Testament in his section of the Encyclopaedia, lie
is harmless as a lamb by the side of Dr. Hehmiedel
—in the estimation of the Academy. Professor
Schmiedel, while disclaiming that he starts with
the postulate or axiom that miracles are impos-
sible, thinks that “some doubts as to the accuracy
of the narratives cannot fail to arise in the mind
of even the stoutest believer in miracles,” when
he sees “ how contradictory they are.” Of these
contradictions he gives a long list, and then claims
that these facts “ show only too clearly with what
lack of concern for historical precision the Evan-
gelists wrote.” He thinks “the most credible
statement in the Synoptics ” as to the Resurrec-
tion is that “the first appearances were in Gali-
lee,” anrl that the statements that the risen Jesus
was touched or that lie ate are “seen to be
incredible” ; aud he points out that St. Paul saw
no difference between any of the post-resurrection
appearances to others and that to himself on the
road to Damascus, the inference being that all
alike were “ visions.”
By this and similar roads Professor Schmiedel
is led to consider whether there are any “credible
elements to be found in the Gospels at all,” and
he comes to the conclusion that there are five
passages which are authentic. These five are the
“ Why callest thou Me good? none is good save
God only,” of Mark y the statement that blas-
phemy against the Son of Man can be forgiven, in
Matthew ; those in Mark that the relations of
Jesus held him to be beside himself, and that “ of
that day and that hour knoweth no one, not even
the angels of God, neither the Son, but the
Father;” and, finally, the cry from the cross of
“My God, my God, why hast Thou forsaken
Me?”
This selection of “credible elements” is very
peculiar. The British Weekly was not far wrong
m suggesting that Dr. Schmiedel, of Zurich,
“plunges the steel into the very heart of Chris-
tianity.”—Freethinker.
Landor as Critic.
LANDOR is an over-rated poet and a biassed
critic, but be spoke his mind. Somebody
has found an early copy of poems by
Aubrey de Vere, annotated by Walter
Savage—like this, regarding Coleridge—
Aubrey de Vere:
His eye saw all things in the symmetry
Of true and just proportion,
Yet dim that eye with gazing upon heaven.
Landor: “ The greatest liar that ever did gaze
upon it.”
Aubrey:
No loftier, purer soul than his has ever
With awe revolved the planetary page
(From infancy to age)
Of knowledge.
Walter : “ Alas, were it but so 1 ”
Aubrey:
Adown Lethean streams his spirit drifted
Under Elysian shades.
Walter: “ Drunk with gin and opium.”
Aubrey:
Coleridge, farewell!
Thrpugh life a goodly vim
Was thine ; and time it was thy rest to take.
Soft be the sound ordained thy sleep to break !
When thou art waking, wake me, for thy Master’s'soke |
Walter : “ And let me nap on.”
Landor did n t like Coleridge. But ins praise
was as exaggerated as his blame. Wrote De
Vere—
-1 You say that you have given your love to me
Ah, give it not, but lend it me ; and sar
That you will ofttimes ask ms to repay.*
But never to restore it ; so shall we,
lietaioing,-still bestow perpetually :
. So shall I ask thee for it every day,
Securely as for daily bread we pray :
_ 'So all of favor, not of right, shall be.
Like Shakespeare, but better,” is the comment.
The poem entitled “ Sunrise ” bears this anno-
tation : “ The noblest sonnbt that ever was
written. Its range will appear from the follow-
ing extract :
I saw the Master of the Sun. He stood
High in his fiery car, himself more bright:
An Archer of immeasurable might. . ,
. The ethereal dome
Thrilled as a dew-drop.
** What sonnet of Petrarch equals
this i directs us to these lines:—
Happy are they who kiss thee, mom and even,
I arting thy hair upon th.v forehead white :
For them the skv is bluer and more bright
And purer their thanksgivingsrise to Heaven.
Over against this couplet in a song—
Mv whole heart brightened as the sea
When midnight clouds part suddenly,
is written I' mer than'the best in Horace.”
Interesting as an argument against the trans-
ferred-credit fallacy of appreciation. Because
Dandor wrote good prose, runs the extollers’ argu-
ment, therefore he wrote good verse, ;lnd was a
good critic. More confusion of categories.
“Free-lance ” Journalism.
BY ONE IN THE BUSINESS.
IN A ustralian “free-laiice” journalism, facility
v/itli industry is more profitable than any
other form of literary excellence. With a
, ,* ;llr capacity for work, a ductile conscience,
and the ability to write articles, sketches, stories
verses, and, above all, paragraphs, quickly to
order, and not too badly, a man may rely upon
making a decent and regular income as an Aus-
tralian free-lance. But he must distribute lvim-
seif, and know his editors by heart—which takes
,s i folly to send pro-Boer paragraphs to
the fat weekly whoso editor has K.O.M.G-. in his
minds eye: that fact should be obvious to the
most youthful and most truculent contributor. It
is the more subtle editorial idiosyncrasies that
have to be observed and registered to enable the
writer who produces much to place his matter to
the best advantage, and come out at tiie end of the
year with the least possible waste.
Having emphasised the necessity of hard'work,
it is my duty to explain that the term is compara-
tive. Ihe man who, from youth to manhood, was
compelled to earn his living as a toiler and moiler
grafting continuously in heat and cold, in dust,’
and ran, and slush, exerting his whole bodily
strength, pushing and hauling, with perhaps a
few years in the poisonous atmosphere of
a crowded metropolitan factory to provide
knowledge of the comforts of so-called light
abour, has a fine, vigorous contempt for the
hard graft of the working journalist. Comine
f.rj?? l le stony fields of manual toil, with
little education and a certain fluency in the form
ot verbal eccentricity that was popular humour
fifteen years ago, I presently found myself able to
earn in an easy clay as much as I was previously
paid for a hard week, and was more than content
When brother journalists express surprise not
often respectful, at my capacity for graft, I recol
ieet wet, cold nights on an exposed brace or
overtime in a stuify factory in mid-summer, ’anc
the affectations of the writer who is knocked-out
by a column of doggerel, or prostrated by half-a-
yardof pars, make me more tired than anything
else in the business. J g
While working in a Melbourne factory I con-
tributed a great deal of •‘comic” stuff to a
couple of weeklies, never thinking in my ardour
and innocence of asking payment. Then came
my first journalistic engagement at £2 per week
to sub edit an original illustrated paper by con-
verting cuttings from American weeklies into
recognisable Australian material. This lasted for
about two yaars ; meanwhile a Sydney paper had
destroyed my appetite for a whole day by offering
£1 per column for such matter of mine as it might
print. So strengthened, I cut myself looie, and
became an independent, all-round contributor,
omce that time, although I have not received £1
as wages, my earnings have never been less than £5
a week, and for quite three years past I have
averaged close upon £5OO a year. This money is
drawn from five or six sources, and although my
position on three papers is such as to forfeit any
right to the title of “free-lance,” if we be abso-
lutely literal, it is true that I am only paid for
accepted stuff at so much per column.
Two weeklies in my own city yield me an
average of £7 per week for all sorts of work
mainly paragraphs ; ..an Adelaide paper produces
another £l, a Sydney journal about 255. The
difference comes from casual tinkering of dramas
and a stray story here and there. More than half
my journalistic earning is derived from para-
graphs ; and a certain facility in picking suitable
subjects for “pars,” combined with imagination
enough to create the story paragraph (which is very
popular) and a trick of rapid expression with
touches of humour in writing them up, I hold to
be the most valuable asset of the contributor. The
literary taste of the Australian reader is not yet
above par.” The work that has won me what
little reputation I have has been written at a loss,
comparatively speaking. The time devoted to a
story into which is infused the best stuff I can
produce, and which will earn, say, £3, would
serve to turn out £5 or £G worth of p iragraphs
and light matter. The disparity is much greater
when one sets to- work to create earnest verse
“ for art’s sake.” '
Another disadvantage I find in the production
of serious stuff (that is, stuff which may have
claims to consideration as literature) is the fact that
its early publication is not guaranteed even when
it is accepted. It may be produced early, say
within two or three months after posting ; but it
may be six months, ten months, or ten vears be-
fore it reaches the press, and there is little delight
in writing for posterity in this way. We have all
to submit to the never-ending audacity of editorial
persons: and the newspaper proprietor, who
would never think of keeping his cook waiting a
week for her wages, has no compunction about
holding a. ragged writer’s story for six or twelve
months, leaving the author in complete ignorance
as to its fate mean while.
♦
M.X.: Rr Kipling. In “ Woodnotes II,” line#
4G-9, Emerson whites (the pine-tree speaking)-
And I will swim the ancient sea
To float my child to victory, j
And grant to dwellers with the pin# '
Dominion o’er the palm and vine.
No doubt Kipling cribbed it.
Arthur Adams, restored to health by his native
Otago breezes, commences a lecturing tour through
Maoriland (and possibly Australia). Subject,
Ibe War in China,” as seen by a newspaper-
correspondent.
F. Clifford Smith (author) and T. Fisher Unwin
alone know why “ A Daughter of
Patricians ’ should lie printed as a novel in this
year of our Woe; for the Lord would n’t be
bothered reading it.
Kipling’s secretary informs a Maoriland corres-
pondent that “the five free nations” of “The
Young Queen ” are England, Australia, Maori-
land, Canada, and the Cape. Who’d ha’ thought
it? Then India is a fettered nation, plainly.


BEST PRICES
.... FOR ....
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN
OBTAINED BY CONSIGNING TO
Goldsbrough, Mort*Co.
and Reduced.
Circular Quay, Sydney,
Who render PROMPT RETURNS and safeguard your
Proceeds by their TRUST ACCOUNT System.
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager.
%
C B B
\
1803
5800
SB 00
58 w
Hiuunrae
(So&raofeecl oof* to or boro,
CERTIFICA TE. —Should any of our “ Can’t B Beat ” Briar Pipes
crack or burn, a new one will be exchanged for it immediately on
L application. fgr Thousands Selling Daily.
'CBB
BRIAR
SIIOIIIIIIIS Mill)
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches everywhere.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST
Of TRICKS, PUZZLES, Etc.,
Etc., FREE.
ĥ
Rare Books
French Novels
Books
for
the
Married
EXTRA SPECIAL CATALOGUE
OF BOOKS FREE.
STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTES OF ANY COLONY TAKEN.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE,
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
hair for at |T . !
GOOD
m
&
&
X
8?
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation tor Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
gar For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
AST For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its original
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively.
Price, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & 00.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
ERASMIC ~
PERFUME
Is delightfully fragrant and pleasant to use.
A DAINTY, DELICIOUS DELICACY.
. . . ASK YOUR CHEMIST FOR IT . . .
WHITE’S
PATENT.
fcowtl JUUAittWI
WHITE’S
PATENT.
' Without Attachment.
The “TITAN” (Regd.)
Indispensable with the present tight-
fitting skirt.
Produces straight front without in-
creasing size of waist or impeding
action in walking, as it does not
require stocking-suspenders to
keep it in position.
Guaranteed not to ride up or wrinkle.
Idealises the symmetry of the figure and
gives indescribable elegance to the simplest
gown.
Reduces High Figures and Large Hips.
Restores the Figure after Confinement.
Affords great support with perfect ease and gives
permanent satisfaction to the wearer.
Can be attached without sewing to any corset. Underskirts
can also be attached without sewing to the lower edge, thus
further reducing size. Worn by Royalty.
Recommended by the Medical Profession. Thousands of un-
solicited Testimonials. To be obtained of all the best Drapers
and Ladies' Outfitters throughout Australasia.
With Attachment.
N.B. —When ordering, the size round largest part of hips should be given. Every Attachment is stamped “ TITAN.”
In Black, White, and Ecru. Price 6/6.
Patentee and Mrgi a, WHITE, 1,2 &3, Langley Court, Long Acre, London, W.C.
So e allthetrincifal Wholesale Houses in Australia andMm Zealand.
THE CONINGHAM CASE.
The Suppressed Book of the First Trial.
Together with the report of the SECOND TRIAL,
with its exciting and dramatic ending and subse-
quent developments.
A Complete History from Start to Finish.-lllustra-
ted with Photos and Sketches of Principals.—A
Fair, Unvarnished Account.
THE BOOK IS NOT FAKED.
The Parties to the Suit.
The Abigail Case'.
Private Detectives at Work.
Petitioner’s Story.
The Written Confession.
The Baby in Question !
Co-respondent’s Denial.
“ I’ll be a Protestant in the
The Teachings of Liguori.
Morning ! ”
Who’s Zero ?
Jury Addresses.
The Second Trial.
Spies Galore !
The Relief of “ Burnlda!”
Drugged Colonial.
The Mysterious Mrs. B -%
The Final Verdict!
Subsequent Developments.
Price SEVENPENCE (posted anywhere).
ALL BOOKSELLERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA, OR
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
SKINS
Send Your Consignments of ... .
KANGAROO,
WALLABY,
RABBIT,
OPOSSUM SKINS
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO.
SYDNEY.
Then obtain the Highest Possible Prices.
Ltd.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co- Limited
Offices: 12 and 14 O’CONNELL STREET. Stores: PYRMONT.
sol© Chars” 3 UPer Cent, to 't*L© growers.
BONUS | PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS last Two Seasons.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge \d. per lb. to the Buyers.
“ LAWRUS ”
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS & STOREKEEPERS.
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
Australian Agents for the
Wholesale Trade only: • _ . .. _ Q+D
STOGDALE & DUFFUS, Finks Buildings, Corner of Elizabeth & Flinders Sts.,
S Melbourne; and 422 George St., Sydney.
ctiuMd
EVERY YARD IS BTAMPED
Ur. Clarkson’s Electric Belt
fill V our Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years study and
ovnerirnents. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Ur. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
hrings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy, and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory Dys-
Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
Sarts toe combined treatment of Electricity with DrCLARKSON’SREJNVIGORATOR
bring happiness and health. The influence on the Nerves and Organs is truly wonderful.
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
CALL OR WRITE- OWL r c a u t t e DK-UGr STORE,
* CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
-V
I t>o
4
mwii
V'
lyry
VVTien
writing
please
mention
The
Brr.LKTiN.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired o' .STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
- ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by i
' Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
\ strator, assisted by A SKILLED EhECTRI- 1
i CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
| THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
\DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
: LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can,
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
‘ Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.,
I They impart vigor and potency to every function,
' brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attachments 3 3 0
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 22 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send lor
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &o.
All communications should be addressed to —
A. D. STEPHENSON,
161 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney


TATTERSALL’S.
Address: Care GEO. ADAMS, Hobart.
TUKF CLUB H. May 25.
(Altered from Birthday Cup owing to the Queen’s Death)
100,000 Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me __ shares in above.
Name
Address
Ellesmere Stakes. Ist June.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares
in the above.
Name
Address
NEWCASTLE CUP.
25,000 Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me __
above.
June 15.
shares in the
Name
Address
Grand National H. July 6.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me .shares in the above
Name
Address
Silver City C. July 31.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL,
Please allot me__ shares in abova
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circular
Address “Tattersall,” care Geo.. Adams, Hobart.


BETTER THAN
COD-LIVER OIL
ANGIE R’S Petroleum Emulsion is
better than Cod-Liver Oil because it
is pleasant to take, agrees with the
most delicate stomach, and aids digestion
instead of disturbing it. No matter how
nutritious food may be in itself, it is or no
real use until it has been digested and
absorbed. It is because of its marked
power to promote assimilation of ordinary
food that Angler’s Emulsion is so
superior to Cod-Liver Oil in all wasting
diseases. It has besides healing and cura-
tive virtues which Cod-Liver Oil does not
possess, and which make it positively
without an equal for troublesome coughs,
weak lungs, and all chronic lung a flections.
It is prescribed by the medical profession,
and used in the hospitals.
A FREE SAMPLE
On receipt of 4d. for postage.
Mtntion Sydney Bulletin.
Do not accept inferior imitations made with
p° no* n *’ ordi[lary p etroleU m.
BE SURE TO GET ANGIER’S.
Of all Chemists & Drug Stores.
THE ANOIER CHEMICAL CO., LTD., SYDNEY, N.B.W.
ħ
h
That man
failed to shut
the door, and
the strong draft
struck you
squarely in the
chest.
A draft means
a cold, a cough,
pneumonia, and
often the beginning
of consumption
itself.
You shun a draft. But
you can’t when riding in
the street-cars; either in
the closed or open cars. Then
keep at hand a bottle of
Ay© r’s
Cherry Pectoral
It -will cure a “street-car cold” in a
night. The moment you feel chilly or
feverish, want to cough, or have any
tightness in the chest take a dose. The
relief is immediate.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral Plaster is a
great aid to the Cherry Pectoral. Placed
directly over the painful lung, it draws
out all soreness, relieves congestion,
and imparts great strength.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Man., U. S. A.
PjXRoT
Br^nd"
3P**iNs Woondc
CoUfiMHoiPS Jc'
IBeWARP of* V
rMnATi°NS
LADIES^
WRITE FOR FREE BOOK
©ON©ERNIN» YOURSELVES.
pmu ~L.D.I., soo Oollln* Bt., Melbourne
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our SiLK STuii’.;
MattaLASSE and other Unshrinkable Shirt
are highly recommended.
33 tier Halt-dozen, free by post through ■> >i
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Applioatlon
B. MOUNTCASTLE Sc SONS, Brisbane, Q'laai,
AGstraliao MOtGal PrcWidept Society.
MONEY TO LEND
Or ofFR^EHi^
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Head Office : 87 Fitt-street, Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
HMVIUOV.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10Sr
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
£2T Send for a
Catalogue.
I
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
*lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HIM-lEtt, 130 Sussex-street.
Woilis : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
YORKSHIRE
The Most Delicious ¥ ¥ Cfel ¥-¥
Sauce in the World. ft Jr M M
Millions Of Bottles Sold Annually in England.
BEWARE oe substitutions.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
For making delicious Custards without eggs in
Less Time and at Hall the puce.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed R ce.
DELIC OUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DELICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit. _
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS alone.
GOODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure and wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining' or boiliug. The
packets are complete iu themselves in the
following flavours -.—Lemon, Orange. Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plaiu.
- Proprietors :-GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT, Bagot Rd.Subiaco, Perth, W.A.&6S,King St.,Melbourne
Paris exhibition, 1900-British Awards
The Only
Grand
Prix
She
highest
ever made!
HAS
FOR TOILET SOAP
BEEN AWARDED TO
(Established 1789.)
m
vW
't!£7o
REC
BP
Appointment
to
/ tcH
DieneA
fr
fier majestp Cbe Queen ana fi*U*l>* Cfte prince of Wales*
20 HIGHEST AWARDS
from 1851 to 1900 Inclusive.
tvt S "W. Carriage & Saddlery
Note our New Address: 193 to 195 Cleveland-Street. Redfern,
When In town, pav us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description oi
■SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, i. 6; 2-Spnng Sulkies, £7 ,
i-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Backboard Buggies from 49
Os Ladies' Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
,nd everv description of vehicles in Stock and Made
, 0 Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
ription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
vddress, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.— Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
i han we oan. They cannot do so, and you pay tt psr
cent-more for your requirements.
Company
SYDNEY
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUR SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
ĥ
Delivered at any Wharf dr
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Bury it Deep.
Bury it deep, bury it deep,
Under the earth where the secrets keep.
Over it pile, with a pale, kind hand,
Clouds and fancies from No Man’s Land.
Cover it over, and do not weep,
And bury it deep, bury it deep.
Bury it deep, bury it deep,
Never let sign of it upward creep.
Over its grave, with regardless feet,
Dance, defying your heart’s loud beat.
Merrily fight through the tangled sedge,
And merrily dance on the grave’s red edge.
Under the earth there are hidden deep
Turbulent hearts that are well asleep.
Under the earth, without pride or shame,
Lie they, till no one recalls their name.
Stately, and silent, and well asleep,
They buried it deep, they buried it deep.
Not for us all is ready yet
Confident coffin for all regret;
Not for us all has there opened wide
Infinite peace on a green hill-side ;
Yet and for all there’s a charge to keep—
To bury it deep, bury it deep.
Bury it deep, deeper and deep,
Under the breast where the secrets keep.
Over it pile, with compassionate hand,
Clouds and fancies from No Mans Land.
Cover it over ! They do not weep
Who bury it deep, bury it deep.
That is the worth of pain and tears,
That is the secret of all the years,
That is the value of life and grave,—
All the tears you can stop or save,
Covering over the eyes that weep,
And burying deep, burying deep.
N.S.W.
LOUISE MACK.
The Streets of Sydney City.
The grey mist kisses the peaks above ;
The wind with its tang of rain
Stirs a memory deep as pain !
The Bush leans over me, brooding, dark ;
Her bosom is sweet with the scent I love,
The grass in the paddocks is white and stark,
And the creek has its old refrain !
But it’s oh, to be back again
To the clamour and surge of men
In the streets of Sydney City!
My heart goes home to it, beat bu beat,
With the languid rhythm of drip ing feet,
To the heavy air and the stagnant heat
Of the streets of Sydney City 1
I am home in the town that nestles low
Beneath the hillsides bleak
(And it’s now my heart may speak !)
My laugh exults in the keen, crisp air ;
I am back in a younger world, I know !
There is youth and energy everywhere,
And the red floods every cheek !
Yet often my heart leans back and longs
For the city about the bay—
The city old and grey !
Once more I am treading her narrow streets,
I am part of her pavements’ endless throngs,
I feel the tense life that about me beats
And the stress of her hectic day !
In their mail the clanking horses strain
At the lorries burdened high ;
And, flashing as they fly,
The clanging tramcars swing and lift;
And slow, impassive in their disdain,
The wondrous, wide-eyed women drift
Like a cloud of white moths by !
The listless, driven, pale men pass ;
The city’s sullen roar
Engulphs them evermore.
Till lo ! I am out in the park alone,
In the quiet peace of the shaded grass,
Where the wrecks of the restless street are
thrown,
Broken and bruised ashore !
I am looking again at the harbour lit,
With her jewelled quays aglow,
And the schooners slinking slow
Like ghostly things down the silent tide,
And the butterfly ferries that bravely flit ;
While like great charred logs alight inside
The grunting liners go !
But the raupo rustles across the swamp,
The wind from the snow comes chill:
And spur and gully and hill
Are tussock-clothed in a silky-gi’ey,
Or robed in the bracken’s purple pomp !
The flag of the toi floats miles away—
And this is my own land still i
But it’s oh, to be back again
To the clamour and surge of men
In the streets of Sydney City 1
My heart goes home to it, beat by beat,
With the languid rhythm of drifting feet,
To the heavy air and the stagnant heat
Of the streets of-Sydney City!
M.L.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


.SUNLIGHT
SOAP
The best SOAP
in the world for
all-round use.
May be used with advantage for any or
every purpose for which soap can
be used.
For personal and domestic use, it doesn’t
matter which.
But for general Laundry purposes, it leaves
all other soaps a long way behind.
1000 NOVELTIES IN HEARTS.
Lovely Diamonds.
Heart PENDANTS,
Diamond,
from £25 each ;
Pearl, from 40/- each
Opal, from 50/- each.
Real Amethyst
HEARTS',
2/6.
Gold-mounted
7/6 and 8/6.
AWT
Jewellers
*c.„
f'QhOi/'ZS' 80KincS7
Sydney.
TELEPHONE 3642.
PLEASE SEND FOR
OUR ILLUSTRATED
SHEETS OF LATEST
NOVELTIES.
AH Goods Forwarded
Post Free.
Kindly Cut out this Advertisement and Send when ordering.
Gold HEARTS
Plain,
2/6 to 13/6;
Engraved,
3/- to 15/-
ħ
The above
size.
Set with 9c. 15c.
Diamond.. 65/- 60/-
Sapphire .. 17/6 20 -
Turquoise 15/- 17/6
Pearl .. 15/- 17/6
Ruby ..17 6 20/-
Opal .. 15/- 17/6
Plain Gold 10/- 13/6
Smaller
size.
9c. 15c.
35 - 40/-
15/- 17/6
12/6 15/-
12/6 15/-
15/- 17/6
12 6 15/-
7/6 11/-
it
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
BOWMAN’S
. . You Can Have . . .
English Boots at
14/6 per pair.
Tan Boots at
16/6 per pair.
Porpoise Hide at
17/6 per pair
Best Style.
Best Quality.
No
Better
Made.
h
We do One Line—Gentlemen’s Boots—only.
That one we do Well.
318 Q-EOUCrE ST., near Hunter St.,
also 145 SING ST., opp. Theatre Royal.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Hennessy’s
One Star
and
Three Star
Brandy
Has
the
Largest Sale
in
the World.
THE
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
ĥ
A LITTLE LIGHT
THROWN
ON
H Subject of Importance to all Australasians.
Messrs. ROSS & JACK,
Wellington, N.Z.
Gentlemen.
I take pleasure in replying to your enquiry of recent date re “P&B” Ruberoid Roofing. I
used upwards of 4000 square feet on my house, and find it everything that is claimed for it—cool in summer, warm in
winter, and (compared with iron) practically noiseless during heavy rain.
I can therefore recommend it.
Yours faithfully, G. A. PEARSON.
Lower Hutt, Wellington, N.Z.,
December Eleventh, 1899.
IT’S CHEAPER TOO !
E. RICH & CO. L
24-26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Adelaide and Creek Streets, Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission hy Post as a Newspaper
Vol. 22.—N0. ILO9.
SATURDAY. MAY 18, 1901.
Priob 6d.
Mr. Ware, the Mayor of Adelaide, was either so overjoyed or so confused when the Duke J^ nd &
that he seized hard hold of it and gave it a resounding kiss. The Duke did his best to keep his hand down, but ME.
W&re was too strong for him. The Duke blushed as the Mayoral kiss was implanted
The next time the Duke
sees a fat man'waddling
towards him in a crowd he
will probably put his lily-
white hands in his pockets.
Or throw out some delicate
hint like this.
York hasn’t got over it yet. “ There
is not rainwater, enough in the gentle
Yan Yean to,’’ etc., etc.
ME - ' [Mrjh“t reafly ought to
have zone home hours before.J
<» |t is now suggested that a gir e ®
iu v nass from one of the
luminous ‘cathedral to the
pinnacles of St. M o h and from
steeple of at. J ame Stephen's
thence to the steeple of St
Church in Phillips-street, and from
back to St. Mary’s.”
JUSTICE AND HER BETS.
A picture suggested by facts
which came out in a recent
“ lawyer’s case ”
in Sydney.
A friend at Hop.’s elbow suggests that Bishop
Bob-Cab Smith, The Kyardinal, and Rev. Dill-
Macky organise themselves into a tableau of The
Three Graces at some conspicuous point on the route,
of the procession. Our halo would do for the lot.i
> GEORGE REID’S CONDITION.
First alarming telegram: “ Mr. G. H. Reid is seriously ill at Melbourne.”
Second (mere assuring ditto) : “ Mr. G. H. Reid has rallied slightly. He
was subjected to a searching interview by our correspondent. Svp. D.t* (.«■.
couldn’t have been very poorly if he survived this.J
Third telegram: “Mr. G. H. Reid will attend the preliminary meeting
of the Dry-Dog party at Sydney next ‘Thursday evening. ”
SOME CASUAL HAPPENINGS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
A.t 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
TVestralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
■SI, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of\\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —l \d. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with pdStage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have Tiie Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and (Cl Business Communications
to be addressed Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in HlacJc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 2U6 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Tjfe^^xzlleZzox.
SATURDAY, MAY 18, 1901.
Starting the Machine.
Last week witnessed the formal beginning
of the greatest opportunity which any nation
has been blessed with since the writing of
the first page of the world’s authentic
history. Never before in any known
period—not even if we go back to the days
before the first stone of the first pyramid
was thought of—has a whole continent been
peacefully united under one Government—
united by the will of the people, and that a
people almost wholly of one race and one
language. The opening of the first Parlia-
ment of all Australia was an event large
enough to stand alone. It wanted no tawdry
trappings, no small accidental prince, no
flags, no lank, flapping frills and gaily-colored
rags, to make it memorable. The people
who hung out their cheap and shoddy deco-
rations—their calico banners, and their pine
porticos, and their lath-and-white wash arches
—round an occasion like that would hang a
string of glass beads on the tomb of Paul,
the Apostle, and tie a sixpenny red hand-
kerchief on the Parthenon. Among the
circumstances which attended the union of a
continent and the beginning of a nation
there moved a thin, undersized man who
has never done anything save be born, and
grow up, and get married, and exist by
breathing regularly, and be the son of his
father, who did the same things. And in
the public eye he was, apparently, about
three-fourths of the pageant. The men who
made the Commonwealth were eclipsed for
the time by the man who made nothing of
any importance. Among the Australians
present were at least three who, by their
unwearied advocacy of union and their tire-
less devotion to the national cause, might
fairly rank among the Fathers of United
Australia. And these men who did things
were almost wholly obscured, for the day at
all events, by the man whose principal credit
lies in the fact that he is descended from
Egbert, the Saxon, who did things over
1000 years ago. The banners, and the
jerry-built arches, and the huge, temporary
rabbit-hutch in front of the Age office, and
the thing in Collins-street that looked like
half an enormous egg, were mostly built in
honor of the purely ornamental little man
who came to touch the button and see the
machine start. And in a sense it was well
that they should be so. The Commonwealth
required no military pomp and no big rabbit-
hutch outside the Age office to shore it
up. If the people who knew monarchy
best were of opinion that that strange hat-
box-like structure would do it any good it
was their affair. Only this paper, at all
events, wouldn’t like to feel that it was the
friend and advocate and apologist of an insti-
tution which could derive moral sustenance
from things like that.
* * * *
And when the royal Duke has gone away
when the little bit of his purposeless, un-
productive existence which dropped casually
into Australia’s history is over, and he has
departed to shake other hands, and bow to
other crowds, and look at other arches, and
do in other lands other things which the
world would never miss if they were left uu
done—then Australia can take down its
decorations and sell them to the “ bottle-
oh ” man, and consider what is to come next.
The establishment of the Commonwealth
was, in some sense, an end in itself. In a
larger sense it is only a means to an end.
Australia is now in a better position
than it ever occupied before, yet it
is possible to so misuse a grand
opportunity as to make United Australia
even a greater failure than Disunited Aus-
tralia has been. It would certainly be
difficult to do so, but it is not impossible ;
with a sufficient amount of bad government
hardly anything is impossible.
* * * *
Australia can’t be made great merely by
one-man-one-vote—nor even by one-man-
two-votes, nor by one-man-twenty-votes ;
everything depends on how the one man
uses his vote. It can’t be made great merely
by shortening the hours of labor, nor by the
establishment of the legal minimum wage ;
if the Australian works fewer hours and re-
ceives better pay than other men these facts
must, to some extent, increase the cost of
production : and if foreign workers who toil
longer hours for less pay, and consequently
produce more cheaply, have the free run of
our markets, they will wipe out Australia’s
industries, and the blessing of eight hours
labor per diem will only lead to the curse of
no labor at all. Australia can't even be
made great by free education, as education
goes in the schools ; if every man in the
community knew three languages, and could
identify every European king down to
old Czar Samuel of Bulgaria at sight, and
was able to tell the latitude and longitude of
Tobolsk at the first time of asking, and
explain what killed Roderick the Goth, and
which was the lame leg of Timour, it would
not save the country from being in pawn to
foreign money-lenders, and beggared by
foreign debts. The more equitable distri-
bution of wealth is a good thing, but unless
it is first made certain that the country has
a reasonable amount of wealth of its own to
distribute more equitably, it is not so good
as it looks. “Socialism in our Time ” has
its advantages, but “ Solvency in our Time ”
needs to come first if the other thing is to do
much good. Hitherto there has been only
one aggressively reformative party in Aus-
tralian politics, and even it has kept closely
to the small, cheap, easy reforms—to those
that required no great effort and no great
sacrifice. When it became a question of
attempting the big reform which Australia
requires a dozen times more than any other,
the Labour party was just about as much
and just about as little of a reform party as
any other political body.
* * * *
When all the greatest political minds of
Australia are concentrated in one Parlia-
ment, there should be hope of better things
There never was, by any chance, enough
available political intelligence among the
Commonwealth’s less than four million
people to make six intelligent and patriotic
Parliaments, but there may be sufficient to
make one. That Parliament’s great purpose
should be to render Australia independent
of the foreign manufacturer, and the foreign
importer, and the foreign land syndicate and
mining syndicate, and of foreign financial
institutions and foreign usurers—and also of
local usurers. The first lesson it should
learn and impress on the people is that no
country can become great while its wealth
consists largely of artificial land values
created by the influx of loan moneys, and its
industries consist to an enormous extent in
building public works with loan moneys, and
its only remedy for the constant trouble of
the unemployed is to pay them wages out of
loan moneys for doing something either use-
ful, or useless, or partly useless. If there is
no existing party whose motto is “ Solvency
in Our Time,” then it is the business of the
Federal Parliament to create such a party.
* * * *
There is a great space in Australia just
now for the statesman who is in dead earnest.
It is the one billet which is chronically
vacant in a land where there are a score of
applicants for every other billet. Australia
has had Protectionist politicians who said
they believed in “ moderate Protection,”
and Freetrade politicians who raised
£2,000,000 a year by duties —mostly protec-
tive duties. It has had Treasurers who
were so shocked at the ruinous loan policy
of their predecessors that they indignantly
cut down the borrowing to a figure which
would equal the whole revenue of a good-
sized European State, and then put it up
again ; and who were so grieved at the
disastrous deficits of the men who went
before them that they concealed their own
deficits among the trust funds—like a leper
who isn't healed but only hidden behind a
shrub. Australia has got, in parts, nigger
exclusion laws which let the nigger in
moderately ; and Old Age Pension laws
which disqualify about one-half of the aged
poor ; and laws which profess to resume
large estates for closer settlement without
giving any power of resumption ; and unre-
formed Upper Houses which have been going
to be reformed since the oldest inhabitant
first began to take a serious interest in
things. It has absentee-tax laws which
aren’t robust enough to suppress the absen-
tee, and one minimum wage law which cer-
tainly gives a good many people a minimum
wage and also leaves a great many without.
Also, it has in some places conciliation and
arbitration courts that have only power to
conciliate when both parties are conciliatory ;
and in spots it has eight hour laws or early-
closing laws which still leave one of the
largest sections of the community—the agri-
cultural employes—to work 12 hours or so
per diem, and hardly to close at all. There
is scarcely any statute in Australia (barring
the statutes for hanging people) which is
complete and thorough and in dead earnest.
If the Federal Parliament is a democratic
Legislature which is in dead earnest a very
large opportunity presents itself.
* * * *
When the superfluous royal duke ceases
to obscure that opportunity by standing in
front of it, there are hopes that the people
will realise its full importance. Last Thurs-
day Australia made a practical beginning
with what should be the most wonderful
career in the world’s history, though it
was so busy waving banners and reading
addresses to George of Cornwall and York
—who had no earthly connection with the
case—that it had hardly time to notice the
fact. The Commonwealth begins with one
continent, one people, one language, and one
supreme Parliament as its chief assets. If it
has no more crazes for expensively butcher-
ing foreigners who have done it no injury—
if it doesn’t waste its time and its manhood
grovelling to extraneous royalties—if it sets
before it, as its chief ambitions, the freeing
of Australia from servile dependence on
the foreign manufacturer and the foreign
pawnbroker—most other things will come.
A Legislature which has the courage and
intelligence to attack the largest of Australia’s
political diseases isn’t likely to fail in dealing
with the smaller ones. There are few things
which the Federal Parliament can’t do, if it
wants to do them. Even in the way of
reforming State politics its powers, direct
and indirect, are almost unlimited. It can
make liberal and uniform labor and minimum
wage and anti-sweating laws for all Australia,
if the State Parliaments consent to entrust
these matters to it, and when such ob-
structive bodies as Victoria’s House of
Rich Landlords blocks the way, it can,
by means of its unlimited powers of land-
taxation, show such bodies very good and
sufficient reason for changing their minds. ■
It has authority—also by its powers of taxa-
tion—to break up such grinding land mono-
polies as the Australian Agricultural Co.,
the Van Diemen’s Land Co., the S.A. Co.,
the Hampton Plains syndicate, and the huge
land monopolies of the Northern Territory.
It can, again by means of its taxing powers,
establish a real and vigorous policy of the
resumption of huge estates for closer settle-
ment. In Queensland and Westralia, where
there is practically no special taxation on the
rich, it can shift the burden by making the
land and income duties Federal imposts. It
can make the awful State Treasurers keep
their finances straight, if it feels so inclined,
by paying up their deficiencies out of extra
taxation levied on the States by Federal
authority. It can put a stop to alienation of
the public estate in huge masses if it
likes to draft a Federal land-tax law of the
right kind, and it can wipe out the whole
tribe of land-grant railway syndicates by a
similar process. It can make the Queens-
land National Bank keep perfectly respectable
—in fact, there is hardly a great reform that
wants doing in Australia that it can’t do,
either by means of its direct authority, or
by means of its powers to deal with matters
referred to it by the State Parliaments, and
its further powers to bring pressure on the
State Parliaments and make them refer to it
subjects which they are too Tory or too in-
competent to deal with themselves. It can
even make the Victorian House of 48 Rich
Landlords dissolve itself and cease to ob-
struct the popular will ; its capacity for
making itself unpleasant to the class from
which the 48 Landlords are drawn is almost
boundless —if it becomes sufficiently angry
to make full use of that capacity, and if it is
sufficiently explicit as to what line of con-
duct will be likely to make it angry.
* * ¥ m
Of course, many of these proceedings
would be, to use the common phrase, con-
trary to the intention of the Constitution.
That is to say, they would be contrary to the
intentions of the men who drew up the Con-
stitution—the Constitution, being an inani-
mate machine, like a locomotive or a reaper
and binder, has no intentions beyond the
exact letter of its own existence. But the
men who make Constitutions die, and their
intentions die with them, and the Constitu-
tions survive, and the people who inherit
them use them according to what they say—
not according to what the dead men meant
them to say. It is an axiom of Democratic
Government that the majority should rule.
In the Federal Parliament it has a
chance to rule absolutely and completely.
In the State Legislatures it is often de-
frauded of its rights by plural votes,
property-elected Upper Houses, or Upper
Houses of irresponsible life nominees,
and other devices. If reforms which the
great majority desires can’t be obtained in
the State Parliaments because the fraudulent
minority is on top, it is natural that the
majority should follow the line of least
resistance, and transfer the battle to a Legis-
lature where there is no fraudulent minority
on top. There is hardly any question which
can’t be dealt with directly or indirectly by
the Federal Parliament, and hardly any in-
solent State oligarchy which can’t be crushed
into small dust by the Federal grindstone, if
its powers are used to the uttermost. If, in
so using them, the people go far be-
yond the intentions of the original Con-
stitution-makers, that can’t be helped.
If they also make it impossible for
the Federal Legislature to live in
brotherly concord with the State Parlia-
ments, that also can’t be helped. The sad-
dest thing that could be said about the
Federal Parliament would be that it was the
kind of body which could live in concord
with the Victorian House of 48 Rich Land-
lords, and be a friend and brother to Tas-
mania’s property-elected Council, or obtain
the cordial approval of Queensland’s Con-
tinuous Ministry. If three years hence it
is even on speaking terms with any of these
bodies there will be reason to fear that it
has sadly neglected its opportunities.
The Remarkable Louis Francis Heydon.
Louis Francis Heydon is a Sydney solicitor of
wealth and eminence, and an M.L.C. Some little
time ago one Moss died, and left an estate worth
some £SOOO, a number of children, and a rather
confused will. Out of this will arose the lawsuit
of Moss v. Moss, with nine infants as plaintiffs,
and eleven others as defendants. Louis Francis
Heydon was retained to act for the plain-
tiffs, and five of the defendants asked him
to watch their interests as well. This he
could not do, for, singularly enough, con-
sidering the character of N.S.W. legal prac-
tice, a solicitor is not allowed to take fees from
both sides. But Louis Francis Heydon did the
next best thing. He recommended the five defen-
dants (who only asked for one solicitor and con-
sequently one law bill) to five separate firms of
solicitors (with naturally five separate law bills)
and with all these five solicitors he arranged that
they should pay him a percentage of their profits
in consideration of the introduction. Thus the
more costs piled up by Louis Francis Heydon’s
legal opponents, the greater his profit, and the
less money remaining for the suitors.
* * • *
The interests of the five defendants appear to
have been practically identical, and there seems
to have been little reason why one solicitor should
not have sufficed for them all. That would
have meant one set of costs and Louis Francis
Heydon would have received only one set of per-
centage profits. The suit was decided ; and the
bills of the defendants’ solicitors were presented
to Louis Francis Heydon’s managing clerk in
order to be taxed. Of course, every item which
Louis Francis Heydon’s managing clerk taxed
off five of the solicitors’ bills of costs meant some-
thing taxed off Louis Francis Heydon’s per-
centage of profits. It was to the pecuniary
interest of Louis Francis Heydon’s clients
to reduce opponents’ costs as much as possible.
But it was to the pecuniary interest
of Louis Francis Heydon to reduce opponents’
costs as little as possible. And Louis Francis
Heydon’s managing clerk (without his knowledge,
Louis Francis Heydon swears) duly taxed the
opponents’ costs. The costs were passed by
Judge Manning, who knew nothing of the
arrangement between Louis Francis Heydon
and the five solicitors, and he directed the costs to
be paid out of the estate. That was done; and
there was no estate left. The whole £SOOO was
swallowed up in costs ! Plaintiffs got one shell,
defendants got another shell, and Louis Francis
Heydon and the other lawyers got the oyster.
♦ * ■* *
Then the Perpetual Trustee Company, repre-
senting the nine infants whose little heritage
had been devoured, heard of the remarkable
way in which Louis Francis Heydon had
secured his own interests, and brought action
to compel him to disgorge. Louis Francis
Heydon defended the action, but nevertheless
had to disgorge £977, which sum apparently
stood for the percentage-profits from the
five solicitors. But he protested that the
practice of taking a percentage of costs
from the opposite side was “most general’’with
Sydney solicitors; “habitually prevailed”; and
was followed by “the very highest offices in the
profession.” This remarkable statement roused
N".S.W. Law Institute, which brought the matter
before. the Full Court, and produced affidavits
from six leading firms of Sydney solicitors that no
such practice existed, and that if it had they must
have heard of it. Then the remarkable Louis
Francis Heydon climbed down. He admitted
that the terms of his sworn protest were “ too
wide and sweeping.” And he “supported him-
self ” (!) with six affidavits by other solicitors who
had never taken a percentage of opponents’ costs,
and had no pei’sonal knowledge that sue i a prac-
tice existed. Some of them had heard, or dreamed,
that some solicitors did that kind of thing; but
personally they knew nothing about it.
* * * *
Then the Full Court gave judgment, after tak-
ing two months to think about it. And what did
it do? It fined (hold vour breath !) Louis
Francis Heydon £SO ; and it intimated (hold
your nose !) that the next solicitor caught imitat-
ing Louis Francis Heydon in such “ professional
misconduct ” would be treated “with the utmost
rigor.” And the infants get back £977 of Moss’s
estate ; the lawyers get some £4OOO !
* * * *
That appears to The Bulletin a scandalous
miscarriage of justice. Speaking generally, that
it should be possible, under the guise of forms of
law, for lawyers so to spoil a dead man’s estate
at the cost of his relatives, is nothing less
than legalised robbery. With particular refer-
ence to the remarkable Louis Francis Heydon,
here is a little sum in arithmetical probabilities.


The said Heydon restored £977 —equal to nearly
one-fifth of the estate. That was apparently one
solicitor’s little share. At that rate, how much
of the ruin that has fallen on the infant legatees
was owing to the fact that Louis Francis Heydon
was, to all appearances, largely instrumental in
letting loose Jive solicitors to prey on the estate
when the five defendants only wanted one soli-
citor among them —and did it under circumstances
which meant that the more solicitors there were
to prey on the estate the more profit came to
Louis Francis Heydon. There is no evidence to
show that the small refund which the defendants
have received anything like makes good the loss
which they suffered, indirectly, through their
unfortunate acquaintance with the gentleman who
introduced them to all these extra solicitors.
The infant who is thrown on a cold world
with only a scanty provision arouses a certain
amount of sympathy in the hearts of most people ;
apparently in the heart of Louis Francis
Heydon five such infants only excited a desire
to introduce them to four extra and unneces-
sary solicitors, and to get an extra percent-
age of profit out of their little estate. And
he didn’t refund a penny until he was driven to it
by legal process. And the Law fines the rich
Louis Francis Heydon £50 —its excuse for its
leniency being that he returned £977 when it
became absolutely necessary to do so.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The First Federal Programme.
The first Federal Government of Australia laid
its programme before the people last Friday. It
might have been expressed more forcibly, but, so
far as it goes, the material of it is excellent. And
as much of the time of the first session must be
taken up with merely formal matters —Bills to
establish Federal law-courts, to appoint Judges,
create an inter-State commission, to make uniform
the postal, telegraph, bankruptcy, and other laws,
to put the Federal public service on a proper foot-
ing, and to deal with other dry, though absolutely
essential, details—the programme contains quite
as much as can possibly be carried out this session.
The main points of it, apart from the compara-
tively uninteresting matters above specified, are
these:—
The establishment of a uniform Federal franchise on the
basis of one adult one vote.
The “ firm restriction ” of Asiatic immigration, and the
diminution and gradual abolition of the kanaka influx.
The establishment of a Protectionist tariff.
The taking over by the Commonwealth, as soon as pos-
sible, of the State debts.
The passing of Conciliation and Arbitration laws to deal
with industrial disputes.
The establishment, when the money is available, of an
all-Australian Old Age Pension system.
Also the building of the railway to Westralia, and
the taking over of the Northern Territory are
stated as being under consideration. Certainly
the things that are definitely promised for this
session are quite as much as any Parliament can
hope to deal with in the time—probably a great
deal more, allowing for the enormous number of
measures that must be passed in order to establish
Government departments and put the services
taken over from the States on a uniform basis.
Certainly if the Reid party acts the giddy and
unpatriotic ox in Federal politics as it did when it
was in opposition in State politics in Dibbs’s time,
and blocks all progress with 13 motions of censure
in three years, very little will be done. At all
events, the programme of the Barton Ministry,
so far as it is yet visible, is democratic in every
item. And the best proof thereof is that it has
already earned the heart-felt curse of George
Reid, and his retrogressive prop — the Sydney
Telegraph, and that Frederick Sargood of
Victoria, military knight and drapery importer,
has taken a front seat with the Reid Opposition.
4
His Honor and a Dog.
One day last week, Hamilton, Acting-District
Court Judge in Sydney, flashed into sudden
brilliance as a dog-thought-reader. Duncan
Osborne, a policeman, admitted by the Court as
the next friend of Constance Osborne, an infant,
44 years old, sued Noad, a dairyman, for £2OO, on
the ground that Noad kept a fierce and mis-
chievous dog, which attacked and bit the little
girl, inflicting injuries that will disfigure her for
life. The defence was remarkable, if not brutal.
First, ownership of the brute was repudiated, but
it was urged that, should the Court find the
ownership proved, the infant of 4J years was a
trespasser, and therefore the awful damage done
to her was justifiable. Apparently, the defendant
knew the sort of Judge he was coming before.
The evidence showed that the parties lived oppo-
site to each other, and that the children
were, and long had been, in the habit of
going back and forwards together. On the day in
question they were all at the dairyman’s, and the
little toddler got separated from the rest.
Suddenly Mrs. Noad heard a cry, and looking
round, saw the dog on top of the infant. The
medical evidence was to the effect that the child
had been bitten three times, the top lip being
bitten right through, and a wound inflicted under
the eye that will cause permanent disfigurement.
Then the wise acting-Judge Hamilton brought
his scientific dog-thoug! t-readirig intellect into
play and created a sensation. He held that the
child was not a trespasser, and he apparently
held the ownership of the dog proved. Had the
doctor certified that the child had only been
bitten once, he said, he must have found for
the plaintiff, but as the doctor had proved
that the dog had bitten her three times
they must draw the inference that the dog
hid been irritated by the child, and he, therefore,
found for the defendant. Pushes will, therefore,
please note : To kick a man once proves that the
assault is unjustified ; kick him frequently, and it
will prove that the unfortunate pedestrian must
have irritated the push, and deserved what he got.
Acting-Judge Hamilton is evidently a disciple of
the late Judge Windeyer, who used to read the
inner consciousness of prisoners or witnesses by
the way they shuffled their feet when they were
present. But Mr. Hamilton goes further, and
reads the inner thoughts of dogs while they are
absent.. His law is, apparently, that the more a
dog bites you the less damages you get. And
now the question arises : Acting-Judge Hamilton
admitted that, if Noad’s dog had bitten the child
once, Noad would have owed her something for
compensation. As it bit her three times Noad
owed nothing. Then if it had bitten her six times
how much would she have owed Noad? This is a
simple question in logic and arithmetic, and badly
wants an answer.
4
Sydney “ Telegraph’s ” Blast of
Indignation.
The Barton Government’s proposal to arrange
for taking over the State debts and consolidating
them into a uniform stock, roused the Sydney
Telegraph (which curses Barton’s democratic
programme root and branch) to another of its
wild and whirling frenzies of inaccuracy. In last
Saturday’s leader it explained things thus :
To show the extent to which they are willing to go in
quest of support, it is even mentioned that considera-
tion is being given to the best means of taking over,
converting, renewing, or consolidating the public dents
of the States.” If the debts were taken over the Com-
monwealth would have no means of paying the interest
on them, except by also taking over the assets which
they represent. . . . “ Some time,” it is remarked,
“ must elapse before the financial conditions of the
Commonwealth will admit of provision being made for
old age pensions.” As under the Braddon clause old
age pensions are manifestly impossible, this is a signifi-
cant utterance. A number of other measures, such as
the strengthening of the defences and the establishment
of a penny post, are referred to as about to be dealt with
“ as soon as practicable.” This can only be after Brad-
don’s Blot has been removed from the Constitution, so
that, in order to raise one soldier or carry one letter, the
Commonwealth may be relieved from the obligation of
taxing the States for four. Mr. Barton is, consequently,
either humbugging the Parliament, or he lays himself
open to that bogus charge of Federal disloyalty, which,
during the elections, he levelled against those who re-
fused to shut their eyes to the imperfections in the Con-
stitution.
The first statement is straight-out falsehood or
dense ignorance. The Constitution provides (in
the Braddon’s Blot clause —No. 87) that for the
first ten years three-fourths of the customs and
excise revenue shall be handed back to the States
“or applied towards the payment of interest on
debts o f the several States taken overby the Common-
wealth.,” therefore the Commonwealth has any
amount of money available with which to pay
interest on the State debts if it takes them over.
Then it is further specified (clause 105) that if
the Commonwealth takes over the State debts,
and the surplus of customs and excise returnable
to any State is insufficient to cover the interest
bill, the State must make good the difference.
The other statements are equally false. The
Federal Government can pay Old Age Pensions,
and it can improve The defences, and it can give
penny postage, quite irrespective of the Braddon
clause. It can do these things because it has one-
fourth of the customs and excise revenue at its
disposal ; all the present post and telegraph
revenues ; all the extra postal revenues to be
raised by abolishing the free newspaper postage of
N.S.W., Tasmania and Westralia; and unlimited
powers to levy land-tax, income-tax, absentee-tax,
probate and succession duties, and any other kind
of tax, all the proceeds of which will be at its own
disposal. Strange as it may appear, the men who
built the Federal Constitution did actually know
something, and the intelligence of Australia isn’t
all concentrated in the D.T. office. The Federal
Constitution is a perfectly workable affair ; the
trouble is that the Telegraph’s limited intellect
can’t understand it, or the Telegraph’s limited
veracity won’t do it justice.
—
Atlas does a Dead Lift.
One of the largest contracts undertaken by any-
body since the time of Atlas, the gentleman who
lifted the earth, is set forth in the following cir-
cular issued by the Australian Press Reform
League, of 341 Collins-st., Melbourne :
Entering, as the States of Australia are, into a newer, a
wider and a higher sphere, in the carving out of their
destiny, it behoves us to let this, the starting point of a
new era, be unfettered by the mistaken ideas we have
hitherto held regarding the power with which we are in-
vested to demand that our rights should not be restricted.
One of the links of serfdom which prevents our Com
monwealth from being free in the fullest sense of the
term is Press domination. Owing to the apathy displayed
in the consideration of political questions, and the lack of
a medium to transmit the views and sentiments of the
people, as well as to refute the misleading statements
that are occasionally circulated through the columns of
the Press, our rights have been usurped, and in reality
the State is governed by the Press and not the people.
Every right-thinking man must admit it to be neces-
sary, if we desire to elevate our people to a higher stan-
dard and preserve the best interests of the community,
that the source from which we derive oiir information on
all social and commercial questions, and which we are
dependent upon for education of a political nature, must
be based upon lines of the strictest integrity.
The time is now opportune for the people to demand
that they should be supplied with a medium which would
print THE TRUTH, and THE TRUTH ONLY in its
columns, and which would recognise the necessity for
encouraging and educating the people to reason and form
their opinion from the plain unvarnished facts laid before
them, in preference to having any particular section of
the Press coercing them into obeying its dictates.
With the object of determining upon a course of action
that will induce the Press to restrain its tyrannical abuse
of power, the above League has been formed, and the
support and co-operation is invited of all those who are
desirous of promoting the welfare of the people.
It is a noble idea, but the voice of Pilate still
howls down the halls of the centuries, like a ghost
wailing through a tube on a windy night, and
asks “ What is Truth ? ” If the League can get
together even 1000 members who will be unani-
mous as to what is the truth upon every subject
that crops up, The Bulletin will find a paper
that will print and advocate their views. It will
be a model paper, from the League’s point of
view, until the League starts to disagree, and
call itself names, and argue, and blacken its own
joint and several eye. If the League can agree as
to what is a lie, that thing will be kept out. If
the League can agree as to what is pure, unadul-
terated fact that thing will go in. And when the
League splits into seven howling, shrieking, curs-
ing factions, as it will do most of the time, then
its organ will burst up. Let the Australian Press
Reform League start its career of unanimity on
clause 111. of its own manifesto and say what is a
“right-thinking man.” Probably one-half will
say it is a man like John Norton and the other
half will say it is a man like Softgoods Sargood.
Then next morning the whole League will be
fined 2s. fid. for making a disturbance in a public
place.
An Ancient Institution.
Dear Bulletin. —Have you ever heard of a
Sydney municipal institution of hoary antiquity
called the “Widow’s Cart?” It is this way : a
man in one of the city wards dies. When every-
thing is fixed up his widow finds herself with a
few pounds. She applies to the alderman for the
ward. He earwigs the Mayor, and the widow is
told that if she buys a horse and cart, she will be
set up for life. She buys one, the cart is put on in
one of the Council departments, either scavenging
or roadmaking, at so much a day; she hires a
driver, who does the work at so much less per
day ; and the widow pockets the difference. The
widow’s cart then becomes a “ corporation sole, ”
which the dictionary says is “a legal personage,
always known by the same name, and preserving
its identity through a perpetual succession of
natural persons.” For instance, the following
complicated circumstances may arise: The
widow may marry again, and the new family
may run the cart. Suppose she then dies,
the husband gets the cart. If he marries again
and dies the cart descends upon his widow
(an entirely different widow from the original).
If the original widow dies unmarried and intes-
tate, leaving children, the family estate, consisting
of the cart, is run by the children as tenants-in-
common, or they may toss for it, or the widow
may, by will, leave this gorgeous estate to one,
and cut the others off with a shilling. So
on through all the vicissitudes and uncertain-
ties of life, men may come and men may
go, but the widow’s cart goes on for ever.
It is now an INSTITUTION, and as all
the widows or their successors in title have
votes, the city aldermen dare not put their sacri-
legious hands or their vandal boots upon this
ancient edifice. It is the Only Ancient Institu-
tion that Sydney city has. The Town Hall is
comparatively new, and has not the moss-grown
appearance of the Widow’s Cart. Some of the ori-
ginal widows have been in Heaven for a quarter-
century, and yet their carts still perambulate the
streets, out of date, out of repair, shedding odors
of decay on every hand. It was in the beginning,
is now, and shall .be, cart without end. Amen !
—HSdile.
4
The Burnt Land.
Lieutenant Morrison, of Ottawa (Canada), fur-
nishes this description of Kitchener’s campaign
against the women and children of the Boer
States :
“ During the trek, which lasted four days, our progress
was like the old-time forays in the highlands of Scotland
two centuries ago. The country is very like Scotland,
and we moved on from valley to valley lifting cattle and
sheep, burning, looting, and turning out the women and
children to sit and weep in despair and utter misery
beside the ruins of their once-beautiful farmsteads. It
was the first touch of Kitchenbe’s iron hand—a terrible
thing to witness, and I don’t know that I want to see
another trip of the sort. It rather revolted the most of
us.
“ We burned a track about six miles wide through these
fertile valleys, and completely destroyed the village of
Wilpoort and the flourishing town of Dullstroom. The
column left a trail of fire and smoke behind it that could
be seen at Belfast. Many of the houses were surrounded
with beautiful gardens abloom with roses, lilies, and
hollyhocks, and embowered in fruit trees, and with my,
glasses I could see the women and children bundled out,
their bedding thrown through the windows after them.
The cavalry would ride rapidly away, and the poor women
and children, utterly confounded by the sudden visita-
tion, would remain standing in the yard or garden watch-
ing, helplessly, their homes disappear in fire and smoke.”
Describing the sack of Dullstroom, Lieut. Morrison
proceeds :—“ Nobody who was there will ever forget that
day’s work. About 7 o’clock in the morning our force
seized the town after a little fight. The Boers went into
the surrounding hills, and there was nobody in the town
except women and children. It was a very pretty place,
nestling in a valley. The houses had lovely flower gardens,
and the roses were in bloom. We seized a kopje over-
looking the main street, and placed all the guns on it,
while the cavalry galloped through and skirmished up the
hills beyond. The Boers drove in our outposts on the
flank, and began sniping the guns, and amid the row of
the cannonade and the crackle of rifle fire the sacking of
the place began.
“ First there was an ominous bluish haze over the town,
and then the smoke rolled up in volumes that could be
seen 50 miles away. The Boers on the hills seemed
paralysed by the sight, and stopped shooting. When the
lull came, General Smith-Dorrien invited the artillery
officers to go down into the place with him on a sort of
official appearance—‘ just tell them that you saw me ’
style of thing. This town was very quiet, save for the
roaring and crackle of the flames. On the steps of the
church a group of women and children were huddled.
The women’s faces were very white, but some of them
had spots of red on either cheek, and their eyes were
blazing.
“ The troops were systematically looking the place
over, and as they got quite through with each house they
burned it. Our Canadian boys helped the women to get
their furniture out with much the same concern as they
would exhibit at a village fire at home. If they saw any-
thing, however, they particularly fancied they would
likely appropriate it (‘ muzzle not the ox that treadeth
out the corn ’), but they had not the callous nerve to
take the people’s stuff before their eyes. But you should
have seen the ltoyal Irish on the loot! They helped the
people out with their stuff by heaving bureaus bodily
through the windows, putting pickaxes through melo-
deons, and such like wantonness. I heard one yell,
‘ Begorry, Tim, here’s a nice carpet. Oi think Oi’ll take
it home for the ould woman. Lind a hand here.’ R-r-rip !
Up came a handsome pile carpet in strips. And so the
work went on, the officers standing by laughing at the
costly fun their men were having.
“As I stood looking, a woman, the owner of a very
pretty little cottage standing in a rose garden on a side
street which was being destroyed, turned to me and
pathetically exclaimed : ‘ Oh, how can you be so cruel ?’
It was an intensely sad -sight to see the little homes
burning and the rose bushes withering up in the pretty
gardens, and the homeless and distressed women and
little children weeping in abject misery and despair
among the smoking ruins as we rode away.”
In the early days of the war the Boer was always
described as a filthy hog whose residence was,
naturally, the sort of place a hog would live in.
But every account that comes to hand (and there
are many) of Kitchener’s barbarous style of war-
fare tells of the burning of beautiful towns, and
pretty houses surrounded by flower-gardens, and
the wholesale destruction of books, pianos, carpets,
and other adjuncts of civilisation. And the
legendary Boer, of whom the lying Jingo press of
Australia told us in the early days of the war—
the huge, dirty, hairy, uncouth bog-trotter, half-
ape and half-snufflebuster —built and lived in these
towns. It is an awful discrepancy. By recent
accounts it is not a horde of unprogressive white
savages, but rather a high-class civilisation which
is being obliterated in South Africa.
T 4
The dangerous crush of traffic in Sydney—
especially in George-st. and Oxford-st. —continues
to exercise the minds of the Government and the
municipal authorities to no useful purpose.
George-st. is bound to be crowded, because it is
practically the only thoroughfare running through
the city from north to south —York, Clarence,
Kent, Sussex, Pitt and Castlereagh streets, which
should be parallel thoroughfares, all crook and
turn into it and empty their traffic into the one
narrow bottle-neck. And Oxford-st. is crowded
because it is practically the only outlet to the
Eastern suburbs. Also, both streets are narrow
and angular. Sydney is now almost as large as
Melbourne, and its population is jammed into not
much more than half the space which Melbourne
is built upon, and the trouble must grow worse
and worse unless a comprehensive scheme of re-
building and re-construction is decided on. A
railway right through the city and across the har-
bor, with branches to Waverley, Bondi, Rand wick,
Balmain, &c., would certainly take a vast amount
of traffic off the streets, but that seems as remote as
the city re-construction idea. Still, something
has been done. Some of the heavy traffic which
cumbers Oxford-st. is to go by other streets, re-
gardless of the fact that there is really
no other street to go by—no other
street, that is, which heavily-laden vehicles
can negotiate. And a new railway-station is to be
built at Devonshire-st., which will disgorge its
passengers just about the old spot, and leave them
to stream, in trams, ’buses and cabs, down over-
crowded George-st. just as they do now. The
biggest advertisement in all Australia is waiting
for the statesman who reconstructs Sydney and
makes it what it easily might be —the queen city
of the Southern hemisphere ; but the constructive
ideas of the best statesman on hand just now don’t
go beyond putting up lath-and-plaster arches to
blacken the eye of the Duke of York with the
shock of their tawdry shoddiness.
4
Sydney D.T. discussing the Fegan appointment
finds a parallel in the appointment of Henry
Blake to the Governorship of Queensland. Says
the paper :
The chief objection taken to Sir Henry Blake was that
he had no official record. He had been a magistrate in
Ireland, and had been appointed Governor of one of the
West Indies. The special objection was that he was not
some kind of a peer. There was a mania at the time for
peers, as Australian Governors, and the most violent of
the professed democrats could not accept a mere com-
moner as the nominal ruler of a great self-governing
colony.
That is a very imperfect rendering of history.
Peerage did not enter into it. Blake had been a
policeman, had led a party of policemen to baton
the heads of open-air Nationalist speech-makers in
Dublin. He married into an influential Irish
Conservative family, which lugged him up the
ladder. When they tried to instal their bobby
into the Q. Governorship, Irish Queenslanders
kicked. MTlwkaith, then indulging a Nationalist
spasm and looking forward to the ensuing
elections, adopted the Irish cause and, in effect,
rejected Blake. The ultra-Tories in Queensland,
the parties always in search of a peer, were more
than willing to accept Blake. In the same con-
nection the late Henry Parkes carried a motion
in N.S.W. Assembly to the effect that only men
who had held high Parliamentary office in England
should be eligible for a N.S.W. Governorship.
That motion stands unrescinded. But the gentle
Beauchamp was accepted without question.
4.
A Chow marriage was celebrated at Wellington
(M.L.) lately, under unusual, not to say awful,
circumstances. The lettuce purveyor was charged
with having indecently assaulted a little girl of 13 ;
but, while out on bail (on remand), he actually in-
duced the parents to allow him to marry the
child ! When the case came on for re-hearing,
the police asked for another adjournment, as they
didn’t know what to do about the matter, and
they were still scratching their joint and several
heads when it was last heard of. The presump-
tion is that it will drop unobtrusively through
one of the large holes in the floor of the law and
get lost.
The Yic. Government’s latest method of dealing
with the unemployed problem amounted to little
more than offering a bonus on wife desertion. To
stave off the possibility of a demonstration in the
royal presence, efforts were made to get every
man, likely to make one of the Ragged Regiment,
out of the city before the celebrations ; and rail-
way-passes from Melb to the backest of the back-
blocks were freely issued, with the promise of
work at the terminus. The men were told they
could earn anything up to 7s. a day, which pro-
bably meant (it always does in such eases) that
an expert at that particular work could make
7s. a day. There was no guarantee that
the job would last any longer than the
period of the Jook’s visit, and no return
railway-passes were spoken of. In fact, it seemed
to be just a scheme for shifting the unemployed
out of the sight of George of Cornwall and York,
and keeping him ignorant of their existence.
Ignorance is a royal attribute, and much money is
spent in thus blighting the education of royalty.
Plenty of royalties, if they had a chance to see
and smell their own dominions as they really are,
would be much better royalties
♦
Present N.S.W. State Ministers appear to be
making a bold attempt to fight the influence of
the Sydney dailies. Minister O’Sullivan’s con-
stant references to “dirty ink-pots,” and the
general tendency of his remarks; also Crick’s,
Perry’s, and Waddell’s, show that the Govern-
ment is trying the strength of “platform ” versus
“press.” It is a hopeless fight, because O’Sul-
livan’s remarks, however convincing, upon the
“undue influence of the press,” only reach the
bulk of the community through the press. His
only remedy is to get a phonograph which will keep
on repeating his statements to large congrega-
tions all over N.S.W. diurnally. Then the power
of suppress has to be reckoned with. O’Sullivan
will find that the biggest power the daily paper
possesses is the power of having the last word,
and if he goes on contradicting, they may go on
asserting until he is eventually gathered to his
fathers —when the paper will come out trium-
phantly on the morning after, with the same old
statement and his obituary-notice in parallel
columns.
♦
Chief Justice Darley and Justices Stephen
and Owen had before them the other day the case
of a law clerk, who was neither an articled clerk nor
a solicitor, and who was alleged to have made un-
true affidavits rc costs. If he had been an articled
clerk or a solicitor the Court declared it would
have treated him one way ; as he was a layman it
decided to treat him another. The Chief Justice
said: —
All these papers should be laid before the Attorney-
General for his consideration. If he thinks an informa-
tion for swearing a false affidavit should be filed against
this person, we will consent to that as far as the Judges
are concerned, if it requires a judge’s consent.
This paper has over and over again contended
that where a similar charge is brought against a
solicitor, and the Court finds the charge so fully
proved as to justify the removal of his name from
the roll, the Court should similarly send forward
the papers to the Attorney-General. If he has
committed a criminal offence, as is often admit-
tedly the case, exactly the same steps should be
taken against him as against a layman.
—
Dr. Rentoul hats off ! writing to Melb.
Herald, asserts that the work Kanakas have to
do “is an inhuman and cruel kind of work, which
no candidate would set for himself or his children,
and which, therefore, he has no right to fasten
on the unfortunate Kanaka!” Dr. Rentoul’s in-
tentions are excellent, but his facts are very much
astray. If the worthy doctor had stated that re-
cruiting has been (in times past) often carried on
in barbarous manner ; if he had asseverated that
occasionally the sanitary conditions under which
Tommy Tanna labors are very defective; if he
had added that the Islanders’ treatment when
sick is often by no means what it should
be— then his assertions might be taken seri-
ously ; but as for saying that Tanna’s daily
occupation “is of a cruel and inhumankind” —
the statement is almost too absurd to call for refu-
tation. If the business of trashing and cutting
cane be dubbed “ cruel and inhuman,” what must
be said of the work of the miner who sweats in a
hot drive at Croydon ? What must be said of the
toil of the cedar-getter who drags the timber out
of the malarial forests on the coast of N. Queens-
land ? What must be said of the occupation of
the navvy who builds a railway through low-
lying borders of Carpentaria ? The Doctor is
astray this time.
4
The Boer war having shown the value, as part of
a national defence scheme, of a straight shot and
a level head, several of these States lately started
building riflemen, and »formed very many rifle
clubs. That’s about a,s far as they got. Some of
the clubs got an occasional rifle or two —of a more
or less obsolete pattern—but so far there has been
a great scarcity of ammunition and a total lack of
encouragement from those who are expected to
create a national defence force. In the Melbourne
celebrations the riflemen wore asked to parade, at
the remuneration of 2s. a day without rations, which
reckless generosity moved them to explain that
they wouldn’t like to send the first Federal Govt.


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
of the United States.
LIBERAL TERMS TO AGENTS OF GOOD STANDING
In order to improve the position of its Agents in Australia, and to better conserve
the business, the Equitable now offers RENEWAL CONTRACTS to
first-class agents, thus giving them a pecuniary interest in their business for
several years, instead of for only one year as at present.
For particulars, refer to
S. W. I)’ARCY-IRVIN E, Manager for New South Wales and Queensland,
Equitable Building, Sydney' ; or to
G. G. McCOLL and B. H. PASCOE, Managersfor Victoria, S. Australia and Tasmania, j
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
THE
Sulphide Corporation
W ** LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W,
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can be Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Cold, Silver, Lead, a 0 n r d Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought -
... ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
Special Terms quoted for Tar ye Parcels or
Regular Supplies under Contract.
Tull Particulars and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cockle Creek-
A E. SAVAGE,
Manager
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Agents for Australia.
broke, so they declined the honor. Truth is, the
“milingtary pusson” doesn’t care very much
whether the man in the ranks can shoot or not.
What he most wants is a well-drilled, well-dressed
machine, which obeys orders easily, and salutes
freely, and evolushes gracefully, and generally
adds to the glory and lustre of the aforesaid
pusson. All which is a poor look-out for a system
of national defence.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal Grand Opera Co.
Lyceum.. “Night Birds of London."
Criterion “ The French Spy.”
Palace Snazelle.
Her Majesty’s “Florodora.”
Empire Fuller Co.
Tivoli Rickards 00.
Redfern Wirth’s Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “A Royal Divorce.”
Theatre Royal “ Woman and Wine.”
Bijou “The Power of Wealth.”
New Opera House. .... Rickards Variety 00.
Atheneum Hall G.B. Biograph (Last Nights).
Town Hall Trebelli-Dolores Concerts.
“The Night Birds of London,” which
erupted at Sydney Lyceum on Saturday night, is
the usual melodrama of cheerful inanities and
impossibilities. It was evidently written by a
homicidal maniac, and in it a number of people
exclaim, “My God ! I have killed him 1” Also,
it is played by women and men whose voices were
evidently trained by a Scotchbyterian parson of
the Covenanting days. This murderous produc-
tion, in which the people who think they have
killed somebody take the trouble to inform their
Deity of the fact, is rather well-staged, the scenery
being beyond reproach. It contains several pic-
tures of London, in which the Thames is shown
as a pellucid stream, as it might have been 2000
years ago, when Boadicea and her daughters sat
with their large, white Ancient British
feet in it, and planned to fill it with
dead Romans. It certainly has never
been so clear since. All the views of Lon-
don are by moonlight, when London is at its best,
and it was lucky the artist was sober that moon-
lit night, or Anderson’s play would not have been
the success it is from a spectacular standpoint.
In the scene outside Covent Garden Theatre real
cabs drive past, the heroine is carried off in a
closed carriage drawn by two fine upstanding
horses, and an erratic individual floats round on a
motor-tricycle, which he carefully drives with his
feet, and not per medium of the boiler. The
“Night Birds” is merely the name of a gilded
club and gambling-hell in the West End,
where the barmaid dresses nicely and sells
only stuff from bottles with gold tops. The
manager, Sam Jacobs, is as ugly as sin,
but he has a pretty taste in woman-flesh, and
the show includes a dance by 16 girls dressed
in tights. On the opening night a piece
of realism, not mentioned in the programme, was
introduced. Willard, the villain, having turned
on the gas to suffocate the small child who had
seen him commit the murder, Harrison Vosper,
the slugger, went upstairs with a candle. Then
he vanished from the scene, and a number of logs
fell heavily on the stage, and red Bengal fire was
burnt lavishly. The London Fire Brigade turned
out and got to work with one hose, but in spite of
it the sky caught fire and went curl-
ing upwards. A few people went
out hurriedly to have a drink, and
the curtain came down with a skurry.
One person there pictured himself
keeping quite cool and walking out
with his girl on his arm over the piled
up struggling mass of panic-stricken
audience that had got jammed in
the narrow doorways, while overhead
red flames streamed across the street,
but the curtain went up again just
as suddenly as it had come down,
and a part of the sky was seen lying
with burnt edges on the stage, and
the usual document turned up, and
things ended well.
* » * *
The story is the same as that
of all the other melodramas. The
heroine’s name is Marion pro-
nounced Mawrion at the Lyceum.
The usual kid is Mawrion’s kid.
Mawrion is rather mixed up, and a
general failure. First she married
a thief and a forger, who left her
at the church gate, and never came
back, and explained things by get-
ting his name published amongst
the killed in a railway collision.
Mawrion married again, and her
second proprietor was a gambler,
and finally got into trouble by say-
ing, “My Gawd, I’ve killed him,”
which he hadn’t. The child car-
ries his grandfather’s last will and
testament around in his pocket for
three or four years, during which
time Harrison Vosper keeps him
in a London slum to sell his life at a
high price to the man who did the
murder. And the child produces the
will at exactly the right moment,
like all the other melodramatic in-
fants. He is very well played by
little Dorothy Swift. The best bit of acting in
the show is when Miss Helen Fergus, in the gloom
near Covent Garden theatre, hisses out that her
faithless husband shall marry Death. Writer
forgets wbetherjhe did or not, but if he did, it is
certain that Death will have to sit up very late at
night waiting for its husband to come home, and
is likely to get its eye blackened when he arrives.
*# * *
One more disloyal drama has been pro-
mulgating the treasonable suspicion that the fate
of Britain is continually resting on an Incriminat-
ing Document, and nobody yet has risen to de-
nounce the kind of play which teaches that a great
and glorious land will be Lost if the paper isn’t
found, or Destroyed if the paper continues to be
lost. Nor has anyone yet risen to inquire in an
adequate fashion why stage patriots write things
that are calculated to shatter the State and then
leave the paper lying about. The fate of the
mysterious document tangles up the first act or so
of the “French Spy” with which Holloway has
opened Sydney Criterion. The good adven-
turess is much interested in the Document which
is publicly plucked off her chest by the bad adven-
turess. Afterwards, the former loses interest in
the Document, and transfers her thoughts to a
Man, and blinds herself in what seems to be the
St. Petersburg police-court in order to avoid wit"
nessing against him. After which she is put into
a prison cell which revolves round into a scene
with water in it. About here she escapes in a
violently impossible manner by means of stone
steps which the malignant Russian Government
erects under its prison cells in order, seemingly, to
facilitate the captive’s escape. Later, with her
collar off, she repents of nothing very noticeable
amid a snowstorm in Paris, where she is found by
the lover for whose sake she blinded herself,' the
curtain descending before she has time to wonder
if he is really worth it.
» * * *
Ida Gresham makes a capital adventuress,
especially in the scene where she blinds herself,
and her eyes seem as good and new after she has
cast the vitriol on them as before. The bad
adventuress, who tries to deposit her rival in
Siberia because she has more admirers than herself,
is not very convincing, any more than are her
slanting attitudes and upward wriggles of joy
when she seems to succeed. Charles Holloway
successfully conveys the idea that a Russian chief
of police carries on his conversation mainly in
grunts, and the drama is darkened with
a considerable amount of humor, supplied
by O’Neill and others. It is in haste,
like David when he said that all men were
liars, and it never takes time to explain what is on
the lost paper which will burst up Britain if it
isn’t recovered. Sometimes in this kind of drama
the contents are explained, and then they gener-
ally prove to be only something about the position
of a fort, or a patent wooden plug, or a new way
of creeping on the stomach over rough ground so
as to approach the enemy unseen.
** * *
George Musgrove’s opera co. returns to
Sydney on Saturday, when “Faust” will be pro-
duced, with Lempriere Pringle as Mephistopheles,
Barron Berthold in the name-part, and Madame
Slap, as Marguerite. “Lohengrin,” “Carmen,”
and “Tannhauser” follow—one night each.
Musgrove’s opera co. has just been long
enough away to let Sydney realise that
life is an empty thifig without it, and not so
long away as to let Sydney get into the habit of
filling the void with other substances.
** * *
The Big Black Bear boom at Sydney Em-
pire is a profitable show. Herr Winschermann
is in charge, and Tony, the bear, is so broken up
by trying to spell his owner’s name that he is
almost abject in his humility. He does every-
thing he is told to do, and comes on the stage
without even a string through his nose to lead him
MR. G. H. SNAZELLE.
—though what earthly use a string would be if the
bear got nasty is beyond comprehension. The
rest of the Empire show is as good as usual.
* * *
The opera of the Scented Isle is in its
sixth week at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, and the
audiences still arrive as regularly as the cataract
which comes down at Lodore. As a consistent
boom—not one with bald patches of adversity on
it, but a boom on which the hair of affluence
grows over the entire available space—“ Floro-
dora ”is putting up a remarkable record. Lots of
people who have heard Miss Palotta state in song
that she had an inkling have gone to hear her ink
two and three and four times more, and still seem
unsatisfied. The song of Gil fain’s clerks, “Tell
me, Pretty Maiden,” is also in great demand. If
only the average employer would allow his clerks
to thus breathe sweet music to the family, the lot
of the quill-driver would be brighter than it is.
Cyrus Gilfain may not be a complete Christian,
but lie is at least an enlightened boss, and he de-
serves to have an island.
*# * *
On the night of Thursday, May 23rd,
Wirth’s Circus, including the tiger that tried to
eat two members of the co., will re-open at the
old site, for the usual short season. The Wirths
claim to have introduced the Roman Hippodrome
and the Wild West Show to this thirsty land,
and they always give value, in performances and
strange odorous beasts, for the money.
** * *
The only place around Sydney where a
bilious person can enjoy a yachting-trip without
being upset in his vitals is the Palace Theatre,
though the nautical-looking person who conducts
the excursion relates a melancholy yarn of a man
who had to retire suddenly from these wild, wet,
whirling, cinematographed seas. The entertain-
ment —to be fashionable—concludes with a funeral,
Tom Bowling’s funeral, that person having gone
aloft. Snazelle promises, however, to shortly
supply more funeral—that of the late Queen this
time. As Sydney has already seen that slow and
desolate function, it is to be hoped he may be
brought to reconsider his purpose. Meanwhile,
the man behind the scenes continues to drop the
bag of flour at the exact moment the cinemato-
graphed sailor biffs his brother tar, and the pour-
ing of the oats on the galvanized iron makes a
strangely accurate rendering of the rush of many
waters. The attendant who drops the bag of
flour is a most accurate person. His “ biff” never
oomes in a second too soon, nor yet a second too
late.
*# # *
The first part of the Tivoli show is con-
siderably brightened up by the singing of Arthur
Crane, Ernest Sullivan, and the graceful
dancing of Miss Maggie Fraser. Those clever
children, the Les Thieres, who do such remarkable
contortion and bicycle tricks, turn out to be
natives of Brisbane, notwithstanding their Gallic
name. Strange to say, when inspected by hand
they seem to have bone 3 just the same as other
people, but they leave them in the dressing-room
with their street clothes when they go to do their
turn. Marie Lloyd is in her last week. Mons.
Souke, who used to wallop tigers in Wirth’s
Circus, brings on a family of bears. This writer
has a distinct prejudice against the wild-beast
show in a theatre, and hereby records his vote
against the practice.
*# * #
What is going (possibly) to be the biggest
man in the world is at present playing at stock-
yard with a stool and bricks in a little show-room
down George-street way, Sydney. Doctors allege
that the young brick-player will be seven feet
high when he reaches full growth, and that his
weight will be 45 stone. At his present age of
three years he is already as.heavy as his mother,
who is slightly over seven stone, while his chest
measurement is an unbelievable number of inches.
This youth has a seven-year-old sister, who already
weighs 13 stone, and is of an affectionate nature
with a tendency to throw herself into her parents’
arms. When she throws herself affectionately on
both parents at once they sometimes contrive
to stand the avalanche of girl. One parent
taken alone usually falls down. Parents with
children of such dimensions do well to rear them
by moral suasion only.
** * *
Melbourne showmen were astounded last
week by the discovery that Jookovork was an ex-
cellent thing for business—better, in fact, than
even the Cup itself. At the Royal, the treasury
receipts went higher than they had ever gone since
Bland Holt brought his prices down to “popular”
limits ; and at other houses the rush for standing-
room was almost as furious. All the same, Bland,
in his wisdom, decided to change his billon Satur-
day.
* * * *
“ Woman and Wine,” the aftermath bill
at Melbourne’s oldest theatre, seems to have a
moral bearing on the city’s recent period of free-
drinks and female expensiveness. It reveals Wal-
ter Baker in a sad condition of remorse and liquor,
owing to a fine, outspoken Woman with a Marble
Heart, who tells him just what she thinks
of him as soon as she has “ nobbled ” his confiding
jockey and exhausted his finances. The marbled
syren in a series of seductive gowns is well worth
considering by the sex that, for the most part,
pays the bill. She has a bitter, derisive
laugh for her deluded Baker, what time
she is sweet as pie to a cheap and nasty
hanger -on named Alphonse. Finally, she
“ chucks ” this awful parasite in favor of a French
duke, whereupon another lydy of Alphonse’s
acquaintance jabs her with a iong-bladed knife in
the Paris flower-market, and Baker, as a matter of
course, gets arrested for the crime. All these things
happen under the management of one Caliban,
the caretaker of the Market, who loves to see
women killing one another, especially when the
blood of the victim cries aloud for vengeance
against an innocent Baker. What with the
gleaming knives, which Caliban sharpens on a
grindstone, and the scenic effects, and the
general impropriety of the principal characters,
“Women and Wine” amounts to a solid success. A
ballet in the second act is a pretty item, and the
steeplechase offers interesting matter for specu-
lation. On Saturday a number of ’chasers jibbed
and toppled over, bringing some of the scenery
down with them. If the same unreliable steeds
are going to appear every night, the members of
the orchestra at the big drum end will probably
be buried beneath an avalanche of horseflesh
before the week is out.
* * • *
Baker, invigorated by a month’s holiday,
gives a strong performance of the sinful hero of
this rorty melodrama, also Miss Harris Ireland
plays the bored Marcel in an imposing marble-
hearty style, and Miss Florence Seymour hates
her with much womanly feeling. Bland Holt,
as a young married man in an Eton jacket,
helps Mrs. Holt to hide the fruit of their
union from the knowledge of its drivelling
grandfather. A number of immoral minor
characters are more naturally acted than if they
were virtuous, for it is a melancholy fact in stage
life that the ways of the wicked seem easy to walk.
Miss Ross and a blind Methodist parent are the
only good characters, and inasmuch as the lady is
compelled to hawk flowers around the streets of
Paris, she seems a rather shocking example of
Christian endeavour.
* * #
At Her Majesty’s (Melb.) the darkened
tragedy of “ Macbeth” ends to-night (Thursday).
Kingston has shouted his voice to shreds, and
even the Amazonian Nance is growing feeble by
comparison with bygone memories of her roar,
so “ Macbeth ” will not be sorely missed. Half-
a-pound of jujubes and a week’s rest
would do Miss O'Neil a power of good;
but no matter. On Friday, the Williamson
Dramatic Co. will open a short season of “ Royal
Divorce,” and Cecil Ward will strike a Napoleonic
posture out on the rocks where Crorije and his
brother Boers are just now engaged in prayer and
meditation.
** * *
The intentions of Rickards re his new
Opera House were not quite certain at time of
writing. He may be able to shift his Bijou com-
pany thither by Saturday, or, more likely, he will
have to postpone the opening until next week.
Meanwhile A lfred Dam pier is announced to appear
at the Bijou next Saturday (18th) in any case, and
the bill for the first week is “The Power of
Wealth.” Melbourne has gone a long time with-
out its Dampier ; also, the time since it had any
melodrama at the Bijou is still longer, therefore
the risky-looking experiment will probably prove
to be wiser than was expected.
** * *
Musgrove’s Opera Co. is due to leave the
Princess’s after Thursday night, on which grand
farewell occasion “Tannhauser” will be per-
formed, and the aggressive supporters of that in-
digestible masterpiece will endeavour to enjoy it
more than usual. The Biograph at the Athenaeum
Hall is likewise coming to an end this week, but
the end will not happen before Saturday.
* Me * *
Mdlle. Trebelli Dolores, the gracious lady
who sings like a bird in sundry languages, and
laughs like a tickled angel, will give the first of
a new series of concerts at Melb. Town Hall next
Saturday (18th). Mdlle. is supported this trip by
a piano soloist (Mr. Newell), and the pair will
provide two hours of music between them.
The Wild Cat Column.
On another page of this issue appears the
prospectus of Howard Smith and Co., Limited. This co.
is being formed to take over the old-established shipping
and mercantile business of William Howard Smith and
Sons. The nominal capital is to consist of £1,000,000 in
600,000 preference and 500,000 ordinary shares of £1 each,
but at present only £500,000 is to be issued in 250,000 of
each class of shares. The preference shares are entitled
to a 5 per cent, cumulative dividend. The old firm takes
payment for the assets and business wholly in 325,000
shares (162,500 preference and 162,500 ordinary) so it, at
all events, appears to have sufficient faith in the venture ;
this leaves £175,000 available for public subscription.
The goodwill is set down at £40,000. The profits for the
last five years, after allowing £7 15s. per cent, per annum
for depreciation of ships and writing off depreciation of
plant, are certified to have been at the rate of
£54,901 per annum. If the new co. puts, say
£175,000 extra capital into the business for the
purchase of new ships and the enlargement of the
undertaking, and the profits don’t increase despite this
fact, it would still be able, on the above basis, to pay 7
per cent, dividends (£35,000), to carry £15,000 a year to a
reserve fund, and to write off the goodwill item in about
10 years or more —it would all depend on how much of
the remaining £4901 went in directors’ fees. Or it could
extinguish the goodwill item in three years, which would
be vastly better, and then have between £15,000 and
£20,000 a year for reserves. On the face of things the
new co. looks like a fair and promising investment.
• * * *
Burns, Philp and Co., shipowners, merchants,
landowners, hankers (in the South Sea Islands), and all
manner of things
Profits. Dividends, &t Ee T g °^e S .
March, 1896 .. £106,062
„ 1897 .. aw {toSS&TStS} 110,849
»“ 8 •• «■* PWSSS&- 2 !S} was
1899 „ .2,249 «s{} 1.5,000
„ 1900 .. 53,670 8 per cent. = 22,000 176,670
„ 1901 .. 46,410 8 „ = 22,000 201,08)
Though the profits are considerably less than at March,
1900, they are still equal to £l6 17s. 6d: per cent, per
annum on the paid-up capital of £275,000, which is a large
enough return to satisfy even a rapacious variety of share-
holder. The reserves in 1893 got as high as £165,487, but
immediately after that the slump in property struck the
co. heavily, and it wrote down values until a great part of
its old accumulations disappeared, But things have gone
well since then, and the present reserves are the largest
in the co.’s record. Burns, Philp and 00. paid 10 per
cent, from the foundation of the co. to 1885 ; 8 per cent,
in 1886 ; 12 per cent, in 1887 ; 10 per cent, thence to 1893 ;
7i per cent, in 1894-95, and 8 per cent, since then. And
as the shipping business is somewhat precarious, it does
well to keep its div. down to the present 8 per cent., and
build up its resources with the surplus.
* * » *
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co. publishes, for
the six months to 31st March, 1901, another of its splen-
didly-prosperous balance-sheets, and makes some pathetic
remarks about the possibility of the Kanaka being shut
out of Australia, and the alleged disasters which must
ensue. The financial aspect of the Colonial Sugar Refin-
ing Co. in recent years has been as follows :
Total
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
March, 1897.. £85,480 10 per cent. = £85,100 £418,126
Sept., 1897.. 85,307 10 „ = 85,100 418,333
March, 1898.. 85,728 10 „ = 85,100 418,961
Sept., 1898.. 85,408 10 ~ = 85,100 419,269
March, 1899.. 85,588 10 „ = 85,100 419,757
Sept., 1899.. 85,819 10 „ = 85,100 420,476
March, 1900.. 89,414 10 „ = 89,255 420,635
Sept., 1900.. 89,389 10 „ = 89,344 420,680
March, 1901.. 93,608 10 ~ = 93,537 420,751
It may be assumed, from the intense regularity with
which the Colonial Sugar Co. shows enough profit to pay
its 10 per cent, dividend, with just sufficient surplus to
give a graceful irregularity to the row of figures, that
there are occasional surpluses which are carried to
an inner reserve, and which don’t appear in the visible
profits. The visible reserves consist of reserve fund
£lOO,OOO, reserve for equalisation of dividends £165,000,
guarantee and insurance fund £64,053, and undivided


Qea york [ife Insurance (Jo.
Special Representatives Wanted.
GOOD CONTRACTS.
APPLY- THOS. P. PURVES, General Manager,
76 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“ ENGLAND’S FAVORITE.”
PLAYER’S
ii ■ i n innaggamaj*'
NAVY CUT
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
ĥ
The Austral Otis Engineering Co. have now
completed and handed over their contract for the supply
and erection of a bucket dredging plant for the Ovens
Valley Gold Dredging 00., Pore Punkah, Victoria. The
work was done in record time, and the plant started off
and has continued to work without a hitch. Messrs.
Richardson and Blair, the engineers for the Ovens Valley
00., express themselves delighted with the class of
machinery supplied and the expeditious and satisfactory
manner in which the contract has been carried out.*
» * * *
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
fillan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
* * * 9
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete 00., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * * *
Most readers of The Bulletin will have heard
that Luhrig Vanners have proved a phenomenal success
on Broken Hill sulphides as also on low grade gold and
copper ores. All Barrier Mines remodelling their mills on
up-to-date lines include a number of them. The South
and Junction companies each have about a dozen, no
slime treatment plant being now considered complete
without these excellent machines. In Queensland tin
concentration is the latest accomplishment, the Irvine-
bank Mill having introduced Luhrig Vanners with success-
ful results, the example having been followed by the well-
known Ooolgarra Tin Mining 00., who are installing a
number of Luhrig Vanners in connection with their new
Tin Dressing Mill. Messrs. W. &J. Lempriere, Melbourne,
are the general agents for the Luhrig Appliances.*
* * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Ward olf influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* * * •
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sorts of iron-work. *
* * * •
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buchu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
* * * *
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
* • * *
Blake’s Proprietary (N.S.W.): “The dams are
full of water, all arrangements are made to start crushing
shortly, and there is some really good ore 2ft. wide at the
80ft. level. A splendid assay plant has been erected and
an assayer has been engaged on the mine.” That’s quite
enough, thank you.
• * * *
Bushy Hill mines (N.S.W.): Many more news-
paper pars, of the great things these .nines have done,
and the much greater things they are going to do. Time
the battery did some talking.
* * * *
Tam worth Associated : A little N.S.W. gold-
mine, owned in London, or it would have shut up years
ago. Its last crushing, 200 tons for 30oz. Many others
of a like character have gone the way that this one is
surely going. It is some time since Bull took over a
N.S.W. mine, and he does not show any further desire in
that direction.
* * * •
Broken Hill Prop, is now handling 10,000 tons
of sulphides a week at its concentrating mill—a record
for Broken Hill. And is any co anywhere doing more?
* * * »
In the Conrad (N.S.W.), parent and boss mine
of the camp so-named, a remarkable combination of
metals has been found in one of the lodes, consisting
chiefly of tin and copper with percentages of zinc,
arsenic, and iron, and good value in silver.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting Charges.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-street,
Mkluournk ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; %7 Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
Auckland, NZ.
AUSTRALIAN METAL GO. LTD.
1 St. James’s Buildings,
113 WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne.
Buyers of all klnd9 of Metals and Ores.
Importers of Cyanide of Potassium (98/100 per oent t
pure), Bleaching Powder, Mining Requisites.
Candles, eto.
profit £91,698. The co. has a paid-up capital of £1,872,200
and it owes £269,000 on debentures. With a view to pay-
ing off some of these it is proposed to issue £127,800 new
capital, making the paid-up capital £2,000,000. The man-
agement speaks a very dolorous lament about how the
abolition of the Kanaka and the Asiatic in Queensland
will “involve the stoppage of agricultural work along a
coast-line of 700 miles ” —the white man, it is evidently
implied, being incapable of agriculture—and how a big
“ Ichabod ” will be written all along Queensland’s hollow-
sounding shore, and about the ruin that will follow. On
the evidence it certainly looks, however, as if it would
take a good deal to ruin the Colonial Sugar Co.
m * • *
Perkins and Co., brewers, of Brisbane and
Toowoomba, Queensland, is a co. which has been doing
well for a number of years, and the improvement still
continues. About the beginning of the 90’s the original
Perkins and Co. made heavy losses through the deprecia-
tion of hotel and other properties, and in 1891 it wrote
off large sums, reducing its paid-up capital to £87,500.
In 1893 it found that there were further losses to provide
for, the new accumulated deficiency being £14,665. The
old co. then wound-up and a new Perkins and Co. started
with a paid-up capital of £58,333 and £4558 of reserves.
Since then progress has been as follows : —-
Dividends Total
Profits. and Div. Tax. Reserves.
Half-year to £4,558
February, 1894 £7,528 10 per cent. = £3,062 9,024
February, 1895 10,035 10 „ = 6,125 12,934
„ 1896 11,784 10 „ = 6,125 18,593
„ 1897 12,945 10 „ = 6,125 25,413
„ 1898 15,067 £l3 6s. Bd. = 8,167 32,313
„ 1899 19,456 £l3 6s. Bd. = 8,167 43,602
„ 1900 24,404 £15165. Bd. = 9,698 58,308
„ 1901 26,165 £16135. 4d. = 10,208 74,265
Perkins and Co. has carried £28,609 7s. 4d. of its accumu-
lations to a reserve-fund, which (especially the odd
7s. 4d.) seems a peculiarly angular way of doing things,
and the other £45,655 odd is described as “balance
carried forward.” Why the reserve wasn’t made £70,000
and only the odd £4265 carried forward passes ordinary
comprehension. In the last eight years Perkins and Co.
has made good all, or nearly all, the losses of the bad
days between 1890 and 1894, and if its good fortune con-
tinues, and there is no new slump in the beer business, it
should be able, before long, while still building up its re-
serves, to do something towards reinstating the lost
capital out of earnings.
The City and Suburban Permanent Building
and Investment Society, Brisbane, completed its 23rd
year on 28th February, 1901. Some figures relating
to this prosperous institution are appended :
Profits. Dividends, &c. Reserves.
Dec. ,1896.. £4,076 .. 3 per cent. = £2,953 .. £7,928
Dec., 1897.. 4,110 { .T 2 306 I 8 ’ 875
Dec., 1898.. 4,681 { fee^ff.! 'ill 10 ’ 329
Feb., 1900.. 5,914 { , = "Z } 12 ’ 025
Feb., 1901. . 4,937 { VdtteToff ,T *’lll } 13 ’ 185
The City and Suburban Building Society had, at 28th
Feb. a paid-up capital of £80,352 ; therefore, the total
shareholders’funds were £93,537. Its liability to deposi-
tors was £73,709, so the society trades mainly with its
own money. This fact, and the circumstance that it
takes no deposits at call, and is, therefore, bound to have
a certain amount of breathing time, even in the worst
period of rush and panic, carried it safely through the
troubles of 1893, when the other Brisbane building so-
cieties suspended. Another good feature is that it holds
no land except foreclosed properties (only £517 in all).
It has always kept out of the dangerous land-jobbing
business, and the results have justified it in so doing.
* * * »
The Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society
(Svdney) closed another good year on 31st March, 1901,
arid adds another £12,500 of its reserves to capital, making
the paid-up capital £50,000. The progress of this co.
since 1891 has been as follows :
31st r . fit . Q Shareholders’
March. Dividends (about) h ß(^us R es P erveg .
1891 .. £13,155 39 per cent. = £4875 £3875 £87,937
1892 .. 15,596 40 ~ = 5002 4002 94,529
1893 .. 15,377 39J „ = 4965 3965 100,976
1894 .. 15,069 38J ~ = 4848 3848 107,349
1895 .. 15,667 23} „ = 5862 3862 113,292
1896 .. 15,087 23 „ = 5728 3728 118,923
1897 .. 15,851 22i „ = 5651 3651 125,472
1898 .. 17,647 23 „ = 5720 3720 133,679
1899 .. 17,530 24 „ = 6055 4055 141,099
1900 .. 17,213 19 „ = 7087 4087 147,138
1901 .. 19,963 18| „ = 7036 4036 156,029
At March, 1891, the shareholders’ funds consisted of
paid-up capital £12,500, and reserves £75,437; total
£87,937. They now consist of paid-up capital, £50,000 ;
and reserves, £106,029; total, £156,029. After paying
very large dividends to shareholders and handsome
bonuses to policy-holders, the society has a surplus of
£72,497 for the eleven years, of which £37,500 has been
added to capital and £34,997 to reserves. The dividends
are even larger than they 100k —on the amount which the
shareholders actually put into the business they now
receive much over 60 per cent. The receipts from pro-
perty and investments alone (£5810) would pay over 11
per cent, on the much-enlarged capital, or about 50 per
cent, on the original capital. The balance-sheet, by the
way, is strangely reticent about the whereabouts of most
of the Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Oo.’s big pile.
Nearly all it says is: “Investments, city freehold pro-
perty, and mortgages, £107,517.” The rest of the funds
are mainly described as “ deposits, £53,187.”
• * * *
The latest marine shindy in Sydney arises in
this wise : At present the ferry companies lease their
jetties at a fixed rental, and whatever income they can
derive from letting part of the space for bookstalls, shops,
or bill-posting disfigurements is their own profit. The
new Harbor Trust Act, however, provides that every
vessel under 240 tons occupying a berth at any public
wharf shall pay 10s. a day wharfage, and the new Harbor
Trust interprets this as applying to ferry-steamers.
Therefore it proposes to grant no more wharf-leases, but
to charge 10s. a day for each boat, and to keep for itself
the advertising and other miscellaneous revenues. In
such a case as that of the North Shore co., this means two
or three times the old rental, and the loss of the advertis-
ing revenue as well, so strong language naturally super-
venes.
* * * »
Block 10 gets hit two ways by the lead-slump.
Not only is the co. drawing the low prices for current
output, but it has just had to “ part” £13,000 overpaid on
Erevious half-year’s output, the arrangement with the
uyers being that the co. shall be paid the price ruling
three months after delivery. Instead of the usual £30,000
for this quarter the divs. will amount to only £5OOO.
This experience raises the question whether all the “ sur-
pluses received,” which on a rising or steady market
appear among ordinary receipts, ought not to go into a
special fund or account, from which deficits would be
made good. That plan would save a co. from a second
knock when it is in the worst position to take it.
* * * *
Diamond Hill Copper Mining syndicate just
born in N.S.W. Writer fears that its operations will add
a few more disgusted speculators to the already long list
in N.S.W. copper mining ventures.
* * * *
G-rassy Gully (N.S.W.) : Reported that the
main shaft is being baled out; men have been put to
work in the faces. The battery will be in full swing
shortly; the cyanide is working fairly well, and the only
trouble is to get good miners. Also, it seems that water
was allowed to accumulate in the workings, so as to have
a reserve when the batteries started. Probably the reef
has also been accumulating. For real mining humor,
try Grassy Gully reports.
Walla Walla silver-mine (N.S.W.): “ A strong
syndicate has made overtures to take over the mine,
which has a splendid main shaft, large ore bodies, and
15,000 tons of splendid concentrating ores in sight and at
grass.” Worked in a hand-to-mouth fashion for several
years, like many other N.S.W. silver shows. It consists
of a few gash veins of good ore, and a mass of stuff con-
taining a little silver and lead, but not enough to pay.
Best of the ore in the upper levels gutted out, and
doubtful if it will pay even if worked on the larger scale
now proposed. -
* * * *
Great Central Freehold (N.S.W.) : Everything
is all right from a newspaper point of view. Large pad-
docks of ore being stacked from the open cut, ranging up
to 20 per cent, copper, excavations for machinery going
on, and the Mt. Allen mine purchased as a flux deposit.
How is it the shares are at an alarming discount instead
of a big premium ? Newspapers lie all the time about
mines ; the market only lies occasionally.
• * * •
North Cobar (N.S.W.): This co., after sleeping
for many years, has started to sink a shaft. Its boundary
is within 200yds. of the Great Cohar Copper mine work-
ings, and in any other part of Australia it would have
been prospected long ago. It is a freehold without labor
conditions, and has been living on the money obtained by
the sale of land. It sold the site of the railway station,
which would never have been put on that site but for the
influence of persons interested in North Cobar. It has
been trying to sell its mining rights during the last five
years, and having failed is now doing a little work on its
own. It will probably throw up the sponge if payable
ore is not found after spending £2OOO or £3OOO.
* * * *
N.S.W. mineral output (figures of the Mines
Dept.) for two years past :
1899 1900
Silver-lead ..£2,070,657 .. £2,604,117
Coal .. .. 1,325,798 .. 1,668,911
Gold .. .. 1,751,815 .. 1,320,857
Copper .. .. 399,814 .. 428,036
Tin 98,428 .. 120,932
Coke .. .. 77,129 .. 109,620
Opal .. .. 135,000 .. 80,000
Silver-lead is mostly exported as only half-reduced ore,
and the value given is the value of the ore in that form.
The total value of the silver and lead won from the
State’s mines is over £3,500,000. The coal figures are a
record. Quantity mined was 5,507,497 tons ; in 1890 it
was 3,060,876 tons. (But that was a strike-year, when
production was under the normal.) Also the price was
better. In 1898 it was ss. 4|d. ; 1899, ss. 94d.; 1900, 6s. 6d.
Still only as far back as ’B4 the average was 9s. 6d. Gold
shows a big drop from ’99 figures ; but those were the
biggest since the sixties. Even the £1,320,857 of last year
is the best since ’73, except, of course, the ’99 yield. Cop-
per shows a continous advance —production was down to
£58,426 in ’93 ; price has most to do with the variations.
But the tin yield doesn’t respond to a similar improve-
ment in price. The opal figures are chiefly guess-work.
• * * *
Tas. battery returns for April were worth
£15,688. Chief contributors : Tasmania, 1920 tons for
27400 z. ; New Golden Gate, 2340 tons, 14240 z. Divs. for
April: Mt. Lyell, 25., £27,500; Bischoff, 10s., £6000;
Tasmania, Is., £3OOO ; New Golden Gate, Is.,
total, £38,100.
» * * *
Mt. Lyell; April production, 3659 tons more
ore treated for 70 tons less copper, 43030 z. less silver and
2360 z. less gold. This does not show the actual compara-
tive result of the smelting of Mt. Lyell’s own ore, and the
difference cannot be arrived at unless the results from the
purchased ores are segregated. Why is this not done ?
m * * *
Golden Horseshoe: 7231 tons, 15,5240 z. Still
the boss producer of the camp, and has the highest
market valuation, though it dropped £300,000 in 24 hours
one day last week —an extraordinary thing for a mine in
any other part of Australia, but a little thing for any mine
within the “ Golden Mile.” Said to be a move on to
amalgamate the G. Horseshoe with the Great Boulder
and the Ivanhoe, and thus combine the three greatest
mines of the field. But how is a basis to be
arrived at? The Great Boulder has more than double
the area of the Horseshoe, and has as long a run
on the line of reef as the other two mines put
together. It is the best equipped ; probably has more
ore developed than the other two. Under these circum-
stances, the management would want much more
than one-third of the amalgamated interests. The
Horseshoe crowd would refer to their mine’s out-
put—an average of about 3000 oz. a month above that
oftheG.B., and to its market valuation —as a rule over
£1,000,000 higher. That has little to do with the matter
when the way in which the mine is worked is remem-
bered. The Ivanhoe’s area is equal to that of the Horse-
shoe (24 acres), but, like the Horseshoe lodes going south,
the Ivanhoe’s going north become unpayable before the
boundary is reached. Its last monthly output was 6822
tons for 83030 z., and a div. of 2s. 6d. (equal to £25,000)
was declared—the first since November, when it was ss. a
share, although the mine must have produced upwards
of £175,000 worth of gold in the interval. What has
become of all the money ? And why, in the face of these
figures, which, unlike mining boomsters and newspapers,
can’t lie, were the shares over £lO last week and a little
over £9 this? Yet it was given out a few days ago that
the Ivanhoe’s system of treatment was the most economi-
cal on the field, and great things were to be achieved
when the plant and production were enlarged.
* * + »
Burbank’s Birthday Gift : 2040 tons, 1610ozs.
The only consistent producer outside of Bayley’s in the
Coolgardie camp, well-equipped and well-managed, and
has paid a few divs. But the price of the shares indicates
that it has seen its best days.
♦ * * 0
Great Boulder: 7088 tons, 12,0640z5. Keeps up
a consistent average. Main shaft going down to the 1300,
and will not stop till the 1400 is reached. Crosscuts
going out to intersect the lode from the 1100 and 1200 ft.
levels.
* * * *
Great Fingal Consolidated (W.A.): April pro-
duction, 2890 tons, 49100z5. A marked improvement for
the month, the result of the running of an additional 10
heads. Thirty heads are running, and another 30 are to
be erected within next six months. The 700 ft. level look-
ing remarkably well; stone 15ft. thick, and averaging
2oz. and 3oz. Unquestionably one of the biggest mines
in W.A. No sulphide problem to face, and not likely to
be any. A clean quartz proposition, with no pyrites to
cause any trouble. Shares advanced over £1 last week,
and the boom in stocks at Hannan’s, some hundreds of
miles away, was not the cause, although it may have had
a little to do with it. The shares will almost certainly see
£lO within the next year, but may temporarily recede to
£5 in the market slump, which is surely coming over
Westralians generally. Beyond doubt, however, this is
one of the few mines which is improving with depth. The
first three or four levels averaged less than loz.; the next
two averaged over ljoz.; and so far as the No. 7 level,
which is less than 500 ft. from the surface, has been de-
veloped, there is every prospect that an average of over
2oz. per ton will be maintained.
* * * *
Golden Zone (W.A.): “Pretty good stone has
been met in the south end of the 400 ft. level, and more
free gold than usual is now visible in the intermediate
level.” Somewhat noticeable that of all the “cats” of
Hannan’s, the G.Z. receives the most newspaper atten-
tion. It should be called the “ Barren Zone.” It is a
rank duffer, and £2O per oz. would not pay for the gold
got out of it.
* * * *
Queensland Menzies (W.A.): An important
development is reported from this mine—a face of quartz
6ft. thick, with no footwall, averaging between 2 and 30z.,
believed to be a continuation of a good shoot of stone
worked in a higher level. It will take something to
revive the spirits of shareholders, and a good deal more
to resurrect the Menzies camp, whose deathly sleep has
been almost beyond hope of an awakening.
* * * *
White Feather Main Reef (W.A.): 1170 tons,
11160 z., and the 11th div. of 6d. payable in London last
month. The only paying mine at Kanowna, and once
known as Brissenbergers’. Lode averages 3ft., but being
a clean quartz it is cheaply worked, and the length of ore
shoot indicates a fairly long life. Shares about par, and
that is their full value.
• * * *
Associated: 2394 tons, 21310 z. Less than an
oz., as usual. Still, the average this month is a little
better, though even now too poor to pay. Shares fell 10s.
in 10 days; that means a quarter-million, and if they
dropped another quarter-million within the next 10 days,
they would be still half-a-million too high. So much
prospecting has been done on the Associated in
driving, sinking, and boring, that it would be very re-
markable if a large, payable ore body was still concealed
in the mine. It has not paid a div. for nearly 2 years. It
has lost in working over £lOO,OOO during that time, must
be rapidly absorbing the huge cash balance obtained early
last year by the sale of shares at £l2 each, and is
gradually duffering out.
South Kalgurli: 1510 tons, 1300 oz. Under an
oz. to the ton, and as more than half of the production
consisted of sulphide ore, there is no money in it. Seeing
the mine has been crushing just a year without a divi-
dend it is time shareholders realised this woeful fact.
• » * »
Lake View Consols: 8712 tons, 13,0910 z. An
average of loz. lOdwt. The largest production for over a
year, and is likely to be maintained for some time to
come, but the mine is monstrously over-valued in view of
the fact that the bottom level is the worst part of it.
* * * *
Brown Hill Extended: This is a great mine-
in the opinion of the chairman, who buoyed up the de-
pressed shareholders in London lately with statements
much more optimistic than truthful. “ They had some-
thing like a million’s worth of gold in the mine, but
nothing had been done to realise it because it was too costly
to treat.” (Better leave it in the mine if it will cost more
than a million to take it out.) “ They had offered to sell
the mine for £543,000, but unfortunately offer had not
been accepted.” A few facts : The B.H.E. has a wedge
of good ground, the best of its ore bas been gutted out
and sent to smelters ; the little left is rapidly dipping
into the Brown Hill and Northern Associated. Shares
which were once £7 have been down to 155., and are now
about par.
* * * *
Great Boulder South: “ Zeb Lane is pleased
with the developments at the 500, and he can see gold
plainly in the stone. He thinks it is clearly demonstrated
that the Great Boulder and Golden Horseshoe lodes will
junction in this lease.” Perhaps so, but it is more clearly
demonstrated that they lose their gold before they leave
the G.B. and G.H. mines. The G.B.S. has been a duffer
up to date : doubtful if it will ever be anything else.
♦ * * *
Croydon (North Queensland) notes to April
30 :—Golden Gate 3 and 4 South fortnightly clean-up,
1018 oz. from 272 tons. Golden Gate No. 7 North Tribute
just completed crushing of 660 tons for yield of 10I8oz. ;
resulting dividend, £l5O per one-sixth share. Diamond
drill boring for lost Iguana reef made a record recently,
64ft. in a fortnight, to present depth, 877 ft. Drill now in
typical reef country. Reef when lost was about a lOoz.
per ton lode body, but cut out by an intrusive mass from
below, according to Geologist Rands. Several pros-
pecting shafts at Golden Gate hung up ; too much water
or not enough cash. Ninety-eight mine at present under
exemption, for machinery repairs they say, but others say
in order to see if adjoining mines can be flooded by
stoppage of baling.——Charters Towers Co. putting
down shaft to test deep ground on Gate line. Now
deepest on field, nearly 500 ft. vertical. Good prospects
of success. Croydon generally depressed, but hopeful.
Splendid season ; 26in. of rain since Jan. 1.
* * * *
At the Croydon tinfield a party of claim-holders
are erecting a small battery with concentrating appli-
ances, so as to reduce the ore and send the concentrates
South for treatment, thus keeping the pot boiling and
paying for developing the mines interested.
* * * *
One of the Croydon (N.Q.) plums. Golden
Gate 3 and 4 South (owned by a syndicate, mostly work-
ing miners) during three months ended March 31,
crushed 2484 tons ore for 8612)07. gold ; aggregate value,
£22,619 15s. ; average value, nearly 3Joz., or £9 2s. 2d.
per ton. Mine paying regular monthly divs. Paid
during quarter, £17,600, or at the rate of £llOO per six-,
teenth share. Divided another £4OOO for April. Mine,
since discovery of gold about two and a half years ago,
has paid to date of writing £115,287 10s. 9d. in dividends,
out of not quite three acres of ground worked, and
faces look as well as ever. Same shoot now being worked
in Golden Gate United, which has already paid ss. per
share on its 40,000 shares, with plenty good stone in
sight.
* * * *
Gold dredging at Clermont (Q.), up to date, is
not too hopeful ; a fortniVt’s work giving only 3oz.
17 dwt. Capacity of dredge i\7o to 80 tons per hour. It
is alleged in explanation that iNye dredge is “ not on true
bottom,” yet the bottom it is on has for many years
yielded a “ tucker ” living to many dish-men.
♦ * * *
Q. gold-returns for April still in the doldrums.
Towers, £15,616 divs. ; calls, £1692. Two or three pro-'
mising developments coming along. Ravenswood lying
low; no divs. for April. Mt. Morgan, usual 7d. Big
Dike Co., up Etheridge way, panning out well. Total
divs. to date of some reliable Q. gold-producers :—Mt.
Morgan, £5 14s. 9d. per share ; The Brilliant, Ch. Towers,
£4 16s. sd. ; Brilliant and St. George, £3 12s. sd. ; and
Kelly’s, £1 14s. 9d. At Gympie, North Smithfield,
£3 15s. 9d.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin,—ln Mining Notes (8., 4/5/’01)
you mention the Golden Gate Mill, Charters Towers, as
having treated 315 tons for 1828 oz. The reference should
have been to Queensland Mining Co.’s Golden Gate Mill
at Croydon (Q.). Queensland Mining Co., Limited, is our
sub-co., and now owns the business founded by us in
Q’sland in 1887.—Elmslie, Limited.
* * » *
Glenfine South (Vic.): “ The drive going south
on the west leg is again in a mass of stone, the change
comine: as a surprise to those who imagined the ore would
pinch out. The body has been proved to be 13ft. thick,
but is of low grade.” Div., Is. 6d., instead of 3s. ; but as
a result of better developments the shares went 15s.
higher one day last week, and at time of writing were
at £5.
* * * •
London Statist, which may or may not know,
doesn’t expect the lead market slump to continue—says
there is an American lead combine, and that those who
are in are squeezing the outs in, too. But the Broken
Hill people don’t seem to have any such advices on the
subject! In fact, their advices aren’t anything like so
comforting as that.
* f * *
The high price ruling for tin last year resulted
in an increase of only 2281 tons in the world’s production
over the '99 figures—76,o22 tons against 73,741 tons.
Straits Settlement exported 169 tons m0re —46,041 tons
altogether. Australia was responsible for 3200 tons,
which is 105 tons less than in the previous year. On the
Straits’ production 7,049,182d015. export duty was paid.
It is generally complained there that the stringent
English-made mining regulations are limiting the out-
put.
* * * *
Dredging returns from west coast of M.L.
aren’t very satisfactory, but shareholders are apparently
willing to wait and thoroughly test claims. Five out of
14 dredges are laid up, owing to circumstances which
should have been foreseen, but weren’t. The Nelson
claim is about the most consistent so far, averaging 450 z.
a week, and it only takes 12oz. to pay expenses.
• * » *
Tucker’s Flat Dredging Co. (Dunedin, M.L.)
met lately. Chairman read a motion increasing the capi-
tal by £5OOO, and asked for a seconder. There was a deep
silence for six minutes ; then somebody coughed. Mo-
tion declared lapsed. “ Now, is there any other busi-
ness ? ” Four minutes’ silence. Then two people coughed.
“ Well, the meeting’s adjourned.”
* * • *
The chairman of the Maoriland Fire Insurance
Association recently stated that hklf the fires in the pro-
vince were the result of incendiarism.
• • • *
Sound Progress of 17th August, 1900, writes
re the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society, Limited :
“ Everywhere it is making rapid progress, and is meeting
with a proper response from those who understand sound
investments.”*
* * * *
The Parke and Lacy Company, Limited, has
received an order from the King Conrad Silver Lead
Mining Company, of Bora Creek, for an extensive con-
centrating plant. This is to comprise two Gates rock-
breakers (one for coarse and one for fine crushing), a set
of Roger rolls, the usual system of trommels, three and
four compartment jigs, and concentrators. The manu-
facturing is to be done locally, and the various items will
be ready for delivery in about two months. The plant,
which represents one-half only of the entire design, is
well arranged, and when the whole is completed it will
form one of the largest and best equipped mills in
Australasia, and have a capacity of about 1500 tons per
week.


Complete
Outfits.
AN ORIENT BOOT^
16/6
AN ORIENT SUIT-*-
*
ALL CLASSES OF GARMENTS
.. IN THE ..
“Orient To Pleasure” Clothing
PRICES.
Write for Particulars and Patterns.
*
PR VIP JONCS & COMPANY,
CaCorge 8t Barrack Sts., Sydney
* PARIS EXHIBITION.
Two Westralians writing their experiences—after reaD
mg' their fill of gladness at the various typical and inter-
esting features of the World’s Fair- sat down, weary and
depressed, to discuss the show. One was asked “ What
is the Best Thing in the Exhibition ? ” He thought of the
Moving Stairs, or the journey around in the Air Shin
various sights were revelations to him, and he felt
unequal to the task of answering. His questioner assured
him that the Best Thing in the Exhibition was a Dose of
RAFFAN’S Bronchial Catarrh Remedy
in Is. and 2s. Bottles. If not obtainable locallv send
stamps (2s. 6d.) 3 Carraway’s Rooms, Queen’s Walk
Melbourne, or 55 Elgin Street, Carlton. A bottleW-
cured, taken as directed, was admittedly a factor in P fhe
enjoyment of the Trip, Travel, and Sightseeing. th
Forget all your troubles,
R everses and debts,
I n peaceful enjoyment of
HOME CIGARETTES
SOCIETY
LEROY
LIQUEUR
BRANDY
The frail Gov.-General was probably quite
knocked-up ere he said good-bye to the Yorks.
At the Flemington Review poor Hopetoun looked
dead beat after his horseback journey from Govt.
House to the course, and subsequent gentle circus
performance. Soon after the commencement of
the march past the Little Jook seemingly told his
weary right-hand man to go and get himself a
tonic at the adjacent stand. Anyway his Ex. got
off his horse and disappeared inside the building,
and as he presently returned to his post empty-
handed and didn’t send anybody out with a bottle,
it couldn t have been the Jook who wanted
refreshment.
* * * *
A big Sydney official was invited with his
Ministerial head to the Melbourne celebrations.
Deciding hurriedly to accept, he wired for the
address of his rooms. He was answered: “No
first-class accommodation available. May have
second on payment of substantial deposit.”
* * * *
“ Melb. ” : On Sunday, sth May, I saw a
laughing jackass alight on one of the Prince’s
Bridge triumphal columns, and burst into his
each innation. Many people wanted to laugh, but
the jackass alone had the courage of his opinions.
* * * •
Inter State visitors to Melbourne grow]
bitterly at their treatment and the chaotic manner
of tilings. M’s.P. and other functionaries of great
tonnage had to tear from office to office, and rouse
ip local officials in the dead of night before they
got even such small thin;;, as their tickets for the
opening of Parliament. Much bad feeling has
arisen, and the persons alleged to be responsible
arc nearly driven wild. The Sydney contingent
had one satisfaction—the Melbourne muddle beat
their own muddle in a canter. At last everybody
settled down to the excuse that all the tickets had
been sent, only they were lost in the post. Vic-
toria’s post-office must be the boss loser of the
globe.
ORTHODOX ABSURDITY.
TRANSMOGRIFIED PARSON: “ I've been over here
three months and my wings haven’t yet begun
to sprout!”
Melb. royal levee was a great rush for
those who had not the private entree. The
number presented established an Australian re*
cord, and the Duke shook his visitors to the last
man. One of them was so flustered that he forgot
the. hand clasp—he simply nodded affably to the
Heir Apparent and passed on. Being reminded
°f the omissrem, he fought his way back and wa
shook. The visitors were to be drafted in section
rom one pen to another, brass rods being lowered
to let in one crowd, and then raised again til]
it was hand-shaken and disposed of. But
it was found that if once the rods were
let down the crush wouldn’t admit of them
being raised again, so they were kept up, and the
-tor* crawled underneath, from one yard to the
+ , lhe l press was terrific, and on passing
under the last barrier the presentee had barely
ime to put his necktie on again and dust the tail
ot his coat before his turn came in the file past.
Un the floor was a deposit of gloves, glove-
buttons, and rags, and by the time a stout visitor
reached the Duke he was hot and apoplectic, and
his hair had got into his ears, and he had other-
wise become more or less of a ruin.
* • * *
v Melb. sci 'ibe ” The illuminations were
ra r os . ca ’ a candles round the cadaverous body
ot ocarpia.
* * • »
Just transpired that the Duke of York
uuj llo -* I n^en^ori of dowering everyone of the
children born on the day of his arrival, so that
the extra large number of youngsters whom the
newspapers advertised as having made their ap-
pearance on that date will not receive the
sovereign and the cutlery that were to illuminate
their after career.
* * * *
Descriptive gem from Adelaide Adver-
: “ • • • the Prince and Princess reached
j ® haven of rest at Govt. House . . . noises of
all kinds ceased, and there was complete silence
when the Domain Gates were closed . . . the sen-
s ition must have been very much as if they had
suddenly fallen down a well.”
* * » *
. Melbourne Stock Exchange committee de-
vised a masterpiece of grovel for their Jookoyork
illumination of the building—•“ The Common-
wealth, Queen Victoria's Gift to Australia ! ”
Only a stockbroking mind could delight to wallow
in the fiction that Australia owes its Federal
Parliament to the personal generosity of the late
V.R. If the members of the Exchange in general
authorised an announcement so utterly at variance
with the spirit of “ British freedom,” and so
7 Idly ridiculous in its purely Australian aspect,
the A.N.A. had better appoint a missionary to
spread the gospel of Responsible Government
among the benighted jobbers of Collins-street,
Melbourne.
• • * »
A Melb. firm offered to provide motor-cars
to bring the Dook and Dookess and attendants
from the seaward end of St. Kilda pier to the
shore—a distance of close on half-a-mile—and so
save theßoyalpair from stubbing theirsublime feet
on the rough, uneven decking. The proposal was
rejected on the ground that something might go
wrong with the steering-gear and land the whole
consignment in the sea on the unprotected side of
the pier. The possibility of a wet royalty having
to be hauled ashore by a boathook hitched in his
royal collar was too harrowing.
* * * *
The Duke’s visitors are varied and numer-
ous. In a Vic. country town the inhabitants were
asked to pay up 2s. Bd. in advance to enable the
gentleman of nocturnal occupation “to go down
and see the Duke and Duchess and express his
loyalty.” Unluckily the story ends there, so
whether the nocturnal gentleman expressed his
loyalty personally to the royal visitors, or merely
indicated it by his presence in the crowd doesn’t
tran spire.
A certain
Sydney Hiber-
nian Boniface
—when he gets
“ i 1 loquent,”
after shut-up time
—relates to his cronies
how the R.C. Church
is indebted to him for hav-
ing a Cardinal in Australia.
“Who got his Iminence
appointed out here?” he
says. “ Who, but meself.
.Lidn’t I kebble to his Holi-
ness : ‘ It’s no use sending
out an Archbishop; we
must have a (blanfey) Cardinal ’! What answer
did I get ? This, no less ! —‘ A sensible suggestion,
Jack. —Yours, Leo.’” Then the audience call for
more drinks, and the publican has to put them on
the slate for ever, to propitiate scepticism.
* • * *
Melbourne is so holy that it shudders at the
idea of possessing a Sunday paper; but it pre-
sented an extraordinary sight on the Day of Rest
previous to the Duke’s arrival. All its sham
holiness had fallen from it like a giant’s clothes
dropping off a dwarf. All over the town the work
of decoration openly went on, and even the church
bells could hardly be heard above the roar of the
sabbath-breaking hammer. The offices where
tickets were issued for the various functions were
in full blast all day, and the many weary secre-
taries struggled publicly with the same aggrieved
and ravenous crowd that had lived on the premises
for a week previously. “ Your tickets are not
here yet, madam,” said one haggard secretary to
an inquirer on Saturday. “I shall be here all
day to-morrow, but I suppose you would not call
on a Sunday.” “Not call on a Sunday ! ” replied
the lady. “Bless you, I have to see my dress-
maker that day.”
* * * *
Melbourne Scotchbyterians were, at any
rate, logical in declining to bedeck the house of
God in honor of a passing duke. Their Collins-
street church stood undecorated, unillumined, in
severe dignity, affording a scathing contrast to
the dozen penny candles and the lengths of muslin
paraded at Dr. Bevan’s, opposite. Also the
Scots didn’t condescend to the money-grubbing
meanness of a stand. St. Patrick’s put up a
white electric cross, far outshining all surround-
ing lights, alone in the darkened heavens. St.
Paul’s —well, St. Paul’s chapter, by this time,
probably wishes it had never been born.
Dawvid Syme still hammers away at his
Queen’s Memorial Movement idea. After nearly
four months’ hard battling he has raised barely
£l7O0 —the Mayor’s Fund a little more. A more
impressionable and less pertinacious individual
would have seen the hopelessness of the movement
long ago, but not so the Age proprietor. His
latest notion is that the public shall be asked to
subscribe £50,000, the Government giving a similar
sum, and that the whole shall be used to raise a
marble arch on Princes’ Bridge, with an equestrian
statue of Her late Gracious a-top, the road leading
up thereto to be tricked out with statues of
British notables. The same old yearning after
the Large and the Useless, and the same old
pounding of the Jingo’s brolly on the door of the
Treasury, in search of a subsidy. It is a weary
world.
* * * *
South Australia dotted itself all over long
ago with piles of combustibles, to make a chain of
bonfires when “peace was proclaimed,” and then
found that peace would never be proclaimed, and
didn’t know what to do with the foolish things.
They hung on its hands for a long time, so, in
despair, it lighted all this unsaleable stock when
the Federal Parliament met, and got rid of it that
way. The images of Kruger, which were got
ready for the same occasion, were all used up
during the recent fruit season.
* * » «
Dunedin is preparing for its fit of Yorkism.
The State schools are being turned into hotels for
one night, so that the backblocks children may
be brought up in shoals the day previous to the
tremendous derangement, and shake down
economically on the floor ready for their grovel.
Extra-sized troughs are said to be in preparation
for the feeding of the multitude. The city is also
breaking out into arches emblematic of the
country’s products. In this matter festoons of
rabbits, mingled with dredging-scrip, would be
appropriate, and a mutton arch might well be
relieved by sheep-bones picking out the word
“ Welcome ”on the carcases. With the glitter of
frost-fish added, the whole effect would doubtless
be very chaste.
Scotty : At the Melbourne illumina-
tions last night I met a local preacher whom I
know—a real good sort; keeps a hash-house. He
asked me if it would be D.E. now instead of D.V.
in the prayer announcements, seeing that the
Cjueen was dead.
* * » *
The “honours” granted by the Duke of
York, so far as he has got, are a poor and scanty
lot. Victoria nearly broke itself in buying de-
corations, and one title came its way : Mayor
txillott was made a K.C.M.G-. The same disaster
happened to Mayor Graham, of Sydney, and the
w a m' U * ; closed there. Chief-Justice Darley, of
JN.S.W,, and Chief-Justice Dodds, of Tasmania,
who have both been knights for some years, were
made into a new variety of knight, which is’much
the same as being graciously permitted to wear
the same socks, only turned inside out. And
irrernier Lewis, of Tasmania, also Captain Wal-
: 1 i ngt T 1 ’ Alick Forrest (brother of Bigjohn), and
the Mayors of Adelaide, Brisbane, and Hobart
received a C.M.G. apiece. C.M.G. after a name
looks as imposing as M.U.1.0.0.F., and one
could get as massive a set of initials by becoming
a member of the society of cranks who run after
rare stamps, or the association which overtakes
quaint beetles and preserves them in spirits.
* * * *
Clement Wragge, on May 3, predicted the
coming “within a few days,” of bad weather for
Melbourne “under the advance of ‘Moloch’”
which would, he said, “affect in a measure” the
York celebrations. But, on the same day
Baracchi, the Vie. Government astronomer'
declared “it is impossible to say more than 24
hours previously what the weather will be. Those
who attempt to forecast a week ahead are simply
imposing on the credulity of people.”
Haul down your flag,
In-Clement Wragge !
You ran the risk, you dared to take the chance
Of guessing four days’ weather in advance
From certain signs. Alas ! by luck forsook
You prophesied that squalls would greet the Jook.
His Highness came and breathed upon the waves,
Whose British rulers never will be slaves,
“ And all was calm and bright” (see Watts’s rhyme),
And Melbourne had a balmy, beery time.
The squalls you dreamed of on the 3rd of May
Came not to pass ; the rain-clouds slipped away.
So, in the joyful hour of your disgrace
Men flung Baracchi’s dictum at your face.
The prophet who pretends to Wragg-ed powers
Of weather-forecast for a hundred hours
Bight off the reel, must bogus prophet be,
Imposing on our weak credulity.
The test of time has proved Baracchi right,
And you, false prophet, vanquished in the fight,
Must hang the head whilst tongues of scoffers wag
Haul down your flag,
In-Clement Wragge 1
THE COMET AND THE JOOK.
Oh, have you seen the comet with three fiery streamers
from it ?
’Tis a portent in the heavens that cannot be mistook !
’Twould have been a mighty omen had the period been
Roman,
Had his highness been a Caesar instead of just a Jook.
Even now I hold that no men should disregard the omen,
For the comet rises early with its tails across the sky ;
And its bode ere it goes hence is, “ early choose your trees
and fences,
Whence to watch their Excellencies as the pageant
wanders by.”
There’ll be flags and flowers and marches, and Venetian
masts and arches ;
And all Sydney, like a flunkey, will be clothed in crim-
son plush,
And to the poor who have no ticket to offer at the
wicket,
Cries the early-rising comet: “ Come betimes and
dodge the crush.”
There’ll be foreign Japs and Russians in the crowd, and
Danes and Prussians,
And the comet, with its three tails flaring like a crimson
spook,
Has come as advance agent to the folks who love a
pageant,
Saying, “ Wake and get there early, and you shall
behold the Jook.”
So when I saw the comet, with three fiery streamers from
it—
Though at first I rather feared a great collision of the
stars—
I wondered could each streamer be the pennon of a
steamer
Conveying to the festival an embassy from Mars.
MELB.
ANNIE R. RENTOUL.
ADJURATION MARY
(FOR THE BULLETIN)
fyfARY, Mary, lift your leg
Just a little higher!
Bless me, Mary, one would tli ink
You were in the choir!
Lift your leg! lift your leg!
Give your shoes a skyer;
Show ’em that you don’t wear
socks,
Mash old Softgoods in the Bor,
Make the pace a flyer!
Twig that Johnny in the stalls!
He’s a thing of money;
Gag him to the audience,
Call h im “ pet ” and “ sonny.’’
Lift your leg! lift your leg !
He will think it honey,
Make appointments, give you
rings
Till your husband in the wings
Knocks him flat and funny.
There’s a fair man near the drum,
Thinking he is naughty.
He has amour in his eye
Though he oughtn’t; ought he ?
See his vest reverberate
As he whispers, “Rorty! ”
Lift your leg and meditate!
llb can’t tell you’re forty-eight,
Yet his wife is forty.
Mary, Mary, lift your leg !
Wives of forty in daylight
Seem a hundredforty-eight
Looks like twenty in the night.
Mary, Mary, lift your leg—
You ain’t in the.choir,
Mash the worn-out Johnny some!
Give your shoes a “ skyer ” !
TICHET-TAKER.


The PUREST WHISKFY
in the World . . .
GEO. ROE & CO.
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.
Australasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
h
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers.
Gazette, and Sailing List with map
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Collins-st., Melbourne 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
J.D.K.Z. eio.
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
only —largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 165 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Sydney.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
THAT WILL KEEP YOUR FEET
395 George-St., Sydney. DRY AND "WARIVL.
23/6
A PAIR.
CALLAGHAN
BOOTS
The committee of Melbourne Hospital
proposes to raise the wind by letting some of the
outer walls of the institution for bill-posting pur-
poses. If a great charity has really come down
to this through lack of public support, it is a dis-
grace to Melbourne. If, on the other hand, it has
arrived there because the committee likes bills on
its walls, it is a disgrace to the committee. Either
way, it is a disgrace to somebody.
* * * *
There are four particularly infuriated capi-
talists kicking themselves vigorously in a big
Northern squatting district. The son of one
family and the daughter of the other had
arranged to get married, and desired to have
a very quiet wedding with no frills. The
old people, however, reckoned the frills
were the chief feature of such an affair,
and, despite the arguments of the young
people, fixed up a splendid shivoo with
champagne, marquees, widespread in-
vitations to everybody good for a decent
present, and long notices in the
‘ ‘ Society ” press, paid for at usual rates.
Neither bride nor bridegroom rose to
the occasion a bit, and they seemed
even more glad than such couples usually
are when the time came for them to
leave the brilliant assemblage. That
was two or five months ago, and to
day the bride is dandling a heavy-
weight infant on her knee, and is talk-
ing goo-goo nonsense to it in between
the frequent and violent visits of her
parents and parents-in law. These
four wealthy persons do not speak
themselves, but glare at each other
on the mat, and they have inspired
no preliminary par about the christe-
ning in those “ society ” papers.
Even some of the “respectable' 1 British
papers have dared to snort at the expensive fool-
ishness of sending special ambassadors around the
European courts to make a formal announcement
of Queen Victoria’s decease. Lord Wolseley and
our tired old friend Carrington were employed to
break the sudden and shocking intelligence. They
went from country to country and winked their
other eye at the King, President, or Sultan, as
the case might be, who gravely gave audience to
the messenger of woe, and was quite upset at thus
hearing for the first time something that he had
already known for months. They left a trail of
astonished and broken-up potentates behind them,
and returned to inform King Edward how they
had carried the intelligence of the country’s
bereavement, and to be thanked for their services.
Railways, telegraph-wires, and many other means
of making things lium have come into vogue since
William IV. became officially dead, but the
ancient system of communicating certain facts to
foreign governments is still fast enough for the
slow old Crown.
* * * *
Depressing paragraph clipped from the
most conspicuous position in Melb. Age, of May
6th:—
The Hon. Charles Melbourne Hope, youngest son of the
Governor-General Lord Hopetoun, travelled by express
train, on Friday night, to Woodlands station, near
Ararat, where he will remain for several days. He was
accompanied by members of the vice-regal household and
a governess.
This solemn statement of the fact that Lady
Hopetoun sent her six-year-old kiddie into the
country, to be rid of him while she was entertain-
ing the Jook, is a glaring example of the jour-
nalistic flunkey ism which Thackeray satirised
half a century ago.
* * * »
The second contingent of returned Queens-
landers had bad luck. The blankets used by
Baden-Powell’s police (who had an epidemic of
measles) were served out to the Queenslanders
(the Lord and the Government alone know why),
and their own blankets left behind at Capetown.
After four days’ mock quarantine, during which
the kharki-clads stayed in barracks for a few
hours at night and raged around the city the rest
of the time, measles broke out, and they were all
shipped off to Peel Island on the very day that
the smoke concert of welcome, with the free claret
and cigars, was to have been.
*.* * *
Remarkable breach of promise case just
concluded at Port Adelaide. Plaintiff, a man of
61; defendant, a widow of 64. He advertised as
“Genuine,” she replied as “Lonely.” He stated
his position (which the Advertiser sums up as
“an earnest Christian in the pastrycook line of
business”), and she replied that there seemed
“nothing left to desire.” Then they met, to the
satisfaction 'of both parties, and marriage was
arranged. After which she found that he was in
debt, remarked that it seemed “very much like
buying a husband,” and within a few weeks mar-
ried a much younger man, the husband of her late
niece. Possibly this complication annoyed the
jurymen; at any rate they answered “Yes” to
the Judge’s question, “ Did defendant contract to
deliver herself, body and soul, to the plaintiff?”
Unexpected verdict for plaintiff; damages, £25.
As this was the only count on which the jury
found for plaintiff the damages were plainly for
non-delivery of the goods as per contract. The
term “ delivery ” is so suggestive of the common
carrier with his ticket: “ Please receive herewith,
in good order and condition, one body and soul.”
* * • ♦ *■
Sydney paper —
A butcher at Strathfield was sued by his wife yesterday
in the Parramatta Court for maintenance. He has been
contributing to her support on an order of the Court for
four years, but now claimed that he had a home to which
she might return. The wife declared that under no cir-
cumstances would she do this, as he had “ got someone
else ” and produced a photograph, in which defendant
anneared with a young woman leaning on his shoulder.
Defendant declared his innocence, and said he paid Che
irirl 10s per week for keeping his house tidy, but she
went home to her parents every evening. It was true
they had the photograph taken together, but he told her
not to come too close. The Bench made an order for 10s.
per week, with £1 ss. lOd. costs.
Comment would spoil it.
HOSPITAL SATURDAY— No. 1.
“ The lady-collectors exhibited more than their usual
energy.”—DAILY PAPER.
“ Yes, sir! Nearly an hour late, sir I Hospital
Saturday, sir! ”
Dear Bulletin, —The recently appointed
Sydney lady sanitary inspector is but 21 years of
age, and being a B.A. of Sydney University, is
considered, by the municipal dunderheads, pecu-
liarly adapted to stand the slanging of the indig-
nant, down-at-heel harridans with whom she will
have to do battle in the slums. Such work is fit
only for a well-seasoned, hard-faced matron, not
for a callow representative of modern female
“culchaw” —and even the hard-faced matron
should carry a club, and have extensive powers to
use it. In many districts a proper inspection, I
should fancy, could only be carried out after the
lady of the house had been stunned.—J.A.C.
* * * •
Sydney had one of its occasional spasms
of improvement recently. It was decided to stop
expectoration on the pavement, so the police took
the names and addresses of about eight offenders.
Then it found they had all given wrong names
and addresses except two Chows. The crusade
stopped after that one effort, and things are again
as they were.
* * * *
They are a perfunctory, cursory sort of
people in Geelong (Vic.). Consequently, when an
unsober old lady—taken Jfrom the gutter to the
lock-up—complained vehemently of severe pains
in her leg, which she thought were due to sciatica,
the constable merely desired her to make less
noise, and assured her it would wear off in the
cool, damp cell. It was only late next day, after
she had been taken to court, and remanded, and
finally driven to the gaol, that it was discovered
her thigh was broken.
Go West, young woman ! Some Westra-
lian census figures Broome, 7 females to 100
males (but, young woman, don’t go there); Kim-
berley, 6 females to 100 males (and, young
woman, ditto); Murchison, 1193 females, 3348
males ; Murchison East, 208 and 1374; Peak Hill,
83 and 588; Yalgoo, 191 and 547; Coolgardie
North, 1117 and 3566. (And, young woman, shun
all of these places.) It is like this with even the
big coastal centres : —Fremantle, 9746 females to
13,507 males; and Perth, 20,369 to 23,277.
* • * *
Lawson Dash, the lecturing advocate of
the fluid that has hydatids in it, complained the
other day that Australia was suckled on rum —a
phrase or waterspout that seems to madden many
venerables. Quite true ! Australia was suckled
on rum. Rum came in the First Fleet. A loud
smell of rum hung over succeeding convict fleets.
When the free settlement was pretty large rum
was still larger. Houses were sold for rum;
farms were exchanged for rum; hospitals were
built for rum. Those who put up the churches
were paid for their labor in rum, and when
prisoners escaped justice the Governors offered
rewards of rum for their recapture. The prevail-
ing flavor of the old settlement was rum —and
occasionally onions. And then, look at it calmly,
and say where can you find a water-pump-fed nation
that ever amounted to much after all. All the
great nations of Europe came of a hard-drinking
ancestry. The nation that soaks appears to
decay; the nation that has periodical orgies keeps
alive. France is beginning to pose as the country
which boozes persistently over its solitary absinthe,
and France is going down. Scotland goes on a
howling tear every now and then with other
howling tearers, and is run in with clamor and
difficulty, and Scotland isn’t going down. And,
meanwhile, in this old land of rum and onions,
the thinnest and weediest flock are the teetotallers.
They are a sad, long-bearded push, with hands
that have grown large through being held up in
the air in exhortation, and feet that have become
long and wide through dodging the drink, but
they don’t seem to enjoy themselves.
* • * •
Another “mysterious disappearance”
hasn’t got into the papers, probably because the
vanisher, who is wanted for numerous alleged
frauds of the forgery and embezzlement order, is
P.Z.Q.M., or something of the sort, in a Most
Exalted Order ; and, probably for the same reason,
the police (not Victorian, this time) exhibit a great
capacity for doing nothing. One comparatively
small sufferer, who wanted to make things more
“willing,” was met by a demand for a prepos-
terous sum, by way of expenses to be incurred in
bringing back the P.Z. &c.
* * * *
A Melbourne lady who got married in ’B3
was deserted six months later. In ’9l she started
divorce proceedings, which were adjourned for
further evidence. It took her 10 years to get it,
but she succeeded, and is now free again. The
awful gradualness, but deadly pertinacity, of that
woman would account for several desertions.
» * » *
“ P.x.” : When The Bulletin errs in its
Ecclesiastical Intelligence (wouldn’t that make a
nice heading—you might use it turn and turn
about with “ Aboriginalities”), lam grieved, not
to say pained. I read, apropos Louise Mack’s
leaving, that the rule of the Primitive Methodist
Church saith that the parson shall move on at
least once in three years. No, dear brother! That
is the rule of most of the Methodist connexions
(please spell that with an x)|; but the Prim,
parson may anchor indefinitely. One good
brother has been stationed at Brighton, Eng. (I
think it’s Brighton—l know it’s a pleasant place),
for over 20 years.
* * * *
The last bit of old John O’Shanassy’s
home, Tara, is once again in the market. Only
the mansion remains to be sold, with a mere
fringe of the glorious amplitude which Big John
surveyed, from his Camberwell hill, in the fond
idea of founding of “ Phamilee.” Had the estate
been intact, it would have been unsurpassed for
the purpose of a vice-regal residence.
* * * *
Old Sydney is rapidly disappearing. The
Creswick Club Hotel, in olden times the residence
of Capt. Hunter, a prominent turfite, is coming
down. So is the old Macquarie-time building at
the corner of Bridge and George-streets, known
in days gone by as Bath’s Hotel. The property
at the opposite corner was at one time owned by
the historic Bill Nash.
A HOS-
PITAL
SATURDAY
NIGHTMARE.
—No. 2.
Melbourne detective-superintendent, Sharp
—in pressing for larger powers to deal with the
habitual criminals—suggests the institution of the
ticket-of-leave system—which he would apply
even to first offenders. No better plan could be
devised for preventing a convicted man from re-
covering a status, and giving the police still more
power to hound down an ex-prisoner and force
him into habitual criminality.
* * * *
“Yarrum” : Anew industry. A South
Coast (N.S.W.) man rents a pew in his church and
lets out sections of it to small retail worshippers.
Am told he cleared £1 ss. last year. Is it any
wonder some people have money ?
All the dead weight of the Tasmanian
Supreme Court, with the Solicitor-General prose-
cuting, recently got on to a question of how a
horse chanced to have a can tied to its tail. It
was Jarmy’s horse to which the can was affixed.
Policemen Lamb and Farrell said that they had
arrested Goss, aged 19, on some other charge, and
while in custody he voluntarily signed a confes-
sion that he and Luck had tied the can to the
tail of Jarmy’s horse. The Crown prosecuted
Luck and put Goss in the box as witness, where-
upon Goss swore that he had had no dealings
with Jarmy’s horse, and that, as he couldn’t write,
the written confession was the thinnest kind of
forgery. Luck was acquitted, but the full ton-
nage of the Crown prosecuted Goss for falsely
swearing that he didn’t sign the confession.
When the case came on, however, it was
found that the Crown had quite forgotten to
inquire whether Goss could write or not. Every-
thing depended on that, for if Goss couldn’t
by any possibility have written his own written
confession, it was no use going further. It was
also stated that there was another confession, also
said to be signed by Goss, in existence, but, when
Judge Clark demanded to see it, he learned that a
policeman, not then available, had the document
m his pocket. So the Supreme Court looked with
an indignant eye on the Solicitor-General for Tas-
mania, and the case blushed violently, and got
out of court with all possible speed. Meanwhile,
Jarmy’s horse is further than ever from getting
satisfaction for the outrage done to its tail.
• * * *
Under the Maoriland census-direction “If
born out of the province, please state length of
residence,” one genius wrote “27 feet 6in.” He
had measured his house !
* * *— *
“ It is to be wondered,” writes The Bul-
letin’s London correspondent, ‘ ‘ that no enterpris-
ing co. or individual has exploited the ‘Electro-
phone ’in Australia. It has long been a success
in London, and is now to be initiated in New
York. With the telephone lines in Sydney and
Melbourne practically unused at night, and the
superior hearing afforded in the dry atmosphere
of the South, there should be money awaiting the
innovator of the system ‘ down under.’ All lead-
ing theatres, concert and music-halls, and churches
and chapels are ‘laid on’ here, and can be
‘ tapped ’ at your bedside, and song or sermon
brought direct from stage or pulpit to cheer or
depress the innocent or erring. The late Queen
was as fond of the Electrophone as a five-year-old
with a ‘ papa ’ and ‘ mamma ’ speaking doll.”
“ Cabbage-tree ” spitefully remarks: —
Melbourne Directory—a list of the places where
people used to live.
“ Artist ” : Recently saw an empty coal-
basket, about 901 b. weight, fall 20ft. on to a
lumper’s head. Taken to Melb. Hospital, it was
found that, though the jar had broken his ankle,
his head was practically uninjured ! And there
wasn’t any nigger in him, either.
The new-chum Syrian hawker, before
applying to P.M. Panton for his license, is duly
primed by the wholesale merchant whose practical
slave he is, and apparently that individual has a
nice idea of the requirements of this droughty
country. A freshly-landed Fatta, at Melbourne’s
annual licensing shivoo t’other day, being asked
where he lived, replied “ Lonsdair setreet.”
“What do you want?” “A derink.” He got
neither drink nor license ; but he’ll no doubt get
a seasoned veteran to get one and transfer it to
him. It’s easy to get the weather-side of the
guileless white man.
More Blot attitudes. George Reid fought
the first Commonwealth Bill because it contained
the hateful Braddon clause. He went to the
Melbourne Premiers’ conference with a free hand
to put the matter right, and came back saying that
he found nothing better than the Blot could be de-
vised, and it was all right, after all. He fought
for the second Bill (with the Braddon clause in it),
and it was carried. Now he says that owing to
the foolish and really awful Braddon clause the
Barton Govt can’t carry out its Old Age Pension
policy—which is absurd, as the money can be
raised by direct taxation. And as Reid never
showed the least desire to put Old Age Pen-
sions on his programme, it isn’t easy to see
why he should trouble so much even if Bar-
ton can’t carry them. And while Reid throws
up the alleged Bradden Blot against Barton aa
one of Barton’s chief sins, the Reid party consists
mostly of Reid himself—who declared at last
Convention election that the Blot was the best
thing that could be devised, and Braddon, the
great Blotter himself, and a few sundries.
Increase of population depends mostly on
how much work is available to support the extra
population; and Australia’s central idea is to
supply work by setting the people to build gaols
and the like, and paying the wages out of loans.
So the State which borrows most has the largest
population increase, and vice versa. Here are the
population increases for 10 years and the borrow-
ings for nine years—the tenth year’s loan figures
are not available yet—in four States :
Population Increase ; Increase of Public
10 years. Debt; 9 years.
N.S.W. .. 229,998 .. £12,382,260
Westralia .. 132,771 .. 10,061,046
Victoria .. 55,469 .. 5,685,988
Tasmania .. 24,399 .. 1,303,404
The rule is subject to variations, of course ; if a
State concentrated the bulk of its loan spendings
in the last part of the decade it might have an
enormous influx of population ; if they were mostly
in the first part the influx might have come and
gone away again. But even allowing for this, the
first, second, third and fourth on the borrowing
list are also first, second, third and fourth in popu-
lation increase, and the regular arithmetical pro-
gression is beautiful to look upon.
THE KING, THE KIDS, AND THE DUKE.
Now wasn’t it nice of the King to say
“ I’ll mind the kiddies while you’re away.”
It shows the beauty of the British rule
That they weren’t sent to an orphan school.
I say it again and say it’s true —
It shows what a British King can do.
S.P.Q.R.


“He’s from the
Such is the expression intended to convey the
idea that he is easily deceived.
MARK FOY’B success is a. Town Trade.
The Keenest Judges in Sydney haunt FOY'S.
If you asked City Friends to get your wants,
they would surely go to FOY’S.
For the fun of the thing t
MARK FOY, SYDNEY.
Bame prices and attaatlen as If you bought amongst the dally crowds at the oounters.
99
Hi
The Govt. Prizes
Three
Firsts
were Awarded to
Coolaßta Claret
.... AT THE ....
commonwealth show.
GLOBE T6IIS have NO Equal.
A.tcherley & Dawson, 284 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
~ . Sydney, May 14, 1901.
My Dear Arini,—
Such a noise arose; hats, cloaks, kerchiefs
new up; and, had their faces been loose, this time
they had been lost.”
That, you may remember, is part of a Shake-
spearian gentleman’s description of the crowd’s
enthusiasm at one of Henry VIII.’s six wed-
dings. I was reminded of it by newspaper
accounts of the rankness of Melbourne’s joy over
its precious Ophir freight. But isn’t there some-
thing very attractive in the idea of a face being
loose and capable of being thrown into the air—
and lost. Some faces, of course ? Certain misappre-
hensions about the D. and D. of C. and Y. have
been removed by these same newspaper accounts
Now you, for instance, might have thought that
His Briefness the Duke, hastily cut his beard
himself with the axe, or got it done by a three-
penny barber. But the reporter-man tells that it
is an exquisitely trimmed and pointed beard.”
. the Duke must pay sixpence for his trim-
mmgs. Also, our Herald struck us on the
head with the heavy intelligence that the
royalties ‘appeared to be quite at ease.”
Doubtless this “appearance” masked quaking
hearts, trembling knees, and that awful dry
clicky feel of the mouth that the amateur actor
feels at his first appearance on any stage. There
were mayors and mayoresses from Wattle Flat
and Poley Cow Creek standing round, coldly
appraising the Royal limitations, and well the
Royal pair knew it, so they “ appeared.”
What the brand of the leopard’s head is on
silverware, so is Mr. See’s opinion on a princess.
Mr. See had a long conversation with her on
Govt. House lawn, and has hall-marked her as
one of the most charming women in the world. ”
We wish he had told us of what they talked. A
girl (long since married), whom May’s husband
singled out for special attention when he was a
lad of 16, told us that her longest conversation
with George was about pancakes.
Sydney-side frocks are ruffling it bravely
amongst the Melbourne and Paris article. You
don’t know what infinite variety there is in
black until you are in mourning for a Queen.
Official women, of course, had leave to lighten
their blackness. A friend tells me that Mrs. B.
R. Wise’s silver-spangled net over white satin
looked well at the State concert; and Mrs.
“Jack” Want’s mourning purple skirt and black
velvet coat at Parliament opening deserved a front
seat. Mrs. Harris, Miss Barton, and others not
bound by the “black” ukase, helped to make
things less Erebusy. A gown that you won’t see
duplicated on the Block is that made at David
Jones’s for Nellie Stewart’s wear at our State
concert. Its skirt is of ivory buckskin cloth,
trimmed with very coarse cream fisherman’s net
and narrow bands of violet velvet. The Russian
blouse is of violet velvet trimmed with guipure.
You know that long shimmering wisp of black
chiffon with which “Florodora” Palotta so cun-
ningly heightens the effect of her cherry frock
in the scented play. It droops from the left of
the waist. Well, it has much to answer for. On
the steamers and in the parks you may see
“ generals ” and nurses and other damsels on their
days out with the oddest strips of black tag-rag
drooping over parti-colored skirts in what they
hope is the same fashion.
Those friends of Mr. G. H. Reid who gave him
a picnic to National Park ought to pay his bron-
chitis bill. They took him out on a drenching
day, and spent it telling him (under an umbrella,
I piesume,) what a fine fellow he was, and how
they liked him. In fact, their admiration was so
great that it has nearly led to putting him under
a violet and daisy quilt. However, report says he
is better, and violently pointing out in bed how
unfit Barton is to run this great country.
Engagement of only daughter of ex-editor F.
W. Haddon, of the Argus, is announced. She
marries by-and-bye Mr. Archibald Blue, second
son of the late Dr. Blue and step-son of Chief-
Justice Way. Another iota of Melbourne news
is that Mrs. “Johnny ” Sandes, wife of an Argus
journalist and litterateur, has gone on the stage.
She starts as Marie Louise in “A Royal Divorce, ”
with a Williamson co. Mrs. Sandes, who
is a daughter of Graham Berry, is a tall, dark,
handsome woman. Another of the ancient
veteran’s daughters has been on the stage for some
time, and Sydney had a glimpse of her awhile ago.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ There were actually four hosts for the
festivities which plunged this excited and be-
ribboned city into whirling maelstroms of flag-and-
fireworks foolishness. The four were the Vic-
torian State Government, the Federal Govern-
ment, the Gov.-General, and the Mayor of Mel-
bourne. The vastest slice of cardboard—the pic-
ture invitation issued by Peacock and co.—had no
connection with the blue or red-banded cards for
the State Concert to meet the Duke and Duchess
or for the opening of Parliament itself, but visitors
get woefully mixed over this and other shufflings
of cards. ‘I have the great big card,’a bewil-
dered guest would plaintively explain, measuring
off with his hands about two square yards of space
(nobody mentioned above pasteboard without
measuring off an imaginary acre or so), ‘ but not
the others.’ By reason of these and other large,
small, green, red and elephant’s-breath cards it
came to pass that Mr. McArthur, Mr. Stewart
and others began at last to look rather thin
and worn about their smile. The Mayor of Cood-
geewoodgery, who called on his State’s represen-
tative to explain that he felt slighted because he
had only received cards for the military tatoo and
the illumination of Albert Park Lagoon, while the
Mayor of the next township had tickets for free
unch at the Review and two State tea-drinkings,
had to be pacified somehow or Federation was in
vain.
“ There was too much Cornwall-and-York and
too little Commonwealth on all the mottos and
designs. The remarks trimming the various deco-
rations all run too largely to personal addresses to
George and May, and frequent repetitions of
‘E.R.’in all shapes and sizes were just a trifle
irrelevant. It wasn’t Edward’s funeral, anyhow.
And we needn’t be so excessively polite as to men-
tion that the long-to-reign-over-us person in Eng-
land is ‘E.R.’ more than twice in one block.
‘ E.’ or ‘V.,’ it’s a mere letter to us, and how can
we be expected to enthuse over one twenty-sixth
of the alphabet. The Queen Victoria arch, at the
junction of Collins and Russell sts. was the most
admired of any. Built over the very spot where
the Burke and Wills statue used to be, though
nobody remembered that. It was topped by a
colossal gilded statue, and the sunlight glanced
on the plump curves of her late lamented Majesty
very brilliantly, and the purple coloring of the
arch formed a fine contrast.
“ The assembled fleet of warships in Hobson’s
Bay was a source of much gratification to
the small boys of the port. To keep prying eyes
from the York yacht Ophir, the authorities
ran a few hundred yards of galvanised fencing
along Port Melbourne pier. Also, the pier had its
rotten planks replaced by sound timbers, and was
readied up generally. Uncle Sam’s Brooklyn, with
her three lofty smoke-stacks, riveted atten-
tion She boasts of the only casualty on the
Yankee side at the battle of Santiago. A news-
paper reporter passing a complimentary remark
to the flag lieutenant on the Brooklyn’s fine
appearance was met with the characteristic
answer : ‘ Yaas, guess she’s kind o’ passable.’
“The four British cruisers were anchored in
line, and the distances between them appeared
so even that the spaces might have been
measured off with a tape-line. Whilst the
Brooklyn was firing her official salute to
Admiral Beaumont’s flag she was uncomfort-
ably close to the German steamer ‘Harburg’
engaged at the time in discharging dynamite.
This explosive has a temper about as uncertain as
a hash-house landlady, and Melbourne took some
risks that day.
“In a general way the Jook doesn’t smile
upon us, neither does he view us unkindly ; he just
gazes sadly over our heads into the beyond as if
he were thinking ‘ Oh, had I the wings of a dove,
I would fly far, far away ! ’ He is a mite of a
man with healthy enough face, well-groomed
beard, aud pre-occupied, aloof expression. His
Bigger Half has nice pink cheeks, very blue eyes,
pretty hair, gentle smile and turned-up nose.
“ Rumour now says that the expected Yorklet
is due to arrive when the Royal party reaches
Canada. If this is true The Bulletin’s old-time
dream that there might one day be an Australian-
born British King named Thargomindah I. is off.
“By the way, quite a phenomenal number of
infants coincided their coming with the Royal land-
ing. .The rush to name the male baby George was
heartrending. One resourceful lady who became
possessed of male twins on that auspicious day
decided to call them both George. People who
babies about that time mostly re-named
the house-cat “Cornwall,” or took some equally
desperate step.
-Fh e public social appearance of the Duke
and Duchess was at the State Parliamentary
reception on Wednesday afternoon. Guests col-
lected early and waited wearily in one dense mass
on the steps to watch the vice-regal carriages
unload and the notables flock up the centre red-
baized passage. The soldiers were ranged up with
their backs to Bourke-street, and fell into the
regulation convulsive spasms every time an Exi
arrived. When the Gov.-G;en. and suite turned
up, it was seen that Waliington has grown an
entirely new crop of wrinkles with the worry of
running after Royalty. Hopetoun still looks ill
and spectral. The Jook was attired in a prize
frock-coat suit, with a band on his topper In
the togs of ordinary life he seems far more at ease
than when arrayed in his fancy uniforms. Mrs
Jook looked a lady in a trained black frock and
pretty toque, diamonds in her ears, and a seed-
peari necklace. Hersey Hopetoun played second
fiddle with great distinction, a role which suits her
far better than that of leading lady. The suite of
three followed—Lady Katbrine Coke, middle-
aged and unremarkable ; Mrs. Derek Keppel, not
very like her sister, Lady Carington ; and Lady
Mary Lygon, very like herself. In Queen’s Hall,
where the subsequent proceedings happened the
crush was very crushful until it was discovered
that Royalty had disappeared by a back door on
to the lawn, and then everybody rushed out also
Ihe guests gasped when Senator Glassey, of Q
approached, the Jook, wearing a soft felt hat but
nothing terrible occurred. The Chief-Justicess
stood around as solemnly as if it were a funeral
and she was guarding the corpse. There was
much less bobbing about the business than was ex-
pected—the departing slither wasn’t nearly so com-
plicated as anticipated. The correct way for a
woman to get out of Royalty’s presence is to
hobble gently sideways as if her feet had got all
tangled up in her petticoats and she couldn’t Ret
em clear. b
“ Dignitaries, official, political, &c., bask in the
blaze of Royalty at present, while Sassiety, shiver-
ing in the background, bitterly quizzes the ‘ weird
ways and frumpish raiment of them that sit in
vr At Parliament House reception
( ivr 7 A fc r h i« A f, ar ? 3 W ™ on > Mason, Peacock, and
Miss M Culloch, welcomed the Cornwalls and
hostessed the show. No one of the four is desper-
ately impressive, though that matters little ex-
SSjjJ w - the Cred u lt °f Australian deportment.
Mrs. Wnxon, shortish with touzled grey
hair and non-classic nose, wears good
clothes, which don’t count for much. Speaker
Mason’s missus is a bunched-up little person.
Preraieress Peacock, a tall, slight, unassuming
girl, will soon annex more confidence, considering
that at present she receives fifty calls per day.
Miss M'Culloch, the Minister for Defence’s
daughter, is tall, with large features like her
handsome old dad. She showed up well at the
State concert in a purple evening coat, and her
dark hair combed over her ears. Mrs. Cornwall,
who always looks more or less pretty, thanks to
coloring and expression, is tall, though one doesn’t
realise it, because her slight figure, though grace-
ful and lissome, is not imposing or impressive.
At that afternoon reception, the violets in her
toque went well with her blue eyes, but her gown
didn't knock me flat. It looked like black-silk
gauze, with black silk embroidered with roses
laid down the narrow train, etc. The only orna-
ment was a very fine chain of tiny links and pin-
point pearls.
Twenty vans of luggage have been carted from
the Ophir to Govt. House for the Royal Clothes-
Props, so if royalties’ costumes are disappointing,
it is not because they were sensitive about bother-
ing the Hopetouns with too much luggage.
“That Wednesday Hopey had possibly barked
his shins on one of the Duke’s crates of uniforms,
or fallen over a portmanteau of high-heeled boots.
A.ny way, at the Parliamentary reception his once
nice temper seemed to have frayed at the edges.
When he was leaving after having forwarded the
Royalties safely ahead, the blaring of bands,
cheering of champagned State-Guests, rearing of
carriage-horses and the sight of a damaged pos-
tillion with his head in sticking-plaster apparently
got on his nerves, and when a flunkey ran up and
delayed them with Lady Hopetoun’s forgotten
wrap, he snatched the shawl and couldn't drive
old Adam off his own irritated back in time to
call up a smile in response to more cheers and
hoarse-roaring. Of course, there were all the
visiting Governors, &c., to be conveyed off
the Parliamentary premises in time to get to
Govt. House at night, and there must be moments
when the Host-in-chief feels that, in this Royal re-
ception, he’s bitten off about as much as he can
chew.
“As a spectacle, the Opening of Parliament
would have kept one interested for a week. The
vast floor held an ocean of straining faces which
had overflowed the balconies like white foam
flung up on cliffs. In the midst of the sea an
island of Royal-red, and on this ruddy speck four
human figures facing the concentrated glitter of
24,000 eyes. Opposite this group, which had
for background a body-guard of staff officers
arrayed in gorgeous millinery,. stood Australia’s
Ministers of State and Senators, flanked by State
politicians, officials, consuls, soldiers, sailors,
while beyond this representative mass ordinary
citizens, rich and poor, strained eyes and
ears in the endeavor to catch sound or glimpse of
the historic ceremony.
“Prom his crimson dais, the heir of Eng-
land, in his admiral’s uniform, gazed wistfully
down on plain Edmund Barton, Prime Minister
of the Commonwealth, and first-born son, so to
speak, of Australia’s new Constitution. Our
Toby, sad to say, wasn’t looking his best. All
m solemn black, hardly a speck of cuff or collar
to be seen, shortish trousers, dusty boots, there he
stood, motionless, as if glued to the ground, his
features frozen in a look of misery. Toby, child !
were you trying to look like a mute at a funeral ?
If so, whose funeral? There may be regrets
in some quarters at the Death of the Old Order of
I hings, But the Hero of Federation has no need
to act Chief Mourner. The Barton head, by the
way, is magnificent; not so the figure.
“Jewels and a white cross sash (‘Order Alex-
andra ’) enlivened the Duchess’s all-black brocaded
velvet. In spite of her mourning she was radiant
One sees bow why the senior Wales determined to
keep the then Miss Teck in the family even
though Death had interfered with the first arrange-
ments. Beauty and Royalty so seldom go together
that a pleasant, prettyish princess is not, to be
sneezed at.
“ Big John Forrest, Minister of Defence, seems
fatter, redder, and jollier than ever. One of those
lucky, tough-nerved people who can chuckle
througn thick and thin. Foreign naval officers
were much m evidence, all looking on with rather
a supercilious air. People were all saying to one
another how astonished these foreigners must be
at the marvels of Melbourne. Someone I know
heard the German visitors chatting in their own
language, and listened complacently, expecting to
hear rhapsodies. This is what they said : ‘ How
dull and stupid are these Australians. No one
introduces US / ’ The German Admiral has
mounted his stilts because Somebody or other
neglected to call till the offended Teuton himself
had paid his official respects—a terrible breach of
etiquette, says Yon What’s-his-name.
“Chief-Justice Way, bewigged and robed in
black, was on view with his dark, dashing wife
and her daughter, Miss Shylie Blue, an Adelaide
belle. The latter tall, smart girl looked well in
white serge with violets in her hat.
“ Administrator John Dodds (Tasmania), a
smallish, bearded, elderly lawyer, hates being
Acting-Governor, and likes to be left in peace to
his Chief Justiceship. His wife looks quiet, too,
and at the opening of Parliament was fixing up
Hubby’s collar for him. °
“ Lord Lamington is the handsomest Australian
potentate on view. Hopey’s bearing boasts twice
the pomp and dignity, and his face expresses ten
times the sagacity ; but to those who don’t object
to a bored aspect and tepid ‘atmosphere,’ the
Northern Governor presents a really attractive
humanscape, especially in his rich dark-blue uni-
form, with babyish white satin shoulder-knots as
mourning. Even when the Royal coach-horses
play up, and King Ned’s ‘right well-beloved
cousin ’ Hopetoun is literally grinding his teeth
with anxiety, the quondam Mr. Cochrane Baillie
resignedly strokes his moustache and seems to
reflect, ‘ God save the Dook, for if He doesn’t I
don’t suppose I can.’
“ On this holy Sabbath day (May 12th) Melb. is
feeling a little less gnawed after one day’s good
dinner, but when the newly-sworn-in members
rose in their seats on Thursday they were a very
unfed Parliament. The catering has broken
down badly. All the papers are howling about it,
but the blame lay partly with the guests. At
every festivity where tucker was given gratis,
they rushed the tables in thousands positively
rampant for food, and one man ate for ten, leaving
nine desolate.
“From a spectacular point of view, the State
concert went one better than the opening of Par-
liament—thanks to the Royal diamonds, the Minis-
ters’ uniforms, and the ladies’ evening toilettes.
The gem of the whole show was John Forrest
in white stockings, buckle shoes, dangerously
tight knee-breeches, coat heavy with bullion and
mercilessly cut away in front to display vest
contour. The wearer’s face was like a red sunset,
and as he lumbered about with his naval rolling
gait, he was the very image of Old King Neptune.
Some people compared him to Mr. Pickwick,
others to John Bull, but he’s not dapper
enough for the former. John’s critics should
lay it to his credit that he has advertised
their State so splendidly at these Celebra-
tions. Those masses of haberdashery bullion,
shown up on a figure like his, provided a
glorious puff for a mineral country. Why he’s the
very personification of gold, glitter, grab, &c., in
a johy, genial, if autocratic way. No one thought
the big man’s appearance a better joke than lie
did himself; he chuckled the whole night till,
what with fear of burst button-holes and blood-
vessels, onlookers grew nervous. The gold-fields
should get up a presentation in recognition of
burly John’s grand services to their district in his
capacity of an Auriferous Poster. A new Privy
Councillor’s uniform might be a suitable offerii g,
a roomy double frontage one. The tightness of
his present suit is a challenge to Providence.
“If Big John in Privy Councillor finery sug-
gested a performing rhinoceros, Barton, similarly
costumed, smacked of astranded, short-built whale,
and G-eorge Turner was more the cut of a sober-
minded, slow-going porpoise. Fysh, with his long
thin legs in white stockings, called up thoughts of
a stiff-jointed eel. Senator Drake, in ordinary
evening wear, looked a clean, trim-moustached
man, with round large eyes. He is younger and
more dapper than most of his fellow Ministers,
and he’s got one of those broad square heads,
like Methodist 1' itchett’s. Mrs. Drake seemed
quiet - looking in a white evening cape.
Mrs. Fysh was just a harmless old soul.
Victorian Parliamentary women are fond of an-
nouncing during political revellings that ‘poor
old Mrs. Fysh is so dreadfully tired.’ Mrs.
Greorge Turner, in a black wrap befigured with
white, grows older and less buxom. Her two
daughters woie facsimile frocks, like purple and
black draught-boards.
“ Dark, handsome Mrs. Barton showed up well
in black. Mrs. Forrest did credit to the Six
I amilies in a good grey cloak. People over here
have a legend that Big John’s wife was a cook
picked up by John in the E irly Days. As usual,
they are barking up the wrong tree, for the lady
was a Miss H imersley, witii lots of English
county connections, still going strong.
Madame Nellie Stewart,’ enthroned on the
front of the orchestra platform, nearer to royalty
than any other lady singer, wore a waistless white
gown, her hair in her eyes, and festoons of jewels.
But even Lady Hopetoun’s sparklers paled in the
blaze of the royal diamonds. The prinoess wore
a crown, deep dog-collar and several chains, all of
which Sparkled with an all-over white dazzling
fire and here and there sent magnificent red and
blue flashes. When she’d let us all gloat a while
over her gems, she sent for a white-lined, black-
velvet cape-cloak, which was spread over her
shoulders by the Duke. Then Lady Hopetoun
called for her pelisse, which bad sleeves and was
more troublesome. Wally hung it carelessly on
the back of her chair, as if he were draping a
sofa. Surely he’s not losing his head and growing
indifferent to his bread and butter just because of
a few temporary Queen cakes on the table.
“A legend drifts round Melbourne that the
decorating of the persons who were to be
C.M.G.’d, or otherwise stained, was postponed
from the original date, the reason being that the
Jook caught sight of the tallest of the applicants,
and found that he couldn’t reach up to pin his
decoration on without standing on a chair.
Kilmany Station, in Grippsland, is the place
selected for the Duke’s tame-fowl shooting. It
belonged to the late Hon Pearson, and has a
beautiful old cottage homestead and big garden.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
Mebourne Argus, with reference to the
voyage of the Yorks : —“Singapore was favored
witii a much shorter visit than Ceylon.”
“ Favored ” is a good word.
this amazing letter was produced in the
course of the Chamberlain (Kynoch Limited)
ammunition firm’s suit for libel against London
Morning Leader. It was addressed from Ky-
noch s office to the Agent-General for Westralia,
similar letters having been sent to the other
Agents-General:—
. James street, Haymarket.
bir,—ln confirmation of your interview yesterday, we
have the honor to inform you that our secretary, Mr.
11 * “ is about to pay a commercial visit to the
different Australian colonies in our interest, and to re-
quest that you will give him a letter of introduction to
the t renner of the colony which you represent. No doubt
you are aware that we are large contractors for the War
Olhce, and we may say that our chairman, Mr. Arthur
Chamberlain, is the brother of the Colonial Minister If
it is possible, we should be glad if you would mention
these facts in your letters, as our object in sending Mr.
Huxham out is to endeavor to extend our reputation to
the Australian colonies.
, (Signed) W. Cullen.
This is a clear bid for trade patronage because
Judas Chamberlain is related to the firm, and
effectually disposes of the Judas assurance that
his name wasn’t used to bolster the Kynoch’s
business.
Note the number of charming female
figures one sees in the Melb. and Sydney streets,
is the race becoming more beautiful or is it that the
Art and Science of Gowning are being more fully
developed every year? And there is joy in
store for the deah Duke in driving through streets
lined with lovlmess. And when he recognises
the approved P D. figure, the product of the
corset which is Art s final triumph, his ecstaey
will be worth going miles to smile at. “ The P D
figgah, by my fewchah Cwown ' ”*


THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBL, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University, writes—
“ Hunyadi Janos Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has proved specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipation,
venous obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.”
Average Dose :— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
- ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Par
of the Label.
A Letter from Barcaldine.
Barcaldine, Q., Nov. 5, 1900.
Dear Sirs, .
I suffered severely from indigestion, which
caused great pain in my chest and between my
shoulders. After passing several sleepless nights
I began taking Warner’s Safe Cure with the result
that the pains entirely left me.
Yours faithfully,
REGINALD PARNELL.
Messrs. H. H. Warner and Co., Limited.
Warner’s Safe Cure, cures all diseases of the
kidneys and Liver, and disorders arising there-
from, such as Indigestion, Rheumatism, Bilious-
ness, Impure Blood, Ansemia, Gravel, Gout,
Neuralgia, Debility and Bright’s Disease.*
ROWLAND’S
KALYDOR
Fou the Skin.
Removes Freckles, Tan, Sun-
burn, Redness, Roughness, Heals
and Cures Irritation, Insect
Stings, Cutaneous Eruptions,
produces Soft, Fam Skin and a
Lovely Delicate Complexion
Most cooling rod soothing in hot
climates. Warranted harmless.
ROWLANDS
ESSENCE OF TYRE.
The most perfect Hair Dye.
Produces a permanent brown or
black which cannot be removed.
Ask for Rowland s articles, of
Hatton Garden, London. Sold
by Stores and Chemists.
| FACILE PRINCEPS 1
BUCHANAN WHISKY
The Only Scotch Whisky officially ordered for the OPHIR.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Death notice from Hawkes Bay Herald
(Napier, M.L.): —
MISEREY.—On the Ist May, 1901, Lucien Miserey,
an old inmate of the Refuge, aged 68 years.
Miserey !
A recent candidate for a seat on a Vie.
municipal council had ideas about the cheapest
drainage system yet heard of. “My opinion,” he
said firmly, “is that we should dig a big ’ole in
the middle of the township an’ let it run into
that.”
This lie may not have yet been told about
G. H. Reid. At an election-meeting once, a very
antique egg hit him fairly in the ohest, and, as he
fanned away the aroma with his hand, he was
heard to murmur—“ Thank Gawd, the great auk
is extinct! ”
From London Sketch :
Mr. John Mathieson, chief Commissioner of Victorian
Railways, having been given a managership at Home, is
giving up his position in Queensland.
Which is better geography than usual for an
English society journal.
“ Melb.” : York never smiled or bowed in
acknowledging the salutations. Only tapped the
peak of his cocked hat like a marionette. Re-
minded me of the giraffe in Cooper and Bailey’s
menagerie. It was stuffed, but its head wagged
by mechanism.
In November next N.S.W. Chief Justice
Darley will have completed 15 years service and
will be entitled to retire on a pension of £2750 a
year. The Chief will have then passed into his
72nd year, at which age Chief Justice Stephen
left the bench. Mr. Pilcher, K.C., is named in
legal circles as a likely successor of his present
Chief.
Australia has had several preachers who
occasionally officiated in the Gaelic language,
but Rev. L. M'Lean, who died lately at 87, was
the only one who confined himself for years wholly
to that language. Quite a number of R.C. clergy-
men preached in Irish in the early days, and a
few still use the language occasionally, but Aus-
tralia is now wore English-speaking than Britain
itself.
W. Stephen comes out for Botany in N.S.
Wales State elections. Stephen was in Parlia-
ment years ago, and was known pretty generally
as the Botany Bunyip. It was never very clear
how the name originated. He was a dull, slow,
platitudinous individual, who wouldn’t damage a
fly, though he would readily lecture on the insect
for an hour an a half, and even then would throw
no light upon it.
Langdon Bonython and his paper have
always been good friends to the S. A. school-
teachers, who want friends badly, and the boy-
swishing profession did a lot to hoist the knight
to second place (he even ran Kingston close for
first place) among the Crow-eaters’ elect. The
S.A. teacher is allowed to mix in politics to any
THE MORNING'S MEMORIES.
“ Can you tell me who took my hat last night .”
“No; but perhaps you can tell me who gave me
this black eye!”
extent after caning hours; it is rarely that he
can’t influence a few votes ; and the profession
formed itself into one huge committee to put
Bonython in.
Dear Bulletin. —Re alleged statement by
Dan O’Connor that Jonel Fegan was employed at
a large smelting-works just on 12 years ago. If
memory serves, Fegan was at that time a miner
in the Wickham and Bullock Island colliery
(N.S.W.). Nearly every Sunday, in a Wesleyan
chapel, Fegan, as a lay-preacher used to speak of
a certain everlasting “ furnace, but said nothing
of being engaged as a stoker. S.
“ C.K.R.” writes from London to The
Bulletin : . .
Curious to read in the report of the Commissioners of
Woods and Forests that King Edward VII. owns in London
several hotels, apolice-station, an arcade and a restaurant.
These include the Carlton Hotel—the “ swaggerest of
them all, where it costs half-a-dollar to drop your ser-
viette; Albany-at. lock-up, off Eegent-st. ; the Roy® l
Opera Arcade and the Holborn Restaurant-the upper-
middle-class resort. A Mr. King pays the King £lOOO
rental for a house in Piccadilly, at Park Lane corner.
A strong candidate for the Papacy is Car-
dinal Satolli, aged 62. He was Ambassador m the
U.S., and effected wonderful harmony there by
judicious concession. Next in the running n.ay be
Cardinal Rampolla, aged 58, Secretary of .State,
a man of desperate energy. Cardinal Svampa,
aged 50, Archbishop of Bologna, is greatly talked
about. Tipsters do not go much beyond a fourth
eligible, Cardinal Parocchi, aged 68, Vice-Chan-
cellor.
Aitken, the sanctimonious Scotchbyterian
who snowed lawyer Wilford completely under in
the contest for Wellington (M.L.) mayoralty,
told his supporters, in returning thanks for his
election, that he hadn’t sought the billet in the
hope of getting a title when the Jook arrived,
that he didn’t want a title, and that he didn tcare
if the Jook never arrived at all —or words to that
effect. A desperately respectable audience lis-
tened in silent horror.
Stated by M.L. papers that the Imperial
Govt, is so pleased with Seddon’s Jingoism that
it intends to promote him to the Governorship of
a constitutional colony. If Richard is put in a
place where one man does all the governing, there
will be some sense in it. He is probably
as good a man as they could get to run a province
in S’Africa. But to make a man like Seddon a
mere colonial figure-head would be like offering
Kitchener a billet as a statue.
“ Viking” : Augustus Jenkins, the Crown
Solicitor of an Australian State, was an untidy
man. The leading Q.C. of the same State was a
dandy and a Hebrew. One morning Jenkins
called at the learned Q.C.’s chambers to accom-
pany him to court, but Abraham demurred at
being seen in public with tlie scarecrow Crown
Solicitor. “ Jenkins,” said he, “a man in your
position should wear better clothes. Buy a new
greatcoat and sell the old one.” “Ah, Abra-
ham,” replied Jenkins, “how naturally the
thoughts of men of your persuasion turn to deal-
ings in ole clo’.”
Joe Ivess, of “ rag-planting ” fame, was
before M.L. Arbitration Court lately as witness
in a printers’-union dispute. He described him-
self as a newspaper proprietor, and the description
was quite justified. Joseph said he knew some-
thing of country papers, having established 25 of
them, and, in some instances, two in one town to
discourage opposition. According to Ivess, there
are now only two very profitable country papers
in M.L., and there also the metropolitan dailies
are gradually smothering the once affluent agri-
cultural press.
Fluent as Reid, K.C. is on the
platform or in Parliament, he is a
strict economist of words in a difficult
examination or cross-examination in
the Criminal Court. If the answer
is unsatisfactory he smothers it with
a smile directed at the jury. Then he
makes certain of getting an answer
that is not, at least, against his client,
and this he turns to great account by
repeating it with insinuating solemnity
to the jury, who, if not convinced, are,
what is just as useful, bamboozled.
In a sea of adverse circumstances,
Reid—clinging to a straw of hope-
will impress the jury with the idea
that he is, as it were, safely surveying
the situation from the deck of a
mammoth liner. Every advocate who
knows his business can get a few
favorable answers even from the most
“ deadly ” witness, but when Reid
gets these answers he knows consum-
mately just where to stop—and leave
well alone. He allows the Crown-
Prosecutor to rip-up the answers, if he
can, in re-examination. But George’s
temporarily-suppressed tongue makes
up for all that when he comes to ad-
dress the jury. Nevertheless, his skill
in this direction is not by any means
the whole secret of his success as “a
verdict-getter. ”
In a Welsh town, about 40 years
ago, lived a a chemist who, in his
: later middle age, was actually paying
! maintenance fees for 60 illegitimate
children, notwithstanding the fact
that the weekly tariff in such cases
had risen, during his term of patri-
archality, from 2s. 6d. to ss. Apropos,
around the open grave of the Mormon
elder Taylor, there assembled 40 stal-
wart sons of the deceased.
“On good authority I hear,” writes The
Bulletin's London correspondent, “ that the chil-
dren of Miss Fairbrother, stage-dancer and wife
(morganatic)of the present Duke of Cambridge, are
to be raised to the peerage. At present they are
known as ‘ Fitz George, ’ and the eldest. Colonel
Augustus FitzG., is private secretary to his old
father. The mother died in 1890 at the age of
75, while the Duke is now 82. She was an exem-
plary wife, it is said, and was of very
lowly parentage. The old Duke is as peppery as
ever, and could extricate a bogged team of
bullocks with his language against any other
duke in the world. His assault with his umbrella
—when he was 0.-in-C. of the British army and
carried his sunshade to reviews—upon a reporter,
who unintentionally irritated him, nearly resulted
in an amusing lawsuit. Of course the 1 Institute
of Journalists,’ run by bloated bosses, snobbishly
refused to resent the assault on one of its mem-
bers, and thus missed some splendid ‘copy.’ ”
Mrs. Pater, fatally burnt in Melbourne
last week, was the widow of Thomas Pater, once
Judge in the Northern Territory (S.A.). The
unfortunate lady, unable to sleep through over-
work and anxiety caused by the rush of guests
to her boarding-house, was reading in bed. The
candle and the curtains did the rest.
Leo XIII. is 91.
EXACTLY!
“ Waiter ” “ Yes, sir.” “What’s this?” “Bean soup, sir?”
“No matter what it’s been; the question is, what is it now?”
’Twas about the time when the New Year’s
honors were due. One morning, at school, the
young son of a certain Minister was dropping off
to sleep repeatedly. On being reprimanded by
the teacher, the youngster let himself go thus :
“No wonder I’m sleepy—l didn’t have any sleep
last night. We were all waiting up for the tele-
gram about father’s title.” “ Father ” was among
those who got left, and the public guffawed when
the tale went round. That painfully candid son
is now at a distant boarding-school.
It is persistently stated in Maoriland that
Premier Seddon and Postmaster-General Ward
are both to be “ ennobled ” when the Jook comes.
Ward is considered certain to be offered a
K.C.M.G -ship ; it is understood that he will
accept. What Seddon is to have is not quite
clear; but something bigger than a mere knight-
hood is anticipated, and it is considered probable
that his headquarters will soon be London. It is
further believed that big John Mackenzie, one-
time Minister for Lands, who is now quietly living
on his farm at Heathfield, will also get a sad and
arid ornament in front of his name.
“ Jim ” Hopkins, elected for Boulder in
W. A. Assembly, was a porter on the Vic. railways
when Speight was Commissioner, and now he will
sit beside his ex-railway chief in the same State
Legislature. Hopkins was the first settler on the
Boulder, and has been its mayor since its incep-
tion till this year, when he passed the bauble on
to his younger brother. He was the-only sup-
porter of any note the Forrest Govt, had on the
goldfields, yet he had to win his seat in the House
this time on the Opposition ticket. At last W.A.
election a goldfields candidate might almost as
well announce himself a working cannibal as a
Forrest supporter.
There ought to he some fossicking, a few
grains, in the biography, published in two fat
vols., of Princess Mary of Cambridge, mother of
the Duchess of York, notwithstanding that the
Duchess carefully pruned it. The references to
Queen Victoria appear somewhat grudging. The
Tecks are believed to have thought that she didn’t
treat them well. They had the repute of being
desperately poor. Of course the Duke of Cam-
bridge’s wife, Miss Farebrother, the burlesque
actress, is taboo in the memoir. Anyone would
suppose he was single. The Hopetouns and
Tecks were always excessively friendly. The
memoir skims gracefully over the Duke of Clar-
ence.
The title, “Edward V 11.,” is strongly
objected to in many parts of Scotland, the con-
tention being that the six previous Edwards were
Kings of England, not of Great Britain. A
Kirkwall town-councillor insisted on taking the
oath of allegiance to Edward 1., and it is stated
that several Scotch M’s.P. have been permitted
to declare their fealty simply to King Edward.
The case in point is that the two Jameses of Eng-
land were described as the first and second of their
name in England, and the sixth and seventh in
Scotland ; therefore the new king should reign as
Edward I. of Scotland (or Edward 11. if the very
temporary second Baliol is counted in, or Edward
111. if the temporary first English conquest is
recognised), and Edward VII. of England.
William 111. of England on this basis was William
11. of Scotland, and there are other complications.
Three Popes have lived
longer : Agabus, died in
683 a.d., aged 107 (proba-
bly not correct); Gregory
IV., died in 1241, aged 99,
as stated ; and Celestine
111., died 1198, aged 92.
The obituary of an old pioneer :
Died near Marble Bar (VV.A.) recently, Morris Nolan, one
of the Nolan brothers known in all the back country of
Australasia. He had a marvellous constitution but New
Guinea malaria and Gulf country fever, followed by con-
tinuous tin-dog and damper, spinifex and mulgainWestr alia
killed him in the end. Born on the Loddon in the fifties ;
started gold-seeking before he could walk properly, and
been at it ever since ; discovered gold “shows” in Vic.,
and run a battery on his own in the early days. Was one
of the early prospectors in the awful Mount Browne
country of N.S.W. ; made very rich discoveries in the
Barrier Ranges, but failed to keep them—people with
names like Cohen and Kohn made more out of them than
he did. Drifted to Maoriland, thence to Kimberley Rush,
to Croydon, New Guinea, Tasmania, back to Victoria, and
reached Westralia about eight years ago. He never got
out of it, like Mat, another brother, who pegged his last
claim in the early days of Coolgardie. Pat and Joe (also
Jim) Nolan survive. Also looking for gold, also finding it
sometimes, also discovering that sedentary persons with
names like Cohen and Kohn somehow get a very large
share of the loot. The real pioneer is the man with the
long legs and the uncommercial mind, and the division of
things between him and the man with the short legs and
the commercial mind who comes up in the rear doesn’t
seem a fair division somehow.


TRY
MACONOCHIE’S
✓
CELEBRATED
Worcestershire
Sauce.^^:—
Most Delicious
a.nd Cheapest.
SOLD E VEB Y WHERE.
Australian Representatives:
SWIFT & CO.,
7 Spring Street, Sydney.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Hotel
Australia
Bates from 12/6 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
The AUSTRALIA HOTEL is fireproof
from tower to basement.
Rapid elevators run day and night and
an efficient night-staff regularly patrols
the building.
Hot and cold water are in every room
Private suites, combining bedroom
sitting-room and bath-room, are one
of the most attractive features of the
hotel, and a post office, telegraph
office, hair-dressing saloon, bookstall
and cigar-divan, are included in the
building.
J. SMITH (Late of Menzies’J, Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors.—Always give, in ethnological and
natural-history items etc., exact date and exact
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
“Trotter”; On the Croydon-Norinanton
line the sleepers are made of steel. The whole
length of this line (94 miles) is enclosed by heavy
scrub, which shuts out every breath of air. The
heat for nine months of the year is fearful, averag-
ing from 100 to 104 deg. It often feels like 120 in
the shade. This land is cursed with flies of all
descriptions during the day, and elephantine
mosquitoes at night. The March fly, a large
variety, of great carrying capacity, is the boss
plague of the country. The population goes to
bed early; as soon as the sun is down you have
to turn in under a mosquito net or else you see the
local insect walking away with great hunks of
your flesh. The flying animals of these parts are
spotted and large, and their trunks penetrate the
thickest cloth. Food consists of corned beef and
damper ; vegetables are unprocurable. Nothing
will grow here. Wages are 10s. a day, and for
the sake of them, men battle with the flies for five
or six years, though there is one man who i 3
HE WASN’T HUNGRY.
BON VIVANT: “I don’t take much stock in breakfast; all I
leant is a brandy and soda, a chop, and a dog.”
KINDRED SPIRIT: “ What do you want the dog for?”
B.V.: “ To eat the chop.”
reputed to have kept the insects at bay for nine
years at a stretch. And yet they say white men
can’t work on the sugar fields, where the condi-
tions of life are paradise by comparison. Any
part of me that remains uneaten will write again
shortly.
* * * *
“ Deeby ” : The lurid-languaged bull-
puncher will soon be a past type. The modern
bullocky is almost mealy-mouthed. Of those I
know in this locality, not even the worst swear as
much as an ordinary teamster or shearer. Was
present t’other day when a. local bullock team
jammed a* front wheel between two stumps, but
all that came from the puncher was—“ Now then,
you lazy wretches ! I’ll shake sum o’ yis up if yer
don’t watch it.” But I don’t know that this kind
of thing means any moral improvement. Seems
to me simply that the bullocky of to-day is getting
too tired, to curse.
* * * *
A notable droving and shepherding feat,
Last Oct. John Smith, of Adaminaby (N.S.W.),
took delivery of 9000 2-tooth wethers at Burra-
wang Station, 35 miles beyond Forbes, drove them
to the Snowy Mountains, and shepherded them
there for three months, native dogs being too
troublesome to allow of turning them out. The
sheep were delivered by Smith at Mt. Cooper on
20th April last, in splendid condition, and only
134 short of the original number.
* * * *
Daily paper drought item :
As showing the ravages of the drought in the south-
western district of Queensland, a gentleman who has
arrived in Brisbane from the vicinity of Cooper’s Creek
says that some stations are almost depleted. He men-
tions one station where out of 95,000 sheep there are
only 300 left ; whilst out of 30,000 cattle there are only
500 left; and out of 1000 horses, only 70 remain. All the
while the country is overrun with dingoes, which are
swarming like bees. One pastoralist near Cunnamulla
has lost, on an average, 900 sheep a month, mostly through
dingoes. Several stations had to he temporarily
abandoned owing to the drought.
The land of Dry Bones !
* * * *
“ A.P.R.” : A daikie once proved to me
that the best place to sink for water in a creek is
where a gully or depression meets the watercourse.
Also in timber, where the roots protrude from the
surface and the branches incline earthwards,
water is easily found. Does this throw any light
on the “ divining-rod ” mystery ?
* * * *
Died at Mingatta Station,
near Bombala (N.S.W.) April 10,
Alex. Weatherhead, aged 92.
Deceased, who was a Northum-
brian, arrived in Sydney in ’34,
and first worked at Bergalia, in
Bodalla district, for the late John
Hawdon, Mrs. Weatherhead being
then the only white woman in
those parts. Mr. Weatherhead’s
Australian life presented a re-
markable record of ups-and-
downs; though, thanks to per-
severance and ultimate luck, he
finished on the “up” side, with
an estate (Nungatta) worth at
least £lOO,OOO. About 15 yeais
ago he published the story of his
“56 years pioneering on the
South Coast of N.S.W.” For the
last 25 years the old man has kept
a coffin ready for himself, but on
three occasions the coffin was used
for another member of his family.
The casket in which he was buried
was made only a few weeks before
his death.
A certain highly - placed
Bananaland Munchausen, at pre-
sent in the old country, was giving
a lecture in a small Scottish town
on the advantages of Queensland
as a field for immigration, and
exercised his poetic faculties to
the full on the congenial theme.
At the close of the lecture a
hard-headed Scot rose to his feet,
gazed sternly on the orator, and
commenced in this fashion :
“ Weel, Muster T , ye’ve told
us a lot aboot the beauties o’ this
land o’ yours, but mayhap ye’ll
hae nae objection to answering a
few questions o’ mine. Is no the
country ye’re talkin’ aboot vcrra
hot ? ” The lecturer modestly
admitted it was a trifle warm at
times. “Is it no a bit droothy
noo and again ? ” The lecturer
had to confess it was at times a
bit liable to “ drouth.” “And
is no the population o’ your colony
verra mixed—all classes and races
o’ mankind?” Once more the
lecturer had to admit the soft
impeachment. “ Aweel, man,
then dinna ye think that a coun-
try that’s verra hot and very
droothy and verra mixed in the
population must be verra like
hell?” Whereupon the orator
mournfully packed up his poetry,
his maps, his statistics, and his
trusty long-bow, and stole away
southward.
* * *
Not generally known that
the scientific name of the Alpine
Swift is Hirundo rnelba. Aus-
tralia’s Melba, however, is not a
swallow but a nightingale.
A pedagogue from the droughty, God-for-
saken West says not one in 20 of the children out
there has ever seen a river, to say nothing of the
sea, and that most of the youngsters under 7 have
never seen grass grow i ng. In the plain districts
they have never seen a hill —nothing but baked
plains, boggy dams, de.; 1 and dying sheep, and
rabbits. “Itis a cruel task to attempt to dissi-
pate their ignorance, as they disbelieve everything
you tell them —having no faith in anybody or any-
thing.”
• r * *
During the late drought an old gin on
Milly Milly Station (Murchison, W.A.) boasted
so much of her rain-making powers that the
manager gave her some rations and chased her
into the bush. A few days later the rain came —a
greater rain than had ever been seen there before,
and the country was speedily under water. Then
the blacks got alarmed, swam out to find the old,
wet gin, and —the penalty of fame ! —threatened
to spear her if she did not stop the rain she had
started. Only white interference saved her.
* * * *
“ Pelican ” : Re circles and semi-circles
in bush (“ W.T.8.,” B. 16/3/1). Have never seen
these of stone, but have dropped across them in
Port Curtis district, Q., made of wood blocks
about Ift. long, and almost as cleanly cut as if by
saw. This was undoubtedly the work of aborigi-
nals, these circles being always found in remote
and hidden spots.
Dear Bulletin. —Re the divining-rod. I
wanted a well put down, and
a neighbor said he could
show me where to find
water by the aid of a
divining - rod. He
accordingly cub a
small box sapling,
about the thick-
ness of a whip-
handle, and, when
we got to the
proposed site, he
took the rod by
the small end,
the other point-
ing back over his
shoulder, and
walked round
for a few minutes
till the heavy
end gradually
came round to
the front. He
said, “There is
abundant water
here, flowing in
a northerly
direction, at GOft.
dept h.” He
wanted the job
of sinking or bor-
ing, but I was
not ready then.
Some months
later, another
neighbor (also a
reputed “divi-
ner”) visited the
spot, provided
with a small box
branch, forked like
a “ V,” and about the
thickness of a pen-
holder. Holding one
branch of ttie fork with
the little and third fingers
of each hand, with the other
end upward, he stood
on the place intended
for the well for several
minutes, when the
point of the rod slowly
desc nded till it nearly
touched his vest. He said, “There is
water here—a good supply—but at nob
less than 110 ft. deep.” 1 got the well
put down, and at 60ft. struck water—
only a small quantity—but at 124 ft.
we got a good supply.—Lachlan.
“Fairholm”: Re “divining-rod” query (B.
2/2/’l). I know of two men (Bishop and Lynch)
in Wellington (N.S.W.), who have often suc-
ceeded with the “rod.” Have known the former
to locate water GOft. from the surface ; and, in ’9B,
I knew the latter (Lynch) to wager that water
could be found at a certain unlikely place within
a depth of 90ft. The well was sunk, and water-
struck at a depth of 78ft. Moreover, he (Lynch)
is at present prepared to bet that, if a cask of
water be hidden, he will, blindfolded, locate it by
means of the rod.
* * • *
Dear Bulletin.—The real cause of the
dying-away of the boree and myall trees is the
change of climate due to the reckless ring-barking
all over N.S.W. A curse is thus being brought
on the land by killing the timber that draws rain,
and thus also depriving our insectivorous birds of
shelter. This is in fact killing the goose that lays
the golden eggs, as all will find to their sorrow
sooner or later. Why doesn’t our fool-Govern-
ment make some attempt to block this suicidal
destruction of the forests ? —Bright.
A SHORT CUT .
MR. DONEUP (after making several attempts to
mount): “Which is the quickest way to the
ferry, my boy?”
BOY: “Straight up that road; you better walk
if you want to catch the boat.”
“Drum”: Be the New Norcia (W.A)
aboriginal mission natives. The Roebourne people
were hourly expecting the annual Willy-Willy to
swoop down upon the town, and a group of white
weather-prophets had gathered outside a pub. In
the background stood an aboriginal, an ex-mission
boy. “Say, Billy,” asked one, “are we going to
have a blow ? ” Billy stepped forward, and
gravely eyed the heavens for half-a-minute. Then,
turning round, he asked “’Ow’3 ther glass ? —/
always go by ther glass meself ! ”
HIS
REASON.
THE REV. STGGINS:
“My good man, why
do you drink that horrid beer? ”
THE MAN: “’Cause it makes me tight quicker ’n
good boose does.”
Waybackers’ Commonwealth adventures
begin to crop up. One man from the backblox
took a room on his arrival in Sydney and went to
look at the sights. Two days after, he was found
walking about the Domain with his shoes in
Ids hand. He had never found Ids room again,
had £4O in his pockets, had slept in the Domain,
and had on’y eaten in 3d. bars. He’d been afraid
of the 6d. restaurants “because the girls were so
flash.” “ I’d like you to take me to a 4d. one,
though.” With £4O !
* • * »
A newly-elected N.S.W. Mayor was pre-
siding at a council meeting. An alderman was
speaking, and another alderman kept interjecting.
Said alderman No. 1 : “ Mr. Mayor, I wish you
would ask Aid. Blank not to interrupt ; it puts
me off the thread of my remarks.” The Mayor,
anxious to please, half rose in his chair and said :
“No injections, please—no injections ! ”
» * * *
Said a Maori recently : “ Mr. Seddon
good man ;he better than God. God say work
six days a week ; Mr. Seddon say work five-and-
a-half. Good man, Mr. Seddon, / tink.”
“ C.M.” : Talk about “ putting it
away!” Over here (West Coast of Tas-
mania) there is working a harmless nece-
sary Finn, who went into the townshio
t’other day to have a “fair time”
amongst his many friends. He began
with rum, and, after drinking over 40
glasses, he changed to beer, of which he
drank 15 pints ! He then took home to
his camp three bottles of three-star
brandy, which he drank before turning-
in—yet he was up and at work next
morning as if nothing extraordinary
had happened. He can drink half-a-
gallon of beer without removing the
vessel from his mouth —but he calls
that only an “ abbediser.” [Too much.
—Ed. B.]


CHILDREN
now-a-days have notoriously BAD TEETH,
because the White Bread they live on lacks the
Wheaten Phosphates (rejected with the Bran)
which go to make good, sound Teeth, as well as
Bone, Brain and Nerve substance.
CEREBOS SALT, used like common salt,
supplies these necessary Phosphates, and is,
therefore, invaluable in the daily food of
mothers and children.
Wholesale Agents .'—HARRISON & ATTWOOD, 334 and 336, George Street, SYDNE
Sold by Grocers and Stores.
h
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
■
“E.S.S.” : Times appear to be very hard
out Boulia way. This from a local paper “ The
goats which once were sneered at would now A
regarded with veneration, and the few remaining
inhabitants are eking out a miserable existence
by the aid of curried galah and broiled cockatoo,
varied with an occasional slice of spiced beef,
brought along in small lots by parcels post.
Upon which comments the Town and Country
Journal: —“And still the Government has not,
like that of N.S.W., seen fit to appoint a Royal
Commission to help these poor folk.” Now, what
has N.S.W. done for its Western and North-
Western settlers, who are quite as badly off as the
Boulia people? After its big Commonwealth
drunk its gorgeous mourning for the late Queen,
and its elaborate Jookoyork preparations, it has
no money left to help its far-back taxpayers.
How many tanks and dams, roads and bridges,
migh t have been made with the thousands so dis-
grace fully wasted on that big champagne bust I
The back'country wanted them ; the back country
still wants them; and the back country may
want them and be d —— d to it. And think of t e
joy—the unutterable joy—of the settler m the
Drv Land, when he sits with his boiled cockatoo
before him and reads that the Government has
given him a Royal Commission probably
driest substance on earth outside Boulia.
» • * *
A WAY-BACK TRAGEDY.
Devotee of “ Traveller’s Joy,” in last stage of mental
ruin, pegs out. .
Order for interment pending post-mortem .
Burial interrupted by thunderstorm -corpse left out an
night in a dray.
Completion of obsequies. . p
Exhumation (after 6 days) for post-mortem. F. m.
uncompleted -corpse lies out in the open for another
"completion of p.m. Medico overcome-possibly by too
free use of disinfectants—unable to at t el ? d - p? the
Inquest adjourned, and medico discovered later m the
day performing equestrian feats on a buggy-wheel outsid
13 Inquest resumed, attendance of med je°
secured under threat of grievous penalties Witnesses
and jury sworn in the name of our Sovereign La y
Queen (then defunct). . , , f tVlp
Verdict—Death from natural causes (natural to the
country!). #
“Pelican’' to “N.Q.’’ (8., 16/3/01).
Guess your dog has cattle-ticks on him. Jf so,
dip him in a strong solution of tobacco-water.
The hard brown scrub-tick is very virulent; a
couple of them, if neglected, would kill your dog.
The only remedy for scrub-ticks is to anoint the
vermin with kerosene or liq. ammonia and then
pull them out. If you pull before anointing, the
tick will inject virus Have seen a dog given an
injection of morphia for “ tick paralysis. He
recovered, but perhaps he would have done so
without the morphia.
JOHN GREELEY JENKINS, S.A.’s new
Premier, is just 50 years old. This cute
Yankee struck the pious city 20 years ago
with a consignment of books and a ton of
well-justified self-confidence, and has been a
prominent politician for 15 years, most of the
time in office. Jenkins has always voted on
the democratic side, and is Kingston’s legiti-
mate successor as the Radical leader.
Photo, by T. Duryea, Adelaide.
A Chapter of History.
From all points of view in Melbourne Exhibition
Building, the opening of Federated Australia s
first Parliament was a record spectacle. No pre-
vious Australian Legislature had such a spaci-
ous show-place wherein to get inaugurated.
A square space under the dome had been re-
served for the Event. Looking at this un-
populated portion of the building from the Press
points of view, a sporting journalist might have
fancied he was waiting for a prize-fight—only that
the “ ring ” had not been roped off. Facing him
he saw a hundred or so of unoccupied chairs, with
the crowded north transept in the background.
To the left the crowded west nave stretching
back to the organ platform, front rows of
chairs being here dedicated to ‘ families
of State Parliament members. To the right
an oblong forest of chairs, with somebody sitting
patiently on eacli of them, extended almost to the
main entrance, and the galleries above were
packed. Anywliore near this eastern end of the
ground-floor the seats lost their charm as time
went on. People who had waited two hours for
J.J. DALEY, CHAMPION AMATEUR SCULLER OF AUSTRALIA.
Photo, by W. F. Hall, Sydney.
the joy of seeing and hearing something to talk
about arose in disgust, even whilst the ceremony
was proceeding, and left the Parliament to its
fate But the fugitives amounted to only a small
minority of the 13,000 Commonwealth
In the front row, to the east of the dais, Vic.
Premier Peacock and his bride, and Chief Justice
Way and Lady had seats nearest to the gangway
Tudees in wigs and otherwise ; Consuls, including
Ihe gMd” Pmsohof, who bought Maoketmal's
“Circe” and is conscious of the fact , not to
mention personages in a large variety of uniforms,
figured in the forefront of the multitude, whilst a
few ex-personages and a good few impostors tried
to figure there, but were driven off by the ushers.
The immortal Jenkins, likewise Archbishops Carr
and Smith, faced the dais to the north. Exactly
opposite the place where the Jook was going to
appear, old man Fitzgibbon established himself
where he could catch the royal eye. I was
the veteran’s last despairing appeal for knight-
hood, and it lacked not a certain pathos.
But neither Peacock, nor Way, nor the antique
Fitz., nor Barton, Deakin, Turner and co., when
they came to take their seats after being sum-
moned, were so generally observed as the members
of George Musgrove’s opera co. ihe federal
Parliament was evidently born in the interests o
Gr M.’s crowd.
The H'eir Apparent didn’t open Parliament as
buoyantly as Madden would have undertaken the
job. Waxellency Madden, together with his wife,
his humorously plump son, his many daughters and
his sons-in-law constituted a large percentage of
the select crowd that sat behind the dais. ihe
young ladies could be almost detected m the act
of thinking how much better Pa would have done
it The Jook was very nervous at first. Like-
wise the Duchess. Barton and other Common-
wealth ministers played the part of flunkey hosts
to the Yorks and Hopetouns, and played it very
uneasily. Toby, his chin against his chest and
his iron grey locks limp with perspiration, led the
procession in a sidelong manner. Hawing indi-
cated to their ft’yal Highnesses the whereabouts
of the chairs of honor, Toby and his colleagues
went away and lost themselves, and Hopetoun
became master of the ceremonies
There was an icy pause of about five minutes
after two clerks of Parliament had read proclama-
tions, and the Jook (at Hopetoun’s instigation)
had instructed George Upward to bring Barton
and the House of Representatives to join the
Senators. Barton’s lot were 200 yards distant in
another building, and they needed a lot of
bringing along. The Jook began to lift his heels
off the ground and trample the floor in a flurried
fashion as the pause dragged its silent length
along. At last Black Rod Upward came forth
from the west nave and bent himself double, as
one suffering from loyal colic, before the Presence,
and soon afterwards Premier Toby slowly and
solemnly headed the House of Representatives to
their chairs. The effect of this part smacked of
Divine Service, but when Lord Hopetoun pro-
ceeded to rattle off some prayers from the
Anglican Church Litany in a clear, nasal voice, the
religious influence passed away. Hopetoun stw a ng
isof an impious nature. Presently the Jook began
to read a speech from a thin volume, bound in
red leather. The voice filled the bill creditably.
His Highness stands about 65in. (an inch shorter
than his wife), but his voice is up to 71m at least,
and broad in proportion. Nevertheless lie faded
to knock ’em with the speech. He was full toned
and fairly distinct, but jerky. He chopped the
thing into short, nervous lengths, and didn t im-
prove much as he grew accustomed to the sound
of his own utterances. Loyalty was feeling some-
what depressed by the Jook’s first effort, when he
unexpectedly added a postscript. He had a tele-
gram from the King. A very short telegram -so
short that he couldn’t easily cut it into more
than two lengths. Having fetched a round
of applause for the telegram the dapper little man
took his hat off, put his hand across the top of his
head to feel if the perishing hair had gone thinner
under the ordeal, and sat down whilst Hopetoun
did some swearing in, after which the multitude
sang “Rule Britannia,” and gave the august
stranger an ovation. Then Hopetoun evidently
hinted to the Jook to get out, and the quartette
retired into the bleak, refreshing air. The object
of the Royal visit had been inoffensively achieved.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
Bar tie A.: Haven’t any use for stuff so obviously
“ culled ” from other publications... .D. :If the will was
proved after 1858, a copy can be inspected at Somerset
House, London, on payment of Is. You may possibly
be able to depute somebody to make the examination....
Dean of W. : You don’t give date of issue in which par.
appeared... .Clubs : Par. will d 0... .Waikato : Too full-
flavored for print... .D.H.It. * There is little doubt that
(joo-s—and probably other animals—dream Howard S.
(Coonamble): (t Hop” was the artist in question....
AML : The Bulletin calls your place Maoriland be-
cause, for one thing, it hates the intellectual barrenness
which can only find a name for a new place by putting
“ New ” or “ South,” or “ West ” in front of an old name.
New Zealand, New South Wales, Western Australia, South
Australia, Northern Territory, New York, New London,
Nova Scotia, New Birmingham, New Bedford, New Bruns-
wick, and all the “New/’ ‘‘South/’ “East,” “North
and “West” nomenclature are a dismal barbarism
Mousquetaire : “I am merely a worrier of words.” Apt
—for more than you J. : The widow of Wigram Allen,
one-time Speaker of the N.S.W. Leg. Assembly, whose
residence, Toxteth Mansion, near Glebe Point, is to be-
come a Samaritan Convent, is in England, and not dead,
as reported One of Them : Only a dull, flat narrative
of a man who saw snakes and died A. Daly : Yes.
R. : Not a gleam of inspiration in either of them Com-
mercial : If you gave date, nature of charge, name of
arresting constable, particulars of property you were
robbed of, and sent newspaper report of arrest (if any
such report in existence) then there would be something
in it. An undated grievance is too vague E.P.G. :
Will use “His Doubt.” J.R. : “Invitation hardly
up to mark... .Pestle : Indignant remarks about teeth to
hand Rufus : Would recommend that twins be cor-
dially spanked... .Ne’er-do-well : Many thanks ; will use.
’Tothersider : Yarn may be authentic, but it is also
very aged.. . .Africa Australis : Might have passed if you
hadn't run out of rhymes for “thee.” “Sea” is used
three times, and “me” three times. It grows mono-
tonous C.F.S. : None up to mark. Verses desperately
unsuitable.. .Billofawayback : The only things that we
could truthfully say about your verses are too shocking
for publication.'... L. M‘D. : Can’t say for certain that it is
a swindle, but our suspicions are something enormous....
Micky : All very true; but the rottenness of the Austra-
lian jP. system has been discussed ad nauseam D.
Mac. : Not enough in it.. ..G.W.P. : No literary merit....
H.B.P. : “ Trooper ” lacks interest... .Myrtle : Promise in
it considering your youthfulness Queen: Sorry still
unsuitable.. ..Yar. : “Slasher’’not slashing enough....
E E. : “ There is nothing so obnoxious to a man as virtue
when possessed by others.” Conventional bosh, based
upon narrowness of experience... .S.W. : Verse, stiff and
inartistic, and verging 1 on the twaddly. Prose sketch,
better, but rather heavy, and too long for “ 8.”... .Klu-
Klux : Both rather ponderous and slow Tomahawk :
You have evidently not observed closely enough. The
sucking of “ mouthfuls” of blood from the unbroken skm
is mechanically impossible... .Thurla : Would need too
much alteration Scriber: Too long, and some of it
too strong.. ..A.0.11. : One would require virtual re-
writing, and the other is too obstetrical for print....
Henry B. : Would only make a par..'... Atrox : Treatment
rather feeble Diarmid : Gets flat as it proceeds
Hawk: Go and create something of your own Dora
W. : Probably “ Serenade.”... .R.R. (N.Q.) : Point well
taken, but not well put.... A.D.B. : “ Bullock-team ” de-
clined J.G.D. : Not much in “York.” Les. Lee:
You ’re just promising ; practise... .Tal. S. : No address
on copy ...J.R.A. : Daily newspaper matter. Personal
advt. 0n1y... .G.B. (Q.) :No ; don’t “ follow it up regu-
larly.” E.S.S. : “ Libraries ” ingenious, but impractic-
able Native Rose : Not up Quilp N : “ Coasting ’
will d 0.... A.8.T.: Wants interest as told ; try shorter,
more dramatic glimpses.. . .C.C. : “ Luck of F.” worth, in
these cols., about one-third of its space F. Marr.vat N. :
Send full address Cecil : “ Bohemians” pretty flat....
J. A. Andrews: Send address Robert Allen: Send
address V.V.V. : Weak and artificial.... .C.: Correct
and forceless S.M.W. : Declined with thanks.....
B. : That tradesman-and-madman lunatic-asylum story is
very old indeed... .R.O. : “ Nature ”is best, but phrasing
too incongruous.... H.H.R. : Dust to dust... .White
Worker (Melb.): Letter posted :..S.F. : Not enough in
it....E.P.G. : Probably M.E.F. and Others: Write
your name and address on and attach your stamps to
your copy, not to separate notes. We don’t want separ-
ate notes... .R.N. (Tar.) : Yes, but it is of no use merely
writing to a medical man. You must, to do any good, be
examined by him. Send stamped envelope and we will give
you address of skilled specialist F.W.: No interest.
F.F.E. : You say nothing new.... Les. O. : “Un-
told” insignificant... .J.D.L. (Villa Rica): Too far from
our line Short pars, more acceptable....E.W.R. :No
Australian interest.. ..J.M.1.: Don’t care f0r....J.8. :
A little usable ; keep 0n.... “ Five Farmers ”: No name
and address—no good ...Gee Dee: Dull Atrox :
Not skill enough Warraweenia : Humorous poem
sad as the moonlit skeleton of a mining-broker....
Ted • “ Ryan’s Direction ” will make good Aboriginal
tem' F A.M’P. : The fact that James married Mrs.
Simpson’s niece is hardly enough to make a story out of.
GH O : Very ordinary poem about Home. Poems
about Home and Mother are rather a drug in the market
iust now Brolga : Information not yet available
p J • The Bulletin doesn’t take any creed seriously
enough, or any king seriously enough, or any coronation
oath seriously enough, to feel much interest in the sub-
ject But if it was a Catholic, and it heard that Edward
VII' had spoken disrespectfully of its faith in his official
oath it would simply remark that a church which had
hung out so long, and which seemed likely to hang out so
much longer, could survive the aspersions of king or
kaiser or cockroach. In short, it would simply say “ Haw!”
if it took the trouble to say that. .G.G. (M.): Print locally..
T.H.M. : Sonnet wants more force and a newer idea
RJ D : Rather jumbled drivel The Leonids :By your
letter you are one of the fool-shareholders who so awfully
mismanaged the Bank of New Zealand that, if Premier
Seddon hadn’t induced the State to come to your aid
(which it did in pure charity, and without a farthing
recompense), your institution would have burst, and you
would have been crushed dead with calls. And you want
ns to help you to kick your benefactor ! J.S. : Decline
to “ Coppy the article and oblidge.”.... Dry Dog : George
Reid in every speech during his Federal election cam-
paign, compared Freetrade to the healthful process of
throwing a dog in the water to teach him to swim for
himself. And The Bulletin pointed out that Reid’s own
tariff protected sugar, beer, molasses, tobacco, wine, pre-
serves, confectionery, and other things, and asked why
he kept his own dog dry, and didn’t give it a chance to
learn swimming.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS
5.0.0. J.: Very strained. Literal “ jokes ’’ don’t illus-
trate well, as a rule. As to your drawing, you would
probably do very well if you studied F.B. : One of
them may d 0... W.A.M. : Gag too patriarchal.... J.T.E. :
No promise in either picture or joke A.E.A. : Rather
thin Agmorey : Promising, but your style needs
development. Should attend an art-class.... Chis. : One
as suggestion. Please write your legends legibly....
Unavailable : Em, W.R.M.
CLARANCE HOLT (father of Bland Holt , of
Australia and the globe generally).
Photo, by Reed, London.
A Miner’s Miserable State.
When Mr. T. Osborne consented to give pub-
licity to bis experiences of underground work it
was solely with the desire that good might come
of it. Seen at his home in High-street, Ararat
(Vic.), he was asked how long he had resided
there.
“ About twenty years,” was the prompt reply,
“and all in the township can bear out the truth
of what lam going to tell you. I cannot explain
exactly how it was brought about —1 suppose I
got a chill whilst working in the mine—but about
three years ago my shoulders, arms, knee-caps,
and hands became affected with the pains of rheu-
matism. Sometimes my hands and fingers were
so knotted and swollen as to be almost useless,
the pains in my shoulders and arms were excru-
ciating. Often at night I could not sleep, and I
used to get out of bed and sit by the fire. The
rheumatic attacks sadly interfered with my work,
and home remedies and embi'ocations brought no
relief.” , ~ ~
“Well, what happened next?” said the re-
porter,
“One day my eye caught an advertisement con-
taining particulars of cases of rheumatism which
Dr. Williams’ pink pills for pale people had cured.
I got a supply of these pills, and even the first box
benefited me ; as I continued with them the pains
grew less and less, the swellings left my hands,
i]iy joints moved with freedom, and X felt new
vigor in my veins. Dour boxes completely cured
me _l bavginever had a twinge of pain since.”
Those engaged in outdoor occupation or who
are subject to rheumatism, should fortify their
system with a few boxes of Dr. Williams’ pink
pills before the winter sets in. Rheumatics and
all those in ill health are invited to write to Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney'
describing their cases and asking for free informa-
tion and testimonials. T>r. Williams’ pink pills
also cure lumbago, neuralgia, heavy colds, anaemia,
debility, influenza, consumption, bronchitis, weak
heart, effects of typhoid and rheumatic fevers,
etc. Sold by chemists and storekeepers, twt> and
nine per box, six boxes fifteen and three, post free.
By enriching the blood, and toning up the nerves,
they induce perfect health, and thus beautify the
complexion beyond conception.


(Jr&ek
s ?
‘HU
) Lord D'^>
ln.p.
5
ĥ
rs^c\ts
h
>\fiu*> oV V
i .# y
psfib+.
-+k't ..
>%oV wot
f/\
C^oo^
A nest"
J
[ flow, |
Qn+TsV Li o '?
or' (\eor%f f?eul\
Po|?'*
°f>e
o>J
! Ol )o
°ffe
>y>
ĥ
'tw) ov)J
ħ
IMPRESSIONS OF A HISTORIC WEEK.


St^e-X' 1 '
-
\oK C '
Wr°i
H‘|Co>7- (VOl7
fy\VU' ft
HtU
Kv o^
CHOULP
h
*sl*>)Ot7
< f r rA)<v
k m )°”
ĥ
ħ
kfreo 4 /'
%
h
"TS«
tt's
y^> oY>
>v Q\*Ccr
-\?v lb
—stye
'H-l
* qaioitl
Py
ĥ
li?e
pWfo/h-,
ħ
E^JX f foRO
Gm?
-^oUe,l
NV>^
h
r ¥*
0 h
'
4>
ĥ
ħ
Bok3 e i r
rluKiiU
AT THE OENING OF THE FEDERAL PARLIAMENT.


A. SAUNDERS,
Leading Art Jeweller & Silversmith,
Showrooms
815 George St., Sydney
%
/
\
A.SAUNDERS
61S .817 CEORCIES T
a. SYDNEY
/
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong, Reliable LEVERS—“THE CHAL-
LENGE,” 15s. The UNRIVALLED LEVER, in
Black or Nickel, 20s—perfect timekeeper. The
LONDON LEVER, new J-plate model, 255; in
Solid Silver, £2 2s ; in Double-case, £2 10s, £3.
ROTHERHAM LEVERS, £3 10s, £4, £5, £6, £7,
£B. Gold Watches, £4 4s, £5 ss, £6 6s, £7 10s,
£lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O. Mind, we guarantee you
the utmost satisfaction, “otherwise we will
exchange watch for you.” Send for illustrated
book of particulars, post free.
Solid Gold CHAIN (Single or Double), £2 10s,
£3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5.
15c. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7, £B, £lO.
Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Send for Price Illustrated Book.
9c. Gold Heart Amethyst Brooch, 7s 6cL
17 Pure Double Cut Diamonds, extra strong, 15c.
Gold Brooch, £l2 10s ; with Ruby or Sapphire
Centre, £lO 10s.
15c. Gold 2-Bar and Pearl Turquoise Set Scroll
Brooch, £2 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Motto Registered Gold “Dinna Forget’
Brooch and Amethysts, 9c. Gold, 17s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 30s ; 18c. Gold, 355.
Gold Heart and Key with Ivy Brooch with
Diamond, 20s ; 16c. Gold, 35s ; 18c., £2 6s.
Solid Gold, “ Mizpah,” “ Good Luck,” with
Amethyst Heart, 12s 6d.
15c. Gold, 2 Bamboo Bar and Pearl Set Scroll
Brooch, 15s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 30s. Very neat.
A. SAUNDERS.
Newest Federal Brooch, with Pretty Enamelled
Flag and Gold Spray, 22s 6d ;
With Good Wishes, 15s 6d
A. SAUNDERS.
I Gold Secret Name Brooch, 15c. Gold,
diamonds, £2los and £3. Any Name or Motto
Free. Six different patterns, similar.
Gold Braoelet, 4 Heart Opals and 10 Pearls, £2 15s. Brooch to
match, 85s. Very Pretty and Effective.
A. SAUNDERS.
Name Bracelet, Gold Bands, Any Name, 25s ; 15c. Gold, £3 ;
Other Styles, 17s 6d, 20s, 30s to £4.
Gold Diamond and Ruby Bracelet, £2 15s. Very Pretty.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Bamboo Bracelets, 18s 6d ; wider, 21s, 30s, 35b, £2,
£2 10s, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Designs ; Gold Brooch, 2 Bar, Diamond and Red Stone,
Scroll and Bell, 21s ; 16c. Gold, £2 6s.
Gold Bracelet, 8 Opals, 24 Pearls, £2 15s. Brooch to match, 355.
Very Pretty.
15c. Gold Pearl and Turquoise Pin, Ladies’ or Gen'j.’s, 20s.
Newest Style.
QSfi
VHS
fags
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold 2-Bar Scroll Chain and Bell Brooch, 15s.
Latest Style.
5*5
A. SAUNDERS.
15c. Solid Gold Spray Brooch, Diamonds and
Rubies, £l2 10s ; All Diamonds, £l5.
Gold Forget-me-not Chain and Heart Brooch
11s 6d ; with Amethyst, 12s 6d.
tb
A. SANDERS.
Registered Gold Good Wish Brooch, 13s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 255. Silver, is 6d.
1
A. SAUNDERS.
New Gold Butterfly Brooch, Pearls, Red or
Blue Stones, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Registered Gold 2-Bird 2-Heart Amethyst
Brooch, 20s ; Pearl Set Bird, 22s 6d ;
15c. Gold, £2.
lisps
iwißiwimiiiigaa
3-Bar and Garnet Brooch, 15s, larger size, 21s
Gold 2 Birds, Chain and Heart.
Full size, 108 ; small, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Brooch, 2 Shields and Hatchet, Chain and
Heart, Ruby and Pearl, Iss 6d ; 15c. Gold, 355.
Q
Gold 2-Bar Brooch Scroll, Pearl Set with Red
Stone, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15c. Gold Baden-Powell Sword Pin, Turquoise and Pearls, £2.
?0
/•( lit
m
Ladies’ Curb Gold
Chain, Snap Padlock
255, 30s, 355, £2 ss,
£3 ; 15c., £2 10s, £3,
£4, £4 10s, £5, £6,
£7 10s, £B, £9, £lO.
XOs extra for Key
Padlock.
All with Safety Chain.
A. SAUNDERS.
15c. Gold Pearl and Turquoise
Floral and Ribbon Brooch, £2
10s. London’s Newest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Heart Brooch, Tur-
quoise and Pearl Centre, 20s.
Newest Style.
©
16c. Gold 2-Bar Diamond and 2 Red
Stones, 25s
A. SAUNDERS.
New Wish Bone and Arrow, with Red
Stone, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDEBS.
Newest Solid Gold Name Brooch, 7s 6d ;
With Eaised Flowers each side (Any Name)
GOLD CROSS,
12s 6d, 15s, 20s,
255, 30s ; smaller,
ss, 7s 6d, 10s.
Gold Heart Locket
7a 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
Three Sizes.
Heart CHARM,
with Amethyst
and Pearls,
8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHARM.
New Gold Bell,
7s 6d.
Gold Heart and Dumbbell LINKS,
12s 6i ; 15c., 25s ; Silver, 3s 6d.
15c. Solid Gold Opal LINK, with
Initial, £2 10s. Extra Strong.
s
GENT.'B RING.
Solid Gold Amethyst, 255.
15c. Gold, £2 ; 18c.,£210s
*3P
Sait
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold, 3 Pure Dia-
monds, 2 Opal Hearts,
£4 10s. Latest Style.
18c. Solid Gold
MARQUIS RING, Dia-
monds and Rubies, Sap-
phire and Opal Centres,
£lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
18c. Solid Gold, Extra
Strong and Heavy, 1 or 3
Diamonds, £2, £2 10s, £3,
£4, £5.
18c. Buttercup Single-
stone Diamond RING,
£3, £4, £5.
m
15c. Solid Gold RING,
Red Stone and 2 Dia-
monds, 25s ; similar, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Band, Opal,
17s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 30s ;
18c. Gold, £2.
Send tor Size Card.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 255, 30s, £2,
£2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, t'2, £3, £4, £5 ;
Superior Quality, £O, £7, £B, £lO.
ALL GUARANTEED.
Gold “ Good Luck ” Brooch, 10s 6d :
15c. Gold, 21s.
IZE
Gold “Mizpah” Brooch, 2 Ivy Leaves,
Heart and Bow, 12s 6d ; Silver. 4s fid.
GOLD CHAi<-., m ..Hi, Hope, and
Charity, 7s (id ; isc. Gold, 15s.
sag
A. SAUNDERS.
Sold Bar, Raised Flowers, 5s 6d ; Larger,
6s 6d ; Largest size, 7s 6d.
These ars indeed very pretty.
Our Stock of Ladies’ Engagement Rings is the
Largest and Best Value in Australia.
KT Send for Illustrated Book and Size Card.~^'*
Newest S.<lid Silver
FEDERAL ji EDAL, 2s.
15c. Gold 2-Heart with 2
Opal Hearts, Ivy Leaf,
Knot and Diamond,
£2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15c. Gold Pearl and Tur-
quoise Heart Brooch,
£2 2s. The Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Dinna Forget,
10s 6d.
Our own Registered
Design.
383
18c. Gold, 3 Sap-
phires or Rubies and
4 Diamonds, £3,
£3 10s, £4, £5.
The latest 18c. Solid
Gold Single Stone
Ring, £2, £2 10s, £B.
Price to Size of
Diamond.
m
18c. Solid Gold, 3
Orals, 4 Diamonds, £5
Smaller Diamonds,
£2los, £3, £3 10s, £4
GOLD SHIELD LINKS,
21s ; 15c. Gold, £2.
Smaller Shield, 15s 6d.
MIZPAH
GOLD
CHARM,
r>'» )
18c. Solid Gold, 5 Pure
Diamonds, -'8 lus.
Smaller, £5, £6, £7
£7 10s to £3O.
'iTnry
•k
iss
18c. Solid Gold Dia-
mond Band, £2, £2 10s,
£3 ; 15c. Gold, 30s.
IQgj
■*x
9c. Gold, 12s Od, 15s ;
15c., 30s, 35s ;
18c., 255, 30s, 355, £2.
Any Name Free.
Solid Gold Turquoise
and Pearl Ring, 12s0d.
Very Cheap.
m
Gold Cat CHARM,
with Pearl, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-made Wedding Rings and Keepers,
9c. Solid Gold, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s each ; 15c.
Gold, 15s ; extra heavy, 25s ; 18c. Gold, 20s ;
extra heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send for cai d.
A. SAUNDERS (Regis-
tered) Gold LINKS, 20s ;
15c. Gold, 32s 6d ; Silver
& Gold, 10s ; all Silver, 5s
CALL AND SEE OUR. JEWELLERY EXHIBITION— A SPLENDID DISPLAY;
Or Send for our 1901 Complete Illustrated Book, POST FREE ANYWHERE.
h
LEADING ART JEWELLER
Sis & 817 fieorge St.
Nearly Oppo-
site Railway
Station,
ĥ


Business Announcements!
H. NEWMAN’S
SILVER KEYLESS
WALTHAM
WATCH
£2 10s.
FOB
FOR
a Splendid Timekeeper, with Beautifully Finished
Nickel Movement: Three-quarter Plate ; Compensation
Balance ; Seven Jewels ; in Heavy English Hall-marked
Silver Cases. ,
On Receipt of Remittance one of these Watches will be
forwarded, securely packed, carriage paid, and at our
risk, to any part of Australasia.
H. NEWMAN,
The Waltham Watch Agency,
17$ & 177 E!]za!33th-st., Melbourne,
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Bcaconsfielcl Parade
ST KILDA.
aIHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
- Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
J-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
JAM6S REIP
"PREPARES STUDENTS FOR ALL EXAMINATIONS,
r MATRICULATION, MILITARY, SURVEY,
ENGINEERING, MINING.
Subjects— Classics, Mathematics, Physical Science,
History and Geography. Technical College, Mining, or
Engineering Students, or others requiring Special Teach-
ing carefully coached personally or by correspondence.
Mr. REID may be communicated with at
198 SpringTield Terrace, Grafton St., Bondi Junction.
Public Notices.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 18th April, 1901.
Devonshire Street Cemetery.
"VfOTICE is hereby given to approved applicants, their
undertakers and stonemasons, that all remains, for
which exhumation orders have been obtained, together
with the overground property relating thereto, must be
removed from" the Cemetery not later than the 18th
proximo. All remains, &0., not so removed by that date
will be translated to the new Cemetery at La Perouse by
the Department.
9c 30. J. DAVIS, Under-Secretary.
99
“A.F.A.
ELECTRIC
STORAGE
CATTERIES
For LIGHTING, POWER & TRACTION.
Batteries haying a discharge capacity of over
4000 HORSEPOWER
Are at present in operation, under
construction, and on order for the
SYDNEY ELECTRIC TRAMWAYS.
Batteries installed and maintained in
Private Houses, Hotels, Factories, IVlines,
Launches, etc.
NOYES BROS.
13 O’Connell-st, SYDNEY; and 15 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
OAPI L L A
The only Hair Restorer on earth that you can obtain a WRITTEN guarantee with. When
all other remedies fail, try it. you will be more than satisfied with it. tor Weak, Thin, and
Fating Hair it is Unsurpassed. It Restores Hair to Bald Patches, and prevents the Hair
from going Grey. The Great Dandruff Cure. Call and see testimonials. They will'surprise
you. Leading Sydney Chemists and from the Proprietor, W. RICHARDS, 168 Pitt-street (opp. Hoidern Bros.),
Sydney. 2s 6d per bottle ; post, 3s 2d. Please mention Tiib Bulletin.
h
Price 6s,
“ON OUR SELECTION.” “By Steele Rudd.
Registered under the “Companies
Act, 1890,” as a Company, having
secured Assets in Victoria.
It has also deposits, as required by
law, in Great Britain, U.S. A., Canada,
and wherever operating in other parts
of Australasia.
Benefits Paid, over £1,650,000.
Monthly Income, ever £40,000.
Accumulated Funds, over £921,239.
Head Office, TORONTO.
ORONHYATEKHA, M.D., J.P.,
Supreme Chief Ranger.
™ INDEPENDENT ORDER" FORESTERS
Incorporated by Special Act of Parliament (Canada), 62 Vic. and 69 Vic.
A Great International and Fraternal Life Assurance Society.
The 1.0. F. gives Life Assurance at a Lower Cost than any other Society in the World.
The Premiums pay not only for Life Assurance, but also for Disability and Old Age Pension.
f* All Premium paying in the 1.0. P. ceases at Age 70, also on Total Permanent Disability.
EXAMPLES:
£lOO Policy.
f Age 18 20 25 30 35 40 45
\ Monthly Ppemium Is. 7d. Is. Bd. 2s. 2s. sd. 2s. lid. 3s. 6d. 4s. 4d.
50
6s. Id.
Policies for £lOO, £2OO, £4OO, £6OO, £BOO, or £lOOO issued to Men and Women,
18 to 54 years of age, at Equal Rates.
Office for South Australia :
J. H. GILMOUR, D.S.C.R.,
Victoria Buildings,
29 Grenfell St., Adelaide.
Chief Office, Australasia :
ROST. McNAIR, P.H.C.R.,
73, 74 and 75 Temple Court,
Collins St., Melbourne.
Office for New South Wales :
W. G. STOTT, D.S.C.R.,
283 George St.,
Sydney.
Prospectus , with full Table of Rates , Ac., on Application.
Smart business men may find employment as Organisers upon making application to above address^
TALKING MACHINES!
jjjgr Great Reduction in Prices "TWI
EDISON PHONOGRAPHS—
IMPERIAL, £2 17s 6d
STANDARD, £4 10s.
HOME, £6 lCs
CONCERT and 12 RECORDS, £23.
GRAPHOPHONES-
COLUMBIA, £5
UNIVERSAL, £lO
COIN SLOT, £5
RECORDS REDUCED to 2s Each.
Edison Eleotrio 00., * Rowe-St., Sydney.
Publications.
New Pianoforte Album.
New Pianoforte Album.
New Pianoforte Album.
New Pianoforte Album.
. . . BEING . . .
AUSTRALIAN MUSIC BOOK Wo. 54
AUSTRALIAN MUSIC BOOK No. 54
AUSTRALIAN MUSIC BOOK No. 54
'fK
\3a
pv\3S
800
"Price
J l/-
JWJree
S|
% Jk, Ts« Slocfi, sUBM*jßnd £2d£oaratf
One of the Finest Albums of Easy Piano-
forte Pieces yet issued
ENTITLED —
Wild Flowers Album.
CONTENTS:
1. “Clematis.” Graceful Dance
2. “ Wattle Blossom.” Valse
3. “The Pink Heath.” Barn Dance..
i. “ Waratah.” March Militaire
5 “Boronia.” Valse
6. “The Flannel Plant.” Barn Dance
7. “White Heath.” Valse
8 “Sassafras.” Gavotte
9. “ Golden Wattle.” Valsette
10. “ Gum Blossoms.” Polka ..
11. “ Acacia.” Valse
12. “ Silver Wattle.” Valse
Garfield
Garfield
Garfield
Garfield
Garfield
Garfield
Garfield
Garfield
A. Chanter
Garfield
Garfield
Garfield
Published by
ALLAH & CO. Prop. Ltd.
276 & 278 Collins-st., Melbourne.
For sale by every Music-Seller in Australasia.
thelballet girl
ĥ
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send stamp for Illustrated Lists of Boohs and Novelties,
iadame Paraza,—
913, G-P.0., SYDNEY.
SAMOND SONG BOOK
(500 SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one -book. National
Songs of every country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
where. Complete list of the soflgs for a stamp. Tills
wonderful book will be sent anywhere for only 2s. 6d., posted
2s. lOd. from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO., Wat-
erloo Chambers, 458 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W, Stamps, 2d
extra Add exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for this
and other Fast Selling Books. Mention this paper when writing-
RATIONAL
REFORM
FRENCH.
IN TEACHING
Teachers must bear in mind that it is a gross mistake,
as well as a mere waste of time and labor, to land pupils
on the grammatical and literary stages of the study before
the first stage (Phonetic and Mechanical) has thoroughly
been mastered. (Dr. Henry Sweet, Oxford.)
Therefore use PRIMER'S FRENCH METHOD (Is. 6d.)
and its PHONETIC COMPANION (Is. 3d.). All book-
sellers. Copies are sent, post free, by sending postage
stamps to A. C. GAERTNER, Sole Agent, #
32 Norwich Chambers, Hunter-street, Sydney.
DAPTO (Xjalse
(LIMITED),
Illawarra),
SS^SrJZUKTIErX'.
SMELTERS.
refiners
PRODUCE 11 ®
OF
fine silver.
* ' -
7—r-
- S'
n
MAKERS Of
& Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
ILLAWAKRA’ 1
.. BRAND OB’. .
SOFT LEAD.
11 lasses of (JOLD. SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULL! )A
Purchasers o a ° HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT’ of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to P, S, Mobsb, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W. j or Martin Place, SYDNEY.


TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
The Proprietors of Condy’s Fluid, of Goswell
Road, London, England, are now placing on
every bottle of Condy’s Fluid a most useful
Book containing instructions from Veterinary
Surgeons of the highest standing for the
treatment and cure of ailments affecting
Horses, Dogs, Cats, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs,
Poultry, Pigeons & Cage Birds.
Condy’s Fluid is really a Magical Remedy
for suffering animals, and this book will be
found extremely useful. We recommend all
our readers to buy a bottle of Condy’s Fluid
and carefully read this Veterinary Book which
is now attached to every bottle.
Melbourne suburban churches are starting
to commence Sunday evening service at 8, as in
America.
The power of co-operation is most forcibly
illustrated by the great benefits derived by traders
from the adoption of the Co-Operative coupon
system. By this system, grocers, drapers,
butchers, bakers, etc., combine together and
mutually help one another. Where individual
advertising would prove ineffective the collective
advertising system of the Co-Operative Coupon
Co., Ltd., achives wonders. Advertising is the
breath of life to business.*
n
<3-0 TO HELT,-
' KIOIjA NI > for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagel?,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
Hfjs. HATS. hats.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fatted with this
valuable invention.
Catalogue to B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Stkeet, BRISBANE.
Important Announcement to our City and Country:
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY # CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION 4. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures.
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Eleotro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
high-grade
FARM—^
ĥ
Massey-Harris Co, Ltd-
-35 BROADWAY,
George-street West, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
In Milparinka district, far north-west
N.S.W., the census shows one person to every
8320 acres !
Lyne s explanation of the Fegan appoint-
ment and withdrawal really amounts to the old
story : “ Didn’t know it was loaded.”
Senator John Ferguson’s postage-bill over
the recent elections amounted to above £4OO. His
agent sent a circular soliciting support to every
elector in Queensland.
.Senator Ferguson is highly praised by the
Central Queensland Tory press for his “spotless
public life. ’ Ferguson was a member of the Q.
Hcuse of Fossils, where it’s easy to be spotless
but difficult to keep awake. No man gets spots
in his sleep.
N.S.W. Premier See announces—months
after the publication of Commissioner Oliver’s re-
port—that alienation of Govt, land near the
selected sites has been stopped. But what land
has been alienated meanwhile j and to ivhom ? A
Parliamentary return on this point would be in-
teresting.
Some n assive genius suggests to Sydney
Sunday T 1 ieh that the Commonwealth capital
should be jailed “Bush”—as being thoroughly
Australian. But what about “ Boodle” ? It also
would be dii tinctively Australian, and would, at
the same tine, strike a responsive chord in the
heart of the whole Christian world.
Queensl md Premier Philp has gone away
*° „A^ nca > aQ d the Ministry, with a half-million
deficit in view, without the sense to economise,
and with neither the courage nor the inclination
to impose income and land taxes to fill the gap
m trying by land sales to keep the ship
afloat. The other day 768 lots—very large ones
in some cases—were thrown on a dull market in
one heap.
THE MUTILATION OF THE ’ROO.
The attempt to keep the fiscal spectre
alive in N.S.W. State politics has failed. Lee, of
Tenterfield, refused to encumber himself with the
old skeleton, and his crowd now calls itself the
“Liberal Party.” As there is hardly a liberal
measure that it didn’t promise, and about which it
didn’t break its promise, during its five odd years
of office—including Council reform, improved
Local Government, State Bank, State note-issue,
resumption of big estates, and many more—it
has probably as good a claim to the title as any-
body else.
Adelaide City Council—thanks to strong
outside pressure—has decided to oppose Snow’s
tramway grab, and the promoters—mainly Lon-
don capitalists—have now a poor chance of getting
this unspeakable scheme through S.A. Parlia-
ment. The right-about-face of the City Council
was brought about by the loud and persistent
kicking of the Tramways League, of which the
energetic Cornelius Proud is president. As the
Snow and Bingham schemes for a tramway syndi-
cate monopoly are now both practically dead, and
a municipal trust is impossible because the many
municipalities of Adelaide don’t speak to each
other, the only remaining remedy is Government
purchase and control.
Official silliness reached its pinnacle, the
other day, when Sydney Domain orators were
warned by an inspector of police to tone down
their language when the Jook reaches Sydney,
and keep it so during his stay. It is even alleged
that one Minister proposed sending the
bobby on the same errand to certain newspaper
offices, but his colleagues, having some smattering
of brains left, froze him with a great silence.
George Reid didn’t, after all, go up to
North Queensland in April to decide, by unbiassed
personal investigation, whether he wasn’t really
bound, in the interests of Truth and Justice, to
become a supporter of nigger labor. When the
election showed that there was hardly a single
Black Labor member to vote for him in the
Federal Parliament, his yearning for more light
on the subject died out like a Chinese lantern in a
cataract.
Westralian census returns tell some tales
of blasted hopes. Bigjohn rarely said “No”
when a new rush sent along an application to be
declared a municipality. He took it for granted
the place would grow, which it sometimes did and
sometimes didn’t. Some results—Nannine 93,
Gingin 165, Bulong 190, Esperance, 332, Day
Dawn 353, Leonora 316, Malcolm 251, and others
And all these have to keep up a Mayor, corpora-
tion and sundries.
English papers are beginning to publish '
wails from correspondents against the increased
taxation that is a necessary consequence of the
war. A remarkable number are signed “ A Poor
Clergyman,” a “Landed Gentleman of Sunil
Means,” and the like. It would be interesting to
know how many of these were pounding the em-
bittered kettledrum and calling for blood and
Thuggee, say a year ago. What a sobering effect
the Presentation of the Bill does have !
John Forrest, since he quitted the Wes-
tralian Premiership, has been sending back long,
indignant letters to prove that he left the tangled
finances in splendid order, and that the empty
Treasury was bulging out with money. In Aus-
tralia the departure of a Treasurer seems to be
always signalised by a fish-fag row between him
and his successor about the money that has dis-
appeared, and the bills that are unpaid, and the
accounts that are past all human comprehension,
Perth (W.A.) which handed over its water-
supply to a private co. and then wept piteously
on the State door-mat till Government took the
thing over, and which is now weeping at the con-
sequences of its private tramway monopoly, has
decided, at a referendum, by 880 votes against
421, to let its electric-lighting drift into the hands
of a shindykit also, instead of making it a muni-
cipal affair. The consequences will doubtless be
just the kind of consequences thn* Perth deserves.
Certain of
these unspeakable
slaughter - house-
keepers around
Melbourne who
were refused fur-
ther “licenses to
kill ” because they
kept their pre-
mises in such a
state of filth that
it was dangerous,
if not deadly, to
eat meat which
had been there,
recently had the
“ front ” to ap-
proach Premier
Peacock and de-
mand compensa-
tion, out of the
public funds, for
the closing of
their premises.
The front of the
Exhibition Build-
ing was nothing
by comparison.
And Peacock, in-
stead of simply
remarking that
some of them
should be glad
they weren’t
hanged, inquired
if it wasn’t possi-
ble to suspend the
Act (and let them
go on poisoning
the public with
germy meat a
while longer), and
finding it wasn’t,
he promised to con-
sider the question
of compensation.
O for one man in
Australian poli-
tics with the cour-
age of his opin-
ions - one man,
not one streak of
wet blotting-
paper with a loud
laugh attached!
Dry Dog Reid on the Barton Govern-
merit’s programme :
We won our successes by the fearless declaration of
attachment to the great principle of commercial freedom
This is the same cheeky political impostor who
heavily protected newspapers, wine, beer, tobacco
cigars, biscuits, confectionery, preserves fruit
molasses, &c., and collected about £700,000 a year
by purely protective duties. The only fearless
thing there ever was about Reid as a politician
was his wobble. Certainly he wobbled valiantly
enough.
LIONS IN THE PATH.
“Never marry for beauty—it won’t
last! ”
“ And if I marry for money?”
“ It won’t last either!”
Who’s to be the Commonwealth Auditor-
General ? In each State the Chief Auditor is a
man of importance ; his salary and position can
only be interfered with by a majority vote in each
House ; he is responsible for the correct payment
of every Govt, voucher ; and he makes an annual
scathing report (which nobody takes much notice
of) re the State finances. At present the Federal
Government is spending money without an
Auditor at all.
“Scotty the Wrinkler” : The Tasmanian
soldiers were an overload for the steamer on
leaving Launceston, and Marine Board rules
made it necessary to leave 70 behind. So they
were left behind for three days, at their own ex-
pense. Next pay-day (yesterday) these 70 got
three days’ pay less than the others, for being left
behind. That’s the way to encourage citizen
soldiers. One of them told me this. He looked
sober, and seemed to be a man who could tell the
truth if he had it about him.
The newly enfranchised women of Wes-
tralia voted energetically but rather wildly at the
late election. Quite a number just put their heads
in at the polling-booth door, called out that they
voted for Smith, and left before the returning
officer could interfere. One, however, broke
through all opposition and explanations, got into
the little box and wrote a large “Yes” on the
blotting-pad. Another brought in a square foot
of cardboard with the inscription “I plump for
Jones. ” Still they took an evident interest in
the matter, which was something.
The legal shindy in Brisbane about spend-
ing ratepayers’ funds on entertaining the Yorks is
one that, in the interests of all Australia, should
be fought out. Ratepayers’ money is embezzled
or misappropriated all over Australia by toadying
mayors and limp or toadying aldermen for pur-
poses like this. The rates should be as sacred as
trustee funds. They are raised under statutes for
specific purposes, and should be expended for
these purposes alone. It is monstrous that any
podgy mayor, hoping to fall on his stomach, at
somebody else’s expense, before a princeling, should
be allowed to steal the public cash for such pur-
poses. The good groveller pays for his own
grovel. Otherwise the good groveller is hard to
define, but the dead groveller is always good.
The Maoriland Commissioners who dropped
in upon Australia in the course of their inquiries
as to the advisability of M.L. entering the Com-
monwealth discovered, among other things, that
the people of North Queensland were “up in
arms ” against the very idea of a White Australia,
and M.L. couldn’t see its way to join a nigger-
infested Commonwealth. Since then the White
Australia party has swept Queensland at the
Federal election, so it is to be hoped that Commis-
sion begins to realise that it is a short-sighted ass.
The same Commission discovered that the Queens-
land sugar industry can’t live without colored
labor, and that the kanakas are an inoffensive
class— it probably heard these things from the
same planters who gulled it so beautifully re the
other matter.
Ifc is a notable compliment
to the most democratic State
of the Commonwealth that
South Australians have secured
both the Speakership and the
Presidency of the Federal
Senate. Ex - Premier Holder
was elected Speaker unanim-
ously. Richard Chaffey Baker
got 21 votes for the Presidency,
while of the two other candi-
dates, Sargood, the military
softgoodsman of flag-raising noto-
riety, got 12 votes, and his fellow-
Victorian, Zeal, scored a miser-
able three. John Quick, the
gentleman who was so broken
up at receiving a knighthood,
and wanted to know if some-
thing smaller couldn’t be
found for him, reached out
for the Speakership with both
hands. And he wasn’t even
mentioned —except obliquely and
with great scorn by Bruce Smith.
The alleged revolt, now said to
be flickering somewhere or other,
against an injurious newspaper domina-
tion in Australia, and the alleged de-
mand for reform, seem to condense
into this : (1) Either newspapers must
become more fair and truthful, which
means that their conductors must have
more brains or less sin, which again
means that the people, who supply
journalists and newspaper-owners just
as they do hangmen and boiler-makers,
must get better morals or better sense. Or
(2) people must get more intelligence, so
that they won’t buy, and encourage, and be
misled by, foolish or evil-minded papers—
which is the same remark over again. Or
(3) there must be a press censorship, and
persons of perfect intelligence and incor-
ruptible morals, and who know everything,
must suppress injurious writings. N.S.W.
Minister O’Sullivan has lately been saying
severe things about the debased and sinful
press. It is debased enough, but probably if
the O’Sullivan started to reform it his first
idea would be that it shouldn’t say too much
about the awful financial doings of his
Ministry. And that kind of press reform
would do no particular good.
Adelaide Quiz solemnly warns the new
S.A. State Premier Jenkins that he must make
“something like an honest attempt to lessen the
taxpayers’ burden ” if he expects to keep his
billet. S.A. is already the most lightly-taxed
State in Australasia, N.S.W. only excepted.
And because it never had the courage to raise
enough revenue to pay its way, the unproductive
part of its debt—the part which represents loans
used as revenue in order to avoid taxation —is now
over £l6 per inhabitant, which is more than the
whole debt of any European country, France,
Portugal and Greece only excepted. And it is
getting worse every day. What S.A. really
wants is a Jenkins who will make an honest
attempt to largely increase the taxpayers’ burdens
and avert the impending smash.
In official circles the main excitement of
S.A.’s recent Commonwealth election centred
around Mounted-Constable Kelly, deputy return-
ing officer at Wornardo, on the border line of the
N. Territory and Queensland. Kelly had been
away for weeks in pursuit of his duty ; no one
knew where he was, but his presence was needed
on March 30 to take a poll. The country was in
flood for hundreds of miles. S.A. Govt., to pre-
vent the election becoming invalid, issued a
special Govt. Gazette, and sent a fresh deputy
to act in the “ temporary absence ” of the all-im-
portant and possibly dead-Kelly. But Kelly,
like Blucher at Waterloo, arrived in the nick of
time, after wading and at times swimming with
his horse for many miles. The result wasn’t so
large as it should have been considering the
herculean struggles of the officer to be on the spot.
The poll in his district ran to two votes.
Maoriland’s white population is 773,439,
an increase of 146,781 in 10 years, or 23 \ per cent.
Therefore the province which practises the most
rigid Protective system and the most advanced
Socialistic policy, and which taxes its people most
heavily in order to pay a large portion of it's public
works expenditure out of revenue, has a far larger
percentage of increase than either N.S.W., Tas-
mania, or Victoria. It has also a far larger in-
crease per square mile than either N.S.W., Vic-
toria, Tasmania, or Westralia. Likewise, it has
an absolutely larger increase than Westralia, Tas-
mania, or Victoria. Further, it is the only pro-
vince which breaks up the Australian rule that
the biggest population increase and the biggest
loan expenditure go together ; Maoriland has the
second largest increase in point of absolute num-
bers (146,781 against N.S.W.’s 229,998), but it has
only the third largest loan bill. Protection and
advanced Social legislation are evidently a navine
combination.


The same old story, from a M.L. paper
this time ,
In Dunedin for two years there has been much loud-
mouthed patriotism, much platform praise of the young
fellows who had volunteered, much talk of loyalty_to the
Mother Country, and of colonial heroism. The practical
value of this gush in £ s d is coming home to some re-
turned troopers, who are wanting employment, ior
some time Colonel Webb has been advertising for light
employment for these men, but apparently with little
effect.
But if they are the fine stalwart fellows we hear
about, why don’t they advertise for heavy em-
ployment ?
Excited opponents of the crematorium
which it is proposed to build in West Adelaide,
threaten to forcibly prevent its erection. West
Adelaide is the Footscray of the pious metropolis,
and why the residents object to the addition of
the rather pleasant smell of roast citizen to the
unpleasant odors arising from soap-factories and
bone-mills is a mystery.
The Anglicans of M.L. have decided to
commemorate the late Queen by establishing a
Maori curls’ college, and, after canvassing the pro-
vince, have obtained the magnificent sum of £9OO
odd. The Duke is to lay the foundation-stone at
Auckland. At the rate the money is coming m,
his great-grandson will probably do the formal
opening in his old age. .
READ what VITADATIO is Doing.
ANOTHER VICTORY FOR
VITADATIO
HYDATIDS AGAIN CONQUERED.
Mr. S. A. PALMER.
Dear Sir,—lt is with great pleasure I tell you of the
cure of my son from Hydatids through taking VITA-
DATIO. About fifteen months ago my son began to be
ill, coughing up thick matter and blood, for which I could
get nothing to relieve him. His appetite left him, and he
became very nervous ; he went from bad to worse, becom-
ing weaker and weaker, till at last his nightly remark on
going to bed was, “ I don’t think I will live till the
morning.” I could not leave him. I had consulted a
doctor who had pronounced his case to be Hydatids, and
eventually I had him put in the hospital in the hope of
having him cured by operation, but nothing was done,
and he was sent home, and was in the condition I have
described when his employer recommended him to try
VITADATIO. He did so, although I did not have much
faith in it. The first two bottles seemed to make him
worse, but an improvement was noticed with the third ;
and, while taking the fourth bottle, he took a fit of
coughing and brought away a quantity of stuff through
the mouth and nostrils, and from that day began to
rapidly improve, and he is now the picture of health and
a wonder to the neighbours and his companions who
knew how ill he was. He is always praising VITADATIO.
He is now 17 years of age, and is a conductor on the
Kensington tram-car. You are at liberty to use this as
you please, as VITADATIO saved my son’s life.
EMMA BARNES,
CHARLIE BARNES,
Shipsters-road, Kensington.
Witness : Geo. R. Davie, Adelaide.
Julv 10, 1900.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
' Amusements.
DALACE tTTeA TR E, SYDNEY.
The Triumph of Snazelle.
SNAZELLE, the unique, the incomparable.
SNAZELLE, who on Saturday evening, in one moment,
captured and held spellbound a vast audience with
WEST and SON’S
“OUR NA V Y.”
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY, at 3 o’clock.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices, 35.. 25., and Is.
Manager for SNAZELLE, Mr. CHARLES MACMAHON.
Manager for WEST & SON, CAPTAIN EDWARDS, R.N.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor .. . . Mr. Harry Rickards.
FIRST APPEARANCE IN SYDNEY OF
MR. FRANK LATONA
and
MR. AUSTIN RUDD.
Re-appearance for Farewell Season of THE LEONARDS
and SISTERS PINE, DAINTY IRENE FRANKLIN, and
all Our Great Co.
Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Saturday and Wednesday.
BIJOU MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Enormous and Emphatic Success of the
WYNCATE SISTERS.
Re-appearance for a Few Nights Only, GEORGE D’ALBERT.
Brilliant Reception of Mr. FRANK LEON, Miss
LIZZIE KIRK, ALMA GRAY, Miss F. RANGER, Miss
S. RANGER, Miss MILLIE HERBERTE, Mr. A. CRANE,
DAVE CASTON, and all our Great Co.
Box Plan at Allan & Co. Matinee Every Wednesday.
rHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. 1
Bland Holt.
ANOTHER POPULAR PRODUCTION.
The Thrilling Spectacular Melodrama,
MOMAN AND WINE.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Box
’lan .At Allan’s. „
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
AN ARTISTIC MUSICAL TRIUMPH of
Ir. George Musgrove’s GRAND ENGLISH OPERA CO.
'HURSDAY, MAY 16, FAREWELL PERFORMANCE,
TANNNAUSCR.
PRICES OF ADMISSION—Dress Circle, 7s. 6d.; Re-
erved Stalls, 6s. The Box Plan at Allan’s.
EER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
I Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager. Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas.. Mr. E. J. Tait.
FRIDAY, MAY 17,
,eturn to Melbourne, FOR TWO WEEKS ONLY,
WILLIAMSON’S DRAMATIC CO., Presenting
A ROYAL DIVORCE.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, ss; Stalls and Family
lircle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
\TH EN/EU M HAL L, M ELBOU RN E.
A Under Direction of Messrs. Wyld and Freedman.
SEVENTH WEEK. SEVENTH WEEK.
Every Afternoon, at 3. Every Evening, at 8.
mmense Success of the GENUINE BRITISH BIOGRAPH.
>uke and Duchess of Cornwall and York’s Australasian
Tour. Oxford and Cambndge Boat-Race.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Missing Friends.
WANTED the addresses of either of the following
W Helen Heuchy, who left Ennis, Clare, Ire land, for
Australia, about 25 years ago; or Mary Anne Heucny,
her sister, who also left for Australia some time after-
wards ; or Margaret Heuchy, who left Ennis in the year
1884 for Townsville, Queensland. All daughters of the
late PATRICK HEUCHY, Buttermarket-street, Ennis.
Most important news awaiting them. Anyone who can
furnish this information, please communicate at one
with “HONORIA,” c/o J. Hayes, Arnolds Bridge,
Victoria. __
Business Announcements.
BRANDT BROS.
•mi
V
JUPITER..
PRIMUS
ROOM
WARMER
(Registered).
This heat radiator
with asbestos cone
will warm a room in
a few minutes, and
by removing the top
cover a kettle can be
boiled upon it.
It is made to fit a
Jupiter or Primus
Stove.
Height ... 18in.
Diameter.. lOin.
Weight ... 41b.
PRICE
(without stove)
Made in Sheet Steel,
15/-
Made in Sheet Brass,
25/-
BRANDT BROS.,
236 PITT ST., SYDNEY, and
422 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
Amusements.
-|- HEA T R E R OYAL, SYDNEY.
SATURDAY, MAY 18,
AN ARTISTIC MUSICAL EVENT.
RETURN
GRAND OPERA SEASON. GRAND OPERA SEASON.
Students and All Lovers of the Most Divine Art (Music)
should Not Fail to Witness the Great Production of
Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVE’S
GRAND OPERA COMPANY
GRAND OPERA COMPANY.
SATURDAY EVENING, MAY 18,
Gounod’s Masterpiece and Favorite Opera,
FAUST. FA.TTST.
Introducing to the Sydney Public
(who will make their First Appearance)
BARRON BERTHALD,
One of the World’s Most Famous Opera Tenors, and
LEMPRIERE PRINGLE,
Principal Basso for six years with the late Carl Rosa
Opera Company.
MONDAY, MAY 20, First Appearance of the Renowned
DRAMATIC STAR OPERATIC SOPRANO,
ELLA RUSSELL, ELLA RUSSELL,
who will make her debut before the critical playgoers of
Sydney in Wagner’s Grand Dramatic-Musical Triumph,
“ LOHENGRIN.”
Elsa Ella Russell.
TUESDAY, MAY 21, “ CARMEN.”
WEDNESDAY, MAY 22, “ TANNHAUSER.”
PRICES of ADMISSION—Dress Circle, 7/6 ; Reserved
Stalls, 6/; Front Stalls, 5/ ; STALLS, THREE SHILLINGS.
Box Office, Theatre D.C., 10 till 5.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of Mr. Charles Holloway.
EVERY EVENING, at 8.
MR. CHARLES HOLLOWAY
and his POWERFUL DRAMATIC COMPANY, in the
New and Original Drama,
THE FRENCH SPY.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Early doors (6d. extra) open 6.66 ;
ordinary doors, 7.30. Plan at Nicholson’s.
M PIRE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
(Late Royal Standard, Castlereagh-street.)
COME TO STAY.
JOHN FULLERS EMPIRE COMPANY.
Every Evening, at 8. Saturdays, 2.30.
THE BIG BLACK BEAR BOOM.
The Jones Bros., Fred. Bluett, and Our Grand Double Co.
New Artists Every Week. Change of Programme
Every Saturday.
PRICES—2s., Is. and 6d. Plan at Theatre.
ARNOLD DENHAM, MANAGER.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
THE WILLIAMSON OPERA COMPANY.
SIXTH WEEK AND CONTINUED SUCCESS of
FLOR OD O R A..
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, George-street. Prices as usual.
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. William Anderson.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING, at 7.55,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION, headed by
Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN,
NIGHT BIRDS OF LONDON.
PRICES—3s, 2s and ONE SHILLING. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
WIRTH BROTHERS’
HUGE COMBINED SHOWS,
Hippodrome, Circus, and
Menagerie,
GRAND OPENING NIGHT,
THURSDAY, MAY 23.
Opposite— REDFEßN RAILWAY STATION, SYDNEY.
An Overwhelming and Sweeping Monopoly of the
World’s Greatest Wonders.
FIRST GRAND MATINEE, SATURDAY, MAY 25,
TWO SHOWS DAILY, at 3 o’clock and 8 o’clock.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is. RESERVED CHAIRS, la. Extra.
“ The Best Australian Book of Short Stories.”
Castro’s Last Sacrament
Bt ALBERT DORRINGTON. 48 6d.
CHARLES READ & CO.,
(S DOORS FROM
STRAND ARCADE).
Camden Buildings, 420 George St., Sydney.
A Saving- of 25 per cent.
BUSHMAN WATCH
BUSHMAN WATCH
BUSHMAN WATCH
Gun Metal Case, 16/6
Will run for 20 Years.
h
BUSHMAN WATCH
BUSHMAN WATCH
BUSHMAN WATCH
Gun Metal Case, 16/6
Will run for 20 Years.
WRITE FOR OUR 80-PAGEP ILLUSTRATED OATA L O G U E-P OS T FREE.
MILES AHEAP OF ALL OTHERS
. . Are America’s Representative . .
The yest .
.. Qensmore
.. Reui Century
Why Search Elsewhere ?
WE Alone can Offer Tou
a Choice.
WE WILL ADVISE YOU WHICH IS BEST FOR YOUR WORK.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue— Free.
UNITED TYPEWRITER & SUPPLIES CO. (larsest dealers .n austbaua
114 Pitt-st., SYDNEY ; 362 Oollins-st., MELBOURNE ; Barraek-st., PERTH.
Webster & Co., Brisbane ; Reeves & Co., Adelaide ; lledley Button, Launceston and Hobart.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEJPY COMiPETITIOU.
WINES m Besf °' dy ° J SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
N
1801.
lIM FIVE YEARS
the output of
Duniop Tyres 1
has increased in the ratio of
the blocks depicted herewith.
Sure evidence of the superiority
and popularity of these speedy
and durable tyres.
When purchasing
“ Dunlops ” be sure
and examine the
cover and tube for
this &&
without which none are
genuine.
Trade
A
Mark.
. . Roadster tyres gnaranteed for 12 months . .
1896,
Send
at
Once
for a copy
of our
artistic Brochure,
“All about
Dunlop Tyres
for 1901.”
Absolutely the finest booklet
ever given away in the cycle
trade. ... A post-card to
any of our dep&ts will bring
a copy by return post.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aust. Ltd.—
150 Clarance Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
and at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, BRISBANE, and CIIRISTCHUROH, N.Z.


Banking. Public Companies, &o.
Upon - all - Classes
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
*s>
Cs*
ip
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3xr.s,-w.
flont deplete D/<|. Go, Ltd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74
CASTIiEHEAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
74
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
■—THE
Colonial Mutual liife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Borns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,600—assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses— eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. .. ei.xoo.ooo 0 0
Paid-up Capital £3,216,885 0 0
Directors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman ; J. C. Syme,
Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C.;
Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J. P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London OJjice: 1 liishopsgate Street Within.
corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers . The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
IVTW SOUTH wales:
BYDNIOK - 273 GEORG E ST It HI ET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
Haymarket, Gosfcrd (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Hrisbane.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £BOOO, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE C 0„ Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers £3,000,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Established 1879.
THE
(|n'ted Australian mutual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices :
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital .. £500,000
Subscribed Capital 251,260
Paid-up Capital 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance. Agents required where not represented.
Alfred Wf.bsteb, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
The gank of ||orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 000 ... £350,000
Business Announcements.
AMUSEMENT for OPT) and YOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Joker’s Love Bond, or Siamese Links ; Parisian
Skirt Dance (a book bound and can be carried in vest
pocket), Book of Conjuring Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which
causes roars of laughter), Yankee Rubber Baby (can be
carried in vest pocket and blown out to life-size, to the
astonishment of all), Wizard Fish (gives the definition of
your character, very superior, for parlor entertainments),
Wizard Pack of Cards (can be changed as you please,
instructions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 George-street, SYDNEY.
XH. L. HUTCHINSON Manager.
(Mention this paper when writing.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
GEORGE & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS: Bedroom (single), 3s. per Day, or 21s.
per Week ; Bedroom (double), 6s. per day, or Two
Guineas per Week.
&S~ Breakfast, Luncheon, or Dinner from
ONE SHILLING upwards.
Letters and Telegrams addressed to “The Manager”
will receive prompt attention.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
To
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Saturday May 18,12 Noon.
Peregrine, Sat., May 25,12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer Early.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
1-Steamer Early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Leura, Saturday, Mav 18, 12 Noon.
Burxvah, Tuesday, May 21, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, May 25,12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Saturday, May 18, 12 Noon.
Tyrian, Saturday, May 25,12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Car fro
booked throusrh.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Porta.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
T ' ckets interchangeable with all other Inter-
a p° l J l P a J‘ l es. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—loot of Kinl>'-street.
—
THE “ ALL RED " MAIL ROUTE TO LONDON.
THE ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
OF THE
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
(C. & A. LINE)
con^ with the Governments of New South
Wales, Queensland, and Canada, leave Sydney every
four weeks as under, for
BRISBANE, HONOLULU, VICTORIA and VANCOUVER.
Connecting at Vancouver with the
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
This is the Imperial Route Home, as well as the most at-
tractive. It avoids alike the heat of the Red Sea and the
cold of Cape Horn. The railroad journey between the
Pacific and Atlantic Oceans (Vancouver to Montreal)
occupies about five davs, and is made
WITHOUT CHANGE OF CARRIAGES,
through the grandest scenery in the world—over the
Selkirk and Rocky Mountains, across the Prairies, and
along the North Shore of Lake Superior.
Passengers have the choice of a number of overland
routes, enabling them to visit the principal cities of
Canada and the United States.
For Railway Maps, Guide Books, and all other informa-
tion, apply to
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Jb* Trustees, €*€c(ifcorS,
AND
ftgSOCy Conjpaov Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED x 150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP 190,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £8312 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1900 ' 6,326,343 0 0
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq.';
O. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amountnf Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital
.. £2,500,000
Ocean
A evident
and
G%iarantee
Co. Ctd. of Condon.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors— Sydney : Sir W. M'Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks,
Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.,
Branch Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W.
N. M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montefiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
TSUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
|)eui Zealand Insurance (Jo.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
J. A. MINNETT,
'' , AXAOER.
81 Pitt St», Sydney.
CURES COUGH.
• Cured my son of a dreadful Cough.'
Mrs. Johnston, Belleek, Fermanagh.
GIVES REST & SLEEP.
HAYMAM’S
BALSAM
of Horehound
Safe and Pleasant for Children.
• NOTHING LIKE IT FOR A COLD.’
Mr. W. HIKD, Norwich.
STOPS COLD.
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrib & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, CALLING at PLYMOUTH ami
LIVERPOOL Via CAPETOWN,
Calling at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz.:—
SUEVIC, 12,482 tons, to Sail First Week in JUNE.
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
PERSIC, RUNIC, MEDIC, and AFRIC.
The attention of the travelling’ public and shippers
generally is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric light
throughout.
For rates of freight, passage money, &e., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents, o.’Connell-st., Sydney, and Watt-st., Newcastle.
!’ ' n ‘FBI 1 ITIMCfchfiWnBWT* rTiii
nTSTET
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL FLEET.
. . COMPRISING .
129 Steamers of a Total Tonnage of
506,754 ; Horse-power, 403,245.
Mileage run in 1899, 3,545,000 ; Over 3f million Pas-
sengers carried since 1857.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, London,
Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
REGULAR SERVICE to EUROPE, via SINGAPORE,
calling at BRISBANE,TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN,
NEW GUINEA. MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
The favorite N.D.L. Passenger
S.S. STETTIN, 2428 tons, Captain Niedermeyer.
Leaving SYDNEY on MAY 18, and connecting at SINGA-
PORE with the homeward bound China Mail N.D.L.
S.S. SACHSEN, 5026 tons, due in Naples on July 24 next.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Spied,
Safety and Topnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
Medical.
Will Develop or Reduce
any part of the Body.
A PERFECT COMPLEXION
BEAUTIFIER and
Remover of Wrinkles.
Dr. JOHN WILSON GIBBS’
THE ONLY
Electric
Massage
Roller
(Patented
United States.
Europe,
Canada.
ĥ
“Its work is
not confined to
the face alone,
but will do good
to any part of the
body to which it is
applied, developing or
reducing as desired. It
is a very pretty addition
to the toilet table.”
—Chicago Tribune.
“ This delicate Electric Beauti-
fier removes all facial blemishes.
It is the only positive remover of
wrinkles and crow’s feet. It never
fails to perform all that is expected.”
—Chicago Times Herald
“The Electric Roller is certainly productive of good
results. 1 believe it the best of any appliances. It is safe
and effective.”—Harriet Hubbard Ayer, New York World.
For Massage and Curative Purposes
An Electric Roller is all the term implies. The invention
of a physician and electrician known throughout America
and Europe. A perfect complexion beautifier. Will re-
move wrinkles, “crow’s feet” (premature or from age),
and all facial blemishes. Whenever electricity is to be
used for massaging or curative purposes, it has no equal.
No charging. Always ready for use on all parts of tiie
body, for all diseases. For Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neural-
gia, Nervous and Circulatory Diseases, a specific.
Price—Gold, 21/- ; Silver, 16/- PAMPHLETS FREE.
Sole Agent for Australasia —
J. CHALMERS,
229 Col I ins-street,
Melbourne.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, tbc.
9
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
T\EAR SIR, —I have been cured of Weakness and De-
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBERT
E. PARKHURST, Pitt-street, Sydney.
USB
SPOONER'S
IfesT!;
SPOONERS
mmm
iHTEKT LEATHER BOOTS
‘ CUSZED MOS W
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers oi
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking)
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
for Melbourne
ADELAIDE
p ORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANGE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to alI North Western Ports
S.S. Cintra, Fiiday,
May 17.
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday,
May 18.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Albany, Friday,
May 17.
Best and theapest Jtoute to Goldfields.
fiJcf o" * 'T s ; lKe ticke l» are interchangeable after the
7y® c Fort between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers ° f the A U S N Co and w Howard S]nith and
;. " s - o For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
Wlth the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
aitions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. C“
wriVAr , —oy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THU POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Mioßnnmli?'' Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE Weekly
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,’
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS - Weekly
SYDNEV ANU HOVKHAAU’TON-Bi-week.y, via Ports.
SYDNLY and BLRIvEIOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
ba « e . Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, „m, FIJI Monthly
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly y '
SYDNEY ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
fortnightly.
Passent/er A ceom.tuodo.tion, . I ttcndaut
Cuisine unrivttUed.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
irst port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
Company and W. 11. Smith and Sons,
I’L' 16 ! I!’ !'! ,n(lltl ? n s to he ascertained on application.
loi Adelaide and VV. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
PHILl * A an ‘ l °° * I*™., Agents, in Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AMD LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
Steamer.
HIMALAYA
CHINA
ARCADIA .
INDIA
OCEANA
Commander.
Sydn ;y,
Noo i
6898 W. L. Broun, R.N.R. iMav
8000jT. S. Angus .. .. June
6603 A. C. Loggin June
911 W. D.G. Worcester, R.N.R. June
6603 C. Gadd July
15
29
l3
_, TLe Company’s steamers now call at Fremantle
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, 138 10s to C 77
r, . Ditto Return L7llOstollM
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon)between intercolonial poris
are available for Return by Orient and Messao-eries Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to EDWARD TRELAWNY, Superintendent in Aus-
Corner. Pitt and Bridge Streets
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
_ WV/WIY.CYI tv I to, \ , lllUlil, uimia,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them ever}', assistance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
DE THUY, Principal Agent.
Huddart, Parker & Go’s Qine
MELBOURNE,
LAUNCESTON,
HO HA IM’,
WEST A USTIt ALf A,
NEW ZEALAND POUTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. ANP A.” LINE.
The Steamships of the above Company will be despatched
as follows for
MANILA, CHINA, and JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
37 Pitt-atreet, Sydney.
m < |lßraith,|D < Eacharn&j}«.
PROP. LTD.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS
EZALGOOELIE, 4500 tons,
OOOIILO-AIE&IDIIE], 3500 TONS,
SAIL Jj'OItTNI(iII Tlj Y betxveen
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
West Australian Ports.
Passenger Accommodation Unsurpassed. Liberal Cuisine.
M'ILWRAITH, M-EACHARN AND CO.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany and Fremantle.
Sydney Agents—BUßNS, PHILP & CO. Ltd.


Signs are not wanting that there will
presently be an untoward reaction in jury-
attitudes towards a certain line of cases. 1 lie
ugly-minded small girl, with the usual dirty per-
jury, has been widely discredited of late, and
Man breathes again all over the map. Tlie
latest and most sensational case is a masculine
triumph. But the ebb-tide is sure to set in (his-
tory hath ever shown it), and there will probably
be another Suffield case before long—possibly the
last.
The case of Catherine Coonibe, brought to
light the other week in England, suggests that a
good many spinsters desire the formal ceremony of
marriage and the position of a matron rather than
the lawful protection of a man with its attendant
blessings. Kate Coombe aforesaid, put her-
self into trousers when she was 25, and earned
her bread as a “Mr.” until she had turned GO.
In the meantime the fair imposter married Lady
Campbell’s maid, and lived with that seemingly
contented female for 14 years. If the bride felt
any pangs of disillusionment on discovering her
“husband’s” sex, it is certain that she found
consolation somehow. The fraud must have had
a satisfactory side to it, or the victim would not
have played the part of Mrs. Coombe for 14
years. Mrs. Humphrey Ward said recently that
men have no idea “how pure are a young girl’s
thoughts about marriage,” and it would be most
interesting for the men to hear what Mrs. H. W.
has to say concerning the union between she-male
Kate Coombe and Lady Campbell’s maid.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look-for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
giegn label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
ħ
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment of
Catarrh, Bronchitis, Hay Fever, Asthma,
Colds, Influenza, Headache, Catarrhal
Deafness. Book of Treatment, Free.
Price of Medicator (size, 4 inches long, Nickel-
plated), and 4 months’ treatment, 1 Bottle Com-
pound Inhalent, and 1 tin -I /
Nasal Ointment, only ■“/ Post Free.
HOME CATARRH CURE CO.,
.231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
h
FRINGES,
Natural Curl/, from, fl/fl etx-fe,
PLAITS and TAILS,
fWn. lon*. 6/(1. all real hats.
CUTTINGS ft COMBIiS&S
woflted up, i/6 per 02.
W« ora the cheapeStlo Asz>
Lnlia tor all iiair Wortt
So«vl Color ol Halr-
W. H. WigzeGi,
110 WtIAIAU Srn BBT.
wmer of Palmer-atreat,
, syoney.
CkMe Trum will stop at Door.
Send stamps tat full Trioo LW
attention gives to Country C
ĥ
DON'T POISON*
YOURSELF
With DRUGS. All Diseases of the jnervous System
Lame Back, Sciatica, Liver Complaint, Dyspepsia, Des-
pondency, Brain Fag, and, in fact, all chronic weaknesses
and ailments can now be Speedily Relieved and Cured
without Drugs or Medicine of any kind. Address —
ARTHUR HALE, 44 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
PHOTOS
From Life, for Lovers of Art, Beauty, and £
Ohio; Carefully Selected Assortments, >
Cabinets' or Stereos, with Illustrated
Catalogue and Minatures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s. >
Money Order or Cheque on London. r
English, French, and German Rare Books.
Explain wishes and requirements, and full satisfaction
will be obtained.
R. GENNERT,
89c Faubourg St., Martin, Paris, France.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
TOOTH
POWDER
IS THE BEST DENTAL
PRESERVATIVE.
Has the Largest Sale of any Dentifrice.
Sold by Chemists, Stores, &c.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
CNLOROPyNE
Caution. Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c\, bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, saya:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chloeodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our -
ICLECTItIC
KELTS and
A TELIA NCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TKIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.'—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency-
-63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
ħ
COMMON SENSE EAR DRUM »
/COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
£29 Collins Street, Melbourne.
PH
DEAF
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A TESTED AND INFALLIBLE REMEDY.
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C.S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
Over
100
years
have
proved
their
value.
G. L. ROBERTS, M.D.
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
Born 1766, Died 1834.
INVENTOR OF Dr. ROBERTS’
Poor Man’s Friend OINTMENT.
The best for all Wounds and Skin Diseases,
Chronic Sores, Ulcerated Legs, Pimples,
Sore Eyes, Ac.
use Dl .. ROBERTS’
ALTERATIVE PILLS,
For all impurities of the blood. Invaluable for Skin
Diseases. Prices is. and 2s. 9d. each of all Drug
Stores.
Sole Makers: BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd.
BRIDPOBT, England.
h
IAB
ĥ
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
' to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
GENTS.
it
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.—L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
ħ
h
ĥ
ħ
h
ĥ
ħ
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver', Kidney or Bladder troubles,
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one of these
Cabinets. Price 25/-
Head and Face Steamer, 3/6.
Can be forwarded to any address.
J. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
m
ss.
W/r
OLaY, V '■ ?»
■■fsir I »r
LirH# w
B.ci
& 1 <•
Z//
\o £?c
■Ay Nii"ti
J®At y -
•''XX.'
SV A\J
v
V J
ygi
i
c
vV/
'J f
*2
o«
ly
V /i
O.C.L
r
* t**i
£\H
1 *•
. 0
2
/
DC4.
lUC.LI
whisky
rar
DC
Cs
TN€ COVETED ORDER.
H.R.H. THE Duke : “The other fellows will have to be content with their K.C.M.G’s. and things. I’m keeping this
for a few of the ‘ best ’ people, myself included.”


/
/
/
A
HARD
PULL
On holidays two parties
of men or boys will fre-
quently get hold of the
opposite ends of a rope and
pull on it, as a test of the
strength of the two parties.
They call it a tug-of-war.
Many a hard-working man
and woman in each day’s
toil is pulling a tug-of-war, with death for an
antagonist. They fail to take proper care of their
health. When they suffer from indigestion or a
slight bilious attack they “ wear it out.” After a
while these disorders wear out the reckless man or
woman, and the result is some serious disease
develops. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a
medicine that finds its way to every part. They
commence at the foundation of the disease ; they
get at the cause. They make the appetite healthy,
the digestion perfect, the liver active, and the
blood pure. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a
positive cure for Biliousness, Indigestion, Dys-
pepsia, Constipation, Sick Headache, Liver Dis-
eases, Sallow Complexion, Kidney Troubles,
Gravel, Gall Stones, Jaundice, Flatulency, Foul
Breath, Influenza, Female Ailments, Piles, Boils,
Pimples, Blotches, Scrofula, Eczema, Neuralgia,
Rheumatism and impure blood. Sold by chemists
and storekeepers; price, Is. per bottle, or
six bottles 6s. 6d., or same will be mailed, post
paid, upon receipt of price. Sole proprietors,
The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd. (Australasian
Dep6t), 58 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
h
dox no ma i!3s>s>md
At the 8 Hours’ Sports,
Bill on his . . .
RED BIRD BICYCLE
Won the Great Annual Wheel Race, defeating Australia’s best handicap men. The Red Bird has won more
races than any oth r bicycle this season. It is sold on easy terms.
BRANCHES IN EVERY STATE. GrOOIiD BICYCLE CO., 64 King Street, Sydney.
The
Original
JOHN JAHESON WHISKY
Agents:
J. Barre Johnston & Co.
Sydney
SPORTING NOTIONS.
A well-known sportsman discourses to
The Bulletin upon the recent inter-State 8-oar
race on the Parramatta :
S.A. was in trouble from the beginning. Some of the
selected eight were, for various reasons, not on hand;
and one man -brought from Adelaide on the Thursday
before the race—had actually had but two rows with the
crew. The S.A. boat, also, was a sagging old craft; so
that the “crow-eaters” were heavily handicapped, as
against the other three well-trained, well-equipped crews.
The Victorian crew, in particular, was one of the best
that has represented that State, and the N.S.W. crew was
also particularly good, while the Queenslanders were
trained to the hour and were looked upon as quite likely
to create a surprise. Naturally, therefore, Clouston’s
men were expected to put up a very bad last. After the
start Victoria and N.S.W. gradually drew to the front,
and to everybody’s astonishment the S.A. crew hung
doggedly on to the Queenslanders for the first mile, keep-
ing almost level. But at Blaxland’s, Q. had half-a-length
to the good, the S.A. men, nevertheless, rowing
like demons, with an obvious frantic determination
not to be last. Their cheap old “ship” sagged and
buckled and buried herself in the water as the men put
their weight on to the oars, while the other boats, new
and rigid, darted along the surface like torpedo-boats.
Nevertheless, inch-by-inch S.A. crept up, until fora space
she was nose-for-nose with Q.—every man in each crew
doing what he thought was his utmost. But some men
have in them always something a little better than their
best a last ounce that they can squeeze out to turn the
scale, and it was for this that the S.A. coxswain called as
he yelled suddenly—“ Now ! Now /—shake ’em off 1—
let em have it now ! ” And the call was answered.
i, jb-I inch S.A. crept away, while the spectators
yelled themselves frantic. But the Q. men weren’t
going to let it slip at that, and not for half-a-mile or
so did they get headed, and beaten, while S.A. plugged
away in hopeless and dogged pursuit of the leaders.
Their stroke was a man who didn't know when he was
beaten, and stubbornly he kept the men at it until they
actually gained a trifle on the leaders ; but their terrific
le-and-a-half alongside Queensland had told its tale.
At Gladesville, with a mile still to go, the S.A. stroke was
blind and half-stupid—muttering to himself as he tore
the blade through the water—” Must do it! Must do it! ”
roam gathered on his lips, and the coxswain got
jj^ “ or God’s sake, Clouston, take it easy !
Paddle, man, paddle ! You’ve heaten the Queenslanders !
You’ll kill yourself ! ” But right to the finish Olouston
kept at it, and as they passed the post, he fell in a dead
collapse into the arms of the man behind him. Second-
last ! But their opponents had a larger pick of
men, the best of boats, and the best of training.
The S.A. crew, in fact, only came over on a sort of forlorn
hope, rather than let their State lose the right to have a
race at Adelaide next year. They were practically a
scratch lot,” yet no gainer struggle than theirs was
ever seen on the old river. It seemed that the old hard-
fighting rowing-men were done. In the days of fixed-seat
rowing, men used to row themselves blind and helpless
before they would own defeat. It meant inevitable
physical ruin. Where are they, the athletes of 20
years ago : the men who ought now to be our finest
specimens of middle-aged manhood ? Jim Clark died of
cancer, and George Clark died a young man. The Fitz-
hardinges iron men as they were—-are only shadows of
what they ought to be. Pat Anderson is dead, in his
prime. Ted Barton, who rowed many a terrible race, is
gone, and so is Dave Lord —all of them should be with us
now. A man cannot row himself almost to death, as
Clouston did, without paying for it later on.
* * * *
Looks as if Hunter River sculler Towns will at
last get a meeting with Jake Gaudaur. It is cabled that
the Canuck has consented, though it by no means fol-
lows that he’ll face the flag. Ed. Durnan (Hanlan’s
nephew) claims a race with the Australian champion of
England, while one Rumohr (an ex-amateur premier of
America who changed his status through being disquali-
fied for life) chips in with a demand to meet Gaudaur for
£2OO a side. Gaudaur may find some excuse for taking
Rumohr on, and thus put Towns back another year or
two. Towns’s offer to Gaudaur (according to latest Eng-
lish papers) was to row on the Thames for £250 a side, and
allow £5O exs., or row in Toronto Bay, or over any recog-
nised course on the Hudson River, for the same stake,
and take £5O exs.
* • * *
Saturday’s meeting at that misnamed “punter’s
paradise,” Rosehill (Sydney), bristled with surprises,
mainly in the shape of sudden and complete reversals of
form. Consequently, backers experienced a torrid time.
Ex-galloway Pretence, by Martini - Henry from Pre-
toria, and a full-sister to one-time flier Precaution,
starting at 12 to 1 against, gave nothing else a hope
in the Senate Handicap (6 furlongs)—this, too, in face of
the fact that a week before, at Warwick Farm, she could
get no nearer than third in the Farm Stakes and
Pace Welter. Money went on Mendoza and Lady Buller
in heaps for Granville Stakes, but Spring Rose (beaten
easily previous Wednesday at Canterbury by Metalman
—a rank outsider) closed on the prize. Another severe
knock was Edna Lyall’s success in the big race of the day
—Rosehill Handicap. Bullomin, Boscobel, Brazen Lad,
Gozoetta and Lygon carried the bulk of the cash and
“cuff” transactions, but the Trenton-Novelette mare
squeezed home by a head—a huge improvement on her
poor third, in a field of five, at Canterbury three days
before. This list of staggerers, which won’t soon be for-
gotten, finished up with Yarrabee winning the Welter
Mile in pronounced fashion from 15 others, though seven
days earlier, at Warwick Farm, he failed to get a “ drum.”
Were M.L. law regarding “reversals” in force here, a big
crop of protests would certainly have resulted.
* * * *
Yarrabee, winner of Mile Welter, at Rosehill,
Saturday, shapes like a thorough good ’un, and should be
worth watching for future events—when the stable-money
is on. He had a bad fall in the last A. J.O. Derby, but has
since completely recovered. Yarrabee is a three‘-year old,
by The Levite or St. Swithin, out of imported Peggy, by
Chevron from Peg Fife, by Snowden—Dunhill. Peggy
was in the Hobartville stud for years before Mr. J.
M'Caughey got her.
» * * *
Bookie Beale’s two-year-old Cornhill, by Russ-
ley—Goldmine, in winning Rosehill Nursery Handicap on
Saturday, brought a big swag of coin to the “ stable” at
not less than fours. Outsiders knew little about the
“ good thing,” as it was trained at Moorfield. Thirteen
lined up, but from barrier-rise Cornhill had matters to
himself, increasing the gap as the race progressed. In
common with all the Russleys, he is well-bodied and gets
over the ground like a true galloper.
• » * *
The tote talked high in some races at last Avon-
dale (M.L.) meeting. Despatch, a pony who cost £7 a
while back, sailed home in a field of eight for the Nursery,
paying £76 15s. for every £1 invested—eleven times his
own purchase price. Then Volee (by Cuirassier) walked
off with the big prize, and returned £52 6s. There are
some pretty swift ponies in Auckland district. A heavy
plunge was made on Lady Avon, who carried 10.5 in a
miniature event at this meet, and only lost by a head.
One punter staked £l5O on her. Then she came out in a
“ horse ” event and simply strolled in, paying £l3 13s.
Ideal, a New Zealand Cup-winner, is of pony stature;
but what weight would they give her ?
* • « *
That one-time M.L. equine wonder, Tasman,
who gold-lined Dan O’Brien’s pockets, is dead. He was
the winner of the first N.Z. Cup and a host of big handi-
caps. Out of 61 starts, he came in first 31 times.
• *
The once prominent and popular Tas. turfite,
Mr. C. S. Agnew, died aboard the steamer Coogee t’other
«ay. Deceased won Hobart Cup with The Assyrian,
Chaldean and Macquarie, and Launceston Cup with
Hobart, The Knave, Chaldean, Macquarie and Dundas.
* * * *
Lochiel is atop of winning sires for nine months
ended April 30 with £10,979. Gozo’s get tot up £8375 ;
Trenton’s, £8350; Bill of Portland’s, £7795 ; Zalinski’s,
£6811; Carbine’s, £6459 ; Light Artillery’s, £4543;
Metal’s, £4405, and Padlock’s, £4317.
* * * *
Pug. Blackmore’s success over “Paddy’’Mar-
tin, in Sydney last week, evidenced the difference between
a man in and out of condition. Blackmore has much
more cleverness than the average boxer, but through
fpHn'r mo 6SS 1 m V ,- pr ®P arin g ha 3 Proved easy game for in-
? This time he trained hard, with the result
lnnk ¥ ar hn, though a 2 to 1 “ on” favorite, never had a
an , d was knocked-out midway through the
eighth round Martin is the man who gave Otto Cribb a
stiff time at the Golden Gate A.C. a year or so since.
* * * *
Jab : Haven’t seen any mention of a peculiar
ot?-'T'n g *2 t ? e recenfc Turner-Lenton fight at Golden
A '- * ®£?ney. T urner > trying to land an uppercut
°???» I S IB8 j d his mark and struck himself hard on the top
of the head.
* * * *
Sturdy little Jack M‘Gowan, South Melbourne’s
popular pug., demonstrated in his recent fight with Jock
~ lv ® r > at Melb. Democratic Club, that unless he takes a
•f ?r ’ le de . sor ry for it. Once or twice it looked as
if Mac. was going under, but sheer grit saved him. In
trie eleventh round he brought things to an end by a
solid punch fair on the mark, which caused Jock to sink,
limp as a dead eel, to the boards. M‘Gowan has been
lighting for many years as frequently as they’ve asked
™ to, and has never yet been knocked out. Though he
still seems a curly-headed boy, he is a widower and owns
three pretty youngsters whom he looks after well and
•jj™ the world of. Writer recollects the first battle
that brought Jack into prominence—it was with a pro-
tege of Albury (N.S.W.) Dan Abbott’s, about nine years
a ff°- M'Gowan won, and the beaten lad (though as
sturdy-looking then as his conqueror) since died of con-
sumption.
* * * *
,„ further particulars from the Cribb camp in
Frisco are that Otto, in his latest match, fought with much
less dash than ever before. Also that Thurston was as
strong as a lion and has a stock of half-a-dozen different
styles of fighting which he trots out as occasion requires,
leaving the man in front of him guessing how one attack
was done, and whence or in what shape the next will
come. He literally throws himself at his adversary, and
it takes something stiffer than most pug. material to
weather the onslaught. Conditions were winner take 50
per cent, of the gate, promoters the balance, consequently
the ’Frisco Dutchman benefited to the extent of £4OO,
and Cribb got nothing. At latest, Otto was recuperating
at “ the Springs.”
• * * *
Via” : ’Twill be interesting to see if Otto
Cribb joins the ignoble army of quitters after his two
doses of hard thumps. Lots of hitherto fierce scrappers
develop the fell complaint of white spot, and take it
“ lying down ” after several bad defeats. Australia has a
few of them. Look at So-and So and Such-and-Such.
* » * »
News by Monday’s Yankee mail is that one-
time phenomenal M.L. tailor pug. Billy Murphy has left
the game for good and is night-watchman in the employ
of an American railway co. Mention of “ torpedo ”
Billy’s original trade calls to mind that Austrian strong
man Hajek was also in that line of biz., and now
that weight - juggling, chain - breaking and such are
played out, has fallen back upon the needle and makes a
good living in Sydney.
• » * *
Sample of eloquent writing from John Norton’s
paper : —“ Terry M'Govern has prophesied. He has issued
an edict. Terry is a sport from the hocks up, and a man
an whom there are no flies. Even in a ring he never gets
‘bug-house.’ He carries his faculties right under the
parting of his locks, no matter how tough his opponent.
His aspirations to lightweight honors lend a charm to
him that is only equalled by the persistency with which a
bulldog-ant drags a shin-bone to his lair, failing which
said ant will try to devour it right there on the track. I
like this Terry. Anyway, I’d hate to be ‘ sassy ’to him
unless he was adorned with leg-irons. I’d rather write
him up than call him a ‘ bum.’ But when he sets to work
and predicts that Ruhlin is going to donkey-lick Jeffries,
why, I simply smile, and say, ‘Terry, they ought not to
allow you out without a keeper.’ He is giving Gus ‘ hot
air,’but it’s all kinds of money to a Manhattan cocktail
that he’ll back Jeff, on the dead. Jeff., as you are aware
ere this (if the fight comes off ) is still looking for another
stouch—and he’ll want to make goo-goo eyes to find one,
too. The battle may be over while this is only half-way
to the Sportsman, but should my prognostication be a
hoodoo, why, I’ll quit writing sporting stuff and take to
the Church—and I want to tell you that, right now.
* * * +
Latest pug. sensation is the probable resurrec-
tion of Paddy Slavin as a bruiser, in which connection
he was laid on the shelf, at ’Frisco, years ago, as the
result of a hiding at the hands of negro Butler. Slavin,
like Peter Jackson, never did any good subsequent to
that memorable struggle between the pair in London.
Jackson held aloof from the game for years afterwards,
but Slavin went into it again when funds got low, and
met with a succession of set-backs. Since reaching the
Klondyke mining camp he has had a couple of battles
with unknown men, and won both. Now there’s a pro-
posal about that Slavin and the Yankee sailor, Tom
Sharkey, should meet at Dawson for a purse of £2OOO, and
Sharkey is offered £2OO for exs. This doesn’t look as if
Slavin was, as reported, rolling in wealth. None who
have been in the business ever take to the fistic game
again if they can keep away from it. Worth mentioning
here that Jackson and Paddy chummed up before the
latter’s last trip to the Yukon. They started for Klon-
dyke together, but when a few hundred miles from their
destination, the black was seized with pneumonia, and
has never completely recovered.
• » » *
Comes from America that one-time famous
lightweight pug. Doc. O'Connell will end his days in a
lunatic asylum. Australian George Dawson checked
O'Connell’s nonpareil career nine years ago in a battle at
’Frisco for a 3000 dollar purse. The Yankee was knocked
out during the 20th round. O'Connell is only just past
his 31st year.
* * * *
Further proof comes of Britain’s great falling
off as a producer of pug champions. Bulky, ungainly
Taylor (the “ Woolwich infant,” —not yet 20 years old,
6ft. high, and 13£st.) met George Chrisp (April 1) for the
supremacy of England. Only about a year has elapsed
since Taylor first took to the game, and his record doesn’t
show that he met one good man before aiming at the
premiership. Though Chrisp came better accredited, his
performances were much below top notch. Middleweight
Ted White licked him twice. Three years ago it took
Chrisp 12 rounds to settle Starlight, whom third-raters
Jack Conlon and Maori Ruenalf beat in Sydney recently.
Then the Yankee negro “Coffee Cooler” triumphed over
Chrisp. Now Chrisp is champion of England as the re-
sult of his match with Taylor, whom he knocked out in
the eighth round, after having the thing mostly to him-
self from the opening of the second 3mins. There’s a
power of money for a real hall-marked heavyweight in
England just now, but, though many have been tested,
the right thing has not shown up yet, nor are there any
indications of it materialising.
» * * *
Rivalry was very keen in recent big coursing
event (Commonwealth Challenge Stakes) at Moonee
Valley (Vic.). Some of the best hounds in N.S.W., Vic.
and S.A. competed. Winner of deciding struggle turned
up in Mr. A. B. Pearson’s Aqua Fortis. He barely beat
Mr. S. Bladon’s Braddon’s Blot, who was favorite. Aqua
Fortis was bought by his present owner for 160 guineas
at auction two years ago (after securing three or four
courses in the Moonee Valley Waterloo Cup) with en-
gagements thrown in. Though then only a puppy he
got away with the stake, and subsequently appropriated
a bracelet, and ran up in another stake at Bendigo. Last
Moonee Valley Waterloo Cup saw' Aqua Fortis put Brad-
don’s Blot down in the first round, but Oliver Goldsmith
settled him in the fourth. Aqua Fortis in proper trim
scales 631 b., and Braddon’s Blot carries about 31b. more.
• * * *
Though not a single race came to cyclist Walne
this season he fixes his winnings for the five years he has
been in the game at £2500. Walne, Englishman Jack
Green, and Yankees Chapman and Vaughan, left for the
U.S. by the Sonoma last week.
Cyclist Bilmartin wants all this continent’s re-
cords up to the hour. He owns the lot barring the one-
mile standing and quarter-mile flying, which belong re-
spectively to Don Walker and Joe Megson. The first
mentioned looks sure for him, but with Megson’s
achievement (21 3-ssec.) it is different, as Joe was at his
top when those figures were notched. Martin had a cut
at them in Adelaide but was at least a couple of seconds
outside. He’ll have a motor tandem worked by Middle-
ton and Gibbon to help him along next time.
“Jock”: Movement against the use of less
than three bias “woods” in Sydney bowling world is
assuming definite shape. Conditions of “ champion of
champions” tourney now progressing exclude “ones”
and “ twos ” altogether. Final of recently-decided in-
dividual supremacy of N.S.W. Bowling Association was
won with bowls which, if not absolutely “ straight,” were
very nearly so, and as these can be used effectively by
the veriest tyro, small wonder that the pastime is often
ridiculed by the uninitiated. Many so-called cracks use
smaller bias than “ threes,” and thus reduce bowls to
nothing more than judgment of force required to cover
a given space, which is child’s play. With “ threes” the
game is one of skill.
* * * *
Sydney football season proper began Saturday,
and, all things considered, form shown was good—par-
ticularly in Eastern Suburbs-Glebe match at Agricultural
Society’s Ground, where Glebes (last year’s premiers) met
defeat by 15 (five tries) to 6 (two tries). 4000 people
looked on at a game toughly fought from end to end and
full of dash. Result was foretold by capable judges days
before ; in fact, Eastern Suburbs are even now, with
months of play to come, a strong tip for the final. South
Sydney and Newtown, before 5000 spectators, supplied
the closest tussle, and finished 5 to 3 in favor of the for-
mer. Western Suburbs whipped Balmain (12 to nil) at
Sydney Cricket Ground, evidencing sound defence and,
occasionally, brilliant combination, with speedy, hard-
grafting forwards and skilful halves. “ Unis.” had a
fairly soft thing in North Sydney, squelching it by 19
to 9. The vanquished side is mainly composed of com-
paratively new hands.
• • * •
Adelaide football promises to boom this winter,
and gates in initial matches have beaten all records.
There are now seven strong clubs under the electoral
system, and five grounds are utilised, instead of having
games centralised on the Adelaide Oval. For the first
time S.A. and Victoria play home-and-home matches this
year.
* * * *
At the Eight Hours’ Anniversary Sports, con-
cluded in Melbourne on the 11th, W. Martin, the
American champion, on his Red Bird, again snatched the
laurels from Australia’s fastest speed-man, by winning
the Mile International Scratch Race, and Great Anniver-
sary 2-Miles Wheel Race—value £l7O.
On May 9th, the Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co.
received a cable from Paris to the effect that L. Lesna had
won the Bordeaux to Paris road race, on Dunlops, in 21h.
53min. 40sec. The Bordeaux-Paris road race, of 368
miles, is the chief European road event, and to it all the
crack wheelers of the continent resort. Lesna, the
winner, will be remembered as having ridden here in 1897,
when he created considerable interest with his big pacing
teams, and by putting up a complete set of Australasian
records. Lesna, who is only 36 years of age, has in his
time raised a considerable amount of dust on both track
and road in Europe, and in ’94 won the above-mentioned
classic event for the first time. In 1900, it was won by
J. Fischer, a man from Sauerkraut land, and a champion
in his own country. Lesna beat his record by some
4min., and averaged 17 miles per hour for the journey
with single pacing only, all motors being barred. The
race has only been won twice by Britishers—by G. R.
Mills in ’9O, and A. V. Linton in ’96.
» * * «
They are keen sportsmen in Belgium. At the
opening of a new course in March three horses were left
at the post. The crowd waited until the race was un-
expectedly declared valid, then stormed the enclosures
and set fire to the pavilion ! The stewards only escaped
by promising to dismiss the starter, and to return all
money invested on the three horses in the pari-mutuel.
* * * *
The other side of the risks of race-riding. Told
of a Birmingham ex-jockey (just dead) that he never rode
again after once colliding with a spectator at a sharp turn
and killing him. His nerves were utterly gone, and
whenever he mounted a horse he saw in front of him the
ghost of the dead man.
» m * *
Editor Bulletin. —Me weights a bike has some-
times to carry. In the early Coolgardie days a man used
daily to carry on his wheel to the Boulder 33 doz. eight-
page newspapers. Have known another wheelman bring
691bs. of quartz-samples strapped on his back from the
General Gordon mine to Kalgoorlie. Also saw a bikist
carrying on his shoulder a wooden windlass-barrel 6ft.
long and 7in. diam. And recently, what takes the
“ kitty,” an ex-N.S.W. surveyor rode over 30 miles with
12 empty kerosene tins on his back (to be used in a
cyanide plant in place of zinc boxes).
* f * *
“ Spare-me-days ” : The throwing controversy
now going the rounds of the papers brings to mind old-
time Australian cricketer “ Tommy ” Wills. After play-
ing for many years with Victoria, Wills came over to .
Sydney and joined the old Alberts, playing club-cricket
for some months. He returned to Victoria, after getting
the strength of Sydney bowlers, in time to play for his
State against N.S.W. Tommy could sling one in with the
best of them, and, if he got hold of a soft umpire, his
favorite gag was, “ I’m afraid, Mr. Umpire, I’m getting
over the mark and putting in a no-ball now and then. I
wish you’d watch my toe and see if I come over.” And
then, when the umpire had his eye glued on Wills’ toe,
Tommy would sling one in like a cannon-ball.
“ Rot ” : Can’t understand why N.S.W. Rowing
Association so pig-headedly bars manual labor men. It
is not done in swimming, cycling, or pedestrianism.
Rowers who compete in those branches meet athletes
tabooed as scullers. Where the consistency of the thing
conies in is a mystery. The usual contention is, that
clerks and such are placed at an unfair advantage if com-
pelled to meet those whose avocations call for physical
force, the muscles of the latter class being in better con-
dition. Writer knows of no department of athletics
where this has been conspicuous. In swimming, particu-
larly, it is usually the other way about. The hardest
work Read, Dick Cavill, or Fred Lane (the three best men
in Australia to-day and at least the equal of the best in
the world) ever did was while training for contests.
Luck ! A Koo-wee-rup (Vic.) village
settler lost his wife a month or two back; his
crops (value £200; in the late floods ; and his
horse, trap, tools and stable by fire last week.
With a little local help and a Glovt. loan he has
already started the uphill fight afresh. There are
no medals, or welcomes, or triumphal arches for
such heroes as this.
“ Old Warrior ” to The Bulletin :
Apropos “ 12 Batt., R.F.A.” (B. 27/4/’01) about the airs
of the Australian swaddy, said A.s. is making for himself
a most unenviable reputation. In a letter from
an Australian corporal (S.M. Herald, 26/4/’01)
we read: “We are too useful, and are the only
troops fit for guerilla warfare. Plumer, when offered
a regiment of the Sussex, refused them and said
they were no good to him. The Dragoon Guards are a
fine body of men, but too fresh for this kind of work.
When they first joined we took 40 of their horses, and
they paraded before the General and said they wished to
join some other column, as the Bushmen stole their
horses. The General asked them if they came out here
to fight, and when they replied ‘Yes,’ he said: ‘Well,
come with the Bushmen ; they will show you how to fight,
and also how to look after yourselves.’ ” This precious
yarn shows the Australian swaddy’s boundless credulity
—or imagination. No British general dare refuse any
troops placed under his command, and neither Austra-
lians or any others drawing British pay could steal troop-
horses without prompt punishment.
In setting-up a screed about St. Patrick
recently, a Taranaki (M.L.) comp, sent Ireland’s
Patron Saint to “Gaol” instead of to “Gaul.”
and the paper humbly apologised next issue.
The humor of it ! From Waihi (M.L.)
Telegraph :
Trooper Casey, of the Second Contingent, was charged
at Wellington Magistrates’ Court, with a grave assault on
a Chinaman ; but, in view of his excellent fighting record,
he was let off with a fine of £2 and £3 10s. costs.
S.A. National Ass has stolen the Holder
Govt.’s scheme of Parliamentary reform, and now
advocates a reduction of the number of M’s. P—
. are 78 —by one-third. Yet, when the Holder
Govt, advocated this, last session, the solid Ass
vote wrecked the measure.
“Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
Stories,” by Albert Dorrington (“Alba Dorion”)
is the best b'ook of short stories yet produced in
Australia. The S. Daily Telegraph recognises
the author’s “absolute genius.” The S.M. Herald
says the volume “ contains dramatic pictures
which the best of our artists in words might well
envy.” A handsome cloth-bound volume, 350 pp.,
post-free from Bulletin office for 4s. 6d.
“Nardoo” : The Melb. stockmen’s pro-
cession made me think of the little ragged cross-
ing-sweeper that the artist wanted to paint. His
mother fetched him along, nicely washed, his hair
brushed, and in his Sunday clothes. So the stock-
men were dickered up in new, unworkmanlike
sombreros, new red shirts and clean white pants,
and they were quite sober, and didn’t swear once.
I believe they had even got their boots polished.
The coroner’s jury has verdicted on Syden-
ham (N.S.W.) railway disaster, which it attri-
butes to an unsafe engine running at a high speed.
In The Bulletin’s opinion the evidence was
ample to show that the inferior permanent-way
was a possible third contributing cause. And
behind these secondary causes be the primary
causes of bad management and false economy—
which will remain, on the evidence, whatever
conclusion may be reached by the expert Board of
Inquiry appointed by N.S.W. Commissioners.
Evidence of the master of the slow and
generally-disliked steamer Benelon in the recent
Sydney Thelma and Benelon collision case:—
The engine was of the single pattern, and when the
machinery stuck, as it did occasionally, some one had to
go up on the paddle box and push the wheel. It was use-
less to try and reverse the engine ! ! !
Even the unprofessional members of the court
were staggered to hear that such a purely
aboriginal craft was wandering round for business
purposes in a crowded harbor. And this shocking
old Noah’s Ark, which had often, apparently, to
go astern by hand, doesn’t seem to have ever
struck the late demented Harbor Board as a thing
that called for suppression. This was all the more
remarkable as the late demented Board knew
more about going astern than about any other
subject on the seas or shores.
S’AFRIOAN HYMN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O Britain brave ! renowned in song !
Thy skirts are stained with human blood,
Thine ! once revered by field and flood—
How long, O Land 1 How long ?
And thou hast sung the matchless song,
The holiest hymn in every land,
The hymn of Right with even hand—
How long, O Land I How long ?
How long dost thou defend the Wrong
And shame the Sacred and the Good ?
Thy preachers prate of Brotherhood —
How long, O Land ! How long ?
O Britain brave ! once famed in song,
For Worth and Freedom, Truth and Right,
How far the fall to Greed and Might—
How long, O Land ! How long ?
O Boer and Briton, brave and strong,
Both scions of one comihon stock,
Cease from this devil’s grip and shock—
How long, brave men 1 How long ?
TAS.
HOMO SUN.


AT LAST!
SILVER-MOUNTED
LEATHER GOODS.
. . Leather . .
CHATELAINE BAGS
And WAIST BELTS
From 7/6 to 30/-
. . something New in
&
PURS£ & CARD CrtSe Combined, in Crocodile leather,
Silver-mounted, finest leather lining, 5/- post free.
[gather Ipare.
SILVER-MOUNTED
RUSSIAN, LIZARD and
MOROCCO PURSES
From 7/6 to 30/“
White for our . .
ILLUSTRATED
SOUVENIR
CATALOGUE.
Mailed free.
MODERN ART JEWELLERY CO.
187 PITT-ST.
Telephone 3490.
NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.
For the many complaints arising from Habitual Constipation,
there is nothing like
CALIFORNIA SYRUPofFIGS
IT ACTS AS NATURE ACTS GENTLY AND PAINLESSLY, CLEANSES THE
SYSTEM THOROUGHLY, AND LEAVES THE LIVER, STOMACH AND KIDNEYS
PERMANENTLY STRENGTHENED.
When you feel bilious or have indigestion; when you are
£
5
*3;
w
3f
OF
Jlv.
5
mfl «KO«tVtHT WtMCOT PMtINT*
MOST AOOEFTAOCe FORM
THIWIWOIHkILT kA*ATI*« PHIHOIAC«»Oi
PIAHTt KNOW* TO AOT MO«T ftCNtttOlAl
*.f| TO evUMI THt SVSTIM otcotvai
tr, to aihhancntlt ovtncoMe
HABITUAL CONSTIPATION
I
8
BTtrrr rmwji to aot otwtvt
PTOMPTLT OH TMI
KIDNEYS, LIVER ANO BOWELS.
MiM««
OtPOT roA o»t* T OHITATN AMO OOLONI
PRICE lA* l*4a
XrWrW'iM
suffering from depression, loss
of appetite, feverishness, head-
ache; when the liver and bowels
are sluggish and inactive, you
are, in nine cases out of ten,
suffering from constipation,
either through neglect or, at
the other extreme, through
excessive drugging or pill
taking: you want a medicine
that will make the organs act
as Nature prompts them to act
when they are in a healthy
condition. California Syrup of
Figs (the original and genuine)
supplies the want. It is both
pleasant to the taste—a luxury
as much as a medicine—and
an unfailing remedy. It acts
as Nature does. It does not
gripe, nauseate, or weaken. It
gives relief pleasantly, leaving
the liver, kidneys and bowels
permanently benefited, so that
its use may be discontinued as
soon as the system is relieved
and cleansed. There is no dis-
comfort or inconvenience. It
simply aids and seconds Nature,
and its results are healthful
regularity, and total freedom
from dangerous impurities in the system. That is why
doctors recommend its use.
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS
is a positively reliable, and at the same time the most
agreeable, remedy for Constipation, Sluggish Liver,
Biliousness, Indigestion, Depression, Feverishness,
Loss of Appetite, Headache, and all kindred complaints,
speedily restoring health, appetite, energy and good spirits.
A boon to the busy man; grateful to delicate persons ; a
treat to children.
THE GOOD IT DOES IS PERMANENT.
In order to get its beneficial effects you must take the genuine remr'
Remember the full titIe—CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FlGS—and refuse inferior
substitutes. Every package ot the genuine bears the Name and Trade Mark
of the Sole Manufacturers, the California Fig Syrup Co.
Of all Chemists and Stores, is. ijd. and is. gd. per bottle.
DEPOT:—32 SNOW HILL, LONDON, ENG.
u On Our Selection.” By “ Steele Rudd.”
THE LADIES'
“ Fx & R” Watch at £6 6s.
Is a f-plate Lever.
Is jewelled in 10 holes.
Has ruby roller jewel.
Has solid heavy 18ct. gold case.
Has Brequ6t hair-spring.
Has compensated and adjusted balance.
It is guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in .order for
two years (breakages excepted) without charge.
It will stand hard riding and knocking about.
It is made in every style of case.
It goes with profound accuracy.
Lady’s J-plate Movement.
14ct. Gold Case, £5 6s.
Fairfax g Roberts,
Vice-Regal Jewellers,
23 Hunter St., Sydney.
Lady’s f-plate Movement.
18ct. Gold Case, £6 6s.
“ SHARPSHOOTING
For Sport and War”
m
By W. W. GREENER.
Hits the Mark!
NETT^
If you wish to know how to guard the
Empire—if you are one of those who will
rally round the old flag—read this book.
It teaches all about Rifles and Rifle
Shooting, how to aim and make allowance,
&c.,and it contains chapters on Ranges and
Rifle Clubs, with a history of the part
played by the Armed Civilian in the past.
The Best Shilling’s Worth ever Published !
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations for 1/- nett.
Of all Booksellers, orC. W. Buckland, Agent
forW. W. Greener, 317 Collins St., MELB.
Business Announcements.
JUST THE WEATHER FOR
OVERCOATS.
GENTLEMEN,—
The cold weather (better late than
never) has come to stay, and you will find the
evenings and mornings a “ hit chilly.” You
need not Wander around looking for the best
House for OVERCOATS, come and have a look
at our
GUINEA overcoat.
This is the coat that has been made to please
you, and is selling rapidly.
It has an irresistible richness about it that
few can withstand ; aside from this it will give
good service.
It is made of High-class Quality Melton Cloth,
lined Italian Cloth throughout; Silkette lined
Sleeves, Velvet Collar, Strong Pockets, Full
Back, with Two Vents,
PERFECTLY TAILORED, all for 21s.
COLORS: Navy, Black, Browns, Fawns & Drabs.
“ A look in,” then “ A try on,” and the result
will be that you will walk out WELL-SUITED
WITH AN OVERCOAT for 21s.
If you cannot come in, send us your Size,
enclose a Guinea, mention Color, and we will
post you one by return.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
FEDERAL CLOTHIERS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
The Towers Printing and Pub-
lishing Co,
APPLICATIONS are invited for the position
of EDITOR to the Charters Towers New
Eagle (Straight-out Labor Paper), at a Salary of
£4 10s. per week. Applications close with the
undersigned on June 13th, 1001. Applicants must
enclose copies of testimonials. Successful applicant
to be appointed on three months’ probation.
By order of the Board,
JOHN CHAPMAN,
Business Manager.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there ts
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“El is’King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Proprietor - - CEO. W. ELLIS.
an efficient
5/~
FILM CAMERA
THE BROWNIE.
Not a toy. Takes splendid photographs,
2£ by 2J inches. Complete with hand-
book of instructions.
KODAKS from ss. to £7 15s.
OF ALL PHOTOGRAPHIC DEALERS, or from
KODAK, Limited,
The Block , SBU Collins Street, Melbourne.
Send for illustrated price list and mention this
paper
You are
not asked
to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance,
&c. All you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottle of medi=
cine and to try it. I am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAt PROFESSION.
H.G. ROOT, *B, Endsleigh Gdns., LON DON.
I Cure Fits.
“SANITAS”
NATURE’S
GREAT DISINFECTANT.
Non-Poisonousm
Does Not Stain Linen*
FLUID, POWDER, SOAPS, Ac.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
Valuable book, «HOW TO DISINFECT,”
free on application.
The “SANITAS” Co., Ltd.,
BETHNAL GREEN, LONDON.
At Poverty Point.
There is no more striking figure in Stageland
(writes Tub Bulletin’s London correspondent) than
Clarance Holt, the father of Australia’s Bland. He is now
reproducing 1 “ New Babylon” on up-to-date lines, and the
Cremorne Garden scene becomes a Covent Garden fancy
dress ball. The play has netted nearly £50,000, and
C.H. has played Flotsam over 3000 times. He is
over 75, but keenly intelligent, full of interesting
yabber, and is all in all a mnemonic marvel. He has
been a “ stager” 58 years, and first Struck Australia in
1854, when he toured as a tragedian. Four years
later he again got “ down under,” playing Othello to the
lago of G. V. Brooke, the victim of the “ London ”
wreck. C. H., with old Bill Hoskins, managed Melb.
Theatre Royal in 1862, and during that time engaged
Madame Bishop, Sir William and Lady Don, the only
Joseph Jefferson, Julia Matthews, Brooke, and others.
He is to-day a marvel of a man, and never takes a drink
until 5 p.m. daily, though he can hold his own as an
athletic absorber of whiskies against most absorbers.
His photo appears in this issue.
If Williamson’s principal prima-donna, De Yere Sapio,
has retained the voice and appearance which made a
sensation when she visited Australia with Camille Urso,
the violinist, some years ago, she should go a long way
towards ensuring success for the Italian opera season.
Sapio and Larizza (the principal tenor) are big attractions
in the operatic world. One of them, Travaglim, is
already known to Melbourne as the Mephistopheles who
was associated with the Cutticas in a fine performance of
“ Faust ”at the Princess’s. An “ all right” basso, then,
Travaglini is said to be a bit better now.
“P.”: How refreshing would be a good old-fashioned
roaring farce, after Miss O’Neil’s dismal plays ! People
do indeed take their pleasures sadly, going home after
enjoying “La Tosoa,” with the deaths of Angelotti,
Scarpia, Cavaradossi and Floria. Mental pork-chops for
supper.
Eroni’s circus is showing on the site occupied by Rowe’s,
46 years ago, corner of Lonsdale and Exhibition-streets,
Melbourne, where Coppin’s Iron Pot, the Olympic, was
built in 1855.
Par. from the London Referee “ The Cinderella
Dance of the Brotherhood of the Cheerful Sparrow has
been postponed in consequence of the death of Her
Majesty.”
“ Outlaw ” : Was surprised to hear Nance O’Neil stum-
ble over the pronunciation of the “ u ” sound in a simple
word like “ news.” It was in Fedora, and the star con-
gratulated De Sirieux upon his approaching marriage in a
sentence which covered an unintentional pun. “ Nothing
could have delighted me more,” said Nance, effusively,
‘ ‘ than the noose of your happiness,” and Plimmer tried to
smother his grin with his eyeglass. Recalls Sam Slick
and the little boy who asked, “ Please, sir, will you lend
mother your noosepaper ? ” Whereupon Sam brought out
his marriage certificate.
Queer par. from Ballarat Courier : —“ At the concert
held in Her Majesty’s Theatre on Sunday night the sum
of £6 16s. 6d. was collected ‘ for the poor of Ballarat,’
and the .audience, in response to the desire of the pro-
moters that someone should be named to distribute this,
nominated the editor of the Courier. The manager of
the Bellevue Sanatorium Liquid Health Dept, waited upon
us yesterday to ask us to accept the trust, and then ex-
plained that the money would not be handed over to the
poor, but that 39 bottles of the Sanatorium medicine, at
3s. 6d. a bottle, would be available for the poor in lieu of
the £6 16s. 6d. The physic is at the Sanatorium office,
10 and 11 Camp Hill Chambers.”
A casual correspondent: “ I went to see the last night
of the ‘ World’s Verdict’ at Sydney Lyceum. It was well
worth the trouble. One scene —the really big one—was
laid in ‘ the maniac’s den.’ In real life maniacs mostly
reside in houses or lunatic asylums ; it is only in melo-
drama that they live in dens. If the real world was any-
thing like the Lyceum variety I suppose we would see
advertisements in the daily papers : ‘ Commodious den to
let, suitable for respectable lunatic without encumbrance.
—Apply J. Howler, deranged house agent.’ A very large
man—l think it was Augustus Glover—was the maniac,
and whenever he was going to howl something extra,
the management turned the green light on him,
and made him look as if he was covered with
fungus, or had left his stomach in a damp cellar
where it had grown mouldy. The scene where the
heroine was tied up, and the automatic knife was coming
down on her pale neck, suggested the good old circular-
saw business in ‘ Foiled.’ (In ordinary life a man simply
says that the blooming thing has fallen through, but on
the stage he is ‘ foiled.’) Apropos of nothing in particu-
lar, I am going to write a new drama, to be called
‘ Boiled,’and I have thought out a new sensation for it.
The cigarette villain and the dog-stealer and the blue
lunatic will moor the hero in a huge cauldron with only
his head appearing above the water. Then they will
light a fire underneath it, and laugh a grating laugh and
go away. The hero will be rescued just as the water
begins to steam. A footnote to the programme will
explain that the blueness of the lunatic is owing to mor-
tification havinir set in. lam keeping you two front
seals.”
A bioscope entertainment occupies a southern
house, and the management advertises on the local
trams with long canvas “streamers” thusly: “The
Queen’s Funeral! The Queen’s Funeral! Two hours of
solid enjoyment! ”
Musgrove’s production of “ The Flying Dutchman ”
is probably unique in regard to the unpicturesqueness of
the short, square artist (Mooney) who filled the name-part
in the first two performances. The central figure should,
as far as possible, realise the eeriness of the legend. Ir-
ving, in the early days of his reputation for uncanny
character acting, was persuaded to appear as Vander-
decken in a dull dramatic version of the old maritime
fable. The drama was staged for the sake of the actor’s
striking personality.
Writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent:—“ A
young and much-boomed singer from one of the outlying
parts of your land went to the only Marchesi to be turned
into a finished prima donna. Much friction and little oil
followed. The singer may speak for herself, and will
probably do so with some energy, but this is how Mar-
chesi grubbed her out of her musical paddock : ‘ She is
too ignorant—too illiterate—so conceited that she thinks
she knows as much as I do. Has no style—no appear-
ance-will never be anything but a concert singer!’
The singer’s opinion about Marchesi is probably even
more forcible than this.”
A certain chic little actress, erstwhile idolised by the
Australian public, is one of the most brain-restless cases
at Yarra Bend Asylum. She talks to herself by the hour
together, as though she were learning new comic-opera
parts, and, when she goes out to take exercise, she races
round and round the yard, striking with her little fists at
anyone within reach. Poor little Flora! She is still
quite young and pretty looking.
How they make subjects for the cinematograph.
Sydney D.T.’s correspondent in China relates how the
Russian and British forces, drawn up in battle-array,
some score of yards between them, at Tientsin Siding,
earned an honest penny by posing in mock warfare for
enterprising photographers.
“Melb.”: A large and lordly G.O.M. who paces the
pave, & la the Duke of Buccleuch, is William Martin, the
popular tenor singer of the Bourke-street halls from 40
to 50 years ago —such forgotten places as Tilke’s, the
Colosseum, Surrey, and Canterbury, where veteran bush-
men will remember him in their city jaunts. His col-
league w r as Harry Sharp, the comique, who, being fat and
jolly, turned undertaker’s man. The last time I saw him
he was on the box-seat of a hearse.


THE
‘PLUM’
ĥ
THE
‘PLUM’
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had th™Tn „ 0 !T Ve8 ’ we know the exact kind of
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS for a number of years, can testify to
Irhihm 1 ?. ~nA Z° R STROP ’ s P ecia,, y ma de for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
RAZOLES LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
/■ O* 1 T> . "nrsntllj 0(1 UaKci
m- Pto« i'„ ™o”S D 6he q ™
80,0 Asents: CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
“I’tt Try It."
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
EX!
The Result.
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers &. Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any part of Australasia.
CRAIG & AITKEN
New South Wales Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
ħ
VDODGrE
s w p°r POLLIES
Guaranteed to transmit from 25
to 60 per cent, more power than
any iron pulley made with same
tension of belt.
70 per cent. Lighter than cast
iron.
40 .>» <> wrought ,
iron or steel. 1
No Key Seat to cut.
No Set Screw to twist off. '
No Shaft to take down.
Perfect Balance. '
Perfect Shaft Fastening. (
Write for Prices and Particulars to Sole Agents
for Australasia— |
PURKE & [HCy l-o-[id.;
60 Clarence-St., Sydney, n.s.w.
The Jolliest Book of the Year
“STEELE RUDD’S” BOOK—
h
ypn
7S
Ensures a
‘tiabby
Old 7
CULLED FROM THE KINDLY FRUITS OF THE EARTH
It is a revelation in regard to the marvellous instinct of benevolence tw „ .
providence. Scientists have for years been endeavouring to discover some r«ih*Tf 8 i an , a u 'T ISe
healing, ie , after the teaching of nature. • ‘ Sanoalmus ”is remedy beint ° f
than an extraction from & n °thing more nor less
flowers, fruit, herbs and seaweed
Although the discoverers of ‘ Sanoalmus ”do not profess to have fnunr? m * , .
> j Sh£s£ m certainiy provided the means ° f
WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY TEN YEARS AGO
would have been scoffed at as the suggestion of a lunatic, or perhaps regarded in the light of hei™
CHAMPION FIRST-CLASS UP-TO-DATE LIE
To-day we are astounded at the simplicity of its system of working. “ Sanoalmus ” is ,
taken from the natural produce of earth and sea, that we in our hitherto blind ignorance* y ple ’
HAVE BEEN TRAMPLING UNDER OUR FEET
If you suffer with your Nerves, Liver, or Kidneys, ” Sanoalmus ” will put such trouble «.
Anemia Blushing, Weakness and Debility, it is a certain cure, in fact it puts such The
system that anyone may y e ln,:o *he
“LOOK THE WORLD IN THE FACE”
and fear no man. Its influence on the blood is extraordinary. Two or three bottles of <• „
will do more in a case of impure blood than two years’ treatment by ordinary methods SanoalmuB
CONSUMPTIVES REJOICE
unless in a very advanced stage “Sanoalmus” will cure you—under mv „v,*r
considerably prolong life. Taking “ Sanoalmus” at regular intervals not 'alone cures but
from such everyday ills as Indigestion, Flatulence, Bad Breath. Headache Ear-ache Pn lfS
Sore Throat. Neuralgia, Giddiness. Influenza, &c. In Rheumatism and Sdatica itt „,„ B t ß beneflc“ ’
and will accomplish wonderful results. It conquers Backache when all other treatment has faded
for Constipation its action is simply perfect, and renders a healthy and reoular working rn
functions of the bowels. Last but not least* “ Sanoalmus ” must be welcomefaTa ng
for the reason that if persevered with regularly for a brief period it will entirely destroy S
THAT HORRID BLOOD POISONING MICROBE
the recognised curse of humanity. Here you wi 1 assuredly realise the far-reaching effeet,
this “Simple Discovery,” and also the forethought which recognising an evil furnishes thi
antidote. “ Sanoalmus” (as before stated) renders the blood perfect; consequently it ensures
lovely complexion, does away entirely with all pimples, blushing, bio.ches, or red rough .
peach-like bloom attends the use of “ Sanoalmus.” ’ or rea, rough skin ; a
THE UNTUTORED SAVAGE WOUNDED BY POISONOUS SNAKE
or spear, turns instinctively to certain herbs that not only relieve the pain but save his life
Sanoalmus” contains all the properties of these herbs. It is nature’s own remedy
MOTHERS TAKE HEED.
When baby is teething a half teaspoonful of “ Sanoalmus ”in milk will soothe, strengthen and
comfort your little darling. Remember, it is absolutely harmless to the smallest mite If it so nlew
you, it is within your power to bask in the heavenly sunshine of perfect health, no longer need you
LANGUISH IN THE GLOOM OF SICKNESS AND DESPONDENCY
To be obtained from all chemists, price 3/6 per bottle, or direct from the nronrietoro
Wells. Strong & Coy., 10 Barrack Street, opposite Savings Bank of New South Wales, Sydney? P
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.
. A Reprint of articles from The Bulletin.
Price SIXF*B!XrC£S = I»oated., Qc3L-
Heame’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE FAMOUS poß
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA. *
Those who have talcen this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis Con oh DifficnlHr -d ~ • „
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable as it effects a Cmmlf 1 Hoar^ ness ’ Pain or
fortmg in al Lying irritation m the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic,’nor Consumntm ' tln'n Itw m< ? St C ° m '
never been known to exist where Coughs have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beTnw f ' Consumption has
and a Complete Cure is certain. Beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERT DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about, the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks. —Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir. —I suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.” —Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 .years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vic.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to mv mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN'S. MORTIMER.’’
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
! Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
[ I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
| Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
| as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
| time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
I Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain'and distr. ss in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M.' MORTIMER.”
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as followsAs for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
nan an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town quite strong.
I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
" eek he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at' once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. .Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night's rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years' Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,’
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of .your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
'“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Years’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, i' am more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“DearSir,—Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment!
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville
Queensland, writes “After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it ”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states--“I
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARSE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot- offlc e : No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.


THE AUSTRALIAN CONDENSED MILK
COMPANY LIMITED
P EQUIRE the services of FIRST CLASS TRAVELLERS
in Town and Country, as Representatives for the
sale of their CONDENSED MILK. This Milk is Specially
prepared for hot or tropical climates and has many
advantages over any other Condensed Milk. Applicants
are requested to state ground covered, estimated amount
of Sales per week @ 15s. 6d. per case of four (4) dozen
F. 0.8. Sydney, salary or commission, as well as all other
particulars, and be prepared to furnish References and
Security if required. If applicants hold any other com
missions these must he stated.
Applv bv letter in confidence to
THE MANAGER,
Sydney, PITT TOWN,
3rd May, 1901. Near WINDSOR.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
ALEXANDER D. PEDEN,
ACCOUNTANT to the New South Wales M. L. and A.
Company, Ltd., is a CANDIDATE for the position of
AUDITOR. To be proposed bv JAMES BURNS, Esq.
('Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd ), and seconded by W. A.
COTTKE, Esq. (Director of the Tank of New South Wales).
60
TEARS DTEINGr
FOR THR LADIES.
W- C. lEXjIDIRXIDG-IE CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STJUIUT, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from, all the colonies promptly
attended to.
Removes Headache
Cures Dyspepsia
Strengthens the Nerves
ii
-
/v
ii
0
MOST WONDERFUL TONIC
FOR LAMES, CHILDREN, AND
DELICATE GENTLEMEN.
FISHER and CO.’S
PHOSPHERINE
An Invaluable and Unequalled Tonic for
the Nerves, Brain and Heart.
The Royal Hoad to Sound Health and
Solid Comfort.
Especially Recommended for Delicate
Gentlemen, Ladies, and Children.
A Certain Cure for Headache and “ That
Tired Feeling 1 .”
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Is. per Bottle
POST FREE (excepting Queensland) to all parts of
Australia.
FISHER & GO.S PREPARATION has been on
the Market for Sixteen Years.
Particularly see that the name “FISHER & CO.”
appears on each bottle.
PHOSPHERINE
Is an UNFAILING REMEDY for Neuralgia, Nervous
Dyspepsia, Anaemia, Brain-fag, Depression, Impoverished
Blood, Rheumatism, Sleeplessness, Indigestion, Influenza,
Nervous Headaches, Debility, and all disorders consequent
upon a Reduced State of the Nervous System.
1/- PER BOTTLE—FOUR TIMES THE QUANTITY
2/6 PER BOTTLE.
Fisher & Co.
The Leading Homoeopathic
Chemists of Australasia.
PHARMACY:
337 George St., Sydney
(Nearly opposite G-.P.0.)
ADVICE FREE ON ALL COMPLAINTS.
Government Notices.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
Sydney, 2nd May, 1901.
TREASURY BILLS ACT OF 1899.
IENDERS-will be received up to and not later than 4th
June, 1901, for the purchase of £500,000 worth of
easury Bills, to be issued under the authority of the
easury Bills Act of 1899, which provides that, for the
rpose of carrying out certain Public Works, the raising
a sum not exceeding Four Millions sterling is
actioned. ...
Such bills to the amount mentioned above, viz.,
00 000, will have a currency of five years, and will bear
terest at the rate of 3£ per centum per annum, payable
If-yearly, said interest to accrue from Ist June, 1901,
d be repayable at the Bank of New South Wales,
dney, at par.
A deposit of 10 per cent, on the face value of Bills
nderea for in Sydney, Bank drafts payable on demand,
eques on Sydney endorsed by Banks, or Sydney Money
•ders, must accompany, each Tender, and the balance of
cepted Tenders will be payable at The Treasury, Sydney
thin three days of date of allotment.
Bills will be issued of the following denominations, viz.,
00 £5OO, £lOOO, £5OOO, and where possible will be
lotted in the values applied for by successful Tenderers,
it the Treasurer will not in any instance guarantee
vision of values to Tenderers
Applications wall be receivable for sums of £lOO (one
indred pounds) and upwards.
Forms of Tender and all particulars can be obtained at
le Treasury, Sydney, on or after 4th May, 1901.
Tenders to be addressed “ Under Secretary for linance
id Trade,” and endorsed “ Tender for Treasury Bills.
The highest or any Tender not necessarily accepted.
2a12 T. WADDELL.
An old man charged with the little dis-
reputable offence of begging, was able to convince
the bench of Sydney Central, the other day,
that he held for years the post of Crown Prosecutor
in Maoriland. Inexorable Law gave him a month,
A copy of “A Policy for the Common-
wealth,” The Bulletin’s particularly suc-
cessful pamphlet, will be posted from this office to
any Australian address on receipt of Bd. in stamps
(of any State).
For many years the stretches of pumice-
land in the M.L. Hot Lakes district have been
regarded as valueless. Govt, is now planting (by
convict labor) thousands of acres of them with
forest trees. The deciduous trees are not doing
too well, but pines of all sorts are thriving
wonderfully. In years to come the plantations
should be a splendid national asset, if not
destroyed meanwhile by another eruption.
A good deal has been published about
the Chamberlain war-contracts. Chamberlain’s
brother went against London Morning Leader
and the Star for libel. Got a verdict in one case,
and in the other damages were paid without a
verdict. Nevertheless the Times is bitter on the
Chamberlains with its comments. It points out
that the members of the Government who re-
spectively granted the contracts, for army and
navy, are neither of them in the Government as
re-constituted by Lord Salisbury.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
The law of S.A. and some other places
which permits the alleged father of an unborn
“ illegitimate ” to be ordered to provide expenses
and maintenance is a very good law ; but some-
times things go wrong, and then the law looks very
foolish. For instance, lately a reformatory girl in
an up-country town, on whose behalf the State
Children’s Council was suing, flabbergasted the
court, and everybody else, by tripping into the
box and saying—“l—l thought I was until just
now ; but something has happened, and now I
know I’m not.” Case dismissed promptly, though
the experienced State Children’s officer wanted an
adjournment to find out a little more. Which
suggests whether it wouldn’t be time enough to
bring such cases after a medical examination bad
left the lady’s condition in no doubt.
Dear Bulletin. —A writer in The Aus-
tralasian discredits the statement —occurring in
Prince Ooktomsky’s “Travels in the East”—
“That some drunken English soldiers of the
Leinster Regiment at Dum-Dum, in India, threw
into a pond, and one of them shot, a native who
had pleaded ignorance when required, after being
dragged out of bed, to show them the way to the
nearest grog-shop.” “The murderer,” it is added,
“ was sentenced to death, but afterwards acquitted
and set free, because of the indignation among the
English in Bengal, and the excitement in the
Leinster Regiment, which announced that, should
the sentence be executed,, they ‘would have to
mutiny openly and to shoot every nigger with
whom they came in contact.’” “To a Russian,”
simply adds The Australasian scribe, “the
story would seem quite credible, but, of course,
English people know that such an incident could
never have happened.” But it did happen. I was
in North-West India at the time, and remember
the case well. Three men of the Leinster Regt.
and one of the Derby Regt., out shooting, did
throw into a tank a native for not supplying them
with liquor, and one man did deliberately shoot
him dead therein. The Govt, offered a reward of
1000 rupees, and the Derby man rounded, and
swore O’Hara was the slayer. O’Hara was tried
in Calcutta, found guilty, and sentenced to death.
But a new trial was ordered, and.O’Hara was
acquitted, exactly as stated.— Sach But.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue *
UNDER DISTINGUISHED
ĥ
ROYAL PATRONAGE.
8
■■ 111
si
'mm.
ill
mm
mg
tss&sz
m
ssss
m
mm
U
m
m
iJfHkUM^Wi
m
V
From H.B.H. PRINCESS HOHEMLOHE.
(The German Ambassador's Daughter.)
« • KOKO' tor the Hair is the BEST Dressing I
know. It keeps the head cool, promotes growth,
and iB in EVERY way excellent.
PRTNCPSS HOHENLOHE.
i Recommended and Used by H.M. The
Queen lof Greece). Princess Victoria
I (of Schaumburg Lippe), Princess
Hohenlo)ie. Princess Marie
(of Greece), Princess Henry Reuss,
Rear-Admiral Tinklar. &c.. &c.
KOKO FOR THE HAIR
7] is a tonic, cleansing, invigorating preparation, causes the hair to grow, keeps it soft and pliant, i mparts
to it the lustre and freshness of youth, eradicates dandriff, prevents hair from falling, is the most
til cleanly of all hair preparations, and is perfectly harmless.
QI,I) PEOPLE LIKE IT
|| | for its wonderful power to invigorate decayed hair, and induce an entire new growth when that is possible.
MIDDLE-4GEP PEOPLE LIKE It,
ifj because it keeps dandriff away, and makes the hair grow thick and strong.
VOIXO LADIES LIKE IT
l|[ as a dressing, because it gives the hair a beautiful glossy lustre, and enables them to dress it in what-
||l ever form they wish, where it will remain.
CHILDREN LIKE IX.
ijj because it keeps the hair and scalp cool and clean, allays irritation, and keeps the hair in whatever
'l' position desired.
THEY AH. LIKE ITT.
1 because it is pure as crystal perfectly colourless, contains no poisonous substances, dye. sugar of
lead, sulphur, nitrate of silver or grease, does not soil or colour the scalp, face, or the most delicate
fabric in clothing produces a wonderful, pleasant and cooling effect on the head, and no other dressing
is needed to give the hair the most elegant appearance possible. Try it once, and you will use no other.
Is., 2s. 6d., and 4s. 6d., of all Chemists, Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
Australian Depot: Koko-Maricopas Co., Ld., 14,Castlereagh St.,Sydney,N.S.W.
, CAPTION.—See that this Registered Trade Mark is on every bottle.
ħ
h
NEWMAN’S
For Removing:
Superfluous Hair.
SPECIAL
C. E. NEWMAN, Chemist,
52 King: Street, Sydney.
DEPILATORY
THE REAL REASON
of the continuous popularity of Wolfe’s Schnapps is apparent. The
“ easy-going” have been, by various methods, occasionally persuaded
to try inferior and cheaper liquors under the guise of Schnapps, but
THE SALES OF
the genuine article show with what little appreciation these would-he
imitations are held.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
knows no rival, and as evidence of its popularity its consumption is
SREATCR THAN EVER.
The public has now awakened to the advantage of purchasing only
WOLFE’S, the real original SCHNAPPS, and avoiding imitations
and adulterations.


The SUBSCRIPTION LISTS are Now Open at Cairns, Townsville, Mackay, Rockhampton, Maryborough
((Queensland) Brisbane, Newcastle, Sydney, Melbourne, Geelong, Adelaide, Port Pirie, and Premantle, and
will CLOSE ON or BEPORE 4 p.m. on THURSDAY, 23rd MAY, 1901.
Howard Smith Company Limited
(INCORPORATED UNDER THE COMPANIES ACTS.)
Numrer of Shares Held or to be Taken by Them.
51,853 Pref. and 51,853 ordy. Shares, all fully paid up.
24,921 Pref. and 24,921 ordy. Shares, all fully paid up.
24,791 Pref. and 24,791 ordy. Shares, all fully paid up.
25,170 Pref. and 25,170 ordy. Shares, all fully paid up.
Directors. a rinmnanwH
IL D “™D EDMONDS SMITH Market-rtJeet Melbourne..
WALTER SYDNEY HOWARD SMITH Market -street, Melbourne.,
™ ARLES SMITH George-street, Sydney
. BELLINGHAM HOWARD SMITH ... Market-street, Melbourne,
e irs eetmg o Shareholders will elect a Board of from 5 to 7 Directors, as the meeting may determine, and the above gentlemen will offer themselves for election.
Bankers : The Bazik of Australaaia.
_ Provisional Managing Director : H. B H iward Smith.
Provision al Secretary : J. K. Lotherington, 35 Market Street, Melbourne.
Auditors : (To be Appointed at First Meeting of Shareholders.)
Brokers : Members of Recognised Stools: Exchanges in Australia.
Capital : £1,000,000, Divided into 500,000 Five Per Cent. Cumulative Preference Shares at £1 each.
500,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each.
Present Issue z 250, OOO Five Per Cent. Cumulative Shares of £1 each £250,000.
250,000 Ordinary Shares at £1 each £250,000.
ABRIDGED
PROSPECTUS
THIS Company (hereinafter called the New Company) will be formed to take over the business
1901 ’ of the old-established company of WM. HOWARD SMITH and SONS
PROPRIETARY, LIMITED, Steamship Owners and Coal Merchants, trading in Victoria, New
South Wales, Queensland, South Australia, and West Australia (hereinafter called the Vendor Com-
pany)- as a going concern, including the steamships, steam tenders, lighters, hulks, wharves, lands,
buildings, shares in other companies, provedoring stores, stevedoring plant, coal cargoes afloat, coal,
stocks, drays, horses, outstanding accounts owing to the Vendor Company, goodwill, and every other
asset belonging to the Vendor Company, and the liabilities of the Vendor Company all as set forth in
the body of the prospectus.
The reasons for placing the New Company before the investing public of Australia are :
1. That the business hitherto carried on as a family Proprietary has now assumed such dimen-
sions as to render it judicious that it should be converted into a Public Company.
2. That its constituents and supporters may have an opportunity of becoming Shareholders, and
thus financially interested in co-operating for its continued welfare and success.
3. That further Capital may be available for the purchase of Steamers to replace those at pre-
sent under charter, and to meet the increase in Coasting Trade which will result under the
Federal Inter-State Freetrade tariff.
The purchase price is payable solely in shares of the New Company, thus evincing the confidence
of the Vendor Company’s shareholders in the prospects of the New Company.
The contract for purchase will stipulate that the Vendor Company shall provide a Reserve for the
whole of the costs, charges, and expenses preliminary and incidental to the promotion, formation,
establishment, and registration of the New Company.
The New Company buys direct from the Vendor Company without the addition of any interme-
diate profit.
Of the present issue of 250,000 Five Per Cent. CUMULATIVE PREFERENCE SHARES and
ORDINARY SHARES, the shareholders in the Vendor Company will accept 162,500 of the
CUMULATIVE PREFERENCE SHARES, and 162,500 of the ORDINARY SHARES, as pay-
ment in full for the Property transferred. The balance—B7,soo CUMULATIVE PREFERENCE
and 87,500 ORDINARY SHARES, are now offered for public subscription at par.
The Preference Shares will, as provided for in the Articles of Association, entitle the holders to a
fixed cumulative preferential dividend at the rate of Five Per Cent, per annum, payable out of the
earnings of the Company, and will confer to the holders the right in a winding-up to repayment of
capital in priority to the Ordinary Shares ; but they shall not confer a right to any further participa-
tion in earnings or assets.
The. Ordinary Shares will, as provided for in the Articles of Association, entitle the holders to
such dividends or bonuses, or both, as may be declared from time to time, and will confer to the holders
the right in a winding-up to all earnings and assets after provision has been made for the dividends
and face value of the Preference Shares.
The DIVIDENDS on the PREFERENCE and ORDINARY SHARES now offered for public
subscription will be payable half-yearly after having been duly declared at the half-yearly meetings.
The first payment (on the amount paid up) will be made in September, 1901, calculated from the date
of payment of the amount due on allotment to 30th June, 1901.
Payments are to be made as follow:
PREFERENCE SHARES—
ON APPLICATION
ON ALLOTMENT ...
The BALANCE at any time after allotment as may be required by the
Board of Directors, but not more than 2s 6d per share per month...
Applicants to whom PREFERENCE SHARES are allotted will have
the right, at their discretion, to pay up the uncalled money on such
shares at any time.
ORDINARY SHARES-
ON APPLICATION
ON ALLOTMENT
The BALANCE at any time after allotment as may be required by the
Board of Directors, but not more than 2s 6d per share per month...
Applicants to whom ORDINARY SHARES are allotted will have the
right, at their discretion, to pay up the uncalled money on such
shares at any time.
The following valuation of assets has been made at the Vendor Company’s request by John Traill,
Esq., Chairman of Huddart, Parker, and Co. P.oprietary, Limited, and D. Y. Syme, Esq., General
Manager of the Melbourne Steamship Co., Limited.
. Melbourne, 9th April, 1901.
Messrs. Wm. Howard Smith and Sons Proprietary, Limited, Market-street, Melbourne.
, . Hear Sirs, —In accordance with your request to this effect, we have carefully valued the Steam-
ships, Steam-tenders, Lighters, Hulks, Plant, Lands, Buildings, Shares in other Companies, and
sundry other assets of your Company, which, in view of your intention to transform the present
Proprietary Company into a Public Company, you have been pleased to submit to us for valuation.
In order to get this valuation we have been supplied with full particulars of each of the properties
submitted, and as the result of the close scrutiny on our part of these particulars, we have now to
state that the valuation of the total at which we have arrived is £305,715. We are fully satisfied that
the amount named accords. with your request that we should appraise the various properties at what
might be considered the fair market price of the day as a going business.
The above amount does not include the Company’s interest in the Central Wallsend Estate, but
oruy to the extent of the deposit paid to secure such interest, nor does it include the Value of Provi-
dore’s, Sail-Maker’s, and Upholsterer’s Stores, together with Stationery, in Melbourne and Sydney—
all of these, as we are informed, having been included by the Company’s Seeretary in amounts owing
by branches and agencies.
We beg to remain, dear Sirs, yours faithfully, JOHN TRAILL.
D. Y. SYME.
The wharves, sheds, land, buildings, lighters, and plant in the various States are all essential to
the business; each has its place and earning capacity, and, taken together, form a trading organisation
of great value.
. The steamers are well adapted for the Australian coastal trades, and were bought or built specially
with a view to their particular work. They are well kept and well found in every respect. They will
pass as they run into the possession of the New Company, together with bunker coal, gear, furniture,
and stores on board.
u i J^ le i' r condition has been certified to by Captain James Little, marine superintendent, and Mr. A.
B. Macdonald, superintendent engineers, as follows :
Melbourne, 30th March, 1901.
1 have constantly had the steamers belonging to Messrs. Wm. Howard Smith and Sons Proprie-
tary ’ Limited, under my observation. I can honestly certify that they are in a thorough state of repair,
and the whole of the equipments in first-class order.
. The certificates from the Marine Board have been regularly renewed as they expired under
inspection of the Marine Board Surveyors. Apart from this, the Company has always taken a pride
in keeping their boats in a high state of efficiency. .TAMES G. LITTLE.
Marine Superintendent Wm. Howard Smith and Sons Proprietary, Limited.
... Melbourne, 2nd April, 1901.
I have pleasure m certifying to the present good state of repair of hulls, machinery, and boilers
of the steamships owned by Wm. Howard Smith and Sons Proprietary, Limited. Each steamer at
the periodical overhaul has been placed under my supervision, and no expense has been spared in
keeping the fleet up to a high state of efficiency. A. B. MACDONALD,
Superintending Engineer Wm. Howard Smith and Sons Proprietary, Limited.
The coal the Vendor Company has contracted to purchase at Newcastle for loading during 1901
totals over 400,000 tons, being equal only to last year’s turn over. This coal has been contracted for
on an average at considerably less, than the present current prices. The important matter of quick
dispatch for the company’s steamers at that port is therefore assured. The coal contracted to be sold
m the various Australian States provides for a lucrative trade for a considerable time to come.
The goodwill comprises the valuable shipping connection in Australia acquired during the last 47
tfears of the Vender Company, and its predecessor’s successful operations on the coast; also of their
Extensive coal business in Melbourne, Geelong, Port Adelaide, Adelaide, Wallaroo, Port Pirie,
Broken Hill, Albany, Fremantle, Bowen, Townsville, and Charters Towers.
The Vendor Company, after conference with the accountants, Messrs. Davey, Flack, and Co.,
and Messrs. Ivell, Butler, and Densham, has fixed the value of the goodwill at £40,000. This valua-
tion was considered fair and reasonable, in view of the Vendor Company’s connection in the Australian
coastal trade, and its profit-earning capacity.
The Coal Stocks, outstanding accounts, etc., will be taken over by the New Company, all at cost,
as at Ist January, 1901. These accounts, according to the audited balance-sheet of the Vendor
Company, total £93,938 6s. lid. are all sound, and are not included in Messrs. Traill and Syme’s
valuation.
The New Company, while taking over all the assets belonging to the Vendor Company, will also
take over the liabilities owing by the Vendor Company as at Ist January, 1901 being the usual
accounts for coal loaded up to 31st December, 1900 (for which the Colliery debit notes have been
accepted and embodied in list of outstanding credits), trade accounts, money due on account of de-
posits to the shareholders, etc., amounting in all, according to the audited balance-sheet as at 31st
December, 1900, to £96,794 4s.
, ... ? lie Vendor Company accepts the valuations as the basis for the Contract of Sale, and the Lia-
bilities and Assets to be taken over by the New Company will be as follows:
LIABILITIES.
Purchase price in scrip to be
handed to liquidator of
vendor company :
Preference shares,
162,500, at £1 .. .. £162,600 0 o
Ordinary shares, 162,500
at £1 162,500 0 0
£325.000 0 0
Cash lodged on deposit by
shareholders of vendor
company at 31st Decem-
ber, 1900
Sundry accounts owing at
31st December, 1900
Reserve account set aside to
meet the following lia-
bilities :
Unexpired portion of pas-
sengers’ tickets in
hands of public
Bonus on freights which
will probably arise
under trade arrange-
ments
Flotation of new com-
pany
Provision for contingen-
cies and for liquidation
of vendor company ..
£64,347 16 1
32,446 7 11
96,794 4 0
£2,500 0 0
5,000 0 0
7,000 0 0
3,359 2 11
17,859 2 11
£439,653 6 11
ASSETS.
Steamship plant, etc. ..
Goodwill
Sundry assets at 31st Decem-
ber, 19 0, not included in
Messrs. Traill and Syme’s
valuation :
Stocks and stores
Insurance premiums pre-
paid
Accounts due from
branch offices ..
Claims against under-
writers
Book debts for coal
Book debts for freight ..
Deposits on trade con-
tracts
Cash at bankers and on
hand ... ..
£305,715 0 0
40,000 0 0
£93,938 611
£439,653 6 11
The above statement does not include the capital now open for public subscription, the whole of
which will be available for the purchase of new steamers, or to be utilised in such other way as the
Directors of the New Company may determine.
The Draft Contract for Purchase as approved by the Directors of the Vendor Company, to be
entered into between ffm. Howard Smith and Sons Proprietary, Limited, and its Liquidator’ of the
one part, and the New Company, of the other part, is in writing, and may be inspected at the offices
of W. H. Croker, Notary Public, and the Solicitor for the company, Nos. 84, 86, and 88 William-street
in the City of Melbourne. ’
It is provided for in such Contract for Purchase that the New Company will take over all the
assets and the business as a going concern, as at Ist May, 1901, from which date all the profits will
accrue to the New Company ; but, as it will be impossible to strike a balance on such date without
considerable delay, the New Company agree to take over the liabilities owing by the Vendor Company
and the outstanding list of accounts due to the Vendor Company, as at 31st December, 1900, as shown
by the verified balance-sheet of the Vendor Company as at that date. The half-yearly balance which
m the usual course will be struck by the New Company on 30th June, will elucidate a balance’ at the
credit of the profit and loss account for the 6 months from Ist January to 30th June 1901 which bal-
ance will be divided as follows Two-thirds will pass to the credit of the Vendor Company (being its
profits on the business from Ist January to Ist May, 1901), and the remaining third will pass to the
credit of the New Company (being its profit for the two months from Ist May to 30th June, 1901).
Messrs. Davey, Flack, and Co., and Messrs. Lyell, Butler, and Densham, Incorporated Account-
ants, Melbourne, have provided the following Certificate, viz.
_. Melbourne, 18th April, 1901.
The Directors, Messrs. Wm. Howard Smith and Sons Proprietary, Limited, Market-street, Melbourne
Gentlemen,—ln accordance with instructions, we have examined the Audited Books and Accounts
of the Company at Head Office, with which are incorporated the Returns of the Various Branches for
the period of five years, ending 31st December, 1900, and find that the total Profits amounted to
£274,505 Bs. 7d. or an average annual profit of £54,901 Is. Bd.
These profits are arrived at before charging Directors’ remuneration and interest on borrowed
Capital; but after allowing for depreciation of steamers at the rate of 7| per cr ;:t. per annum on
diminishing values, and making adequate provision for depreciation of plant.
At your request, and in the interests of the New Company, the profits for the resp ctive years are
not shown separately.
We are, Gentlemen, yours faithfully,
LYELL, BUTLER, and DENSHAM) T . , .
DAVID, FLACK, and CO. J- Incorporated Accountants.
Taking the average annual net profit of the business for the past five years, as certified by the
Accountants, viz.: ... ... ... ... ... ... ...£54 901 1 8
The amount required to pay the dividend on the cumulative preference shares is 12’500 0 0
Leaving a surplus for reserves, dividend on ordinary shares, directors’ fees,
etc -> of ••• ••• ... ... ... ... 42,401 1 8
The Vendor Company has been under the direct management of a managing director appointed
by the board, and the position during the past twelve years has been held successfully bv Messrs
Edmund E. Smith, H. B. Howard Smith, Walter S. Howard Smith, and again by H. B. Howard
Smith, who now holds the position. These gentlemen place their services at the disposal of the share-
holders of the New Company. Their intimate knowledge of the business will therefore be available
for the benefit of the New Company, at the option of the shareholders. They will also (if considered
necessary by the New Company), together with their brother, Ormond Charles Smith, covenant that
for a period of 10 years they will not either solely or jointly with or as managers or managers for any
other company, person or persons, directly or indirectly carry on or be engaged in any business in
competition with the existing business or trade of the Vendor Company to be acquired by the New
Company.
It is intended to apply for registration of the shares of both denominations on the Stock Exchnno-pa
of Melbourne, Sydney, and Adelaide. xcnanges
Applications for preference or ordinary shares should be made through the brokers, and will pro-
ceed only on the form endorsed on the prospectus, and should be forwarded to the Provisional
Secretary of the Howard Smith Company, Limited, 35 Market-street, Melbourne, or to the Branch
Managers of the Company, with a remittance for the amount of the deposit. If no allotment is made
the deposit will be returned without deduction, and where the number of shares allotted is less than
that applied for, the surplus will be credited in reduction of the amount payable on allotment and any
excess returned to the applicant. ” y
Failure to pay any allotment instalment when due will render previous payments liable to
forfeiture.
Right is reserved to allot preference shares and ordinary shares in such proportions and to such
persons, or to entirely refuse any application for same, as the Provisional Directors solely at their
discretion may determine.
The requirements of sec. 104 of the Companies Act 1896 have not been fully complied with in this
advertisement.
Copies of the full Prospectus, and Forms of Application for Shares may be obtained from the
Provisional Secretary at 35 Market-street, Melbourne ; the Company’s Solicitor, Mr. W. H Croker
at Nos. 84, 86, and 88 William-street, Melbourne; the Company’s Bankers, the Bank of" Australasia’
Collins-street, Melbourne ; and from members of recognised Stock Exchanges in Australia ; and from
any of the Branch Offices of Wm. Howard Smith and Sons Proprietary, Limited, at Brisbane Cairns
Townsville, Mackay, Rockhampton, and Maryborough, in Queensland; Newcastle and Sydney in
New South Wales; Melbourne and Geelong, in Victoria; Adelaide and Port Pirie, in South Aus-
tralia ; and Fremantle, in Western Australia.
This advertisement does not contain anything to whioh the said requirements of sec. 104 of the
Companies Act 1896 apply, and which is not in the Full Prospectus, or is inconsistent with the
Prospectus.
Applications for Shares will proceed only on one of the forms of application referred to and
endorsed upon a printed copy of the Prospectus. Melbourne, Ist May, 1901 ’


Three Years
Intense Suffering.
The Case of Mr. H. M. KEYEY.
(By a Special Reporter.)
All government, indeed every human
benefit and enjoyment, every virtue and
every prudent act, is founded on com-
promise and barter. To promote our
personal welfare we balance inconveni-
ences, preferring to give and take m
order to attain our ends. We remit
some® rights so that we may enjoy
others, and we choose rather to be happy
independent citizens than servile ten-
ants. Great sacrifices are made by wor-
kers who aspire to become their owr,
landlords for the advantages to be de
rived from the attainment of their as
pirations. “My illness,” said Mr. Henr\
Moran Kevey, of Garfield-street, Par
nell, Auckland," was brought on through
working night and day at my sedentary
trade of bootmaking. The object I had
in view was to purchase a home for my
wife and family; but I stuck to my task
so closely that it caused me three years’
intense suffering. It is eight years age
since my constitution was completely
broken down.”
“You look strong and vigorous now,’
said the reporter.
“And I feel as well as I look. Bui
there was a time when I thought I was
going into consumption. My face was a
deathly colour, and my eyes were sunk
deeply into my head. You would not
have given twopence for my life if yon
had seen me then. Before I was struck
down I thought of nothing but work
and I took my meals at all hours, some-
times going without them altogether
I felt myself getting weaker and
weaker every day, till I could
hardly crawl down to my shop
A few minutes after starting work
I felt giddy and faint, and I was obliged
to take frequent reata during the day
Then my digestive organs went wrong,
as shown by the tightness in my chest
after eating, and also great pain and
discomfort in my stomach, which felt as
though I had swallowed some foreign
matter which was turning sour and pu-
trid. Indeed, my breath bore out this
theory, as it was most objectionable,
and my mouth had a very bad taste
continually, which made me feel sick.
Sharp pains used to dart under my
shoulders and down to the end of my
ribs, and in a short while I was unable
to retain a meal on. my stomach. As
soon as I ate anything I was seized with
violent fits of vomiting, and the pain
and distress I suffered was beyond de-
scription. I felt tired and miserable,
being without enough energy to sit
down and read a book. As a matter of
fact, my eyesight was too bad, and my
eyes seemed to have little spots danc-
ing before them, besides being hot and
swollen.”
“How did you manage to keep on
working in that condition ?”
“I could not do a stroke of work at fast
and I had to knock off altogether. 1
felt heavy and drowsy, and suffered
greatly from splitting headaches. My
bowels were irregular. For days they
were constipated, then followed a weak-
ening attack of diarrhoea. I found great
difficulty in swallowing anything, even
such a simple thing as a cup of tea
making me conscious of the fact thai
my throat was very sore. My appetite
went right off eventually, and my ner
7 ous system then collapsed. An addi-
tional complaint in the form of a vile
attack of neuralgia now commenced to
worry the life out of me. Shooting pains
darted from the ear to my eyes, and
thence to my forehead. The agony was
so acute that I could get no rest day or
flight. I twisted and turned from side
to side all night long, and in the morn-
ing I was too exhausted to get out of
bed. This new torture continued for
months, till at last I thought I was
going mad. • A peculiar feature of my
dreadful ilness was the way my tongue
used to swell. It felt too thick for my
mouth, and almost choked me. My
brain wks full of evil-forebodings as I
lay throughout the sleepless nights in
a state of nervous terror. Many a time
I have awakened my wife from her slum-
ber and told her that the tortures of
my complaint were driving me crazy,
and in the day time I felt so greatly run
down that I used to say to my wife, ‘ I
suppose I will live through this summer,
but if I do I am sure I will die during
the winter.” One night my condition
was so alarming that my wife went
straight away for the doctor, who said
I had a diseased liver, and that my
blood was in a terribly bad state.”
“Was there anything to show that
your blood was impure ?”
!' “Rather. I will tell you, and then
| you will know that my blood was poi-
| soned. It happened through wearing
i a soft woollen hat, the rims of which
| used to fall down on my ears'. I used to
! wear a blue serge suit, and my better
i half told me I ought to get a hat to
match the colour. As I always study
comfort before appearance I bought the
soft one alluded to. The result was
that my ears were poisoned by the dye
out of the hat. My ears swelled and
broke out, and my agonies increased
ten-fold. I used to pray for death to
release me from my sufferings; but no,
I had to endure it. The tops of my ears
were eaten away, as you can see for
yourself, and even when they healed up
[ believe I had enough poison in my
blood to kill twenty men. I was really
on the verge of death by now, without
animation, without hope.”
“Was there any benefit derived from
your doctor’s medicines ?”
“Not the slightest. Neither did I re-
ceive any benefit from the many adver-
tised remedies I tried; but I was saved
by the advice of a friend, who urged me
to give Clements Tonic a trial. I did
so, but I can honestly say that had it
not been for Clements Tonic I would
be a dead man now. I started on that
matchless medicine with a feeling of
great anxiety, as I knew my fate de-
pended on it. My anxious fears were
soon set at rest, as I felt greatly soothed
and stimulated in a few days. My case
was a bad one, and I could not expect
to be rid of all my ills for some time;
but Clements Tonic proved equal to the
great task before it. A gradual slacken-
ing off of the sharp pains in my back
and loins, besides the absence of discom-
fort in my stomach, showed that
Clements Tonic was doing the work in
first-rate style. My appetite, which had
so long lain dormant put in a feeble ap-
pearance at first, and then increased
every day till I could eat a hearty meal.
My head was again free from aches, and
every morning I awoke feeling decidedly
better for the sleep which resulted
through my continuance of Clements
Tonic. My nervous system was streng-
thened and invigorated by the same
medicine, which eradicated all skin erup-
tions and purified my blood, besides
driving away the raking neuralgia, which
has never since troubled me. Each
day 1 gathered weight and strength,
meanwhile shaking off the fit of melan-
cholia which has depressed me for three
years, and my work was undertaken
with the same pleasure as of old. Cle-
ments Tonic gave me perfect health
vhen all else failed.”
“Was the cure a permanent one?”
“Yes, and I am anxious that every-
body should know that such a grand
medicine exists, so you may publish
these facte in any way you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Henry Moran Kevet, of Garfield Street,
Parnell, Auckland, in the colony of New Zealand,
lo solemnly and sincerely declare that I have care-
fully read the annexed document, consisting of
hree folios and consecutively numbered from one to
three, and that it contains and is a true and faithful
account of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic,
and also contains my full permission to publish in
any way my statements—which I give voluntarily,
without receiving any payment; and I make this
solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of
an Act of the Genaral Assembly of New Zealand,
intituled “The Justices of Peace Act, 1882."
Declared at Parnell this thirtieth day of October,
ie thousand nine hundtrud, before me,
JOHN MoCABE. J,P,
EVERY HOUSEHOLD and TRAVELLING TRUNK OUGHT TO CONTAIN A BOTTLE of
ENO’S 1 FRUIT SALT’
For Preventing* & Curing* by Natural Means
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
ĥ
TESTIMONIAL.—" I have been a nurse for ten years, and have nursed cases
of scarlet fever, pyaemia, erysipelas, measles, gangrene, cancer, and almost every
mentionable disease. During this time I have not been ill for a single day, and
this I attribute to the use of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a
pure state. I recommend it to all my patients during convalescence. Its
value as a of health cannot be overestimated.*’— A Professional.
Nurse ( Qualified ).
THE EFFECT OF ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ ON A DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS, AND FEVERISH CONDITION
IS SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. IT IS, IN FACT, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, AND AN UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION —See capsule marled ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.' Without it, you have a
i r wORT j TLESB IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., at the ‘FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, Dy J. C. jbiflU'3 Patent.
Business Announcements.
good Tailoripg.
AUTUMN.
Rough Tweeds and Worsteds .
PURE INDIGO SERGES,
TO STAND ALL WEATHERS.
FANCY TROUSERINGS, VESTINGS, &C.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post Free.
David Sraham & Go.,
Tailors and Outfitters,
73 and 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR.
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
THE
BEST FOOT
FOREMOST
Is an old saying frequently heard at
home, but how many people have a
“best foot’' which they care to put
forward ? Character is often revealed
by the shape or condition of a shoe.
Now you can always distinguish the
“HERZ” shoe, because its wearer is
never ashamed of it. One has a feeling
of being “well-dressed” if the “HERZ”
shoe is part of our outfit. The reason is
not far to seek :
PERFECT SHAPE,
which is never lost in wear.
BEST LEATHER.
The Finest Quality that can be
procured.
ABSOLUTE EASE
and comfort in all weathers,
wvww
Ask for and get
The “HERZ” Shoes.
HUNTER’S SELL THEM.
Medical.
Hypnotism
m
Header, -why not be »ble to use the
most mysterious end powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hvpnotize In a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home You can per-
form all of the many marvelous feats
| that are possible to the Hypnonist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
I conquer pain, win reluctant affection,
I gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explain*
the mysteries and secrets
of the' Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensi e thing of the kind
ever publ shed. For a short
time I will send this magni-
ficent work Absolutely
FREE to all who apply.
Remember this costs you noth-
in r . A postal card will bring it.
Order to-day and learn to Hyp-j
nolize. It : s a chance of a'
life-time. Address—
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
79 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ħ
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism. Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER'S PILLS.
Prepared by Poinglkstkk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. <fe Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN'S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstrk <fc Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
m
S'
Those
suffering
from we ah
and sore eyes,
and blight, should
use -
SINGLETON’S OINTMENT
Never Fails. Restores Eyelashes.
ALL CHEMISTS.
DRUNKENNESS
Positively CURED by Administering
Itcan be given in
drink or food with-
EUCRASY
out the subject’s knowledge. Perfectly Harmless, and
will effect a Speedy Cure. Write TO-DAY for Free Book.
Address THE EUCRASY CO., 62 Hunter-street, Sydney.
Business Announcements
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Best,
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia.
STUART&no.
PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
252 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
White Shirts to measure
Our Suit to order at 425. is
marvellous value; made from
all wool Tweeds,Vicunas,or fast
color Series ; it is perfect fitting
and beautifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order from
any class v. f material. £3 3»- To
measure, capital Trousers, >ery
good patterns 12s. 6d.
Dress Suits, to measure. £3*
Clerical Suits, to measure. £s*
Ruling Breeches, 255.
Riding Habits. <kc.
We supply ready made. Men’s
. capital Tweed Suits 21s. & 255.
I Fam us Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye,2ds.
All-wool, fawn, grey, or brown
Sergei ette >uits, 30s.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers. ss, lid.
All-wool blue and black Vicuna
Sacs and Vests 19s lid.
Men’s Grass Cloth Summer
Suits, 19s (»d. White Drill
Sacs and Trousers, 10s. (id.
Khaki Suits, shrunk, 12s (id.
Black and Grey Alapaca Sacs,
(is. 9d. White and Brown Drill
Trousers. 3s. 9d., 4s 9d., ss. (id.
Travelling Trunks, Bav» and
Rugs in great variety
Men’s White Shiits, colored
front and cuffs. 2s. 9d.
Fancy Blouse Shirts, new
designs, ss. (id.
White Matte Shirts, collar and
pocket. 3s. (id.
So t Alpine Hats, 4s. 6d., all
colors
Hard Hats, 4*. (id. Caps. Is,
Merino Undershirts or Pants,
ls.9d.
Neckties,all shapes and colors,
Is.
Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
We like to write letters; so don’t be afraid to ask for ai
information. Our book, “The Philosophy of Press'* a
patterns of all kinds and self-messurenient forms posted fr
Write for ih-rn.
WOODHEAD’S i*
ESC.
CRAMP
SIMPLEST, FASTEST & MOST
EFFECTIVE EVER MADE for
FLOORING, CEILING, &c.
No. 6, 35s; No. 6, 30s; No.
7 (Ceiling;), 25s eaoh.
If ,vour Ironmonger or Storekeeper does not stock, send
direct to us—
PERRY BROS.
Wholesale
Ironmong'ers,
Brisbane
Sole Agents for Australasia.
r aouT v
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical. science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, PnouT & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
mm*i
•t'
cr>
C--9
; C.
3=
OLD -WO
3=
SUHBU
FINg
rr 1
Hja;
HA
"y
>7
J'
£nf
s
H
Y
aaii+w
m
p Ro
p*
etors
German Hollow Ground
4l\ v
*br
Mfift
NZVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS. WIDTHS OF 81-AD’ 1
M IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale : OSBORNE, GARRETT, & CO.. LONDON


DO YOU WANT A WATCH ?
Perhaps not for your own use, hut you may want one for your wife or your boy
or girl. We have them all kinds and at all prices by the hundreds. We illus-
tiafce and describe a few worthy ones. All of these have been made especially
for U 3 and bear our name and we guarantee them to be thoroughly good and reliable.
Unless you are in tae trade or at least a close observer you will not detect the great
difference in as they appear in shops. A few weeks’ (or days sometimes)
use, however, will show you the defects of the inferior kind. Our entire stock has
been selected from the best manufacturers in the World whose reputation for
high-grade Watches has never been questioned. The construction of these
Watches could not be improved. You can buy cheap Watches but a Watch
should be mde to last a lifetime. If it only gives you satisfaction for a few
months, it is dear at any price. The Watches described here are the kind that
stand the wear and tear of everyday use and give satisfaction all the time. We
need hardly remind you that shortly a duty will be placed on Watches.
BUY NOW !
El
■
*-
S 3
:■ :
=3»
££
&so
MB
sr^a
eai
This is a medium or six size
“Lady’s” 18c. Gold-case Hunting
“Waltham” Lever Watch. The
cases are nicely engraved in a
variety of Styles and are made
Extra Heavy. The Movement is
a fine Nickel |--plate with 17 Ruby
Jewels, Raised Gold Settings,
Exposed Pallets, Patent Micro-
metric Regulator, Compensation
Balance (adjusted to temperature
and position), Patent Briquet Hair
Spring. One of the finest
Watches made and at £l5 10s
it is good value.
M
PRESENTATION
GOLD WATCH
We give an illustration here of a
Gold Watch suitable for presenta-
tion. The case is a heavy one of
18ct. Gold and can be had either
plain or engine turned. The move-
ment is a high-grade Waltham
.Lever with 21 Diamond and Ruby
Jewels, 2 pairs Diamond Caps, both
Balance Pivots running on Dia-
monds. Raised Gold Settings, Gold
Train, Double Roller Escapement,
Compensation Balance accurately
adjusted to temperature and posi-
tion, patent Brequet Hair Spring,
patent Micrometric Regulator, £35
Ik
.
■
m
THE GOLD-FILLED
WALTHAM LEVER.
Gold-filled, with us, means 2 plates
of solid 14ct. Gold and 1 plate
of Composition in between. The
makers of the case guarantee it to
stand for 25 years, and as they are
THE case-makers of America their
guarantee is good. The movement
is a f-plate Nickel, highly finished.
It has 15 Ruby Jewels, patent
Brequet Hairspring and Regulator,
Compensation Balance. We guar-
antee this watch to give unqualified
satisfaction. £5 10s.
This is a small size
“Lady’s” Watch.
The case is full
Hunting 18 ct.
Gold and very
substantial. It is
engraved very
artistically. The
movement is f-
plate with 17
Ruby Jewels,
Raised Gold Set-
tings, Patent
Regulator and
Breq u e t Hair
Spring, and is
adjusted to tem-
perature and posi-
tion. <£l4 lOs.
h
This shows a medium
size Hunting Keyless
Watch, with strong
14ct. Gold Case,
beautifully engraved.
The movement is a
f-plate Waltham
Lever, with 16 Ruby
Jewels, exposed pal-
lets, Patent Regula-
tor, Compensation
Balance, adjusted ;
also a Brequet Hair-
spring, hardened and
tempered in form.
We can recommend
this Watch as being
fit for the use of any
lady. Price J 69 10s.
In open face <£B 10s.
ĥ
This illustration
shows one of our
Lady’ssmallsize Key-
less Hunting Waltham
Lever Watches. The
case is made of 10c.
gold and is nicely en-
graved. The move-
ment is a nickel f-
plate, 7 Jewels, ex-
posed pallets, Com-
pensation Balance,
Patent Brequet Hair
Spring, Hardened
and Tempered in
Form, and we guar-
antee its Timekeep-
ing quality, .£6 10s.
We have this Watch
in open face at £6-
hp§
2f.E
lli§l
KSB
SB
J
SBKS
5
m
.
H
This illustration shows our
Gentlemen’s Gold Hunting
Watch. It is a Watch fit for
the mostr exacting, being a per-
fect timekeeper. The case is
solid 18c. Gold, Engine Turned,
with Shield and Garter. The
movement is f-plate Nickel
Waltham Lever with 17 Jewels,
exposed pallets, Micrometric
Regulator, Compensation Bal-
ance, adjusted, and a Brequet
Hair Spring, hardened and
tempered in form. £lB 10s.
\ I/#
/ li
This is a fine
quality Waltham
Lever Watch.
The case is solid
and substantial,
Sterling Silver
> ith Gold Joints,
i’he movement is
gilded and finished
off in Nickel. It
has 17 Fine Ruby
Jewels, Gold Set-
tings, Double
Roller Escape-
ment, Exposed
Pallets, Compensation Balance adjusted to Temperature and Posi-
tion, Patent Regulator and Patent Brequet Hair Spring. We
have them Open Face with strong Crystal Glass and Hunting
at £5 10s.
OUR GUINEA
LEVER WATCH
Has been specially constructed
for country use, and we can recom-
mend it as a Reliable Timekeeper.
It is correctly designed, well made,
well finished and jewelled. The
cases are of oxidised Steel and are
very tight-fitting, thus excluding
dust and damp from the move-
ments. Strong Crystal Glass,
JOl Is. In Hunting Cases,
£1 ss.
\ 1 /
This is one of the well-known—
and justly well-known—Rother-
ham Keyless Lever Watches. The
movement is on the f-plate
principle and has 15 Jewels, Com-
pensation Balance, Patent Brequet
Hair Spring, and is carefully
adjusted to temperature and posi-
tion. The case is strong and of
solid Silver. These Watches give
satisfaction everywhere. £0 10s,
mm.
■
mm
We carefully examine each Watch before we send it out. Any of the Watches described above will be sent by post, registered, at our risk on receipt of
remittance. For many other styles of Watches write for'our illustrated Price List. Your name and address on a Post Card will bring one along.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
And at Melbourne, Vie ; Perth, W.A. ; Auckland, N.Z.; Wellington, N.Z.; Christchurch, N.Z.; and London.
412 George St. *s®
The Strand, Sydney


Enteric Fever, Malaria, Typhoid, Dysentery,
Small Pox and all Contagious Diseases.
The War in South Africa
'Enteric Eever has claimed far more victims than the
bullet during the Great Eoer War. A guard to the health
of our soldiers, is, therefore, of the highest importance
for the success of the campaign. The following impressive
letter , giving the experience of one of the medical staff of
the Princess Christian Hospital, South Africa, is most
interesting on this subject:
Tan-y-Bwlcii, Chester Road, Erdington,
February 4th, 1901.
Dear Sirs. —I have recently seen your advertisement and free offer in the London
Morning Leader, and shall be glad if you will send me a bottle of your Carlsbad Powder
to use in my family.
I first heard of your preparation from Sergeant Gardener, R.A.M.C. (St. John Ambu-
lance Brigade, Birmingham [City] Division), who has just returned in charge of invalids
from Africa. He was for some time stationed at Princess Christian Hospital,
Pine Town Bridge, Natal, and had also served at several other base hospitals. His first
duty on arriving in Durban, in April last, was to assist in burying four victims from
Enteric Fever. As I was about sending out nine more men (they sail on the Lismore
Castle on the 7th), I asked him to address them. In- the course of his remarks he urged
them to lay in a supply of Kutnow’s Powder. He himself had attended to Hundreds of
Cases of “ Enteric,” and the only medicine he partook of was KUTNOW’S POWDER
twice or thrice a week, as instructed on the bottle. He had never been “SICK OR
SORRY ” for an hour, and he attributed this fact to the bi-weekly use of KUTNOW.
In following Sergeant Gardener I suggested that the men should lay in a stock of
KUTNOW, and I trusted they would benefit from the advice given, and would return to
England, looking as strong and hearty as he did.
Yours faithfully, J. R. STAMP,
Supt. Sec., St. John Ambulance Brigade,
Messrs. Kutnow & Co., Ltd., London. Birmingham (City) Division, C
The foregoing testimony speaks in most unmistakable tone as
to the sterling merits of KUTNOW’S POWDER, which is THE SUPREME
REMEDY for Ail Derangements of the Stomach, Liver, Spleen, Kidneys
and Intestines. It Prevents and Removes Sick and Nervous Head-
ache, Languor, Insomnia, Debility, Prostration, Hypochondria, and
Mental Depression. It is a Natural Corrective to Biliousness,
Indigestion, Constipation, Rheumatism, and Gout.
LEADING HOSPITALS USE KUTNOW’S POWDER.'
KUTNOW’S POWDER IS CONTINUOUSLY USED IN THE FIELD HOSPITALS IN
SOUTH AFRICA ; LIKEWISE IN THE PRINCESS CHRISTIAN, THE PORTLAND,
AND THE LANGHAM HOSPITALS; THE AMERICAN HOSPITAL SHIP MAINE ;
THE PRINCESS OF WALES’S SHIP. USED BY THE C.l.V.’s, THE HON.
ARTILLERY CO., AND THE IMPERIAL YEOMANRY. IT IS PRESCRIBED IN
THE LEADING HOME HOSPITALS, AND USED IN THE PRINCIPAL HOSPITALS
OF THE FIVE GREAT CONTINENTS. IT IS USED BY OFFICERS OF HIS
MAJESTY’S ROYAL NAVY. HIGHLY COMMENDED BY THE LEADING MEDICAL
JOURNALS: “The Lancet,” “The British Medical Journal,” “The Bristol Medico-
Chirurgical Journal,” “The Edinburgh Medical Journal,” “The Medical Times and Hospital
Gazette,” &c. EMPHATICALLY ENDORSED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
WARMLY APPROVED BY THE LEADING HOSPITAL NURSES. IT HAS RE-
CEIVED THE DIPLOMA OF MERIT, PARIS EXHIBITION, 1900.
PRESCRIBED TO MEMBERS 0E THE ROYAL FAMILY
KUTNOW’S Improved Effervescent Carlsbad POWDER is superior and preferable to Drugs,
Salts, or ordinary Salines, which are usually drastic and purgative, but possess no restorative or
curative properties. KUTNOW’S POWDER, on the contrary, has the highest Therapeutic
and Diuretic remedial value, re-energising and restoring concurrently. As an aperient it is
always gentle and painless, yet withal the most perfect organic cleanser in the world. Equally
beneficial to the child, the invalid, or the strong man. The bi-weekly use of KUTNOW’S
POWDER PREVENTS THE CONTRACTION OF ANY CONTAGIOUS DISEASE.
It thoroughly cleanses the system of all impurities, stimulates the heart, fortifies the lungs,
rouses the liver, energises the kidneys, assists digestion, braces the nerves, and so strengthens
the entire system as to defy contagion.
KUTNOW’S Improved Effervescent Carlsbad POWDER may be obtained in capsuled bottles
of all Chemists and Medicine Vendors. See that the Registered Trade Mark, “ Hirschensprung ”
(or Deer Leap), and the autograph fac-simile signature, “S. KUTNOW and CO. (Ld.),” are on
the label and Carton. ONLY THESE ENSURE GENUINENESS. INSIST ON
“ KUTNOW’S,” AND FIRMLY REFUSE ANY SUBSTITUTES ; THEY ARE WORTH-
LESS AND OFTEN INJURIOUS.
Proprietors :
S. KUTNOW and GO. (Ld.), 41 FARRINGDON ROAD, London, E.C.
Proprietors in U.S.A. :
KUTNOW BROS., (Ld.), 853 Broadway, New York, U.S.A.
Old Days and Old Deeds.
OLD-HUNTERS AND NATION-BUILDERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
[The fiftieth anniversary of the discovery of gold in
Australia may—upon the evidence cited below be officially
fixed upon Wednesday last, the 15th of May ; though,
upon the same evidence, E. H. Hargraves, whatever credit
he may otherwise have deserved in the matter, was not,
as is popularly supposed, the actual first discoverer.]
In the magniloquent phrase of William Charles
Wentworth, the discovery of gold “ precipitated
Australia into a nation. Yes, the first gold-
finders were veritable Nation-makers, Empire-
builders—whatever one likes of emprise and con-
quest. Jason in quest of the Golden Fleece was
“ a fool to them ” in achievement of the practicable
and profitable. They sowed the seed of which we
are supposed to have reaped the harvest of nation-
hood on the Ist January, 1901, although the recog-
nised “ jubilee-versary ” of the discovery of a pro-
fitable gold-field is set down more or less accur-
ately in our history as the 12th February follow-
ing. But there is a good deal of the mythical in
connection with this pregnant episode in our
annals.
Who in Australia was the first discoverer of
gold—profitable or otherwise? Whose was the
voice that first called to the brain and the brawn
of the Old and New World to come, in exploiting
thousands, to the new-old world ? Hargraves is ac-
claimed, but his success appears on the face of it
too great to be genuine. The true benefactors
never achieve so much profit as did he. And then
he was too dissatisfied with his reward, great as it
was, to stamp him the genuine enthusiast.
Gold was Australia’s assured product from the
earliest of old Colonial days. Indeed, the limit
of the knowledge of its existence dates almost
from the day of Phillip’s landing at Dawes’
Point. Sometime in 1789 a convict bragged of
finding a piece of the precious metal immediately
on the shore of Port Jackson. A guard of marines
was sent with him to the place of the alleged
discovery. The official mind of the day sought
ocular military verification —and the quest was a
failure. Australia’s gold-finder (real or assumed)
received 150 lashes for imposing on gubernatorial
credulity. Years afterwards, when Macquarie
ruled the land, and the road over the Blue Moun-
tains to Bathurst was being made, some, convicts
employed in the work are said to have picked up
small pieces of gold ; but, for the maintenance of
discipline, it was thought advisable to discourage
the “accursed hunger,” and the successful cul-
prits were rigorously punished. In 1823, and on
the 16th of February (28 years before the gold-
advent of Hargraves in the same month) an assist-
ant surveyor, named James M‘Brian, made a note
in his field-book :—“At 8 chains 50 links to river,
and marked gum-tree —at this place I found
numerous particles of gold in the sand and
in the hills convenient to the river.” The
river is the Fish River, some 15 miles from
Bathurst, neighbouring the spot where took
place the historic gold-rush of ’5l. Again, in
1830, and also near the Fish River, was found a
piece of gold, weighing several ounces, by a man
in the service of Mr. Low. But all this is acci-
dental and haphazard. The scientist, the
geologist, was yet to come.
Count Paul E. de Strzelecki made, in 1839, a
careful geological examination of the gold-bearing
belt which chance subsequently stumbled on. But
though he was aware, quite fully, that the quartz
formations he tested were in character auriferous,
he did not consider the deposits sufficiently
extensive to be of any great commercial value;
and the local Government dreaded discovery
and discouraged reference to its possibility.
Strzelecki was followed by another distin-
guished geologist; indeed, by the very father
of Australian geology himself, the Rev. William
Branthwaite Clarke. Here, in his own words,
is the record of his discovery :—“When I crossed
the Dividing Range, to the westward of Parra-
matta, in endeavoring to satisfy myself as
to the extent of the carboniferous forma-
tion in that direction, I first became aware of the
existence of gold in Australia, by detecting it at
the head of the Winburndale river, and in the
granite westward of the Vale of Clwydd. . . .
The weight of one specimen was about a penny-
weight ; it was what might be termed a fair
sample.” In 1844, the celebrated Sir Roderick
Murchison confidently predicted the finding of
gold in Australia. He knew his Ural Mountains
like his native place, and had instituted a com-
parison between the rocks of Eastern Australia
(numerous specimens of which had been brought
home by Count Strzelecki) and those of Russia’s
auriferous boundary-line. Murchison’s observations
were printed in the “Journal of the Royal Geo-
graphical Society ” (1844), and constitute the first
published declaration of opinion that gold would
exist in Australia. Then at the anniversary
meeting of the Royal Geographical Society of
Cornwall, held at Penzance, in 1846, Murchison
gave an address upon the same subject, in which
he urged the Cornish tin-miners to emigrate to
New South Wales, and there obtain gold from the
alluvial soil in the same way as they won tin
from the gravel of their native streams. Yet
again, in the same year, specimens of Australian
gold-ore were sent to him for his verdict, and
Murchison took occasion to write to Earl Grey,
the then Secretary of State for the Colonies,
stating his strong conviction of the existence in
the new land of rich goldfields.
While Murchison was forcing on the Home
Government the necessity of scientific search for
the precious metal, men continued to make acci-
dental finds of it here and there. In 1846 a Mr.
Smith offered the N.S.W. authorities to divulge to
them the whereabouts of a gold deposit if an
adequate reward were secured to him. After
this negotiation, which fell through, a shepherd,
employed by a squatter named Lane, found by
chance a large specimen, which he sold, to one,
Trappit, for some £7 or £B. Trappit, in turn,
sold it to Smith, and the latter forwarded it to
the Governor with an application for a reward for
the discovery of a gold-field. In short, gold was
in the air ! A shepherd named Macgregor, whose
prospecting exploits were the talk of the Welling-
ton district, and were well-known to Hargraves
long before ’5l, found gold from time to time in
quartz and carried it to Sydney, where, on re-
peated occasions, he sold it to a jeweller.
At this point in the history of gold-discovery in
Australia, Hargraves makes his appearance. Ed-
mund Hammond were his fore-names, and he was
a son of a lieutenant in the Sussex Militia, born
on the march, and following his father’s company
literally “inarms.” At the age of 14 he was
apprenticed on board a merchant-ship, and
wrought out his salvation in all kinds of marine
drudgery for three years. At 17 he drifted, with
other adventurous souls, to the promised land of
Australia, where he at once settled down as
a squatter and cattle-breeder. He soon took
unto himself a wife. At 19 he was a father. Then
misfortune came upon him in successive avalanches.
Everybody suffered with him. The whole colony
of New South Wales was in liquidation. Repu-
diation was the order of the day, and hundreds
availed themselves of the insolvency law. “Bur-
ton’s Purge” it was called, and a list of the
whitewashed, for a period of 6 months and 4
days, covered a sheet larger than a page of the
Morning Herald, and included the names of 392
persons and firms. The liabilities of some of the
estates were, for the time (1842), enormous, rang-
ing from £5OOO upwards. One failure was for
£175,235. The price of sheep fell to 6d. a head.
The colony trembled on tne verge of absolute
extinction. Hargraves writes, somewhat in
humorous vein, that he experienced the
truth of the adage that fools build houses
and wise men live in them. He had two
places of residence, one of thirteen rooms
and one of nine. He let them both at half-a-
crown a week —and his two tenants left in high
dudgeon because he would not reduce their rent.
Hargraves was practically a ruined man. Then
gold was discovered in California, and people ran
away from Australia’s bankrupt colony for the El
Dorado of the Pacific Slope. During the first six
months of 1851 twelve ships left Port Jackson,
conveying to the new goldfields of America
some 1600 passengers. Hargraves had left
already, in the historic year of ’49. He
returned to New South Wales in Janu-
ary, 1851, while the exodus was at its height.
He had done little or nothing in California ; but
while there the physical conformation of the hills
about which he worked suggested to him some-
thing reminiscent of his old Australian home. He
remembered, also, the tales he had heard anent
the shepherd Macgregor’s finds, and resolved to
go back and test his luck in the Wellington dis-
trict. People were leaving Port Jackson in shoals
at the date of his return, and all his friends
laughed to scorn his golden dreams of the land
they were anxious only to leave and see never
again. His own account is wearying and some-
what high-falutin. His solitary ride across the
Blue Mountains, his reveries and meditations, his
meals and his horse-fodder —he treats all the
meanest details with the painful minuteness of an
invading campaign in an enemy’s country.
By-and-bye this new Galahad in quest of a
golden Holy Grail reached the little hamlet of
Guyong, where he had not been for some 18 years
Eroviously. Night coming on, he managed to get
imself “bushed” in Frederick’s Valley (one of
the Wentworth properties), destined to pan-out
in the guise of a profitable goldfield thereafter.
The next day, resuming his journey, he made the
little Guyong Inn, kept by a widow, a Mrs.
Lister, relict of a Captain Lister, a former friend
of Hargraves. To her he imparted his hopes and
his ambitic ns. Would she tell him where he could
hire a blackfellow —this is Hargraves’ own account.
Young Lister declared. that there were at that
time no blackfellows available in the neighborhood.
But Lister must wait fora moment! Wellington,
it is said, was Hargraves’ point of attack. This
Hargraves emphatically denies, though there is
his own evidence that he afterwards made an as-
sault on that place, essaying the task of dis-
covering the source of Macquarie’s earlier finds.
At all events, he procured no blackfellow as a
guide, and young Lister o i'ered to take him to
such a place as he indicated much nearer to hand.
Lister was then a youth of 18, and knew the
country well. On the 12th February, 1851, the
two set out, taking a small pick, a trowel,
and a tin-dish for washing the soil. After travel-
ling for 15 miles the Lewis Ponds Creek was
reached, and operations were begun.
In the Hargraves account of the proceedings
there is no little romancing. He writes that he
said to Lister, as the latter was crossing the creek,
“ Where you walk across the creek there is gold ! ”
This absolute assumption is delightful ! At all
events, the pair of searchers washed out five pans
of dirt and found indications—varying in quan-
tity, according to the authority. H rgraves says,
“About as much as would lie on a threepenny-
piece ” ; Lister and his partners, “Sixteen hardly-
distinguishable grains.” Hargraves is fond of
verbal horse-play. When the gold was washed-
out, he states, “ Lister was so astonished at find-
ing it that I said, ‘This is a great matter;
I will be made a baronet, you will be made a
knight, and my old horse will be stuffed and put
into the British Museum.’ Lister afterwards told
me I had not performed my promise.”
According to G. Butler Earp (“The Gold
Colonies of Australia,” &c.), the first official noti-
fication of the discovery of gold in Australia is
contained in a despatch from Governor Fitzroy to
Earl Grey, bearing date May 22nd, 1851. In this
document the locality is given as being to the
westward of Bathurst, about 150 miles distant
from Sydney. Fitzroy expresses his suspicion
that the nature and value of the find had been
exaggerated, and that the specimens sent in for
inspection were of Californian gold. But he,
nevertheless, considers that an efficient force of
police should be stationed on the Bathurst-road.
Geological Surveyor Stutchbury soon, however,
undeceived the Governor, staging that the pre-
cious metal had been found in considerable quan-
tities at Summerhill Creek, with no better washing
machine than a tin dish, which sufficed to
obtain one or two ounces a day. At this time,
1400 diggers were at work, and the camp of the
gold-hunters was called the City of Ophir. The
first public record the place had was in the fol-
lowing postscript to Stutchbury’s letter : “ Excuse
this being written in pencil, as there is no ink in
this City of Ophir.”
On the authentic discovery being made known
to the authorities, Hargraves, the Rev. W. B.
Clarke, and Geologist Stutchbury received ap-
pointments as gold-commissioners. And now was
opened up field after field, while “rush followed
rapidly on “rush.” On the 13th May, a man
brought to Bathurst a lump of gold and
quartz, weighing 130 z., valued at £3O.
Great excitement was everywhere caused,
and crowds started for the diggings. By the
25th of the month a thousand men had congre-
gated at the Summerhill Creek, and lumps were
found varying from loz. to 41b. On one day in
June 200 licenses were taken out, and the Gover-
nor communicated to Earl Grey the startling in-
formation that a nugget had been found which
contained 1061 b. of pure gold, of an estimated
value of £4OOO. On the 25th August, 1851, Lieut-
Governor Latrobe wrote from Melbourne to Earl
Grey that large deposits of gold had 1 een found
in the Porb Phillip district. The very names of
the places at which gold was first discovered have
a ring of romance about them. Ophir, Lewis
Ponds, Summerhill Creek, Tarshish, Araluen, the
Turon, Major’s Creek, Tuena—in New South


A Sensation in Sydney.
500 SYDNEY PEOPLE CURED IN THE
LAST THREE MONTHS. NOTHING LIKE
IT EVER KNOWN BEFORE IN SYDNEY.
NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF THE
PEOPLE GIVEN. A REVOLUTION IN
MEDICINE. “ KEEP THE KIDNEYS
WELL, AND THE WHOLE BODY
WILL BE WELL.” THE EFFECT 0
DOAN’S^
Backache Kidney Pills
L
- n
111 111
&
u
“THE PAIN IS JUST HERE, DOCIOTt.
It used to be considered that only urinary and bladder
troubles were to be traced to the kidneys, but now modern science
proves that nearly all diseases have their beginning in the disorder
A these important organs. •,
The kidneys filter and purify the blood—that is their work.
So when your kidneys are weak, or out of order, you can
understand how quickly your entire tody, is affected and hov
every organ seems to fail to do its duty. . , „ , ,
If you are sick or feel badly begin taking Doan s Backache
Kidney Pills, because as soon as your kidneys are well they wi
help all the other organs to health. A trial will convince
anyone.
* _ : ——
The people whose names appear below are all
Sydney people. They have all been cured by
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and their cases, as
well as scores of others, have been fully reported
in these columns.
Was ever any other medicine supported by such
a mass of local testimony? Would any other
medicine stand so sure a test ? Think of it. Here
are your friends and neighbours, all Sydney
people, telling you week by week in the Sydney
papers what Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills have
done for them.
Does not this speak volumes for the sterling
merits of this great medicine ? Why are Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills so popular in Sydney?
We will tell you why. Because they cure
diseases in a new way—viz., by healing the
kidneys, which are the most important and deli-
cate organs of the whole body, and are the cause
of most diseases. Sydney people have found this
out, and 500 of them have received benefit from
using this medicine in the past three months. Is
not this a glorious record ? “Yes,” you will say,
“ but how does it interest me ? lam not suffering
from kidney disease.”
Wait a bit, don’t make too sure of that. Do
you know that the kidneys are the blood-filters of
the body, and if they are sick your blood becomes
charged with impurities that permeate the whole
of your system ?
Do you suffer from neuralgia, pains in the back
and shoulders, loss of flesh, weakness of the
muscles, palpitation of the heart, shortness of
breath, poor appetite, swellings of the ankles, or
urinary disorder ? Well, that is kidney trouble ;
your kidneys have become clogged, they cannot
do their work properly. They must be healed
before you can be well. That is just what Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills will do for you ; they will
cause the kidneys to filter properly, and do for you
just what they have done for 500 of your friends
and neighbors in Sydney during the past three
months.
Here are some of their names and addresses :
Mr. James Hudson, 10 Lennox-street, Newtown,
Sydney; Mrs. Patrick Duffy, 43 Marion-street,
Leichhardt, Sydney; Mr. Jas. Rees, 6 East-
street, Surry Hills, Sydney ; Mr. W. Hubbard,
St. Paul’s-street, Randwick, Sydney ; Mr. W.
Lane, 102 George-street, Erskinville, Syd-
ney ; Mr. P. O’Sullivan, 237 Nelson-street,
Annandale, Sydney ; Mr. J. Cameron, 297 Bal-
main-road, Leichhardt, Sydney ; Mrs. W.
Gow, 31 John-street, Leichhardt, Sydney ;
Mrs. Kate Helmka, 27 Ada-street, Ultimo, Syd-
ney ; Mr. E. Hansen, 41 Rosser-street, Balmain,
Sydney; Mrs. Geo. Cook, 20 Bennell-street,
Waverley, Sydney ; Mr. P. Smith, 1 Cheltenham-
street, Balmain, Sydney; Mr. J. Bicknell, 12
Chapel-street, Woolloomooloo, Sydney; Mrs.
Fred. Russell, 7 St. Andrew’s-street, Balmain,
Sydney; Mrs. W. Mullins, 49 Hunter-street,
Sydney ; Mr. J. Erodd, 99 Crown-street, Sydney.
Yes, and it was the genuine Doan’s Bachache
Kidney Pills which these people used, not some
substitute or cheap imitation of a similar name.
You need not be imposed upon, however, when
you buy if you make sure that the full name
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILL 3
is on the wrapper. You will see the name in bold, plain type. Sold by all chemists and storekee,.-
t 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes 15s. 3d.), or same will be forwarded on receipt of price by the propru ~,.
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Wales, dunes, Ballarat, Mount Alexander, the
Pyrenees, Wardingallock, Forest Creek, Mount
Blackwood, Anderson’s Creek, Bendigo, the
Snowy, the Dandenong Ranges, the Hopkins—
in Victoria. The southern district soon out-
distanced its parent colony. By the middle
of January, 1852, Australia had shipped away to
Britain eight tons of gold, and an estimate
was made that the annual yield would be from
Port Phillip about £5,000,000, making eight
millions sterling annually to be added to the
surplus wealth in the vaults of the Bank of
England. But there is no need to follow this
Shase of the history of gold-discovery further.
rold has made Australia, attracted population
and distributed it, and thus indirectly achieved
nationhood.
Hargraves was royally rewarded. He received
something like £12,500 from the Governments of
New South Wales and Victoria, and was for
several years in receipt of a pension of £250 per
annum from the former colony. Marks of honor
and distinction were everywhere showered upon
him. The town of Sydney gave him a chalice
of pure gold, valued at £5OO, and inscribed:
“ Palmam qui meruit ferat. Presented to Edward
Hammond Hargraves, Esq., J.P., Commissioner
of Crown Lands, by his fellow-colonists, in testi-
mony of their appreciation of his eminent services
in the discovery of the Australian goldfields, on
the 12th day of February, 1851.” This was at a
public dinner, at which were present the Gover-
nor-General, the Colonial Secretary, and all the
high officers of the Government. From the people
of Melbourne he received a cup of exquisite work-
manship (with the eternal inscription) filled with
sovereigns. Bathurst gave him a silver tea-and-
coffee-service at a public dinner. Moreton Bay,
Melbourne, Mudgee, and many towns throughout
New South Wales, banqueted him. A leading
firm gave him a splendid gold watch, and a Wal-
ter Power, whom Hargraves had never seen, sent
him a cheque for £250 when he left Melbourne.
But there was a rift in the lute. The claims of
E H. Hargraves to be considered the discoverer
of the first payable goldfield in Australia were
vigorously disputed by William and James Tom
and J. H. A. Lister. The last-named was the
young man who accompanied Hargraves in his
first quest at Lewis Ponds Creek. The claimants
addressed a letter to the N.S.W. Colonial Secre-
tary, quaintly dated “Sunrise, Guyong, 2 April,
1887,” and published per medium of the press. It
became the subject of a discussion in Parliament,
and was ordered by the House to be printed on
the 28th November, 1888. The signatories were
William Tom, junior, and J. H. A. Lister. In their
letter they stated that they had tried for 20 years
to obtain a hearing, by every legitimate means,
from “that astute body” (the N.S.W. Legislative
Assembly), and thus continue, “We now adopt
the press (the only alternative left to us) in order
that the public mind may be disabused of its error
in supposing Mr. Hargraves to be the sole dis-
coverer of the first payable gold, or in supposing
that he ever did more to the discovery than intro-
ducing the tin-dish system, and finding something
less than a farthing’s-worth of gold, to which he
was taken by John Lister and James Tom.” They
speak severely of “the unfair, wily, and deep-
designing character of Mr. Hargraves,” and say
of an enclosure, giving Lister’s account of the
affair, that it “will show the full extent of Mr.
Hargraves’s honor to the Government, to the pub-
lic, and to us, in 1851. It will show most clearly
how he wished to hoodwink the Government, to
deceive the public, and bamboozle us and Mr.
James Tom—in all of which he has tolerably well
succeeded.”
The fruit of this appeal was the appointment of
a Select Committee of the Legislative Assembly,
on the 20th August, 1890, to report upon the
claims of the Toms and Lister for remuneration as
the first discoverers of gold in Australia. The
report is highly interesting. Among the witnesses
examined was Hargraves himself ; but Lister died
during the course of the inquiry. He was never
in attendance before the Committee, but his
sworn written statement was put in as evidence.
The finding of the Committee allowed to Har-
graves the credit of having taught W. and J.
Tom and J. H. A. Lister the use of the disli and
cradle, and the proper methods of searching for
gold—knowledge which he had obtained from his
visit to the Californian gold-fields. But the com-
mittee expressed themselves satisfied that the
Messrs. Tom and Lister were undoubtedly the
first discoverers of gold obtained in Australia in
payable quantity. It was further found that
although “colors” had been found, “payable
gold ” was not known until the month of April,
1851, when Tom and Lister, after persistent and
determined search, under very great difficulties,
unearthed about 40z., which they (being partners
with Hargraves in the matter) handed to him.
Hargraves, thereupon, showed the gold to E.
Deas-Thompson, the then Colonial Secretary;
was recognised as the first discoverer of the metal
in Australia, and received all the consequent re-
wards on account of his supposed success. The
committee gave it as their opinion that Hargraves
abandoned his search for gold, after his first courseof
prospecting with Tom and Lister, until they in-
formed him that they had found four ounces of
the precious metal, which, according to his own
evidence, they discovered when he was not within
100 miles of them. Further, Hargraves acknow-
ledged that he received the four ounces referred
to on the 6th May, and took it immediately to the
Colonial Secretary ; and the committee had no
doubt that this was the cause of the issue
of the famous proclamation of gold, announc-
ing the discovery eight days afterwards, on
the 14th May, 1851, from which may be dated a
new era. And there the matter rests ! Never-
theless, Hargraves will go down to posterity in
all the books as the discoverer of the first payable
gold in Australia. Eheu !
FRED. J. BROOMFIELD.
Sad to relate, Kalgoorlie Miner, in a
recent issue, devoted two cols, of its limited space
to reporting the departure of two Methodist par-
sons. Time was when parsons were an unknown
quantity in Kal. But with the advent of Cousin
Jack from Wallaroo and Moonta come women,
kids and parsons. The old identities are nearly
all gone—mostly out back. Pat Hannan, for
instance, is, searching for another Kalgoorlie in
the vicinity of Lake Darlot.
From Australasian Medical Gazette:
At a recent Conference held in Victoria the Australian
Natives’ Association took into consideration many ques-
tions quite beyond the functions of a benefit society.
These questions included Imperial Federation, municipal
amalgamation, educational reform, horse-racing at branch
anniversaries, the present unsatisfactory method of
appointing J’s.P., the compulsory purchase of land for
closer settlement, and naval and military defence. At
length Premier Peacock rose and asked the Conference to
pause and consider the position it was drifting into. If
the Association was going to attempt to reform every-
thing on earth, it would become the laughingstock of
the community. Amongst the subjects for reform set
down for discussion that of the position and pay of their
own medical officers was, of course, not included. That
a society which considers itself a national one should
only be able to exist by being a benefit one, is more than
a reproach to the Australian native ; for it is admitted
that without giving mediesfl attendance the Society
would not exist.
The Rhyme of the Vagabond.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
This ancient earth is mine,
With all its treasure-hoard—
The Jewel and the Swine,
The Abject and the Lord.
I feel the pulse of Spring ;
I mark the destinies
That whirl the earth, and sing
Unheeded prophecies.
And though men meet in strife,
In cities grey and grim,
And pay their forfeit life,
Or raise their Mammon-hymn,
I forward fare with song,
Weaving my pleasant dreams ;
The lane of Spring is long,
And bordered by sweet streams.
Birds in the morning grey,
Birds when the white moon shows—
Matins at break of day
And vespers at its close..
Through rents the blue sky slips,
Rents in the sombre trees ;
Clouds, in my thought, are ships
Drifting on sleeping seas.
I
You know, who never slept
With but the boughs above,
Days that have died unwept,
Nights that were void of love.
You see no dimming skies,
No last stars pale and lorn,
Nor yet with raptured eyes
Behold the birth of morn.
But I in greenwood stray
Where trees defeat the light,
And see in dreaming day
A dryad, dazzling-white ;
And as in old-world tale
And lays of fair Romance,
Pass, singing, down the vale,
A wandering free-lance.
When Autumn’s vintage stains
The earth, a generous flood,
I feel within my veins
The vagrant gipsy blood.
I sing of twilight when
Shrouded in dusk I dream
Of shadows in the glen,
Of moonlight on the stream.
I stir from out my sleep,
And wonder without speech
To hear the slow tides creep
Along the silent beach.
O, Wine of Life and Joy
Unmixed with bitterness !
O, Gold without alloy,
The Gold of La Jeunesse !
A vagabond I roam
The earth from shore to shore,
And ever find for home
The old Red Road before.
N.S.W.
AHENOBARHUS.
A New Sort of Crank.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Came across a unique breed of crank, the other
day. Noticed that he haunted a rubbish-heap, on
which are daily shot contents of waste-paper
baskets. He carefully dusted and sorted the
torn papers, &c., and tilled a bag with the stulf.
Followed him to a by-street in Collingvvood,
where he entered an ancient shanty. Knocked at
the door. He popped out head and shoulders,
and glared at me. Asked what I wanted, 'told
him I wished to know, as a pressman, what he
did with the rubbish he collected.
“Come in,” said he, and I entered a small
room —clean and comfortable ; and with walls and
ceilings papered with his collections.
“ There you are ! ” said he—and he threw open
the door of another room. It was similarly
decorated.
“S’pose you reckon I’m short here," he went
on, tapping his forehead with a grimy finger.
“Well, think it; makes no odds to me. Damn
it all! ”he burst forth ; “ why should it ? What
do I care what people think of me ? Some people
collect postage-stamps. Heard the otner day that
some fool gave £30,000 for a lot. He was a prince—
No, he was a Jew. The prince sold the rubbish
to the Jew. Well, what d’ye make of that ?
Now I find amusement in my fad—intellectual
amusement. Run your eye down those walls.
See how I’ve got together regular records, his-
tories, tragedies, comedies. See those letters—
pieced together ? Here and there a gap, but that
salts the dish. Livens up your imagination, eh ?
Read that letter ! From a girl to a chap that
has thrown her over ? Tired of her. There’sanother
—read ! Says she shall commit suicide. And by
God, sir, she did ! And there are the letters that
he’d’pay coin to get, if I was built that way. The
d d fool tore ’em up and threw ’em into the
waste-paper basket—with her heart, her love, her
soul !—ah ! I see you begin to understand. Look
at that letter. I reckon you knpw the writing.
What’d that saintly man give to know that that
paper had been burned to ashes ? Ihat-there is a
lawyer’s letter. That’s the address, pasted under-
neath, Aren’t people cranks who don’t burn such
letters ? And am I a crank because I amuse
myself with their folly ? Pooh ! everybody to his
taste ; and mine’s rum, if you’re going to pay your
footing.” . ...
He pushed me outside, locked the door, and led
the way to a tavern n.ird-by. He drank his rum
with a relish. Then, fixing me with his beady
eves, he said :
'“l’m thinking of starting a museum, bee,!
Think it would pay? By the Lord, sir, theres
five thousand pounds in that shanty, if I chose to
turn it into capital. But I don’t. Good morn-
ing, and I hope you’re satisfied. You can put it
in the papers, if you like. Damme !I ye got
some of ’em pasted up—that were never published.
Some queer yarns, cocky ! Amazing revelations,
as they’d call ’em. And all out of the waste-paper
basket.”
OLD JACK.


Qsves Muscular Strength
and Nerve Power
Tikes Out Ewq
Red, Relieves
3
from the Bleed, Makes tl
sssion, Imparts Vigor and
Blood Rich and
Life.
M
t/i
i
m
■S. ,
I
Mr. Thomas Monroe, of Oriel, Albion, near Brisbane, Queensland, is well
known in football and atbl&tio circles. He has to keep liis system in perfect
condition all the time. Read what he says about Dr. Ayer’s Family Medicines.
and strength to
, , . —7.—by the use of Dr. Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral. These two remedies are well known throughout Queensland as thoroughly reliable
family medicines.”
So great is the reputation of Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla as a remedy for healing
the sick that it is called everywhere
“The World’s Giaalest Family Medicine.”
Tf you are sick, you certainly should give Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla a thorough
trial. It cannot fail to help yon, for it cures the blood first of all. Then your
nerves become steady and strong and the hot weather of summer does not affect
you. All depression is overcome. Remember, it is a wonderful medicine for
the children, too, when they are thin and feeble, pale and languid. Put your
confidence in it, for there is no family medicine in the world its equal.
AVER’S Sarsaparilla
Purifies and Enriches the Blood.
AYER'S PILLS cure dyspepsia; strengihsn the stomach.
26 W
YEARS’ SUCCESS
timm. as the
UNIVERSAL REMEDY
FOE
Coughs, Colds,
r A sthma, Bronchitis,
influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Consumption,
1' HAS MADE
AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY IN THE HOME
OR KIT OF EVERY COLONIAL.
It saves many Lives.
There is no difficulty in obtaining it , so
when you ash for Owbridge’s Lung
Tonic, insist upon having it, as
other so-called remedies are
often substituted.
T’rt; and by
W.T. OWSRIDGE, M.P.S., Chemist, HulL
Sold in bottles, at Is lid., 2*.9d.. 4* 6 d., 4115.,
by all Colonial Medicine Vendors.
OOPYEIQHT.
wmm
h
&
mm
m
M
? ;
I'K-it »»*; ■.-*«!
>4 3E t/)
" :_ L
mm
m
e :
•V ■iVV?;
«©&?< *>H»2K'-a*- * ’- 1-fraaatS
••--
i 3
m ? a<
ĥ
ħ
THE JMBWtttie
S. FREEMAN **> SONS Li^
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers*
.srrcoi a r.Trras:
BATHOS
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
PICKLES.
liiX IRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING'. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
heai >_office ; WYNYABD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
h
ĥ
ħ
h
ĥ
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Iniants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity or tho Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDSI
MAGNESIA
ħ
Sold Throughout the Worm.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
IRISH
FOR
The besr remedy-
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA.
Ask for Bonn 1 ng ton's
and seethatyou get it


RUBBER GOODS.
Waterproof Coats
20s. to 70s.
Rubber Boots—
17s. 6d. to 20s.
Goloshes—
Ladies’ 2s. 6d., 3s.
Gentlemen’s ... 45., 4s. 6d.
Leggings—
4s. 6d., 55., 6s. 6d.
Driving Rugs—
los. 6d„ 165., 215., 30s.
Hot-Water Bags—
Best English Rubber, 6s. to 10s. 6d.
PERDRIAU & CO.
rubber manufacturers
And IMPORTERS
270 George Street, Sydney.
(Catalogues Post Free.)
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRIC A L KN GINEE RS,
MAN CEACTURERS
AND . «
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
88 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building;, Adelaide.
WORTHINGTON PUMPS
All have Wrought Iron Valve Gear.
p|||j|pS, both Horizontal & Vertical,
. . . KEPT IN STOCK . . .
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Sole Australasian Representatives,
32 and 34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
WOrv* » uTOH,
TRADE MARK.
PLUNGER AND RING PATTERN
TANGYES
DUPLEX PUMPS ARE UP TQ DATE.
BENNIE, TEARE& CO.
HAVE DEPOTS IN
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, PERTH, COOLCARDIE,
And carry Stooks of Materials and Furnishing's for
MINING. ENGINEERING, IMPLEMENT-
MAKING and IRRIGATING.
80LE REPRESENTATIVES IN AUSTRALIA OF
TANGYES LIMITED.
$
THE IPIR-I-DIE OH 1 COO-IST-A-C-
-OTARD BRANDY.
ESTABLISHED 1795.
h
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO. LTD
Fish and Game, hard frozen and well packed, forwarded to all parts of the State.
People residing in distant localities where Good Blitter is unobtainable, are recommended to obtain their supply from the above Company, proprietors of the
well-known “ Golden Star ” brand, and Sole Agents for the famous “ Berry ” brand. Both kinds are Pasteurised, and have excellent keeping qualities.
Our Bakehouse Goods, for Balls, Parties, &c., are conceded to be the finest manufactured. Sent well-packed to any town in IST.S.W,
Head Office : HARBOUR ST., SYDNEY.
Price Lists and Particulars sent to any Knquirers.
C. C LANCE, Manager.
Z-X »
.'.r \
■
T
ARKE & _LACY
COMPANY LIMITED
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS,
Manufacturers and Importers of
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES & BOILERS.
IN STOCK
Knowles Steam Punjps, Ingersoll Rock Drills and Air Compressors, Nagle
Horizontal and Vertical Engines and Boilers, Pennsylvania Return Tubular
Boilers, Buffalo Blowers and Exhaust Fans, Morris Dredging Pum|Ss,
Bullock Diamond Drills, Dodge Rock Breakers, Roger Rolls, Gates’ Rock
Breakers, Challenge Ore Feeders, Huntington Quartz Mills, Wood and
Iron Working, and Laundry Machinery, and Mine and Mill Supplies.
And at
San Francisco and London
60 Clarence St., SYDNEY.
. P. GREGORY & GO.
ĥ
74 Clarence St., SYDNEY; MELBOURNE, 435 Bourne st.,
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS.
j. A. FAY & CO.’S Woodworking Machinery.
Largest Stock of Woodworking Machines in Australasia.
Band Saw-
Circular Saw Benches
Tenoning- Machines
Sandpapering Machines
Planing and Moulding Machines.
Vertical Shaping Machines
Mortising Machines
Scroll Sawing’ Machines.
Supplies and Furnishings of Every Description for above
and All Other Woodworking Machinery.
Ziu.i.v
