

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
PIG STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
XS. Gr. WATKINS
107 Kent stroot, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY, NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABMg 1 _______ <| _ |i _ |i _
Prize
Medals.
g
SEND FOB PRICES AND PARTICULARS
“IMge” Standard
Blood Split Pulleys
All Sizes Jcept in Stock.
SOLE AGENTS t
H. 6UTNRIP6C Ltd.,
71 Glarenoe St., Sydney.
SEND FOR CATALOG.-*®
A Policy for the Commonwealth
Being a reprint of a large number of articles from
The Bulletin, in which this paper has attempted to
outline a solvent, honest ana democratic policy
for Federated Australia.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° M Ht t street, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS FOE
Ruston, Proctor Sc Co.
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE—PORTABLE,
VERTICAL, FIXED and SEMI-FIXED
STEAM ENGINES and BOILERS and PUMPS.
Tlooentrio Mlotion. Tb_ra.slil»g Ma-ctrines, Saw Benchea, &0, » &CI
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
HELIDON SPA.
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
"i-'O O*TDE3C & CSO.. Xjtd., Agents, Sydney.
Hr
RACKAROCK>^
HOBART,
— xm —
Hadley’s Orient fiotel.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South. Melbourne,
Telephone No. 1063. .^CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered lor
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
J EES, TENTS and DANCINB FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
RESERVE EXTRA. RESERVE SPECIAL. RESERVE EXTRA SPECIAL. SUPREME
SAN DEM AN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
241 PITT STREET, SYDKTEY.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Sight Different Articles,
comprising- Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Gasket (a good
trick), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin
and Card Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard
Pish (gives definition of your character), That Wonderful
Cinematograph or Book of Living Pictures, ITafeking
Grub (or nerve-strengthener), That side-splitting Look
and Laugh Glass, and, last of all, The Spider and 1 the Ply
(an ingenious mechanical toy). Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
X
•1 -H
■JiaNaAS ‘qaw'|S-a3aoao OX4
“OO AAT3AON VJUOA W3N
JUST pUBLISHED f
The Bulletin Story Book
Price, 4s. 6d„ direct from the Pvblishers.
PIONEER
ĝ
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales/Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 2J . 3 3J 4 5 6 8 10 12 inch.
-17 -/9 -/10J 1/- 1/2 1/6 1/11 2 8 3/4 4/-
1/2 1/4 1/7 1/10 2/2 211 3/5 4/5 5/7 6/9
Agents in every Stale.
Made by
J. C. LIfDOWiCI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
JOHN JAMESON
“ THREE-STAR ” WHISKEY.
Affente : J. BAKBE JOHNSTON & CO., Loftna street, Sydney.
EMPIRE HOTEL, SYPNCy
JVCOST SITUATED.
OTARD-DUPUY
Estbd. 1795. 25 Years BRANDY.
m,
PROOF
USE
w
Head Office:
BLICH ST., SY
THE SPIRIT OF THE TIMES.
ONE COMMONWEALTH -ONE STIMULANT—
BOOMERANG BRAnuY
KIRIN
LAGER
PENFOLD’S
ADELAIDE
ğ
Natures Most
Pleasing Restorative
From the Oldest Vine yards
in
South Australia^
D? Andrew Wilson F« R.S’.E/
Author of w Healtk Notes?
London.
SAYS
PENFOLD’S WINES'
Arethe Safest Stimulant”
SYDNEY CELLARS
84 Pitt Street.
The Bulletin
Yol. 22.—N0. 1141.]
[Saturday, December 28, 1901.
Registered at the General Poet Offioe, Sydney, tor Transmission by Post aa a Newspaper.


•Contributions forwarded to The Bookfellow, at this
office, will be gratefully received, and will be devoted to
befitting uses.
The Bulletin publications.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Fifty Bulletin Writers. Gloth, 300
pages; price, 4s. 6d.
The Bulletin Reciter:
By a Hundred Bulletin Bards. With
illustrations by “ Hop,” N. Lindsay, A. J.
Fischer, F. Leist, D. H. Souter, and H.
McCrae. In handsome cloth, decorated;
price, ss.
THE BULLETIN BOOKS.
Sole Distributing Agents :
Edwards, Dunlop & 00., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
Special Wholesale Agents :
New South Wales .. Edwards, Dunlop & 00., Ltd.
Queensland .. .. Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd.
Victoria George Robertson Proprietary.
Tasmania George Robertson Proprietary.
South Australia .. E. S. Wigg & Son.
Westralia .. .. E. S. Wigg & Son.
Auckland and district Wildman, Lybll, & Arey.
Others to be appointed.
Sold by All Leading Booksellers.
The Bulletin Newspaper Go., Ltd.;
214 George-st., Sydney, Australia.
For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs ! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
a
A. The Larynx, or organ ol
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous drug , .
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, in Tins, 1s 6d ; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland—post
free on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE, and FELTON, GRIMWADE h CO.,
Melbourne, Agents.
THE RED RAGE.
In the y ante of the Prophet—Gum!
THE proposition that in Australia “ God is
God and Theophilus Gum is his prophet ”
may seem debatable at first sight. It is
not debatable. Opposition has no foot-
hold. Both reason and expediency cla.mour in
support of the claims of Gum. In the beginning
God created the Heavens and the Earth. In the
end he created Australia and Gum. The Gum-
tree is the national tree of Australia. ‘‘ By
Gum ! ” is already a national adjuration. Those
who possess the wisdom that is given to babes
will see in these signs a prefiguration of the divine
mission of Theophilus, the founder of an Aus-
tralian National Religion.
Federation is still in the air. We have reached
political union. Why not reach religious union,
and end the controversies of the sects under the
gentle sway of Gum ? The idea is no less practical
than holy. Already, says the American press,
J. Pierpont Morgan has approached Pope Leo
and the Archbishop of Canterbury, and is trying
to arrange a religious combine on the model of the
Steel Trust. That he will succeed goes without
saying ; sooner or later an American always suc-
ceeds. But why should we wait for Morgan’s
later, when our own sooner is within reach ? We
are accumulating evidences of Australian power to
come quickly when it is worth the trouble. The
Australian politician is a linguistic monsoon ; the
Australian girl is kind and soon ; the Australian
“ sport ”is sooner. Why should the religious lag
behind ?
Our national policy is Protective. Let us pro-
tect religion, and keep the money in the country.
Why should our clergy have to endure the compe-
tition of foreigners, educated in cheap-labour
schools, and imported to quell the local
demand for decent wages ? Why should we make
pilgrimages to Rome, when we can have as satis-
factory a goal of pilgrimage at Coonabarabran ?
Shrines and relics are easily created nowa-
days ; yet we have in Australia no authentic
shrine, no guaranteed relics. It is a national
disgrace. Let us end this pauperising foreign
competition. Let us end this habit of reliance
upon Old-World fetishes. Give us a national
religion, a New Religion fitted to this New
Country ; and, to found it and extend it, give us
Gum !
You do not know Gum ? Then you are your-
self unknown. Gum —is Gum. Like all founders
of religions, he owns to lowly origin. The State
was merely . South Australia ; the town was
Nairne. Nairne is not as prosperous as Mel-
bourne, or as notorious as Sydney; but ’twill
serve. Here, says his biographer, “in the year
1860 Mr. Gum was born.” The biography is en-
titled Brief Sketch of the Life of Theophilus Gum,
the Prophet, Author , and Teacher of the New
Dispensation ; and it- was published this year at
the office of the Riverina Times , Hay, N.S.W.
The gospel is extending !
Gum’s early years were uneventful. He was
educated in the State school of Nairne ; he joined
the Wesleyan denomination ; he became a farmer.
And he lived until 1889 without a hint of his
mission. One spring, morning in that year “ Mr.
Gum was engaged in his usual avocation,” while
pondering the. problem of Good and Evil.
Ruminating over these and similar thoughts, he was
conscious, he tells us, ot the presence of a soft, beautiful,
peaceful light shining all round him, and the inspiring,
elevating influences which permeated his mind convinced
him that the light was of supernatural origin ; and was a
Divine testimony that he was born again. Mr. Gum
informs us that he retired into his house, and, opening his
mother’s family Bible at random, read the first chapters
that he came upon. These were the second and third
chapters of the Book of Proverbs. . . .
Continuing his experiences, Mr. Gum says, “ When I
turned to the first chapter of the Gospel by Luke and read
the preface it was then that the true nature of that
morning’s experience flashed upon me, and I learned as
plainly as God could tell me that I was the person there
addressed, and that I was called to be His prophet and to
go out in the world and to do His work.”
Gum went. First lie paid his debts —which is
the one thing in his life that casts doubt upon the
genuineness of his religious mission. Then he left
his farm, and “with a portmanteau in his hand
and firm faith in his heart, journeyed south en
route to Adelaide.” That was ten years ago.
Since then he has resided in Adelaide. He has
written books—three. He has published pamph-
lets —several. He has “ devoted his Sunday
afternoons in addressing large audiences in the
Botanic Park at Adelaide.” He is a disciple of
Henry George, and “ also generally in sympathy
with the Labour Party.” He has “distributed
some hundreds of pounds in works of charity.”
And he claims it is his mission to establish a
New Dispensation in Australia—“ which island-
continent he asserts is that Holy City, the New
Jerusalem, which St. John saw descending from
Heaven.” This is made clear by a map of
Australia in which the coastal districts are appor-
tioned among the Twelve Tribes of Israel, while
the central parts are shared by the Twelve
Apostles.
Now this is the Gospel of Gum :
1. That God is a Person and Product of Evolution.
2. That Life and Death are coeval in their existence;
the one being Evolution and the other Devolution.
3. That Good and Evil in the moral sphere are sequences
of Life and Death in the Physical.
4. That Substance in the simple form is Self-existent,
Indivisible, Indestructible and Infinite, all complete forms
being evolved from the simple and original.
5. That God is a free-agent as regards good and evil and
has become Divine by rejecting the evil and doing the
good.
6. That man was created in the original image of God,
and went wrong by neglecting the good and doing the
evil; when he reverses that process of Life he becomes
Divine.
7. That to reject the evil and do the good is the great
lesson which God has written for mankind on every page
of the Old and New Testaments.
8. That God is going to set up a Kingdom on the Earth
based absolutely upon the lines of the good.
9. That the Divine Kingdom will first be established in
South Australia, and gradually extend itself to the New
World.
10. That the Coastal territories of Seven Australian
States will be the Twelve Gates of the New Jerusalem
referred to in the Book of Revelations.
11. That the mode of establishing the Divine Kingdom
will be by a division of the world’s population upon the
lines of the good and the evil; all who love and will obey
the good coming into the New World, and all who will
not, being driven into the old.
12. That the first Resurrection will be a Resurrection of
144,000 of the mest perfected departed souls, with human
bodies dwelling on the earth, which bodies will not then
be subject to physical death.
13. That the soul of David, the ancient King of Israel,
has already been resurrected in my body and the remain-
itigT 143,999 will be resurrected in the same way, at the
times and places chosen by God.
14. That the British nation are the Ten Lost Tribes of
Israel; and the four Beasts of the Kingdom will be (1)
The people of Great Britain and Ireland, (2) The people of
Australasia, (3) The Jews scattered throughout the
world, (4) The people of the United States, and of Canada.
15. That the test of Citizenship will be, not nationality,
but conformity to the Divine Law of God ; the English-
man, Australian, American or Jew not conforming to that
Law being rejected, and those of other Nationalities con-
forming to the Law being accepted.
16. That the Jews wall come into the Kingdom by
seeing in Jesus Christ their true Messiah and accepting
the truth of Christianity.
What could be simpler ? What could be more
satisfactory ? What could bear greater witness
of Truth? These are the fundamentals of a
National Religion. Thus is Australia exalted to
her just empire over all the earth—by Gum. Let
us believe. Let us worship. Let us take up a
collection.*
«
Lond. Evening Standard, chronicling the dis-
appearance of a Chatham shipwright, adds with-
out a suspicion of humour that “He was an
eccentric, and bathed every morning.” And
when that famous London hotel, the “old”
Claridge’s, was demolished some years ago, it was
recorded that there was not one bathroom, not
one fixed bath, in the whole building. Even to-
day, your bath at most London hotels is charged
as an “ extra ” —that is, as something outside
routine, beyond the traveller’s reasonable expecta-
tion. Yet we read constantly of “ the matutinal
tub” (to be sure, it is only a “tub,” and maybe
“a little one”); and many novelists tell us
how the hero was heard “ vigorously splashing in
the next room.” Certainly, the word “bath-
room” is rarely used; yet the legend of the
Englishman’s “bath” is supported by weighty
literary testimony. By way of explaining the
recurrent mystery, it is diffidently suggested that
English writers bathe more frequently than other
Englishmen, and naturally transfer their private
account with soap to the national credit. “The
literary life,” we know, is a fever: it may be a
case of “water ! for anguish of the solstice” of
invention. Besides, one must wash the, ink off.
What does Wilson Barrett say ?
In Kendall’s verses, “ The Last of His Tribe ”
(Poems, 90), occurs the line—
Uloola, behold him ! The thunder that breaks . . .
and the question what “Uloola” may mean has
puzzled several people. Towards elucidation, the
Rev. J. L. Mathew writes this note ;
The word “ Uloola ” I have never met with excepting
in Kendall’s poem. I never heard it or heard or read of
it as a name for a deity or demon, or any mortal creature.
For myself, I am satisfied that the poet invented it,
choosing syllables to suit the necessities of the rhythm
and letters pleasing to his ear for euphony.
Are we to pronounce it “ Ulloola ” or “ Yuloola " ?
If the initial is to be short, that would be proof positive
of its being an artificial word. I believe you will find no
proper names and few words, if any, beginning with u
short in the Victorian, New South Wales and Southern
Queensland dialects.
Two very common words in the medium of con-
versation between the whites and the aborigines would
probably suggest, or might have suggested, the termina-
tion—oola. One of the commonest words in use between
the white and black races was oola, to speak or tell.
Hardly a conversation would take place without a “you
oola me," or “me oola you,” or “me oola that fellow,"
&c. The second word that might have suggested the
final syllables was koola, or oola —angry. “ Cobun me
koola along a you ” (“I’m very angry with you ”) was a
very common phrase. Both words were first derived
from the blacks about Port Jackson, and were carried by
the whites, and used in speaking to blacks in other places,
who took them for • English words. Koolla is a very
common term for native bear.
My opinion, put briefly, is—the word is Kendall’s inven-
tion ; he contrived it with a view to euphony, and to suit
the exigencies of the metre ; two or three words in con-
stant use in intercourse between blacks and whites, and
chiefly the word “ oola,” would help to suggest the form.
A youthful Australian examinee for admission
to the A.M.P. service was asked to give examples
of nouns having no plural. This was his list:
God, Almighty, beef, mutton, pork .” Asked to
write an essay on the most notable event of 1901,
he described the English Eleven. That boy will
make a good actuary.
£
An English critic of Arthur Symons’ translation
of D’Annunzio’s Gioconda cites this passage—
I longed for one word from you, only one, no more, and
all at once you flood me with love, you fill up every vein,
you raise me to the other side of hope, you outpass my
dreams, you give me happiness beyond all expectation—
and comments —
In the theatre that would doubtless appear—and be—
quite natural. In print one has time to notice that the
force of the phrases diminishes where it should rise, and
that the last clause is terribly commonplace;
That seems a judgment to differ from. The
Italian is not to hand ; but if Symons (not
a careful translator) reflects the thought and tone
of D’Annunzio’s phrase, then D’Annunzio’s fine
taste was not at fault—even when his words are
read by eye alone. “ The last clause ”is a natural
close on the descent of the wave; and why
insist that the wave shall be caught always at
its height ? The mortmain of the grammarians is
often to be resented. We are taught that in
rhetoric the steps of the climax must be regular,
and that to misplace them is to fall into anti-
climax and to sin. But the old conception of
rhetoric can be mended nowadays. We see
prose style as an endless curve, sweeping
in a succession of harmonies which (for the
writer’s purposes) may end at any point within
the curve. Anti-climax is a sudden fall; but
D’Annunzio does not fall suddenly, he descends
gradually, strictly reproducing the natural descent
of emotion. The idea that you must always close
upon your highest note is a mark of inferior taste.
For illustration: take the two endings of the
Italian sonnet —the rising and the falling. Both
are good; but Rossetti preferred the latter, and
it is possibly a sign of the maturity of taste when
(upon this point) one comes to agree with
Rossetti. The falling close is decidedly the more
difficult to manage; one so easily yields to the
commonplace, and then the anti-climax is justified
of its grammarian. But when it is compassed—
that long, luxurious, withdrawing wave —the
clamant climax of the suspended billow seems
tawdry by comparison.
Jt
“E.F.” comments—
Any who know Donald Macdonald personally will snort
at your comment on the publication of The Warriyal’s
Well, with a cover which bears the name of Mac. only,
whereas his collaborator, Edgar, gets “ due credit bn the
title-page and in a preface.” Of this arrangement you
say “ it seems decidedly unfair to lately-deceased Edgar,
also to the public, who may purchase the book under the
impression that it was written by Macdonald solely.” If
the public are likely to bite more freely at a hook
by Macdonald than they would bite at the same
volume were Edgar’s name also printed on the
cover, the denial of “ due credit ” to the dead owner of
the missing name is clearly an advantage to his widow,
presuming that she participates in the expected profits of
the venture. If the public resent the little superficial
deception, Donald Macdonald stands to bear the blame.
He seeks no undue credit. The man is not built that
way. And seeing that you class Edgar as the brighter
writer of the pair, your suggestion of imposition on the
public strikes me as being absurd. The public, by your
own judgment, get a brighter book than they are justi-
fied in expecting from the one name on the cover.
Tolerable sophistry ; but it would n’t avail the
shopkeeper who sold coffee-and-chicory wrappered
as “Pure Coffee.” Grant Macdonald all the
virtues; but, in Grocery and Literature, give us
Honest Labels.
“W.H.P.” forwards from Brisbane a 36 pp.
pamphlet, entitled Mind and Intellect, “a sequel
to The Lost Life, ” —and courteously offers to for-
ward The Lost Life if desired. The reviewer’s
eye caught this simple little sentence on p. 23
Neither—observe—-can Intellect ever be the mere specific
result from any mere given condition of matter because no
careful study of this subject will ever fail to show to all
human intelligence that a true, intellectual conviction is
the product, not of some mere simple, evanescent, specific
condition in an organic , instrument; but is clearly
evolved by or from a peculiar cycle of action in or within
all or in the whole of the intellectual powers in them-
selves, and is evolved in a specific circuit or revolution of
action within these, which can be, and is, frequently
repeated and re-repeated, and is so thus incessantly per-
petuated over and over again, in successive procedure
until the lower subsidiary physical conditions, or the
mere lower, contributory mind action, so awakened
becomes exhausted.
—And he has not yet felt “up to ”, sending for
The Lost Life.
The preceding paragraph, you will observe, is
deplorably flippant. What is proper oritical
attitude to these harmless enthusiasts, these
apostles with a meaningless mission ? Deplorable
flippancy? or kindly sympathy? or severe silence ?
Well, it really makes no ultimate difference: the
best way is to follow your mood ; and the current
local mood is moulded by a light dinner of coffee
and tobacco. But, that those may receive
“ W.H.P.’s ” message who are fitted to receive it:
his works may be obtained from A. J. Ross, 79
Queen-st., Brisbane. We think they would suit
persons of a chaste and vegetarian temperament.
J*
The professor was reading with his students a
funny little French play, in which the
joke attaches to a collector of antiqui-
ties who rummages a neighbour’s garden
and digs up what the University text calls
a crachoir (spittoon). This he hails as a lachrymal
urn of the Decline, and exalts gloriously to the
sideboard. Now, when the professor came to
crachoir, he paused and said in a hesitating way
that he would like the men students to remain
after the women had gone. Presently the petti-
coats rustled out to sigh for their misfortunate
sex, and wandered disconsolately away debating
furiously whatever It could be. Meanwhile the
professor, surrounded by a group of agitated
trousers, was explaining himself with the depre-
cating air of a second cousin who has come to
borrow money and is not sure if you will recognise
sis relationship. He was not clear if he was doing
right, he said ; but the fact was that the Univer-
sity text was mutilated, and he whispered some-
thing which made the youngest pair of trousers
blush immoderately. Then the professor timidly
conveyed the impression that he hoped lie had
done right to tell them ; but the fact was that the
potter had power over the clay, to make one
vessel to honour and another to dishonour, and
sometimes a spade was a spade but more often it
was an agricultural implement, nevertheless to
the pure all impure things were strangely attrac-
tive, and his intentions were good, and the
students knew he tried to do his duty and textual
accuracy was very important, though he was not
sure if he had done right;—and the students were
not sure, and for my part I am not sure either;
so, taking one thing with another, there seems to
be a good deal of uncertainty about the matter.
&
A few extracts from letters of Henry Parkes,
written in ’93 and ’94 —
To put aside the shining multitude of love poets mis-
tressing throughout the ages, what is to be said after
Coleridge and Charles Wolfe? To me, “Genevieve” is
the most complete poem of love that was ever written,
but the following verses of Charles Wolfe have often
stirred me to tears.
If I had thought thoii coiildst have died,
1 might not weep for thee,
But I forgot when by thy side
That thou couldst mortal be.
It never through my mind had, past
The time would e’er be o’er,
And 1 on thee should look my last,
And thou shouldst smile no more.
What poetic expression of grief bom of passionate love
could be more simple, full, and exquisite ?
. . . Try to remember you are still young. . . ,
... I often think that if Shelley had been living 20
years ago (a man of four-score years) he would have
gravely reproved Swinburne;
. . . The heroic treatment of human suffering rises
higher in counselling to resistance of temptation, un-
weariness in striving after the right, and, depend upon it,
men by thousands have by such struggling risen to the
surface from the direst quagmires of misery.
And here he throws aside the lyre and gathers
his toga round him—
. . . The times [1894] are very full of portents for New
South Wales in common with the sister colonies, and not
less so for the Empire. I almost tremble when I think
how much depends upon the young sons of Australian
soil. The old class of social feelers-in-politics, which class
has been kept alive by the enervating sunshine of our
mock Court, seems to be disappearing, and I trust a body
of sturdy and keen-thinking men will take their place-
But the danger—inseparable from the young—is leaping
instead of patiently working to the point which is seen to
be within reach.
And a postscript—
I have written this in great pain.
J*
That energetic member of an energetic Aus-
tralian family—William S. Walker—publishes
another of his extraordinary novels, titled In the
Blood (London ; John Long). W. Walker’s books
are like nothing so much as a kitchen stock-pot,
where all sorts of miscellaneous meats are scurry-
ing round in a confusion which simmers without
boiling. His experience is undeniable; his
wealth of incident is astonishing; his ob-
servation is keen; his moral and improving
commentary is not stupid by any means; —
and withal he cannot make a readable book. Dip
into it anywhere, and you are lost in a scrub of
mixed details through which the persevering
intelligence must cut a painful path. William
S., in fact, is an admirable type of extense energy,
vibrating very slowly, and his nousometer-index
is 2500 or so. And the Aberdeen Journal says he
is “ the ‘ Barrie ’ of the great Southern Con
tinent.”
J*
An Amer. booklet-publisher’s announcement —
The George Robertson and Co. Proprietary,
Limited, has been appointed, Special Wholesale
Agent for The Bulletin Books in Victoria and
Tasmania ; and booksellers in those States can now
procure from that firm, at the publisher’s list
prices, any supplies required. '
&
H. J. Thaddeus, R.H.A. (“Royal Hibernian
Academy ” —which sounds comic, somehow), is
exhibiting a small collection of pictures at Sydney
Soc. of Artists’ gallery. The centrepiece is “ The
Obedienza,” representing Pope Leo receiving a
cardinal’s homage. The interest is rather religious
than artistic. Thaddeus paints cleverly and
finishes very smoothly : it is possibly the smooth
finish which gives his work a somewhat fiat and
cold effect. But be imitates Nature wonderfully,
and the polish on Speaker Gully’s nose makes you
shiver with premonitory gout. 1
Some correspondents—
Esmi: Done it already ; may do it again.. ..Scribbler :
Too jerky. In literature, it is the alternating shock that
kills Post-card :“As to Kim and KM. Herald. You
are wrong, and your correspondent who spent ‘ humour-
ous hours’ comparing the real Kim with the Herald ver-
sion is worse. If you will refer to S.M.H., July 10,1901,
chap, x of Kim, you will find Mahbub’s remarks as to his
deeds at fifteen, in full, on the 18th line. ‘ Fair play is a
jewel,’ not comprised in The Bulletin collection.” Not
quite fair, seeing that we only asked the question. But
we regret having given currency to the Inaccurate Con
tributor—may he grill 1000 years 1


NTDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP
THE ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUS DIP.
M'DOUGALL BROS., 8 Spring: Street, Sydney.
Agents: KT.Z. JLm. Hz. IML. -A-. 00., Ltd. LOCAL AGENTS EVERYWHERE
WOOL
SEND
YOUR
WOOL
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
If you want to get the best possible results.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.
Wool and Produce Brokers.
Consolidated Charge!
for Selling Wool J
2i Per Cent
/Includes all Charges excepting
\ cartage from steamer’s wharf.
Fat Stock Salesmen, Stock & Station Agents.
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.
BRAUN ORE SAMPLE-CRUSHER
and PULVERISER.
ġ
Combination of a Jaw and Roll
Pulveriser working together.
May be operated by either hand or power.
Jaws, 3& in. wide; Roll, 6 in. diameter; Belt
Wheel, 16 x2l in. Total Weight, 2851bs-
Weite foe Particulars to—
PARKE & LACY CO., Ltd.
60 Clarence-St., Sydney, n.s.w.
MINING ENGINEERS & MACHINERY
MERCHANTS.
HAVE THE
BEST.
ģ
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE
Is t 'uilt by a light, handy machine, easily operate!, which will weave
THREE CHAINS OF FENCE AN HOUR.
The Lateral Wires are two-ply cable of best Gal. Steel Wire intersected by Crimped Steel Pickets
securely interwoven at any desired distance apart, forming a perfect Web Fence which will hold
securely all kinds of Stock.
FOR CATALOGUES AND PARTICULARS
‘CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE CO.
128 Franklin St., Melbourne ; 143 Sussex St., Sydney.
NEITHER CRACK
*8
<5BOB
5800
6807
\5
NOR BURN.
CBB
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
GUARANTEE.—ShouId any of our Celebrated CAN’T-B-BEAT Briar Pipes Crack or Bara •
New One will be Exchanged for it immediately on Application.
Sold by all Tobacconists. By Post, 1«. 2d.
Mick Simmons, haymarket, Sydney.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge : 3 Per Cent, to the G-rowera.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Buyers.
“On Our Selection,” By “ Steele Rudd.”
Do You
If you suffer
from
Rheumatism
General Debility
Bright’s Disease
Bladder Troubles
Blood Disorders
Sick Headache
Biliousness
Indigestion
Dyspepsia
Neuralgia
Backache
Sciatica
Lumbago
Anaemia
Gout
Gravel
will give you back
Good Health
These diseases are, one and all,
caused by the retention in the
system of urea, uric acid, and
other urinary and biliary poisons,
which it is the function of the
kidneys and liver to remove.
When the kidneys and liver,
from any cause, are unable to
do their work these diseases
result.
WARNER’S SAEE CURE is a scientific
compound which possesses the marvellous
property of being able to restore the kidneys
and liver to health and activity.
WARNER'S SAEE CURE restoring, as it
does, the kidneys and liver to health, these
organs extract from the blood the poisons
which cause the diseases. The poisons are
naturally expelled from the body, and the
diseases are cured.


Address ;
Care GEO. ADAMS,
Hotoart.
Launceston C. Jan. 22.
50,000 Subscribers at 5*
To TATTERSALX*
Please allot me.
shares in above.
Name..
S I
Address.
Hobart C. Jan. 29.
50,000 Subscribers at 5*
To TATTERSALI*
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name.
Address..
t
Anniversary H. Jan. 27.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Kamo
Address
Newmarket H. March 1.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name
Address
£ t t
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tattersall,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


stYttjr
which braces up the nerves, clears
the brain, strengthens the body
and ensures a perfect assimilation
of food. Miss Mutkie, Kensington
& Park, Adelaide, S.A., writes, “I
A had been given up as doomed
through Indigestion when I
first began taking Seigel’s
IB Syrup, but the Syrup
completely faired me.
April 25t?A 1900.”
I
Losing your hair ? Do you bring out
a combful each morning ? Has it lost
its natural brightness ? Is it beginning
to look faded and dead ?
Do you like this condition of things ?
Certainly not. Then stop this falling of
the hair at once. Stop it before your hair
is thin, short, and lifeless. Make your
hair beautiful, glossy, silky, abundant.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
Is a Hair Food.
When your hair is well nourished it
does not come out. ’Tis weak hair,
starved hair, that falls. It’s just so
with thin hair, short hair, rough hair.
Such hair needs feeding. This is why
Ayer’s Hair Vigor stops falling of the
hair.
If your hair is gray, and you don’t
care to look at thirty as if you were
sixty, then you should us© Ayer’s Hair
Vigor. It always restores color to gray
hair, all the dark, rich, beautiful color
It had when you were young.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mas«.,U. S. A
_ A <©,
iU-'L ,
Alb *
Beware-!!!
soFlttiTftrioNS,,
g
KRSBS
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send, to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
pW* Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia.
CRA.IG & AITKEKT,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Byd ney.
RHEUMALGIA
ie new cure for Rheumatism, Lumbago, Gout, Sciatica,
Neuralgia, and similar ailments
IS
a lotion compounded from herbs
PURELY AUSTRALIAN.
3S. 6d. POST FREE.
Rheumalgia Remedy Co., Bathurst,
Wholesale depot for Jf.S. W. and Q.
Cheviot, where the recent disastrous M.L.
earthquake originated, is a rigid prohibition dis-
trict. That was its only way of breaking out.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk stripe
Mattalassk and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
331 per Half-dozen, free l>y post thro ay /tout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on ApplioatioD
B. MOUNTCASTLE A SONS, BRISBANE
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Next Distribution of the Profits at 31st December. 1901.
Policies Effected before the close of the year will participate in the Bonus to be then allotted
Amount of Cash Bonus divided among the participating Policyholders for the single year 1900 was £.537 895
(All bonuses vest immediately on policies attaining a duration of two years )
Intending Proposers should note the above carefully, and send in their applications early, either direct or through
TT , any of the Society s Agents, so as to reap the benefit of this year’s bonus
DIRECTORS : Thomas Littlejohn, Esq., Chairman ; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.0., Deputy-Chairman ; The
Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; Benjamin Short, Esq.; Senator J. T. Walker; J. Abbott Esa. • and
t. E. Winchcombe, Esq., M.P. General Mansger and Actuary : Richard Teece FIA FFA FSS
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B CAMERON, Secretary.' '
ĝ
Commercial
Bugrgy,
£l4 109.
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
US’ Send for a
Catalogue.
ğ
Bent -Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HIILIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
PLAYER’S
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
WORLD
FAMED
m
w
mm,
m
WHOLESALE
Distributing: Agents
New South Wales —
M. RUTTY & GO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Western Australia —
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland —
Thos. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Philp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand—
D. Benjamin & Co.,
Dunedin, Wellington
and Christchurch.
MARTELLS
“A genuine
old Brandy
made from
Wine.”
Medical Press.
THREE STAR
"Particularly suitable
for Medicinal
Purposes.”
The Lancet
BRANDY.
Price 6s.
Post Free.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
Steele Rudd
-r-'. .«»»-<
mi
II
300 K.W. Three-phase Generator
QANZ&Co
DYNAMOS, MOTORS.
EVERYTHING ELECTRIC.
Expert Advice Free.
Sole Agents For Australasia s
The Austral Otis Engineering Go. Ltd.
SOUTH MELBOURNE.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company
When in town, pay ns a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
8-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies' Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Cataloerue and Price List. NOTICE.— Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 pet
cent more for your requirements-
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redforn, SYDNEY
OUB SPECIAL No. 8
£8 18/6
ġ
Delivered at any Wharf « r
VB.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10 /-
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
THE BUSH.
Come, if you are whom I think you to be,
Come, let us adore at the shrine of the bush,
Of the mountain forest, tender, intimate, spiritual.
The slope of a ridge scorched by a long-dead fire,
The charred trunks of the intensely vital trees,
pushing out sprays of soft infant green,
The ghosts of the flame brooding there—the
waratahs,
Pentecostal hearts of flame : they will give to you
the tongues of the bush.
See the swelling breasts of the gums,
Hearts panting for the Invisible above, tugging at
their chains ;
Immortal longing in those wistful shapes,
Waves and waves of leaves pressing up to the
Infinite.
There one sprays in grey-white blossom. The hope
of one brings its heart’s blood red to the
young tops.
Yet it prays, and will ever pray—as Man prays.
In the c'oisters beneath what grace of gold and
gems!
The sunlight prisoned in the wattle, the milky
way of the clematis,
Dainty orchids in quaint half-tones of color,
Sweet-scented clusters of creamy blossoms,
Burgeon of yellow and red where some shrub for-
gets the tears of Life
And flaunts back to the sun a greeting.
Over the dark cliff leaps the little stream,
Tenderly telling the great gums that it will give
all of their message
To Sister Ocean murmuring far below on the
beach.
The bush fays lean over to whisper;
Their long, green hair is kissed by the passing
water.
The soft meadow beside is flecked with gleaming
white,
And hides under green robes little violets,
Their fragile beauty tenderly covered ;
Prom below great ferns wave the stream’s last
greetings to the gums above;
On marbled columns the sassafras lifts its glossy
head ;
Soft the whisper of the water as it glides away.
Where else does Nature bare her soul ?
But not to all. The clown may come, and eat,
and carve, and go;
The martsman turn back, frighted by the gloom. -
Shy, virginal, mysterious, the bush’s loveliness is [
but for her true lover :
For him the veil is drawn aside, and the couch
made ready;
For him, patient in quest, worthy to know.
Boast not of the wanton woods of Europe,
Defiled with cloven feet, fed on the fat of men,
Flaunting furious colors, as women of Moab,
Their beauty such that he who runs may see;
For me, our austere bush—repelling whom she
may, to her true lover flowing with tender-
ness.
LAWSON, N.S.W.
FRANK RENAR.
The Race of My Heart.
I have ridden in finishes fast and fine
For many a purse and plate,
From the Coorong out to the Condamine,
From Bourke to the Bogan Gate ;
But the race of my heart has a sunset start
When the flag of darkness droops,
’Tis the True Lover’s Cup, with an amateur up,
In shadow-and-moonlight 1 loops L
I hear the dew in the still night fall
And the whispering grasses speak;
I hear the wail in the curlew’s call
As he follows the winding creek;
And I saddle the gray in the failing day,
When the dim light limns the course—
By Follow-the-Fair from a Dreamland mare,
There is blood in the old gray horse !
I ride him out on his royal trip
With the help of hand and heel;
He needs no lash of the whistling whip,
No sting of the biting steel;
But he wakes again to the talking rein
In the bridle-hand above,
And he thunders down by camp and town
And lays to his work for Love.
And I pass the post and I pull him up,
With a heart that is proud to find
That the rivals who ride in the True Lover’s
Cup
Are a night and a half behind ;
And I read my prize in her lustrous eyes,
While the stars in their circling troops
Beam soft on her face—for I’ve won my race
In the shadow-and-moonlit hoops !
V.K.
WILL OGILVIE.


SUNLIGHT
SOAP
IS REALLY
THE CHEAPEST
THE END.
Linens, Cottons and Woollens are soon reduced
to holes when washed with ordinary soap contain-
ing alkali in a free state.
SUNLIGHT SOAP does not contain any alkali
in a free state and is really the cheapest in the
end, as all articles washed with it last much,
longer than if washed with ordinary soap.
(545
WHAT COULD BE NICER
FOR A
PRESENT
THAN
YOUR PHOTOGRAPH,
mounted in one of our
Solid Gold Screw-Top
Miniature Pendants?
Jewellers*Opticians *
go King ST, Sydney.
: \:
.
rnmim
Bound, 51-, 7/6, 10/-, 12/6 ; larger size, 17 6.
Heart Shape, small, 6/6; large, 11/-, 12/-.
Send for our FREETRADE CATALOGUE.
All Goods Fonvarded POST FREE.
A Policy for the Commonwealth.
PRICE, 6d.; Posted, Bd.
Rock Lily Hotel
Mr. Leon Houreaux, Proprietor,
TXriSHES to be remembered to his many clients and
'' invites Tourists and Strangers travelling through
Sydney for the CHRISTMAS HOLIDAYS to pay a visit to
his Establishment noted, for its Curious Picture Gallery,
its Lovely Gardens and Parks.
. . . The Visitor will find . . .
Grand Accommodation,
Also Good French Cuisine, Large Banqueting
Rooms capable of Accommodating 200 Guests.
. . . Also, PRIVATE ROOMS.
The Establishment is CLOSE TO THE BEACH, which
is noted for Fishing and Bathing; also NEAR GREAT
SHOOTING COUNTRY.
All Kinds of Private Vehicles to hand at the
Rock Lily Stables.
Coaches leave Manly 10 o’clock, 11.15 a.m. and 4.15 p.m.
FARE—ONE SHILLING.
Rock Lily Hotel, Rarrabeen.
Telephone 134, Manly. Leon Houreaux, Proprietor.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
The
Excellence
of all
Bottled
Brandy
bearing:
this
Label
is
Guaranteed.
THE
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
ģ
v
P BETTE'S.
DIRECTIONS FOR COVERING HAY STACKS*
Erect upright poles, with connecting ridge poles, around 1
which build your hay stacks. Next provide yourself
with sufficient P. & B. Building Paper, 4-ply, or
P. & B. Ruberoid Roofing, 2-ply, to cover the
desired area, also as many yards of 12 in. x 2 in. xl9
gauge Galvanised Wire Netting as you require yards of
paper. Next drive stakes along each side of the stack,
near the eaves, sufficiently strong to support plates
(round or square), rest your plates on these, unroll your
P. & B. Building Paper, 4-ply, and pass the end
entirely over the stack to the plate on the further side to
which it should be nailed. Then go back and nail the
other side in the same way, and cut the Paper off
just below the plate. Take the remaining end of
the roll of P. & B. Paper and pass it over the stack
as before, lapping it three or four inches over the
edge of the first strip, and nail as before, continue in this
manner until the stack is entirely covered. Now pro-
ceed to secure the Wire Netting (over' the overlapping
edges of the P. & B. paper) to the plate in the same
manner as you secured the P. & B. Paper, i.e., at each
end. This being done, remove the stakes which support
the plates and drive them into the stack about three feet
lower down, after which the entire covering may be
secured in position by lashing the plate to the newly
driven stakes. These lashings may be tightened from
time to time as the stacks shrink. Both the Netting and
Paper can be removed (as the stacks are used) and stored
away for future and oft repeated uses.
One roll of 4-ply P. & B. Paper will cover 900
square feet (this allows for a 4in. lap), and together with
the-Wire Netting required will cost 425., FOB., Sydney,
an average of sd. per square yard, the combined weight
of Netting and Paper being about 190 pounds.
E. RICH & CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
HAY STACKS
We have pleasure In handing you
below the name and address of
our general agent in each State,
New South Wales
E. Rich & Co., Ltd.
Bydney>
VICTORIA
Brooks Robinson & Co., Ltd.
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
A. W. Sandford A Co.
Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA
J. M. Ferguson Ltd.
Fremantle,
NEW ZEALAND
James W. Jack,
Wellington
QUEENSLAND
E. Rich & Co., Ltd.
Brisbane 1
For Price List and fullest par-
ticulars send for
CATALOGUE
B
Extract from a private tetter written by a
Pastorallst in Queensland to a friend:
' t. , , ■ ' : r :•
“Deak Geokge,—
“When here, if you remember, I was using your
P&B Ruberoid for roofing a hay-shed. After you left I
thought of another plan for covering a stack without
building a shed. I wrote to E. Rich & Co., Ltd., Bris-
bane, explaining, and got from them two rolls of 4-ply
Building Paper, each 336 ft. long. I will explain my
way of stack covering as I know you will find it
very handy and economical. I cut each roll into eight
pieces 42ft. long, then at 21ft. I mark a white line across
at a right angle. This line represents the ridge of the
stack. At each end of each piece I put a 3ft. piece of
3xl batten on each side of the paper, then roll up from
each end to the white line and put a tie on the roll.
When the stack is ready pass up the first roll so that the
white line comes fair along the sides, cut the tie and let
the ends with the battens drop on each side of the stack,
do the same with each roll, giving each a lap of 4in. until
your stack is covered. Bore a hole through each of the
double battens, through which put a loop of wire, then
secure the ends by driving a pointed hardwood stick into
the sides of stack catching the double wire loops, thus
securing the paper against the wind. When the stack is
opened, the last piece to go on should be the first to be
rolled up and passed down to be put away until again
wanted. •‘v ■ lam,
“Faithfully yours,
“E.R.R.”
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
E. RICH & CO., Ltd.
i/ V ■


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Offi.ce, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 22.—N0. 1141.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 28, 1901.
Prior 6d.
LONDON, Saturday.—The German Chan-
cellor Count von Billow,’ has addressed a
communication to the British Government
regarding the ’steamship prosecutions, ta
iLustralia.
Mr Barton has received a message from Mr.
Chamberlain accepting a contingent of 1000 tot»
South Africa.
<SV r Jt “/
J J '
IPsliip Ui o.
fill /\flK v
\X As
\ y /V/
-^w
<'Uftwftcf fcs/etwF iVp.rt ,5//
? DOK w-V o *"* r yy
." JV/|u 1 f'l and %,< ,Y L/ yj
#
of Tz-Zf y^ u &th-
Sf fivfy //wtvKt/tTo
jZaftZ / > &/~Zf~://?/#
//jp jfifar S't/ tf/ Zffr/a af~
Cfa'r/rrap <y /^>
vW^^^rr
T
/ jC/ /a l/a/tf.
{.. \ y
M*y%
I [ |( i$ dflrfij (U ljp
Pfirty tout* ftp-
If) 1 "
~ . r rfe"-
C°phfjQCijits. bu t fo hetf s°<J
dtrnjOLy sau-rK SeaCQO. Ufr /p
jj rfujfrahccp Waters
A
w
s Ut; r
0*
A*
%
l\
t'V ,rJC|
raS $
) ,y ‘
#
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
« Australia for the Australian*.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... £l n 22,
Half-yearly ... ... r ... ■■ ”
Quarterly 0 b b
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, fit. Australia,
Westralia. and Maoriiand.
Tn consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Inter provincial Newspapers, the, annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with Ss. Sd. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition oflhi. postage, the subscription
to Tub ' Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. ba. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage — lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight-now
exacted by'the Queensland Post Office, a special Ihynne-
paper edition of Tub Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct, to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling-with postage added where regmreri-
wliich you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian promnee,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to 3 F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the. “Correspondence ” column, all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not excecit-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 6000 words are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when, the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateur* in lllaele and White .
Anyone supplying tn The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and, adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be. paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea. but. unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The. conditions i under which
such artistic, contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The But.letin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Comhul.
San Francisco. — L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 8 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., SIS Uout-st., Capetown. Gwelo News Agency
Rhodesia.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 28, 1901.
An Australian Navy.
The Australian naval problem is only a
branch of the great question : Is Australia
ever to have a home of its own, or is it to
live all its days in a hash-house ? In the
early times the Australian lived wholly in
furnished apartments, so to speak. Britain
supplied this country, on certain ill-defined
terms, with a military and naval system of a
kind, a Government of a kind, a code of
laws, a creed, gaol-floggers, gallows, and
the other essentials of civilisation, and the
Australian had nothing to do except pay his
way and try not to aggravate the landlady.
Things changed by degrees, and the Austra-
lian lived in partially-furnished apartments.
He now supplies his own laws and his own
Government (to some extent), also his own
military system and his own gaol, and he hangs
himself ; but he still hires his naval defence
from the time-payment person at the other
side of the world. And a question has arisen
whether he should go on hiring his fleet, or
whether the Commonwealth should decide
to have a navy of its own. Certain marine
authorities have raged at great length on the
subject. Admiral Beaumont, as a British
officer, urges that Australia should still hire
a British fleet, and the only improvement he
can suggest is that it should pay more for
the fleet and ask fewer questions about the
kind of value it gets for the money. Cap-
tain Cresswell, of Queensland, not being
forced by his position and his salary to
adhere to the British tradition, urges that
the Australian people should set up an Aus-
tralian fleet, and not live in badly-furnished
apartments any longer.
* * * *
That Australia requires some kind of sea
defence is reasonably certain. When it is
attacked it must needs be by sea, and if it
has no navy its share of the campaign must
a purely defensive one, by means of its
land forces. The party which stands wholly
on the defensive, however strong its defence
may be, generally gets the worst of the
campaign in the end. If the enemy has the
option of attacking the Australian coastal
cities from the sea, or by landing troops to
take them in the rear, or attacking both
ways at once, he fights with two arms, while
the purely land defence fights only with one.
No amount of land fortification alone can
make a city like Sydney quite safe against
attack from the ocean; a city is a large
target which the attacking vessel can hardly
miss, while the attacking vessel is a small
one, to hit which is a more difficult gamble
than picking the winner of the Mel-
bourne Cup. Moreover, it is a sorrow-
ful thing if a great country with no
navy finds itself kept in alarm for
weeks or months, deprived of its proper
sleep, with its mails intercepted, and its
army worn out with chasing false alarms
up and down two thousand miles of coast,
all on account of two or three hostile vessels
which a cheap little navy might drive off
or destroy in a week.-
• * • •
Of course navies, coastal fortifications and
regular armies are stereotyped devices. And
just now, by reason of the magnificent stand
made by a mere handful of Boer riflemen
against the greatest empire on earth, there
is a tendency to scoff at stereotyped devices.
These Dutch farmers, whose whole able-
bodied male population never reached to
50,000 men, have kept at bay for two years
the richest empire on earth with a population
of 400,000,000, and, quite naturally, there has
arisen an intense respect for the military
system which xffiieved such marvellous re-
sults. Bi>b that system is of little use to
Austria except as a last resort. In the
first place, the Australian isn’t a Boer,
hardened by sixty years of warfare against
the best fighting races in Africa, and his
whole national history isn’t a record of
battles against apparently hopeless odds.
And the Australian has planted his popula-
tion and his wealth mostly on the sea-board,
and before he could begin defending his coun-
try in Boer fashion, even if he knew how to
do it, he would have to abandon all his
cities, most of his railways, much of his best
lands and the majority of his good second-
rate towns, and fall back into the mountains,
with the desert behind him. If all Australia’s
great cities, its richest lands, its cash, its
coal-mines, and everything an enemy could
want lay west of the N.S. W. Blue Mountains
or north of the Victorian Alps, then the
Boer method of defence would be all Aus-
tralia could ask for.
• • * •
So the Commonwealth rents a fleet after a
sort of fashion. It pays about £105,000 a
year, which looks very moderate at first
glance, and it has no certain knowledge that
the defence supplied is worth 2d. It has no
control over the fleet, and no evidence of its
efficiency. The fleet is supposed to protect
British shipping over an immense area of
ocean, and to safeguard British interests
in half the Pacific, and to look after a
multitude of British possessions with which
we have nothing to do, and when all these
things are deducted the value of our share
of the squadron may be anything from
6d. upwards or downwards. And Aus-
tralia has no guarantee—not even a
verbal promise—that the fleet won’t
be called away in time of war to defend
British interests elsewhere ; in fact, one
recklessly-candid admiral stated that in case
of war with a great sea power the squadron
would go to wherever the seat of trouble lay,
and if any casual enemy struck these coasts
while it was away Australia would have to
shift for itself, just as if it had paid no
naval subsidy at all. This makes the
situation wholly ridiculous. It is a case
of living in a hash-house and being liable
to pay for the board, without any assurance
that any board will be forthcoming. And
even if it was certain that the board would
be forthcoming, Australia is making no
progress, while the present system lasts, in
the way of learning the art of self-defence
by sea.
J * * • •
The Commonwealth doesn’t want a fleet in
the first place to defend its shipping, for it
owns but little. At a push, its coastal
boats could lie up in harbor. The Balmain
ferry-boat and the steamer that goes down
to Geelong are not of much value nor in
much danger. Its great Union boats are
not Australian-owned. Its ocean steamers
are British, French, German, Japan-
ese, American—everything except Austra-
lian. If they are lost they are not the
Commonwealth’s loss. If imports are
stopped it will be so much the better for the
local manufacturer ; if exports are stopped
it will be so much the worse for the British
creditor. If the cables are cut, this country
doesn’t own the cables, and, though the
stoppage of the news supply would be a seri-
ous matter, still the Foreign-trade press
could always invent something to go on
with. But what the Commonwealth does
want is a fleet that it can rely upon to be
there when wanted to make some kind of a
fight to prevent the destruction of Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Newoastle,
Townsville, or any other coastal town or
cjty that may be threatened. A good deal
of Australian capital and Australian senti-
ment centre in and around these places,
and for their defence in time of need two
war-ships of our own, which we could
rely upon to be there, are worth
much more than a shadowy moral claim
on eight British vessels that have half the
Pacific to guard, and which may be away
helping to defend British interests on the
Chinese or African coast. One warship, and
an old ramshackle warship to boot, kept the
overwhelming Chilian invasion off the Peru-
vian coast for several months in the dreadful
days of ’79. Certainly it was commanded by
a naval genius and a hero, for Admiral Grau
was probably the greatest naval officer of the
second half of the 19th century ; but it had
almost every defect that a warship could
have, and only the one redeeming quality of
being there. No vessel was ever there more
persistently when wanted.
* * * •
Certain persons of the Jingo persuasion
scoff ponderously at the idea of an Australian
navy, owned, manned and commanded by
Australians, and profess to regard the sug-
gestion as some kind of disloyalty to the
empire. But if Australia shouldn’t have its
own fleet, and is pledged in honour to depend
on paying for a shadowy lien on the tail-end
of a British squadron, then it is hard to see
why it should have its own land-troops
instead of paying a subscription to the
British army, or its own weapons, or its own
fortifications, or its own South African
cohentingent. Why shouldn’t it depend on
a subscription in all these cases, and not
have anything ? And why should the same
Jingo sing “Sons of the Sea” so persis-
tently, it being a ridiculous ditty in a country
whose nearest approach to a sou of the sea
is the grimy deck-hand who throws the rope
on the Balmain ferry-boat, or stokes the
pleasure craft that goes down to Geelong and
Portarlington ? Also, wherein lies the appro-
priateness of “ Rule Britannia” if Australia’s
only semblance to ruling the great deep is to
consist in handing over the cheque for the
salary of a British captain and crew, and
why should we be urged with such intensity
to follow the noble example of Britain, the
greatest naval state on earth, if a mere
suggestion about building the first beginning
of an Australian navy is a subject for mirth
and scornful laughter? Also, why should
Wilson Barrett come here to play a pain-
fully serious drama about the king who built
Britain’s first war-vessel if the subject is
pure comedy ? No nation ever became a sea-
power by. staying at home and sending its
cheque to pay for the loan of someone else’s
fleet—even its own respected mother’s fleet.
For a country which remains so religiously
ashore, and does so much of its locomotion
by tram-car, Australia sings “ Sons of the
Sea ” altogether too much.
Leake, Morgans and Co.
The struggle in Westralia between ex-Premier
Leake and temporary Premier Morgans
(who has now also become “ ex ”) turned
largely on the question of finance. Leake repre-
sents the party of economy (as that term is
understood in Westralia), and wants to make
some effort to straighten out the disastrous tangle
left by Bigjohn Forrest. Forrest was one of
those lamentable men who, by dint of a huge
bull-voice, a red countenance, the vigorous waving
of two large ham-like hands, and the insane
shovelling-out of the easily-borrowed millions of
the boom, gained a reputation for greatness—the
worst kind ; and he will take a lot of living down.
On the other hand, Morgans advocates more big
loans, “ a very much larger debt ” (these
are his own words), and a big general all-round
riot. As Morgans is a mere wandering agent
for British absentee capitalists, this arrangement
suits him well enough. He is the bagman kind
of person who will live here and prosper while the
loan boom is on, and depart when the collapse
comes, leaving the stationary population to
struggle with the hairy and furious apparition of
the interest bill. In a sort of brutally-selfish,
bird-of-passage way, Morgans is justified. He
won’t require to stand by the wreck, any more
than the vulture needs to remain alongside the
skeleton after it is picked bare. And the vulture,
as it intends to leave when the flesh is all con-
sumed, doesn’t give way to anxiety about how the
skeleton will look after it is gone.
The Leake Party, as already mentioned, is the
party of economy in Westralia. And Westralia,
demoralised by its great riot, has curious ideas of
economy. For instance, the Perth Morning
Herald is a sturdy supporter of the Leake
party, and the Herald, in its leading article of
sth December, solemnly warns Westralia that it
can’t expect to get reasonable terms if it borrows
more than £1,500,000 a year. Not more than
£1,500,000 a year, be it observed ! Westralia lias
a population estimated at about 190,000, so. this
means a borrowing of nearly £8 per inhabitant
per annum, or about £4O for every family of five.
The maddest of the other Australias, in its very
maddest days, never spent much more than half
this sum—yet the figure is suggested in Perth
rather by way of a move in the direction of steady,
reliable finance and a protest against the wild
things Morgans might be expected to do if that
reckless descendant of the Ancient Britons got
loose !
» * * *
The financial situation of Westralia is becoming
an interesting study. That large, dry locality
has twice as large a revenue per inhabitant as any
of its neighbors, and it suffers from the delusion
that this revenue is a permanent thing, and acts
accordingly. If New South Wales took to
borrowing about £11,000,000 a year, or Victoria
about £9,ooo,ooo—which would lie just about as
much per inhabitant as Westralia got through
last year —they would also have a tremendous
burst of alleged prosperity, and their revenue
would probably go up to the Westralian level per
head for the time being Westralia’s public debt,
as at June, 1901, was £37 Bs. lOd. more per
inhabitant than it was 10 years previously ; the
maddest of its neighbors, during the same period,
only increased its debt by £lO 12s. 7d. per head.
No other State of the Commonwealth ever
put up such a 10 years’ record as Westralia has
done. And the increase of population can’t
be quoted as a set-off to the liability; it is a
case of increase per inhabitant, and the fact that
there are more inhabitants doesn’t make each
separate inhabitant’s burden any easier to bear.
The interest bill was £98,211 in 1892; for the
present vear it will be about £550,000. Last year
Westralia spent £1 12s. 2d. of loan money per
inhabitant on wholly unproductive works— six
times the expenditure of Victoria, four times tnat
of South Australia and twice that of IN.S. Wales.
That is assuming the expenditure on the water-
supply works for the perishing town of Coolgarnie
proves to be productive; if it doesn’t prove so
then the unproductive loan expenditure was
£6 9s. Id. pier inhabitant —say, 25 times that ot
Victoria.
* * * *
In 1890 and 1897 Westralia contrived to pay an
average of £820,300 per annum of its public works
expenditure out of revenue ; in 1901 it only paid
£324,123. Westralia has arrived at that stage of
rotten and disastrous economy when it begins to
save money on paper by charging more, of its
necessary but unproductive works to loans instead
of to revenue. Yet the revenue has increased
enormously. These are the figures since 1890 :
Spent on Other
Revenue. Public Works. Expenditure.
1895- £1,858,695 .£638,502 £1,185.361
1896- 2,842,751 805,480 2,033,973
1897- 2,754,747 847,240 2,409,672
1898- 2,478,811 325,895 2,213,463
1899- 2,875,396 219,465 2,396,210
1900- 3,078,034 324,123 2,841,121
Apparently with all its increasing revenue
Westralia has less and less to spend on public
works, and almost the only “economy” it has
practised lias been in the way of shifting more of
its expenses into the loan account..
••« • • ■
Its great gold output does Westralia compara-
tively little good, for the bulk of the profits go to
pay dividends to foreign shareholders and to buy
imported machinery and imported stores. And
even the gold industry doesn’t pay as it did. The
dividends in 1899 were £2,057,421 ; in 1900,
£1,394,705; and so far as 1901 has gone they are
at the annual rate of £1,045,420. The railways
yielded £9(5,759 less profit for the 12 months to
June, 1901, than for the previous year. During 1900
the value of exports decreased, as compared with
the previous year, under almost every heading,
and there was also a decrease of nearly £1,000,000 in
the total. Except in the one item of hay—which
is a lazy kind of crop and requires less cultivation
than most others—the cultivated area decreased.
Barring an addition for the year of alx>ut9soto the
total number of hands employed in manufactures
there is hardly a bright spot anywhere in
Westralia’s record. It is the largest by far
of all the States of the Commonwealth,
and it has the smallest cultivated area of
all. It has fewer sheep, cattle and horses
than any other State, bar microscopic Tasmania,
and it isn’t far ahead of Tasmania. Its awful
Coolgardie water-supply, which is likely to run
into a cost of two or three millions, is certain to be
a heavy loss, even if Coolgardie isn’t a dead town
by the time the water arrives. (There are even
doubts about the water ever arriving, by reason of
leakages en route.) Its loans are being floated at
a frightful discount. To keep the boom going at
the present rate it will be necessary to increase
the debt within the next 10 years to about £llO
per inhabitant, and the money isn’t likely to be
obtainable. To stop borrowing means the break-
age of the boom, and a probable drop in revenue
from £3,000,000 a year to about £2,000,000 (even
at £2,000,000 it would be, in proportion to popu-
lation, a long way above the revenue of the next
highest State on the list, so it might drop much
below that), and then it is impossible to say what
may happen. There are no precedents to go upon
in Westralia’s case, for no Australian State lias
gone on half so violent and sudden a drunk before.
But the situation seems to be that, if it lets go
the bull’s tail, the animal will turn and fall on
it; and if it holds on, it will die in course of
time from hunger and exposure, and from being
continuously dragged at a great pace over the
earth’s surface.
The Country Press.
One of the advantages to be expected from
Federation is a revival of the influence of the
country press. Broadly speaking there is no
country press in Australia south of Queensland.
There are a few strong papers, the Newcastle
Herald, the Barrier Miner, the Bendigo Adver-
tiser for examples, but the politics of every con-
stituency in victoria and N.S. Wales are con-
trolled by the metropolitan papers.
* * • •
The mischievous effects, politically and socially,
of this fact are that Ministers have to bamboozle
or corrupt only one clique of papers; that the
making of opinion is carried on at the same centre
as the more dishonest methods of making money—
the first being influenced by the second; that
Governments which have to “keep sweet” with
only metropolitan papers have a tendency to con-
sider as |,aramount metropolitan interests. The
big dailies of a metropolis are dependent for their
prosperity on the Stock Exchange class, the
big merchants, auctioneers, and brokers. Sensibly
or insensibly, they defer to their views. In the
absence of any influential country press, the
political thought of a whole State is thus, in a very
large measure, influenced by the big moneyed men
of its capital. An odd weekly, a country paper
with some remnant of stiength, platform speaking,
supply some corrective influence ; but they can do
but little against papers which talk six times a
week to a whole State.
* * * •
In N.S.W., once upon a time, there used to be a
country press, in the days long before G. H.
Reid’s freetrade polioy, and a railway system
which strives to centre everything in Sydney, and
carries Sydney papers free to every corner of the
State. One of the magnates of the metropolitan
press got his first “lift” in journalism by winning
a big money prize from a Wagga paper. Bathurst
journals, now mere shadows, were then every
whit as important as their Sydney contemporaries,
and the political sentiment of the province was
centred, not in one city, but in a score of impor-
tant towns. Now—well, a common type of
country newspaper in N.S. W. is run by a publican,
who acts as business-manager and editorial dic-
tator, and who employs two comps, and a hack at
£2 a week, with the proviso that they must
stay at his groggery. The editor of almost
a majority of the country papers must know
how to set type; sometimes he has also to
sell stationery ; very often he is the mere writing
tool of the publican, the storekeeper, the squatter,
or the political aspirant who owns the show ;
almost without exception, his writings are of no
real influence in his district. The number of
country journalists who are, to use a potted phrase,
“ powers in the land” may be very easily counted.
» * * *
It should not be so. The Darling River resi-
dent should get with his news-reading the view of
national life taken by an independent man living
on the Darling River ; the same at Wagga,
Albury, Bathurst, Goulburn, Armidale, D-übbo,
Hay, Tamworth, Tenterfield, Narrabri, New-
castle, Wollongong, Lithgow, and a seore of other
places. This would not tend to parochialism, but
the reverse. There is no parochialism more
narrow than that of a greedy city accustomed to
be the big, pampered child of a State. With a
strong country press there would be more reflec-


tion of N.S.W. opinion, less of Sydney opinion,
more Australianism, less angry shopkeeperism.
• *- * *
Federation ought to help the country press.
In a few years the political interest of the conti-
nent will centre in the Federal capital. The
country paper will have as good a chance
-—so far as situation is concerned —to keep
its eye on the Federal Parliament as the
Melbourne Age. Then with Federation there
will be a tendency for districts to rally around
their big towns and make provincial sub-capitals
of them. The superstition that everything must
come from Sydney or Melbourne, and everything
must go there, will die. Newspaper postage, too,
will deprive the metropolitan journals of the State
subsidies they have been enjoying. There should
be a good time ahead for country newspapers in
all the States if they have the sense to
grasp the opportunity by concentrating their
forces.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Indignant German Steamship Co.
The loud row that has been made by the big
German steamship co. re the Federal Customs
regulations reads like an attempt on the part of a
company which has become unduly inflated over
the size of its steamers to presume on the youth
and innocence of a new Commonwealth. In other
words, it reads like a violent effort at bluff.
Under the Federal regulations, a foreign vessel
which calls at a series of Commonwealth ports
becomes subject to the Australian Customs law
from the moment it calls at its first Australian
port on the voyage here until it clears from its
last Australian port on its voyage home again.
The foreign vessel is not called upon to
pay duty on whatever dutiable stores it may have
on board when it arrives, as it might easily have
been, but it is called upon to pay duty on those
imported stores which are consumed on board
while the vessel is travelling between Australian
ports. If it doesn’t care to do that it can buy
stores locally for use between ports. This is quite
logical. Every country has the admitted right to
regulate its own coastal trade as it pleases, and
the French, German, American or English vessel
which touches this country first at Fremantle or
Cooktown or Port Darwin, and then works on
from port to port and back again, is, during the
time it spends between ports, just a common
beastly coaster—like the ketch Sarah Ann, or the
fore-and-aft schooner Jones Brothers, which
straggles down from the northern rivers with a
cargo of six logs of timber and a case of eggs.
The United States deals with the foreign
coaster by a drastic process—it doesn’t allow
her to pick up a solitary passenger or a
pound of cargo at one American port, for convey-
ance to another American port. Britain, until a
period within the writer’s lifetime (and he isn’t
very aged), shut out foreign vessels from its coast-
ing trade altogether. The Federal customs regu-
lations, in this matter, are, so far as the writer
knows, exactly the same as those in force in most
European countries. Certainly they have com-
mon sense behind them. The Australian-owned
coaster, whose beat is from Adelaide or Perth
round to Queensland, must pay duty on all duti-
able goods consumed on board between Australian
ports, and it seems an absurd contention that a
foreign vessel, which intrudes into the Australian
coastal trade, should be treated more favorably
than the local one. As regards the indig-
nant declaration of somebody connected with
the German steamship co. that the claim
of the Australian Government to regulate the
doings of foreign vessels in the Australian coasting
trade while they are outside the three-mile limit is
sheer piracy, and the veiled threat to bring Kaiser
William (who, by the way, is understood to be a
very large shareholder in the Norddeutscher
Lloyd) down on this country, they don’t seem to
amount to much in law. If they do, then the
shortest way out of the difficulty is to enact that
all foreign coasting vessels, on arrival at their first
Australian port of call, shall pay duty on all the
stores aboard. And, in any case, an absolutely
essential thing is to prohibit foreign vessels, as is
clone in the United States, from taking passengers
and cargo at one Australian port for conveyance
to another. The Australian shipping companies
have a bad enough time without the competition
of cheap-labor foreign vessels in the coastal trade
added to their existing troubles.
■——— ■ ■ <>
The Monopolists’ Victory.
The Tramway Grab Bill, fathered by F. H. Snow,
an Adelaide patent agent said to represent the
British Westinghouse Co., has safely passed
through S.A. Parliament. It is openly stated
that this has been accomplished only after
persistent and shameless lobbying by inte-
rested persons. Snow’s Bill provides for
the handing over of the city and suburban
tramway rights to a private company—mainly
English for 55 years, practically for no-
thing ! Under this beautiful measure Snow’s
company will pay to the local corporations rent
at a rate of 1 per cent, for the first 7 years and 14
per cent, for the remaining 48. The Adelaide and
suburban street rights have been valued by Snow
himself at £250,000 ! This impudent scheme has
become law mainly through the weak attitude of
the Jenkins Ministry which timidly opposed the
second and then supported the third reading. The
only opponents were the nine Labor men and three
other city representatives. Snow and his crowd of
political supporters have still to run the gauntlet
of a poll of ratepayers, at which the plural voters
will roll up to support the big public steal. S.A.
Democrats have sadly missed Kingston’s leader-
ship in this crisis, and it is significant that, in his
absence, Bonython’s self-AnvERTiSER actually
joined hands with the Tory Register in barrack-
ing for the monopoly, whereas two years ago,
when the strong Democrat was on hand to keep
the tottering organ straight, it industriously
seconded Kingston’s nationalisation proposals.'
The only chance now remaining is to vigorously
organise the Democratic vote for the referendum
provided for in the Bill, but, judging by the
amount of money already thrown around by the
monopolistic party, and the power of the plural
vote in Adelaide, another defeat is almost certain.
Still _it isn’t quite certain. The matter is worth
fighting to the bitter end, even now.
The Endless Process of Inquiry.
Dacey, M.L. A., is anxious that N.S.W. Assembly
should appoint another Select Committee to in-
quire into schemes for putting all Sydney under
one sane municipal government. Surely the idea
has been inquired into sufficiently, and it isn’t
decent to drag the unburied corpse of in vestigation
round the country any longer. How would it be
to do something for a change—say on these lines: —
(1) Let Parliament enact that the 40 odd municipalities
of Sydney shall be put under one municipal council,
elected on the principle of one adult one vote.
(2) The new Council to have practically unlimited
powers for the government and improvement of the city ;
to have large powers of taxation ; to be allowed to borrow
only for permanent improvements, and even then with a
sinking fund attached to each loan ; to have power to
recover rates by selling the property of defaulters ; its
accounts to he State-audited, and in case the year ends
with a deficit, the auditor to have power to order the
levying of an extra rate to cover same.
(3) The existing municipalities to form wards of the
new municipality for the present. Each to get credit for
assets handed over, and each ward to be responsible for
its own debt, less the value of assets handed over. A
small special rate to be levied in each ward to pay off the
existing debt. When all the old debts are paid off, and
the old divisions are no longer required, the city to be
laid out in wards on a new plan according to population.
If the See Government would draft a scheme like
the above, and submit it to the vote of the people
of Greater Sydney for acceptance or rejection, it
would at least be doing something. The matter
has already been inquired into until it is nearly
dead through inspection, but the inquiry has
mostly been made off interested parties—mainly
aldermen who are afraid that union would deprive
them of their rftean little billets. It is about time
an inquiry was made off the people, who seem to
have been wholly overlooked so far ; and that can
only be done by submitting a comprehensive
scheme and asking the community straight out:
“ Will you have this kind of municipal govern-
ment, or keep the kind you’ve got?” There is
nothing to be gained by appointing a committee
which has no plan of its own, and letting it call
as witnesses a large number of people who have
no plan either, and asking them vaguely what
they think about things in general, and what is
the population of their particular municipality,
and the size of their town-hall, and at what hour
their municipal ash-cart goes round.
; —♦
A Splash, of Whitewash.
The report of the N.S.W. Parliamentary Select
Committee on the Coast Ifospital food-supply
scandal is in many respect i disappointing. The
committee finds that Fr ederick Glynn, the
assistant storekeeper, who forced under the public
notice the fact that bad food was being supplied,
and was on that account sacked, acted in a most
praiseworthy manner, but makes no suggestion as
to rewarding him with a money-grant to compen-
sate for the serious loss to which he has been put
by his bold honesty in the matter. Glynn is told
that he is a very good fellow indeed, and is left to
bear the heavy monetary penalty of his,goodness.
Virtue might endure being its own reward, but it
can’t be expected to survive under a big fine as
well. In future, a civil servant in Glynn’s posi-
tion, observing anything wrong, will have the best
of reasons to keep his moutn shut, and “stay
solid ” with the contractor. That truly astound-
ing institution, the N.S.W. Board of Health,
is treated with refreshing candor; and that
is the best feature of the report. The “ deplorable
laxity of administration,” the “ almost incredible
carelessness of credulity,” and the “ignorance”
of the Board are condemned in such drastic terms
as should compel decisive action by Government.
In many respects during the last few years the
Board of Health has proved itself a source of the
gravest danger to the public health of the State,
and a drastic reform of its personnel is evidently
essential. The most unsatisfactory part of the
Parliamentary Committee’s report is that which
says:
In view of the small proportion of rejected supplies,
and taking all the circumstances into consideration, the
disqualification of the contractor as a Government con-
tractor ought now to be removed.
If the Committee is satisfied that the contractor
supplied bad food for the use of the patients
at Little Bay; that Dr. Violettk, who sent
“constant reports” complaining of the food
supplies, “ performed his duties, as regards the
matter of supplies to the hospital, in a most satis-
factory manner” (and it says so)—what on earth
has the small proportion of rejected supplies to do
with the question ? It is the proportion of bad
supplies—of supplies that should have been re-
jected—as indicated by constant complaints, that
is to be considered. There was never a more inept
conclusion to an otherwise vigorous report than
this splash of whitewash for the Coast Hospital
contractor.
♦
Our Kanaka Brother.
Writes Mrs. Lance Rawson :
My facts re Kanaka families in letter to the Courier
were not advanced as argument in favor of the Polynesian
individual so much as to prove that the Kanaka does not
intermarry with European women so much as is generally
believed. Judging by what one hears and reads in the
newspapers, all aliens in Queensland, not Chinese or
Japanese, are dubbed Kanaka, and an outrage perpetrated
by a Javanese or Malay is reported, often as not, as
. Another Kanaka Outrage. ” This is very unfair to the
islanders, who are, as a matter of fact, the quietest, most
law-abiding of the black races in Queensland.
We are all wonderful humanitarians so long as the
humane treatment makes no trouble for ourselves hut
what about deporting a large number of people’ to a
country which many of them left to save themselves
from starvation ? It is a well-known fact that there are
often seasons in the islands when the cocoa-nut and vam
and taro crops are destroyed. The “ boys ” will often
apeak of times when “ plenty boy d.e—no ki ki; big- wind
been take ’em altogether.” The'.Empire, and, of course,
the colonies included, have always displayed a keen in-
terest in the savage and the heathen—as witness our
Missionaries to all parts—then, surely, we cannot
so go back on past actions and deport these people
against their will, and with the chance of their
dying of starvation or climatic influences— vide S.M.
Herald, December 17th. The Labor Party artrue, I
believe, that by getting rid of the Kanaka first it will be the
thin edge of the wedge towards the whole of the aliens
K° ln ßs But suppose that does not happen, and we get
Hindus in the cane country (which seems likely), will we
be any better off, or as well off? Therefore, in view of
such a contingency, why not get rid of some of the other
aliens before disturbing the Kanaka and the very big
industry he has come of late to represent. lam as much
against all other aliens as anyone, but from a long and in-
timate knowledge of the Kanaka I have learned to respect
and to distinguish him from them. At any rate, why not
make the experiment of getting rid of the others first;
then, if it be possible, and is deemed advisable, send the
Kanaka too. But, under present prospects, we may get
rid of the Kanaka and find ourselves unable to move.the
Hindus, Assyrians, &c. Sydney has a habit of pointing
the finger of scorn at Queensland as being a piebald
colony, a spotted, or rather a coach-dog, &c. But, one
day last week, during a saunter down George-street, I
counted 105 black, brown and yellow citizens. Well I
How about glass houses ?
As regards the above, the Pacific Islander, judging
by the showing he makes among the prison popu-
lation (and the prison statistics don’t mix him up
with any other race) is more criminal than the
Japanese or the aboriginal, almost as criminal as
the Chinaman, and about ten times as criminal as
the white Queenslander. And the reason why
Queensland is called the Piebald Land is that it
has far—very far—the largest proportion of
coloured aliens among all these States. These
are official statistics ; Mrs. Rawson writes appa-
rently of mere impressions.
4
Quaint sample of logic from Sydney Telegraph
on the subject of gratis newspaper postage:
That it lias served a genuine demand, and facilitated
the circulation of papers required by the public, is proved
by the fact, admitted by Senator Drake in the debate
mentioned, that the number of newspapers circulated in
N.S.W. is nearly equal to the whole circulations through-
out the rest of the Commonwealth. Last year 51,500,000
newspapers, or about a million a week, were carried in
this State. From this it is clear enough firstly, that the
free carrying of papers has not made the Post Office a
losing concern, secondly, that the arrangement was
useful to the public, and by it taken the fullest advantage
of. The newspaper will be unattainable to a large pro-
portion of those who at present obtain it regularly and
quickly, if the new scale of charges is adopted which
Senator Drake has embodied in his Bill, and the object of
which is to bring our conditions down to those of more
conservative States where the use of newspapers is
officially restricted.
Wherefore it appears that the fact that the
N.S.W. post office carries 51 million papers free
proves that the said post-office is a paying concern
(it is really a heavily losing concern, but it is made
to look as if it paid by not charging it with inte-
rest on borrowed money or maintenance of build-
ings). It also appears that Protection is
a good thing when applied to news-
papers, and that in N.S W. a whole lot of people
are too poor to pay |d. for a postage stamp.
Further, that to refuse to carry gratis
the goods of that sturdy mendicant, the
newspaper proprietor, is “official restriction”
and Conservatism. And while the fact that
each inhabitant of N.S.W. gets 15 more news-
papers per annum through the post than each
Victorian makes it quite clear that papers should
go free to keep up the advantage thus gained,
the fact that he gets 10 less letters than
the Victorian doesn’t prove that letters should
also go free, in order to shove N.S.W. ahead in
this branch also. Yet why shouldn’t they ? Free
letters would also “serve a genuine demand.”
And if letters went free N.S.W. might have a
bigger rush of correspondence than all the other
States put together. And if getting nothing for
the carriage of 51,000,000 papers proves that the
post-office, pays, what might not be proved by the
State getting nothing for the carriage of 77 million
letters—to say nothing of three million telegrams ?
4
“ John Brown,” disagreeing with Dr. Roth’s
view as to the treatment of N.Q. aborigines:—
The Q. Govt., alarmed at the general protests against
the cruel treatment of the aborigines, passed laws
recently “ for the aborigines’ benefit,” but handed over
the administering of them to tied protectors, and to the
blacks’ worst enemies, the slave-owning squatter
J.P.’s and native police officials. These now
have the power to deport to Fraser Island
for life without trial any unfortunate who can be easily
made out to be a bad nigger —if anyone covets his wife or
children, or he claims a good-looking horse, or a police-gin
as his wife. The methods employed are those of the slave-
owner, to abduct, deport, and assign under permits, and
otherwise, the aborigines to Fraser Island, the mission
stations and employers, to work for a peppercorn wage.
I have an experience ranging over many years, arid,
in my opinion, the aborigines never had such a bad
time all round as they have had since this so-
called “protection” started. In the district where I
am, no blacks are fed or given medical attendance,
but there are many parents deprived of their children,
and driven off runs when found hunting for food, for
no other apparent reason than that, if the parents or rela-
tives hang about, the black-boys and house gins will run
away. The blacks are allowed none of the “ rights of the
subject.” I enclose a newspaper cutting showing that an
aboriginal has got two months for leaving hired service !
•The condition of the blacks, I contend, is practically that -
of slaves.
♦ — :
Curtous item from leading article in Launceston
(Tas.) Examiner
At present newspapers are carried free within the
State, if posted within seven days of issue. The bill pur-
poses to levy a charge of Id. on each copy under eight
ounces. Those posted by newspaper proprietors and
vendors, if made up into parcels, are to be charged Id.
per lb. The rate on single copies will be a heavy tax,
since it will increase the price of the daily paper by 50
per cent. That on papers posted in hulk will form a
ruinous charge on newspaper proprietors.
The Examiner is a frantic supporter of the
Foreign-trade crowd, and its language about pro-
tected and coddled industries that can’t stand
alone and which live on the taxpayer is about as
severe as anything ever is in Tasmania. Now,
after years and years of spoon-feeding, it sees a
prospect of not being coddled at the taxpayers’
expense any longer, and it grows quite unreason-
ably angry.
<►
Extract from a recent leading article in the
S.M. Herald upon the condition of the United
States, now “ blighted ” and “ ruined ” by almost
the heaviest Protectionist tariff on earth :
Mr. Young seems to have been particularly struck bj r
the rapid increase of population in the United States,
which, by the way, has arrested the attention of other
observers. The population now stands at over 76 millions,
and the notable circumstance in connection with it is
that an increase of 13 millions, or over one-sixth; has been
recorded in the past 10 years. In the manufacturing and
trading competition with Germany which seems im-
minent there is every probability that this rapid increase of
population will prove to be the deciding factor. From
our restricted point of view it might seem that in a
population already so large as that of the United States,
ana where the competition is already so keen, a rate of
increase like this would produce some rather vexatious
social problems in the course of a few years more. Look-
ing at the question from his practical view, Mr. Young
arrives at a quite different conclusion. He finds business
brisk and competition keen ; but there is no unemployed
question as we have it here—there are no relief works
and no unemployed as a class requiring special political
attention, and the rapid increase of population has no
tendency to lower wages. Yet these are the evils with
which these Australian States are continually threatened
-r ' " r ? wth of P°P n,at,on - An Idea ha*
foremlm t mi',f, ,Ua ,nCrf ' ftsie means more competition
he aZv4 ofV t ’ ,? f We t r !ln(l a * eneral Crease in
of the United •' k l , he immunity. The example
menttn h»n & f 18 be l ore us as a convincing argu-
ment to the contrary, and as such Mr. Young cites it
a certain bearingE?" l t 0 which he calls attention has
reeeivfmr 9 uest,on of color which has been
ment He o mrts f tent, °" of , late in the Federal Parlia-
ment. He quotes figures showing that the colored norni-
Th s?= a th° UntS soniethin £ like one-eighth of the whole
for the ' vh t loh , the United States are paying
ow i l 0 " 0f slave labor in the Past, and, of
that w’e flle vvi^' 808 ou t° wn duty when we remember
of Chhia and r^ hln eas J d,stance of th e teeming millions
in In n and ' Japan a ."d °ur own colored fellow-subjects
were'never t 0 Which the Cnited ««*•
session 1 If h s2 r T>° f u th ? Vlcf:onan Parliamentary
k , ' 101 ? tbe 48 Rich Landlords, who had sys-
'thWaTh 7 °, af - ( for .months, started rushing
ngs through in a violent hurry, striking out
clauses and sections they were too lazy or incorn
petent to amend, and throwing out Bills they
were too tired to consider. One of the chief
dauses of the Education Bill was that dealing
with the small, private school in the semi-swell
suburb-providing for its official inspection and
registration if satisfactory; another prohibited
the employment of children under 14 in labor or
trade during school-hours. Both these were
struck out, on the respective motions of Nat.
Levi and J M. Davies. Against the latter
clause, said Davies: “In the fruit-growing and
hop-pickmg districts nearly all the children were
engaged in helping their parents to make a
V.XW- .And the stodgy Em bi.ing lamented :
it s the F actones Act over again. The prohibi
tion of child-labor would destroy the orchard
industry of Victoria; also the registration and
inspection of private schools was an unwarranted
interference by the State.” The real objection
of the House of 48 Rich Landlords is to education
m general—though it doesn’t mention that. Edu
cation makes people have doubts about the
divine mission of any 48 Landlords to govern
them accord mg to their 48 dull incapacities. Some
day, when the Australian Parliament has satis-
factorily trodden on the silly obstruction of
Conroy and Joe Cook and Pumpkin Smith, it
get time to put a comprehensive foot on some
, .1® State Upper Houses. There are ways by
which it could do this—indirectly, but none the
less surely and it would be a noble proceeding.
JLf the Australian Parliament doesn’t undertake
the work, it is difficult to say who will. The
feeble men who have been left behind in State
politics—the Peacocks, Sees, Lewises, and
Jenkinses —are not built for such things.
“ J.R.” on the black-labor question ■
S.M. Herald’s correspondent, who is collecting Infor-
mation about the black labor question in Queensland,
has been “ stuffed ” with some precious “ facts." He
was told that some person (unnamed) was “getting
together a dairy-herd.” Whether this nameless person
expects to make as much out of cows as he does out of
sugar is not stated. Actually more hands are required
for a dairy than for a cane-farm giving the same returns ;
so that the labor-question cannot be solved that way.
On the Mulgrave, the ingenuous Herald man went into
the cane to try how he liked it. He didn’t like it at all—
It was hot and there wasn’t a breath of air.” But he
would have found it just as bad in a cedar-scrub, wherein
white timber-getters do far harder work than any re-
quired in cane. No one, however, need ever pro into a
cane-crop from the time it is 3ft. or 4ft. high till it is cut
(and the cutters only work in from the edge) except when
the cane is stripped of its dead leaves, which must be
done by hand. That is the only work about cane-grow-
mg which white men cannot always be found to do ; but
there is no trouble, on the Clarence and Richmond, in
finding 1 men to take it at 10s. an acre. Twenty-five years
ago, when white men were largely emploved on" the
llackay plantations, John Spiller, of the Pioneer planta-
tion, found white men at £1 a week were cheaper than
Kanakas ; and he was right. But white men will not
work under the same conditions as Kanakas. It is a sin-
ful waste to send a white man with a hand-hoe to weed
between the rows of young cane ; but give him a horse-
hoe, and he will do as much in a day as 20 Kanakas. He
requires less supervision, too, and, when strength or
steadiness is required, he can always be relied on—which
cannot be said of the average Kanaka.
«.
Melbourne Age makes a common-sense plea for
technical education:—
The breakdown of the apprenticeship system calls for
more serious and earnest efforts than we have evidence
of at present, for its replacement by a practicable scheme
of training our young artisans. Modern industrial con
ditions have made the old style of apprentice practically
extinct in the more civilised countries of the world. A
skilled workman’s time is now too valuable to allow of its
being devoted to teaching the technique of a craft to the
beginner. It often happens that the better a workman
is the less does he know of the knack of imparting his
expert experience to others. The mere fact that he is a
thorough specialist in his own line generally precludes
his knowing the merest elements of the art of teaching.
In these circumstances, any idea of a revival of the
apprentice system is quite out of the question, unless the
whole modern policy of the division of labor is reversed.
The machine, also, on which the boy has now often
to attend rather than on the skilled journeyman of former
times, can teach him nothing towards making a complete
tradesman of him. Parents say glibly that they have
put their sons to learn boot-making, when, as a matter of
fact, they have bound them to a machine that makes
only one part of an upper. Of boot-making, as implying
the capaoity to make a pair of boots, they pick up less
than the selector who cobbles the family foot-wear in his
spare time. Similarly, the young hands in a timber-yard
are said to be learning carpentry, when they spend the'r
days banding in rough boards at one end of a planing-
machine and stacking smooth ones at the other, though
at the expiry of three years, even with an occasional
change to feeding a boxmaking-maehine, they are no
nearer to understanding the principles on which an
ordinary door is put together than they were at the
start.
“ Dominie ” writes of Education and Climate :
Ed. Bulletin.— Australian Education Depts. have not
yet learnt to adapt their systems to the climate. In
summer-time, in many out-back schools, the temperature
ranges over lOOdeg. for days together. In that heat,
often under a low iron roof, in an atmosphere full of dust
and flies, rigorous “ discipline ” becomes useless cruelty.
The general conception of school discipline might be
styled the petrified or statuesque idea. The children are
expected to remain rigidly posed during the progress of
lessons, under threat of penalties. What a fearful strain
upon the child during the hot months 1 Every school
should be furnished with a thermometer, and, when it
shows over a fixed degree of heat the time-table should
be abandoned, and such work given as demands a mini-
mum of exertion and rigidity of posture.
I dropped into a class-room one day where an assistant
was conducting a class of 80 through a drawing lesson.
It was a muggy, hot day—over 90deg. in the shade. The
atmosphere of the room was sweltering and filled with
floating dust particles. Beads of perspiration stood out
on the faces of both teacher and scholars. The teacher
was beside himself with concern for the cleanliness of the
books, and harassed the tortured children continually.
This went on for three-quarters-of-an-hour; then the
teacher, panting and puffing, started the class off bn
some difficult abstract reasoning in grammar. I left the
room out of sympathy for all concerned,
Then observe the length of the 11 o’clock recess in such
weather—usually 10 minutes. I have seen hundreds of
children rush the water taps at that hour like thirsty
sheep, but, owing to the crowd, compelled to await their
turn. In the midst of such a scene I have heard the bell
go, and 30, 40, or 50 per cent, of thirsting children have
returned or been driven to their ranks with parched
throats and a look of disappointment on their faces
pathetic to witness. But this is organisation supported
by discipline. Surely the 10 minutes’ recess should be
extended to £-hour in Summer. There is a rare chance
for an expert educational organiser to step to the front
right here in Australia. Kational conditions demand a
particular national educational organisation. At present
we have built lip a magnificent scheme for the physical
exhaustion and mental paralysis of Australian nati ,7 e«.
More Troops?
WTien Cohen unto Cohen o’er the sea
Sends forth a bitter cry,
Australians, slaves of Cohen, will not ye
For Cohen fight—and die ?
Time was when England, owned by Englishmen,
Ringed round by its blue flood,
Defied the world—and nobly triumphed then ;
’Tis girdled now with blood.
Proud England, Milton’s England, in her prime,
Stood up august and grand :
Alas, the desecrating hand of Time
Has made her — Cohenland !
Australians, rise ! with bayonet and shot
Upon the Boers burst,
And let the once high name of Patriot
Be held by you accurst.
Burn farm and village : Let the helpless wives
And children perish in the rain.
What is humanity, and what are lives
When Cohen calls again ?
What were ye made for, and what are ye worth,
If not to guard its fame—
The scattered spittle on this speck of Earth
That we the Empire name ?
Australians, will ye falter ? Are ye knaves ?
Cast off your foolish fears —
The wind that blows across the children’s grave s
Will soothe your dying ears.
And ye shall, on the Day of Destiny,
Lay claim to your reward :
“We helped to choke in blood a people free—
Look at our hands, 0 Lord ! ”
Y.J.D.


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
of the United States.
LIBERAL TERMS TO AGENTS OF GOOD STAMPING
In order to improve the position of its Agents in Australia, and to better conserve
the business, the Equitable now offers RENEWAL CONTRACTS to
first-class agents, thus giving them a pecuniary interest in their business foj
several years, instead of for only one year as at present.
For particulars, refer to
S. W. D’ARCY-IRVINE, Manager for New South Wales and Queensland,
Equitable Building, Sydney ; or to
G. G. McCOLL, Manager for Victoria and Tasmania,
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia
Our Glasses Satisfy
Because they are
Right
Spectacle Fitting is no Guess
Work with us.
We are Experts in Remedying
Eye Defects.
We Guarantee Satisfaction.
/
WOOD, “The Optician,”
Note well the Only address in N.S. W.,
299 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
TAKE THE TRAM TO HUNTER ST.
Eyesight Tested through Post—our New Chart with
Instructions sent Post Free to any address.
Seijd Os yoOr
■*>—PHOTOGRAPH.
IF you send a Photograph of yourself (or friend) to Mr.
Mark Blow, The Crown Studios, Sydney, and also
send the following “ COUPON,” he will reproduce from
the Photo, a
Very Beautiful and Artistically-Finished
Pcripapcpt €plarg€ipcpt
in Monochrome, equalling a rich Steel-Plate Engraving,
handsomely mounted on an Indian Tinted Plate, sunk
mount, and as good in every way as Enlargements now-
being supplied at from 30s. to 50s. each ; and will care-
fully pack it and send it, Parcel Post Paid, to any address
in Australia, Tasmania or New Zealand for 10s. 6d.
YOUR PHOTO. RETURNED WITH ORDER.
Cut out the following Coupon and send it with your
Photo.
[Bulletin]
COUPON,
To M. BLOW (Photographer to His Excellency
the Governor-General, Lord Hopetoun),
The Crown Studios, George Street Sydney.
Please have the enclosed Photograph Enlarged
and Mounted, as per this Special Offer, and forward
it to me, carriage paid, to the following address, for
which I enclose 10s. 6d. in full payment.
Name
Address
Write your Name on the back of the Photograph, to
avoid errors.
The Name of the Crown Studios is a guarantee oi 1
Good Work and a Faithful Reproduction.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Alice in Wonderland.”
Lyceum “ Greed of Gold.”
Her Majesty’s Grand Opera Season.
Palace “Hans the Boatman."
Criterion “For the Sake of a Woman.”
Empire Fuller Co.
Tivoli .' Rickards’Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ Aladdin.”
Her Majesty’s........ “ San Toy.”
Theatre Royal “ The Span of Life.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
Gaiety Theatre Maggie Moore Co.
New Olympia (Prince’s
Bridge) Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus.
The Wilson Barrett season at Her Majesty’s
(Sydney) ended with one night of “Othello” and
one of “ Virginius.” Barrett’s craving after long
skirts and costly frills had full scope in both
pieces. His Moor, and James Carter Edwards’
version of the Venetian foe who breathed onions
and aspersions into his ear, awoke sad memories
of two much brighter exponents of the same
characters —Rignold and Diver, at the Criterion.
Even Miss M‘Carthy, though she was a Des-
demona good to look upon and who deserved a
more comfortable ending, was certainly not an
improvement on Lilian Wheeler in the same part.
The heavy-going drama of “Virginius” closed
the season. There was a great audience, and
Wilson Barrett, dressed in white, with the lime-
light on him, and long speeches to deliver in the
centre of the stage, was in his glory. Miss
M ‘Carthy, as his daughter, was also in white; this
was, apparently, a frequent habit in those
times, and doubtless it was inability to pay its
wash-bill that brought about the downfall of the
imperial city. In those very old days the tile
with the birth-register upon it was evidently in a
confused state. Therefore when Appius Claudius
cast his bloodshot eye on Virginia, a beautiful
girl against whose character even the moral
Society of Ancient and Sleepless Cats had no
suspicions to cast, he hired a shabby person to
claim her as his daughter, and then, in his
judicial capacity, ordered her to be handed
over, having already arranged to purchase
her from her new parent at a low figure.
And as the friends of Virginius only ex-
pressed their sympathy by some loose yelling in
the forum, Virginius slew his daughter to save her
honor, and afterwards went mad in two columns
of small print. Then Claudius having been con-
fined in a dungeon of which the door was open,
the crazed parent stepped in and strangled him,
and dragged his remains about the city. A
shocked community ultimately found its late
ruler doubled up in the street, and Virginius look-
ing fixedly at nothing with his right arm extended
at an upward angle of 45 degrees. Some of them
pulled his arm down, while the others shifted the
ruler.
* • « *
Nobody left more than a second-rate im-
pression in this tearful and heart-broken produc-
tion. Wilson Barrett’s Virginius was a heavy
parent, and calculated to make the other end of
the drama tip up unless the coal was stowed there
to counter-balance him. But he delivered a
speech, in which he slapped Sydney on the back
in an amicable spirit, and the parting was an
eminently friendly one.
** # *
Sydney Empire gets out of its usual rut
on Boxing Night, when “ Robinson Crusoe ” is to
be put on under the stage-management of Walter
Rivers. The last important gasp of the old
variety season happened on Saturday night after
a rather cheerful sort of fashion. Miss Amy
Blackie’s sympathetic rendering of “ Daddy ” was
not spoiled by the usual illustrated picture of an
ordinary child sitting by a table, and an ordinary
angel interfering at the window pane; and the
performance concluded affably with a ghost.
** * *
In the rather medley entertainment which
Edmund Montgomery offers at Sydney Queen’s
Hall the biograph items are good, and the variety
items are only medium. At the same time, “Our
Army ” doesn’t offer the same scope that “ Our
Navy ” did. The pictures of Tommy Atkins
bathing, Tommy undergoing medical examina-
tion, &c., are not widely different from anybody
else bathing, for instance. Still, so far as the
resources of Tommy extend, the entertainment is
good and well arranged. Tommy is not brought
on the canvas to any wearisome extent, and some
lighter phases of his character are shown, as when
he and a dog play ball together with their heads.
How the dog knows where to put his
head, so that the ball may fall on it,
is a mystery, but that biograph animal always
does know. It is interesting to note that
the biograph man was somewhere about when
Pompeii was destroyed, and was also lucky enough
to be present at a motor-car explosion. Mr. E.
Montgomery sings an illustrated ditty wherein a
father is reformed by being shown his child’s pina-
fore and shoes, and the entertainment concludes
with twelve tableaux of “Little Red Riding
Hood, ” as a compliment to the season.
*• * # *
Sydney Lyceum, like the Empire, also
breaks out of its usual routine owing to the per-
nicious influence of holidays, and stages something
new on Boxing Night entitled the “Greed of
Gold.” The guillotine drama of “The World’s
Verdict ” came to a well-earned rest on Tuesday
night.
** # *
Many new things occur in Sydney—bar
accident, civil commotion, the general resurrection,
or other unforseen circumstances—on Boxing
Night. “ Alice in Wonderland,” with a east
which would fill at least three tramcars, is due at
the Royal. Charles Arnold produces the ever-
gratifying “Hans the Boatman” on the Palace
stage. The Italian Opera Co. will reappear at
Her Majesty’s with one night of “Eaust,” fol-
lowed by two of “II Trovatore,” and one of “ La
Boheme.” Charles Holloway opens at the Cri-
terion, and his new melodrama, “ For the Sake of
a Woman,” is a coming event which casts its
shudders before it. Certain expected happenings
at other theatres are indicated in adjacent para-
graphs.
** * *
“ San Toy,” as performed on Saturday at
Her Majesty’s (Melb.), was about forty minutes
longer than it should have been. Judged by the
first night effect the merits of the show would be
misjudged. “San Toy,” no doubt, will account
for its popularity abroad when the encores for its
isolated songs and dances are not too numerous,
and the dialogue parts are brought closer together.
What the story lacks is the air of genuineness
that enabled the “Florodora” characters to live
from Xmas until Easter last year. In other re-
spects this is the brightest of Williamson’s musical
comedy shows. “San Toy” has a plot which
was constructed by somebody who did not feel
equal to supplying the song words, and he got
some suggestions for his little book from the
“Mikado” and the “Geisha,” but he laid the
scene in China instead of Japan. A stolid man-
darin who travels with six wives has tried to pre-
serve his daughter, Carrie Moore, from the clutch
of the Emperor by disguising her as a boy. The
British Consul at Pynka Pong has a son, Charles
Kenuingham, and a daughter, Florence Young,
and the daughter has Grace Palotta for her maid.
The secret of Carrie becomes known to Kenning-
ham through her firm but polite refusal to
go and bathe with the other fellows. Also
the Emperor at Pekin learns that young San Toy
is a girl, and the toothless old sinner calls her to
his court —whereupon all the other people follow
her. Lauri is included in the crowd. Lauri is a
casual heathen Chinee by the name of Li. On
arriving at Pekin, they sing and dance to fill in
time until the Emperor announces that he has
decided to be a father to the new girl. The aged
connoisseur has committed matrimony so often
that he prefers to show his love for Carrie by
letting her marry Kenningham.
• ■ * *
The music of “San Toy” is very pretty as a
rule, and the solos by the tenor and Miss Florence
Young are particularly fetching. The returned
wanderer sings with more art than of yore,
and walks and talks through a colorless part
better than she could have done five years ago.
All the same, Miss Young might indulge in a
little more vivacity. Carrie Moore, as San Toy,
is overweighted, but she will be quite satisfactory
if she will abandon her unaccountable foreign
accent and get away from her self-consciousness..
Carrie is a clever, tuneful little woman, in danger
of acquiring a hopelessly artificial style, and not a
charming style at that. Claude Bantock, who gets
the quaintest song in the piece, made a favorable
first impression as the stolid mandarin ; whilst
Maurice Dudley, as the British Consul, made no
impression at all. Hugh Ward is a volatile old
Emperor. Lauri and Grace Palotta rush to the
front on several occasions, and are popular items
when they get there, although the book attaches
no importance to them. Twenty other names
figure on the bill, likewise there is a chorus to be
considered, and the dresses, scenery, and general
splendor of “ San Toy ” come as a boon to all
beholders.
** * *
Adelaide Theatre Royal, after being ch sed
for several weeks, has re-opened with Wirth’s
Circus, the stage being arranged as an arena.
Colby and Way, ventriloquist and dancer new to
Australia, have been doing great business at the
Tivoli, supported by De Wynne, Whitburn, and
the biograph.
** * #
At time of writing there is every reason to
expect a new crop of Melbourne shows on Boxing
Night, which will be not too late for a report ,in
next issue of The Bulletin if its publishing
arrangements (much dislocated by the P.O. sus-
pending work on Xmas Day) keep perfectly sober.
“ Aladdin” falls due at the Princess’s on Dec. 26.
George Musgrove will produce, or has produced
ere these remarks got into circulation, the ancient
tarradiddle of “ Aladdin ” in a manner that is best
described by the advt. Nellie Stewart makes her
reappearance at the head of this costly spectacle,
likewise Ada Willoughby, onetime of Sydney, but
never of Melbourne until now. Also the Permans,
a former Australian trio, will trio every evening
under G.M.’s management, and—further par-
ticulars next week.
** * *
Bland Holt revives the almost forgotten
“ Span of Life ”at the Royal. Thrilling sensation
scene in “ The Span.” Three acrobats form an
irrational bridge across a yawning chasm, and a
lady escapes from the villain by treading on her
friends in need. Hilda Spong was the original
heroine of this pedestrian excursion, but her
nerves were not equal to the task, or the middle
acrobat complained of her pausing on his spine to
contemplate the awfulness of her position, and so
Mrs. Bland Holt crossed the human tight-rope in
Hilda’s stead. That was years ago. Seven
annual Xmas puddings have come and gone since
Bland Holt staged “The Span of Life.”
** * *
The World’s Entertainers, at the Bijou,
have added Napoleon Bouffard’s pretty little
warble to their bill, and some new impersonations
by Heii'ry Lee, and sundry points of variation in
the turns of the other people, came to pass last
Saturday.
** * *
At the Opera House, a number of fresh
arrivals loom in the near distance. Peggy Pryde
and the Craggs are still going strong. Also
Gallando, the unusual stranger who makes faces
out of clay, and bangs each image in the eye with
a lump of its own jaw, is recognised as an artist
and a mud-larker.
Maggie Moore, after three years’ absence
from Melbourne, opens a campaign at the Gaiety
Theatre on Boxing Night. The snug little house
under the Bijou has been redecorated to the glory
of Maggie, and a beautiful word-painting of these
embellishments hangs at the top of the advt.
“ Killarney,” with M.M. as Miss O’Connor, is the
drama selected for the opening night, on which
occasion—also every evening, till further notice —
the leading lady will express her high appreciation
of Ireland and the Irish in songs of emerald hue.
** * *
Fitzgerald Bros.’ circus began its tenth
week last Saturday with many things which
differed from the doings of previous weeks. The
ballet continues to furnish a cheerful German
novelty, and the diving horses have been re-
engaged for the festive season at enormous ex-
pense.
m* * *
For the information of anyone who may
happen to see this paragraph before it is two days
in print, The Bulletin may as well state that
Melb. Philharmonic ' Society will give “ The
Messiah ” at the Town Hall on Christmas night,
with Mdlle. Dolores as the particular star. And
away at the Exhibition Building the Ancient
Druids will seize the opportunity to set up a
sacred lantern-show and a first-class concert for
one sacred shilling.
More Cohentingent.
Maobiland, it is reported, is despatching another
1000 men to Africa, and Premier Barton has
apparently agreed to send an equal number on
account of the Commonwealth. He is doing this
without the authority of Parliament—indeed,
Parliament was shut up with great suddenness
some days before the announced date, and
not a word was said to it about any
definite intention of despatching a contingent.
This outrageous and utterly needless assumption
of absolute power enables Premier Barton to
pose as the Sampson who rushed at things
on his own responsibility in the hour of
emergency—like the person who uselessly lifts
2ewt. of pig-iron above his head and then
puts it down again. When Parliament meets
there will al ways be the handy device of yelliug
“Disloyalist” and “Pro-Boer” at any member
who objects to the gross and gratuitous insult
offered to the Legislature. The reason ascribed
by the Jingo press for the new outbreak of mili-
tary fervor is a .statement ascribed to some Ger-
man paper or papers that the warlike ardor of the
British “colonies” had seemingly faded somewhat.
The name of the alleged traducer isn’t given, and if
tliis country proposes to rush into large expense
every time a German paper makes disparaging re-
marks, it will run to a deal of money. Probably
the whole lot of disparaging papers could be
bought up and suppressed for half the sum.
Still, if the Commonwealth feels that the sneer of
some unknown German paper has hurt it so badly
that it must be wiped out in 8100d —not the blood
of the scoffer himself, but of Some people who
probably never heard of him—why, then, the
contingent will have to go. It may give the
German a new sense of his own importance
if he finds that, by one little casual jeer,
he can make a country of this size howl
with mortification and rush into great expen-
diture ; and he may become inflated when he
gets the idea that he can direct the policy of
Greater Britain all on his own —but these
things can’t be helped. The great danger
now is lest the foreign scoffer may find
out that, as regards most of these States, the
loyalty didn’t run to paying for the war,
except by adding the bill to the deficit and
leaving it to posterity, and —in one case
cutting down the newly-granted old-age pensions.
Supposing he hears that the men who went to the
war would only go at 4s. 6d. a day and demanded
ss. Bd., and that the men who sent them wouldn’t
pay except by their 1.0. U. or by robbing the
aged, there is no knowing what kind of language
the German editor may be capable of using. If
there is to be another big contingent, then, for
Heaven’s sake, let there also be a special war tax
(6d. in the £ added to the income tax would cover
everything), and don’t let our army be mistaken
for an unredeemed pledge with the pawn-ticket
still attached to it.
Speaking in N.S.W. Leg. Council on the
death of Mr. Cox, Dr. Maclaurin remarked that
the career of the departed was an evidence that a
good man could also be a legislator. Is it the
common rule, then, that only bad men can be
legislators ?
Cabled that the Federal Commandant has
been “received in audience by the King.” The
value of Mr. Hutton as an Imperial recruiting-
sergeant is thus recognised; it is in that capacity,
not as boss driller of Australia’s defence forces,
that the General wins the favors of English
Royalty.
Morgans, syndicator, company-promoter,
dealer in concessions and agent for absentee capi-
talists, has lost his billet as Premier of Westralia
after holding it for 37 days. His predecessor, the
clever and liberal-minded Leake, was always in a
minoi’ity during his brief Premiership. Leake’s
following represented nearly two-thirds of the
votes cast at last election, but, owing to the system
which gives one member to 54 voters at one place
and one to 1000 members somewhere else, the
Opposition had a majority of three in the As-
sembly. It might have kept that majority but
for the shocking fact of Morgans taking the
leadership. That was more than Westralia could
stand. Three constituencies which had stood by
the old party under Forrest, Throssell and Piesse,
rejected Morgans’ Ministers when they went up
for re-election, and returned Leakites. Morgans
came back from the country with his majority
gone, and half his Ministry gone. Now he is
gone himself—about the least-regretted man in
Australia.
The Wild Cat Column.
The Victorian State Land Bank completed its
fifth and also its best year on 30th June, 1901. The record
so far is as follows :
Loss by discount
30th June Loss, on Loans floated. Deficit.
1897 £1462 £1462
Profit. Reserves.
1898 1608 146
1899 5551 5697
1900 6846 12,543
1901 8150 £2931 17,762
The Victorian State Land Bank has now £1,021,240 out on
mortgage, and it raised all the money for these loans
locally—not by borrowing in England after the fashion of
the Maoriland State Bank. The reserve is growing, and
if, when it reaches good dimensions, the Legislature can
resist the demand that will almost certainly arise for a
reduction of interest on loans—if the reserves can only be
allowed to increase at compound interest until the bor-
rowed capital can be repaid out of accumulations, and
the State is the sole owner of its own bank, and the
reserves will themselves supply sufficient capital for all
operations—then there will be great possibilities about
the institution. A good commencement has been made,
at all events. A notable feature is the lowness of the
expense rate, which shows as follows :
Proportion of Income absorbed by Expenses.
1897.. £2Ol 7 5 per cent.
1898.. 23 17 11
1899.. 1417 2 „
1900.. £l5 4 7 percent.
1901.. 1419 2
So far, foreclosed properties only represent £1597 out of
£1,072,165 of assets.
* * * *
The Queensland Life Assurance Companies Bill
is an example of how a tired, perfunctory and inefficient
Parliament can do a lot of harm while not pretending to
do much good. Its professed object is to safeguard the
policy-holder, but its apparent object is to prevent any
more mutual life assurance societies starting, and to
reserve the business for proprietary companies, no matter
how rotten they may be. The central idea is that no
assurance concern is to do business in Queensland without
first depositing £lO,OOO with the Treasury. A mutual
office like the A.M.P. has no funds at all until after it has
started business, so the clause completely debars any new
concern of that kind being established in Queensland ;
but a proprietary co., which exists to make dividends
for its shareholders, can put up the money out of
its capital without turning a hair. As a safeguard
for policy-holders the deposit idea is beneath contempt.
It means that a small new concern, however sound, may
have to deposit enough to pay its local liabilities twice
over, while in the case of a large old concern, which may
be utterly rotten, the same deposit may be less than 6d.
in the £on its liabilities. What is required is that Par-
liament should fix a standard of solvency, and should
audit the accounts and examine the assets of every co.
to make sure that it has enough to meet its liabilities,
whether they are £5OO or £5,000,000. To insist that
every co. shall have £lO,OOO, whether its liabilities are
£5OO or £5,000,000, is a silly joke.
Whenever State audit of life assurance con-
cerns is spoken of the Private Enterprise gang rises
to say that Government interference in such matters
never works well. If it doesn’t then the Government
shouldn’t interfere by passing laws like the above.
If the new Queensland law had been the law of
Australia 50 odd years ago, there would have been
no A.M.P. Society, or National Mutual, or Mutual
Life Association, or Widows’ Fund. Even the A.M.P.
had been six years in existence before it had
£lO,OOO to deposit with any foolish Government. But the
Adelaide Life Co. (which pays 15 per cent, dividends to
its shareholders), the Australian Alliance, the Citizens’,
and a whole horde of privately-owned companies would
have found the Act no obstruction. Common report in
Queensland has it that the purpose of the new law is to
keep the local assurance field as much as possible a close
preserve for the privately-owned Australian Metropolitan
Life Assurance Co. This doesn’t seem very probable,
but certainly, while putting no obstacle in the
way of that institution, it makes reasonably sure
that no mutual concern will be established locally
to compete with it. The sooner the Federal
Government abolishes all existing assurance legislation
and passes an Act which will really do something to
secure the solvency of Australian life offices, the better it
will be.
* » * *
The National Bank of Tasmania shows a
slightly larger profit than it did six months ago, but
there is still a serious falling away from the earnings of
1900 :
Dividends and Total
Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves.
May, 1895 ~ £3990 5 per cent. = £4OOO £24,096
November, 1895 4136 5 „ „ 4008 24,224
May, 1896 .. 4299 5 „ „ 3991 24,532
November, 1896 3534 5 „ „ 3991 24,075
May, 1897 .. 4013 5 „ „ 3991 24,097
Noyember, 1897 4127 5 „ „ 3991 24,233
May, 1898 .. 4128 5 „ „ 3991 24,370
November, 1898 4516 5 „ „ 3991 24,895
May, 1899 .. 4460 5 „ „ 3991 25,364
November, 1899 4577 5 ~ „ 3991 25,950
May, 1900 .. 5528 5 „ „ 3991 27,487
November, 1900 5462 5 ~ „ 3991) oco
Written off 2000/
May, 1901 .. 5052 5 „ „ 3991 28,019
November, 1901 5139 5 ~ „ 3991 29,167
The profits represent £5 14s. 2d. per cent, per annum on
the shareholders’ funds as at commencement of half-year.
The reserves consist of reserve fund £22,500 (at which
figure it has been motionless for a number of years) and
£6667 undivided profit. Why so large a sum is kept as
undivided profit instead of being carried to permanent re-
serve it is difficult to say ; the arrangement suggests a
possibility that there is further depreciation to provide
for, and that this sum is being kept available for writing
off. Deposits show a decline of £10,028 during the half
year, but note circulation has increased by £9781, and
cash reserve by £24,794. This reserve now stands at
£l24,o93—equal to 23 per cent, on all liabilities to the
public. The National Bank of Tasmania has apparently
no reserve of State, municipal or other liquid securities
whatever, which is by no means a commendable state of
things. It is a steady-going and respectable little bank,
but it can’t be accused of anything hurried or breathless
in the way of progress.


stocks Kept or -
RAND ROCK DRILLS & AIR COMPRESSORS
BY THE SOLE AGENTS—
N. GUTHRIDGrE, LTD., 71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
And at 486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE ; WELLINGTON, N.Z.;
214 HIGH STREET, FREMANTLE; KALCOORLIE.
Wm'jiZ&SMR
TR AM: WA.YS. TRAMWAYS
Tne Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop. Ltd-
-40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
representing ORENSTIiIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material
„ Locomotives from 10 to 350 h.p. -»I
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE'include Rails and Accessories, Steel Sleeners
Turntal.es, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical advice gratui ton si v
rendered Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated Photo
.graphic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different parts of the World ~non
apPllCat,on - A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manage?. 0
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mimnfr and assay chemicals and apparatus, can he ob-
tained of Felton, Grimvvade and Co., Melbourne, who
ha,ve issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
* * * m
Local Government Journal, London, 20th
July, 1901 : “ The Colonial Mutual needs no endorsement,
its stability is beyond question ; its policies are drawn in
the most liberal manner that experience can possibly
justify.”* r
* * * *
The Hannans Oroya Gold Mining Co., Kal-
goorlie, have lately placed an order with the Austral
Otis Company, South Melbourne, for a double drum firs)
motion winding engine. The cylinders are 18 inch
diameter by 36 inch stroke, and are fitted with balanced
piston valves. The drums are Bft. in diameter and fitted
with indicators. The engine is completely controlled
from the driver’s platform. In all respects is similar to
the engines working- so satisfactorily at the Golden Horse-
shoe Mine, Boulder, Long Tunnel, Victoria, and the Cobar
Chesney Mine, N.S.W.*
* * • *
N. Guthridge, Ltd., of 71 Clarence-st., Sydney
(also Melbourne ; Fremantle, Kalgoorlie, W.A. ; Welling-
ton, N.Z.), have added to their list of agencies those of
the New Explosives Co., Ltd., London, and the Pulso-
meter Co., Ltd., Reading. . . . This company is now in a
position to supply all special mining requisites, principal
among them being “Wilfley” concentrators, “Little
Giant’’and “Slugger” drills, “Rand” air compressors.
Gelignite, “Raekarock,” “ Rendrock,” “Sun” brand
fuse, electric and other detonators, “Ivanhoe” mining
steel, “Globe” lubricating oils, special marlined steam
hose, steam pumps. Large stocks of all the above-men-
tioned specialities are carried.*
* * * *
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* * * *
See for yourself. The Australian Medical
Gazette of January, 1891, compares Zetz Spa to the cele-
brated Vichy waters of France, and states that it is
valuable for gout, rheumatism, gravel, catarrh of the
bladder, diabetes, dyspepsia, splenic and hepatic dis-
orders.
* * * •
Vanning Tables.—The very newest and what
gives exceedingly fair promise of superseding all other
tables is the machine known as the Wesley-Baird Vanning
Table. The table is of South Australian invention, and
has given excellent results on Broken Hill ores and ores
containing pyrites, carbonate of copper and tin. Like all
tables, the best work is done on “ fines,” and more espe-
cially when the product is properly classified. The
Central Mining and Tramway Co., of 424 Little Collins-
street, Melbourne, and 40 Hunter-street, Sydney, are the
sole agents in the Eastern States. The fable has a capa-
city up to 30 tons per day.*
*'* « *
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
fillan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb *
* + m *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option ”
Melbourne.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills
Air Compressors, etc., etc.* ’
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfonnder
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers
pumps, Burning, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators ice-makin«
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sorts of iron-work.*
* * * *
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buchu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemista
* * * •
Aftermath of Otago (M.L.) dredging-boom A
Dunedin broker recently filed. Assets, £l2OO odd of"book
debts—valued at £l2.
* * * *
There’s said to be an effort being made just now
to boom a syndicate, which is to acquire electric-lightino-
rights in connection with the Colo and Grose Rivers It
is just as well for N.S.W. public to understand, therefore
that the only concession so far granted to use the waters
of those rivers for power purposes is to a co. to run a xaw-
mill. There is not the least likelihood of any other con-
cessions being granted to any private co., and, as for a
private-enterprise city of Sydney electric-lighting scheme
that has as much chance of being approved by Parliament
as a proposal to sell the South Head forts to China.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles. Caustic Soda,
Borax, Arsenic, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting: Charges.
Ny. Markwald,
11 Pitt-st. , Sydney-; 68 Cmrie-st., Adel. ; 27 Eagle-street,
Uriah. ; and at Wellington, and
Notwithstanding their awful experience with
the Melbourne tram-monopolists, Prahran and Malvern
councils are now actually negotiating with the same co.
and with an electric tramway shindykit for a 2-mile
line between their respective town-halls. A gang of
councillors who can’t lay down and run a couple of miles
of electric tram ought to be escorted down to the Red
Bluff and firmly pushed over. But the citizens seem
quite willing to be exploited.
* * * *
The Derwent and Tamar Fire and Marine Assur-
ance Co. (Hobart, Tasmania) had a worse experience than
usual for the year to 31st October, 1901, the big Sydney
Are having gnawed a considerable hole in the profits.
Results compare with some previous years as follows :
Dividends and Dividend Total
Tax. Reserves.
1895 .. .. ..£64,354
1896 .. Profit £B,lBl .. 15 per cent. =£7,875 .. 64,660
1897 .. „ 8,482 .. 7% „ „ 3,938 .. 69,204
1898 .. Loss 10,780 ..5 „ „ 2,625 .. 55,799
1899 .. Profit 8,260 ..10 „ „ 5,250 .. 58,809
1900 .. „ 7,152 ..10 „ „ 5,250 .. 60,711
1901 .. „ 3,028 .. 6} „ „ 3,281 .. 60,458
Considering that the Derwent and Tamar Co. hasn’t yet
recovered the loss which it.made over the great Mel-
bourne fire, it seems a pity that it didn’t cut its dividend
down to 5 per cent, this year rather than make even a
small inroad on the reserves. Still the co. has £110,458
of shareholders’ funds (capital paid-up £50,000, and
reserves £60,458), and considering the small business done
these are very solid figures. Premium income, long
practically stationary, begins to show an increase :
Premiums. Premiums.
1896 .. .. £19,114 1899 .. .. £20,373
1897 .. 19,290 1900 .. .. 23,061
1898 .. .. 20,095 1901 .. .. 23,784
The investments appear sound and well cared for, and
the Derwent and Tamar, now in its 64th year, is the
oldest and one of the most respected of Australasian fire
offices.
* • * *
In Tasmania, as in Australia, fire and marine
insurance has long been a decaying industry. In 1888 the
island owned five companies of its own—the Derwent and
Tamar, Mutual Fire, Cornwall, Mutual Union, and the
Tasmanian. The last three have all been absorbed, and
only the Mutual Fire and the Derwent and Tamar remain
on deck.
* » * »
The Tasmanian Treasurer admits, rather cheer-
fully, that, by reason of the abolition of inter-State
duties and the fact that the Federal tariff is, in some
directions, lower than the old Tasmanian tariff, he ex-
pects a deficit of about £40,000 for the year to 31st
December, 1901, and another shortage of £121,000 during
1902. This, with the £52,000 odd unpaid of the old
deficit, will make £2l3,ooo—and the deficit of about
£120,000 a year is expected to be a regular thing unless
some steps are taken. So far there are no definite signs
of any steps. The Tasmanian Treasurer is regarding his
deficit with the resigned expression of an Early Christian
inspecting Nero’s big lion.
* * * *
The National Mutual Life Association (Mel-
bourne) dating from its amalgamation with the Mutual
of Victoria:
Written Total ■
Income. Claims. Expenses. off. Funds
1897 £419,861 £199,607 £78,450 £1,572 £2,703,701
1898 479,665 240,447 86,398 2,850.521
1899 499,753 222,764 91,058 7,219 3,035,233
1900 524,121 294,974 87,779 690 3,175 911
1901 566,417 303,190 90,971 725 3,347,442
The year closed on 30th September, 1901, has been a good
one for the National Mutual in various ways. The income
has improved, the expense rate has been reduced, and the
addition to the funds has been rather above the average.
Also the interest rate has maintained a very handsome
average—one that is distinctly higher than most offices
can show. The following are the principal results of the
past five years :
Amount Expenses com- Interest earned
added pared with on average
to Fufids. income. Funds.
1897 .. £140,231 £lB 13 8 per cent.
' ’ 1 5 2 ’® 20 18 0 3 „ £4 15 2 per cent.
1899 .. 178,712 18 4 5 „ 413 0
1900 .. 140,678 16 14 11 „ 413 3
1901 .. 171,531 16 1 3 „ 413 4 ”
This shows a diminishing expense rate and an interest
rate which keeps up remarkably in the present bad times.
The interest rate for 1897 can’t be accurately arrived at;
it was in the latter part of that year that the amalgama-
tion took place, and the fact that the accounts showed a
year’s return on the funds of the National Mutual and
only a few months’ return on those taken over from the
Mutual of Victoria is confusing. The interest estimates
are based on the total funds—investment fluctuation
fund included.
* • * *
The National Mutual’s affairs are certainly
looking well. It is either the second or third largest
Australasian office—it won’t be known for certain which
until the accounts of the M.L. Government Department
appear a few months hence. It has a reasonably solid
investment fluctuation fund of £82,316. The only
features which can be in any way called in question are
that £52,437 (a pretty large sum) of its assets consists of
that rather shadowy item, “ deferred instalments of
annual premiums ”--an intangible asset which isn’t in-
terest-bearing, and has no immediate visible existence.
Also another £51,426 consists of building societies’ shares.
Considering the lamentable state of the great majority of
building societies just now, the continued absence of any
information as to what societies are alluded to is
regrettable.
* * * *
Dr. Oronhyatekha boasts that his 1.0. F. brass
band insurance affair is already stronger in Australia than
it was in Canada after six years. Well, in Canada the
people who ran the show were better known, and their
methods were under closer inspection than is possible at
this distance.
* » • *
Gallymont, N.S.W. : From London it comes
that the total outlay for last year was £3560, and the re-
ceipts £1066, leaving a debit of £2494. To carry on
operations, directors were authorised to sell 3000 of the
40,000 Mt. Boppy shares held by the co., and as this was
not enough, they were about to sell another 3000 shares at
pa,r. This, seems the case of parting with shares of a good
mine and throwing the money into a bad one, thereby
losing both. The Bulletin’s advice : Stick to Mt. Boppy
shares, and let the Gallj’mont show be worked out by
tnbutors.
* * » *
The Kauri Timber Co. and its various mis-
fortunes, so far as they can be sized up by a careful study
of the last few balance-sheets :
Net
Written Visible
Profits. Dividends. off. Deficit-
-1898 Nil £142,827
1899 .. £18,787 2J per cent. =£14,625 138,665
1900 .. 14,201 3 „ „ 17,550 £13,000 155,014
1901 .. 43,174 4 - „ „ 23,400 50,000 185,240
The Kauri Timber Co. presents its accounts very
differently from the above, but the habit of being
different is one that it shares with many other concerns.
Its biggest asset consists of its kauri forests, and as it
cuts them down the asset depreciates by so much every
year. The loss appears among the assets as “ Accumu-
lated Depreciation,” but the co. doesn’t deduct each year’s
depreciation from the year’s profits, which makes a great
improvement in the appearance of the profits. The
Affures shown above are the alleged profits with the
additions to insurance and other reserves added on, and
with the year’s depreciation deducted. The deficit is
made up as follows:
Accumulated Assets Depreciation „ .. £264,920
Debenture Expenses (paper asset) «. .. 16,038
T £280,958
Less
Insurance Funds „ .. M ..£56 380
Log Reserve (?) ... 8,678
Undivided Profit 80,660 95,718
Net Deficit : £185,240
of the shareholders’ capital was written
and of the remaining £585,000 nearly one-third
(£185,240) has also disappeared. Yet the dividends are
miserably poor, saying nothing of the fact that during at
least half the co.’s career there was no dividend at all.
The consistent ill-luck of the Kauri Timber 00. is some-
thing remarkable.
* • * «
Th® Lloyd copper mine, N.S.W. : London tells
that last year’s net profit was £18,636 ; amount brought
forward from previous year £14,952, making total
credit £33,589. It was proposed to write off
for depreciation of plant, machinery, &c., £6146, and to
carry forward the balance, £27,442. The big concen-
tration plant must have been otherwise provided for. It
will be interesting to know at what price per ton this co.
will produce its copper. At £7O per ton it would be a
big mine, and at £5O per ton it ought to make a fair
profit, for, many years ago, Lewis Lloyd, working on a
much smaller scale, used to land copper in Sydney at £35.
No other man in Australasia has had Mr. Lloj'd’s individual
experience of copper, and his opinion is that the fall in the
price of metal has come to stay, that it will not stop until
it reaches £4O, and that it will stay between £4O and £5O
for some years. He bases his views’ on the changes he has
seen m nearly half a century. How natural it is that
people who are largely interested in copper-mines in Aus-
tralia should think that the collapse is the result of a
bear raid in America, and will soon be over.
♦ * * »
Girilambone Copper (N.S.W.): “Splendid body
of sulphide showing.” But of what use with copper
under £5O a ton ? A few more lingering weeks, and then
to that bourne from which it is sure to emerge as soon as
the copper market “ looks up.”
• * * *
Cope’s Creek Dredging Co. (N.S.W.): Half-
year's operations showed a profit of £149, reducing debit
balance from £7OO to £551, which the directors “do not
regard as altogether unsatisfactory, considering the class
of stuff treated and the difficulties met with.” First,
there was a want of vvater from the want of rain ; then
there was too much rain, and, therefore, too much water.
The ground first sluiced was disappointing. The financial
condition is such that it will probably be necessary to
provide additional working capital. One dredge-boss,
reporting a weekly yield of 2Joz., says : “ This is conclu-
sive proof that there is better ground ahead.” At last the
public is beginning to have its “ doots.”
* * * m
About the only Australian mining field, other
than a goldfield anyway, that hasn’t had a gloomy Novem-
ber and December is White Cliffs, the far-west N.S.W.
opal-getting camp. Contrary to rule at this time of j r ear,
prices for the gem have been very good, and finds have
also been numerous. But the opal market is extra-
ordinarily sensitive, topples on the smallest pro-
duction (White Cliffs is said to now supply over half of
the world’s output), and usually doesn’t recover for
months.
* * * *
Rumored cable that the representative, of some
’Ome capital has bought, or nearly bought, the True Blue
mine, at Wyalong, for something under £20,000. A con-
sistent producer, the Blue has been the largest employer
of labor on Wyalong field. The owners have been their
own directors, and, though nominally a co. of some
thousands of shares, it is still looked on, and spoken
of, as an eight-share holding. None of the original eight
shares have been parted with in less than halves, and the
mine has always been mainly owned by four or five men.
* * * *
A Wyalong paper reports an application for six
months “ further ” suspension on a batch of unworked
g.m. leases. The grounds of application are alleged to be
that steps are being taken to raise £200,000 in London and
Glasgow to buj r adjoining leases which are being worked.
Some time ago a casual stranger from Charters Towers
struck Wyalong in his travels, and snapped up some un-
considered trifles in the shape of block claims adjoining
the best mines. The owners of the properties whose reefs
underlie into the block claims have been chewing their
finger-nails for some time, but now it appears there is a
scheme on to absorb the working mines and consolidate
the whole of the leases on the main line, including the
block-on leases. A good scheme if the necessary money
were available without going to London and Glasgow for
it Moreover, £200,000 might or might not buy the
adjoining leases referred to, but the Wyalong people con-
cerned will want to handle some hard cash ere they lend
their properties to a syndicate of flotationists.
• * * *
At last the Queensland Smelting Co. has fore-
closed and taken over the Pinnacles (Broken Hill) mine ;
and so ends another wholly unprofitable Sydney adven-
ture in silver-lead mining. And yet Sydney has had hold
of some splendid silver shows—the B.H. South and
Central, for instance. Most of the failures have been
through neglect to provide decent cash reserves, as in
this Pinnacles case.
* * * *
London and Globe Corporation: Cabled that
the official receiver’s report contains some remarkable
revelations concerning the daring shifts resorted to by
certain magnates of this concern, and the reckless specu-
lations carried on by the Corporation. It shows that the
balance-sheets had been shamelessly cooked on a large
scale, and that efforts had been made to bribe
the press systematic, no doubt, and also successful.
It would be easy for writer to name some of the papers
that have largely participated in the boodle. Two
years ago he was told by one of the Corporation’s leading
officers that it had a department specially devoted to the
Press, and that experience had then already shown that
there were very few financial papers in London that could
not be bribed ; and that it took one man all his time in
making an all-round distribution amongst them. A few
were paid in scrip, many in sovereigns, none, strange to
sa y. by cheque. Receipts were never asked for or given.
Only a few weeks ago Whittaker Wright made a final effort
to reconstruct the co. by a circular to the shareholders,
indicating that that was the only way out of the difficulty,
but his object was too clear. The Times said of the
attempt that it was a reckless and audacious bid for new
Support, and other big dailies condemned it. The new
scheme was strongly recommended by several financial
newspapers. The one particular paper which has
always had a good word for Wright, referred to the
splendid divs. paid by the L. and G. during its career,
and the premium reached by its shares when the boom
was raging. It even went so far as to reckon this
premium to show what magnificent profits had been
made by those who managed to get out at the top of the
market—of course, making no allusion to the losses
sustained by those who happened to buy in at that
particular time. The public will now, probably, soon
know where the money went, and how much was used as
newspaper “palm’’-oil. Poor London is at the moment
without its boss boomster of mines. Baron Grant and
Colonel North are dead. Bottomley and Wright are dead
to the world of finance, and at present there are no signs
of another coming to life, though London is not likelv to
remain long without a champion.
« * « •
Lake View Consols (W.A.): One is always
looking for some surprise in the running of this mine.
Two months ago the general manager and the consulting
engineer were at loggerheads as to its ore reserves. The
former challenged independent enquiry, and the names
of other managers were suggested to make it. The plant
was being considerably enlarged, promises were made of
18,000 oz. a month, and the public got tired of the repeti-
tion of the statement that even a production of 12,000
tons a month would make no strain on the ore reserves,
which had been enormously increased; the output
could be maintained for a great length of time, and
a long career of dividends was assured. Everything in-
dicated a great disparity between the estimates of the two
officers. That of Mackinnon, the consulting engineer,
has not come out ; but if there is any great disparity
and he is correct, there must be little payable ore left in
the mine; for, according to Hartmann, the general
manager, there is not a great deal—not sufficient to
warrant the present prices of shares, great as the slump
has been. Of ore exposed above the 700 ft. level there
are, he says, 77,798 tons averaging an ounce and a half,
42,772 tons averaging 15dwts. and upwards, and 58,227
tons averaging 10 dwts. Cost of treatment is given
at 31s. 7d. per ton, and mining 13s. 2d.—against
435. 5d., and 275. 7d. last year. No account is
taken of lower grade ore simply because it cannot be
treated at a profit, and so far no explanation is given
of the startling reductions made in mining and milling.
Hewitson, manager of the Associated, who made an inde-
pendent examination, to see who was right (Mackinnon or
Hartman) says there are 110,000 tons of 25dwt. ore left in
the mine, while the reserves of lower grade ore are practi-
cally unlimited. He recommends an immediate reduction
in the average grade of ore sent to the mill. If he is correct,
at the present rate of production the mine (so far as it is
at present visible) will be worked out next year, and as
something of the sort may happen, the man who buys
Lake Views at £7 for divs. is a fool.
* * * *
Brownliill Extended : “A good deal of interest
will attach to the work of crosscutting at the 600 ft. level
when it is remembered that the crosscut should soon
enter the ore bodies met with at the 400 ft. level. No
other development work is going on in the mine.” If
this crosscut proves nothing, as it is likely enough to do,
the mine will shut down, and, like its parent and neigh-
bour, both should then be called the Brownhill Ex-
hausted.
* * * *
Croesus South United: “Very little develop-
ment work is in progress at present but the management
are daily expecting instructions from London ’’—also
remittances of money, no doubt. The latest the writer
has heard from London about this mine is that there is a
heavy debenture mortgage on it—which is usually the
beginning of the end. Despite its name, it is as poor as
Lazarus.
* * * *
Hannan’s Oroya: “The directors have dis-
played great caution in the matter of providing the mine
with a treatment plant.” Caution has been displayed in
first finding a mine—a course which may, no doubt, seem
extraordinary to the mine-hummer-by-wire.
* * » »
“Bilya”: Re Bulletin par. 23/11/’Ol. Only
the timber around the Kalgoorlie and Coolgardie mines
is cut out. There are within 30 miles of the mining
centres enormous areas of forest country yet untouched,
and probably the timber will last the mines out. The
present trouble is to get the firewood from outlying
timber-belts to the mines. The Leake Govt, favored
light tram-line 3. constructed either by the State or by
the mines themselves. The old Groper crowd is trying
to bolster up construction of a line from Collie coalfields
to the goldfields (out of loan-money, of course). But
Collie coal is so inferior that it would have to be carried
at a dead loss to compete with the wood. In the far
future, when the wood is really expended, the Esperance
line will be an accomplished fact, and either good New-
castle coal or liquid fuel will be used. Present consump-
tion of wood on Hannan’s belt amounts to 683,000 tons
per annum.
* » » *
Coolgardie water scheme: London Economist
tells some home truths about this, and asks of what use
is 4 water, or any other scheme, to a derelict goldfield ?
“ Has it not been proved after years of development that
the field is a failure? It has. Water is not wanted to
turn that failure into a success, but gold is, and as long
as.gold is lacking the water will be a mere waste, for
there will be no population left by and by even to drink
it. Westralia is already overburdened with debt, and in
view of the uncertain outlook of the mining industry—
for all the fields have proved treacherously patchy—its
economic prospects are not of the brightest. Nor does
there seem any great scarcity of water on the field, or we
should certainly hear more about it.”
* » * *
A table of figures compiled from the last issued
yearly official reports and balance sheets, showing
working costs of five leading Westralian mines, is
published by London Critic. They are the Great Boulder,
Ivanhoe, Golden Horseshoe, Perseverance and Associated
co.’s. The expenditure is much greater than the public
has ever been led to expect, and shows the extent
to which people’s eyes have been blinded to
actual facts. Every week it .is wired across to
the Eastern dailies that the treatment of sulphide
ore at this or that plant is so much per ton,
but no total expenditure is ever given ; if it were
deception would be impossible. If any of the mines’
out there are treating sulphides under 255. per ton,
the balance sheets of those mines show that at
least another 255. a ton must go in mining and some-
thing above £1 in other expenses. It is absurd to think
that mining large ore-bodies, even under the conditions
existing there, would cost 255. per ton. It is the old game
of giving certain costs and omitting others. In some
cases all development is charged to capital account, so
also machinery. The only way to get at total costs is by
taking the total expenditure and revenue and the dif-
ference between one and the other is the profit. If a leading
Kalgoorlie mine in three months produces £150,000 o'!
gold and pays away a third of it in dividends, then
it may be taken for granted that two-thirds is
gone in expenditure, and that the mine that pays divs. on
ljoz. sulphide ore can only be made to pay when the
value comes down to loz., and that is certain to happen
some day not far ahead in several instances. Working
costs cannot be materially reduced. The plants are quite
large enough for the mines. In some cases, they are too
big, and except as regards the Great Boulder, no lon«- life
for any mine has been assured. A reserve fund seems to
be the last thing thought of. Even the Golden Horseshoe
with its over 15,0000 z. per month, the largest gold pro-
duction of the camp, recently contracted a loan of
£50,000, to be redeemed in three years, for the payment
of additional stamps. Prices of shares have fallen with
the exception of the Great Boulder, 10 to 30 per cent
and, with that exception, are now 10 to 30 per cent too
high.
• * * •
From the Hodgkinson, N.Q.: Ross Robinson
managing director of the Cecil (English) syndicate in the
General Grant, expressed himself as more than satisfied
with the reef cut at 500 ft. level. Result—an order to
finish dam that was started last year, to put on 32 men
and four teams and build up dam about 5 feet long
making 16 feet from bed of creek. It might hold about
20 million gallons. An up-to-date 16 head is to be pro-
vided.—-The Hodgkinson United, on east side of General
Grant: Sunk 400 ft., and apparently no good ; reef all split
UP- Great Dyke G.M. Co., midway between Kin°-s-
-borough and Thornborough : Down i4oft. ; no stone'in
bottom level. Stoping the last bit in the top ground
Crushing for the public with 10 head at a reduction of 4s'
below Kingsborough mill, i.e., 10s. per ton ; last year, 14s
——Monarch G.M. has been floated—6o,ooo scrip. Vendor
takes half paid-up and £l5OO cash. Got a lot of low-grade
ore on surface which may go 4dwt. or sdwt. per ton, but
would not pay years ago, with battery on ground ; got
about £12,000 to work on. Surface labor 9s. per dav
under Cecil syndicate, 10s. elsewhere. Little doing on
field ; many men idle. Wages, £3 ; miners’ board, 225. 6d
* * * *
• C A in , a £° e Railwa y and Mines: In Melbourne it
is stated that the improved inquiry for these shares
(resulting in a rise of a whole shilling) was based on a belief
that the circular to be issued by the Board next week
dealing with the securing of fresh capital, would leave no
“ to the success of the scheme. Also,
that if the market is a true index, the outlook is verv
promising ‘‘Hope burns eternal,” etc. Besides, it is
so cheap to distribute it by newspaper. To gloat over
the r jse of a shilling is a little too ridiculous. The deben-
h°'de^, ls the prize top-dog, and without his co-
operation the common, or garden Chillagoe shareholder
will never get out of the dust. With copper fallen over
P er . to,] - ‘™ d still falling, with thesmeltersshut down
ana no immediate chance of re-opening, the shareholders
have a woful prospect. They are, however, sure to get
any amount of newspaper consolation.
* * * *
Dottswood Freehold (Q.) : Shareholders, at a
meeting held in Sydney last Monday, decided to accept
very satisfactory offer which has been received from
f, r ,Uk S ' Sh 5°- f °r the purchase of the property, and a
her meeting will be held shortly to confirm the reso-
mtion. Writer congratulates them if they get the money,
but is equally sorry for somebody' else.
* * * *
Woodlark Island : New Guinea mail brought a
re ,H ol ' fc . trom the mine, and details were given of the work,
wmcn hear out the manager’s recent wire that “ develop-
ments were disappointing.” The market talks. These
shares were once nearly £l—2o can be bought for that
ngure now.
* * * *
Briseis tin : This market has fallen to 21s. The
surveyor and engineer of the co. reports the length of the
S in d a at^ ydB ” average depth 33yds., average
wiath llOyds., total quantity of tin-bearing drift 5,200,000
yas., which has been found to average 30cwt. per cubic
yd., giving a total weight to the main lead of 7,800,000
tons. He estimates that the lower 50ft. of the lead
wiH average 1£ per cent. tin. This, with the tin
above the present sluicing levels, should bring the
average for the whole lead to at least J per cent, of
metallic tin, ora total money value of £5,850,000 based on
a market price of tin of £lOO per ton. It reads
remarkably well, but if the last 50ft. contains 1A per
cent, tin and the average is only f per cent, the top
drift must be very poor. The future of this mine abso-
luF de P ends upon the easy get-away of the drift from
the bottomof the lead. If the water is sufficient to carry
it avvay and there is no danger of tailings silting up, the
greatness of the show is assured. It will then become the
biggest tin-produeer in Australasia, but many men who
have examined it are doubtful on this point, some unhesi-
tatingly declaring that the river is bound to silt up, at
the same time admitting that the ground is rich enough
for hydraulic lifting, although that would largely increase
cost of working. Wanted some well-known reliable engi-
neer to report on the carrying-awav capacity of the
Bingarooma river—enough has been said of the mine.


PAVIP JONES COMPANY
HIGH-CLASS HATTERS.
High Grade Selected Fur Framed Felt,
ll/6 to 17/6.
; \
First Grade Fur Framed Felt,
10/6, 11/6 to 15 6.
, AM)
Same Shape in Pedal Straw, 9/6,10/6.
George & Barrack Streets:
KTT77f
CAMERAS
From Ss. up to £5O.
PNOTOfiRftPHIt
COMPETITION--"
f £4O
Cash Prizes.
Everybody can compete.
Liberal Chances to win.
Easy Conditions.
SCHEDULE OF COMPETITIONS from . . .
HARRINGTON & CO. Ltd.
PHOTOGRAPHIC
MERCHANTS,
63 K'ng-street, Sydney; and 93 Queen-street, Brisbane.
Agents : Craven & Co., 178 Collins-st., Melb; P. Ash, Elizabeth-st., Hobart; A. L. Tilly, 504 Hay-st. Perth,lV. A.
Home Cigarettes.
THE LATEST BUUETMi:
They are the S.wketest, the Nicest, the
most Comnionwealthiest Cigarette.
All Tobacconists.
SOCIETY
LEROY
LIUEUR
BRANDY
The patriotic nation-builders at work.
Writer recently attended a “smoke social,” given
by the A.N.A. The president of the local
branch was in the chair, and a high and mighty
member of the board of directors was also there.
Proceedings opened with a speech from the secre-
tary, who announced the depressing fact that the
brewery which had promised free Beer had failed
to keep faith with him. The thirsty A.N. A., which
bad come miles for free Beer, here cursed aloud.
Continuing, the secretary said that, despite this
great misfortune, they should still have Beer, as
lie had arrauged for sgal. to. be sent from the pub.
opposite. The speaker then sat down amidst a
storm of applause, and the “social ” proceeded.
About. 9 p.m. the Beer arrived, and was hailed
with cheers by the thirsty mob, which at once
started to quench its awful thirst. “ Quenching ”
went on till the cask was emptied, and then
trouble began. A song was given by a member
of the local branch, which was objected to by
someone belonging to another branch. Cries of
“Stoush him !” “Chuck him out !” were heard,
the gas went out, and the show ended in a free
light. By the way, one of the planks of the
A.N.A. is “The advancement of Australians in
Art and Literature. ”
* * ♦ ♦
Be an old-time Maoriland poisoning-case :
Mrs. Kitty Hall, nie Cain, who applied for a divorce
from her would-be murderer at Auckland (M.L.), on 6th
Dec., will be remembered mainly through her husband,
the notorious “ Tommy ” Hall, of Timaru. Tommy in
the early 80’s was one of the noted young bucks of that
unprincipled seaside township. He was also an un-
commonly wicked criminal. While engaged to plump
little Kitty, whose father (an erstwhile sea-captain) had
THE UNFITNESS OF THINGS.
HIS WASHUP (referring to female drunk):
“Is there ing pravious convictions
aginst the woman? ”
OHOOLAN: “ Yis, per Washup; 14 days for being a faymrde av loose habits.”
HIS WASHUP: “ Well, Oi’ll just make it a month this toime for being afaymale av toight habits.”
put by a lot of money, he was also accepted by another
heiress, who eventually came in for £20,000. The two
prospective fathers-in-law met soon after, and solicited
congratulations, for Tommy was a young gentleman of
ability and prospects, and a smart business man to
boot.' Tommy’s more wealthy goose was cooked, for
she obeyed her papa, but Miss Gain insisted on
being married, and Tommy forthwith insured her life
■nr £6OOO and began dieting her on antimony. The
in a poor girl vomited constantly for about six months,
way that brought tears to the eyes of her nurse when
describing Mrs. Hall’s agony subsequently in the witness-
box. But this did not affect “ Tommy Dodd ” (Hall’s pet
name in the household) until a physician “ dropped ” to
the matter, and had Hall arrested. lie got “ life ” for
attempted wife-murder. There was in those days a habit
among Timaru business men of taking money for invest-
ment from widows, shepherds, small farmers, and so
forth. The agent lived on the principal, paying interest
with scrupulous regularity out of fresh funds entrusted
to him. YVhen the depression came along, with no new
capital, the game was up. Hall had several steals
of this kind proved against him, but the ozone
of Timaru probably accounted for that. There were
several leading firms of commission agents with a total of
ten partners doing this kind of work in Timaru about then.
Of the ten two committed suicide, and four went to gaol
for periods varying from a few months to 21 years, and one
was found dead on a cliff under suspicious circumstances.
The man found dead was as clean as any man living, and
most people reckoned it murder by an interested party.
But since those days Timaru has' been purified. Inci-
dentally, Maoriland tried to let Tommy Hall out of the
country as an assisted emigrant, via the gallows. His
father-in-law, old Oapt. Cain, was remembered to have
vomited a good deal before dying, and they dug his body
up and found traces of antimonial poisoning. Hall, how-
ever, was a nephew of a leading politician, and Maori-
landers say unkind things about influence preventing this
worthy scion of a ruling stock from swinging. For years,
so it is said, poor Kitty refused to believe in
Tommy’s guilt, so the divorce granted her in Auckland
some weeks ago is very satisfactory.
* * * *
Alma Mater, the organ of the University
of Melbourne (it’s a monthly, and calls itself a
journal—which means “daily”) quarrels bitterly
with an outside world, which has not had the
blessings of a University education but yet per-
sists in saying rude things of University gentle-
men when they are put in the dock
YVe must not tolerate for one day longer the inordinate
prying that irresponsible reporters are encouraged in by
papers athirst for academic scandals. . . . This affair of
our accountant, a gentleman, whatever his peculations,
called up on the instant a swarm of swarthy fiends, who
fastened themselves voraciously on every detail of Mr.
Dickson’s character. ... The Ask lays him bare “ in his
bedroom, sitting in an easy chair, having just risen, he
remarked, from his bed.” The Aiigkts, we are bound to
remark, behaves somewhat better, and does give the
University accountant the prefix “ Mr.” that gentlemen
accord alike to saint and sinner. . . . An increase in fees
should be a trifle as compared with increased autonomy—
that every University man should be responsible to and
for his University, that no outsider should intrude.
The shocking impropriety of ordinary policemen
and Judges and newspapers interfering with
University gentlemen when they take too much
to drink, or are alleged to have taken too much of
other people’s money, is a matter which has never
been brought home to this paper so keenly before.
* * # »
N.S.W., Government has remitted the
flogging of 25 lashes to which Judge Docker
arrogantly sentenced an under-14-year-old boy in
defiance of the verdict of a jury. What does the
Government propose doing with this Mr. Docker,
whose attitude towards juries has so long been an
outrage ? If it is the policy of the law to see that
every proven-guilty man is convicted, then Judge
Docker should at once be removed from the bench.
His cruel sentences and contemptuous bearing to
juries are a public danger, inasmuch as when a
juryman has before him the alternatives of com-
mitting perjury for the purpose of extending
ENCOURAGING.
“Had a bite, Gin. erQ" "Nearly.”
mercy or handing the prisoner over to the tender
mercies of Mr. Docker, he often elects to commit
perjury, esteeming it the less offence.
* * • «
Two Sydney University Professors have
had a newspaper controversy on the Boer war.
Prof., Wood (history) protested against the
inhumanity of farm-burning and cbildren-concen-
trating. Prof. Maccallum, an eager little Scotch-
man who professes English very strenuously, had
a poor case in reply, and could only ask Mr.
Wood “What about Boer atrocities? ” instancing
that the Boers shoot burgher scouts whom they
capture— i.e., punish according to all the recog-
nised rules of warfare their own citizens who are
found fighting with the enemy. Mr. Maccallum
deprecates strongly any acceptance as genuine of
the accounts given by cohentingenters of their
fiendish joy in the work of farm-burning. “It is
our national way,” he says, “to describe things
by their opposites.” What a charming way of
dodging all damaging admissions —“it is our
national way to tell—lies ! ”
• * • m
A N.S.W. officer (who wants, evidently, to
tread “Bobs’” Roberts’ path toliis men’s affection),
after recent manoeuvres, put the jam on thus :
“ Lieut. Blank’s determination and skill, &e., &c.
Sergeant Clank’s untiring zeal and energy have
acted, &c., &c.” “ Corporal Flank, R.A.F.A., has
acted with judgment and intelligence.” The pri-
vates have their “soldierly bearing and conduct”
admired, and then: “The untiring co-operation
of Capt. Dash, A.S.C., and of Mr. Bash, A.S.C.,
&c., &c. Sergt. Crash and Corporal Flash have
rendered invaluable service, See., &e. Lieut. Gash
has been indefatigable as, &c., &c. Staff Color-
Sergeant Hash has been most energetic, and has
done, &c., Ac. Sergeant-Major Lash has rendered
excellent service, &c. The camp communication
was particularly satisfactory, &c., &c. Corporal
Mash and Private Nash have been most ze ilous
and attentive. Farrier-Sergeant Wash has been
of considerable assistance. ” Officers and N. C. O. ’s
“will return with a conviction’’ that “our
united thanks are due to G.O.C. N.S.W. forces
for the opportunity he has given us of acquiring a
small insight into our real duties as soldiers.”
They are all thanked, from the General officer
commanding down to the “zealousand attentive”
private and the farrier-sergeant who was of
considerable assistance to the horses. Evidently
some think that the British Empire is like the
Roman Capitol—to be saved by cackling.
* m * m
Mr. Elfric Kearney, tvho wrote the
“straight griffin” to the King, drawing his atten-
tion to the conduct of General Beatson in calling
Australians “ white-livered curs,” told Edward
that Australians were “more free” than English-
men. He was right: more free and easy.
* * * *
Premier See’s idea is that the memorial (to
be erected with borrowed money as a “ permanent
and reproductive work ”) to the N.S.W. men who
fell in S’Africa shall take the form of a building,
where the veterans of the campaign can meet in a
social sort of way. In that case The Bulletin is
of opinion that it should be a portable building so
that it can be wheeled about the country, for that
handful of veterans will be scattered from Albury
to Hungerford and from Broken Hill to the sea,
and a fixed building will be absurdly useless. If
it is to be a fixed building, then, as far as can be
seen, the only way is to give the distant veteran a
free railway pass for life and a permanent
soup ticket, so that he may get to Sydney
occasionally and use the structure. But unless
.the memorial building is furnished, and warmed
in the winter, and supplied with reading matter
and billiards, and there is a bar on the premises,
it is likely to be a deserted place of rats and
mouldy desolation. Nobody can expect the ex-
eon tingenters to meet in an empty hall and sit on
the floor without refreshments, or prop themselves
drearily against the wall to talk about the battle
of Pink Hill. Also, there must needs be a care-
taker to clean up—and surely his wages can’t conic
out of the loan funds as a regular thing ? Like-
wise, how popular will the' place be with the pros-
perous cohentingenter who knows that nine-tenths
of his ex-comrades are dead-beats?—for to begin
as a soldier is the surest way to the poor-house.
He would as soon walk into a liarvesting machine
as into a memorial hall, where everyone will
present a memorial for the loan of half-a-crown.
Trooper Bloxsome, from S’Africa, got a
presentation at Preston, the Melbourne suburb, a
few night ago, and the company sflng “ Soldiers
of the King.” Says Bloxsome :
There is too much made of “ Soldiers of the King.” It
was quite a holiday to me and to many others. The little
time I was over there I saved more money than if 1 had
been working here. I was in far better health than
usual, and the climate was lovely. YVe had a few hard
TO A GENERAL LOVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“ Woman is wine.” YVell, Sybarite,
Agree with me, and choose the best—
One brand, of ruddy hue, or white,
Whichever stands Digestion's test;
Not gourmand’s greed, but gourmet's zest/.
Attend each feast, at morn or night;
Thus active liver, mind at rest,
, Shall minister to your delight.
11 All wine is good,” let sots protest,
Who drink till taste is blunted quite
(So Turks, sense-sated and oppressed,
Dream of young houris, ever bright);
Not gorged content, but appetite,
Gives pleasure, so be that your quest; ,
Variety may charm the sight,
But palates tickled are distressed.
L’Envoi.
Mix not your drinks ; the wise attest •
Their sparkles bring the serpent’s bites:
No harem’s lord is truly blest; —
Woman is wine, my Sybarite.
M.L.
J. LIDDELL KELD[?].


J.D.K.Z. GIN.
♦
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
only —largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, IC‘5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de K'uyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J. D. K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Sydney.
OAFFAN’S SULPHUR LIVER PILLS—I/-
" Cures the Backache in 10 Hours.
RAFFAN’S SULPHUR LIVER PILLS—I/-
Promptly cures Malarial and Rheumatic Conditions.
RAFFAN’S SULPHUR LIVER PILLS—I/-
Is attracting attention for Internal Tumors.
RAFFAN’S SULPHUR LIVER PILLS—I/-
Gives a Freshness and Freedom from Eruptions.
A TONIC LAXATIVE.
RAFFAN, PIIA-RIIACIST, MELBOU'N
g
Before hooking' your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette, and Sailing List with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Ccllins-st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
“ APENTA,”
The Best Purgative Water
For continuous use by tlie Gouty, the Constipated,
and the OBESE,
and
as an occasional Laxative.
SILVER STAR STARCH.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
fKuppers El iberfeld Eager
9
USNESS ; pVER
times certainly, but also a lot of good times. The Aus-
tralians were brave, perhaps, but not more brave than
the Yeomanry of England. The only thingf about the
Australians was that they used to take cover a bit
quicker than the others. (Laugh er.) The members of
Paget’s Horse were all swells, mostly wearing eyeglasses,
but I have seen them walk into the hottest rifle fire with-
out flinching. ( l< You would not see Australians do
that.”) They are foolishly brave. Australians would
not get lost—they were better than the Yeomanry in
that way—hut I have seen Australians gallop from the
firing line back to the camp. I have never seen English-
men do that.
Bulletin doesn’t print this as necessarily the
exact truth. It only prints it for a change.
• » * *
Writes a legal limb on a great social
movement, about which The Bulletin has up to
now been ignorant: —
It is all
very well
starting an
association
to keep soli-
citors from
travelling
in Sydney
trams be-
cause of
their whisky
aromas. But
a Sydney
police- court
solicitor
must treat
his client or
he treated
by him. If
he pulls a
client off,
then the
cli e n t
throws his
arms about
him. If he
fails, he
throws his
arms about
the client,
and while
moistening
tells stories
of the phe-
nome n a 1
stupidities
of the
Ben c h .
Either way,
half-a-bottle
of whisky
isconsumed,
and the pro-
fessional
gentleman
mounts
his tram,
breathing
the strong
breath of
the spiritu-
ous. But if
Sydney soli-
citors are
excluded
from trams,
they would
have to
either take
cabs, which
are too ex-
pensive, or
walk, which
!is imposs-
ible. The
association,
which un-
doubted ly
has a lot to
be said in
its favor,
should agi-
tate, not to
keep Sydney
solic i t o r s
out of the
trams, but to
have special
cars run
for them,
marked
“ Solicitors
Only.”
Q.E.D.
“ Why is victory
always represented
as a woman?”
“My friend, I can
see you are still
a bachelor."
A Melbourne man who went to S’Africa
“on his own,” and served with the Imperial Light
Horse, after waiting months for an indulgence
passage, paid his own fare back and visited Vic.
Treasury for the expected Govt, billet. Not getting
it, he took to hawking fruit, and was promptly
summoned and fined for “ obstructing.” But for a
friend he would (although part of his pay is still
owing to him) have had to go to gaol to reflect
on Imperial gratitude.
* * * *
The effect of woman’s gentle presenoe in
N.S.W. Trades and Labor Council is always very
marked. Some years ago a laundry-women’s
union sent a female delegate to the council.
After some objection, she took her seat. For
weeks the debates were as interesting as those of
N.S.W. Assembly. Threatening language and
invitations to come outside were general, and
amid all the confusion waved the excited “brolly”
of the lady delegate. Then female representation
was abolished for the time, or ruled out of order,
or something, and peace reigned again. With
the arrival of tailoresses this year, the Labor
Council debates have again become picturesque,
and a general free fight has once or twice been
only narrowly averted.
Sydney’s new Pitt and Castlereagh streets
lines, up to time of going to press, hadn’t had any
appreciable effect on the average tram mortality
of the city, but as the trams, so far, only crawl at
a walking pace along those very narrow streets,
there is still an uneasy feeling as to what will
happen when they really “ get going.”
* * * •
N.S.W. Minister O’Sullivan is to be con-
gratulated on his new Sydney railway-tram
system, if its object is to give travellers an
instructive slum-tour. Starting from Red fern
station the tram crawls past the ramshackle
“Paddy’s market,” and, threading its way through
bad vegetables, Chinamen, heaps of potatoes, and
produce vans (with frequent halts) it plunges into
Chinatown. Progress is slow, and trams stop at
almost every building, so the opium-dens,
laundries, pak-a-pu hovels, and houses of ill-fame
of the unsavory Asiatics can be examined at
leisure. After about 20min. dawdle through an
atmosphere full of chaff dust, opium-fumes, fer-
mented cabbages, and Chow cookery, the weary
traveller at last emerges into something like
decent surroundings, and in smin. more he is at
Circular Quay. Strangers coming frQm civilised
lands, where the streets are swept and watered,
and the loud smell isn’t allowed to resound over
the traffic, find this first taste of Sydney very
impressive.
* * * *
The Supfc. of the Sydney Metropolitan
Police lately issued a minute to the force which
complained to this effect:
The Inspector-General has drawn my attention to the
prevalence of gossiping and idling' when on duty.
Gossiping and idling are an everyday occurrence.
I was going along a suburban street, recently,
.when I saw a constable some distance away,
with his elbow on a fence, gossiping with two civilians,
and, when spoken to, his answer appeared to be half
idiotic. Two constables on another occasion were seen
gossiping with a civilian at the entrance to the Victoria
Markets without an eye or an ear for anything that was
passing around them. Two more were at the Royal, and
two in Erskine-st. with their mouths open listening to a
Jewish harp, or some such instrument. The whole of the
eight men (sic) were so absorbed in gossip that I don’t
think it would have been very difficult to have picked
their pockets unknown to them. If I reported all so
offending there would be 20 every month before the
superintendent. Lounging on seats and smoking in
offices is an every-day occurrence.
When this circular was read on parade the men
took it humorously. They allege, in reply, quite
a long list of grievances—overwork, difficulty of
getting fair play at official inquiries, and so on.
That there is something wrong with the N.S.W.
police-force is a matter on which the community
has long since come to a definite conclusion.
* * • *
The Age reports that there have been 10
mishaps—lo ridiculous blunders, any of which
might have led to terrible disaster —on the
Victorian railways in the last two months.
Nearly a third of the Vic. railway staff now con-
sists of “ temporary ” hands —men who haven’t
Eassed the regulation tests and examinations, but
ave been “ temporarily ” inserted by influence! !
And the temporary greenhorn despatches trains
or attends to signals, and shunts locomotives
experimentally on the wrong lines, and runs the
show like the wind that bloweth where it listeth.
It reminds the writer of a thrilling night he once
had with a temporary engineer on a ferry-boat. It
was between wharves, and the real engineer went
round a corner for a minute to look at the
moon. The grimy deck-hand who should have
kept an eye on things in his absence wasn’t about.
And then a happy drunk appointed himself
temporarily to the vacant position, and with an
idiotic laugh went to the engine and started
turning all the handles he could find,
just to see if anything would happen.
The charge of the Scots’ Greys at Waterloo was
nothing to the spectacle of the engineer coming
round the corner with all his might when he found
out what was going on. By that time two men
had seized the drunk, and the rest of the passen-
gers were about to go overboard, and the writer
was getting under a seat, with a deep-rooted objec-
tion to temporary officials which has lasted him
ever since. And in Victoria, where they have
twice recently sent away a train on the wrong
line, they have the temporary complaint very bad
just now.
* • • *
The Salvarmy’s Australasian 1901 self-
denial effort totals £24,350, of which M.L. con-
tributes £7872, N.S.W. £4200, Vic. £4llO, Q.
£2BBO, S. A. £2472, W. A. £1836, and Tas. £650;
yet many of the Army’s country officers can only
exist by systematic cadging or living on the poor
adherents.
At a recent inquiry into a Maoriland Insti-
tute for the Blind, it was stated that the superin-
tendent (himself a blind man) kept a string of
racehorses, and
was an enthusi-
astic follower of
the sport; also
that, when a race
was being run, he
„*ould tell, by the
beat of the hoofs,
which horse was
leading !
A LEGEND OF THE SPIT.—(A Fact)
NEW-ARRIVAL (approaching ticket-collector of
Middle harbor boat): “I sag, does this—
ah—boat, does it stop at the—ah—at the
Expectoration?”
“ Via ” : When Barton and Co. have
settled the Kanaka job they might arrange that
some of the underlings of the Federal P. and T.
Dept, are not obliged to work, say, more than 72
hours per week, especially in the torrid North,
where eight hours a day is enough for any white
man. In one office the daily average for all hands
for this year is 65 hours per week. And this away
up in the tropics.
* * • *
N.S.W. Parliament passed an Inebriates
Act and voted money to carry out its object," and
then forgot all about it. Even members of the s
Ministry are unaware that money was voted.
And incurable drunkards ate Black Maria’d and
gaoled just as of yore.
A SKETCH.—THEIR XMAS-BOX.
One remarkable feature about the big
Oriental Hotel blaze in Wellington (M.L.) was
the number of .terrific high-jumps which were
accomplished with- comparative safety. People,
pressed by the fire, rushed to the nearest windows,
and with wild Shrieks precipitated themselves into
the darkness down heights that are generally
understood to be absolutely fatal—and got off with
sprained ankles, dislocated wrists, and other
minor injuries. So far, it does not seem to have
transpired if the fire-escapes prescribed by law
were in position or not. '
» * . ,'•* *■ *
The work of the Federal Hansard men is
calculated to send them to Yarra Bend.
Starting at 10.30 instead of the
usual 1.30, sitting five days a
week, the men who left .State
Hansards for a rise of £4O
or £5O annually are now sin-
cerely sorry they spoke. During
a recent fortnight there were
two occasions on which the
Reps, sat. continuously for 33
hours!
One of Victoria’s honor-
ary beaks, the other day, in
dealing with a case of “ob-
scene language,” asked : “ Any-
thing known of him?” The
sergeant: “Yes; he was re-
cently sentenced to three
months for assaulting a woman.”
“What will I do with him
now?” “He is liable to
\\ fine or imprisonment.”
“ Will I fine him 10s.?”
The sergeant: “It
is a bad case. He
is liable to £lO or
three months. But
treat him as you
like.” “Oh, Well;
fined £1 or 14
days.” What is theneed of tin's meek magistrate ?
Surely the sergeant could sentence arrestees with-
out any of this formality.
* • * #...■»■ v
Tasmania prides- itself on being very
Hinglish, and nothing can excel its reverence for
the English Established Church. Wesleyans and
Congregationalists are dubbed “Dissenters” in
real ’Ome style, and looked upon as something not
quite genteel, and the principal local colleges
boast “ foundations ” which specify that the head-
master must be a priest of the Anglican Church.
Froude, the historian, was, after appointment to
one Tas. school, summarily sacked because he was
not orthodox enough. It is gloomy, therefore, to
discover, on inside authority, that there is an
“ appalling state of drift” in the Tas. Anglican
Church, and that £lO,OOO has been lost by it in
some mysterious way. The new Bishop will, it
seems, have a tough job to keep the little island’s
most fashionable institution from absolute dis-
aster.
« * * *
Two barristers, three solicitors, and a
Chief Justice were occupied last week in Mel-
bourne with a row concerning three cottages. An
old lady died, leaving one cottage in a rather
humble street to one son, another to a second son,
and a third to two other relatives jointly. And
the legatees, being inflated by this sudden wealth,
took each other to law because the eaves of one
legatee’s cottage overhung another legatee’s land,
and because one of the suddenly-enriched family
disputed another’s claim to the use of a right-of-
way. Probably they didn’t know then how fast
three small cottages can be consumed in legal ex-
penses, though they doubtless know all about it
now.
* • * *
That ancient and terrible N.S.W. poli-
tician, Dr. Ross, has been asking Premier See. in
the Assembly, what was the cause of the recent
hot weather, and whether the sixth plague of the
Egyptians, mentioned in Exodus, was the same as
our recent-bubonic visitation. The spectacle of a
medical man asking a dealer in carrots (not to
mention pigs and onions) for an opinion on a
Strictly medical point is something unusual.
NIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The purple garment torn away
From all her mysteries,
The torment of the burning Day
She flees with dewy eyes.
But when behind the hills the Sun
Hath driv’n his fiery globe,
She binds her glittering girdle on
And spangles o’er her robe.
And ever on her shadowed breast
With some old murmuring strain
Doth grave-eyed Melancholy rest
To soothe the sobs of Pain.
The starry jewels in her hair
Gleam pallid from above ;
Then sleeps the earth and sleeps the air,
VIC.
But softly wakens —Love.
PAGAN.


CLdu/cu/yS chv/eri£&fr»
v
PRICIS
:
>you like Coffee ?
Perfect, Pure,
Fragrant, Exhilarating Oofife
Then Try
T.«H. SMITH'S
Coffee Essence
Winners of the GRAND PRIX against all
other makers at the PARIS EXHIBI-
TION, 1900.
Australian Representatives:
WI FT &. COMPAN
7 Spring: Street,
Sydney
Even Melb. Age isn’t watchful enough to
keep all the truth about the war out of its frenzied
pages. Its wool-market correspondent (who also
writes for Sydney D.T.), predicting a still further
slump in the value of fleeces, explains that
Australians don’t seem to realise, as they in Eng-
land can’t help doing, the awfulness of “the mess
and muddle” in South Africa. When one comes
to think over it, this is pretty rough on the Age,
seeing that upon it so many thousands of
Australians depend for the information which
they don’t get.
The secret history of the squabble between
the pretty Queen of Holland and her fiery German
spouse has leaked out. Wilhelmina, so it is
whispered, discounted the sweet contour of her
figure by discarding her P.D.’s for a pair of
Dutch-built corsets. The awful deterioration in
Her Majesty’s outline drove the Prince Consort to
drink. Seemingly, however, he was brought back
to an abject state of adoration by “Willie”
resuming her P.D. figure. In thus emphasising
its power—what shall we say ?—power around the
Throne, the P.D. has scored one of its greatest
triumphs.*
INTERSTATE VISITORS and OTHERS.
J. IVTCLUSKY
(of ADELAIDE),
Has REBUILT the ROYAL EXCHANGE, SYDNEY,
Corner of George and King Streets,
with Bars and Dining; Rooms thoroughly
up to date.
A WOMAN’S LETTER,
Sydney, December 24, 190 i.
My Dear Arini, —
Hobart or the Mountains are taking our prin-
cipal people. W.A. is giving the Gov.-General
a hot welcome; our city is full Of children and
bundles of Xmas tree and Xmas bells; a few
lovers have said carpe diem, and got married. Mr.
Pitcher, eldest son of the K.C., wedded Miss May
Maxwell the other day. An adopted son of Con-
sul Boeson has just married a daughter of Dr.
Knaggs ; the breakfast was at the Australia.
Miss Alice Hollander’s concert was not crowded.
The last Saturday before Xmas is a bad night for
a concert. People who aren’t out of town are
tired out buying Xmas-cards or attending speech-
days. With two exceptions the performers were
pupils of Mr. Bethune. Miss Hollander’s fine con-
tralto was hpard in seven numbers. Miss Hilda
Lane followed up her success of a few weeks
ago, and a new warbler, Miss Edith Roberts,
a very refined artistic singer, contributed two
songs. She is a daughter of Lieut.-Col.
Roberts and her family regiment was fully repre-
sented. It was a well-dressed concert as to per-
formers. Miss Hollander wore white chiffon,
with narrow satin ribbon vandyked all over it and
frills at foot. Miss Roberts’ frock was of low-
necked white satin, with a group of cordings on
the lower part of the skirt. At the piano was Mr.
Sykes ;at the organ Miss Bryant. Miss Hollan-
der starts her Maoriland tour immediately.
Sydney Liedertafel’s fifth grand concert of this
season filled the Town Hall last week with a great
audience consisting chiefly of whitely, lightly-
clad, home-frtr-the-vacation girls and their cha-
perones. What little energy the hot day had left
it, the audience expended in fanning itself. I
don’t carry a fan myself, my neighbor’s zephyrs
are good enougli for me, but my remnant of energy
went sooner than theirs because of a quotation
from Berlioz which headed the programme :
“Music is essentially aristocratic ; it is a daughter
of a noble race such as princes,only can dower now-
adays ; it must be able to live poor and unmated
rather than form a mesalliance.” It sounds fine,
but start to worry out its meaning and you’ll find
it reminiscent of Chinese metaphysics. A page or
two further on someone else is quoted to the effect
that music is not a human creation. One thing
that I do admire about the true music-lover is that
he is not irreverent. Even if he’s an unpractical
R.C., or a wicked Primitive Methodist, or a
Anythingarian who has tried all things and held
fast to those which are bad, his music is a sub-
religion on which he never goes back.
But the programme’s the thing. The orchestra
overture, “ Ruy Bias,” was followed by the part
song, “Far Above the Stars,” sung by all the
Liedertafel lungs. The audience was apathetic
till Mr. Bentley, .the new Brigade bandmaster,
clarionetted variatioris on the drinking song, “ In
Cellar Cool.” On a close night, following a hot
day, which sounds more blessed—“ Mesopotamia”
or “ In Cellar Cool ” ? The player showed mastery
of his instrument and appreciation of his theme.
“ Annie Laurie,” as sung by the phalanx of
Liedertafelers, lost some of her Scotch winsome-
ness. Mr. Alfred Hill had draped her in fresh,
gorgeous harmony of his own composition, and she
did poses plastiques, but every now and then, as in
lightning change, he let the old Annie Laurie,
whom everyone loves look at us out of her own
“ dark blue e6n.”
Mr. Rivers Allpress in Sarasate’s. Spanish
Dances, and Mr. Truman playing with the orches-
tra the last two movements of his Piano Concerto
in B flat, and Mr. Alfred Hill’s setting for chorus
and orchestra of Coleridge’s “ Piccolomini ”
proved victorious, happy, and glorious in a
musicianly sense. Miss Evelyn Selig, a young
pupil of the departed Steffani, made her first
appearance in Sydney, and got a great reception,
especially from the at-home-for-the-holiday dam-
sels. Miss Evelyn has a voice that promises many
things—brilliancy and range, for instance—but,
like a lot of other larks, she has started a-soaring
too early in the day (or the years).
Miss Nellie who was in better voice than
at her own farewell concert a few weeks ago, sang
Tosti’s “Good-bye” with such feeling as to make
the audience unhappy, but it wanted more of that
kind of unhappiness, and encored her wildly.
Mr. baritone Sussmileh (why doesn’t he Anglicise
his name ?), Miss Liggins, and Miss Matheson
helped to make a Success of this last concert of the
season.
If Miss Maud Gelinski, who is a really clever
pianiste and a nice - looking girl, had had pro-
fessional, stage ,and business management for her
“Arcadian Nights” they might have been a
financial success. The majority of the performers in
her programme were very good in tlreir respective
lines. Miss Celinski’s contributions were the
Tennysonian poem, “The Dying Swan, ” music by
G. P. Moore (the fantasy is supposed to describe
the passage down a river of a dying swan “ who
is singing his death hymn, which rises and falls,
and rises again, until it becomes like the
sound of a mighty people rejoicing, whose
tumult is heard far away by the shepherd
who watches the evening star”), the “Grand
Polonaise Brilliante” (Chopin) and Greig’s “Nor-
wegian Bridal.” But the item that got most
favor frotn the audience was a swing-song, “ Love
Me as I Love Thee,” a composition by the pianiste
herself, and sung by Miss Florence Mack. , It is a
dainty lullabyish trifle, and was prettily inter-
preted by the little soprano in white book muslin,
but its illustration (in the second verse); a back-
ground of hammock, girl, and loye-struek man,
was absurd, and distracted the audience’s atten-
tion. A comedietta in one act was played by M iss
Ada Clyde, Messrs. Melville, Archer, and Roger
son. The best and most coherent line in it is
spoken by a policeman, who finds the hero firing
off a revolver (just to empty the chafnbers and
tnghten a lady), and accuses him in an Irish
brogue of “ committing suicide a couple of times.”
lwo clever little pupils of Miss Rose Lyons
danced a ballet. The Spanish Castagnette, as
arranged by Miss Freda Greenklee, was a pretty
The band of the 2nd Regiment played
and Mr. E. J. Massey conducted.
According to advt. the theatre was to be ren-
dered fragrant by perfumes, and the electric fans,
lately put into position at tne Palace, were
charged with the office of perfume-spraying.
Presently a man got up, sought the management,
and complained that his dress-suit had been spoilt
by oil from that machinery.” He didn’t smell
any white rose or Rhine violet. Concerning these
u ns j , n< i a o rou P of ladies remarked, when
she felt the blast of wind, “O, what a southerly
buster has got up! ” and she covered her head
with her wrap and wondered why the door-keeper
didn t close the doors to “ keep out all that wind
and dust.”
Piguenit’s “Thunderstorm on the Darling,”
which was exhibited at N.S.W. Society of Artists
last show, has been awarded the Wynne prize by
the National Gallery trustees. This prize (it does
not amount to much —the interest on £lOO0 —per-
haps about £3O) is supposed to be awarded for the
best landscape of the year or the best piece of
statuary. No carving has yet drawn the wealth.
It was awarded to Lambert’s “Across the
“ Blacksoil Plains,” but the trustees bought that.
Up to date they have not secured Piguenit’s
“Thunderstorm”—but then, perhaps, they con-
sider that Mr. Piguenit is already amply repre-
sented in the National collection. This canvas,
by the way, was a great favorite with many. It
conveys well the idea of brooding stillness the
moment before the storm breaks. Smoke from a
cottage chimney rises quite perpendicularly, the
trees are stirless, a mass of leaden cloud heightens
the glow of the stormy sunset. Men and teams
are in the foreground.
Talking of pictures, Minister for Works
O’Sullivan has been leading Mr. Thaddeus, the
English painter, about the Rocks, and pointing
out the parts he wished to have painted. Most
of the very picturesque bits are “resumed or im-
proved ” out of existence, but Julian Ashton and
Sid. Long, or F. Leist have them on canvas. Mr.
Thaddeus seems to have “ warmly approved ” of
anything the Minister showed him. R.C. society
has chased the artist all during his visit. It
has combed his mane out, cut off his tail, and
showed him the G.P.O. carvings, and taken him a
trip round the harbor with Mr. Dan. O’Connor.
A grand review of infants, ranginer in age from
10 months to 10 years, took place one morning last
week at the Palace Theatre. Manager Geacli
warn ted an infant-in-arms and a score or so of older
children for “ Hans the Boatman,” and he was
offered a full six hundred. Such pretty, healthy,
well-dressed kiddies escorted by well-to-do-looking
mothers. They swarmed all over the stage, the
auditorium, and through the long, narrow alley
between Tattersall’s and the theatre. They be-
sieged the selector until he felt like the Bishop
in his mouse tower on the Rhine, and when
finally he fled upstairs into the Chubb safe or
some other secure place, over five hundred mothers
echoed what one lifted up her voice to say, “ Call.
him a jedge ? Ugh ! I wouldn’t trus’ him to jedge
kittens!” The engaged children get 12s. fid. a
week, which isn’t poor pay for swarming about
with a big dog and going round on a painted sea
iff a painted boat. The engaged baby-in-arms has
an understudy, so, if he strolls into bars seeking
paregoric when his cue is being called, he will be
supplanted. Lord Barry, the big Newfoundland
irt the piece, comes from Melbourne, and gets, a
salary of £5 per week. Now, isn’t that good for
one who hasn’t even to buy his own coat and can’t
have a banking account ? The man who valets
Lord Barry draws the salary on behalf of the
actor-dog.
At a recent (feminine) deputation to N.S.W.
Public Service Board to request that equal
opportunities, equal pay, and equal punish-
ment should be given to male and female em-
ployees, it was .urged that the male civil servant
could get drunk without anything very serious
happening to him officially, and this privilege was
denied the female civil servant. The Board, as an
indication that the right of Miss Lizzie Barnacle
to get drunk was respected, stated that one female
civil servant had come to the office with vine-leaves
in her pretty hair more than once, and hail only
been cautioned. Then the deputation dropped on
to another point: the male civil servant occasion-
ally went off from Saturday to Monday “ with
somebody,” and yet was not punished. The Board
could give no satisfactory pledge that the lady
civil servant who went off on a little trip “with
somebody ” would suffer no corisequences;
probably, when a specific instance arises, public
policy on this point will be disclosed. Meanwhile,
revolting women had better not be too revolting.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent: -
“Her Majesty’s was packed on Wednesday
(Dec. 18th), thanks to Pagliacci’s farewell, plus’
the first theatrical appearance of the new guber-
natorial company. The vice-regal turn, so to
speak, proved a mild sensation ; trim Pa, gracious
Ma, crisp daughter, arid boyish aide sat in a row,
trying not to flinch under the popular glare,
while the second line of seats, provided by the
management for suite accommodation, lacked even
the ghost of an occupant.
“Governor Clarke himself seems a pleasant
patriarch, not unlike ex-Gov. Hampden, stiffened
up with military starch. The average British
army man, underneath official haw-haw and
buckram, is a tame, trite mediocrity. Gallant
Clarke will probably swim along smoothly
enough in his present billet, though lie may
splutter and splash at times, thanks to the
military tendency to strain at gnats and swallow
camels. The new Governor’s wife is the flower
of the flock, and also, I guess, the Captain of the
Grate. Talk about Manner! At the opera, t’other
night, Miss Clarke left the box first, but, bethink-
ing herself of pa’s position, waited to let the old
folks lead the way. As Mamma passed her duti-
ful child, she dropped a Court courtesy and smiled
her sweetest in recognition of Missie’s attitude.
Local parents please note. Honor your son and
your daughter, and then if Young Australia does
turn out crude and chippy it won’t be your fault.
The new Governor’s daughter isn’t exactly beauti-
ful. She has dad’s pert nose and ma’s brown skin,
without the latter’s decorative dark eyes and
snowy ljair. All the same, she’s a bright, alert-
looking lass, and at the opera showed spruce in
black with a silvery aigrette in her top-knotted
hair.
“Grace Palotta, in simple white, with her hair
carelessly coiled on her neck, heard ‘ Pagliacci ’
from the manager’s box, where she had brief visits
from various male somebodies, who pronounce
her ‘a grand girl’ and ‘ a thorough brick.’ The
Cliveden dowager, in pearl brocade and diamonds,
brought along a hen-party—deaconesses, district
nurses, or such, they looked like. ‘Cavalleria’
and ‘Pagliacci’ are acceptable fare to the unco
guid. Flirts get the worst of it in both cases, you
see, and it’s always edifying to behold sinners in
the stocks, or pricked with something sharper
than remorse in the shape of a husband’s stiletto.
Prof, and Mrs. Peterson brought their kiddies to
cultivate musical tastes betimes.
“Farewell night of the Italian Opera Co.
bubbled over with enthusiasm. In the manager’s
box, Nellie Stewart and George Musgrove looked
a quiet, taciturn couple. Nellie’s beautiful figure
clouded none of its curves with conventional trap-
pings. Her white satin robe had the effect of a
clinging, classic swathe, while a chaplet of small
white roses, with long, white streamers at the
back, filleted her golden head. I thought her
appearance decidedly decorative, suggesting a
woodland nymph of old Greece ; but most people
found it too sensational, and on all sides one heard
feminine critics accuse the returned wanderer of
‘wriggling in her clothes,’ and compare her un-
favorably with Grace Palotta, who, quietly
gowned in black, with deep lace collar falling back
from her shapely shoulders, sat with a hen-party
in the box opposite.
“George Musgrove, looking younger and more
dapper than last time he came, apparently shares
with Henry Brac.y the secret of perennially sleek
dark hair, and only sneaks on a pince-nez for a
second or two when he wants to scan his pro-
gramme. Other faithful patrons were Kenning-
ham, solemnly escorting a lady ; the Hugh Wards
seated side by side in sedate domestic tableau ;
Stannis Leslie passing caramels to surrounding
contingent of chorus* belles ; and Tfebelli,
her'chubby brown face topped by blend of dia-
monds and roses, looking far more foreign and
quaint than when facing an audience with staid,
sweet smile, and rippling parted hair. Carrie
Moore did the opera, tot), her dark, Jappy coiffure
sprinkled with pink roses, and her mother in at-
tendance to see that no one trifled with her
youngster’s affections again.
“Theatrical women are tigers for propriety—
in their way—and the wandering ewe-lambs of
the flock feel frost in their bones so long as mar-
ried actors’ wives are in the vicinity.
“Dani got the farewell that night. He was
dragged on, in shabby tweeds, a Torn-and-Dick
hat in his hand, a dark shade on his chin, and a
slight tobacco tint bn his teeth. Marcomini was
hustled from her 'dressing-room iff manifest bad
temper, and nearly whisked Bozzoli’s head off for
bringing her. Giuess she thought that people
should have shown their appreciation sooner.
Dear little Vaccari patted Marcomini’s hand
soothingly, so did good-natured, cordial Bene-
detto, who might just as well have grumbled on
her own account. All the Italians looked shy, but
bowed smilingly ; one of the few Britishers on
hand turned glum because his arm was gripped
too hard, and looked sulky.
“ A certain robust tenor—the story goes—is
such a fierce and violent stage-lover that some of
the ladies of the company complained to the
manager of his roughness. I wonder what is said,
on the other hand, of the honeyed tenor who can-
not be cajoled into a legitimate stage caress or
even a close hug. There are extremes, if you
like !
“Followers of ‘Fedora’ were sadly distracted
at the sweet Signora Bassich’s impassioned arm-
flingings and her warm embraces of Dani, while
that, gentle lover writhed under her sweeping
gestures, and had all his work cut out to collect
and brush back his thick fringe every time the
fair hand roughly tossed it, and to curl up his
careful mo. scrolls into.the conventional twists
every time she thrust them awry.
“The neatest thing in petticoat-shedding
Womankind ever was treated to in Grand Opera,
occurred the other night, during one of Bassieh
and Dani’s (mostly Bassich’s) fierce gusts of mock
passion. Both were seated at the time, a chair
between them, when the Signorina detected the
rigging of her white petticoat, and reckoned the
fallto be inevitable. So, as Dani sang his melodious
song of revenge and murder, and Bassich’s face
twitched violently with the effect of it, her nimble
foot was working her petticoat down over her-
limbs. At last, when the supreme moment came,
and site had to rise to a staggering top G, her foot
disentangled the lace bundle, her other foot freed
itself, and in another instant the situation was
saved, Bassieh thrilling forth a rapturous passage
of love, while the guilty petticoat lay far off in
the kindly shadow of an arm-chair.
“Signorina Bassieh leaves Melbourne as first
favorite. She received the bulk of the cheers and
floral offerings. Signora Sapio scored by her mad-
scene in ‘ Lucia,’ and inspired her admirers
anew, for Sapio’s fame had been somewhat on the
wane here, These two received the cheers, arm-
in-arm, in chummy fashion. The laughing
Vaccari kept up her merry countenance to the
last, and was the happiest of the farewelled.
There was little enthusiasm shown by these
foreign birds. Bozzoli and Larizza evinced the
most animated signs of appreciation—principally
directed towards Grace Palotta’s box. The rest
were very wooden.
“Up at a Spring-street hostelry two stars of
very different .firmaments seem to have an attrac-
tion for one another—Mdlle. Dolores and Peggy
Pryde. An interesting study in contrasts. The
artiste who sings so divinely is mild, placid, most
serene and soft of feature, while the hoarse-voiced
variety star is fussy, funny, and Peggy all the
time. Their conversation seems the oddest of
duets. Dolores speaks kindly and quietly —one
wants to hug her, while Peggy chuckles a lot,
rasps away monotonously, and talks for the whole
room-full of men, women, and waiters to hear.
Yet Dolores calls her ‘ Dear ’ and eyes her fondly.
And Dolores has seen the world in many countries.
“ Two smart Melbourne girls were married last
week in great style. One was Miss Bertha Pratt,
daughter of the State politician who is mixed up
in a dozen financial concerns ; her bridegroom being
Mr. Lindsay Inglis, who returned from the war a
year ago to manage an estate in Gippsland. The
matrimonial cement was applied by the Collins-st.
Baptist cleric, in the bride’s E. Melb. home, which
was elaborately got up for the occasion. White
prevailed throughout. The bride was a sparkling
vision of satin, lace and chiffon. A feature of
her particularly smart frock was its expensive
drapings of honiton lace. Another novelty was a
chiffon train—the flimsy material being fluted
and used in profuse quantities to arrive at a hand-
some effect. The chief bridesmaid, Miss Winnie
Pratt, could give a lesson in deportment to many
a Lady Holyrood of the stage. She has a lithe
figure and a splendid swing that is half American
and half French. A daughter of Dr. Springthorpe
was another attendant—a pretty young thing with
24-carat locks. The bridegroom is a brother of
the late Mrs. Springthorpe. The staging of this
wedding in a house deprived all Melbourne’s
smart girls of a rare sight. It was really too fine
to be limited to a private stage.
“The other bride was Miss Clara Jennet, a
fair, fluffy girl with prominent blue eyes. She is a
daughter of the late C. J. Jenner, M.L.C., and,
being related to the Sargoods, had the glory of
being married in the ball-room of ‘ Rippon Lea.’
The lucky man (one always presumes the bride-
groom’s luck) is Dr. F. Hobill Cole, whom an
elder sister of the bride had left a widower a few
years ago. The matter of marrying a deceased
wife’s sister has again been gnawed at like a hun-
gry man’s bone, but nothing results from such a
worrysome proceeding. Many fiftd it a good
thing that two or three mitherless bairns should
have for a stepmother an affectionate aunt.
“ The story leaks out from a private channel of
a Melbourne dame meeting, on the Blue Moun-
tains, while on her second honeymoon a month
ago, the partner of her first honey trip from whom
divorce had parted her. The gentleman was
doing the azure heights with two bachelor friends
when he came across his lately beloved partner
sentimentalising with her brand-new hubby.
“ Melbourne smart circles are discussing three
engagements, in all of which Sydney men areirn-
£ Heated. One is that of Miss Winnie Pratt to Mr.
eonard Higgs, a tall, slim tea-taster; another is
Miss Nellie James, of St. Kilda-road, to Mr. Jack
Fagan, a bronzed squatter; and the third—-well,
Melbourne ‘ smart ’ society isn’t very smart, for
it’s marrying a nice N.S.W. country girl to a
Sydneyite who happens to be separated from his
wife, and is the victim of a delusion.
“A romantic affair is just nowthe talkof Totffak.
A Collins-st. doctor, long since gathered to his
fathers, was successful in curing a wealthy old
spinster of some painful malady, and her grati-
tude, which started with her convalescence, has
continued through many years of good health. It
has shed its beams on the doctor’s family, for
whom the old lady entertains affectionate regards.
The other day her healthy sentiment took tangible
form, and she presented the son of her late
benefactor with a large sum of money for
a tour round the world. She also provided
for a valet, and later on added to her generosity
by supplementing the sum in order that his sister
also might have the trip. So the pair, with a
servant, set off and do a globe-trot of a delightful
kind.
'“Frances Tyrell Grill, who has had several of
her songs set to music for immediate publication,
breaks a long silence with a letter from London,
full of sweet things about old acquaintances.
Frances is evidently the same wild enthusiast as
of yore. She writes: ‘Last night, at the great
annual concert of the Gaelic Society, at the
Queen’s Hall, our own Maggie Stirling brought
the crowded house down with her singing of
‘Bonnie Prince Charlie.’ She had the same
success at the recent Scottish Concert at Man-
chester, where Bishop and Mrs. Moorhouse gave
her a great basket of flowers in token, they
said, of their affection for Melbourne. To-
day she is at Leamington for a concert,
and engagements are pouring in fast
which, no doubt, means trickling in encourag-
ingly— ‘upon Miss Stirling. Her hour of public
success is just beginning. Marchesi has given her
the finish without spoiling the sympathy of voice
we all liked in her. Ada Crossley’s recital at St.
James’ Hall on 12th Nov. was an artistic triumph.
She sang in four languages, &c. Percy Grainger
still retains some of the old Bulletin likeness.
He has freedom and power.’ But not a word
about any of the girls who went from Melbourne
to make their fortunes within the past two or
three years. It doesn’t seeir. long since the
Melb. suburban Austral Salon gave a certain
young lady a send-off to the Big Smoke, but she
is already back at her home.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


There is one place in Sydney where the
business of money-lending is carried on ; in an
equitable manner and where those in need of
financial accommodation can rely on being
decently treated. The sensible man who wishes
to get rid of his monetary worries at a minimum
of cost and trouble to himself goes to the offices of
the Australian Equitable Investment Co., Ltd.
The co. has a large capital for'investment at low
interest, and is always open to advance money on
risks which the banks would decline; and acts
generally as a medium between the banks and
ordinary money-lenders. Men in business can
obtain assistance for their venture at a figure
which will leave them a fair profit for themselves.
The co. advances money to ahy extent on deeds of
land, bond warrants, merchandise, stock in trade,
scrip, interestsunder wills, furniture and all classes
of security. Press notices which have been pub-
lished from time to time express , the favorable
opinion which generally exists regarding the co.
Mr. J. E. O’Brien is the Managing Director, and
the co.’s offices are at 45 Elizabeth-street, between
King and Hunter-streets.*
m
BULLETIN SUBSCRIBERS-^-
Who are unable to read small printed matter, or to see fine
stitching or writing, whose distant vision is dull and who suffer
from persistent headaches or pains after close application— you
may rest assured that you are suffering from Ageing or
X Impaired Vision, and Need Glasses. You should visit
us, and have your sight scientifically tested, and be supplied
with Glasses adapted to your individual case.
TO COUNTRY READERS who cannot visit us personally, we send, Post Free to any address, with full instruc-
tions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT. By its use
you can Test your own sight and determine for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you may need.,
Write for it to —
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Consulting Optician,
371 George St., Sydney,
next door to the A. J.S. Bank.
King and George Streets.
And at 232 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, opposite Age Office.
FACILE PRINCE PS,
SEMPER IDEM
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
Lightest Wines in Australia
Supplied to H.R.H. the Duke of York.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
A bankruptcy notice demanding payment
of £652 has been served on Premier Leake, of
Westralia. Politics don’t pay—at least, honest
men can’t make them pay.
In Auckland, M.L., the brewers are all
Jews; in Wellington, they are R.C’s. Holders of
tied houses say that they fare just as well under
one lot as under the other.
Knight Matthew Harris, when he lost the
g>st of Mayor of Sydney, proposed to go abroad.
night James Graham, his successor, when
similarly rejected, actually goes abroad. A note
of character in each.
One prominent titled Australian has an
anti-education fad. His children, now full grown,
are innocent of even the education an artisan gives
his son. One has unusually high natural ability
as an artist, which makes her acquaintances curse
the “ no-education ” fad all the more bitterly.
When the M’Culloch Ministry (Vic.) was
formed, in ’O3, Yerdon was the youngest member,
and Archibald Michie was the senior of the lot by
10 years. Yet Michie survived all his colleagues,
dying two years ago. A man of spare form and a
light eate*, he took a calmly philosophical view of
things.
Vie. Lands Minister Duggan, excusing the
appointment of a very subordinate civil servant
as Assistant-Conservator of Forests, assured the
House that the man’s present low wage was no
criterion of his worth. “Why,” cried Ah
Duggan/ “ I myself once worked for a Chinaman
for 2s. a day. ”
Police Magistrate Caswell (N.S.W.), who
adjudicated on the Hordern cattle-cases, is almost
the oldest, if not the oldest, magistrate in the
State. His appointment dates from before
Responsible Government, and, being an Imperial
one, is not affected by the local Civil Service age-
limit regulation.
A well-gilded N. S. Wales Civil Service
pensioner was defendant recently in a Supreme
Court action in connection with an assault over a
game of dominoes. He paid 40s. into Court as
sufficient compensation. Had it been an old-age
pensioner his pension would have been stopped
for at least three months, if not for good.
“ Ex-M.L. A.”: Be Bulletin par 16/1 l/’Ol,
concerning David Buchanan, now more or less in
Heaven. He divided the House
in ’B4 on the question of Pro-
tection, the “ayes”
being but three—
himself, Ninian
Melville (also
dead), and
the present
writer.'
The ...
“ noes ”
roared
with
laughter
at the re-
sult—Bar-
ton, Lyne,
Dibbs, and
others
leading in
the cacchi-
nation
Davy
glowered
for a
space, and
then
scornfully
shouted,
“Ah, ye
may
laugh, ye
fules, but before long ye’ll be glad to
be sitting here wi’ a majority. ” In
less than five years, a Protection-
ist Ministry, with the above-
mentioned trio in it, was in
power.
Somebody writes to
sav that the late Baron
von Mueller must have
been grieved in spirit
by “all the fuss and
fluster” at the re-
cent unveiling of a
monument to his
memory in St. Kilda
(Melb.) cemetery.
Somebody doesn’t know
what he is talking about.
Ferdinand von Mueller, the
man, was an unassuming old
toiler with a woollen wrap
around his neck in all weathers.
But Baron von M., the botanist,
delighted to find his science honored through
himself. He was proud of his title, his medals,
his letters of recognition, and everything that
came to him in his official character. No memorial
could have been too costly nor any unveiling
ceremony too ceremonious for the Baron, whose
soul was in his life’s work.
When Cardinal Moran first came to Aus-
tralia he was a strenuous teetotaller. But he
somehow soon ceased to utter any conspicuously
aggressive remarks about the- accursed drink, and
now he is reluctantly compelled to take a little
wine himself on occasions, for his stomach’s sake.
Seeing how few of his flock sell tea, the Cardinal’s
reformation has proved very popular.
Premier See was correct in saying, some
days ago, that he had not received any communi-
cation respecting the new N.S.W. State Governor.
It is understood, however, that Chief Justice
Darley was pumped by official circles in England
in particular directions. As Lieut.-Governor, he
was no doubt able to give valuable information,
but the proceeding is at least irregular.
Buller’s message to the Ladysmith garrison
was (on the authority of London Expess) :
I have failed ; not able to try again without siege opera-
tions, taking a month. Can you hold out so long V If
not, I suggest your firing away as much ammunition as
possible, finally making the best terms. If you have any
other alternative to suggest, I can remain where I am as
long as you like.
A Bulletin correspondent:—
Met in London, Hyland, inventor of an Australian
magazine-rifle, which has just been publicly tried, and is
claimed to surpass the Lee-Enfield for rapid-firing, sim-
plicity of construction and safety. Hyland, who was born
at St. Kilrla 26 years ago, says he has a notion for firing
liquid nitro-glycerine from a 6-in. rifled gun, and is
certain nothing would happen to the gun.
Andrew Clarke, G.C.M.G., now Crawler-
in-Chief to English royalty on behalf of Austra-
lian toadies, was once upon a time almost as much
a Republican as George Dibbs in his prime. That
was in the days of the agitation for Representa-
tive Government. Old a'ge, with its mental
weakening and its title, kills the radical spirit in
most.
Obit.: At Brisbane (Q.), George Pinnock,
solicitor, late of Bathurst, where he had practised
for over 50 years. Mr. Pinnock was admitted a
N.S.W. attorney in July, 1849, and has left behind
but four of the “forties” : A. H. M‘Culloch (’44),
John Dawson (’46), W. Russell (’46), Hon. James
Norton (’4B), with Mr. W. De ne (’52) and Hon.
Wm. Walker, M.L.C. (’52), as runners-up.
At the presentation of the “ Australian ”
sword-of-honor to Baden Powell, N.S.W. Agent-
General Copeland got the only laugh of the after-
noeC When he handed over the sword, with the
remark, “ I don’t expect you’ll want to hit any-
body with this, but if you do, you’ll have to get
it sharpened ”; he ran his thumb along the edge,
to show it wasn’t sharp—and cut it to the bone.
John Cockburn, ex-Agent-General for
S. Australia, says he has modified his extreme .
views since he secured a title. He boasts that he
is of such open mind that he “can convince him-
self of anything in ten minutes.” Yet S.A.
accepted this man as a Democrat. He was an
anti-smoking crank in Adelaide—in London he
walks Bishopgate-street recklessly puffing a
cigarette.
Obit. : Alfred Wyatt (Vic.), aged 83. In
the late ’so’s he was sub-editor of London Spec-
tator. Emigrated to Victoria about ’6l, prac-
tised as a barrister at Melbourne Bar, and was for
some years law reporter for the Argus. Wyatt
A PUSHING BOY.
LADY: “ Have you any tinned fish?”
B OY: “No, mum! we're just out of it; hut ive
have some lovely tinned tacks.”
and Webb’s reports are still quoted in the law-
courts. For a quarter of a century Wyatt was a
P.M. and Acting-County Court Judge. He was
a well-known figure in the old Yorick Club, where
he was a great authority on whist.
F. H. Snow, who engineers the big
Adelaide street-tramway reach-out, began as a
patent agent in the holy city, but latterly has
developed into Australian representative of some
big European metal-buying and other interests.
He stands solid with the churches —and that
counts for a lot in S. Aus. ; in fact, it is said that,
just as the average Vic. Premier takes his time
from D. Syme, so the present S.A. Premier waits
to see how the Methodist cat jumps.
The most persistent and the ablest oppo-
nent of the impudent Adelaide Tramway
grab has been Cornelius Proud, a well-tp-
THE THRIFT TAINT.
FRIEND (to poet, who is carrying tivo copies of
his latest volume): “But why two copies?”
Poet (with dignity): “I always keep duplicates
of everything—even socks.”
do broker. Proud stood against Dixon,
the wealthy tobacco manufacturer and sponsor
for Snow, in the contest for N. Adelaide,
and was beaten, but pluckily stuck to the fight to
the end. Proud, who spent a large sum of money
in the endeavor to defeat the Snow grab, was at
one time leader of S.A. Register literary staff.
Rudyard Kipling has been run against a
good deal by the homogeneous crowd of men who
are off to God-only-knows-where in the Antarctic
ship Discovery, and, each and severally, those
who have travelled with him confirm the gradually
growing opinion that the little man is a very
objectionable person. For some years past, when
Kip. gets on a ship, he has wanted a bit of the
deck-space reserved for his own family’s chairs,
together with special attention over ordinary pas-
sengers in other ways. Men admire many of his
rhymes, even after they have met him, but they
feel sorry they ever did meet him, and speak of
the “side” he puts on with an approach to loath-
ing.
Nauseous Premier Peacock assured new
Governor Clarke at his first meeting that his name
was.well known in Victoria, and that the work he
had done for the Empire, both in the Egyptian
campaign, and as a writer on literary subjects was
cordially recognised there. “I am surprised to
hear that,” said Clarke with the air of a man who
has been credited with building the Pyramids.
And nobody laughed, but all hands looked deeply
acquainted with Mr. Clarke’s book of poems, and
his abstruse work in 20 vols. on the military
navigation of the Saskatchewan River. Of
course, the solemn fact is that before Gov
Clarke’s appointment not a living soul here had
ever heard of him.
Mr. Wm. Crooke, M.R.C.S., who lately
died in Melbourne, aged 84, was in practice until
a few weeks before his decease. He emigrated
from England, in the forties, to Tasmania, where
he was for a time a member of the Leg. Assembly,
and medical partner of the late Lance Lenton’s
father. In the fifties he crossed over to Victoria,
and remained there for 45 years. When the financial
depression occurred, he, after losing his all, re-
moved to W. A., and during the last two years he
practised in Sydney—where the bowed, broad
figure and Wellingtonian countenance of the brave
old man who tramped round with a cavalry cape
over his shoulders were notable and familiar.
Deceased was surgeon-major in the old Vic.
volunteer force, and held the long-service medal.
The stories of the three “mutineers” of
the Vic. Fifth Contingent remind one of Bill
Adams at the Battle of Waterloo. The pair of
troopers and the full private refer to General
Beatson as a person who was always hovering
around them, and making beastly personal re-
marks. Said one of them : “We were treated so
badly. Beatson, long before he called us ‘ white-
livered curs,’ said he wished we were all shot. He
wouldn’t let us open on the Boers. He is too
busy making money.” Evidently this warrior
and his two mates were on Bill Adams’s terms of
intimate animosity, rather than friendship, with
the boss commanding officah. The narrative of
the trooper aforesaid runs on something after
this style: “One day we had got Jack
Hinton, the train-wrecker, and a lot of
blanky Boers fairly at our mercy. Me and
my mates had fairly surrounded ’em. So I says to
Beatson, says I, ‘ Now’s our time for a big haul,
Beatty. Give the word and we’ll go through ’em
like rotten cheese.’ But Beatt. wasn’t on. ‘ Re-
tire,' says he, ‘you ain’t got a possible against
them Boers.’ ‘D’ye mean to tell me I can’t kill,
wound and capture the whole blanky enemy ?’
says I. ‘Don’t stand arguing, but just obey
orders and retire,’ says the Gen. as arrogant as
you like. So we retires, and I puts the question
straight to the other blokes—‘ls it good enough
to shed your blud for a dawg as don’t want to
Advance Australia ?’ And that’s how I come to
be put under arrest.”
A stern, livid-looking man, well-
known in Sydney, where he was most cruelly
treated by the ac. orities, was arrested in an
Australian metropolis, the other day, for being
under the influence of drink and'things. When
he appeared before the Bench next day, he
wore his habitual complexion and abstracted air,
and stood like a lost soul whilst the court
discussed his state of mind. “ What is
your occupation ? ” said the Bench. The
prisoner looked more thoughtful, and then
ticked off the items on his fingers. “I
am.” he said, “editor of the ; also
chief leader-writer, paragrapher, puzzle-
editor, and artist of the . When lam
not otherwise busy, lam a compositoron the —— ”
“ Don’t, listen to him, your Worships ! ” cried the
amazed cop, “he’s wanderin’ in his mind.” The
Bench thought so, too, and remanded the prisoner
for seven days ; and the prisoner retired from the
scene quite composedly' and without protest,
although it was presently proved that he actually
was editor, leader-writer, chief of staff, staff,
and compositor on the , and quite sober
into the bargain.
A N.S.W. R.C. college journal,
dealing out toffee to its old boys (they are
all, it seems, really good, and all get a
stick) mentions one as having
commenced on the lower rung of the staff of one
of the most influential papers of the city, and rose
step by step till he is now' his chief’s most trusted
lieutenant, and controls the whole paper.
But it carefully ignores the name of the
paper. Tha't it happens to be Truth has,
of course, nothing to do with the suppres-
sion.
Tozer and Reeves, The Bulletin hears,
were absent from the reception of Duke George,
at Victoria Railway Station, London; Tozer, be-
cause he was not J weli) and ’ Reeves, because he
bars wearing Windsor uniform. The other Agents-
General paraded the platform under the wing of
Chamberlain, and furnished a pathetic plea for
* he total abolition of all uniforms. Loyal ad-
dljesses P r , ese " te l < ? Slr Andrew 0
whom Anglo-Ausf/ahan gossip assigns the first
Hl " h Oomimssionership of Australia.
The Bulletin’s London correspondent,
concerning that insufferably “ British ” person-
agelet, Fwedewick Villiers :
What on earth, has Australia been doing to the .little
1 “ ViHars,, v as he calls himself, has avenged himself.
The occasion was his harangue on “ Kangaroo Land, and
there were more present than the proverbial man and the
dog—but not many more. Assuming a metaphorical
granny’s cap and apron, and. an air of indignation, F. V.
fairly walked into and through the new Commonwealth,
B. in its aboriginal-dark ignorance to shut out
aliens—:it had bitten off more than it could chew, and
didn >t wan t anyone else even to have a nibblefwhatever Can
have happened on “ Villars’ ” last tour in Australia?)—the
Australian’s motto was “Advance Australia,” hut he (the
A.) didn’t intend it should if he could avoid it—in fact,
Kangaroo Land and its people were swollen-headed, cock-
? ur . e j overweaning, egotistical, &«. Donald Macdonald’s
incident of the disused bath at Oxford was referred to with
indignant soorn , He (V .) wou i d tell thenl he had Been a
notice in a Westralian bathroom, “ Please do not use soap
with the water, as it is required for cooking purposes.’’
SC"
cept tnß illG”(igvouring \\<ir-siicip-shottor whoui OhßiiihGi*-
lain has not yet even knighted,
,
Ihe Bulletin S London correspondent.—
Re ex-Vic. M.L. A. W. T. Carter and your par. of 28/9/’Ol,
to the effect that the “ English papers were resurrecting
him.” Never did any man more nearly require a Lazarus-
i“ SfcS
Williainstown of its boy-member. W.T.C., in fact, was
foolish enough to intervene between the Ludgate Hill
pavement and a window-cleaner, hurriedly, but unwil-
linglv, descending 50ft. from a third storey. Certainly
0- dM not see the: unfortunate man comftig nor did he
know for some little time afterwards that the poor
cleaner, cannoning off him, had met instant death on the
flags. The ex-M.L.A.’s top-hat acted as an air-cushion,
receiving the man’s feet—the imprint of the boot-nails
it s truth. To-day, over a month after the impact,
Carter, who had no bones broken —merely his head
driven between his shoulders and his left ribs “ buckled
over each other—with his left arm still in a sling, is.suing
the window-cleaning co for damages, and they haven’t a
leg to fight him on. The dead man was working without
prescribed safeguard. What Labor M.P. will now
,i PSn i S e ihe ton-hat?
T , „ .
-* s Andy Aelly listening .
4. —,
.
Consider the grovelling crawlsomeness of
Melb. Age. In the very same issue that gives an
interview with Private Steelof Wilmansrust, is a
leac er strenuously urging Barton to follow the
nol ’ e example of Maoriland and Canada and
send along more White livered) Australians to be
treated as dogs and to hek the boots of the deh-
cately-nurtured Hingl.sh officers.


try^
MACONOCHIE’S
CELEBRATED
Worcestershire
Sauce..
Most Delicious
and Cheapest.
SOLD EVERYWHERE .
Australian Representatives:
SWIFT & CO..
7 Spring Street, Sydney.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Himyadi Janos
Fob LIVER COMPLAINTS, OBESITY, Ac.
Tme VIENNA MEDICAL PRESS” says -
Hunyadi Janos may be regarded as a specific for obesity.
Average Dose.— A wineglassful before breakfast , either pure or diluted with
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAPTION.
Note the name “ H any ad! Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor*
- ANDKEAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on th« Red Centre Part
of the Label, ■
Hotel
Australia
RATES:
12s. 6d. per Day
and upwards.
For the Summer Season.
The innumerable visitors who have stayed at “ The
Australia” during Summer months have nothing
but praise for this famous Hotel. Ladies with
families obtain every comfort and attention at
a very reasonable cost. The rooms, furniture and
appointments of “The Australia” are unsurpass-
able. The Hotel has been built with every attention
to the needs of the climate. Hence, on the hottest
Summer day, the coolness of its rooms is as refresh-
ing as a cold bath.
J. URE SMITH (Late of Menzies’), Manager,
Oastlereagh-st., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. —ln the case of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
The sore point with those Australian
soldiers who mutinied at Middleberg was that
one of the English officahs said that “ Australians
could sit on a bucking horse, but they couldn’t
ride.” That had to be wiped out in point-blanky
mutiny.
* * • *
“ Jack-a-Clubs ” : In Bulletin Xmas
number “Banjo” writes re “The Bullock”: —
“ A quiet milking-cow will ‘ plant ’ a young calf
with such skill that 10 stockmen cannot find him
in a one-mile paddock.” Why, any stockman,
with a grain of sense and a mo.uth, can imitate the
plaintive calling of a young calf. Then, even if
the cow does not go instantly, to her offspring, she
can’t forbear looking in that direction, and—well,
the rest is easy.
* * * *
“Utu” ; Be big eels. Fishing, once, off
“ Stack-o’-Brieks,” Tas., I hooked a conger, and,
after getting him into the boat with great diffi-
culty, he became very savage, and tried to take
charge. He was settled with a “ waddy.” Length,
7ft. dia., 6in.
* • • *
“J.H.W.”: Be big eels. About six
months ago, a Parramatta man caught, in what is
called the “ mud-hole, ” in Parramatta River, an
eel, which, when he carried it over liis shoulder,
with the mouth level with his ear, trailed a couple
of inches on the ground. The man’s height
was sft. 7in., and the eel’s girth llin. By the
way, the aboriginal meaning of “ Parramatta” is
“ the place where eels sit down.”
• • « *
A Parramatta (N.S.W.), citizen, charged
with keeping an unregistered dog, pleaded that
the animal was a dingo and therefore not liable to
taxation. The Bench held that a dingo was a
dog for the purposes of the Act and inflicted the
usual fine.
*** * *
One of the best places to be out of just
now is Western Queensland. Atlsisford, on 16th
inst., the shade heat was 125, and on the four pre-
ceding days from 120 to 123. Thousands of birds
perished in the bush. Large numbers entered
selectors’ huts to escape the heat, and many
gathered round tanks and dams, perishing on the
water’s edge.
124 IN THE SHADE AT MOGIL-
MOGIL (N.S.W.).
THE DEVIL : "Pouf! This is the hottest thing
I've struck since that Eden affair !”
An example of what country correspon-
dents write to way-baek N.S.W. newspapers :
I am a bit perplexed.to-day. An old companion, in the
shape of a loose tooth, is seeking a change of veftue. I
shall regret the loss, although it has outlived its useful-
ness. I must see the dentist to-day.
* * * *
Be reported recent discovery of fish in
“ boring ’’-water on Bl'axland’s Pine Ridge station,
N.S.W., the station-owner writes to Mudoee
Post
“ I put down the well, and went 05 feet without strik-
ing water ; then bored with an ordinary auger on an iron
rod 25 feet long, going about 20 feet, when water came
through the hole, and, by raising the auger, a sufficient
supply came, rising 26 feet in the shaft. The pump and
engine were put. on, and on . the second day fish came
through the pump. Since then I have put a two-inch
pipe down the hole made by the auger ; the fish continue
'to come—small cod, bream, and prawns. The well is on
• a plain a mile from the creek.”
* • * *
Recently delivered at Charleville, Q., a
load of 125 bales scoured wool, weighing 15 tons
! 7cwt., and drawn by 32 bullocks.
* * * *
Sworn at Wentworth, before Acting-Judge
Browning, that a “ traveller ” had been camped on
the river for three weeks with two black girls, one
aged 12 and the other hardly as much ! But he
wasn’t charged with that; he was charged with
the more awful crime of killing a squatter’s sheep
—one sheep. Sacred Propputy !
* * * *
“ Quad ” : Latest returns show that there
are just on 7000 aborigines in N.5.W.—3180 full-
bloods, and 3793 half-castes—a falling-off on last
year’s figures.
“Eller”: Be “Spring’s” flat contradic-
tion (B. 14/12/’01) of my par about parrot-trapping
at Burragorang. The trapper showed me an
account-sale for 400 birds. That should be good
enough ; while, as for there being “no market
for 500 parrots a week,” “ Spring ” possibly thinks
all the birds sent to Sydney are sold for pets.
Whereas, the bulk are killed for their wings,
which are exported in large quantities to Europe
for trimming hats.
■***.»
From the Hawkesbury, N S.W. :
The local orchardist finds this season takes the damper.
Seville oranges and lemons quite unsaleable ; summer
fruit will not pay cartage. Local growers have had clear
returns of 3d. to 6d. per ginease. No rain worth speaking
of for six months ; no good rain for three years. Bee 3
are a failure ; only fowls show a profit, and that because
of the miserable price for grain obtained by the farmers.
With wheat at 3s. a bushel, eggs cost producer 4d. a dozen,
if he understands hen culture. Stock would be good
business did we not have to feed them on lucerne bought
in Sydney ; for, at present, our millers have exhausted
the tree-bark, on which they have lived for some time.
Bush fires make the night picturesque and the day
smoky. The day’s work is to cart water from the mile-oif
creek ; the night’s rest to lie awake, finding fresh adjec-
tives to express our feelings.
- * * *
Recently, in an Australian city, the
countrymen of a deceased Chow engaged the town
band to head the cortege. It was a three-mile
route to the cemetery, and “John ” soon got tired
of the ‘ ‘ Dead March ” and sent along one of the
M.C.’s to get a change. Thereafter the pro-
gramme included “Auld Lang Syne,” “Yankee
Doodle,” and “Who are you going to meet,
Bill ? ” The mourners were quite satisfied.
* * * *
The high rate of labor from a standpoint
a good way off O’Sullivan’s : In 1800 the settlers
on the Hawkesbury complained of the prices they
had to pay for clearing and cultivating, and King,
Governor at the time, gave the complaint his
“serious consideration.” _ After due thought ha
pronounced that the price of labor in N.S.W.
was wholly dependent on the price of spirits,
and accordingly recommended such a reduc-
tion in the price of rum and brandy as
would enable the working m m to sell his labor
at reasonable rates. In pursuance of this
economic discovery he issued an ordinance direct-
ing that a laborer should receive 15s. for breaking
up an acre of ground, and if lie demanded more
be was to be sent to the stocks, and afterwards
three months to prison.
Riyeriua : Hear the reasons given by a
Hindoo traveller for the drought in Riverina:
“Oh, God say, ‘You white men very clever ; you
dig long way into ground, get water supply your
stock.’ Well, you dig up enough to supply all
. men and women, too. God say, ‘ l have a spell.’ ’
“Yarrum” : Be hotels in Australasia.
Once struck a pub. in Braidwood (N.S.W.)
district. The night was wretchedly cold,
yet I could have gathered the parlor fire
—the only one in the house—into my
pipe. Rang for the missus and asked
for just a stick or two. “Oh, sir ! ”
said she, ‘ ‘ the wood is very dear
about here, and we can’t do it for
the price”—price was Is. (id. all
round, meals and beds. Tried
the old man, but it was no go.
So I cleared out to another pub.
where there was a decent fire.
Again, a man and two delicate
children arrived one bitterly cold
night by coach, and put up at
pub. in same district. Couldn’t
get a fire until he called in a
policeman—who insisted.
“ Piccola ” : Came across (in N.S.W.) a
queer family party t’other day. Father, a full-
blooded Hindu of superior type; mother, half-
caste aboriginal; children of varying color, from
light-brown to white. In feature they were of
European caste, with straight, well-cut noses and
brilliant eyes. In body, lithe and wiry. The
only aboriginal trace was in thickness of the lips.
All were remarkably bright and intelligent.
• * * *
Maorilanders’ alleged Kuini—as mythical
as the bunyip—which was described and caused a
deal of chin-wagging two years ago, has at length
been stalked. The peculiar, eerie noises at night
puzzled some bush-whackers who were felling on
the identical block where Kumi was last heard of,
and a chance shot one night brought down the
quarry. Instead of it being an immense creature
with a curiously-shaped head, phosphorescent
,eyes and a couple of tails, it proved to be a fine
Tasmanian ’possum. Appears that ’possums were
liberated out that, way some years ago.
i * * * *
Dear Bulletin.—A party, exploring on
the Nepean River, some miles above Penrith,
came on the fresli tracks of, apparently, a large
two-footed animal. The foot was a short, stub
one, ancf the toes nearly 2in. in dia.—the print
being much like what would be made by an
abnormal ly-large hand with the fingers cut off
fairly close up. Can any Bulletin writer en-
lighten? Old hands suggest bunyip.—J. [The
Bulletin suggests farmer’s eldest daughter, with
her boots off.]
* * * •
For a small place (only 16 million acres)
Tasmania has a great record as a location to get
lost in. Last March a man went missing from
Rosebery. Parties vainly searched the‘Wilds for
weeks. The other day the skeleton was found
near Mt. Pelion. The prospector had perished
in the snow. For months a shadow had rested on
the lost man’s mate. It is now happily lifted.
* * ♦ *
The grass known as paspalum dilitatum
has been proved to be a great help in the dairying
districts of the N.S.W. North Coast; one
paddock of 25 acres supported 90 cattle in good
condition for three months.
Specimen of Maori-English (a “sport,”
intent on a gun-outing, had asked a native to act
as guide)
“Mr. . Dear sir,—l am going to write you a
few lines as I promised to do. Dear—-—, lam very
sorry (glad) that i saw your letter. Yes, is all right. 1
am grand (glad) of that. I have got anything (nothing)
to do. lam already that time when you come up. Will
you please to buy a pair of boots for me. You know site
(size) my boots, just same as yours. When I came back
from Rotorua my boots Kate broke them. That all I can
say good bye.”
¥ * * *
“ Navvy ” : Whenever Brannigan wants a
job he always gets it (Brannigan isn’t his name
it’s Elannigan, but I call him Brannigan to
avoid possible libel-troubles). Brannigan ten-
ders low—very low—to make sure, loike. As he
doesn’t happen to be busy, he works himself and
his horses a few days for nothing at the beginning
—then “ he’ll have rattling wages for the rest of
the toime.”
* * • *
“ Pelnac ” : Be
goat eating tobacco
(“ L. F. H.,” 8.,
29/6/’01). Townsville
(Q.) possessed a goat
which would follow
you into a bar and
cadge for beer like a
politician. Some-
times a lot of Jacks
ashore would fill
William up, where-
upon he would
wisely make for
home, lurching and
rolling in absurdly-
human fashion.
Next day you would
find him reclining in
the shade, and at the
offer of a pewter he would sadly turn his
head away. In a few days, however, he’d be
ready for another razzle; and in the end he died
of an old-man drunk.
* * * *
“Gooey”.: Be lifting heavy weights,
“ Alpar,” “ Jaf ” and others (B. 16/11/’01). There
is, at Dandaloo, N.S.W., a woman who can lift
and carry up three steps leading into her store-
room three 2001 b. bags of flour—one under each
arm, and the third held in the middle by her
teeth ! [lncredible, in view of the item following.]
“ Utu ” : Be weight-lifting (B. 14/12/’01).
I once saw : the mate (name Edgecock) of a Tas-
manian coaster put a 36-gallon cask of beer into a
boat, row ashore, and lift the cask on to the jetty.
Also, I once bet the same man a 501 b. bag of flour '
that he could not carry it 200 yards in his teeth.
He did it.
* * » *
Dear Bulletin. —Can any reader state the
greatest number of sheep ever shorn in one day by
one man in Australia —by hand or machine. Also,
where and when. —W.W.
He was a returned Bush-
man. “Yes,” says he, “I’m
staying at the Carbine Hotel.
I’ll stay till after the Mel-
bourne Cup, and then back to
the bush again.” “ Well,”
says I, “you’ve better luck
than most of the boys.” “ Oh,
yes, I made a bit over there.
The first haul I got was this
way. We galloped over to a
likely-looking house, and I was
admiring myself in a big mir-
ror, when one of our fellows
smashed it to bits with his
rifle-butt. A drawer sprang
open. I snatched up a purse,
and found inside 70 Kruger
sovs. After that, I got it in
tens or fifteens at a time. Oh,
yes, I did well over there.”
A wooden mere was found deep down in a
swamp at Waikanae (M.L.), lately, and ’tis con-
jectured that it must have been there hundreds,
if not thousands of years. There was a carved
figure of an elephant on the handle, which gives
weight to the idea that the Maori originally came
from Asia. At Invercargill, a Maori oven, con-
taining eight axes and adzes, was lately unearthed.
Two were of greenstone, and another had a re-
markably fine polish and keen edge.
» * • *
“ A.H.L.” : Snakes seem to possess re-
markable immunity from injury by falling. On
the Upper Hunter (N.S.W.) I once started a sft.
black snake, which made for the edge of the bank,
promptly threw itself over —a clear fall of over
25ft. on to stones—and cleared off, apparently un-
hurt. I have seen snakes fall even greater dis-
tances without apparent injury. Can any of your
readers corroborate, or otherwise ?
ENGLAND V. AUSTRALIA .
The average small boy's estimation of the ’ roo during the progress of
the recent cricket-match .
The seals at Macquarie Islands could be
approached and patted by the Discovery people.
No wonder a number of skins were obtained.
They are of the hair variety, though, and not the
valuable fur species of the Arctic. The penguins
were just as tame.
LET THE WOMAN GO!
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
T ET the woman go, hoy!
She has little worth;
Crush the blossom so, boy,
Mix it with the earth l
Hit you pretty hard, eh 1
Deuced rough, I know ;
Got beneath your guard, eh l
Let the woman go!
Luscious, pleading mouth, eh l
Tender violet eyes,
Vintage of the South, eh ?
Bouquet that to prize !
Showed you heaven’s dell, eh?—
■ Tie the vixen’s way ;
Lured you into hell, eh ?
Fling it all away!
Come and smoke a pipe, boy!
Wine and talk a-flood,
Vintage rich and ripe, boy—
Get some in your blood !
Never trust a blonde, boy I
Devils they to flirt,—
Laugh to find you fond, boy :
How the wantons hurt!
T>'y a score or so, boy!
You are rather young :
Let the woman go, boy ;
Prick that halting tongue !
Wait till forty year, boy!
Love was made for men :
Dry that foolish tear, boy ;
Tell me of it then!
W. M. WHITNEY.


Effects of over Training.
A Sprinter’s Views.
We clip the following from the Melbourne
Sportsman
“I had practically recovered from the effects
of an injury to my knee,” said Mr. Harris, of 90
Chapman-street, N. Melb.—one-time champion
sprinter of Victoria, and winner of many races—
to a Sportsman reporter, “when another mis-
fortune overtook me. For thirteen years I had
been in active training and I must have strained
myself internally; as a result severe dysentery
came on. Neither home remedies nor medical
treatment stopped the disease, and I rapidly
became thin, weak and pale-faced. I was further
weakened by piles, and at last could scarcely
walk. My food did me no good owing to my
complaints, so that I was reduced to a state of
almost utter collapse. ”
“To look at you now one would scarcely
realise it,” said the reporter.
“No,’’said Mr. Harris, “but it was so. One
day, when almost in despair, my attention was
drawn to the merits of Dr. Williams’ pink pills
in cases like mine. Even after a few doses there
was a slight abatement of the diarrhoea, and
after taking one box I felt considerably improved.
Six boxes cured me, although I took two more to
make sure of permanenoy. Already I have
gained a stone in weight, and am still putting on
flesh. I now feel as well as ever I did and Dr.
Williams’ pink pills are alone responsible for
what I consider my marvellous recovery.”
Athletes, and indeed all men and women, will
find in Dr. Williams’ pink pills a sure cure for
debility, dyspepsia, dysentery, nervous exhaus-
tion, etc., for they enrich the blood, tone up the
nerves, enable the digestive organs to perform
their work properly, and build up and strengthen
the patient in every way. Thus they cure con-
sumption of the bowels and lungs, bronchitis,
liver and kidney troubles, insomnia, St. Vitus’
dance, hysteria, neuralgia, rheumatism, long
standing skin diseases, and the effects of influenza,
pneumonia, fevers, etc. From chemists arid
storekeepers, and the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
c/o Roeke, Tompsitt & Co., Flinders-Street, Melb.,
post free, two and nine, six boxes fifteen and
three. Beware of cheap, pink-coloured, poison-
ous imitations. You will be told honestly and
without charge whether Dr. Williams’ pink pills
have cured a case like yours or not if you send in
a written description of it.*
One of the Bulletin Xmas No. pictures
in which the public find particular delight is that
of the counsel on the front cover who is gloating
over a case of D.C.L. Whisky, and remarking,
with the air of a joyous connoisseur, “My Lord
and Gentlemen, this is undoubtedly the best case
I have ever opened.” Bulletin readers aver that
if so obvious an expert pronounces D.L.C. to be
the premier whisky, no further evidence is re-
quired—D.C.L. stands convicted of being the
best and kindest and wisest of all whiskies.*
The Commonwealth series of books by Aus-
tralian authors is probably the most successful venture of
the kind yet undertaken in Australasia. The series con-
tains six volumes of stories and verses by Henry Lawson,
four on the “ History of Bushranging,” by Charles White,
and Mr. Arthur W. Jose’s popular “ History of Austra-
lasia.” Messrs. Angus and Robertson, cfc 89 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney, and 206 Swanston-street, Melbourne,
inform us that, although the first volume appeared less
than two years ago, nearly 50,000 volumes have been sold
to date. The price is Is.' 3d. per volume by; post to any
address in the Commonwealth or New Zealand.*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives avviv
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholme developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
VEE.\US
the ItLOOD
through the
KIDNEYS
cn
n
> ""“"fl
"O [— n
•o 1 i
WATSON’S WHISKY.
USED IN THE ROYAL HOUSEHOLDS.
CEREBOSSALT
Besides being the most Dainty, Dry, and Economical
Table Salt, “Cerebos” contains the strengthening and
constitution building properties which are wanting
In White Bread, owing to the removal of the Bran.
It is, therefore, invaluable In the daily food of
growing children, delicate mothers, and all brain
workers.
Wholesale ,4g<?/jfe.*-HARRISON & ATTWOOD, 334 and 336, George Street, SYDNEY.
Sold by Grocers and Stores. ,
How the War Started.
The subjoined letter is one of the things always
care !"< illy suppressed by the Australian daily papers.
It ww" written in August last to General Ketch-
ener by Steyn, the brave and able Boer patriot,
whom it has until lately been the habit of the
daily press aforesaid to hold up to execration as
an ever-greedy capitalist, a lying hypocrite, and a
coward:— . x , . .
Vnnr Excellency*-—! have the honor to acknowledge
thJ receipt °of your honored letter of 6th August, 1901,
enclosing the proclamation of even date. The not un-
friendly tone of your Excellency’s letter encourages me
to reply somewhat at length to your Excellency’s writing.
I have noted that not only by you in your letter, hut also
by responsible statesmen on your side, it is affirmed that
the declaration of war by the South African Republic
and the invasion of British territory were the causes
of the war. I hardly consider it necessary to re-
mind your Excellency that in 1895, when the South
African Republic was unarmed and at peace, trusting
that her neighbours were civilised nations, an unex-
pected attack was make on her from British territory.
1 consider it unnecessary to point out to your Excellency
that when this foolish undertaking (which could only
have been undertaken by a man who had become insane
through his vanity) failed and all fell into the hands of
the South African Republic, the Government of the
South African Republic, relying on the sense of jus-
tice of the English nation, handed over all the per-
sons taken prisoners by them, and deserving of death
according to international law, to Her Majesty s Govern-
ment Ido not consider it necessary to point out to
vour Excellency that when a just judge sentenced the
leaders of the expedition to imprisonment the principal
men were not kept in prison till they had served their
time but were released on some-trivial oause or other
before the expiration of their term. Ido not wish to
remind your Excellency that when a Parliamentary
Commission was appointed to examine into the cause
and reason of the above-mentioned expedition that Com-
mission, instead of examining into the case, kept back
certain evidence, and when the Commission, m spite
of the great influence which was brought to bear on
them during the session, found the chief conspirators
and Mr. Rhodes guilty, and reported them as such to the
Parliament, Mr. Chamberlain, who was one of the mem-
bers of the Commission, defended Mr Rhodes in direct
opposition to his own report. Your Excellency must
admit that the South African Republic, like the civilised
world, had the perfect right to come to the conclusion
that the Jamieson Raid, which we at first thought had
been undertaken by irresponsible persons, was not un-
known to Her Majesty’s Government, at least not to all
of them. I do not wish t o remind your Excellency that
since that time not only
has no reasonable com-
pensation been paid out
to the South African
Republic, as was pro-
mised at that time,
but she has been con-
stantly troubled with
despatches and threats
concerning her internal
government. I need
not remind your Ex-
cellency how outside
influence was also made
use of in getting up
petitions to Her Majesty
concerning alleged
grievances, in order to
give Her Majesty’s
Government the desired
opportunity for med-
dling with the internal
policy of the South
African Republic. As I
have said, I do not con-
sider it necessary to
remind your Excellency
of the' above-named
facts, as I consider your
Excellency to be well
acquainted with them ;
but I greatly desire to
draw your Excellency’s
kind attention to the
following facts, which
seem to me to be un-
known to your Ex-
cellency.
< » *
When in the course
of 1899 troops were
massed on the borders
not only of the South
African Republic, but
also of the hitherto
friendly Orange Free
State, and when it be-
came evident to the
South African Republic
that the English did
not desire the removal
of the grievances, which
are now declared on all
hands never to have
existed, but the de-
struction of the inde-
pendence of the above-
named Republics, she
desired the British Go-
vernment to withdraw the troops from her borders and
to have all disputes settled by arbitration. This hap
pened three weeks after the British Government had
issued its ultimatum and about a month after the
Government of the Orange Free State had received a
telegram from the High Commissioner asking her to
remain neutral, thereby distinctly proving that the British
Government was determined to wage war against the
South African Republic. This telegram was sent to the
Orange Free State, though it was well known that the
Orange Free State had entered into a defensive treaty
with the South African Republic in 1889. When the
South African Republic decided to guard her borders
against the enemy who iay there in the vicinity, I was
obliged to take one of the most painful steps to me—
viz.: to break the ties of friendship which existed
between us and the British Government, and to be true
to our treaty and stand by the South African Republic.
That we were perfectly j istified in our belief that the
British Government was firmly resolved to wipe out the
two Republics has been proved distinctly since the war
broke out. It has not only been proved by documents
which have fallen into our bands, from which it is dis-
tinctly evident that since 1896 (that is, since the Jamieson
Raid) the British Government was firmly resolved to m-
v ide both Republics ; but only lately it was acknow-
lodged by Lord Lansdowne that he had, as early as
June, 1899, discussed with Lord Wolse’ley, then Com-
mander-in-Chief of Her Majesty’s forces, as to the best
time for invading the two Republics. Your Excellency
will thus see that we did not draw the sword, but that we
only pushed away the sword that was already laid at our
throats. We only acted in self-defence, one of the holiest
rights of man, in order to maintain our existence, and
for that reason I consider, with all due reverence, that we
have the right to trust in a righteous God.
I further note that your Excellency again refers to the
impossibility of intervention by some foreign power or
other, and your Excellency makes it appear that we are
only continuing the struggle in the hope of this inter-
vention. With your Excellency’s permission, I wish to
explain clearly our position as regards intervention. It
is this. We have hoped, and still hope, that the moral
feeling of the civilised world would oppose the crime that
England is perpetrating here in South Africa, viz., that
she is trying to destroy the existence of a young nation ;
yet we were always fully determined, if that hope was not
destined to be realised, to exert our utmost power in
opposition, with firm confidence in a merciful God, and
that is still our unchangeable resolve to-day.
* * » *
I also note that your Excellency takes it for granted
that our struggle is hopelesss. I do not
know on what grounds your Excellency bases
this opinion, but let us compare . for a
moment our mutual conditions at the present time and a
year ago, after the surrender of General Prinsloo. A year
ago, after General Prinsloo’s surrender, the Gape Colony
was altogether peaceful and free from our commandos ;
the Orange Free State was almost wholly in your hands,
not only the principal towns, railways, and other villages,
but also the whole country except there where Com-
mandant Haasbroek was with his commandos. In the
South African Republic it was the same ; it was almost
altogether in your hands, except there where General de-
La Rey was with his commandos, and where General Botha
was with his, far in the Boschveld. At present, the Gape
Ooleny is, so to say, covered by our commandos, and they
are in temporary occupation of the greater part of the
Gape Colony, where they move about as they wish and
where they are joined by many of our kindred and others,
who thus oppose themselves to the gross injustice carried
on against the Republics. I willingly admit that in the
Orange Free State your Excellency is in possession of
the capital, the railway, and a few villages not situated
on the railway line, but that is all that your Excellency
possesses. The whole Orange Free State, with the ex-
ception of the above, is in our possession, and in almost
all the chief towns we have appointed landdrosts, or
where the town is not in our possession we have land-
drosts in the districts, so that order and peace are main-
tained by us and not by your Excellency. In the Trans-
vaal this is also the case. There, toe, landdrosts, &e., are
appointed by that Government and provision made for
the maintenance of order and peace. If your Excellency
will permit me, your Excellency’s jurisdiction extends
only as far as your Excellency’s cannon can reach.
* * * *
If your Excellency views the Republics from a military
standpoint, then your Excellency must acknowledge that
during the last year, in spite of the overwhelming force
brought against us, our cause has progressed wonderfully,
and there can be no talk of hopelessness, so that if your
CHARLES ARNOLD and his champion St. Bernard, Lord Barry,
now appearing at the Palace Theatre , Sydney.
Excellency’s proclamation is based on this it has now less
right to exist than a year ago. Now, as regards the
35,000 men whom your Excellency asserts to have in your
hands, it is impossible for me to say anything about them
as regards number. This, however, I wish to say, that
except those men who either have been misled from their
duty to their Government by your predecessor’s procla-
mations, or who have gone over to the enemy on account
of a spirit of treachery, or for other reasons, and who,
thank God, are comparatively few in number, the re-
mainder consists of those who have been honestly taken
prisoners, and are still held as such, and old and sickly
men and young boys who were not yet fit for service, and
who were taken by force from their farms by your Excel-
lency’s troops and confined in camps against their will.
It cannot, therefore, be expected of us to believe in
earnest that the persons falling under these last two
heads are living there in peace of their own free will. I
can in truth affirm that except the prisoners of war and
the few who have gone over to the enemy, the great
majority of the fighting burghers are still in arms. As
regards the few who have gone over to the enemy (which
hardly ever happens now), I can only say that we do not
stand alone in this respect, for history teaches us that in
all wars for independence, as the American war,, for
instance, there have been such, and we can only try to
go on without them. As regards the 74,000 women and
children who, according to your Excellency, are being
maintained in the camps, it Seems to me that your
Excellency does not know in what a barbarous way
these poor, defenceless people were torn from their
homes by your Excellency’s forces, while all their pro-
perty and goods were destroyed; so that these
innocent victims of the war, at the approach of a hostile
force, would flee in all weathers, at all hours of the day
or night, from place to place, in order not to fall into
their hands. ... To say that they are in camps of
their own free will is altogether opposed to the facts,
and to assert that these women were brought to the
camps because the Boers refused to provide for their
families (as the Minister for War is said to have done
recently in the Parliament) is a slander which wounds
us less than the slanderer, and which, I feel sure, will
never bear away your Excellency’s approval.
• * * *
As regards the proclamation itself, I can assure
your Exoelleney that for myself it will make no
difference to me in the fulfilment of my duty,
faithfully to the end. Our country is ruined, our
homes and goods destroyed, our cattle carried off
or killed in thousands, our women and children cap-
tured, insulted, and carried into captivity by soldiers
and low Kaffirs, and hundreds of them have already
sacrificed their lives for the liberty of their fatherland.
Shall we, can we now draw back from doing our duty
when our persons are threatened with banishment?
Shall we now break faith with the hundreds of
dead and prisoners who, relying on our fidelity, wil-
lingly gave their lives and their liberty for the father-
land? Or shall we become untrue to our trust in a
righteous God, who has hitherto preserved us in such
a wonderful manner? lam convinced that if we were
to act thus we would be despised, not only by your
Excellency and every other honest man, but also by
ourselves. I will conclude with assuring your Excel-
lency that no one is more anxious than myself to see
peace restored, and I am therefore prepared to meet your
Excellency at any time in order to discuss terms with
your Excellency whereby peace may be brought about.
But that your Excellency may not be misled I must re-
peat that no peace will be acceptable to us in which the
independence of the two Republics and the interests of
our Gape Colony brothers who have joined us are not
maintained. If it is a crime to fight in self-defence, and
if such crime must be punished, then I think that His
Majesty’s Government ought to be satisfied with the
destruction of the country, the chastisement of women
and children, and the general misery which has been
caused by this war. It is in your Excellency’s power
more than in that of any other man to make an end to
this war, and by so doing to restore this unhappy part of
the country to its former prosperity. We ask for no
magnanimity; we only demand justice.
I enclose a translation of this writing, so that your
Excellency may not be prevented from understanding
the exact‘contents of my letter through a wrong transla-
tion, as was recently the case with a letter which I wrote
to the Government of the South African Republic and
which fell into your hands at Reitz and was published by
you, but in such a way that we hardly recognised it.
Not only was it wrongly translated in some places, but
sentences were added which I had never written and
other parts were left out altogether, so that quite a
wrong interpretation was given to the letter. — I have the
honor to be, your Excellency’s obedient servant,
(Signed) M. T. Steyn, State President
of the Orange Free State.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insuficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
G. Jones: The Bulletin “fixed” to prop
up that insurance co. 1I ! Haven’t you read
any of this paper’s articles on it ? J.M. : Yes,
it was Queensland Labor member Page (not
Fowler) who went security for Tocsin. Name
was mistaken C.C. : Weary of the kangaroo lapping
discussion. When you get the snapshot send it along ;
the picture will tell J. Martyn : Don’t waste time over
any more of such “ poietry.” Even a bard should be able
to spell W. Oullen (Maoriland): Some books on Pro-
tection are—vol. 1, “Essays, Political, Historical, and
Misceilaneous,” by Archibald .Alison, LLD., price for 3
vols. Essays, 16s. 6d. ; “The Australian Protectionist,” by
F. G. Smith, price unknown ; “ A Policy for the
Commonwealth,” by James Edmond, Bd., this office.
There are scores of others, but these will give
you the history, theory, and practice of it
MacC. : Wax. Madden probably felt that he was out of
place at any function where the Gov.-General was prac-
tically figuring as Gov. of Vie. So, like a reasonable
Waxellency, he retired into the background and devoted
himself to the policy of saving his gubernatorial salary of
£5OOO a year, plus his Chief Justice salary of £3500 a year.
P.O.: Why, N.S.W. Full Court once struck an
attorney off the roll for carrying on a debt-collecting
agency in conjunction with the legal game. And he was
a very decent and honest attorney, too W.D.F. : No
“good writing is never found with good family.”
Nonsense I What about Cervantes, Montaigne, Spenser,
Alfieri, Fielding, Byron, Shelley, and a host of others?.. ..
B.F.G. : Mediocre 0n1y... .Wyoming : Graphic and vivid,
but too strong for print... .E.S.M. : Please don’t deluge
us with insipidities. You write like a wax figure
Vortex :It struck a bigger whirlpool.., .E.C. : Bulletin
can’t print such pars without absolute verification.
It is not the mission of this paper to feather lawyers....
O.L.F. : We can’t undertake to keep track of MS. which
has not author’s name written on its face C.W. : The
Australians interfering in the war are simply helping big
Bull, the squatter, to drive a lot of little long-settled
cockies off the rich land in dispute J.B.H. : May the
infant Edmund Barton Ronald continue to bounce, and
grow fat 1 It would be the sourest radicalism to object
to his reverend pa making a fuss over the first Federal
political baby J.J.M. : A microscopic idea spread out
to two cols, with rag-flock such as : “ accquainted with
that illustrious individual or any of his numerous pro-
geny.” Did it make you very tired writing it? Gal. :
We want Australian matter, not pallid echoes of old-
world bards... IT.II. : A dull rapture “First-time
Prisoner”: Every man hoards up grievances in gaol-
some of them well-founded, others not so. But, while
prepared to take up any really important matter, The B.
does not care to enter upon a discussion of the minor
grumblings of prison life. Gaol isn’t meant to be
pleasant.. ..E.O. : “Nights” not up to mark; other
published, cheque forwarded E.S. : You quite miss the
B. style ; try the meek and mild Sydney Sunday paper...
D.A.W. : You take the parson seriously. The Bulletin
doesn’t, except on rare occasions when its liver is out of
order Plymouth Sound : Thanks for criminal libel
F. Oroson: Peacock exaggerates, no doubt, but he has
some justification. With inter-State Freetrade Victorian
wages in some industries must go down unless those of
other States are raised, or else some Vic. industries
have a poor show. Victoria and S.A., as the States
with the poorest coal supply, work at a great dis-
advantage in any case. That’s why Bulletin wants
to see the Federal Parliament take over the • whole
industrial question, and level wages up... .W.F.A.: A
crazy quilt of metaphors.... Aitchapee : Good theme ;
but your handling lacks skill G.: Are the pubs, free in
Jupiter? Are the girls frisky in Saturn ?....F.A.H.: Wan
item O.M.A. : Too slight... .R.A.: “ Incentive ” too long
ands’ow. Checkyour garrulity and tightenyour interest..
Returned: You complain “that nothing has been
done” by N.S.W. Govt, as to your S’Afrfcan back pay.
Why, you have been done, done brown....J.P.W.: The
point is not wholly new. Gov. Hercules Robinson sent
for W. M. Manning, sitting in N.S.W. Leg. Council, to
form a Ministry. The Governor, in league with Parkes,
had released bushranger Gardiner, which cost Parkes his
Premiership, and to punish the Assembly, Robinson
invited Manning of the Council to build up a new
Ministry. The action incensed the Assembly still more,
and on the matter being remitted to England, the
Secretary of State in effect censured the irate Governor..
Prospector : Coals to Newcastle so far as B. readers are
concerned M.L.L. : Ghost yarn well enough done, but
too much after regulation pattern. Verses unacceptable...
Sa Vinaka: Don’t like it well enough... .Percy M. :
Treatment too long and heavy 0.P.0. : Flat as the
floor it lies on J.R.D.: Old idea, not well handled
Jaynol: Crude ...M.8.: Thanks: can’t use at present.
Q.A.P. : “Kerosene” dull R.T.W. : Callow and
feeble... .Subscriber : Thanks.... St. J. de B. : Prose
better; verse flat... .Pteropod : Queer old f0w1!....
W.F.O. : Bald Taffrail : Points ; not enough
P. 0.0. ; Good idea; poorly handled A. Car-B. : May
do Somnus: Receptacle of mouldy horrors, vanish!
....Pan: Not interest enough for space... .Georgie :
Won’t do, Porgie Narranghi : “Funeral” not up
A.W.W. : Graphic, but badly put together Yellowboy:
May use... .Zadig : Will consider... .Atom : Flat and
prosy.... Jas. Bell : Ten times too long for Bulletin.. ~
Adelaide P. : Slender of interest and slack of style
O. Jones: Sorry, totally unusable M.M.D. : Xmas
number published ere your screed came to hand—and it’s
an old yarn, anyhow' A.E.A. : Thanks. Not worth
print N.T. : Feeble hand.... Geo. N.: Will consider.
Jaynol: Too rugged and jumpy J.M.H. : Lacks pith
and point Stella : Comes near the mark in places, but
is elsewhere too tyroish.... T. H. M.: Possibly Scorcher:
Roasted... .Alone : “ Must thou for ever slay, the noble
slay?” We must Rita : Good points, but too harsh.
....Ne’er-do-weel: Wants re-writing with humor
Qie : No, thank you Rose : Do you blush for stealing
it?. J. McD. : Juvenile doggerel E. McD. :
“Dodger” dodged... .Haldaco : Did it cost you sleep-
less nights ? Maggie: Considering John 0. : Not
much space for “ accent ” unless very brightly put.
Verse not up....D.N. (Vic.): Points; not enough....
Maggie S. : Will print “Flower D.” Suthie : Soli-
loquies too giddy to be here chronicled 8.R.8.M. :
You don’t make matter' clear XXX : Last brew
too £hin W.L. (M.L.) : Both in type Riverina :
Thin, ancient, long wheeze Culmus : Terry
told the story very tamely, and you haven’t improved
things... .R.F.S. (H.) : Must have been a printer’s error ;
have quite lost track of it now Strathie : Not good
enough H.F.H. : Thanks. May print... .Araka : That
eel-story is old'. ..Fitz-G. : Weakiy picturesque.


SAVE THAT BOY!
Out of the first Federal loan a gooly proportion is for repairs and patches and other unproductive works, or works that should assuredly be charged to revenue, For replacing worn-Out telegraph-poles (bought with loan money
and not paid for)£14,000 is allotted; fortications, £9525; new switch-board in Melbourne post-office to replace the old one that has become obsolete, £30,000; machinery for Government Printing Office, £12,500; and so on. One more
loan swindle, added to the six State loan swindles we had already.
OLD AUSTRALIA (the fearful example, to Young Australia): "SEE THAT? BIN THE RUIN OF ME. SHUN IT AS YOU WOULD THE PLAGUE."


THE NEW COHENTINGENT.
MINISTER M'CULLOCH (of Victoria): "I KNEW YOU WERE A MAN LIKE ME. I KNEW YOU WOULD RISE TO THE OCCASION. THINK OF THE
GLORY! BUT WHY DON'T YOU LOOK HAPPY OVER IT? WHY DON'T YOU YELL AND JUMP ON YOUR HAT AND BE A PROPER
KIND OF JINGO?”


A. SAUNDERS’
WATCHES, CLOCKS. JEWELLERY. & SILVERPLATE AT FREETRADE PRICES,
SAVE 25 TO 50 PER CENT. SHOWROOMS: 815 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
A. SAUNDERS.
SAVE 25 TO 50 PER CENT. FREETRADE PRICES.
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE Pure Silver-plated on Hard
Nickel Silver Beautifully Chased and Ornamented, 85s {
can be uLed as Cake Dish or Salver Simßar styles, 21s, 85s,
80s, £2, £2 10s. A USEFUL PRESENT.
A. SAUNDERS. „ TOSrll
NO ADVANCE IN PRICES. SAVE YOU 25 to 60 PER CENT.
CARVERS. Fork, and Steel, Joseph Rodgers’ Sheffield make. In silk-lined case.
UA.ttVJS.ttO, satisfaction, 20s. Other .tyles, 80s, £2, £2 10s.
Guaranteed satisfactory.
Will give
A. SAUNDERS.
TWELVE 4 O’CLOCK TEA SPOONS and TONGS, in
Silk-lined Case. Very best Pure Silver-plated, 85s. Similar,
80s. £2, £2 10s. Six in Case and Tongs, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Cake Knives or Forks, 20s, 255, 80s, £2. Latest London
Bags. Send for Illustrated Book.
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG CRUET, very neat, effective, 4 Cup
and Spoons, Pure Silver-plated on White
Nickel Silver, 20s. Other styles and
patterns, 255, 80s, 85s, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
0116.—JAM DISH, Fancy Gold
Ornamented Glass with Pure Silver-plated
Nickel Silver Base, 12s 6d.
Other styles, 15s 6d, £l, £1 sa.
A. SAUNDERS.
Registered Motto CRUET.
Pinna Forget. Pure Silver-plated
on White Metal, 21s,
Similar Design, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
8124. —OAK BISCUIT, Silver-plated, Moun-
ted, 15s 6d; Shield only, 12s 6d: Fluted Rims,
20s; Floral China Mounted, 15s 6d, 20s, 255, 80s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH, White Glass, Pure
Silver-plated, 15s 6d; larger size, £l.
Other Designs.
A. SAUNDERS.
LUNCHING CRUET, i Bottles, Silver-
plated, 15s 61. Very Pretty.
A. SAUNDERS.
PATTF, BASKET, Beautifully Chased,
85s, £2, £2 10s, £3. Cheaper Styles, 20s, 255, 80s.
A. SAUNDERS.
DINNER CRUET, 6 Bottles, with Shield, Pure Sur»
Plate on White Hard Metal.
A Useful and Serviceable Article, £2los.
A. SAUNDERS.
FREETRA.DE PRICES.
NO ADVANCE YTHATSOEVER.
fti_ _ r*rvff*nr\ Qr\+ Pure Silver Plate on White Metal, extra Chased and Finished, £8 15s.
lea a»nCL OUlloU Dt! b, We seU these at London cost, saving the purchaser 25 per cent, to 60 per cent.
Other Designs and Prices, £4 10s, £5, £6, £7, £B, £lO, to 50 Guineas.
JJ®“ Special Prices for Sport and Presentation Committees. ILLUSTRATIONS POST FREE. “®t
X s :
I
'•M'W
i
JS-J.
KXii
'"sf
roS
Sr-
va
»
G*>
/
\T>m
M
m
A. SAUNDERS.
0102.—HOT WATER KETTLE and STAND,
Pure Silver-plated on White Metal, Extra Chased,
£2 10s. Similar Designs, £2, £B, £3los.
• •*? -J, -rff -/ -4 i
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER KNIFE and JAM SPOON,
in Silk-lined Case,
the Very Best Silver-plate, Nicely Chased,
10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Send for Illustrated Price List.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE, Square,
Pure Silver-electroplated on
White Metal, Beautifully Hand-
chased, 21s. Very Useful Present.
A. SAUNDERB.
QS.—CANDLESTICK,
Pure Silver-plated, 8s 6d each.
Similar Designs, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHILD’S SPOON, Silver-plated on White
Metal, in Silk-lined Case, 7s 64,105, 12s 6d.
Solid Silver, 12s 6d, 15s, £l.
<S7
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH, White Glass,
Pure Silver-plated, 3s 6d. Round, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
NUT CRACKERS and PICKS, Pup* Bi>«r-
-electroplated on Nickel Silver, in Silk-lined. Cfese,
Nicely Chased, and Ornamented* 17m W.
Similar case, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAKFAST CRUET, Pure Silver on
Hard White Metal, with Spoons, 10s 6d.
NO ADVANCE. A. SAUNDERS. FREETRADE PRICES.
Cutlery and Plate Canteen,
SPOONS and FORKS of the Very Best Quality on Hard Metal,
Containing Every Article used on the Table (22 pieces), £8 10s ;
other qualities, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O, £25. SEND FOR ILLUSTRATIONS.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE Silver Electro-
plated, Handsomely Chased, 20s;
extra quality, 255, 85s.
A. SAUNDERS.
SERVIETTE RING, Silver-plated,
Nicely Chased, 8s 6d each.
A. SAUNDERS.
LUNCH or DINNER CRUET,
Pure Silver-plated, 21s ;
extra quality, 255, 30s, 355.
Save 25 to 50 Per Cent. A. SAUNDERS. Freetrade Price*.
BELT and BUCKLE, Pure Solid Silver, Nicely Chased, £2, £2 ss, and £2 10s.
Silver-plated, similar patterns, 8s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6d. 13s 6d.
MOST FASHIONABLE.
SAVE Wto 60 Very Best Silver "sted. Blades, 6s 6d^" B styles, 2s
Til tfi| Large Combination Miner s Knife, 7s 6d, 10s.
SAT7NDERB.
FREETRADE PRICES
6d, 8s 6d, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
FIELD and OPERA GLASSES, First-clas*
Lenses, Good Effect, 20s, 255, 80s, £2, £2 10s, £B.
A, SAUNDERS.
JEWELLER and. SILVERSMITH.
A BEAUTIFUL DISPLAY OF PEESENTS AT FBEETRADE PRICES.
Mind, 815 GEORGE-STREET,
NEARLY OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY


Banking, Public Companies, Sco.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.^-i
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.^
ĝ
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3xr.s,^w.
jflont depiete D> I.O.Ltd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
174, CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
' SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
■—Til 15 ->
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with*
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F Burns, Chairman ; Hon. 0. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.LiC. ; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,491,989.
Policies issued 85,372— assuring £26,085,340.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,576,850.
p, licies Uncohditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1. A., General Manager.
file Bank of Borth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director-JAMES BURNS, Esq.
j. p Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... ... *700,000
Capital Paid-up ... £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250 900 ... *350,000
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
OUtERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, api ly to GEO, V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
Belli Zealand Insurance (Jo.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
A “™Ew 81 Pitt St., Sydney.
Tb« TrGst€€s, €*€^Citors,
AND
Ag«OCV Cotfijpaoy Liii)it€d,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
0 0
£BB5B 7 3
5 3
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business)
Amount, at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1901 ... i. 6,388,976
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.O.
JAMES BOIIROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manage!
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
V;* Royal Bank of Queensland
• LIMIT mo.
CAPITAL PAID-UP • • £385,187
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 245,119
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 55,000
£685,306
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Ass. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE : 25 ABCHUROH LANE.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors —Sydney : Sir W. M‘Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks.
Adelaide: L. A. Jessop, Esq. Wellington: H.
BeaUoiiamp, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
]<'\rquhar ; Wellington, N.Z., O. M. Montefiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
131 Pitt'St., SYDNEY. '
Established 1879.
TUB
United Australian mutual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices :
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital .. £500,000
Subscribed Capital .. 251,260
Paid-up Capital .. 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance.
AGENTS REQUIRED WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
Alfred Webster, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
THE BAVING3 BANK IN VICTORIA
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per eent., in sums of £lOOO to £BOOO, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
ana £ QR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector General.
Ingt Bank, M*rk«t ftrwt, Melboutfi*.
Shipping.
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Saturday, Dec. 28,12 Noon.
Konoowarra, Tues., Dec. 31, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., Jan. 4, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer Early
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Steamer Early
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Leura, Saturday, Dec. 28,
Gabo, Tuesday, December
Tyrian, Saturday, Jan. 4,
, 12 Noon
31, 5 p.m
12 Noon.
•GLADSTONE
MACKAY •
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Saturday, Dec. 28, 12 Noon.
Tyrian, Saturday, Jan. 4,12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Port 9.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with ail other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices —Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of Kiner-street.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
&
A.JSTXD
LINS
ğ
San Francisco,
California.
SPLENDID NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS,
SIERRA
SONOMA
VENTURA
Over 6000 Tons each.
8000 H.P.
Length, 425 feet,
Passengers booked through to American, Canadian and
European centres at current rates.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
TIME TABLE
THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE
ġ
THE “ALL RED” MAIL ROUTE
TO LONDON.
THE ROYAL
MAIL
OF THE
STEAMERS
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
Under contract with the Governments of New South
Wales, Queensland, and Canada, leave Sydney every
four weeks as under, for
BRISBANE, HONOLULU, VICTORIA and VANCOUVER.
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
This is the Imperial Route Home, as well as the most at-
tractive. It avoids alike the heat of the Red Sea and the
cold of Cape Horn. The railroad journey between the
Pacific and Atlantic Oceans (Vancouver to Montreal)
occupies about 4 days, and is made
WITHOUT CHANGE OF CARRIAGES,
through the grandest scenery in the world—over the
Selkirk and Rocky Mountains, across the Prairies, and
along the North Shore of Lake Superior.
Passengers have the choice of a number of overland
routes, enabling them to visit the principal cities of
Canada and the United States.
For Railway Maps, Guide Books, and all other informa-
tion, apply to
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
A moui 1 1 of Capi I al payatde by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital
£2,500,000
Musical Instruments, &c.
JJOWARD & CO. repair any instrument.
Queen-street, Woollahra.
A/TANDOLINES, from Is. weekly. Write for lists.
1VJ - HOWARD & CO., Woollahra. ,
BRASS INSTRUMENTS, from Is. week. HOWARD &
CO., Woollahra. Write for lists. '
j\7fUSICAL BOXES and ORGANETTES, from Is. weekly.
-L’J- HOWARD & GO., Woollahra. Write for lists.
~VOU eafi- hang yourself on our VIOLIN and BANJO
f ' STRINGS. HOWARD & CO., Woollahra. Try them.
A BOUT 50 tons of MUSIC @ Id., 2d., 3d. and 6d. each.
Lists free.- HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
A UTOHARPS, from Is. weekly. HOWARD & CO.,
a*- Woollahra. Write for lists.
/~i UNS and RIFLES, 2s. 6d. weekly. Write for lists.
VJ HOWARD & CO., Woollahra. _ .
F jUTES, from 6d. each to 20 gain as. Cash or terms.
HOWARD & CO., Woollahra. \ '
VIOLINS from Is. weekly, 1500 in stock. Write for lists.
' HOWARD & CO., Queen-st., Woollahra.
BANJOS from Is: Weekly, all kinds in stock. Write for
lists. HOWARD & CO., Woollahra. '
A CCORDIONS frohWs. week, 1000 in stock. Write for
A- lists. HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
A NGLO CONCERTINAS, 30s. to £1212s., cash or terms.
Write for lists. HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
TYPEWRITERS, 2s. 6d. weekly, brief and foolscap.
HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
PHONOGRAPHS from Is. week, also other talking
machines. HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
•DIOYCLES from 2s. 6d. weekly. HOWARD & CO.,
-D Queen-st., Woollahra. Write for particulars.
PIANOS and ORGANS, cash or terms. Write for lists.
HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
HOWARD & CO. extend their easy terms all over the
colonies. Queen-st., Woollahra.
TTOWARD & CO., largest time-payment firm in the
colony for everything. QUeen-st., Woollahra.
yIOLINS and FITTINGS of every kind.
HOWARD & CO.,
Queen Street, Woollahra.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and 00., London).
To Natal, Capetown and Condon.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL. CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
Leave
Sydney
at 3 p.m.
Jan.
Jan.
S
24
14
All UIC ituovc ii >
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
Huddart, parfcer & Co’s Qine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HORART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Pares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
KT. 33. L.
(NORD-DKUTSCHF.R LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*Twin screw.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
REGULAR SERVICE to SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. STETTIN, 2478 Tons,
LEAVING SYDNEY ON 20th FEBRUARY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9Bridge-
street, Sydney.
TRICROEOfiy
Publications.
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, By Dr.
ALFRED NEALE. Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
and their Treatment.
Posted Is Id.
Publishers : Turner and Henderson., SYDNEY^
THE BALLET GIRL
ģ
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties,
Madame Panza,^-*
913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
g
Rider Adents wanted
throughout Australia,
one in each town to ride and
exhibit 1902 Model Cycle.
Finest Grades, £2 6s to £4
10s, carriage paid.
’OO & ’Ol Models £1 5s to £2los.
Great Factory Clearing Sale at
HALF FACTORY COST.
Every Machine fully guaranteed
We have a wonderfully liberal
proposition for good Rider Agents.
'Write at once for our bargain
list and Special Offer using
2 y 2 & stamp or id postcard.
f ADDRESS DEPT. 152-C
Mead Cycle Co., Chicago, U.S.A.
Medical.
DRUNKENNESS
or the liquor Habit, Inebriacy, and Alcoholism In any
form) CURED BY EUCRASY. Can be given secretly or
otherwise. Placed in a ctip of tea, coffee, or in food, its
presence cannot be noticed. WARRANTED PER-
FECTLY HARMLESS and easy to administer. It oper-
ates so quietly and with such certainty that the patient
undergoes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware his com-
plete reform is effected. An overdose is harmless, and it
does not impair or injure the health in any wav.
DRUNKENNESS IS A DISEASE, and EUCRASY is a
safe, sure, and speedy Antidote. Write for book of par-
ticulars and testimonials from living witnesses— sent post
free (sealed) to any address, 2 stamps.
THE EUCRASY CO.,
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BA?
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Marloo (from
Melbourne), Tue*d»JT»
January 7.
BRISBANK
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Porta North to Oairng
S.S. Alllnga, Friday, Dec 27-
S.S. Adelaide,
(Oaptain D. P. Davies),
Saturday, Dec. 28.
Jiest and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the'
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and Howard Smith Oo.j
Ld. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. 06. only. Subject to Con-,
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY. _
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd-
royal MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINII
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Maokay*
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Porta.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bril
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, AND FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenger A ecommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, 10 Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at ail Australasian Porta
D AND O. COMPANY’S
" " ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
* Via Hobart.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B 10s to £77
Ditto Ditto Return, £7llos to £l2l
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific, and
Messageries Maritimes Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with tha
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistanca
in landing andpassing their luggage through the
etc., apd also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and (X
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent
“E. AND A.” LINE.
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer. Tns. Commander. [Leave Sydney,
GUTHRIE .. 2500 W. G. M’Arthur .. January 4
EASTERN . '36ooWinthrop Ellis ..'January 26
AIRLIE ... 25005 t. John George.. February 15
AUSTRALIAN .. 3000 P. T. Helms .. March IS
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific and other Steamship
Companies.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD?
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
H)*|liuraith,|||*Eacharn&Co.
PROP. LTD.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS
KALGOOBLIB, 4500 TONS,
COOXjO-.A.IR-IDIIE, 3500 TONS,
SAIL FORTNIGHTLY between
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
West Australian Ports*
Passenger Accommodation Unsurpassed, Liberal Cuisln
MHLWRAITH, M'EACHARN AND CO»,
Melbourne* Adelaide, Albany and Fremant
Sydney Agents—B.UßNB, PHILP & CO. Ltd.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE I
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
ADbßggg.—L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Mfeibot
R POLICY FOR THE Now Ready.
Price 6<1.;
Prated, 9d.
COMMONW€ALTH.
4


Baker and Rouse Proprietary Limited.—
Correctly speaking, this is a scientific warehouse with am
attractive shop front. The premises are divided into-
several departments, the principal of which are—first,,
the photographic department, containing all the many:
and different styles of hand and stand cameras, from the
“ Little Nipper,” sold at ss. 6d., to the costly and high-
class field and studio cameras, running into many pounds-
and including the popular cameras known to the public
as the Premo, Poco, Ilex, Kodak, &e. The next depart-
ment is entirely set apart for cinematographs and all;
requisites necessary for making and displaying animated
pictures. Here are the world-famed bioscope, optical
lanterns, limelight apparatus, lantern slides of intermin-
able variety, and outfits pertaining to every description-,
of lantern work for professionals and amateurs. Then
we are taken to the talking-room, where an extensive.-
display of all sizes and classes of Edison’s phonographs.
Among these is the Edison’s Concert, the latest and most
approved up-to-date machine in the market. In this-
department the most fastidious find records galore to
suit them —songs : sacred, sentimental, and comic , band-
music, piccolos, &c. Baker and Rouse are the largest,
importers and makers of all photographic material in the
Southern Hemisphere. The pearl bromide paper, lantern-
and other plates, photo, mounts, are too well known to--
the Australian public to need comment. This enter-
prising firm has branches in all the States in the Common-
wealth. Their Sydney address is 375 George-street.*
A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
We learn that a most useful Veterinary
Book is attached to every bottle of Condy’s
Fluid. This Book contains instructions for
curing most of the ailments and accidents
affecting Horses, Dogs, Sheep, Cattle, Poultry,
and Birds of all kinds.
Condy’s Fluid is an absolutely certain cure
for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs, Broken Knees,
Grease, Thrush, Cracked Heels, and Mud
Fever in Horses.—Scab, Foot Rot, Fly, etc.,
in Sheep.—Rinderpest, Hoove, Foul in the
Foot, Wounds and Sores, Foot and Mouth
Disease, and Diarrhoea in Cattle. —Distemper
Mange, Canker, and Eczema in Dogs.
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists and
Stores. Beware of local substitutes, all are
inferior. Insist on having Condy’s Fluid.
'N.rs/v
> lemma
UWWV/VWVWWM
<3-0 TO ECELL-
MiOIiANI* for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagci),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
HATS. HATS ■ -ij ■
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
SR.ISBA.KTE.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRAD LEV # CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 Georgs Street, Syiney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
HP&t“ Sales Held at the Auction /looms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
WWMWS
J^AtVOOR
FOR THE COMPLEXION
An emolient, soothing and healing pre*
paration for preserving and beautifying th#
Skin in all climates; it cools and refreshes
the Face and Arms in hot weather, removes
Freckles, Tan, Sunburn, Redness and Rough-
ness of the Skin, heals all cutaneous Erup-
tions and Insect Stings, produces
SOFT, VELVETY SKIN,
Imparts a luxuriant beauty to the com-
plexion and a matchless whiteness to the
Heck and Arms unobtainable by any other
means. It has been known for the last 75
years as the most curative and harmless
preparation ladies can use. Ask Stores and
Chem .sts for Rowland’s Kaivdor, of 67,
Hatton, Garden, London.
SIMPSON’S
SULKIES & BUGGIES
Good Work
Lowest Price
Cash Onfy?
Factory and Showroom: 73 KING STHEET, NEWTOWN, SYDNEY,
POLITICAL
POINTS
Westralian Labor party hopes to win eight
seats at next general election in that State.
Solemn Lee emphatically ref uses to sur-
render the Leadership of N.S.W. Opposition.
Premier See no doubt enthusiastically approves
the decision.
There is said to be another reason for
Lyne’s Parliamentary picnic proposal—a great
irrigation scheme which will chiefly profit his
Federal electorate.
How familiar it all sounds ! Premier See,
of N.S.W., promises to bring in a comprehensive
Municipal Reform Bill next session. And that
same Bill has been going to arrive “ next session ”
any time during the last 30 years.
Macintosh, M.L.A., moved in N.S.W.
Assembly, 27 years ago, that the railway should
be extended from Redfern to Circular Quay. He
had the House with him. It looks as if it will
take another 27 years to carry the line past —er —
Sam Hordern’s.
At last Maoriland general election 79 per
cent, of the males on the rolls voted, and 76 per
cent, of the females. In the two previous general
elections the proportion of females outnumbered
that of the males. Women vote most largely in
the chief cities.
When Snow's tramway-grab was in com-
mittee in S.A. Assembly, Labor-leader Price
moved that employees should work eight hours
only. The Jenkins Ministry and numerous other
alleged Liberals voted with the Tories against the
proposed, the sole supporters being the Labor-
party ! Yet Jenkins is Kingston’s successor !
The number of old-age pensions now paid
in Maoriland is 12,405, totalling £211,965. The
full pension is £lB per year, but for »each £1 of
income over £34, also for each £l5 of property
above £5O, £1 is deducted from the amount of the
pension. The cost of administration for the year
ended March, 1901, was £2,415 10s.. 7d.—very
little more than 1 per cent.
KEEP IN’ UP WITH TIT TIMES.
FRIEND : “ Suppose you’ve cum down for ther
cricket-match?”
BLUEGUM : “Well, no, not alterg ether; a friend
a ’ mine wuz tellin' me about them ere shower
baths; sez the’r splendid things, so Tm
a-goin’ to invest in one.”
President Roosevelt has intimated that he
has not the remotest intention of intervening in
S’Africa. Probably he realises that if the Monroe
doctrine is to be maintained what fragments of a
fleet and army the Republic possesses had better
be kept intact to resist the long-threatened Ger-
man invasion of South America. Anyhow,
Yankee interference in S’Africa would be a
shrieking farce after Cuba and the Philippines.
As the presiding officer of a deliberative
Assembly, and supposed, therefore, to be coldly
impartial, what a contemptible figure the mil-
linered Mason, of Vic., cuts ! On Vale’s More
Blood motion he heckled Prendergast and Murray
from almost their opening sentences ; and when
other members used grossly offensive and unpar-
liamentary language regarding these two and
their opinions, he bade them withdraw, but prac-
tically invited them to say the same things in
Other words.
The Bill authorising the construction of a
railway from Cobar to Wilcannia passed N.S.W.
Assembly, got through its first and second read-
ing in the Council, and then was lost by two votes
on its third reading. Yet it is quite possible that
the line would pay by reason of the low cost of
construction. _ Certainly the Nyngan to Cobar
and Bourke lines, in the same country, are paying
investments, though what they live upon isn’t too
apparent.
Talk of appointing a “ South Africa Day ”
as a perpetual holiday still drifts through the
Australian press. This sort of thing betrays the
fresh young country which has just had its first
scuffle and thinks that the Thirty Years’ War is
nothing to the battle of Pink Hill. If Britain,
France, Italy, Russia, Turkey, Spain, or any other
of the nations that have grown old in harness kept
holiday on the anniversary of each of its victories
there would be no work done.
A year has passed since the beginning of
the Commonwealth, and of all the State Premiers
who were going to immediately reduce the dimen-
sions of their local Parliament, only Jenkins, of
S.A., has kept his promise. See, of N.S.W., is
now “going to give the country a chance to
express an opinion on the question ” ; in other
words, it will be mixed up with 20 other questions
at a general election. In the other States the
painful subject is hardly ever mentioned now.
When the M.L. Farmers’ Union wa3
started the Tories, who thought they saw the
resurrection of the National Ass., were hugely
delighted. At last Seddon was to meet his
match. Now, however, their jubilation A
wanes. So manyare joining the Union
that it is getting quite democratic.
Besides, it is proving a two-edged
sword. One of its avowed planks
is to abolish the middleman. The
Union is to ship wool for its
members, is to buy and sell for them, is to estab-
lish a huge farmers’ land-agency, and is already
cutting in with a co-operative fire-insurance
scheme. So the non-producer, who is mostly a
Tory also, begins to realise that the Union isn’t
an unmixed blessing.
So far as brains and debating power go the
S.A. Labor party in Parliament suffered heavily
by the recent death of F. J Hourigan, tanner
by trade, who for years represented the grimy
industrial district of Hindmarsh. Hourigan was
addicted to Freetrade and other things, and thu3
rarely did his talents justice. At present the
party in State politics is lamentably weak ; and
its leader, Tom Price, a man full of good inten-
tions and earnestness, is so absolutely without
ballast that matters are going from bad to worse.
The sudden Ministries of Australasia (not
reckoning those cases where the same Pre-
mier ran two consecutive Ministries): Atkin-
son (M.L.) and Dawson (Q.), 6 days; Solo-
mon (S.A.), 7 days; Baker (S.A.) and Dutton
(S.A.), 11 days; Stout-Vogel (M.L.), 12 days;
Bell-Sewell and Fox (both M.L.), 13 days; Weston
(Tas.), 17days ; Herbert(Q.), 18days; Hart (S.A.),
19 days ; Ayers (S.A.), 21 days ; Torrens (S. A.),
29 days ; Stafford (M.L.), 31 days ; Fox (M.L.),
3(5 days ; Cowper (N.S.W.) and Morgans (W.A.),
37 days.
“Had there been no Federation, I am
quite sure” (writes ex-Vic. Defence Minister
M'Culloch) “ that the colonies would long ere this
have offered their contingents.” Very likely, in-
deed ; the bosses of each of the Little Pedlingtons,
egged on and stirred up by the Shining Billies
and military gangs and assorted crawlers of their
respective States would doubtless have out-
vied one another in grovel to the sacred source
from which titles proceed. It is not quite so easy
to pull the leg of the Federal Govt., which, as a
more dignified institution, and one not utterly
destitute of democrats, is less addicted to
Wriggling on its stomach to the foot of the Throne.
Considering the awful death-rate in Ketch-
ener’s concentration camps, what need is there for
Australia to send more contingents ? The Boers
in the field are growing old. There are hardly
any births now, for the female population is
mostly penned-up in Ketehener’s concentration
camps. They and their children are dying there
at such an appalling rate that they will be practi-
cally extinct in another two years if the mortality
keeps up—and it is not only keeping up, but
growing worse. There have been 11,664 deaths in
the camps in five months—and when everything
is being settled so comfortably (and so cheaply)
it is waste of expensive ammunition to try to
accelerate matters with the rifle.
, In its yearning after almost anything
humble and foreign that walks on two legs, or
somewhere about that number, the Philp Ministry
is offering special terms to induce a crowd of im-
migrants from Bessarabia to settle in Queensland.
(Bessarabia is a one-time Turkish province in
Southern Russia, somewhere about that neutral
ground where snow and dirt and ignorance and
Islam meet.) What the immigrants want is an
area of land where they can settle down together,
and intermarry, and preserve their own language,
customs, and prejudices, and be as un-Australian
and take as little interest in Australian affairs as
possible. These aren’t the sort of colonists that
Australia wants, but Australia and Philp have
very little in common.
There is this material difference between
the leaders of the Federal Government and the
acting-leader of the Opposition. No Federal
Minister is a manufacturer, and therefore no one
of, them has any reason for advocating Protection
■ unless he believes it is good for the country. On
the other hand MMillan is an importer, and the
importer , lives on the suppression of local manu-
factures, and there are sufficiently obvious reasons
A RECIPROCAL FEELING.
GENT: “Give you sixpence I Why,
I’ve just given sixpence to that
chap with you.”
2ND. BEERY LOAFER : “ Yes, ’e’s just arsked me
to ’ave one 'with ’im, and I wanted sixpence
to return the ‘shout’ with.”
why a man in M‘Millan’s position should advocate
Freetrade, even though lie doesn’t believe it is
good for the country. Barton and eo. are fighting
for a principle which brings them in no income.
M‘Millan, however conscientious, is fighting for
one which happens to bring in a large income for
him and his absentee bosses.
The Federal Parliament has only been
sitting for seven months It had all the machinery
of a new system of Government to construct. It
had to fight Reid’s immensely long-drawn-out
motion of censure. It had to prepare a tariff, and
the idiotic stonewalling of Pumpkin Smith, Con-
roy and Joe Cook (speaking of whom the Sydney
Telegraph said: “ The whole of the ideas con-
tained in this avalanche of verbiage might be com-
pressed into a speech of a quarter of an hour;
Mrs. Caudle was nardly as incessant or as aggra-
vating”) so retarded progress that the ..tari ff is
only half through one House. And now the air
is torn with complaints from the same Telegraph
because the Federal capital hasn’t been found yet.
The Federal Government could hardly select a
site without looking at it, and it couldn’t go away
and leave its party in a minority and its tariff in
the hands of Pumpkin Smith.
Queensland's latest political association .
starts off with this exposition of its objects :
To return candidates animated with an intense desire
to labor in a common love and goodwill to the common
good of our country. We desire to see a contented and
happy people throughout the length and breadth of this
State. We desire to see freewill and free affection among
all our people, and with peace, order and settled and
cheerful industries, blessings will be diffused from day to
day, from year to year, over a smiling land.
Which appears to cover freetrade, free love, free
beer, free labor, the Apostles’ Creed and Deuter-
onomy.
From the Civil and Military Gazette,
published at Lahore (India), where they should
know something about’qur colored fellow-subject:
What the Australians and- Natalians wish to -avoid is
the invasion of traders and artisans, whether Chinese,
Japanese, Malay, or Indian, with whom the white worker
simply cannot oompete. They desire to prevent the
creation of overcrowded and insanitary Asiatic quarters
'in their large towns. They shrink from facing the prob-
lem of the “ colored vote,” and they dread the creation of
conditions which, in the Southern States of America, lead
to crime on one side, and the exercise of a savage justice,
hardly less criminal, on the other. Depend upon it, the
Australians know what they are about in attempting to
prohibit colored immigration. They have the example of
the United States, with its color problem, and of South
Africa, with its difficult native question, before their
eyes, and they* would be fools indeed if they allowed
themselves to drift into the same dangers.
There is just this difference
between the Boer cruelties in
plundering or shooting British
wounded at Brakenlaagte and
the British cruelties in burn-
ing farmhouses and leaving
women and children, without-
food or cover, to perish in*
the bitter night on the-
veldt. The Boer cruelties-
in this matter rest on the-
say-so of their enemies,
and an enemy sometimes-
takes an exaggerated;
view of his opponent’s-
offences. The British
cruelties rest on the
cheerful acknowledg-
ment of the British
themselves, and it is
only occasionally that
anybody takes an ex-
aggerated view of his
own offences.
At last it is pro-
posed to amend Pre-
mier Reid’s supremely
idiotic N.S.W. Income
Tax Act. As Reid
fixed things, a man
pays in 1898—not on
his income for 1897,
but in advance on hia
income for 1898, on the
assumption that it will
be the same as in 1897.
If it is less he gets a
refund ; if it is more
he' doesn’t pay up the
difference. This is how
things work in the case
of the big speculator with
a fluctuating income. Say
he makes £30,000 in 1896 j.
nothing in 1897 ; £25,000 in ’9B ; nothing
in ’99. Early in 1897 he pays for 1897 on
£30,000; in 1898 he gets it all refunded
because he didn’t make £30,000 in 1897
—he made nothing. In ’99 he pays for
1899 on £25,000, because he made that
in ’9B ; in 1900 he gets that refunded,
because he didn’t make anything in
1899. So his average income has
been nearly 1214,000 a year —yet,
because it was a fluctuating
income lie pays nothing
The Act is a marvel of
complicated lunacy. It is
now proposed to make a>
man pay eacli year on his
actual income for the previous
year, and have no refunds —which
simple idea might have occurred to
somebody before.
Item from Reynolds’ Newspaper (L m-
don):
It is a policy. And the most infamous the world has
known. The Boer race is to be exterminated, just as-
English class Governments tried to exterminate the Irish„.
and just as they employed Red Indians to scalp our fellow
countrymen, the American Colonists in revolt against op-
pression and exaction. Unable to defeat the Boers, we-
have made war on their women and children whom, to the
extent of 109,418, we have made pr’s nrrs in unhealthy
camps. Last month the appalling proportion of 2.411 of
these prisoners died, of whom 1,964 were children, a death-
rate of 264 per 1000 yearly, as against the average front 15 to-
-17 in an English town. In the Transvaal camp the death-
rate reaches the murderous figure of 422 eh ldren perlOOO.
So that in a year Kitchener and Chamberlain and Milner
will be responsible for the avoidable deaths of 23,568-
young Dutch people, victims of the unhung financial
scoundrels who have engineered this dastardly and<
humiliating war. Between June and September we have.-
killed 5,209 children, whose homes we first destroyed by
fire. What, a “bag” for a nation of Pagans, cynically
pretending to be Christians ! Since Miss Hothouse s re-
port the hcrrror has grown. The children are being done-
to death. No Boer race is to be left. The world stands,
paralysed before a crime so gigantic.
The Federal Government’s duty of 15 per
cent, on agricultural machinery and ot! er iron-
work lias already brought forth fruit for the.-
1 a,boring classes. Last week 70 additional bands,
were taken on at the Clyde Works, N.S.W., and:
much larger additions to the staff are expected.


The AEOLIAN
THE is realiy a solo
orchestra brought within the
home and can be played by
every member of the family. It
opens up the rich field of orchestral
music to every one.
As its technical capacity is un=
limited, it enables the player to
execute every note of the score—
an achievement which it is next to
impossible for two hands to ac-
complish.
While the >Eolian has techni-
cal powers immeasurably beyond
those of the most skilful techni-
cian, the performer is complete
master of the expression.
This Is the secret of
fascination. It is responsive to
the player’s every feeling.
The great popularity of the in Country homes is a
pertinent illustration of their practical value. In these retreats
away from musical entertainment, an provides the
pleasure of hearing any composition one’s mood may call for
any time , with the added pleasure of producing the music
one’s self.
The iSolian is sold at no other
address in Sydney.
Send for Catalogue
trations and
G
containing Illus-
full particulars.
Henry M. Birge & Co
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
323 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
THE VICTORIAH
GOLD JUBILEE
18S1"BBNDIOO”1901
EXHIBITION
A GREAT AND SUCCESSFUL JUBILEE
.... OF THE ....
DISCOVERY OF COLD IN VICTORIA.
Marvellous Combination of Art, Science,
Produce, Manufactures and Invention.
Magnificent Collection of
1000 Pictures.
Object Lessons in the Material
Progress of Half-a-Century.
THE VARIOUS COURTS PROVIDE A
LIBERAL EDUCATION IN
THEMSELVES.
The MANUFACTURE of RAW PRODUCTS
SHOWN IN ALL ITS PHASES.
Picturesque Gardens, Shady Fern and Palm Walks.
Music, The Biograph, Waxworks, Tower of
London, and Miscellaneous Entertainments.
The Great Electric Railway—A Cycle cf Delight.
a Exhibition Jrt Union
£2500 in Prizes.
Ist Prize. £lOOO in Cash.
2nd Prize, £600 —£250 in Cash and a Picture valued
at £250.
3rd Prize, £l5O in Cash, and a Picture valued at £250.
4th Prize, a Picture valued at £loo.'''
EIGHT OTHER PRIZE PICTURES.
Tickets at all Stores throughout
Australia.
TO BE DRAWN PRO RATA AT THE CLOSE OP THE
EXHIBITION IN MAY NEXT.
GEO. V. ALLEN , General Secretary.
S.A\ Govt, proposes to spend a million in
constructing an outer harbor at the entrance to
Port Adelaide river in the effort to recover some
of the trade which the State’s lethargy has lost m
the past. French boats now go straight from
Fremantle to Melbourne, and the German liners
only call occasionally.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwiae, pcrhapa sur-
rounded with inflammation and awollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees arc swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and FILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, 1/1 Jd. per b’X. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
HOLD TOUR CASE
WELL
IN
HAND
m
ĝ
CATARRH Causes DEAFNESS
Buy Ramev’s Itledtcator and
prevent this. “A Sovereign
Remedy” for half-a-sovereign
post free (remit by postal note#or
coin securely wrapped and
registered). Treatment includes.
Medicator, Inhalent to last tour
months and Nasal Ointment.
20-page booklet, “ What is
Catarrh?” and treatment of hay
fever, etc.; post free on request.
Home Catarrh Cure Co., 229-231 Collins St.
MELBOURNE.
Health, and how to Obtain it.
A PUZZLING CASE.
Swelling: in Legs, accompanied by Acute Pains.
CTJRED BY
VITADATIO
35, Castle w-agh-street,
Sydney, 4th March, 1901.
To MR. PALMER--
Dear Sir,—-Some six months ago I was troubled with
very acute pains in my legs which I treated as gout, and
taking di ,'orcnt patent remedies from which I got no
relief, on the contrary gradually getting worse and
suffering ihtense pain, until at last I could not stand on
my feet and had to take to my bed, my friends noticed
the change which had come over me and advised me to
go to the hospital, and with their entreaties arid knowing
how bad I was I decided to go, as 1 would receive the
best medical attention and skilful nursing. After
remaining there for some time I found I was getting
worse, and my complaint seemed to puzzle the medical
men attending me ; so I decided to leave the institution,
and with the aid of sticks reached home and took to my
bed again. About two weeks’ later a gentleman asked
me to try VITADATIO, and said that it had done
“ wonders for him he very kindly sent me a bottle to
try. I found it act at once, and it did me so much good
that I continued to take it, the result being that I can do
without my sticks and am a changed man completely.
I have put fully a stone on in weight since I started to
take the medicine, and I cannot say too much in praise
of VITADATIO and what it has done for me I am
deeply indebted to the gentleman who advised me to
take VITADATIO and the great benefit it has been to
me.
You are at liberty to make what use you like of this
letter. Yours respectfully,
FRED. W. MOODY.
For further particulars,
s. A. PALMER,
18ft Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
&
Those
suffering
from weak
and sore eyes,
and blight, should
SINGLETON’S OINTMENT
Never Fails. Restores Eyelashes.
- ALL CHEMISTS.
AUSTRALIAN ...
STUMPS
highest Cash Prices Paid
to any amount for
o'd or Rare Stamps,
Used or Unused.
The First
Australian Stamp.
■
1 ' r Sale—The Largest Stock of STAMPS, ALBUMS, etc.,
the Southern hemisphere.
G J/TH & RICOLLE, ll Hunter-st., Sydney.
I A Sydney editor, lamenting the “Aus-
tralian accent,” bewails the pain which it affords
to the “cultured ” Englishman or European, don-
cherknovv. If that doesn’t affect a reform, what
will ?
ğ
i I do not ask you to spend
money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Yitus’
Dance, etc. All I ask of you
is to SEND for a FREE
Bottle and to try it. I abide
by the result. A safe remedy-
approved by the Medical
Profession.
H. G. ROOT, 28,Endsleigh
Gardens, London, N.W.
Tails. Plaits,
try orders.
m
FRINGES, Best Natural Curly Hair, 3/6, 5/6,
7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each. TAILS - and PLAITS,
20in. lona-, 5/6, ; Extra Thick, 7/6 ; 24in.,
10/6 ; Extra Thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings Worked Up, 2/6 per oz.
Don’t be misled. Our Plaits and Tails are
twice as thick as sold elsewhere at same
price. Send Color of Hair. “ Only ONE
Address”:— W. H. WIGZELL,
1,10 WILLIAM-ST., Corner of Palmer-st.,
Sydney. Cable trams will stop at door. All
work guaranteed Illustrated catalogue
post free. Prompt attention given to coun-
Wigs made on shortest notice.
A
USEFUL
CHRISTMAS
PRESENT.
THE NO. 3
FOLDING POCKET
KODAK
FOR PICTURES 3} x 4J INCHES.
toads and Unloads in Daylight.
Slips into the Pocket.
Price £4/7/6 Only.
Kodaks, All Prices, from 6s. to £8 18s.
SEND FOR PRICE-LIST AND MENTION
THIS PAPER.
KODAK LTD.,
284 Collins Street,
- MELBOURNE.
* CALLA6NAN
SHOE
THIS SHOE IS PHOTO
GRAPHED FROM STOCK
FOR
LADIES
s
'
-rfi
Constructed with as
much care and accu-
racy AS IF MADE
TO ORDER for
each and every
Customer.
12/11 ; post paid,
Special design in our own
Shoe, made of American
glace-kid, with an up-to-date
stylish toe-cap of patent leather,
and having the newly-fashioned
Collarette, as shown in the engraving.
13/6.
m i I'i
13s?
CALLAGHAN BOOTS OR SHOES can BE EXCHANGED If not correct,
as we wish DISTANT customers to be as pleased as those in town.
&& Your money RETURNED if you4ire not satisfied with the Boots.
Others have ordered.
Have you?
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 George St., Sydney


WOOL. PRODU CE. GRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
A-CT AS SBLLIW G- BROKERS OTVTL.Y.
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (f) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
'"(lncluding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-'
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
will be 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb : 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
, under ... Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing 1 . Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT.
Ev;ry inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by the Company.
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent when
desire 1 giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
Mitchell’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills, Buncle and Sons’ Chafifcutters.
Donald’s Patent Woolpress.
AGENTS FOR McDOUC-ALL’S SHEEP DIP.
LondonTailoring Depo
u
g
||othing Succeeds [ike Appearance.
UP-TO-DATE STYLE FOR UP-TO-DATE PEOPLE
The Suit
To Order
42s
With
Extra Trousers
Holds the Commonwealth’s Record
..FOR..
STYLE, FIT * FINISH.
Send for Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms to our only address —
OPP. G.P.0., BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE.
Che jtfosi Refreshing 2>rink in JTusiralia .
“Montserrat
Lime-Fruit Juice
ai>d Cordials . . .
(TRADE MARK)
The LANCET says:— *• We
counsel the public to drink
Li > e-t ruit Juice whenever and
wherever t ey list, tis a far
more wholesome erink than
any form or Alcohol.”'
“ M nts:rrat” Lime-Fruit Juice, either with water or aerated water, is a
delightful thirst quencher.
Sole Consignees—EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON.
EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
Agents:—E'liott Bros., Ltd., J. Connell & Co., Sydney; D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
S. FREEMAN SONS I*
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
POWDER.
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAP OFFICE : WIHTAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
nsrow READY.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK; Price, 4s. 6d.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I*o aOJESIrVET COMII*£ITXXIO]Sr.
WINES <w * 01 SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS
Catalogue
Free . . .
French’s Acting Edition.
ġ
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
Hooks Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
ELECTRICAL
and
MINING ENGINEERS,
&
NOTE NEW ADDRESS!
Taralla Chambers,
109 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE Office: 15 & 17 Queen Street.
DAPTO (Lalie
m
(MM IT ED).
Illawarra).
near SYDWTEY.
SMELTERS.
• • •
REFINERS
<!
ws
MAKERS OF
S. Co, of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
ILL AWARRA”
nBKAND OV*.
SOFT LEAD,
, HIS of all olasses of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS' SWEEP REPINERS of SILVER LEA J BULLION
HIGHEST PRICES PATH FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all iufvnuatiou regarding Rates, etc., apply to P. S. MoksK, Manager, Th* Smelting Company of Australia. Ltd., DAPTO, N.3.W.


aanNoods
HBjQ.
SPOONERS
v
*
$
..mm* w*9+mm
I ATtXT LEATHER BOOTS
CUZED AfOSW
‘i'jk **l
»••« •••****
•*<*«*>«**
rrssaiM
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning: anil Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
I’ll Try It”
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Qapilfarine
Posted (tinder cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand
Price, ICs. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Result
CFtAIG &• AITKEN, N.s.w. Barber’s Supply
House, 680-682 CEOB3E STB j jTi SYP'<SY.
A Modern Scientific Triumph, the
“ELECTRICON”
The first ami onlv absolute s.fe and successful
means e\er per ocr.ed to apply pure .Metallic Galvanic
Electricity direct to the ears, permanently curing
and completely banishing all distressing
HEAD NOISES
by restoring natural life, strength and activity to the
affected parts of the ear and to the nerve of hearing.
Simple—harmless—positive. Cure guaranteed or no
expense. For full information and complete descrip-
tion, address with stamp—
The L. R. VERNON COY.,
6O-64 Hunter-st., Sydney.
LADIES.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FR BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.1., 300 Coilins St., Melbourne
CHARLES READ & CO.,
BUSHMAN WATCH
■■
nr
m
MBEHM
WillruoforZO years*
4s
m
Camden Buildings,
418 Ceorge St, Sydney.
Three Doors from,
Strand Arcade.
A Saving of
25 per cent.
JEWELLERY,
SOLID SILVER GOODS,
SILVER-PLATED WARE
Write for 80-Paged Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
COPE’S NAVY CU T and PRAIRIE FLOWER
(SPECIAL MIXTURE)
.0/ As supplied to the ARMY and NAVY.
TOBACCOS
Manufactured in England.
Agents—Virgoe, (Son and Chanmnn
FALIERE’S PHOSPHATINE
PHosphatiheSM
FAUERES
The Only
Food
containing
Phosphate
of Lime.
For INFANTS and
INVALIDS.
AN ESSENTIAL REQUISITE IN THIS COUNTRY.
ARE YOU BALD?
CAPILLA
Stops the Hair from falling 1 .
Stops the Hair from going grey.
Promotes a luxurious growth of Hair.
Eradicates Dandruff and Cures Itching
Scalp (both of which are sure signs of
approaching Baldness).
Don’t Look Old Before Your Time !
CAPILLA HAIR TONIC is not a highly-perfumed preparation—it is
a MEDICAL TREATMENT for the Scalp and Hair.
CAPILLA is the ONLY Hair Restorer on earth that is actually guaranteed to CURE
BALDNESS (providing there is a slight down on the scalp). Testimonials and full direction for use
enclosed with each bottle. Sold in one size only—2/6 per bottle ; by post, 3/2 ; inter-State, 3/5 ;
pr the Full Course of 6 bottles for 17/2, inter-State, 19/2— under cover. Stocked by all up-to-date
Chemists and Storekeepers.
W. RICHARDS,
Sole Proprietor and Manufacturer,
168 Pitt-st., and 14 Imperial Arcade,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TAKE 3KTO SUBSTITUTE.
m
m
Ss
A/
if'
*
//
Crozine Blacking
Is the best dressing made for all bright finished leathers.
It is easily applied with a cloth, and produces a polish that is unequaled for brilliance
and permanence. Men / women, and children who use “ Crodne ” once want “ Crozine ”
always, a=> ic is .he most'satisfactory waterproof dressing made for ah vaxieties of shoes.
Sold almost every where. Made and guaranteed only by
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS, Boston, Mass., U. S. A.
iimiin
HOTELKEEPERS!
MAKE YOUR OWN
rpHE “AUSTRAL” AERATED WATER MACHINE occt
pies only Four Feet Square, will produce 150 Dozen per day f
Finest Waters (LEMONADE, GINGER ALE, SODAWATER, )
at a Cost below Fourpence per Dozen. This machin
supersedes all others for SIMPLICITY and USEFULNESS, as .1
requires no skilled labor to work it.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
214-216 Queen-st>, MELBOURNE.
1
’I
Dr. Clarkson’s Electric Btelt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the.blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Beit has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any, other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy and 1 causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Dosing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr.OLARKSON’SRE-INVIGORATOR
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs Is truly wonderful.
** THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC.
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. fid. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
CALL OR WRITE— (]) "\7\7" I_*
CUT
RATE
DK.TJG STORE,
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
ģ
PLAIN NOM€ TALK.
KM BRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1200 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of > oung and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men anu
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future,,and wishes, to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to d'ispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1901 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
clOth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted to any address for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking- made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
! Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
I How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Dove and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic, Is 6d, post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illusl, Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevassf.’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
Balzac's Droll Stories, Is 3d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather hound, my price, 15s post paid.
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s Od posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Pa, Ma and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Metal Working, Brazing, etc., Is 3d.
Send for my Illustrated Big: Book
Catalogue-poet free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
A PROGRESSIVE DIETARY, unique in providing nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers of YOUNG INFANTS from
birth upwards, and free from dangerous germs.
The ««Allenburys”
The “ Allenburys”
Milk Food No. i
Specially adapted to the first three months of Ilf*.
Milk Food No. 2
Similarly adapted to the second three months of Ilia.
Complete Foods,
STERILIZED, and
needing the addition of
hot water only.
The “ Allenburys” Malted Food No. 3
For Infants over six months of age.
To be prepared for use by the
addition of COW’S MILK,
according to directions given.
No. 3 Food is strongly recommended for Convalescents. Invalids, the Aged, and all requiring a light and easily digested diet.
The London Medical Record writes of it that—“No Better Food Exists.”
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING Free on application to the Wholesale Depot, 584, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.
Cheapest House in Australia
EDISON
PHoniGSJpas «■< REcasns
REEVES & CO.
KINO WILLIAM STREET, ADELAIDE.
“BIJOU,” with 6 Records .. £1 17 6
EDISON “ STANDARD,” with 24 Records .. 5 IO O
EDISON “HOME,” with 30 Records.. .. 810
COMBINATION A 1 “ GRAND,” taking both
Large and Small Records, with 12 Records,
6 Concert Records, and Large Horn IO 10 O
EDISON RECORDS, English and American, 20/- perdoz.
CONCERT (s£in.) RECORDS .. .. 60/.
Send for Catalogues containing 5000 Selections to
choose from. Illustrated Catalogues of Electric Fans
(complete with Battery, £5), Electric. Bike Lamps, Flash-
Lights, Scarf-Pin Lights, Vapour Bath Cabinets, etc.,
Free.
Records can be posted to any address, postage 1/6 per
dozen. Machines carefully packed and forwarded to anv
part of Australasia.


Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER ....
Take
REUTER’S LITTLE PILLS.
For all LIVER complaints
He Endured Much.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills Banish
His Ailment.
Mr. Samuel Cole, a resident of VVoodend, Vic.,
furnishes us with an instance of endurance. He
writes, expressing his gratitude. It is best told
in his own words:—“l have much pleasure in
writing to tell you of the many benefits! have
derived from the use of your Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills. I have been a great sufferer for some
time with indigestion and biliousness, for which I
tried many patent medicines, but received no
benefit from any of them until I used your pills.
I commenced their use by taking them according
to directions, and found, after taking three doses,
that they had made a great difference in my
health ; however, I continued their use, and have
now used several bottles, and can honestly say
they have cured me of indigestion and biliousness,
as I never have an attack now. Since using these
pills I have recommended them—and even given
them—to many, and the results have been good.
You may use this letter, as all I have stated in it
is the truth, and if anyone would like to know
what my case was like, I will be only too happy
to tell them.” Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are
a perfect blood purifier, and a positive cure for
biliousness, indigestion, constipation, headaches,
sallow complexion, liver and kidney troubles,
piles, pimples, boils and blotches, and for female
ailments. Sold by chemists and storekeepers,
Is. l|d. per bottle, or six bottles 6s. 6d. Sole
proprietors, The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd. (Aus-
tralasian Dep6t), 58 Pitt-street, Sydney. Packed
in amber bottles, and the full name blown
thereon.
If certain people get their way, Mr.
Thaddeus’ picture “ The Obedienza,” representing
the present Pope receiving the allegiance of his
Cardinals, will be hoisted into N.S"W. National
Gallery at a high price.
At Adelaide ’Varsity commemoration, this
year, a new experiment was tried with the under-
grads. They were allowed the use of the hall for
an hour beforehand, and amused a large audience
with a four-act “low comedy.” in which the
Chancellor figured as “the all-mighty Atom,”and
the Vice as “ Blinky Bill.” They then sat coin-
par itively quiet through the official programme,
only rustling newspapers whenever the Chancellor
spoke, and finally shying all the papers at an
unpopular graduate, who was knee-deep in ’Tisers
and Registers at the finish.
The agitation on the part of various title-
howling State politicians to send State contingents,
in defiance of the Commonwealth authority, to
S’Afriea was practically incitement to rebellion
against the Australian Government. Yet almost
all the State Premiers were in it, and John See,
of N.S.W., was the only one who showed a proper
sense of his position by publicly repudiating the
movement. If Kanaka Premier Philp had started
to gather his State contingent the Federal authori-
ties might have looked upon it as the assembling
of that threatened “ Planters’Army,” and acted
accordingly.
“Piles and Their Cure.”—The pamphlet
by Albert Sharp, entitled “Piles and the Way to
Cure Them,” without operation, sent free, on
application to the Sydney Depot, 257 George-
street.*
TO CURE SORE EYES.
Apply Morris’s Imperial Eye Ointment, and
avoid intense suffering. Never be without it.
Over 50 years in use. Refuse all substitutes.
Pots, 2s. ; sold everywhere.
THE AUSTRALIAN OEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send ti.eir parcels direct to him. The firm hO
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarant m
that they will be honorably treated. A trial pa Y
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
Inter-State Championship Band Contect.
SOME INTERESTING PARTICULARS.
The Band Contest Art Union, which is bei-g
extensively advertised just now, is conducte 1
under the auspices of the Band Association of
N.S.W.— the only body of its kind in the Com-
monwealth. Contest takes place Sydney Town
Hall, Jan. 25th and 27th. Prizes value £350.
Art Union drawing comes off Feb. 26th. First
four principal prizes : Gold Cornet, £lOO ; Victor
Piano, £5O; Kimball Organ, £25; Nauniann
Bicycle, £2O. (By the way, there are some
“ melting moments ” awaiting that gold cornet )
Price of Tickets, Is. Half profits divided amongst
public hospitals ; this in proportion to tickets sold
locally in each district and State. Mr. J. F. Brace,
Hon., Sec., 305 Pitt-street, Sydney, will supply
private purchasers or intending agents on appli-
cation.*
ar
■
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole "Wholes le Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
■ rr- ■\
A UNIQUE FACT.
The
On which W. Martin won the Austral was the same machine on which he w'on the A.N.A. Wheel Race the
A.N.A. Gold Stak s, the 8-Hours Wheel Race Druid’s Wheel Race, and established Australasian paced
records for the J hour to the hour. The above is a proof of the staunchness, reliability, and easy-running-
qualities of the Red Bird. Be sure you inspect the latest Red Bird before you decide to buv. " °
WE OFFER EASY TERMS.
Goold Bicycle Co., 64 King Street, Sydney
Branch,es in every State.
Hardy’s
Absolutely Pure;
Tintara Wines
Fully Matured; 700 Medals, etc.
Adelaide:
CURRIE STREET
Melbourne:
COLLINS STREET
Sydney:
grosvenor street
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Some figures to be noted in considering the first
test match surprise. Of the seven Englishmen who had
played in tests against what was practically the same
Australian team in ’99 one man, Hayward, scored up to
his average, viz., 68.8 for 7 innings. At Sydney in the test
he made 69. The other six batsmen—Lilley, Maclaren,
Quaife, Tyldesley, Jessop and Jones—scored altogether
255 runs, as against their aggregate average of 163 in the
English tests of ’99. But on the English grounds Jones,
with a record of 26 wickets for 25.23 runs apiece, was far
a id away the most destructive bowler, Trumble and
Noble taking only 28 wickets between them at somewhat
greater cost. Australia has to find a bowler, slow or fast,
to fill the place of the deteriorated Jones.
As for the Australian batting, it can be expected
to do much better next time. The awfully-defeated
Eleven were all of them tried in three, four, or five of the
last tests in England, with the exception of M‘Leod, who,
playing in only one match, had the luck to get 198 for
only once out. Their aggregate average was 3Si, or more
than double what they put up last week. They didn’t
meet any of Maclaren’s principal bowlers in the English
tests, and that’s where the doubt arises. Are Blythe,
Braund and Barnes better men in Australia, with excel-
lent fielding to support them, than Rhodes, Young,
Hearne and Lockwood proved themselves on English
wickets against Australian batting 2J years ago ? All the
evidence, direct and indirect, forbids the supposition that
Blythe and co. are specially good. Their Sydney success
looks phenomenal in the light of the fact that Gunn,
whose English county average last season was better than
that of Blythe or Braund, has been a bowling failure thus
far.
The combination of the three bowling B’s, with
wicket-keeper Lilley, was extraordinarily successful. The
four men, after scoring 188 runs, among them, had all
to do with the dismissal of 14 Australian batsmen, whilst
the other 6 wickets also fell to the same bowlers, with
outside assistance. It isn’t likely that the same combina-
tion will ever be so effective in another test match.
• * * *
N.S.W., for its match with Victoria, depends
on the team which beat Maclaren’s men last month, and
the side is a “ paper ” certainty. But, after the recent
test-match, cricket prophesies are off.
* m * •
One item which is made much of by test-match
critics is that Maclaren can teach Australian captains to
place the field for particular batsmen. But a cricket
skipper of any worth always is guided by the bowler in
placing the fieldsmen. Actually no man now in Aus-
tralia can equal Trumble in this respect. Witness Hay-
ward’s downfall in the Englishmen’s only innings. Hill
was fielding on the boundary to stop the Surrey man’s off-
driving. The bowler deliberately moved Clem. 20yds.
further round, and sent down a ball which Hayward tried
to belt to the vacant spot. He only managed to hit it
into the air, and was caught the second ball after
Trumble had laid the trap.
* • • •
“Game Leg ” : The slabs of butter bestowed on
Maclaren for his “magnificent handling” of his team in
the big match are characteristic samples of newspaper
grease. When a losing side fails to get more than 170
runs in either innings, and only three bowlers suffice to
do the trick, the captain of the conquerors has a soft
thing on. Tactics came very easy to Mac because the
longest Australian partnership produced no more than 86
runs.
* ♦ * *
The springy enthusiasm of young Blythe re-
minds one of Lohinann jn the days when he and
Briggs used to take the Australians down. Blythe’s
incidental comments are refreshing, and his delight at
surpassing his previous highest score—l2—in a first-class
match suggests that if perchance he manages to make a
50 innings against a test team he will have to dance a jig
before resuming play. There are more unlikely things
than 50 by the ingenuous Blythe. He is one of the im-
proving sort, and he isn’t hampered by scientific con-
siderations or nervous regard for his previous average.
* * * *
Seeing that Harry Trott, through ill-health and
suspension of his civil service pay, was lately compelled
to file his schedule, it would be a graceful act, for the
M. 0.0. and Maclaren’s eleven to arrange a two-davs’
benefit match for the Australian ex-skipper. The Eng-
lishmen against 15 juniors selected from the Melbourne
clubs would draw a lot of gate money if played on the
big ground. And it wouldn’t hurt the M. 0.0. members
to waive their free-admission claim on such a special
occasion.
* * * *
A writer in London Referee offered some good
advice to the young new chums of Maclaren’s team—“ to
do as little as possible of entertainment, and spare all the
recess they can to getting round the country.” “ I can
recollect,” says the writer, “ several fine young fellows,
circumstanced as will be some of this last cricket
company, who saw as little of Australia as
they might. When they might have been up
the country—plenty of opportunities offering—they were
doing lawn tennis-parties and such, and came back
to the Motherland with about as little knowledge of any-
thing outside cricket grounds, clubs, hotels, or the houses
they were invited to as if they depended on an illustrated
guide-book.” By the way, how are Maclaren’s lot putting
in their spare time ?
• * • •
Rounds in all grades of Sydney cricket com-
petitions ended Saturday. Most of first section contests
were interesting. Sydney declared innings closed with
6 wickets for 35i, and then sent Glebe men back in a pro-
cession for 64; aboriginal Marsh and M‘Beth doing all the
damage. Former got 5 for 31, and latter 3 for 31. Up
against Burwood’s 373 already accumulated Redfern re-
turned home with a fine win—mainly due to Blue and
Hume’s great stand for fifth wicket. Blue hit up 131.
That Central Cumberland is certainly North Sydney’s
Nemesis was again evidenced, despite latter’s big com-
pilation of 347: Centrals won by 3 wickets and 84 runs.
Farquhar got 137. Leichhardt-Balmain, still in a winning
vein, made light of Waverley’s 350 by scoring 380 with 8
wickets. Meares contributed 122. Leichhardt-Balmain
and Paddington are now together—top of the list. There’ll
be no more first-grade matches till the 11th prox.
* * * *
Young Punch’s aggregate in second-grade
cricket last season will take some licking. Playing for
North Sydney he compiled 1180 runs. This sure comer
is a son of Mr. Frank Punch, one of the famous aquatic
family of nearly a quarter of a century back, and of which
“ Jim,” the most genuine and liberal sport of his day,
was the eldest.
* * * •
A.J.C. monthly meet on Saturday bristled with
set-backs. Heavilv-supported Purser for Villiers Stakes
this Thursday went out at “evens ” for the Flying Han-
dicap, despite that 14 others started, but after showing
the way into the straight he closed up and finished fifth.
Well-backed Undaunted in Grand Stand Stakes couldn’t
at any stage go the pace set by The Watchdog and
favorite Caledonia, who won. Golden King’s win of
Holiday Handicap was an eye-opener, in face of his poor
showing at Rosehill a week before. Klimbo, winner of
Flying Handicap, also shaped below ordinary at Rosehill,
as did Juinda, who, at Randwick, literally smothered his
field in Highweight Handicap. Such remarkable reversals
of form surely call for some explanation, and they’re so
common, too—everyday occurrences now.
Hon. H. C. Dangar’s 2-year-old Euston annexed
Nursery Handicap at Randwick Saturday in the game
manner that promises well. Euston is by Grafton from
St. Catherine, bv Marvellous from Catherine Wheel, by
Fireworks, and owns much substance, as is the case with
most of his sire’s get. Present owner secureu Euston for
130 gs. in September last.
* » * *
Advent of new racing club at Belmore (Sydney)
has brought down the wrath of'autocratic Kensington,
which decrees that bookmakers, trainers, jocks, and nags
operating at Belmore. shall be left there, and there alone,
for good. Jockeys,'trainers and dwners have since met
and formed an association. Meanwhile, the Belmore
people are going on wffih their spec., and sporting men
stand by watching deveflopmenus.
• ♦ • *•
Q.T.C. m'eet, last week, panned out profitab’y.
Prize-money totted up £3470. Owner of Derby, Stanley
Plato winner, and second in Cup (Narella), closed on the
biggest haul—£o3o. E. Miller (first in the Cup) gathered
in £450, while Little Tartar’s success brought £3OO to Mr.
Naple’s pocket. Most successful jock was \V. 11. Smith,
who used to ride Merloorlas and was voted a duffer
(though he always won when wanted) by the same sec-
tion that wouldn’t stand Yankee'jock Ames. With 11
mounts, Smith scored four wins:
* * • •
The ups-and-downs of a racing nag’s life ! Blue
Mountain-Paraphrase hurdler Parrakeet went for Bgs.
in Melbourne last week. “ Tedtfv” Knight first secured
him for 80gs., and, after winning’-two races, sold him for
30Cgs. to S. Miller, who, finding his spec, a big loss,
shunted the load on to J. Edge for'6ogs. or 70gs.
• * * * WF T 1
Nearly all the S.A. racing owners are striving to
force the hand of the S.A.J.C., the demand being three
more days’ racing—one day each for Port Adelaide,
Tattersall’s, and Gawler. S.A.J.C. committee at first re-
plied that this was impossible for “ obvious reasons,” and,
on being pressed to explain, said that the existence of the
totalisator would be threatened if more days were sought
from Parliament. The owners flatly deny this, and have
asked for a more favorable reply, ominously requesting to
have the question settled by a date that is just before ac-
ceptances are due for the S. A. J.O.’s New Year meeting.
.*'* J
Premier pony of M.L. is Blue Paul by Seaton
Delaval from Miss Leger. T’other day (humping 9.10) he
got away comfortably with Takapuna Second Pony
Handicap in 1.0. Other starters had heaps of weight
from him.
* * * *
“Outlaw ” : Casually informed by my milkman
that out of four ss. tickets taken by him in Tatt’s. sweeps
in Oct. he got a £lO cash prize, a £2O do., and a starter.
Record run of luck ?
* * • •
“ Visited Cobham stud the other day,” writes
an Australian to The Bulletin from London, “ and re-
newed acquaintance with Trenton, Ahercorn, Merman,
Bill of Portland and Aurum. Aurum’s stock are the most
promising of the lot, and the little fellow himself looks
more like a dray-horse than ever. The climate does not
appear to have agreed with Abercorn, and Trenton looked
brighter when I saw him put up at the St. Alban’s lot-
tery sale. Merman is going to get a good show, which
Trenton has not yet had.”
* • • •
For the English racing season just terminated,
Carbine is the 13th on the list of winning sires. Much
lower down are such expensive stallions as Orme (500g5.),
Melton (500g5.), and Isinglass. Carbine’s first season’s get
are now but four-year-olds, yet hecomes out with 11 winners
of 22 races, worth in all, £6670. A bit of luck next
season will put him right up among the first flight, for all
his stock have improved with age.
* * # m
Plugger Bilrmxtin’s retention of tip-top form
and health is a flat contradiction to the alleged breaking-
up tendencies of athletics as a constant occupa-
tion. Bill is nearer 50 than 40 and is now as good
as (if not better than) ever before. He was confident all
along and knew that a hard run race would, bar accidents,
see him first home. Initial mile was slow and caused him
some anxiety. With two laps only to go all doubt left
him. At bell sound he jumped out for a clear run, and,
always holding a bit up his sleeve for possible challengers,
won as recorded. Though never extended, in the last lap
reaction set in at the finish, hence his collapse. Martin
at list, is lighter now than at any previous time during
his Australian career. His success is largely due to total
abstention from intoxicants, and getting to bed early—a
system which he rigidly follows.
* » * *
“Gate” (£1307) for last day of Austral meet was
the biggest known for Melb. Cricket Ground and a record
for the “ Austral.” No cricket match (international or
otherwise) ever drew that sum. This year’s venture kept,
up to the previous three and brought a profit of £lOlO
• * * ■*
Bulky bikist Smyth had another cut at amateur
records on’Sydney Cricket Ground, t’other morning early,
and knocked the mile figures out. Paced by motor tan-
dem he made such tremendous pace in the second half
that, if he had begun at that gait, instead of displacing
the local record only the world’s half-mile best would have
gone. Smyth’s ride occupied lmin. 43 3-ssec.—-11 3-ssec.
faster than the speediest that preceded it. New times
are also brought into existence for the quarter, the half
and three-quarters. Smyth is a big, beefy chap of perha s
16 or 17st. His latest figures will want some wiping out.
But he had better stop before he bursts his boiler.
• * • *
English pace-follower A. E. Chase topped all
bike feats by covering 100 miles in a fraction over
165mins. on the Crystal Palace track (London), Nov. 9,
and beating the previous world’s best for 3hrs. by 20mins.
and 126yds. In two hours he got over 72 miles 990yds.,
10 miles better than anything previously done. The 100
miles was thrown behind in 2hr. 45min. 20 2-ssec., and,
going on for the three hours, he finished with the grand
total of 108 miles 1026yds. New world’s.records credited
in this ride are—sl miles, lhr. 22min. 21 3-ssec. ; 55 miles,
lhr. 29min. 5 l-ssec. ; 60 miles, 1 hour 37min. 27 l-ssec. ;
65 miles, lhr. 45min. 58sec. ; 70 miles, lhr. 55min.
44 2-ssec. ; 75 miles, 2hrs. 4min. 7 3-ssec. ; 80 miles, 2hrs.
12min. 29 3-ssec. ; 85 miles, 2hrs. 20min. 53 2-ssec. ; 90
miles, 2hrs. 29mins. 10 3-ssec. ; 95 miles, 2hrs. 37mm.
14 2-ssec. ; 100 miles, 2hrs. 45min. 20 2-ssec. ; 101 miles,
2hrs. 47min. 7 l-ssec. ; 102 miles, 2hrs. 48min. 56 4-ssec. ;
103 miles, 2hrs. 50min. 42 3-ssec. ; 104 miles, 2hrs. 52min.
25 3-ssec. ; 105 miles, 2hrs. 54min. 6 2-ssec. ; 106 mil-s,
2hrs. 55min. 47 2-ssec. ; 107 miles, 2hrs. 57min. 27 3-ssee.;
108 miles, 2hrs. 59min. 5 2-ssec.
» » * •
The developments of the last Austral meeting
have produced a possibility at which th'e strongest bike-
pusher turns paie. Dr. Springthorpe -wrote to Melb.
Argus last week : “ I deem it right to state that if this
alliance between gambling, greed and sport were an
accomplished fact, much as I value my position as a vice-
president and trustee of Melb. Bicycle Club, my resigna-
tion would be inevitable.” It-evidently doesn’t strike
little Dr. Springthorpe, in his v.p. and trustee capacity,
that he is partly responsible for the bad character of the
“ sport ” he apparently hasn’t been watching for years.
* • • *
First swimming championship of N.S.W. this
season was the “quarter” at Balmain, Saturday.
World’s mile record-holder Read,'owner of all Austra-
lasian championships Dick Cavill, schoolboy champion of
the continent Corbett, and ex-N.S.W. premier Craig were
of the six starters. Craig set a breaking-up pace for 150
yards where Read got in front, and stayed till the end,
winning by 15 yards ; Cavill finished second, and Corbett
third. Read’s time (5.42) wipes out previous world’s
bests—Nuttall’s (professional) by 7J and Jarvis’ (amateur)
by 9sec. Oavill’s figures (5.49 3-5) are a shade worse than
Nuttall’s and 1 2-ssee. speedier than Jarvis’. Only three
finished. Looks now as if Read will scoop all the big
plums this season bar the 100 and (if Lane strips) the
220. Dick Cavill and Corbett shook a deal at the post
(latter was in his first big race), otherwise they might
have done better. Read tackled it like a veteran, though
still in his teens.
» * • *
Fifth Australasian A.A.U. Championships were
decided at Auckland (M.L.), Friday and Saturday last
week, and, as anticipated, the banner stayed with M L.
It didn’t look beforehand that any individual State had a
hope against the Maorilanders at home, or that all
Australia’s teams banded together, as constituted, would
succeed in bringing supremacy away. Points credited to
contending teams at the close were M.L. 8, N.S.W. and
Victoria 3, and Queensland 1. M.L. did most execution
on the second day, for points after the first batches of
premierships stood at—M.L.,3; N.5.W.,2; Victoria, 1 ;
and Queensland nil.
* * * «
First day (Friday) of Australasian athletic
championship meet, at Auckland (M.L.), saw standard
figures beaten four times, so- 120vds. Hurdles, 15 4-5 ;
Putting the Shot, 41ft. ; 3m. Walk,' 22.21; and lm. Flat,
4.29. Victorians had things to themselves in the Running
Broad Jump. First struggle was the Mile, which M.L.
rep. Simpson won in 4.29—the best Australasian thing
for years. Second day’s big features were Moir’s (Vic.)
and Simpson’s (M.L.) running—former closing on the
sprint double (100 and 200.vd5.) and latter the
3m., easily knocking the Australasian record end-
ways, and demonstrating that, pushing, he would
have displayed startling distance-running capabilities.
M.L.man Smith’s 59sec. for “ the quarter ” hurdles is only
l-ssec. slower than the world’s best, and, as he won with
10yds. in hand, it’s probable that, with a pacer, he would
have made a new record. Wentworth’s (Q.) half-mile was
splendid, equalling the Australasian best, and this after
running out alone through the last 300yds. Altogether,
13 “ standards ” were broken in the nine supremacies
contested. All competitors in the 100yds. and placed
men in the “quarter” hurdles qualified for these honors.
* * • *
Wild Irishman, Denny Moloney, and Mat
Mitchie bruised fiercely at Sydney Golden Gate A.C. on
Saturday night. Denny took home the loser’s whack of
the takings. After two rounds of tough slogging the police
waded through the gore, and wouldn’t let the struggle go
another minute. Mitchiewonon points through knowinga
bit more than Denny, who couldn’t get out of his own
way, and on occasions helped Mitchie by charging
blind-eyed on to his left duke or into an elbow. The
swaying mass of man round the square was beside itself
with excitement. Denny says he’ll “larn” a bit more
of the business and pulverise the ex-silver digger next
time.
» * * *
Happenings in connection with the Starlight-
Scanlan scramble at Sydney Gaiety A. 0. t’other day
point to Tut Ryan having a probable big pull over
Armidale pick-and-shovel man M‘Coll in their engage-
ment next Monday. M‘Coll didn’t do better than make a
draw (some contend he was beaten) with Scanlan, though
the verdict went M Ooll’s way ; and Starlight with his
half-a-century of years is far from being first class. For
Tut Ryan, recently heavy-weight champion of the conti-
nent, to go under to M‘Coll will be another overwhelming
proof of the deterioration of the Australian bruiser.
* * • *
Yankee middleweight, Jack O’Brien, has struck
it rich in England. Perhaps a dozen fights have ended
his way inside as many months. On one occasion he
settled two in one ring, and he isn’t a top ringer at that —
so far has England’s pug. prestige dropped. Latest mail
tells of another win from Jack Scales in lmin. 20see.,
which swells the ’Murkan’s bank balance by a few hun-
dreds, and paralysed the big crowd looking’on.
“ The Great Unwashed ” —the North
Sydneyites.
The World’s News, a new Sydney weekly
issued from the Sydney D.T. office, came to light
last Saturday in a somewhat dishevelled state.
Type-headings (they should be smaller), type-body
(it should be larger), and ink (it should be darker)
all give room for criticism ; and it is a mistake to
have in a paper, which presumably wants to be
the Australian Bits, “editorial” matter. All
this notwithstanding, the World’s News shows
the work of discreet and skilful scissors. It is a
very big penn’orth, and, with better typographical
treatment, it should rapidly supplant throughout
Australia most of the imported Bits publications.
The serial magnetic observations com-
menced by the Antarctic ship Discovery on leav-
ing Capetown have revealed an error of four or
five points in the Admiralty magnetic charts
supplied to mariners to show the variation of the
compass. That means that any navigator relying
on the chart at the spot where this error occurs
would be steering nearly half-a-point out of his
course. This fact will not be “ known ” officially
until the observations have gone to London to the
hydrographer, who may not work the thing out to
a certainty for the next two years. There is ho
doubt, though, in the minds of the Discovery
magnetic observers on the point, and they antici-
pate being able to correct southern magnetic
matters considerably as they go along.


ALWAYS
SOMETHING
NEW.
This is an expression which we hear everyday
from observers of our windows.
Gold-Mounted Mother-of-Pearl Links, IQ g QQ m
set with Turquoises 1 ''J
Gold-Mounted Smoked Mother-of-Pearl Links, 35/ =’
set with Opals . '
Gold-Mounted Mother-of-Pearl Vest Buttons, set with Turquoises, .. £ll OS set of 6.
Gold-Mounted M6ther-of-Pearl Vest Buttons, set with Opals, .. •• £4 4S set ot o.
Gold-Mounted Smoked Mother-of-Pearl Vest Buttons, set with Opals, £4 4S set ot e.
Gold-Mounted Opal Pen Holders, 3 O/- Silver-Gilt Opal Pen Holders, 10/6 and 12/6
Gold-Mounted Opal Tube Brooches, IS/-, 17/6
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY CO.
187 PITT-ST., SYDNE\
(Next Shadier's Cafe).
For Racing, Touring, Business.
THE MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLE
Is superior to all others. Every detail is of the finest quality Eesnnjjs, Crank Mechamsm, Handle Bar
Adjustment, Frame, etc., embody all the latest ideas in scientific construction. The MASSEY lequires no
guaranteed, Terms are Arranged to Suit Customer’s wishes.
WEST AUSTRALIAN DEPOTS: Hay Street, Perth; and Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie.
BRANCHES throughout N.S.W., Victoria, South Australia, Queensland, New Zealand
w
PIKE BROS.
Brisbane. Townsville. London.
7. . RENOWNED SPECIALITIES .. .
SUPERIOR READY TO WEAR
INDIAN TROPICAL CLOTHINC.
Exceptionally well cut and highly tailor-finished.
Made to our Special Order and Measurements in India.
FINEST ASSAM SILK
COAT and TROUSERS
COATS—Single, D.-8., and Norfolk shapes.
42/-
INDIAN TWILL FLAX
COAT and TROUSERS
COATS —Single, D.-8., Norfolk and Patrol shapes.
A Perfect Fit ensured by customers sending Height, Chest, Waist and Insid
Leg Measurements.
B3T Write for New Illustrated Catalogue (Commonwealth issue) and Samples.
17/6
i
?\.n 3ey
3tem
Che jYS.W.
fresh food & Jce Co. <£td.
SYDNEY
5
HY endure the scorching heat when
you can obtain grateful relief in our
Ice ? We can supply it delivered at
your nearest Railway Station or
Wharf at reasonable cost. Our Ice
is packed in boxes specially constructed to pre-
vent waste in transit. It is made from distilled
water. Absolutely pure, like all our other goods.
• « Price of Ice, carriage prepaid, furnished
on application.
« « Ask for a copy of our General Catalogue.
Eradicates Scurf.
Promotes Growth.
HAIR
Prevents Hair Falling.
Contains no Dye.
The population of the elevated and
fashionable suburb of North Sydney didn’t
wash last week or the week before. There
was a break-down in the water-supply
arrangements, and some hot and embittered
citizens had no water in their houses for 120
hours at a stretch, and only an occasional dribble
at other times. Consequently the best society
had to have a dust-bath or dry-blow itself, as in
the old days at ’Hannan’s Find and White
Feather.
Right-Angle : Re Closer Settlement in
N.S.W. Along the route of the proposed, Tern ora
to Gunbar railway it has been demonstrated that
the settler cannot make a living on thousands
of acres. Conditional-purchase land originally
assessed at £1 per acre is being re-appraised at ss.
Yet in the face of this damning evidence the
local railway league is booming these same re-
appraised areas for the purpose of getting a line
from the Commissioners. Tank-sinking has met
with but indifferent success. The country,
especially that portion between Yalgogrin and
Bygo, known as the mallee scrub, has what the
professional tank-sinker calls “rotten bottom,”
i.e., porous clay. On the edge of the great belt of
mallee scrub last summer settlers had to cart
water 12 miles ! Deserted selections may be seen
all along the route.
It transpires th it the statement made in
the House of Reps., that the reports of Barton’s
Protectionist demonstration in Melbourne were
sent to the adjacent States at the sp chilly iovv
rates applicable to Federal Parliamentary news
and such matter, while the reports of Reid’s
Foreign-trade demonstration were charged the
higher press rates, is the usual impudent fabri-
cation. Both reports went at ordinary press
rates, and as the papers which paid for the
messages must have been fully aware of the fact
when they printed the statement, it doesn’t look
like a case of mistake, but rather of plain lie.
In Yic. Assembly last week Premier
Peacock battled hard for his proposal to raise the
salary of influential C. A. Topp from £lOOO to
£1250 on his appointment as sole Public Service
Commissioner. Finding the House antagonistic
to the rise, though it had nothing to say against
the selection of the man, Peacock tried to work
his point by suggesting that the £1250 should
apply to Topp’s case only, future Commissioners
to be placed on the £lOOO mark. And as this
weak compromise didn’t seem to impress them,
Peacock in despair offered to add a clause to his
Bill by which Topp’s pension would remain on
its previous basis. But the House was obdurate.
The extra £250 per annum was refused, and the
Labor-party sang inwardly, “a little bit off the
Topp.”
RINGS
LADIES' RINGS
ENGAGEMENT RINGS
DRESS RINGS
Half-Hoop Dianranii
Eram. £& ffiau.
Every kind of Gem Ring we make on the.premises.
Why do we trouble to do this ? BECAUSE
We save our customers 26 per emit, of middlemen s profits.
We buy the gems unset in quantities and at the lowest prices.
We have old world ring-makers who do the finest of fine work.
GEM RINGS.
All Diamonds .. from £5
Diamond and Sapphire ~ £3
Diamond and Ruby ... „ £3
Fairfax & Roberts
23 HUNTER STREET
Jewellers,
(ONLY), SYDNEY.
Federal Premier Barton made practically
his first Sydney speech since his Government
policy was declared, at the opening of Beale’s piano
actory last Tuesday. He defended his Cabinet
against the attacks of the Sydney morning papers,
;]aimed for it a useful record of work, and disclosed
- he fact that the Defence Bill is to be “ hung up ”
until its provisions can be discussed with Major-
teneral Hutton. Mr. Barton ably defended the
ariff policy of his administration, and pointed to
lie opening of Beale’s factory, and to many other
incidents, to show how industry was being en-
ouraged. A few words, artfully served up as a mere
postscript, on the contingent subject, farmed the
most interesting part of Mr. Barton’s speech.
He claimed that Australia should stand
lO its declared policy of helping “ the
Empire,” but disclosed the fact that he
‘waited for an intimation from the Imperial
Government that further help was needed or
icceptable ” ere taking action in "regard to the
atest cohentingent. He had “felt as much
temptation as anyone when he saw certain state-
ments in the German press,” but had waited the
ifflcial assurance that reinforcements would
he required. He didn’t get that till last
Saturday and he was very glad to get
it. Speaking somewhat vaguely, Mr. Barton
then went on to say, in effect, that if the
mppply of men offering was largely in excess of the
present demand he would be ready to send more
than the 1000 agreed upon. The 1000 then is only
i feeler. Jingoism, afraid of a repulse, suggests a
mall number first., but, if more are willing—well,
lie cohentingent may yet be 5000.
A member of N.S.W. State Legislature
who attended the execution of the sex-maniac,
■ lames Campbell, on Friday at Sydney, requested
the reporters not to mention his name, as he did
not wish it known that he was present at such a
function. His name will be published in the
Gazette as having witnessed the hanging. It is
safe to say that if every M.P. had to witness one
ixecution and one flogging, Parliament would be
much less ready to vote for the institution, ex-
tension, or continuance of such useless brutalities.
Sydney Evening News, ever a keen
observer of how the cat jumps, now sees the end
of the Jingo fever, and comments on the proposal
to send another Cohentingent
There is no blinking' the fact that the introduction of
the military spirit into Australia has had a most un-
settling effect. The time has come to speak out and
straight- Many of the Australians who have served, and
are serving, in South Africa, represent the flower of the
manhood of the Federation, pioneers and workers in the
task of development, the progress of which means so much
to a young and resourceful country: The smell of powder
often unfits men for the pursuit of civil occupations. . . .
The dispatch of a single good citizen from Australia at a
time when all the enerm.es of our manhood are heing
called for by the undeveloped mines and pastures and
farms and industries is a distinct loss -a loss which need
not be encouraged unless the call to the Empire
is sounded. ... To send more men simply because of
the querulous taunts of Continental Anglophobists is
surely neither dignified nor characteristic of “ the insular
Briton,” who hitherto has cared nothing for the jealous
threats of foreigners, but has shaped his course irrespec-
tive of the counsel or criticism of England’s enemies.
This is mixed up with a good deal of loud
Imperialism, but distinctly marks the turning of
the tide.
An easy way to obtain a fortune is to inherit it.
The best searcher out of next-of-kin claims is J. W.
Holdsworth, 101 Svvanston-st,, Melbourne. If you think
you are entitled to unclaimed money you should consult
him without delay. J.W.11. also conducts private in-
quiries, and investigates intricate and secret matters.*
Printed that Australasian politicians
Barton and Heddon excepted—will have to find
their own expenses to the Coronation grovel.
Barton and Seddon are invited guests of the
Imperial Government, and John Bull will pay for
them. The money for the rank-and-file grovellers
will probably also come from Bull —borrowed at
per cent, for a permanent and reproductive
work!
TTIOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
’ ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That isr . . .
“El is’ Kine;-str3et Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
“ SHARPSHOOTINGr
For Sport and War”
g
By W. W. GREENER.
Hits the Mark!
1/- NETT.
If you wish to know how to guard the
Empire—if you are one of those who will
rally round the old flag—read this book.
It teaches all about Rifles and Rifle
Shooting, how to aim and make allowance,
&c., and it contains chapters on Ranges
and Rifle Clubs, with a history of the part
played by the Armed Civilian in the past.
The Best Shilling’s Worth ever Published !
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations for 1/- nett.
Of all Booksellers, or C.W. Buckland, Agent
for W. YV. Greener, 317 Collins St., MELB.
By Special
g
Appointment.
O. H. SMITH and SON,
TRDPJ3AL HELMET
with special air-space,
in white drill, <Ssc. and
in all colors in felt.
10/6 and 12 6
Hat and Cap Manufacturers
and Importers,
302 George-st* Sydney
Sombrero Soft Felt Hats,
All Shades and Sizes.
Soft Felt Hombergs.
In all Sizes and Colors.
Straw Hats. Stetson Hats.
Polo Caps, Military and Naval
Caps, Livery Hats, Clerical Silk
Hats, Etc., Made to Order
The Tourist
Overlander
Racing Man
ALL RIDE
Dunlop Tyres
Owing to their
Speed, Comfort and Durability.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Compliments of the Season
to all Cyclists
from.
The Dunlop pneumatic Ts re C°- of Hus. [td M
150 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY;
AND AT - ' "
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, BRISBANE, and CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z,


New Style 15c. Gold
Brooch, set Pearl*
and Sapphire, £3.
No. FI 08.
oc. Gold Links, 17s 6d.
Silver, 4s 6d.
4)2 GEORGE ST svn»,rv
ĝ
All Goods sent Free and Safe by Post on receipt of
remittance. Write for our Illustrated Catalogue.
<r
Ho. m
9 .«m. ..inks, £1 Is.
Silver, 4s 6d.
New Style 15c. Gold
Brooch, set Pearls and
ituby, £2 7s 6d.
' i . -
j . yi (
-i' . V
--
I
-
- •- I .
X.
tT
.O-J
5713. Fine Quality Pearls and 15c. Gold Necklet of Exquisite Design, £l4 IQs
Others, equally pretty, at £8 10s, £lO 10s, £l2 10s.
Gent.’s Signet Ring,
9<\ Gold, £1 10s ;
18c. Gold, £2 17s 6d.
No. K29Ji. Ilaii'-L’.n Box,
Cut-Glass and Solid Silver,
12s 6d.
No. 247. Oc. Gold Tooth-Pick, 8s 6d ; Solid Silver, 3s.
9c. Cold Safety i’ms, 4s tkl, 5s Od and 6s 6d
(according to size).
No. F 4404. New Design, 15c. Gold Brooch, set
with Rubies and Diamond, £3 10s.
iffV
SIS
IS
No. F 5892. The New F.at Peniil-0 se, Engraved, 90. Gold, £1 7s (Jd.
No. F 1945. 15c. Gold and Pearl set
Hearts and Knot Brooch, £2 2s.
'■ ■
Ko. FIBT2. Magnificent 6-Light Candelabra, In Besl
Silver-plate, £ft 6s ; 3-Light ditto, £3 16s.
No. E 9130. Solid Silver Sweet or Cake Forks, 8£ inches
long, 3s each.
WSI
Massive Silver Cake or Fruit Basket, Saw Pierced and
Embossed, £l3 10s ; others at £B.
No. E 9533. Small Silver-plated Saw
Pierced Sugar Basket, Glass-lined, 8s Gd.
No. E 7168. Best Silver-plated and
Cut-Glass Butter Dish, 12s 6d.
SSBi E
3S t.
No. F 2504. Dinner Gong, Polished Oak Base, Real Horns, Silver-plated
Mounts, £1 128 6d.
No. F 648. Finest Silver-plate on Hard Metai
Hot-Water Kettle, £5 10a.
Nature’s Greatest Health Restorer.
GENUINE TESTIMONY.
Recommends it for Uric Acid Diseases.
“ Netley House, 15, H mr'.etti Street, Cavendish Square, W.
“NURSE BELL begs to thank Messrs. Kutnow and Co. tor the
sample of Kutnow’s-Powdr forwarded to her. After having given
it a fair trial, she is much pleased with it, and will most certainly
recommend it to her patients suffering from ‘ uric acid ’ diseases.”
Liver Complaint Much Relieved.
“ Ballitiamallard, co. Fermanagh, Ireland.
“ Will you kindly forward me a bottle of Kutnow’s Improved
Effervescent Carlsbad Powder. I have used your sample bottle for
a patient suffering from liver complaint, and she was much relieved
after each dose. 1 think it a very good preparation, and very
pleasant to take. L. COLE, District Nurse.”
Lost All Symptoms of Rheumatism
“ The Vicarage, Seaford.
‘ “ Many thanks for sample of Carlsbad Powder. I found after
taking the first two doses that it was most beneficial. I had been
feeling very rheumatic, and, as I have had rheumatic fever, was
rather alarmed, but since taking ‘ Kutnow’ have lost all symptoms
of rheumatism. Have just ordered two large bottles. ... I con-
sider one cannot speak too highly of the grand results attending the
use of vour Effervescent Carlsbad Powder. . . . I am recommending
it to all my friends and patients. SISTER MARIE.”
Highly Approved by Medical Attendant.
“ Belfield, Lawrie Park Road, Sydenham, S.E.
; “Thank you sincerely for the sample of your Effervescent Carls-
bad Powder which I requested you to send me a short time ago for
the use of my wife, who h is been in the habit of taking all sorts of
so-called ‘ fruit salts,’ but which she has now discarded in favor
of vour Powder, as she finds it far more beneficial, without, at the
same time, producing the excoriating effects which she used to
experience from them. I may add that her medical attendant, a
man of considerable practice in Sydenham, highly approves of her
Use of your Powder. J. DENNY (Clerk in Holy Orders).”
Good Effect on the Digestive Organs.
“94 Westminster Bridge Road, S.E.
««j bare already used your excellent preparation, and am assured
that, had I done so years ago, I should have been saved an infinitude
of suffering from a derangement of the digestive organs. No saline
in the market can be even approximately compared to it as a
pleasant, efficacious, and absolutely painless laxative. The stomach
must be beyond human aid that would not benefit from its use.
“T. S. LAWRENCE.”
Considered Excellent for the Liver.
“ Roos Rectory, Hull.
“ Thank you very much for sending me a sample bottie of your
Powder. It was owing to a friend having given me a dose of the
Powder, which I thought did me good, that made me send you the
order. I intend in future to keep a bottle by me, as I feel sure that
it is an excellent medicine for the liver.
“E. MILSOM.”
Unequivocal Approval from a Medical Journal.
“ The MEDICAL TIMES and HOSPITAL GAZETTE ” says
“ S. KUTNOW and Co. exhibited an IMPROVED EFFERVESCENT
CARLSBAD POWDER, which is manufactured from the genuine
Sprudel Salt from the Carlsbad Springs, the unpleasant taste of
which is very effectually disguised, whilst its aperient action is not
impaired. It is a most palatable and very efficient preparation, of
great therapeutic value, especially in hepatic and stomachic de-
rangements.”
KUTNOW’S
POWDER
(Days I |f|eans to Health
“ Follow the healthful laws of life, and you will avoid the
calamity of disease.”
The continuity of good health is necessary to the busy man,
but the worry of responsibilities and the every-day difficulties
tend to produce derangement of the system and mental aberration.
The wealthy man with leisure is ordered to a Continental Spa,
but to thousands of business men this remedy is impossible. By
the DISCOVERY, however, of KUTNOW’S improved effer-
vescent Carlsbad POWDER, all the advantages obtained from
a course of-Continental Medicinal Spring Treatment are
acquirable AT HOME FOR A TRIFLING EXPENSE.
If you are robust and strong, KUTNOW’S POWDER will
maintain and preserve your health. If sick and languid,
KUTNOW will cleanse you of all impurities and restore vitality.
If diseased and suffering from painful maladies, KUTNOW will
lay the foundation of speedy recovery by promoting a rousing
activity of the freat organs of the body. It cannot possibly
prove harmful, is absolutely safe, palatable, a perfect organic
cleanser, and THE SAVETY VALVE Oh HEALTH. By its
aid man becomes himself again, lives, breathes, and enjoys his
being, eats well, sleeps well, and works well. The stomach
resumes motility, the liver roused from lethargy, the kidneys
renew their filtering activity, and the whole system is cleansed
and restored to its normal functions.
KUTNOW’S POWDER is sold in capsuled bottles by all
first-class Chemists and Medicine Vendors everywhere. See
that the Registered Trade Mark, “ Hirschenspiung” (or Deer
Leap), and the autograph facsimile signature “S. Kutnow ,&
Co Ld ” are on the label and carton. Only these ensure
genuineness. Insist on “ KUTNOW’S,” and firmly refuse any
substitute —they are Worthless, and often injurious.
A GRAND REMEDY.
“Eradicates Stubborn Diseases.”
The extraordinary complicated diseases resulting from
neglect of precautionary measures pass the wit of man. It
is not the business of Kutnow’s Powder to claim that it can
cure all the ills of mankind from Housemaid’s Knee to
Impeeuniosity. One solid, incontestable fact,' however,
remains in the world-wide testimony of sufferers from
painful and distressing derangements, viz., that
KUTNOW’S POWDER not only prevents disease by its
marvellous cleansing properties, but absolutely eradicates
diseases that have become stubborn through neglect. If in
robust health, take KUTNOW’S POWDER on rising, and
you need never be ill; if ill, depressed, irritable, languid,
or sleepless, take “ KutnoW,” and the trouble will quickly
vanish ; the blood is purified, the heart beats more vigor-
ously, the liver quickens into action, and the kidneys are
regulated into increased efficiency, Thus does the man
become himself again, lives, breathes, and enjoys his being,
eats well, sleeps well, and works well.
Donald Nichol, Esq.,
President of the Engineering and Sanitary Association for
London and Middlesex, wrote:
“I am free to saj’ to the acting authorities of the several hos-
pitals arid infirmaries of which I am a Governor that great benefit
cannot fail to arise by the use of your Effervescent Garlsbad
Powder.”
“Land and Water” says:
“We have seen a letter from the Dispenser of the City of London
Hospital for Diseases of the Chest, requesting further supplies of
Kutnow’s Improved Effervescent Carlsbad Powder, which had been
used in the wards with success.”
Dr. Andrew Wilson says:
“ Kutnow’s Effervescent Powder is a very safe and excellent
family medicine. The use in Gouty and Rheumatic condition, and
in Liver-and Kidney troubles is especially indicative.”
THE SUPREME REMEDY EOR ALL DERANGE-
MENTS OF THE STOMACH, LIVER, SPLEEN,
KIDNEYS, AND INTESTINES. IT PREVENTS
AND RELIEVES SICK HEADACHE, NERVOUS
HEADACHE, LANGUOR, HYPOCHONDRIA,
BILIOUSNESS, DYSPEPSIA, CONSTIPATION,
MORBID DEPRESSION, INSOMNIA, DROWSI-
NESS, RHEUMATISM, GOUT, SCIATICA, AND
ALL CAUSES OF BRIGHT’S DISEASE AND URIC
ACID TROUBLES. INVALUABLE TO NURSES
BY PREVENTING INFECTION FROM ATTEND-
ANCE IN CONTAGIOUS CASES.
Proprietors :S. KUTNOW and CO., Ltd., 4-1 Farringdon Road, London, E.C. Proprietors in ILS. A;: KUTXOW BROS., Ltd., 853 Broadway, New Yorl


NOW! ■k. THIS IS THE TIME TO SEND ORDERS FOR YOUR
SUITS FOR CHFMSTRTAB.
0. G. HATTE
has enlarged the TAILORING DEPARTMENT and increased the staff to cope with the
trade for the Season.
Gent.’s Tweed Suits —to measure —fit guaranteed, the best value procurable 42/-
Gent-’s West of England Serge Suits, fast colors, perfect fitting— 63/-
(ALSO IN FANCY WORSETS, SCOTCH TWEED or VACUNA.)
Fancy Stripe Trousers— hundreds of patterns to select from— fashionable designs, only 12/6
Also the Latest and Best in Shirts, Hats and Boots.
Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms Free. Having purchased before the Federal tariff
was announced, all our Goods are DUTY FREE.
C. Gr. HATTE, Newtown
The VOLCANIC
/ERATING
MACHINE
. Cr|g
03]^
A GREAT SAVING
. . TO . .
Hotelkeepers, Cafe Proprietors, etc.
lErated Waters of the highest quality
produced with the utmost rapidity
WITHOUT skilled labor.
Absolutel y the best and simplest
Machine in the market.
• PRICES GREATLY REDUCED •
Write for descriptive Pamphlets with testimonials
from people who have used the Machine fo.- years.
W. JAMES, Proprietor
/Office : 101 QUEEN ST., MELBOURE.
\ Depdt : 130 CECIL ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE.
ROBERTS HOIEL YO u enjoy your lunch
George and Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAY.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY.
TERMS, — The convenient
system of paying for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
LETTERS and TELEGRAMS ADDRESSED to “ THE
MANAGER ” will RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
When you come to Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Rooms ; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp—from Is.—and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7.30 —from is.
upwards. Silver grill at work.
innpp- _
If
[Bughtlnflawed EyejWios
Weak Eyes Dimness E t -
CEEEH3
ğ
531 GEORGE ST
E9P. LABEL.
The Greatest Discovery of Modern Times
. . FOB . .
ALL EYE COMPLALNTS
from any cause whatever.
ASK FOR
ROSE’S
Celebrated Eye Lotion
A CERTAIN CURE for Sandy Blight, Granulations, Bunged Eyes,
Dimness of Sight, Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids, Weak Eyes caused by
Dust, Sun-Glare, Overwork, &c., Swelling Blight resulting from stings
of flies and insects.
Used with equal success on the Eyes of Cattle, Sheep, Poultry, &c.
Largely used by Rifle-Shooters and Literary Men.
Testimonials from leading Commercial and Professional Men throughout Australia.
Sole Proprietor . . .
H. A. ROSE
Dispensing
Chemist,
531 George St., Sydney
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
SSTBeivare of Imitations.
STRENGTH for the WEAK
and NERVOUS.
“THE MEDICAL MONTHLY,” August, 1893, says : “The firm of Arthur Hale
and Son, of 105 Regent Street, London. VV., has distinguished itself in the develop-
ment of electrical science as a medical agent. By an entirely new method of applica-
tion they have succeeded in producing an Electric Body Belt, which for comfort,
efficacy, and genuineness, is unquestionably far superior to any previous invention.”
WE INVITE ALL intending purchasers of our IMPROVED and
PATENTED ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELTS and APPLIANCES
to a FAIR TRIAL and-TEST before payment. Call upon us if possible.
If it is not convenient for you to call at our offices, request a friend or an
acquaintance in this city, or one coming from your own town, to do so for
you We will first show you that our IMPROVED and PATENTED
ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELTS and APPLIANCES are genuine pro-
ducers of a continuous GALY ANIC CURRENT by a MOST CRITICAL
TEST with the GALVANOMETER. And if you or your representative
cannot feel the ELECTRIC CURRENT from the GALVANIC
CHAINS in our ELECTRIC BELTS and APPLIANCES, we are will-
ing to place £lO 10s. to the credit of each of any two Charities you may
mention, either in this city or your own town or city.
We most cordially and respectfully invite any PHYSICIAN or
ELECTRICIAN to inspeot our IMPROVED and PATENTED
ELECTRO GALVANIC BELTS and APPLIANCES, which we are
now offering for sale to the AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC.
f V
w
Hale & Son’s Improved and Patented Electro-Galvanic Belts and Appliances are
Nature's Chief Restorers. Our Plain Belt, our Special Belt and Suspensor for Gentlemen,
and our Abdominal Belt for ladies are guaranteed to he the most Scientific and Genuine
Electric Appliances vet produced. They will speedily relieve and Cure Nervous Exhaus-
tion Rheumatism, Pain and Weakness in the Back, impart tone and vigor to the whole nervous
„nri make life a oleasure. We invite all sufferers, no matter what the disease or ailment may be,
to eld or send for our Free Book, entitled, “Modern Treatment of Disease by Electricity.”
Consultation Free. _______
HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists,
105 Regent St., London, W„ and 44 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
& Please mention this paper.
NON-INJURIOUS TO THE THROAT. _ _■
HAND-MADE. NO DUSTY TOBACCO.
<W& Express
CIGARETTES.
(Virginia Grade.)
ABSOLUTELY UNIQUE IN QUALITY.
Of M. RUTTY & Co., 68 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY,
AND ALL THEIR AGENTS.
So i e Manufacturers: ABDATH TOBACCO CO., 44 Worship Street, London, England,
iuyujyyyuuiJUL
mssinn
Dedicated
To the
Tables of
The World
ti&xv <yxJ&
'Z7y-VruS
SA UCE.
AGENTS
VIRGOE, SON & CHAPMAN, and D. COHEN CO.
Sydney.
VINOLIA SOAP
FOR DELICATE, SENSITIVE SKINS.
The Public think Soap is Soap.
So it is—but there’s a great
difference in Soaps. Some injure
the Complexion, but VINOLIA
improves it.
VINOLIA SOAP is Specially prepared
for delicate , sensitive skins, and is acknow-
ledged in every country the Finest Soap in
the World for the Complexion.
HEALTH, STBEHCTH, HAPPINESS
HEALTH
Few recognise the BLTSS of being in PERFECT
HEALTH, until SUDDENLY certain symptoms are
noticed, slight at first, but gradually RECURRING,
causing annoyance and SUFFERING, the individual
being forced to admit he is unwell, and finally compelled to acknowledge that PERFECT
HEALTH is a PRECIOUS BOON.
STRENGTH
What a blow to a man who discovers he i
his STRENGTH and VIGOR, and THAT
a period when he most NEEDS ALL h
and menial capabilities to battle through
are PRICELESS to him. He must by every means endeavor to REGAIN THEM.
s LOSING
perhaps at
is physical
life. They
Does happiness consist in Wealth ? No. Who can
be happy without HEALTH and STRENGTH?
Wealth materially assists the endurance of suffering,
but PERFECT HEALTH, STRENGTH and VIGOR
should be the natural inheritance of EACH individual, and are invaluable gifts, tending to a
haonv existence and long life. THE HEALTHY, STRONG MAN CAN contend, and SUCCESS-
FULLY, with the billows of life. BUT HOW CAN THE WEAKLY AND SICKLY?
HAPPINESS
can be ALL REGAINED.
If constant study, combined
with intelligence and a
thorough practical knowledge of the many ailments to which the human subject is a victim, THEN I SHOULD
he able to achieve that result AFTER THIRTY YEARS’ PRACTICE, enabling me to bring to bear unlimited
and VARIED EXPERIENCE in all ACUTE and CHRONIC CASES of NERVOUS EXHAUSTION, CHEST,
SKIN and SPECIAL DISEASES OF MEN AND WOMEN. PERFECT SYSTEM OF ACCURATE DIAGNOSIS
AND TREATMENT BY MAIL FOR COUNTRY PATIENTS A SPECIAL FEATURE.
Dr. WATSON’S Fee is Strictly Moderate. He recognises the fact that the Public is
prepared to pay a Reasonable Fee for Assured Skill in the treatment of Complaints of
whatever character.
Consultations from lO a.m. to 9 p.m. Daily. ABSOLUTELY FREE.
A “ GUIDE TO DIAGNOSIS X,” Posted Free, 1/-
••&«=»•«=>$••
DR. H. S. WATSON,
Health, Strength and Happiness
(Please Mention
This Paper.)
137 ELIZABETH ST., HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


Among the many recent additions to the
Hotel Australia is a new bar lounge splendidly
fitted in Moorish style and set off with well-chosen
pictures. This bar lounge is the most comfortable
place in Sydney to meet a friend in and to
pleasantly imbibe.*
When the power of reproducing or in-
creasing its species is taken away from an animal,
natural forces work toward; the increase of the
animal itself ; where the species loses, the indi-
vidual gains—it is Nature's compensatioa. Thus
ganders, roosters, and turkey-cocks which have
been eaponized grow much larger than they other-
wise would, and fatten easily. The same thing
occurs with cows from which the ovaries have been
removed ; every particle of food taken is used for
the building up of the individual, none being
required for other purposes. Caponizing instru-
ments may be bought for 16s fid. a set, and spey-
ing knives, for cows, at 4s. fid. each (needles fid.),
from M‘Lean Bros, and Bigg Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-
st., Melb.*
Applications for Editor and Manager of
the “Barrier Truth,” the Labor Paper,
BROKEN HILL.
Applications for the position of Editor
and Manager of the above paper will be
received up till January 7th, 1902.
Applicants to state Salary and forward Copies
of Credentials addressed to
J. W. EDISON,
Barrier District Council of the A.L.F.,
Trades Hall,
Broken Hill.
Protestant Banner, the"organ of militant
Orangeism in Sydney, began its before-Xmas
number with the motto, “Be Patient and
Sweet,” and then proceeds to be patient and
sweet under the following headings : “ Protestant
Employers Beware!” “Rome’s Blasphemous
Teaching,” “The Diabolical Church in Mexico,”
“The Pope’s Curse of 1901,” and soon. “That
Christmas feeling ” is evidently a great civiliser.
Missing Friends.
PERSON knowing whereabout of GEORGE COOKE,
) born in North of Ireland, 1867, last heard of at
| Mount Shamrock Goldfields, Queensland, kindly com-
I municate with SAML. C. OOOKE, Box 116 Arlington,
! Rhodes Island, U.S.A.
! •
JOHN PERROTT BAR WISE.— Last heard
of at Rawbelle Station, near Gayndah, on
: wav to Dawson River, after at Walgett, January,
1880. His sister will be glad to receive any in-
formation that may lead to the whereabouts of the
, above person.
Care of F. M. HART,
New Zealand Chambers,
Queen-street, Brisbane.
LIVING or DEAD ! The mother of Ernest
Layzell would thank any person able to
give her news of her son, last heard of at Oak-
hurst Station, February, 1895.
Address—Mrs. LAYZELL,
c/o Bulletin Office,
214 George-street, Sydney.
Business Announcements.
Warn
N
OTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS,
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s! per Day, pr from 2 Guineas per Week.
OR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE'S
CNLORODYNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Eveiy bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BHOUCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—-
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine 1 should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
22
0
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
KELTS and
AW hi A NCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belisgive a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasinu, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of d fferent app Winces for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Stkket, SYDNEY.
COLLINS’ PATENT PROSPECTING DISH
Has the following' advantages over
the ordinary Tin Dish—
A Flange projects round one half and
and prevents the loss of any metal —
fine or coarse.
No experience is required to use it.
A hoy can pan off as easily as the most
skilful miner.
Double the amount of work can be done
in a given time than with the old dish.
Sold by all Storekeepers and Iron-
mongers throughout Australia.
If you have any difficulty in procuring
the Collins’ Patent Dish in your own
district write to—
R. JOHNSON CLAPHAM
& MORRIS, LTD.
78 Pitt-St., Sydney, and
231 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
Manufacturers under License from the
Patentee.
- •
Mil
SAHITAS
UUgmiiLUMi« n*,i i riiiiflTTn
& "SANITAS"
M fr,v
SANITAS”. "SANITA
OUR TW(I REGISTERED TRADE MASKS.
"SAN ITAS"
NON POISONOUS.
DOES NOT STAIf
DISINFECTANT, antiseptic.
AND DEODORANTcombinec
'APEOPLES HEALTH NATION'S WEALTE
T HE SANITAS COMPANY LIMITED
CREENv LONDON.E.
SINFECTI
FLUID
lh
ALSO
Powder, Soaps,
Sulphur (Fumigating) Candles,
and all kinds of Disinfectants.
“The list of ‘Sanitas’ preparati ns is now so great as to con»-
“prise a complete antiseptic and disinfectant armanuntariiun.
“The composition of most of these- is based on ‘Sanitas,' a
“deservedly popular pleasant, and moreover active conin«rn»b
- LAKCKT, August 24th, U. ( JS, p. 501.
«HOW TO DISINFECT.”
Book sent FREE on application.
OF ALL CHEMISTS, AND
The “SANITAS” Co., Ltd., Bethnal Green, London.
‘ The Best Australian Book of Sea and Sailor Verse.”
The Ways of Many Waters
By E. J. BEADY.
HARDY BROTHERS,
SHOWROOMS
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY; and
118 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE. . . .
Sterling- Silver Card
Case, 70s.
CHRISTMAS
PRCSCNTS
We have an
. . IMMENSE STOCK . .
or
NEW GOODS
OF
#
I'earl and Turquoise Lafei
Pin, 265.
every description
SUITABLE FOR
Christmas
AND
New Year Gifts.
Sterling Silver Photo Frames.
WCPPIN6
PRESENTS
Special Attention
is given to
Pretty and
Inexpensive
NOVELTIES !
in Sterling Silver
and best
Electro-Plate.
Send for
New Illustrated
Booklet.
WATCHMAKERS, GOLDSMITHS & SILVERSMITHS.
Sterling Silver Pm Tray, Bs.
Fine Gold Lace Pin, whole Pearl in
centre, 245.
WASHING and CLEANING done by
Sober, Respectable Woman, City of
Suburbs. Mrs. D., 16 Little Napier-Street,
Paddington.
amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutr.e.
Everv Evening-, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
RETURN TO SYDNEY FOR A BRIEF SEASON,
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S GRAND ITALIAN OPERA CO
BOXING NIGHT, DECEMBER 2(5, FAUST.
FRIDAY. DEC 27, FAUST. SATURDAY, DEC. 28,
IL TROVTGRE. MONDAY, DEC. 30, IL TROVATOEH.
TUESDAY, DEC. 31, LA B9HEME.
Dress Circle and Re erved Stalls, 65.; Subscribe l
Tickets, ss. in books of 40. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas. W. E. Bry< r.
Every Evening, at 7.45. Matinees Wed. and Sat. at
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSa.PS
20th
1901 ANNUAL XMAS PANTOMIME 1902
which will be presented on
BOXING NIGHT, THURSDAY,* DECEMBER CO,
ALICE IN WONDERLAND,
MS’ Prices as Usual. Plan at Elvy and Co.’s.
EMPIRE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
““ Castlereagh-street, next Fire Station, between
Bathurst-street and Liverpool-street.
Proprietors John Fuller and Sons.
BOXING DAY at 2.30 and 8. '
First Production in Sydney of the
PANTOMIME—ROBINSON CRUSOE.
HIS MAN FRIDAY and the GIDDY GOAT.
Grand Pantomime Harlequinade. Ye Olde Englysl.a
Village Greene. Produced by Mr. Walter Rivers.
PRICES—2s., Is., 6d. No Early Doors.
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. . . William Anderson .
EXTRAORDINARY XMAS ATTRACTION.
BOXING NTGHT, DEC. 26, and Every Evening Until
Further Notice, for the First Time in Australasia,
GMRJEED OF GOLD.
PRICES—3s, 2s and ONE SHILLING. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
DALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
‘ Sole Lessee-and Manager, Mr. Charles Arnold.
(Note the Holiday Matinees),
STARTING BOXING NIGHT.
TRIUMPHANT RETURN AND FAREWELL OF
CHARLES ARNOLD
in his Special Festival Attraction,
HANS THE BOATMAN.
THE NEW TARIFF —35., 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Nightly,
wi li Frequent Matiness. EDWIN GEACH, Manager.
Gaiety theatre, Melbourne.
Under the Direction of Maggie Moore.
EVERY EVENING UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE,
MAGGIE MOORE
and ner own
DRAMATIC AND COMEDY COMPANY
in
KILL ATINTEY.
Popular Prices—3s., 2s. and Is. J. E. MOORE, Manager.
OU EEN’S HALL, PITT-STREET, SYDNEY
_ (Opposite Criterion Theatre).
EVERY EVENING at 8,
Montgomery’s Entertainers and- Biograph
Company.
BEAUTIFUL BIOGRAPH PICTURES of
OUR ARMY,
Taken by Special Permission of Sir Evelyn Wood and
the War Office Authorities.
Our Illustrated Songs are Immensely Popular.
PRICES —35., 25., and Is. Plan at W. H. Paling’s
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor .. .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Enthusiastic Reception of
MR. S. HOLDSWORTH
(Direct from America).
MDLLE. NADINE.
LE.QN and KIRK.
ATHAS and COLLINS.
THE 4 RIANOS.
ROY MURPHY, &c., &c.
.Sox Plan at Paling's. Matinees Saturdays & Wednesdays.
RICKARDS’ NEW OPERA HOUSE.
MELJBOURNK.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Mr. RICKARDS’ NEW TIVOLI SPECIALTY COMPANY.
The Marvellous CRACCS (8), Acrobatic Wonders
of the Universe.
Miss PECCY PRYDEj London’s Clever Comedienne.
JAMES The ALLISONS, LUCY
Two of England’s Cleverest Duettists and Dancers.
CHARLES PASTOR, NELLIE RANDALL, LES
LUCIOLES, EDGAR GRANVILLE, THE WILLIAMS
SISTERS, and the Whole of the Great Tivoli Company.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee and Manager .. Blaxd Holt.
EVERY EVENING. , EVERY EVENING.
The Record Melodramatic Sensation,
THE SPAN OF LIFE.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Box
Plan at Allan’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
MAJESTY’S THEATRE, ME, BOURNE
EVERY EVENING,
J. C. Williamson’s Xmas Attraction,
SAN TOY
THE GREATEST OF ALL GAIETY SUCCESSES.
Interpreted by a Brilliant Cast of Popular Favorites
;eiected from the full strength of the Famous
ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan's.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
• Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
EVERY EVENING,
THE GREAT CHINESE-JAPANESE CHRISTMAS
ATTRACTION,
A Unique and Extraordinary
Spectacular Operatic Extravaganza—
ALADDIN.
ALADDIN .. MISS NELLIE STEWART.
Produced on a Scale of Magnificence Unsurpassed in any
Part of the World.
Prices as Usual. TE& Box Plan at Allan’s.
FITZGERALD BROTHERS’
CIRCUS <Sc MENAGKHIE.
THE SHOW OF ALL SHOWS.
MELBOURNE SEASON-1901.
THE GREAT LONDON SENSATION,
THE HIGH DIVING HORSES.
ST. KILDA ROAD, ST. KILDA ROAD,
In a Special Building Erected under the Superintendence
of Mr. DAN FITZGERALD.
THE GREAT JUMPING HORSE,
NEWHAVEN,
Winner of the High Jumping Prize at Bendigo Show,
with the Record Jump of 6ft. 9in.
Will Jump Over 6ft. Every Evening in the Ring.
HAL GEORGE. \
FRANK JONES. /
Reps.
At Poverty Point.
A London lament to The Bulletin : “ One gets awfully
ignorant and blurred over here concerning Australians.
The Court Circular tells me that ‘ Madame Mabel Fitz-
gerald, the gifted Australian mezzo-soprano,’ will sing
with the tenor Lloyd and baritone Santley at a concert
the Queen will patronise—with her absence. Doubtless
M.F. is great, but / never before heard of her. Florence
Schmidt, who has done so well, proved herself (according
to a critic) ‘absolutely lacking in dramatic sensibility ’
in her rendering of the recitative and aria from Gluck’s
‘ Sphigenen.’ Albert Waxman, disguised as an Irishman
Whelan, captured London’s ‘ boss hall,’ the Empire, in
one turn, and was engaged right off. ‘ Wha.vlin ’ did it.
Now A. W.W. stars in a revival of ‘ The Belle of New
York’ at the Adelphi, as he is already hall-tired. In a
gloomy, razor-suicide piece, ‘ Beyond Human Powers,”
by Bjornstjerne Bjornson, with Mrs. Pat Campbell,
young Du Maurier (‘ Trilby’s ’ son), and Dan M'Carthy
(Lillah’s brother), George Titheradge had a part, and
acted it.”
“Maori”: Lauri’s “ Florodora ” gibe (B. 23/11/’01) was
probably not intended either as a slap at Tyrone Power
or at unionism. A comedian’s bread and butter depend
upon his ability to make people laugh, and many actors,
who are good enough unionists at heart, cannot resist
the temptation to make a hit when possible—no matter
at whose expense. That theatrical dog doee eat theatrical
dog is, however, only too true.
Gushing message from Mips Amy Castles to Premier
Barton : —“ Very grateful for your great and generous
goodness to me. Honor fully appreciated.” This was
elicited by Toby’s steps to make a Castles success in
London as much an “ Empire ” matter as possible.
“ Smoko” : Susie Vaughan’s admission that she soothes
her mind with a cigarette, and would love a pipe if she
were a man, reminds one of another veteran comedienne
who is also built that wav. Sallie, in fact, speaks of
Australia as a fine country, where a woman can blow a
cloud without shocking the local Mrs. Grundy.
La Republique Nouvelle (Bordeaux) in its issue of Oct.
31 has a very flattering notice of Australian Lalla Miranda,
and states that her success at La Hague, Brussels, and
Covent Garden has been eclipsed by triumphs in France,
which stamp her “as one of the finest of artistes.”
Some of the warbling girls of Marshall Hall’s Conserva-
torium and Madame Pinschoff-Wiedermann, their high-
priestess, were roused to hysteria by the Age notice of
their matinee performance at Melb.' Princess’s, t’other
Saturday. Ela Russell’s extravagant laudations of
Madame’s nightingales needed a strong corrective, and
the fitful Age critic gave it to them, unsweetened—
“ Many of the ladies sang rather as though the heavy
work of an extended artistic career had left its trace of
wear and tear. We are just as far from asserting that
the students are really overworked, or their voices
overstrained as we are from setting them down as elderly
women ; but it was noticeable on Saturday that they too
often sang like elderly women with over-strained voices.”
The programme of the Conservatorium pupils entertain-
ment was not confined to bits of German opera. The
garden scene from “Faust” was a very successful item,
the Marguerite (Miss Maud Grantham) being absolutely
natural in her acting, and sweet and tender in her
singing. This is the ambitious young artist who thinks
of giving some recitals (A la Dolores) at Hobart next
month, in conjunction with Miss Lucy Barton, the
Premier’s niece. There ought to be a good chance of
success for such a plucky two-girl show.
Those who predicted that the phonograph would never
grow to be a c mvincin: re rod.icer of human voices, or
wen of ins.iu nental music, must confess themselves
beaten by the latest gramophone development. The
Monarch Gi a nophone, which Sykes, of Melb., has just
received from America, is an appalling thing when you
hear it for the first time. The trumpet is bigger than
.hat of any previous gram, sold for any ordinary drawing-
room entertainment, and the vulcanite records are pre-
pared on some new system whereby the full strength and
quality of certain sounds can be brought out. For in-
stance, a dialogue between two nigger minstrels is as
though one of the voices must be coining direct from the
speaker, whilst the other answers it through the trumpet.
“The Lost Chord,” with organ accompaniment, has the
effect of being sung in a rich baritone by a spook vocalist.
A ship’s bells and a peal of bells from a clock-tower have
the ring of truth. But the most wonderful of these im- .
proved records are the result of 'patient "experiment with
Ihim m voice sounds. The time is coming when the
’phone and the ’graph will be brought to such a state of
mutual perfection that a figure reflected on the sheet
will be, to all seeming, the actual producer of the
speech or song which was duly recorded in its utterance.
Singer and song will be “ taken ” together by two dis-
tinct workings of a single apparatus.
Meyerbeer, rehearsing “ L’Africaine,” could not get a I
satisfactory' storm. At last he saw workmen rattling
orick-bats down a shoot. This he adopted for the storm.


Public Benefit by Private
Distress.
A CASE IN POINT.
A STRAIGHT TIP FOR SCEPTICS.
Tl|e Case of Mrs. H. McOONALD*
(by a local reporter).
The betterment of the individual status
is largely promoted by the amelioration of
private distress, and in order to attain auch
ends it is necessary to pay attention to such
remarks as thof-e which met the ears of our
reporter when he called upon Mrs. Helen
McDonald, of Maitland-atreet, Stockton,
Newcastle.
“Is it true that you were overtaken by
great misfortunes, and that you achieved a
complete triumph over them?” enquired
the reporter.
“Yes, you are right,” was Mrs.
McDonald’s reply, as the writer was shown
to a seat. “ I cannot say what was the
cause of it all, but my illness seemed to
come on gradually. My appetite had been
failing me for a long time, as, although I
felt faint for the want of nourishment, and
I had a feeling like as if I wanted something
to eat, yet when I sat down to my meals I
could scarcely touch them. After taking
two or three mouthfuls my appetite went
away, and at once I commenced to feel un-
comfortable, as though the food would not
digest. I used to get an acute pain in my
right side, just under the ribs, and I had a
pain across the brow, which affected my
eyes, and made the sight dull. The sick
headaches which I had every day were dis-
tressing in several ways, as they not only
made me.drowsy and unable to do my work,
but they also brought about a sense of
melancholia, which proved to be the bane
of my life. I have seen people in pain who
could liven up occasionally, but my
maladies were of such a description that
I always felt miserable and depressed, and
I never had the energy to try and shake this
feeling off. The gases which arose from
the decayed food were a great trouble to
me, for they distended the stomach, and
gave me great pain, and there was a fee ing
in my chest as if I was being held down by
an immense weight. There was a terrible
pain between my shoulders constantly at
me, and the sharp agonies in my ribs often
extended to my heart, and caused me awful
sufferings The beating of my heart was
so rapid at times that I could scarcely get
my breath, and I used to think I was going
to choke, owing to a horrible stifling sensa-
tion which came to my throat. When those
heart troubles were on I used to find myself
hot one minute and cold the next, an 1 a
sinking feeling used to come over me which
made me imagine I was g ing to die. I got
a very queer feeling in the head when I
moved about, as if everything was rapidly
moving round and round, and whilst the
giddiness lasted I was quite unsteady on my
feet. Walking was such a difficult process
through the aches in my loins and limbß
that I could not go far, but I was too rest-
less and irritable to remain in bed, although
that was the proper place for me. It was
bad enough to be thereat nights though, as
I never got any refreshing sleep, and the
dreams I had used to cause me to wake up
with a start and find myself all of a shake.
But it was nervousness which brought
about that trouble, and I can tell you I was
in an awful state of fear when I heard any
noise, and my mind was for ever dwelling on
the possibility of some evil event taking
place. I had so little interest in life that if
I went out I did not want to go home, and
when I was indoors I did not care whether
I saw the outside world or not.”
“Did you obtain medical advice,Mrs.
McDonald ?”
“I thought it advisable to see a doctor,
because I was really afraid I had heart
disease, and when the first doctor told me
I was not affected in that way, and gave me
physic which l>d not lessen my agonies,
I thought he did not know what was the
matter, so I consulted another doctor, and
the same experience was gone through.
Then I got such strange turns that my
horror knew no bounds. I felt as if I
wanted to run my very hardest, and at
other times I felt as if I w anted to scream ;
and if I sat in church or in a close room my
heart palpitated so much that I thought 1
would die if I did not get out quickly. A l
the time my flesh was wasting away, and 1
had no strength left. I was ailing like this
for three years, and in that time I was at-
tended by three doctors ; one looked after
me for three months at a stretch, and all
the treatment I had thus received had no
connection with my recovery. I read a
description of a case like mine which was
successfully dealt with by Clements lonic,
and although I had not much faith in
medicines after what I had gonethroug',
yet I thought I would give Clements lonic
a chance; and what a happy thrill went into
my grief-stricken mind when I had taken a
few doses of Clements Tonic ! I shall never
forget it, for when hope returns to a linger-
ing sufferer it is something worth re-
membering.”
“ Were your pains eased by the us® of
Clements Tonic ? ”
“ They were relieved as if the wand of a
magician had touched them. The aches
which had affected my head were the fiist
to go under to the soothing effects of
Clements Tonic, and I soon required food,
as my appetite again put in an appearance.
The heart pains and palpitations which had
caused me so much worry were not long in
being remedied by Clements Tonic, and in a
week or two there was very little to trouble
me when my meals were finished, as the
food did not ferment as it had done, and the
stifling sensations had altogether left iny
chest. It was a great blessing to be rid of
the pains which used to prevail about my
shoulders, and my ribs were just as clear of
their old torments. Clements Tonic was all
the more valuable to me by reason of its
regulating effects on the system generally,
and it Was pleasant to get up in the morn-
ing without being sickened by the bitter
taste which used to pe vade my mouth. As
a specific for welding together the nervous
system I am sure that Clements Tonic
stands pre-eminent, as my shattered nerves
were made as steady as a rock, and my
sleep, which I now got nightly, was never
disturbed by dreams of any kind. The pro-
giess I made was quiotc and sure, for
Clements Tonic gave me a great amount of
strength, and before I finished taking that
medicine I was as well and hearty as I had
ever been.”
“Do you think you were permanently
cured ? ”
“ I am sure of it, because I have not bad
any sickness for the past ten years ; and for
the sake of humanity you can publish this
account of my wonderful recovery in any
way you like. ”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
! I, Hblkn McDonald, of Maitland-sireet, Stockton,
near Newcaetle, in the State ot New South Wales,
Commonwealth of Auetralia, do solemnly i*nd
sincerely declare that I have ( arefully read the an-
nexed document, consisting of four folios, and con-
secutively numbered from one to four, ami that, it
oontains and is a true and faithful account of my ill-
ness and cure by Clements Tonic ; and also contains
my full permission to publish in any way my
statements which I give voluntarily, without
receiving any payment; and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oath*
Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Stockton’, thi9
eighteenth day of October, one thousand nine
hundred and one, before me,
EVAN REES, J.P.
GOOD HAIR FOR ALL!
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
*gT For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quiekly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & Go.
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT
HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, IDS Collins-street, MELBOURNE
THE MICA LUBRICANT CO., SOUTH SHIELDS, ENG.
Lubricants and Packings for all purposes. Patent Mica Grease saves 90% in cost of lubrication, and keeps
bearings perfectly cool. Patent Mica Packings last twice as long as ordinary, and are 25% lighter. They do
not score the rods, but put a mica surface on them, similar in appearance to electro-plate.
EcUgivtJor Australasia: R. A. HERVEY. Depdt, 171 Clarence-st., Sydney, N.S. )V
it
ON OUR SLECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Business Announcements.
(aood Tailoring.
SUMMER
WORSTEDS,
TWEEDS,
SERGES,
&c., &o.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post tree.
David Braham & Go.,
Tailors and Mercers,
73 and 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
Federal
Suits
Busi>
ness
In
All-Wool
Colonial
or
Imported
Tweed,
Navy
Serge,
Blue or
Black
Vicuna
ğ
ġ
Well-Cut
and
Trimmed,
Properly
Tailored
and
Thor-
oughly
Depend-
able
Vour money
back if not
satisfied
Patterns
and Self-
Measure-
ment Forms
postedfrea
To Measure
Extra Pair of TROUSERS
GIVEN WITH EVERY SUIT
40f=
Great Value! Our Famous Ready-Made
Federal Sac Suit
la Good Colonial or Imported Tweeds
all-wool Navy Serge or Black Vicuna.
Any size from 3
to 7, SpecialTailor
made,fitted with Italian
Cloth inings
20/-
Padded Shoul-
ders, in and out
breast and ticket
pockets, etc.
Carriage paid to any address in th# Australian
Commonwealth or New Zealand.
DON Cash Trading Co.
173 a to 214 Johnston Street
Collingwood, Melbourne
iWhen ordering give this number, No. 0123 ,
ARE YOU WEAK,
Low-spirited, Tired of Life ?
Have You utterly failed in Your efforts
to regain health ?
THE LANGSTON REGENERATOR WILL CURE YOU.
Its effects are almost instantaneous, and t e good
effects go on increasing from day to day
ARE YOU A SUFFERER from bad health in any of
its many forms ? Do you feel nervous, fretful, timid,
and lack the power of will and action ? Are you sub-
ject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless,
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy ? Are your
kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a dis-
ordered condition ? Do you feel generally debilitated r
Do you suffer from Rheumatism, Neuralgia, or other
aches or pains ?
Write to-day for the Doctor’s Calendar ; beauti
fully illustrated, and of vital interest to all.
Seek the Truth, it Costs Nothing:.
No matter what you are suffering from, the
REGENERATOR restores the shattered consti-
tution like magic.
address :
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
Cor. RUSSELL and COLLINS STS., MELB.
RI CORO’s
V.V f c “.
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions , regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 128. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope.
Agents for Australasia —PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne ; Wholesule Agents for New South Wales—
Australian Drug Co., Ltd., O’Connell St„ Sydney. All
Chemists, or Box 165, C.P.O.
€V€RY MAN
Should send for a VALUABLE PAMPHLET explaining
how all NERVOUS and ORGANIC derangements may be
SUCCESSFULLY TREATED by a NEW METHOD. It is
EASY and PLEASANT, and will effect a PERFECT and
PERMANENT CURE. Sent post FREE. Address—
THE BOTANIC INSTITUTE, VICTORIA CHAMBERS,
ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
DEAR SIR,—I have been cured of Weakness and De
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBERT
E. PARKHURBT, Pitt-street. Sydney.
BLAIR’S
GOUT It RHEUMATIC
PILLS.
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. ljd. and 2s. 9d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
a
<MJ
by using Wilson’s Com-
mon Sense Ear Drums.
Wonderful Results obtained in
cases considered beyond any
treatment. Soft, comfortable,
and invisible when in use.
Head Noises Relieved.
Pamphlets and Australian
Testimonials Free.
J. CHALMERS, Sole Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
HE
IEAF
am
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Wo-n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. •
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS.
ģ
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English
American and made to order
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, Jcc.
DENYER BROS.. Surgical Instrument Makers
281 CEORCE ST..SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
siil
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles,
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one ot these
Cabinets. Price 20/-
Head and Face Steamer, 4/-
Can be forwarded to any address.
J. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins 31., Melbaur/ia
THE NEW FRENCH REMEDY
THERAPIOIM
This suc-
cessful
and highly
popular remedy, as employed in the Continental Hospi-
tals hy Ricord, Rostan,' Jobert, Velpeau, and others,
combines all the desiderata to be sought in a medicine of
the kind, and surpasses everything hitherto employed.
THERAPEON No. 1 maintains its world-renowned
and well-merited reputation for derangements of the
kidneys, pains in the back, and kindred ailments, afford-
ing prompt relief where other well-tried remedies have
been powerless.
THERAPION No. 2, for impurity of he blood,
scurvy, pimples, spots, blotches, pains and swellings of
the joints, gout, rheumatism* and all diseases fo which
it has been too much a fashion to employ mercury, sarsa-
parilla, &c., to the destruction of sufferers’ teeth and yuin
of health. This preparation purifies the whole system
through the blood, and thoroughly eliminates every
poisonous matter from the body.
THERAPION No. 3, for exhaustion, sleeplessness,
and all the distressing consequences of dissipation, worry,
overwork, etc. It possesses surprising power in restoring
strength and vigor to those suffering from the enervating
influences of long residences in hot, unhealthy climates.
may be procured of the
principal Chemists and
Merchants throughout the world. Price in England, 2s. 9d.
and 4s. 6d. In ordering state which of the three numbers
is required, and observe that the word “Therapion”
appears on the British Government Stamp (in white
letters on a red ground) affixed to every genuine package
by order of His Majesty’s Hon. Commissioners, and with-
out which it is a forgery.
THERAPION
Hypnotism
Reader, why not he able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force oi
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, witn-
out leaving your home. You can per*
form all the many marvellous feats
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain; win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. 1 haye
just issued in book a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For a short
time I wil send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (‘tamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and ham
to Hypnotize. It is a c auce of
a life- time. A ddress—
>3
g
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and Infallible Remedy,
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY*
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write tor treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C-S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.


Ihe method in which the Electoral Re-
vision Courts are conducted in Queensland is a
wild and whirling affair, and the work of shunting
off the names of working men (suspected of a dis
inclination to vote for the Boodle Ministry) has
recently a JP In a western Court
i , *!•-*■•* who had been seven months
from the electorate and who was objected
to as a voter on that account, took his seat on the
Bench, and helped to decide that he was himself
long e residmit'iri It]ed 1 t] ed Then a workman,
becfuso ‘ district, was refused a vote
because the Bench said it thought there was a
dissimilarity m the initial “P.” as signed
on his claim and again on his lawyers authority
c VT tlh ° u §f h tliere was evidence that the man
signed both documents and the rest of the auto
graph was quite similar. And things like that—
hundreds of them—happen all over Queensland
CourtTsit. the d,SßraGeful Ele °toral Revision
WiJliam M‘Millan, protests alto-
gether too much That absentee importers’ deputy
has been solemnly assuring the House of Re™
that it would pay him better in a business sense
to have a Protectionist tariff (which would pro-
bably wreck bis importing business), and conse-
quently he is fighting for Freetrade out of a stern
sense of duty, and to his own loss. All the im-
porters are on the Freetrade side, and we thus
have the beautiful spectacle of the Calico Jimmy
crowd reluctantly admitting that it is nobly sacri-
ficing its own interests and offering up its carcase
on the altar of its country’s interests. P In fact it
sits down and writes its own testimonial some
what after this fashion : some
I have been acquainted with myself for a. nnmU
yeais, and have always found myself honest trustworthy
and in every respect deserving of confidence t n
T' ,riSed : at my my con®
sistent refusal to sacrifice truth to self-interest iSo ”
no hesUation in saying that my word may be accepted in
the most improbable circumstances and in the face of the
strongest circumstantial evidence.—(Signed) ME.®®
EDWARDS’
=321
1
FOR
THE
f
i
THE GREAT
HAIR PRODUCER
AND RESTORER.
The Very Finest Dressing*, Specially
Prepared and Delicately Perfumed
for the Toilet.
"HARLENE”
Produoes Luxuriant Hair, Prevents its Falling
Off or Turning Grey.
UNEQUALLED FOR PROMOTING THE GROWTH OF
THE BEARD AND MOUSTACHE.
THE RENOWNED
REMEDY FOR BALDNESS.
m/m
m
S'/*
'S/M
'■///
For Preserving, Strengthening, and Rendering the Hair Beautifully Soft; for Removing Scurf, Dandruff. Ac. also for
RESTORING GREY HAIR TO ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
.HARLENE” PRESERVES, STRENGTHENS, AND INVIGORATES CHILDREN’S HAIR.
•* i o Full description and directions for use in 20 languages supplied with every bottle.
2/6 and (triple 2/6 size; 4/6 per Bottle from Druggists Ac., all over the World
“HARLENE” Co., High Holborn, LONDON, ENGLAND.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.
Fri o Od.
Business Announcements.
Butter Cooler and Meat Safe.
Reduces the temperature
15 degrees by capillary
action of water.
Price - - - SI- each
Postage, 1/- extra.
ICE-CREAM
FREEZERS
which require no labor,
15/- each;
postage, 1/6 extra.
Send for Catalogue.
Brandt Bros.
ĝ
PITT STJSEST, BVHNEY
And at 422 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
CALVE RT S
CARBOLIC
TOILET
SOAP
BEST FOR THE SKIN and
COMPLEXION.
Antiseptic, Emollient, Refreshing.
Sold by Chemists, Stores, &c.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
Hearae’s Bronchitis Cure*
the famous remedy for.
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA
»» ( 0 “s h **■«
beiware op coughs ?
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION
TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BEIX
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Heame.—Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats!
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my cose to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
... . J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASK
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
It. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold, i
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
. Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
"Mr. Hearne.— “ Katunga, Vio.
“Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cuied her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
I now want you to send at once lour bottles to Eug-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.”
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
••Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.-
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
lam sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much cased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am
dear Sir, ’
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.’
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
Victoria’ dofln S ‘ Mort ' mer > Llenwellyn, Katunga,
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY TT.T.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows:—“As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling 1 quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to <v e t lt made up her6j and ]e( . cheinigfc
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
t ling like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do-send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
mgnt at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always takiim
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the I
V\ ednesday I sent over again, and she was much better
the night s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better She sent for another half-bottle°
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more’ medicine
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Tears’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
*' Sl !v My wife "' as for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried •
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest’
th d fifth CU J ty ° f birthing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain Sir
yours most respectfully, ’ tolr ’
„ “ WILLIAM CROCKETT,
Bakers Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Years’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTT.iI!,
Mr WO. Hearne—Dear Sir,-Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
sir -~ Your 'l'edicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had up
L W mv e J 0U th,S at *"°" l edgment from a sense of duty, .as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
firn! T U «Ki h?d I J een " etfcmfr ver . v '"'fell worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
a , niost Vlo 'ent cough, expectorating blood
Thl fiT f ’ an ? apparently I'eyond hope of recovery,
and Isteed;f,-° f the ln f dlcm T e ffave me welcome relief,
until I ,n,proVed as 1 con filmed the treatment
until I became, as I am now, quite well.— Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney."
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville
Queensland, writes .'-“After suffering from Asthma for
li yeais, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was.induced to tryHearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of ttie Asthma, and since then
which was in the beginning of 1883- 15years ago-I have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
ccred me,and I have much pleasure in recommendinu-it."
Writing again on the 4t,h April, 1899, he statesl
sJ!rs , a. , ss[hS , . , "»- ■».. .... .m.™
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE
BRANCH DEPOT
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong/ victoria.
SmaU Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. sL S by F Chemistf f ydn f y ' Tel, 3562,
J to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food
Infants
9
BENOER’S FOOD Is not only highly -
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BERBER’S FOOD ia told in Tina by Cherniate, Be., everywhere.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
i AND
THE AGED. I


■p'M II 33IUW
« 1 HOONOI “»■»•*« •<{"* **
MS
m
.■iHIWMIIBI
tUMOfI tNV M3AH 'SUttOHI
INI MO tIMMM
114 MiMO 10V 04 Ort*M 4*»o
Mm omv tiMovoviN omo to*»oo
0 *4l mo jMio*»tf»a |l**mO »H 4 OM
■oiiYdusNoo lvnnavH
AAiMifi mu«i na w»*ro 04 »ai
A*ot4»Ml« iOOW 40* 04 OOOMO 0411*10
MIIOOVOI »A«4***l 4H*«0«0»« IH4
KWOrf SlftVltlOOV 100*
iIMWOOP 404*40 4*lH»»*» «•»
JO
K
»/lv>
rt
*1
THIS AND NO OTHER
is the Original and Genuine Syrnp of
Figs, now known everywhere as
CALIFORNIA
Syrup of Figs
THE DELIGHTFUL LIQUID LAXATIVE.
'T'HE pleasant method and beneficial
effects of this well-known remedy,
manufactured by the California Fig
Syrup Company, illustrate the value of
obtaining the liquid laxative principles
of plants known to be medicinally
laxative and presenting them in the
form most refreshing to the taste and
acceptable to the system. It is the
one perfect strengthening laxative,
CLEANSING THE SYSTEM EFFECTUALLY,
DISPELLING COLDS AND HEADACHES,
PREVENTING FEVERS, OVERCOMING HABITUAL
CONSTIPATION PERMANENTLY.
Its perfect freedom from every ob-
jectionable quality and substance, and
its acting on the kidneys, liver and
bowels, gently yet promptly, without
weakening or irritating them, make it
the ideal laxative. In order to get its
beneficial effects, and to avoid imita-
tions, please remember the full name
of the Company printed on the front
of every package.
Ask foi* CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS, and look for the
Name and Trade Mark of the
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO., 31 & 32 Snow Hill, London.
Australian Branch: 7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
Of all Chemists, 1/1J and 1/9.
THE
‘PLUM ’
ġ
THE
‘PLUM’
/'GENTLEMEN. —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
vT like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “ PLUM ” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price
{Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21a.
Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30a.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
Ready November 25th.
PEARS’ ANNUAL,
Xmas 1901^
Will consist of a capital Christmas Story entitled
“Nat Harlowe, Mountebank,”
from the Dramatic pen of the ever popular
and versatile GEORGE R. SIMS.
With 22 Illustrations In Black and White,
Specially Drawn by Mr. Frank Dadd, R.I.
■■ •
With the Above are ...»
3 targe presentation plates
1. WITCHERY. By A. Piot.
2. LITTLE BOBS. By Edgar Bundy, R.I.
3. THE COMING NELSON. By Fred. Morgan.
Each printed, in 13 Colors in the best and most artistic style of the Chromo-Lithographic Art.
Sold by Booksellers and Newsagents all over the world.
Patagonia, Stern and Wild.
“ M.T.C.” (Mrs. Gilmore), whose charming verses
in The Bulletin will be remembered by many,
and who left Paraguay to seek health in Pata-
gonia, writes to a Sydney friend: —
Money is not easy to make in S. America, unless one is
in a good business, and can do a swindle or win a lottery.
They are all Greeks down here (Rio Gallegos) even the
Roman is a Greek! ; . . I began to write my book a
while back, but it resulted in shakes and palpitations,
and I have had to lie low since. Literature is scarce down
here. Ice, plenty—fields of it, acres and miles. Snow,
not so much ; numerous falls of an inch, no more. lam
governessing just now, and teach in a room at 32 , with
our breath forming ice-flowers on the window panes I So
I may get strong after the cold passes. There is now
(Aug.) rumor of war between the two Republics—Argen-
tina and Chili. We are near what is almost the frontier
t own ; it is an Argentine garrison town.
Later (Sept.) she writes
We will not stay in Patagonia. Life is too hard, and as
we are already more south than the southern end of
M.L. and in a more severe climate, you can guess how
the winter has affected us. Yet it was a mild winter—
people say no winter at all, as we had only 17' of frost.
The winter before there were 28* (Fahr). Then in M.L.
you have fires and thick walls. Here the walls are of iron
lined with matchboard badly put on, and only a fire
while cooking. The wind is incessant. Often you can’t
keep the clothes on the line even with dozens of spring
pegs. You have to be strong to stand the climate, and,
if you can stand it, it gives you renewal of youth.
No pen can describe the viciousness of ordinary life
from one end of the country to the other. In this town
of 1000 people there are hardly reckoned to be six decent
women. lam writing now in a room where, a few months
ago, a man was shot, either by his wife or her lover. She
said he had suicided. There was no inquiry and no
bother. That was all—suicided.
In a two-roomed house not far from here an old Aus-
tralian of 63, who left Australia through some strike
affair, is dying in a houseful of men, while three of his
bed or floor mates have the horrors ; the others are trying
to raise charity money on the old man’s condition in
order to get more drink. H. (a much-travelled Austra-
lian) says the worst, roughest, and most unspeakable
place he ever knew in Australia was nothing to Patagonia.
One could gnash one’s teeth and weep.
The Falklanders live chiefly by wreckage and repairs,
for the Horn is a place of wrecks. Punta Arenas, on
Magellan’s (Chilian), is the next big town —about 10,000 to
14,000 inhabitants.
I don’t speak good Spanish even yet, though I can
write anything from dictation, and can even enjoy
reading it. I have had no practice. For the ordinary
Spanish novel 11 The Dead Bird, if it still exists, is an
innocent maiden by comparison. And common language
abounds in expletives which one does not dare to trans-
late—being the lowest kind of obscenity ; yet they are
in the mouths of man, woman, and child alike. We are
to have a new service of steamers —German—direct from
Hamburg to Buenos Ayres, and thence to Gallegos, via
intervening ports. Letters will stand a better chance of
delivery then.”
The “ millenary,” so-called, of Alfred tin
Great —an early Saxon identity, who lived and
died to make a Barrett melodrama —has brought
to light the theory that the Christian hero’s
remains, if any were left, became particles in the
groundwork of a gaol a hundred years ago. A
county gaol was built upon some of the site of old
Hythe Abbey, where the coffin of Alfred, his wife,
and his son were finally planted. And it is
believed that the gaol-builders started operations
at the place of interment. How humorous !
In his book, “The River War,” Winston
Churchill thus summed up Kitchener :
His wonderful industry, his undisturbed patience, his
noble perseverance are qualities too valuable for a man to
enjoy in this imperfect world without complementary de-
fects. The General, who never spared himself, cared little
for others. He treated all men like machines, from the
private soldier, whose salutes he disdained, to the superior
officers whom he rigidly controlled. The comrade, who
had served with him and under him for many years in
Eeace and peril, was flung aside incontinently as soon as
e ceased to be of use. The Sirdar looked only to the
soldiers who could march and fight. The wounded
Egyptian, and latterly the wounded British soldier, did
not excite his interest, and of all the departments of the
army the one neglected was that concerned with the care
of the sick and wounded. The stern and Unpit.ving spirit
of the commander was communicated to the troops, and
the victories which marked the progress of the River War
were accompanied by acts of barbarity not always justi-
fied by the harsh customs of savage conflicts, or by the
fierce and treacherous nature Of the Dervish.
That explains a lot of things. It shows that the
cruel-looking Kitchener’s intellect is too narrow
to understand more than the physical-force side of
his trade, and it explains how it is that the army
which Kitchener, little more than a year ago, took
over apparently in good condition, is now “stale.”
When the Devil came to Bung-
ville: a N.Q. Legend.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The citizens of Bungville (Q.) were a most
depraved lot of topers. The odor of alcohol per-
vaded everything local. Everyone lived to drink
—there was nothing else to do. The houses were
built in staggering rows. The post-office leaned
against a lamp-post, and the police-barracks were
built next the only church to keep an eye on its
behaviour.
It was the groggiest township in the Land of
Rum. But, strange to say, there was only one
public-house, and a year ago the keeper of it died
of delirium tremens. A day or two later there
arrived in town a stranger who bought out the
license and took charge of the pub.
He entered, locked every door and window, and
then a strange scene took place. For the stranger
was none other than the Devil, and to him there
came all the demons of the Pit.
There were myriads of them—grinning little
imps with barbed tails, cloven hoofs, and ram’s
horns. Some entered bottles of whisky, and the
spirit of Hell was made invisible in the spirit of
Scotland. Soon every bottle of tipple in the bar
was loaded with a demon. Others invaded the
kegs and entered in bushels. Others filled the
beer-pump, the decanters, the jugs and the demi-
johns. A solid layer of devils was wedged into
the cash-drawer. Then the Satanic pub-keeper
opened wide all the doors and hid himself in a
gin-bottle.
A little later the bank-manager of Bungville
was passing, and entered to refresh himself. He
waited awhile, but no one came. At last he took
a bottle in his hands, opened it, and there issued
forth a raging bull, to which the Bull of Bashan
was as a pet heifer. The bank-manager went his
way, taking with him the sash of the bar-window
as a souvenir.
A justice of the peace came in, and seeing no
ohe about, and being moved by idle curiosity,
opened the cash-drawer. Immediately there
poured out a squad of sulphurous police mounted
on winged horses who set out in pursuit of him
champing dreadful chains in their mouths.
Then the station-master came in for a drink. It
took a lot to satisfy him, so he knocked the bung
out of a beer-keg. Then there steamed forth on
to the floor a huge railway-locomotive bigger than
anything that ever ran in Queensland. The
station-master fled to interview the Minister for
Railways.
A thirsty swagman came in with a tongue dry
.is a board, and seized the handle of the deserted
beer-pump to draw a deep-sinker. There issued
lions, tigers, elephants, and a waggon-load of
snakes of all sizes and colors. Next moment a
delirious swagman was doing thirteen miles an
hour towards the setting sun.
Another citizen came in. He had just recovered
from bubonic plague, and thought he would have
some brandy. He opened his bottle and poured
out 27,000 large rats. He fled on to the roof, and
jumped. Also, a Judge dropped in. He saw a
deserted bar and an open gin-bottle on the
counter, and out of that bottle he carefully
poured the Devil himself into a tumbler.
Imagine the sensation created in Bungville by
the procession, which tore madly down the main
street—a banker, pursued by a raging bull; a
J.P., hunted by a squad of devilish police; a
station-master, hotly pursued by a wild locomo-
tive ; a swagman, chased by a menagerie; a
raving maniac, pursued by a nerd of rats, big as
emus ; and a highly-respected Judge (one of the
shining lights of society), madly flying before
Auld Clootie himself, armed with a redhot crow-
bar.
Drink is the cause of all evil, and instinctively
the people of Bungville rushed to the pub. to root
out the direful cause. They poured into the bar,
and a fearful scene met their gaze.
The establishment was filled with big devils,
little devils, and nothing but devils. They came
up by a tiny hole in the counter one by one, each
clinging to his mate’s tail, like a long string- of
sausages. They were merry little imps, clad in
naught but ugliness and demoniacal grins. They
popped out of jugs and bottles. They jumped off
shelves, and flew out of drawers. They came out
of water-bottles, and the floor smoked when they
alighted. They fell from the ceiling on to the hats
of the people ; and they issued from cracks in the
floor and tripped their feet.
One little. imp sat turning the handle of a
sausage-machine, and at every turn there issued
a myriad devils ; another stove-in the head of a
cask, and the air was loaded with demons. In
despair, one brave citizen seized a double-
barrelled shot-gun which stood near the door, and
discharged it into the midst of the throng. Bang !
—and the wall opposite was riddled, not with
small pigeon-shot, but with demons the size of
kangaroos.
The people of Bungville left unanimously and
fled across the open downs. Four of them were
drowned in the Gulf of Carpentaria. Six fell
down a shaft at Coolgardie. Two jumped off the
cliffs of the great Australian Bight. The rest are
in the interior of Australia, and still going.
To-day the weary sundowner passes the hotel
of Bungville by on the other side. He may have
a memorable drought on his chest, but he dares
not enter, though he sees the rows of bottles, with
their tempting labels, and the stout kegs full of
beer and devils inviting him to come and drink
and be lost.
AGRA.
Meat.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
It was out where broken bottles are more plentiful
than green grass; where the crows are more
arrogant than a barn-door rooster on his own
dunghill; where only the last of six persons
met proves to be a “clean white,” and the other
five are half-bred and drunk— i.e., it was in Western
Queensland. I had done a two-days’ “perish”
for mutton (my dog having been poisoned), but
hoped to have my wants supplied at the homestead
of a handy grazing-farm. On my way to the
domicile I puzzled my brain to understand why
they termed the surrounding country a grazing-
farm. I came to the conclusion that it was simply
an example of Northern humor.
In answer to my request for meat, a sad-eyed,
bedraggled female (I’m almost certain that It
was a female) informed me that “ the ole man ”
was out after a beast, and if I waited and helped
at the slaughtering I might get a feed in the
evening. I decided to wait.
I was warned that the boss was bringing up
“therwholemob,”and requested to keep out of sight
on their approach for fear of a break-away. So, on
hearing a distant shout, I hid behind a convenient
bush, as diffident of scaring away my steak as a lad
of alarming his lady-love. But there was no
need of care. The total muster comprised : Two
decrepit cows, with two famished calves ; one
steer (a mere frame, which a long-legged, hatless
lout shouldered along), and three goats. The lot
were followed by the shadow of a man mounted on
the shadow of a horse. The man was armed with
a murderous-looking whip, one blow of which
would have killed instantly any beast in his herd.
A troop of curs brought up the procession.
I was immediately instructed to “len’ a ’an’.”
The victim for the slaughter secured in a kind of
break, knives, axe and gun were brought forth, and
the boss prepared to act the part of execu-
tioner. The steer, filled perhaps with a glad
instinct that his sufferings were about to
end, offered his forehead in the most convenient
position to receive the charge. But the boss,
evidently mistrusting these manoeuvres, greeted
each movement with “ Steady, boy ! whoa ! ” and
shifted his ground. Just here the assisting
“hopeful” gave expression to his thoughts; he
opined that his father had got rats. Goaded by
this the boss at last faced the steer. There was a
fearful report; up rose a cloud of dust; rails
rattled, and twigs, leaves, and bark fell in showers.
When the atmosphere cleared the boss was
sprawling prostrate in a far corner, while boy,
steer, and horse wriggled as though painfully
tickled. The explanation of the trouble was that
one of the younger children, when playing with
the gun (“bless its little heart! ”) had jammed
eight inches of gravel down on top of the proper
loading. The remaining barrel testified to the
K’ able state of the first—its contents seemed
y to defy anything short of a mighty explo-
sion behind, or a diamond drill in front. Finally,
however, a shot brought the victim to his knees,
and an axe, in the hands of the perspiring boss,
completed the murder.
By this time the sun had dipped, and daylight
was fast waning. Dashing the sweat from his
brow the boss growled “Git ther knives —quick
an’ lively !• ” Each grasping a blunt blade, we
hustled in a wretched endeavour to remove the
famine-bound hide. I was grieved to notice that
the dogs made much better progress than we did,
and drew the boss’s attention to the fact. As
reward I received, on the “off” shin, a severe
kick intended for one of our unauthorised
assistants. Soon, however, we had the four legs
peeletl and were getting well under him (there
was no gallows). Then I heard something like a
sob. Glancing up I found the boss regarding the
carcase with a look of blank despair.
“ We never bled ther cow ! ” he said ; and then
the black night settled down upon us.
LOUIS M.


Get what you ask for. Get
Doan’s. Don’t accept something
just as good. All Chemists sell
Doan’s Backaohe Kidney Pills, but
some try to substitute an article
they make more profit on. Price
2 9 per box ; six boxes, 15/3.
Posted on receipt of price by the
Proprietors, FOSTER ■ Mc-LELLAN
CO., 76 Pitt Street. Sydney.
TALKING BACK.
Most aches and pains of a “ Bad Back ” are Kidney Ills. A lame, a weak, an aching hack
tell of Kidneys that are overworked. Backache is “ Back Talk.” “ Back Talk is Kidney
Talk. Kidney Talk is Kidney trouble, and all Kidney Troubles are dangerous. Don’t neglect
a Kidney warning.
DOAN’S
Backache Kidney Fills
Cure all Kidney & Bladder Troubles
and are Endorsed by
SYDNEY PEOPLE.
Only room for two statements ; but we have hundreds
like them, and all Sydney cures.
Mr. J. J. Butler, 17 Dick-st., Chippendale, this city, sayg; “Over twelve months ago I
took Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for a pain in the back, caused by weak kidneys. I only
used them off and on, as occasion demanded, but they cured me effectually, and I am thus able to
speak most highly of the pills. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills have put my kidneys in perfect
order, and I’ve never had a pain come back since I left off using the medicine, winch is oj€*r SIX
months ago. A medicine of this sort is badly needed, and I wish Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills every success. I got these pills at Newman’s Pharmacy, in King-st.”
Mrs Fred Russell, 7 St. Andrew’s-strcct, Balmain, this city, says : “My husband had been bad th.ree
or four vea'rs with kidney trouble. He was sucn a sufferer that he could not stand up straight, and all his
movements were fraught with great pain. Unable to sleep at night, he used to try all manner of positions
a „d W ould get up next morning thoroughly done up and unrefreshed. The best position for him to lie in was
face downward but he would soon have to change that. Sometimes the pams were a lot worse than others.
To stand up straight was worse than hard work. When well—before he got bad, I mean—he used to do
heavy work, but he had to give up, his back having well-mgh crippled him. He went to hospitals one after
another • and when they failed to give him ease from his terrible pain he tried all manner of remedies
ad vertised excSg one. We spent a lot of money in plasters and liniments, and other things or outward
anuUcation buThetas still as bad as ever after using them ; aye, worse. It is now over twelve months
application, out ne was suu Backache Kidney Pills at Newman’s Pharmacy, King-street. At
Taf Hme he wis unable to git down oAie dowm and when he walked he held his back all the time. His
nafns weL friTtfuf WeU, the first few doses of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills rid him of those terrible
pains were-trigntiui. weu, vue h improved . In a ll, he took six boxes. Then he left off the
'medfcine and hL taken none since, and that is over six months ago. A few days agQ he said to me, You
never hear me complain of pains now ; Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are simply grand.
ģ
g
The Old Story.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Our youth of life together we have spent;
Together we have reached our middle age :
We did not mark the pathway as we went,
We did not sift our thoughts like sober mage :
Alas ! we did not even gage
What our lives taught, or what life’s teaching
meant.
It now has come to this : that we must say
Those bygone days seem pleasant to the thought
That backward turns ; our paths diverge to-day ;
'Tis not all sweet to go the way we ought.
What recompenses has Time brought ?
These : Love to each ; pledges of Life’s warm May.
We neither thought nor dreamed to seek out love
So close beside, but looked beyond our pale ;
How could such friends ever as lovers love ?
How could the friend take up the lover’s tale ?
And yet, it seems, the found loves fail
To meet the tests we set their truth to prove.
Why should we think of parting with regret ?
Each knows the other goes his joy to meet;
Each knows, too, his own purpose . . . ay, and yet
The newer meeting does not seem complete.
We laugh and say. To part is sweet; —
Whence then the wish for tears, and to forget !
Go ! meet your lover, while I, too, meet mine ;
They wait for us to join them : well they know
That we were friends, are friends; can they define,
Gan they resolve, the doubts that move us so ?
Now that ’tis time we both should go,
To linger more than ever we incline.
What is it then—why should this wonder be ?
We’ve often spoken of it, laughed at it.
Why should I wish to know you still near me ?
Why should your going trouble me one whit ?
We’re friends—ah, yes ; and Life is lit
With friendship true ; and still we fail to see.
Is it that we would rather wander on
. In the old way, because it is so good ?
I cannot think of life, you being gone,
In the same way ; now, it is understood ;
But we two parted ?—O, I would
The dream were clearer that we chance upon.
Cannot we find contentment otherwise?
Are we mistaken when we deem that we
Part to our joy ? O', close those longing eyes,
For I look back to you as you to me:
We give our hands to others ; see
How our two hearts return, and feign surprise !
No, no; it is not good for us to part.
Love must be ours: we long ago have given
Each to the other —nay, love; do not start
As I an ill thought unto your soul had driven.
So, love, you are my only heaven,
My breast your rest, your sanctuary my heart.
Will this be hard, be unjust to those two,
The one you leave, the one that I have left ?
Yes, yes; you will, I have . . . what should we
do ?
The soul must bleed and bleed whose heart is
cleft—
Will we cleave theirs ? ’Tis left
Only to part, then, evermore to rue.
Now we have found our hearts we turn to go;
To yours go you, and I to mine, as pledged.
Try to forget this truth that now we know —
Strive that this callow thing be never fledged.
O love, are all truths double-edged
That one edge salves and one must torture so ?
Is it good-bye, then? . . . Gather up our strength
That we may conquer where we are enslaved.
What hollow mockery that at this length
We find Love’s banner over us has waved !
Deep truth is in that saying graved—
“ In our most weakness we discover strength.”
You shall not go ; sha’l not: it is a reed
To lean on, thinking we shall ever win
To conquer this, long-lived : my love shall plead
With yours ; and who shall overtop with din
The word that bids you let me in, —•
Nay, lam ini . . . That I may stay, O cede!
Lean so and rest then ; surely it is best.
Ah ! why till now has your head never found
This is its place ’—scorn rears an angry crest,
But, unregarded, topples to the ground.
We two shall bide in depth profound
Of Love, where warring worlds shall not molest.
Ha, ha ! what was it tried to part us then ?
That very deed has made us see the truth !
Who would have dreamt Love was about us, when
We side by side walked —dreamed we waked to
ruth ?
No, we must never part, love ; —sooth,
Mistakes bring Heav'n 1 Praise Heav’n therefor !
Amen.
M.L.
AHAU.
T ., , ... , , ~
It s a dangerous thing to enter the wrong
house. A young man in a village near Christ-
church (M.L.), returning home late the other even-
ing, tried to get in quietly, to avoid explanations,
through the window. Half-way through he heard
a female voice telling “Jack” there was some-
one trying to get into the house, and the ghastly
fact that he was half-way through the wrong win-
dow rushed upon him. He didn’t stop to ex-
plain, but dropped out and commenced to get
away, but, as he turned the corner, he was met
with a blow from a meat-axe with which Jack had
armed himself. He’s in hospital now, and Jack
is having a week of humiliation and prayer for his
recovery.
The latest duty thrust on N.S. W. country
members is to bring they- constituents’ poems,
with a personal recommerlaation, to tlie Bulletin
office.
A Letter to Lucy.
[FOR THE BULLET IN.]
The men at the hospitable station had unani-
mously approved the latest engagement when
the one woman entered the room, gowned in
... , ,
wblte ' Theyhad agreed that the girl was lucky
indoed ’ mal ™ a Bettled income of four figures
and fine-looking man s man to boot. But
i , _ , ,
when Mrs. Moore heard the news she flushed.
. ~ . ~, „ , ,
“Oh, it isn t true—it can t be. Someone ought
, . ■ ’ °
to interfere ; why, it is dreadful!
Jim Moore was the most astounded of anyone.
“ Good God ! Emily, what do you mean ? ”
Mrs. Moore glanced swiftly under her level
brows at the row of astonished faces, and gradually
the pink died out of her cheeks and the excite-
inent from her eyes. She had no reason which
would appear valid to offer to these men, but she
had made up her mind to save Lucy, if she
could from a like fate to her own. Lucy would
never hear it, as she had done; and she was fond
of the girl because there were so few human
beings in the district whom she could be fond of
with impunity. _
An hour afterwards Jim strolled the dining-
room, and saw an addressed envelope on the
table! and his wife blotting her signature on a
letter to Lucy. He believed that a wife should
have no secrets from her lawful owner, and so he
took the letter to read. It would have been
but a moment’s work for the woman to snatch it
from his hands; then it would but need a few
caresses—precious from her, because so rare—a
laughing explanation, and the matter would be
forgotten. The French windows were open, show-
ing the green lawn sloping to the creek and the
faint green mist along its banks, which told that
the willows were budding. Beyond were the
thick scrubs and then the range, past which
someone lived whom she loved with the love of
girlhood, which womanhood had only intensified.
Jim was smiling there, supremely satisfied with
himself—and with her, as his dutiful and loving
wife, whom he had bought with the price of his
worldly goods. Should she tear the letter, and
let him keep his illusions, if he had any.
“Read it, if you like,” she said; “I mean
every word o it. , _
Jim read on with a look df annoyance on his
coarsely-handsome countenance. Mrs. Moore’s
white, small face was set in a hard smile, but
there was a wild hope in her eyes—the hope of
liberty to the caged bird, as the door swung open,
and the world—the green, spring world—lay
beyond. He read every passionate sentence,
painting the degradation, the loathing, the hate-
ful caresses, the ceaseless regrets, the wild long-
ing, the bitter hatred—she had written only her
story and his—so thinly-veiled that she deemed a
fool might see it clearly, and she even felt a pass-
ing wave of pity for the wound that would come
to her husband’s pride.
Jim put the letter down and cleared his throat.
With hands in his waistcoat pockets ho expanded
his chest. “ A little friendly advice from a matron
to a young girl is quite seemly, Emily, but I
should now go on to point out that if a woman
studies her home and her husband’s happiness she
will be rewarded by his lasting—er—love and—er
—esteem. The letter is—well, rather unin-
telligible. I will add a few lines, if you like, with
mutual congratulations. I’m rather good at that
kind of letter.”
“As you like,” said Emily in her quiet, even
tones.
The cage-door was shut again, and faster than
ever.
ETHEL MILLS.
A Why-back Pub.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Striking a pub. on the border of the Great Far-
back and Nowhere, I unyoked; thinking that a
“sleever” would be welcome. Entering, I
frightened away a huge black snake, lying near
the door. Never having been bitten by a snake,
I let him rip. Carefully brushing from my face
the cobwebs which had been gathered as I came
in, I saw three great beer-colored “cockroaches”
hurtle across the counter, knocking over a legion
of ants, who were trying to safely drag over the
edge a massive dead grasshopper. Two little
lizards were playfully chasing each other around
a black bottle, with “Wisky” in scrawling
letters written across the original label, and a row
of half-empty beer bottles.
I knocked, and then had another look at the
room. At one side were two pictures, fixed with
tacks driven through shilling-shaped corks. One
depicted a general giving orders to two regiments
of half-a-dozen red-jackets each to “Charge!”
There was nothing to have a “go at,” only a man
in the distance waving a sword, and a vulture!
T’other picture was a “ boy and girl ’’ coloring.
Hearing no one coming, I kicked at the tumble-
down counter, and turned to look at the other
side of the room. A broken window showed its
jagged edges against the bright daylight outside.
Spiders had taken up the vacancies in the panes,
and had built traps wherein to catch the unwary
fly. Then a man entered the bar-door.
“Vos you haf been vaitin’ loiig?”
“ Oh, no,” I replied, “not long ! ”
“Veil, you see,” he said, apologetically, “I
hurried up ven I see your team, an’ left off vhat
I wos doin’.”
“ And what were you doing?”
“I vos lookin’ for a good place for a orchad.
Veil, you see,” he explained, “I vant to ged
marrid, an’ I vant a orchad to indooce her to
come.”
“ And where does she live?” I inquired.
“Oh ! aboud 18 miles from here. I strolls over
of a Sunday night, an’ stops till mornin’, an’ ”
“Does she keep a shanty, too ?”
“No; nod adorl. She’s von of these hair-
dressers an’ hat-trimmers, an’ dyes der naborin’
people’s ‘close.’”
“ What! is there a township there ? ”
“ Oh, no ! No downship; only two fuilers,
livin’ in a tent; vaitin’ to die.”
“ Does she ever come to see you ?”
“No ; she says people vill talk so ! ”
“What people does she mean?” I asked. “I
haven’t seen a soul for the last two weeks.”
“ Oh, der is people,” he replied, vaguely;
“ one livin’in a bark humpy up der, and anoder
fuller lookin’ for gold over der ! ”
I told him I would stop till the next morning,
and oil the strength of this I stuck' up four shilling-
beers. I have never been in Germany, but it must
be a grand country.
JACK-A'-CLUBS.


THE
FREEMAN & WALLACE
This Is the only Medical
Institute in Australia with
►a bona fide capital that
'’stands behind guarantees
as evidence of faithful per-
formance of all contracts.
Electro-Medical apd
SOrgical IpStitOte.-^.
lIM AN AGE
which is 80 remarkable for its progress in all departments of Art, Mjwiufacfcwe
Science it is surprising to And the practice of Medicine so
of practitioners in the healing art prefer to remain in the conventional groove of their predecessors. The treeman
and Wallace Electrn-MeitiVui onri Qnvfrir.nl institute nonsultiner staff rise superior to the false code of ethics which
• Electro-Medical....
—y bind the medical p
;nue to be consulted by the afl
. prefer to remain in tne convenMuiuu giw* E n*
Surgical Institute consulting staff rise superior to the false code of ettara which
ession, and announce to the public that upon all special complaints they still con-
ted at their old address, Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Btreets, Sydney.
m g
Wii
If:
s
U;.*
■"S'"
:
....
EXPERTS FREEMAN AND WALLACE,
Tha Specialists who conduct the largest practice in Australasia.
CDCPIIIf UfITIPC No one should hesltato to oonsult us, ns consultations either by letter or in
OrCUIfU. nu I luCi parson are given FREE OF ONARQE, and Strictest Privacy is always assured.
OUR COMMONWEALTH POCKET DIARY.
Every Farmer, Miner, Mariner, Station-hand, Book-keeper, and other Toilers should send for a copy of this
Useful Memorandum Book. POST FREE ON APPLICATION—ALL COLONIES.
*od-PAGE MEDICAL WORK (Illustrated, containing 80 Engravings, Many Useful Prescriptions,
Hints on Sick Room, Accidents and Emergency) Price ©d (POST FREE) ON APPLICATION.
Heart, Kidney, Liver Affections,
Nerve and Brain Complications.
Gravel, Bladder and
Rheumatism,
Epilepsy, Gout.
Rupture and Piles Cured without Operation.
Blood and Bkln Diseases.
tHS
HEALTH *
£f/l ■ ' . ■
wnrt ’ 'J
■> "i Jv f-< v’
Tm
!®w
A'
»■'= r
A
WHY WE ADVERTISE!
Because Advertising is the legitimate means vouchsafed to enlighten people,
to acquaint each other with their avocations and wants. If a man lias a
Speciality, and has devoted years of his life and expended large sums of money in studying that Speciality and in
purchasing the necessary appliances, etc., for treating certain diseases, it would lie absurd for him not to announce
the fact, and disseminate the knowledge universally, We have no apology to offer for informing the world through
this advertisement and otherwise of the mea-ns of relief we can afford to sufferers who need our help. Therefore,
however opposed to your own preconceived ideas and to those of your medical advisers, our method of treatment
may be, the fact still remains that it is successful, and this is verified by the thousands of testimonials received from
grateful patients. We make no secret of our mode of practice. We only claim to have utilised in a common-sense
way the result of scientific research and long experience. If you listen to the counsel of your sceptical friends and
jealous physician you may omit consulting us, but remember if you allow the disease to run riot in your system, you
are guilty of culpable neglect, and are alone responsible for your future pitiful condition.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration by Government
Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, Great Britain
and America Open to Inspection by Dr. Wallace, our Physician-in-Chief.
Late Consulting: Staff, Homeopathic Hospital, Melbourne.
Late Medical Staff, British Army.
HOME TREATMENT.
-If you live out oftown and cannot visit us, this need not deprive
you of the benefits of our wonderful treatment, because in the new
system of combining- medicine and electricity a complete Electro-Medical home treatment is provided for. Scarcely a
day.passes that the news does not reach us of some wonderful home cure of a person living-so far away that a per-
sonal Visit could not be made. Write a plain statement of y.our condition, explaining your feelings and symptoms as
clearly as possible, and from it we will be able to accurately diagnose your case. It only costs you the trouble of
writing, and twopence postage to get the opinion and advice of Australia’s Leading Specialists.
DO NOT BE DRUGGED TO DEATH BY QUACKS
When there are so many quacks and impudent pretenders in the field of Medicine, who arrogate to themselves
the monstrosity of giving counsel and advice in matters of which they are profoundly ignorant, and who have
nothing to recommend them but their audacity, sufferers cannot be too careful whom they consult. Although
liberty of choice belongs to all, discrimination is necessary. In consulting THE'FREEMAN AND WALI VOF
ELEOTRO-MEDICAL AND SURGICAL INSTITUTE patients may feel assured that they shall receive the advice
of those fitted by superior skill and education, the result of special study. Our reputation and unparalleled
success as Specialists entitle us to your confidence.
Medicines forwarded to all parts of the WorId—CONTENTS
FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
a Elizabethsi BatfotirstSts, Sydney
For privacy Patients may address “ Messrs. F. & W„” 225 and 227 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
N.B QUEENSLANDERS arehereby informed that a person advertising as Dr. Wallace
S •*» Brisbane is in no way connected with the Institute.
“ An Ounce 'oe Fact is
Worth a Shipload
oe Argument.”
And it is an acknowledged, well-proven, fact that BEE CHAM S PILES
are an absolutely unrivalled remedy for ......
Bilious Attacks,
Nervous Disorders,
Liver Complaints, Indigestion,
and many Kindred Ailments.
Therefore don’t Die misled by the “ shiploads’' of specious “ argument ” advanced by
those interested in the sale of untried preparations of mushroom growth. Remember,
*3
A
A
have been tried and trusted over 50 years. The annual sale exceeds six million boxes, and in
spite of ail competition they become more popular every day, and this is not due to
“ argument ” and persuasion, but to the FACT that
THEY RECOMMEND THEMSELVES.
ĝ
£9 lOs,
Teh, 2710 Redfern
This Special No. 3 Sulky
•with Wing Boards well
adapted tor country roads
and hard usage. Will give
univeral satisfaction.
Pittman’s Commonwealth
Steam Coach Works
176 and 178 Morehead SL, Redfern.
THE THREE CAUSES:
BECAUSE Pittman’s Vehicles are articles of real worth
and true merit.
BECAUSE they are always in ready demand.
BECAUSE when their superior qualities have onee been
demonstrated, you will have no other
than Pittman’s Vehicles.
BET Sand for Illustrated Catalogue and Price List.
Full Description & Prices of Vehicles free on application
m
■
The Universal Remedy for Acidity ox the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Kheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
i i'i hiT
A
out the World.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA,
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
Price, Six Shillings (Post Free).
o
&
TRTRTT
JL JLIiJL OJIJL
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
RISH MOSS
SE^r*“
- jULy j.
i»sgjsSa_
gco«oe"“oon»!/( noton
J k
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.


Water! Water! We’re Withering!
U/a Ufanf Wnfav I THIS IS THE APPEAL OF THE FLOWERS
Wan i water « THIS dry weather.
..... Can you let it go unheeded when a
GARDEN HOSE
IS
so
CHEAP.
10d. a month will pay foe the watee. ~m
OUR PRICE list:
I inch x 3 Ply Rubber Hose, 235, 255, 30s, 365, 42s per Coil of 60 feet.
1 inch Cotton-covered Hose, 20s, 22s 6d, 255. par Coil of 50 feet.
Gem Controlling Nozzle (fitted) 2s; Ball Nozzle Sprinklers (takes same
coupling), Is 6d. Reels, Unions, and all Fittings.
PERDRIAU and COMPANY,
(Between Hunter & 270 C3ofgB Street, Sydney
BO
DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. G- elbridge & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 IfOltlt STUEE'f, s sr»»!sr
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post mm all the colonies promptly
attended to.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBIHS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfleld Parade
ST. KILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
J-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
M
32 & 34 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
For all Services kept in Stock*
Send for Catalogwe.
ğ
SlNVld
SNimiam
OUR
SPECIALITY
BENNIE, TEARE & CO.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Coolgardie.
By OIL, STEAM, GAS, ELECTRICITY
Representing
In Australia
the States
LIMITED
NEWMAN’S
ANTISEPTIC
NEWMAN’S
In Si
X/u a Box
THROAT PASTILLES.
the most nutritious.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING-
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER-
KEMP’S PATENTSHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
Xs now beinu' used Ly hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
It will stay on the sheeps hacU as longr as required. It will NOT injure the wool. it wili dissolve out undei
the ordinary scouring: process.
MANUFACTURERS AMD SOME AGENTS!
FECTOn. Emuiol * 60
and
(in 8-gallon Cases)—
PRICE IN MELBOURNE
„ SYDNEY <E. Rich & Co. Ltd.)
„ BRISBANE (E. Rich & Co. Ltd.)
HOBART (Wm. Crosby & Co.)
3/e
3/6
3/e
4/3
per Gallon*
Ottumwa Winding Engine.
Catalogues Free on Application.
Manufacturers and Impprters
OF ALL KINDS OF
MINING MACHINERY,
STEAM ENGINES
BOILERS.
AND
£
Of
o e
**e
If,
•'ey
laundry
AND
WOOD-WORKING
MACHINERY,
ENGINEERS’ FITTINGS,
and MILL SUPPLIES.
GREGrORIT Sz, 00- 3
74 Clarence Street SYDNEY & MELBOURNE 435 Bourke Stree
I
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants.
PRINCIPAL AGENCIES :
Blake Steam Pumps
Pay’s Woodworking Machinery
Tanite Emery Wheels
Sturtevant’s Pans and Porges
Pickering Governors
Ludlow Valves
jhuttes ’ Ivorting Injectors
“Champion” Lubricating Oils
Hoyts’ Leather Belting
Genuine “ Atlas ” Metal
Empire Laundry Machinery
Stratton’s Steam Separators
American Tool Go’s Lathes
Goubert’s Eeed Mater Heaters
otwn&i
•-CB
■•mein
- '
