

*S ALE
GAELIC WHISKY.
PIG STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
R. G. WA.TK.HVTS & CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
ĥ
ħ
<Vxie part round and square
« ends, ri vetted'.
WINE !
WINE!
WINE!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLPEST WINE
AUSTRALIA.
U3T Send for Samples and, Price List
Ment ion this paper.
Eaton Grant & Go. Limited,
263 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° 85 Ktt street , SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for Samuel Osborn & Co., Sheffield, makers of Mushet’s Titanic Borer Steel for Miners’ Drills, Bessemer Steel, Cast Steel, Mushet’s
Self-Hardening- Tool Steel, Mining, Well-Boring, Spring, and Tyre Steel, Steel Castings of all Descriptions, Steel Truck Wheels and Axles.
INDENTS EXECUTED. SPECIFICATIONS SUPPLIED FOR ALL KINDS OF MACHINERY.
CASTINGS, HAMMERS, EIEES.^^
THORNE’S
"" A 1 WHISKY.
HELIDON SPA.
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd., Agents, Sydney.
h
ĥ
ms?
J&3L O fcs -A. Jfc-fc T.
Hadley s Orient fiotel.
PENFOLD'S
WINES
Adelaide's Purest
It* '■ : ■ •
Penfolds Wines are
THE SAFEST STIMULANT'
D? Andrew ipits on:
[ F R S.E &c LONDON /
ħ
RESERVE EXTRA. RESERVE SPECIAL. RESERVE EXTRA SPECIAL. SUPREME
SANDEMAN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
a.43L PITT STREET, SYPIXTEY.
PETTY’S HOTEL
IS UNSURPASSED
by that of any other in Sydney for
Comfort, Privacy, Convenience and
Healthy Situation.
The Sanitary Arrangements are of the
most perfect description.
The Hotel is under the Direct Management and
Supervision of
MRS. WILLIAM GANNON, Proprietress,
Telephone 274. Church Hill, Sydney.
108. per Day or £3 3s. per week.
SPECIAL TERMS CAN BE ARRANGED FOR
FAMILIES AND PRIVATE APARTMENTS-
PIONEER
h
LEATHER
BELTING^
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 2J 3 3J 4 5 6 8 10 12 inch.
-n -/9 -/10£ 1/- 1/2 1/6 1/11 2/8 3/4 4/-
1/2 1/4 1/7 1/10 2/2 2/11 3/5 4/5 5/7 6/9
Agents in every State.
Made by
J. D. LUDOWICI & SOM, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
TTUIR GIRLS AND GRAY HORSES
JD -2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
JOHN JAMESON
“THREE-STAR” WHISKEY.
Agents : J. SABRE JOHNSTON & CO., lioftus Street, Sydney.
—1 I "I I, - w « ;^P crm.r-y^-»-- jji I'OUPI" w> "
EMPIRE HOTEL, SYDNEY
MOST CENTBALLY SITUATED.
OTARD-DUPU7
Bstbd. 1795. 25 Years BRANDY.
PROOF
USE
«
Head Office:
10 BUCH ST., si
When buying a Waterbury WATCH
see that it bears the WORDS
WATERBURY WATCH CO.,
as a Guarantee of its Genuineness.
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. JOhS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
- Lamp!
EDI SWAN
economy in -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
ins im a m
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-street.
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q’nsland Depot—Central Buildin s Edward-st., Brisbane.
h
Vol. 22.—N0. 1136. j
[Saturday, November 23, 1901.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


udson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
■
For
GOUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
(REGISTERED).
Bt.
BPS
IN TINS. Is. 6d.
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
Gr. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia.
THE RED PAGE.
Hush Girls.
[For The Bulletin.]
I.—Rabbiting.
PI, if you don’t come at once, you nasty
pig ! I won’t go rabbiting at all.”
“ Grub ! wait till I’ve finished this
page.”
“Not an instant! Come on. I’ve got the axe
and lunch ; you bring the shovel and bag. I sup-
pose the dogs have gone now ! Oh, no, here they
are. Oh, there’s the hateful little puppy coming.
Moth-er! Keep the puppy ! Put him in a
match-box, or tie him up with a bit of cotton.”
Away we go, across the springy, tufted grass,
over the paddocks, and through fences, until we
come to a network of shallow burrows, which are
as yet untried ground to us.
“ Let’s have something to eat; never mind the
rabbits ; ” —says' Pi, sinking under an emu-bush.
“You ’re a cat! there ! Look ! Pluto’s got a
burrow ; come on ! ”
Pluto is plodding away at a burrow with his
great heavy paws. Novice comes up, pushes
Pluto gently aside, takes a long breath, and then
runs sniffing along the top of the ground to a
certain point, gives a delicate scratch, and gives
us a look which means, “ Here’s the rabbits ;
just here. Don’t take any notice of a dog like
Pluto !”
“ Give me the shovel, Pi! Oh, I feel a rabbit!
—look out! —catch it ! —its' head’s this way—get
it by the ears ! Oh, there’s another !—look out !
it’s gone !—it ’ll get away ! Put your hand in the
burrow to stop any more getting out. Oh, Novice
has got it! Oh, Pi, have you got another? Look
out! here’s another—and there’s another ! What
an angel Novice is ; we’ve got five already with-
out any trouble.”
“Pluto’s got another burrow ! Oh, there, he’s
let the rabbit out'! Ah, you clumsy animal,
Pluto! There! it’s running out on the plain—
after it, Novice ! —sool it ! sool it! Pi, fly like
the wind to the burrow, and stop it from getting
back ; I ’ll try and knock it down here with a
stick! Look out!—it’ll be in the burrow—oh,
there you are, stupid ! Never mind ; we ’ll dig it
out. Oh, I say, look !—only a short burrow.
Oh—eh—ah ! —it’s out ! Sool it, Novice ! —sool
it, boys ! There, it’s in a log !—what a big one,
too ! Run and get the axe, Pi—under that tree ;
what a good thing we brought it ! ”
The log is a heavy solid box, not long felled,
and consequently half green ; still we attack it
bravely, chopping hole after hole, until we breathe
in gasps, and our hands burn and bleed with the
friction of the axe.
At last we come to the rabbit. Pi drags it out
by the tail, and hits it on the head with force
enough to kill a kangaroo, saying “I ’ll teach you
not to let us catch you ! You ’ll know better next
time! ”
For three hours we catch rabbits ; —digging
them out of burrows, chasing them on to the
plain, until they give in and squeal for mercy ;
logging them and chopping them out, and smok-
ing them out of hollow trees. Heaps of rabbits
lie everywhere.
And now the exciting part is over, and we have
to skin them. We collect them under a shady
box ; I pull out father’s pocket-knife with a
guilty feeling ; Pi produces a rusty butcher’s-
knife, and operations commence. There could be
no more sickening business in the world, but we
draw long breaths and struggle on.
“I’ll race you.”
“Right!”
Pi struggles with her fifth; I with my twentieth.
I have got thirty when Pi holds up a little baby-
rabbit, skinned to the tip of the nose, saying,
“ Oh, you beauty ! run away now; go on ! ”
And somehow after that Pi falls to playing
“stick-knife” by herself, and I struggle through
alone.
We count the skins—fifty-two. “And there
would have been fifty-three if that one had n’t
disappeared;—l wonder where it went,” says Pi,
regretfully.
The skins are put in a bag ; the oarcases thrown
in a heap; and then we make a bee-line for the
nearest tank, where we wash and scrub our hands
until the skin nearly comes off.
Then, to Pi’s great delight, I produce the lunch-
bag. We lie flat on the ground, under the shade
of murmuring belars, with the dogs panting
peacefully around us, and eat with great appetite
slices of mother’s cake, which is only bread
sweetened, with currants * shot ” into it.
“ ‘The curse of gold is on the land,’ ” says Pi.
No answer.
“You know, Berrie, it’s very cruel! What
would other girls think of us ? It made my heart
ache when that poor little baby-rabbit squealed so.
I wanted to let it go.”
I swallow painfully before I answer: “That
is all very pretty ; but, you know, in the first place
we are helping to rid the country of a pest. In
the second, you want to play ; I want to write.
You can’t play without music, and I can’t write
on bark; so we must have money, and what
matter eveu though we have to swim through rab-
bits’ blood to get it? And,” I add dryly, “I
notice your scruples don’t trouble you much when
you are singing ‘ Life’s Dream is o’er ’ with Alec.”
We collect our materials, and start homeward.
“ Berrie ! Berrie ! there’s Alec at the cross-
track ; if he sees us like this ! ”
“My goodness ! We ’ll have to run.”
We force our tired limbs into a quick trot; the
axe becomes a dead-vfeight upon my shoulder ; I
can scarcely move.
Alec is coming at a good canter ; suddenly he
pulls into a walk. We breathe more freely ; dash
through the garden into our bedroom ; pull off our
“ French ” boots ; and plunge our faces into fresh
water. Long before we are half-di'essed Alec is iff
the sitting-room, and he shouts out, “How are
you ? ”
“ Oh, all right! We ’re changing our French
boots.”
“So help me cat! do you think I don’t know
that? I saw you runnin’, and I thought how
splendid I could cut you off ; and then I thought,
‘ Oh, dash me rags ! I ’ll let them get home and
change their togs. ’ I brought your mail; I see by
the paper rabbit-skins have gone down a penny.
Blake’s ‘ Grand March ’ for you, Pi. All your
MS. returned, Berrie ! ”
I laugh to hide my sickening sense of disap-
pointment.
“ You ought, to give up spend in’ your money on
paper to write stories ; what’s the good ? ”
“Music’s better, isn’t it, Alec?” says Pi,
eagerly.
“ Rats ! pending over to plaguey Sydney for
music! Some of these days a microbe 'will come
sailing over on a piece of music as happy as Larry,
and then where’ll you be? How many rabbit-
skins have you got now? I’m going to weigh
them Crikey! Seventeen pounds!—that’s
good.”
Iso, you must be making a mistake,” cry we,
m a breath.
“ Come and see ! ”
We rush out, fastening our belts. There, sure
enough, is the pile of rabbit-skins on the scale, and
the weight at 17. We give cries of delight, and
piles of fresh white paper and stamps rush before
m y eyes. Pi and Alec wander down the garden,
and forget all things in the delight of each other’s
society; I sit on the floor, and already feel half-a-
sovereign slipping through my fingers. I lift the
rabbit-skins. A horrible suspicion comes over
me. I tear them apart. The wretch ! he has
concealed two bricks inside them !
4 .
ll.— Robbing Bees.
I’VE found them at last! ” cries Pi, the
lazy, the philosophic ; fairly bursting into
the room.
“ The horses ? Well, I think I’ve found
horses before ; but I never thought it worth
slating over.”
I got the horses down in the lignum; you’d
have never found them. But I ’ve found a bee-
hive ! ”
“Oh ! I say, Pi! ”
“Probably eighty pounds of honey in it, and
the bees as well. Where’s the paper ? Best
honey, 7d. Oh, glorious ! No more skinning
rabbits for me ! Berrie ! put that scribbling
away. Poll’s in the yard ; harness her ! ”
“ Poll’s got a sore shoulder.”
“ Oh, fix a bag under the collar; we’ll have to
take her, ’cause she won’t mind the bees stinging.”
“ Oh, all right. You get the buckets, a box, and
sheet; —oh, and hunt up some gloves and veils.
We mustn't forget the ‘smoker’ and lots of
paper.”
I harness Poll, and drive with a flourish to the
front gate. Pi comes out, throws in the axe and
whetstone; snatches the whip and reins, and off
we go full gallop—the usual pace when Pi drives.
Across the plain ; through the timber ; dashing
under boughs, narrowly escaping rabbit-burrows,
—until we come to a great solid box-tree, standing
alone.
“Four hours’ work, Pi! Never mind; we
must go steady. Give me the axe ! ”
Chip — Chop — Chip—Chop. Great sappy chips
go flying round. We take it in turns for four
hours. The only intermission is when a bee
fiercer than the rest buzzes after us. Then we
throw down the axe and dart away, fighting with
it. Cho-op — chop — chip — chip.
“ How white you look, Pi! It ’ll be down in a
minute; cheer up ! . , . Oh, bother this bee !
Look out ! Stand clear ; there, it’s falling ! Just
look at the honey. Oh, the lovely comb ! Pi, Pi,
a hundred pounds ! Don’t rush ! Get the smoker:
light up! ”
“Oh, there’s millions of pounds!” we scream
together. We no longer feel fatigue, but chop
fresh holes, wildly pulling at the honey, uncon-
scious of occasional stings. Looking up, I see
Alec sitting immovable on his horse, chewing his
switch, and regarding us calmly.
“Yes,” he says, slowly, “I’ve been goin’ to show
you my bee-hive for a long time. But I never
thought of you bean’ so kind as to chop it down for
me. Crikey ! you’re clever girls ! To get through
such a wopper. I ’ll see if I can’t spare you a
couple of bottles of the honey. I hope you have n’t
messed up the queen; I particularly want the
hive.”
“ Alec, if I had a gun I’d shoot you ! ” says Pi,
solemnly.
“Pig ! ” I mutter.
“ Oh, dash me rags, girls ! what’s the good of
talkin’ like that ? It’s my beehive ; I found it
three months ago, when I was out lookin’ for emu-
eggs. It must have been hard work cuttin’ it
down; but it’s no good whippin’ the cat over it
now.”
He leans forward to let his horse crop the
grass ; his back is half towards us.
Pi looks at me with lightning eyes, points at
Alec, and then to the ground, where, half-dead
and covered with honey, is the queen. Quickly
and deftly she gets it on a stick, and puts it on
Alec’s back. We breathe hard, while In •■ continues,
unconscious of swiftly-coming danger. “One of
our calves threw a seven yesterday ; and the black
kitten had a rollin’, squirmin’ fit. You can have
it now, Pi ; I don’t want it any more. Shoo !
bee ! Well Bother the bees ! What are
they cornin’ round me like this for ? Anyway
Oh, crickey ! I ’ll have to get. Just look at the
bees ! Shoo ! shoo ! Cantankerous animals ! ”
He sets off full gallop, wildly waving his hat,
with the bees swarming round him.
Pi and I give a screech of delight, scramble into
the buggy, and drive for our lives.
L
lll. —Capitalists.
“ so-long, girls ! ” cries Alec, put-
Wm/ ting his foot in the stirrup, and per-
▼ T forming a kind of jig round his
horse, who is restless. He succeeds
in throwing his leg over, and is just off, when he
pulls up short, saying,
“Oh, so help me cat '! I nearly forgot to tell
you ! There’s a man coming round buyin’ up
bones, horns, horse-hair, hoofs, ‘ dead ’ wool,
rabbit-skins, and goodness knows what. So there’s
a chance for you ! Stack the coins on their ends
So-long ! ”
“Berrie ! Berrie ! methinks I see palmy days
stretching before us. Thank Heaven for this
year of drought ! Just think, Berrie ! there must
be 40 sheep down in the five-comers.”
“Oh, and a lot in the creek !”
“ And Spotty, and Tiny, and Redcow, and
Darby in the Ring-bark. Just think of their
hoofs and horns ! Oh, Spotty’s splendid horns!”
“Yes, and Ben and Darkey and Lofty out on
the plain ! ”
“Oh, yes ; Ben’s tail hadn’t been trimmed for
ages before he died. What a pity horses have n’t
got horns, too ! Come on ! Let’s get our hats,
and some bran-bagS, and start at once ! ”
Filled with wild delight, we race across the
paddocks. All the afternoon we work. With a
hammer and chisel we force off horns and hoofs;
we shear off the horsehair with a pair of shears ;
and pick wool until our backs ache. And then,
just at sundown, we return home laden with
spoil, which we cast in a heap in one corner of the
garden.
Day by day the heap grows higher; we scour
everyone’s paddocks. Anything with hoofs and
horns becomes of vital interest. We wait in
silent expectation.
“Pi, I say! I see a dust!” I shout, one
evening after sundown.
Pi rushes on to the verandah.
“ He comes ! He comes ! Oh, my poor heart !
He’s through the gate; will he turn in here?
Yes ! The awful suspense is over.”
“Isn’t he nice-looking, Pi ?”
“Oh, Grub! Lanky! Skinny! Berrie! I
know: he’s the man who hid behind the crow-
bar ! ”
He stands before us and grins a long, inane
grin ; tries to speak, and ends in a long gulping
sound ; tries again, and says, in a voice which
squeaks like a file when applied to wire: “How
are yer ? ”
“All right, thank you !”
“ Hot to-day.”
“Yes.”
“ I’m gom’ round all the stations buyin’ bones,
skins, and all kinds er things. Has yer father
any ? ”
“No, but we have ! ” bursts out Pi.
“ Yas ? Wait till I git me scales.”
“ Thirty-six pounds er wool. Well, I’ll give
yer a penny-ha’penny a pound.”
“That is below current price.”
“ Oh, yas; but ain’t I got to cart it to Hay?”
“ You ought to be able to give tuppence.”
“All right, then; but I’ll lose on it. How
about the rest ? I’ll give yer half-a-crown for the
whole lot as they are.”
“ Half-a-crown ! Why, just look at these
horns ! —there was not another cow in the country
had h®rns like these. Look at all this horse-hair !
Half-a-crown ! ”
“ Three shillin’, then.”
“No ; give us four, will you ? ”
“ Here you are, then.”
He puts his hand deep into his trousers-pocket;
there is a delicious tinkle of money ; and he pulls
out four half-crowns. Pi and I restrain ourselves
from snatching them ; take them indifferently ;
but shut our hands over them with feverish eager-
ness.
“ You can depend on me once a fortnight,” he
says; shakes hands ; and goes on.
; “ Once a fortnight ! These riches once a fort-
night ! Don’t move, Berrie ! don’t breathe,! don’t
■speak ! for fear it should prove a dream ! ”
4
IV. —Ruination.
PI and I come through the garden gate with
dragging footsteps, after a stiff morning’s
work up the paddock. We have just
finished a discussion on our financial posi-
tion. Everything is at the lowest ebb.
Pi’s eye rests gloomily on a heap of horns, hoofs,
bones, etc., in a corner of the garden. She turns
her head wearily aside.
_ “ He said we could depend on him once a fort-
night ; and here it is two months! Oh, Berrie !
it must be true that he’s ‘ gone bung ’ 1 ”
She looks round quickly as we step on to the
verandah, and see Alec’s hat on the floor.
“Think you’re very smart; don’t you!” she
says, savagely, throwing a stone at a bulge in the
hammock. A frowsy black head appears over the
side, and a voice says—
“ Hullo ! Been graftin’ ? ”
“Bring me some !” I shout, as Pi disappears
towards the kitchen,—knowing by long experi-
ence that she is going for cake.
“Have the hammock?” says Alec, ironically,
as I squat down on the ground and lean back
against a pepper-tree.
Pi comes stamping out; throws herself down,
and begins chopping at the ground with a toma-
hawk. Her eyes are starting from her head with
rage.
“Berrie ! what do you think mother’sdone?”
“What?”
“ First, there was a minister here this morning.”
“A minister!”
“Yes, a smooth-faced, sneaking, crawling
minister! He, stayed two hours ; had some tea ;
and, when he was going, he asked mother for
some money for their church debt, and mother
had none, and then he asked if there was any-
thing she could give towards a—a—swindling
bazaar; and mother gave him our jar of honey
that we had to sell! ”
“ We ’ll never have anything more to do with
mother! ”
“A sneaking, crawling minister! If it had
been anyone else! And if she wanted to be
generous, she might have sold it to him cheap—
but to give—it—away ! ”
Pi’s voice breaks, and she turns her head aside.
Various sounds are coming from the hammock.
It rolls and sways back and forth ; at last it comes
down with a flop, and Alec lies kicking, squirm-
ing, slapping his legs, and gasping with laughter.
“ Holy Frost! Ha ! Hah ! Oh, it’s rich ! To
think you stole that honey from me, and now
after all, you’ve lost it. Oh, he! he! Ah, ha!
ha ! Great Caesar ! ” «
“Pig!”
“Good Heavens!” says Pi, in a despairing
whisper, and holds up to my view Alec’s cherished
whip cut in half. She has done it with the
“tommy.”
“ What on earth are we to do now ? ” Pi
rises heavily, and goes inside. My heart turns
coward when I see her returning with the money-
box.
“ Alec, I’ve cut your whip in half; here’s half-
a-crown for another. ”
Alec picks up his whip, regretfully. He turns
red as he sees Pi’s outstretched hand, and says :
“You’re only doing that for show : anyway, half-
a-crown ’s no good ; this whip cost five shillings.”
“ This is all I’ve got; will you take the - bones
and horns as security for the rest ? ”
“ Pi,” I say, indignantly, “ are n’t we partners ?
Give Alec my half-crown as well. And for the
future, Alec, don’t leave your piggish whips
about! Come on, Pi, and let’s think how we can
make some more money.”
N.S.W.
M.H.
The South African War,
A MARVELLOUS thing has happened.
Men have again been permitted to see a
pillar of cloud by day and of fire by night.
God has made a wind to pass over the
face of the earth and the waters of overwhelming
might have been assuaged.
Two years ago the herdsmen of the little
republic of South Africa drove their cattle across
the veldts of the Transvaal and of the Orange
Free State in peaceful and contented obscurity.
But buried beneath their rugged hills was the
wealth of gold and diamonds, and they stood in the
way and obstructed the progress of that kind of
civilisation which is represented by such adven-
turers as Barney Barnato and Cecil Rhodes, and
is sung by such poets as Rudyard Kipling. Two
years ago the name of England would have
stood against the world. Her armed vessels
steamed along every coast and in every sea.
Canada, Jamaica, ancient Egypt, farther Ind,
and the islands of the South Sea paid her tribute.
Like Persia in the time of Xerxes, Rome in the'
days of Caesar, and Spain under the rule of Charles
V., was England among the modern nations, and
more. For in these days the merchants and
bankers of London, Berlin, Amsterdam, and New
York are all akin, and the.iear of a fall in the
price of corn destroys manhood, stifles the call of
conscience, and makes allies everywhere. The
lawyer in his office in Washington construes the
requirements of international law, and ascertains
what are neutral goods in such a way. as not to
depress the price Of stocks.
In an evil day England, inspired by the lust of
conquest and of gain, girded up her loins, and,
with the banners of St. George floating in the air
and fifes shrieking the notes of “God Save the
Queen,” with the wealth of the world supporting
her, calling upon the Krupps of Germany to supply
her with guns, and gathering horses—oh, the shame
of it!—in the prairies of Illinois, started to drive
the herdsmen of South Africa from their frugal
homes, to burn their houses and their barns,
and to annex the Transvaal to her dominions.
To this unholy and dastardly work she devoted
245,000 men, the largest and best appointed
army raised in the whole course of her history,
and at their heads rode her military chieftains,
my Lord Roberts of Candahar and my Lord
Kitchener of Khartoum. The selfish Courts of
the Continent watched to see with what kind of
spirit the hunted Boers would perish on their
pyres, with as little concern as the people of
Constance viewed the death of Huss, as the
people of Geneva waited for the death of Servetus.
The great republic over the seas founded by
George Washington and maintained by Abraham
Lincoln, toward which alone the harried burghers
might turn with hope, gave them no whisper of
encouragement, and was only eager that no con-
sul too zealous about his opened correspondence,
no questions of the seizure of flour, or of the
limitation of neutral rights, should arise to dis-
turb the success of the English foray. There was
still money to be made by deals with Thread-
needle-street and these republican burghers were
few in number, poor- in substance, and far away.
Let them die.
Two years have rolled along in their course,
and what thing has come of it? The bones of
forty thousand Englishmen, one for every Boer in
the field, lie scattered along the paths where the
herdsmen drove their cattle. Twenty thousand
Englishmen have been captured. A billion of
dollars has been spent in vain. The output of
the coveted Rand has fallen from seventy millions
to seven millions a year, and the imposing forms
of Cecil Rhodes and Dr. Jameson have sunk into
darkness. The unconquered and unconquerable
Boers still ride over the desolate and wasted
veldts of the Transvaal, and “unfortunate occur-
rences” are still reported in the coffee-houses of
London from the very heart of Cape Colony.
Who is now so poor as to do England reverence?
Nothing can ever give a gloss to attempted wrong
but success. The power of the Empire has been
halted. The very walls of Windsor Castle have
been shaken. The German works his rude will in
China. Russia pushes sternly towards the Pacific.
France threatens in Barbary with impunity.
America will open her canal between the oceans,
and which of them stops to heed whether it serves
the purpose of England or not ?
Striving to know what this struggle means to
the Boers, it is not for me to do more than bid
them cheer, but with all my soul I pray they may
be able to maintain the liberty which is theirs.
If this is not vouchsafed to them, then may they
uphold their manhood to the end. It is well for
us all and for the future of the world that there
still exists a race with pluck enough to resist
sordid crime, whatever be its might, regardless
of consequences. The light which inspired
the Greeks, the Dutch at Leyden, and Anthony
Wayne at Stony Point, is now streaming in
full flood over the barren peaks of the Trans-
vaal. The uncouth names of Majuba Hill
and Spion Kop begin to resound in our ears
like those of Marathon and Thermopylae
of old, like those of Trenton and Brandy-
wine in later days. Kruger and Botha and De
Wet have taken their places among the heroes of
all time and the whole world, beside Leonidas,
Winkelried, William of Orange, and Washington,
to incite the brave to effort for all the ages yet to
come. When the English nation, old and tooth-
less, like the giant in “ The Pilgrim’s Progress,”
shall sit by the wayside snarling over the memory
of its victories won from the weak in Ireland and
India, at Wyoming and at St. Helena, with every
traveller ready to knock it on the head for its
past wickedness, mothers will tell their children,
poets will sing the story, and historians will write
in their pages how the burghers fought and died
upon the kopjes of South Africa to save their
homes from the despoiler.—S. W. Pennypacker,
in N. Y. Sun.


M‘DOUCALL’S SHEEP DIP
THE ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUS DIP.
IVTDOUGALL BROS., 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Agents: HXT.Z. L. He. 3MC. A. do.. IVtcJ.. LOCAL AGENTS EVERYWHERE
h
SEND
YOUR
WOOL
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
If you want to get the best possible results.
ĥ
Tails. Plaits
FRINGES, Best Natural Curly Hair, 3/0, 5/0,
7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each. TAILS and PLAITS,
20in. long, 6/6, ; Extra Thick, 7/6 ; 24in.,
10/6; Extra Thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings Worked Up, 2/6 per oz.
Don’t be misled. Our Plaits and Tails are
twice as thick as sold elsewhere at same
price. Send Color of Hair. “ Only ONE
Address ” : W. H. WIGZELL,
110 WILLIAM-ST. , Comer of Palmer-st.,
Sydney. Cable trams ivill stop at door. All
work guaranteed. Illustrated catalogue
post free. Prompt attention given to coun-
N
OTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
try orders. Wigs made on shortest notice.
BRAUN ORE SAMPLE-CRUSHER
and PULVERISER.
h
Combination of a Jaw and Roll
Pulveriser working together.
May be operated by either hand or power.
Jaws, 3* in. wide; Roll, 6 in. diameter; Belt
Wheel, 16 x2b in. Total Weight, 2851b5.
White fob Particulars to—
PARKE & LACY CO., Ltd.
60 Clarence-St., Sydney, n.s.w.
MINING ENGINEERS & MACHINERY
MERCHANTS.
HAVE THE
BEST.
ĥ
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE
Is built by a light, handy machine, easily operate 1, which will weave
THREE CHAINS OF FENCE AN HOUR.
The Lateral Wires an two-ply cable of best dal. Steel Wire intersected by Crimped Steel Pickets
securely interwoven at any desired distance apart, forming a perfect Web Fence which will hold
securely all kinds of Stock.
FOB CATALOGUES AND PARTIOULABS
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE
128 Franklin St., Melbourne ; 143 Sussex St., Sydney.
CO.,
NEITHER CRACK
& v
%
5800
*0
6807
5803
NOR BURN.
t BB
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
GUARANTEE.—ShouId any of our Celebrated CAN’T*B-BEAT Briar Pipes Crack or Burn a
Now Ono will be Exchanged for it Immediately on Application.
Sold by all Tobacconists. By Post, Is. 2d.
Mick Simmons, haymarket, Sydney.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY, Stores: PYRMOMT-
Sole Charge : 3 Per Cent, to tlie Gt-rowera,
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge i<L per lb, to the Buyers.
“On Our Selection.” By “ Steele Rudd.”
WARNER’S SAFE CURE
ACTS SCIENTIFICALLY
Curing, as it does, all diseases of the Kidneys and Liver
this remarkable medicine necessarily cures speedily and permanently
Indigestion
Dyspepsia
Biliousness
Sick Headache
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Backache
Sciatica
Anaemia
General Debility
Blood Disorders
Gravel
Bladder Troubles
Bright’s Disease
This is a long list of diseases for one medicine to cure • When, however, it is realised
that they one and all arise from an abnormal condition of the Liver or Kidneys, or
both, and that Warner’s Safe Care, by attacking the seat of the disorder, restores the
Kidneys and Liver to health and activity, thus enabling those vital organs to naturally
remove from the body all poisonous acids and other ivaste products which cause these
diseases, it is easy to understand why such complaints are of necessity cured .


TATTERSALL’S.
Address: Oar© GEO. ADAMS, Hotoart.
Newcastle Tattersall’s 0. December 12.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
above.
£
Please allot me shares in the
Name ____
Address
:
*
SUMMER 0. December 26.
50,000 Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the
above.
Name
Address
& : :
OAJUUXGTON S. December 28.
50,000 Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me sharps in above.
Name
Address
BRIGHTON P. January 1.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares
in the above.
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars
Address i! Tatter sail,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


ħ
r THE i
Great Tax
that is levied upm your
W constitution by indigestion
1 demands relief in a remedy like
££lG£ls|
Syrup
Mr. F. Tom, Mary Street, Dunellen
Estate, Brisbane, Queensland, in a
I letter dated September Bth, 1900, says:
“My three years of weakness, I
wretchedness, and misery from In- I
digestion were completely cured I
k by three bottles of Seigel’s Jj
Syrup.” If you are ill you will
find that Seigel’s Syrup is a J
saving
ON YOUR
JNCOME*
Rv/5e5
AU, I
, r.
Beware:*" -
s of IrtilXTloNS
h
Federal
Busi=
ness
In
All-Wool
Colonial
or
Imported
Tweed,
Navy
Serge,
Blue or
Black
Vicuna
Your money
back if not
satisfied
and
Trimmed,
Properly
Tailored
and
Thor-
oughly
Depend-
able
Patterns
and Self-
Measure-
ment Forms
postedfrea
To Measure
Extra Pair of TROUSERS
GIVEN WITH EVERY SUIT
40f=
Great Value 1 Our Famous Ready-Made
Federal Sac Suit
la Good Colonial or Imported Tweeds
all-wool Navy Serge or Black Vicuna. |
Any size from 3 1
to 7, Special Tailor '
20/-
made,fitted with Italian
Cloth ininga
Padded Shoul-
ders, in and out
breast and ticket
pockets, etc.
Carriage paid to any address in ths Australian
Commonwealth or New Zealand.
DON Cash Trading Co.
173 a to 214 Johnston Street
Collingwood, Melbourne
L^henordering give this number, No. 0123 .
ĥ
Rider Agents wanted
throughout Australia,
one in each town to ride and
exhibit 1902 Model Cycle.
Finest Grades, £2 5s to £4
10s, carriage paid.
’OO & ’Ol Models £1 5s to £2los.
Great Factory Clearing Sale at
HALF FACTORY COST.
Every Machine fully guaranteed
We have a wonderfully liberal
proposition for good Rider Agents.
'Write at once for our bargain
‘list and Special Offer using
2%d stamp or Id postcard.
, ADDRESS DERT. 152-C
'Meat! Cycle Co., Chicago, U.S.A•
Population of Thursday Island on l/4/’Ol
was *1695, made up thus -.—Europeans, 705;
Japanese, 304; Filipinos, 83; Aboriginals, 113;
Chinese, 114 ; Malays, 55 ; Kanakas, 81; Cingal-
ese, 54 ; Javanese, 7 ; Indians, 22 ; New Guinea,
29; other mixed races, 128. When the Philp
party starts its revolt against a white Australia,
the Commonwealth Government might do worse
than deport it, capital and all, to the multi-
colored island to afford an object lesson of the pro-
sperity obtainable with abundant piebald labor.
Arthur Griffith and Allen, 169 Phillip-
street, Sydney, Patent Agents and Consulting
Engineers. Patents, Trade Marks and Copyrights
protected throughout the world.*
SHIRTS.
ITor Station and Out-door work our SILK STRIPE
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33 f per Malt-dozen, free by post throughout
A ustralia.
Patterns and Measurement forma on Application
B. MOUNTCA?"’BE St SONS, Brisbane, Q’land
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Next Distribution of the Profits at 31st December, 1901.
Policies Effected before the close of the year will participate in the Bonus to be then allotted.
Amount of Cash Bonus divided among the participating Policyholders for the single year 1900 was £537,895.
(All bonuses vest immediately on policies attaining a duration of two years.)
Intending Proposers should note the above carefully, and send in their applications early, either direct or through
any of the Society’s Agents, so as to reap the benefit of this year’s bonus.
DIRECTORS : Thomas Littlejohn, Esq., Chairman ; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; The
Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; Benjamin Short, Esq.; Senator J. T. Walker ; J. Abbott, Esq. ; and
F. E. Winchcombe, Esq., M.P. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
ħ
Commercial
Bugrgyj
£l4 IOSr
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
jJgT Send for a
Catalogue.
I
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
M "1 1 ' " ///(
m
mm
SSS-./S
A
urn
WHOLESALE
Distributing; Agents
New South Wales —■
M. RUTTY & GO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrence &00.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Western Australia —
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland —
Thos. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Phllp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand —
D. Benjamin & Co.,
Dunedin, Wellington
and Christchurch.
h
(V.V)
&/}
%
ĥ
ħ
Highest Grade of Quality if Finish.
DC - Every Pipe Guaranteed.
PRIZE MEDAL, Paris Exhibition, 1900.
Australian Agents:
M. RUTTY & 00., New South Wales.
J. E. HUNT, Victoria.
THOMAS BROWN & SONS, LTD., Queensland.
HART LAWRENCE & CO. PROP. LTD., South Australia.
A. G. & E. T. KNOX, West Australia.
Eradicates Scurf.
Promotes Growth
■
roatHE
Prevents Hair Falling.
Contains no Dye.
THE
‘PLUM’
h
THE
‘PLUM’
/-'i ENTLEMEN. —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
VT ]j] a . a an d never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edo-e that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7a 6d.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price
{Single Razor, in strong Leather Oase, 10s 6d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21a.
Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful oase, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to ant part op the World.
yW Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
'l’ll Try It”
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Qapillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Result.
ornamental hair
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 0d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
ypFT Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to any part of Australasia.
CRAIG & AITKEN4C
New South Wales Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company
When in town, pay ua a visit. Do you want a 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNfitf
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do *o, and you pay 15 pel
cent more for your requirement*.
OUlt SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
ĥ
Delivered at any Wharf ar
N.B.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Bards of the Backblocks.
♦
[For Thu Bulletin.]
By the Month of the Shaft.
The red light from the lanterns
Lit the faces round the shaft,
Faces swarthy, stem, and tanned,
As they cut the fallen timber,
Cleared the rotten windlass aft,
Rigged another roughly planned.
One man fancied, leaning over,
Fastening on the jagged rope,
A faint movement in the brown
Foul ferment of the darkness;
Then Black Bill, the leader, spoke :
“ He’s alive, boys ! Who’ll go down ? ”
Pushing through the crowd that started,
Sam the Ski ter forward sprung,—
Caught the rope with steady hand ;
“ Lower down ! ” he cried ; “ I’m ready ! ”
Round the creaking windlass swung,
Strained the rope in every strand.
Half-way down the foul air met him,
And the candle flickered out
And the vapour seized his brain,
Clutched his throat with demon fingers,
But he raised a reeling shout
And they hauled him up again.
“It’s the gas, mates ! Where’s the tommy ?
Cut those smoke bushes here—
Beat the air in ! Haul ’em round !
Now let down a lighted candle :
Steady, boy ! the air is clear ”
And they wound him under ground,
Through the foul breath of the darkness ;
And the grinding windlass turned
Till the vapour hung like smoke,
And the slinking shadows cowered
Where the candle dimly burned,
Flickered on the straining rope ;
Lit the damp and slimy shingles,
And the rotten beams abaft ;
The lad felt a sudden chill, —
He could hear the water dripping
From the mullock up the shaft
To the bottom black and still.
Down below him, doubled over
’Neath a fallen cedar stump,
Something red and battered lay,
Where the coil of stagnant water,
Like a crawling viper slunk
With its dazed and broken prey.
* * * •
As they stood in silence round him,
One dark-bearded digger spoke :
“ Give him air ! he’s coming to ! ”
But the Skiter, leaning over,
Shook his head : “Boys, there’s no hope ;
See, the lips are going blue ! ”
And he raised him like a woman :
“ Ain’t he altered, as he lies
There so quiet-like and strange—
A damned lump of mullock struck me,
Boys, the sand’s got in my eyes—
God ! old fellow, what a change !
“ And the girl at Kelly’s shanty—
We must break the blow to her;
They had fixed it up last week ;
And he meant to chuck prospectin’—
’Twas his last day at the Spur—
And then leave for Golden Creek.
“Hurt her; bless you ! it won’t hurt her.
She’d have chucked him for a kiss
From that measle of a toff,
Who some say—but nothing matters :
Poor old chap, he’s come to this ! . . .
Boys, the rain is keeping off,
“ But the wind’s from a bad quarter . . .
Yes, a brother, so I’ve heard,
But he hasn’t wrote for years;
Send the yellow dust to Liza —
It was all she ever cared,
And she’ll soon pan off her tears ! ”
And they laid him on a stretcher,
With the night-wet on his hair
And the blood-wet on his breast:
Harder weight than head of woman
That had leaned across him there
Where the beam had pinned his chest.
O’er the blue line of the ranges
Rose the dawning faint and chill,
And the moon, a shadow dim,
Like a sorrow-stricken woman
Leaned her pale brow on the hill,
As the New Day broke for him.
M.L.
LOLA.


[oj
The “||alcanic” grating
MACHINE.
A GREAT SAVING TO
Hotelkeepers, Cafe Proprietors,
&c.
.dSrated Waters of the highest quality produced with
the utmost rapidity without skilled labor. Abso-
lutely the best, and simplest Machine in the market.
• PRICES GREATLY REDUCED •
Write for descriptive Pamphlets with testimonials
from people who have used the Machine for years
W. JAMES, Proprietor
/Office : 101 QUEEN ST., MELBOURE.
\ Depot : 130 CECIL ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE.
... .
The G. and S.A,
LADIES’ KEYLESS WATCHES
Are Accurate
Timekeepers.
|We keep them in
order (breakages
excepted) for 3
years, and guaran-
tee them for 25
ħ
Richly Engraved Cases (20 Designs),
Extra Strong Keyless Watches.
9ct. Gold. 14ct. 18ct. Silver.
£ 3/10/.£4/10/ £5/10/.£l/15/
ART
Jewellers
fccv, *•
y
90 Kinc ST
Sydney.
Richly Engraved Cases <2O
Genuine Waltham Watches.
lOct. Gold. 14ct. 18ct. Silver-
£s/10/. £7/10/. £9/10/- £3-
A Modern Scientific Triumph, the
“ELECTRICON”
The first and only absolute safe and successful
means ever perfected to apply pure Metallic Galvanio
Electricity direct to the ears, permanently curing
DEAFNESS
and completely banishing all distressing
HEAD NOISES
by restoring natural life, strength and activity to the
affected parts of the ear and to the nerve of hearing.
Simple—harmless—positive. Cure guaranteed or no
expense. For full information and complete descrip-
tion, address with stamp—
The L. R. VERNON COY.,
DO YOU WISH to LEARN a Profitable
Trade in a day, and add to your income,
or start in a fascinating business requiring very
little capital ? If so, send three stamps for my
pamphlet entitled, “AN EASY INDUSTRY.”
Gives particulars. SUITABLE FOR EITHER
SEX. Box 131 G.P.0., Wanganui, New
Zealand.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Hennessy’s
Brandy
Disarms
Influenza
of
all its
Dangerous
After
Effects.
THE
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
h
V
ĥ
'LL 1
ill
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, £3 3s. per week or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica-
tion to The Manager.
J A
<1 /
** m
Montserrat
l
F
J
rail
me
a ice
r
The “ LANCET ” says:-
“We counsel the public to drink Lime-Fruit Juice
whenever and wherever they list It is a far more
wholesome drink than any form of Alcohol.”
“Montserrat” Lime-Fruit Juice either with water or
aerated water is a delightful thirst quencher.
Sole Consignees—
EYANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON.
EYANS, SONS & Co., LI YE R POO L.
AGENTS-Elliott Bros., Ltd.; J. Connell & Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
LEARN TO HYPNOTIZE
ħ
h
Reader, do Jrou desire to become a Hypnotist? Do you want to know how to utilize th Q most
powerful and mysterious force of nature? Do you value control over others ? Do you value the
means of securing friendship, love and personal influence? Do you value the power to conquer
pain and banish sickness, to reform a misguided friend, to gain business success, to win wealth,
position and happiness ? If you do, you must learn to Hypnotize. Why not ? No other accom-
plishment is so easily acquired. It can be mastered in a few hours time, without leaving your
home. It costs nothing to find out all about it. The greatest Hynotist of the century has just
Issued in book form a large and exhaustive TREATISE, OR INSTRUCTOR IN HYPNOTISM
ground of his Science, aud lie will send it while the edition Lasts, absolutely
hKbis lO ALL« apply* The book is profusely illustrated, containing beautiful and artistic
engravings, and shows as never was done before the principles, features, wonders
and uses of thi3 mysterious Science, all in a popular and pleasing style. It tells
you just what Hypnotism is, and what you may accomplish with it. It shows you
how you may sway the minds of others, perform astounding feats,
and produce amusement by the hour. -New and instantaneous
methods. Success absolutely guaranteed. Remember this grand
work costs vou nothing. It benefits everybody who reads it. It
places you in touch with the wonder-science of the age. Read
it anyhow. It is absolutely FREE. Apply at ones to—
PROF. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ĥ
There is no question about it that • • •
CBOUZELLE STUDIOS, LIMITED,
. . . TUBN OUT . . .
The Very Best Portraits
At Strictly Moderate Prices.
No Sales or Gifts, but Real Good Value from a Real Good Firm
PLEASE NOTE
Our only Address is
TEL. 2761 FOR APPOINTMENTS.
308 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
5 Doors from Hunter Street.
Horse Owners and Others
USE ONLY JAMES AND SONS’
Universal Horse Remedies
SOLD BY ALL LEADING CHEMISTS AND DRUGGISTS.
Wholesale Depot: 24 Imperial Arcade . Sydney
FALIERE’S PHOSPHATINE
SXTfmsPHATM
(TfkJ; FAUERES,
The Only
Food
containing
Phosphate
of Lime .
For INFANTS and
INVALIDS
AN ESSENTIAE REQUISITE IN THIS COUNTRY.
it*'
mw
sir
mm * !
miWMI
~ i n
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Qo.,
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only and
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
GORDON MARE, Secretary.
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
28 Ye *« in the Establishment.


ħ
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 22.—N0. 1136,
SATURDAY. NOVEMBER 2S. 1901.
Price 6d.
hwftwAw t I]
Uurt IfiuMci'
WiW become* ci purl'of*
flu>trciliu IfAuit\n __ __
Huns persitfin their cry fora ftIHIfE M\l
tijere'c a bia fob \t] frohrof' y \ \ ■
■ Mr. Bruce Smith, M.H.Tt., finds that' he can- -J
nat immediately return to his.legislative duties |
in'Melbourne, in-consequence of the necessity l
for giving some more attention to his pro-
fessional duties during the forthcoming sittings
of the Supreme Court. “It is impossible,” said
Mr. Bruce Smith, when seen in reference to this
matter, “for the representatives of the different
States to give up the whole year to Parliamen-
tary work, to the complete loss of their means
of livelihood; and the country has the Govern-,
mtnt of the Commonwealth to thank for the
boneless muddle into which the business of
Parliament has been thrown.” Mr. Bruce Smith
will arrange a pair during his absence.
ATTITUDE OF ’ROO AFTER THE ADELAIDE MATCH.
Lathe.—Leo (to Kangaroo) : “ Have you heard from Melbourne yet ? ”
CARTOONLETS.


h
The National Australian Newspaper.
,f Australia for the Austral inns.”
Printed and Published by William Maolkod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Etd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBS CRT B EES
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum. ... ... ••• ® 0
Half-yearly ... ... ••• na ft
Quarterly ... ... ••• U b o
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maorifa nd.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postaqe on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
€l, with 2s. 3d. added for postage.
No neiospaper can be sent unless the .subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of\\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease of in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have Tub Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. P.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the, contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable.), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The. Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
J'o A inn,tears in. Blade, and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or ot/wr topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest, and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interestin'i photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e.. any pictnrl which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. — L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 33 Uout-st., Capetown. Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1901.
Butler, Buller, and Bull.
The drumming of General Buller out of his
army 'cum maud in response to popular
clamor is another indication of the mental
and moral deterioration of John Bull.
There have been many such indications since
the outbreak of the Boer war. The old ideal
of the English character was solid, almost
stolid, strength ; rugged, almost stupid,
determination ; calm impassiveness scorning
hysteria ; courageous pugnacity, anxious
always for a fight, preferably with a superior
force ; limitless capacity for receiving pun-
ishment without squealing. That, in the
year 1889, was the traditional English char-
acter ; it might have been a slightly-damaged
tradition since the days of Drake or of
Henry V., but it was still in good enough
repair to serve for common use and to find
eager acceptance in most English minds;
and a race tradition is always intended for
home consumption —it is an article which
can rarely be exported.
* * * *
The Tradition was founded on a long,
strenuous fighting career. From the time
when the stolid Anglo-Saxon had absorbed
the Norman, and set up in business as a
romantic pirate and a picturesque highway-
man, he stole with a success and a daring the
thought of which makes the blood of every
Englishman thrill with pride. France,
Spain, Germany, Scotland, Ireland were all
made the victims of predatory exploits on
land which claim the name of glorious,
whilst the successful piracy on sea of Drake
and Frobisher, and a score of others, was even
more notable in its results and exhilarating
in its incidents. Emerging from those
days, passing through the less glittering
periods of the later Stuarts and the Dutch
William, England plunged into the
Napoleonic wars, to emerge with a
reputation still the first in Europe.
She had proved not only her ability to steal
with audacity, but also her disposition—
and her power—to prevent anyone else from
stealing on anything like the same scale.
Indubitably she had the right to play lead in
the European combination. Her neighbors
had during centuries been playing with her
the game of nations, that vast tragedy of
mutual slaughter, and had been beaten on
almost every point. The Holy Roman
Empire, France, Spain, had in turn fallen
from the place of command ; and the stolid,
impassive, coldly courageous Englishman,
relying on the blessing of Providence and
the strength of a good right arm, was
emphatically on top. At this time, the
English Tradition was at its zenith. “ These
bull-dog English : they do not know when
they are beaten ” was said to have been
Napoleon’s verdict on his destroyers.
Probably he never used the words, but they
give a correct estimate of what the English-
man thought of himself then—a valuation
which was grudgingly but still generally ac-
cepted in Europe—and the witnesses to
which were his liens on the best parts of the
civilised globe.
* • • •
Through later years, the Tradition began
to lose a little of its strength. England took
to Exeter Hall and Freetrade, and lost
honesty as a robber, and vigor as a pirate.
But. there was still plenty of vigor in the
Tradition; and the events of the Crimean war,
the Charge of the Six Hundred, the battles
of Alma and Inkerman, gave it a fresh
stimulus. But now at the end of the Boer
war—and it seems that the war must end
shortly on terms favorable to the Boers —
what remains of the Tradition ?
* * * •
The tales of Agincourt and Crecy, and of
Richard Grenville’s gallant fight, when
Englishmen met appalling odds with cheery
hearts, have been swept from the memory of
Europe by the details of the unavailing fight
of the 200,000 against the 50,000. England
has figured like the Persians at Marathon
and Thermopylae, as a vast, enfeebled host
kept at bay by a few strong men. Her
hardy, aeath-or-glory veterans have been
seen with their pianos, and ice-chests, and
hair-mattresses, and wine-cellars, battling in
vain against a little mob of peasants. The
part the Spaniards played in Holland, and the
Austrians in the Tyrol, has fallen to her lot
this time. The Tradition had been created
and kept up by little bands of Englishmen
holding out against unnumbered odds in all
corners of the earth. Now, what man, even
on a music-hall stage, would venture to tell
that an Englishman is as good at fighting as
five of any other race ?
* • • «
But, after all, that part of the Tradition
was not absolutely vital. A nation’s generals
may blunder and a nation’s armies lose
battles : so long as the nation’s character
remains firm, fixed, courageous, all disasters
can be retrieved, all losses repaired. But
the events of the Boer war have made more
seriously disquieting revelations with regard
to English character than with regard to
English fighting power. The spirit of the
robust robber, wh’ose firm conviction that
the Almighty gave him power to rob, and
would in Person see that his robberies
were successful, has faded away, and its
place taken by weak vain-gloriousness, by
screeching hysteria, by contemptible lia-
bility to panic, by mean searching-out of
scapegoats to excuse national failings. The
nation that once looked unmoved on the
Spanish Armada and stood out to sea, stern,
resolute, cheerful, for its destruction, has
had all the moods of a vaporish woman, in a
campaign against a tiny body of South
African farmers—a surety of victory in-
tolerant of any good advice, a shuddersome
panic, a desperate flurry of effort, a weak
spitefulness, a savage searching for some-
body who can be crushed with impunity. It
is not England, not the England of old,
going out now to fight—this draggle-tailed
harridan, shrieking out threats, enforcing
her courage with drams, cuffing her brats
because she cannot reach to the enemy.
* * * *
The first marked indication of the national
decadence was revealed when John Bull
dismissed from the S’African command with
contumely and scorn General Butler. That
faithful servant of the British Crown knew
Naboth, and was averse to stealing his
vineyard. But if the theft was resolved
upon—well, he wished to warn his master
that Naboth kept a dog, and the fence was
spiked, and there was a loaded gun in
Naboth’s best room. John Bull raged and
fumed, and dismissed Butler as an ignorant
and impudent person. He knew better : it
was only necessary to vault over the fence,
have a pleasant grape breakfast, and enter
into possession. Now, the Nation that
cannot bear to learn the truth, and can listen
only to the smooth tongue of the flatterer, is
in a bad way. From that on, developments
in illustration of English national decadence
crowded on one another’s heels—the sense-
less, extravagant panic when Naboth pro-
duced his gun, the wild alarums for rein-
forcements, the savage criticisms of men
who were being beaten only because
Butler’s advice had not been taken, the
hysterical talk of the great Boer war, the
inglorious exultation over a few barren
victories, won with the aid of overwhelming
numbers, the drunken Mafeking carousals
(which gave the stamp of supreme approval to
a disgraceful and absurd incident of amateur
theatricalism) all told the one tale of a
nation no longer stolid, firm, resolute,
courageous, of a people degenerating into a
mob.
• • • •
The dismissal of General Buller seems to
roll the last stone on the grave of British
character. Buller fought like an old Eng-
lishman, doggedly, courageously, perhaps a
little stupidly. At Tugela he failed—mainly
because Butler’s advice had been scorn-
fully rejected and provision made for a pic-
nic campaign, not a real war. Failing, he
recognised that, in all human probability,
his failure involved the fall of Ladysmith.
If he had been an hysterical old woman
(sharing the character thus of the British
public), he might have heliographed to
White to “Fight on! fight on!” Being
a practical soldier, and not a posturer,
he knew that it was not a question
of fight, but of feed, and, being a
chivalrous gentleman, he took on himself the
responsibility of the fall of the town, as he
had lost the battle, and sent a message
accordingly to the beleaguered captain,
not saying “surrender,” but giving the
exact position of affairs and instructions how
to make a surrender least disastrous if it
became inevitable. For this, being now
informed of the facts for the first time, the
British Public (which, by the way, knows
nothing of the feeling of taking on itself
responsibility, but is to the last degree
anxious to shift to other shoulders the bur-
den created by its greed and folly and blind
following of false leaders) sentences Buller
to degradation. The shrieking harridan
cuffs her kids.
* * • •
It may be that the symptoms of national
rottenness which have been disclosed by this
war are evidence of a passing virulent
disease rather than of a hopeless infirmity.
The Bulletin, yielding to none in admira-
tion of the achievements of the British
race, hopes that so it will prove. English-
men have done so much for human Liberty
and human Progress that it would be a
sorrow indeed to watch at the bedside of
their once virile race, expiring in womanish
hysteria. Purged of her present politicians
and her mischievous, sensational press,
enabled by a sounder economic system to
feed her own people and till her own lands,
England may enjoy future days of greatness,
though at present she seems to be reeling
quickly down the path to ruin ; and already
the epitaph is being cut —
England, that was wont to conquer others,
Hath made a shameful conquest of herself.
Tie Inky Way.
On the P. E. Quinn proposal, in N.S.W. Parlia-
ment, that every newspaper article be signed with
the name of the writer thereof—who could con
scientiously sign the average daily-paper leade
on an important subject ? This is how it is made
Editor Robinson meets, by appointment, leaderr
writers Jones, Brown, Smith and Tompkins. The.
position is discussed from every point of view.-
Perhaps the business-manager is consulted, or the
proprietor, or the chief director. Finally, from
the mingling of all opinions, the lines which the
article will take are set down, and Jones writes
it. Then Editor Robinson revises it, and leaves
something out and puts something in. Perhaps
Reader Montmorency, up in the compositors’
room, finds out a mistake somewhere (printers’
readers are well-nigh omniscient) and corrects it.
Thus the article goes to the public—the joint work
of Robinson, Jones, Brown, Smith, Tompkins,
Montmorency and Business-manager M'Dougall,
with also a good deal of the influence of dead-
-and-gone Editor Atkinson, whose precepts are
still remembered by his old friend, leader-writer
Smith. Now, how’s it going to be signed ?
» » * *
Another P. Quinn point : The most important
man on a paper is the editor, who Leaves Things
Out, and often suggests the writing of the things
which are to go in. The things a paper leaves out
furnish, perhaps, the most vital part of its policy.
Should they not be published in a daily supple-
ment and signed as having been left out by the
editor? If the desire is to get back to the real
source of newspaper power, and indicate it clearly
to the public, that must certainly be done. And
if the P. Quinn Bill is just the desire of some
semi-politicians semi-journalists to pose before
the public (which The Bulletin shrewdly sus-
pects), that object can be just as well served by
the “ pressmen ” who want that sort of puffing in-
sisting on their signatures being printed with
their articles.
* * * *
Remarkable statement from leading columns of
Sydney D.T. (discussing proposal that the P.
Quinns should be allowed to spread their tails at
the end of newspaper articles): “The court can
at any time order the name of the writer to be dis-
closed, so that he can also be made answerable.”
That statement cannot ha ve been a deliberate one
on the Daily Telegraph’s part. The journalistic
tradition is that any decent editor would sooner
go to gaol than give up the name of a writer.
In fact, the self-respecting . editor—like Mr.
Gullett—would submit to be fried first.
• * * *
A reporter’s axiom ; Mankind is divided into
two parts —those who want their names promin-
ently displayed in the paper, and those who want
theirs kept out.
* * * •
The directors of “ United Australia” magazine
are Messrs. Barton, Bruce Smith, Edward Brad-
don, and R. E. O’Connor. Originally purely a
Federalist magazine, it is now a Freetrade and
pro-Kanaka organ, and in its last issue charges
Barton with “a breach of political faith” in
bringing down his tariff. Mr. Bruce Smith is
understood to be editor of the paper, which ex-
plains its politics. But what is there to explain
Mr. Barton and Mr. O’Connor continuing on its
directorate ?
■ • * *
One of the almost countless worries of the sub-
editor of a paper is the placing of the columns.
Leave the comps, to themselves, and they will
secure bewildering results. A Sydney daily
which runs a once published side by
side with a disquisition by Cardinal Moran on the
celibacy of the clergy a highly technical discus-
sion on some matters in relation to stud dogs and
their mates. The dog matter was awful enough
in itself. Its position made it simply calamitous.
A little Welsh country paper must have dealt a
sore blow to Chamberlain’s pride when it solemnly
published this paragraph :
The Right Hon. Joseph Chamberlain, the man who is
responsible for the war, passed through Bala Junction on
Monday, on his way home from Dolgelly, where he nas
been visiting. Our representative had a conversation
with him on the subject of the war. If our space permits
perhaps the conversation will be published in our next
number.
Australian newspapers could pick up a valuable
point as to the hostile treatment of an opponent
from this.
m * * *
“West Coaster” complains from Hokitika
(M.L.): “Have the Foreign-trade gang the con-
trol of the news supplied to this island ? Almost
every day we have: ‘Great Freetrade.meeting.
Tariff unanimously condemned ’ ; or this : ‘ The
D.T. says so and so’; ‘the S.M. Herald ditto
ditto’; ‘Mr. Reid says such and such.’ Hardly
ever do we get what Turner, Barton, or Kingston
say.” M.L. Press Association has its Australian
head-quarters in Sydney, where it has to rely on
the Freetrade dailies for news, because there are
no Protectionist daily newspapers. Probably,
however, it gives M.L. papers what they want on
the tariff question: they can’t be expected to
enthuse over duties which seriously affect M.L.
products.
The Care of the Aborigine.
Dr. Roth, Northern Protector of Aborigines, to
The Bulletin
I was much struck with thecommon senseof the humani-
tarian stand taken by Ernest Favenc (8., Oct. 12.) Since
my appointment as Administrator of the Aboriginals
Protection Act for N.Q., responsible for my actions only
to the Home Secretary, Mr. Foxton, I have had the
opportunity of bringing the matter of federating all
aboriginal interests under the notice, not only of my
chief, but also of our last Governor and the present
Governor-General. The difficulty of making the question
a Federal one is enhanced, however, by the fact that
three of the Federated States—Tasmania (with no abo-
riginals), Victoria and N.S.W. (with comparatively few) —
cannot be expected to make the pecuniary sacrifices
necessary for carrying the project into execution. So far
as N.Q. is concerned, Mr. Favenc’s strictures are appa-
rently based on incorrect information, in that there has
been no “ hysterical outburst ” —I have acted rather in too
grim earnest —in carrying out the laws regulating the
intercourse between whites and blacks. Parliament has
at present under consideration an Amending Aborigines’
Protection Bill, the provisions of which are, in a large
measure, based upon the abuses found to be existing.
Thanks to the Home Secretary, the regulations have, in
no sense, become “ practically a dead letter.”
• * * •
As to the principle of establishing reserves for the
blacks where they could live in their primitive state, the
details of a scheme have now arrived at such maturity
that its practical execution, in the hands of Mr. Foxton,
is almost completed. The natives are not to be forcibly'
removed from their homes, but large reserves are to be
proclaimed in those unoccupied areas of country (in the
Peninsula, and Gulf-coasts) where the blacks already are.
Where I emphatically differ from Mr. Favenc is with
regard to his views as to the necessity of the missionary
being as absolutely prohibited from these Reserves as the
rest of the' general public. Ido not speak from senti-
ment, but from experience. From the fact of the
Government subsidising our mission stations, and provid-
ing them with provisional school-teachers, it is one of my
duties to inspect these institutions and report upon their
administration and working. With one exception, in
regard to which the Home Secretary took drastic
measures, all these missions have done, and are doing,
good and useful work.
* * • •
Cocoa-nuts would grow well on certain of these re-
serves, where, indeed, they have been tried. On Cape
Bedford Reserve some 600 have been already planted,
with a view to copra-making in the future. With regard
to the native police, let Mr. Favenc and others be assured,
once and for all, that that regime is now a thing of the
past. One of the first acts which followed the appoint-
ment of the present Commissioner of Police was the
issue of distinct orders—which have been implicitly
obeyed—that the aborigines were to be treated
on humanitarian lines, with the result that not
a single “dispersal" has since then taken place.
Where the advance of white settlement has destroyed
the hunting-grounds of the aboriginals, the Government
has provided feeding-stations at various centres in the
Northern districts—the food-distribution being in the
hands of responsible and reliable people. Something
between £6O and £7O monthly is thus spent. In other
cases relief in the form of tobacco, etc., is granted for
conciliatory and other purposes. Medical assistance is
also being regularly given to the sick and diseased. The
recruiting and employment of natives in the pearl-shelling
and bSche-de-mer industries is now under proper
supervision. Heavy penalties await the purveyor
or supplier of opium and grog to our natives.
Indeed, the whole object of the Aborigines Protection
Act of ’97, with its Amending Bill now under considera-
tion, is to promote the welfare and ameliorate the condi-
tion of the natives, to end hitherto-existing abuses, and
to prevent their recurrence in the future. The aims of
this legislation are gradually, yet assuredly, being
crowned with success. Indeed, the other States might
well follow the example now set by Queensland in her
dealings with her autochthonous population.
Yours,
WALTER E. ROTH.
Northern Protector of Aboriginals (Q.).
PLAIN ENGLISH.
»♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
The Peacock’s Draggled Tail.
As Vic. Premier-designate, Peacock, at the last
election, taking Turner’s programme, fought the
then office-holders — M‘Lean and co. —and was
sent back with a working majority, which he still
has. The only essential point of difference
between the two programmes was as to the
necessity for a convention to plan a new State
Constitution, which M‘Lean condemned and Pea-
cock advocated. A Bill representing the Peacock
platform was brought in and passed its second read-
ing, and then, apparently, the man with the laugh
found himself too weak to force it through the
Council. Anyhow, last week, ’mid the scoffing
jeers of the Opposition, and in the contemptuous
silence of his followers, he withdrew the Bill—
which a majority of the Assembly was still
pledged to support—and announced an alter-
native scheme of reform. This beats even
Rum-ism or LYNE-ism. The Convention scheme
was the one point on which the electors were
asked to give a decided answer. They gave it,
trusting to Peacock to carry out their wishes,
and, at the first light breath of opposition, he
betrays his trust. The electors demanded a con-
vention to give them, not a tardy and grudging
measure of reform, according to the sweet will of
the 48 Fat Landlords, but a new Constitution,
framed by the best men of the State, elected by
popular suffrage. Peacock offers them a so-called
Reform Bill, framed by himself, and liable to be
hacked and bashed by the mediocrities of the
Assembly, and the worse than mediocrities of the
Council. The M‘Lean Government invited the
electors to give the Assembly power to reform the
Constitution, and the people declined to trust the
Assembly. Now Peacock deliberately flouts the
electors. His proposals are, in some respects,
good enough—the reduction of Assembly to 80 and
Council to 40, single electorates for both Houses,
adult suffrage for the Assembly, ratepayers (male
and female) to be electors for Council (males only
eligible to sit), Council to have same money-bill
powers as Federal Senate, Ministers to be as
numerous as at present, plural voting to be en-
tirely abolished, and deadlocks to be provided for
by a double dissolution preparatory to a joint


sitting ; but the trouble is that, whilst enthusias-
tically accepting the bad, the House of Landlords
will almost certainly reject the good points. And,
even if Peacock were able to force such
a measure through both Houses, the reforms
are far less than wha t were expected _by
the majority who asked for the convention.
Had the electors been able to elect a convention,
that body would probably have provided for a
single House, with the Referendum as a check,
and the right of initiative. Now, after Mr.
Peacock’s shameful back-down, they will have to
put up with such trifling reforms as the House of
Fat is likely to give. It is a great, betrayal.
♦
J ourn alegoism.
Presumably the N.S.W. Newspaper Articles Bill
has been hurled into happy oblivion. Essentially
it was wind and nonsense. Journalists did not
want it; newspaper proprietors did not want it;
the public did not want it. True : the grand
doctrine of personal responsibility should be
brought home to every journalist. None should
pen, or be permitted to print, a line which
he would not back with his name and
character. But journalists do not wish, often
cannot afford, to sign their names to every-
thing they write : they wish to pick and
choose—to sign only the creditable matter, or
the matter which will not embroil them socially.
Newspaper proprietors do not wish matter signed
as a rule, because signature detracts from that
valuable asset—“ the credit of the paper.” And
the public would soon weary of the reiteration of
undistinguished names beneath undistinguished
matter. The present arrangement is thus a com-
promise between conflicting interests. The mask
of the editorial We would be disadvantageously
exchanged for the hard face of the advertising
politician, to whose inferior writing the
fool-public would transfer the credit or notoriety
gained in politics. And, finally, compulsory legis-
lation is impracticable ; because it could be evaded
by the easy method of employing an office cipher
to sign everything. Since, then, it is not possible
in every case to preserve the personal responsi-
bility of the writer, that responsibility should be
transferred to the editor, who should not be per-
mitted to plead good faith merely “as far as he
knows.”
♦
The Drunkard and the Theologian.
The Rev. Courtenay Smith, a gentleman whose
well-meaning, and, to an extent, successful, efforts
to deal with individual cases of drink-mania
deserve warm appreciation, advances a most
extraordinary argument against State effort to
deal with inebriates. In the columns of the
Australian Churchman Mr, Smith writes:
Of late years an idea, fostered by a section of the
medical profession, has become widespread that drunken-
ness is purely a disease. As a matter of fact, this is
setting the human mind against the mind of God. For
in Hoiy Writ it is most distinctly set forth that drunken-
ness is a sin—not a disease—and is to be cured only in the
same way as all other sin. lam old-fashioned enough to
take the Bible as I find it, and an experience of 23 years
with about 5000 inebriates has confirmed me in the
knowledge that the Christian way is the only way to
cope with this dreadful evil. . . . Have my temperance
friends and acquaintances considered that, in calmly
handing the whole affair over to the State, they are
positively sacrificing the vast majority of the unhappy
inebriates of New South Wales ? Yet, that is so.
These are the essential points in a long plea for
leaving the treatment of the inebriate to the
Christian theologian, rather than to the scientific
physician, and treating him as a sinner rather
than as a patient. It would not be possible to
imagine a more fantastically ludicrous idea.
Before declaring an opinion contrary to all the
conclusions come to from a scientific study of
ascertained facts, Mr. Courtenay Smith should
have asked himself these questions : If Christian
theology is a cure for, or a prophylactic against
the drink-habit, how is it that many profoundly
religious people are afflicted by drunken-
ness—clergymen of all denominations amongst
them ? If the Christian way is the only
way to cope with alcoholic excess, how is it
that Mohammedans, Buddhists, and many brands
of Pagans cope with it absolutely, successfully,
and with no help from any Christian methods ?
In short, how is it that, to all intents and pur-
poses, Christian peoples are the only drunken
peoples on earth, Mahommedans, Buddhists, Con-
fucians, and most kinds of Pagans (before the
advent of the Christian missionary) being ab-
stainers ? To advance theology as an alternative
to segregation and medical care in the treatment
of inebriety requires a bold contempt for all the
ascertained facts of the subject.
♦
The Rofe Case.
The persistency of Thomas Ernest Rofe, the ex-
solicitor who was sentenced to five years’ im-
prisonment on a conspiracy charge in connection
with the notorious Butler divorce case, would be
remarkable in anyone but a N.S.W. ex-attorney.
Though sentenced, Rofe never served a day of
richly-deserved imprisonment. He had influen-
tial friends. The Judge was merciful enough to
release him under the First Offenders’ Act. This
seemed extraordinary, as Judge Backhouse was
far from satisfied with Rofe’s conduct in the wit-
ness-box, and plainly said so. It is the more extra-
ordinary, in view of the recent case of Richard
Croft, another N.S.W. solicitor, found guilty of
swearing a false affidavit, and sent to gaol for it—
though his conduct had none of the shameful con-
sequences of Rofe’s. But, then, Croft lacked “in-
fluential friends.” Again, while Rofe’s associates
in a diabolical crime—that of concocting and
fastening an immoral charge against a virtuous
woman and mother—were sentenced to long terms
of hard labor— Rofe himself was given absolute
freedom in the county of Cumberland. At the
time (’95) this strange divagation of justice excited
indignation. But Rofe was not an easily
satisfied man. On the grounds of possessing
fresh evidence of a startling nature, his case
was _ re-opened. Note again the influence
of friends! (Suffield’s case could not be re-
opened.) Judge Coffey (since deceased) con-
ducted the enquiry, and his finding was distinctly
unfavorable to the persistent solicitor. Rofe’s
sentence expired on 25th October, 1900, and now,
a year later, he requests re-instatement as a
solicitor—incidentally showing his opinion of
N.S.W. Supreme Court. And, just at this
point, the versatile Rofe unfolds a new
tale. He now avers that a certain draft affida-
vit of an incriminating nature which was found in
his possession when arrested was a stupid and
silly device on his part to trap Butler (his own
client !) in the hope of winning kudos in
the profession. Dr. Cogiilan is said to have
been aware of this baneful scheme of Rofe’s,
and to have advised him against it; but Dr.
Coghlan was not put forward as a witness either
at the Criminal Court, «r at the special enquiry
under the Criminal Law Amendment Act, or at
the last application. In stating Rofe’s case
before the Full Court, Attorney-General Wise
admitteu the allegation against Rofe to be that
he knew of the shocking conspiracy against Mrs.
Butler in January, 1895, and that heheld his tongue
in the matter till April following, when the draft
affidavit got into other hands. Apart from the
verdict of the jury as to Rofe’s guiltiness, the
fact that he kept to himself for three months
the knowledge that an unknown co-respondent
and petitioner’s private detective were one and the
same person should be sufficient for every honest
man. N.S.W. Full Court last week unanimously
refused to reinstate Rofe —at present. Pending
a fresh application, one would be glad to hear that
Mr. Rope had done something to compensate the
victim of the foul Butler conspiracy for the
injury wrought her.
♦
The Concentration Camps—two
Explanations
The man who, charged with assault, pleaded first
that lie hit the man under great provocation, and,
secondly, that he didn’t hit him at all, failed for
obvious reasons. Nor did his ingenuity pay much
compliment to his common sense. Official Eng-
land, at last exasperated by the charges of whole-
sale child-murder in S’Africa into an attempt
to excuse itself, has within a week put for-
ward two “explanations” which, as cabled to
Australia, stand :
London, Tuesday afternoon.—Dr. W. H. Symons,
medical officer of health for the country borough of Bath
(Somersetshire) shows that the infant mortality in Birken-
head, Salford, and Manchester during the summer quarter
was greater than that in the concentration camps in
South Africa.
London, Sunday afternoon. —The Blue-Book which has
been issued in connection with the Concentration Camps
in South Africa states that the Boer mothers refuse to
obey the camp doctors or nurses, and administer, as a
remedy for measles, a tea made from the dung of goats
and horses.
The women also refuse to wash their children, although
they are as black as Kaffirs, owing to dirt.
They also paint the children’s bodies, except the faces,
with green paint, thereby causing arsenical poisoning, in-
sist upon administering Dutch quack medicinescontaining
ether and opium, feed the little ones on sardines instead
of milk, and use horse-dung poultices—refusing proper
ones.
Moreover, the women abstain from entering the
maternity hospitals, believing that they would be starved
therein. They prefer untrained attendance, and are
extremely callous of one another’s sufferings.
The effect of the two explanations is : that no ex-
ceptional infant mortality occurs : and that the
exceptional mortality which does not occur is due
to the barbarous and ignorant conduct of the Boer
women. Without the corroborative evidence of
the conflicting character of the two explanations,
showing that one or both must be false, it is not
hard to conclude that this green-paint and
goat-dung yarn (based, perhaps, on a few
isolated instances of superstition), is a clumsy
and venomous lie. Whenever in the past Mr.
Chamberlain has been in a particularly tight
place in regard to S’Africa some Boer atrocity or
instance of Boer filthiness has been alleged in
excuse. But at this stage of the war, when the
testimony of thousands and scores of thousands of
British and Australian soldiers exists to prove
that the Boers enjoy at least as high a degree of
civilisation as rural people in England or Aus-
tralia ; when the official records of farm-burning
generally relate the destruction of musical in-
struments and books ; the tough lies of this Blue
Book might well have been spared. Is it not
enough that a people, once chivalrous and gallant,
have been betrayed by their Chamberlains into
hanging the Boer men and killing the Boer
children ?
4
Subsidised &ugar-Mills.
Statistics of the Q. Govt.-subsidised sugar-mills
are interesting reading just now. Under Q.
“Sugar Works Guarantee Acts,” 1893 to 1895,
Govt, has advanced £498,800 to 13 mill and tram-
way co’s. Two mills worked under Govt, control
have received £13,800 more, making a total ad-
vance of £512,600; against which Govt, holds
securities valued at twice the amount (land mort-
gages and bills of sale on plant). The companies
are supposed to pay interest on advances
and a sum in redemption every year; but
at 30th June, 1901, only two companies were
clear—Mossman and Mulgrave. (Did not the
late Q. Minister Chataway say that the
advantage of having the Govt, for a creditor is
that you need never pay up, if you have political
“ pull ” enough ?) Proserpine owes £13,118; Plane
Creek owes £12,019 ; total owing for interest and
redemption by all co’s, £61,372. Yet the mill
shareholders were usually well repaid. A total
of 833 growers crushed 255,418 tons cane, and
divided £l6s,BBo—an average of nearly 13s. per
ton. The average mill profit was 2s. lgd. per ton
of cane; nearly 19s. per ton of sugar. On an
average B’BB tons cane made one ton 88 per cent,
sugar. As showing the profits of cane-growing,
66 Mossman growers paid all that was due to Govt,
out of mill profits, and received an average of £551
per man for their season’s cane. Forty-three Mul-
grave growers received an average of £673 per
man. The average return per grower for the
whole season’s product was nearly £2OO. A
little scrutiny of the statistics shows why some
mills make so much more profit than others. Mul-
grave and Mossman growers work better land,
and keep their mills supplied. At Mackay the
land is generally poorer ; and the district is over-
milled. The same with the Brisbane district.
Mills are erected to crush 2000 tons of sugar per
season, and the growers supply cane for only
1000. How can the mill pay expenses and
interest —running half-time ? Or they are erected
to crush 4000 tons of sugar, and the
growers supply cane for 2000 tons. How can the
Govt, get interest and redemption out of idle
machinery ? The two mills which have paid what
they owe have been kept supplied with cane ; the
others have not —and that is the reason why the
companies fall behind. “Political influence” has
put up mills where there is no hope of making
them pay; just as “political influence” repur-
chased, for £22,622, the private Seaforth estate, to
be cut up for agricultural settlement—upon which
not one man has been induced to settle ! It is
time that the working of Q. Sugar Works Guaran-
tee Acts was given to an independent Board, if an
independent Board can be found in Kanakaland.
Such a Board, by ruthlessly shutting down un-
profitable mills, and by erecting refineries, could
utilise the magnificent bonus given to Q. sugar-
growers by the Federal Protective duty in order
to make the industry the most profitable of all
Australian industries —and All White at that.
The Blessing' of the Plague.
The mild case of bubonic plague reported from a
Sydney suburb may prove a boon and a blessing,
for already it has set various authorities to work
washing up, and perhaps may force on that
thorough and general cleaning which the big dirty
seaport requires. When the plague last visited
Sydney the city got such a wash as it had never
had since the day of its birth. But nothing
really effective was done to compel landlords to
put insanitary hovels in order, or to properly
connect otherwise-cleanly properties with the
city sewerage. Moved thereto by a report that
only about 10 per cent, of the city houses, where
sewerage facilities were available, had proper
sanitary arrangements, Attorney-General B. R.
Wise threatened loudly to put certain
property-holders into the criminal dock,
and legislation was promised to empower
the Water and Sewerage Board to compel all
house-owners to comply with the requirements of
sanitary decency. But Mr. Wise’s words were
braver than his deeds ; and the scare began to die
down as plague cases lessened, so that in the end
nothing was done. Sydney had been washed
pretty thoroughly, but left with all the old facili-
ties for getting dirty again, and it very cheerfully
turned back to wallow in the mire. Perhaps,
with a mild case of plague or two now, with
a possibility that that disease will become
endemic in the city, the municipal and
State Governments will be startled into resolute
and effective action. A plague epidemic costing
500 lives would be a cheap price to pay for
thorough sanitary reform, which would prevent
at least that number of deaths per year from
pneumonia, typhoid, scarlet-fever, phthisis and
other diseases. Providence sent to Sydney one
blessing in the shape of a plague scare, but the
kindly warning was little heeded. Will a second
mild hint be more successful, or will common-
sense be learned only through calamity ?
4.
The Black Bliglit-
A RESIDENT of Handah (Q.): —
The latest contention of the Kanaka-favoring sugar-
growers is that only small areas of cane can be worked
without the aid of Kanakas. If so, let us, by all means,
have the small area. Better that 10 men should earn
£2OO a year without the alien than one man should make
£2OOO with him. The mills, it is said, won’t collect the cane
on small areas, as Che expense would be too great. Bun-
kum ! Does anyone for an instant think that mill-owners
will let thousands of pounds’ worth of machinery lie idle
because a large estate has been cut up into smaller ones ?
One paper goes on to say that the only way for the small
cane-farmer to get his produce to the mill will be by the
aid of his wife and children, as white labor will be too
scarce. Scarcity of labor! Well, at the present time there
are hundreds of men here who would do any kind of
work and can’t get it at a decent wage, and, what’s more,
there always will be. Let any disinterested man reside
at Mackay, or any of the northern towns, for a time, and
then hear the views on the Kanaka question. No young
girl dare go out after dark in many places—not even in
daylight in some—without an escort. What with the
black scourge and the Yellow curse, this State is fast
becoming a hell upon earth.
A Maclean (N.S.W.) correspondent on the same
subject (showing how the black blight is
spreading):—
During the hearing of a charge of perjury against a
Hindoo at Grafton recently, three of the Hindoo witnesses
admitted that they had atone time or another either been
indicted for murder or fled from their country to escape
the just consequences of that act, while one had
stood his trial and been acquitted. Still another had
been charged with a serious offence on a female.
At almost every Quarter Sessions and Circuit Court at
Grafton and Lismore some of our lovable fellow subjects
from India are charged with abominable offences. The
aliens, though not numerous as yet, take up a very large
proportion of the time of any North Coast court.
♦
The Cohentingenter—in War and. Peace.
Major Rupert Carrington sends to N.S.W.
Govt, an urgent appeal for 150 more Bushmen for
his regiment in S’Africa. The chance of getting
them is not a good one, unless deadbeats ;ire
picked, whose eyes are on the pay and plunder
offering and nothing else. Of the first con-
tingents to S’Africa a large number were men
and soldiers; they had the war-enthusiasm,
and, no matter what one’s opinion of the
justice of their cause, there could be no
doubt as to their sterling military quality. In
later contingents the ranks comprised many abso-
lute ruffians, and the chances are that recruits for
any body to be despatched now, when all the war
fever has subsided, would be made up very largely
of undesirables. And there are too many of them
in S’Africa just now. An Australian writing in
October from S’Africa to a friend in Melbourne
says:—
The Australians are admitted second to none on the
field. In the towns some of them are an easy first—for
disgraceful behaviour. They are conducting themselves
just like a herd of Kaffirs. One body recently paid off,
on their way down in the trains, robbed every station or
refreshment-room that the train stopped at.
In Queenstown they attempted to rob a Coolie of his
fruit, and upon his refusal to hand it over without a
struggle they belted his brains out. A Kaffir who went
to his assistance was similarly dealt with. They called at
a house one night, and a Kaffir opened the door. Some-
body kicked him in the stomach, and when he rose
another shot him dead. An inquest was held, the pub-
lished verdict being an open one.
Nearing this place (East London) some of them amused
themselves by running along the roof of the train and
flinging their saddles out of the windows at people on the
crossings. During their few days’ stay here numbers were
to be seen at all hours leaning up against each other for
support, helplessly drunk, and filthy dirty. I had the
pleasure (?) of hearing some of the officers call them “ the
riff-raff of Australia,” and certainly their recent behaviour
justifies the remark.
At Rensberg, recently, a crowd of Australians stormed
some kopjes, and, after a gallant fight, secured two
Maxims. Later on, the Boers returned and re-took the
g-uns. Rumor says that amongst the captured stores our
fellows found some whisky, and most of them got drunk.
Anyway, the Maxims were never seen again.
It is in one sense a good thing to have this sort of
fellow out of the country : it saves the police a
lot of trouble. But Australia, being a young
person just starting as a nation, can hardly stand
them being exported as representative types, and
the English commanders have enough work on
hand now, Heaven knows. So, we pray, no more
contingents.
“ Cane-cutter ” writes from Queensland on the
latest development in the plot to blacken Aus-
tralia :
The newest faked example of white men’s “ unre-
liability ”is at Ripple Creek, Herbert River, Q. The facts
are : 24 white men were engaged to cut and load cane, at
3s. per ton. Evidently they did not understand the work,
or they would not have taken the job at such a rate.
These men, after working two days, found that they were
only making wages at the rate of half-a-crown per day,
and they naturally jibbed. Now, it is well known that,
in N.Q., a nigger cuts and loads, on an average, 30cwt. of
cane per day, and (as the pro-aliens assert a white man
can’t do more work than a nigger), at 3s. per ton the
latter would only earn 4s. 6d. per day, less tucker (say,
25.) leaving the princely sum of 2s. 6d. for a day’s work.
When the pro-aliens can quote instances where white
men at 30s. per week, with decent food and accommoda-
tion, refuse to work at cultivating or harvesting sugar-
cane, it will then be time for Australians to believe in
these “ unreliable ” stories about white labor.
Cane-cutting is worth 10s. per day ; and, properly
managed, with the present duty, the Q. sugar
industry can pay that easily.
♦
There is call for some statesmanship in dealing
with the New Guinea question. John Bui.l has
unloaded some White Man’s burden on to Aus-
tralia’s shoulders. But if Australia is to pay for
the up-keep of the Administration of British New
Guinea and its adjacent islands, she should
demand entire control thereof even to the
appointment of the Lieut.-Governor. This
country ought not to pay the piper while J. Bull
calls the tune and nominates his own piper. In
the future there must of necessity arise questions
—of water and road rights, of trading concessions,
etc. —with the contiguous States of German and
Dutch New Guinea. Britain hadn’t sense enough
to seize the whole property when she had the
chance, and some day it will probably pay
this country to buy the other owners out.
If so, they must be bought out for Australia, not
for Bull. The native question also demands some
attention. The Papuans, of course, will not be
given citizenship in the Commonwealth, and to
preserve a “ White Australia,” they must be
treated as colored aliens, though they are not
technically aliens, and kept from immigration to
the continent. From some points of view it may
be satisfactory to see Australia beginning to
assume her natural position as Suzerain of the
Pacific ; but there are disquieting possibilities of
trouble in taking rule over colored peoples, and
The B. does not look on the prospect with un-
alloyed joy.
—. — > -
It will not be the fault of the Victorian Education
Dept, if the children of the State schools are not
turned out red-hot patriots of the most approved
Imperial pattern. The Dept, recently issued a
circular to all head-teachers, giving directions for
the ceremony of saluting the flag at stated
intervals. The children are to be drawn up in a
hollow square facing the pole, and all, placing the
right hand on the left breast, are to say the
following words simultaneously: “I love God and
my country ; I honor the flag; I will serve the
King, and cheerfully obey my parents, teachers,
and the laws.” No explanation is given as to how
a child is to serve the King. Directions are given
that the flag is to be hoisted every Monday
morning, the children to repeat simultaneously
the words of the foregoing declaration ; and on
public holidays, such as the King’s birthday, the
school-rooms are to be decorated with suitable
mottoes, such as “the crimson thread of kinship. ”
On school-days special lessons must be given bear-
ing on the subject. There is thus no danger that
“ Gor Save ” will be a forgotten anthem, or that
there will be any lack of machine-made “loyalists ”
and offensive little prigs.
♦
Two days last week the audience at Melbourne
Divorce Court got some mild entertainment from
the case of Kitz v. Kitz. Mrs. Kitz, a daughter
of the late millionaire, J. B. Watson, whose
sorrows are somewhat soothed by a private income
of £2OOO a year from the Watson estate, petitioned
for a divorce on the ground of desertion ; but, inas-
much as the deserter appeared to be her own fair
self rather than respondent Kitz, her petition was
dismissed. The case, indeed, was a palpable
waste of legal expenses. The law, as it stands,
holds out no hope of freedom for the lady as
long as her husband lives; neither does the
law care twopence whether they live together
or otherwise. Both Kitzes agree (and the Judge
agreed with them) on one painful point. The
husband is subject to attacks of nervous trouble,
at which times they are best apart. Mrs. K.
reckons they are best apart at all other times, and,
presumably, if the intermittent delusionist were
to apply for restitution of conjugal rights, the law
would side with the mother of his children. And
yet it refuses to dissolve the contract whereOy
Mrs. Kitz married Kitz for better or for worse.
Also, if Kitz were now to desert his wife
in reality, or introduce a co-respondent
upon the scene, the law would be in
honor bound to accuse his wife of “ contributory
negligence,” or something to that effect, and
refuse a decree nisi accordingly. Likewise, it is
certain that if Kitz were to kidnap the lady and
insist upon resuming honeymoon relations, despite
her existing right to keep him at a distance, then
the law—civil or criminal—would give her no
more redress than it offers to Kitz, the unwilling
grass-widower. All of which suggests that
marriages are not made in Heaven, where neither
wrath nor lust doth corrupt, and Kitz cannot
break through and steal.
—
Pooh old Simon Fraser, for want of a ready wit,
had to let himself be most absurdly bluffed by
Labor Senator M ‘Gregor, the other night. They
were discussing the eternal question of newspaper
“sedition,” and Fraser, in a flaming fury,
said if he were the autocrat of Britain’s
“ free breakfast table ” he would hang mast-high
any who spoke disrespectfully of the British Flag.
Then M ‘Gregor wanted to know whether Senator
Fraser would hang any man who advocated a
forcible change of Government, to which the Old
Man dutiful replied, “ Aye, that 1 would—l would
string them up ! ” M ‘Gregor then said, “Itis as
well that Senator Fraser didn’t live in the days
of King William, or he would have hanged that
monarch.” A roar of laughter followed. The
Senate evidently thought that M ‘Gregor had
said something clever, and the unhappy
Fraser couldn’t raise the means of undeceiving
their hilarity. He squirmed in silence. By this
time, perhaps, it has occurred to Fraser that
William 111 was only the leading man in a
successful revolution which happened to have
come to stay. Had there been a successful re-
action in favor of the King who fled, it would
have been quite open to the reactionists to wipe
out William on the scaffold the same as Charles
First would have beheaded Cromwell if
the luck hadn’t gone t’other way. Up
to now, the practical advocates of a forcible
change of Government, or some of them, have
come to a gory end whenever the “ treason ”
failed. Old-fashioned Fraser was not at all out-
of-date in his screech, only blind to his oppor-
tunity. He might have crushed his tormentor by
quoting the historical fact that his (Fraser’s)
ancestor, Lord Lovat, was executed by the afore-
said William for the treason of attempting—it
was a stupidly weak attempt —to replace on the
throne the very James whom William had
ousted. So, there now ! Does it astonish Labor-
Senator M ‘Gregor to hear that Might is in-
variably Right ? He preaches the doctrine him-
self every time he asserts the majesty of a majority
vote —only he doesn’t know the true inwardness
of his own gospel. Might is Right. Anything is
Right as long as it continues to flourish, and the
men who vainly rail against it can consider them-
selves hanged.
+
Barrister C. G. Wade, as Royal Commissioner
to inquire into the accident which, on May 24,
killed six men in Broken Hill South mine, ex-
presses some opinions which ought to make miners
sit up. For instance :
All mining is more or less dangerous ; and if a man
undertakes to perform and continues to do certain work
which obviously entails a risk, and he has the means of
ascertaining the nature of the employment and its
dangers, he is deemed thereby to have contracted to sub-
mit to the risks incidental to such operation. . . . These
men knew that they must rely upon themselves, and
must use every care. Yet no complaint was made to the
mine officials that would lead them to believe that the
men refused to take the risk. The fact, therefore, of
their continuance at work under these circumstances
forces your Commissioner to the conclusion that the un-
fortunate men who are now dead undertook the risks
that were incidental to this operation.
Apparently therefore neither owner nor manager
takes any responsibility. A manager tells a man
to go into a working: apparently the onus is
thrown on the miner to decide whether it is safe


BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY, LIMITED,
h
Have JUST LANDED the Celebrated
No. 15 Popy Prcrpo
This is a Camera we can thoroughly recommend,
and can safely say that no Amateur should he
without one.
Send for Catalogue. Price £4.
375 <*sorgs St., Sydfyey,
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, and Brisbane.
Wired from Westralia that attempts to
form a Piesse Ministry have failed ; and British
investors, Morgans, Thomas and Wilson, are
being requested to take on the job. Forrest over-
shadowed all else in G-roperdom for so long that
now he is removed the undergrowth is not strong
enough to hold up the sky, and disaster threatens.
The chickens of Despotism are coming home to
roost. Let ’em all come !
The Tasmanian Supreme Court has now
on hand a long job—the action V.D.L. Co. v.
Table Cape Marine Board, which has run into
weeks. The co. is suing the Board for trespassing
on the foreshore by building a jetty. The co.
claims a trifle of 105 miles of Tasmania’s coastline
under its original grant, and bars the Tas. Govt,
from crossing said coast-line without paying toll.
Barristers Bryant and Waterhouse appear for the
co., while Senator Symon and Tas. Solicitor-
General Dobbie are doing their best to dodge the
effects of the hideous blunder the old-time Tas.
Govt, made in failing to hand the whole island
over to the V.D.L. Co. while it was about it.
“Business, Memory, Figures.”—“A business
man’s book, really a useful little work, gives a host of
sound business maxims and valuable hints.”—S.E. News.
“ The memory system is ingenious.”—S.M. Herald.
“ Crowded with curious short cuts of calculation ; should
lead on to fortune.”—S.D. Telegraph. Postal note, Is.,
J. C. Cox, Darling-st., Balmain, Sydney.*
“ APENTA,”
The Best Purgative Water
For continuous use by the Gouty, the Constipated,
and the OBESE,
and
as an occasional Laxative.
Miss Braddon, sister of the author of the
famous “Blot,” was 65 on Oct. 4. She has written
a novel for every year of her life, or thereabouts,
and has given a tired world much excellent relaxa-
tion.
OAWMILL MACHINERY.
BAND or CIRCULAR MILLS, very heavy for
hardwood timber. Complete Outfits of any capa-
city. ' BAND RESAWS. ENGINES. BOILERS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
PULP MACHINERY. GRIP PULLEYS.
FLOUR MILLING MACHINERY.
“ ALLIS ” ROLLER FLOUR MILLS on the
UNIVERSAL BOLTER SYSTEM.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 24 Clarence-street, SYDNEY.
Sei)d Os yoGr
IF you send a Photograph of yourself (or friend) to Mr.
Mark Blow, The Crown Studios, Sydney, and also
send the following “ COUPON,” he will reproduce from
the Photo, a
Very Beautiful and Artistically-Finished
Perfpapcpt €plarg€tp€pt
in Monochrome, equalling a rich Steel-Plate Engraving,
handsomely mounted on an Indian Tinted Plate, sunk
mount, and as good in every way as Enlargements now
being supplied at from 30s. to 50s. each ; and will care-
fully pack it and send it, Parcel Post Paid, to any address
in Australia, Tasmania or New Zealand for lOs. 6d.
YOUR PHOTO. RETURNED WITH ORDER.
Cut out the following Coupon and send it with your
Photo.
[Bulletin]
COUPON
To M. BLOW (Photographer to His Excellency
the Governor-General, Lord Hopetoun),
The Crown Studios, George Street Sydney.
Please have the enclosed Photograph Enlarged
and Mounted, as per this Special Offer, and forward
it to me, carriage paid, to the following address, for
which I enclose 10s. 6d. in full payment.
Name
Address
Write your Name on the back of the Photograph, to
avoid errors.
The Name of the Crown Studios is a guarantee of
Good Work and a Faithful heproduction.
,or not. If (thinking of his wife and an empty
cupboard at home) he goes in, the job is over so
far as owner and manager are concerned, no
matter how dangerous the working may be known
to them to be ! If that is the law it is one of the
most brutal laws in a land where brutal laws are
not scarce.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Lyceum “The Ladder of Life.”
Her Majesty’s “ Sign of the Cross.”
Royal “ East Lynne.”
Criterion “ Wang.”
Empire Fuller Co.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's “ The Magistrate.”
Her Majesty’s Italian Opera.
Theatre Royal.., “ Hearts are Trumps.”
Bijou “World’s Entertainers.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
New Olympia (Prince’s
Bridge) Fitzgerald Bros. Circus.
“The Sign of the Cross,” as interpreted
by its original perpetrators, at Her Majesty’s,
Sydney, on Saturday night, was marked by more
.vigor and earnestness than the Sydney public had
been accustomed to note in the efforts of the pre-
vious co. The Christian prayers were more
strenuous, the Pagans were a little more drunken
and dishevelled, the points at which the young
.lady in the stalls doesn’t like to meet the eyes of
the young gentleman accompanying her, were more
.strongly marked. Delicacy of treatment or
restraint are emphatically not among Mr. Bar-
rett’s methods. As Marcus Superbus, he shows
you clearly that he is superb, and mighty by
every strut, and gesture, and intonation ; by the
gorgeous series of frocks (six in all) in which he
clothes a Roman of the epoch when manhood was
giving place to millinery; by the devices with
which he ekes out the somewhat scanty inches
that Nature has given him, so that he may show
up as the noblest and tallest Roman of them all.
There is just as marked an absence of restraint in
his portrayal of Superbus’ passionate pursuit
of Mercia, culminating in a scene of attempted
violence, which, as acted by him and Miss Lillah
McCarthy, fairly made the audience gasp. It is
often said that Australian audiences demand of
the actor bolder, broader effects than are con-
sidered correct in London. Comparison of “The
Sign of the Cross” as played by a partly Aus-
tralian, and by a “complete London c 0.,” does
not bear this theory out. The play is one in
which a certain glossing over of offensive and
absolutely painful scenes would be of advantage.
If Stephanus’ wild shrieking during the torture
scene were omitted, if the closing incident (not
easy to describe in detail in a public newspaper)
of Act 111. were toned down, the development of
the play would be just as strong and clear, and
the clergy would surely attend just as enthusi-
astically. But Mr. Barrett apparently does not
think so. In his interpretation, Stephanus’ shriek
is more poignant, the attempt on Mercia’s virtue
more ardent than before. In the scene referred to,
theactingof Mr. Barrett and of Miss M‘Carthy is
vivid a.nd real: the passion of the one, the respond-
ing passion in the other kept in control only by
supreme effort, is represented with realistic
strength and power. ,
• * *
*
Three Pagan ladies of beauty are very
successfully played by Miss Edyth Latimer, Miss
Daisy Belmore, and Miss Nellie Bonser. The
last, as Poppea, was the only quiet, restful woman
in the play : one can understand why a nerve-
wracked monarch like Nero found comfort with
this placid person when the balance of the female
population of Rome seemed to be either bibulous
or hysterical. Mr. George Barrett was very good
in a small part; Mr. Atholwood painted his Nero
in far too lurid colors. In various matters of
detail the production showed the improvement
whieh can be effected by painstaking stage-
management —Mr. Barrett’s strong point. The
theatre, in spite of the tropical temperature, was
crowded, and the audience markedly enthusiastic.
* # ifc #
The penalty of a popular play is that in its
old age it falls into the hands of poor companies,
and probably the majority of the rising generation
have never seen “East Lynne,” except as in-
terpreted by a stout Isabel and a phlegmatic and
round-faced Archibald Carlyle. At the Theatre
Royal, last Saturday, Holloway raised the per-
formance of this melancholy drama nearer to
its old-time level. The version is a good one on
the whole, and the scenery is lively. At the end
of one pathetic speech the scene divides in two,
carrying a lady with a table to one side, and two
other persons with the rest of the furniture to the
other. Lady Isabel sees more visions than usual.
While Levison is tempting her to fly, the drawing-
room wall disappears upwards, showing Archibald
and Barbara merely saying good-bye to each other
under a porch, which proceeding on Archibald’s
part finally determines Lady Isabel to fly. In
the lodging-house scene the wall is once more
obliging in order to show Archibald with his
children at his knee, the impression being that the
piece of masonry divides itself to very little
purpose. Laurence Dunbar, as Archibald Carlyle,
make a very fair presentment of the cold, good
hero in whom Mrs. Wood delighted. On the
desertion of Lady Isabel he strikes a pathetic note
by subsiding into a dressing-gown. Ida Gresham
rather fails to touch the right chord in the little
Willy scene, but in other respects gives a good
picture of the lady who ran away with someone—
mainly because she saw her husband shake hands
with another lady. The singing of “ When Other
Lips ” was not a success, however, and that
melancholy tune might be banished, from the
drama. Miss Roxy Barton and Miss .Madge
Hope make creditable first appearances with this
cqmpany, Miss Madge Hope giving a sympathetic
Joyce Hallijohn. Miss Roland Watts-Phillips
gives a clever, unexaggerated presentment of
Cornelia Carlyle.
“ Wang ” still runs a merry course at the
Sydney Criterion, and is proving a liberal educa-
tion in American humor to many citizens. The
embarrassed Siamese ruler, who, owing to the
state of his exchequer, hasn’t been able to reign so
far “but only to sprinkle,” is a distinctly bright
character, and, effectively played, helps the
comedy materially to attain success, whilst Miss
Stanton, as a sacred Siamese white prince in a
suit of flannels, is also a valuable source of enter-
tainment.
** * «
At Sydney Empire much the same bill as
usual is being presented, and the negro comedian
falls about with the old captivating disregard of
his bones. Audiences generally are fairly large
and appreciative.
** * *
“ The Ladder of Life, or Gordons to the
Front,” revived at the Lyceum last Saturday, is a
play crowded with bare-kneed Highlanders (re-
cruited in Ireland), who claim to be doing great
deeds “for England.” The first act of “The
Ladder ” is mainly domestic, representing an old
gentleman making and remaking wills in his front
garden, with intervals for fits. When he has
died, the heroine is accused of being the mother
of a small boy who has strolled on the pre-
mises. Naturally everybody adjourns to the
Heights of Dargai, where the natives come
in from the wings and fall down before any-
one does anything to them. The way
natives fall down dead before the awful British
eye is a striking feature iii this great patriotic
drama. Later, the sub-heroine is rescued from
the Great Nasmyth Hammer by three gentlemen
who make a.living by standing on one another’s
shoulders to get people out of awkward places,
after which all is peace. Good work in the
humorous line is done by Temple Harrison and
Miss Buckley, as a playful policeman and a
sprightly servant-girl. Stirling White, as usual,
dies in the first act, and has the rest of the evening
off. He is a good actor, and should occasionally
be permitted by the management to survive into
act 2. H. O. Willard is an extra-smart villain,
who allots parents to the awkward small child just
as it suits him. Miss Helen Fergus is, as usual, a
capital old woman, and the Silvinis make ladders
of themselves in the day of trouble to everybody’s
satisfaction.
** * «
There is still no change in the performers
at the Tivoli, though several new songs vary Part
One. Miss Neva Carr Glynn sings “ Home,
Deary, Home,” and Will Whitburn introduces a
new humorosity, while Howard Chambers still
continues to “Stand upon his Vessel’s Deck,” to
general satisfaction. The last nights are an-
nounced of Prof. De Wynne, juggler and shadow-
graphist, and of the marvellous Craggs.
** * *
Judging from the general rank, standing,
and applause of the crowd at Her Majesty’s, Mel-
bourne, last Saturday night, this return season of
the Italian co. will be properly appreciated.
Melbourne rolled up to the feast of opera, and
licked its lips between the courses. Five months
ago, when the trouble at Her Majesty’s was to
keep one’s teeth from chattering, the most ardent
love-music had pretty much the effect of a hot
chop served on ice ; but at this time of year the
Philistine floats delightedly with a high C, so to
speak, and everything in Marguerite’s garden
seems great, you understand. Nothing but a fall
of frozen brickbats, warranted to wreck the build-
ing, can stop the success of the Italian summer
season.
• * * *
After Hazon had accepted the plaudits of
Saturday’s audience he smote the music-stand
with his little rod, and “Faust” gushed forth.
There was some “ Faust” at the Princess’s about
this time 1900 A.D., but the rendering of Gounod’s
opera in English couldn’t be said to gush. It
trickled, pleasingly. The present performance,
considered as a whole, is no doubt the strongest
that has been given in Australia, and because all
parts of the whole carry their recommendation
with them it is permissible to remark that this
“ Faust ”is not a smasher of records all round. J.
C. Williamson’s show wins on its average, although
no feature of superlative excellence shines out.
Cattadori, as Valentine, the one principal who
threatened to be weak, was a satisfactory surprise
in his singing and appearance. Apparently he
took liberties with the music to suit himself.
Signorina Bassich made a bright little Siebel, and
the Martha was a valuable item. Travaglini has
improved vastly since he played Mephistopheles
with the Cutticas years ago. He puts more vigor
and humor into his acting, and his great voice
sounds smoother than before ; but, seeing that the
Devil never attempts to conceal his identity and
is even addicted to red-lighting effects, present
scribe would like to know why Travaglini has
modified the luridness of his costume. Why not
go the whole Devil in a brilliant all-crimson
costume, as of yore ? Remembering the silken
redness of Travaglini’s original garments one is
sorry to find him in half-mourning.
* * * *
Carlo Dani is not yet too plump for the
name-part. He looks well and sings sweetly ; and
Signora Sapio, who is more like a pretty actress
than a conventional Marguerite, sings sweetly,
likewise; All the same, the duets of these capital
artists were rather passionless on Saturday, and
Dani’s tall solo, “ Salve Dimora, ” suggests that lie
was not in his best voice, which is at least in-
tended as a compliment to his second best voice,
for Dani, like the other principals, had to refuse
encores. The bill at Her Majesty’s for this week
is “II Trovatore” to-night (Thursday), “Faust”
to-morrow, and “ Otello ” on Saturday, with
Larizza as the vehement Moorish gentleman.
** * *
The sugary-sentiment and gold-lace trim-
mings of “ The Second in Command ” have given
much satisfaction to moderate-sized audiences of
mostly women at Melb. Princess’s, but the average
man who wants a lot of laugh in his comedy, and is,
moreover, weary of kharki details, doesn’t enthuse
over Brough’s present entertainment. Yet he
seems to believe in Brough’s alleged deed of valor>
for when the portentous royal Jook brings the
Major a nice little Victoria Cross “from the King,”
as though His Maj. had bought it out of his own
money and was dying to know how it would
go with the pattern of the invalid’s coat, there
is a hearty banging of hands together, and it
doesn’t seem to be a loyal demonstration pro-
vided by the management either. Fact is, the
Jook’s visit in the play is more of a splash of
realism than the genuine “York” amounted to.
Royalty was made for the stage. “The Second
in Command ” is to put out its invisible camp
fires after Friday night, and on Saturday the
bill at the Princess’s will be “The Magistrate”
—Godblesshim !
** * *
A first change of programme at Fitzgeralds’
Circus brought the High Diving Horses to their
watery plunge on Saturday, when the Fitz.’s
spacious iron tabernacle was crowded once again.
The Diving Gees do their duty to the advt.,
although they don’t happen quite as was expected.
They are a delusive fact and an exciting fraud at
present, but they promise to acquire genuineness
with further practice. On Saturday the champion
diver, who is a mare, was rather more nervous
than her two pupils. The three distinguished
animals deserved greater honor for running up an
incline to the high-diving platform than for the
uneasy manner in which they got off the platform
when it tilted them towards the deep water-hole in
the arena. Having consented to take the narrow
way that leadeth to the mechanical precipice there
comes a moment in their lives when they are bound
to fall into 18ft. of water unless they can hang on to
something by their huge yellow teeth, and at this
supreme crisis each animal in turn appears to
shut its eyes and leave the rest to Providence. A
Diving Horse would seem rather a matter for
sympathy if it didn’t come along and drop to its
fate for a second and third time, which indicates
fortitude and ambition in the noble animal.
Apart from this damp equine novelty the circus
second programme is mostly different to the first.
The “ Damen Kapelle” has been turned on, like-
wise the tiger and the leather-plated steed, and an
Arab Wonder from the Sahara Desert or some-
where. Also, the two boys, Cardello and Shand,
who have grown up with the circus and are tall
boys now, have arrived at the dignity of a double-
jockey act on a horse instead of a pony.
** * *
The Baccarat Scandal, the avalanching of
Leopold Bland Holt into eternity, the Study from
the Nood, and the biographic description of the
beastly brewer are occurring six times a week at
Melb. Royal. This is B.H.’s fourth week as
Leopold Kalditz, and he continues to lend £lO,OOO
to Miss Ross on the insecurity of Miss Ireland’s
innocent young life with a recklessness that is
somewhat shocking in one whose name ends with
“itz.” Bland has been several different sorts of
Jew during his long and honorable melodramatic
career, but he never before was such an easy
Hebrew to get money from as is the purblind dis-
counter in “Hearts are Trumps.”
* * *
The “ World's Entertainers,” consisting of
Henry Lee and the other people who flourished
at Sydney Palace Theatre for many weeks, will
make their Melbourne appearance at the Bijou
on Saturday (23rd).
** # *
On the same date the spirit of competition
will descend upon Rickards’ Opera House like a
dove—or, rather,- like a rooster—and the Craggs
Family will take the floor. Also, Peggy is due
next Saturday, or thereabouts, and other people
from distant shoi’es will appear at the same time,
two of them being the Allisons, who danced them-
selves into this country’s affections some four
years ago.
** * *
It appears that “ her own ” London con-
cert which Miss Amy Castles was said to be going
to “give” on the 19th, was really a Kubelik con-
cert, so the friends of the re-boomed young woman
have brought considerable influence (or coin) to
bear upon the matter. Kubelik, who heads the
show, is the star violinist of the season, but a
cable to the Melbourne dailies alleges that the
“patronage” of Jook of York was due to the
presence of Amy rather than the genius of the
young fiddler. Anyway, the Vie. Agent-General
seems to have somehow got a letter from the
King announcing that he took a royal interest in
Amy’s debut. And now it remains to be seen
what the least uncandid critics will say about
Miss Castles as a vocalist, at a concert where at
least one of the performers would be in the highest
class.
Vic. Railway Department is tempting Pro-
vidence with a vengeance. Yet another returning
engine ran on the wrong line the other day, and
had gone some distance before the driver recol-
lected he was going straight to smash. The usual
secret departmental inquiry has recommended
‘ ‘ dealing with ” the culpable officials indulgently.
Meanwhile Vic. public only travels when it has to,
and then mostly rides with its head out of the
window.
A well-known of Swanston-street,
Melb., is an octogenarian Irishwoman,. who
shuffles along gaily in sunshine or rain, trying to
sell bootlaces. To a sympathetic purchaser, who
remarked that it was a wet day for her to be out,
she replied, surprised, “ An’ what else would I be
doin’, my son?” The old lady is a good R.C.,
which is doubtless why she harbors no resentment
against her deceased brother, who bequeathed
£l6OO to the Church, and left his sister to struggle
on in poverty to the end.
John See, N.S.W. Minister for War, no
less, at the Hector Macdonald pow-wow :
What N.S.W. had done in the war, was nothing to
what they would do if necessity arose. They had sent
6000 men, but, if the men were needed, they would send
another 5000, or even 10,000. He was very proud that
this had been done while he was Minister for War.
They would, would they ! Let Mr. John See
bring down to Parliament a proposal to send
another 5000 men, and see who will be Minister
for War a month after !
Perce Abbott, a valued Bulletin contri-
butor, died suddenly last week in a Melb. hos-
pital. Abbott was American-born, and articled
to the law, but before completing his time was
appointed to the U.S. Consulate at Dunedin.
Thence he went to Fiji, and came back to Riverina
(N.S.W.) journalism. He was a charming racon-
teur, also a clever musician, and composer of
several popular songs ; and in the last half-dozen
years was all over the world as pianist with
Heller’s Mahatma company. A good fellow, of
varied talents, many will be sorry to
bear of his death.
The tailoresses’ strike broke 'out afresh in
Sydney last week, and Anthony Hordern’s em-
ployees are again “out.” It is said that the wages
Eoints in dispute between the firm and its girls
. ave been settled, and the only question remain-
ing is that of the exclusive employment of union
labor. The strikers generally have the public
sympathy, and collections in their aid have
brought in a good sum of money. The
men engaged in the loading of frozen
meat are also on strike for an increase of
pay from 9d. to Is. an hour, with allowances
for overtime. Seeing that they have to work
partly in an Arctic temperature, their demands
are strictly reasonable ; and the employers are
likely to concede them. Boot-trade workers are
moving for increases, and, generally, the tariff
seems to have been the signal for all hands to ask
for a rise—and to get it.
Waverley Bowling Club last week held a
progressive-euchre party to celebrate the return ol
one of the N.S.W. bowling contingenters who
lately raided Britain. After the game the Presi-
dent arose and handed out the prizes, and when
he came to the. “ booby ” prize, he solemnly as-
sured the unwilling recipient that any prize was
better than no prize at all. He didn’t know what
the packet contained, but no doubt it was some-
thing he might treasure all his days, and pass
on to his descendants. Hereupon he handed over
a much-wrapped parcel, but the suspicious winner
gave it back to be sold by auction for the benefit
of the Waverley Benevolent Society, and it was
sold and resold till it had brought £l2 for the
society’s funds ; fhen it was opened and found to
be a box of Fry and Sons’ (of cocoa fame) safety
matches. The Australian representative of Fry’s
bought in the lot for £24, so that with the Govt,
subsidy of £ per £, the little box of 70 matches
brought in £72 (over £1 per match), for the benefit
of the charity named.
Mr. C. O. Michel (erstwhile N.S.W. Govt,
interpreter).is exhibiting, in Sydney, anew fire-
escape, which he has patented as “ The Cham-
pion. ” The apparatus is very simple, and seems
perfect. It is a ladder built on the Venetian-blind
system, which hangs unobtrusively inside your
bedroom window when not required. When the
alarm comes, it is heaved out and hangs like a
staircase down the wall; the weight of the
person descending keeping it perfectly rigid. It
can be used by elderly men and old ladies,
to whom the knotted rope and the rope-
ladder would be simply a mocking delusion.
It can be carried to any part of the house, and if
there are no hooks in the window-sill to fasten it
to, the spreader of a bedstead can be utilised, or
the. whole bedstead itself, or anything that is
sufficient to bear the weight of a human being.
Just now Mr. Michel, who is over middle-age, is
travelling round Sydney throwing the escape from
windows and descending hastily to demonstrate
how a man may carry out the whole of his family
one after another, as it is just as easy to ascend by
the escape as to descend. The price is only £3
10s. for an escape suitable for an ordinary dwell-
ing-house.


stocks Kept F
RAND ROCK DRILLS & AIR COMPRESSORS
BY THE SOLE AGENTS—
N. GrUTHRIDGE, LTD., 71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
And at 486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE ; WELLINGTON, N.Z.;
' 214 HIGH STREET, FREMANTLE; KALGOORLIE.
ĥ
TRAMWAYS. TRAMWAYS.
The- Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop. Ltd.
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material.
W*~ Locomotives from 10 to 250 h.p. "TNI
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel Sleepers,
Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical advice gratuitously
rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated Catalogues and Photo-
s graphic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different parts of the World, upon
application. A. E. LEPLASTRICR, Manager.
About the best brand for sheep now iri the
market is Kemp’s Branding liquid. It goes further and
is considerably cheaper than any other. It will dissolve
in the scour, and should certainly be used by those who
hope to get a good price for their wool. E. Rich & Co.,
Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* * * *
See for yourself. The Australian Medical
Gazette of January, 1891, compares Zetz Spa to the cele-
brated Vichy waters of France, and states that it is
valuable-for gout, rheumatism, gravel, catarrh of the
bladder, diabetes, dyspepsia, splenic and hepatic dis-
orders.
• » * •
Local Government Journal, .London, 20th
July, 1901: “ The Colonial Mutual needs no endorse-
ment ; its stability is beyond question ; its policies are
drawn in the most liberal manner that experience can
possibly justify.”*
* * * *
Vanning Tables.—The very newest and what
gives exceedingly fair promise of superseding all other
tables is the machine known as the Wesley-Baird Vanning
Table. The table is of South Australian invention, and
has given excellent results on Broken Hill ores and ores
containing pyrites, carbonate of copper and tin. Like all
tables, the best work is done on “ fines,” and more espe-
cially when the product is properly, classified. The
Central Mining and Tramway Co., of 424 Little Collins-
street, Melbourne, and 40 Hunter-street, Sydney, are the
sole agents in the Eastern States. The'table has a capa-
city up to 30 tons per day.*
* * * •
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
fillan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
* * • *
A very successful trial of the Gardner Electric
Drill took place at the works of the Austral Otis Com-
pany, South Melbourne, a few days ago. The drill,
although only temporarily fixed, bored 8J inches in three
minutes through hard basalt. A number of prominent
mining men witnessed the test, and expressed themselves
as greatly pleased with the machine. The Austral Otis
Company have been appointed Sole Agents in Australasia
for the Gardner Electric Drill.*
• * « *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “ Option,”
Melbourne. *
* * » *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * * *
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters. \
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists. V
* * * *
If further proof is needed that Luhrig Vanners
are the best and most economical machines for dressing)
fines and slimes, it will be found in the fact that the Tas-
mania gold mine, Beaconsfield, Tasmania, has decided to
increase the number of these machines in the extension
of the present mill and reduction works. When com-,
pleted it will have over 100 head of stampers at work, and
60 Luhrig Vanners, including the additional 24 of the
large type. Before finally adopting plans the Tasmania
board sent its manager to inspect the chief reduction
works in other States. Messrs. W. and J. Lempriere, of
Melbourne, are the Sole Agents for the Luhrig appli-
ances.*
e * * *
Mr. Mepban Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscfay
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary' spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts,nuts,forgings, andall sortsofiron-work.*
••* * *
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buchu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
3QINVAO
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shaving-s, Crucibles, Caustic Soda, •
Borax, Arsenic, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM,
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting' Cliargos,
rkwald,
178 William-stroat,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st. , Sydney ;CS Currie-*!., Adel.; 27 fiagte-slreet,
Brisb. ; and at Chnstchureh, Dunedin , Wellinyton, and
Auckland, NZ.
h
Mr. Orlando H. Baker, U.S. Consul (who seems
to devote more time to thinking and less to flapping his
wings than his predecessor in office) tells some home
truths to the Australian public on the question of
finance. Sydney D.T., having bewailed the fact
that, under the M’Kinley tariff, America always had a
surplus, which it squandered, and thus robbed the people
by unnecessary taxation, Mr. Baker made these remarks :
“There is no weeping in America over having a surplus
in the Treasury. We wish it were larger ; we wish it
were large enough to pay the whole Government debt.
The truth is, it is not a surplus at all. A nation, or a
man, cannot be said to have a surplus as long as just
debts are unpaid. The U.S. debt is not far from
£400,000,000. It is the fixed policy of the U.S. Govt, to
pay off the debt as soon as possible, and stop the slavery
of interest. The man or the nation that is in debt, in the
opinion of the thinking American citizen, is not free.
The Republican party accumulated a surplus, and besides
paying out millions to the soldiers who saved the union
and perpetuated free government, steadily reduced the
public debt until 1892. There was a cry raised against
this policy . . . and the people elected Grover Cleveland.
What followed ? ... In time of peace, with all the re-
sources of the country unimpaired, Grover Cleveland in-
creased the public debt over £25,000,000 to meet the
ordinary expenses of the Government. That cured the
people of their dissatisfaction with a “surplus,” and at
the end of Cleveland’s term they elected M'Kinley . . .
and although millions were spent in the Spanish war, the
U.S. Government, under Republican administration, has
not borrowed a dollar, and has something in the Treasury
to pay on the public debt. I wish Australia a like happy
state of affairs.” To this The B. says devoutly “ Amen! ”
Mr. Baker’s remarks come at a most opportune moment,
justwhen theForeign-tradepapers are painfully shocked at
the discovery that in the 22 days of last month the Federal
tariff brought in as much as £684,000, and are calling
loudly in consequence for a big reduction of taxation to
avoid the horrors of a surplus. “ A nation cannot be said
to have a surplus so long as just debts are unpaid.” The
sentence should be inscribed in letters of gold over the
portals of every Australian Parliament House. The
Australian States at present not only have so much just
debt that their resources are almost mortgaged up to the
hilt, but have either sold or are selling the public estate,
which was part of the security for the loan, and using the
proceeds as revenue; and are borrowing further sums,
year by year, to pay ordinary house-keeping, fence-
repairing, road-patching expenditure.
If the Federal Government were to raise
£10,000,000 or £11,000,000 a year, instead of something
under £9,000,000, it could find honest and economical use
for every penny of its share, and each State could also
employ profitably and honestly the amount returned to
it from that revenue. But the Australian political idea
seems to be to shunt every responsibility, dodge every
liability, indulge in every possible national dishonesty,
and so drift on to the inevitable crisis.
* * * *
Why should the wasteful system of selling loam
stock at a fixed minimum be continued by the Australian
Governments when they fly their kites in London ? All
recent new flotations have been offered on that plan.
John Bull, when he borrows, fixes a minimum, but no
maximum, and offers the loan to the public on the
tender system. You can offer to pay £9B, the mini-
mum or £lOO or £lOl for each unit of stock, and the
highest bidders have their money taken. But the
Australian Government fixes a figure, say £97, pays a
commission to someone to underwrite the issue, and then
offers the stock at that absolute price. Some investors,
in order to make sure of getting the stock, might be will-
ing to pay £99, but they are not allowed to. The Aus-
tralian financial business in London is just as badly mud-
dled in details as on main principles. ,
* • * •
An item in the Bank of Australasia balance-
sheet this year is £lO,OOO for “ reduction of bank premises
account.” The chairman, referring to this, said that the
ideal system in regard to premises was to follow the
example of the Bank of England, which in its balance-
sheets counted its building as of no value at all. How
would some Australian insurance and building societies,
whose only big asset is their building, pan out under that
condition ? An asset is only worth what it will realise on
Bale, and most of the huge buildings put up by financial
companies would not bring a quarter of their cost in the
case of a crisis, when some scores of big buildings would
be suddenly rushed on the market.
'* * « •
A rumor slithered round lately that the B.H.
Prop, was on the verge of shutting down for some weeks.
There was nothing in it, but it made a lot of people feel
peculiar. What has actually happened is that the chloro-
dising works have been shut up—but that is a little
thing. The most hopeful feature in the Broken Hill
situation is the likelihood of the early re-starting of the
zinc works, partly through improvements in the magnetic
processes, partly through lowering of freights, partly
through European coal and coke being much cheaper
than they have been lately. These zinc-extraction pro-
cesses are mostly in German and Belgian hands; it is
stated that these people look for an improved lead-market
(lead is their chief by-product) early in the year, though
so far as English advices are concerned they are a blank.
■» * * *
Booth’s Reward, N.9.W.: This thing has come
to life again with all its paper richness. The Sabbath
Tipster has come to its rescue, and this is how he does it:
“ The ore is rich in mineral, carrying as much as 75 per
cent, thereof, but no gold can be observed by the naked
eye. Assays, however, show it to be auriferous to the
extent of soz. to the ton. The difficulty, of course, is
the extraction ; and to accomplish this the English experts
propose to adopt a method of concentration which" has
lately given excellent results at home. It appears that
for the purpose of this method a by-product of kerosene
shale, in the form of oil, is largely used, but the details
have not been disclosed.” Hitherto it has been generally
understood that everything else connected with shale but
oil is a by-product. The tipster has got things upside-
down as usual.
• • * *
Chillagoe Railway and Mines : This “ oat ” has
got out of the bag at last, and newspapers which for the
last three years have published columns of comment
without facts are now engaged in publishing columns of
facts without comment, allowing the public to draw, as
it can easily do, its own conclusion. Danvers Power’s
figures of tonnage and values, the result of an examina-
tion extending over two months, are even worse than
Weinberg’s, and do not confirm those of Stewart, which
most newspapers said was likely. Stewart’s estimate was
600,000 tons of ore proved to date (30th June, 1900) of
good workable value, portions of which would be dressed
but would produce 300,000 tons to smelt, containing
17,000 tons of copper, 1500 tons of lead, and a million
ounces of silver, besides appreciable gold. When asked
if this estimate was in addition to that contained in his
original report Mr. Stewart replied that the two estimates
were perfectly distinct. One—the first—“ referred to the
probable amount of ore judged from surface exposure, and
the other was the ore proven by work done since.” These
figures were accepted as correct until Weinberg, last July,
reported that the ore-reserves of the Chillagoe mines, ex-
clusive of the Mungana, consisted of 173,631 tons, averag-
ing 2.35 per cent, copper, a little overloz. silver, and con-
taining a total of 4086 tons copper, 476 tons lead,
192,0830z5. silver, and 15960 z. gold. There is a tremendous
falling-off here. Danvers Power was appointed to check
both estimates after Stewart had declared that his esti-
mate was correct, would admit of no question or qualifica-
tion whatever, and would be borne out under capable
management.
Power says : “There is very little actual ore in
sight to be seen in any of your mines. Most of your
actual ore in sight is confined to the heaps of mined ore
on the surface, and some of these will have to be picked
over before they are sufficiently rich to pay for treat-
ment.” Of course, he did not wish to convey the idea
that there was no other ore left in the leases,
but the deposits were not opened up to warrant
one in estimating a fixed quantity of ore as proved,
and this is equivalent to saying that the mines are
not sufficiently developed to keep the furnaces in blast.
His estimate of tonnage of the Chillagoe and Mungana
mines combined is 139,837 tons, or about 75,000 tons in
the Chillagoe mines alone, and the total contents are put
down at 5696 tons copper, 2780 tons lead, and 331,9370 z.
silver, and a little over 1500 oz. gold. Here is another
tremendous falling-off. Power’s tonnage is considerably
lower than Weinberg’s, but his copper contents are
higher, and that will probably account for the discre-
pancy. One man has measured any ore, the other only
pay ore. Power says that as the venture was hardly out
of the prospecting stage, a great mistake was made in
proceeding with what" was intended to be permanent
work before the nature of the property was properly
understood ; that the mines are not in a position to be
operated economically ; and as preparations for stoping
must be made, mining expenses would be greater than
they should be ; that for want of ore to keep the nest of
furnaoes going one furnace had to bear the expense
of services which would otherwise be divided over
the whole plant, hence the richer ores from the
various groups had to be selected, and some of it had
to be carted long distances. Weinberg says while some
of the garnet formations were not likely to improve in
depth, there were Others like the Zillmanton, Ruddygore,
and Redcap group which offer every inducement for
energetic development. He agrees with Power, that in
many cases the mining expenditure had been on unpro-
ductive ground, and that most of the important lodes
were allowed to remain practically unexplored, conse-
quently considerable expense would have to be incurred
before they could expect to reap any material benefit
from these mines. At the same time he thinks the pro-
spect is such as to justify the directors in asking share-
holders to provide the additional capital required for the
purpose. And the public, is told that the directors are
seriously considering proposals to raise additional capital,
and will place them before shareholders at the earliest
moment.
The Age says that this information comes as a
great shock to the public, especially after the pinnacle of
mining excellence reached by Stewart. The financial
condition is much worse than the prospects of the mines.
£590,000 has been spent to date—railway and rolling-
stock, £382,000 ; mines, including plant, £140,000 ; reduc-
tion works, £53,000. The co. is burdened with a huge
debenture-debt, which it is not possible to liquidate with
shares. It borrowed £50,000 some months ago, and it is
said that it is another £25,000 behind, and shareholders
are to be called to face the music. Some weeks ago, a
statement was published showing the share-transactions
of some of the big men since the formation of the co.,
making it quite clear that, while the public was going in
largely with the assistance of false newspaper reports, the
others were quietly getting out. They sold between them
some tens of thousands of shares, and the share-regis-
ter shows that most of them were sold at the
best market-prices. The original founder of the
mine, John Moffat, is the only director who retained
his full interest, 25,000 shares, which he holds
to-day, and by comparison, anyhow, that is something to
be proud of. The price Moffat got for these mines in cash
and shares was insignificant compared to the valuation
they subsequently reached. Perhaps the greatest shock
of his life was when he read Stewart’s report on Chillagoe,
and as Stewart was then the greatest mining gun boom-
ing under the Southern Cross, no doubt Moffat thought
he had sold the mine too cheap, and that the best thing
was to stick to his shares ; either that, or he determined
to see the thing through and not allow the public to
suffer by reason of his exercising knowledge in respect to
which it was kept in the dark. The dates in the share-
register show that some people did not believe in
Stewart, that they exercised their own judgment, or they
got the truth from other experts. But the public was
induced to pin its faith to Stewart. The matter
demands the strictest investigation.
Before any meeting of shareholders to put up
more money takes place, a committee should be appointed
to see how far the directors themselves are responsible for
the present state of things, and the extent to which the
public has been played with. And if it is proved that the
directors are still satisfied with the greatness of these
mines, and that those of them who parted with shares parted
for the most excellent of reasons, then let them put up the
money required to put the mines into a working and pay-
ing condition. There is, however, very little hope of that.
But for the big Broken Hill and Mt. Lyell mining guns
the Chillagoe mines would have been regarded as
only prospects, money would have been put up
to explore them, and if they turned out failures
that would have been the end of them. £60,000
would have been ample for that purpose. As it
is, this co. built a railway costing nearly £400,000
for which at present there is little use. It spent
£140,000 in mining, and, according to its own
officers, most of this has been thrown away— i.e., small,
pockety garnet formations have been worked as if they
were permanent bodies, while big lodes, having ironstone
and gossan cappings, containing carbonates of copper on
the surface, with every appearance of sulphides below,
are practically untouched. It has spent over £50,000 in
building six furnaces, which could be put into blast
immediately—and there is only one running. Even the
estimated value of the ore was nearly double the actual
value proved to-day by smelting, and many of the dumps
are so low in value that they will not stand carting to the
smelters; while the leases from which the ore was
obtained are not good enough to warrant their being con-
nected by tramway.
It would be a sorry day for the debenture-
holders if they were asked to take over the whole pro-
perty for the debt, so what a lively time there is before
the unfortunate shareholders ! Altogether, it looks like
Australia’s biggest mining fiasco, and should make Aus-
tralia’s so-called biggest miningmen feel very mean indeed.
The public has been dazzled by the glamour surrounding
the name of Stewart, the finest mining administrator that
Broken Hill has ever had ; but it now begins to remember*
or hears for the. first time, that Stewart got his original
prestige from Rio Tinto, a mine which was working cen-
turies before he was born, and that when he arrived at
Broken Hill its fate and fortune were already known;
the Chillagoe mines were the first big undeveloped pro-
perties he had handled. These mines, which he said con-
tained over a million pounds worth of copper, a million
ounces of silver, many thousands of ounces of gold, besides
many thousands of tons of lead (all this in sight) had been
sold for a song by John Moffat, the pioneer of tin-mining
in N.S.W. and Queensland, and no fool in copper-mining
(for he had a smelter at Chillagoe 10 years ago).
But this great man Stewart had other great
mining men behind him, some of whom parted
with their shares at big prices and now ask-
the public to find another £lOO,OOO by tlie issue of that
number of shares, which are to carry a 10 per cent,
preferential dividend. How much is likely to be left to
pay divs. on ordinary shares when the interest on about
half-a-million in debentures is met and this 10 per cent, is
paid ? They are down to 45., and under these circum-
stances would be very dear at 4d. These groups of mines
were condemned some 10 years ago when they were
offered to the Wallaroo and Moonta Co. They were con-
demned again three years ago by the same man, whom
the public refused to believe, fascinated as it was by the
magnificence of Stewart (alleged salary, £lO,OOO a year)
and the capitalistic influence of the directors. The ending
is truly ignominious.
Tartana, Limited, is the old North Chillagoe
under a new name, and the Chillagoe’s adversity has been
taken as this show’s opportunity. Nominal capital,
£126,000, divided into 504,000 shares of ss. each, of which
344,000 are to be issued as fully-paid, and 100,000 are con-
tributing. Subscribers for the 120,000 contributing
shares now offered will receive as a bonus one paid-up
share on each contributing share when fully paid to 55.,
or a bonus of 120,000 shares in all. As the Chillagoe
mines have not enough ore developed to keep the nest of
six furnaces going, the Tartana hopes to be able to supply
ore to keep two Chillagoe furnaces in full work, and to
be able to make better terms with that co. than if
they smelted themselves. As 100 tons of the Tartana
silicious ore will flux 200 tons of Mt. Garnet basic ore, ’tis
said the Mt. Garnet people will smelt 100 tons a day for
the actual cost of treatment. That is the representation,
anyhow. The promoters sanguinely say they are confi-
dent of 100 per cent, annual divs.
* » * *
Three Clermont (Q.) mines are named The Lame
Duck, The Wild Cat, and The Dead Horse.
• * * •
Briseis Tin, Tas. : These shares have gone from
Bs. to 28s. (they have fallen somewhat now) in a few
weeks. Of course, it is on account of a “ bear ” squeeze.
No mining stock can rise in Victoria without something
of that kind, and investors have been warned and asked
to remember the effect of the corner in the Duke of York
shares some time back. But in this case, as in that of
Mt. Lyell some years ago, little Tasmania has every
reason to retain and be proud of its morning and evening
prayer —“God bless Bowes Kelly.” For it is to 8.K.,
and B.K. only, that this substantial rise in the
shares is due. He evidently promised the London
management, or some heavy shareholders there,
that he would give the property his personal attention.
This he has done, and has also had the report of two well-
known hydraulic mining men, on the strength of which
he started buying weeks ago at Bs., and knocked off a few
days since at 245. 6d., securing altogether over 25,000
shares ; others followed his example, and it is said that
over 100,000 shares are on their way to Australia from
London. Another man reported favorably on behalf of a
London syndicate, who bought 15,000 shares on the
strength of his report. From 28s. they receded in a few
days to £l, all on account of the collapse in Ohillagoes.
When the effect of Danvers Power’s report was published
in London, shareholders there were prepared to take ss.
less for Briseis stock, which fell to 18s. 9d., and would
have receded further but for the continuance
of Australian buying. Of the mine, it is said that
holes and bores put down in the bottom drift have proved
that it is much higher in tin than that above it, and much
richer than was expected. The tin drift has an average
depth of about 100 ft., runs from 5 to 10 chains in width,
and there is a length of nearly f of a mile in the co.’s
ground. The over-burden averages about 50ft., and,
except in a few isolated places, can easily be removed by
water. For some time past the tin production has been
from 20 to 25 tons per month, and this at a
profit of about £l2OO. In the course of three
or four months the big race to be brought in
to sluice the bottom drift will be completed, when
it is said the tin production will be largely increased each
month until it is brought up to a monthly production of
over 200 tons. Undoubtedly it is the biggest tin-mine
remaining in Tasmania, the glory of Mt. Bischoff having
faded. If there is a fly in the ointment it will probably
be found when an attempt is made to remove in a day
more drift and overburden than is now taken away in a
week. If it is established that the water is ample to
carry away daily some tens of thousands of cubic yards
of drift without any silting—there would be no reason
to doubt the permanent greatness of the Briseis.
Writer is told by a man who ought to know
his business that the average value of the tin drift
is certainly £1 per cubic yard, that it can be treated, the
overburden removed, and all machinery and manage-
ment expenses defrayed by 2s. 6d. ; that metallic tin can be
produced at under £2O per ton, and that the existence of
some millions of tons of tin-drift has been proved. Capital,
£600,000 in that number of shares. Working capital
exhausted some months ago, and indebtedness is now
being wiped off by the substantial profit made on a small
production.
• * » •
An Adelaide syndicate has taken up a shale
deposit at Latrobe, Tas., and an Adelaide School of Mines
expert thinks so highly of the show that he has resigned
his Govt, billet to go into the venture.
* • » *
The Tasmanian anti-coupon law debars “any
trader issuing any stamp, wrapper, or other device which
entitles the recipient to obtain goods or money from any
trader.” This not only blocks the coupon man ; it makes
tea coupons and distillers’ “£1 orders ” illegal. But, so
far, neither the late James Service’s tea co., nor the pro-
prietors of “ Dingo Gin ” have been prosecuted, though
both continue their “ evil ” practices in the Land of
Sleep-a-Lot.
* * » »
A story of Sussex-street, Sydney. Copy of letter
neatly framed and hung in the best parlor of a N.S.W.
fowl-raiser:
“ Sydney, 1901.
“ Dear Mr. B——. —l have to acknowledge the safe
arrival of the crate of ducks as advised. The birds were
all in splendid order. Herewith cheque £3 ss. in payment.
“ Yours truly,
* “ Blank’Blank.”
The writer of the letter, a Sydney business man, who had
co-operated with some suburban friends to purchase a
crate of table poultry, some time afterwards paid a visit
to the consignor, and, seeing his letter in a frame of
honor, wanted to know why and wherefore. The fowl-
farmer explained that he had been sending poultry to
Sussex-street dealers for 25 years, and had never before,
in all that time, received an account-sale wherein deduc-
tions had not been made for casualties. Items like “1£
pairs missing,” “ 6 ducks dead,” “ 8 chickens smothered,”
figured among the deductions for commission, etc., as the
regular thing. The Sydney man was astonished and not
a little chagrined at the revelation.; “ You don’t look too‘
pleased,” observed the dock-farmer. “ Well, no,” was the
response ; “ you see, had I known the custom I might so
easily have conformed with it.”
» * * m m
“Canip” to “W.J.M.” re Callide railway :—■
“ Not one inch of the permanent or working survey has
been done towards Callide Coal Property, nor is the trial
survey to that property yet fully completed. Any esti-
mate of cost based on trial survey must only be approxi-
mate ; and as for “ W.J.M.’s” estimate of £2200 per mile'
for first section, well, unless grades are to be excessively
steep, and the line to be a mere tram, such estimate is
ridiculous. The 3ft. 6in. gauge lines ever con-
structed by Q. Govt, were those over western rolling
downs, and they ran into over £2OOO per mile. Good
working lines, 3ft-. Oin. gauge, constructed in Q. over
similar country to that intervening ’twixt Callide pro-
perty and seaboard, have invariably cost Q. Govt., on an
average, about £5OOO per mile. Facilities of Gladstone
harbor and Geologist Band’s report are beside the ques-
tion—the C. Co. has .got to get its coal to port, and, if a
tunnel is not gone in for, an additional five or six miles of
carriage, construction, and maintenance have to be con-
sidered. Seventy miles of railway over indifferent country
hasneveryet been constructed in Australia under about two
years; and, finally, W.J.M. has quite ignored the fact of re-
cently-discovered Port Clinton coalfield within hearing of
• the Pacific’s roar; three bore-holes, approximately two miles
apart, and wonderfully good seams struck in each at a
moderate depth ; moreover, a steam trial at sea has proved
the quality of coal to be undeniable. These are irre-
futable facts worthy of note by intending coal specula-
tors. Port Clinton, or Broadsound, also lies on the great
eastern highway. Gladstone district is. undoubtedly a
rich mineral one, but that, especially in the coalline,
does not remove disadvantages and powerful competitors.
• • * *
The petition of 976 Broken Hill workers in
favor of the amendment of the Truck Act to allow the
co’s to deduct weekly contributions to the local hospital
from their wages, and pay the sum direct to the institu-
tion, should not be allowed to influence Parliament to
give any and every employer power to make a like deduc-
tion for any other hospital or benefit-fund. What is
needed is a short clause by which an employer, at the
written request of a majority of his workers, could get a
permit to deduct not more than, say, Is. per week to be
paid to a recognised public hospital, and not to any
benefit or accident fund run by the firm. Once the big
employer can get a benefit or accident fund, on the lines
of the benefit fund started by the Maoriland U.S.S. Co.,
which Hori Grey denounced and smashed up in M.L.
Parliament as an attempt to interfere with the liberty of
the subject, that employer begins to acquire a tyrannous
power.
The Presbyterian Assembly of Vic. is
seriously considering the question of excluding
reporters from its happy gatherings, where violent'
scenes are of such frequent occurrence that the
reports give the public the idea of a “harmony”
gathering at a low-class pub. It is one of the
humorous side-lights on the Presbyterian clerical
character that the suggestion is to suppress, nob
the scenes, but the reports thereof.
Certain Ballarat (Vic.) sky T pilots lately
assembled in solemn confabulation to discuss ways
and means of keeping the übiquitous small boy
and girl off the streets at night, and all the com-
bined wisdom of the dozen or so church-leaders
was able to suggest was the establishment of the
“curfew.” It may be casually suggested that
Herod the Great found out a workable method of
keeping the small boy off the streets at a late hour.
Nothing more successful has been devised since
his day.
' From a daily paper :
During the running of the Manly steamer Kuringai
between Manly and Sydney, last evening, her steering
gear carried away, practically disabling the vessel. After
some delay her passengers were safely landed at the
wharf, where temporary repairs were effected to the
steamer. Later, she was taken to the company’s works,
Neutral Bay, for more thorough treatment.
The Bulletin is quite tired of this sort of thing,
which, in the lorg run, will lead to an inexpress-
ibly-hideous calamity. The Kuringai is licensed
to carry 1000 persons or so, and sometimes she
does carry quite that number.


Dbuid Jones t Cowpiina
“Orteijt To ffcasarc”
CLOTHING
SAC SUITS
£3 3
S.
PATTERNS AND SELF-MEASUREMENT FORMS
FREE ON REQUEST.
George & Barrack Sts.
SYDNEY.
I
r
ĥ
The New
Field Glass
For the Races, <Ssc.
Very powerful, as used by
Officers of the British Army
in South Africa. Easily i
focussed by the patent
quick draw.
Magnifying 5 times, 65s ; Aluminium, 84s.
Magnifying 6 times, 73s ; Aluminium, 85s.
In Solid Leather Sling Cases.
WOOD, “The Optician,’
Only address in N.S. IV.,
299 George-St., Sydney (opp. Hunter-St.4!'
and EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, *
Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Home Cigarettes.
THE LATEST BULLETIN.
They are the Sweetest, the Nicest, the
most Commonwealthiest Cigarette.
All Tobacconists.
ħ
“Tailors are our masters; we submit
without a murmur to a suggestion about the cut of
our waistcoat or coat, but if a hatter suggest an
idea of his own we leave him at once in disgust.”
—Gr.-Gr. Hopetoun, at the Mayor of Melbourne's
dinner.
The modesty of S’John Madden exceeds
even his volubility. Speaking from the fullness
of his stummick at the Melbourne Mayoral
banquet, The Bulletin’s valuable subject admitted
some personal misgivings as to whether he didn’t
attend too many Victorian “functions,” and spout
to excess every time. He said “he recognised
how near he was to the illustrious animal in Scrip-
ture which goeth up and down the world.” Ye
gods ! As he gazes into the mirror and parts the
remnants of his back-hair by the aid of a hand-
glass, Madden revels in his fancied resemblance
to a Roaring Lion. Happy Waxellency 1
THE ONLY POSSIBLE CONCLUSION.
MABEL (to Ethel, in the background): “ How
awfully rich she must be !”
An intensely loyal inebriate made things
very unpleasant for the consort of a State
Governor at a certain recent race-meeting. He
was a tall, superior sort of inebriate, one of those
astonishing individuals who can become horribly
drugged without destroying the smug wonder of
his lofty Paris hat or perverting a single fold of a
frock-coat than which there is no finer worn by
any shopwalker of them all. Seeing Her Excel-
lency moving through a crowd, the loyal drunk
was suddenly seized with the fervor of a latter-
day Raleigh, and, backing through the amazed
people before her, he cleared them to the right
an> j left, crying with official sternness: “Stand
aside, please! Stand aside, there! Make way
for Her Excellency ! ” Then the chivalrous shop-
man (he is condemned on his garb) completed the
tableau by stooping and hastily sweeping the scat-
tered betting tickets from the grass of the vice-
regal right-of-way. But at this point Her Ex.
tied in the other direction, blushing quite like an
ordinary person.
* * * •
Some of the Sydney churches, in connec-
tion with a “united mission,” have been allowed
to erect tents in Hyde and Belmore Parks,
Sydney. In permitting this, the Government
has seriously departed from the rule—no State
subsidies to sects. Some little time ago it was
rightly decided that no more grants of land for
churches or other religious buildings should be
made, on the principle that, there being no State
church, no particular denomination should be
specially recognised. A church has no more right
t? i-i c-f ”hi Hyde Park than a circus lias.
But the See Government seems to have definitely
embarked on a policy of conciliating and sub-
sidising various sects—Roman Catholic and Pro-
testant. It will find it in tho end a dangerous
system.
* * # *
Members of N.S.W. Parliament should,
before adjourning for Christmas holidays, place
on record their objection to Parliamentary jun-
ketings. Already invitations, oral and otherwise,
are going about for a gorgeous razzle-dazzle under
Government at Christmas time. If Ministers like
to “stand Sam” out of their own pockets, no one
can complain; but steamers, launches, wines,
cigars, and the all-round- spree will, no doubt, be
dumped down on the back of the common tax-
payer, as usual. The House, before breaking up,
should at least fix a sum for the Ministerial Xmas
drunk.
* * * •
Apropos the request of Hon. Rupert
Carington (commanding something or other in
S’Africa) that N.S.W. Govt, will pay passages for
another 150 bushmen, ss. a-day is guaranteed
by the Imperial Govt., which won’t pay its own
Yeomanry ! As for the passage-money, our own
bill is not receipted yet. Someone ought to tell
Rupert that the S’African spasm is past; but we
can let him have a lot of surplus Kanakas cheap.
* * * B
Consider the marvellous ways of Queens-
land’s Continuous Government. It won’t allow a
horse-gamble advt. to appear in the papers, yet,
in Charters Towers, the pubs are open all day
Sunday, special Sunday trains are run for foot-
ball and cricket matches, and much-bedecked Jap
damsels are allowed openly to “solicit.”
* * * *
A very young man asks us to get him a
billet as rhyming Police Courter on one of the
very dull dailies. Herewith a sample of his art,
tried on a Hekald par.:—•
At the Water Police Court, before Mr. F. S. Isaacs,
S.M., Minnie Bell, alias Abdul, alias Rose, 57, a married
woman, was charged with stealing two white sheets, the
property of Charles Mahamed. ■ Accused was fined £3, or
in default one month’s imprisonment. At the same Court
Hector Gillies, 73, a laborer, was charged with stealing 10
chaff bags of the value Of 25., the property of Messrs.
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Limited. He was sentenced
to one month’s imprisonment with hard labor.
Roland and Oliver at Newcastle (N.S.W.).
At last meeting of the Hospital Committee a
letter was read from the local Ministers’ Associa-
tion protesting against the committee accepting, in
aid of the hospital funds, any moneys raised by
horse-racing, “as such a practice is offensive to
our principles,” etc. The communication was re-
ceived. Immediately afterwards the Hospital
House Committee’s report was read. The report
stated that grave complaints exist respecting the
irregularity of religious services in the institution,
“the ministers sometimes neglecting the place for
several weeks.” Then ordinary business proceeded.
By the way, the last race-meeting in aid of New-
castle Hospital realised £450, while the combined
annual donations of the Newcastle church congre-
gations do not exceed £lO !
* * * »
The morning of Hector Macdonald’s
arrival in Wellington (M.L.), a letter signed
“ New Zealander ” appeared “ slating ” the guest
WHAT OUR ARTIST HEARS ON THE RAILWAY.
THE SPECTACLED MAN: “George Reid mag be an orator, but I can't stand his reiteration."
THE DISCIPLE (doubtfully): “ Yes; perhaps so. What did you say you couldn’t stand?"
THE S.M. : “I say I can’t stand his tendency to reiterate.”
THE DISCIPLE (timidly): What s that?" The S.M.: “ To repeat, sir, to repeat”
THE DISCIPLE (hastily): “Never mind repeating it; I understand. That's all right. Go on.”
THE S.M. (with patient emphasis): “I say a thing, and then I say it again.”
THE DISCIPLE (in a bewildered way); “I know you do. But what do you want to say it
twice for?” (Then the train went into the tunnel.)
of the city for his demands for conscription and
improved murder-engines for school boys, and
asking him “to tell what he knew about war—
that it was murder of the blackest kind.” For
several hours afterwards infuriated Scots were to
be seen passing into the editorial quarters in
search of the mon who wad dare to insoolt
Mac tonal’. Nathless, the writer’s remarks re-
ceived approbation from unexpected quarters in
the city. The war-fever slowly but surely abates.
* * * *
Now alleged that Colonel Tom Price is an
applicant for the billet of Chief Commissioner of
Vic. Police, but The Bulletin can’t believe that
rumor. The very name of Price is associated with
oppressive acts of authority in the old days. A
group of figures at Melb. Waxworks is a reminder
that Tom Price’s iron-nerved father fell a victim
to some convicts, who thought it better to be
hanged from a beam than quartered under his
tyranny. Every policeman knows the story of
how Price pere was singled out for vengeance
and done to death whilst other convicts
caught hold of his warder companions, say-
ing, “We don’t want to hurt you.” The sins of
the fathers, in some cases, disqualify the children
for particular billets, and this is one of those cases.
Besides, Col. Tom Price, a dozen years ago, was
popularly known in Melbourne as “ Fire-low-and-
jay-’em-out! ” on account of his instructions to
the boy-swashbucklers who were called out to awe
the working man. Thomas is personally an
honorable man and a generous one, but he is an
impossible Chief-Com. of Vic. Police. He’s the
boss man of the Mounted Rifles, and he has a
notoriously fine command of langwidge—let him
rest on his honors.
* ♦ * *
According to N.S. W. prison authorities, no
less than 78 more or less mad prisoners were sent
to them last year, besides another 46 who showed
symptoms of insanity within a month. There are
such records as these:—“No. 21, breaking and
entering, 21 years’ hard labor, delusive (on admis-
sion), previously insane”; “No. 32, shooting
with intent, seven years’ servitude, delusive (on ad-
mission), suffering from melancholia, previously
insane ” ; “ No. 31, assault and robbery, five years’
servitude, epileptic on admission, insane (epileptic)
in two weeks five days ; not recovered.” And there
is the sad ca.se of a foreigner, sentenced to five
months for being on premises with intent to commit
a felony, found on admission to be suffering from
general paralysis of the insane, and remanded to an
asylum to die.
* * * •
Telegraphed from Scone, N.S.W., to
Sydney Daily Telegraph :
A monument to the memory of the late Lieut. Ebsworth,
Belltrees Troop of the First Australian Horse, has been
erected in the Church of England grounds. The monu-
ment is inscribed : “In memory of Lieut. Ebsworth,”
&c. “ Erected by his friends and comrades. The follow-
ing members of the Belltrees Troop of Australian Horse
were also engaged in South Africa : ” (names given).
There must surely be some mistake here ! The
Bulletin refuses to believe that the last sentence
is. inscribed on the monument, and that “ the
friends and comrades” of the dead man would
thus paste their posters on his tomb, to advertise
their share in S’African exploits.
* * * *
It is significant that the lec. ntly- published
annual report of the Victorian Military Com-
mandant makes no reference whate/er to the
newly-formed and particularly naice Melbourne
cavalry corps, which was created for the purpose
of permitting bank-clerks to swagger about in
gold-and-blue uniforms. It is an open secret that
all the Australian cavalry regiments are to be
converted into mounted rifles, though the authori-
ties will “make it aisy for the poor baste” by
permitting them to retain the name of cavalry
and to turn-out with their obsolete weapons at
public shivoos. The Melbourne cavalry reaches
unplumbed depths of fatuity in having a strip of
chain-mail on each shoulder—presumably to thwart
the downward stroke of a weapon which all
nations are about to abandon.
* * *' •
Some scaremongers are hinting that pneu-
monia, strangely prevalent now throughout
Eastern Australia, is “the plague” in another
form. Though there is one well-defined form of
plague known as lung plague, which closely
resembles septic pneumonia in some of its symp-
toms, there is no reason at all, save the unreason
of fear, for this scare rumor. But, undoubtedlv,
the pneumonia outbreak demands serious con-
sideration. Old-fashioned ideas set down this
deadly disease as simply an aggravated cold : as a
matter of fact, it is just as markedly a “filth”
disease as typhoid, and calls for the same anti-
septic precautions. That it is to a great extent
infectious or contagious seems to be also a fact,
and, therefore, it calls for segregation measures
which are not always adopted. The sufferer
should be treated, so far as precautions against
contact go, with even more care than a typhoid
patient, and a case of pneumonia in a neighbor-
hood should be taken as a hint to look to drains,
sources of milk supply, and other possible means
of infection.
* * * *
Bernard Shaw says that the proper place
to study all descriptions of love is in the police-
court. As effective a bit of pathos as has been
recorded in Australia for years occurred the other
day at Coburg (Vic.) court, when O’Connor, high-
wayman and Pentridge escapee, was charged.
His little girl, born after he was sent to gaol seven
years ago, was waiting for him after the hearing
of the charge, and, as he was removed to gaol to
await his trial, he met his own child for the first
time.
* » * *
A Bill is shortly to be introduced in Vic.-.
State Parliament to provide for the establish-
ment of a compulsory superannuation fund for
State-school teachers, on the lines of the S.A.
system. Annual subscriptions—for males, £l6„
£l2, £B, and £4 ; and for females, £l2, £9, £<\
and £3. In 38 years a male teacher, at the
highest rate, will have contributed £6OB, and will
receive in return a yearly allowance of £113175. 6d.
As this is much more expensive than the terms of
an ordinary insurance policy, the idea is not likely
to be hailed with much delight by married school-
teachers, who, as a body, find it hard to live on
their meagre salaries.
THE LORD AND HIS MAKER.
My tailor is iny master,
I cheerfully confess;
Like dummies shaped in plaster,
I’m governed by my dress.
Yet if, perchance, my hatter
Attempt to boss the show—
That’s quite another matter :
I d n his eyes, and go.
The fashion of my “ topper ”
Black, monumental pile—
Is just what 1 think proper
In cumbrous “ topper ” style.
But touching body raiment—
My coat, and pants, and vest,
I merely do the payment—
The tailor does the rest.
I’m subject to his fancies—
He cuts me as he will ;
My value he enhances
According to his skill.
Ye men of lower station,
Look up ! Be not afraid I
And note with admiration
Lord Hopetoun, tailor-made.
Minnie Rose-citro-Abdul greets,
Sweet and twenty-seven,, she says,
Went to bed and stole the sheets—
“ Sixty bob or thirty days !”
Hector Gillies, man of woes
Seventy-three—(O youth of mine !)
Stole some sacks for his bed-clothes—
“ Thirty days without a fine !”
Poverty’s an awful sin ;
Sex equality is grand;
Impotent the cynic’s grin
In this just and happy land.
Shaking bed-clothes—heinous crime I
But for women—just decree 1 —
Gold is antidote to grime
In an age of chivalry 1
Age is young, and youth is old,
Rose and Hector, both must go—
Rose, above, by grace of gold
Poor old Hector goes below.


J.D.K.Z. GIN.
♦
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
hut absolutely the best in the world. One size
only—largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 16’5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Sydney.
>6
h-
| IT ' '
■ B OUM B
IheWhiskyof tusNKs#
ħ
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette, and Sailing List with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Coliins-st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st., Sydney .
SILVER
STARCH
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Australia’s
Leading Tonic
Beverage.
The recently-distributed Victorian State
School Teachers Bill does not propose much im-
provement in salaries of the under-paid juniors.
Pupil teachers, who have to go through an expen-
sive course of instruction, are to receive for the
first two years—males, from £3O to £4O per an. ;
females, from £24 to £32 a year. This is not a
living wage. The maximum salary obtainable by
a first-class head teacher is £432. How can good
men be expected to join the Service when the
prize (the all but unobtainable prize) is £432
a year ?
• • • •
Under the Bill to amend Vic. Educa-
tion Act, a teacher cannot rise with his
school, or retain his school if he so desires
at a fixed salary. In one case a country school
was raised by the enthusiasm of a teacher—a first
sub-division man—from an average attendance of
100 to 180. After putting his heart into his work,
gaining the confidence of parents and children
alike, settling his boys in businesses and trades,
&c., &c., this man will be removed (if the Bill
passes) to a lower-grade school, although he is
quite content to stay where his energies are at
present concentrated. The old Act allowed this
option, and surely the amended Act should do the
same.
* • * *
At Tamworth (N.S.W.), t’other day, a
jury complained to the Judge that their seats were
“hard.” This scribe was present years ago in
the “New” Supreme Court, Melbourne (which
has been old these 40 years), when the late C. J.
Stawell talked from the bench to young J. L.
Purves about how jurors ought to be treated in
the Newer Law Courts about to be built in YVest
Melbourne. “A juryman,” said His Honor,
“ ought to have room to stretch his legs and have
a soft seat, otherwise he can’t think well.” “ And
there’s another thing, your Honor,” says Purves,
“ he oughtn’t to have this cocoa-nut matting under
his feet. I myself never go home alone from this
court.”
THOUGHTFUL.
“ Maudy, I want you to deny yourself of sugar
for a week for the missionary-box.”
“ Oh, ma, would soap do? The poor blacks must
be so dirty, you know!”
“S. Wrinkler ” : My scheme for a con-
sumptives’ sanatorium is to have a moveable one
in the dry country : the Urana to Albury Plains
for choice. Live in tents, which can be made
quite snug, and shift every six months. The old
ground to be burned-off, as with anthrax pad-
docks. lam not barracking for the district, be-
cause it’s a land of large estates ; but many have
come there to die —and have lived.
A “ Mere Male ” :
One of the Sydney dailies, to brighten up reports of the
tariff controversy, is publishing a recriminatory corres-
pondence between “an Englishwoman,” who complains
of the hoggish rudeness of Australian men, and various
heated champions of the local reputation for politeness.
Whatever the merits of the controversy, woman must
make up her mind shortly to do without something. At
present she wants the vote, and the right to sit in Parlia-
ment ; and to be a lawyer and a doctor and a drains-
inspector; to oust the clerk out of his job by black-
legging at half wages (Heaven knows the gentle
employer is ready enough to help her in this latter) ; to
rush any free refreshment that is going and leave the
crumbs only to the men ; and withal to be given the best
seat in the tram. Man is a patient animal, and while the
whisky-and-soda compartment of life was left to him
made the best of things. But woman now wants the
front seat there also, and the day of the revolting man
rapidly approaches.
• • * •
“Equality ” : If there is to be any anti-
spitting legislation, in the interests of public
health, let us hope it will apply to both sexes.
The lady-expectorator is an almost ordinary angel
nowadays. Of all the crowd waiting on the
Melbourne railway platform for a race-train last
Thursday, the only person whom I spotted in the
spitting-act was a stylishly-dressed female. She
turned her slender back to her cavalier, hung her
head, pressed her trimmings close to her with her
left hand to keep them “out of the wet,” and
expectorated like a bloke.
* • • •
“T.D.” : Re the “ Beardies,” or Christian
Israelites, I have never seen one, male or female,
who might not be called good-looking. All are
regular-featured—a fact that accentuates their
placid, cow-like demeanour. Cause and effect,
probably, but which is which ? Also, every male
Beardy has hair of a delicate light brown. Dye—
or what?
• * • •
A glimpse of life as ifc is sometimes lived
in Ualla (Vic.).
In an affiliation
case a woman
admitted that she
had bathed in a
dam with the man
concerned, she
being almost
“alt ogether,”
and he quite so.
Mixed bathing
with a venge-
ance !
At Balmain, Sydney, a Presbyterian
clergyman has broken with his congregation on
the question of “ amusements,” and has resigned,
to go ’Ome to a better and a gloomier land. The
old Presbyterian idea, which looked upon a “Kist
of whustles” as an invention of the devil, and
anything but four whitewashed walls as a place
of abomination, does not thrive in Australia,
where Presbyterianism falls away from grace into
harbor picnics, comic sermons, and Pleasant
Sunday Afternoons. Buckle tells that the Scotch
congregations of the early 19th century looked for
a pastor who could “weep and howl ” well at the
call of Grace. The Australian churches want
men who can crack a joke in the pulpit, and play
Jolly Miller down the harbor. And so the
Faithful Remnant has to go ’Ome to find a fitting
gloom to be saved in.
* » » *
Talk about Govt, sweating ! An operator
in Adelaide Telegraph Office had to take down in
longhand the whole of the tariff as it was being
wired from Melbourne, besides part of Turner’s
speech. All this without a pause, and no pay for
overtime.
“ Foreign Attachment ”
is a curious relic of ancient
London city law in force, in
parts of Australia, now be-
fore the Vic. courts. It i 3
only available when a person
owing debts and having pro-
perty in, say Victoria, has
flitted, or is reasonably sus-
pected of contemplating a >
hitting to Guam or its hin-
terland. On proof of this,
the writ puts an embargo on
the goods of the debtor, and
the creditor leisurely pays
himself out of the proceeds,
without the trouble of haul-
ing the tourist from beyond
the seas. Foreign attachment
was originally a custom of
the Lord Mayor’s court of
London, and is only in force
in Australia where it has been
expressly enacted by the local
legislatures.
The question of licensing
clergymen to marry, which ap-
pears to be now treated as a new
one by N.S.W. politicians, was
really settled by Chief Jus-
tice Stephen nearly 40 years
ago. The Rev. Dr. Bailey’s
congregation in Sydney fell
off until only a few old ladies
remained. The Registrar-
General withdrew his license.
Dr. Bailey applied to the
Court, and Stephen upheld
the Registrar, on the ground .
that a few old ladies meeting on s
a Sunday did not constitute a
congregation.
Sydney tram authorities now give their
drivers a small seat, but forbid the men cushion-
ing them or even sitting on their coats for com-
fort. There does not seem to be any reason for
this except sheer cantankerousness.
* * • *
Visitors to Australia always have an old
retainer or two unearthed for them, to their
amazing joy and great advertisement. There
was Hopey’s coachman, York’s quarter-master,
and now Hector Macdonald’s nurse.
» * • •
Harry Morris-Cohen was recently married
in a high-class Sydney suburb. Mr. Leo Cohen
acted as best man. Miss Colleen Keith-Cohen
was present, likewise Kenneth Cohen, Cedric
Cohen, and Colin Cohen. Mention was made of
Norman Cohen, Neville Cohen, George Cohen,
Keith-Cohen, and Cohen. As nothing was said
of John Smith Cohen, Donald M‘Cohen, and
Patrick O’Cohen, the inference is that these rela-
tives, together with Raoul EitzCohenand Griffith-
ap-Cohen, were unavoidably detained. By the
way, as the Hebrews are snapping-up all the
Scotch names (which seems like painting the lily)
when are we to have Mr. Urquhart Cohen and
Mr. Colquhoun Cohen ?
The Salvarmy in Victoria intends to run
its annual October self-denial fad close on the
heels of Hospital Sunday this year. There’s some
grim, unconscious iron’y about the circular in
which ‘ ‘ General ” Booth spurs on his Australian
adherents to starve and stint themselves some
more, to the financial benefit of the House of
Booth:
“ You have, by the grace of God, done wonders. Your
services and sacrifices are known on earth and recorded
in heaven. No one knows them better or appreciates
them more truly than your General.”
No doubt! And the “General” incidentally
brackets himself with God, too !
* * * •
A Victorian 10-year-old boy, when arrested
for placing some ballast on the railway-line
between Yan Yean and Whittlesea, told the
police that his object had been to throw a train off
the line and rob the bodies of the slain passengers.
Deadwood Dick again, most likely.
* • * *
The long arm of coincidence ! While four
men were sticking up Mr. Hayes, a Sydney
butcher, and robbing him of £4O, a butcher at
Brisbane, going home with his Saturday night’s
takings (£25), was stuck up by three men. A
tram came along and frustrated the attempt. In
Hayes’ case the tram came just a minute too
late.
JJKtTCHES Kt THE
-*%fABISTUM KUI6*
&MJUBT* C®*<} •
t««s.'jnn» -fe
(jUSS'Wj
h
Iw»j« E»w*»s I
C»Wt(C^S < 5
I«>W TteS****
>*♦ CV*»Ef
To
Tftt KiH<* °9
En<^£-lnho.
Ivve Ct.cn “V ftfß
V tUjesTXs R““ST
Aowtyits
i Tk Gwflfc (>"“*«•
SKETCHES AT THE “ KERRISTIAN
KING.”
“ Veteran ” : Cabled that the three Vic-
torians, sentenced in S’Africa for “ inciting, to
mutiny,” were released “because they were tried
under the wrong section of the Army Act.”
Should think so ! Mutiny is a combination to
actively and forcibly resist authority, not to pas-
sively-disobey orders, which was all that Steele
and his fellows proposed to do. .They were con-
templating refusal to go out again with Beatson,
who seems to resemble his father—a well-known
army surgeon of 40 years ago—in his habit of
plain-speaking. By the way, in Capt. Spilsbury s
THE COIN OF THE GODLY .
( Monday , 10.30 a.m.) Bung, junior: “Say,
parson! Dad says can you let him have
tray-bits for a sov. School’s in with the
poker-machine .”
MS. “Diary of the Siege of Gibraltar” there is a
story showing how Eliott dealt with such cases as
Steele’s: “October 3, 1779. One 58th man was
overheard saying, ‘lf the Spaniards came, d——n
him that would not join them.’ The Governor
said he must be mad, ordered his head to be
shaved, to be blistered, bled, sent to the provost
on bread and water, wear a strait waistcoat, and
be prayed-for in church.” Of course, this man’s
offence was far worse than Steele’s —being a direct
incitement to join the enemy, and Eliott was a
merciful man to impute it to madness. Much
more merciful than the contingent officers who
tried Steele and the others, or the stupid Ket-
ehener, who “ commuted ” the sentence.
* * * *
“ The right thing to do with the liquor-
traffic is to eradicate it,” sententiously says a
Sydnay teetotal light. True—and that is also the
proper thing to.do with Original Sin.
CREDO.
Life is so brief !
Drain, then, its cup of pleasure to the lees ;
Take, then, its gifts or leave them, as you please:
Life is so brief.
Love grows so cold !
Take, then, its kisses when on hot lips prest;
Take all of Love’s most passionate—its best:
Love grows so cold !
Night is so drear !
Take, then, thy comfort in the bright noon sun ;
Leave care and sorrow till the day be done :
Night is so drear !
Death comes so soon !
Take, then, of Life all that Life has to give,
Live with thy heart and brain and senses—Aye .*
Death comes so soon !
N.S.W.
NELLIE M. FIELD.
NOVEMBER.
[Foe The Bulletin.]
Day by day among the hills
All our flowers are dying ;
Thinner Springtime’s wine distils
Day by day. Among the hills
I, forlorn and pale with ills,
Hear my Youth go crying,
Day by day among the hills,
“ All our flowers are dying.”
V.
PAGAN.


If yo 6 woCild
STAMP OH VELVET
BGy YoGr
BOOTS
. . AT . .
(Hark
Fog's.
r
■
AMERICAN BOOT. G. E. Keith. Black Oalf Balmoral, made in S shapes—
Pointed, Medium, and Square Toes; welted. Price, 16/6.
CHARLES
HEIDSIECK
Original Brand CHAMPAGNE
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO
HIB MAJESTY KING EDWARD VII.
AS SUPPLIED TO
THE BRITISH ADMIRALTY and WAR OFFICE.
ALL LEADING CLUBS and HOSPITALS, &0., &C.
Australian Representatives —
SWIFT & CO., 7 Spring St., Sydney
Pedicure —Guest’s new hygienic treatment
of the feet. A perfect cure for corns, bunions,
in-growing toe-nails, painful and smarting feet.
In hot weather this treatment is. esteemed a per-
fect boon by all tired women, as it affords instant
relief in the most sensitive cases. Treatment by
appointment. Lady operators. Guest’s Face
Massage Salons, 229 Bourke-street—Tel. 2200.
Also Block Arcade, Collins-street —Tel. 1766, and
Menzies’ Hotel.*
m
&
COfil
m
SC
£T IN
All Drapers Everywhere.
A WOMAN'S LETTER.
Sydney, November 21, 1901.
My Dear Arini,—
Young singers’ benefit concerts, amateur per-
formances; the Scotsman with the Greek name,
and a case of plague are troubling our pool, and
just keeping it from stagnating.
Mayoress Graham’s last “At Home” at the
Town Hall was small, not more than six or eight
visitors being there at one time. Owing to the
presence of several superior persons it was very
conversational, and discussed Freetrade and Pro-
tection, the Conduct of Life, the route (in Europe)
likely' to be padded by the Mayoress’s mother,
and a lady who speaks five languages. Mrs.
Prof. Anderson and a Melbourne intruder
differed on the subject of Foundling Homes, but
were warmly reconciled over the Adelaide School
of Design.
Talking of Foundling Homes, the Cardinal and
the Archbishop went up to the Home at Waitara
the other day to open a garden fete (the Cardinal
pronounces it like the plural of “foot”) in aid
of the funds of the institution. The Sisters have
acquired some more land, and when finances permit
will start a laundry, so that they may keep on the
premises and give work to the mothers of such of
the infants as require mother’s nursing. There are
98 little ones in the Home at present. Eric, the
“ house-father ” —he was the first foundling taken
in—domineered over the other ancients, and sang
“Pop goes the weasel,” and received tbe prelates
with his gaze fixed on the big gold crosses on the
big, sacerdotal chests. The day was a fierce one,
with a withering northerly wind. Women who
had railed up from town to the opening had
tongues like strips of stringy-bark, from thirst, by
the time they made the return journey. On
Waitara platform a heretic, who had bought a
pair of perfectly superfluous woollen gloves and a
pin-cushion stuffed with pea-nuts at the sale of
work, screwed her eye to a keyhole of the ladies’
waiting-room, and, beholding the water-bottle
and glass, she first quoted Private Mulvaney on
thirst, and then began to cry. For the door was
locked. I don’t want to be a catechism, but I
would like to ask the railway authorities why that
door is kept locked? Perhaps foundlings have
been left there!
Miss Lillian Spiers was entertained at an “ At
Home” by her pupils in the Queen’s Hall last
Friday, and presented with a gold cable bangle.
A crowd of very nice, white-froeked, fair-haired
maidens played and sang, and one damsel, with a
singular likeness to Reging, Nagel, gave promise of
a fine contralto.
Major-General Hector Macdonald can’t be
sneered at for exploiting his uniform—probably he
hasn’t brought one with him. At the Sydney
citizens’ dinner to him he wore the Y.O. and a
row of medals on his black coat. His voice is not
as strong as one would expect from his depth of
chest, but is hard and penetrating. As he walked
through the two lines of Highlanders to his seat
the gallery (of women) noted that his tartan tie
was unmoored at the back and rucked up over the
collar, and the gallery sighed at the ill that may
happen to a bachelor. All the speeches were
heavily charged with references to the “ British
Empire,” and, from a gallery point of view, the
best thing of the evening was the playing of
exquisite old Scotch airs by De Groen’s band.
“Australia’s great contralto” and the Scotch
Hector brought a splendid audience to Sydney
Town Hall on Saturday night—a night of storm
and rain and smothered moonlight. Miss Alice
Hollander (emphasise the second syllable, please)
made her professional bow to an audience sharp-
set by Other-State criticisms, all as high as the
meridian itself. Miss Alice has a beautiful voice,
but the “greatness” has been thrust upon her.
She may achieve “greatness” by the time her
course of European study is over. At present, it
would be a little previous to say more than that
she is a singer of much promise. Her opening
number was the difficult and beautiful “ Lascia
ch’io Pianga,” which she managed delightfully,
and without difficulty. Tosti’s “ Good-Bye,”
the only approach to a popular song on
the programme, was given as an encore; and
Mascheroni’s “ Ave Maria” was most warmly
received. Mr. Bethune, the young contralto’s
trainer, made his first and last platform appear-
ance as a singer with a high, worn, though good-
quality baritone. “Angels Guard Thee” and
“ Where’er You Walk” were his numbers. Mr.
Bethune has a most musicianly style and a soul-
ful, gazing-at-the-mountain-tops manner, which
Miss Alice has caught to some extent. He is
also interesting for the reason that he is a cousin
of Lord Hopetoun’s.
Miss Bryant, at the organ, made excellent har-
mony with a “Faust” fantasia. Miss Hilda
Lane brought a pretty, school-girl presence and a
promising soprano to bear upon the audience.
The other attraction, warrior Mac., sat low,
in a high - backed chair, with the Dar-
leys, Grahams, Sees, and Wises around
him. If he had been placed a few rows
back he would have had a view of some fearsome
dressing. One woman wore a grass-cloth cape and
a Jubjub bird in her hair—at least, I think it was
that kind of bird. And the lady on whom it
roosted looked like a Bandersnatch. By the way,
Adelaide’s Attorney-General is going to bring in
a Bill on the lines of the Texas Act, making it
penal to wear the plumage of birds. At a woman’s
club I once heard a debate on the immorality of
plumage-wearing. The opener spoke strongly,'
and mentioned that the day previous she had taken
all the feathers out of all her hats. Next speaker
also anathematised the fashion, hut when the dis-
cussion was over she sidled up to the opener,
nudged her gently, and whispered, “Give me
those feathers, will you ? ”
published announcement in certain
Society papers of the engagement of the widow
ot a deceased Riverine squatter and a dashing
lieutenant, late returned from the “glories” of
S Africa, has been wratbfully denied by the lady.
• “Englishwoman” was bustled by a fellow
m the street. She wrote a letter to Sydney D.T.
° n * he . Cl rcumstance, and, by the number of
replies that letter begot, scores of people must
have been eagerly waiting, pen in hand, to say
something to the editor on the subject of street
manners, Australian manners, tram and train
.Some of the writers have met with
little but incivility m public places, others the
reverse. Some assert that women are rude to
men, others that men are boors to women. Every-
one who hasn’t had a pen in this silly-season
discussion will admit that there are faults
0n ,sides, but glaring instances such
as Englishwoman ” describes are most un-
common. . I have seen women standing in trams
whilst men were seated, but not often, whilst
every day I see women tilt men’s hats and all but
poke-out tnen s eyes with carelessly-carried um-
brellas. Once I saw a youth slide out his foot in
a tram-car to trip-up a woman—but he was cheer-
fully drunk. Often I have seen a girl refuse a
man s hand not matrimonially, but as a help up
a BJte* 8 J te * °, r fr° m . a quay to a steamer’s gangway,
and the look with which she ignored the offered
kindness was that of outraged virtue, and
the thought behind the look was “You’d follow
me home if I let you help me ! ” Most women
who flout a proffered courtesy talk like that.
Women s discourtesy to women is often the result
of self-consciousness, or defect in perception.
How often, after walking behind a woman for
some time meditating on her manner of dress-
clutch, have I hurried abreast of her and said :
• ardon me, but your Serene Highness is show-
ing through the placket-hole of your dress a length
of corset lace, one pearl button, one linen ditto, a
glimpse of red.underskirt and a generous piece of
white underskirtand got in return a look that
flung me into the roadway, or a simple “Mind
your own business ! ”
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
‘ The matinee hat was never so terrible a
nuisance as at the crowded show at Her Majesty’s
on r lhursday. Two up-standing, well-upholstered
women nearly wept when, after repeated adjura-
tions and anathemas from their neighbors, the
usher ordered the removal of their towering head-
pieces. The work of removal melted every mem-
ber of the hair-pin sex. The veils, reefed in at
twenty places, had to be tenderly removed, for
rough treatment threatened disaster to the toupee.
Then the hat skewers had to be withdrawn, also
tenderly. Then came the most critical and deli-
cate work of all—the raising of the chiffon lid.
Very slowly, softly, adroitly, was this accom-
plished, and the two.tortured souls, terrified at
the thought of criticism of their ruffled straw-
thatched roofs, sat sick, sorry, and desperate
through the rest of the show.
“ In the big audience that filled circle and front
stalls, many notables were scattered. It agreed
with the general order of things theatrical that the
‘cheaper’ sort of persons were posted in the
front, whilst Toorak curled its lips at the bloated
back-views of Opulence and Push from the darker
recesses of the five-shilling parts. Mayoress
Gillott, all in grey, was, however, one of the
official Melbournites in a prominent seat. Lady
Baker, with some girls, provided another fashion-
able oasis in the desert of the front. Miss Muriel
Williams sat with the President’s wife, and her
light puff-paste head-gear was one of the few
allowed to remain on active service. Most of the
millinery was put by till the final curtain-drop.
Miss Beatrice Smith was a fascinating figure in
the circle, although her long green coat and
plateau hat were tame enough. Mr. Oldham, of
Toorak, who always makes a splash at afternoon
affairs, spread himself over half of the manager’s
box—a male friend occupied the rest. Mr.
Oldham is the lucky brother of the late Mrs. Silas
Harding, whose death by a buggy accident set
this relative on the path of diamonds and glory.
“ The brightest and most tinselled gown sported
through all the varying scenes of the Matinee
programme was that of Miss Lizzie Collins, the
dark dazzler of Rickards’ present show. This was
a hyacinth-blue turnout, veiled in a polonaise of
point lace, and having apricot touches wherever
relief was needed. Mrs. Brough’s neat claret-
colored garb showed her ever-green figure to per-
fection, but Miss Vaughan spread forth her ample
form in a much richer garb of Ketchener (i.e.,
blood-red) satin.
“Light-heeled Maud Chetwynd (Mrs. What’s-
her-name) fussed round in lilac and lace, escorted
tty tenor Ernest Mozar. Mrs. Norman Menzies
(Dorothy Vane) in pale-pink flowered-brocade,
trimmed with black lace and flat hat, with girl
friend in tow, looked a gentle little thing, perhaps
thinking of a lost convent career. All the naicest
helped to swell the audience. Mrs. Lawson,
Rupert Clarke’s cousin-in-law, stood in the door-
way airing the fashionable toilette exaggerations
of the moment —solid dark hair over her ears,
enormous earrings, flat hat trimmed with bright
blue —the sort of thing that only a chiselled
Madonna face can stand without looking like a
Kaffir’s. Mrs. Willie Robb, interested in things
theatrical, as of old, looked fragile and interesting
in pale-blue and black. Miss Fenner, Mrs. Percy
Ohirnside’s sister, is one of the miniature
blondes. She combs her fair hair off her smooth,
white forehead, and makes one think that ears and
temples have their spectacular uses after all.
“On the stage, Carrie Moore made a showy
plaintiff in ‘ Trial by Jury.’ She sported
decollete bridal wear, the diamond pendant, and
carried on as if her own rumored real-life breach-
of-promise suit caused her no worry.
“Little Senator Zeal, who has always been
sneered at by his sex for his stolid deafness to the
songs of the sirens, earned the horror of all official
female clerks by his remarks in the Senate the
other night. He declared that many of these
Government toilers would do better as domestic
servants. The remark evoked looks of withering
scorn from some of the clerks referred to, who
were seated in the gallery, and many of the mem-
bers were warmed into shaking their heads
ominously at the uncompromising speaker. Mr.
Zeal is turning acrimonious. ' Diplomatist Jen-
kins is no longer at his side to sugar-coat his pills,
or pluck the thorns from the flowers of his speech.
“Politician Conroy, of the House of Reps., sat
with a feminine flock in one of the boxes at
1 Faust,’ on Saturday night. All were in uncon-
ventional attire ; and the champion interjector of
the Opposition' wore his forelock as ruffled as
ever, and his tweeds right rakishly. In the oppo-
site bo-x was Mrs. F. McEvoy with a group of
plumy friends—a pretty party. Round the
circle were the prevailing majority of the
tribes of Israel, and a majority of two
social twinklers. The two Madden girls, with
Miss Muriel Williams, sat with three men.
Miss Williams in shell-pink, with her voluminous
coils of dark hair fastened on her neck with black
velvet ribbon bows, looked the most sirenesque.
The rose-bud of the Maddens had her French-
polished tresses parted rigidly in the centre, and
dressed in a plain ‘ Good Friday ’ bun on the nape
of her neck—a style that overdid her roundness of
face and feature. Prof. Marshall Hall sat in
dark-tweeds amongst a party of giggling pupils,
and was the most diverting person of the circle
audience. His comments were audible all round
his area, and not flattering to the performers. He
declared that he had seen devils of all countries
and languages, but he had to confess this Italian
devil (Travaglini) was the best-humored he had
ever come across! He laughed immoderately over
this bit of irony. A much less demonstrative and
more engrossed person was Prof. Peterson, who
stood in a draughty corner of the circle and fol-
lowed the performance with unwavering interest.
The Scotch Professor’s likeness to Dr. Macgilli-
cuddy, one of the keenest of local amateur musi-
cians, is so remarkable that it will not be surpris-
ing if Mrs. Peterson herself one day rushes up to
the doctor in the street and addresses him as her
dear hubby.
“When the Gov.-General sampled ‘Second in
Command’ (Sat., Nov. 16), he laughed loudly now
and then, notably when Leslie Victor as a winey,
misquoting cub, remarks that ‘ strong waters are
the shame of a woman but the pride of a man.’
All the same, His Ex. gaped thrice for every once
that he guffawed. With the Hopetoun, came
Govt. House’s permanent petticoat trio—the Gov.-
Generaless, Mrs. Aide Corbett and Surgeon
Philson’s wife, all decidedly decorative but quite
different, one staunch, one sarcastic, one sweet —
affix the labels yourself.
“Seems to me Grace Noble is missed on the
Brough stage. Mrs. Brough makes a nice-enough
Muriel (the ‘ Second in Command ’ heroine), han-
dicapped by ‘middle aged voice-cadences,’ and
other traces of wear-and-tear, and tendency to
grimace, rather than smile, at grief. Miss Chat-
teris has pretty little teeth, and, consequently,
I suppose, a laughing mouth ; but she doesn’t
look like a colleen named Nora. Ray (short
for Rachel, Abbie (alias Abigail), or Sadie (i.e.,
Sara) seem more in her line somehow. As for
Bingham, the unlucky ‘Second in Command,’
Brough makes him engaging—except for his
dead, dark hair ; but in real life he would be
a poor-moubhed muff, always disparaging him-
self, and then hurt because employers take him
at his own estimate.
“Ping-pong, or the hit-and-giggle game, was
played in Parliament House gardens when Lady
Braddon, Lady M‘Millan, and Mrs. Winter-
Cooke entertained the political and fashionable
world with a lawn-party. Of the three dames,
the Tasmanian carried off the palm for smiling
grace and prettiness. The Sydney matron, turned
out in all cream, did her duty pleasantly; and
Mrs. Winter-Cooke was a substantial business-like
representative of this State. Her husband
hovered near, one eye owning a magnifying-glass,
the other doing its work unaided. Braddon,
gaunt, wrinkled, worried, only unbent for the
smartest of the chiffon sex, then he grew gallant,
almost cheerful. Minister Lyne moved round
after his spouse, with his specs balancing
on the lower ridge of his nose—he seemed as if
ready to revise the Hansard proof of his hoarse
rumbles in the House. The Bartons and
M‘Eacharns swopped partners, but kept frater-
nally together. John Forrest had a real good
time among his wife’s youthful following.
“ Among all the flutterers on the lawn, one of
the most decorative was Miss Ruby Madden in a
last-season blue frock—a bright becoming voile—
with gay relief columns of shrimp-pink, and a
saucy toque brimming over with bright colors.
An economical but very-smart turn-out of duck-
egg linen was sported by Miss Margot Gavan
Duffy, one of Sassiety’s really erudite girls. The
Duffys bring their children up in straight, stiff
lines. The correctly-dressed Mrs. Donald
M'Kinnon reared a proud, independent head, and
looked handsome. When finished hand-pumping,
Mistress Braddon butterflied among the guests
airily—always bright and fluttering.
“The most cheerful incident of Oaks-day at
Flemington occurred in front of the gubernatorial
reserve as the race was finishing. A young, well-
dressed, and rather handsome couple were stand-
ing together, anxiously watching the race, the
lady clutching her closed sunshade in her trem-
bling right hand. As Bramba romped in a winner
the female end of the partnership suddenly lost
control of herself, and cried, fiercely: ‘ There !
there ! What did I tell you ? You fool! you
fool ! ’ And, lifting her gingham, the lady smote
her lord and master several times heavily on his
glazed belltopper. One Excellency who was over-
looking this pretty domestic scene gasped aloud,
‘Just look at that! Well, I’m d d!’ he
said.
“ Perched on the stand on Steeplechase-day, one
ruminated on the descent of a stage star from the
social firmament. Last year the Great buzzed
about this charmer, descended from their carpeted
pen to hum their greetings in her ears, and the
most distinguished flutterers battled for a smile
from her. Now, all is changed. Sassiety gives a
grudging nod, turns away, and talks in an impu-
dently loud tone of ‘ the dresses of these actresses.
“ The dress that made the sensation of pup-
week—a pink and lilac ribbon and lace affair of
exquisite design—has brought home heaps of
orders to the wearer who made it. She is a young
Collins-street dress-builder, managing for a swag-
ger artiste in that line. The dress was designed
and put together in odd hours—mostly at night.
The day after the Cup two Sydney dames sent
from Menzies’ for the girl and gave her expensive
orders for reception frocks, and others followed
from various quarters, so that the show-creation
that had cost so much thought, money and time
has brought in a quick profit.
The Carnival brings its usual harvest of engage-
ments, among them that of Mr. Stuart Brunton,
son of Mr. T. Brunton, the flour miller, and
Miss Florrie Strong, only daughter of an
ex-Mayor. The contract was made and
sealed in rather sudden fashion. The wooer
belonged to a well-known bachelor set, wont
to congregate at Menzies’ at regular intervals
to celebrate their fortunate bachelorhood. The
charmer who broke the bachelor barriers is a tall,
simple, unsophisticated maiden, sheltered since
her debut at pa’s Mayoral hop by a crowd of
big brothers.
“ Another Alfred Hospital nurse scores a big
catch at the altar of Hymen this week. This is the
third nurse from that institution this year to land
a goldfish—and the line stretches out to the very
limit of the paying wards.
“The widow of a great racing-man is such a close
friend of a local military widower that speculators
are waiting from day to day to see their names go
up on the board of starters for the Matrimonial
Stakes.
“ A stout, undersized masher, who is somewhat
of a tennis and golf champion, is one of the most
prominent ‘ buoys ’ bobbing on the social sea at
present. At Sunbury and Geelong he is Sir
Oracle, and there the graces do him homage. But
Melbourne is very badly off just now for a line of
attractive cavaliers, guaranteed, like good fast
colors, not to run. As it is, a few weedy remnant
samples have to be made the best of.
“ That handsome Baptist parson who parted
with his flock rather than give up the girl of his
heart, is not the man to go whaling with. The
night of the big hailstorm (Nov. 14), sympathisers
were giving a shivoo in a suburban hall in honor
of his farewelling reverence’s birthday. Thunder
roared, ice-lumps pelted, windows smashed, and
one of the hostesses was laid low with an alarming
seizure, happily not fatal. Melbourne supped full
of horrors that night. A popular long-service
Titles Office official was taken mortally ill on his
roof, which he had climbed to sweep off the ice,
and was only brought down to die in his bed, after
desperate exertions on the part of his neighbors.
“ I have just welcomed back from ’Ome twin
four-year-old acquaintances, garbed in accordance
with British methods of the moment. Boy,
coiffured & la cockatoo, sports a trim crest-curl
and a roundabout row of short ringlets. Thanks
to this revival of a former fashion, photographs of
long-ago urchins look quite modish again.
The infant aforesaid brings from London an as-
sortment of belted tunics of woollen, pique, and
holland respectively, reaching to the knee and
worn over shorter knickers of the same material.
Each tunic has a Tam o’ Shanter and coachman-
caped overcoat of its own stuff, the cloth cap
smartened by a quill, while the holland and pique
millinery is simple enough to unbutton, flatten
out, and go to the wash with companion costumes.
Girl’s side-curls are tied in a little bunch, in
front of each ear, with narrow, white ribbon, and
her go-cart boasts several sets of cushions, match-
ing her various pelisses in color.
Writes a Hobart correspondent:—
“ Gov. Havelock was sworn in at Hobart last
week, but the ridiculousness of making a man
take his oath on top of the steps in front of the
Supreme Court was seen by somebody, and he
was sworn inside, upon the Bench. Most likely
Chief Justice Dodds’s strong common sense
came in this time. The sight of a man aloft
on a platform being manipulated by another man,
before a big howling crowd, used to be too awfully
suggestive of a hanging in the olden time.
“ The nephew of the Indian fighter is very like
the late George Bowen in style, appearance, and
voice, and resembles Chamberlain, too—in his eye-
glass. Jolly-looking, and sprightly withal—for
Havelock looks quite equal to a comic song.
His father was wounded at Waterloo and killed
in India. His uncle, the better-known Henry
Havelock, got a title and a pension, but died before
he heard of them, and his widow was allowed to
reap the benefits.
“ The new Governor’s wife seemed an informal
lady. She was seated on the bench-platform, and
while the swearing was going on, crossed .her
limbs and thrust out a nice little shoe, with silver
buckle. When all was over, she said she wanted
badly to see the wives of her husband’s Ministers,
and therefore Mesdaines Lewis, Collins, Mulcahy,
and Bird were paraded, with Mrs. Speaker Brown
and Mrs. Justice MTntyre bringing up the rear.
“During the late festivities, coral was little
favored by the smartest, but silk Maltese lace,
belts of gold tissue, and ribbon-sashes were
prevalent.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


pZeES 'Assurance Company limited.
Premier Industrial-Ordinary Office of Greater Britain.
POLICIES IKT FORCE EXCEED 216,000.
IMMEDIATE SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS.
Absolute Security. Annual Bonuses.
Moore and Castlereagh Streets,
Sydney,
Resident Secretary,
W. J. BLOOMFIELD, 8.A., LL.B.
The Mean Man was sitting on a chair in
the middle of the room, his head sticking out of a
blanket, which was draped over chair and man.
The blanket was his only covering, and the chair-
bottom was a piece of tin ; underneath the tin
burned a kerosene-lamp. The Mean Man was
having a cheap Turkish bath. Presently he began
to look meditative; then a pained expression
crossed his face ; then, muttering incoherently,
he swiftly got up, and for over a week afterwards
“ would rather stand, thank you.” He need not
have been so mean when for 275. 6d. he could have
bought a Peerless Folding Vapour Bath, or a
Cabinet Bath to last a life-time for £5, from
M‘Lean Bros, and Rigg, Ltd., Elizabeth-street,
Melbourne.*
The Band Association of N.S. Wales is
holding a Monster Band Contest and Art Union
in Sydney Town Hall on Jan. 25th and 27th next.
For the contest £350 is offered, and there are 185
art union prizes, valued at £775, making a total
of £1125. The art union drawing is to come off
on Feb. 26th. The first prize is a gold cornet
worth £loo—reducible to £lOO cash by the winner
is what is probably meant. The tickets are on
sale at all music shops, news agents, tobacconists,
and, of course, from all bandsmen throughout the
Commonwealth and New Zealand. Half the nett
profits of the undertaking are to be divided
amongst the public hospitals.*
FACILE PRIINICEPS.
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
Australia.
Supplied to H.R.H. the Duke of York.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
On November 14 John See, J. F. Burns and
William M'Millan, three N.S.W. ex-Treasurers,
celebrated their natal day.
Earl Beauchamp is mentioned by a pro-
minent Irish newspaper as likely to be the next
Lord Lieutenant of Ireland.
Arthur W. Jose is just now touring India,
gathering material for a book on that country.
Jose will probably drop into Australia on his way
back to England.
Conroy, epigrammatised the
charge against Barton, that he is unduly influenced
by Kingston and Turner, when he dubbed him
“the Primed Minister.”
Daniel O’Connor, M.L.A. (N S.W.) the
butt of so much badinage, is included in a late
official list of persons to be, if his Majesty pleases,
raised to the—er —dignity of C.M.G.
At Bothwell (Tas.), where lived John
Mitchell and his brother-in-law, John Martin (the
’4B Irishmen deported to Y.D.L.), there’s an old
gaol with cejls 7x3 feet —coffins for “living
corpses! ”
Rumor is again busy tipping Chief Justice
Darley as N.S.W. State Governor, and B. R.
Wise as his judicial successor in the chair of
Forbes, Dowling, Stephen, Martin, Salomons, and
the present Chief.
Both Goulburn’s C.E. bishops, Thomas and
Chalmers, died in harness. As a rule, the colonial
bishop goes ’Ome and settles down in a rich
vicarage. There are now about a dozen retired
Australasian bishops in England.
General Hutton, it seems, is now almost a
certainty for the Federal Commandantship. The
salary is £2500 —and the outspoken General is
fortunate enough to command privately as boun-
teous a store of money as of abusive language.
That fat billet, N.S.W. Crown-Solicitor-
ship, is still vacant. Rumor gives many whys as
to the delay, one the anxiety of the Govt, to give
it to a particular man who is not yet qualified as a
solicitor, hut who has done good work for the
State.
A Meroourne paper says that Bishop
Crane, of Bendigo, left no will and no estate.
Explanation—the Bishop was a member of the
Order of St. Augustine, and had no property of
his own. Whatever he used belonged to his order.
No “ religious ” can make a will.
The impression in Adelaide is that
Attorney-General Gordon anxiously waits to
accept the next vacant Judgeship. Bundey is ill,
Boucaut is old, and Way is ambitious of Imperial
distinction; so that one never knows when a
chance of promotion will happen.
Gov.-General Hopetoun intimates that he
mil hang-in with the Scots of Victoria in their
forthcoming national festivities. Hopetoun has
more savee than had poor old dead Governor
Duff—who brutally told a deputation of Sydney
Scots that he preferred a game of whist to haggis
kilts, or bagpipes.
Several Federal lawyer-politicians, whose
bar-work is slipping away, are credited with an
early intention of getting out. Hervey (W.A.),
Bruce Smith (N.S.W.), Symon and Glynn (S.A.)
are not considered likely to hang on very long,
especially as they now see very little chance of
snatching the plums of office from Barton.
Arthur Patchett Martin, The Bulletin
regrets to hear, has fallen on evil times in London.
He is suffering from a terrible illness and has not
the means to take the sea-voyage prescribed.
Victorian Agent-General Clarke is appealing to
Australians in London to help Mr. Martin, whose
old Australian friends will no doubt lend a hand.
Latest about King Edward’s health :
Lloyd’s have advanced the rate of premium on his life
from 10 to 15 per cent. These dealings indicate that the
ordinary insurance companies are shutting down on
policies on the King’s life. Friends of the King continue
to insist that he is only suffering from an aggravated case
of smoker’s-throat, complicated by gout.
And others say “Look at the family history! ”
News comes from London that Phil May
is going on the stage. “ Romeo and Juliet ”is to
be the initial venture; and Phil, as the Apothecary,
will draw corks and things. Alas, why don’t
people lay to their books ! As a practitioner in
black-and-white, an art wherein he stood at the
very topmost pinnacle, Phil May could earn £4OOO
a year.
In Shoalhaven district of N.S.W. South
Coast there are 150 old-age pensioners. Their
nationalities pan out: Irish, 58; English, 50;
Scotch, 20; Australian, 12; various, 10. Note
the relative positions occupied by the off-hand,
improvident Irish, and the cautious, canny Scotch.
The two races are about equally represented in
the district.
Poor old Dr. Chalmers, the just-deceased
Anglican Bishop of Goulburn, N.S.W., was given
a three years’ term among the savage Dyaks of
Borneo ere he was reckoned to be fitted for a
spiritual shepherdship of the wild tribes of Goul-
burn. After living unscathed among the Borneo
head-hunters, the Bishop finally succumbed to a
slippery church-step ! Such is fate !
Miss Emily Hobhouse, who wrote sensa-
tional accounts of the horrors of Kitchener’s
refugee camps, was not allowed to land in S’Africa
t’other day. Ketchener is determined to have no
serpents in his little Edens. Happily, there is no
need to deport the writers who gush about
Ketchener’s benevolence as displayed in those
camps—they have never been in Africa.
An M.L.A. with an inquiring mind has
demanded a return of N.S.W. Public Service
pensioners still able to work who are drawing
their pensions. Auditor-General Rennie, over 80,
and still toiling, is a marked contrast to the burly
football enthusiast, still a young man, who was
pensioned off long ago as medically unfit for duty.
He made a fine recovery, and is “something in
the city ” on his own account, with his pension to
boot.
The undersized York seems to have given
such a bad account of his Australian kow-towers
that papa Edward couldn’t see his way clear to
hand out any of the usual birthday C.M.G.-ships.
Minister M'Culloch, of Victoria, expected a
handle before quitting politics and going into up-
country seclusion among his beloved merinos and
Herefords, and was keenly disappointed.
J. E. Courtenay Bowden, “the historian,”
once private secretary to Charles Dilke, was sug-
gested by Downing-street as Queensland’s new
Governor, but Philp fiercely rejected him—he
might have taken to writing the history of
Queensland. They want a real live lord in the
North—even if they have to put up with one who
has married a ballet-girl, or who has serious spots
on his intellect, or who
Senator Henry Dobson, ex-Tas. Premier,
will be 60 on Sunday (Nov. 24), and Senator Tom
Playford, of S.A., will be 64 on the following day,
which likewise is the fete-day of S.A. ex-Ohief-
Secretary O’Loghlin, who, like Playford, was a
member of last Kingston Cabinet. “J.V.,” as
he is called locally, to distinguish him from Lands
Minister Larry O’Loghlin, is a year short of the
half-century, and a bachelor.
Kruger’s satire becomes savage. He has
now offered, it was cabled the other day,
to relinquish to England the Rand, whose
gold-mines caused the war, so long as his
people are left with their liberty. J. Bull has
talked so much cant about his holy motives in the
war that he has really come to believe some of the
cant himself. This jibe of Uncle Paul’s brutally
sweeps away the curtain of make-believe.
A clever parody of “Banjo” Paterson’s
verse (“Conroy’s Gap”) was written by a Vic.
rep. during Conroy’s four-hour speech against
time in the all-night sitting of the Tariff debate.
One verse:—
The trams and the trains are far away,
Gone is our chance for the midnight cab ;
So we snuggle down till the break of day,
Under the shadow of Oonroy’s gab.
Dr. R. S. Bright, the perky, abrupt-
mannered little surgeon who died, the other day,
at Hobart, was the doctor who attended Governor
Duff, of N.S.W., when he was stricken by his
last illness at Govt. House, Hobart. Dr. Bright
had lived in Hobart since he was seven years of
age, and he was 67 when he died. His father was
a London doctor who went to Hobart in ’43, and
died there 20 years later. “ Young ” Bright was
hon. medical officer to Hobart Hospital for 40
years, and resigned a week or two before his
death.
John Haynes so often yelps out “wolf”
on sectarian questions that a cry from him doesn’t
get the attention it deserves. So his protest
against a military guard escorting R.C. Arch-
bishop Kelly through the streets of Sydney was
passed off with a laugh. But it was based on solid
grounds : Australia can afford to give no military
recognition to either priest or parson, and the
N.S.W. Govt, should have refused to Archbishop
Kelly what it would have certainly denied to any
other religious official—except, perhaps, General
Booth, who commands so many votes.
Premier See’s son has weathered the storm
of indignation against his appointment to a com-
mission in N.S.W. Lancers. When he was pitch-
forked in last year the troopers demanded that a
non-com. in the regiment should receive the vacant
place. Mr. See then resigned, and re-entered as a
ranker. This softened the regimental heart, and
now he is gazetted as a .full lieutenant, with no
questions asked. Two sergeants are also gazetted
as probationary lieutenants, so the troopers seem
to have established the principle that meritorious
service in the ranks should precede a commission.
BLANOLT.
F. B. Suttor’s eulogy of Sir Joseph Banks
in N.S.W. Council carried out a piece of old
family history. Mr. Suttor’s grandfather was
acquainted with Banks, and, through the acquaint-
anceship, was induced to accept a post at Botany
Bay. Friendships appear to have been staunch
in those days. Gov. Bligh, though appointed by
the Crown, was really a nominee of Banks’, and
thus Suttor and Bligh held together. When, later
on, Bligh was placed under arrest by Major John-
ston, Macarthur and others, Suttor stuck to the
forlorn cause. For ‘ ‘ contumeliously ” disparaging
the new Governor set up, Suttor was tried, sen-
tenced to six months’ gaol, and fined. He lived,
however, to see Bligh exonerated by Crown war-
rant in the hands of Gov. Macquarie.
Kingston is the best
mob - orator of the
Federal Government
the one man
among them
whom it would
be safe to pit
against G. H.
Reid at a
stormy public
meeting.
Kingston does
not orate, or
declaim, heea:-
hort s, and
would make a
huge success
as a Wesleyan
parson. But,
on second
thoughts, that
unctuous
friendliness,
that rich nasal
tone eloquent
of sympathy,
that facility for
turning out strong,
rough-hewn phrases
of solid thought, would
be wasted in any existing
church. C.C. should start a sect
of his own ;it is not too late yet. There are a
lot .of valuable privileges connected with running
a church to a man of Kingston’s temperament.
E. W. Cole, the remarkable Melb. “book-
seller” whom you find in a little office busy
clipping children’s scrap-books, with his thoughts
seemingly far away from the prosperous business
beneath him, is moved by the spirit of Altruism,
or Ad vt., to print a little pamphlet about “ White
Australia” and colored immigrants.' Cole con-
tends, in brief, that the Afghan, and the Chow,
and the Jap, and the colored rest should be wel-
comed and embraced because Jesus and the
Apostle Paul were colored Syrians. This is just
the appalling non-sequitur which one would expect
from a—Cole.
Thirty-seven years ago, two young bar-
risters, E. F. A’Beckett and John Madden, com-
peted for the billet of Registrar of Melbourne
University. Madden’s father was an attorney in
small practice, and not wealthy. A’Beckett was
son or nephew of the late Vic. Chief-Justice, and
had a relative in the Leg. Council; he got the post.
Now old Madden is Chancellor of the University,
with old A’Beckett in attendance as Registrar.
But old Madden doesn’t owe the old Regis-
trar any old grudge. He loves him for having
compelled him to become a Judge and a Governor,
instead of a quill-driver up Carlton way for the
term of his natural life.
Gr. H. Reid is looking after his Bar
practice in Sydney and leaving the tariff debate
to look after itself. He has openly announced
that though, as ever, he intends doing his best for
his political party, he cannot afford to neglect any
professional engagements—which is doubtless
quite true, for G.H.R. is poor, and he is growing
old and has a young family to provide for, and he
has worked like a tiger for Calico Jemmy without
getting anything like a decent pecuniary reward.
Unsympathetic administrations of the Old Age
Pensions Act in N.S.W. and Vic. seem to have
suggested to G.H.R. that there is nothing in
throwing away one’s living for politics.
“Melb.”: Bamford, in the House of
Reps., the other day, referred to a speech by
Kingsbury, at Bundaberg in ’93, when Kingsbury
said, “ Every brick here represents the blood of a
slave.” Bamford says this remark was borrowed
from a similar remark by G. V. Brooke in
Birmingham.. I think not. There would be no
more point in applying it to Birmingham than to
London. The real thing is a statement by G. F.
Cooke, the vinous tragedian, in Liverpool, very
early in the 19th century. He was drunk on the
stage, and the audience hissed. Cooke came to
the footlights with “Men of Liverpool! Every
brick in your accursed city is cemented with the
blood of a slave.”
The story printed as to John Longstaff
and E. P. Fox having been commissioned by the
trustees of Vic. National Gallery to paint certain
pictures on the strength of funds “ promised by a
squatter ” is incorrect. The sum at the trustees’
disposal is some £l5OO or so, which has accumu-
lated out of money left by Dr. William Gilbee,
surgeon, of Collins-st., Melbourne, many years
ago, to procure for the gallery a picture on some
Australian historical subject. Queerly enough,
the old bachelor-doctor stipulated that it should
be from the brush of an artist “residing in
England,” and it is at least partly on account of
this condition that the painters named have gone
to England. Longstaff’s subject is understood to
be the death of Burke at Cooper’s Creek ; he
made studies for it years ago.
The Bulletin knows the units of
the Sydney Shoddy Crowd too well to
imagine that they will do anything really
handsome for G. H. Reid, who works like a
cart-horse for them. They might dole him out
a kind of sweating wage, like that which they
give their clerks, until old age comes to him, but,
as for finding for himself and his wife the price of
an annuity of £5OO, or even £lOOO, which they
could well afford—well, not much ! It is a pity
that brains like Reid’s are wasted on such a crowd.
What an instrument the man with the eyeglass
could be in the cause of straight-out Australian
Nationalism ! Once or twice we have seen him
standing as it were on the verge—for instance,
when he laid aside those cohentingent papers and
contemptuously said the thing “ could wait,” and
when he alone of the Australian delegates in Lon-
don spoke up to Chamberlain. But, alas, he
Wobbles !
TIME ENOUGH
“ Yes, darling, I would willingly meet death at
your command.”
“ Oh, that would be lovely. But do wait until
after we are married.”
Mayor Graham, at the Sydney education
meeting, repeated the stereotyped tribute to “the
ability and genius of the framer of the present
N.S.W. (Education) Act, Sir Henry Parkes.” It
is time that this legend of Parkes as the original
inventor, patentee and propounder of the Edu-
cation Act was knocked on the head. As a cold,
brutal fact, Parkes fought the education move-
- ment tooth-and-nail, ridiculed it, scoffed at it, and
then annexed it in a high, marauding style when
he could no longer resist it —precisely as he did
with Federation. James Greenwood, the foremost
N.S.W. advocate for free, secular and compulsory
education, found Parkes his greatest adversary.
Yet there will always be people who will believe
firmly, without inquiry, that Parkes was the in-
ventor of the N.S.W. education system, and of
Federation.
Millionaire Carnegie is alleged to have
said that it is disgrace for a man to die rich. And
yet he cheerfully runs the risk of disgrace every
day of his life.
After the remarks of the consecrated
papers that M‘Kinley’s murder was attributable
to a godless system of education, it is interesting
to read-in the police description of the assassin:
Degree of education—Common school and parochial.
Religious instruction—Catholic.
Absurd people on the other side are now at liberty
to ascribe the act to the godly parochial-school
system.
London Daily Chronicle on the prohibi-
tion of colored labor on Australian mail steamers :
In conversation with the head of one of the largest mail
lines to Australia, after the insertion of the clause in the
House of Reps., this remark was made to the writer : “ It
has not yet passed the Upper House, and they are likely
to have more sense.”
But, alas for Toryism they hadn’t: an Tipper
House elected on manhood suffrage is not the
same sort of thing as a House elected by land-
lords.
Henry Lucy, in S.M. Herald, referring
to the S’African war, perpetuates the Jingo
suygestio falsi when he says “ the Boers had made
long and patient preparation for the conflict.”
The Boers’ preparation dates from the Jameson
raid ; before that they had no effective armament
whatever. After that—well, when you know
thieves are abroad, you naturally protect your hen-
roost. One irrefragable proof that the Boers had
not made “long and patient preparation” is the
fact that they were armed with absolutely up-to-
date weapons.


■
BULLETIN SUBSCRIBERS^*
Who are unable to read small printed matter, or to see fine
stitching or writing, whose distant vision is dull and who suffer
from persistent headaches or pains after close application—you
may rest assured that you are suffering from Ageing or
Impaired Vision, and Need Glasses. You should visit
us, and have your sight scientifically tested, and be supplied
with Glasses adapted to your individual case.
TO COUNTRY READERS who cannot visit us personally, we send, Post Free to any address, with full instruc-
tions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT. By its use
you can Test your own sight and determine for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you may need.
Write for it to —
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Consulting Optician,
371 George St., Sydney,
And at 232 COLLINS BT., MELBOURNE, opposite Age Office.
next door to the A. J.S. Bank.
King and George Streets.
THOS. WHITELAW & CO.
TELEPHONE 3768.
LONDON,
SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE
WALL PAPER MERCHANTS,
Artistic Wall Papers.
Novel Ceilings in
Plaster Effects.
Latest Designs and colorings.
Absolutely Fireproof.
A Charming Assortment.
The full London and Continental Collection of the above Goods are now on view at the Firm’s
New Warehouse and Showrooms—39l GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
These Decorations comprise the most delightful Assortment ever shown in Australia. Invited.
Clients will find, out Art Goods are most inexpensive. Patterns forwarded on application.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Aboriglnalities.
To Contributors.— ln the case of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
“ Ravenswood ” : Re “X.X.’s” query as
to why some bushmen are fonder of dogs than of
their own children. Australian youth at this end
of the continent (Q.) is simply reincarnated
aborigine. The native white in this part invari-
ably breaks a stick, not across his knee, but over
his cobra, like any other nigger, unless he is wear-
ing his best straw hat.
• » • *
An unkind newspaper publishes far,and
wide the discovery of “an unknown animal in an
opalised state” at White Cliffs, N.S.W. Whilst
the quality of Australian rum remains at present
standard, news of finds of this sort should be
rigidly suppressed. Fancy being chased in the
jim-jams by a rose-opal bullock with a changeful
play of purple and green on its thi'eatening horns !
* * * *
“Walga” : A bitch at Haddon Rigg
station, Nevertire, N.S.W., gave birth to four
pups, and five days afterwards her progeny was
missing. Next day a man on the station killed a
carpet-snake of unusual girth, which was found to
contain the missing pups. That night the mother
of the pups arrived at the house in Nevertire
where the snake was, and, as soon as she spied the
reptile’s corpse, set up a mournful howl. After
pining for four days she died. She had travelled
from Haddon Rigg to Nevertire on the scent of
the snake. Truth of this is vouched for by Mr.
W. J. Carter, of Walgett.
THE SHADOW OF THE O’SULLIVAN.
3.45 a.m. Cooky (candle in hand, to his new employee): “ Git up now, me man.
The tucker's been on the table this tin minutes.”
N,H. : “ Thankee, boss I —but I never take late supper
Cocky : “ Divil shoot ye! ye lazy ornadliaun, an’ is it breakfas’ ye’d be callin’
supper. Begob I this O’Svolivan docs be ruinin’ the country entirely.”
The temperance lecturer was staying per-
force at the only hotel in the township, and was
naturally delighted when the landlord said he
preferred teetotallers to moderate drinkers any
day. Would he come to the meeting and say so?
He would, and he did. “My dear friends, lam
delighted to inform you that we have Mr. Boni-
face here, who will tell you that, after his long
experience, he prefers a teetotaller to a moderate
drinker. I will now call upon him to address
you.” (Loud applause.) “Well, you know,”
said Boniface, “in my experience, it’s this way.
A moderate drinker, he comes into the bar, orders
a drink, collars The Bulletin, gets a chair and
puts his feet up ; and there he is for half-an-hour,
for threepence or sixpence, as the ease may be.
Now, a teetotaller, he comes to the side door,
buys a bottle of stuff, pays for it, and is off like a
shot, and gives no trouble to nobody.” (Loud and
prolonged cheering.)
“Scutum”: Re the feats of strength
chronicled, 8., 16/11/’Ol. “Lifters” who wish to
remain strong should keep well within their
utmost. A few years ago Ike Goodwin, now 23
years of age, and living on Nambucca River
(N.S.W.), could surpass any of the strong men
mentioned (save, perhaps, the 2-ton gentleman),
but, through attempting too much, and that too
often, he’s now in a bad way. Writer once saw
him carry a 12cwt. roll of lead 50 yards. He
lifted one end of the roll, and, stooping down,
balanced it on one shoulder. He is also credited
with carrying three 2cwt. bags of corn from the
wharf at Bowra (N.S.W.) on to a drogher along-
side—a bag under each arm and one balanced on
his back. Ike is known by repute from Coff’s
Harbor to Port Macquarie.
* • * •
“ Kob To one familiar with kangaroos
and their ways, the “Wallaby Camp,” by Harry
Garlick, in the N.S.W. Society of Artists’ present
exhibition, is most satisfactory. It is rare to see a
kangaroo pictured to anything like a resemblance,
but Garlick has them perfect in grouping, atti-
tude, and “manner.”
* * * *
The record “shout” for Australia probably
occurred vvheif Cameron, of Golden-Horseshoe
fame, marched into Beechworth with his 2500 re-
tainers. A halt was made at Luke Riley’s pub.,
and £240 was planked down on the bar for the
first round of drinks. What sort of a night was
that!
* * * *
“Clubs”: Re “Yar’s” idea to keep the
house clear of white ants (B. 29/6/’01). I once
put two of them on a black ants’ trail, and the
blacks went for ’em right enough, but couldn’t do
’em any harm, whereas the whites, with their
formidable nippers, kept cutting the bodies of
their assailants clean in two. Also, I have seen
white and black ants living in the same rafter.
An account
of a Sydney
battle-royal as
detailed by
one of the de-
feated :
Me and Bob
got in at Noo-
town-road, and
we’d ’ardly got
seated when in
comes a flash
sort o’ piece,
with a kid. Soon
as she gets seated
she reaches over
and bangs the
door. We didn’t
say nothing for
a while ; then
Bob says, “ It’s
a sorter young
hell,” and opens
the door. Soon
as he gets seated
agen, she goes
and shuts it
agen. So Bob
opens it agen,
and she shuts it
agen. Then Bob
opens it agen,
and shoves his
arm in. “ Shut
the door ! ” says
she ; but Bob
only looks out
and says no-
thing. “ Shut
that door! ” says
she agen. “ Too
hot ! ” says Bob.
Then she starts
pushing his arm,
and when he
didn’t take no
notice she pulls
out a hat-pin
and jams it into
his arm. Gripes !
you orter seen
Bob —he just
gives one yell
and jumps!
After he’s gone,
she looks savage
at me and shuts
the door agen.
I didn’t say no-
thing for a bit,
but when it gets
pretty hot, I
shoved the door
open again.
“ Shut that ! ”
saysshe. “Wot?”
says I. “ That
door ! ” says she.
“ I won’t! ” says
I. “ I’ll stick the
pin in yer, if yer
don’t!” says she.
“You try it!”
says I, and I’m
blessed if she
didn’t! “ Curse
yer ! ” says I;
“think I’m made
of iron ?” “ Dun-
no,” says she;
“ but yer wasn’t
made a gentle-
man! Takeyer arm away I” “I won’t 1" says I; “and
don’t you try no pin business on me agen I " “ I’ll stick
it in yer till yer take yer arm away 1 ” says she. “ Just you
try it 1” says I, and she jist gets up when the tram stops
where I gets out. I felt pretty sorry I couldn’t have it
out, so I jist turns round and says : “ Don’t think you
made me get out here, because you didn’t ?” But she jist
turns up her nose and bangs the door and says nothing.
Some of them wimen are fair terrors, I can tell yer I
* * * «
Editor Bulletin. —You are down on
Kipling for not having a correct knowledge of the
matters concerning which he writes, and still you
publish a par. (“ Abdul,” B. 6/7/’01) about people
on the Darling never having seen a two-storey
house. This is an infamous libel on Tinned-Dog-
Land. Why, at Tibooburra, long. 142 deg. E., we
have a two-storey building, and cut-stone at that,
the fame of which is spread even from Yalpunga
unto Booligal. Of course, you know where Yal-
punga is?—Yarkan.
At Carcoar (N.S. W.), a horse was recently
discovered to be a sheep-killer.
“ He was seen to race after sheep,
kick at them, and knock them
over. Then he would tear
the windpipe out with his
teeth.”
QUITE CLEAN .
MISSUS: “ Are you sure the honey’s quite clean?”
JACKY: “Berry clean, missus; just bin' strain
’im lonya my tschirt.”
“ Y.”: Casey was a raw new - chum.
Riding between Jembaicum bene and Braid wood,
he encountered a large flock of tame geese that
had to be ridden through. Casey was in a playful
mood, and flicked at a tall gander with his riding-
whip. Flying for his face, the bird grabbed the
long whiskers, and the horse bolted with go' se
and man in “holts,” and fighting like fiends.
The sight of the strong wings flapping was some-
thing to remember. Last I saw of Casey he was
on foot, and very lame. His beautiful whiskers —
all but a few scattered and broken hairs —had
departed, and his curse words were artistic. He
asked if I had seen a dashed, dashed, dashed
vulture.
* * * *
“ P.X.” : I have heard bo much about the
awful wilderness of the Great West Land
(N.S.W.), so much of per-
petual drought and starved
stock and ruined squatters
and selectors, and not a
hint of another side to
the story, that I begin
involuntarily to kick.
It is a fact that many
squatters have had to
step out and let the
banks and other mort-
gage go’s, step in. The
early men made big and
rapid fortunes out of
this country, and the
second-comers, in most
cases, paid ridiculously
high prices for the
stations. That’s their
fault, not the State’s;
yet all the talk is as
though the State had
been fleecing them.
Their trouble with the
banks, &c., lias been,
of course, intensified by
the bad slump in price
of wool— which isn’t the
faultof eithertheeountry
or the State. Further,
in many cases, the
owners of these squat-
tages have expected to
live luxuriously in the
cities. Lately I read the
wail of one ; he was being
ruined; he must have
more liberal conditions.
Just about the same time
for that poor fellow’s pala-
tial city residence a laundress x
was|wanted —“ no cooking,” said
the advertisement ; the establish-
ment ran a cook and laundress.
Another of these ruined men’s mansions
was also just then illustrated in a print,
among “Our Stately Homes,” or something
of the kind. I have known men fight hard against
paying a rent of under Id. per acre to the State,
while at the very same time they have had an
offer from a squatter for 3d. per acre for the
grazing-right!
• * * ♦
“ Eller : Re trapping wallabies (J.S.D.,
B. 16/3/’01). Last winter I struck, at Burra-
gorang, near Wilton (N.S.W.), the camp of two
men who were trapping parrots and sending them
to Sydney at the rate of 400 to 600 a week. They
were averaging at the time6d. per head. Not bad
for men who could get no work in town.
* * * *
“ MS.” : Lately caught a mouse, which,
though it did not seem to have been hurt in a
trap or otherwise, had neither tail nor legs ; the
latter being represented by little stumps of bone
about -g of an inch long. Any reader know of a
similar case ?
“K.” : Be soil-shifting in drought-time.
Have ridden hundreds of miles through coun y
' that has been scrubbed and cleared (i.e.,
which was every bit as bad in this resp' . ■ a
plain country. Saw two 640-acre se .
with an east and west road betwee >
“ cleared” and blown away, the otne,
with belt of scrub (reserve, of course)
west boundary, quite protected. JL y
selection has a chain-road surveyec
tween each 640 acres, which is
promptly cleared with the rest
the country. If this were pre-
served by law, the country would
be practically protected by natural
break-winds. The much-cursed pine-
scrub would have been the best
friend to the western country—it it
had been conserved in belts north
and south.
• * •
• “ Outlaw ” : Maoriland sheep-
shearing record, according to N. X.
Herald : “At Station Park, Canter-
bury, in 1880, James Capel shore jb-
big sheep in 9 hours; the same day
14 shearers sheared 2793 sheep, an aver-
aga of sheep per man, in 9 hours.
* * * *
“ Right Angle ” voices the woes of the
bush-toiler:
When the bushman, grafting at 110° in the shade for
l‘2s. a week, and drinking muddy water instead of beer,
thinks over George Beid’s panegyric upon the Sydney
worker, the tea and nicotine that do duty for blood in ms
veins stir sluggishly. “ The great struggling masses, whose
only capital is the fleeting strength of their bone and
sinew which is encroached upon to the pitch of exhaustion
day by day, only to be renewed again by sleep.
The man “ outside ” eats ants in his sugar and drinks flies
in his tea, while, during the alleged harvest, be dispenses
with washing. His capital, also, is “ encroached upon to
the pitch of exhaustion,” but at the lower rate of 12s. per
week I So, when he pauses in his fight against drought,
ants, flies, rabbits, squatters, dry watercourses, gaping
tanks, and general isolated hopelessness, to listen to the
praise passed upon his fellow of the city, he begins to
wonder why for himself there is no minimum-wage no
platform commendation. He considers that he, as well
as the other fellow, is the “backbone and sinew,” but
never remembers it being assisted at more than 12 bob
a-week I
* * * *
Poetical outburst by a Yic. country paper
inspired by the—hie —annual agricultural gala :
Silence reigns, broken, perhaps, by the tooting of a
French horn from some circus-lent. Then the birds start
twittering in sweet chorus. The sun goes down like a
great ball of fire, and leaves behind a beautiful legacy in
the western sky—a perfect marvel of color—of purple,
blue, gold and crimson. By-and-by the stars peep out
one by one, and the lovely sky in the west dissolves and
merges in color with the dark-blue vault above.
Shoio day is over ! Think of it !
♦ m * *
Apparently there is still good killing
among the buffalo herds of the N.
Territory. Last year Port Dar-
win exported 1645 bffualo hides
—which practically represents the
12 months’ bag.
THE ESCAPED GIANTS.
JONES: “Hallo! Are those two sprats all you've
got for your day?”
FISHERMAN : “ Yes, had beastly luck. Got two
real boomers nearly into the boat, and then
lost 'em.”
JONES: “If there's anything in the survival of
the fittest, there should be great fishing round
Sydney in about another century. It’s always
the giants that get away.”
The luck of farming. In Junee (N.S.W.)
district last season a violent hailstorm completely
destroyed the crops of half-a-dozen farmers. The
other day a similar storm, in almost the same
locality, repeated the performance, and this after
years of drought. But Australian farming is
mostly luck.


A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drhes away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin,
s. bottles. Made in London.*
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For GOUT and RHEUMATISM,
Professor Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University—
-11 Hunyadi Janos has invariably shown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never gives rise to un-
desirable symptoms even if used continuously for years.”
Average Dose. A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
” a ™°“ Hun y adl J B' nos >” the signature of the Proprietor.
ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
In a township down South the committee
of the children’s annual picnic expressed a desire
to have a Punch and Judy show to entertain the
youngsters, and advertised accordingly. One
reply was to this effect :
Sir, —Hearin from a trend that yer wanted a Punch and
Judy sho fer picknic in yer town on 17 i now hoffer my
sho to yer fer 2 pun ten fer day my show is ther best in
ther koloni. Punch Judy gost komick man beedle tinker
angman bobby dawg tobi hand 6 hothers hand 6 scenes
beer-shop watch-house and guvment house this is ther
day sho at night I kan turn ther theater hinto a galauly
sho with limelights heffects my hextras houtside the 2
pun ten his if talking eads bismark hally sloper jimmy
jones, hand sally brass me wife as got the Marvanetts who
perform hin ther tent she will do ther lot fer 10 bob. if
yer give me ther job will be there on 16 get me ther job
hand I learn yer sume tricks to do yerself how yer kan
swaller a nife without herting yerself and how ter chaw
up a pun hand bring hit hout of yer boots has good has
new hif yer want me rite to . He hes mi horchestra
konsists of ther big Drum, ther Reid wissel, Hufrican
Jews Arp han Skotch bag pipes.
* « * *
According to N.S.W. Aborigines Board’s
recently-issued annual report, there were in the
State, in October, 1900, 3108 pure aborigines and
3793 half-castes ; the deaths amongst the former
having been 140, to 73 births ; as against 165 half-
caste births to 59 deaths. During the past eight
years the full-bloods have decreased by 3342,
while the half-castes have increased from 2379 to
3793.
plpgSF
Iliter) wL-.r.. %
was unshaven and un-
shorn,
A warning sight to see;
I never saw a wight forlorn
Look so forlorn as he.
His hair was of the hue of
ash,
His face the hue of coal;
Yet ’midst that squalor was
a flash
That presupposed a soul.
His collar was of color sad,
A mourning-color deep—
It seemed, indeed, as if he
had
Been orphaned while asleep.
His hat and hoots were of the kind
A dead-heat would despise—
But still there shone a haughty mind
From, his red-lidded eyes.
“Now, pray arise and say what be
Your projects here V' I said.
He slowly turned and looked at me
Beneath his eyelids red.
He did not curse ; he did not swear,
As vulgar people can ;
He did not say he was aware
I was no gentleman.
He held a paper in his hand,
And, in a tone polite,
He said—“ Just look at this thing, and
Please say if I’m not right."
I took the paper, and I knew
At once his proud conceit,
And admiration filled with dew
Mine eye for that dead-beat.
“ I may be, sir, a holy show—
A swine degenerate—
But yet," he said, “ thank God, I’m no
Selected Candidate! ”
CREEVE ROE.
Bishop Chalmers, who died t’other day
in a Sydney private hospital from the effects of a
fall on the chancel steps, and Bishop Thomas, his
predecessor in Goulburn, were alike in two
features. Both were outdoor evangelists, and
both bitter indoor controversialists. They
chummed with cabmen, hodmen and the like ; but
stripped teeth and bit when anyone opposed the
tenets of Anglicanism. Chalmers’ late encounter
in the press with Cardinal Moran was in the
Thomas vein. Goulburn has had but two C.E.
bishops. Both were English, both filled offices in
England before coming to Australia, and both
were very popular with the community as a whole.
Wood, “The Optician,” of 299 George-st.,
Sydney, and Equitable Buildings, Elizabeth-st.,
Melbourne, is sole agent for the Patent New Field
Glasses. The special feature of these glasses is
that, once you have them focussed to your sight,
they remain focussed for all time. Thus if you
focussed them to watch the Melbourne Derby,
and then closed them and put them away in their
case, you would find on Cup day that all you
needed to do was to take the glasses from their
case, and pull them open, in order to have them
focussed exactly as before. This perfect con-
trivance has made these glasses tremendously
popular with British officers in Africa.
Now’, all you jolly bush boys!—“The
Bulletin Reciter ” will be ready on Ist. December,
with a lot of the best recitation-verse that ever
appeared in The Bulletin ; and a frontispiece
by “ Hop ” showing the Gay 'Roo Reciter on his
bush platform—besides other pictures. Price, 5s ;
post-free from Bulletin office.
“ The Bulletin Story Book” will be the
best and most representative collection of short
stories ever put before the Australasian public.
A handsome cloth-bound volume ; price 4s. 6d.
post-free from Bulletin office. Orders received
now will be mailed immediately on publication.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
A T o notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
Minnie J. : The artist in question is quite
right in alluding to the trustees as “ fossils.” Any body
of men capable of hanging in their gallery as a work of
art Herkomer’s hideous portrait (price £BOO or so) of Queen
Victoria, can’t be anything else.... Ahau : Old story
accepted G.W.11. :If it were a little brighter we’d
print it as an argument against you Yarraloola :
Verse was from Alfred Lyall’s “ Verses Written in
India ” —which you can procure from a London book-
seller J.B. : May use “Flowers” ; but why not write
aesthetically as well as botanically ?.... J.E. : Quite so.
Mac.’s yarns are high-class journalism. You call them
“pleasant drivel.” What’s the difference? Vic.:
Federal Treasurer Turner explained that the Ministry
had been unable to consult any business men on the
tariff, for fear of giving the wink. The Ministers put
themselves, more or less, in the hands of the Customs
officials Tatts : You send “specimens of your wit,”
and leave them “to Providence and our good self.” One
specimen printed as a reason why the rest shouldn’t be
submitted to Providence :
“ Give me the smile on the foam of a beer,
And a woman at home to biff,
And I would not call the King my aunt—
I wouldn’t. So strike me stiff I ”
C.W.O. : But, then, probably, no Jew ever
became “an honest Christian”: the typical
“converted” Jew appears to be always a dis-
honest Christian. The Christian Jew is
almost invariably an inexpressibly bad lot,
and the most odious kind of snob....
Jergin (or something like that): Tim
Bulletin never said he was innocent;
but it did say he didn’t get a fair trial.
The point was taken as much on behalf
of the community as on that of the
accused.... Lu-Lu : Calamitous verse,
interspersed with catastrophic prose.
....Right Angle: All been said
over'and over again. Also, the
Welsh are not now considered,
by all ethnologists, to be of the
primitive British stock, and the
people whom Osesar “downed”
were Celts—tall, robust, and
ruddy-haired—who had immi-
grated from Gaul, and were
closely akin to the Belgse....
Green Grass : Tariff poem in
short, sharp gasps only suitable
for recitation at a disorderly pub-
lic meeting... .Millie : A bright
yarn, but a deliberate theft, and you must
know it. Future contributions from you will
only be considered after a number of the
staff (with the age capacity of a Methuse-
lah) has read every ancient and modern
novel M.O’O. : You can never “secrete
yourself ” in these columns. If you are not
satisfied to just “ hide ” you must go else-
where O.W.P. : It is donkey-poetry.
Good verse-form, but no ideas—lots of ear,
no brain... .R.C. : Your luck’s awry; for if it
were Caroline or Elizabethan some bur.owing
editor would gloat over it. Here and now —
out she goes!....Dan M. : “All rights re-
served.’’ We should smile! Rights in rub-
bish ! We never yet found a writer who stipu-
lated for his “ rights ” at the first go-off to be
worth reading. ..Right Angle: You say
“ the bush-worker gets only 12s. a week, while
the city-worker commands 425.” That’s it —
“ commands.” If the other worker could
command as much, he’d just have to get it.....
Anti-Oozener : To imply that it is the rule for married
couples engaged for the country to be so complaisant
would be a cruel slander. Also, your remarks as to the
incestuousness of the Boers need no answer but the
splendid virility of the race. Fighting-men aren't born
of incest... .G.B. : Tedious lingering over the thin claret-
cup of small society... .J.R. : The par in question, sent
iii by somebody who disagreed with your statements, was
printed—as yours was—for what it was worth. That,
according to you, it was worth nothing, is beside
the question. You both get a “show” —and there an
THE LATE DR. CHALMERS, C.E. BISHOP
OF GOULBURN.
Photo, by Freeman and Co., Sydney,
end, as far as The B. is concerned E. Forstein : You
and Parsons, M.L.0., prove too much in your paeans of
praise to the Jap. If the brown man is so greatly
superior to the Australian, all the more reason to keep
him out of our country. King Stork is worse than King
Log. Once more —the objection to the colored immi-
grant is : (1) A business one; (2) the ethnological
one that we don’t want him for a son-in-law
Nor’-wester : You’re “ not all as black as you’re painted?”
Well, you’re so black that charcoal would make a white
mark on you, anyway... .B. : Why should the rule of the
autocratic form of Govt, ruin Russia, when the Great
HER TROUBLE!
MISTRESS (fainting for her four-o'clock. pick-me-up) sternly: “ Jane, you have forgotten the teat ”
JAME: “ Oh, no, mam! I ain't 'avin’ any to-day. I've just 'ad a lemon drink."
Revolution enabled France to renew her youth ?... .Point
Blank : Good sketch. If you can do a lot like that, you
can make a very attractive book Wayback :No such
English word as “ aphagraphy.” Do you mean agraphia
—inability to write, as a consequence of brain disease r
Kindred words are aphasia, inability to speak ; aphony or
aphonia, inability to hear ;&c Nym : But the point
in “ Wurrym’s” case (B. 9/11/’01), as far as the public is
concerned, is the impudence of the literary theft- not
“ W.’s” motive in exposing it. Also, while you place the
“Blue Alsatian Mountains” in Italy, and write “re-
susicate,” and things like that, you 1 re not. likely to
get a “show” of being feloniously reprinted
J.T.N. : We want original (and not previously-printed)
matter. We never accept in advance on the “ sample ”
system Nora W. : It is absurd to press the re-
quest that the foreman or forewoman should belong
to the Workers’ Union. As reasonably demand that
the employer join the Union W.F.A. : Bald
as Satan T.H.W. : Too much melancholy maun-
der. Buck up E.G.B. : Will use... .Nemo : Fair
sketch ; but stale news here Rouseabout: If it was a
mere paragraph, it would not be acknowledged De la
Rey : Write to Curator of Intestate Estates, Melbourne.
Mark M.: Learn to spell before you tackle litera-
ture Maggie L.M. : Not story enough in it .John
D.: Point so fineasto beinvisible... .W.K.S.: Tootrifling.
Gidya : Ditto to you Ann am : Triteness without
brightness Arneliffe : The wobbly metre would slay it
even were it otherwise suitable. . .L.8.H.: Pegasus alto-
gether too tame Permit: You seem to know something
of the shop-assistant’s life, but your writing is too crude
for publication. Try simple facts, put simply, without
any moralising, and you may succeed... .Chas. E.G.: The
purchase of British army commissions was abolished years
ago Tempos: Well enough written, but lacks force
and vividness Hermit : You don’t quite get the right
touch G.M.8.: No tension of interest Dargle : A
hash of other people’s opinions—and very “ dry hash ”at
that Myra F.: Clever, but cold and unreal W.N.W.:
V°ry simple. The rifleman imagines himself as in the
centre of the clock, with the butts at 12. Consequently,
a wind right behind him is a “6 o’clock wind”; one
straight from the right is a “ 3 o’clock,” and so all round.
...G.A. : Material good enough—descriptive skill lack-
ing Bracken : A regulation Hibernian yarn Yellow-
stone : You splash round, without getting ahead an inch.
. ...M.D.W. : Too thin and pale. Lacks literary b100d....
Wanderer (H.): No man writing such a fist could ever
expect to have his MSS. read “Pilgrim far from
Mecca ” : Would savor too much of self-puffery, if printed
here. ..Subscriber: No; the companies have their fixed
rates—irrespective of the favor any particular boat is held
in Marmot: Frances Saville is a daughter of the late
Martin Simonson. Her mother, Madame Fanny Simon-
son, was a well-known vocalist in her day Eller: That
Chinese-exactitude yarn is an old naval gag Mollie M.:
Style sloppy, and length too great for interest.... Kodak :
Humor labored John R.: We’ve had that Maori yarn
before Hornet: Thanks; but you hardly sting hard
enough San Remo : Quite agree with all you say ;in
fact, we have said it already ourselves Pasha : A moral
story, phrased and versed in the style of the century before
last. Unsuitable to B W.M.W. : Will print “ Let Her
Go.” G.W. : Nothing new. Suicide by exploding a
plug of dynamite in the mouth is a favorite method with
miners, and seems to have originated on Charters Towers,
years ago ; but we never until now heard of a man
kerosening his clothes and then setting fire to himself
Toodles : Of no use to us. ...Mona Douglas : A little joke
treated obscurely in a very big space : we like jokes treated
brightly in a very little space... .John Lack.: On con-
sideration, there’s not enough hi “B.” The whole thing
centres in one lie which isn’t an astounding lie—and the
method of telling is tedious Cripple: Capital letters
don’t make capital thoughts : try some less hackneyed
theme than an allegory as to the gifts of Fortune
Gentian: But we never do “jump-on” such modest as-
pirants as you. Has some promise, though subject and
treatment are both rather conventional Nymsic:
Don’t send such miserable little scribble on such miser-
able little scraps. Give your matter a chance 11.
Brown: That butcher-cum-lawyer-cum-dog yarn is a
moss-grown antiquity—and you locate it in Sydney 1
Britta : Can’t do anything with MS. written on both sides
of paper Inezam: It bristles with crudities Berke-
ley : Can’t find it in any gazetteer. Sure you’ve got it
right? Tarquin : Couldn’t print such a thing on your
mere say-50... .F.M'C.: An undoubted literary gift—
grievously marred by lack of education and experience.
Learn to spell to begin with Treble-X :No ! —only very
small beer Wanda: Much too long and heavy for
Bulletin Ghost: We’ve “laid” you—in the basket.
....Triton: Don’t remember it. Please give name....
N.F. : Will print both Cecil P. : Don’t be so cap-
tious. Give the other fellow’s idiosyncracy a little play.
...A.B. : The favorite has beaten you this time..
Alone • “ Pose ” not bad ; but, on the whole, insufficiently
interesting.. ..R.G.G. : Considering... .D.F.L. : You
seem to have lost your impetus ; recent work is flat
N.F. : Guess they will do ! They want only a little more
novelty and poignancy to be really g00d... .K. : Insipid.
... .Minnie : Thinking over “ Struggles.”... .Pagan :
Thanks for MS Bushman : Flat M.B. : Returned.
L.R. ; “ Motherhood ’’—sorry unsuitable W.F.A. :
Not enough pith or novelty A.D.J. : You’re a natural
lead-well O’C. : Office floor strewn with good inten-
tions F. Her. : Also well-meant merely... .Z.Z. : Try
the local paper.... W.A.P. : Not up.. ■ .T.E.S. : May use ;
good idea, but less well handled....T.H.M. : Wants in-
terest for audience... .Q.B.S. : Unspeakably bad verse....
MISS HOBHOUSE, whose reports on the Refugee
Camps in South Africa have created so great
a sensation.
Photo, by Elliott and Fry.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
0.E.8. : One serves J.N. (Parramatta) : Quite hope-
less F.F.F. : Is the idea original? P.L.B. : Unsuit-
able J. A-O.: Drawing too faulty for direct re-
production, but some of the ideas possible. Sorry
that, so far, we can do little with your drawings
Ted.: A good feeling in your suggestions, but try some-
thing topical P.S. (B.): Ditto H. Calvert: All
ancient Bung-Eye: Ingenious; but it wouldn’t do for
print Chris. Opher : Very r wooden F.F.F. : No
legend with drawing, which is, anyhow, unusable in
present form Unavailable : Quilibet, R.C.T., M. Seal,
L.R. Board, R. P. Tuck Mack : Learn to draw first
Toi: Excellent idea, if original Dan: Your judgment
is bad : we couldn’t possibly emphasise by illustration
risqu6 things like that. They are of the very worst order
of riskiness—the densely Campy.
Emily Hobhouse, whose exposure of the
horrors of the concentration-camps in S’Africa
enrols her among the humanitarians of the age, in
her last letter (Oct. 1) to Mr. Brodrick, English
Sec. of State for War, writes: —
Will no prompt measures be taken to deal with this
terrible evil? Three months ago I tried to place the
matter strongly before you, and begged permission to
organise immediate alleviatory measures based on the
experience I had acquired, in order thus to avert a mor-
tality I had plainly seen was increasing. My request was
refused, and thus experience, which I could not pass on
to others, rendered useless. The repulse of myself would
have mattered nothing had only a large band of kindly
workers been instantly despatched with full powers to
deal with each individual camp as its needs required.
The necessity was instant, if innocent human lives were
to be saved. Instead we had to wait a month while six
ladies were chosen. During that month 576 children
died. The preparation and journey of these ladies oc-
cupied yet another month, and in that interval 1124 more
children succumbed. In place of at once proceeding to
the great centres of high mortality, the bulk of yet a third
month seems to have been spent in their long journey to
Mafeking and in passing a few days at some of the
healthier camps. Meanwhile 1545 more children died.
This was not immediate action; it was very deliberate
inquiry, and that, too, at a time when death, which is
unanswerable, was at work—nay, when the demands of
death, instead of diminishing, were increasing. Will you
not now, with, the thought before you of those 3245
children who have closed their eyes for ever since last I
saw you on their behalf—will you not now take instant
action, endeavor thus to avert the evil results of facts
patent to all, and suspend inquiry into the truth of what
the whole world knows ? In the name of the little chil-
dren whom I have watched suffer and die, and whom I
cannot for a moment forget, I make bold to plead with
you once more.


DEFACEMENT OF TEE: HARBOR.
The North. Sydney Council having
resolved, by the casting vote of the
Mayor, to defy public opinion and good
taste, and to persist in its barbarous
policy of disfiguring the harbor by erect-
ing huge, ghastly-looking hoardings 25ft.
high upon the foreshores, the question
arises, what is the next step 1
' CiTiSrfrNS* ri*npOß'PicnicK-
AnH°H RDJKi
HUB W/>y A tyifyj
7>4y in Future
S'H’Byt&oP'S
ER.mVY
"HOP.’S” UNDERSTUDY SUGGESTS A HARBOR-PICNIC FOR SYDNEY PEOPLE.


p understood, another;
1 and most reliable form o£ barometer for gauging;
1 the national prosperity, and that was the state of;
| the hat trade. (Laughter.) He did not refer:
I entirely to the actual number of hats sold, but;
i more particularly as to the class of hat whioh j
| passed over the counter. A hat was a great indi-;
1 cator of character. We could often grasp the i
1 trend of a man’s mind by studying the shape of i
| his hat. (Laughter.) Men with strong character- i
listics frequently wore curiously-shaped hats—:
| (laughter)—and sometimes men who had not got
characteristics wanted people to believe
| they had them, and so went in for something
quaint in the hat line.” (Renewed laughter.)
\** ■
"WV‘<^7
V\S ,c h
h
l. sf^Rijy
A£oo<^
<?%■ a, -
■’■>!,>■«
,s>»> «* >; 4 »% < *&>£SSw
i i**> «St ‘ SrSF
*<SS
H
c‘ at the °0 4/
dJ. tv h, P in n e tid„J nt ii}„ tie
ho Posit? 3 »hot So «.so
wvW 1 ** 4 '
**«*&£•
speech
a iter^ n *
>[H 3)«ik' t p
~h> highest' tjioj f
V^tfcelleqcy
"If yoa K, j.
you e
LVo&Uer View'
no ’JmVlifi.
r ? e -
AJtouvfafc tt»7«eK 2v
“ In his great interest in the hat trade, he must
not allow his vision ■ to beoome narrowed.
(Laughter.) He had to remember that he was ad
longer Governor o( Victoria. He must not usurp
the duties and privileges of his distinguished col-
league, Sit John Madden.” (Loud cheers.)
ae a *>**s£%«■
k
*•<*»** J
KEUBOURNIANA.


A. SAUNDERS
Watches, Clocks, Jewellery, and Silverplate at FEEETRADE PRICES*
Save 25 per cent, to 50 per cent. Showrooms: 815 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
FREETRADE
PRICES.
/
BBWsraasM
N
esxDBu
V.
A. SAUNDEES.
Strong, Eeliable LEVEES, “ The Challengb,” IBs,
The Unrivalled Lever, in Black or Nickel, 20a J
perfect timekeeper. The London Lever, new f-plata
model, 255; in Solid Silver, £2 2s; in Double Case,
£2 10s £3. Eotherham LEVEES, £3los, £4, £5,
£6, £L £B. Gold WATCHES, £4 4s, £5 ss, £6 6s,
£7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O. Mind, we guarantee
you the utmost satisfaction, “otherwise we will
exchange watch for you.”
Send for illustrated book of particulars, post free.
NO
advance.
Solid Gold CHAIN (Single or Double), £2 10s, £3,
£3 10s, £l, £4 10s, £5. 15ct. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6,
£6 10s, £7, £B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Send for Price Illustrated Book.
A. SACHS DEES.
2-Bar Gold, Diamond Cut Amethyst, 22s 6d ; 15ct.
Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Registered Gold 2-Bird 2-Heart Amethyst BROOCH,
20s ; Pearl Set Bird, 22s 6d ; 15ct. Gold, £2.
15ct. Gold Bar and Scroll BROOCH, Pearls and Red
Stone, 85s; quite new.
A. SATJNDERS.
Gold Buckle BROOCH, Set with 8 blue or red
stones, 12s 6d; latest style.
A. SAUNDERS.
(Registered) Gold Secret Name BROOCH,.
15ct. Gold, Diamonds, £2 10s, £3, £4. Any-
Name or Motto Free.
Six different patterns, similar.
Qq^
y
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Secret Name BROOCH, Red or Blue
Stone, Three similar patterns, 20s and 255..
Any Name Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
026 Latest Half Moon and Star Gold
BRO OCH, Pearlette, Pearls and Red or Blue
Stones, 21s ; 15ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold BROOCH, 2 Hearts, 2 Bars,
Diamonds, lls 6d ; verv neat.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Motto Registered Gold “Dinna Forget”
BROOCH ana Amethysts, 9ct. Gold. 17s 6d;
15ct. Gold, 80s ; 18ct. Gold, 85s.
A. BATJNDER&
ISofc. 8-Bar Pure Diamond Double Cut, £2.
15ot. Gold BROOCH, 2-Bar Scroll, Diamond and
Kuby Set, £2; very choice.
sSx
A. SAUNDERS.
Newest Solid Gold Name BROOCH, Ts 6d j with
Raised Flowers each side (Any Name) loot.
Gold, 15s; Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
Extra Strong 15ct. Gold, Diamonds, Rubies, and
Pearls, £8 8s | Five Diamonds, £4, £5.
ĥ
Ladies’ Curb Gold Chain,
Snap Padlock, 255, 80s,
85s, £2 ss, £8; 15ct. £2los,
£3, £4, £4 10s, £5, £6, £7
10s, £B, £9, £lO.
10s extra for Key Pad-
lock.
All with Safety Chain.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bamboo Gold BRACELET, all the style, price according to
width, 20s, 255, 80s, £2, £2 10s; 15ct. Gold £3, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
DIAMOND BRACELET, 15ct. Gold, three Bure Double
Cut Diamonds, with Safety Chain, £5.
9ct. Gold Square or half-round BRACELET, 8 Red
Blue Stones, £2 ; very neat and cheap.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nioely Chased Gold BRACELET, 255; very neat and pretty.
THE FEDERAL TARIFF.
THIS I HAVE ANTICIPATED.
MY CASH PURCHASES have been
enormous, and I am in a position
to sell at FREETRADE PRICES.
£32,000 worth of Watches, Jewellery,
and Silverplate to choose from. It wul
save you 25 per cent, to 50 per cent.
This is a consideration.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Wish Bone and Arrow, with Red
Stone, 12s 6d.
Il»
ggjSfSP
msssismm
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Bar, Raised Flowers, 5s 6d; Larger,
6s 6d ; Largest size, 7s 6d.
These are indeed very pretty.
A. SAUNDERS.
2-Bar and Garnet BROOCH, 15s, larger
size, 21s; very strong and neat.
l
Gold 2-Bar Ivy Leaves, Chain and Heart,
10s 6d ; very neat.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mizpah BROOCH ? 2 Hearts, 10s
larger, 12s 6d; a nice Brooch.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Solid Gold, Pure Double Cut
Diamonds, £lO.
9ot. Gold, two Twisted Bars, Bell and Chain,
12s 64 5 Amethyst Heart, 13s 6d.
OP O
Gold 2-Bar BBOOCH Scroll, Pearl Set with Red
Stone, 20s.
A. SAUNDEBS’ Latest Turquoise and Curb Gold Chain Padlook Bracelet, the very latest London style, £2 15s.
In nice Silk Case
4®= ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 255, 30s, £2,
£2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £5 ;
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
ALL GUARANTEED.
11
12
13
14
13
A. SAUNDERS’
FREETRADE PRICES.
10. Round LINK, Oct. Gold, £2, £2 10s,
£3 ; 15ct., £4, £5.
11. —Rope Pattern, 9ct. Gold, £2, £2 10s,
£3 ; 15ct., £4, £5.
12. —Curb Pattern, 9ct. Gold, £2, £2 10s,
£3; 15ct.. £4, £5.
13. —Rope and Ball, 9ct. Gold, £2, £2los,
£3; 15ct., £4, £5.
14. —Curb and Link, £3, £4, £5, £6.
15. —Chain and Ron I <4l £4 to £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Pearl and Turquoise
Floral and Ribbon BROOCH,
£2 10s.
London’s Newest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
15et. Gold Pearl and Turquoise
Heart BROOCH, £2 2s.
The Latest Style.
Post Card Gold CHARM, 10s.
Any Name Free.
Silver, gilt, 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDKRS.
9ot. Gold LOCKET, 15s ;
15ct. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Dinna Forget,
10s 6d.
Our Ownßegistered
Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ot. Gold, 2 Hearts, Diamond,
and Ruby, 355; 2 Diamonds, £2 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Shield and
Dumbbell LINKS, 12s 6dj
15ct. Gold, 255;
SilTer, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Shield LINKS,
10s Od ; Silver, 8s dd.
A. SAUNDERS (Re«i*.
tered) Gold LINKS, Ms j
15ct. Gold, 82s 6d ; Silver and
Gold, 10s j all Silver, 6a.
9ct. Gold Stone
BING, 10s ;
3 similar patterns.
lßot. Solid Gold Opal lANKS,
with Initial, £2loa.
Extra Strong.
mss,
mm
A. BATTNDL
Beautifully Chased,
targe size LINKS, fcss ea.
Flam, 2UI or with initial*
nicely obased. 82s fid t
IBotGold, £8; SOrer, 4a fid.
A. SATJNDEBB.
Gcst,’* Full Set of STUDS, Link Goiter
Stud, and 8 Fronts, Bct., 88*.
Similar style, 25s aad 80s I
16ot. Gold, £2, £J 10s, £B.
ALL FREETRADE PRICKS.
Solid Gold Turquoise
and Pearl, 20b.
Newest Style.
Miipah Gold
CHARM, 4s.
A. SAUKDHKS,
9ok. Gold!
ISct. Gold,!
A. BAT
Set, Solid Gold LINKS.
Rain lTsfld, 20s, 85b (
IftAGold, &% £2 6s, *3 Ms.
Monogram, 8s 6d «xb».
Ur* to*
, Ms 6d j
A. fIAT7JTD*B&
Signet Plain KING,
9ct Gold, 20a, 289) ISct. gold,
90s, 88s; lftat., £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERB.
18ot. Solid Gold,
Paw Double Cut Dia-
mond, £8 ;
other size stone, £8 10s,
£4, £5.
18ot. Solid Gold,
8 Opals. 4 Diamonds, £6;
Smaller Diamonds,
*3 10% £Blos, £4.
1£ A Gold Buckle BING,
Diamond,
and 8 Babies or
"ffsr
18ot Solid Gold Diamond
Band, £2, £2los, £8;
15ot. Gold, 80s.
18ct. Buttercup
Single atone Diamond
BING,
£3, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ot. Gold,
8 Pure Diamonda,
2 Opal Hearts, £4 10s.
Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Band,
Opal, 17s 6d:
lßct. Gold, 30a j
18ot. Gold, £2.
Send for Sfaw Card.
A. SAUNDERS.
Met. Solid Gold.
Pure White Double
Cut Diamonds,
£6.
Splendid Value.
GENT.’B RING.
Solid Gold, Amethyst, 25s ;
15<*. Gold, £2;
18ot. £2 10s.
18ot. Gold Extra Strong,
Diamond, and 2 Red
Stones, 255.
15ot. Gold, Diamond,
and 2 Red Stones, 20s.
18ct. Solid Gold,
Extra Strong and Heavy,
1 Diamond, 2 Red or Bide
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4, £5.
18ot. Solid Gold
MARQUIS RING,
Diamonds and
Rubies, Sapphire and
Opal Centres,
£lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O,
18ot. Solid Gold,
5 Pure Diamonds,
£8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O, £25, £3O.
Smaller, £5, £O, £7,
£7 10s, to £BO.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ot. Gold, 5 Opals.
First-class, £2 10s)
Size larger, extra
good, £Blos.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-made Wedding RINGS and KEEPERS.
9ot. Solid Gold, 7s 6d, 10s each; 15ot. Gold, 15s;
extra heavy, 25s ; 18ct. Gold, 20s ;
extra heavy, 80s, 85s, 405., 50s. Send for card.
fcT CALL AND SEE OUR JEWELLERY EXHIBITION—A SPLENDID DISPLAY
OR SEND FOR OUR 1901 COMPLETE ILLUSTRATED FREETRADE PRICE BOOK, POST FREE ANYWHERE.
A. SAUNDERS,
LEADING ART JEWELLER,
815 & 817 GEORGEST.,
Nearly Opposite
Railway Station.
SYDNEY.


TRADE MARK ,
F
Fox Bros. & Co., Ltd., warn
the Public that their Trade
Mark consists
ONLY
o£ the word
FOX
which is a guarantee of sound'
ness of material and Quality
of Dye of all
Worsted Coatings,
Serges I Eweeds
on which it is stamped.
As the result of many years
of experience
fox’s Pure Mgo Dye
is recognised as the best in the
market. All FOX'S standard
cloths are stamped every two
) ards on the back
FOX
PURE INDIGO
and without this stamp are
not genuine. These celebrated
serges can be obtained from the
leading Tailors and Drapers
throughout the Colonies.
FOX BROS. & Co., Ltd.,
Wellington, Somerset, Eng.
To Music Teachers.
A TTENTION is invited to the following publicationsi:
-o- New Century Edition of Hemy’s Pianoforte Tutor,
brought up-to-date by Claude Ridley. Farmers Violin
Tutor. The original work, with the addition of six
studies by Bernhard Carrodus ; these editions are
unrivalled. New Century Pianoforte Tutor, by W. a.
Jefferson, M.R.C.0., rapidly gaining popularity from its
simplicity and comprehensiveness. Ballantine s Mandolin
Tutor. Bulch’s Cornet Tutor, and Dipple s Flute Tutor,
all of the very first style of production.
W PAXTON and CO., London and Melbourne.
COLLINS’ PATENT PROSPECTING DISH
Has the following: advantages over
the ordinary Tin Dish—
A Flange projects round one half and
and prevents the loss of any metal —
fine or coarse.
No experience is required to use it.
A hoy can pan off as easily as the most
skilful miner.
Double the amount of work can be done
in a given time than with the old dish.
Sold by all Storekeepers and Iron•
mongers throughout Australia.
If you have any difficulty in procuring
the Collins’ Patent Dish in your own
district write to—
R. JOHNSON CLAPHAM
& MORRIS, LTD.
78 Pitt-St., Sydney, and
231 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
Manufacturers under License from the
Patentee.
ħ
3 M
M
Silver Watch for Nothing.
E HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE of OUR
FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s and Gentleman’s) to every MAN, WOMAN or
CHILD who sends us the Correct Reading of the follow-
ing puzzle: -
T*IWI* H**LS *V*RYTH*N C.
The only condition is that if your answer is correct you
purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to wear
with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY. Simply forward your answer, and
enclose stamp and addressed envelope (2d.), so that we
may inform you if you have won the Watch. There is no
need to cut out this advertisement.
We are making this offer solely with the object of
introducing and advertising our goods. Testimonials
supplied. Address— T/le Manager,
English Watch & Jewellery Co., Pitt Street, Sydney
h
*9
Reader, why not he able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feat*
that are possible to the Hypnotist,
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
! conquer pain ; win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully exylalu,
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
ĥ
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
aiid expensive thing of the kind
ever publ shed. For a short
time I wi 1 send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (t tamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a c'; ance of |
a life-time. Address—
Prof. R. H. BARR ADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
<s>
OLD
HWfi
JUNB
fino
c/3
CHA
£?
DS
V
s* l
&.C
&aC
fy
2A£
S
H
Y
%p
r, ctors ,
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BR&TAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated dropt.
I Invaluable in all
I cases ol ansemia and
' general debility.
I Highly recommended
. for weak and
I debilitated children.
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
bling tin: constitution
to resist climatio
influences.
FER BR&VAIS
FER BRAVAIS
LANCET. “A. beautiful and interesting
preparation."
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-“/</iaj all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth."
SOLD BY CHEMISTS ALL THE WORLD OVER.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
RKEUMALGIA
rrhe new cure for Rheumatism, Lumbago, Gout, Sciatica,
Neuralgia, and similar ailments
IS
a lotion compounded from herbs
PURELY AUSTRALIAN.
3S. 6d. POST FREE.
Rheumalgia Remedy Co., Bathurst,
Wholesale depot /or N.S. if. and Q.
Christmas and Hem year Cards
for 1901
and 1902.
The Hew Season’s Cards at Last Season’s Prices.
HORDERN BROTHERS have NOT raised their Prices on account
the Tariff.
No. 1 Box contains 6 folding Xmas and New Year
Cards, with envelopes. Post Free, lOd.
No. 2 Box contains 8 Assorted Cards, entirely new
designs. Post Free, 1/6.
No. 3 Box contains 0 selected Xmas Cards in Black
and White, with envelopes. Post Free, 1/9.
No. 4 Box contains 6 Artistic Booklets, with enve-
lopes. Post Free, 1/6.
No 5 Box contains 0 charming folding Xmas and New
Year Cards, each tied with silk ribbon, with
envelopes. Post Free, 1/6.
No. 6 Box contains 12 “ Wedgwood Gems,” most
beautiful and chaste designs, with envelopes.
Post Free, 1/6.
No. 7 Box contains 12 well Assorted Cards and enve-
lopes. Post Free, 1/6.
No. 8 Box contains 20 Choice and specially selected
Xmas and New Year Cards. Post Free, 1/6.
No. 9 “Fun and Frolic” Box of 12 assorted Comic
Cards and envelopes. Post Free, 1/6.
No. 10. The “ Comic” Box of 12 well assorted Comic
Cards and envelopes. Post Free, 1/6.
No. 11. The Ducal Box of 10 beautiful Xmas and New
Year Cards with envelopes. Post Free, 2/-.
No. 12 box contains 12 Assorted Cards and Envelopes
of exceptional value. Post Free, 3/2
No. 13 Box is our well-known Royal Cabinet of 20
very Choice and Artistic Cards with envelopes.
Post Free, 3/4.
A Large Assortment of Photographic Views of the
Town Hall, New Markets, St. Mary’s Cathedral,
St. Andrew’s Cathedral, The General Post Office,
Botanical Gardens, Sydney Harbour, Blue
Mountain Scenery, &c., &c. These Views were
taken specially to our order, and are certainly the
best value ever placed before the Public. As you
cannot always judge a book by its cover,_ neither
must you judge these Cards by the price, viz.,
6d. each, as they are worth 1/- each.
We have also a nice selection of Australian Wild
Flowers, pressed, mounted, and boxed to our
order. Prices are 6d., 1/-. 1/6, 2/-, and 2/6 each.
These are particularly appropriate to send to
friends abroad. .
BOOK OF VIEWS “By Silver Streams or Fairy
Dells,” or “ Greetings from the Sunny South.” 24
Views, Post Free, 1/1. The New Book contain-
ing 36 Views of Sydney, Descriptive and Illus-
trative with Panorama. Post Free, 1/2. The
same Book bound in Cloth, Post Free, 2/3.
Letts’s Diaries for 1902 at Last Year’s Prices.
Calendars for 1902, of which we always carry a large and varied assortment,
from 2d. to 10s. 6d. each.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
SYDNEY'S LEADERS OF FASHIONB,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt Street, Sydney.
CHARLES READ & CO.,
BUSHMAN WATCH.
ilfeprJi
m
/*
OUR FAITHFUL
TIMEKEEPER
&
r CIN METAL
S • CASE
16/s
Will run for 20year$"
Camden Buildings,
420 George St., Sydney.
Three Doors from
Strand Arcade.
A Saving of
25 per cent.
JEWELLERY,
SOLID SILVER GOODS,
SILVER-PLATED WARE
Write for 80-Paged Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
ħ
h
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach,
Heartburn, Indication, Sour Eruptations,
Bilious Affections. >
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Bheumatio
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
NESIA
MAGNESIA
’yS-y 'V/'y.
Sold Throughout the World.
N3.STASK FOR DINNEFORD’S magnesia,
THE WORLD’S GRANDEST . .
„ CIGARETTE
<WE fXPRESS
(VIRGINIA GRADE)
No. 555
Absolutely Unique in Quality.
A Revelation to all Cigarette Smokers.
No. 999
In the event of jour being unable to purchase State Express Cigarettes from local Tobacconists,
. . . write to . . .
M. RUTTY & Co., 68 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
Sale Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO., 44 Worship Street, London, England.
ARE YOU WEAK,
Low-spirited, Tired of Life ?
Have You utterly failed in Your efforts
to regain health ?
THE LANCBTON REGENERATOR WILL CURE YOU.
Its effects are almost instantaneous, and the good
effects go on increasing from day to day.
ARE YOU A SUFFERER from bad health in any of
its many forms? Do you feel nervous, fretful, timid,
and lack the power of will and action ? Are you sub-
ject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless,
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy ? Are your
kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood m a dis-
ordered condition ? Do you feel ge’nerally debilitated ?
Do you suffer from Rheumatism, Neuralgia, or other
aches or pains ?
Write to-day for the Doctor's Calendar ; beauti
fully illustrated, amd of vital interest to all.
Seek the Truth, it Ccets Nothing.
Sore EyesX Blight!
USED <3OO YEARS.
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT
Never fails . Restores Eyelashes •
HAD FROM ALL CHEMISTS.
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT.”
Ask your Chemist for this little book.
No matter what you are suffering from, the
REGENERATOR restores the shattered consti-
tution like magio.
ADDRESS !
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
Cor. RUBSSLL and COLLINS STS., RELB.
DRUNKENNESS
or the Liquor Habit, Inebriacy, and Alcoholism in any
torm) CURED BY EUCRASY. Can be given secretly or
otherwise. Placed in a cup of tea, coffee, or in food, its
presence cannot be noticed. WARRANTED PER-
FECTLY HARMLESS and easy to administer. It oper-
ates so quietly and with such certainty that the patient
undergoes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware his com-
plete reform is effected. An overdose is harmless, and it
does not impair or injure the health in any way.
DRUNKENNESS IS A DISEASE, and EUCRASY is a
safe, sure, and speedy Antidote. Write for book of par-
ticulars and testimonials from living witnesses—sent post
free (sealed) to any address, 2 stamps.
THE EUCRASY CO.,
68 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of -Uo
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. Ihe firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
A story of Bully Hayes, told to a Bul
letin contributor at Port River (S.A.) by a re
ceiltly-deceased “old identity Captain Jerry
Marlin: —
“ Yes ” said Jerry, “’e wus the finest an’ most and-
somest ’man I ever clapped eyes on. I never ,®® e p
equal. I bear in mind the times e come up the Port
R.ver, w’en I were a bit younger. I think it was in a
stolen brig named the Lenorey. ’Owsoever,e brought
’is vessel up as bold as brass, an’ stepped ashore sif e
owned the hull place. I ’appened to be present at the
time : well, 'e carried ’isself like as you might imagine e
wus the Prince o’ Wales, an’ ’e spent ’is money in eaps.
Most everybody kotowed to ’ini, an’ appeared to be never
so ’appv an’ comfor’able as w’en they was seen talkin to
’im. But, as a matter of fact, they wus keepin their
weather eye open, for noos of ’is doings in the Sou Seas
’ad reached ’em afore ’e come ’isself. ...
“ Well, things went on quiet-like fer a long time, until
one day comes up the river a Yankee timber barque.
Now, the crew of this craft was a mixed lot, an about as
good a cooleckshun o’ dabs as I ever seen. The bo sun,
moresumever, wus almost as big in the body as Ayes, an
’ad a swagger on ’im like a six-pound rooster. One day
’e an’ two or three o’ ’is messmates come across Bully m
the parlor o’ the pub., an’, being a bit full, ’e was disposed
to be cantankerous. ’Ayes, as it ’appened, wus relatin
some of his exper’ences in the copra trade. The bo sun -
1 forget ’s name—listened, quiet-like, fer a, few minits ,
then said ’e : ‘Go to’ell, ’Ayes! I don’t believe yer!
With that w’at did e’ do but throw is
an’ all, square in ’Ayes’s face. ’Ayes stood up an looked
’sif ’e wus goin’ to ’ave a fit, but ’e sot down agin and
calmly wiped ’is face an’ clothes with is ankerchief.
Everybody thought, ’ere’s a go, there’ll be the devil of a
row. But no, ’Ayes tossed orf a nobbier of brandy,
nodded to the comp’ny, an’ went orf to ’is ship. (
“Well, the bo’sun went round every w ere boastin as
’ow ’e ’ad tamed Bully ’Ayes, an’ sayin’ w at e would
’ave done ’ad ’e only ’ad the chance of ago at im. ±>y-
and-by this got to ’Ayes’s ears, an”e sent the bo sun a
perlite note desirin’ the pleasure of ’is comp ny to tea,
together with ’is mates. Well, they come in a body to
the pub w’ere ’Ayes ’ad invited ’em, an sot down to a
real good spread. W’en they ’ad all crammed theirselves
with poultry an’ cakes an’ cettar.y, ’Ayes invited em out
into the back yard an’ offered to show ’em the proper way
ow to ’old their ’ands in boxin’. So they raked up an old
pair o’ gloves, an’ ’Ayes said ’e preferred to teach em one
by one, an’ to take the bo’sun last, as ’e was afeared the
bo’sun might know too much for him, an’ ’e didn t want
to be made a show of too soon before all the people what
’ad gathered to see the fun. But w’en they stood up to
’Aves ’e knocked ’em flat every time until they ad
enough of it. Then e’ said ’ed tackle the bo’sun, who put
on the gloves with a sooperior air, and reckoned hed
knock ’Ayes into a cocked ’at. To the toon o the star-
spangled banner they footed the mark, an’ the bo sun
begun lashin’ out like an angry mule, w lie Bully just
dodged this way an’ that way,’ an’ only ’it the fellow a
feather tap ’ere an’ a feather tap there, until the bo sun
fairly lost ’is temper, an’ threw ’is gloves orf, an fought
with’is naked’ands. ...
“ xt wus just then I seen a kind of satisfied smile come
on 'Ayes’s face ; ’e whipped orf ’is gloves like lightnin ,
drew ’is right fur back, an’ larnched it forward like a
thunderbolt, catchin’ the bo’sun square under the chin.
The stouch could be heard all over the place 1 Wen the
bo’sun come too again (with a broken jaw) Ayes ad
quietly slipped away down the river, leavin’ so many
unpaid bills be’ind ’im that Mr. Sawtell an some
other creditors ’ired a steam-launch and followed im,
but, o’ course, didn’t succeed in catchin’ ’im.
“ An' ’e never come back to the Port no more.’


Warner’s Safe Cure.
FEDERAL TARIFF PRICES.
The proprietors of Warner’s Safe Cure beg to»
announce that, as they have a branch laboratory-
in Australia, Warner’s Safe Remedies will not be
subject to the duty of 25 per cent., which will-
have to be paid on all proprietary medicines
imported into Australia.
The wholesale prices of Warner’s Safe Remedies-
have been slightly advanced in New South Wales
so as to make prices uniform throughout Australia,
but this advance is so small that it will not be
necessary for the public to pay more than two-
pence per bottle over and above the prices paid
before the Federal tariff came into force.
Warner’s Safe Cure is the only lemely known,
to science which will unfailingly cure all diseases
of the kidneys and liver. The following diseases
are cured by Warner’s Safe Cure, because they all
all drise from the retention in the system of
urinary and biliary poisons which it is the province
of the kidneys and liver to expel: Rheumatism,,
indigestion, gout, neuralgia, biliousness, lumbago,,
sick-headache, backache, sciatica, gravel, jaundice,
bladder troubles, blood disorders, anaemia, Bright’s
disease.*
A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
We learn that a most useful Veterinary
Book is attached to every bottle of Condy’s
Fluid. This Book contains instructions for
curing most of the ailments and accidents
affecting Horses, Dogs, Sheep, Cattle, Poultry,
and Birds of all kinds.
Condy’s Fluid is an absolutely certain cure
for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs, Broken Knees,
Grease, Thrush, Cracked Heels, and Mud
Fever in Horses.—Scab, Foot Rot, Fly, etc.,
in Sheep.—Rinderpest, Hoove, Foul in the
Foot, Wounds and Sores, Foot and Mouth
Disease, and Diarrhoea in Cattle.—Distemper
Mange, Canker, and Eczema in Dogs.
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists and
Stores. Beware of local substitutes, all are
inferior. Insist on having Condy’s Fluid.
BD
GrO TO UELL-
-4 IGOLANI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price*
lis gratis.
jjgjs. HATS- hats.
Mountcastie & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Steeet, BRISBANE.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRAPLCY » CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
13?” Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
FOR THE COMPLEXION
An emo'ient, soothing and healing pre-
paration for preserving and beautifying the,
skin in all climates; it cools and refreshes
the Face and Arms in hot weather, removes
Freckles, Tan, Sunburn, Redness and Rough-
ness of the Skin, heals all cutaneous Erup-
tions and Insect Stings, produces
SOFT, VELVETY SKIN,
Imparts a luxuriant beauty to the com*
plexion and a matchless whiteness to the
Neck and Arms unobtainable by any other
means. It has been known for the last 75
years as the most curative and harmless
preparation ladies can use. Ask Stores and
Chemists for Rowland's Kalydor, of 07,
Hatton, Garden, London.
SIMPSON’S SULKIES & BUGGIES
Good Work
Lowest Price
Cash oi%
Factory and Showroom i 73 KING STREET, NEWTOWN,
SYDNEY.
ĥ
After the Lord Mayor’s show comes the
rubbish-cart ! After Turner, the strongest Premier
Victoria has had for years, comes Peacock. And
after him J
The pore working man has certainly been
iniquitously treated by the tariff. His liqueurs,
his Habana cigars, his imported walnut furni-
ture, his silks and his plug hats will cost him a
heavy sum extra weekly.
“Australians have a right to look on Mr.
Chamberlain as their friend,” says Senator Best
(Vic.). Now, why? What has Judas Chamber-
lain done for Australia that future Australians
will not curse his memory for ? ,
King Seddon, it is cabled, goes out of his
way to assert that it is not Maoriland which is
offering more troops for S’Africa. There must be
something very serious the matter with King
Seddon. Perhaps a kick on the doormat.
The determined effort which is being made
by Syme’s Age to curtail Hansard, should be
resolutely fought. Newspapers might garble
Bpeeches even more unscrupulously than at present
if there were no reliable check-reports at hand.
N.S.W. Opposition leader Lee’s latest is
that he intends to keep the See Govt. “ up to the
mark.” When first appointed he said that he in-
tended to keep the Opposition “up to the collar.”
Parkes, Reid, Lee: Preetrade on the downgrade.
Vic. politicians consider it likely that there
will be an early coalition between Peacock,
Irvine, and Shiels against the Radical members,
who have been convinced by recent events that
they have nothing to expect from either Govt, or
Opposition.
What a spectacle S.M. Herald presents,
acting generally as friend and mentor to the
Labor party ! The old order has, indeed, changed,
when Granny trims her sails to the Labor
breeze m the effort to save herself from the print-
ing-paper duty ?
GLADIOLA LADIES' COLLEGE BREAKING-UP.
CHAIRMAN (local great man, hands awards to Miss Geraldine Podgers, age any-
thing from 13 to 20): “ First prize, English, Languages, Mathematics,
Trigonometry, Music, Sewing, Ac., Ac.; and who, but for an unfortunate
attack of measles, would have carried off" Ac., Ac. (Note undisguised
admiration of fellow-scholars.)
The dreary Pulsford advanced in the
Senate as an argument in favor of admitting the
Hindu and the Chinaman to Australia, “ that the
history of Asia ran back for thousands of years.”
“So does the history of lions and tigers,” inter-
jected Senator Higgs.
Will some member move for a return of
all the fines remitted by the N.S.W. Minister for
Justice for the last three years, with particulars
as to why, on whose recommendation, and so
forth. If town talk is true, a person with any in-
fluence at all can generally get his fine back.
Premier Peacock picked up a peculiar bar-
gain at the cheap counter when he got Mr. Deegan,
whisky-traveller, to oust Findley for East Melb.
Mr. Deegan has never gone with the “Liberals.”
He voted to reduce old age pensions, savagely op-
posed woman’s suffrage, and gives his adhesion to
the McKenzie-Irvine crowd every time.
What a calamity for the Freetrade party
at the present juncture that so many of its mem-
bers should favor nigger - labor, and the free
admission to Australia of “our colored fellow-
i“, ts r p, But the Freetraders in question are
logical. The essence of the Freetrade doctrine is
that you should get your work done by gorillas or
chimpanzees if it would be cheaper.
When Senator Stewart referred, t'other
day, to “ the tortuous policy of Mr. Chamberlain,”
Fresident Baker had the impudence to interpose
rn u ,° U are , not justified in alluding to Mr.
Chamberlain in those terms.” That is a matter
of opinion; and Mr. Baker’s opinion is no better
than anybody else s. His business as President is
o preserve order, not to curb free speech ; and
democratic Senators should teach him his business.
A Sydney newspaper correspondent quotes
a postcard he once got from Gladstone to argue in
avor of a repeal of the Australian sugar-duty and
the consequent absolute destruction of the sugar-
growing industry. One might as well quote a
Kanaka on the question of theology. No man
was more ignorant of practical economics than
Gladstone. Witness his famous recipe for the
cure of English depression : “ Why don’t the
farmers grow strawberries ? ”
N.S.W. Leg. Council has thrown out the
ohearers Accommodation Bill on the second read-
v °t e sto 11. The “ Labor members ”in
the House, with the sole exception of Hepher
were absent! The division was a “catch’’one
and , lfc , ft 10 ™ 3 th ,e want of any enthusiasm on the
part of the few democrats in the Chamber. And
some of them can t plead that they are not paid :
tor they use their free railway-passes to act as
commercial travellers, and thus their political
positions help them to make their living’.
The unco’ pious pro-Kanaka party in the
B «P S ; trowed out the scriptural quotation,
God hath made of one blood all nations that
dwell upon the face of the earth,” and, character-
istically, stopped there, as if that constituted the
whole sentence. The swindle didn’t work, how-
ever, and it was instantly pointed out that the
omitted words were-“and hath fixed the bounds
of their habitations. ” Whereupon the corpulent
Knox at once set about proving that the tropics
were the bounds which God intended should apply
to the Kanaka.
An Austrian diplomatist once argued to
Leak, the Hungarian patriot, on the absurdity of
attempting to preserve Hungarian nationality in
preference to the grand Imperial idea of a United
Austrian Empire. “Your argument is ex-
cellent, replied Deak, “but then it would be
better still to be in Heaven ; yet no one wants to
die. I his excellent answer would serve for the
Jingo apologists for gory Imperialism, who insist
on Britain’s divine mission to thrust the blessings
of her institutions down the throats of little
peoples at the end of the bayonet.
The ques-
tion of State
extravagance
will soon have
to be looked
squarely i n
the face. Con-
sider the one
item “stores
and station-
ery”—£7B,ooo
—in N.S.W.
estimates.
Most Depts.
could build a
good - sized
fence with the
pens and pen-
cils they use.
Some of the
Ministerial
offices, for
everyday use,
insist on
“hand-made”
foolscap at
something
like £1 a
ream. In
consequence,
though the
Post -office,
the Customs
and various
branches i n
other Depts.
have gone
away from
the State of
N.S.W., the
estimate for
stores and stationery for the year coming is
£15,000 more than last, and £20,000 more than the
year before !
The Bulletin, wearied by half-baked,
doughy Tories, with no crust on them, welcomes
with joy any utterance from the genuine article
like Henry Scotland, who spoke gently in M.L.
Upper House, the other day :
I am convinced that it would be % good thing for the
colony if the working men were to take up their traps
and leave Maoriland in a batch. Their places could
easily be filled by Chinese and Japanese, and the very
men we are trying to exclude from the colony by a £lOO
penalty we should then be only too glad to welcome to
our shores. The white settlers could carry on the agri-
cultural pursuits of the colony, and the 'working man
could fcaks his labor and skill to some other country.
The selfishness shown over the tariff by
the various sections of members bodes ill for a
concrete Australian national policy. The Farmers’
PULL DEVIL, PULL BAKER!
party wants Protection for wheat, etc., but free
implements and commodities. The Manufacturers’
party wants Protection for finished goods, but
free raw-material. The Labor party wants Pro-
tection for some labor, but certain duty-free com-
modities which will get other labor the sack. The
shoddy party wants Protective revenue raised
from things it doesn’t handle, and all its own
goods let in free. Everybody wants to get some-
thing and sacrifice nothing.
N.S. W. Labor-leader M’Gowen, instead of
talking nonsense about “the disruption of
the Commonwealth Constitution ” by reason of
lack of State Revenue, might devote himself
to saving money by means of State reform. By
the abolition of the Leg. Council; reduction
of Assembly seats; reduction of Governor’s
salary to £2500 a year nett; abolition of Agent-
General as a diplomatic officer, and the appoint-
ment of a commercial agent at one-third
the expense :—N.S. Wales could save upwards of
£lOO,OOO a year and be all the better for it. But
there’s no fear of the Macquarie-street crowd
tackling reforms like those—dominoes are much
easier.
The question whether a private member of
the Federal Parliament can move for an increase
of a duty in committee seems to have been settled
by the increase of the opiurn-duty from 20s. to
30s. per lb., on the motion of Hume Cook, with-
out any protest from the Speaker. Constitutional
usage was, on the whole, against the right of a
private member to propose an increase of taxa-
tion. The theory was that the Crown may ask
Parliament for money, and Parliament may grant
the amount asked for, or less, but no more, for
fear that the Crown should go out and make a
beast of itself on the extra amount. Now that
“the Crown” is merely a fiction, there is no
reason for preserving the restriction.
Captain Tickell, commanding Vie. Naval
Forces, amused Australians the other night, at
Mayor Gillott’s banquet, by coolly proposing that
the British navy should in future be recruited
largely from Australia. Tickell showed that,
while it could build the ships and guns, Great
Britain found much difficulty in getting the boys
of the bull-dog breed, who grew less and less eager
and less numerous every year. Consequently, it
was desirable to encourage the seafaring instinct
of the Australians. People of the Tickell type
can never get away from the idea that Australia
exists as a sort of kitchen-garden for England.
They view it in the light in which a glue-factory
is seen by the gorgeous person who makes his
profit out of it.
Most of these States have now established
a policy of resuming large estates for Closer
Settlement, and this is how the thing works :
(1) The Government sells the land, and uses the
proceeds aa revenue.
(2) It borrows money with which to buy back the land
(the revenue never, by any chance, disgorges the money
already received for that land).
(3) The land is either leased or sold in smaller lots. If
it is leased, any surplus it yields above the interest on the
money borrowed for its repurchase is not applied to pay
off the debt, but is used as revenue. And, if it is sold—
well, it is pretty safe to bet the proceeds will very soon
drift into revenue in the good old way, and this genera-
tion will have spent the land twice over, and left posterity
to pay the bill as usual.
The introduction of the Immigration
Restriction Bill into the Senate last week was the
subject of a great speech by R. E. O’Connor, but
the whole of its arguments were at once demolished
by Aunt Emma Pulsford’s production of hitherto-
unpublished letters from the Japanese consul
telling the Prime Minister that the Jap. Govt,
strongly objected, not only to the color, but to
the educational test as well. The educational
test was supported wholly by the allegation that it
was a means of pleasing the Japanese, and
Pulsford’s showing that the Japs, were so pleased
that they intended making the “strongest protest
in the proper quarter ” left the Bill naked and
unashamed. Anyhow, M‘Gregor’s amendment to
substitute the color-test is almost sure to be
carried in the Senate; and the Reps., which
knocked it out by a majority of only five, will
certainly accept the alteration. Then— then— will
come the row with the British Govt.; but if
Australia keeps a stiff backbone the row can only
end one way. Chamberlain and his Govt, are not
popular enough to risk a conflict with the Com-
monwealth.
Official despatches,
lately laid before Maorx-
land Parliament, show
that after the cession of
Samoa to Germany the
Seddon Ministry was
specially informed,
whereat Seddon pre-
sented a turgid and un-
grammatical protest to
Gov. Ranfurly, which
was transmitted without
comment to Chamber-
lain. The document
complains :
Great Britain, thftx civilised
them (the islands); that
Christianised them ; that
first traded with them ; that
even has the most trade and
the most white population ;
and that has spent _ much
blood and treasure in the
islands, has abandoned them
to foreign powers.
But Britain gave up
Samoa as the price, of
German non-interference in S’ Africa,
and so the protest of ultra-loyal, ultra-
Jingo Maoriland went for nought.. “The
colonies ” are all right to flatter, but it is the
Powers which get the concessions.
The sweated clerks of Melbourne »vant to
be brought under the Factories Act, but are told
it does not apply to them. Vic. Clerks’ Union
is therefore advocating a Bill which has
been drafted for it, and to which several
State members have promised support. It
is proposed to classify clerical employees,
to determine a minimum rate of wage, and a
maximum number of hours per week, with regula-
tions as to overtime, Sunday work, etc. Such
legislation should meet with hearty support.
There is no more wretchedly sweated laborer than
the city clerk.
With tongue in cheek the Philpites - bring
forward their belated Electoral Reform Bill,
knowing full well that, despite protestations, there
is no “business” in it. This legislative botch has
so many puerile side-issues and cumbersome pre-
cautions that it will but further confuse the com-
plicated Acts that enable the right people to stay
on the rolls and wipe out the other kind every
time. Should it pass both Q. Houses, it has to be
submitted for the approval of Chamberlain (as
explained by Minister Foxton, with a derisive-
smirk) ; therefore there is no possible hope of it
being law before April next, and by then the Q.
State elections will have taken place, on the old,
disjointed, anti-democratic Electoral Act that?
gives Philp and co. a firm grip of the reins of mis-
government. No wonder the Q. Laborites surge !:
The Federal Labor party shows itself well
versed in “ practical politics.” The final refusal;
of the Senate to hear the petition of Mr. Saunders,
against the return of Senator Matheson is an,
example. Saunders petitioned against Matheson’a
return on the ground of undue influence, alleging
a gift to the secretary of the Labor Electoral
Leagueof W. A. of £5O. An Elections and Qualifica-
tions committee was appointed to investigate the
affair, and at once resolved itself into two partisan
camps. The members did nothing but try to work
points. The Freetraders moved heaven and earth
to secure the confirmation of Matheson’s election
and the Protectionists to upset it. The com-
mittee, having argued from the early part of June
until tlie beginning of Nov., came to the Senate
with the intimation that it “ could arrive at no-
agreement.” No evidence in the case whatever
had been taken during all this period. All that
had been done was to wrangle over technicalities.
The Senate decided to wipe out Saunders for
good ; this decision being arrived at by an alliance
of the Freetraders and the Labor members. The
strong inference is that the Freetraders want to»
deny justice to Saunders because he is a Protec-
tionist, and the Labor party want to do the same
because their election tactics may be exposed
whilst the Protectionists, on somewhat the same
lines, want to give him, if possible, a little mores
than justice.


EASY TERMS IF YOU WISH.
ICtfi
•r&nNßs. Ks&&<ap,*4
ARftaffHE, BEST
We Need You
And
You Need Us
YOU want to buy a piano
or Organ at the cheapest
possible price.
That 9 s where you need us.
We want to sell you that
Piano or Organ.
That’s where
We Need You.
ESTABLISHED
48 YEARS.
#
PALING’S
338 George Street,
SYDNEY.
* *
BRISBANE
AND
NEWCASTLE.
W. H. PALING & CO., L T .9-
We are
Certain
We can give you the best
value in Pianos, Organs or any
other musical instrument you may
require.
Our Catalogues are Free by
post.
Kindly write and ask us any
questions you like. Easy Terms
if you wish.
N
p
-ABB-THEBESt
jasw
RLL OTN€R MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS STOCKEP.
m
Koh-i-Noor
Copper-
Gilded
Letters.
For Signs and
Shop-fronts.
ABSOLUTELY
PERMANENT.
Sole Agents:
J.LeighJones&Co
257 Gboikje Si;,
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Eight Different Articles,
comprising Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket (a good
trick), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin
and Card Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard
Fish (gives definition of your character), That Wonderful
Cinematograph or Book of Living Pictures, Mafeking
Grub (or nerve-strengthener), That side-splittin 'ok
and Laugh Glass, and, last of all, The Spider and i.. Fly
(an ingenious mechanical toy). Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. fid.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
Butter Cooler and Meat Safe,
Reduces the temperature
15 degrees by capillary
. action of water.
Price - - -5/- each
Postage, 1/- extra.
ICE-CREAM
FREEZERS
which require no labor,
15/- each;
postage, 1/6 extra.
Send for Catalogue.
Brandt Bros,
ħ
<23fi PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
And at 422 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Castro’s Last Sacrament
By ALBERT DORRINGTON. 4s 6d.
_ . -n im—imiia i J ■a— nn— t
AUSTRALIAN ■
STAMPS
Highest Cash Prices Paid,
to any amount for
Old or Rare Stamps,
Used or Unused, v
The First
Australian Stamp.
h
For Sale —The Largest Stock of STAMPS, ALBUMS, etc.,
in the Southern hemisphere.
SftAYTH & NIGQLLE, 14 Huntor-st., Sydney.
Even Melb. Argus begins to squirm oyer
the war, and has a column-long leader raking
Ketchener for his inability to finish it. Following
day it publishes an explanation from a returned
(Q.) cohentingenter, who states that in the section
he was attached to there were 30 waggons, 23 of
which contained the eider-down quilts, har-
moniums, spring mattresses and spare eyeglasses
of the officers of the “mobile” column which
scud over the veldt after the elusive De Wet.
Curious allegations as to the Chinese
methods of business have been made in an assault
case now before the N.S.W. Court. A witness
deposed that at a public meeting one Celestial
said :
Before the duties had been put on, he had been in th e
habit of putting' on 10 per cent, to the value of his goods,
so that he could get bigger compensation from shippers
in the event of any damage to consignments. Now, in
view of the high duties, it would not be worth-while to
swell invoices. On the contrary, it would be advisable to
reduce the values stated. He suggested that, in future
invoices, taels should be reckoned as dollars. A tael was
reckoned as 2s. 9Jd., and a dollar equalled _2s., and the
suggestion therefore meant making a reduction of 28 per
cent, in invoice values.
This, on top of recent Bankruptcy Court evidence
that Chinese naturalisation papers are a subject
of regular traffic, seems to suggest the advisability
of adopting very specific precautions to deal with
Asiatic duplicity. Deportation of the Chinese
population to the Flowery Land, which must be a
little short of population just now, would, on the
whole, save a lot of trouble.
VITADATIO
The Great Herbal Blood Remedy*
*
ANOTHER VICTORY.
KIDNEY AND LIVER COMPLAINT.
Mr. E. HERMAN, Rondesbosch, South Africa, writes :
October 25,1899.
For four years I suffered with my kidneys and liver. ' I
spent hundreds of pounds for medical aid, and took a trip
to Australia, but all in vain. Only one month ago I
reluctantly yielded to an advice to try Webber’s Vitadatio.
Already l am a different man, though I have only used a
few bottles, and am confident of a thorough cure. You
are welcome to use this, as I can never repay you for the
good Webber’s Vitadatio has done me.
A mild case of “Eczema” cured by One
Bottle of VITADATIO.
Mr. S. A. PALMER (Vitadatio).
September 20,1899.
Dear Sir, —During the last seven (7) years I have been
troubled with eczema on my left leg, just above the
ankle, and although I had taken medicine made up from
different prescriptions, no improvement was perceptible.
In January last a friend persuaded me to try VITADATIO,
which I did, and after drinking the contents of one (1)
bottle, the eczema gradually disappeared, and in less than
six (6) weeks my leg was completely cured.
I am, yours faithfully,
FRANK HAYES.
317 Collins-street, Melbourne.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
ĥ
o
O
H.W
v
Comfort
Speed and
Reliability
Roadster Tyres guaranteed for 12
months.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONSJ
Duni^pTVres
are only genuine
when the Cover and Tube are embossed with
this • • • • • • • d^"
Trade Mark.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Go. of Australasia, Limited,
ISO CLARENCE ST., BYDNEY. And at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


THIS IS THE TIME TO SEND ORDERS FOR YOUR
SUITS FOYI CHRISTMAS.
NOW!
C. G. HATTE
has enlarged the TAILORING DEPARTMENT and increased the staff to cope with the
trade for the Season.
Gent-’s Tweed Suits—to measure—fit guaranteed, the best value procurable—4-2/-
Gent-’s West of England Sergre Suits, fast colors, perfect lilting— 63/-
(ALSO IN FANCY WORSETS, SCOTCH TWEED or VACUNA.)
Fancy Stripe Trousers—hundreds of patterns to select from—fashionable designs, only 12/6
Also the Latest and Best in Shirts, Hats and Boots.
Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms Free. Having purchased before the Federal Tariff
was announced, all our Goods are DUTY FBiUD.
C. Gr. HA.TTE, KTewtown
ROSES
In Effective Curi
Blight Imh. awed EyejSlids
Weak Eyes Dimness E t *
531 CEORCE ST
SYDNEY
[gSTABUSHEP lag
EGD. LABEL.
The Greatest Discovery of Modern Times
. . FOR . .
ALL EYE COMPLAINTS
a - ; ° i "r from any cause whatever.
ASK FOR
ROSE’S
Celebrated Eye Lotion
A CERTAIN CURE for Sandy Blight, Granulations, Bunged Eyes,
Dimness of Sight, Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids, Weak Eyes caused by
Dust, Sun-Glare, Overwork, &c., Swelling Blight resulting from stings
of flies and insects.
Used with equal success on the Eyes of Cattle, Sheep, Poultry, &c.
Largely used by Rifle-Shooters and Literary Men.
Testimonials from leading Commercial and Professional Men throughout Australia.
Sole Proprietor . . .
H. A. ROSE
Dispensing 1
Chemist,
531 George St., Sydney
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
S3"Beware of Imitations.
G. BRANDAUER & Co.’s}
Circular-Pointed Pens. '
Seven Prize Medals Awarded
Neither scratch nor spurt, the
points being rounded by a new
process.
Attention is also
drawn to their
new
“GRADUATED
SERIES Of PENS.”
Each pattern being made in four degrees
h
mmiM
in
ĥ
of flexibility and Points.
tsk your Storekeeper for an Assorted Sample Box of either series.
Works: BIRMINGHAM, ENOLANO,
PRIZE MEDAL DRESSING
HAUTHAWAY’S
PEERLESS GLOSS
takes first prize medals at Boston, Vienna, London, Phila-
delphia, Melbourne, and all other leading cities, for pro-
ducing the finest possible polish, and absolute freedom
from all substances injurious to the leather.
It is the favorite dressing of the world for
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
shoes, as it is easily applied, retains its brilliancy, and will
not rub off and soil garments. Try it once and you will
use it always. Sold nearly everywhere. Made only by
‘SNOS •? AV/tiVUIIVU *1 3
BOSTON, MASS.
* U. S. A.
S. FREEMAN # SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES
BATHO’S
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
PRIZE
POWDER.
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WYNYAUD SQUARE, SYDNEY
MELLIN’S
FOR INFANTS FOOD AND INVALIDS.
Is adapted for use from birth.
Send for Pamphlet and Samples to GOT.I-IN & CO., 562-4, Melbourne,
172, Clarence Street, Sydney, Grenfell Street, Adelaide, and Wellington.
Mellln’s Food Company for Australia and New Zealand, Ltd., 56, Cannon Street, London, Eng.
New Style 15c. Gold
Brooch, set Pearls
and Sapphire, £3.
No. FlOB.
9c. Gold Links, 17s 6d.
Silver, 4s 6d.
ħ
SYDNEY.
All Goods sent Free and Safe by Post on receipt of
remittance. Write for our Illustrated Catalogue.
No. F9O.
9 ■. Gold Links, £1 Is.
Silver, 4s 6d.
New Style 15c. Gold
Brooch, set Pearls and
Jtuby, £2 7s 6d.
No. F 5713. Fine Quality Pearls and 15c. Gold Necklet of Exquisite Design, £l4 10s
Others, equally pretty, at £8 10s, £lO 10s, £l2 10s.
Gent.’s Signet Ring,
9c. Gold, £1 10s ;
18c. Gold, £2 17s 6d.
No. F 2995. Hair-Pin Box,
Cut-Glass and Solid Silver,
12s 6d.
No. 247. 9c. Gold Tooth-Pick, 8s 6d ; Solid Silver, 3s.
90. Gold Safety-Pins, 4s 6d, 5s 6d and 6s 6d
(according to size).
No. F 4404. New Design, 15c. Gold Brooch, set
with Rubies and Diamond, £3 10s.
No. F 5892. The New F:ati.Perieil-C. se, Engraved, 9c. Gold, £1 7s 6d.
No. F 1945. 15c. Gold and Pearl set
Hearts and Knot Brooch, £2 2s.
No. E 9136. Solid Silver Sweet or Cake Forks, 3£ inches
long, 3s each.
Massive Silver Cake or Fruit Basket, Saw Pierced and
Embossed, £l3 10s ; others at t'B.
No. E 9533. Small Silver-plated Saw
Pierced Sugar Basket, Glass-lined, 8s 6d.
No. E 7168. Best Silver-plated and
Cut-Glass Butter Dish, 12s 6d.
No. F 2504. Dinner Gong, Polished Oak Base, Real Horns, Silver-plated
Mounts, £1 12s 6d.
m
eSHi
No. F 1572. Magnificent 5-Light Candelabra, in Best
Silver-plate, £5 5s ; 3-Light ditto, £Z 15s.
No. F 548. Finest Silver-plate on Hard Metai
Hot-Water Kettle, £5 10s.


“ There’s a weapon better yet.
And stronger than the bayonet,
A weapon that comes down as still
As snowflakes fall upon the sod,
And executes the Freeman’s will,
As lightning does the will of God,
It suffers neither bars nor locks,
This weapon is the Ballot Box.’ — Amer.
One of the coming dangers is that of the
woman who lost a husband a long time ago, and
hasn’t got a very clear idea now of what he
looks like, so that no adult individual in
trousers is quite safe from her vehement sus-
picions. And the Law treats lovely woman as an
irresponsible allegator where her feelings are
thought to be concerned. There is one law for
the female and another for the male. If She
picks up Him in the street and gives Him in
charge for being her lawful escaped husband, the
world laughs when the charge falls to pieces. But
let Him claim Her one of these days, and what
then? Firstly, He couldn’t persuade a myrmidon
of the law to arrest Her for desertion, because
the law isn’t built that way. Secondly, the news-
papers would take up the case against claimant
Man, and when the wildness of his assertion had
been proved the woman would land him for heavy
damages, or send him to prison as a criminal
libeller. There are still many points in being a
woman, even without a vote.
HAVE YOU
ABADLEC
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, yon
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Store-,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers snouul
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
fHLOROPyNE.
Caution.—Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIAKRHCEA, *e., bears oo
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—•
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWK€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, sayB:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Ciii.oiiodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
h
We grant every purchaser
of our
JCLECTRIO
JUSLTS and
A rVI.JA JV CHS
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Bells give a Steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.'—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
ĥ
HOTELKEEPERS!
MAKE YOUR OWN
rpHE “AUSTRAL” DERATED WATER MACHINE occu-
pies only Four Feet Square, will produce 150 Dozen per day of
Finest Waters (LEMONADE, GINGER ALE, SODAWATER, &c.)
at a Cost below Fourpence per Dozen. This machine
supersedes all others for SIMPLICITY and USEFULNESS, as it
requires no skilled labor to work it.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
214-216 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
ħ
PLAIN HOME TALK.
EMBRACIN'}
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1200 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1901 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted to any address for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made tor all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. ■ Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic, Is 6d, post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date CojMic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Ciievasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
6. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
Balzac’s Droll Stories, Is 3d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid.
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Pa, Ma and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Metal Working, Brazing, etc., Is 3d.
Send for my Illustrated Big Book
Catalogue-post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
Dr. Clarkson’s Electric Belt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-IN VIGORATOR
7S
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is truly wonderful
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC.
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
CALL OR WRITE- .
CUT
RATE
DKTJG STORE
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
Now
Ready.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH
Price 6d Posted Bd.
s
%
A
£
IN
S
NATURES TRUE REMEDIES.
Nature has provided, a TRUE REMEDY for Every
Complaint. It is, therefore, unnecessary to contaminate the
System with Mineral Poisons, which leave the System Weak
and Debilitated. Sufferers frc.m Blood and Skin Diseases,
Nervous Affections, Piles, Rheumatism, and Affection. of
the Liver and Kidneys, Chest and Lungs, Consumption,
General Debility, Costiveness, Influenza, Melancholia,
can rely on a Cure from these Remedies.
ALFALINE
REMEDIES
Are a guaranteed
Cure for the
above Complaints.
They have Cured
Thousands, and
stood a Test in
Australia for over
20 years. They
have never been
known to fail in
a single case, and
they are purely
NATURE’S
REMEDIES.
Rffcimnyj
HHU'Mfi
ALFALINE
HERBAL
REMEDIES
I lave been Awar-
ded several Gold
Medals, and
More Testimon-
ials than any
known remedy in
Australia.
A Special
Guaranteed Rem-
edy for each
Complaint.
HERR RASSMUSSEFS CHIEF LABORATORY,
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Are a Guaranteed Cure for All Nervous Aff ctions, Weak Spine, Brain and Nerves, Poov
Memory, Tired Feeling, and General Debility. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Course, 23/6.
ALFALIHE BLOOD PILLS
Are a PERMANENT CURE for the Most Chronic Blood Diseases, Skin Diseases, Blotches,
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, etc. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
Purify the Blood and Build up the Weakest Nervous System. A Guaranteed Cure for
.JSneinia, Wa ting Diseases in Fetnales. A General Blood and Nerve Tonic
for both sexes. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS
Are Guaranteed to Cure Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn,
Biliousness, and the Liver and Kidneys. BONES, ONE SHILLING. Posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to
cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lum-
bago. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 12s. and
235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage—
This Suspender imparts Strength and Vigor,
at the same time as it supports the parts.
Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -A
Wonderful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Con-
sumption, Bronchitis and Influenza. Boxes,
posted, 35., 65., 12s. and 235. 6d.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and
effectual Electric currents unequalled as a
cure for all Spinal and Kidney Affections ;
425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Sufferers can only obtain the Alfaline Herbal Remedies from
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office or Branches, the addresses of
which appear below. Letters should be addressed and Cheques
and Money Orders made payable to Herr Rassmussen’s full
name— Hans Peter Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head
Office or Branches. Register all letters containing money.
All Remedies sent unobserved, packed in plain cover.
Correspondence held confidential.
ALFALINE
PILE POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/*
ALFALINE
FAT-REDUCING
POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
hair-Restorer,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
CORN CURE, 1/-.
OINTMENT, 1/-.
mb
m
HEM RASMUS!
H!RRRASSMUSSENS[H^iALALPAUPmI
SB®
A DSEFOL BOOK
SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmussen’s
valuable book, The
Alfa line Guide to
Health, which con-
tains valuable in-
formation for all
Complaints, and
copies of Testi-
monials, will be sent
free in plain cover,
on application.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD OFFICE,
(HANS PETER .RASSMUSSEN)
547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Alfaline Remedies can only be obtained from his Head Office and hi*
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES :
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke-st.
BRISBANE—3O9 Oueen-st.
ADELAIDE—IS Pulteney-st.
N.Z.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A.—PERTH, 481 Hay-st.
KALGOORLIE—Hannan - st.
BOULDER ClTY—Piesse-st.
FREMANTLE—Henry-st.
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of the ALFALINE REMEDIES,


Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER ....
Take
REUTER’S LITTLE PILLS.
For all LIVER complaints-
h
ĥ
SUCH A CHANGE.
Not only in feeling but in looks. The skin is
clear, the eyes are bright, the cheeks are plump.
No more pain and misery, no more sick head-
ache, no more sallow complexion. What worked
the change? Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills,
which cured the disease of the stomach that
prevented proper nutrition and also cleansed
the clogged and sluggish liver. Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills cure diseases of the stomach,
they cure diseases of the liver and kidneys, and
other organs which seem remote from the
stomach, because many of these diseases have
their cause in a diseased condition of the stomach
involving the allied organs of digestion and
nutrition. “I write to inform you of the
benefit I have derived from the use of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills,” states Mrs. E. M.
Hay, Donald, Yic. “For years I have been a
great sufferer from severe indigestion; in fact,
taking of food was painful, and work was an im-
possibility. I was recommended to give these
pills a trial ; I did so, obtained great relief,
and have not had an attack since. I still
continue their use, as every dose seems to improve
my general health. I recommend them to all
my friends ; they also speak very highly of
them. I feel bound to make my case known,
as it may help those who suffer as I did.” Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood puri-
fier, and a positive cure for biliousness, indigestion,
constipation, headaches, sallow complexion,
liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils,
blotches, and female ailments. Sold by chemists
and storekeepers, Is per bottle, or six bottles
6s. 6d. Sole proprietors, The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd. (Australasian Depot), 58 Pitt-street,
Sydney. Packed in amber bottles, and the full
name blown thereon.*
♦
“Piles and Their Cure.”—The pamphlet
by Albert Sharp, entitled “ Piles and the Way to
Cure Thera,” without operation, sent free, on
application to the Sydney Depot, 257 George-
street.*
ħ
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, ther-. i
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY Af
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
WW. CREENER’S New Book, “ Sharpshooting for Sport
■ and War.” All Riflemen should read/this Book.
Price 1/2 posted.
W. W. Greener’s New Rifle, 310 bore, made expressly
for Cadet Corps, very accurate ; 10 shots in 2 inches at
100 yards at last Bisley Meeting, price £3 3s.
Sporting- Martinis to take 44 Winchester Cartridges.
Adapted for Kangaroo Shooting, &e.
Greener’s Lee Enfield Rifles, Govt. Viewed, Guaran-
teed First Quality.
These Rifles are in the ha,nds of many of the best rifle
shots in the States, and in every case are giving great
satisfaction. Twenty-one consecutive bull’s eyes made
with one of these rifles at 700 yards ; 98 out of possible 105
at 400, 500 and 600 yards made by Mr. Jordan, Capt.
Warrnambool Rifle Club ; 104 out of possible 105 at 400,
500 and 600 yards by Mr. George H. Tolley, of Stawell.
Greener Guns from 9 to 30 Guineas aiways in Stock.
Prices and Catalogues on Application.
Cliaß. W. CfU-ols:' and,
Representing W. W. GREENER,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
ARE YOU PARTICULAR ? •**
Because if you are, we wakt you to see our
REP BIRD BICYCLES.
They are so well built we Gan please you on all points. Every particular person who rides a RED BIRD is a
good advertisement for us, because his friends are astonished at his satisfaction. Easy Terms.
Branches in every State. GOOLP BICYCLE CO., 64 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
. h ? Englishmen agamst Victoria notched 166
in 7 l” 1 ! 1 " 1111 gs ,’, a " d on Saturday were one out for
107, which they swelled to 174 on Monday. Jessop made
* du <*, being clean bowled by M’Leod, who also got
& d « ey s ’, Jon ® s ’ and Barnes ’ wickets—s for 57.
weri hh^ff , M< 1 r b ?B , sing 6 for one more than
rL M s deliveries. Victoria’s first innings
1 1 c o id and their second 89, thus leaving the visiting
® de ,^ lB , t 1 ° tbe good. Barnes (for the ’Ome team) shaped
excellentiy Monday, getting 7 for 38, and building up an
average of 17 for 166 for the first two matches. Vic.
fielding improved towards the end, but the opposing
team showed out capably right through, picking up and
returning in extremely smart fashion. Monday saw
Garnett effect two capitally judged catches “in the
country. The wicket was bad from the beginning,
causing the ball to get up awkwardly on occasions
* * * *
Judged by their work against a weakish Yic.
team at the Melbourne ground last Saturday, the
Maclarenites are a N.T.B. contingent, who may possibly
make the tests interesting enough. Barnes, the long
Lancashire man with no English average to show what
8 mad e of, looks a very serviceable bowler; young
Blythe, a slim and likely sort, got Laver c. and b. in
smart style, and Braund, the leg-breaker, strikes one as
being a clever tactician. He is older than the other two,
but Braund s age is only 25, and he has some character in
his nose. If the young members of Mac’s team are as
steady as they are said to be, they will improve their
form considerably. In fielding, the visitors made an
admirable all-round show on Saturday, and when they
had got rid of the Vic’s, for 133 on a wicket whioh ranged
from respectable to good, the price of their stock was
rising. Not Too Bad, with an accent on the Not.
Only three of them batted. M'Gahey and Hay-
ward should both have 'been caught before the score got
to 20, but they afterwards did their best to deserve the
luck of it. Hayward, who was never a very strong man,
seems to have lost a little vigor since he was out with
Stoddart’s XI; and, though he plays much about the same
sound game as before, his tiredness will discount his
ability. M‘Gahey, notwithstanding his 57 score and his
confidence when he got set, didn’t convince anybody that
he will often get set in Test-matches. He has a good
glance-stroke to leg and a spanking drive to the off (which
is only worth one run, as a rule), and several other strokes
of a rougher sort; but he’s very risky, is tall, muscular
M'Gahey. Braund, who came after him, and helped Hay-
ward to play till closing time, is a rather stylish batsman.
Jones, the captain of the Britishers in Maclaren’s
absence, managed to take a rise out of a “ barracker ” on
Friday. The ball was bumping a lot, and the straddle-
legged newchum didn’t look happy. “Show us why
Jones left ’Ome,” sang a voice from the shilling seats.
Jones stepped out to the next ball and banged it over the
fence for five. ' •*
*•* * *
Giffen’s bowling (for S.A.) against the English-
men (13 for 93), average 7.15, was an eye-opener; for most
followers of cricket rated George, at 43, very much of a
back-number. In his palmy days Giffen never did any-
thing as good. Maclaren looked at the wet pitch on
Tuesday and said his men would be favored, as they were
used to that sort of thing ; but he was a bit out, for the
Englishmen were just as much puzzled as the wheat State
players. The “ gate ”on the last day reached £69, and
receipts for the match totalled £7ll.
* * * *
That backdown on Monday night of N.S.W.
cricket association on the umpire question, was full and
complete and what reasonable people predicted from the
outset. How a presumably intelligent body could place
itself in the position of having to eat the leek so
jgnobly surpasses understanding. Its attitude was
indefensible and untenable, and so evidently the outcome
either of its notorious jealousy of the Melbourne club,
or of a desire to “ get even ” with the Marylebone 0.0.
(with which Maclaren’s lot have nothing whatever to do),
that the N.S.W.O.A. wiseacres have been heartily laughed
at everywhere. ' ,
Dear B. — Public opinion was too strong for
N.S.W. Cricket Association over the umpire business.
Simply put, the question came to this : Would the Jingo
Flat Immovables allow the Grassy Gully Irresistibles to
choose both umpires in their cup match ? According to
the man in the pavilion, the real truth about the trouble
never came to the surface, but bowler Marsh was the bone
of contention. Though honestly convinced themselves
that Marsh is absolutely fair, the Association committee
know that Crockett, Maclaren’s umpire (also honestly),
no-balled Marsh in the last match against Victoria : and
when the question of umpires came up. to make quite
sure, the committee decided to appoint their own men.
But, leaving the bowler concerned out of the question,
the Cricket Association had nothing to fight for.—Yours
etc., Paddington.
* • * *
London Daily Mail gossip about Maclaren’s
task. Lord Hawke would have managed a team. He
asked Maclaren, Fry, and Ranji, but they declined, and
he then threw the idea up. Maclaren’s great difficulty
in inducing players to come was the low remuneration
held out. In face of special terms offered by the York-
shire committee for the winter months, £3OO each wasn’t
good enough for Rhodes and Hurst. One “ star” would
have been satisfied with £BOO had it been forthcoming.
Inability to guarantee these sums forced Maclaren to
secure amateurs looking for a good holiday free of exes.,
and pros, prepared to accept the conditions. The Daily
Mail names the following as the 14 best players in Eng-
land :—Fry, Ranjitsinhji, Maclaren, Jessop, Mason, Tay-
lor (reserve wicket-keeper), Gunn (J.), Hayward, Tyldes-
ley, Quaife (W.G.), Rhodes, Hurst, Braund, and Lilley.
Eight of these are with the team in Australia now.
* * * •
Trial match, N.S.W. first 11 v. next 15, ended
Saturday in a draw. Previous Monday, the 15 had 10
down for 320. The last four only added 21. M. A. Noble
showed fine bowling form, and got 6 for 57; Billowell
took 4 for 60, Clarke 3 for 85, and Hopkins 1 for 93. The
11 had lost 6 for 107 when rain stopped further play. C.
Gregory got a nasty but not serious smash in the face
from the second ball aboriginal Marsh sent down, and had
to withdraw. On the whole, play was uninteresting.
Large crowds rolled up each day.
* » • *
A late ’Ome cricket item:—“Ex-Australian
Albatrott is on his way out to act as bowler and coach to
Hawkes Bay (M.L.) Cricket Association this season, and
will go back in time to play for Middlesex next year.”
A.T. is among the best all-rounders of his day. The M.L.
contract has probably been brought about by a desire to
escape the English winter, which does Albert no good.
* * * *
Recent M.L. Oup was a throw-in for Mo—a
complete skinner to most. Black daughter (Tortulla) of
Torpedo, who humped 8.1 and won, wasn’t given much of
a chance, though backed on the day to catch a few
hundreds. Quite half the starters—particularly Palaver,
Canteen, Ideal, Fulmen and Battleaxe—had solid support.
Melwood, Sirius and Kahuwal were also whispered fairly
good goods. The race was the most open ever run in
M.L. Touts, newspaper tipsters and alleged judges
generally failed badly in their predictions. Not one of
the hottest pots got a “ drum.” Tortulla was prepared
by Prosser, the trainer of Advance, and was ridden by
O. Jenkins, who has had to stand more abuse than any
dozen of his fellow jocks. The winner’s whack of the
stake totalled £l2OO. Subsequently Tortulla (with 9.3 up)
failed in The Jockey Club Handicap—l mile. Palaver
(8.2) scored cleverly from Oannie Chiel (7.9). Latter was
seriously interfered with by the winner, but owner (Sir
George Clifford) refused to protest, though it looked any
odds on him getting the money had he taken that action.
* • * •
Gr. 0. Stead had a great time at Canterbury, M L ,
J.O. meeting, gathering in Riccarton Welter (£200) with
Evelyn); Welcome Stakes
(£600) with Orloflf (Stepmak—Sortie) ; Steward’s Handi-
cap (£500); Juvenile Plate (£300) with Royal Artillery
(Hotchkiss—Rose of Wellington), and the Derby (£750)
through Menschikoff. Last nag was also responsible for
his owner s fifth win of Canterbury Cup, while his seventh
capture of the Oaks (14th year) was effected with
Cruciform.
• * * *
Harrow, Q. two-year-old, developed good form
at recent Q.T.C. meeting. After winning the Hopeful
Stakes on his own,” he ran in a handicap, carrying
1/lb. over w.f.a., and got within half a length of winner.
He is engaged in A.J.C. Champagne Stakes, and his
owner is sending him for it.
* * * *
Profit on V.R.C. Spring gathering was just
over £lO,OOO. Last year ’twas £11,027. Stakes were
brought from £17,000 to £19,000 odd, hence the smiles
and choice grog in V.R.C. fold.
* * * *
¥ any Moseses stood and backed Revenue for
Melbourne Cup. Said that “ Oxy ” won a good lump,
also that another of the tribe (a Sydney layer) gathered
in a thou, about the Hymettus-Re venue double. Tales
of the ring s heavy losses want heaps of seasoning to
render them palatable. The uninformed general public,
who wouldn’t stand a nag that had done nothing publicly
for 12 months and never won a race for three years were
really the losers.
* * * *
Watch’em ” writes: “Heard of a punter who
picked the card at Caulfield on Saturday, 19th ult
Beginning with a wager of 10s. on the first race he played
his winnings up and left the course with £212 to the
good. Other side : A boy was left £BOO a year ago.
Taking a well-known tipster as his oade mecum, the
youthful plunger tilted at the ring until he lost every
cent., and is now driving a milk-cart. A former Melb.
Cup winner hawks vegetables, having lost to Ikey Mo.
the £12,000 he won over that race, besides £5OOO he had
saved.”
* * * *
Despite the moan of Ikey Mo and co. there
were various mokes in Melb. Cup that would have panned
out worse than McDonald’s good thing. As one of the
unchosen remarked to writer, “ If Australian Colors or
Hymettus gets home the Maoriland steamers will be
chock-a-block with hook noses and jewellery.”
A Maoriland paper bitterly deplores the break-
ing down of the steamer Monowai in mid-ocean—because
she carried a ton of Tattersall letters which thus missed
the Oup sweep.
* • * *
Sporting writers comment scornfully on the
mediocre crowd of nags for Melbourne Cup. Yet never a
protest when any horse up to w.f.a. form is bought for
other lands. Hautvillers is now off to S’America.
Unless the tide turns, the Melbourne Oup will, in a few
years, be about the calibre of a Moorefield Handicap (or a
backblocks hurry-scurry). Consider the expatriated of
the last ten years—Carbine, Abercorn, Trenton, Auruin,
Carnage, Australian Star, Clean Sweep, etc., etc., and the
tide still ebbs.
* * * •
Tucka Tucka (N.S.W.) stallion Gozo’s get did
most at V.R.C. Spring meet. Caledonia (two) and Ohio
(one) credited him with three races. Others to show out
well were Trenton (Revenue and Wakeful), Projector
(Ballyrogan and Point Piper), Wallace (Beanba and Inde-
pendence), Bill of Portland (Niphetos and Fishery) and
Malua (Glen Albyn and Kooma).
• * * *
Tod Sloan imitator, E. Turner, topped the
V.R.C. winning jocks’ list with five successes. Barden,
Minter, and Godby (three each), followed with Dunn
and Frank Kuhn (two each).
* • * •
He San Fran’s humping the crusher of 9.7 second
to Revenue. Carbine chased Bravo home in ’B9 with
lOst. in the saddle ; following year he won, carrying 51b.
more. Five years later Patron succeeded with 9st. 31b.
Next highest weight borne into a place was The Grafter’s
9.2 in ’9B. On the running it looks good odds that if San
Fran hadn’t been burdened with a penalty he would have
beaten Revenue.
♦ * * *
Revenue is the tenth first favorite to get home
in Melbourne Cup, and six of the longest-priced nags
have secured first money. Forty-one “ Cups ” have been
contested; 24 were kept in Victoria; N.S.W. got away
with 15, and S.A. two. Only one grey (Toryboy) has
passed the post first. Three-year-olds have succeeded
twice, four-year-olds eight, five-year-olds 13, six-year-olds
five, and aged nags four times.
• * « •
Sydney shop totes—with the robbery and job-
bery surrounding them given in—are always better invest-
ments for the small punter than taking Mo.’s cramped
odds. F’rinstans, Revenue paid 19s. for each ss. on him,
or nearly 3 to 1, while Ikey couldn’t be induced to dis-
gorge better than 2 to 1 or 5 to 2 at most on the day.
Besides, the tote investment would have provided a win
had Revenue run second, and had he finished third the
ss. might have been saved. In the Carnival Handicap,
Caledonia paid £33 odd for ss. Best odds Sydney books
offered were eights, and starting price was tens.
* * • *
Facts concerning “ Tatts.” Melb. Cup sweeps.
Owner of Kenley (Eden George) drew that nag in No. 3.
A Warrnambool man—dreaming he and two friends got
the right pea—straightway wrote the two, enclosing ss.
with the suggestion that they should subscribe a like sum
and get three tickets. Result Revenue. Twenty mem-
bers of Mount Lyell (Tas.), Stock Exchange drew Revenue
in the £1 sweep, and whacked £13,500 among them.
* * * *
Opponents of the totalisator ought to come to a
reasonable understanding among themselves as to where
the “ evil influence ”of the machine comes in. Hon.
J. H. Howe stated, a while ago, that he had “ visited every
race-meeting since the machine had been used,” and
found that its effect had been to double the number of
bookmakers. This is doubtless the reason why the num-
ber of registered books in Victoria and N.S.W. has
diminished since the tote was legalised in the other
States. The Ikeys in S.A., Q., and Tas. have grown so
rich through doubling their numbers and betting in
opposition to the tote that they don’t take the trouble to
get registered in N.S.W. Rats! Now, Roberts, M.L.A.,
tells a different tale to Hon. Howe’s. He says: “The
totalisator is the chief attraction at all race-meetings.
Its sensational dividends bring fresh supplies of people
into the gambling world.” But he hasn’t the gall to
assert that the sensational divs. of the tote have caused
double as many people as of yore to hanker after the
starvation odds of Ikey Mo. Every big div. paid by the
machine is a nail in the coffin of its bitter foe.
Roberts would probably admit this, whilst his anti-tote
brother Howe was still protesting that the tote created
new bookmakers by the simple process of calling scornful
public attention to the market prices of the old ones.
Roberts, M.L.A., confines himself to the assertion that
fresh supplies of gamblers are continually coming within
the radius of the tote. Therefore, its takings must have
increased enormously during the past 10 years, and the
easiest of things for Roberts,’ M.L.A., would be to
produce evidence in figures that the present population
of S.A. is alarmingly addicted to .the tote habit in com-
parison with the public of 1891. What figures can he put
forward ? Where does the evil influence of the machine
come in ?
• * * *
Yankee Jim Scanlan and N.S.W. slogger Billy
MeColl, both within an oz. of 11.10 at the ringside,
struggled through a painful exhibition that couldn’t, by
any stretch of imagination, be called a fight, at Sydney
Golden Gate A.O. Monday night last. More willing or
stronger pugs . have rarely been seen .; both were in
splendid condition, and both have a heap to learn before
they can be called clever. In the ring neither showed he
had a pair of feet, and both seemed to be under the im-
pression that the other fellow’s only vulnerable point was
his head. Scanlan hit clean and effectively when he did
hit—which was rarely ; and McColl’s punches beat
helplessly on the other’s bony elbows and fore-
arms. Scanlan’s defence took the bun for originality.
He smothered up and completely bamboozled Me., who
was fairly puzzled what to do. The way the Yankee
fended the Cornstalk’s swings and hooks was the one
redeeming feature in the whole 20 alleged rounds.- Betting
opened at evens, then 5t04 on Scanlan. In round two 2
to 1 was laid on MeColl, but later on Scanlan’s stock rose
considerably, and at the end he appeared to have won by
a fair margin. Referee Tom Nolan thought otherwise,
and gave the victory to MeColl. The big crowd evidently
went away disappointed, the fight falling far short o‘f
anticipation. MeColl, the best of his weight, shows how
Australian boxers have degenerated ; and the reputation
Scanlan brought from Amurka proves they are no better
over there.
* * * *
Melb. 11.4 pug., Jack Willis, since reaching
Sydney about a year back, has fought 12 battles, meeting
the same men twice on three occasions. Though Willis
isn t a champion, he takes on any contract with shekels
attached, and fights a game battle every time. Monday,
last week, he flattened out “ Kid ” Parker and McCarthy,
and prov ed conclusively that their forte was not bruising
The smashing of Teuton Gus Ruhlin by Jim
Jeffries in five rounds, at ’Frisco last week, was not un-
expected, though the fight must have been Homeric;
Four years ago, the same pair sledge-hammered each
other for 30min. (including special intervals) so equally
that it was declared a draw. Jeffries was only starting
then ; how he has improved the brevity of this last battle
tells, as Ruhlin has improved vastly, and is now only 27
years old. Maoriland freak, Bob Fitzsimmons, knocked
the mighty Ruhlin out in six rounds, 12 months ago, just
after Ruhlin had smashed sailor Sharkey, in 15 rounds
* » * *
N.S.W. swimming prospects are good. Satur-
day last nine clubs decided races, and 200 swimmers
lined, up—a common occurrence now. Despite Fred..
Lane s long spell up country, and fine sprinting form
already shown, he’s not likelv to shape in anything over
300 yards. Barring one or two meteor-like “unex-
pecteds,” it looks as if Read and Dick Oavill will stand out
in everything from 300 yards up. Last month, in Eng-
land, world’s champion Joey Nuttall failed to break Fred
. Lane’s 300yds. in 3.47 4-5 by l-ssec. When Lane did it,
many judges sniffed at it with the remark that the
distance of 300yds., being so rarely swum, rendered the
making of a record comparatively easy. Nuttall’s failure
proves Lane’s performance to have been pure merino
* * * *
All-comers’ first and second-class sculling events
at Balmain (N.S.W.) regatta, revealed some capable
coming men. Brother (O. Towns) of the world’s champ.,
heavily boated, supplied a tough struggle with C. Mes-
senger in the big event. Messenger shaped well, and
ultimately won. Hunter River man Chapman hadn’t
enough condition to live it out, and Burgess—a compara-
tive novice from the same quarter—rowed takingly, but
has something to learn about “ best ” boat work. When
he gets over that he’ll hum. Burgess looked to have the
second-class race “ on his own,” but young Reid came
with a well-sustained dash that just pipped the Northerner
by 3ft. Though there’s only a little of him, Reid is a
bull-dog. _ A bad course marred his prospects, and it was
only by dint of a brilliant sprint that he got there at the
right end.
* • • *
The Australian sculler abroad: After Towns
accounted for Jake Gaudaur, Harry Pearce easily
squelched Canuck John Hackett, who came to the front
during last four years. At Winnipeg regatta, Towns con-
ceded 3sec. in 1J mile, with a turn, to fellow-Australians
Tom Sullivan and Pearce, and the Canadian Durnan, Ned
Hanlan’s much-boomed pupil. Sullivan took the boodle,
with Pearce second, Towns third, and Durnan nowhere.
Pearce writes that Fox is the best sculler in England, and
that little Australian flier Daley could grill him brown if
they could only be got together.
* » • *
After all, it doesn’t look likely that world’s
premier sculler, Towns, will be out here for another year
at least, so Stanbury and co. may have to dwell on their
oars a bit. Towns is matched to meet “ Eddie ” Durnan
(Hanlan’s nephew) on the Thames next spring. This is
the outcome of the Canuck’s challenge issued months
back. Durnan hasn’t done anything beyond what an
ordinary good man might, but he has been boomed a
heap by the Yankee and Canadian press and his erstwhile
famous uncle. It looks a good thing for the Cornstalk.
* ♦ * *
Sims—winner of the recent bowling supremacy
of Australia promoted by theM.O.C.— is amongst the oldest
at the game in Victoria. _ Critics declared he had had his
day and was too much in the sere and yellow, but after
six hours’ solid graft on the closing day he looked as
fresh as the freshest. His drawing was accurate to a
degree, and his driving, when he did drive, invariably
evoked applause. Sims’ methods were a revelation to
some who believe in getting close to the “ jack ” every
time. He always placed his first two bowls behind, thus
depriving his opponent of the advantage of a “ rest,” and
being prepared for the shifting of the jack. Nothing but
superior knowledge and a cool, calculating style of
operating won the title for the veteran who has weathered
many engagements of a like nature. The championship
of Victoria fell to him on five different occasions.
* * * *
“Bias”: Rather remarkable that four prize-
takers, Sims (winner), Waxman (runner-up), Wartman
and Ellis, all act as rink skippers for their several clubs.
A big set-back for those who contend that leaders and
third players are as good as captains.
* * * *
At a recent Charters Towers cycle meeting
there was a race for goats attached to go-carts ; 12
starters. A leviathan opened-out at 4-to-l on the event,
and laid “ Stinker ” 11 times at 4,3, 2, and even-money
to crowns and half-crowns. Nothing else was backed,
and Stinker won easily.
* * * «
Victoria owns two youthful phenoms. in the
pigeon-murdering biz. “Amberite” is ]ust 13, and
“ Mafeking” will be 17 next birthday. The right names
of these shooting kids are Frazer and Fawkes respec-
tively. Fawkes was the biggest winner at Melbourne
Gun Club and North Brighton meets, winning £45 in the
two days. He lost his second nom. on the first day, but
carried the first to the end, shooting 19 straight, mostly
with the first barrel. Frazer, with a gun larger than
himself, brought down 22 out of 23 in the big thing of
the Melbourne Club gathering, and later, from 22yds.,
whacked a £25 sweep with Vic. champion A. E. Smith and
ex-champion Bobby Grant. He murdered 15 right off the
i reel, and at the close of the seventh round was the only
one to have his two noms. going.
• * * •
Cyclists will be pleased to hear that the Dunlop
Tyre Co. intend issuing another of their artistic racing
souvenirs, 20,000 of which will be distributed at the
Austral Wheel Race meeting. The folder will this year
contain fine half-tone illustrations of J. Megson (N.S.W.);
E. Wilksch (S.A.); A. Ralston (N.Z.) ; D. Walker (Vic.) ;
and G. Sutherland (N.Z.).
• • * *
Same old distinction in Maclaren’s team. Mr.
Jessep, Mr. Garnet, Mr. M'Gahey, and the other
“amateurs,” stay at the Australia when in Sydnej'. Hay-
ward, Barnes, Lilley, and the other “ professionals,” on
whom the success of the tour really depends, put-up at
another hotel.
• • * *
After many years. Famous Anglo-Australian
cricketer, S. M. J. Woods, will shortly visit Sydney for a
season and probably play for his birthplace, Manly. He
is a son of John Woods, of Manly, went home with two
brothers 17 years ago, and stayed there, being
captain of Somerset O.C. He skippered England in inter-
national Rugby matches, and played cricket for this s
against the Mortgagee Land.
* * *
Ancient, reliable jock, Tom Aspinall, after 26
years, has struck a seam of very bad luck. Months DacK
a heavy fall seriously affected one of his shoulders. After
being patched-up, he came another cropper, and frac-
tured a leg. He then requested the surgeons, while they
were at it, to remove his useless right arm at the socket.
He rode Tradition when that colt was second in Caulfield
and Melbourne Cups 13 years ago.
* * * *
The Assyrian is coming down upon another
part of the “fold.” At Coonamble (N.S.W.), the other
day, the £25 wheel-race was annexed by J. Ayoub, from
170yds. start, and the Patrons’ Gift fell to F. Simon, from
scratch ; both of these competitors being sons of Bel-
shazzar.
• * * »
N.S.W. country bike clubs have the Bilmartin
scare bad. Up Forbes way, t’other day, the great old
plugger wasn’t given a hope in the handicaps, and after
two essays, though he had other engagements in the
district, the ’Murkan rolled up his valise and went
Melbournewards. The winner of a mile race covered the
distance in 1.44. Martin previously had a cut at the
neighbouring Parkes meeting. The secretary encouraged
Bill’s visit with mailed information that though the starts
might look long, those who had them were “ pure
mulgas.” Seeing that the heats of the Half Mile were
won in 57, 58, 58 3-5 and 59sec., and one heat of the Mile
only occupied 1.46 j, the man from the land of the wooden
ham wants the Parkes people’s definition of “ mulga,” as
nothing he can get elsewhere fits his experiences.


h
Silver . . .
Hall-Marked
[ady’s gard Ease
6
The . . .
(Modern (Art gewellerytgo
187 Pitt St., Sydney
Next Shadler’s Cafe.
Write for Souvenir Catalogue. “Wd
22
You’ll feel
satisfied
after you have
bought your
Bicycle
from us.
You will feel you have a MASSEY - HARRIS
BICYCLE that will Wear Well and Run Well. You
will never have to tell your friends that you can’t go out
for a ride because your bike is out of order. In fact, the
possession of a Massey-Harris Roadster or Racer is a
source of continual pleasure. We offer such easy terms,
too.
West Australian Depots: Hay Street, Perth; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie.
throughout N.S.W., Victoria, South Australia, Queensland, Tasmania and N.Z.~»13
When once you have used
GLOBE TEA
It’s self-evident superiority is apparent to you. You
need not depend on what WE tell you. Try for
yourself. Compare it to anything you can get any-
where else at the same price. It is superior because
we have exceptional facilities for selecting and buying,
and because we have the knowledge necessary for
turning these facilities to the best account.
Send for Samples and
Price List.
ATCHERLEY & DAWSON,
TEA MERCHANTS,
284 George Street, Sydney.
mM
pu*
Inferior Materials do not enter
into the Composition of our Goods.
We invite inspection of our
methods of Manufacture
Goods sent earefally paeked, Toum op Gonntpy
THE
N.B.W. Fresh Food& Ice Go. Ltd.
■ - SYDNEY ■■■-
ĥ
HEBBLEWHITE’S
377 George-St., Sydney.
DIRECT IMPORTERS—
Sgwipg Maebipcs, Bicyck SQpdrigs,
Lcttgr-FilipS CabipgtS. . . .
PRICE-LIST OF SEWING MACHINES:
WILLCOX & GIBBS,
NEW AUTOMATIC
Hand Machines .. £7 6 0
and £7 10s.
No. 1 Treadle .. 8 0 0
No. 2 Treadle and
Drawer .. ..850
No. 3 Drawer and
Cover (as print).. £9 9
No. 3£ Cover, 3
Drawers and Flap 10 10
And upwards to .. 18 18
0
0
0
NEW VICTORIA,
Silent, Light-Running- Lockstitch.
Hand Machine and Cover.. .. .. £3 10
No. 32 Cover, Drawer and Treadle .. 4 5
lio. 34 Cover, 3 Drawers and Drop-leaf 5 0
No. 35 Cover, 5 Drawers and Drop-leaf 515
0
0
0
0
NO TIME PAYMENT.
All above Prices
are on a . . .
SPOT CASH BASIS.
Why pay Exorbitant Prices when you can Buy for Gash
Another injustice to Ireland is the pre-
ference shown by the Chinese to be Mao Some-
body rather than O’ Something. There is a press-
ing call for a Chinese Fenian now that the Kiama
Shost has been definitely buried, and there is no
usiness reason why Ah Sin should don kilts.
“ How McDougal Topped the Score”—
“My Mate Bill” —“The Billiard Marker’s
Yarn”—these and many other famous recitation-
Sieces will be found in “The Bulletin Reciter.”
loth-bound and illustrated, price ss. post-free
from Bulletin office.
Hall-Marked Gold Brooch, 10s.
Gold Links, 12s 6d.
Silver Links, 2s.
THE
OLP PROFITS
USED TO SPEAK IN FIGURES.
Solid Silver Cigarette Holder, 23/6
Their language being figurative was confusing.
We do not speak in figures.
We let our figures speak for us.
Also for themselves.
They are all plain figures.
They are London Cash figures.
They are the lowest old Freetrade figures.
Under Protection, like other figures, the older they are
the larger and heavier they get.
Our Xmas Goods were landed before the duties.
Do not delay in making your selections.
Fairfax & Roberts,
VIOE-BECAI JEWELLERS,
23 Hunter St., Sydney.
Plain Figures
Cash Figures fSJi
London Figures TS»
The first production of the “ Arcadian Nights ” is an-
nounced for the 21st Dec., at the Palace Theatre, when
the very beautiful scenery now being painted for the
fantasy will be presented with startling and novel
effects.*
; FiOS Freocb Calf,
21/-
Post)
Paid/
22/-
-
v:
THIS
BOOT IS
PHOTOGRAPHED
FROM
STOCK-
Our Boots can bo
EXCHANGED if not
correct, as we wish
DISTANT customers
to be as pleased as
those in town.
Your money RETURNED if you
are not satisfied with the
Boots.
This boot pleases boot-wearers, because it is made over the finest-looking and nicest
fitting lasts, from high-class popular leathers.
It contains every bit of value that it seems possible to put into a 21/- boot.
Others have
ordered.
Have you t
Callagbai) & Sod,
395 George St.,
SYDNEY
At Poverty Point.
Last week’s paragraph in regard to Miss Irene Franklin
was incorrect in some details. Mrs. Franklin is in a
private hospital, not an asylum ; and the arrangements,
financial and otherwise, with regard to Miss Franklin’s
visit to London were made by herself, not by Mr. J. C.
Williamson, who assisted her only to the extent of giving
her letters of introduction to various managers there. No
other assistance was required. Mrs. Franklin, we are
deeply sorry to hear, is very seriously ill.
Printed by a London paper that “ an American syndi-
cate agent arrived in Australia lately to ascertain the
possibilities of running a ‘continuous’ (i.e., all day)
variety show in Australia on Yankee lines. He left quite
satisfied ; and Australia is now to have a continuous
variety entertainment.” From which infliction may the
Lord deliver us ! The continuous variety show in its
most awful form runs from II a.m. to 11 p.m., and never
gives its theatre a proper chance to get a good dose of
clean air. Its guiding principle is to give the public
quantity, not quality, for its money. You may go in at
11 a.m. and sit it out until the last awful joke at 11 p.m.
—that is to say, if you are stone deaf and hopelessly
idiotic. But, for the ordinary public, the management
provides a “clearing-out turn" every two hours, a per-
formance so utterly bad as to drive everyone out, and
thus make room for a fresh crowd. A comic man who is
so pre-eminently bad as to clear a continuous variety
hall with certainty and dispatch commands a very high
salary in the places where these horrors abound —another
illustration of the fact that in any Art to be supremely
bad is always better than to be merely good.
Lempriere Pringle, the operatic basso, had a big recep-
tion in his native Hobart the other day. He lived in
Hobart till 18 years old, and then went to Europe for his
musical education. Prior to leaving, young Pringle was a
clerk in the office of Lands and Works. He was received
at the Town Hall by a large gathering of citizens, and
welcomed by the Premier and the Mayor, on behalf
of his “ fellow-countrymen.” Pringle’s step-father is
C. J. Barclay, managing director of the Commercial Bank
of Tas. His father was, years ago, a clerk in the same
bank, but relinquished the ledger for the operatic stage.
Dear Bulletin. —Let me call your attention to the fact
that Adelaide is no longer a “holy city,” for, though
churches and parsons still abound, we now keep two
theatres going, and managers are no longer sure to lose
money here. We’d do even better if The Bulletin would
be more frequent and less satirical about us in “ Sundry
Shows.”—W.A.S.
Wilson Barrett talks about the “ millenary” of Alfred
the Great. Error in spelling. Millinery is the word,
when Wilson Barrett is concerned.
“ The Ganger’s Mate” writes : “ ‘ Rick ’ (14/9/’01) must
be wrong in saying that Mr. and Mrs. Robt. Heir played
at Bendigo in the early ’7o’s. Robert Heir’s widow was
married to George Darrell on Thames goldfield, M.L.,
before the dawn of the ’7o’s.” Which reminds The Bulle-
tin that George Darrell is getting to be considerably older
than he looked when he took a farewell benefit in Mel-
bourne some months ago.
The late revered “ Jimmy ” Alison was highly indignant
one morning because nearly the whole company was late
for rehearsal. “ Look here,” roared Jimmy, “if this
happens again I’ll have you all found I ”
Lily Titheradge was married, the other day, to a medi-
cal student in Scotland. The sprightly little woman is
understood to have given up the stage.
Cinquevalli has started again for Australia, but he
travels via America, and is booked for six months of en-
gagements in that country ere he comes to Rickards.
For once Charles Holloway intends to give blood-
curdling drama a spell, and will produce a costume play
of the Charles and Cromwell period, called “For the
King.”
Dear Bulletin.— Sentenced to sit out Wilson Barrett’s
“ Hamlet,” the other night. I made a discovery—the
first and second grave-diggers are the prototypes of
Dooley and Hennessy. The first grave-digger, keen old
philosopher, is Martin Dooley, and Hennessy (whose
creation, to my mind, is even a cleverer bit of character
work than Dooley himself) is manifestly identical with
the second grave-digger, trying hard, and in vain, to keep
pace with the intelligence of his companion.—D.W.
The visit of Mr. Henry Hallam, after an absence of
nearly 30 years, revives memories of his first wife, Hattie
Sheppard, a native of Tasmania, and an excellent actress.
Hattie Sheppard died at Melbourne in September, 1874,
aged 26 years, but she still lives in the praises of her old,
enthusiastic admirers.
The cast of Pinero’s latest “ serious” play (“ Iris”), at
the Garrick Theatre (London), includes three old Aus-
tralian friends—Dion Boucicault (who is also stage-
manager), Miss Beryl Faber, and Mrs. Maesmore Morris
in a minor part. Pinero is just now writing a light
comedy for another theatre, wherein Boucicault s wife
(Miss Irene Vanbrugh) will have the chief part. The
great little Dion probably wishes he had gone back to
London a few years earlier than he did.
The two first exponents of the dramatic art in Victoria
were Bichard Winter, who arrived in Sydney from
England in ’34, and made his appearance at the first
theatre in Melb. in ’4l; and Richard Capper, whose
appearance as an actor was a few months later, though he
officiated as machinist in the same initial performa-nce.
The “ last curtain ” fell on both 15 years ago, so that they
reached a good old age. Curious to read in an ancient
newspaper file that at the first theatrical performance m
Melb (“ The Widow’s Victim ” and “ The Lottery
Ticket ”), Arden, editor of the Gazette, was to haye
delivered the opening address, but was non est, being in
gaol under commitment by Judge Willis for contempt of
court • and that Kerr, of the Patriot, announced the
postponement of the recitation. Cheers were thereupon
given for the absentee, with hisses for the judge. Two
newspaper reporters—Davies and Boursiquot sustained
characters in “ The Widow’s Victim.” The first named
was father of the present proprietors of Hobart Mercury.
Re curious “shingles,” (B. 22/6/1). There used to be
exposed in a Vic. border town a sign-board with the
legend : “ F.X., Theatrical and General Bill-Poster, and
First Violin.”
“N.”: “The Sign of the Cross” is the most impudent
piece I ever saw. It might have been written by W. T.
Stead in collaboration with Marie Corelli and General
Booth.
A farcical comedy, written by the late Robert Buchanan,
and produced in Australia, but not mentioned in a recent
Bulletin paragraph, was “ The Strange Adventures of
Miss Brown.” It followed on the lines of ‘Charleys
Aunt.” Frank Thornton played Miss Brown, with Bessie
Rignold, Noney Seabrooke, Shepherd, young Terry, and
others in the co., and ran the comedy for seven weeks at
Melb. Bijou before taking it to Sydney. Another of
Buchanan’s forgotten comedies was “That Doctor
Cupid,” a fantastic novelty, which failed as a Xmas show
at Melb. Princess’s in ’B9-’9O. Elton, Janet Achurch,
Edward Sass, Herbert Flemming, and Harwood played
principal parts, but they couldn’t make the thing gee.
Those were the days of expensive co.’s and keen competi-
tion, when the old firm of Williamson, Garner, and Mus-
grove ran two Melb. houses —the Royal as well as the
Princess’s —and sometimes made £250 a week profit at
each.
George Lauri’s recent “ Florodora ” gibe at the troubles
of Tyrone Power seemed not in the best of taste. When
the orchestra played out of tune in thePrapses entertain-
ment, Lauri walked to the footlights and said, “ Don’t
worrv ; you’ll get paid all right.” Surely the theatrical
dog does not eat the theatrical dog 1 But p’r’aps this
questionable joke was intended for a sneer at the action
of T.P.’s unionist musicianers. Actors have no spirit of
union anyhow. There are always plenty of mummers
willing to work for “ glory ” in the place of one who may
strike for his arrears of salary.
R. 11. Nichols, actor, is now in durance at Brisbane for
disobeying an order of the court forbidding the produc- ■
tion of “ What Became of Parker” (practically identical
with “What Happened to Jones”). And, according to
the Chief Justice, in limbo Nichols has got to stay until
he comes down with the incidental costs ; which, as he is
dead-broke, he cannot possibly do while prevented from
earning the wherewithal. The senselessness of the law s
attitude in the matter is on a par with the imbecile rule
under which a man who has been ordered to pay main-
tenance to his wife may, for not complying, be, by
imprisonment, effectually prevented from complying.


ħ
George and Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAY.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY.
TERMS. The convenient
system of paying for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
LETTERS and TELEGRAMS ADDRESSED to “ THE
MANAGER” will RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
h
mm
Oothing Succeeds [ike jjppearaiee.
UP-TO-DATE STYLE FOR UP-TO-DATE PEOPLE.
The Suit
To Order
42s
With
Eactra Trousers
Holds the Commonwealth’s Record
..FOR..
STYLE, FIT & FINISH.
Send for Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms to our only address—
OPP. G.P.0., BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE.
Price 6s.
■ Post Free.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
BY
“Steele Rudd.”
THE MICA LUBRICANT CO., SOUTH SHIELDS, ENG.
noC score the rods, but put a mica surface on them, similar in appearance to electro plate * ey d °
tohgent for Australasia: R. A . HERVEY. Dep6t, 171 Clarence-st., Sydney, N.S.W
VINOLIA SOAP
FOR DELICATE, SENSITIVE SKINS.
FA
VINOLIA SOAP
IN FIVE KINDS. SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Vinolia Cream
FOR ..
ECZEMA, ITCHING FACE SPOTS, Etc.
Editor Baby reports:
“An emollient antiseptic cream. For acne
spots on the face, and particularly for
eczema, it is undoubtedly an efficacious
remedy, frequently healing eruptions and
removing pimples in a few days. It relieves
itching as if by magic.”
N FOUR SIZES.
Vinolia Powder
.. FOR ..
REDNESS, ROUGHNESS, TO3LET, Etc.
Editor Lady’s Pictorial reports :
“ Vinolia Powder is a very soothing pre-
paration, superseding the old toilet powders,
which are apt to cause acne by blocking up
the pores of the skin.”
White, Pink, & Cream Tints.
FOUR SIZES.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I’O DE3T*Y COMPETITION.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, S7DHEIT.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks-Free.
PLAYS
Catalogue
Free . . .
French’s Acting Edition.
ĥ
Rare Books
French Novels
Books
for
the
Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
Jioolcs Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
B )OK and MAGIC ARCADE .
2 )1 Bourke Street, Melbourne
ELECTRIC
MINING
MACHINERY
OE EVERY DESCRIPTION.
KRUPP RALL MILLS
NOYES BROS.
31 O’Connell-st., SYDNEY;
17 Q’ssan-st., MELBOURNE.
tJAPT O (Lalio
(UMTTISn),
lawarra),
SYJ3M'U'3r.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
• • • •
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
■■ ■
MAKERS OF
S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
ILLAWARRA”
.. Bit AND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes
f GOLD, SILVER LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REFINERS
v . . PKJCESPAID for ores. PROA!. . CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
in orxna ion re_ai mg atcs, etc., apply to P. S. Mouse, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S. W.
of SILVER LEAD 3UAL


. Banking, Public Companies, &o.
- Classes - of
Security
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
<o^
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3xr.s,-w.
fHont depiete DJl.Co.LW-
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
74
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
'—THE -n
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Robhrts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruck Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Millbr.
Accumulated Funds, £2,491,989.
Policies issued 85,372 —assuring £26,085,346.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,576,850.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
The jank of ||orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp& Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 900 ... £350,000
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-*-* Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
Hern Zealand Insurance (Jo.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES
£1,000,000
420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
81 Pitt St., Sydney.
J. A. MINNETT,
Manager.
TV Trustees, €*cctitorS,
AND
Ag'iKV Con?paQy Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
£150,000 0
£90,000 0
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE LIABILITY
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business)
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1901 ... £6,388,976
£150,000 0 0
£BB5B 7 8
5 3
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORIIOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED. "
CAPITAL PAID-UP £385,187
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 245,119
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 55,000
£685,306
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Ass. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Go. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Dire3tors—Sydney : Sir W. M'Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks.
Adelaide': L. A. Jessop, Esq. Wellington : H.
Beauchamp, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montefiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Established 1879.
THE
IJnited Australian (|)itual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices :
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital .. £500,000
Subscribed Capital 251,260
Paid-up Capital .. 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance.
AGENTS REQUIRED WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
Alfred Webster, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £BOOO, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Shipping.
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Sat., Nov. 23,12 Noon.
■Konoowarra, Tues., Nov. 26, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Nov. 30,12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Konoowarra, Tues., Nov. 26, 5 p.m.
ALBANY •
FREMANTLE
Konoowarra, Tues, Nov. 26, 6 p.m.,
takes passengers and cargo for
transhipment to S.S. Buninyong,
leaving Sat. Nov. 30.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Tyrian, Saturday, Nov. 23,12 Noon.
Gabo, Tuesday, November 26, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., Nov. 30, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian, Saturday, Nov. 23, 12 Noon.
Peregrine, Sat., Nov. 30, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. See.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked throuirh.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrib & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, CALLING at PLYMOUTH and
LIVERPOOL Via CAPETOWN,
CaMna at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz. :
SUEVIC, 12,500 tons, to Sail about 23rd NOVEMBER,
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
PERSIC, RUNIC, MEDIC, and AFRIC.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
general y is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with readinar-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric light
throughout.
For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS TV AUSTRALIA _
Huddart, parker & Co’s j,ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, TTORART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
A3XTX3
A
LINE
via
San Francisco,
California.
SPLENDID NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS,
SIERRA
SONOMA
VENTURA
Over 6000 Tons each.
8000 H.P.
Length, 426 feet,
Passengers booked through to American, Canadian and
European centres at current rates.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO., ITT).
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts., SYDNEY.
TIME TABLE.
THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
THE “ALL RED” MAIL ROUTE
TO LONDON.
THE ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
OF THE
CANADIAN-AUSTRAUAN LINE
Under contract with the Governments of New South
Wales, Queensland, and Canada, leave Sydney every
four weeks as under, for
BRISBANE, HONOLULU, VICTORIA and VANCOUVER.
Connecting at Vancouver with the
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
This is the Imperial Route Home, as well as the most at-
tractive. It avoids alike the heat of the Red Sea and the
cold of Cape Horn. The railroad journey between the
Pacific and Atlantic Oceans (Vancouver to Montreal)
occupies about 4 davs, and is made
WITHOUT CHANGE OF CARRIAGES,
through the grandest scenery in the world—over the
Selkirk and Rocky Mountains, across the Prairies, and
along the North Shore of Lake Superior.
Passengers have the choice of a number of overland
routes, enabling them to visit the principal cities of
Canada and the United States.
For Railway Maps, Guide Books, and all other informa-
tion, apply to
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government, .. ..,2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital ... .. £2,500,000
Bank of New South Wales,
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. 2,000,000 0
Reserve Fund.. 1,250,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,250,000 0 0
Directors:
Hon. Chas. K. Mackellar, M.L.0., President.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Henry Normand MacLaitrin, M.L.O.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L C.
Auditors:
F. W. Uther, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
Tae Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
“podge” Standard
pjood SpHt pulleys
All Sizes kept in Stock.
SOLE AGENTS :
N. <SUTNRIP<S€ Ltd.,
71 Clarence St., Sydney.
SEND FOR CATALOG."*®
nxr. id. l.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OP
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin screw.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
REGULAR SERVICE to SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. STETTIN, 2478 Tons,
LEAVING SYDNEY ON 23rd NOVEMBER.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
Publications.
NOW READY at Turner & Henderson, SYDNEY.
Toilet & Troubles of the Skin & Hair
by Dr. ALFRED NEALE ; new edition, post Is Id.
TRICHOLOGY, a Study of the Hair, post 7d.
THE BALLET GIRL
ħ
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties.
Madame Panza,
913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
FOREIGN STAMPS.
h
LY muilh
(Cs=
amaem
/"iHEAP SETS.—4O Japan, Is 6d ;
47 Spain, 2s ; 10 Bulgaria, 6d ;
16 Heligoland, Is : 8 Egypt, 6d ; 30
French, 9d ; 12 Indian Telegraghs,
6d ; 9 Labuan Pictorial, 2s 6d; 11
Canada, 6d; 9 Canada Duty, 6d ; 5
Bolivia,4d. Packets 50, 15;100,256d.
Stamps Purchased. New Catalogue
of Stamps, Albums, etc., Gratis.
uiiiiftiM'd
CHARLES DONNE, 346 Little Collins-st., Melbourne.
r
«7Hlan # Cq 9
nielbournc
Jhe best House for
Itltisic. Pianos.Viotlns and
all musical sundries
Collins Sf..
T)EAR SIR,—I have been cured of Weakness and Del
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBERT
E. PARKHURST, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LI M I Tit'll)).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippingat Fremantle
toall North Western Ports
S.S. Allinga, Friday,
November 22.
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday,
November 23.
S.S. Warrego, Friday,
November 22.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Adelaide
(Captain D. P. Davies),
Saturday, November 23.
Itest and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and Howard Smith Co.,
Ld. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THU POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Uris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be' ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, In Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
D AND O. COMPANY’S
■ * ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
VICTORIA
ROME
6527 F C. A. Lyon, R.N.R.
.. 5545 E. Street
HIMALAYA ... 6898 W. L. Broun, R.N.R.
jDec.
Jan.
Jan.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B 10s to ,tV7
Ditto Ditto Return, £7llos to £l2l
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific, and
Messageries Maritimes Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTH LY, as follows:
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices*
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
“E. ANP A.” LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
HI < |luiraith,H) < Eacham&|}o.
PROP. LTD.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS
KALGOOELIE, 4500 tons,
COOLGABDIE, 3500 tons,
SAIT, FORTNIGHTLY between
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
West Australian Ports.
Passenger Accommodation ITnmrpassed. Liberal Cuisine.
MHLWRAITH, MEACHARN AND CO.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany and Fremantle
Sydney Agrents—BUßNS, PHILP & CO. Ltd.
GENTS
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.—L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbi
A POLICY FOR THE
Now Ready.
Price (id. ;
Posted, Bd.
COMMON WCALTH-


amusements.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Director .. .. Mr. H. HALLAM.
General Manager .. .. A. MIDDLETON.
SIXTH WEEK.
MISS JOSEPHINE STANTON
AND COMPANY.
•VST A.3STC3-. “W A. OXT G-.
EVERY EVENING, at 8.
MATINEE, EVERY SATURDAY, at 2.30.
Plan at Nicholson’s.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY. '
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas.. J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
THE WILSON BARRETT SEASON.
FOR A LIMITED NUMBER OF NIGHTS ONLY,
THE SIGN OF THE GROSS.
Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. ;
Family Circle, 25.; Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
H E A T R E ROYAL, S Y D N E Y.
Under the Direction of Mr. Charles Holloway.
TO-NIGHT, and for a Limited Number of Nights,
Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S
POPULAR COTERIE of PLAYERS in a perfect production
of
EAST LYNNE.
Popular Prices—3s., 2s , Is.
Early Doors (6d. extra), Open 6.50. Ordinary Doors,
7.30. Commence 8. Plan at Elvy and Co.
Empire theatre, Sydney.
Lessees and Managers .. John Fuller and Sons.
Every Evening, at 8. Saturday, 2.30.
CROWDED HOUSES NIGHTLY !
FULLER’S VAUDEVILLE COMPANY.
Adelphi Dramatic Co. in “IT’S NEVER TOO LATE
TO MEND.” Our Bright Stars, McKISSON & KEARNS,
IDA ROSSLYN, WILL STEVENS, WILL WATKINS. Last
Few Nights of DENIS CARNEY, TED HERBERTE,
GLADYS BOYD, VERA ROSE. Six New Artists Next
Saturday. Orchestra Stalls, 2s. ; Stalls, Is. ;F. Circle, 6d.
Y C eITm THEA T R E, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. William Anderson.
MAGNIFICENT AND EXTRAORDINARY SUCCESS
achieved bv
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION, in the Grand
revival of the Stirring Spectacular Military Sensation,
THE LADDER OF LIFE.
PRICES—3s, 2s and ONE SHILLING. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Saturday, 21st December,
THE
ELYSIAN
CREATION,
THE ARCADIAN NI6NTS.
Tl VO L I TH EAT R E, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor .. .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
First Appearance at the New Tivoli, of
ATHAS AND COLLINS.
JAMES BAIN.
NEVA CARR GLYNN.
CLAUD SULLIVAN.
ERNEST SULLIVAN.
JOHN COLEMAN.
IDA MAY.
JESSIE WILLIAMS.
HOWARD CHAMBERS.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Saturdays & Wednesdays.
Rl CKARDS’ NEW O PERA HOUSE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Mr. RICKARDS’NEW TIVOLI SPECIALTY COMPANY.
Enthusiastic Welcome and : .-c.ss of Mr.
E3CAR CRANYi.L a,
England’s Vocal and Corned v Artist, in his Up-to-date
Monologue, “ MASQUERADING.”
JAMES OPIE, the Young South Australian Baritone.
Entire Change of Programme by DORA TAYLOR,
LITTLE GULLIVER, AMERICAN BIOSCOPE, WILLIAMS
SISTERS, and the Whole of the Great Tivoli Company.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager. Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr. E. J. Tait.
AN UNPARALLELED MUSICAL TREAT.
FAREWELL SEASON of
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S GRAND ITALIAN OPERA CO.
(Prior to their Return to Europe).
ORDINARY SCALE OF PRICES prevailing at this
Theatre, viz., 55., 35., 25., and ONE SHILLING.
FITZGERALD BROTHERS’
CIRCUS <sc MENAGERIE.
THE SHOW OF ALL SHOWS.
MELBOURNE SEASON—I9OI.
THE GREAT LONDON SENSATION,
THE HIGH DIVING HORSES.
ST. KILDA ROAD, ST. KILDA ROAD,
In a Special Building Erected under the Superintendence
of Mr. DAN FITZGERALD.
THE GREAT JUMPING HORSE,
NEWHAVEN,
Winner of the High Jumping Prize at Bendigo Show,
with the Record Jump of 6ft. 9in.
Will Jump Over 6ft. Every Evening in the Ring.
HAL GEORGE. \
FRANK JONES, j Ke P 3 '
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
• Lessee Mr. George Musgrove.
Under the Direction of .. .. Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative Mr. Allan Hamilton.
EVERY EVENING,
THE BROUGH COMEDY COMPANY.
FRIDAY, NOV. 22, LAST NIGHT of THE SECOND IN
COMMAND. SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 23, Revival of
THE MAGISTRATE, for Six Nights Only.
PRICES : Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, ss. ; Stalls,
3s. ; Amphitheatre, Is. (Early Door Amphitheatre, Is.
extra.) Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzie’s, and The Grand.
HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
THIRD WEEK
of the Great Dramatic Masterpiece,
HEARTS ARE TRUMPS.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Box
Plan at Allan’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
“ Purblind Argus, all eyes and no sight! ”
—“ Troilus and Cressida, i, 2, 31.”
Patents for Inventions.— Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyrights
throughout the world.*
Possessing exceptional discernment and
tact amounting to Sherlock Holmes’ genius, J. W.
Holdsworth (101 Swanston-street, Melbourne),
heads his profession as a Private Inquiry Agent.
For investigating private matters, intricate next-
of-kin claims, and for tracing lost persons he is
unrivalled.*
A certain well-known Sydney sportsman,
whose scalp for a period of nearly 15 years was en-
tirely free from any sign of hair, and who has had
produced a fairly good growth through using
Capilla Hair Tonic, cannot pass down any street
in Sydney without being held up by persons who
have heard of the cure effected, and made to show
his head with the hair thereon.*
The day of ugly wall-papers is surely passed. The
exclusive attention given to this class of business by
Messrs. Thos. Whitelaw and Co., the magnificent re-
sources of their Home house, its attendant factories, the
auxiliary of some of the best artists, the regular employ-
ment of a large number of the ablest colorists of the hour,
enables Whitelaw’s to maintain their pre-eminence as the
most successful wall-paper people in the world. Their
names, long associated at Home with those great English
interests that have risen from “ the ashes of a Conser-
vative apathy,” now may be ranked with the greatest of
giant energies in successful commercial enterprise. The
rapid extension of their business and its establishment
in the leading capital cities of Australia, marks another
note of progress. The branch house at 391 George-street,
Sydney, is without doubt the most complete in its
appointments, as alike in its marvellous assortment of
stock comprising goods which range from the cheapest to
the best the World can produce. Whitelaw’s are offering
their handsome papers at London marked prices, and, be
it said, the values of their cheaper Art products are a
matter of pleasure and surprise to the buyer of moderate
means. Their private series comprises the richest decora-
tions that have ever been sent to Australia. The whole
business indeed is a splendid example showing the possi-
bilities of Art applied to interior wall treatment.*
The New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency
Co. Limited report Wheat.— An extremely dull week
has been experienced. All interested are anxiously
awaiting the arrival in bulk of the new crop, which in
nearly every district promises well, and it is pleasing to
note the Railway Commissioners are. making special
efforts.to fully meet the requirements of the approaching
season. The value of prime grain is still nominally from
2s. 10id. to 2s. lid. Ohickwheat to 2s 9Jd. Sydney,
November 15th, 1901.*
N ervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
5 of this issue *
ARE YOU BALD?
CAPILLA
Stops the Hair from falling.
Stops the Hair from going grey.
Promotes a luxurious growth of Hair.
Eradicates Dandruff and Cures Itching
Scalp (both of which, are sure signs of
approaching Baldness).
Don’t Look Old Before Your Time!
CAPILLA HAIR TONIC is not a highly-perfumed preparation—it is
a MEDICAL TREATMENT for the Scalp and Hair.
CAPILLA is the ONLY Hair Restorer on earth that is actually guaranteed to CURE
BALDNESS (providing there is a slight down on the scalp). Testimonials and full direction for use
enclosed with each bottle. Sold in one size only— 2/6 per bottle; by post, 3/2 ; inter-State, 3/5 ;
or the Full Course of 6 bottles for 17/2, inter-State, 19/2 —under cover. Stocked by all up-to-date
Chemists and Storekeepers.
W. RICHARDS,
Sole Proprietor and Manufacturer,
168 Pitt-st., and 14 Imperial Arcade,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TAKE WO SUBSTITUTE.
&
RUPTURE CURED, TWO GUINEAS.
Thousands have been Cured at their own homes for this small price. Greatest Inven-
tion of the Age. Established over a QUARTER OF A CENTURY. Known around
the World. Security and Comfort to the Ruptured. Different from all others. It
does the work ! Investigate! “Booklet No. 1,” giving full information, will be sent
for a 2d. stamp. Address :
MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS COMPANY, *San Francisco or New York, U.S.A.
Australia—W. H. Saul & Co., 160 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
1
Registered
by the
Medical
Board
of N.S.W.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON.
HAVING had 30 years experience in all parts of the
world, and also having lately made an extended trip
through Europe and America, he is in a position to
treat every case submitted to him according to the
methods of the most recent and eminent Specialists.
Every Case treated on its own Merits.
Sufferers at a distance, unable to describe their cases to
heir own satisfaction, should write for Dr. Watson’s
“Guide to Diagnosis B.”
POST FREE Is.,
which will enable them to give exact and full particulars, so as
to enable him to report fully as to the disease and its radical
and rational method of treatment.
Consultation Free or by Letter).
The publication of crowds of symptoms, testimonials and
puffs of one’s skill and attainments savours too much of self-
praise ; so the public should look with a doubtful eye upon all
those who “doth protest too much.”
Dr. Watson does not pretend to say that “ One Pound is
sufficient to send,” as stated in certain advertisements, _ for he
considers that the public are quite satisfied to pay a fair price
for fair and legitimate treatment.
NOSIVMSHaO
137 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
Please mention this Paper when writing.
m
Business Announcements.
American Naphtha Launches for Sale.
One 18ft., one IC't.—Quite New.
Sharpies’ Cream Separator & Dairy Supply Co.,
143 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.
JJOWARD & 00. repair any instrument.
Queen-street, Woollahra.
]\T ANDOLINES, from Is. weekly. Write for lists.
HOWARD & 00., Woollahra.
"RRASS INSTRUMENTS, from Is. week. HOWARD &
J - > 00., Woollahra. Write for lists.
ATUSIOAL BOXES and ORGANETTES, from Is. weekly.
HOWARD & 00., Woollahra. Write for lists.
VOU can hang yourself on our VIOLIN and BANJO
L STRINGS. HOWARD & CO., Woollahra. Try them.
A BOUT 60 tons of MUSIC @ Id., 2d., 3d. and 6d. each.
Lists free. HOWARD & 00., Woollahra.
A UTOHARPS, from Is. weekly. HOWARD & 00.,
Woollahra. Write for lists.
r'J.UNS and RIFLES, 2s. 6d. weekly. Write for lists.
HOWARD & 00., Woollahra.
“DILUTES, from 6d. each to 20 guineas. Cash or terms.
HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
VTIOLINS from Is. weekly, 1500 in stock. Write for lists.
v HOWARD fc 00., Queen-st., Woollahra.
"D ANJOS from Is. weekly, all kinds in stock. Write for
lists. HOWARD & 00,, Woollahra.
A OOORDIONS from Is. week, 1000 in stock. Write for
lists. HOWARD & 00., Woollahra.
A NGLO CONCERTINAS, 30s. to £12125., cash or terms.
Write for lists. HOWARD & 00., Woollahra.
rnYPEWRITERS, 2s. 6d. weekly, brief and foolscap.
x HOWARD & 00., Woollahra.
"PHONOGRAPHS from Is. week, also other talking
x machines. HOWARD & 00., Woollahra.
-DIOYOLES from 2s. 6d. weekly. HOWARD & 00.,
Queen-st., Woollahra. Write for particulars.
"PIANOS and ORGANS, cash or terms. Write for lists.
x HOWARD & CO., Woollahra. :
TTOWARD & 00. extend their easy terms all over the
colonies. Queen-st., Woollahra.
TTOWARD & CO., largest time-payment firm 'in' the
- 1 - 1 - colony for everything. Queen-st., Woollahra.
"yiOLINS and FITTINGS of every kind.
HOWARD & CO.,
Queen Street, Woollahra.
"J-'JtlJfc! MEW
EDISON TALKING MACHINES.
ĥ
The Bijou Phonograph.
With Complete Outfit, including 6
Assorted Records, £2.
The Standard Phonograph
With Complete Outfit, including 24
(2 dozen) Assorted Re-
cords, 2 Blanks, £6 10s.
Undoubtedly the Best
Value ever offered.
Extra Edison Records,
208. per dozen ; 12s. per
hall-dozen. Concert (5J
inch) Records, 6s. each,
60s. dozen.
Send (or Catalogues con-
taining 3000 selections.
BEEVES & CO. I ADELAIDE and BROKEN HILL
ħ
CONCERTINAS
and /EO LAS
r Unsurpassed for
TONE and . .
WORKMANSHIP.
Ettd.
mo.
Manufactured and Guaranteed by
WHEATSTONE* Co.
Inventors &
Patentees),
20, Conduit Str&at, LONDON, W., England.
Of all Dealers ; or send direct for Price Lists.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
TOOTH
POWDER
IS THE BEST DENTAL
PRESERVATIVE.
Has the Largest Sale of any Dentifrice.
Sold by Chemists, Stores, &c.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
Our New “Booklet No. 2” tells all
about this wonderful Belt. Send 2d.
in stamps for a copy.
It
h
Cures without
Drugs!
Still the
Letters Come.
19 Gwendoline St.,
Treherbert,
Bhonnda Valley, Glam.,
Feb. 22, 1901.
Pierce Electric Co.
Dear Sirs, —Two years
ago next April I bought
one of your Dr. Pierce’s
Galvanic Chain Belts,which
was, 1 am pleased to say,
the means of restoring me
to a grand state of health.
A few days’ use of your Belt
did me more good than all
the medicines I ever took ;
in fact, medicine was of no
use whatever. Electricity
is the remedy for me.
Tours truly,
Stephen Davies.
Address — PIERCE ELECTRIC CO., 206 Post St.,
San Francisco ; 1145 Broadway, New York, U.S A • or
W. H. SOUL & CO., 160 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.’
Wanted.
'UiIVE THOUSAND AGENTS wanted to wear and adver-
tise the grand watches and jewellery of a well-known
London firm. Agency attended, in spare time, by lady or
gentleman wishing to add to income. Send for extmordi-
nary liberal offer, giving name, address an& Resent ncaa.
pation. Reply to No. 1 WATCH AQSNGT, 16 8?
Bride Street, fiondon, E. 0., England. *
The waste of time in W.A. Assembly,
through the wrangles which finally led to the fall
of the Leake Ministry, shelved several important
measures—among them the Early Closing Act.
Eor two years an E.C. Act was enforced with
excellent results, but that Act expired by
effluxion of time on 31st Oct. Mr. Leake pro-
posed in its place a Shops and Factories Act
similar to that in force in Queensland, because the
Crown Law Dept, of W.A. had made almost use-
less the expired E.C. Act by declaring that no
person was a shop-assistant unless engaged in the
actual sale of goods. Milliners, dressmakers,
saddlers, packers were all excluded from its bene-
fits. The B. hopes that the new Premier will
follow out Mr, Leake’s intentions in this matter.
The Alien Restriction Bill debate in the Senate
was marked , by speeches that should have made
those old Vic. Leg. Council seats scream out in
protest. Introducing the Bill, Senator O’Connor
observed :
The tie which bound Australia to the mother country
was merely nominal. It rested upon affection and com-
mon.interesfc, and the community and sympathy of race ;
and if, at any moment, any of these factors were to disap-
pear, there could be no doubt that Great Britain herself
would be as glad as Australia would be to let us go our
own way.
Then Senator Harney (W.A.), made another
shocking assertion that he would sooner have
Australia discourteous and offensive to the Home
Office than enact a legislative lie. Higgs rubbed
it in by quoting the much-belauded Natal Act,
and showing that under it Hindoos were practi-
tically slaves, and had not even the right to walk
on the footpaths. He accused the British Govt,
of being “ got at ” by influential people ; pointed
out that, though the Q. Sugar Works Bill was
vetoed, other Bills with exactly the same provi-
sions, but not opposed by such naiee persons,
were allowed to pass; and declared that the
British Govt, did not represent the voice of the
British people, millions of whom were not en-
franchised. “Send a contingent,” said S.A.
M‘Gregor, and the sprinkling of old-time Tories
looked in vain for a bolt from Heaven to strike
him dead. John Bull, if he takes the pains to
think over the matter at all, must be troubled
when he marks the rising of the tide of Australian
Nationalism in our first National Parliament.
♦—
It is now generally believed that “Joe”
Barling will not take his seat again on N.S.W.
Public Service Board. Deputy member Bridges,
well-advertised by the public-school children’s
displays, was sure of the vacancy, but lately his
health has given cause for anxiety.
5 Old Dr. Agnew, who died, at Hobart,
t’other day, saw the arrival and departure of no
fewer than 20 Tasmanian Governors—from Sir
John Franklin to Chief Justice Dodds. Had he
lived a day longer, his record would have stood at
21; the new Governor, Havelock, arrived just in
time to attend the old man’s funeral. He was
born in 1815, somewhere in the North of Ireland ;
arrived in Sydney in ’39, and went to Tasmania
m ’4O, at the invitation of Gov. Franklin, to
§hysic the convicts at the Cascades Penitentiary.
ixty years ago he became a member of the Royal
Society of Tasmania; and, a few years later, im-
ported the first salmon-ova to the island, at a per-
sonal cost of £9OO. Hobart Museum and Art Gal-
lery found him a liberal donor, and the kindly,
unassuming old Doctor will long be remem-
bered in the Isle of Dreams as an unsuccessful
politician and a successful philanthropist.


A QUICKSAND BATH.
Serious Consequences.
A GENERAL RESTORATION.
The Case of
Mrs. F. MARTIN.
(by a special reporter.)
If the inhabitants of Sydney were all
wealthy people, with nothing but the pro-
motion of their own happiness to think
about, would they be content to while away
their time in the many picturesque spots
surrounding the city, or would they go
“farther and fare worse?” People upon
whom fortune does not smile too lavishly
are philosophical in patronising the many
beautiful picnic resorts within easy reach of
their homes, and the experiences sometimes
resulting are worthy of a more romantic
period. A pleasure excursion to Botany
some time back had a sensational termina-
tion, for the details of which we are in-
debted to Mrs. Flora Martin, of No. 11
Suttor-street, Alexandria. “It was a small
family party,” explained Mrs. Martin to the
writer, “ composed of my husband, a married
couple, some children, and myself. We
were fond of taking a trip to Botany, where
we used to sit admiring the noble expanse of
water whilst the young ones played on the
sandy beach. On one particular day my
sister-in-law and I were strolling leisurely
along with the youngsters, where the tide
had a few minutes previously run out, when
I stepped on to a treacherous bed of quick-
sand and suddenly began to sink. Before
my husband could reach me I had
almost disappeared from view, my head
being the only part visible, It was a lucky
thing that my screams were heard, otherwise
I would have been smothered. My husband
ran to my assistance, and with considerable
difficulty extricated me in a fainting con-
dition from the jaws of death. My baby
was then only three months old, and I was
not ve’-y strong. The shock my system
sustained had a disastrous effect upon my
enfeeoled condition for months afterwards.
“ For nearly three weeks I did not stir
out of my bed. My doctor ordered me to
refrain from any exertion, which was
scarcely necessary, seeing that I was in such
a condition of helplessness. I was so weak
and nervous that the slightest start brought
on a shivering fit, besides making me give
spasmodic jumps. The first two weeks in
bed were quite sleepless. I could not drive
from my brain the thoughts of the narrow
escape I had. Lying awake night after
night my mind wandered back to that day
of horror, and the most exaggerated
imaginations followed each other in quick
succession until they made me tremble con-
vulsively. I could take no solid food of any
description, and the milk diet upon which I
relied to keep me alive failed to agree with
me. After the light things which I slowly
took in small quantities I was immediately
seized with pain in the stomach, and in the
left side. There was a choking feeling in
the throat, and the stifling sensation re-
sulting filled me with dismay. I was afraid
my breathing was going to cease altogether.
I believe this distressing symptom arose
from the leaden feeling of oppression on my
chest. At any rate, the sufferings entailed
by forcing down any nourishment were so
unbearable that I did not eat a quarter as
much as my body, required. Consequently
I lost all my flesh. There was not a streak
of colour left in my cheeks, and I was so
irritable and nervous that I did not care to
see anyone, and sometimes could not bear
the sound of my child’s voice. Being so
restless in bed, and not getting any better, I
decided to try and get about a little.”
| « Did the change do any good ? ”
«* No. I got worse and worse as I greM
older. I suffered from bad headaches, ana
I was very often sick. Boring pains over
the eyes were very troublesome, and fits 01
dizziness made me reel and almost fall to
the ground. Every morning, on rising
from bed, a dreadful fit of nausea, accom-
panied by violent vomiting, attacked me
with unerring regularity. A bitter fluid
arose from my stomach, and my throat felt
parched. Liberal draughts of water during
the day did not ease my feverish thirst,
which, I think, was induced through a con-
tinual feeling of faintness. My weakness
prevented me looking after the house woik,
and the inability to exercise my limbs pro-
duced great weariness. Constipation was
another ailment, my tongue being unclean
and unwholesome. Just below my ribs the
flesh became very tender, and behind my
left shoulder I felt sharp, darting pains. A
sensation of chilliness in my feet and limbs
was often followed by flushings of my face,
and then a dry, hacking cough came on.”
“ You had a perfect complication of ail-
ments.”
“ I think I had all the ilk imaginable
rolled into one severe attack, and it was
only natural that I became low-spirited and
despondent, besides being discontented
with everything and everybody. I was
always in dread of trouble arising, and had
a melancholy desire to be alone. Even
talking fatigued me ; reading was out of the
question, as my eyes were too dull and
heavy. From downright exhaustion I
occasionally fell into a short doze, and then I
had dreams of a frightful character, which
made me dread falling asleep.”
“ What did your doctor say ? ”
“He said I was suffering from excessive
nervousness, and that my digestive organs
were greatly impaired. He gave me a lot of
physic, which did no good. My nerves
were still shattered, and my frame was
reeking with pains. My husband again came
to my rescue. I was more dead than alive
when he brought home a bottle of Clements
Tonic. Until then I had not found a remedy
to relieve my troubles. Clements Tonic
gave relief immediately. It gave tone to
my nerves, enabled me to eat and sleep,
and destroyed all my aches and pains. My
health was soon perfected by Clements
Tonic, and that is why I desire my cure to
be made public, which you can publish in
any way you like.
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I Flora Martin, of No. 11 Suttor-street, Alex-
andria, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales,
do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have oare-
fu ly lead the annexed d cument, consisting of three
folios and consecutively numbered from one to three,
and that it contains and is a true and faithful account
of my illness and cuie by Clements Tonic, and also
contains my full peimission to publish in any way my
statements—which I give voluntarily, without receiv-
ing any payment; and I make this solemn declaration
conscientiously believing the same to be true and by
virtue of .he provisions of an Act made and passed in
the ninth year of the reign of her present Majerty,
intituled “ An Act for the more effectual abolition of
Oaths and Affirmations taken and made in the various
Departments of the Government of New South
Males, and to substitute Declarations in lieu thereof,
and for the suppression of voluntary and Extra-
judicial Oaths and Affidavits.”
Declared at Alexandria this 28th day of September,
one thousand nine hundred, before me,
JAMES PARR, J.P.
STRENGTH for the WEAK
and NERVOUS.
“ THE MEDICAL MONTHLY,” August, 1893, says : “ The firm of Arthur Hale
and Son, of 105 Regent Street, London, W., has distinguished itself in the develop-
ment of electrical science as a medical agent. By an entirely new method of applica-
tion they have succeeded in producing an Electric Body Belt, which for comfort,
efficacy, and genuineness, is unquestionably far superior to any previous invention.”
WE INVITE ALL intending purchasers of our IMPROVED and
PATENTED ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELTS and APPLIANCES
to a FAIR TRIAL and TEST before payment. Call upon us if possible.
If it is not convenient for you to call at our offices, request a friend or an
acquaintance in this city, or one coming from your own town, to do so for
you. We will first show you that our IMPROVED and PATENTED
ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELTS and APPLIANCES are genuine pro-
ducers of a continuous GALVANIC CURRENT by a MOST CRITICAL
TEST with the GALVANOMETER. And if you or your representative
cannot feel the ELECTRIC CURRENT from the GALVANIC
CHAINS in our ELECTRIC BELTS and APPLIANCES, we are will-
ing to place £lO 10s. to the credit of each of any two Charities you may
mention, either in this city or your own town or city.
We most cordially and respectfully invite any PHYSICIAN or
ELECTRICIAN to inspect our IMPROVED and PATENTED
ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELTS and APPLIANCES, which we are
now offering for sale to the AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC.
&
y
m
Hale & Son’s Improved and Patented Electro-Galvanic Belts and Appliances are
Nature’s Chief Restorers. Our Plain Belt, our Special Belt and Suspensor for Gentlemen,
and our Abdominal Belt for ladies are guaranteed to be the most Scientific and Genuine
Electric Appliances yet produced. They will speedily relieve and Cure Nervous Exhaus-
tion, Rheumatism, Pain and Weakness in the Back, impart tone and vigor to the whole nervous
system, and make life a pleasure. We invite all sufferers, no matter what the disease or ailment may be,
to call or send for our Free Book, entitled, “ Modern Treatment of Disease by Electricity.”
Consultation Free.
HAIiE & SON, Medical Galvanists,
105 Regent St., London, W., and 44 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
Please mention this paper.
COPE’S NAVY CUT and PRAIRIE FLOWER
(SPECIAL MIXTURE)
As supplied to the ARMY and NAVY.
TOBACCOS
Manufactured in England.
Agents—Virgoe, Son and Chapman.
Business Announcements.
good Tailoripg.
SUMMER
WORSTEDS,
tweeds,
SERGES,
See., See.
Patterns and, Self-Measure Charts Post tree.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Mercers,
73 AND 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
AN EFFICIENT
51-
FILM CAMERA
THE BROWNIE.
Not a toy. Takes splendid photographs,
2| by 2J inches. Complete with hand-
book of instructions.
KODAKS from ss. to £7 158.
OF ALL PHOTOGRAPHIC DEALERS, or from
KODAK, Limited,
The Block, SBh Collins Street, Melbourne.
Send for illustrated price list and mention this
paper
Medical.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism.Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstkk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Load, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Ts sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizus, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN'S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkhtrk & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
THE NEW FRENCH REMEDY
THERAPION
This suc-
cessful
and highly
popular remedy, as employed in the Continental Hospi-
tals by Ricord, Rostan, Jobert, Velpeau, and others,
combines all the desiderata to be sought in a medicine of
the kind, and surpasses everything hitherto employed.
THERAPION No. 1 maintains its world-renowned
and well-merited reputation for derangements of the
kidneys, pains in the back, and kindred ailments, afford-
ing prompt relief where other well-tried remedies have
been powerless.
THERAPION No. 2, for impurity of the blood,
scurvy, pimples, spots, blotches, pains and swellings of
the joints, gout, rheumatism, and all diseases for which
it has been too much a fashion to employ mercury, sarsa-
parilla, &c., to the destruction of sufferers’ teeth and ruin
of health. This preparation purifies the whole system
through the blood, and thoroughly eliminates every
poisonous matter from the body.
THERAPION No. 3, for exhaustion, sleeplessness,
and all the distressing consequences of dissipation, worry,
overwork, etc. It possesses surprising power in restoring
strength and vigor to those suffering from the enervating
influences of long residences in hot, unhealthy climates.
THERAPION
may be procured of the
principal Chemists and
Merchants throughout the world. Price in England, 2s. 9d.
and 4s. 6d. In ordering state which of the three numbers
is required, and observe that the word “Tiierapion”
appears on the British Government Stamp (in white
letters on a red ground) affixed to every genuine package
by order of His Majesty’s Hon. Commissioners, and with-
out which it is a forgery.
0«= R* CORO’S
iflgtHCV^ye.
The only Infallible Remedy fur WE AKN ESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope.
Agents for Australasia— PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne ; Wholesule Agents for New South Wales—
Australian Drug Co., Ltd., O’Connell St., Sydney. All
Chemists, or Box 165, C.P.O.
Business Announcements
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Be-t,
Cheapest, and Most Stylish ChOTIIING in Auttralia.
STUART&I’O.
* PROPRIETARY LIHITED,
252 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
White Shirts to measure.
Our Suit to order at 4?s.
marvellous value; mad.; from
all-wool '1 weeds. Vicunas, or fast
color Serges ; it is perfect fitting
and beautifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order from
any class cf material, £3 3s. To
measure, capital Trousers, *cry
good patterns, 12s. 6d.
Dress Suits, to measure. % *«
Clerical Suits, to measuie. £s*
Biding Breeches, 25».
Riding Habits, <fcc.
We supply ready-made. Men's
capital Tweed Suits. 21®. 255.
) Fami us Ballarat Serj:e Suits,
Indigo dye,2ns.
All-wool, fawn, grey, or brown
Sergerette tuits,3os.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, ss, lid.
All-wool blue and black Vicuna
Sacs and Vests, 19s. lid.
Men’s Grass Cloth Summer
Suits, 19s. 6d. White Drill
Sacs and Trousers, 10s. 6d.
Khaki Suits, shrunk, I2s «d.
Black and Grey Alapaca Sacs.
6s. 9d. Wliite and Brown Drill
Trousers. 3s. 9d. f 4s. 9d., ss. Od.
Travelling Trunks, and
Rugs in great variety.
Men’s White Shii ts, colored
front and cuffs, 2s. 9d.
Fancy Blouse Shirts, new
designs, ss. 6d.
White Matte Shirts, collar and
pocket, 3s. 6 d - «. „
So t Alpine Hats, 4s. 6d.. all
colors
Hard Hats, 4*. f>d. Caps. Is,
Merino Undershirts or Pants,
ls.9d, J _
Neckties, all shapes and colors.
Is.
Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
**'w« like letters; so don’t be afraid to ask for any
Information. Our book, ” The Philosophy of I rest and
patterns of all kinds and self-measurement forms posted free
Write for them.
ri AIR’Q
GOUT H RHEUMATIC
FIIIIIS.
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,.
Strand, London, and sold at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store-
f ''ouf, the Australian Colonies.
€V€RY MAN
Should send for a VALUABLE PAMPHLET explaining
low all NERVOUS and ORGANIC derangements may be
UCCESSFULLY TREATED by a NEW METHOD. It is
EASY and PLEASANT, and will effect a PERFECT and
3 FRMANENT CURE. Sent post FREE. Address—
PHE BOTANIC INSTITUTE, VICTORIA CHAMBERS,
ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
THE
DEA
HEAR
by using Wilson’s Com-
mon Sense Ear Drums.
Wonderful Results obtained in
cases considered beyond any
treatment. Soft, comfortable,
and invisible when in use.
Head Noises Relieved.
Pamphlets and Australian
Testimonials Free.
J. CHALMERS, Sole Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
EUR
DEAF
SEE
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
■ how long standing. Arethesame
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. 0
Address—-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
$
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English
American and made to order
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, ibe.
DENYER BROS.. Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
■ :
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles,
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one of these
Cahinets. Price 25/-
Head and Face Steamer, 3/6.
Can he forwarded to any address.
J. CHALMERS, Agrent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and infallible Remedy,
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C-S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
“ The Best Australian Book of Sea and Sailor Verse.”
The Ways of Many Waters
By E. J. BEADY.


Tlie cruel system which compels married
and unmarried females to attend at police-stations
to draw their maintenance-money ought to be
altered Frequently a young girl who has had an
accidenta! baby by a mean father has to ask for
the allowance, fixed by the Court, in front of a
dozen or so of policemen, as well as civilians
having buuness at the station. More privacy
would .be secured if the C.P.S. had the handling
ot the m mey. The average woman—wife or
mistress-who has had to apply in court for the
maintenance of her child is deserving of all the
jiitiful consideration the community can give to
Prisoners sentenced at Broken Hill and
ordered to be confined in some Sydney-side gaol
are still taken across country—3oo miles or so
mostly desert—by coach. Nobody else ever goes
that way ; it is much cheaper, and more comfort-
able and safer and speedier, to go by train through
o.A. and \ letoria. A N.S. W. policeman cannot,
however, take a N.S. W. prisoner through other
States ; and there is, as yet, no Federal police-
man with authority to hang on to his man any-
where in Australia.
To sentence a man to 12 months* gaol in
N.S.W. means to fine the State, roughly speak-
ing, £5O ; and that is exclusive of cost of police,
courts, and erection and repair of gaols. At Dar-
linghurst, still the most populous prison, the cost
of keeping a prisoner is a trifle less—just under
£45 last year; and at Biloela, where Port Jackson
sharks (unpaid) largely take the place of warders
it is done for £27 lfis. But in the country it gets
to as much as £l7l, the Deniliquin figure ; and
at even such a large and accessible gaol as Trial
Bay the cost averages about £7O, of which £4O
goes in salaries and wages.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the re il English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
WOOL. PRODUCE. GRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
■A.OT -A.S SELLING BROKERS ONTLY.
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (|) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
''(lncluding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
■ will be 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb : 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
. under Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing 1 .
Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT.
Every inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by the Company.
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent when
(lesfred giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, eve.
Mitchell’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills, Buncle and Sons’ Chaffcutters.
Donald’s Patent Woolpress.
AGENTS POR McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
“ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd-
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
TOUR (ASE
WELL
IN HAND
h
CATARRH Causes DEAFNESS
Buy Rattiev’s medicator and
prevent this. “A Sovereign
Remedy ” for half-a-sovereign
post free (remit by postal note or
coin securely wrapped and
registered). Treatment includes
Medicator, Inhalent to last tour
months and Nasal Ointment,
zo page booklet, “ What is
Catarrh? ’’ and treatment of hay
fever, etc., post free on request.
Home Catarrh Cure Co., 229-231 Collins St.
MELBOURNE.
LADIES
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FR BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
Address— L.D.
Hearne
ronchitis Core.
“X*JE3CJE3 X v 'j3IMOXJS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS IHE LARGEST SALE OP ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA. ’
=§g!i
B'BWARE OP COUGHS!
remember that every disease has its commencement, and consumption is no exception to THIS RULE
A Lady in London.
A MARTYU TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CUBED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BBONCHTTIS CUKE.
THE DOCTOB SO INTEBESTED THAT HE
CABKIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
"Air. Hearne.—
“Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
af London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. I do not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself what an immense success
It was. —Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
irrived, and 1 immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
>ff the empty bottle to find out if he con'd get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here."
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
applied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS’ TOBTUBE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEAUNE’rf
BRONCHITIS CUBE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
„„ r “Dergholm, Victoria.
Dear Sir,—l wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
aionths, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
1 was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
idvice, and tried other 1 remedies,’ without avail. I tried
fours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
iin a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
nay depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone X see afflicted.
“Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Searne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
indoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
ihe Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
Ifty-nine other leading- residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
p se S y Mm T B TKQ Oh n tiS - C ." r n fo \ ree °- f “y family > and ifc cured each of them in from one to three
aoses.— r. F. MULLINS, Copie s Creek, Victoria.”
•
thß “ Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
(Juirindi NSW”’ lam seudln » for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M'DONALD, Trinkey, via
e
“Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.-A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney."
9
both dl oU i a , nd u 1 - am 79 ’ . a ”? lam g lad 1o i '' form you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
Victoria ° df d f B °° d ’ U haVHIg (,u ' ck y cured 118 both --R- BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
vkia! ~(m“) JS b,nau
9
“ 1 have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria."
*, bave finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffl-
of breathing- has all gone.— J. HARIiI.NG’TON, Bingegong-, Morundah, N.S. W.”
9
Queen^re C et! d WaS ‘ disai ’ I)eared after Uvo doBeB - C - J- CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
9
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.-C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria."
Cra^Tvicfori'^ 118 * «*1» *» b. a most
G. SETTER, 1 ' wXt”* 8 Th ; result was *« a rvellous. It eased me right off at once.-
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
'* 'I' 11 “• 1 “ "•“"»«»■» **° --rbody.-s.
“I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried vour med,Vin»
T REL A WNEy/ Se v er|' f, ' eedoU '' “ a direCt reSult ° f ,ny brief trial-JOHN C.‘
“ Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, ami the doctor, to whom I paid seven Guineas did not dn
- *”» * * -S. ~ WSS-MbS;
9
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria ” ’ d h
9
. . “ Yo , ur Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previouslv
took made me much vvorse. I am satisued that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness. —HENRY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria”
9
Poinl T^Darnngf o oV®X J toria.' ?Ure 1 got from you was ma S* ca l in its effects.—OH AS. WHYBROW, Enoch's
Gratitude and Appreciation.
hundreds cured in their own
CIRCLE.
“ The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequentlj
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victori.
who during 1 the last few years has been repeatedly work
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchiti'
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom
mended to try. your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ao
countant, Oollins-street, and the effect that it had was sc
marked that he has ever since been continually recom
mending it to others.
‘ We are glad to add this our testimony t.o the value ol
Hearne s most valuable Bronchiris Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people ever
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Quem-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Hear Sir,—Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
‘ THOMASON, CIIATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.’"
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Es<}. Dear Sir,-Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken
with immediate curative effect.
“I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUA it RILL,
“ Editor Gkklong Advbrtisrr.”
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of vour
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.. Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
Branch depot
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
/\£C2 a . VT £T T 1 • A Til
_ „„. „ o ffi c e: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel 3562
Small Size, 2a 6d; Large. 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. AM * Post to any ajL* w il not obtainM. fSJ
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food fob
Infants
9
BENGER’S FOOD Is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BERBER’S FOOD it told in Tint by Chemiate, Re., everywhere.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, tr' d
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


The Pianola will play any piano . Any
one can play it\
(ptanofa
And What It Means to the
Heretofore Passive Listener
&
his
of
Any ONE CAN BE A PLAYER and individualize
own identity in his rendition of the piece.
/■ It stands as the “open door” to the world
.A. JBL music—its delights, its influences, its education.
The prohibitory tariff of years of patient and tedious
practicing to acquire the technical ability of striking
the right note at the right time has been completely wiped away.
Of the “technique” the Pianola is complete master.
In “ tempo ” and “ expression ” it is your servant and as
responsive as the human fingers, which, after all, are but finely
adjusted mechanism controlled by the mind.
It is the only piano-player which appeals to musicians
well as novices.
No other piano-player has ever received the endorsement
a musician.
This fact, coupled with the source of pleasure it opens
every household, should induce every one to investigate it.
as
of
to
You are cordially invited to call and hear this wonderful instrument. We keep a
staff of assistants whose sole duty is to show the Pianola and yEolian to visitors,
to explain and to play these instruments. We are glad to show the Pianola
to the merely curious as well as to the intending purchaser.
If unable to call, write for Catalogue
C
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.,
Sole Agents 'or Australasia,
323 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Pianola is sold at no other address
in Sydney.
‘uSSKS:
Ready November 25th.
PEARS’ ANNUAL,
Xmas 1901
Will consist of a capital Christmas Story entitled
“Nat Harlowe, Mountebank,”
from the Dramatic pen of the ever popular
and versatile GEORGE R. SIMS.
With 22 Illustrations in Black and White,
Specially Drawn by Mr. Frank Dadd, R.l.
With the Above are ....
3 Large presentation plates
1. WITCHERY. By A. Piot.
2. LITTLE BOBS. By Edgar Bundy, R.l.
3. THE COMING NELSON. By Fred. Morgan.
Each printed in 13 Colors in the best and most artistic style of the Chromo-Lithoyrapliic Art.
Sold by Booksellers and Newsagents all over the world.
The Wooing of XJongasa.
[Fob The Bulletin.]
He Was a very great chief of the Royal Line;
therefore, it behoved him to keep up his dignity.
It took him all his time ; he usually kept it up
on a mat, seated cross-legged, with the national
garment twisted round his limbs and a white mess
jacket on his body. On state occasions the jacket
had appropriate continuations —military and gold-
braided, for the wearer knew what was due to
civilisation and to his dignity. His other occu-
pations were smoking strong native suluis, pre-
tending to plait sennit, uttering sententious
maxims of wisdom at some fono, and accepting
the ministrations of a bevy of plump and semi-
nude hebes.
Over these presided Taema, the Chieftainess,
hustling, bustling, with a two-edged tongue, but a
kindly soul withal. Her scoldings finished, she
Would squat down merrily to a mistress-and-maid
meal, on the share-and-share-alike principle—with
the biggest share for the hand-maidens. Having
married into the Royal Line, she also was a great
personage, in proof whereof she never appeared in
full undress, but habitually flaunted a European
chemise over her lava-lava. There was nothing
small about Taema ; her figure and her house-
keeping were on a generous scale. She recalled
an active French mdnagere, done very brown and
remarkably sloppy about the waist.
The principal house—there were several—was
on a scale commensurate with its master’s dignity,
the roomiest and most circular bread-fruit house for
miles round. But what set it apart as a house on
the Royal Line was its air of foreign luxury, the
number of its camphor chests, the framed photo-
graphic portraits hung up inside the dome, the
large bronze bust on tne floor against the forked
central bread-fruit pillar, the toilet-table with a
couple of looking-glasses elaborately draped in
antimacassars. The crowning effect of civilisa-
tion was seen at night, when, in the seclusion of
a mosquito-curtained sanctum adorned with
turkey-red and scarlet-braid streamers, Uongasa
rested his august bald head, not on a common or
farden bamboo bolster, like Taema snoring beside
im, but on genuine papalangi pillows, beauteous
with starched frills.
Taema was fat, frolicsome and forty. Now,
forty is a great age for a partner of a beau of
sixty. So on weekdays Uongasa sat on his mat,
smoking suluis, watching Taema, and pondering
many things. On Sunday, adorned with the
braided continuations and a button-hole, he went
to church with Taema, when he heard about
David and Solomon and other much-married
worthies, and pondered still more. One day it
dawned on him that the village required more
fine mats.
The village was quite of his opinion; it held
fonos —otherwise committee meetings limited to
one sex—and plaited 3ennit, and discussed the
question. For new fine mats meant a wedding
and a Taupo with a big dowry. One day Uongasa
spoke to Taema with tears in his leering old eyes.
“ My beloved,” he said, “ it grieves me to the
heart this that I am bound to say, but you know
what the village is—how greedy, how selfish.”
Yes, Taema knew.
“ And how a chief, a royal-line chief, has to
sacrifice himself and be sacrificed.”
Taema knew.
“They clamor for new mats, my noble one.”
Taema knew. Apparently, what she didn’t
know wasn’t worth knowing. She came to the
point. “They have selected the Taupo?”
“Ah, well—-yes—l believe —that is to say, with
your wish and approval, they talk of the Taupo of
Laloiloilevaoloi. Her mats, alas ! are many. ”
“And she is young and fresh, and a Catholic as
I was,’’quoth Taema, with a cheerful nod and a
side-glance which puzzled her lord. “ Well, when
do you wish the courting to begin ? ”
“My very noble chieftainess ! It is but a form.
The girl will come for a time, to secure the mats
to the village ; then she will return to her home
and thou to my heart, as before. ”
Again that satisfied nod and quizzical look.
“I shall go to my people directly the church
feast is over,” said the discarded one, placidly ;
“ meanwhile I will make a few more pillow-slips.
Young Taupos don’t care to be sewing and starch-
ing and ironing.”
Uongasa heard her with a pang. He had his
own misgivings as to that Taupo’s sentiment
towards pillow-frills, and other comforting
matters. Moreover, Taema was so very heartless,
took it all as a matter of course, without a touch
of sentiment. It was, on the whole, rather trying.
Perhaps Taema had her own bad quarter-of-an-
hour as she squatted before her sewing-machine,
her ironing, or her siapo board ; dark lines came
under her eyes, and the lids drooped heavily, but
her mouth had a proud curve, and she made no
sign. The church feast passed off, she gave a
grand dinner, and beamed benevolently as she
flew round waiting upon her guests, and made
her little jokes, and held her head bravely. On
the morrow, when she left, it really looked as if
she were discarding Uongasa. That was exactly
how he felt : an ill-used, cast-off spouse, as he sat
in his grand house on the two following days,
with the rain falling. The semi-nudes who re-
mained forgot all about the morning tea, to which
Taema had accustomed him, and couldn’t find the
materials when remonstrated with. They forgot to
pull down the mat-venetians so as to keep the
draughts off his chest. They left the mosquito-
curtains down all day. And they stuffed him
with the remains of the feast—cold, fat pork—of
which he ate a great deal too much, and dreamt
that six fat Taupos dragged his pillow from under
him and then sat upon his chest.
* * • *
Bun, on the third day, the Royal Line reasserted
itself. The villagers stored the malanga boat
with roast pigs innumerable, and Uongasa started
off, flags flying, awnings tricked out in blue and
red, thirty rowers, all garlanded with green,
bending to their oars as they chanted a sea-song,
and a fine young man on the prow, brandishing a
club and cutting capers for the benefit of be-
holders.
The pigs were excellent etrting, the Taupo was
pleasant to the eye, yet something seemed lack-
ing. The village virgin made light of the num-
ber and quality of the porkers; she eyed her
royal suitor coldly ; she danced carelessly, and
she bestowed kindly glances on a handsome young
chief who scowled at the Royal Line. Evidently
there was going to be trouble. But a Samoan
wooing, when a state affair, is slow and patient,
involving many feasts and offerings. Uongasa
came home with less flourish of trumpets, but
with confidence unabated. Many times that
heavily-laden malanga-boat might be seen going
down the coast, returning each time with a slower
swish of the oars and a quieter chant. At
last the village chiefs remonstrated: they
had contributed more pigs than in rea-
son; it was quite time to see the color
of those mats. Then the truth came out. The
virgin’s people were very sorry to lay any obstacles
on the Royal Line, but theirs was a quite ex-
emplary and high-toned virgin, belonging, more-
over, to the Catholic faith ; it was out of the
question to allow her to be married without a
proper legal ceremony. And Uongasa had no
divorce paper.
Was that all ? Uongasa would at once see Ins
noble-minded chieftainess and get her consent to
the divorce ; it was but a form. And with much
show of confidence the malanga boat proceeded to
the adjoining island, where Taenia had retired
into family life. But in his corner of the boat the
married wooer drew a scarlet turban down over
frowning brows, for he had misgivings about the
noble-hearted one.
Taema’s views Were distinct : she had been
brought up a good Catholic. Though she did
alter her creed to marry Uongasa, she had now
returned to the true faith, and had no notion of
risking her soul. He might go to heaven as soon
as he pleased ; indeed, it was time for him to be
thinking of the journey, but so long as he re-
mained on earth he must abide by the law of the
church.
“ But the Taupo’s honor,” remonstrated
Uongasa.
“The Taupo is young,” answered Taema, as if
youth were a crime to be atoned for; “she has
time for repentance, you have not. But if I
agreed it would be useless ; my brothers refuse
their consent, and without it the divorce cannot
be obtained.”
This proved true. What was to be done ?
Uongasa had an inspiration. Samoan pigs were
Elayed out, but papalangi delicacies remained.
loaded with 500 loaves of bread, three casks of
salt beef, two sacks of rice, that boat sped
along once more, and the drum played, and the
trumpet brayed, and pistol shots were let off as
the rowers leapt to shore. Alas, for the wooer !
No strapping Taupo was there to dance the siva
for him ; she was off to the hills with her father
and mother . . . and a handsome young chief
as protector.
Uongasa had no hair to tear, but he wrung his
hands and trampled on his dignity. “Her
honor ! ” he cried ; “ the honor of my future chief-
tainess ! ”
“Be still,” answered the other chiefs, “ and
show us your divorce-paper. Do you suppose her
honor is not as dear to us as to herself ? ”
It was probably dearer. A Taupo with damaged
reputation falls, not in caste, but in market
value ; her people are mulcted in so many extra-
fine mats.
When the chiefs saw that there was no divorce-
paper they shook their heads; but when they
noted the white bread, the red beef, and the rice,
they nodded approvingly. “We will re-consider
that question of marriage,” they said ; “ we have
eaten of your food, you deserve our mats. We
shall not mind what the missionaries say. As our
forefathers married —faa Samoa, so shall you. ”
And that day, as the malanga boat returned
towards the great house, its rowers sang the song
of the accepted bridegroom.
• * » *
But the bride tarried and made no sign. And
when Uongasa, weary of waiting, went down for
the last time with full wedding paraphernalia, he
found the central figure of the wedding again
absent. She had crossed him, going by land as
he came by water, and she was now ensconced with
some relatives of her mother’s a few miles from
his own home. It was rumoured that she uttered
slighting remarks concerning the Royal Line,
declaring that nothing should induce her to start
a matrimonial journey on it with a bald-headed,
wheezing companion.
And Uongasa, urged on by his wrathful village
chiefs, was equally determined. He is sitting on
his dignity at Laloiloilevaoloi, asserting that he
will not arise till he possesses a suitable number of
fine bridal mats. The bride may be lacking, but
her mats, in payment of all those pigs and
papalangi delicacies, he must have. And Taema,
in her own old home, sits and smiles proudly.
She put very inferior material into those last frills,
and can calculate to a nicety the time when she
will be recalled to resume her old sway with in-
creased vigor.
And the handsome young chief is calculating
the cost of stealing a Taupo by force. It is
an expensive indulgence, but he thinks he sees his
way to it.
So does the Taupo.
SAVAII, NAVIGATOR ISLES.
ROSE DE BOHEME.
At Day-Dawn (Murchison, W.A.), there is
a black alderman (American negro).
Why do not the legal-code consolidators of
other States conform with Victorian custom and
annotate Acts with the gist of important cases
decided in various sections? Such notes would
shed a brilliant, unofficial light on the bewildering
object-lessons of word-jugglery affected by the
average Australian draughtsman.
Judge G. B. Simpson is quite right in say-
ing that police magistrates, in cases of assault with
violence, should, instead of fining the accused,
send them up for trial. As things stand, a mem-
ber, or members, of a push having a grudge against
somebody, just pay the reckoning well and fully;
if caught, they are taken before the P.M., and (in
most cases), fined from 10s. to £2, which, to a push
of 30 or 40 or thereabouts, means from 3d. to Is.
apiece. Their troubles !
At Geelong (Vic.) police-court, the other
week, a middle-aged man named Phillips was
sentenced to a month for indecent exposure. The
man admitted to having got 10 years and a flog-
ging for a similar act of sex-madness, so his next
conviction may be expected to come along shortly.
As a treatment for Phillips’s insanity the lash
must be considered a failure.
“ W.S.T.” : To the question—“ What
makes an officer popular with his men ? ” a
returned Australian swaddy answered—“ Sticking
to them in the firing-line, and seeing that they
get their grub. One of our lieutenants, who is
now a major, was the idol of his company because
he never wasted a man, was always up amongst
them, and, if the dog-biscuit and coffee weren’t on
hand when business was over, somebody had to
lookout. Now,” went on the warrior, “another
Australian officer, who went over with much
trumpet, faded into insignificance after his first
engagement. On the way over he was very fond
of lecturing his men, and on one occasion plain-
tively remarked that, if he were wounded in
battle, he must be carried forward that his
example should encourage the rank - and - file.
Well, the first time the Mauser bullets began to
whistle about his ears, it apparently occurred to
him that he could direct the force with more
advantage from a considerable distance in the
rear. And he never ventured to ‘ flute ’ to the men
any more.”


PHOSFERINE
The Greatest of all Tonics.
Phosferine is the most powerful Nerve and Recuperative
Tonic known. It removes Mental Depression, want of Tone and
Nerve Power. It has remarkable Health-giving, Strength-giving,
Energising, and Rejuvenating properties.
No other Medicine has received such absolute proof of its
extraordinary properties in restoring Shattered Constitutions, and
in giving back to the prematurely aged New Life and Energy.
It is an unfailing remedy for Neuralgia, Nervous Dys-
pepsia, Anaemia, Brain-Fag, Depression, Impoverished Blood,
Rheumatism, Sleeplessness, Indigestion, Influenza, Nervous
Headaches, Debility, and all disorders consequent upon a
reduced state of the nervous system.
ROYAL COMMANDS.
Phosferine enjoys the distinguished honour of having been supplied by commands to
MEMBERS OF THE BRITISH ROYAL FAMILY.
H.I.M. the Empress of Russia.
H.M. the King of Greece.
H.M. the Queen of Roumania.
H.I.M. the Dowager Empress of Russia
H. S. H. the Hereditary Princess olLeiningen
wwwww
I.H. the Grand Duchess Olga of Russia.
R.H. the Crown Princess of Roumania.
I.H. the Grand Duchess Serge of Russia.
R.H. the Grand Duchess of Hesse.
I. H. the Grand Duchess Xenia of Russia.
And the principal Royalty and Aristocracy throughout the World.
No other Medicine has been awarded this unique distinction of Royal favor,
and it speaks volumes for the wonderful restorative properties of Phosferine.
CURES
Neuralgia,
Sciatica,
Lumbago,
Gout,
Rheumatism,
Impaired
Vitality,
Debility,
Brain Fag,
Weakness,
Nervous
Exhaustion,
Melancholia,
Impaired
Digestion, etc.
m
A
Vitalizing:
Tonic,
Imparting 1
New Life
and
Energy
to the
Entire
System.
CAUTION.
GENUINE PHOSFERINE.
Ashton & Parsons, Ld., 17 Farringdon Road, London,
the original and only genuine makers of PHOSFERINE find it necessary to
put the public on their guard against mendacious imitations of their well-known
medicine that are being offered for the sake of extra profit.
It is necessary, when purchasing Phosferine, to see that it bears the name of
the genuine makers, viz. :
Ashton & Parsons, Ltd., 17 Farringdon Road, London
Price in Great Britain, Bottles, 1/li, 2/9 and 4/6,
The 2/9 size contains nearly four times the 1/1J size.
The Genuine Phosferine can be obtained from Washington H.
Soul & Co., Pitt Street, Sydney, and all respectable Chemists.
Wholesale Agents: SAYERS, ALLFORT A POTTER, SYDNEY,
MOIR’S
BLOATER PASTE.
In Tins about 2 ozs. and 4 ozs.
Manufacturers:
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
PURVEYORS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HIS MAJESTY THE KING.
The Wanton*
[For The Bulletin.]
Thou pallid, cold and glistening moon j
The seas are proof against thy charms no mtire:
Earth cannot hold them ; unseen arms
Thou stretchest forth, and shepherdest thy loveS:
The rough Atlantic whelms the Western world,
The calm Pacific rages thro’ the East,
Earth’s ancient might and learning swoon and die.
The waters gather, heaped up, turbulent,
The breast of Earth is mud, and slime, and death,
While from the peak of Himalaya leap
All her sweet waters.
One huge heaving globe
Sails flashing thro’ the air, intense with life
To thy cold bosom—thee it meets, and fills
Thy hollows and thy valleys and thy deeps,
Thou sparkling, brightest moon ;
Yet most cold moon.
And what of this ?—what tho’ the earth is left
To dry, and rot, and crumble into dust ?——
My heart's vitality has quivered out,
To grace an irresponsive woman's soul.
The toil of years, the sweat of years of toil,
The joys of life, its honor, and its pride,
All in one mad desire have merged,
Have left me barren to the laugh of Time,
While she has all, and gives me not again.
Ah, God ! the passion of a life, the hope,
The peace and all have fused,
Gone out to her in one confession ; swathed
Her cold life in a beauty never dreamed —
And left me naked, shivering and ghast,
Single in desolation.
M.L.
AHAU.
A Bush Naturalist.
[For The Bulletin.]
“ I travelled a bit one time with one o’ them
bush natur’lists,” said Tarkalson, “ an’ he beat all
the rummy coves I ever shouldered swags with.
Overhauled him one mornin’ near Condobolin.
He’d left his swag an’ billy on the road, an’ was
away off proddin’ up a frog with a stick to make
it jump. When it ’ud do a pretty good leap, he’d
out with a two-foot rule an’ measure it.
“ ‘ Discovered a frog on Cockle Creek,’ ” he said,
‘ that jumped 14 foot. B’lieve it’s a record, but
I want the frogs out-back t’ave a go at it ’fore I
give Cockle Creek the belt.’
“Wal, I thinks to meself, he’s an int’restin’
sort of a joker, anyway, an’ I pal’d in with him.
I got pretty tired of him, though, after a week.
He was nat’ral hist’ry mad, an’ always wantin’ me
to help him get specimens.
“ When yer dead tired, an’ yer ploddin’ along
ter get to camp, yer don’t like chuckin’ yer swag
off all of a sudden to run down a frill-neck ; an’
yer feel like swearin’, too, when yer stopped
ev’ry ten minutes t’ admire grass’oppers an’ such
like. At that rate o’ goin’ w’d ’ave got out-back
sometime in our old age.
“At first, when I barked me shins, or come
near knockin’ me eye out, I looked on it like he
did, as little things ter laugh at. Sort o’ give
the game more int’rest yer know. But when I
ripped the leg o’ me Sunday pants, our views
wasn’t exactly sim’lar. I swore I wouldn’t be
worried an’ blown an’ busted in the int’rests o’
Science any more. I didn’t reckon ter get much
credit if I helped it along ever so much. Some
big bug, who never tore his pants at the game,
would get whatever credit was goin’, an’ old Bill
Tarkalson wouldn’t be mentioned.
“Still I stuck to Mr. Richard De Quinlan, the
natur’list, though from that out he ’ad ter
natur’lise on his own. He asked me ter call
him Professor De Quinlan before strangers.
’Twould make us look more important.
“Anyhow, we were makin’ for the Barwon, an’
there was any gors-quantity o’ grubs an’ things to
keep him int’rested. We wasn’t together much
except in camp. He was mos’ly chasin’ something
or squintin’ at a new inseck through a telescope.
Lend’s yer knife a minute.
“ I useter tap the stations for rations while he
was huntin’ for ant-lions, or tryin’ which grubs
kicked the most on a ant-bed. Scoopin’ in butter-
flies with his hat on a stick, an’ lassooin’ spiders
with thread, were things he gloried in. If he only
sat down for a bit of a smoke he’d ’av a couple o’
caterpillars fightin’ in front of him, or he’d be
deliverin’ lectures on a blowfly. Yer must’ve ’ad
this knife a long time. It’s purty blunt.
“ I gen’elly’ad the fire lit, an’ a heap o’ wood
ready for night, before De Quinlan showed up.
Sometimes his billy ’d be swarmin’ with bore-
sinkers an’ wood-riddlers. He’d ’ave ter crucify
’em all with puns ’fore he could make his tea, so r
useter offer him some o’ mine. De Quinlan said
he never liked t’ impose on anybody’s good nature ;
but he always drank my tea, an’ wired into my
damper, for all that.
“Now an’ ag’in he’d hoist a dead snake or two
out o’ that billy, an’put’em in bottles. Other
times it’d be two or three kinds o’ lizards. He’d
tether them be the legs, an’ watch ’em half the
night to learn their ’abits.
“When he’d be lecturin’ on triantiwontigons
an’ them crimby-jimby-something-gigantus (I was
never much of a French scholar) I’d feel’s if l
wanted to put me jaw in a sling. An’ he’d want
me to ’andle his snakes to prove they wur cold-
blooded, or to sit at the fire an’ count the legs of a
santipee.
“ His swag was a reg’lar trav’lin’ menagerie.
When he unrolled it yer’cl think it was a stink
fact’ry. Beetles in all conditions yer could
mention ; an’ heaps o’ skins, half cured, or not
cured at all. Useter strike me that De Quinlan
was rather too thorough, ’sif he wanted ter see
how many v’rieties o’ smell a skin could shed ’fore
it rotted away. How his int’rest in nat’ral hist’ry
kep’ up in spite o’ the stink o’ them specimens
useter knock me bandy.
“He kep’ a note-book, too, an’ yer’d see him
ev’ry spare minute jottin’ down’ things ’bout
bandicoots an’ other insecks. Couldn’t make ’ead
or tail of his scrawl meself, an’ if he didn’t say ’em
over purty often ter keep famelyer with the
writin’, I be hanged if he could make it out
either.
“Wal, it was rainin’ when we got ter th’
Barwon, an’ two days later on we wur flood-bound
on a bit of an island. De Quinlan didn’t mind if
we wur stuck there f’r ever, providin’ plenty 0’
live things come ashore. In less’n a Week lie ’ad
the grass wore off all round that there island doin’
sent’nel dooty.
“One o’ the first things he pounced on was a
turtle. An’ wasn’t he proud of it ! ’Struth,
yer’d’ve thought he’d got a son. He tethered it
bn a patch o’ sand, an’ called oil it ’bout 40 times
a day. Called it Friday. Said it was a fine
female specimen, an’, it bein’ the layin’ Season, he
wanted ter see how many eggs th’ adult turtle
laid per diem. He always said per diem.
“ Anyhow, a blackfeller swum over to us one
day, an’ he looked at that turtle. De Quinlan
explained why he ’ad him tied up. The black-
feller looks at the turtle ag’in—an’ then he
laughed. ‘Baal dat one lay um eger,’ he said—
‘ dat feller ole man ! ’
“ The weather kep’ on show’ry most o’ the time,
an’ as we’d only one tent —which b’longed ter
Quinlan—l ’ad ter camp ’longside of him. In the
daytime I useter try to get int’rested in his ex-
periments. Sort o’ put the time in. He wanted
ter breed a cross ’tween a worm an’ a caterpillar.
He tried with sev’ral sorts —-till the bloomin’ tent
was crawlin’ alive with ’em. They’d fight an’
buck an’ wriggle like billy-o, but wouldn’t ’filiate
worth a cuss. So I tried t’ explain as how grubs
didn’t breed that way ; but he got narked.
ll Then he ’ad two spiders hung at the tent door
—wich made it awkward ter gerrin in an’ out
—an’ he’d fish for ’em with a fly on a bit o’ cotton.
If they didn’t bite well, he’d swing ’em together
an’ lerrem knock slops out o’ one another. Reach
us that fire-stick over.
“ The mos’ shuddersome exhibition he give me
was a fight ’tween a t’ran’la an’ a santipee. De
Quinlan thought it was great sport, an’ after that
he was always huntin’ for t’rantlas an’ santipees.
I took ter huntin’ too—to kill all I could find. I
tried hard ter get at a brute of a scorpion he ’ad.
Lived in dread o’ the thing gettin’ away.
“ He ’ad his side o’ the tent dotted with speci-
mens. He’d run out o’ card-board, an’ took to
pinnin”em outer th’ tent.
“There was rows and rows of ’em: Tiger-
beetles, Pie-dishes, Nutcrackers, Dung-beetles,
Whirligigs, Cow-bu’sters—in fact, I dunno what
he didn’t ’ave in that line.
“I didn’t mind ’em so much in the daytime,
but at night it was awful. De Quinlan ’ad all me
match-boxes emptied ter put beetles in, an’ the
seratchin’ o’ them blessed things at night was
enough ter shatter the nerves of a shingle-back.
Then there was the buzzin’ an’ whirr-r-in’ of
pinned things that hadn’t died yet; the stink o’
them as had ; an’ —yer know them 'orny-legged
mantis things '! —wal, they’d be kickin’ an’ jumpin’
in jam-tins fit ter drive yer mad. The caterpillars
that’d broke loose would come crawlin’ over yer—
I tell yer it useter give me about 390 nightmares a
week.
" There was one little black beetle that was
always gettin’ on its back, an’ then it’d crack its
head like blazes on the bottom o’ the box till it
righted itself. Then it wouldn’t be satisfied. It
’ud jerk it’s neck about till it got topsy-turvy
again. Then more cracks ! I’ve cursed that there
thing, an* Professor Quinlan and his menagerie
half the night. His troubles ! He was in his
glory. The flood was fetchin’ whips o’ live stock
to his island, an’ he hoped the flood ’ud keep up
for a month. Never see such a pipe’s this for
gettin stuffed up. Phe-e-ew !
“ Wal, anyhow, it was the stingin’ grubs that
broke up our ’appy home. He’d two sorts of ’em,
One’s a black-an’-yaller horror found in clusters.
When you go near ’em they chuck up their tails,
an’ the look o’ th? upended cluster would make a
cove shudder his back-teeth loose.
“ T’other sort’s a hatter—mos’ly seen on wattle
trees. It’s four times bigger, an’ not bad lookin’;
but the least touch of it’ll rise a white blister big’s
a sixpence. ’Twas this thing that gorra stray one
night, an’ by the holy smoke, he gives me pertic’ler
fits.
“ I got up an’ put me boots on, an’ I jumped on
that crawlin’ iuseck till there wasn’t no inseck ter
see. Then I flung th ■ lamp at De Quinlan’s pet
lizard, an’ kicked his best bottle o’ frogs into the
river.
“ Poor De Quinlan nearly took a fit. The loss
o’ them frogs was a nash’nel calamity ; an’ he
feared the lizard would lose the sight o’ one eye.
I felt sorry for the lizard till De Quinlan started
ter tongue-wang me. Then I copped him by the
neck an’ hurled him through the beetle depart-
ment.
“I rolled up there an’ then, an’ swum that
billabong at midnight ; an’ the larst I saw of
Professor De Quinlan was him in his shirt an’ clod-
hoppers, chasin’ an escaped beetle with a slush-
lamp.
N.s.w.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
A Kiss.
[For The Bulletin.]
They were both young. She was 24, he 26. They
had met and admired each other in a strictly
Platonic fashion for some considerable time, and
hail now arrived at that state of evolution which is
not Platonism. But neither would admit it. He
had asked for a kiss in a voice which trembled
with —Platon ism.
“ But, you know, the Platonics do not allow of
that. You are departing from your creed.”
■‘ Purely a—er —passionless, brother one,” he
urged.
“But what an absurd request! You are neither
in love, nor are you sentimental—and —and—l am
not. And really it is very silly. Cannot we do
as you. suggested—admire each other in a coldly
critical fashion ? Was it not you who said, ‘ Fall
in love and all your admiration for a woman
vanishes after a few weeks of vapid, love-sick in-
tercourse and inane sentimentality ? ”
He was silent. “You know,” he argued, “it
is only an experiment—just to see, in fact,” he
added, daringly, “ whether it is Platonism.”
“ I’m sure it is on my part, at least. Ido not
wish to verify it in that way. You have heard,
perhaps, that I have a heart of similar durability
and hardness to these diamonds,” which were
glinting on a palpitating breast.
“Suppose,” said he, “ suppose they were pa do.”
“Supposing they were?” she replied, com-
posedly.
“They would be” —he hesitated—“very
soft .”
“ Perhaps, when one pierced the artificial crust,”
she finished, demurely.
“ But, dear, what is this ‘ artificial crust ’ ? ”
It is . . . shall we call it Platonism ? ”
He gazed at the exasperatingly averted head.
“ May I ? ” he asked, tremulously.
She blushed—“and pi . . . Oh, d !”
“Thanks, dear,” he ended.
TAB.
THE GADFLY.


THE
FREEMAN & WALLACE
This is the only Medical
Institute in Australia with
a bona fide capital that
stands behind guarantees
as evidence of faithful per-
formance of ail contracts.
Electro-Medical apd
SCirgical IpStitCite -
IN AN AGE
• ■ i
is so remarkable for its progress in all departments of Art, Philosophy, Manufacture and
Science it is surprising to find the practice of Medicine so deplorably m the rear, while thousands
of practitioners in the healing art prefer to remain in the conventional groove of their predecessors. The Freeman
and Wallace Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute consulting staff rise superior to the false code of ethics which
tyrannically bind the medical profession, and announce to the public that upon all special complaints they still con-
tinue to be consulted by the afflicted at their old address, Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
v? if
7-:
. f ■■■
f s '■-*?£, m
■ • -
#*6;
«!
»m , Ms
i-J
ru>
gif , <OV
ft
31 j
Jr^,>
...
m*ms
Ss*?
F!®L : :
3*25
•
«a
~g j &>,,
'
h
SPECIAL NOTICE.
No one should hesitate to consult us, as consultations either by letter or In
person are given FREE OF CHARCE, and Strictest Privacy is always assured.
OUR COMMONWEALTH POCKET DIARY.
Every Farmer, Miner, Mariner, Station-hand, Book-keeper, and other Toilers should send for a copy of this
Useful Memorandum Book. POST FREE ON APPLICATION —ALL COLONIES.
400-PAGE MEDICAL WORK (Illustrated, containing 80 Engravings, Many Useful Prescriptions,
Hints on Sick Room, Accidents and Emergency) Price 6d (POST FREE) ON APPLICATION.
Heart, Kidney, Liver Affections, Gravel, Bladder and Spinal Affections.
Nerve and Brain Complications. Rheumatism, Sciatica, Epilepsy, Gout.
Rupture and Piles Cured without Operation. Blood and Skin Diseases.
-S'
*Tf
'--. V *-
IS**
WHY WE ADVERTISE!
Because Advertising is the legitimate means vouchsafed to enlighten people,
to acquaint each other with their avocations and wants. If a man has a
Speciality, and has devoted years of his life and expended large sums of money in studying that Speciality and in
purchasing the necessary appliances, etc., for treating certain diseases, it would be absurd for him not to announce
the fact, and disseminate the knowledge universally, We have no apology to offer for informing the world through
this advertisement and otherwise of the means of relief we can afford to sufferers who need our help. Therefore,
however opposed to your own preconceived ideas and to those of your medical advisers, our method of treatment
may be, the fact still remains that it is successful, and this is verified by the thousands of testimonials received from
gratefui patients. We make no secret of our mode of practice. We only claim to have utilised in a common-sense
way the result of. scientific research and long experience. If you listen to the counsel of your sceptical friends and
jealous physician you may omit consulting us, but remember if you allow the disease to run riot in your system, you
are guilty of culpable neglect, and are alone responsible for your future pitiful condition.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration by Government
Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, Great Britain
and America Open to Inspection by Dr. Wallace, our Fhysician-in-Chief.
Late Consulting; Staff, Homoepathic Hospital, Melbourne.
Late Medical Staff, British Army.
ĥ
-If you live out of town and cannot visit us, this need not
you of the benefits of our wonderful treatment, because in 1
system of combining medicine and electricity a complete Electro-Medical home treatment is provided for. Scarcely a
day passes that the news does not reach us of some wonderful home cure of a person living so far away that a per-
sonal visit could not be made. Write a plain statement of your condition, explaining your feelings and symptoms as
clearly as possible, and from it we will be able to accurately diagnose your case. It only costs you the trouble of
writing, and twopence postage to get the opinion and advice of Australia’s Leading Specialists.
DO NOT BE DRUGGED TO DEATH BY QUACKS
When there are so many quacks and impudent pretenders in the field of Medicine, who arrogate to themselves
the monstrosity of giving counsel and advice in matters of which they are profoundly ignorant, and who have
nothing to recommend them but their audacity, sufferers cannot be too careful whom they consult. Although
liberty of choice belongs to all, discrimination is necessary. In consulting THE FREEMAN AND WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL AND SURGICAL INSTITUTE patients may feel assured that they shall receive the advice
of those fitted by superior skill and education, the result of special study. Our reputation and unparalleled
success as Specialists entitle us to your confidence.
to all parts of the WorId—CONTENTS
FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
1 Elizabeth $ BatljGrst Sts, Sydosy
For privacy Patients may address “ Messrs. F. & Vl.,’’ 225 and 227 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
N B .—QUEENSLANDERS are Hereby informed that a person advertising: as Dr. Wallace
in Brisbane is in no way connected with the Institute.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skm, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. IHiti fi-Kol UvJSiii
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no Action. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be WOx%u.ll A
GUINEA A BOX.” _
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, an
arousing with the Rosebud op Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame, these
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to tne
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medicine m
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
VHOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is and 2s 0d each.
“I Gained Flesh Rapidly.”
If You Are Run Down, Losing Strength, Are Creatly
Debilitated, and Suffer from the Long, Hot Summer,
There is one Medicine That Will Quickly Cure You. It is
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
f
¥
Mr. A. Smith, of Chief Street, Brompton, So. Australia, very kindly sends us
the following letter with his photograph, both of which are given here.
“I have used Ayer’s Sarsaparilla for loss of appetite, indigestion, and to give
tone and vigor to my system when training for bicycle racing. I only used three
bottles ; but it was enough to improve my appetite and thoroughly restore my
strength and health. I also gained flesh rapidly to my normal weight.
“As a blood-purifier and general tonic for those who are affected by the
long, hot summers of Australia there is no medicine like it.”
It is because of such testimonials that Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is called
“The World’s Createst Family Medicine.”
We could show you hundreds of such letters as this. They all say that Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla helps everyone who tries it. It always does good and sometimes
makes such wonderful cures that they seem like miracles.
If you are feeling poorly just now, get a bottle of this grand old medicine.
The very next day you will feel better.
AYER’S S arsaparilla
Gives Vigor to the Nerves.
AYER'S PILLS act gently; they cure constipation.
ħ
>N
h
ĥ
BONNINOTOM’S
IRISH MOSS
EgK
GEOROE’eONNINGTON
26
ħ
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds


SUNSHINE AND WATER.
Plenty of both is what YOUR GARDEN wants.
You needn’t bother about the Sun—THAT’S ALL RIGHT—
IT’S THE WATER T T
GARDEN HOSE.
We’ve been selling
Garden Hose for
20 years, but never
so cheap as we in-
tend selling this
season.
OUR PRICE list:
I x 3 Ply-Rubber Hose, 50ft. Coils, 235, 255, 30s, 365, 42s per Coil,
f Cotton-covered (Eureka) 50ft. Coils, 17s Gd, 20s, 22s 6d per Coil.
Controlling Nozzles, Is 9d ; Hose Unions, Reels, &c.
The Ball Nozzle Sprinkler, 2s each.
PERDRIAU and CO.,
Post Free 0 6 ADDRESS : 270 George Street, Sydney
h
TEARS DTEING
FOB THE LADIES.
W. C. DEX,X)'e,XZDC3-S & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 Tt 015. li STItJhJ KT, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from alt the colonies promptly
„ attended to.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at —
fjRS. TOBIAS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2S Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
tpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Brfarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
J-hour by Irani. Billiards, etc.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Bepresentatives)
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK.
ĥ
ħ
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Worthington Pumps
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send for Catalogue.
s
SPOONS
& FORKS
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
h
ĥ
J. & J. MAX FIELD, Proprs.. SHEFFIELD.
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS,
Empire Chambers, 93 York Bt.i
SYDNEY.
Also at
* 4 THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
ANTISEPTIC
NEWMAN’S
in King St.
3L/“ a. Box
THROAT PASTILLES.
ħ
ERAS MIC
PEERLESS
Unequalled as a Preserver and
Beautifier of the Complexion. It diffuses an exquisite
odor, and imparts a stimulating and refreshing- influence.
SOAP
SOFT
SKIN,
GAN OBTAIN
0
K
V
ttCO
COOL AND
REFRESHED
HOT V/EATKER,
And entirely removes
AH Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d., 1/- & 2/6.
M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade «fc Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney
COMPRESSORS.
'
9
ROCK
DRILLS
I ngersoll-Sergeant Rock Drills and Air Compressors hold the highest
average records throughout the world. They have met and defeated in fair competition
every machine brought against them, and have never failed to sustain their reputation for
doing the most work at the least expense. Write for Catalogue to
The Representatives in Australia of
“ New Ingersoll.”
* .
s
CO
CO
Lbl
"" A '•’i
.
TD
OY.
LACY
s.w.
SYDNEY,
74 Clarence Street
“3
& MELBOURNE 435 Bourke Street
TXt?'
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants.
PRINCIPAL AGENCIES :
Blake Steam Pumps
Fay’s Woodworking Machinery
Tanite Emery Wheels
Sturtevant’s Fans and Forges
Pickering Governors
Ludlow Valves
Schuttes’ Korting Injectors
“ Champion ” Lubricating Oils
Hoyts’ Leather Belting
Genuine “ Atlas ” Metal
Empire Laundry Machinery
Stratton’s Steam Separators
American Tool Qo’s Lathes
Goubert’s bleed Water Heaters
mmm
I StyoLWOiKS®
WmsM
CLWCifUifll
US
■m
res
