

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
LAMB’S RUM.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
R. Gr. WA.TK.IKTS «£& CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
funr- ■ —for—
IVlining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
... , ,■ . 1 L -. ■ ■ . ‘ . . . . . _ . " ../■ . v . • ' • ■ . . ■ .. V' _ ... .. .VH ' ■ _ "-v - ” " ■ : '■ ' _. ' ■■■ ' .. V ;■ ' /■' ■
sd
..Wheel
Axla part round and square
at ends, rivetted?
Watch Repairs by Post
WATCHRS Thoroughly Cleaned, 2s. 6d. ; best English
Mainspring, 2s. 6d. All work guaranteed 12 months.
No overcharges. Best workmanship.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Watches. Guaran-
teed three years. 15s. 6d.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Lever Watches.
Guaranteed five years. 255.
Ladies’ Gold Keyless Watches. Guaranteed five years.
355. Double-cased, £2 16s.
Spectacles to suit all sights. Send for catalogue.
d. s. mm,
Watchmaker, Jeweller & Optlolan
684 George-st. (Brickfield Hill),
SYDNEY.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C°- 85 Pi „ Sta et. SYDNEY.
Sole Agrente for Samuel Osborn & Co., Sheffield, makers of Mushet’s Titanic Borer Steel for Miners’ Drills, Bessemer Steel, Cast Steel, Mushet’s
Self-Hardening: Tool Steel, Mining:, Well-Boring:, Spring, and Tyre Steel, Steel Castings of all Descriptions, Steel Truck Wheels and Axles.
INDENTS EXECUTED, SPECIFICATIONS SUPPLIED FOR ALL KINDS OF MACHINERY.
.STEEL CASTINGS, HAMMERS, EiLES.^—
THORNE’S
That’s AH!
A 1 WHISKY.
HELIDON SPA.
* A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd., A.gexxts, Sydney.
7
HOBA.HT.
—-
Hadley s Orient Hotel.
Vs<
m
Wlty
4 *‘**&«**
TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s.‘per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
RESERVE EXTEA. RESERVE SPECIAL. RESERVE EXTRA SPECIAL. SUPREME
SAN DEMAN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
24=1 PITT STREET, SYDKTEY.
Telegraph—“ HERVEY, SYDNEY.”
Mining <£ Contractors’
Machinery and
Explosives.
m
*
9
*
Builders’ &
Engineers’
Sundries, Belting,
Oils, Packings, &c.
" Campbell” Gas & Oil Engines,
171 Clarence Sydney.
fs
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
df
The Leading Beit of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. G. LUDGWiCI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, STBOT.
Branches:—P. Frankel & Co., Edward-st., Brisbane, Q. ;
H. Summers, Barraek-st., Perth, W.A. ; H. K. Fysh and
00., Coll ins-81., Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter & Co., Auckland ;
Blackburne & Smith, Oashel-st,, Cliristchurch, N.Z.
“Tales of tlie System.”
PRICE Is. ... .per Post Is. 3d.
XTIAIR GIRLS AND GRAY HORSES,
jj 2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
DREADNOUGHT
BEAT. HOUSE OF COMMONS SCOTCH
No Sham!
WHISKY.
ERASMIC -r—
-=-. PERFUME
Is delightfully fragrant and pleasant to use.
A DAINTY, DELICIOUS DELICACY.
. . . ASK YOUR CHEMIST FOR IT . . .
BOOMERANG BRANDY.
ROYALTY DRINKS IT.
EXPERTS APPROVE IT.
DOCTORS PRESCRIBE IT.
PATIENTS RELISH IT.
trudges Award it
Prize Medals Wherever
Exhibited.
Henry Skinner,
»
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone. No. 10hS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
TENTS and DANCING FL.OORB
various sizes supplied.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s CnjbrocatioQ
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Kheumatism,
and Stiffness .of Joints k. MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons ar®
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s Cnjbrocatioi).
The Ways of Many Waters
Collects the dashing ballads and verses of sailor-men's
and wharf-men’s life which E. J. Brady has contributed
to The Bulletin and the Sunday Times, Sydney, it i 3
the first attempt on the part of an Australian verse-
writer to chant the life on the sea and the margins of
the sea ; though there is one horse-poem—the story of
“ How Jack Bowlin Steered ‘ Jones.’ ” The volume is
bound in buckram, with gilt top, in a size that will go
into a pocket without squeezing; and the price is ss,
post-free.
The Bulletin
Vol 22—No. 1113. j
[Saturday, June 15, 1901.
Fedstered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The bulletin publications.
WOW RE Y.
Bulletin Booklets, No. IV.
OREIPIS in FCOUIER
By LOUISE MACK,
• • •
*** This, the first published collection of
verses by Louise Mack, is handsomely
printed in the style of previous Booklets,
but in an enlarged size. It contains all
the best of the author’s work in verse during
the last ten years.
A TABLE OF THE VERSES.
“ Oh to mix in my soul
this city . . . /”
ON THE WHARF.
THE LAGOON AT
MANLY.
ILLUSION.
THE CHOICE.
“ Death came to us, and
Beckoned ...”
VOWS.
“ To soar as a ivild white
bird . . . /”
LITTLE GOLDEN-
HAIR.
ON WATREE HILL.
AT EASTER.
LEAF MUSIC.
“ Idreamed of Italy . . ”
“ I take my life into my
hands ...”
IN THE ATTIC.
“ Oh, to beqin ar/ain . ./”
TO DARKNESS.
HORSE O’ GOLD.
BURY IT DEEP.
AFTER PARTING.
TO SYDNEY.
LAND I LOVE.
BEFORE EXILE.
AS LONG AS ANY
MAY.
“No place for
v Dreamers . . . /”
“ Chopin, Chopin, ah
Wanderer . . . /”
Forty-eight pages, with “A Personal
Note ; ” royal Bvo., artistic wrapper ; enve-
loped for postage.
Price Half-a-Ckown ; forwarded post-
free from The Bulletin office on receipt of
postal note or stamps (of any Australasian
State or province).
the
te THROAT, the
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza!
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
sdf
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
2). A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SINGER®
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
.. . Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous drutj . . °
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, in Tins, 1s 6d ; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich,
free on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE. ’ P ' ueensiancl P°«
THE RED PAGE.
Education and Atmosphere.
THE vyork of a great artist is unlaboured—or
so it seems. The' word is a haunting
felicity, the colour a miracle, the music a
creating passion. It is an aspiration
towards the ideal of humanity. The poet, for
instance, enters by sympathy into the sorrow of
parting, the tenderness of the past, the hope of
the future, and gives to these emotions melodious
expression. He is the friend of all-reticent dream-
ing souls.
But the artist cannot live, in the highest sense,
without poetic atmosphere. It is breath and,
inspiration: a harmonising power. I have
talked with labourers in the harvest, and
as the twilight came on I have seen the
hush of those solemn fields creep into their
blood, and insensibly lift and purify their
thought and its expression. Not otherwise is the
effect of that sweet, spiritual atmosphere oreated
by the yearnings of suffering man. And this
penetrating air is lacking in a new country ; for
it is the pensive work of time and genius.
In No. 1103 of 'the Bulletin there are quoted
some very beautiful lines by the Irish poet, W.
B. Yeats. When I read them I repeated to
myself that old farewell of the sixteenth century
poet:
How cease, my lute : this is the laste
Labour that thou and I shall waste,
And ended is that we beg-un.
And is my song both sung and past;
My lute, he still, for I am done.
Yeats’s poetry is impregnate with the wistful
atmosphere of an older and more beautiful world.
And the question rises in the mind : “Is a Yeats
possible to Australia?” I think not. For con-
sider those old eternities that lie behind this young
Celtic writer. There is Erin of the soft rain and
the round green hills—the ancient dwellings of
the fairy Hill Folk ; there is the Inner Ireland,
mournful, veiled, and grey, with holy wells and
high places; there are the Tir-nan-oge, the land
of Immortal Youth and of the Living Heart, and
Moy Mell, the Plain of Pleasure; and at the back
of all a region of dead autumnal colour, where
the voices of the elements are familiar, and speak
of Death and Sleep. All these, and more, go to
the making of Yeats, and we—we have lost them,
and, I fear, the power to enjoy them.
We stand at the parting of the ways. Let us
fearlessly face the fact that Christ, as a living
force, has gone out of the lives of the majority of
men. This is not the place to discuss the Master’s
claims ; but we must note the loss, for poetic
NATURAL GREATNESS.
The descendant of a line of peasants.
atmosphere is in one sense diffused religious life.
Christ and his passion freed the heart, gave
strength and bearing, sobered and purified, and
imparted inward peace. The processipn of his
I lntercou F se with high and eternal
tents nf hi a arg,e sadness and deep-spirited eon-
nearnei of L WOvda ’ j he ideal of sacrifice ; the
and earth ; the awed waiting;
tion P forTK te ! tnVlng , ; the hew joy; theexulta-
of the final I + e^ ance i! the sureness and grandeur
meaning ’ aU . t h ese S ave dignity and
Tn iS * hfe ' * Y hat Wlll he putin their place ?
lrihT f’ J 0 - the - SOn « S of a 4ehcal
SLfn pilgrims in the Valley of the
which we 1 n?? 1 n Ullt ! lp those poems in stone
wav hfi?i th ® Gat hedrals of Europe. In what
SKttSk4£g?r g6,,eratio “ «**
atTi?«° eS^ eloU f d [ uthe ears of Australia sitting
, ° f the wa 7 s - Is she > with Hecate*
daughter of Perseus, thinking delicate thoughts?
Alas . voices and thoughts are no longer concerned
and occupied with the things that are best. The
w -tien, the immaculate grace of a Yeats, are
st m the tumult of war and social discontent.
t\/t S consolation to the conquered ?
Must the heart be broken and the eyes filled with
tears before song can flow? These are difficult
questions to answer; one thing is certain, the
accent of the finest poetry comes from the con-
quest of grief. Yet it is possible, helped by the
nascent power of its birth, to create in
t f na T l ew Commonwealth an atmosphere that
shall inevitably make for all that is pure and
musical in life. It will not have the essential
aivineness that proceeds from suffering Christ to
be our ideal; it may not have the pathos of that
exhaled by the yew and the cypress ; but it will
nave, for those who breathe it, quiet, comfort and
s°y* dt will be brought into existence by a
new education, which will be in essence an attempt
to preserve inviolate the delicate, but enduring
impressions of a guarded and happy childhood
and youth. It will recognise that a happy youth
is the best preparation for a happy old age. The
certificate,” that-enemy to originality, that in-
fluence fatal to the making of character, will be
taken out, of the life of tne child. At present,
youth, priceless youth, is sacrificed to the inspec-
tor; and the examination, not the Lord, is the
child s portion. We are agreed that the virtue of
a University career lies in its uselessness. Let
the early years of his life be such a sacred time,
unrobbed of its freshness and wonder, and we
shall have solved the problem of a University
training for the poor man’s offspring.
The requirements of the examination of to-day
are such that teacher and taught are for ever
hurried on through the pleasant fields where they
would fain linger.
You desire to identify yourself with “ the glory
that was Greece and the grandeur that was
Rome”; or you are anxious to walk in quiet
HEREDITARY GREATNESS.
The descendant of a line of princes.
From the drawing by “Cynicus."
places, to let your children drink at the fountain
in Perugia, or to lead their feet in the charmed
footprints of St. Francis over the Umbrian hills.
You must not, the Examination is in November.
Instead of bread you must give your children
stones —weary and barren statements. I say a
child is infinitely better educated who has
grown up by the fireside listening to the
sweet old ballads of love and death crooned
by the grandmother at her spinning-wheel.
There is no golden leisure in the school-lives of
the children. I go back to my old school-reader
to find this tyranny foretold. There I read the
story of Merrymind and his Fiddle—a tiny
masterpiece, or made so by the fond enchantment
of years. The boy, Merrymind, amid the laughter
of his father and his brothers and sisters, buys
a stringless fiddle at the fair with his
hoarded shilling. Only his mother under-
stands him. He goes out into the world
to seek the fairy gold-spinners and their
strings, for ordinary ones snap at once
when stretched along this wonderful
fiddle. He enters, knowingly, the
Valley of Toil, which none may
leave during life. But there is a
tradition that the Valley was once
a place of joy and song. One
night Merrymind sees the gold-
spinners in his hut, and in gratitude
(1 forget for what service) they leave
on the eartl] a couple of long shining
golden threads. With these he
strings his fiddle and goes fiddling up
the valley, and brings again the Golden
Age. Who will be Merrymind to free
the children in this Valley of Toil ?
Yes, the greatest advance in the
Twentieth Century will be the reform of
education. Surely it is self-evident that
the minds of the children should be under
the care of the most cultured men of the
nation. It is a safe prophecy that in those
days the schoolmaster will be honoured and loved
above any man in the State —be he pastor,
doctor, scientist, soldier, or statesman. These
masters of the future will not cram the chil-
dren : they will talk to them, drawing freely
upon the world’s most beautiful traditions.
1 can imagine some of the work of such
a school. Will the children, for instance,
be tortured with those senseless sums
. about clocks, so much in favour with
inspectors? There will be no clock for these
happy youngsters. Under the spell of the mas-
ter’s voice time will fleet noiselessly and sweetly
like the moving shadow on a dial in sunny grass
lands. Without diminishing their joy in life, each
master will convey to the souls of his charge some-
thing of that pure and austere melancholy which is
Virgil’s enduring charm. He will teach them,
perhaps using Newman’s own perfect words, that
lines from the classics, “ the birth of some chance
morning or evening at an lonian festival, or among
the Sabine hills,” will at length, after years, come
home to them, and ‘ ‘ pierce them with their sad
earnestness and vivid exactness.” In that little
collection of passages culled from the writers of
antiquity, there will be a few Odes from the works
of Horace dealing with the delights of spring, and
the warm indoors of winter, and the pleasures of
an ancestral farm.
O fons Bandusiae.
They will also read some of those chapters in Latin
authors which speak so nobly of fortitude and
virtuous living and unfeared death. Nor will
they, I believe, withhold from their pupils those
intuitions of “goodness, beauty, truth, and love
at their divinest in Jesus Christ.” Throughout,
the education will be limited—but exquisite in
emotion. Only by emotion can we change and
mould character. As for the fruits of emotionless
systems of education, are not their records given
in full in the crowded pages of our daily news-
papers ?
Such an education will be costly, for you must
get the best men and trust them. ' Yet it will be
iess expensive than war and will in the end make
war impossible. It will not come for many years,
for the people believe, that education means the
memorising of long weary lists of names and “cut
and dried ” statements. But it will come! and
with it an atmosphere of feeling in which life
shall blossom naturally into art and song.
TAB.
JAMES HKDBLRTHWAITYE.
The Case of Kipling.
IN the operation of “putting Kipling where
he belongs” (8., 27/4/1), consider “The
Strange Ride of Morrdwbie Jukes” (“The
Phantom ’Rickshaw and Other Eerie
Tales ”). This story deals with the adventures of
Jukes in the place whither are brought Hindus
who “die at home and do not die when they
come to the ghat to be burnt,” having revived
after being to all intents and purposes defunct.
Said place, according to Kipling, consists of “a
horseshoe-shaped crater of sand, opening bn one
side directly on to the shoals of the Sutlej ” river.
It is closed in on three sides with “ steeply-graded
sandwalls, about thirty-five feet high,” whose
slope is “ about 65°. ” The river front is beset with
quicksands, and a picket-boat is stationed in the
stream by day, making escape in that direction
impossible. An; exit by scaling the walls is also
impracticable, since the climber is sent rolling
down to the pit’s bottom by the avalanches of
sand brought down by his struggles. And yet, so
great is the desire for liberty, that the prisoners
vainly attempt the escalade
at intervals with the same
result—overwhelming down-
pour of sand.
Now, the question is this
—Why should not this con-
stant flow of sand gradually
fill up the crater, thus allow-
ing the , inmates to walk
out without further trouble ?
Originally, the shape of the
crater is, roughly speaking,
that of a flower-pot—what
is to prevent it ultimately
•assuming the shape of a
saucer ? f lf this, process
took too long to accom-
plish, the prisoners could,
by, judiciously “rushing”
one particular place, form
a climbable slope at that
spot in a much shorter time.
But Kipling merely says
that the walls cannot be
climbed.
[Further, question whether
loose sand would maintain
the angle of 05° when sub-
jected to, the natural in-
fluences of rain and wind.
Left alone, the “crater”
would surely acquire the
saucer shape. Kipling seems
to have been misled by a
loose parallel with the a -lion trap. But the ant-
lion is often in wait foi .„s victims; and Kipling
forgets the essential element of time. The ant-
lion is always constructing new traps.—-it.]
As regards the river frontage, Jukes finds that
there is a way through the quicksands. This had
been discovered by a previous denizen of the pit,
who had almost completed a' plan of the route
when he was killed. Owing to the presence of
the guard-.boat by day, his researches had been
pursued at night. Jukes finds the corpse, and
takes from its coat-pocket a notebook in which
the particulars are recorded. The unit of rheasure-
ment is a gun-barrel, and the path to liberty
starts, from a point designated the “crow-clump ”
which is midway between the “horns” of the
crater where it opens on the quicksands. Follow-
ing are the directions referred to
“Four out from crow-clump j ‘out' means in
the direction of the river] ; three left ; nine out :
two right ; three back ; two left; fourteen out •
two left ; seven out ; one left'; nine back ; two
right ; six back ; four right; seven back.”
Now, if you take the trouble to map this out
(adopting, of oourse, an unvarying unit of measure-
ment), you will find that the track doubles back
H l . recrosses itself in such a way as proves that
Kipling has just set down the measurements hap-
hazard, without troubling to verify them. Exactly
the same result, as regards distance from the
starting-point, is obtainable from the following
formula, which considerably shortens the track :
—Four out, three left, twelve out, three right,
seven back. (See annexed drawing, reduced pro-
portionately from a plotting scale of J-inch units.)
Even then, the explorer is not much “ for’arder,”
being, in a straight line, only “ nine out ” from
his starting point. And since he must bear either
to the right or the left to get round one of the
“ horns’" of the crater, he is very little the better
for his abstruse calculations. After going so far,
Kipling evidently gets tired, and crawls out of
the difficulty by allowing Jukes to be hauled out
of the pit on a rope thrown by one of his servants,
who has discovered his master’s whereabouts.
Some of Kipling’s yarns are like oysters —they
must be swallowed whole. It doesn’t do to
dissect them.
As to verse-inaccuracies, in “The Native
Born” occurs a line, “We screamed with the
painted lories as we rode
on the dusty plains,” which
occasioned some discussion in
the “ Aboriginalities ” column
some time ago, it being as-
serted that the lory is not given
to screaming, nor is it found
on “ the dusty plains.” Again,
in “The Broken-Link Handi-
cap” (“Plain Tales from the
Hills ”) Kipling speaks of the
Maribymong Plate as a “ jump-
race,” and says that the jumps
are constructed of masonry and
jarrah. Surely Victoria does n’t
import jarrah all the way from
Westralia for the building of
“ jumps.”
(1) Track as per Kipling’s Formula.
(2) Track as per Improved Formula.
A, A,' Respective points of departure.
E, E,’ Respective points of arrival.
It will be noticed that in No. (1) the track is needlessly
retraced from B to C, and that there is no occasion for it
to go further “ out ” than D.
As regards Kipling’s imitations, compare “The
Last Rhyme of True Thomas” and “The Sea
Wife” (“The Seven Seas ”) with “Thomas the
Rhymer’’and “The Wife of Usher’s Well” re-
spectively. The latter are Scottish Border bal-
lads. In “An American” the first verse is so
obviously an adaptation of Robert Browning’s
Brahrna that it can hardly be called mere
“conveying.” The original poems are by no
means unknown ; and, qud imitations, practically
avowed, these are on a different footing from work
purporting to be original; but the instances
go to reinforce the argument that “what ’e
thought ’e might require, ’e went an’'took.”
To conclude, Kipling’s easy knack of using
technicalities, and his airy, off-hand habit of
throwing in a local allusion, correct or otherwise,
where it will do most good, go far to convince his
readers that his knowledge of this earth, its con-
tents and their adjuncts, is exact to the smallest
detail. Above all, he has a splendid ear for words
and phrases, which, when used in his tricky,
casual, slap-dash fashion, will give the impression
that he is thoroughly conversant with whatever
subject he may choose'to deal with ; and the man
in the street, whose acquaintance with things
foreign is at best superficial, is gulled by the smart
use of Such tags and catchwords into the belief
that Kipling’s omniscience and infallibility are
beyond question.—Jm\
4,
The late Dr. Tanner was not a, literary man
(says /I'he A naiLmii) but was capable of flights when
he took up his pen. Once, when he had asked in
the House whether it was true that the Duke of
Cambridge had resigned his position as Com-
mander-in-Chief, a Major Jones, of Penzance, was
so outraged that he challenged Dr. Tanner to a
duel, and the following telegraphic correspondence
took place— -
In reply to your despicable question about the Duke of
Cambridge, I designate you a coward. Delighted to give
you satisfaction across the water. Pistols.
To which Dr. Tanner at once replied—
Wire received. Will meet you to-morrow in Constan-
tinople, under the. Tower of Galata, midnight. Being
challenged, prefer torpedoes. Bring another ass
Tanner.
Ma jor Jones answered—
Midnight meetings are for Moonlighters. You know
what that means. Ask Colonel Saunderson who shows
the white feather. •
Finally, Dr. Tanner wired—
Never suggested Colonel Saunderson showed any white
feather. Would strongly recommend bromide of potas-
sium this vwm weather for the staggers. Further reply
useless. Will not spend another Tanner.


BEST PRICES
FOR .
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN
OBTAINED BY CONSIGNING TO
Goldsbrough, Mort+Go
‘ \ and Reduced.
Circular Quay, Sydney,
Who render PROMPT RETURNS and safeguard your
Proceeds by their TRUST ACCOUNT System.
GEORGE MAIDEN , manager.
se
fse
CB B
fs
efs
im
ooffs
008 S
fOffc
Guaranteed nor to or born.
CERTIFICATE. —Should any of our “ Can’t B Beat ” Briar Pipes
crack or burn, a new one will be exchanged for it immediately on
application. Thousands Selling Daily.
r CBB
BRIAR
inicii Simmons
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branch** evtrywhara.
WHITE’S
PATENT.
Cocstf.
WHITE’S
PATENT.
Without Attachment.
The “TITAN” (Regd.)
Indispensable with the present tight-
fitting skirt.
Produces straight front without in-
creasing size of waist or impeding
action in walking, as it does not
require stocking ■ suspenders to
keep it in position.
Guaranteed not to ride up or wrinkle.
Idealises the symmetry of the figure and
gives Indescribable elegance to the simplest
gown.
Reduces High Figures and Large Hips.
Restores the Figure after Confinement.
Affords great support with perfect ease and gives
permanent satisfaction to the wearer:
Can be attached without sewing to any corset. Undejgkirts
can also be attached without sewing to the lower edge, thus
further reducing size. Worn by Royalty.
Recommended by the Medical Profession. Thousands of un-
solicited Testimonials. To be obtained »f all the best Drapers
and Ladies’ Outfitters throughout Australasia.
With Attachment.
N.B.—When ordering the size round largest part of hips should be given. Every Attachment is stamped “ TITAHT.”
T« Black. White, and Ecru. Price 6/6.
Patentee and
Bole Manufacturer,
Mrs. A. WHITE, 1,2 .& 3, Langley Court, Long Acre, London, W.C.
supplied through all the principal Wholesale Houses in Australia a,id New Zealand.
Cj" The Trade
I ■ I'iv vrn.T mvn QOQ9
w
Sj
All Chemists
Vc
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. ' Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
OS’ For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE. t
esr For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively.
Price, ss. 6d.postage, 9d. extra.
$> e
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
¥
CONSULT E. HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
V'
Si
m
Si i
When
writing
please
mention
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
-Ilyou are -tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
strator, assisted by A SKII<I<E<D ELECTRI-
CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be-restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., c*.3., etc.
They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attachments 8 8 0
ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 16s. to 22 0
Any of the above-named Electrioal Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Eleoirical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, *c.
All communications should be addressed to—
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
efsd
PLAIN HOM€ TALK.
KJfBRACIK#
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 88 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young a nd old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information em-
braced in its covers. . _ . , ~ ~ .
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy, is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver's Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is; post Is 3d.
Beauty's Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties, Love, Dress, etc. Is 6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 0d post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40illus. Is6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
W riter, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Editii O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, Is6d post
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE.— SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
bv him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar Hundreds of SPECIAL Books-most of which can only be obtained from him-are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
SNIXS
Send Your Consignments op ... .
KANGAROO,
WALLABY,
RABBIT,
OPOSSUM SKINS,
TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
They obtain the Highest Possible Prices.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 12 and 14 O’CONNEII STREET. Stores: PVRMONT.
So l e Charge : 3 Per Cent, to tlxe Growers.
BONUS J PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS last Two Seasons.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Buyers.
“ LAWRUS ” DRESS FABRICS
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS A STOREKEEPERS.
EVERY YARD 18 STAMPED
Australian Agsnts for the
Wholesale Trade only: - - .
BTOGDALE & DUFFUS, Finks Buildings, Corner or Elizabeth & Flinders Sts.,
Melbourne; and 422 George St., Sydney.
f
“ ✓ «*
OC&MM
sdf
EVERY YARD 18 STAMPED
Dr. Clarkson’s Electric Belt
will All your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
Dr.
hrintrs the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy, and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
Vlg °To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
nAntic Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
K the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
inii hrintr happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is truly wonderful,
will onng napp THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC.
Price ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
sd
ALL OR WRITE— OWL r c a u t t e drug store,
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
THE WORLD’S BEST.
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS’
PEERLESS GLOSS
is an oil dressing which so softens the leather that
smaller sized shoes can be worn with perfect comfort.
“ Peerless Gloss ” is the great dressing triumph of the
world, as it imparts a brilliant and permanent polish to
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
shoes that outrivals all other dressings, and yet it does not
contain anything injurious to the leather. Beware of
imitations. Demand Hauthaway ’s ‘ ‘Peerless Gloss, ’ ’ and
take no substitute. For sale nearly everywhere. Made
only by C. L,. Hauthaway & Sons, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.


TATTERS ALL’S
Address: Car© geo.
ADAMS, Hobart.
Grand National H. July 6.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Name.
.shares in the above.
Address
Silver City C. July 31.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALIfc
Please allot mo__ shares in above.
Name <
Address
* * t '
Spring H. (Special) Aug. 10.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
-shares in the above.
Name,.
« s
Address,
Adelaide G.N.H. Aug. 10.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Name
.shares in the above.
Address.
Metropolitan S. Sept. 9.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me wharfs in the above.
Name __________________
Address,
r
Metropolitan S. Sept. 9.
(SPECIAL) _
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ATT.
Please allot mp
Name
Address
£ s -s
.shares in above.
For full particulars read our Printed Circular.
Address “ Tattersall,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart. :


mms
petroleum
rEMUISIOH
WITH HYPGPHOSPHITES,
FOR
DELICATE
CHILDREN.
CHILDREN all like Angier’s Emulsion
and take it readily when they cannot
be induced to take Cod-Liver Oil.
Bland, soothing, creamy, and a splendid
tonic, it is just what the little ones need,
and it is really marvellous in many cases
to note the rapid improvement in weight,
strength, and colour. Give it to the
children if they have a epugh or a cold;
if they are pale and thin; if they are
scrofulous or ricketty ; if their food does
not digest or their bowels are out of order.
The medical profession prescribe it largely
in such cases, and it is used m children s
hospitals.
A FREE SAMPLE
On receipt of 4d* postage.
Mention SYDNEY BULLETIN.
Do not accept Inferior imitations made with
ordinary Petroleum.
be sure TO GET ANGIER’B.
of all Chemists & Drug Stores.
r HE A’GIER CHE IGAL CO., LTD., SYDNEY, N.B.W.
The bast cougli drops are drops oJ
Ayer’s Clierry Pectoral.
The next time you
take cold, dose your-
self with a lot of
home remedies and
dilly-dally along un-
til your cough is
deep-seated and you
are threatened with
pneumonia or con-
sumption. That’s
one way, to he sure.
Here’s another way: Take
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
at bedtime and be all right the next
morning. Isn’t this the better way?
Then continue the Cherry Pectoral a
few days until your throat and lungs
have completely healed and all danger
of future trouble is past.
Another grand thing about Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral is that it cures hard
coughs, the hardest kind of old coughs,
even after all other remedies have failed.
Put up in large and small bottles.
"When it hurts your lungs to cough,
then apply one of Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral Plasters directly over the painful
lung. It will quiet the pain, remove all
congestion, and greatly strengthen.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass.. IJ. S. A.
fa
i
PMRoT
sd
WiypTur
WoUNDC
OO6MS C°IP3 «?
-y
IMITATIONS 1
ladies.
Ademm—lL.D.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
I 300 Oollins Ot„ M«lbourn«
SHIRTS.
Vor Station and Out-door work our Silk strips
MattaLasse *and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
<>■»! ner Half-dozen, free by post throughout
' * Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Ss SONS, Brisbane, Q’lani
Australia!} tyCitftal ProVidcot Society-
MONEY TO LEND
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repav n
un to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year without notice or payment of.any hue.
1 F RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street, Sydney._
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
fa
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10Sr
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY,
ifgf Send for a
Catalogue.
e
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 158.
IMPORTANT NOTICE li
buyers ol Right Vehicle 51
The Best and Cheap®*
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
VVOiks : MELBOU LIN E-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired i>y
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
■
a
fa
wmmm.
uM
m
m
m
mm.
V
(■ll
■
Ml®]!
IS
e
fa
THE HEALTHIEST
TOBACCO.
In
three
Strengths.
v 5
P 4
®z
ABSOLUTELY
PURE.”
Mild
Medium &
Full.
"a eW
Name of nearest Agent post free from INI. RUTTY & Co. Sydney
T _ w Carria a-© & Saddlery
3ST.S.A7V- tJarrin gt) rr. iqs niexreland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
Note our New Address . 193 to 195 C*ev tQ Uedfern Uailway Station).
When In town, pay us a visit. Do you want a (.
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or arfy desev.pt.on of
SADDLERY ? If SO, send for our Price List. You
w ill save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 • 2-Spnng SiHkies, £7 ,
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Sha t
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, til.
nmible Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies” Phaetons (single and double). Dog Carts,
and every descriptio nof vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. y HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
SS h le Ve wni L f°orward P you' ou/wustrated
SSS&'Sf'SZZt, ry T Sdeliv o eyorlea:
than we oeui. They cannot do bo, and you pay 15 per
oent more for your retirement#.
OUR SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
sdf
Delivered at any Wharf or
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Vanguard of the West.
Hark ! to the ringing of axes, bringing
Death to the mountain pine;
Hark ! to the thunder which rends asunder
The bonds of the prisoned mine.
List ! to the clamour of drill and hammer
In the tunnels adown below,
Where men are working, and death is lurking,
And the flickering lights are low.
Hark ! the big fall’s thunder down hills of wonde
Through the march of the lonely years ;
Hark, the spell is broken, the axe has spoken
Your challenge, O pioneers !
On hillsides bitter their keen blades glitter
As they ring on the mountain wood ;
And the winds will sorrow thro’ many a morrow
Where the king of the myrtles stood.
You may trace their marches thro’ forest arches,
Seared summits their steps have seen ;
Where the snow-stream races in treacherous places
Their calico camps have been.
They have stemmed the torrent and spanned the
current
Of waters that Westward rolled,
Ere the Mint might measure her hoarded treasure,
Or the wealth of the West be told.
Till her rock-bands yielded the wealth they
shielded,
And elfman, and imp, and gnome,
Have listened, quaking, the Titans shaking
The halls of their island home.
The fog is lifting, the clouds are drifting,
And far as the eye can roam
Over hills dividing, thro’ vapors hiding,
Glimmers Pacific’s foam.
By Heemskirk’s shoulder, gray cliff and boulder
Are bathed in the crimson light
Of the sunset glory ; day and my story
Are drifting towards “ Good night.”
T.
M.E.J.P.
Splittin’.
There’s a graft that wears the muscle and the
sturdy spirit kills,
And writes the sign of misery upon the grafter’s
phiz :
That’s choppin’ curly billets for the blessed fire-
wood mills,-
Or splittin’ bloomin’ engine-wood for dealers in
the biz.
For it’s swing the axe and bullock, or it’s handle
it with tact,
And draw upon experience and all the splittin’
knacks;
Graft from Jackass round to'Mopoke, and you 11
realise the fact
That graft can choke ambition in the man that
swings the axe.
Then it’s pick a tree and scarf it till the axe
an echo rings—
It’s chippin’ free you’re jolly, for you think
you are in luck ;
But your curses are a caution, and they scorch the
face of things.
When the agent wires “No business, and demur-
rage on the truck.”
So, it’s drive the saw and draw it till your muscles
ache again, . . ,
And swing it clear for safety when the yieldm
tree-bole cracks;
Belt the wedges —“double-bank” ’em till you
tremble from the strain,
And the trees sing “Sweatin’ wages ” to the man
that swings the axe.
Go splittin’on the “common,” never thinkin’ of
the “ Crown,”
Till a bobby comes along with, “ Got a license,
there, me mahn ? ”
You prevaricate, and shuffle, but your name is
taken down,
And you scoot to dodge the summons and con-
viction while you can. _ ?
So, it’s burst the blocks that quarter, and its
“back” the blocks that won’t,
And pay for teams to cart ’em on the soggy,
boggy tracks. t ;
There’s tucker if you bullock, and there isn tif
you don’t,
And no one troubles much about the man that
swings the axe.
The dealers are exultant when a strike in New
South Wales
Sends up the price of steamin’-coal and booms
the firewood trade;
And they skite about the profits, and they batten
on the sales, . ,
While splitters heedless devils at a starvin
rate are paid.
So the curly trees are failin’ and the olankin cross-
cuts S°> . , . , , ... ~
And human hearts are witherin’ where life all
comfort lacks;
For below the reach of pleasure, and too spiritless
for woe,
And surely God-forgotten, is the man that swings
the axe.
v.
BEN SUN.


SUNLIGHT
OIL CAKE.
Mr. POTTS, Government Dairy Expert for Victoria
eays of Snniight Oil Cake : “It is Highly Nutritious]
Easily Digested, and a Valuable Fodder for Cattle
Horses, Pigs, Sheep and Poultry.”
-Guaranteed Absolutely Pure.
SIEUER'IDOUIITED BCOTTIfIG-FSDS
asd
Sterling; Silver . . .
Blotting 1 Roller-Pads.
2iin. 3in. 3Jin. wide.
3/- 3/6 5/6 eaeh.
These are exceptional value, and
they are a very pretty and useful
present.
Richly-Chased »ilver
Covered Soap-Box, 23/6.
4Jin. X 3in. wide.
Art
Jewellers
Ac.,
fa
90 Kinc ST
Sydney.
SEND FOB
0 UR ILL USTRA TED
SHEETS OF
LA TEST NO VEL TIES.
All Goods Post Free.
it
ON OUR SELECTION," by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6a. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
" A. BOWMAN’S
You Can Have
English Boots
.. AT ..
London Prices.
Best Style.
Best Quality.
No
Better
Made.
ef
We do One Line—Gentlemen’s Boots—only.
That one we do Well.
31® GEORGE ST., near Hunter St., and
145 KING ST., op. Theatre Royal, SYDNEY
Also 294 Collins St., Melbourne.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
A
World-wide
Reputation
Unapproached
and
Unsullied
from
Generation
to
Generation.
THE
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
Sa
40/i
Vi
SJ
sj
a
n
/TV
Q
CIGARETTES
m
LOOKING GOOD ROOF?
Our Booklet- FREE qives fullesf
particulars
of
&
RUBEROID
ROOFING
it's cheaper
cooler & belter than Iron Roofs
Sole Aqenfs:
ERICH’C Lt
SYDNEY
BRISBANE


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 22.—N0. 1113.
SATURDAY, JUNE 15, 1001.
Pricb 6d.
“ There is a deadlock as between the council and the Govern*
ment over the appointment of a lady sanitary inspector. The
matter was referred to by Alderman J. D.
Fitzgerald in moving the adoption of tho.
' report of the health committee.^
Lately the council nomine
ated ‘ a young and
charming lady ’ to
the position of
■ female, inspector
THOSE ROYAL GIFTS,
Mr. Solomon Isaacks : “So,
you’ve been robbin’ an Aus-
tralian statesman ? ’’
Customer “ How d’yer
know?”
Mr. 5.1.: “ I know dat prancf
of shleeve-links—‘ Mit Shuke o’ York’s gom-
bliments.’ I’ll loan you Is. 6d. on ’em !”
under the Health Act. The matter was referred by the
Government to the Foard o£ Health, •which said that it coutd
not .recommend that the appointment be made, as the lady
was ‘ very young, unmarried, and had no qualifications for tlie
post either by experience or examination.’ ”
This is the brand of female-inspector The Bulletin ad-
vocates. Not quite so fetching perhaps as Aid. Fitzgerald’s,
bat—"
PROFESSIONAL OPINION.
, sx Burglar: “ Wotew »a his Royal mbs
been up to, I wonder "
2 »„ Ditto : "Ob, ver, libel, someth,;.’ —“
way of Gov’ment Ouse spoons.
The Baptist Association of N.S.W. has resolved that as- soon
as the site for the National Capital has been fixed, it will apply
for a suitable position for a church.
Last week, according to the cable,an < ‘ Ad-
Thinker” threw himself off the Broor
yanced Thmker tn d
And here you see a select committee of Baptists prospecting for-a-suitabie site,
A plentiful water supply is of even more importance to a Baptist than it is to
a legislator.
A SEA ’SCAPE.—Or the departure ot the Ophir.
From a sketch by our own impressionist
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ A ustralia for the A ustralians. ,>
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
NewspaperjOo., Ltd., at the Office of the Go.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 Geoege Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Wa,or Hand.
In conseqiience of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside. N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
€l, with 3s. 3d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of ljd. postage, the subscription
to Tiie Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —l \d. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
* NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tjie Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with pottage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have Tun Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and ail Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
•whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To A mateurs in, lllaelc and White.
Anyone siipplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 3h6 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 33 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
T^'^rxllelzox.
SATURDAY, JUNE 15, 1901.
The Delusive Cornstalk Balance-sheet.
In New South Wales another financial year
ends on 30th June. Premier See is appeal-
ing to the country for a renewal of his lease
of office on the ground, among other grounds,
that it has been a good year—that the Corn-
stalk land has prospered during his occu-
pancy of the Premier’s billet, and the public
finances are solvent. Would-be Premier
Lee asks for the billet* on the ground that
the finances will be equally solvent in his
keeping. As to the prosperity and solvency
of the country. See and Lee are beautifully
unanimous. Neither the See party, nor the
Lee party, nor the third section of the
Assembly, which is the M‘Gowen party, gets
within cannon-range of the obvious, glaring
truth—which is, that the N.S. W. finances are
now the most disgraceful setof public accounts
in Australasia ; that they would be a dis-
credit to a fan tan establishment or the
table of a three-card spieler; and that the
ledgers of the worst bank which burst in the
post-boom days and let its promoters drop
through into a well-earned public building
didn’t compare at all badly with them in
point of honesty.
* * * *
At time of writing, eleven months revenue
and expenditure accounts (up to the end of
May) are available. The N.S.W. revenue
for those eleven months is £9,7(58,311 —an
increase of £521,148 as compared with the
eleven months to 31st May, 1900. That
looks well on the surface of things, and
every politician points to the figures with a
large and politically-dirty hand, and asks
how, in view of this glorious increase,
anyone can doubt the progress and pros-
perity of New South Wales. Yet even the
gorgeous revenue increase of £521,148 isn't
all that it seems. It doesn’t signify £521,148
worth of genuine expansion, by any means.
The principal causes of the movement are
these four :
(1) The Government has resumed a large part of Syd-
ney, and includes the rents, &c. (£148,735 up to now), in
its revenue. Yet these are really trust moneys ; they are
other people’s rents collected from other people’s pro-
perties. The Government hasn’t paid for the properties
yet; it hasn’t even paid the back interest on the monev
it owes for them ; nor has it charged itself with the back
interest.
(2) The Government got a great increase of revenue
through the rush of railway and tramway traffic at the
Commonwealth and ducal celebration periods. These
extra receipts were included in the revenue, but the out-
lay on decorations , &c.,which brought that extra traffic, is
not included among the expenditure.
(3) The railway receipts are swelled by the. building of
new lines with borrowed money. If new lines are
which bring in £lOO,OOO a year revenue, and
swallow up £150,000 a year in working expenses and in-
terest on cost, that is a loss of £50,000 a year—but all the
same it makes the revenue £lOO,OOO more. The unthink-
ing multitude is perfectly satisfied with the assurance
that there is an extra £lOO,OOO and that it is a proof of
the prosperity of the State. The fact that the extra
£lOO,OOO revenue may.be bought with £150,000 or £250,000
extra expenditure is the other side of the case—that side
that hardly anybody looks at.
(4) The whole revenue of N.S.W. is just now inflated,
bogus and artificial. N.S.W. is approaching the top of a
new borrowing boom. Its borrowings for the last twelve
months are close on £3,500,000, which isn’t much short of
the worst and maddest days of bygone profligacy. And
the reckless shovelling-out of loan money has inflated
every branch of trade, and created an increase of revenue
which has no relation whatever to real progress.
* • « *
While the N.S.W. public income for the
11 months has increased by £521,148 —in-
cluding £148,735 acquired by the barefaced
appropriation of other people’s rents without
any provision being made for paying these
people the interest due them, and while
N.S.W. has a reasonably legitimate revenue
increase of £372,413, expenditure has gone
up, as compared with the corresponding 11
months of last year, by £512,877. This is
the acknowledged expenditure, which, as
will presently appear, is very much less than
the real expenditure. Therefore, the in-
crease in expenditure is £140,464 more than
the legitimate, or reasonably legitimate, in-
crease in revenue. The alleged revenue is
£9,768,311, including the rents of other
people’s property, which the State holds in
trust. Without them it is £9,619,576. The
admitted expenditure is £9,786,581. There-
fore, on one basis, there is a deficit of
£18,270 ; on the other and true basis there
is a deficit of £167,005.
* * * * *
T’: j trouble is that there is £473,628
of expenditure—of money actually paid
away—which the See Government doesn't
put among its expenditure at all. These are
the items as they appear on page 4379 of
the N.S.W. Government Gazette, in
the statement of how the trust funds are
misapplied :
Debit Balances, Bank of New South Wales.
Imperial Contingent Bushmen’s Account £1,154 910
Imperial Contingent to South Africa,
No. 2 Account 63,799 12 6
N.S.W. Naval Contingent to China .. 36,326 14 6
N.S.W. Military Contingents to South
Africa 155,147 2 4
N.S.W. Permanent and Volunteer Mili-
tary and Naval Forces 39,293 4 9
Expenses in connection with the Plague 76,859 19 0
Federal Celebrations Account .. .. 92,281 11 5
Federal Expenditure Account .. .. 8,764 19 6
£473,627 13 9
These amounts have been already paid, and
there are others (including the ducal cele-
bration foolishness) to be paid. They haven’t
been charged to loans ; even the unspeak-
able See Government hardly dare call them
“ permanent and reproductive works.”
They haven’t been added to the stand-
ing deficit ; it would look bad to make
such a huge addition to the great accumulated
shortage. They certainly haven’t been
charged to ordinary expenditure, though the
corresponding receipts—the great increase
of railway and tram revenue, and the smaller
increase in customs revenue which arose
through the Federal celebrations, the ducal
celebrations, the show at the despatch of
contingents, &c., have been most religiously
included in the revenue. The items don’t
even appear to be all extra or unusual ex-
penses ; “N.S. W. Permanent and Volunteer
Military and Naval Forces ” seems to be
just ordinary Defence expenditure. The
only possible excuse that can be given
for keeping these matters in suspense,
and temporarily covering them up by
shameful misuse of the trust funds, is
that the accounts are not all in yet.
That is no excuse ; they can be charged to
revenue each month as they come in, if the
See Government wants to show exactly how
the public finances stand which, apparently,
it doesn’t)' There is no corresponding diffi-
culty about crediting partial payments on
the other side of the accounts. When these
items are put where they should be the
figures show up thus :
Revenue, including the money received from the re-
sumed area, which is really trust money at present, and
should be set aside to pay interest on the cost of pur-
chase, £9,768,311.
Revenue, not including that wholly unjustifiable item,
but with the accounts placed on an honest basis,
£9,619,576.
Deficit, if income from resumed area is included,
£491,898.
Deficit, income from resumed area not included,
£640,633.
*•* » *
Even this is only the outer fringe.of the
great N.S.W. public fraud. In N.S.W. (as
in all the other Australias) there is no limit
as to what can be charged to loans under the
impudent and lying designation of “Per-
manent and Reproductive Works.” And as
there hasn’t been a Treasurer in N.S.W.
for many years whose political honesty
was worth mentioning, the loan funds
are used to pay for road repairs, patches
on worn-out buildings, salaries of various
public servants, and all manner of items of
ordinary every-day expenditure. These are
called “Permanent and Reproductive
Works,” and are put, as such, in the loan
account because it saves the weary, per-
functory person in charge of the finances
from telling the people unpalatable truths,
and hustling round for new sources of
revenue, and making himself unpopular by
levying enough taxation to keep the State
solvent. These, according to State Statisti-
cian Coghlan, are the Cornstalk loan moneys
spent in recent years on works which were
not permanent nor reproductive, and which
were only called so by a mendacity that a
decent Ananias would be ashamed of—the
amounts charged to loans instead of, as they
should have been, to revenue, in order to
make bogus surpluses, or make deficits look
smaller than they were. In short, these are
the amounts of the great political lie, fraud,
and misappropriation of N.S.W. :
June, r iB96 .. £559,552 JuneTlB99 .. £833,491
„ 1897 .. 562,658 „ 1900 .. 879,282
„ 189 S .. 650,514 „ 1901 .. ?
As the total loan expenditure for the 11
months to May, 1901, is already £479,765
more than for the corresponding 11 months to
May, 1901, it will probably be found that
the misappropriation of loan funds this year
for purely revenue purposes, will make an
even million. That will bring John See’s
deficit, according to any fair and honest
computation, up to about £1,640,633.
* * * *
And this doesn't yet Exhaust the list of
mean and bankrupt dodges which make up
N.S.W. finance. There remains the great
Cash Basis swindle. In the old days
before that national calamity and public
enemy, George Reid, invented the Cash
Basis, the accounts belonging to the
financial year which remained unpaid at
the end of the financial year were debited to
that year. When the year closed the Trea-
surer said: “The State has received (say)
£9,000,000 during the year; it has paid
away (say) £8,700,000 ; it owes, for interest
on its debts up to this date, for salaries due
but unpaid, &c. (say), £350,000. There-
fore, the shortage is £50.000.” That is the
principle on which Britain and every other
solvent State keeps its accounts. It is
also the principle on which every bank and
public company keeps its accounts ; the
directors would speedily get into bank-
ruptcy, to say nothing of gaol, if they
kept them any other way. George Reid,
however, struck the great device of keeping
the books on a quite different principle,
which he called the Cash Basis. He simply
said : “ The State has received £9,000,000 ;
it has paid away £8,700,000 ; therefore, it
has £300,000 surplus. It owes £350,000, or
£700,000, or something, but we won’t men-
tion that. Hereafter debts will be treated
as non-existent.”
» * * *
Ever since the huge public lie of the Cash
Basis—so called because it isn’t a Cash
Basis—was introduced, the great apparent
object of every N.S.W. Treasurer has been
to leave as many as possible of this year’s
accounts over to next year—-the more that
are left over the larger the fraudulent sur-
plus. When his unpaid but due accounts
are added on, Premier See’s real deficit at
30bh June, 1901, promises favorably to be
well over £2,000,000. As far back as three
months ago, the difficulty of collecting
money at the N.S.W. Treasury began to be
a subject of conversation, as it always is
now about that season of the year, and
people know by this sign that the Cash
Basis surplus is again in preparation.
* * * *
That is how things are this year. Next
year N.S.W. commences to pay its Old-Age
Pensions, which means a demand on the
Treasury for about £350,000 or £400,000
per annum. There will be a counterbalanc-
ing economy, but the saving will be largely
in the matter of private charity. Probably
the extra demand on the Treasury will run
to £300,000 a year. Next year, also, N.S.W.
will have.to pay almost all of tvw years’ in-
terest on the purchase money of the resumed
area against practically nothing paid this
year. Next year the Government is pledged
to begin doing something to keep the Civil
Service Superannuation Fund from going
absolutely stone-broke, and consigning
many State pensioners (men who paid
for their own pensions, and are
only left in the lurch because the State
made unjustifiable uses of their money)
to the Benevolent Asylum. This probably
means another £lOO,OOO a year. It is simi-
larly pledged in the matter of the Police
Superannuation Fund. It also undertook,
in a vague soit of way, to increase the
annual payment in reduction of the deficit
from £150,000 to £300,000 or £400,000 a
year, which means another huge outlay. And
next year the interest bill will be fully
£lOO,OOO more than it was this year, by
reason of this year's furious borrowing.
Even if there are no wars nor plague nor
costly celebrations next year, the N S.W.
finances promise, by reason of all these extla
outgoings, to be vastly worse than they are
now. And their present condition is one of
blank insolvency, partly disguised by crude,
raw devices which are too thin to impose on
any educated lunatic who has lucid intervals.
* * * *
All the same, the four Sydney dailies rose
up at the end of last month to state the
satisfactory state of the finances was “ nmst
gratifying.” Three of them had to tell that
incredible fiction because it is their allege 1
Freetrade tariff which, by producing a toi.aliy
insufficient revenue, makes either huge de-
ficits or huge lying about the state of the
finances inevitable, and they weren’t going
to say that their Freetrade tariff was
an utter failure. The fourth had to
tell the same tale, because it is the
mouthpiece of the Lyne-Sbe gang of in-
capables, and it couldn’t admit that, under
any circumstances, things could g«> wrong
with its crowd in office. Since the fis
question first assumed an acute form in N.S.
Wales, the finances of than State —at one
time reasonably honest —have degenerated
into the worst poli'ical fake and fraud in all
Australasia. The Reid 'party bid for office
by reducing taxation till the revenue was
fully a million below the real expenditure ;
the Lyne-Ske party Rids for office by keeping
taxation down. Neither party dare tell the
truth about the Treasury, because each
one lives by professing that its policy
can keep the country more solvent on
less money than the other party s policy.
The people of N.S.W. have been taught
to have an insane pride in the fact
that theirs is the lowest-taxed State in Aus-
tralasia, and to regard the fact that they
don’t raise enough money to pay their way
as somehow showing that they are greater
and better and more glorious in every way
than the people of other States. The poli-
tician who shook up this feeling of bloated
superiority by telling them that there is
only 20s. in a £ in N.S.W. as anywhere
else, and that being the least-taxed people
they are also the people who have the big-
gest deficit, and the biggest financial fake,
and who are now making about the best
pace towards insolvency, would probably
have a bad time. So the See party and the
Lee party go on assuring N.S.W. that the
condition of the Treasury is most gratifying,
and even talk, now and then, about what is
the best thing to do with the “surplus.”
As for the Labor party it has no visible
financial policy or financial conscience at all,
but one dreadful member of it (Fkank
Cotton, to wit) lately circularised the press
demanding that the surplus (!!!) should be
applied towards a wholesale reduction of
N.S.W. railway freights and charges—which
was something that might almost be called
humor under the circumstances.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
More about the Coast Hospital Scandal.
Arthur Griffith, M.L.A., writes on the above
subject:
In your summary of the Glynn case you have over-
looked what I consider its four worst features: (1) the
design of the Public Service Board to avoid any investi-
gation ; (2) the admission of that body that Glynn is now
being punished for having had the matter ventilated in
Parliament ; (3) the willingness of the head Of the
Department of Public Health (Dr. Ashburton Thompson)
that Kidman should get the contract for the ensuing
year ; and (4) the apparent efforts of the Public Service
Board to manipulate the whole of their investigations,
and report so as to whitewash and shield their nominee
and pet, Dr. Thompson.
For weeks after Glynn had made his appeal formulat-
ing his charges (subsequently proved to the hilt and
amplified) the Board absolutely ignored it, and when
Glynn in desperation asked me to take a hand, the chair
man calmly told me that as he (Glynn) was not then a
member of the Public Service (having been kicked out),
the Board “ could not take any cognisance of his appeal.”
It required three interviews and a lot of straight talk to
obtain even the abortive “ departmental inquiry ” by a
person named Brodie, who reported that “Glynn’s
charges emanated from personal animus towards his
superior officer Willman.”
On the second point as to why Glynn, after having
proved to the complete satisfaction of the Board that
he was dismissed only and solely for doing
his duty in condemning bad food" supplied by
the contractor, has not, during all these months, been re-
instated in the Service, the last report of the Board is
quite explicit (this is the report The Bulletin complains
of not having seen). It is not that Glynn is incompetent,
or unreliable, or dishonest, or intemperate. It is some-
thing much worse in the eyes of the Board than any or
all of these. “He has adopted an improper course in
endeavoring to obtain his re-appointment.” The said
“ improper ” course was Glynn’s action in dragging the
whole evil-smelling scandal before Parliament when jus-
tice could not be otherwise obtained. In the opinion of
the men who control our public service the supplying of
putrid fish, slimy vegetables, weevilly sago and rotten
eggs to sick and dying people is a venial offence, but
exposing these practices to the public is such an impro-
per course as to bar for ever the doors of our public
service to the sinner.
But to my mind the worst feature of the whole scandal,
as revealed by the investigation, is the fact that after the
shocking state of things referred to had been proved and
exposed, the head of the Department (Dr. Thompson) still
made no move towards cancelling the contract, and was
apparently willing that the Tender Board should give
Kidman the contract for the ensuing year ! This seems
hardly credible, but it is a fact. I found it necessary to
get the Premier (Lyne) to interfere over the head of Dr.
Thompson to prevent this being done.
The contracts for the Military Hospital and the Quar-
antine Station for the ensuing year were actually given
to Arthur Kidman without my knowledge, and, I believe,
without that of the Premier. In this connection I
would like to be just to the Government by say-
ing that, all through, I have found both the pre-
sent Premier and his predecessor willing to do all in
their power to clean up this business. Premier Lyne
acted promptly in squelching Kidman’S contract, and, to
my own knowledge, twice interviewed the chairman of
the Public Service Board to endeavor to get that body to
reinstate Glynn, who is now suffering for the mistake of
the Reid Government in placing the Board in a position
to defy Ministers and flout Parliament. My own com-
plaint against the Govt, is its failure up to the present to
keep the promise of the. late Premier, made me on the
floor of the House, to appoint a Royal Commission to in-
vestigate the whole matter, and its apparent willingness
to accept as final, the weak and inconclusive verdict of the
Board, and to acquiesce in the efforts of that body to
shield the Head of the Dept, of Public Health by throwing
overboard one or two of his subordinates.
♦
The Marine Sweater.
Big-Hat O’Malley lias given notice in the House
of Representatives of a motion that it is desirable
toprohibitsubsidised foreign steamship companies,
manned by either white or colored labor, from
carrying passengers or goods between Common-
wealth ports, and that inter-state navigation
should be regulated. There is common sense in-
side O’Malley’s hat, but his resolution does not
go far enough. What is wanted is :
1. The prohibition of all vessels owned by.white States
yet manned by colored crews, trading to-Australian ports’.
2. The prohibition of all save Australian vessels trading
between Australian ports—that is, 'carrying passengers
and cargo from one Australian port to another. ' °
Until this is done the Australian shipowner can
never be brought under the operation of a mini-
mum-wage law, nor can he be compelled to limit
the hours of his seamen and firemen and other
hands to 48 or GO, or any reasonable number per
week. He would simply be killed off by low
wage and long hour competition from outside
Canada has long since had laws which prohibit
Yankee or any other outside steamers carrying
goods or passengers .between ports of the
Dominion, and the consequence is that Yankee
ships are only employed in the trade between
American and Dominion ports. The Canadian


—
Population o! States.
Tariff.
1901.
10 Yews'
Increase.
Inc. p.o.
N.snv. ..
VivSorift
Queensland.
S. Australia.
W, Australia
Tasmania ..
1,302,332
ljMC.,874
602,392
36^505
lfti,M3
171,000
220,908
ft, ft. 469
100,174
42.104
132,771
24,399
20-32
4-86
27 73
13 10
267-00
1603
Free trade
llistli PvoterL
Mod. FYofrr..
Moil. Fro tec.
Revenue.
Hi+fU Rev.
3,777,212 1 i!>3>975
13-00
coastal trade is all in the bandn of Canadians, and
the XJ.S. shipowners are powerless to interfere in
a business that pays good dividends and wages to
Canadian capitalists and workers. The United
States has just as drastic laws, and it was only
the other day that the application of them
to the Hawaiian Islands knocked the Maoriland
Union line out of the Sydney-Honolulu-Frisco
service, which is now carried on by an all-Ameri-
can co. The Yankee line takes hundreds of pas-
sengers between Maoriland and Sydney, and the
big German, French, P. and 0., and Orient liners
are always crowded with passengers from Sydney
to Melbourne, Adelaide, and Westralia. Under
proper navigation laws all that traffic would be
conserved to Australian owners, and then a
minimum wage and limited hours of labor could
be enforced, and a fair share of the profits would
be paid out to Australian workers to make times
better generally. Of course, this idea would be
fatal to Freetrade doctrines—but then everything
that is much good to the workers is fatal to Free-
trade doctrines.
♦
Something 1 New: An Honest Politician.
Hume Cook, M.H.R. for Bourke (Vic.) :
Are we going to continue a policy of borrowing money
and spending it upon public works, or are we for the
most part to attempt to carry on public works out of
revenue ? I feel it is not only fiscal protection we re-
quire in order to develop Australia. We require financial
protection also. We require protection from those who
would insist upon very large borrowings and spendings
without any regard 'to the future, or to the safe and
sound development of Australia. ... I hope, therefore,
that we shall not follow the old policy of borrow, boom,
and burst, and that we shall pay for our public works
from revenue, and, rather than add to our already very-
large national debt, try to get rid of some of our present
debts.
The Bulletin is pleased to find that there*js at
least one man in the House of Representatives
who agrees with it on this point. This
paper has been called a pessimist, but so far
from that it is almost the only really hopeful
publication in Australia. While the great mass
of papers and politicians have held that the Aus-
tralian is by nature a poor, miserable, inferior
animal, who can’t be expected to tax himself
sufficiently to pay his way and do something
towards wiping off his debts out of revenue, like
the Englishman and American and Dane and
Dutchman, The Bulletin has been a voice
crying in the wilderness to say that the
Australian is as good as any of them, if he
could only learn to hang most of his editors and
politicians, and think for himself. Scared Parlia-
mentarians and weak-kneed newspapers have per-
sistently preached the doctrine of reducing taxa-
tion,- and borrowing, and letting things slide, till
the Australian has almost come to believe that he
is a naturally slack, shiftless, incompetent indivi-
dual who must be always crying at the door of the
money-lender for aid. The Bulletin, on the other
hand, has always maintained that he is as strong,
and as capable of being honest and solvent, as any-
body else, if he only knew it. It is glad to find
another optionist of the same way of thinking.
Hume Cook is an oasis of hope in a desert of dis-
pirited politicians.
4—
Still Another Fiscal Fake.
Sydney Telegraph, the other day, published
this table to show how Foreign-trade helps to
boom population :
Now from April, 1891, when the last census was
taken, to 2nd December, 1891, N.S.W. was under
the Parkes semi-Protective tariff, which pro-
tected about half the industries of N.S.W. From
2nd December, 1891, to Ist January, 1896, it was
under the Dibbs Protective tariff, which protected
practically everything. From Ist January, 1896,
it was under the Reid tariff, which protected
sugar, treacle, molasses, beer, wine, tobacco,
cigars, cigarettes, newspapers, biscuits, confec-
tionery, &c. So N.S.W. was Protectionist for
nearly half of the 10 years in which its increase of
population is calmly set down by the shoddy
penny fake as the blessed result of Freetrade,
and semi - Protectionist the rest of th
time. And, according to Coghlan’s estimate
(N.S.W. Statistical Register for 1899, page 614)
the biggest part of the population increase was in
the first half of the ten years—the more Pro-
tectionist half. If N.S.W. was, as the Telegraph
here alleges, a Freetrade State all through the
ten years from 1891 to 1901, what kind of a brassy
lie is the Telegraph telling when it alleges that
George Reid abolished the curse of Protection in
1896? Again, after holding up Tasmania and
Westralia for years to public execration as States
that groaned under the horrors of Protection —
after Gsorge Reid’s denunciation of all the States
apart from N.S.W. as the Five Fiscal Drunkards
—the Telegraph cheerfully ascribes the progress
of these States to their alleged possession of a
revenue tariff—not a protective one. And
Queensland, as it proves to have a larger per-
centage of increase than N.S.W., appears suddenly
as a “moderately protected country,” though
both it and S.A. beat Victoria hollow in the way
of heavy tariffs, and Tasmania —“ revenue tariff ”
Tasmania —has the heaviest duties of the lot.
The Sydney Telegraph has raised inaccuracy to
the" dignity of a fine art when it gets on tariff
questions.
A Wages-Board Difficulty.
The bosses of the Victorian woollen industry have
apparently banded themselves together to fight
the Minimum Wage Law. The wages in .each
trade that is brought under the Act are fixed by a
Board consisting of an equal number of represen-
tatives of employers and employes, with a Judge
who holds the casting vote. When the Wages
Board was appointed to deal with the woollen
industry, the employers’ representatives com-
plained that two of the members selected by the
employes were not bona fide workers in the
industry, and emphasised their protest by
retiring” in a body. The two members com-
plained of resigned, and the employes removed
all cause of complaint by replacing them with
others about whose bona fides as genuine toilers
in the woollen business there was no doubt, what
ever. But though the ostensible grievance-was
removed the employers’ representatives didn t
comeback ; their unanimous absence continues to
this dav Also, the employers refuse to elect new
representatives. The Act, of course, fully provides
for such oases as this. When the Turner Gov-
ernment drafted its Minimum Wage scheme, it
recognised that if employers could prevent the
formation of a Wages Board in any trade by.
simply refusing to elect representatives there
would never be any Board at all, and the Act
might as well be used as a pipe-light. oo it
was enacted that when either party declined
to be represented the Government might
appoint representatives to act for it. If actual
employers or employes would not act, their places
could be filled by the appointment of men quite
outside the trade —by anybody, in fact. Tho only
question now is whether the Peacock Govern-
ment will exercise this power so promptly as to
prevent any more conspiracies to evade the law.
If it doesn’t exercise its power, then the local Fat
Man will have found a way to dodge the hated
statute, and the Minimum Wage Act will perish
by the wayside, in a manner of speaking. If it
hangs fire over the matter, and only makes
the appointments after months of waiting, then
the same individual' will at least know that
he can hamper and delay the operation of the Act
with impunity. The action of the woollen-bosses
is really a conspiracy against the law, and when
less affluent individuals conspire in like fashion
they sometimes get into gaol. It isn’t suggested
even for a moment that the woollen-bosses should
be put in gaol; the public fully recognises that all
the Victorian gaol accommodation is wanted for
the sick poor, that they may do their six months
hard labor by order of the Carlton J.P. But still
there is room for Premier Peacock to show a cer-
tain amount of energy, and the country is waiting
to hear Alexander laugh the loud confident
shriek which signifies that he is about to fall to.
“SubJudice.”
N.S.W. Civil Service is at present a world of
strange and fearful moral odours. One particu-
larly aggressive sample, arising from Sydney
Technical College, this paper was moved to in-
vestigate, and called at the .Education Dept, for
that purpose. Under-Secretary Maynard, Per-
manent Head of the Department, said there was
no information to give. The Public Service Board
was holding an inquiry, and had not yet furnished
a report, so, for the time being, the matter was
out of the hands of that (the .Education) Dept.
The Public Service Board being only just across
the street, the investigator walked over, and about
four hours later managed to see a member of the
Board. He stated that the Board had concluded
its inquiry some considerable time ago, and
that all the papers, evidence, and report were
now in the hands of the Minister for Educa-
tion, and had been for about a fortnight. Asked
for particulars, the Board-man looked at the
investigator, with a pained expression such as an
archangel might cast upon a william-goat m the
Holy of Holies, and said, severely, “Its sub
judice! ” He could not help the fact that matters
were kept sub judice for years. He merely stated
the matter was sub judice, and if the investigator
wished to make any remarks thereon he was wel-
come to. He thought that the information that
the matter was sub judice should be sufficient
answer for anyone. This paper proceeds to make
four remarks accordingly:
(1) The sub judice plea as a means of choking off all
inquiry, upon all subjects, for all time or thereabouts, is
unspeakable impudence and presumption.
(2) The Civil Service bosses, in putting it forward,
claim rights and privileges unknown even to the Supreme
Court. The Supreme Court allows the publication of a
fair and impartial statement of any case while it is still
sub judice. .... .
(3) The Civil Service bosses keep things subjudice for
years (the Coast Hospital scandal has been sub judice
since January, 1900, and is still there, and looks as if it
might remain there ten years or more unless Press and
Parliament hurry it along). They claim that no paper
should allude to" a matter until it has ceased to be sub
judice. If the papers don’t allude to it the matter often
remains subjudice until it. is forgotten, and the people in-
terested are dead. At other times it seems to sort of
perish on the official premises, and if an inquiry never
comes to a formal end, the matter never really ceases to
be sub judice, and therefore no paper ought to allude to
it for ever and ever, amen.
(4) And when a matter ceases to be sub judice, and
emerges from the secret tribunal, and comment therefore
becomes allowable, the case will be closed, and as a man
can’t be tried twice for the same offence, it will be impos-
sible to reopen it.
The sub judice gag is really a daring and impudent
attempt to reach out for irresponsibility. Every
man in the Civil Service is a public employe and
any taxpayer is his employer. Imagine the
managing clerk of any private company, when his
emplovers wish to inquire into his or his subor-
dinates’ alleged misconduct, calmly telling them
they must not ask for any information, or expect
to know anything about it, as he is inquiring into
the matter and it is subjudice!
♦
The Black Streak in Cornstalk Land.
A CORRESPONDENT of a Clarence River paper
thus describes the black blot which is spreading
in New South Wales :
When you arrive at the summit of the range Cudgeon
is reached, the home of the Kanakas. At this centre
there are 280 Kanakas stationed, and this black blot on
the border line gives a New South Welshman some vague,
idea of the black curse that exists so flagrantly in the
land of bananas and pineapples. There is no Sunday at
Cudgeon. One police oflieer is stationed there, and he
has as much show of maintaining order amongst the unruly
Kanakas when they seek to create a colossal disturbance
as he alone would have to maintain order in any of our
metropolitan cities. Kanakas (for that term refers to
every thing black or colored amongst the ebon tribe) are
employed on Robb and Co.’s sugar plantation at the
enormous (?) salary of £l2 per year. They live under the
most demoralising conditions. Their huts, generally
speaking, are filthv-looking, and in the doorway may be
seen a specimen of the white fair sex, while perhaps half-
a-dozen youngsters of various tints are scrambling about
the yard dressed in foul rags. Then you will see a
woman tumble out of one of tnese alleged-homes with a
dirty billy-can, making her way to the pub “ across
the road ” to replenish the vessel with the fluid
that has caused her surroundings and the hope-
less position that she has fallen into. Presently
a huge nigger as black as the ace of spades
may he seen belting his' wife (?) with a piece of wood,
while the youngsters scatter in all directions, and seek
protection in the by-ways and hedges of Cudgeon Truly,
the sights to be seen at Cudgeon are sufficient to make
one’s blood run cold, and yet we find such journals as
the Brisbane Courier fighting for the retention of
Kanaka labor in the northern State. Fighting for the re-
tention of slavery, for the Kanaka’s body and soul are
bought in Queensland for a period of three years for the
sum of £lB. Are there any abolitionists in Australia ?
If there are, here is a field for them. If Federation is
going to deal with the black labor curse the people of
Australia should hail the new era with delight. The Bris-
bane Courier, a few weeks back, published figures trying
to prove that the Kanaka was dying out, and that the
undertaker was solving the black labor question at the
rate of two a week. But what about the rising population
of semi-Kanakas that pass as Europeans and get entered
on the official records as Europeans? On the Tweed
River there is a horde of such a breed, so near white that
to all appearances they would pass as Europeans. These
individuals, possessing the white man’s cunning, and the
savage’s savagery, will develop into a race most unwel-
come amongst a civilised people if urgent and stringent
methods are not adopted to drive the Kanaka off the face
of this continent.
♦-
The attitude of the Federal Government on the
gratis Newspaper Postage question and other
matters, as defined by P.M.G. Drake, in intro-
ducing the Post and Telegraph Bill :
Seriator Drake replied that, roughly speaking, revenue
was £2,360,000, and expenditure £2,479,000. It would be
necessary, if the Postal Depaitmenc was to be placed on
a sound basis, that all services performed by it
should be paid for. At present, these were done in a hap-
hazard way, the Department rarely coming off best. There
were three causes militating against the success of the
Postal Departments in the past. One . . . was the free
carriage of newspapers. In three States they were carried
free, with the result that the Departments conveyed an
enormous quantity of m lil m i.tter and received no return.
Those who wanted newspapers carried free said either
that they were of highly educational value or were very
valuable in the work of administering the country. He
was prepared to admit both arguments to a certain extent.
But in neither case were they justified in making a
charge for those advantages upon the Postal Department.
If the newspapers had a great educational influence,
they should be carried by the Education Department. . . .
In order not to act unfairly towards some States during
the five years following the introduction of the tariff, the
department would be careful not to make any changes in
the rates for that period. In Victoria recently a bill was
passed instituting, the penny' postage, and some people
thought it was a piece of sharp practice. Well, for five
years at least, Victoria would have to stand whatever loss
was incurred by the change. . . . Particular attention
will be paid to the matter of free letters and telegrams
with a view to reducing the evil to a minimum.
The Post and Telegraph Bill doesn’t fix post and
telegraph rates ; it merely gives the Gov.-General
power to fix them. And Drake’s explanation
appears to amount to about this : The Federal
Post Office is losing money through carrying
newspapers free in three States—and it will prob-
ably go on doing so for at least five years. There
is chaos and more loss by reason of different
postal rates and charges in the different
States, and' a uniform system won’t be
introduced for at least five years. And
the Catfish Budget and similar productions
can still pass as newspapers—and presumably get
through the post free—provided they come out
weekly and make a few other trifling alterations
to comply with the new definition of a newspaper.
This is hardly what Australia expected. It
federated its postal departments to get rid of all
the costly and chaotic divergent rates and
systems; and now it strikes on a Government
which is seriously thinking of going to a lot of
expense and trouble to preserve the old anomalies
and muddles for five years or possibly more.
♦
Freetrader Brown, of Canoblas (N.S.W.) said
a shocking thing the other day in the House of
Representatives. Brown is supposed to represent
Labor in some sense. He is also a Foreign-trader
of the most violent description, and he professes
to regard Protection as a thing which lays heavy
burdens on the people, and to want to lift these
burdens off the people. Yet he said THIS :
He had never been able to bring himself to a belief in
the protectionist theory, and until he did he would never
support it for any man or for any purpose. As a farmer,
he said that when protection was sneaked in in New
South Wales the price of wheat was never lower than
then, either before or since.
Exactly ! The State gained much extra revenue
under the Dibbs tariff, and the people got their
food cheaper. Coghlan has already shown that.
On pages 523-527 of his “ Wealth and Progress of
N.S.W.” for 1898-1899 he gives the prices of
almost all the necessaries of life in N.S. W. over a
long series of years. The list includes only eight
on which Dibbs put Protective duties, and they
all became cheaper. Then Reid came into
power, and took the duties off these
eight articles, and off three more on which
duties had existed long before Dibbs’s time ; and
out of eleven articles the price of one became less;
four articles became dearer; the other six re-
mained as they were. And among the lying
shrieks of the other Foreign-traders that Protec-
tion makes things dear, there arises the unsophi-
sticated voice of Freetrader Brown, denouncing
Protection because, under it, he didn’t get the
same chance to plunder the consumer as he had
in the good Freetrade days. Now, what is the
difference between BroITN and any other alleged
plunderer of the people—say the Golonial Sugar
Go. ?
,l
Concerning the recent terrible Broken Hill
accident: —
When the average jury doesn’t find that the victim of a
mining catastrophe was “ accidentally killed ” it generally
fastens a tag of reproach on to the dead man—the only
one who cannot answer back. But the jury which sat on
the six victims of the ore-fall in the Broken Hill South,
besides blaming the practical miners of the party, blamed
also the mining manager and the Government mining
inspector for neglecting to see that all precautions were
taken. And the finding was thoroughly right—anyway,
so far as the men and the manager were concerned ; as
to the inspector, his position and powers are doubtful,
thanks to the mining regulations, which have been
repeatedly pronounced ultra vires. The men were work-
ing in what was really an underground quarry, which, in
course of time, would be filled in with timber and
“ mullock.” They were 12ft. to 15ft. or more from any
timber. That is, the men, as they broke down the ore
from the face (or other end of the working), mounted
on the loose stuff and worked on top of it until, when it
was removed, floor and roof (or “ back ”) were from 16ft.
to 20ft. apart. Now, the best—in fact, the only— way to
tell whether a roof is safe is to sound it. (f it rings solid,
things are all right; if it doesn’t, it must be propped, and
watched carefully. It is, therefore, never safe to have
the roof beyond'reach. But not only was this roof so
high and out of reach ; it was also not at all solid
ground. A big fall had occurred near there two
years before, and breaks and cracks and strains had
resulted. That it was treacherous was moreover
repeatedly indicated by frequent falls from the roof-
falls of small lumps, yet large enough to show that a
movement of some sort was in progress, most likely due
to atmospheric action. Further, the men received,
instead of the ordinary 9s. a day, 10s.—presumably
because it was a “ticklish” place. And notwithstanding
that the roof was so high that it could not be conveni-
ently sounded ; notwithstanding that it was in disturbed
ground ; notwithstanding the small falls ; notwithstand-
ing the extra shilling a shift; notwithstanding that
timber was kept so far back that if there was a fall the
men had only a faint hope of escaping, the manager had
not made an inspection of the roof for “ about a week,”
and the mining inspector, though he knew the place, had
not been in it for 10 days, and even then had not tried the
roof himself, though he regarded it as dangerous 1 The
verdict might have been even stronger, without
doing anyone any injustice. But what now? The men
took the extra risk for a shilling a day—presumably, that
is what it was for. They misjudged ; and it cost them
their lives. The management took risks, too ; it did not
have more timbers put in and the ore worked differently
because it, no doubt, believed that the stuff could be
worked safely and with the biggest profit this way. It
misjudged too. The men paid their lives. What is it to
cost the others ? Or do they escape ?
♦
J une 1 did not see the long-deferred ‘ ‘ re-grading ”
of N.S.W. Public Service. The Public Service
Board, which some years ago stopped all annual
increments on salaries over £3OO, and proposed
instead to increase the screws of deserving civil
servants, receiving less than £3OO, by £lO a year,
saves six months’ money by thus delaying the
publication of the Gazette. The last increases
were due on Ist July, 1900, and Parliament
voted £14,000 for the current financial year. But
the P.S. Act provides that every five years the
whole of the Service is to be “re-graded,” which
gave the Board an opportunity to dodge granting
any increments on July 1, because the re-grading
was due. Having completed this general re-classi-
fication, the Board has announced that, except in
special cases, the new increases will only date
trom Ist Jan., 1901. The Board has cut it pretty
fine. The financial year has only two weeks or so
to run, and if the £14,000 voted is not withdrawn
from the Treasury by then the whole of it lapses,
and has to be voted over again by the Legislature.
In that case, the See Government’s finances
for this year will look £14,000 better than
they are, and they badly want to look better
than they are. A pretty row in Parliament may
be looked for. The civil servants reckon it a low-
down trick to wait until the very last minute ere
notifying the increments, and a particularly
scurvy one to knock off six months of the in-
creases and then to delay granting the other six
months’ increases.
0
Persistently rumoured that Seddon intends a
big stroke in the direction of assuming direct
State control of the making and sale of liquor in
Maoriland. The Temperance Party’s constant
tinkering with the liquor law has brought things,
by accident, to a state which it certainly never
contemplated, and which has thrown enormous
and monopolistic powers into the hands of the big
brewers. Such a position of things can’t last,
especially with a man like Seddon at the head of
affairs. When the subject of licenses in the King
Country—-the annual blister of M.L. Parliament —
came up last year, he distinctly stated that,
if the sale of liquor was legalised there the
control would be kept in the hands of the
State. The satisfaction thereupon expressed
by everyone except the brewers and the extreme
Prohibitionists has probably emboldened him (if
that were needed) to tackle the bigger question of
State control throughout the province. Richard
Seddon has done much to deserve the gratitude
of M.L. ; but if, after seeing the Duke round, he
takes off his gloves and puts his bell-topper away
in the pantry, and sees this question through, a
statue of Seddon facing the Bung ought to be
erected in every town in Maoriland.
♦
Brisbane Courier shed special tears of ink over
the escape of Edward VII when the Shamrock II
met with her disaster, and was of opinion that the
incident showed the royal family to be specially
watched over by Providence. The average
mechanical pietist is a strange being. If
Providence specially interfered so that the
Shamrock’s top-hamper just missed the monarch,
it would have been equally easy to prevent it fall-
ing at all. According to the cheap orthodox
moraliser, when Providence has an especial care
of anybody, it shows its interest in him by just
missing his head with heavy substances, as an
ordinary citizen might show his regard for his
best friend by occasionally firing a cannon at him
so that the ball would almost hit him, but not
quite. The Courier was doubtless quite serious
in taking the view it did ; yet, if anyone sug-
gested that Christian de Wet has been escaping
bullets for nearly two years, and that that was
still better evidence that Providence was
watching over him, the proposition would
doubtless have been set down as flat blasphemy.
Then the theory that the man on whom the heavy
object nearly falls, but doesn’t, is specially
esteemed by Providence, carries with it the im-
plication that the man on whom the object does
fall is specially objected to by Providence ;
which is rough on Nelson and other eminent
characters. And though the man that the falling
mast misses by two feet is alleged, by reason of
that circumstance, to be specially and unmistak-
ably under Divine protection, nothing is ever said
about the still more conspicuous Divine protec-
tion extended to the man whom it misses by two
miles, or 2000 miles. Altogether it is a tangled
subject, and a person better endowed than the
Courier with the gift of well-chosen silence or
carefully-selected absence would have kept clear
of it.
The N.S.W. Civil Service and Police Super-
annuation Funds being practically stone-broke,
Government has three alternatives before it: —(1)
To put up enough money in a lump (it would pro-
bably be borrowed money) to make the funds sol-
vent ; (2) To make annual payments out of revenue
to the fund till it is solvent; (3) To let the funds run
out and then pay the pensions out of revenue, as
is done in Victoria. A deputation asked State
Premier See about this matter last week, and got
this beautifully hazy reply
Mr. See said that this question was dealt with in the
Government manifesto. It was imperative that the fund
should at once be put in a condition of solvency. The
Government intended to deal with the matter. He
thought that the Government should guarantee what might
be termed the original intention of the Act. But he did
not go so far as to say that the Government should contri-
bute from three millions to four millions to rehabilitate
the fund. The proper guarantee of the Government was,
however, as good as the money, and in every case he
thought it was right that the demands should be paid.
Where a public servant faithfully and honestly performed
his contract, then the Government should carry out its
contract. The Government could not afford to repudiate
this debt. As far as he could he would do what was right
in the matter. One of the first things the Government
would do would be to endeavor to put the fund on a
satisfactory basis.
Good old basis !
“ A lawyers’ case,” was what the N.S.W.
Supreme Court recently called the malodorous
Heydon business. But all cases are “lawyers’
cases,” and the Court takes care of the Devil’s
Own. A man can’t even sue in formd pauperis
without feeing a lawyer. He must have a Judge’s
order to begin with, and no Judge will look at
his case without a barrister’s certificate ; while no
barrister, again, dares look at the case unless it is
sent to him by an attorney. Rules of court for-
bid. The cream of the joke is that the applicant
for leave to sue in form l pauperis has to declare
that he “is not worth £5 in the world.’
Yet out of the £5 he hasn’t got he has to spend
about £6los. in stating that he hasn’t got it! High
time that some of our legislators tackled the job
of giving the people of Australia something like
cheap justice. The question of cheap law is one
that can wait. As long as the country gets cheap
justice, it doesn’t really matter how much law
costs. No sane individual wants law while he
can get the other thing.
An increasing evil in the N.S.W. Public School
system is the exemption certificate abuse. A few
years ago this was unknown, but of late it seems to
have been encouraged by the department for the
purpose of relieving the pressure on the crowded
schools. The Act provides for sending children
to school until fourteen, but a smart child of ten
can often pass the examination which gives
exemption. Then he is taken away and in six
months has probably forgotten most of what he
knew. The two or three years before fourteen are
the most important of all—-not so much for the
additional education received as for the fact that
what has been already received is stamped firmly
on the brain. At the age many boys receive their
certificates their minds are like wet plaster from
which impressions may be effaced as easily as they
are given. If our educational system is to do good
the stamp must be kept on till the plaster has set.
Apropos of the O’Sullivan’s proposal to
place an amount on N.S.W. Estimates for the
purpose of producing rain by guns. Would it be
possible to induce him also to subsidise Astrology
and Alchemy, in orderto revive those lost sciences?
And, with a view to giving the neglected art of
witchcraft a lift, will he put a sum on the Esti
mates to set up the profession with a cauldron and
a blasted heath ?


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
of the United States.
LIBERAL TERMS TO AGENTS OF GOOD STANDING
In order to improve the position of its Agents in Australia, and to better conserve
the business, the Equitable now offers RENEWAL CONTRACTS to
first-class agents, thus giving them a pecuniary interest in their business for
several years, instead of for only one year as at present.
for particulars, refer to
S. W. D’ARC Y-IR VINE, Manager for New South Wales and Queensland,
Equitable Building, Sydney ; or to
G. G. McCOLL and B. H. PASCOE, Managersfor Victoria, S. Australia and Tasmania,
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
SPECTACLES!
give satisfaction if fitted by
WOOP,
awf
The
Optician
299 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite Hunter St.) .. and ..
Equitable Buildings, 95 Elizabeth St., Melbourne*
Only ONE Address in Each State.
EYESIGHT TESTED THROUGH POST ; FREE.
Write for Particulars.
Sulphide Corporation
** LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W.
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can be Supervised from
ship's side.
Capital : £962,000.
Cold, Silver, Lead,
and
or
Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought
... ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
Special Terms quoted for Tarr/e Parcels or
Regular Supplies under Contract.
Full Particulars and Tariffs on application to
Thfi Manager, Cockle Creek-
A E. SAVAGE,
Maha'otr.
CIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Agents for Australia.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “ Nurse.”
Lyceum “ Night Birds of London.”
Queen’s llall Stiazelle.
Criterion ** The Milestones of Life.”
Palace “In the Soup.”
Her Majesty’s “ Florodora.”
Empire Fuller Co.
Tivoli Rickards Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s Italian Opera.
Theatre Royal “ In London Town.”
New Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
Bijou “ Robbery Under Arms.”
Atiienleum Hall Charles Bertram.
Town Hall / Belle Cole Co.
\ Jean Gerardy (Sat. matinee).
The “Milestones of Life,” which might
almost have been perpetrated by Parson
Walters, was staged at Sydney Criterion on
Saturday night, and, like most moral
dramas, it propounds views of life which a
respectable pagan would scout with loath-
ing. The first act begins with two young work-
men enjoying a mutual wedding breakfast in peace
and amity, except that one is distinctly unsober,
and the other is given to talking in long, virtuous
speeches, with well-turned phrases and faultless
grammar. To them enters their employer, who
scolds the unsober workman in his own house for
his condition, and gives thegood workman consider-
able gas, and also £2O, which that person accepts
in a lowly and reverent manner. The boss then
goes away from the party which he has insulted
all round, and nobody kicks him, and nobody
talks of kicking him. The good workman
continues getting on in life till he becomes
Sir Somebody Something, the moral being that
every working man can do this if he keeps sober,
and is lowly and reverent towards his betters.
Meanwhile, the bad workman refrains from sup-
porting his wife till she takes to someone else who
seems more disposed to keep her in shoes and
corned beef; whereupon he murders her in a
spasm of virtue, and in the presence of her child.
For this act of incivility he receives a commuted
sentence of II years or so. When released he
is welcomed by the daughter who saw
him murder her mother.' She seems quite pleased
to meet him, and embraces him affectionately.
That kind of daughter is rather inexplicable, and
in real life would be considered objectionable.
* 9 * m
Miss Helen Burdette does well as the
erring wife who errs for reasons that seem chiefly
financial, and which are aggravated by her husband’s
tendency to wreck the windows of her humble
home and make havoc with the furniture. Miss
Roland Watts-Phillips is a bright star as a mother
with beer and piety strongly developed, while
C. R. Stanford manages the moral maxims that
fall to his lot with as much success as can be ex-
pected. He is the ideal workman who keeps his
hands white though working twice as hard as his
neighbors, and he manipulates the humble pick and
shovel with a superior air, like one who is digging
a drain in three dead languages.
mm m m
To-morrow (Friday) night, grand onera
will cease at Sydney Royal, and depart for Bris-
bane per Musgrove specials on Saturday. Some
three weeks will be spent in the Land of the
Chow, .and, after that, no man, except George
Musgrove, knows. While it lasted, the grand
opera was a show where one might spend a few
hours in the ferocious old world, and it made one
feel glad to get back to the dull, prosaic 20th cen-
tury. This era may be commonplace, but it is a
lot more safe than the world of grand opera.
There is not much music nowadays, perhaps, but
it must have taken a lot of the charm off the
melody when it was a warbled intimation that
one’s dearest enemy had got one at his mercy, and
his mercy consisted mostly of slow fire. Com-
pared to that, even a sudden prose intimation
that the boss's younger brother will take up your
billet next week is a consoling thing.
• * *
For the last fortnight or so operas chased
one another so swiftly across the stage of the
Royal that it was quite impossible tq keep pace
with them. On Saturday night last a crowded
house listened to the last rendering of “ II Trova-
tore,” the great king opera of them all. The even
smoothness with which it went was a credit to
all concerned. Agnes Janson’s impersonation of
the vengeance-maddened old gypsy (how much
opera in general owes to the gypsy !) woman was
the gem of the evening. Madame Slap was in
splendid voice, but her Leonora had not the
Solished finish of Madame Jansbn’s Azucena.
'lie wonders how Count Eugenie Di Luna could
have had the heart to slay a man with, a voice like
Manrico Salvi. But this is one of the unpleasant
features of grand opera ; no matter how beautifully
he sings, the tenor generally comes to a violent
end.
** * *
For some ten nights or so, from Saturday
next, a Musgrovian company will occupy the
Royal with the latest English comedy success, a
piece entitled “Nurse,” with Miss Jennie May-
nard as leading lady. Leading gent is Mr.
Henry Ludlow. After that it is generally
understood that the Brough Co. will again walk
abroad.
*m m m
At Sydney Palace Hawtrey does a daring
thing by prefacing a comedy written by a woman
with a curtain-raiser created by a man. However,
the man suffers in comparison. The opening of
the “Highland Legacy” is a dreary, lengthy
monologue, jagged with sudden exclamations of
“ What’s that.” However, when Tammy Tamson,
the best girl, and the gentleman made respectable
by Act of Parliament appear, things brighten up
considerably; and Hawtrey in kilts, and Percy
Walshe in rags and a dilapidated silk hat, save the
situation.
When the odour of sentimentality left by
the “ Legacy ” has sufficiently dissolved, the cur-
tam rises on the seaside parlor where Tom, Dick
Rn( ' Harry get so fearfully and wonderfully mixed
up. I here is a sort of resemblance between T.,
1 . and 11. and a set of Lancers. Every man hugs
the other fellow’s girl, and every girl wastes a
wealth of kisses on the wrong man. The great
charm of the comedy is that it doesn’t contain any
moral, or try to teach anything except the ex-
pediency of making sure before you hug. It
merely consists of three red-headed men who
get into the same hotel and lunatic asylum,
anti are ultimately disentangled through being
seen simultaneously in the same room,
when each man is claimed by his own
proper best girl. As the peppery old general,
whose indigestion and temper are the causes
of all the trouble, Hawtrey is satisfactory. As
the son of his father, disguised in the red beard
and hair of the husband of a strange wife,
Herbert Ross is excellent; while the other two
red-haired men, Heggie and Lytton, can divide
things equally between them. Among the ladies,
Miss Ruby Ray, as the nice red-haired com-
panion, and Roxy Barton as the girl with the
eternal giggle, are hereby invitod to look upon
this scribe as a brother.
mm m m
Of the alteration of “ Florodora ” there is
no end. In a few weeks, at the present rate, Wil-
liamson will be able to take the opera back to
Melbourne, call it by another name (say “ Lauri-
dora ”), and score another gigantic success with
his new and up-to-date creation, produced for
the first time in Australia.
*m * *
At Sydney Empire the Sad-Eyed Shriek,
Fisko, and other people who have been previously
mentioned, get through their programme with the
Empire’s usual brightness and celerity. Next
week, Pagel, the German Hercules, is to astonish
the natives, and any who are not astonished are
to be promptly broken up by the new English im-
portation, Mr. Denis Carney.
mm m *
Saturday night last also saw the end of the
Imperial Concert’s Sydney season, and theco. has
now gone to Melbourne to let the subjects of Pea-
cock hear what Creation’s Hymn is like.
*m m m
“ The Night Birds of London,” it is
rumored, nearly went off Sydney Lyceum boards
the other week, but it was decided at a late hour
that the drama that was to have replaced it was
too mild, so the maligned social fowl still has his
address at the old perch. According to present
reports the Birds will endure for a few weeks
longer, likewise the potato-stall and the unreal
baby in the pram, and the two noble-hearted, small
children who escape the gas explosion by walking
down the house with the convenient steps cut into
its walls.
mm # m
Snazelle’s “Our Navy,” at Queen’s Hall,
Sydney, though damaged by the irruption of
Royalty and some amount of funeral, is still well
worth patronising, owing principally to the large
green waves that tumble from the top of the sheet
and then swirl upward from the foot. The cine-
matographed Boer war is necessarily viewed with
doubt, as the man who waved the British Flag on
the veldt could be taken just as effectively and
more safely and cheaply and conveniently waving
it in a field outside London ; but Snazelle’s large
green waves are above suspicion. Nothing will
persuade a peaceful harbour or a jug of hot water
to look like that. You can’t forge waves.
mm m #
There are some new things and things
almost new at Sydney Tivoli this week. Little
boy Eric is one item that seems likely to have the
effect of novelty, no matter how long his restless
little personality skips up and down the Tivoli
stage. Adelina Sarina, tne aerial gymnast, is in
her last week, and soon her shapely limbs and
magnificent arms will cease from ornamenting.
Frank and Jen Latona take part in a sketch,
wherein Jen, as a slavey, takes pills that will
give her an instantaneous knowledge of the piano,
said pills being certainly efficacious. She also
sings in a voice which may be said to suit her
kitchen occupation, inasmuch as it has an excellent
range. The polyphone does not strike this writer
as being very different from the now common and
old-fashioned phonograph. The first part of the
Rickards’ show still contains many unnecessary
items. Eva Lee continues with her “Plain Little
Everyday Girl, ” and if she does not brighten up
will presently be taken for the heroine of her own
ditty. ,
mm m m
The Melbourne dailies, as was expected
after their exuberant praise of Musgrove’s com-
pany, were quite severely critical in their first
notices of Williamson’s Italian crowd. For in-
stance, the Age, complaining of one artist in par-
ticular, said, “ Whatever may be the case in Italy,
in Melbourne the tremolo is not appreciated,” and
spoke of the “simply irritating” effect of a
“chain of shakes.” How does this compare with
the same paper’s notices of Louis Arens, whose
Wagnerian utterances shook like a jelly all the
time ? And how about the trembling basso of
Charles Tilbury (an Age idol) as compared with
the strong, straightforward singing of Travaglini ?
# ♦ ♦ *
A droll example of misguided criticism in
the same journal was the reference to the alleged
unnatural fairness of the priina-donna’s face com-
plexion : “ If Adelina Patti could afford to appear
with her face a rich brown, so assuredly can this
present Aida, and the spectacle of the jet-black
father'of an almost white-skinned daughter would
not then be presented.” But the world has gained
a knowledge of ancient Egyptian complexions
since Patti played the Ethiopian princess. Rev.
Haskett Smith, *in his illustrated lecture on
the Memphis revelations, shows a picture
of an Egyptian military commander and his
wife, which persons had been mausoleumed for
about 6500 years before the excavations at
Memphis Cemetery brought them within reach of
the camera. These interesting figures, seated side
by side, are quoted as evidence that among
civilised people the women have ever been “ the
fair sex.” The Egyptian officah aforesaid is as
black and nearly as naked as a primitive nigger,
whereas liis spouse is an olive-skinned lady with
much millinery on her. “ You would take them
to have been of different blood ; but the inscrip-
tion on the tomb states that they belonged to the
same race, and were, as a matter of fact, first
cousins,” says Haskett Smith. If the reverend
Egyptologist should ever again repeat his luminous
lectures in Melbourne, which he probably will
not, David Syme had better send bis staff along
for instruction. David’s staff would have just
about doubled the size of the audience the last
time Haskett Smith delivered his Memphis dis-
course.
m# m m
“In London Town,” is Bland Holt’s
latest opportunity for scenery and effects.
Somehow the name of Bland Holt was
omitted from the cast on Saturday’s pro-
gramme, but he made amends for this oversight
by appearing pretty frequently on the stage, dis-
guised as an able-bodied seaman of the famous
“ bull-dog breed.” The drama, in fact, is full of
deeds of valor by Bland Holt. He doesn’t seem
essential to the plot, but as a casual rescuer of Miss
Ross and a terror to evil-doers he commands loud
approbation. He is such a dutiful son that when
he stumbles accidentally against his aged mother
in a workhouse yard he insists upon restoring her
to freedom, without making formal application to
the vvork-’us authorities. The loving offspring
has no sooner assured himself of mother’s identity
than lie buys her an awful green silk costume to
comfort her declining years, and takes her off the
Parish in a cab, accompanied by Mrs. Bland
Holt, who appears as a warm-hearted Liddy
Bliss, and claps her hands accordingly. This
shows what a British sailor will do in time of need
for dear old mother.
• • • •
There are many impecunious characters
“ In London Town,” and some of the neediest are
not so virtuous as might be expected. A blind
father (Arthur Styan) potters around the metro-
polis in search of portable property. He appears
to be the head of a gang, and his system of
thieving attaches unjust suspicion to Miss
Ross, who thinks she is his daughter, whereas
she is really the child of a silver-haired
philanthropist (Walter Baker), and ought to be
luxuriating in Miss Harrie Ireland’s place. They
got mixed-up during their infancy, or later, owing
to Baker having married the bad blind man’s first
wife, or second wife, in the days of his poverty,
when he knew what it was to have the hunger-
pain, so he states. Unfortunately, Baker doesn’t
know ho is heaping jewellery on the wrong
daughter; neither can the sightless Styan see the
difference, but Albert Norman knows. Inci-
dentally, Albert is the father of the wrong
daughter’s improper baby, and he plots
mischief all the time. Considerable plot'
ting happens in slums, alleys, and streets
where tne raucous coster yells beside
his bloomin’ barrer, and in Hyde Park where the
midnight “ slop ” arouses the picturesque dosser
from dreams of sausages. Miss Ross grows weary
of unjust suspicion and tired of being beaten
by the unrelated blind parent, so she
arranges to fall into the river. Then
Albert Norman saves further trouble by pushing
her in, and the elegant form of Miss Ross floats
upon the painted stream until Bland rescues
her. Subsequently Norman attempts to hurl
Miss Ross from some London Roofs by Night,
but Bland rescues her again—Walter Baker
being too old and respectable to do any
rescuing in this drama and the mystery
is cleared up pleasantly. The villain falls off the
roof and kills himself, after the blind father has
been cast headlong downstairs, and the other
conspirators are mostly under arrest when the end
arrives. “In London Town,” at the Royal, looks
rather too badly built to be quite true to its origi-
nal form. Perhaps Bland Holt has been trying to
improve it, and the changes are for the worse, in
which case he will probably reconsider his altera-
tions. Brunton’s scenery and numerous matters
of management that help to detract attention from
the literary demerits of the drama can be praised
with great vigor.
*m m m
On Saturday night a crowded Athenaeum
Hall came to the conclusion that Bertram, the
conjuror, is a more easily dexterous man of tricks
than the late Dante, or any previous wizard seen
in Melbourne. Also he is a cheerful entertainer
in his stout and somewhat humorous way. The
royal and imperial magician carries a constant
chuckle through his two hours’ task. His skill
entitles him to chuckle a good deal, and no doubt
his expansive smile when he speaks of “the ladies”
—and he speaks of them 14 times per minute, or
oftener—is sound business policy. Nevertheless the
average male Australian would prefer a Bertram
who curtailed some of his unctuous patter and
gave more time to business. The things which
Bertram brings to pass might be left to talk for
themselves. They are amazingly funny. They
have been done before, or most of them have, by
the imitators who preceded him, but they never
were quite so marvellous as the old-hand makes
them appear. Bertram gives one the impression
of a man who has eaten profusely of buttered
muffins from bis childhood upwards, and has
thereby rendered himself slippery.
m sis # *
One week of the Italian Opera season at
Her Majesty’s has settled any lingering doubts re
the management’s capacity to produce two com-
panies of equal strength, and run either of them
for two or three consecutive nights without
damaging the voices. “ Aida,” a big opera to sing
in a thoroughly Italian style, was given again on
Saturday—the fifth time within eight days—and
was an all-round success. The two emphatic
ladies, Signora Benedetto and Signorina Marco-
mini are full of song a-id fury. A hasty
verdict on the acting of the mezzo-soprano artist
whose name ends with iis hereby cancelled. one
doesn’t sing so effectively as the plump little
Benedetto, but she acts nearly as well, and looks
her part better—which, however, doesn’t mean
that her appearance carries conviction with it.
We have to take Italian operatic figures as we see
them, and the voices as we hear them, and set one
consideration against the other. Larizza, the
robust tenor and interesting hero, promises to
maintain iiis top note in full robustness through
the campaign, and the other principals who were
good on the first night have improved their claims
to respect. Likewise the chorus, ballet, and spec-
tacle in general. “ Aida ” is a great show which
will call for a few revivals presently.
• m • •
“Lucia Di Lammermoor,” the tuneful
Donizetti opera that leads up to a famous sestet
and fades away into silence at the early hour of
10.30 p.m., was heard on Thursday and Friday,
and is billed for four nights this week. “ Lucia ”
makes an Italian attempt to introduce Scottish
color into the performance. The chorus-men
occasionally assemble in kilts and plaid chest-
protectors, and an elderly person named Raimondo
looks rather as though he considered himself a laird
of long ago. But tne opera doesn’t confine its sug-
gestions to any particular country or period. The
ladies who form a half-circle behind Raimondo at
the commencement of the third act, and subse-
quently fall back upon the scenery to give the
mad heroine plenty of singing room, are costumed
much the same as the gay revellers in “ Bohemian
Girl.” Moreover, the third act opens with a
Williamsonian Watteau Ballet, wherein the
brightest of the angelic dancing girls appears as
one of the boys and displays her long and beauti-
ful legs for all they are worth, in fleshings.
“ Lucia,” at Her Majesty’s, is a 3 festive as its
melancholy narrative will permit. Seven new
artists face the music in this opera, and acquit
themselves without a stain on their characters.
Signora De Vero Sapio was handicapped by a
very sore throat last week, yet she suc-
ceeded in scoring handsomely. Her voice
sounds sweeter than of yore, and every-
body who heard the tall imposing lady at
Melb. Town Hall some years back knows what
she can accomplish. The part of Lucia requires
some acting, and Signora Sapio, late of the con-
cert platform, proves to be a graceful dramatic
artist. The second tenor, Carlo Dani, is a highly
respectable warbler whofills the stage-lover position
creditably ; also there is a neat, presentable third
tenor in Cannonieri, but he gets killed behind
the scenes before he can do anything worth
mentioning. The aged Raimondo character has
a passable exponent, and the baritone brother,
Signor Bozzoli, is a nice-looking young man with
a pleasing voice. Probably he is very young
in stage experience, for he hangs his head
when he sings, and can’t bully the prima
donna as he should. On Saturday the third
opera, “Ernani,” will be staged, with the more
violent members of the co. in the principal parts.
*m m *
Other Melbourne shows have cone on un-
changed since last week. Dampier~ is likely to
take “Robbery Under Arms ” over a third Satur-
day at the Bijou, and Rickards is enjoying along
run of boom business at the new Opera House.
Marie Lloyd makes her last appearance (for the
present) this Thursday evening, and Johnson and
Co. are also about to go elsewhere, but clever
Mdllei. Bobe stays at the Opera House a while
longer and the Dartos fall due next Saturday
(15th).
mm m m
At the Town Hall, where the concerts
come in irrational gusts, Jean Gerardy will per-
form again next Saturday afternoon. Meanwhile
the Belle Cole co. has arrived, and will make its
first appearance on Saturday evening.
Poor S’Africa ! The cable—
On account of rinderpest in Basutoland, all communica-
tion between that territory and the Orange River Colony
has been forbidden.
That is the culmination of miseries. First the
war, then typhus, then plague, and now rinderpest.
Plague, pestilence, and famine—battle, murder,
and sudden death, all have fallen on the devoted
country. Chamberlain, Rhodes and Co., with
their “ Never again ! ” are nearer right than they
know. Never again, indeed, will S’Africa be
what it was seven years ago.
“ North Sydney ” writes :
While N.S.W. Government has been finding plenty of
money for plaster columns, gimcrack silvered pawn-shop
balls, &c., and “ substantial luncheons to M.P.’s and their
wives, officials, leading bankers and commercial men,
&c,” the Govt. Dept, writes to various Schools of Arts as
follows : “ With reference to subsidy . . . due to 31st
December, 1900 . . . the claim in question must be held
over till the vote for 1901-2 has been passed by Parlia-
ment.” Meanwhile Parliament has closed during altera-
tions, and another six months’ claim is about due, and
creditors must wait, or else the bank account be over-
drawn, and interest paid. In one case—St. Leonards—
-10 per cent, discount off an account for £29 odd for
papers and periodicals has been lost because the subsidy
has not been paid, and soon the mortgage interest will be
largely increased under the deed, if the quarter’s interest
is delayed longer. Why does the Government offer a
subsidy, and lead Schools of Arts to reiy on it, if it can't
paj- the same ? All this is Reid’s Cash Basis fraud over
again. Under the old system all payments for each year
had to be charged to that year whether paid during the
year or not, therefore the Government paid up. It had
nothing to gain by delaying. Now, by putting this
whole financial year’s S. of A. subsidy into next year this
year’s public accounts are made to look so much the
better, because no account is taken of unpaid liabilities.
Good old Cash Basis 1


Year to
Profits.
Dividends, &c.
Reserves a t
Bach Date.
Oct., tSOl
—
£0,237
„ 1802
£1000
—
7,203
„ 1S03
831
Written off ..
£1500
T.Cit
ISM
1822
Written oft
1000
8.110
;; isos
2852
Written off ..
3000
8,008
„ 1806
003ft
10 per cent. -
3200
10,033
„ ISO?
6123
/ Written ofT ..
1 10 |H.*r cent. =
wool
3205/
12,311
„ isos
4010
Si percent. =
27 SO
14.041
„ 1800
4235
7 per cent. »
2325
lO.Sftl
„ 1006
1302
7 per cent. =
2330
18,004
20,068
April, 1001
2392
7 per cent. =
1201
“Rand” Rook Drills.
“Rand” Air Compressors.
“Wilfley” Concentrators.
“Ivanhoe” Minin? SteeL
“Anchor” Brand Fuse.
Explosives, Lubricating Oils.
N. Ltd.
7 1 Clarence StSydney-
“ENfiLANP’S FAVORITE.”
PLAYER’S
.-».••’.-''.•■A.
NAVY CUT
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
7*
V,
The Cobar Chesney mine, Cobar, have lately
placed an order with the Austral Otis Engineering Com-
pany for a pair of powerful winding engines to haul from
2000 feet. These engines are rapidly approaching com-
pletion, and will be delivered about first of next month.
The same firm of engineers have also supplied the Occi-
dental mine, Cobar, with a handsome pair of winding
engines, as well as a boiler. This machinery was delivered
in very quick time and should give great satisfaction.*
* * * *
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
Allan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
.Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
The Insurance News of Ist August, 1900
writes : “ We have faith that the Colonial Mutual with
its many advantages of position and organisation and its
manifest decision to cultivate only safe and high class
business will secure its full share of business. *
» * * •
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., V (bourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated i talogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
* • * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * * *
All Barrier Mines remodelling their mills on up-
to-date lines include a number of Luhrig vanners. The
South and Junction companies each have about a dozen,
no slime treatment plant being now considered complete
without these excellent machines. In Queensland tin
concentration is the latest accomplishment, the Irvine-
bank Mill having introduced Luhrig Vanners with success-
ful results, the example having been followed by the well-
known Coolgarra Tin Mining Co., who are installing a
number of Luhrig Vanners in connection with their new
Tin Dressing Mill. Messrs. W. &J. Lempriere, Melbourne,
are the general agents for the Luhrig Appliances.*
e * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,’
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Mr. Mepban Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfonnder,
&c.,of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his tootscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, Burning, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-inaking
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, andallsortsof iron-work.*
* * * *
The Ivanhoe directors, not satisfied with their
fat dividends, got the shareholders to grant them l£
per cent, on all divs. declared since the end of ’99,
amounting to nearly £4OOO, and the same percentage is to
be received on all future divs.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting Charges.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-iit., Sydney; GS Currie-st., Adel.; 27 Kajle-slreet,
Brisb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
Auckland, NZ.
AUSTRALIAN METAL CO. LTD.
1 St. James’s Buildings,
113 WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores.
Importers of Cyanide of Potassium (98/100 per cent,
pure), Bleaching Powder, Mining Requisites.
Candles, eto.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Revenue returns for May, 1901: —
Increase as com-
Revenue, pared with May,
Mav, 1901. 1900.
Victoria .. .. £877,968 .. £282,649
Westralia .. .. 253,818 .. 22,560
N.S. Wales .. •• 1,002,211 • . 11 - B ® l .
(Rents, &c., of resumed area of Sydney included)
v ’ ’ Decrease as com-
pared with May,
1900.
N.S. Wales .. .. 980,128 .. . W' 2B2
(Rents, &c., of resumed area of Sydney not included.)
Tasmania .. .. 65,293 .. 18,104
Queensland .. .. 290,713 .. 65,792
And this is how things stand up to date, so far as infor-
mation is available, and so far as the respective financial
years have gone. Financial information is a very scarce
commodity so far as some of the States are concerned :
Increase as
Revenue to compared with
May 31, 1901. revenue to
May 31, 1900.
N.S. Wales(ll months) ..£9,768,311 .. £ 521 > 44 ®
(Rents, &c., of resumed area of Sydney included)
Victoria (11 months) .. 7,028,492 .. fO°.6-S
N.S. Wales (11 months) .. 9.619,576 ... 37..,414
(Rents, &c., of resumed area of Sydney not included)
Westralia (11 months) .. 2,779,928 .. 24 ®’ 48 ?
S. A. (9 months to 31/3/’01).. 2,076,8/5 • • Dec ”£f„
compared with
revenue, to
May 31, 1900.
Tasmania (5 months) .. " ,?n’!lon
Queensland (11 months) .. 3,794,007 .. 410, 9
Federation, of course, has put things on a very different
footing from that of last year. The Commonwealth
Government has taken over the post and telegraph
revenue and part of the customs and excise, and it has
also relieved the States of corresponding expenditure. If
things had remained as they were the first four States
would have shown a larger increase, and the last two a
smaller decrease. Still, they are all affected in equal
degree, so the figures are useful for purposes of compari-
son. .
If these increases and decreases are reduced to
a common denominator of so much per inhabitant per
annum, we get these results according to the census
figures, now available for the first time :
° Increase of Revenue
per inhabitant per
Population. annum as com-
pared with period
to May, 1900.
Westralia .. .. 182,553 .. £1 '5 9
New South Wales .. 1,362,23., . 8 4
(Rents, &c., of resumed area of Sydney included)
Victoria .. •• 1,196.874 .. 7 4
South Australia .. 362,595 .. 6 8
New South Wales .. 1.362,232 .. !* 11
(Rents, i&c., of resumed area of Sydney not included)
v Decrease.
Queensland .. .. 502,892 .. 9
Tasmania .. •• 171,066 .. . 16 2
Starting with N.S.W., the financial position of
that State is almost a record for utter badness. Not in-
cluding the extra receipts from the resumed area, which
are really money held in trust for the unpaid owners of
the property, we get these results
11 months to 11 months to Tn( . rpase
31st Mav, 1930. 31st May, 1901. lncrease ’
Revenue .. . - £9,247,162 £9,619,576 £372,414
Ordinary Expenditure 9,273,704 10,260,209 986,505
Deficit .. .. 26.542 640,633 614,091
Loan Expenditure 2,077,516 2,557,281 479,/65
This means that legitimate revenue has increased by
£372 414 while expenditure (ordinary and loan) has in-
creased by £1,466,270, so things are £1,093,856 worse than
at this date last year. This is assuming that the pub-
lished expenditure at May, 1909, was the full expenditure,
and that no items were then disguised by being paid
out of trust funds. If the receipts fronT the resumed
area are included that makes the revenue larger, but in
that case the liabilities on account of the said area must
be put on the other side, which will somewhere about
balance things again. And in addition to the above,
there are the unpaid bills belonging to this year which
are being held over till next year under the Reid
Cash Basis dodge. The See Government tries to
make things look comparatively square by paying
£473 628 of war, plague and celebration expendi-
ture ’ out of trust funds, and by including the
receipts from the resumed area without putting the area s
unpaid liabilities against them. Certainly, this is not all
the Government’s fault, though it is largely so. A large
section of N.S.W. hollered for war—gory war. The aggre-
gate N S W. Fat Man especially hollered for war in the
hope of getting titles. The Lyne-See Government hadn’t
the courage either to resist the demand for war, or to tell
the country that war costs money here as everywhere
else, and that it would be necessary to double the
income-tax for several years to pay the bill. It hasn’t
the courage now to state that the bill has arrived, and to
demand an extra 6d. in the £ income-tax, even at this
late hour, to cover it- So it muddles the accounts in this
awful fashion by way of staving things off.
And this is how things are in Queensland, thanks
to war, drought, plague, the increasing interest bill
caused by lavish borrowing, and the cowardice of a
miserable Government, which dare not levy direct taxa-
tion to fill the gap :
11 months to 11 months to
31st Mav, 1900. 31st May, 1901. Decrease.
Revenue .. -• £4,204,497 £3,794,007 £410,490
Increase.
Ordinary Expendi- 3,467,908 3,639,047 171,139
t p Decrease.
Surplus .. .. 736,589 154,960 581,629
Loan Expenditure.. 1,035,593 . 1,033,151 2,447
Net result is that revenue has decreased £ 41 0,490 while
expenditure (ordinary and loan) has increased £165,69-,,
so things are £579.182 worse than they were at this date
last year. This isn’t so bad a situation in the lump as
that of N.S.W., where things are £1,093,806 worse, but it
is rather worse in proportion to Queensland’s population.
Queensland has a huge sum to pay for interest just at the
end of the financial year, so a deficit of £500,000 is prac-
tical!; certain. If Queensland had the N.S.W. Cash Basis
swindle, it could make things look all right. In N.S.W
the interest due for the second half of the financial
year is not charged till next financial year. The
money 3 has passed out of the N.S W Treasurer s
hands before the accounts are made up at 30th June, but
he reckons it as money in hand all the same; at least
Reid did so, and as far as the public knows the practice
still continues. But Queensland never learned the Gash
Basis dodge. .
Tasmania publishes no monthly expenditure
accounts, but these things are known concerning it : Its
revenue has slumped so badly that, even if it was still col-
lecting all its postal, telegraph, customs, ana excise,
t would show a decline of £30,945 or the five
months, equal to £74,263 per annum. Also that Mild
financial profligate, Bolton Stafford Bird, is back at the
Treasurv, in place of the careful Fysh and B ‘. add °”’
is reputed to be shovelling out money with a big shovel in
each hand. The anticipated increase of ordinary expen-
diture for the year is about £70,000.
Up to the end of May Westralia’s revenue was
£2 779,928; expenditure, £2,807,585; deficit, £27,657.
And since then war bills have been coming m gaily, and it
is telegraphed that a large shortage is expected at the
end of the vear. S.A. is also expected to show a small
deficit, and Victoria may come out about square, though
this is uncertain. Very little information is available
from either State, but war and Duke and drought have
struck them both—especially war. No one State had the
courage to tell its people that war must be paid for by
extra taxation, so they are all in a bad way.
* * * *
A few days ago Victoria and N.S. W. borrowed
locally £500,000 each, and the money was put up so un-
obtrusively that hardly any one noticed that anything
was happening. Victoria got its half-million at about
£3 4s per cent. N.S.W. floated a shorter-dated loan at
about £3 12s. 6d. per cent. This makes about £2,000,000
which N.S.W. has borrowed in Australia, during the last
twelve months, and the total local borrowings of the
seven States of Australasia in the twelve months are
about £5,000,000 or £6,000,000. In every case the money
has been got below —mostly much below—London rates.
And on 31st March, 1901, there was £22,728,858 of gold
and silver in the banks of the seven States, as compared
with £21,870,402 fifteen months previously. All this
enormous local borrowing, instead of depleting the
country of money as so many old-rut amateur-
financiers foretold, has only resulted in an increase of
£850,000 in the country’s cash resources inside 1J years.
The awful blunder of the Lyne-See Government in
borrowing that recent million in London at 4 per cent,
when money can be got here at so much less;
and the cowardice of the Turner Government in
allowing itself to be squeezed to the extent of £3 12s. or
£3 14s. per cent, in London for its recent renewal loan of
£3, ooo, ooo'without even trying the local market, stick out
more conspicuously than ever.
* * • *
The United States are overflowing just now
with money, and certain New York capitalists have
written to the N.S.W. Government pointing out that the
4 per cent, loan recently floated in London was an ex-
orbitant fraud, and that'Cornstalk loans could be placed
more cheaply in New York. If another easy borrowing
market opens up for this spendthrift land it will be the
worst disaster that has struck it for many years. The
average Australian “ statesman ” is prepared to borrow
everything that everybody will lend, and the more
lenders he can find the faster will he rake down' ruin on
the head of this sorrowful country. If Australia must go
on borrowing, let us do it locally, from our own people.
This country is already the abject bond-slave of the
British usurer; it doesn’t need to pawn its soul to an
American one also.
* • • *
“Perplexed”: One document deals with the
whole liabilities. The other only show's the liabilities in
New South Wales.
* * * *
The State Bank of South Australia—the con-
cerh which raises money at 3J per cent., and lends it out
to the local agriculturist at 4£ per cent.—has been in
operation for five years and two months up to 31st March,
1901, and still bears up against the Tory party’s forebod-
ings of evil. It has now £507,408 lent out on mortgage,
and the entire arrears of interest are £339. Last year’s
results compare with previous figures as follows
Not
Reckoning Reckoning
Premiums Premiums Total
on Bonds on Bonds Deficit.
sold sold
as Profit. as Profit.
Loss. Loss.
June 30,1896 ( 6 months). .£9S6 .. £315 .. £315
Profit. j£*Se s
1897 (12 „ ).. 2162 .. 1001 .. 686
Profit.
March 31,1598 ( 9 „ ).. 707 .. 2184 .. 2870
„ 1899(12 „ )..IIS4 .. 1895 .. 4765
1900(12 „ >..1196 .. 1271 .. 6036
„ 1901(12 „ ).. 1724 .. 1724 .. 7760
The South Australian State Bank has thus realised since
its commencement £6097 from premiums on 1-onds sold,
and £1663 ordinary profit. As it had to pay per cent,
on its capital from the very commencement (unlike an
ordinary bank which seldom pays any dividend on its
capital, in its first year), and as it lends out its
funds at much below' ordinary banking rates, the result
is not at all bad. The profits of the ordinary business are
growing larger every year. The expenses for the year
just ended were at the rate of 15s. 9d. percent, on average
capital employed, and as the margin allowed for expenses
and losses is £1 per cent., and losses so far have been .nil,
a good reserve is being steadily built up out of the
difference. The management of the S.A. State Bank
should now make it its object and fixed resolve to con-
tinue building up that reserve till the institution won’t
require to sell bonds in order to get money with which to
make loans—till its reserve of sundry millions will be
its capital, and the bonds can all be repaid, and every
pennv of money in the institution will be the
State’s money. Then it will be able to lend on
mortgage at £3 per cent., and about £2 10s. per
cent, of that will be profit, to further enlarge the
funds and extend the sphere of the bank’s usefulness.
Until the State Bank has grown so large that the private
mortgagee is extinct in S.A., and every penny lent on
mortgage in S.A. is lent by the State Bank, and every
pennv so lent is the bank’s own money—not borrowed on
bonds from anybody—the funds of the institution should
be allowed ta accumulate. After that result is arrived
at, it will be time enough for the State to annex part of
the profits for the benefit of the Treasury.
The Independent Order of Foresters, the Cana-
dian assessment institution which is pushing business in
Australia —a country which hasn’t yet become fully
acquainted with the assessment variety of life business—
was recently mixed up in a rather violent American law-
suit. In the plaintiff’s statement remarks like this
appeared : “ That the Order is managed by a clique of
Canadians, headed by Oronhyatekha, a half-breed Indian,
in an arbitrary, reckless, negligent, and extravagant
manner : that it is paying out of its mortuary funds
thousands of dollars to favorites for prizes, and to certain
favored newspapers for printing columns of matter
laudatory of its officials ; and that it has sunk over
700,000 dollars in a wild real estate speculation, and loaned
its funds to its officials secured by mortgage on their over-
valued lands. That the Order has not only paid these
officials extravagant salaries, but also made them munifi-
cent gifts of money out of its funds ; that its officials
have destroyed its records to conceal their illegal acts
. . that the Order has become practically insolvent,
there being outstanding and unpaid death and disability
claims against it amounting to over 300,000 dollars,” &c.
The management flatly denies all these charges, and the re-
sult of the case is not yetto hand. Apropos of the allegation
that the 1.0. F. spends its money recklessly in printing
laudations of its officials, how much space was filled in the
Sydney papers in the early days of the calamity by de-
scriptions of the Indian boss’s commanding figure, and
rare sweet smile, and tremendous bull voice, and things
like that ?
* * * *
The Land Mortgage Bank of Victoria, an in-
stitution which has been laboring in a heavy sea for seven
or eight years, has written off £106,406, being the amount
paid up on 94,623 forfeited shares, and already applied in re-
duction of losses ; and t'l 3s. per share on the other 155,377
shares, equal to another £178,654. This will leave the
concern with a paid capital of about £145,000 —the exact
amount depends on what -calls have been collected since
last balance-sheet was published. Unfortunately, this
writing-down doesn’t increase the income by a single
penny ; nor, as no dividends are paid, does it diminish
the outgoings, so the deficit (which was £2289 for half-
year to 31st December, 1900), apparently remains just
where it was, unless business improves. The writing-
down just about wipes off the visible existing deficit
(which was £177,560 at 31/12/1900), and leaves no margin
for any further disasters. And the Land Mortgage Bank s
disasters came along so regularly that it is difficult to feel
at all confident that it is at the end of them.
» * * *
The Intercolonial Investment, Land and Build-
ing Co. (Sydney)
The reserves consist of reserve fund, £12,510 ; reserve
for equalisation of dividends, £3500 ; and undivided pro-
fit, £4095. The management reckons them at £22,405 by
including another item—“ capital suspense account,
£2310.” What this may be it is very difficult to say, but
it doesn’t sound as if it was a reserve ; it rather suggests
shares that have hanged themselves on the premises.
Even without this item, however, the Intercolonial’s re-
serves show a verv remarkable increase in the last 10
years ; and the profit for the half-year just ended is a
considerable improvement on recent figures. The total
assets are £72,488, and against these there are only
£l5 586 of deposits and other liabilities to the public.
The’ other £50,902 represents shareholders’ funds, so the
co. is in the eminently safe position of trading almost
wholly with its own money.
• • * *
Melbourne Age very pertinently inquires why
the Victorian farmer doesn’t put more energy into the
work of establishing co-operative butter-factories, and
the profits private factories make out of him are certainly
enormous. The best profit is at the rate of 228 per
cent, per annum,on capital, and the very worst paying
private butter-factory returns 19 per cent. The average
rate is 85 per cent.
* * * *
The mine disaster at the South Broken Hill is
the first bad accident that has occurred since the Mines
Accident Relief Fund came into operation. UnderN.S.W.
State law, applicable to all but the smallest mines, a
weekly deduction of 4id. is made from wages. The
owners add 41d. ; the State adds 9d. This entitles the
widow or guardian to Bs. a week, and the children under
14 to 2s 6d. a week each, with £l2 for funeral exes. It
also allows of provision during sickness resulting from
mining accident.
* * * •
One of the men killed by the fall of ore in the
Broken Hill South mine left nine children, the eldest (the
only one able to work) 16. The widow will draw from the
new Mines Accident Relief Fund £1 Bs. a week ; half-a-
crown will be knocked-off as each child reaches the age of
14 Deceased had paid into the fund altogether 6s. 3d.
* * * *
The fact that the inquest on the victims of the
Broken Hill South mine-accident resulted in something
stronger than the usual verdict of “ accidental death, no
blame being attachable to anybody,” was mainly due to the
fact that the jury was led by E. J. Polkinghorne, ex-
president of the Miners’Association, one of the leaders who
were gaoled during the last strike. Both manager and Govt,
mines inspector were included in the jury’s condemna-
tion, with which the coroner (not a Labor-man) ex-
pressed his concurrence. An inquiry by a royal commis-
sion will probably follow.
• * • •
B.H. North has at last decided to shut down
and wait till the clouds roll by. This means another 100
men on the verv over-crowded Barrier labor-market, the
balance of the 200 employed at the end of last year having
been gradually thinned out before the final step was
taken. Until the lead market improves or something
happens in connection with ore-dressing experiments,
the co. will confine itself to the extension and improve-
ment of its appliances for re-dressing the ore left after
the first crop of silver and lead has been taken from it.
The North’s present misfortune is that, though it has a
large quantity of ore (no mine has improved more in that
respect) it is all average-grade stuff—there is no good
stuff sandwiched in between poor bodies. At most times
this is a good defect; but not just now, when it’s only
the ham part of the sandwich that can be eaten.
» • * »
Re the Lake George winding-up: Plant and
machinery, as in books, including new cyanide plant,
£56,662; yet the total is valued for purposes of
realisation'at £5000; The leases have no value but a
book one, and that is £98,509. Is it possible that the
machinery will only realise £5000? A disgusted share-
holder wants to know if the winding-up is definitely
settled, are the leases cancelled or forfeited and available
to any person paying the necessary fees, and if the
defunct co. can take away all the machinery. The co.
recently got a short exemption from labor-conditions.
Sooner or later the leases will be available. The law
allows a certain time for the removal of machinery, but
as it is worth three times more where it is than to take
away it is likely to remain while there is any prospect of
the mine re-opening. With the strictest economy and a
railway the mine would pay.
Associated Northern : A report made by W.
Griffith, a S’African mining man, has been published.
Understood that he has also given a report on Brown
Hill, but the latter has not seen light. Of the A.N., he
says the manager’s measurements, figures and estimates
of’reserves are correct, that the mining is good, sampling
accurate and extensive. Lode runs from north to
southern boundary, the oxidised zone is from 8 to 30ft.
wide, and the sulphide from 4 to Bft. Auriferous all the
way, but not payable for full length, the best shutes of
ore being in the vicinity of Nos. 1 and 3 shafts. Values
of sulphides and tellurides are put down to average
70dwt., not including phenomenally rich streaks, and
everv foot of the ore-body exposed has been carefully
sampled. Oxidised ores in sight, 21,000 tons, averaging
20dwt. per ton. Sulphide ore, 37,000 tons at 70dwt. per
ton, and 23,000 tons at 80dwt., and with the ore at
grass, bringing total up to 86,000 tons ; and when
331 per cent, is allowed off assay value for possible
mistakes and losses, there is a balance of 167,0000 z., value
£668,000. Estimated that this will realise half-a-
million profit. The shipping of rich ore to Fremantle is
recommended because of the danger of leaving it on the
surface, and the necessity of keeping development work
well ahead. Mr. Gritfith advises that the mine should be
developed to 800 ft. before divs. are declared, but stoping
for rich ores is not recommended. He is not very definite
about the character of the reducing plant, contending
that the best solution of the sulphide problem has not yet
been arrived at. Generally acknowledged that the
Northern Associated has a big future, ana that that of
the Brown Hill is as dismal as the other is bright. It has
had a magnificent past, and instead of being satisfied
with it, and admitting that the days of the mine are
numbered unless it can amalgamate with the Northern
Associated, innumerable lies are told to keep the market
up, to squeeze the “ bears,” and to enable certain people
to creep out.
* * * •
The Hainault battery crushed last month 670
tons of sulphide ore from the 500 ft. level for 4740 z. gold,
the tailings assaying 6dwt.—an average of 14dwt. per ton.
“ The result must be considered very satisfactory.” That
is the invariable phrase when it is a horrible disappoint-
ment. Often given out that this mine had thousands of
tons of ore at grass that would average over an oz. There
is nothing in 14dwt. rock in a mine like the Hainault. It
is worth working for its position and prospects, and that
is about all that can be said of it.
* * * *
Chaffer’s: Some more diamond-drill work has
been started on this mine—“which should prove very
interesting.” The interesting feature of Chaffer’s is the
fact that though it is surrounded by good mines, such
as the Golden Horseshoe and the Boulder Main Reefs,
it has never found any gold to speak of, yet it
must have spent about £lOO,OOO in the effort. About
time that it threw up the sponge. The chances are that
if there is a pay-lode in the mine its location will be dis-
closed by the workings of one of the good mines around
it, so what is the use of monkeying money away by ex-
pensive shaft-sinking and diamond drill boring ?
South Kalgurli: Treatment plant to be closed
down for two or three weeks for the installation of addi-
tional grinding mills and alteration of the furnaces,
which will largely increase the production. “ All round
the underground workings are in a very healthy state and
this, added to the increase in the treatment plant,
assures a very bright future for the property.” Does it ?
Not if vou look at the past. It has been crushing from
1200 to 1500 tons a month for about the same number of
oz., and although it has been doing this for over a year it
has never paid one little div.—indicating that it has taken
all the gold it could get to pay the mine’s way.
* * * *
Ironsides North (Hannan’s): Still getting mag-
nificent assays and realising some money by sale of water.
Unfortunately, it is too far outside the defined golden
area to have any hope of ever becoming a mine, and much
money might be saved by shutting it up.
Croesus Proprietary (Hannan's): Reported that
the lode has been sampled and assayed by the a«sayer of
Brookman’s Boulder mine for an average of 3oz. a ton,
taken for a width of 4ft. And emphasis is laid on the
fact that the assayer broke down the samples himself.
There is an ahsence of compliment in this for the mana-
ger. Assays are a delusion and a snare, and their publi-
cation should be stopped by threats of boilingjnl.
(Continued on page 25.)


Complete
Outfits.
AN ORIENT BOOT
16/6
AN ORIENT SUIT—
-63-
TO MEASURE
ALL CLASSES OF GARMENTS
.. IN THE ..
“Orient To Measure” Clothing
.. AT ..
SPECIAL PRICES^
W rite for Particulars and Patterns.
DAVID JONCS & COMPANY,
<*%or%z 8t Barrack Sts., SydrjCV
WENTWORTH HOTEL
Church Hill, SYDNEY.
Entirely under
New Management.
Late of Queen’s Hotel, Townsville, Q.
Forget all your troubles,
Reverses and debts,
In peaceful enjcj *nent of
NOME CIGARETTES
Society
LEROY
LIQUEUR
BRAMDY
Well, the guns have banged, and the
C tl> ha n e blared > alld the lyres have twanged,
hnwlS fi !ul° rks fl f red - and the crowds have
bawled, and the crawlers crawled ; and the Duke
come and the Duke has gone—we have
sampled the show and we’ve passed it on • we
finH e +rr-* th u r ° Und ° f the box of tricks > aild we
hnd that it all amounts to—nix !
“ Nix ’’—nothing ; and less than nothing ' Be-
cause Australians-bar those disgraceful depar-
tures from type of whom it might have been pro-
phetically written “Upon thy belly shalt thou
go —have disgustedly discovered that there’s less
in .Royalty than even their essentially irreverent
souls had supposed. The Royal Tradition—ori-
ginating m men of inches-cim-brains—might even
to the unworshipful Australian mind, ha’ve in
some sort justified itself in the person of a King-
to-Be who should have possessed at least the
inches ; or who, failing the physical dimensions,
should at least have given outward sign of a force-
tuJ and valid personality.
_<iad the Yorks even passably-well answered to
Miltons synthetic sex-characterisation, as “for
valor, he, and contemplation formed ; for softness
she, and sweet attractive grace ’’—the whole busi-
ness might have less ludicrously failed as an object-
lesson in Royalty. But, with a bodily and
mentally inconsiderable man and a lusty and
somewhat plebeian-looking young woman," even
our lamentable local lickspittles must have
found it hard to keep up a working-pressure
ot simulated enthusiasm. Also, leaving out
Barton s immortal snuff-box, nobody got anything
m the way of a “ princely” present worth a second
glance ; and the trumpery photographs so liberally
distributed as souvenirs only served to -show how
miserably scrubby is British Royalty’s conception
of the Art of Present-Giving. With members of
the Russian ruling family—with the German
Kaiser, the Turkish Sultan, even the vassal
Indian princes—the practice appears to be either
to do the thing magnificently or to leave it
YES, HE WAS THEBE.
HIS WASPISH WIFE : “ Hello! Are you there?”
their 7“
good for Australians to have been made thus
forcibly to understand what a miserably huckster-
mg spirit may be imported even into the Trade of
Being Royal. And it is well also for the British
taxpayer who in the long run settles with the
piper—that so comparatively little of his hard-
earned coin should have been devoted to con-
ferring a reputation for munificence upon persons
who, In a corresponding station of life, would
nmKoKiu Urr a * i
p be guided jy the good old commercial
sixpence othing for nothing, and damn little for
the star ,f in their courses had fought
trai l h TI SUCC T ° f , thf f Yorks ’ visit to Aus-
rmint'lf ~ T of the locally - unknown
quantity Royaity, was badly damaged, to begin
w th by the materialisation of a small, inefficient
“wo ifomewhat modified by a rather large, but
wenchy and undistinguished, Duchess. Then
there was the dismal emptiness of the bag re-
putedly stuffed tight with honors and decorations
tor expectant Australian tinpot notabilities, and
Imr!°r' m* n ed i°- U * but Tl a few P altl T knighthoods
~ O.IVL.tx.-ships. But even more grievous is
ttie teeth-gnaslnngover the non-supervention of the
presents which, to the tune of at least
, .’OOO, the Duke, it was said, was to dispense with
lavish hand. No costly rings, no be-diamonded
watches no miniatures set with brilliants, prac-
-11 A n r nothm £ ’’—bar Barton’s Box. After
all the Imperial fanfaronade the Prate of
i nnceliness the piteous cringe and crawl and
slaver—there remains but a glorified “sneeshin’-
muli to remind the meaner sort of Australians
that they might just as well have remained on
their hind legs ” during the passage through
these lands of two converttionally-notable persons,
who, unless they are absolute idiots, cannot fail
to have m secret heartily despised the creeping-
things-in-vam by whom they were surrounded.
* * • *
The Duke of York’s visit has done the
cause of Monarchy in Australia more harm
than can be repaired in half a century. The
poor little Prince struck the always-irreverent
Australian as a weary puppet run by clumsy
showmen who let the working of the strings
be seen all the time. The public appearances of
the weak, frightened-looking little man were all
most painful to sympathetic onlookers, and especi-
ally painful was his appearance at Sydney Uni-
versity when that institution went through the
unspeakably-grotesque mockery of conferring upon
him an LL.I).-ship. However, the style of the
Duke’s acknowledgment of the “ honor ” accorded
him, humiliating as it must have been to all who
wish to see the University maintained as a bona-
fide seat of learning, was exactly the sort of thing
called for by so outrageously incongruous a kow-
tow.
* * * *
Humorous reading is the account of the
■look’s N.S.W. hunting expedition. The “party”
consisted of nine “guns,” as many “loaders,”
half-a-dozen cooks, half-a-hundred other flunkeys,
half-a-score of police, and a baker’s dozen or so of
“ Our Special Representative.” It was under the
worried care of a Governor-General, a Boss Rail-
way Commissioner, a Chief-of-Police, and a Presi-
dent of a Legislative Council. The sacred train
consisted of seven gorgeous cars, drawn by two
engines ; it was followed by a baggage train, car-
rying the Jook’s reserve stock of clothes, and pre-
ceded by a pilot-engine. All station-masters, with
*( eir Z& ™t *» all traffic waa
train ; a lordly camp was fixed un with a score*of
turnouts in attendance, and numerous to
mention raged all over the countrv Then *ll
this gorgeousness nans out thnslv • ttw iq
ducks and numerousharesand also
buggy and four flunkeys missing- second dnv
“ one black swan one dnob- I?™™ fifT i u
a few l ares also and fonr fl? and
covered The Tol ffrn ti d Aimkeys re-
V . , ook nasnoJuck. A few months
earlier he might have gone out and taken a shot at
A DEFECTIVE TIME-SENSE.
“ Oh, your husband is such a talented man—tell
me, now, is there anything he can't do?"
“ Well, he can hardly ever catch the last tram."
the Breelong blacks instead of going in a special
train to rouse the bloodthirsty sparrow in his lair
after this fashion.
* * * *
Sydney Daily Telegraph’s recorder of
the Duke’s shooting excursion remarks patheti-
cally that success with the ducks was a minor
quantity—“they were not tame!” Eheu ! He
probably expected that the birds would waddle
up to George Frederick Ernest Albert with little
Union Jacks tied to their tails, requesting death
per favor of royal duck-shot.
* • * *
Among all the proposed statues to the
late Queen is there one which hasn’t gone on the
rocks for want of money ? The Bulletin doesn’t
know of one. Apparently Victoria is in a fair
way to have 12 or 14 half-monuments or quarter-
cenotaphs—in some cases the money is only about
sufficient to supply Her Majesty up to the knees
and all the rest of her is still unsubscribed—but
not one whole one. At Wellington (M.L.) a
special effort was made to get the coin together so
that York could lay the foundation-stone with
eclat, but even that prospect failed to bring in the
needful “splosh.” At latest advices the subscrip-
tions ran to about half the price at which a cheap
slop-monument could be procured, and the stream
of cash had dried up so utterly that hardly six-
penn’orth of financial moisture remained in its
bed.
* * * *
David Syme’s begging list for the Queen
Victoria national monument has just about reached
its*34th thousand shilling. It has taken many
weeks to scrape up the last £lOO, and often six or
seven inches of valuable space was devoted to
recording the gathering-in of thirty or thirty-five
shillings, full names being given for every “bob.”
The big success of many large funds the Argus
has taken in hand of late years makes failure all
the more galling to “the Boss.” David should
remember that the Argus appeals to a class which
profits socially and in business by bigcharityadvts.,
whereas his paper goes mainly amongst people to
whom a shilling is twelve pence, and who have no
little handbills to plaster on Victoria’s monument.
* * * »
Melb. Age printed a touching little story
of the Duchess meeting, in a cot at a Sydney
hospital, a small boy who had broken his leg
tumbling from a fence to which he had climbed
to catch a glimpse of their Royal Highnesses
‘•So you broke your leg trying to see me, did you ? I
suppose you are sorry you ever wanted to see me now,”
continued the Duchess, as she handed the hoy a bunch of
violets. Young James was too much astonished to reply,
but the look on his face indicated that he would willingly
have broken the other leg for her Royal Highness.
The Bulletin is only deterred from sacking its
Office Myth, the Little Boy at Manly; and giving
James the billet, by the probability that his look
was too freely translated. Possibly he thought he
was climbing to see something almost as interest-
ing as a circus, and the look implied a belief that
be had been shockingly imposed upon.
* * ♦ *
Major “Tom” MTnerney, back from the
Boer-butchery, with probably as much expex-ience
of the ins and outs of the business as any other
Australian, sneers much more fiercely than the
Melb. dailies admit in their interviews at the
charges of treachery directed against the Boers.
“Lies,” he says, “excepting in a few isolated
cases where there was only individual responsi-
bility.” Just so. There was basis for just as
heinous charges against the other side, but the
foolish Boers neglected to run a cable to Australia.
Despite all the care taken that none
but perfectly naice people should mingle
with Royalty, one or two s mcking things
happened. One afternoon off, when there
was no official function, the Duchess
arranged to visit a show place m a
Northern town, and was taken round by
the president of the affair—a jovial cus.
to whom everybody is hail fellow well
met. The Duchess said every thing was
very nice, which is the thing that Royalt)
is always expected to say ; an( ‘ i “ le
director thereupon remarked : _ ‘ But
there is one work of art you haven t seen
yet, and the people of Australia are more
fond of it than of any other. In fact,
they really worship it.” Tl.o Princess
Atay looked puzzled. “What is that?”
she asked. Then the boss laughed the
loud kookaburra laugh of the person
who rushes in where angels fear to tread,
and seizing the lady by the shoulder
swung her round on her heels to face her
own reflection in a long mirror. The
Buu.etin fancies there is. something in
the British Constitution to meet a case
of this sort. The offence, if it recollects
rightly, is catching hold of the Presence,
and is punishable by boiling oil, or
gradual freezing in the cold meat estab-
lishment, or by having all the bound
volumes of the back Parliamentary reports
of Australia dropped on your feet for 14
days.
• * • *
The long-drawn out squabble among
the Wellington (M.L.) shopkeepers, every
one of whom insisted that the Jookal pro-
cession should amble right past his front
door, was ended without bloodshed.
though it was a close thing. Governor
Rmfurly, who isn't dependent on
anybody’s vote, wanted to explain
to the shopkeepers that the Jook
wasn’t hunt to be an ornament to
anybody’s fr< nt door ; but Sed-
don was wiser in bis genera-
tion, and set to work to spread
the Heir-Apparent out as far as
he would go. By getting him
to enter the city one way, and
to go another way next day when
he went to solemnly whack a founda-
tion-stone under pretence of ’‘laving” it,
and by taking him through some other different
streets on his departure, Seddon pacified the free
and enraged electors to some extent. There are
still certain back streets that have been done out
of their fair share of Jook. But that can’t be
helped.
• * * *
A voice from Maoriland :
Things are about as promising as any anarchist could
wish. Premier Seddon, as usual, aims at shading other
ceremonies, and wants a huge Maori corroboree at the
Hot hakes, and a 16,000-men military review in Christ-
church. (Melbourne only had a 14,000-men review at
Flemington.) This military display is to happen in Hagley
Park, which is as fiat as the Werrib.ee Plains, and very few
people, except the 4000 in the temporary stands, will see
anything. Otago is objecting to its own show losing the
military adjunct, if its troops are sent to Christchurch.
Some old Maori tribal feuds are being resuscitated, and
the Waikatos want to meet the Duke in Auckland harbor
while the Arohas want to do something else, and the little
band of Rotorua people may be left to. dance hakas on
their little own. Wellington shopkeepers in one street
refuse to close if the procession goes down some other
street; deputations are recalcitrating between Mayor,
Premier and Acting-Gov., and, altogether, there isn't
a speck of brotherly love left in the two islands.
» * • *
The South Australian Bushmen’s Corps
has just been graciously pleased to express its
approval of Lord Methuen, and has notified the
British War Office in writing to that effect,
finishing up with what is virtually a recom-
mendation that Methuen should be rewarded
for his good conduct when in command of his
present S.A. patrons. Safe to say that no more
patronising and humorous communication than
this has ever reached the War Ofiice.
VERY LIKELY I NUKED.
FIRST INFANT : “ Thet’s ’ Arry Rickards, wot
brought out the Jookayawk.”
SECOND INFANT: “ Gosh! Betcher life 'e done
more outer Marie Lloyd!”
Apropos the loud cry of certain alleged
owners of property within the Sydney “ Rocks”
area (lately.resumed by Govt.), who complain that
•they can neither get rent nor the compensation-in-
full to which they are entitled. Much of their
trouble is that a number of the titles are simplv
“possessory.” The holders neglected to use
Torrens’ Act, and are now repining.


ATTRACTIVE . . .
are the EFFECTS of RAFFAN’S SULPHUR
LIVER PILLS. ts. ... Melbourne.
The PUREST WHISKFY
in the World . • •
GEO. ROE & CO.
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.
Australasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
j.D.ft.Z- tin:
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
only—largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart,
and l-15th. Full strength, 16'5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Sydney.
Wood, “The Optician,’' of 299 George-
atreet, Sydney, wishes to impress on everyone the
fact that the above address is the only genuine
one in Sydney. Country visitors should take
note that Wood is in George-street, opposite
Hunter-street. The name of Wood is famous for
optical work, and he spares no time or pains in
arriving at correct diagnosis and fitting eyes with
spectacles that are a comfort and a boom*
/
Callaghan Reliable Boots
asd
Pre-eminent
at 22/6 a pair
These Boots for Gentlemen, made in tan willow
calf, are the result of infinite painstaking on
our part. The smallest detail has not been over
looked either in design or making.
Callaghan & Son.
395 George-St., Sydr.ey.
BILE BEA
N
r
fiEEEEQ^S
“ Grilaomi ” : Minister Perry’s abject idea
of cadging among poor State-school-children for
the price of Union Jacks brought a lot of miseiy
to many Cornstalk youngsters. I knew one
bright little chap of seven years whose parents
objected to the levy. He felt his position so
much that when the teacher publicly asked him
for about the tenth or twentieth time for his
“ voluntary ” contribution, he felt in his pocket
and declared that he had been given Gd. to contri-
bute, but had lost it. Cross-examination brought
out the fact that there had never been any 6d.,
and the culprit was caned by his shocked peda-
gogue for telling a lie.
* * * *
Botha’s alleged abject superstition in
appealing to the comet as a sign specially sent to
the Boers, has been justly reprobated. Contrast
it, for instance, with the following, taken from a
M.L. paper:
It would need no great stretch of imagination to believe
the comet was the herald of the royal visit.
No abject superstition about that ! Botha
tried to believe that the comet was a sign sent, to
a nation making its last desperate struggle for in-
dependence. The superior Maorilander reckons
that it heralds the visit of a tired little man, come
to look at a few arches.
• * • •
Melbourne R’s.C. are making enthusiastic
preparations for a bazaar, to happen next October,
m aid of the Abbotsford Convent, the place where
the beautiful lace comes
from. The Abbotsford
establishment is add-
ing to its usefulness,
and the Sisters of
Charity who want
to gather more
Magdalens under a
new wing are seek-
ing the needful worldly
cash from which all bless-
ings flow. Almost the
oldest, and certainly the
most extensive, Roman
Catholic “ retreat if
that’s the right word—
within the Melbourne
radius, the Convent at
Abbotsford is said to
have made only one pre
vious appeal for special
support since it was
founded.
MARIA’S INEFFECTIVE ALIBI.
INEBRIATE (who has been knocking at lamp-post
for the last two hours and a half): “ Ish all
righ’, Maria (hie), yer needn’t pretend yer’re
nor at ’ome (hie), I can shee the light in the
upshtairs winder.”
Adelaide contains more haunted houses to
the acre than any other city in Australia. One of
these —substantial, capacious and airy, not 3min.
walk from the G.P.O. —has, during the past five
years, been occupied less than five weeks. Occa-
sionally it is taken, and the tenant moves out
again before he has quite finished moving in. For
a long time the house which Speaker Holder has
lately occupied went begging at 10s. a week on
account of alleged spectres. _ If anything thinner
than Holder walks about its rooms it is haunted
right enough. Yet another man has got the use
of a house gratis for 12 months on his guarantee
that the spectre will be out of it by the end of
that period.
* * • •
Pathetic case the other day in Preston
(Melb.) suburban court. A woman got 14 days
for altering her marriage certificate, by adding
six years on the age, so as to obtain an old-age
pension. She pleaded that she had only restored
her right age, and that her statement when she
married was a falsehood, inspired by vanity.
Probably she spoke the truth. And after all
these years her sin has found her out in the shape
of two weeks in gaol and the loss of six years’
pension.
* • * * *
Prohibitionist apostle, F. B. Boyce,
drenching N.S.W. with watery argument, cries
long and loudly for a referendum. But his pro-
posed referendum is worded, “Do you vote for
prohibition—Yes or No ? ” Under which arrange-
ment the Boyce party would stand to win every-
thing and lose nothing. How would it be to put
the parties on an equality, and word the ballot-
paper thus:—'
1 Do you vote that people who drink spirits shall not
in future be allowed to drink them—Yes or No ? .
2. Do you vote that people who do not drink spirits
shall in future be compelled to drink them Yes or No
That would be a fair deal between Boyce and
Bacchus.
* * * *
A delicious lot of artistic and other loot
brought from China by members of the N.S.W.
naval contingent, is being very privately exhibited
here and there in Sydney. Some members of the
contingent have made big dividends out of their
little picnic.
* * * *
Cardinal Moran’s excuse for absenting
himself from the York celebrations was that his
church had been alfronted by the Duke. 11ns
time the Cardinal happens to be absolutely in the
right. The Duke, it seems, declined in Mel-
bourne to lay the foundation-stone of a R.C. hos-
pital on the ground that during his visit to Aus-
tralia he would take no part in any sectarian
ceremony. But when he went to Brisbane he laid
the foundation-stone of a sectarian (Anglican)
cathedral. In Australia, thank Heaven, the
Anglicans are just as much sectarians as the How-
ling Ebenezers. The Duke’s advisers were quite
unable to understand that Australia is devoid of
the blessing of an Established Church.
* * * *
The Manly (Sydney) residents have (for
so far, vainly) been protesting against the exist-
ence, close to their beautiful ocean beach, of a
hideous merry-go-round nuisance—a lease from
the municipality to the proprietor of the horror
appearing to stand in the way of its removal. But
the granting of such lease was a gross piece of
vandalism, to begin with. One of the few remain-
ing beauty spots about Sydney should have been
the last place to have inflicted on it what even
amidst the most sordid and prosaic surroundings
—is a soul-and-ear-harrowing abomination. Of a
piece with this business is the manner in which
the approach by water to Manly has been. dis-
figured by the hideous hoardings of a coterie of
soulless advertisers.
» * • •
The other day. a young man of 23, son of|a
N.S.W. country-newspaper proprietor, deposed
in the witness-box that he was a journalist and
contributed to his father’s paper. “ What wages
do you get out of it ? ” asked Wise, Q.C. “ When-
ever I want anything,” he replied, “I can get it.
Lucky journalist !
Notable that the Sydney dailies, when
recording chloroform-deaths in local private
hospitals, never name the hospitals concerned. A
couple more such fatalities have occurred within
the last week or two.
* • * *
The Duke of York congratulated Inspec-
tor-General Fosbery on the efficiency of the
Sydney police, and' the Duchess went into rap-
tures over “ the beautiful horses ” of the troopers.
Had the Princess May been 64 years old instead
of 34 she might possibly have ventured to pub-
licly express her admiration of the men them-
selves as well as their mounts, for, as a corps of
serviceable and smart-looking horsemen, the
N. S.W. mounted police are unmatched on this
continent. Unlike the much-advertised N.S.W.
Lancers, they have no adventitious aid from
feathers, pennons and gaudy clothes ; their cold,
severe, close-fitting uniform is one that shows a
man up every time -for exactly what he is. The
mounted police are as the apple of the Inspector-
General’s eye, and it is now about as hard to get
into their ranks as it to enter Parliament.
And after all the drain there has been on the
Australian horse-market, those fine N.S.W.
Mounted Police horses note cost less than =£l2
apiece. There can’t be much in horse-breeding.
* * * •
COUPONS.
Royalty : Mud on Time’s chariot-wheels.
Wit: Sparks from Satan’s tail.
Life : An excuse for Death.
Holy Writ: Zola and Corelli on a collection-plate.
Judas.
* * * *
Salvation Army’s haul from Australasia
last year in self-denial efforts alone : N.S.W.,
£5930; Vic., £5154; Q., £3671 ; S.A., £2908;
W. A., £2700; Tas., £700; M.L., £8740. Asa
means of money-making, a good, taking religion
is as bright a spec, as a popular brewery.
Man that
is born of
woman perpe-
trates many
follies on ac-
count of the
girls, but the
rashness of one
Friday, a
whisky agent,
must be al-
most a record.
Priday was
the man who
for some time
puffed around
Melbourne on
a motor - car,
and he ended
his furious
career in that
city by eloping
with the 15-
year-old
daughter of
the lady who
boarded him.
Whereupon
the irate
mother pro-
cured war-
rants for the
arrest of both
parties. From
Townsvillet..e
damsel sent a
telegram stat-
ing that she
had been law-
fully married
to her travel-
ling- com-
panion at
Sydney;
nevertheless
the warrants
were put into
operation.
Priday and his
youthful
“missus’’were
brought before
the Townsville
Bench and got
remanded on
bail for three
weeks, with
an apparently
good chance of
being let put
of the diffi-
culty alto-
gether. But
either because
Priday dread-
ed the possi-
bility of having to meet his mother-in-law
at Melb. Police Court, or for some other
reason, he made a sudden exit by means of
a dose of morphia. It is perhaps easier to
sympathise with the 15 - year - old widow than
with her deceased partner. A man with so little
nerve as that was quite unfit to be a bagman, least
of all a whisky bagman. The affair also seems, m
some indefinite way or another, a very poor advt.
for motor-cars.
A FAIR EQUIVALENT WANTED.
“A special feature of the ceremony was the laying of
purses on the stone by the children o f , the diocese Ex ery
child who collected £1 was privileged to attend the cere
mony, free of charge, for the purpose of laying the
amount collected on the stone.”— DAILY PAFER.
ST. PETER (the Bishop of Boodlebane). No!
No! my little lambs, prayers will not admit
you; we must have money for this show.
The case of Albion Richard Croft, manag-
ing-clerk to Chenhall and Eddie, solicitors, who
was sentenced last week in Sydney to six months
gaol, excited much public attention locally,
accused being a man of many friends. lie
charge against him was that m a taxation mat ei
he falsely swore before the Supreme Court Pro-
thonotary that certain witnesses had been paid
attendance-fees—whereas no payment was made
to them until after proceedings were on the way
against Croft. The jury convicted defendant de-
BOKO .
HE (to girl who is leaving for the country): "Don't you think you'll find it
very dull there?”
SHE: "OK no; I intend to do a lot of riding and driving while I am away.
And, don't he shocked, I am going to ride barebacked.”
HE: “ Shocked? Oh, dear no; but won't it make you frightfully brown?”
spite the oath of attorney Eddie, one of his
employers, that he (Eddie) had led Croft to
understand that the witnesses in question had
been paid. The case will convey a severe lesson
to people who have got into the free-and-easy
habit of swearing that they know a thing has
been done, whereas they only intend to do it, or
have been told that someone else has done it, or
intends to do it.
* * * *
So far, two-thirds of the amount needed
for furnishing the proposed additions to Sydney
Prince Alfred Hospital (the foundation of which
additions the Duke of York laid the other
day) have been collected. Several people, who
have given £lOOO each to the fund, made a con-
dition that a ward in the new wing should be named
after themselves or someone nominated by the,m.
The number of wards is limited, and will
be insufficient to go round. Considering that it
takes £l2OO, at least, to endow one bed out of the
32 in an existing ward (for which sum you can get
your name engraved over the one patient s head),
a person asking that £lOOO should buy the right of
claiming the whole ward is looking out for a re-
markably cheap advertisement.
• * * *
Six hundred kharki kangaroos landed at
Port Melbourne, t’other morning, amid the deep-
voiced plaudits of two policemen, four womm,
and a steam-roller. The Argus stirred the State
Government up at the last minute to have the
men welcomed home in a style “befitting the
occasion.” The- intention of Premier Peaccck
was evidently to allow the heroes to land quietly
and go off home in peace, but the Argus predicted
a tremendous crowd and a vociferous welcome,
and Peacock worked all night to get barriers
put up along Collins and Swanston streets
to keep the populace back. It was a
wet, sleety morning when the landing took place,
and the populace didn’t arrive. 'I he soldiers
looked as despondent as a string of wet sheep
straggling up the race from a wash-pool. Same
morning some of the wattle-and-dab Corinthian
columns on Prince’s Bridge were blown over. A
far bigger crowd rushed to see the heaps of splin-
ters than to welcome the soldiers.
A NATIVE ROSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I ope’d a book in London town,
And from its pages fluttered down
A faded spray of Native Rose. . . .
Then did constraining walls unclose,
And then dissolved the fog-pall brown.
The dull, drab skies no longer frown ;
For under deeps of blue they drown,
Since, settling for an hour’s repose,
ope’d a book.
Nature pi i off her Northern gown
For Southern garb. From where hills crown
The gullies deep a fragrance blows ;
I feel the pang the exile knows,
Since in this city of renown
I ope’d a book !
ULOOLA.


“Oe’s from the Country.”
Such is the expression intended to convey the
idea that he is easily deceived.
MARK FOY’B success is a Town Trade.
The Keenest Judges in Sydney haunt FOY’S.
If
For the fun of the thing /
you asked City Friends to get your wants,
they would surely go to FOY’S.
MARK FOY, SYDNEY.
Same prices and attention as If you bought amongst the dally orowds at the counters.
I lie shapeliness of the Australian woman
which naturally affords the greatest charm to dis-
tinguished visitors—bai jove .'—was commented
upon by every male of the .look’s staff, as well as.
by the Royal George himself. How much of this
remarkable grace of form should be credited to P D
n'fi expei ? must decide - Certain it is
that the I D figure always attracts the attention of
those who have a cultured sense of beauty in form
and outline. The P D. though not the only good
ing 3 ”*° n t ie market> 13 far the most ‘‘fetch
The Govt. Prizes
Three
Firsts
were Awarded to
Coolalta Claret
at tiie
commonwealth show.
& DAWSON’S
CELEBRATED GLOBE TE A S
« Y ™w«lilm ™“r OLM«'SS. I *? “ a, J PDCO.
Htlvg NO Equal. v ~ ‘— ■
“ d -
Absolute| y the best Tea In Australia at is. 9d net* ih
TCHERLEY i. DAWSON, r u mb.ci™, 28, oeorge street, P stdn'et.
A WOMAN'S LETTER
• r t\ * Sydney, June 11, 1901.
Mr Dear Arini,—
There’.; a passage in Scripture that’s always had
a curious charm for me-“ At that time there was
no judge in Israel, and every man did that which
was right m his own eyes.” I was always recall-
ing it while the Dukelet was here. No one seemed
to have anything to do, and they neglected it in
the way that best pleased them and most annoyed
other persons. Now, there’s some work gome on
m the city. Cables of withered lilli-pilli are in
the gutters; the “One People One Destiny”
legends, in perforated tin, are being taken off the
house-tops and stowed into basements amongst
dynamos and cockroaches and things; workmen
are taking away poles and fibrous-plaster arches
and telling of the loss Duke holidays brought
to them, and wondering if they can crib some of
the posts, upon which royal eyes have rested for
fowl-houses.
One of the last minor appearances of the
Duchess was at Children’s and Sydney Hos-
mtals, when she gave each patient to whom
she spoke a little bunch of violets. This
seems to be the conventional thing for
.British royalty when it visits the sick. It’s
a pretty act, a graceful present, and it doesn’t
cost as much as would a book or a toy also it
doesn t make the gloves sticky like a bath bun or
trmt. And as the patients don’t graze like the
old-world Babylonian king, the violets can’t
disagree with them. Now I know someone at
Botts Point will concuss my brain with Emerson’s
flowers are always fit presents because they are
theproudascrtion that a ray of beauty outvalues
a 1 the utilities of the world.” How’s that for a
bloated sentence ! But is this British royalty’s
reason for the conventional gift?
Indian royalty could give a lesson in gift-
. A friend of mine has a Rajah friend (no
A rim, I m not boasting, really, and I’ll still con-
tinue to call you a friend) who, when he wished
to dispense a few souvenirs, swooped down on the
leading jeweller in Calcutta and bade him
spread the best of his stock on the counter It
was done. He divided the glowing lot into two
equal parts with his walking-stick, and said, in a
coldly indifferent voice, “ Send me this half.”
British royalty, when it “ progresses,” seems to lie
in a state of bankruptcy, and as if it ought to go
into Chancery and be sold. 8
I started to tell you something of the Young
People s Industrial Ex. in last letter, but stopped
overwhelmed by the bigness of the subject!
ihe Duchess was run in to see a dupli-
cate collection of the late Queen Victoria’s
dolls staged against a painted background of the
palace where Victoria was born. The Duchess—
her parasol glittered with iridescent spangles—
looked at the group of Dutch-faced images with a
wlmt-a-taste-my-husband’s-grandmother-had ex-
pression, and said “ they are very nice.” She also
gave a decimal of a glance at the young-person-
made underwear and babies’ bootees, and then went
home to, luncheon. Some years ago an English
writer, Miss Frances Low, almost doubled the
Circulation of a London magazine by an illustrated
article Ojn The Queen’s Dolls.” She saw them and
their owner, and her readers lived happy everafter.
Apropos, the papers said never a word about the
unspeakable indignation caused by the uncere-
monious way in which the royal couple scuttled
from the Young People’s I.E after bestowing
upon it the hastiest of glances
Four photographers were commanded to Govern-
ment House to, take York “ fortagraffs.” Each
a,rtist thought lie alone had been honored, and
xyas a surprised artist when he ran up against the
Other three. I saw some capital portraits of
Duchess May, done by Mr. Hubert Newman of
George-street, who was one of the astonished four.
Ihe Duchess posed on the wide verandah, stand-
ing near a little table. One hand rests on a sil ver-
casket, the other holds a spray of roses. She
wears a long black dress, patterned with raised
velvet leaves, and a rope of pearls falls below her
waist. May was so pleased with that study that
she filled her best carpet-bag with copies. The
Duke also had his pictorial innings, supported
against a stone wall.
The Duke of York is said to be a good, quiet
little man, but many a happy home has he broken
up, and many a husband has he caused to curse
the day on which a male Duke was born. “She
left us last week,” said a haggard lady to me the
other clay ; “ said she was going to her mother’s
for an hour, but she never returned.” Of course
it is the last servant, not the lost wife or daughter
to whom allu ion was made. The large number of
Mary Janes who became extremely ill, and had to
go home to their mothers, a day or so before
George appeared, was extraordinary. Curiously
enough they had all ordered new hats to be ill in
and correct castumes of mauve and black to sup-
port the weary hours on their beds of anguish.
‘I ve lost one,” said one dame to another—she
spoke m hushed tones as if she meant a funeral •
And my sister has lost three.” None of the
Mary Janes could speak above a whisper when
they left—they were so hoarse and ill; but they
were all seen at the various processions a few days
later waving their mauve hats to May and won-
dering in large healthy voices whether they took
to her or George most.
The Sydney Clerks’and Warehousemen’s Benefit
Association, of Minerva Chambers, 12G Pitt-
street, intends holding its annual ball on 28th
June. Leigh House and Edmond’s band have
been engaged for the occasion. If the support
the moonlight outings of this association received
during the summer months is any criterion, the
ball should be an assured success. A novelty
SiSSSi I '“ Wed Austali. ia in
rdle of the f , the ® trikll >g name, took the
rap, and ao neatly Iv o i Ty dSYn”
you!» I °Th±3i'J ill ‘ elra “K S
evasion. It reoallodaMot/told'fn ’thhtatUr'b?
ySarSSeK ** SSni“ e i„l
fhe helKm^So^olSfr^® S ue |*’\
IS§s?s^ii
wl^Ehatthe'D,SSSir" rhorse - MadameJanson
S"a“ e ly SS??if?h wr iT "™ ld
clouded cane P Ttf a.,7 , th her galla, l t 8 dreas and
wISe h bodi^ m eWh- le in the a , udience a lady
wnose bodice clothing seemed to have resolved
pSe K“ Tn h l°' V ‘°, ,ets «» *»• 'eft
sllhl’n • I , ffofc her under the lens, I saw
over dressed o in Vl ? et , 3 °5, I,er breast-w£ quite
i i . ’ bict. J. lien thfire wns finothor
lady who must have fancied herself hke the
g-,W h '-n ~*««r
none, 15. D. fashion, with stars in it and she
front of her a ITT’ , so , ulful , w ay over the seat in
, , A . dark-haired head with five or six
pink rosebuds m it I liked. The buds didn’t
nance o-ned over the left forehead, nor did they
ad centl v 6 f: 11° T 5 th £ y looked aa if the spray
p " :uhM ■—•rf
Tannhaiiser,” on Monday, with its splendid
t n his S sea'o°, oT 00l P te t^ da T dßß a last
see better /. V" g at som '*tlung they would not
nee better staged even at the Court-subsidised
theatres in Germany. Much-travelled persons in
it heitlr 6 T ert th ; lt Sydneysiders would not hear
it better sung either. Yet the enthusiasm was
to very small spots in the Theatre Royal.
That couch on which the hussy Venus is lying
with lannhauser-it is evidently moss-grown rock
T.uTv " lt i t, S erak, iis and wreathed with roses.
And Venus herself— when I saw Miss Cooinber in
the part, with filleted forehead and sandalled feet,
thnl “nV° OSe i robe - Bhe was the very image of
that old-time beauty, Queen Louise of Prusssia.
p{ ada, ? e , Slap ’ as Elizabeth, looked and sang
like a first-class (operatic) bird. About that mass-
ing of colour in the Hal] of Song scene. You
remember the knights and ladies in their seats
tier upon tier. Ihe back tier holds only princes
nb-n!Ji- gh R S i ' vea , rm £ feshve robes and gold
circlets Below them the company is all women.
f, d P aVe and Princess Elizabeth
a ,3 e four sw ] eet .pages in green put a
gold and green and crimson bead on the end
of the judgment-place next the audience. There
was no end of brain used up before that combina-
l 1 ™ f , >f ~c » l or was effected. I looked at it with
half-closed eyes and got a curious impression—a
thin line of gold from the knights’ circlets in the
back tier, then one of white from the bared shoul-
ders of the nobler dames in the next row, and
below them all was blent to a dull rose.
When this gorgeous company settled itself
and its voluminous draperies into its seats I began
to hunt for a gorgeous simile. But I think
similes are hard to catch in wet weather. I
oouldn t think of anything but sunset clouds—the
billowy variety-rolling low on the horizon.
In the Wartburg Valley scene there is a wayside
shrine with a niched image of the Virgin Mother.
A friend, who had grown familiar with these
shrines in his travels in “out-back” Catholic
e w Ske v™f were none of the kind
in N.S.W. or Victoria. 1 did not laugh. Imagine
o f n y t°h U e C p n ’ & R u° Up of “Eocks” gentlemen cycling
on the Cook s Raver road coming upon an image
shrined in a niche. Imagine the “language’’
before they drew off to give it road-metal! g
The Broughs and Miss Emma Temple are back
and getting ready to take “ The Second in Com-
mand in July. Mrs. Brough looks in capital
form, although a trifle thinner after her Indian
tour. She is still under the spell of Asia and
fnd S hn nTrt t 0 talk of anything but Indian cities,
anc| hospitality, and the frozen music of Indian
architecture. The most beautiful thing in the
Tai Mahaf 6 man - Mr * ,?"“*»■ ‘hinfi, is the
it iff 1 ■' omrnory follows you everywhere
it affects your religion and tinctures your philo-
sophy, and makes you under-value the Martin
Place decorations and the G.P.O. During their
tOUr ’ c h s Brou ff hs Ph'tyed inKalgoorlie
in the hessian-roofed, earthen-floored theatre The
streets were a foot deep in sand, and, if there had
it Mr tr p’ th l r f sldents ' Voldd have worshipped
it. Mr. Brough being a little out of condition
Ins wife hunted-up rare food for him, and secured
a couple of demi-serm-flounders at 4s. Gd. each and
a little chicken at 7s. Gd. Yet the Kalgoorlians
lo\e their ladmor in the dust-storm, and ask you
don’t 1 P t 0 ydUey ’ and ’ if riot > wl 'y you
Mr. and Mrs. Hannibal Williams are here
again, and everyone who even knows how to spell
culture is rejoiced thereat. General Hannibal
whole o f°tht f / nday , niffht t 0 a ? ood bouse as the
whole of the (L amahs persona m “The Taming
of the Shrew.” Bright Mrs. General HamXf
with the song-bird’s eyes, will give “As You
Like It” to-night (Thursday), and if you don’t
f it: T? 11 be a si £n that you are a Nobody
without culture or a grandfather.
cb ™J licle , d r lasfc week include Mrs.
widow n?" d f Mra * M , oore ' J °nes. First was the
i™, J 1 \ former , hcensee of a George -street
[ K - sfcra >tened himself to put ail the money
lie could into Mount Morgans, and got his coin
t> r ' ° seventy or even more times seven.
t"oor Mrs. Moore-Jones, better known as Annie
kiV mod l eller ,. P ointer and great sufferer,
d before her time. Her injury, hip-disease,
“ cau sed through falling from a window. She
was successful, both as an artist and as a teacher.
One °f Iter plaster-cast heads, bronzed, is in the
National Art Gallery. She married in M.L. a
gentleman who had been one of her students.
Apropos of Mayors: The Mayor of Quean-
o,?, ya i': . a short > a ß£ rea sive-looking gentleman,
sought to enter a railway carriage bound Cooma-
wards, at Redfern, the other day, but the door
was locked, and from the inside one of five
laugh ty warriors explained, “You can’t come in
here; this is reserved for us.” “And who are
you, in all creation ? ” demanded the Mayor. “We
are the Australian Horse,” was the reply. “O,
you are, are you; well I’m an Australian mare
and 1 mean to get in. ” And he did get in, amid
horse laughter from the A. H.
A Brisbane correspondent writes :
I he women of Brisbane are raking in a shekel
or two to provide Lady Lamington with a present
on her departure. It is to take the form of a set
of toilet accessories—all gold, rather plain in
design, with a coronet and her name, ‘May,’en-
graved upon the brush backs, tray, puff box, etc.
I Ins is the sort of scheme which is apt to start
well and end badly through a drought among the
shekels, but let us hope for the best.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ At Healesville lives an old Irishman, formerly
employed by Lord Vontry, Hopey’s father-in-
law. Rocently Paddy left for Molb. to pay his
respects to Lady Hopetoun, whom he remembers
as a girl. When he camo back the neighbors were
mad with curiosity, but, manlike, Paddy needed a
lot of pumping. ‘ Was she nice to you ? ’ ‘ Why
wouldn’t she be?’ ‘What’s she like?’ ‘Sure
like any other woman.’ ‘ls she like me ?’ ‘You!
She doesn’t put on half the jam and side you do.
She brought me a cup o’ tay herself and tould me
to be sure to come and see her again. There’s
nothing half so quiet and homely as herself in
Healesville.’
“Of all the Senators who are sometimes
he rne *' with at luncheons and casual gatherings
Melbourne girls like John Downer best. ‘He is
such a dear old thing.’ Ho has a tongue of night-
ingale sweetness and an Asiatic gift of story-
telling. His little anecdotes, helped out by an
extraordinary play of feature, are delightful, and
one can t preach a sentiment that he can’t support
with a story (and a capital one, too). His big,
plain face is a happy hunting-ground for expres-
sions that take one over the trail of the story
before bps have told it. His wife hasn’t
much to say, but she says it with a fresh smile
mounted in fresh pink and white tones—and that
tells.
“So far as nuggetty build goes, Ella Russell,
of the Musgrove co., is completely outclassed by
Williamson s ‘ Aida ’ (Lina de Benedetto), who is
short as well as stout. First glimpse of said squat
signora with her swarthy stage complexion and
brief slave-skirts slashed at -me side to afford
peeps of a burly, brown-stockinged leg, comes
rather as a shock to those who can't appreciate a
colored heroine unless she ‘walks in beauty like
the night and, though bound in black and tan, is
nevertheless an edition de luxe.
The Benedetto, to do her justice, is a live
artiste, and her looks improve on acquaintance :
but even familiarity fails to breed complete blind-
ness to her ‘too, too solid flesh.’ When she faints
on her lover s bosom she does it by instalments, as
it to gradually accustom him to the strain, while
her prop though he’s a fine figure of a man
laboriously unloads his burden limb by limb’
T other night Aida’s black father (Fernando
Lattadou), in the course of a stormy, ancient dis-
agreement, hurled his substantial child uncere-
moniously to the ground, instead of letting her
down gently. In consequence, the brown girl’s
skirts parted at the slashed side, so that as she lay
she revealed ever so much solid shin and a strap-
garter buckled below the knee. Aida took her
time to revive from her swoon, but when her eyes
did open they froze with horror on to that garter
and the peep-show was abruptly veiled to the tun 4
of a gallery-titter.
Rad limes, the Egyptian Guardsman who loses
his heart and tells military secrets to Aida is
represented by Larizza, a stout, handsome tenor
with a robust, ringing voice, better suited to
declamation and military heroics than to vocal
clinging and that sort of thinging.’ Lina de
Benedetto, apparently, doesn’t relish blackening
her neck, arms and hands for her Ethiopian role
Anyway, she wears a dark jersey (?) UD to her
chin and down to her wrists, and clones her
Ef b Se OTSa - S “ oh ‘
“ The slave girl’s rival in love (Elisa Marco-
mim) is a tall, dark, handsome Princess of Pha-
raohomc time given to corsets and French frocks.
Local critics blame these haberdashery anachron-
istns. Also they sneer at Aida because she’s a few
shades fairer than her burnt-cork dad. Which is
foolish, considering the prevalence of mixed mar-
riages at all periods of Humanity’s history, and
allowing for the fact that the old man had been in
the habit of going into battle without his parasol.
“ Managers may spend what they like on pro-
perties, scenery, and dresses, with a view to
getting archaeological accuracy, but your Italian
w-'n a ' tonna £ oes °n her own queenly way
Williamson mounts ‘Aida’ splendidly. The
scenery is appropriately Egyptian, the men dress
as we may suppose ancient Egyptians would dress
—but soprano Marcomim toddies about in a
1 arisian.-made white satin skirt with flowers
painted on it, and a tight-fitting white satin bodice
tapering down from a luxurious rotundity to a
severely-squeezed waist, in shape like the funnel
of a coffee-mill. Her hips are so square that you
could safely put down your afternoon tea cup
on them. It doesn t matter what part your
Italian pnma-donna plays, she is an Italian
pnma-donna all the time.
“At time of writing, De Vere Sapio, as
Lucia, is handicapped by sore-throat, but the
dainty, delicious polish of her fine voice is ap-
parent nevertheless. In Lucia’s appearance,
scribe is a shade disappointed. Mdme. Sapio, off
the stage, is a plea sing spectacle, and as Donizetti’s
song-bird, she looks refined and graceful, but her
shoulders are a wee bit contracted.
“Signorina Marchi, Lucia’s confidante ‘Alicia,
is a fine, handsome, dark damsel in effective low-
neck polonaise of crimson satin, with petticoat
and long puffed-sleeves of snowy chiffon. This
big brunette, in her toilette of red and white,
rather out-blazes, so far us mere looks go. pale,
auburn-haired Lucy in faint, shimmering hlue.
“Later, Lucia is more imposing as the bride,
with her chestnut hair puffed out under her veil,
and she brings things to a head when she lets
down her tresses, bares her arms, and comes forth
in a chiffon night-confection with lace angel-
sleeves and much broad white satin ribbon.
“The prize tenor, so far, is Carlo Dani, who
does Edgar (Lucia’s lover). He looks well, his •
acting is quiet and impressive, and his voice most
pathetic, especially in that Churchyard song.
Men, no doubt, are barracking for tenor Larizza
of the clarion tones, but women, I guess, will pin
their fancy to Dani, ‘most musical, most melan-
choly.’
“ The Maddens with their married daughters
(one black-gowned, t’other pink-cloaked as usual)
and faithful attache Campbell, witnessed Lucia’s
first Appearance (June 6th). The sons-in-law are
apparently not taking any theatrical or operatic
family outings at present. Baby Madden, a
plump white-muslined 11-year old, brought along
to imbibe the educative influences of Italian
opera, cheered up when joined by a curled con-
temporary. Aren’t private children placid and
cabbage-like compared with theatrical ones?
Nellie Stewart’s daughter, for instance, would
enter into the spirit of an ancient Greek play, but
then, she’s the Stage incarnate and to act
or watch acting is the breath of her nostrils.
Little Nancy went to the Melb. State Con-
cert with the Command singers. At first, she
kept in the background to the extent of hanging
out of the window of the photo-room and kissing
her hand theatrically to her mother. Next she
strayed on to the orchestra platform and took a
comprehensive view of the assemblage, Finally,
she struck a pretty attitude and glued her eyes on
Royalty. Had Mrs. Cornwall lifted her finger,
the histrionic mite would probably have tossed off
some charming little tableau in the style of
‘Young Australia, proffering the only rose that
ever bloomed in her arid wastes. to the Princess
Charming! ’
“Pretty good the Ophir people excusing them-
selves for locking the cabin doors on the pretext
that ‘Melbourne women ’ looted souvenirs! We
never got the chance. The rooms were closed
here, just as in Sydney, and quite right too!
Scribe herself wouldn’t like mobs of strangers
with muddy boots and sich, to paw their way
through her humble bower. But wouldn’t the
Duchess guipure quilt have made a pretty
polonaise ?
“The Yorks’ coming hardly caused the tremen-
dous excitement that the Cliveden widow’s birth-
day did on iuesday last. It leaked out by degrees
that this was Lady Clarke’s anniversary (nobody
wanted to know which), and the shelling of Lady-
smith was a mere trifle compared to the pouring
in of good things at the gun-girt mansion. At a
dinner in the evening a tactful tin-soldier fired a
vol ey of cheery congratulations at the youthfully-
built widow, whereat the relict hid her blushes
behind a tower of asparagus-fern.
“ One of Melbourne’s dressy beauties is engaged
to be married—a daughter of Pratt, M.L.C. The
maidens of this household are amongst the most
elegant of local frockers, and the engaged one has
in addition to a fashion-plate figure, beautiful blue
, ne , for ff ets whom she is going to marrv,
but it doesn t matter. The man never does matter
in affairs of this kind. Any man would do. When
a plain girl marries, the husband is the principal;
when a beauty marries, he is only a detail. The
I ratts live in East Melbourne, and pa helps to.
direct the Gas Co., the Tramway Co., the National
JDaiik, and so on.
-hhe Federal Parliament seems less disposed
to stand on its dignity than some of the lion-
rampant State legislatures. Last Friday, writer
saw two girls in the gallery taking snap-shots of
the Speaker, Toby Barton, Deakin, Fysh of the
i5eard, fat Jenkins, and other exalted persons.
Yc 6 F e , seem 9d to be a consultation among the
officials as whether action should be taken in
the matter; but eventually the two naughtv girls
were let alone. Indeed, it seemed that Speaker
Holder and Premier Barton rose more often than
usual, and turned conveniently to the gallery to
give the adventurous snappers a show.
M ‘‘ The singing pupils of a certain influential
Melbourne matron—the Lady Superior of the
local Wagnerian school—are not nearly so warmly
disposed towards Mdlle. Dolores as they thought
they were going to be. It appears that they were
all assembled at the home of their instructress to
meet Mademoiselle, the scribess for a Melbourne
weekly being likewise present to take down the
notes of admiration which the songstress was
expected to utter when the young ladies had
warbled for her edification. But the Dolores
evinced no desire to hear the damsels sing. They
approached her one after another, with their little
bits of music in their hands, and tried to get her
interested in the subject of their trills and top-
notes, but the smiling visitor merely nodded her
head and said ‘yes,’ or ‘very nice’ to their re-
marks and presently took her leave. Then the
damsels—unheard, unhonored and unsung—beiran
to doubt whether it was worth while to want an
opinion on their soulful Germanic vocalisin'* from
one who had only studied in the frivolous schools
of France and Italy.—Yours affec.,
AKENEHI.


HfIRRffIGTOR S CAMERAS
UP-TO-DATE
Hand Cameras
Stand Cameras
Pocket Cameras
Kodak Cameras
All Sizes
Stifles
Grades
and Prices
■\7xsi-fc
Showroom.
ADDRESS )
66 KING ST., SYDNEY.
Branch—93 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
MELBOURNE AGENTS: Craven & Co., 179 Collins Street . . .
. . . West Australia: A. L. Tilly, 504 Hay Srreet, Perth
A Letter from a Lady.
“ Charlton,” George-street, Norwood, S.A. '
October 1, 1900.
Dear Sirs, —
About seven years ago I contracted a severe in-
ternal complaint, and was in a very critical state.
The doctor attending me told me that if I lived I
should be a sufferer all my lifetime. His treat-
ment was quite useless in giving me relief. After
two or three years I got tired of paying doctors’
fees for no benefit, and hearing of Warner’s Safe
Cure I gave it a trial. I took, in all, five bottles,
and am thankful to state I am perfectly cured.
The medical man was genuinely surprised at such
a wonderful result. I am now as well as it is
possible to be, and give Warner’s Safe Cure the
whole credit for accomplishing what doctors
deemed impossible. Hoping that ladies suffering
as I did will profit, I am writing to you now.
My mother considered that her life was saved by
the use of Warner’s Safe Cure in a somewhat
similar complaint.
(Mrs.) ANNIE HARRIS.
Messrs. H. H. Warner and Co., Ltd.*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a.lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Tbs Clarios)
The Victoria Number-
-68 Pages and over 300 Pictures.
The State of Victoria from 180 U to 1900.
New South Wales Number —
84 Pages and 360 Pictures.
The State of N.S. W. from 1770 to 1900.
Price 1/- ; or Post Free to any Australian Address, 1/6,
from
THE CLARION Office, 230 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
FACILE PRINCEPS.
BUCHANAN WHISKY
The Only Scotch Whisky officially ordered for th u OPHIR.”
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Adelaide’s Mayor has earned for himself
an eternal nickname—“ Kissy ” Ware.
Senator Pulsford is known in the Com-
monwealth Parliament as “Aunt Emma.”
It was only when H.R.H. the Duke had
reached so far as Sydney that Melb. Argus per-
mitted itself to say “the Duke looked quite lost
in his big busby.”
Duke George entered Sydney at a walk
and departed at a brisk trot. Also, the Ophir
entered the Heads at half-speed and left them for
Maoriland just as fast as it could get out.
Cabled that the King will reduce the num-
ber of his chaplains from 36 to 12. True patriotism
this. To lessen the cost to his country, King
Ned diminishes his chance of Paradise by 66 per
cent.
Emily Soldene writes in Sydney E. News
that in London some men pay £T2O per dozen for
silk underwear—suits of vests and pants. There
is nothing that good old gourmet Emily doesn’t
get to know, sooner or later.
Melbourne Paunch mistakes Senator
O’Connor, of N.S.W., for Daniel of that ilk, and
wonders why that able and well-informed gentle-
man should ever have been regarded as a shriek-
ing joke in his own State, and hilariously alluded
to as “ Dan.”
After all, Peacock’s failure to get the ex-
pected York-visit bauble may be a blessing in
disguise. It will give him time to change bis
name, if he so desires, to “Pekoe,” which would
sometimes be a much more convenient monniker
when you come to think of it.
The Australian Bushmen’s contingents
were originally suggested not by “ Major” Randal
Carey, of Sydney D.T., as so many | eople think,
but by one Levy, or Cohen, of London. The war,
as the world knows, was for the benefit of Levy,
Cohen and Co. Hence the word Cohentingent.
That accomplished and charitable phy-
sician, Dr. Charles Alfred Dagnall Clark, M. 8.,
London, who had practised at North Syd-
ney for 20 years, and died suddenly last week,
takes with him to the grave a keen medical in-
stinct and a vast accumulation of medical experi-
ence.
Mrs. Cairns, widow of Dr. A. Cairns, of
Chalmer’s Church, Melbourne—a prominent figure
in the fifties—celebrated her 90th birthday on
May 30. The Doctor arrived in Melbourne in
1853, and retained charge of the church until 1865,
when failing health compelled him to retire. He
died in 1881.
Veteran Colonel J. E. N. Bull, who died
at Goulburn (N.S.W.), the other day, aged 94,
was the son of an officer in the British army who
fought at Waterloo. The Colonel, when Captain
in the 99th Regiment, emigrated to N.S.W. in
’42. He was warden and goldfields commissioner
at Castlemaine (Vic.) from ’52 to ’69, and was for
many years a staff officer in the volunteer force.
The N.S.W. State politicians are getting
on. One potentate (who, by the way, didn’t snare
a York-time title), when in Melbourne during the
Royal celebrations, demanded the services of an
orderly. His request was granted, and when
driving through the streets he was preceded and
followed by sword-armed mounted policemen.
The statesman in question now manifests strong
symptoms of a resolve to introduce the orderly-
system to Sydney.
WHAT JOHNNY THOUGHT.
DAD (who’s had half-a-pint and counter-lunch out): “ I tell yer, Mary,
what with the procession, and the guns, and the arches, and the
’ luminations, and fireworks, it’s the biggest thing the country ever
did see.” (Turning to the youngest.) “ What do YOU think,
Johnny? ”
JOHNNY (hungry and speaking for all): “Steak-pudding.”
His “ Serene Highness,” Teck, the dark,
Hebraic-looking young man who accompanies his
brother-in-law George on the present tour, is
alleged to be looking out for some congenial
spot where a future Governor’s billet would be
possible. The impecuniosity of the Tecks led
to their London creditors terming them the
“ Ticks,” and as the present Serene Teck is no
better off than the rest a State Governorship
would not come amiss.
Surgeon-Captain Howse, of N.S.W. mili-
tary medical staff, who has just been gazetted
V.C. (for recovering a wounded man, under heavy
fire, at Yredefort, S’Africa), is an Englishman
who has been for a dozen years resident in N.S. W.
Dr. Howse, after being invalided to England, has
now resumed practice at Orange, N.S.W.
The Duke is described in the daily press
(in big capitals) as having been “ Greatly
Touched” by the cordiality of his reception in
Sydney. But, judging by the quality and number
of his presents (mostly autographed photos) and
subscriptions, he (like his illustrious uncle, Duke
Alfred), wasn’t “ touched ” for very much.
One of the sights of Melbourne is Wax-
ellency Madden’s son and heir in the uniform of
the Scottish Regiment. The corpulent young man
is as Irish as Jameson’s Whisky, but as sufficient
genuine Scots are not obtainable the regiment is
sweeping in anyone who will consent to look ridic-
ulous in a short petticoat and hairy knees.
When Cooper and Bailey’s steam
“pianner” and circus were in Adelaide over 2C*
years ago, a man, dressed as an usher, stood at the
entrance, and in a strong Amurkan accent in
formed the public: “This way to the serkel,
ladies and gentle-men ! ” The circus-man was
John Greeley Jenkins, present Premier of S.A.
Ex-Judge Martin, of Maorjland, whose re-
cent downfall was a nine-days’ wonder and an Old
Cats’ moral lesson, has gone back again to practise
law in Auckland. Martin spent a long and honored
life in working up to the top of the tree, and there
is a certain pathos in the shingle which he hangs
out as plain “barrister and solicitor,” v en his
best years are behind him.
“J.”: “Willy” Lynch, the Melbourne
solicitor who died suddenly in the Australian
Club, Melb., a few days ago, was a great collector
of works of art. He owned several genuine land-
scapes by Turner, which it is to be hoped will not
be allowed to go out of Australia., Only one of
our National Galleries contains an undoubtedly
genuine Turner, the “ Dunstanburgh Castle,” pre-
sented by the late Duke of Westminster to Mel-
bourne ; and that is only an early inferior picture.
On the opening-of-Parliameut with-prayer
question, Senator O’Malley “suggested that it
would be preferable that the prayers should be
read by a paid chaplain. His argument was that
some succeeding Speaker might be a per son of
loose habits, and that it would be objectionable to
have prayers read by such a one.” Now, a man
of “ loose ” habits might say prayers very nicely
indeed. The O’Malley no doubt was thinking of
—there have been such personages—a Speaker of
tight habits.
From S. M. Herald’s account of the Royal
departure from Sydney :
As the Duke’s carriage left the door at a walk his Royal
Highness noticed Mr. Tom Roberts, the artist, standing
on the side walk. He bowed, and beckoned Mr. Roberts
to approach. Mr. Roberts did so. The Duke shook
hands with him and kept him in conversation for two or
three minutes, his Royal Highness’s manner being most
cordial.
Thus does the Jingo press set down in black-and-
white its idea of an earthly Heaven.
Composition is clearly not a strong point
with the Victorian Premier’s staff. At present
the corridors leading to Peacock’s offices are
placarded—“ The Premier only receives visitors
from 2 till 5 o’clock p.m. daily.” Some people
read this as meaning that Peacock is the only man
in all creation who receives visitors between two
and five. Others that he does nothing between
two and five except receive visitors. Third theory
is that Peacock receives visitors between 2 and 5
p.m. only.
King O’Mal-
ley has carried his
electioneering box
of tricks and his
huge cowboy hat
into the Federal
House of Reps,
with him. (H e
bought the hat
second-hand from
a friend whose
shocked wife
would not let him
wear the stupend-
ous substance;
O’Malley was
charmed with its
immensity and
made a liberal
offer on the spot.)
“ How do you do,
Brother So - and -
So? ” is the O’M.’s
salutation to
everybody about
P arliament
House. States-
men of great ton-
nage looked
shocked at first,
but they got over
that. Some of
them suspect even
now that there
is an unho 1 y
gleam of mirth in
the eye of the man who calls them “brother,”
but the big hat and the spectacles make it im-
possible to decide the point.
The Bulletin advises John Norton to
ease down his anti-Barton diatribes. John
Norton (after, for example, his witness-box
admissions in the Gilbert Smith libel-case and
some more recent public performances) is surely
one of the very last people in the world fitted to
pose as censor.
A CONFUSING COMPARATIVE.
Taltie's limbs are limbs, but Flossie’s limbs are
limber.
Queen Victoria is said to have had a great
reverence for her Stuart ancestors —they repre-
sented the doctrine of the divine right of kings,
and no despot ever believed in that theory more
deeply than she. She never allowed the Pre-
tender to be spoken of disparagingly in her pre-
sence. When anyone tried to explain that, if the
Pretender had got his throne and the divine right
of kings been maintained, she would never
have been more than a tenth-rate German prin-
cess—not even a reigning one at that—she brought
the lid down on the discussion with a slam.
Rev. Arthur Galton, the “ A.G.” of
fugitive Australian literature and ex-Premier
Dibbs’s appointee to the post of N.S. W. historio-
grapher, is mentioned as an early visitor to
Sydney. Mr. Galton, who was nephew of the
late Gov. Duff, began as an Anglican, went over
to Rome and became a priest of that Church,
turned layman and took Duff’s secretaryship, then
turned Anglican again and was ordained clergy-
man. His official renunciation of heresies, per-
formed in Windermere church, was a most
elaborate and sensational church proceeding.
A Tasmanian writes :
It’s an open secret that Premier Lewis of Tasmania re-
fused the C.M.G.-ship thrust upon him when he was in
Melbourne at the opening of the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment. Lewis is the very first Premier actually in office who
has been offered such a paltry thing. Gavan Duffy tells,
in his autobiography, how the same indignity was offered
him when he retired from the Premiership of Vic., but
that he said he wouldn’t have it, and then a K.C.M.G.-
ship was sent along. Lewis was pressed to take the
miserable thing, and was told that the new policy of the
Colonial Office was to make men begin at the lowest rung
of the ladder of titles, and that if he didn’t take the toy
offered him he would give offence to the Throne, and so
forth.
It is generally believed in Perth that
Hackett, John Forrest’s guide, philosopher and
friend, editor of the West Australian, and part
proprietor of that ponderous daily pyramid, will be
offered a title when the little Duke reaches Perth.
If Hackett accepts the bauble he will lose the confi-
dence of the democracy in the Sand-heap, and he
has been trying hard to gain that for a long while.
Hackett would probably have headed the W.A.
poll for the Senate had he chosen to stand, but he
preferred to direct local politics from behind the
throne, and edit his paper m a large, heavy, stone-
club fashion.
“At a recent London meeting of theHooley
shareholders the trustees reported that the money
in hand represented a dividend of 3d. in the £.
The only cheerful person present was Mr.
Hooley himself, who indulged in an independent
attitude, a light suit, a white tie, a blue shirt, a
bright smile, and subsequently a broad laugh. It
is printed that Mrs. Hooley’s pet Pomeranian
Eoodle is wearing gold-crowned teeth. Recently
e became fidgety, could not eat the choice
morsels prepared for him, and was evidently
suffering great pain. The vet. was called, and he
found the dog’s teeth had decayed—the results of
eating too much candy, the doctor said. The
necessary dental work was done with very little
difficulty. Now he eats his bone with relish and
munches dog-biscuits with evident satisfaction.”
Lady Broome writes in April Cornhill
about Westralia 16 years ago. She was then the
melancholy Governor’s wife. One of her stories
relates the tragic result of giving an old Irish-
woman (a soldier's widow) a couple of shillings.
“ I gave her some tea, sugar and—fatal mistake —
a couple of shillings. She got drunk, tumbled
into her own fireplace, and was roasted to death.”
It appears that the Perth papers of the day all
printed strictures on the crime of giving money
to indigent persons. Lady Broome received some
funny epistles, most of them of the begging letter
order. One of them requested a little money “to
purchase a coffin for my daughter, as her remains
are in a ridiculous condition on the top of the
house.” She also mentions a brassy interviewer
who stole all the washing of Government House
on his way out.
Dr. Garran.
Dr. Garran, M.L.O. and member of the N.S.W.
Public Works Committee, has passed away at the
advanced age of 76. All his life a valetudinarian,
his continued activity was little short of a marvel.
When he became expansive and confidential, he
unburdened himself of the lore amassed in a life-
study of physiology. His mind was a curious store-
house of medical facts and fancies. With the
quaint insistence of the ailing, he was never tired
of recounting anecdotal reminiscences of those
who were born only to suffer. But with it all he
was cheery and buoyant, and considerate for others
to the verge almost of absurdity. His life was
veritably as clean as an unwritten page. He was
sometimes pathetically regretful that he had
nothing of literary endurance to leave be-
hind him—his life’s work was contained in
some thirty yearly volumes of the (Sydney
Morning Herald. The doctor was a native
of London, born on November 19, 1825. lie
graduated at London University, taking the M.A.
degree in the philosophical branch in 1848, at the
early age of 23. The son of a Nonconformist
clergyman (speaking after a lapse of 15 years I
may not be quite correct in this assertion), young
Garran’s school and college days were not glad-
some, as he was made to feel all the disabilities
which Nonconformists suffered in those, reaction-
ary times. Things are vastly different nowadays,
when even the awful Stead is the companion of
princes. The ship in which Dr. Garran came to
Australia in 1851 bore also the despatch conferring
a measure of Responsible Government on South
Australia. A weak chest drove Garran first to
Madeira, where he spent 18 months as a private
utor. The writer remembers the Doctor's
keen criticism of the Madeira portion of Lady
Brassey’s “Sunbeam” book, sent to him, of
course, for a commendatory notice. After he
had severed his connection with the Herald he
could afford to talk frankly about the policy and
the methods of that paper. On one occasion, lie
told the writer that he had always tried to deal
with every public subject in a spirit of strict im-
partiality, to carry out a coldly judicious method
in everything. Looking back on his journalistic
work, lie said that he then felt he had
been mistaken. The public always discounted
journalistic opinion by some 50 per cent.,
and, had he his time over' igain, he
would thunder like a modem Boanerges.
Once, he remarked, when discussing politics and
politicians (with a justifiable pride in his own and
his paper’s political influence), that old “Jack”
Robertson said to him, “ You black-bearded ,
if you liked to write the back-stairs hi itory of New
South Wales politics, you could paralyse the
world.” The Doctor’s proper name was Gammon.
He never tried to conceal the fact, but explained
humorously that Mr. Fairfax would not hear of
his paper being edited by anybody called
Gammon. The name “Garran” was Fairfax-
bestowed. But tiie change was not needed.
The Doctor could have dignified any name.
Politically the doctor never did much or magnifi-
cently. He was too much of a gentleman to
succeed in the crookedest of crooked careers. But
he took himself very seriously, and gave a grand
example to the people who will never know what
a grand exemplar they have lost. Think of a man
resigning the position of Vice-President of the
Executive Council with these words: “It would
have been wrong of me to cling to a post after I
felt myself unfit to do the whole of its
duties, and it would have been unjust to
the House.” The Doctor was proud of his
post-prandial efforts—not without reason. I was
present at a dinner when he made the one
speech of the day. Carington was the gues', and
even he forgot to yawn when Garran talked.
Subsequently, the Doctor remarked, “ I cun make
an after-dinner speech, simply because 1 have ac-
customed myself to think on my legs.” Dear old
long, lanky, ungainly figure, with dreamy, far-
away eyes, and benevolent features, with a good
head—too heavy for the columnar support, flapping
coat-tails and wind-tossed beard, Vale ! Of the
many letters of yours that I have, I cherish one in
which I have underscored this pregnant sentence :
“Do not think of going into Parliament just yet!”
F. J. BROOMFIELD.


MACONOCHIE’S
CELEBRATED
Worcestershire
Sauce,
Most Delicious
and Cheapest.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Australian Representatives:
SWIFT & CO.,
7 Spring Street, Sydney.
DAVID STORER & SONS’ Thrae ColorB ~ Bl - ACK ’ BED and BLUE
Registered
Trade
Mare.
TATTOO OIL
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE
Wool-
Marking or
The Perfect Sheep-Marker.
SHEEP BRANDING OIL
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Hotel
Australia
Rates from 12/6 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
The AUSTRALIA HOTEL is fireproof
from tower to basement.
Rapid elevators run day and night, and
an efficient night-staff regularly patrols
the building.
Hot and cold water are in every room.
Private suites, combining bedroom,
sitting-room and bath-room, are one
of the most attractive features of the
hotel, and a post office, telegraph
office, hair-dressing saloon, bookstall
and cigar-divan, are included in the
building.
J. SMITH (Late of Menzies’), Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors.— Always give, in ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., exact date and exact
place of experience ; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
“ L.C.” : Far away in N.Q, there was a
certain horsey magistrate who had long had an
eye on a likely-looking grey mare belonging to
Barney Flanagan, to whom the Jaypee had
vainly offered £2O for her. Barney got run-in
one night as usual, and next morning the sporting
beak was on the Bench. There was the usual
string of charges, to which Flanagan pleaded that
he disremembered. “Now, Barney,” said his
worship, “ you are charged with being drunk,
which will be £2 if the case is proved. If the
charge of obscene language is brought home to
you, it’ll bo £5. You are accused of assaulting
the police which, provided the evidence is suf-
ficient, can’t be less than another fiver, and
destroying Government uniforms ’ll be thirty
bob, supposing I find you did it. Then there’s
conduct calculated to lead to a breach of the
peace ” (here a paper was handed up stating that
the mare was for sale at £2O), “but owing to the
confused and contradictory character of the police
evidence,” went on his Worship, without turning
a hair. “ you’re discharged with a caution.”
* • * *
Lettir received by N.S.W. couutry-town
merchant, from a female bush shopkeeper :
Sirs. Why dident yer send them there groceryies i
orderd the weak afor larst. ar yer afraid of me. dident
i squaire every penie with yer, even when the drout was
on. A, dident i. Yer nothing but sharks—everyboddy
noes that, and dident mi poor husban allways pay yer
what he owd yer that is afor he dide. Yes it was you
what killd im with yer threatingens. And his blood is
on yer. Never mind im dun with yer now. Yer can keep
yer roten stuff, yer bleeders and now do yer best about
the 9/7 i owes yer. Yours etc. Mary .
P.s. Since ritin above i opend the envelope again as i,
finds yer did send the goods i orderd. Mi girl Susie got
them orf the carier and put them in the back shed and
only just this minuet tells me about it. And i mite a
nown yerd send them as yer all ways was good to ua even
when the old man was runing the show.
Kalgoorlie, the
Golden, is in about
the worst state of im-
pecuniosity just now
that it has ever known.
The population is just
about double what it
should bo, considering
the visible means of
support; and the pro-
portion of people who
do productive work as
compared with those
who do something in
a shop or office is just
about half what it
should ba Eating-
1. oases are cri >wd cd,
but meals are -so cheap
that the owners 'Cau
make no profit. Meat
is a shilling a pound
on the gpld-Ceids, and
other foodstuffs cor-
respondingly high.
Yet Kalgoorlie can
get its meals for a
shilling a time now,
and when the man
out of work has l®
come down to one
meal a day, the hash -
foundry suffers on
that meal. Other busi-
nesses are similarly
overcrowded. Com-
petition is so desper-
ate that the pay from
the mines—almost the
town’s sole income—
circulates witboutany-
body sticking to any
of the dollars. Cool-
gardie has been losing
its population gradu-
ally until it has now
only a few unfortu-
nates wondering how
to get out. Most of the
outside houses have
been put on wheels
and taken out to Kalgooriie—just as Silverton was
wheeled to Broken Hill under very similar cir-
omxist&ncGS. And now & lot of thoso liousgs would
be wheeled further on if there was any place
worth wheeling them to.
• * * •
“Lar.”: Out West, this month (April),
between Charleville and Adavale, I met a carrier
whose bullocks had not seen a blade of grass for
three years / Losses during that time, only five
head—old bullocks. Diet, mulga, with plenty of
Liverpool salt put in small heaps on a clean piece
of ground.
• * * •
“T.G.” : “ Wallaroo ” (8., 27/4/’01) says
he has known outback teamsters in wet weather
to make 12 miles in three days. This is fast
travelling compared to some journeys made by
teamsters, a few years ago, over Snake Plain on the
Nevertire-to-Warren road. Once drove over this
road in a buggy, and the black soil and dry grass
stuck so fast to the wheels that I had to dismount
every few hundred yards and “shave” the tyres
with a tomahawk. Nearing Warren and entering
a lane a mile long, we passed a teamster bogged
nearly to the back of his bullocks. Our light
vehicle worried fairly well over this surface, which
was only a crust over liquid mud, and we thought
no more of the matter until, when returning, five
days later, we found that the bullock-puncher had
onl y j us fc negotiated the single mile of bog ! Not
a track was to be seen ; the mud had closed up
like the waters of the Red Sea after Moses had
got his team across.
* * * •
“ Wat Tell ” : lie places at which horses
and cattle will not stay. There are others from
which it is almost impossible to shift them.
Travelling between Windsor and Wiseman’s
h erry once, at midnight, and having a nervous fit
on me, I wanted to'gallop past an old ruin that bore
a very bad reputation. Whip and spur, however,
would not move my horse past the spot, and I had
to dismount and lead him. Afterwards learned
that others had experienced the same thing at
that place—which probably some of your readers
know well.
* • • •
“D.H.R,” : Was one time working on
a station, delivering rations to boundary-
riders. Noticed that one old man used to order a
lot of ointment (Holloway’s). One day I asked
him what he did with it. “Oh,” he said, “I eat
it,” and he ate some while I was there by way of
evidence that he wasn’t elongating my limb. Not
long afterwards he was found sitting against a
sapling, with his pipe in his hand, dead. Beside
him was his quart pot half-full of tea, and the re-
mains of a meal. Evidently he died very sud-
denly, whether from ointment or not I cannot say.
I met other ancients whose tastes were almost
equally remarkable. The old, lialf-demented
“hand” out back is often a curious feeder.
•** , •
“L.F.H. ” writes about very old inhabi-
tants :
There resides in Capertee Valley (N.8.W.) a man aged
104 years. When 60 years old he married a young girl of
16, who has since borne him 15 children. The youngest
child (a boy) was born when the old man was 98 yearß old,
and bears a striking resemblance to his father. The old
man can still mount his horse, and ride 15 or 20 miles
without any trouble. With reference to a Bulletin par
(published within the last 12 months, I think) concerning
the old lady who has kept the pub. at Windeyer (N.S.W.)
for the past 62 years, and been postmistress there for 60
years. The old lady is now 98 years old, and is a Pole by
WHERE IS THE GLORY?
THE RETURNED BUSHMAN “ Six months’ fighting, three months’
enteric—health gone, money gone, billet gone, home gone, poor
old dad gone, self gone, an’ —an’ — now, ’struth, girl gone! "
birth. She came out to this State when very young, and
has never yet seen a train or steamer, although she only
resides about 18 miles from Mudgee. She remembers dis-
tinctly seeing the flight of the Grand Army, which passed
through her native village.
The above are either very remarkable facts, or
very regrettable evidences of how an innocent and
well-meaning paper gets its leg pulled by design-
ing agriculturists.
• » • •
“ W.J.8.” : Re snake-killing dogs. Was
on the MacKenzie River last August, going
to the camp with my mate one evening, when his
dog caught a snake too far back from the head,
with the result that the biter got bit right in the
throat. In less than two minutes the dog had a
fit. His owner immediately and repeatedly
immersed him in the river, assuring me that it was
a certain cure. The dog seemed in great pain
during the night, and next morning his head
was twice its normal size, and he looked
a most remarkable dog. On the fourth day
the swelling broke where the snake bit
him. After this he recovered rapidly, and in
three weeks was killing iguanas and fighting
other dogs as if nothing had happened. The
snake was a brown one, six feet long. Should
like to know if the dog’s recovery could have
been due to immersion.
More Dunn:— 4
Dear Bulletin. —Re “Te Whai’s”
inquiry (B. ll/5/’Ol) as to the fate of
bushianger Dunn. If “ Banjo ”
says that Dunn never was caught,
he is wrong. He teas
caught. Cannot re-
member the year
or the month,
but he was
captured at Dub-
bo about 35 years
ago, after a des-
perate fight with
the police, in
which he was
badly wounded.
On being cap-
tured, he was
taken to the
Commercial
Hotel, in
Brisbane-
street.
There was
no lock-up
in Dubbo at
that time.
A guard was
placed over
him, and
his wounds
attended to.
The prisoner-
patient was to ill at . .
night that the man on guard relaxed his vigilance and
slept. During the night, Dunn escaped through the
window, and, next morning, the village was in a state of
commotion, ft was not until a day later that a wood-
carter rode into town and informed Inspector Hogg, of
Bathurst, who was in Dubbo at the time, that a wounded
man, hiding in a hollow log near the Gravel Pits, had
asked him for a drink of water. Thirty police were soon
on the scene, armed all round like a British gunboat, and
Dunn was finally captured. He was sentenced to death
at Bathurst, but whether the death-penalty was carried
out I can’t say. I am inclined to believe it was. —T.G.F.
* * • *
“ D.H.R.” : Re Jap. and alleged shark in
Barwon (B., lG/3/’l). This may have been, as
“ Vril ” remarks, a Murray cod. Present scribe’s
father caught one at Mogil Gully, on the Culgoa,
in 1856, weighing 951b. Also saw skeleton of one
on Williams’ station, on Warrego, fifteen miles
above Cunnamulla, which was said to have been
1541b. weight, and certainly looked it. Have
known fish to be caught at Walgett ranging from
751b. to 951b.
“ D.H.R.” : Re effects of ring-barking.
Buff, in “The Physics of the Earth,” says:
“ Forests are the natural gatherers of moisture
from the air. Trees loosen the soil, shelter
the herbage, and hinder the water, on sloping
ground, from running off. They check the
currents of air, and thus retard the carrying
off of the moisture by drying
winds.” Also, because the
water, sucked up from the earth
by the roots, is breathed out
again by the leaves as vapour,
the air in forests always remains
moister than where there is no
timber. The Canary Isles, which
were once forest-clothed and fer-
tile, have been rendered barren
by reckless denudation. Witness
the same in Australia.
“Cecil P.” : Good spec, for
anyone with £500. Take up 1000 miles
of abandoned country on S. A. side of
Birdsville. Nothing to pay for im-
provements ; may find a few cattle.
Nothing to do but wait for rain—and
we've grown accustomed to that.
Kent-, half-a-crown a mile. Can
owe the rent — Government also
used to waiting 1 . Big chance of
drought breaking in four years.
Then part at thumping profit. If
rain doesn’t fall out west within
two years, am going to pawn my
watch and buy a station myself.
* * *
“Fortuna ”: Lizards (like
humans) develop queer tastes. In
a Walcha district school, they in- /
fest the schoolroom* after dark, '
and hold nightly drunks upon the
ink left exposed in the ink-wells.
“Pel”: Can any Bulletin shootist say
why birds “ tower ” when an eye is destroyed by
gun shot ? Have known a wood-duck so injured
go up hundreds of feet with a spiral motion, then
“uncurl” and come down within a few feet of
where it rose ; so near shooter as to allow of killing
with a stick. Sole wound on bird, loss of an eye.
» • » •
“ Station-Manager There is no excuse
for the mean ration-list on many stations and
with many cockies. Nine men are tuckered here
(a Vic. station) for as nearly as possible 7s. 6d.
each per week. This is total cost, including
cook’s wages, firewood, and utensils. The weekly
ration per man is :
s. and.
141 b. mutton, at 2Jd. per lb 211
61b. flour, at (under) Id. 0 6J
71b. potatoes, at 4s. per cwt. ..0 3
2Jlb. sugar, at 2d. lb ...0 6
Jib. tea, at Is. per lb „ 0 3
Jib. currants or raisins „ 0 3J
Jib. rice, sago, or tapioca 0 1J
Vinegar „ 0 0*
Mustard ... 0 0J
Jam or treacle (cooking only) 0 1
Jib. onions 0 0J
Spice, curry, salt, ginger, pepper, baking powder,
hops, &c 0 1J
Cartage and trainage, at 30s. per ton .. .. 0 2J
Cook, per man (also bakes and kills for manager’s
house) .. .. .. 2 0
7 3
Oatmeal is supplied in winter, but cost is saved in
meat bill. Of course there is plenty of skim-milk
and vegetables occasionally, which cost prac-
tically nil.
AUSTRALIA .
2000 A.D.
MAUAULAY
MAORILANDER
“ What an ex-
traordinary
people I They all
teem to have bicycle-hump.”
HIS WIFE: “ That’s not bicycle-hump, you ignor-
ant savage Don't you know the Duke of
York visited here in 1901!
“Lar.”: Knew a teamster’s strapping
daughter, out-back, the eldest of a large family of
girls. She was the old man’s right hand, and
when a beast was killed Mary Ann was “off-
sider.” It was a sight to see her and the dad
outting up the carcase—swearing at each other
the while, with their knives in their teeth. This
wench could also do “fencing” with any man in
the district; could kill, dress, aud cut up a sheep
in style, and when it came to scrub-cutting, or
ring-barking, or heading a beast —as the damsel
said herself— “she could run blanky rings round
every cove on the run.”
FOOTLIGHTS FASCINATION.
BLINGUM BILL: “I s’pose yer couldn’t rive me an
intro, to the tart who plays Little Willie?”
THE TRAVELLING TRAGEDIAN: “ What! have an
untamed yokel like you mashiny my mother!
Not much, sonny.”
“ D.H.R.” : lie eaglehawks. Was one
time minding sheep, when I noticed an eaglehawk
sweep fiercely down, as if to seize something.
Went across and found bird and big gohanna en-
gaged in an active disagreement. Eaglehawk had
seized gohanna, but gohanna had got his tail
round hawk’s wing and was manfully holding up
his end of the hostilities. After a twenty minutes’
struggle there was one hawk less.


It is hard to understand how it pays any-
one to patent small articles. M‘Lean Bros, and
Rigg, Ltd., have brought out a handy little thing
which they sell under the name of the “ Duchess
Collar and Cuff Drier.” No one who sees it but
would buy, for the convenience is undoubted, and
the price is only sixpence. They must expect to
sell them by the thousand, but even then, how
does it pay ?*
CHILDREN
now-a.-da.ys have notoriously BAD TEETH,
because the White Bread they live on lacks the
Wheaten Phosphates (rejected with the Bran)
which go to make good, sound Teeth, as well as
Bone, Brain and Nerve substance.
CEREBOS SALT, used like common salt,
supplies these necessary Phosphates, and is,
therefore, invaluable in the daily food of
mothers and children.
Wholesale Agents:- HARRISON & ATTWOOD, 334 and 336, George Street, SYDNEY.
Sold by Grocers and Stores.
Kiippers Elberfeld Lager.
Farming Under Federation.
“Under the settled,Federal tarriff, fanners win
have the markets of Australasia opener! to them.
This was the gist of the information a special
reporter gleaned whilst travelling through tiie
Singleton district. T . ,
“Yes/’ said Mr. William Long, farmer of
Warkworth, near Singleton, “our prospects are
undoubtedly brighter, and I now intend to follow
my business more actively than ever before, and 1
am thankful to say I can do so. ' „
“Was there a bar to your activity before'
asked the reporter. ~ ’ T
“ Yes, indeed, there was,” said Mr. Long.
“During five years, and until lately, I suffered
from stomach and digestive troubles, pains in
the back and bowels, and heavy, t nobbing
headaches. Farm work make my ailments worse,
which crippled my activity. T tried one
medicine after another without effect, until 1
read how a man who had suffered just like me
had been cured by Dr. Williams’ pink pills for
pale people. I sent for a supply, and began
taking them. Slight relief came with the first
few doses, and two boxes completely cured me.
I never have a heartache now; the ,pains in my
back and bowels have disappeared, and I feel
stronger and more energetic than I have done
for the last few years. My ill-health had always
been a drag upon my operations, but now, with a
good season, bright prospects are assured. I am
convinced,” said Mr. Long, in conclusion, “that
with renewed health and strength I can materially
extend my operations with increased financial
benefit.”
Probably, Mr. Long s troubles were caused by
weakness of the digestive organs, so that the
undigested food, when passed from the stomach,
caused irritation of the bowels. Dr. Williams’
pink pills, by enriching and purifying the blood,
supply the digestive organs with the requisite
strength to perform their duties, thus removing
the causes of bowel troubles. They also cure
anaemia, debility, scrofula,, rickets, consumption,
effects of fevers, etc. By toning up the nerves,
they cure St. Vitus, dance, neuralgia, sciatica,
nervous exhaustion, etc. Sold by chemists and
storekeepers and by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine
Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney, two and nine per box.
six boxes fifteen and three, post free. Describe
your case and write for special, free instructions.*
fa
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
wef
Referring to incidents at the Royal
picnic near Cambooya station (Queens-
land), Granny Herald, in the exuberance
of her veneration, gives us such informa-
tion as this:— *■
Viscount Crichton rode well.... “l his
shirt sleeves he could scarcely be distinguished
from a drover, and rounded up bullocks in
first-class style. He soon knocked one horse up,
and called for another.
Knocking up mounts in quick time ap-
pears to be the Herald’s idea of first-
class horsemanpshi. Further on:
There was no shamming about this picnic. It
was carried out ... in thorough bush style.
The tablecloth was laid on the grass. . . • u
of the visitors brought up a silver teapot . . .
much to the disgust of a station-hand. . . .
Who ever saw a tablecloth and a silver
teapot at a true bush picnic ? And where
was the billy can ? We are also informed
what their ladyships sat on, and that
“ the Duke was seated on a rough bare
log.” Has that log been preserved ?
,
It’s a curious sight in Cairns (N.Q.)
to watch the Salvarmy, led by a she-
captain, with three Kanakas, a dap, and
a nondescript yellow man (latter beats a
drum, the only instrument), inviting
those tired people to get saved. N° r "
manton goes one better ; the Army there
is composed of the postmaster, his wife,
son, and two daughters, and a Govt, in-
spector of something or other. Up Worth
a man must take to drink or to religion.
• * • *
South Australia is having the
driest autumn on record. Adelaide has
had under 4in. of rain this year, and the
farming districts in the lower North still
leas. Though most recent seasons have ended
gloomily for the wheat-grower, no other tor M
years has opened so badly.
“Will. J.” : Was talking to a Carlton
man recently who was trucked along with 300 un-
employed from festive Melbourne to Birchip,
where the water-scheme, or a portion of it, is
still in progress. Said the 300 (or thereabou ts)
were still shovelling at that place, though many,
including himself, had left in debt. The business
was piece-work. Old Govt, hands could struggle
up to ss. a day, but others, again, weren t making
half that. He was ready to jump a farm billet tor
10s. and tucker, so that he could get back to town
MUSGROVE'S CONDUCTOR.
again per rail. It is whispered about, that all
sorts and any sort were chosen (and trucked free)
just to clear Melbourne for the advent of royal
Jawge.
* * • *
“ E.H.M.” : Lingo referred to by “Peter
X.” (8., 4/5/'01) was introduced into Queensland
from Sydney by some boating men in 1890, and
known as the “lotus language.” Writer and six
others spoke it fluently at the Boys Grammar
School, Brisbane, for nine months, before the key
was discovered. The jargon was afterwards
familiar to every guttersnipe in Queen-street.
THE LATE DR. GARRAN.
Photo, by Hubert Newman, Sydney.
At Peak Downs (Q.) recently, a cheerful
drunk, with a long heave to starboard and a short
roll to port, dropped himself down an abandoned
shaft 70ft. deep. A rescue party was soon on the
spot to recover the corpse or half-ditto. .Tones
went down, “Did you shove me into this-
hole?” queried the corpse, as Jones landed on
it. “No, I didn’t.” “Well, give me hold
of that rope till I get up and knock blank out of
the cove that did,” and up he went without scratch
or ill. Next thing Jones heard away down the
shaft was the sound of war on top, where the
saved one was wading in at his rescuers. The
luck of drunks and children !
“ Wrinkler ” re
bushman’s keep
I have also been in' sur-
ve3'-camp, and agree with
your writer (25/5/’Ol, p.
14). The expensive item
now is meat. Sugar was
formerly the highest
item. But surveyors get
special rates for sheep
and beef. Some —not-
ably one I was with -will
not take them under the
market value, in case of
having to rasp the lessees.
But a bushman, if he can
eat rabbits, fish, ducks,
wallabies, galahs, cocka-
toos, native companions,
&c., need not spend more
than 3s. 6d. per week
(provided he - can cook).
If camped near a slaugh-
ter-yard or station, for
legging a few sheep, and
helping to run up a bul-
lock and clean the offal,
a man may feed self and
dogs and he thanked for
doing the amiable. lam
now on the track in Vic-
toria. If I were to tell
you of the stacks of
tucker obtainable at one
class of resting-place, for
cutting a few sticks of
wood, you would make
parenthetic remarks. I
did half-an-hour’s work
on Saturday. This is
Monday, and I have whips
for Tuesday, and so have
six others i There ! Just
off to swing the axe for
another 30m., in case of
rain.
• • *
“ N.Q.” : Had a
couple of tame walla-
bies on the station,
and the children
trained them to carry
about some young kit-
tens. Vastly funny to
see the wallabies so-
lemnly nursing their
charges, and now and again peering into the
kittens’ faces, as who should say, “Now what
have I struck ? ”
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken oj communications insujficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
C.M.L.: Mr. W. Bede Melville is not in any
way authorised to speak on behalf of The Bulletin
V. Mac. : But The Bulletin has often printed “ letters
pitching-into itself ’’—when they were worth it. All we
ask is that you be interesting, and we’ll actually pay you
for your jeremiad... .8.0.0. ■ Yes ; a ship can be length-
ened after completion. A case in point is that of the at
present much-talked-of Ophir. Another instance is the
p. and O.’s s.s. Rome ; several of the old A.S.N. co.’s boats
were cut in halves and added-to amidships... .Zip .As
you are obviously an expert, we are always glad to hear
from you —at reasonable length—on questions of interest
in your domain... .E.B.H. : Will print “ The Letter
Ot. : Not quite fair. It’s the personal, dramatic-and-
literary, value of those accounts that Mr. Fitchett has
exploited. They are less contributions to knowledge of
Waterloo than contributions to knowledge of the human
animal in warfare—a perennially-interesting topic.....
0 A.W. : “ Outlaw ” too close in phrase to “ The Riding
of the Rebel.”... Edjudina : Your MS. too tough a con-
tract . L.O. A. : Bulletin takes not the slightest interest
in the “ glory ” won abroad by the Australian forces. It
loathes the military business, as a business, and has no
enthusiasm to waste on any soldier who is not a defender
of his own country... .Henry P.W. : 6 pp. fcp., and its
only point the old-time Bulletin story about the Sydney
sport who took his little daughter to Randwick races
and was asked: “ l’a, why have all these men ” (the
bookmakers) “ got broken noses? ” Pa (sententiously) . 1
suppose, my dear, it is because they deserved it. ....
E M Davis (B.) : Hat story of good woman-interest;
accepted... .John W. (Burrab.) : Old Bulletin story....
A EL • Will print M.T....Les. O. : Not quite up to
literary mark... .Dusky : You’re more—you’re pitch-
darky'! Rice F : Nothing in it E.B.J. : You “ hope
the story,” &c. But it isn't a story—nor anything like
one Visitor: Amusing enough, but would need re-
writing ... Shingler : Differs from rigmarole only in being
prigmarole ... R. : Mere stupid abuse is no more readable
than stupid adulation.... Jack J.B. : Simply means that
a man is only a development of what must have been in
him as a boy Allegro : No; Dimitresco was with a
co previously brought out by Martin Simonsen—which
came to signal grief at York-street (Sydney) Opera House.
AK. : Humour too ponderous Bruiser: Fairly good
form,' but we give it against you on “points.”....
R W S : Two good themes, but you deal with them in-
effectively Blue Gum: Graphic and realistic, but
badly put together Rupert O. : Not enough “story ”
in it Jack M. : You don’t versify with vigour or variety
enough Hal B. :“ No more o’ that, Hal, and thou
lovest us'” ... Frank Rad : Tediously told, and hardly
worth telling, anyhow.... Pyalla : “Coward” suggestive
and rather pa hetic, hut too loose in treatment....
R A.K. : “ Farewell ” may do. Other has no “go ” in it....
Maisie S. : Hand not strong enough... .Bushman : Will
oonsider Insulator: Received ; may use.... Hurricane :
Not you !—you’re only a moderate breeze S.B. :
Thanks One too long ; other not noteworthy enough..
Esmi : Badly belated... .Mac. M. : Too long-winded
and seribbly.... Codlin : Miles too long—therefore
“ Short’s the man, not Codlin ! ”... .Val: Too wordy and
floundersome... .Olivia K. : Crude ; though, if you are a
beginner, there is some promise in it A.A.G. : Cross
between a nightmare and a wet funeral.... Philo A. :
Calls for much more effective treatment... Susie : Pretty
littlemouse-likesqueak...JamesP. : Feebly conventional...
Albury : Say she aimed at the heart, struck a button or
a rib, and wounded the arm. How will that d 0?....
T T A : Thousands of similar vague “ oaves ” in sand-
stone Australia.... A.J.G, : “ Epigrams” funereal ; rest
funerealer ..T.E.F. : “Some lines” are hollow enough
for gas-piping—in fact, they are gas-piping... .Norton
M. : Verse bad; sheep late... .J.G.D. : Unusable....
Frank S. : Cannot undertake the responsibility of decid-
ing upon a case over which there has already been so
much law. Your best course is to try and interest one of
the lawyer-politician’s political enemies, and get him to
have the matter brought up in Parliament Samivel :
No ; “ Salvarmy ”—like “ Alfredinburgh,” and such like
—was a Bulletin convenience-coinage. Of course you
“ meet with it elsewhere” — now.. . .Glim : Dowsed
Comet: Orbit too eccentric Leo : It’s this way
The equinoxes and solstices (from causes there’s no room
to explain) occur 20 minutes earlier each year—equal to
one day in 72 years ; so that in 13,000 years they shift
half-round the earth’s orbit. Therefore, 13,00;) years ago
the Southern midsummer was in June, and the Northern
in December. Consequently you lose your wager
C. Oounsell: The law often baulks itself by (like the
fabled boy-with-the-nuts) reaching out for too much
Many a criminal capitally arraigned would be convicted
were the jury allowed to fix the punishment. There are
hundreds of men in the community who would under no
circumstances, or hardly any circumstances, return a
capital verdict. After all, certainty, not severity, of punish
mentis the chief desideratum Robert A. : Will print
« Bush Sam.”... .T.H.B. (Tas.): Will print “ Collapse
a good story E.L.B, : “Home-coming,” a cheap,
familiar, pick-me-up idea crudely handled... . Alice H. :
Thanks for copy of letter E.C. (Ohiltern, Vic.) : Even
if your very own, it has too wayback-Yankee a flavor for
The Bulletin. Write something that looks original
A.S. : Yes, Ophir and loafer do rhyme, but to say so over-
loudlv would mean lynching Tom Collins (Shep.):
Much obliged Scar: Thanks Hamer: One or two
pars held for publication. Tales under consideration
Matelot: T’other chap is right; the naval ensign (white
St. George’s) is flown by the Royal Yacht Squadron.....
Margaret C. : Too long, and weak in the back... .D. J.O. :
“Be sure and give it a good place.” Well, the basket is
a good place—for it Fortuna : May use yarn. Verse
indifferent.. .. J.G.MT.: Too tame in the telling.... John
O’Groat: The squirmy and sniggery presentation of
Mephisto. is all wrong. “The Prince of Darkness is a
Gentleman.”.... F. A. W. : Not ill-written, but lacks a
dramatic soul Luke W. : Our most powerful mental
telescope failed to discover any meaning in it....
Lamia: “ Proud into port my Muse’s bark shall sail.
Promptly quarantined at Port Bulletin, though!......
Frank D. : “ When a Jew dies, he goes straight to hell,
and, after 12 months’ further training, is re born as a
Scotchman.” Now, whom do you mean to compliment—
Sandy or Ikey ? Horeb : First two verses all right, but
then the metre came off the handle, and the rhymes flew
up and hit us on the ear Smilax : May touch up the
style, and use... .Torpedo : Failed to explode !... Left-
Lead : Oonsider yourself cross-countered with the right .
.... H.S.M. : We've had that “ parable ” before Luna :
You’ve omitted the “ tic.”.... A.J.R. : But that was the
name of the landlord in question, and, if he’s alive still,
he’d have a lovely action for libel—if we printed your
gcree( i M.G.O. : “ Fain Would I soar.” No doubt—but
for so far you’ve only managed to flutter Sphinx :
Flattens out badly towards end Lachesis : Alternate
blare and tootle D.H.R. : Wooden verse on a well-
worn theme Garry :We spell your pathos with a b.
... .Betrayer : None without merit, but all disfigured by
violent straining after effect... .Frisco : Laborious humor.
_ Riverina: Pictorial joke inefficient. Pars mostly
good. “ Rid ers ” not up. Do whatever you please witn
rejected contributions M.H. : Prose-sketch has truth
in life, but lacks crispness and point J-W. (Ade-
laide): “Prayer” good sentiment but rocky metre....
Alasco : Sheer brutality... .Ben Sun: Don’t enthuse
much over “Quarrying.” M. F. Gill: Will print
“ Wind and I.” Caesar : “Asa student ” you can re-
fute as utter 1 v false” the statements re the under-
graduates’ behaviour at Melb. University Commence-
ment. What a gorgeous Ananias you must be then !
IN “ PUSH ” SOCIETY.—THE ONLY
NECESSARIES.
PIPPO: “’Elio, Bill, ’ev yer come in fer a for-
tune?”
BILL: “Same thing. Me sister’s a barmaid now,
an' me missus is workin' in a terbacker
fact'ry.”
Mearo : To win the V.O. is mostly a matter of having the
luck to very publicly do a brave act.... Yeranderry .
Good topical verse, but would only appeal to a very few.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
H.M‘D. : Old joke.... J. J.W. : One too risky, and
neither available... .S.J.C. : Old idea.. Fred. B. (W.A.).
Excellent. Do it again and often T..J.D. . Not up
especially in view of other silhouette work appearing in
paper ' Aurum : One accepted as suggestion ; others
returned C.W.S. : You show some gift of caricature
and should nurse it tenderly, for it is the rarest and most
valuable possession of a black-and-white artist. the
faculty of perceiving a person’s most notable physical
idiosyncrasy and expressing and accentuating it in a line
or two is chiefly what makes Phil May a king m his.pro-
fession. Splendid draughtsman though he is, he would
never have,attained world-wide fame merely by reason of
his almost-unerring figure-work.


THE MAN ON THE BRIDGE: A PICTURE TO KEEP TOBY UP TO THE MARK.
And for ever and for ever,
As long as the river flows,
As long as the “ayes” outnumber
The Opposition “noes,”
The moon and its broken reflection
And its shadows shall appear
As the symbol of Fortune smiling
On its wavering Toby here.


ON SECOND THOUGHTS.
“It is stated that Premiers See and Peacock were each offered a Knight Bachelorship, which they refused on the ground that it was a distinction now reserved for mere mayors.” Daily Paper.
PREMIER SEE (log): 'A FT Eli ALL, OUGHT WE NOT TO HAVE TAKEN THE LITTLE ONE? EVEN A SMALL BIRD IN THE HAND IS SOMETIMES BETTER THAN
A BIG ONE RIGHT UP A GUM-TREE!”


A. SAUNDERS’
WEDDING AND PRESENTATION SILVERPLATE-
THE VERY BEST QUALITY. “SEND FOR 1901 ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
4 o’clock SPOONS, Puie Solid Silver, six different patterns
as above, in Siik-l ned Cise, 6 Spoon< 20s and 25 5 , w Uh
Tongs 25 , 3 s, 355, £., pure Silver-plated, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
MOST USEFUL and ACCEPTABLE.
4-Bottle Lunch or Dinner CRUET,
Pure Silver Electro-plated
on hard White Metal, 2 8.
Similar Styles, 265, 30s, 85s.
6-Bottle, 365, £2, £2 10b, £B,
£3 10s, £4.
Hot Water KETTLE and STAND, can be used
as a Teapot.—Pure Silver-plated on White
Metal, Beautifully Chased and Ornamented, 86s.
Embossed and extra Chased £2, £2 10s, Other
Styles, £3, £3 10s. Handsome and useful artio'.e.
A. BAUNDEBS.
BISCUIT.— Floral China,
real Silver-plated Mounts, 20b.
Similar Designs, 15s, 255, 80s.
Very prett, and acceptable
present.
A. SAUNDERS.
CARD RECEIVER, Latest S f yle,
Pure Silver-plated and Ornamented, 20s.
VERY CHOfCE.
TEAPOTS, very pretty and useful,
Pure Silver-plated, Hand Chased and Ornamented,
22i 6d.
Other Styles and Patterns,
IBs 6d, 17s Cd, 20s, 255, 80s, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Regist red Motto, Silver-
plated C ttUET
(“ Dinna Forget”), 21b.
Very choice and pretty.
Cake B A.SKET, Heavily Chased and Ornamented, 85s,
Similar Designs, 2>s, 265, 3''s, £2, £2 10s.
OUE STOCK OF CAKES 18 CHOICE AND LARGE
EGKi CRUET, Silver Electro-
plated, 4 Cups and Spoons, 20s.
Other Stvles,
22s 6d, 265, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3.
BREAD BOARD i.nd KNIF?,
Chase 1, Silver-plated Rims a d Bise,
21s, 255, 80s, £2.
Serviette BING, Solid Silver, Diamond Cut.
8s 6d, 10j, 12s 6d.
SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ l*Ki>ND.—Pure Solid Silver
Mounts, 18s 6d.
Very useful and acceptable presents.
BUTTER. All Metal, T'uie Si ver-plated,
Nicely Phased, 15s, 20s, 255.
D irable.
JAMS, Shaded an i Ornamented Glass,
Carved Ornamented Sil>er-plated Stand,
12j 61; similar. 15s. 'I hese are made in
6 Different Pattern..
Solid Silver PHOTO. FI.AMES,
Chased and Ornamented,
1 s, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s (id, 20, 25s ;
bmallerj sizes, 2s 6d, Ss 6d, ss, 7s 6d.
m
m
S3.*
m
dfe
h L: r ; _
A MOST ARTISTIC DESIGN.
PRESENTATION TEA and COFFEE SE", HOT WATER KETTLE, WITH 2 tin. SALVER, 20 QUINE A.S.
The above "et is most Beau iiully ■ based, Fluted, and Ornamented, and the quality is the very best
Silver-plate, whieffs 2 0>ear." " Other*Styles, ’ f 6 6s, £6 6s, £7 10s, £B, £lO 10s, £l2 10s, £l* Send for Particulars.
K
-
m
SUGABB, Hand Phased »nd Ornamented,
Silver-plated, 16s 6d, 2<«, 255, 30s.
SALTS, Fancy Glues and Plated Stand,
6s 6d, 7a 6d, 8s 6d, 10s Pair,
■with Spoon,
asd
ENTEEE DISH, Silver-plated on Hard White Nickel Silver,
Hard Soldered. £2 12s 6d. Make two Diihes othei Styles,
32s 6d, 355, £2.
FLOW I:i*TAXU&,
(-ilvrr-plj.ted, Coloured
Ulass, 12s 6d pair.
tj make a cup uf tea, Silver-plated, 3s 6d. Veiy Useful.
\
TEA INFUsER,
Child’:- CUP,
Nicely Chafed, Silver-
plated,
Ss 6d, 10s, 12s od,
pure f-ilver
Eo i o’clock TEA SET, with Covers,
e tro-n'. i ed ou White Metal, fii-st-ciaes English Make, £2 10s.
Sinilin- St le , £2, £2 16s, £3. £3 10s, £4.
diAuituA
LONDON* SYDNEY
mmrnZi
NUT CRACKERS and P CKS !n S?lk-lined (W,
Chieed and Silver-pla'ed, 15s Cd, and - ! 0b.
VERY USEFUL
TOAST HA' K. Pure Silver-plated,
in Everv Style anil Shae, 10* 6(1, 12m 6 i, 15s,
17s 6d, 20s. A Niie Pres nt.
/ay
BUTTEE, White Glass, Chased and O nauiented
Eim, Silver plated, 20s ; small, r, Ins 6d.
Very nea: and pretty.
2 JAMS and 2 BUTTEK3,
Beautifully Chased and Ornamented, very best Silv°
20j, 255, 80s.
A. SAUNDERS.
JE WELLER ana SILVERSMITH.
A BEAUTIFUL DUPLAY OF PRESENTS.
Mind, 815 GEORGE-STREET,
NBVRLV OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY


"Publications.
girl
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
fa
Send stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties.
Madame Panza,—
913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
DIAMOND SONG BOOK
600 SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one
Songs of every country. Including WAR, PAriUOTIO,
COMIC SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
where. Complete list of the songs for a stamp. This
wonderful book will be sent anywhere for only 2s. oa., posted
2s°lod from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO., Wat-
erloo Chambers, 458 George-street Sydney, N.S.W Stamps 2d
extra Add exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for this
and other Fast Selling Books. Mention tins paper when writing
e
English. French. German.
CURIOUS.
fa
IOOIS
and the best ORIGINAL
PHOTOS from the world.
Is. for Catalogue.
sdf
APPY& CO., 65 Rue Pigalle, Paris.
as
Public Notices.
• — l9 --
GOLDSBROUCH, MORT AND COMPANY
LIMITED AND REDUCED
Have been favored with instructions to offer for Sale by
Auction at , „
Menzies’ Hotel, Melbourne,
on THURSDAY, 27th JUNE, at THREE O'CLOCK,
fllJßllßll STSTIQB STOCK,
Comprising about " .
633 square miles Leasehold (7 years to run)
724 n ~ under Grazing Right
Situate tatha Burnett District ofQueensiandabouibTO
miles from Chinchilla Railway Station, together witn
about 19,000 Mixed Cattle, consisting of (about)
' 4,100 males, 1 year to 4 years
11,450 females, 1 year to aged
242 bulls
583 speyed cows
2,625 calves and weanerg
19,000
and 360 horses.
The Station consists for the most part of table-
land with ironbark ridges, the flats carrying a
thick coat of grass. . , , . , ,
An ample water supply is obtained from the
Auburn River, Johnstone, Fishey, Cardargo, and
other permanent creeks which intersect the pro-
perty, and from 5 dams and 1 well.
Improvements include about 400 miles of 3, 4
and 5 wire-fencing, making 22 paddocks. there
are also 5 sets of drafting yards and 4 tailing
yards, conveniently situated. About 10,000 acres
have been rung, and about 20 acres are under
crop. In addition to the homestead, which con-
tains 9 rooms, and has all usual conveniences,
there are four out-stations. , , ,
Great care has been taken in the purchase ot
stud stock, and every effort made to maintain a
high standard, and the Auburn cattle are well-
known for their fattening qualities.
Included in the females above-mentioned are
329 studs from which very useful herd bulls are
bred.
Also, immediately after the above,
the telleraca station,
Comprising about
18,9284 acres Freehold Land
3.768 J „ Conditionally purchased land
16361 ~ leased, ~
s’;q->5 ” held under Occupation License
12,452 „ „ .. Pref. „
42,1104 acres . . T
Situate in the Eastern Division of New South Wales,
about Cl miles from Moree Railway Station.
The property consists of black and chocolate
soil plains, with Open coolibah forests. About
9500 acres have been rung, aijd the country now
carries a heavy sward of blue, barley and other
grasses, and the best fattening herbage. The
Meelii River, which runs through the property,
2 tanks, and l well, afford an unfailing supply of
water. .
For fattening purposes the property is unsur-
passed in the district, and having direct railway
coinfnunication with Sydney, Newcastle, and
other centres of population, it is within easy reach
of good markets. .
Improvements include about 90 miles of six-wire
fencing. There are 10 paddocks and 1 dropper
sheep yard. There is a good homestead, wool-
shed fitted with 22 shearing machines, and all
necessary out-buildings.
Further particulars and conditions of sale may
be obtained from
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & 00-
Limited and Reduced
MELBOURNE AND SYDNEYi
Maoriland and Other Verses
By ARTHUR ADAMS. 6s.
STEAM
ENGINES
FROM 5 HP. TO 100 HP.
DYNAMOS
MOTORS
FROM Ih.P. TO 60 HP.
CAN BE SUPPLIED PROMPTLY
FROM STOCK.
NOYES BROS.
31 O’Connell-st., SYDNEY; 1T Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
NEWMAN’S
For Removing
Superfluous Hair.
SPECIAL
By post— 2s. 6d. a packet.
c. E. NEWMAN, Chemist,
62 King Street, Sydney.
depilatory.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
Price, Six Shillings (Post Free).
THe independent order of Foresters.
What a distinguished Insurance man in London, England, thinks Jo nil, thows how he
Mr. William Schooling, known to most insurance people Order of Foresters, in the following
feels with regard to the financial stability and the wisdom P t d f t h e new century
letter written to Oronhyatekha, Supreme Chief Ranger of the Order, mine ma y
BOURNE’S INSURANCE Arundel
Wm. Schooling, Editor and Manager.
Strand, W.C.
January 1, 1901.
iSSSWoSTtSw a f St,JTmTI oinaot avaii mwelt ot torn- ten, »™t W m of or to pmomly
1 '““pSiSfo vsr& ’gMsstfitJSfhS. to ”* e • ,m ”*• am -
tope that lira twmmrMlongor talks L my th ] - - -““ ~
■ talks with you when you are next in Eonaon. and Uave as ked him, to let me know
I have told Brother Cronyn the Order trom brother' Refold* Wj vihom I had a very interesting
ssss prasss M «»«~>
Please accept my heartiest good wishes for the happiest piospemy
believe me, yours fraternally in L.B. and C. (Signed) WILLIAM SCHOOLING.
The shore letter, horn so eminent,! J
S*- Rates much lower than the Old Line Companies. Absolute safety. Prompt monthly at the rate of £12,000 per month.
£900,000 of surplus assets. £1,800,000 already pard “uerature, address C. A. FRASER, Head Offices for New South Wales, 283 George
Representatives wanted in every community. For full information and literature, ac H - Supre mo Chief Ranger.
Street, Sydney. OnUliri in • ’
DAPTO (Lake
(f/IM IT 1510.
Illawarr a).
near
SYDNEY.
BMELTEKS.
REF! N E RS
I, '. ■
-*
MAKERS OP
S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
ILLAWAB.KA’'
..BKAND Ob'..
SOFT LEAD.
, „ , , ( OOLD SILVER. LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLABS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REEIHERS of SILVER LEAi* AJLLI3J
Purchasers of all c asses o . jjjqhEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMEN lof ASSA YS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to P, S. Morse,
Manau-er. The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.3.W.
At Poverty Point.
An Australian in London to
gaff ’’—p’raps the last—in the elongated W F, The
Sn the P ‘ bill ’ : ‘ The Rosie Danvers,
Champion Demon Swordsman an _ . .. n j /'vgallv
Australian Lady-Boxer and Champion Finest
few angles in her) Athlete.’ ‘Only One
Show in Europe.’ In we go bm tbeAum and she I
Peter Jackson. Fencing comes natural t e gh(J
pinks the demon after a great > try to place
takes on the gloves, ahd for the « ra ““ r well-built, with !
our country girl. P raps 30 01 yo a er, f()r the
solid arms, looking Je ™ B £: lk L i&L a > day f but she
dancer of same name, of . S ‘£ on i„t-a malo-
- a dainty left, and uses it fin ®‘ P some pretty
-is no third-rate ‘ slouch,’ but Rosie gets in some
work. ’Tis said she is the only lad.y that, has u hfc |
at the N. 5.0., but the abrupt ]OV with "“ , s he
“xs a p»
shaved, and scrapping females are hasty-
mo‘rethl a n id everconvinced thit staetoJ
ssjsfrSSsfe
going to be made next ; but the to a less
performance leaves one cold. In ~t, titters from
extent in “Lady Inger ” there a.id
the gallery at the most solemn mo "' e 1t . 9 ; > m-Duse, or
bad taste, of course but fancy ‘‘\acli a tendency
wen Ellen Terry, leaving any room foi sucn a
at such a moment 1 . ,
Teeth : Ist prize, Marie Lloyd ; 2nd, Irving bayles.
“ Melh ” • The new Melbourne Opera House gives one
, A pl Th.pE‘i» , «».d Xv. s
Marie'lJoyd inferior to' MissVydet and far inferior to
Miss Rgcvc.
sx \u “r.w s°« 6
states his opinions concerning t tet ™ enat * ‘ ent i.
All the other minstrels warble of a pure ana i >
ment which leadeth not to marriage “ phUosophy.
gation of the human species in . i ba buifding ought
Fvprv mother’s soil and daughtei in the u i* i
involves ardent cuddles and important nationai < 3onse
miences whereat the artless ladies of the court (w
must all’of them be spinsters) stick th ®"' b ’^ er Vhe one
ears and scoot from the monster a presence The one
touch of truth in this crisis issupphedbyEhzabeth, the
girl who loves Tannliauser. She doesn t run aw y.
“The theatrical world,” writes Tub Bu = s Londo,,
correspondent,is badly in want of a Solomon just no
A comedian whom Australia has see 1, hiure Greek
having his demise signalised, not in a
mausoleum but in a testimonial of cash to his wile.
Unfortunately, there are three-wives not testimonial
hence the vacancy for a Solomon. The th ee^nce met
thus * The orthodox wife lived fai from Londons k y
lights, but on one occasion made a personal surprise party
t-o husband’s dressing-room at the theatie. Heierooox
wife No. Ih»4
SSS?fJKS™Sa I- mo. »a
exchanged dictionaries Meanwhile the- third wifeU»e.
the second heterodox wife) dropped in (the doorkeeper
was by this time so broken up ? ve r h w ni»talk® that
would have let in eight more nrai if they ! had P»ewntei
thpruselvesl and threw oil on the troubled tue.
three wives want the testimonial, arnithe committee
charge of the cash is drinking heavily.
T 1 e average heroine of melodrama, when told that her
lover is fate, exclaims: “It is impossible.’’ Constant
repetition grows monotonous. How would it bMf -
brightly original heroine indignantly told the intoimer
“ You're pulling my leg”V
Sir Willian Don, comedian, was 6ft. 4m. high and
f’laranee Holt, tragedian, measured sft. 4in. when tne
pair walked up Bourke street, Melb., arimm-ami, in the
early Sixties, people used to call them Ili 0 h 1 b >
and Low Comedy.”


A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
We learn that a most useful Veterinary
Book is attached to every bottle of Condy’s
Fluid. This Book contains instructions for
curing most of the ailments and accidents
affecting Horses, Dogs, Sheep, Cattle, Poultry,
and Birds of all kinds.
Condy’s Fluid is an absolutely certain cure
for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs, Broken Knees,
Grease, Thrush, Cracked Heels, and Mud
Fever in Horses.—Scab, Foot Rot, Fly, etc.,
in Sheep.—Rinderpest, Hoove, Foul in the
Foot, Wounds and Sores, Foot and Mouth
Disease, and Diarrhoea in Cattle.—Distemper
Mange, Canker, and Eczema in Dogs.
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists and
Stores. Beware of local substitutes, all are
inferior. Insist on having Condy’s Fluid.
nntsmCTi
GrO TO ETET.T-
-41 IG<H iA NI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizafceth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
HATS.
HATS.
' Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Stkeet, BRISBANE.
'lmportant Announcement to ou,r City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRAP!_€>' » CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 32i Georgs Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate,’and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
The coupon system is attracting great
attention in Melbourne. The largest deputation
on record, consisting of several hundred members
of the public (including a large number of ladies),
waited on Mr. Peacock on May 30th to advocate
the merits of the Co-operative Coupon system and
to urge its continuance. The various speakers-
represented all classes of the community, and all
were unanimous regarding the great benefits
which the system conferred on the people.*
HJL33JL AlHVld Ho]
ewwwois
Oporto
OR PEARL DENTIFRICE.
Known for 75 years to be the Best and
Purest Tooth Powder, as it contains no
acid or gritty substances which ruin the
Teeth and produce premature decay; it
WHITENS THE TEETH,
Prevents and arrests decay, strengthens the
gums, and gives a pleasing fragrance to the
breath. It penetrates to the hidden flaws
and crevices of the teeth, and preserves and
beautifies them for years. Ask Stores and
Chemists for ROWLAND’S ODONTO,
of 67, Hatton Garden, London.
high-grade
farm—
I “ H
mm
«ESSI
Massey-Harris Co. Ltd,
35 BROADWAY,
George-street West, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS.
Of the seven supporters of ex-N.S.W.
Min ister Cook’s amendment on the Address-in-
Reply in the House of Reps., five were N.S.W.
men.
Queenslander Bamford coins the first
fitting phrase for the creed of the Commonwealth
Parliamentary Labor Party : “ I am a fiscal
atheist.”
Wanted, a Parliamentary Commission to
fully investigate and report upon the solicitor
Heydon-Moss-N.S.W.-Supreme Court-affair. The
results would probably make very brisk reading
indeed.
“ Are you in favor of the Early Closing
Act ?” is a test question for N.S.W. State candi-
dates ; and probably the wriggly candidate will
answer, “ Yes, with amendments.” -He dare not
say no, and yet he wants to ring in “ No” voters.
Electors should demand “ What amendments ? ”
Just look at this, now !
London, Wednesday afternoon.—Australians in South
Africa are strongly urging the selection of Major-General
Pole-Oarew as Oommander-in-Chief of the forces of the
Australian Commonwealth.
Since when has the four-and-sixpenny Boer-slayer
constituted himself advisory board to the Federal
Govt. ? And—in confidence —who paid for that
cable ?
Why should not some bright, well-edu-
cated, liberal-minded young Australian, who takes
no stock in the contentions to which the two
stodgy present candidates (Jessep and Alfred
Allen) are addicted, cut in for the State election
for Waverley (Sydney)? That so inexpressibly
dull a pair of politicians should continue to hold
between them a permanent lien on such a con-
stituency is one of the curiosities of politics.
The pro-Kanaka crowd in Queensland are
displaying feverish anxiety to get in as many as
possible of their cheap and reliable brown savage
ere the Commonwealth puts its slow foot down.
During last three weeks four “ blackbirders ”
arrived at the sugar ports in Q, bringing 350
slaves for Cowley’s friends. One “recruiter”
returned riddled with bullets. Another sign,
probably, of the islander’s anxiety to get to the
sugar plantations. Presumably it was the dis-
appointed niggers who weren’t allowed to come
who did the shooting.
BULL'S ATTITUDE.
“ The news furnished yesterday that the Royal assent had been refused to the Sugar
Grants Guarantee Bill passed by Queensland Parliament, because of the insertion of a
clause prohibiting alien labor in the sugar factories, has caused dismay amongst some of
the Q. representatives. They are inclined to think that either the influence of the sugar
interests has been brought to bear to block the Bill, or that the Imperial Government
views with disfavor the adoption by Australia towards the Japanese of any attitude re-
sembling hostility or the passing of discriminating legislation against them. Supposing
the latter assumption to be correct, members are anxious to know what view the Imperial
Government may take of legislation that may be passed by the Federal Parliament on the
game subject. Japanese, they contend, must be dealt with the same as other aliens, for
they are considered to be as great a menace to the well-being of the Commonwealth.”
—Daily Paper.
BULL : “ Won't live with him!’ you unchristian young pup! I tell you
you will, and must, for I have to keep sweet with his father! ”
July 3 has been fixed for the N.S.W.
State General Election. When he made this
announcement Premier See had only settled on
his candidates in 50 electorates out of 125, and so
has not left himself too much time. Out of the 80
odd members counted on as supporters of the
Lyne Ministry not 40 are “selected” as Govt,
nominees so far. Eight members of the old party
are now in the Federal Parliament, and the Labor
Party, which the See crowd is not opposing, holds
about 20 seats. So that the present Ministry will
have to secure a large proportion of new blood in
order to hang on to its billets.
S.M. Herald states that N.S.W. Com-
missioner Oliver, in reporting upon the sites sug-
gested for the Federal capital, selected “the
Canoblas, Yass, and Bombala ” as, in his opinion,
tho three most available. This would be true if
the Herald let people know that Mr. Oliver
emphatically placed Bombala first. The Herald
being a Sydney importers’ organ, isn’t taking any
Bombala, but seeks to Canobble public opinion.
A point stressed by the real White Aus-
trahan Commonwealth legislators, and proven to
the hilt by first-hand evidence from the pearl
fishers, is that the white divers desire immediate
protection, not from the Jap-Malay and other
brindled workers, so much as from the wealthy
mean-white syndicates who import and employ
these cheap aliens. If Australia is to be made
white without bloodshed the Fatman’s God of
Cheapness must be severely sub-edited.
At a recent half-hearted welcome to some
returned South African battlers at Wellington
(M.L.) Premier Seddon vociferously yelled for an
Eighth Contingent; but, instead of applause, the
only response was the whistling of a faint breeze
down the narrow street. Since then he has left
the subject severely alone. Even the Jingo press
of Maoriland cries out now, “ We’ve done enough
for the Empire, &c.” The Fat Man is beginning
to squeak about “ the scarcity of labah,” and the
Fat Man is an advertiser.
According to a list published some little
time ago nine candidates were announced for the
Marrickville seat at the coming N.S.W. State
election ; nine for Paddington ; eight for Balmain
North ; seven for Balmain South ; five for Denili-
quin ; five for Condobolin ; five for Glebe ; five
for Lismore ; seven for the Manning ; six for New-
town-Camperdown : six for Raleigh ; ten for Sher-
brooke ; seven for King (Sydney); eight for Lang
(Sydney); eight for War ringah; seven for Young;
and so on. What a prospect !
So far, the Commonwealth Parliament has
not discovered its clown—or rather its two neces-
sary clowns—in the House of Reps.—one for each
party. An attempt was made to fasten the office
on King O’Malley—his big hat and spread-eagle
ways enticed the unwary—but they soon found
that they were trying to appoint a bull-ant to a
performing sheep’s billet and dropped the O’M.
in haste. In the Senate equal uncertainty pre-
vails ; but it is hoped that the cap and bells will
find a wearer shortly. At present, those articles
are hovering in the air.
Parson Ronald (Federal M.H.R.), a
liberal-minded preacher of much good horse-sense,
recently asked a North Melbourne audience what
justice there was in depriving the ordinary old-
age-pensioner of his 7s. or 10s. a week because he
drank, while Victoria pays £340,000 a year in
large pensions to retired Judges, civil servants,
&c., and allows them to drink themselves into a
sudden and violent tomb without question if they
feel that way. The Age, which loathes Ronald,
said that he shrieked and perspired while saying
these things, but it didn’t attempt to controvert
them. And history is full of the names of good
men who perspired occasionally. Dry-skinned
men aren’t necessarily the wisest.
Chief Jus-
tice Madden is
posing as the
squire of dames
in Melbourne,
and advocates
much gaol, and
early and often,
for husbands
who have “failed
in their respon-
sibilities ” or wh o
are in the habit
of inculcating
domestic econo-
my with a stew-
pan manipulated
as a club. He
would force
these evil men
to work hard
while in prison,
and would hand
over their earn-
ings to their
wives. The idea
is fairly ancient,
and has been
well - canvassed,
but it comes un-
fortunately on
top of an unem-
ployed difficulty
of considerable
intensity. There
are scores of un-
employed who
would very
gladly be sen-
tenced to six
months’ hard on
fair wages, and
the difficulty of
keeping the good
husband and
kind father out of gaol would presently be an-
other harassment for the already over-burdened
Peacock. The reform might be merely the pre-
liminary to the time when it would be a vast re-
proach to a man not to be in gaol when his
children were crying for bread, and his wife
had not anew hat to her back.
If N.S.W. Lands Minister Crick wants to
put an end to something that is growing into a
particularly odorous scandal, let him keep a strict
eye on the granting of “improvement leases” to
squatters—the very newest piece of machinery
for getting the best of the selector.
A rumor that the pay of
Federal members might be
raised to £700 a year roused
a bitter protest from Mel-
bourne Trades Hall on the
ground that the increase would
absorb £44,000 a year—equal
to work for 440 men at £2 a
ir-nn ’ or a 8' e pensions for
lbJO persons at 10s. per week.
And on the same principle, if the
State replaced 1000 experienced
engine-drivers at £4 a week by
boys at 30s. a week it would save
£130,000 a year, which would em-
ploy about 1300 men at £2 a week
only the State would probably
lose £500,000 a year in accidents
and damages. It would pay
almost any State in Australia
to hire the best man available
to be Premier and Treasurer at
£44,000 a year for his single'
salary. A financial genius could
save N.S.W. alone about £500,000
a year without laying extra bur-
dens on anybody—but the country
pays a cheap rule-of-thumb man
to drive its State engine, and his
way of driving it is commensurate
with his salary.
A question has arisen in Maori-
land as to whether there is such a thing
as criminal—apart from seditious and
blasphemous—libel in the province. The
Criminal Code of 18915 contains no refer-
ence to criminal libel. It, however, includes
a saving clause to the effect that any laws not
specifically repealed and not inconsistent with
the Code shall still bo valid. The English
statute dealing with the subject was adopted
in M.L., and is still unrepealed. The point
was raised in a recent case in Wellington. When
the defendant, who was unrepresented by coun-
sel, was called on, Stout, C.J., advised him to
plead that the indictment disclosed no
crime. The prisoner did so, and
Stout declined to give a decision, and
referred the matter to the Court of
Appeal.
Dear Bulletin.— Touching Fe-
deral site and water supply. May I be
permitted to point out that Bombala has
a water catchment which would supply a
greater population than even London, and this
without any engineering. The water is simply
there. It can’t be nearer than there. —N.
Hutchinson.
Dear Bulletin. —Apropos of Premier
See’s proposal for a Convention to draft anew
Constitution for N.S.W. How would these prin-
ciples do:
1. Abolish the Legislative Council, and have but one
Legislative Chamber, on the lines of the existing
Assembly.
2. Substitute for the ornamental and useless nominee
Governor of existing system a Governor elected by the
whole State.
3. Give the Governor the power of veto on all Bills and
on expenditure.
4. Give the Parliament power to take a referendum
upon all Bills and expenditure vetoed by the Governor.
5. Let Ministers be elected by Parliament.
Yours democratically and economically.—T.F.R
Premier Lewis got back to liis Flyspeck
to find trouble awaiting him. There was no end
of a row in Tas. Assembly over the appointment
of Hudson from Maoriland as general manager of
railways, vice Back, resigned and gone to
Queensland to manage the Chillagoe mine and
railway. Minister of Works Mulcahy, in whose
department the appointment lay, met with
a heap of abuse in the House for not having
appointed Engineer-in-Chief M‘Cormick, who was
also a candidate; but the fact was that Premier
Lewis and Mulcahy wanted to appoint Mac.,
while Treasurer Bird and Chief Secretary Collins
held out for Hudson. The Govt, won by eight
votes on a motion of censure moved by R. C.
Patterson, Mac.’s old chum in the S. Australian
railways.
When Kingston was at the height of his
power in S.A. five years ago the local National
Association couldn’t fight him even in the country
districts. Kingston, a wonderful worker and
born organiser, campaigned almost every town-
ship with his speeches on “Current Topics,”
worked up a majority of at least 12 in the popular
House, and once even had a Liberal majority in the
Council. As the result of recent elections the
National Association has put four Tories into the
Property House in place of Baker, M‘Gregor,
Charleston and Kingston, and three in the
Assembly in the place of Batchelor, Holder and
Glynn. The Stomach Party now absolutely con-
trols the Council and is gaining tremendously in
the Assembly, and yet S.A. democracy only needs
an enthusiastic, bold, brainy leader with the
pluck to lead.
About S.A.’s recent by-elections :
Semi-millionaire Brookman and wealthy tobacconist
Dixon, nominees of S.A. Toryism, badly beat two Labor
candidates on June Ist, and are new additions to the
steadily-accumulating Ass. Party in S.A. legislature.
Keogh, a spurious democrat with a mixture of radicalism
and toryism in his programme, defeated Labor
candidate Healey in West Adelaide, and in this district
two doubtful representatives now succeed such big
guns as Kingston and Batchelor. All the successful
candidates are advocates of private control of tramways,
and the Snow party, which spent much money in
securing their election, gleefully anticipates eventual
support from all three. The Labor and Democratic
party, once solid and enthusiastic under Kingston, sorely
needs reorganisation under an active and determined
leader. Kingston’splacehasneverbeen filled. Theonlyable
democrat in S.A. is Jenkins, but he has remained "silent
at a time when active advocacy of Liberalism was badly
needed. The old-time Kingstonian majority in S.A.
Legislature is fast disappearing, and even S langdon y
thon’s self-ADVERTiSBR seems preparing to rat in la
coalition. A significant indication of the * at
lukewarmness of the masses is the very hght polling »<<
the just-concluded contests. S.A. Liberalism badly
a leader, but he isn’t in sight.
A FITTING MEMORIAL.
DONTCHERKNOW ESQ. (loq.) “I don't care for
anything hut women and horses. I’ve given
instructions for my skin to be made into a
side-saddle after I die.”
Next month will see the N.S.W. Old-Age
Pension Scheme in operation. Most of the ma-
chinery is yet in a state of chaos, even the ap-
pointing of the men to deal with the heavy job
not having yet been accomplished. The chairman
of the Old-Age Pensio.i Board was recently
gazetted as Mr. E. Hanson, Director of
Charities (charity and old-age pensions are
still indissolubly connected in official
minds). Gazettes and proclamations don’t
count for much in N.S.W., and a few days later
another Chairman was selected, in the person of'
Mr. Noble, of the Registrar-General’s Depart-
ment. All the district boards have to be finally
chosen, and by the time the original applications
have been attended to, and the pensions are avail-
able, a goodly percentage of the aged persons
applying will be dead.
Rev. Father Timoney (Anny-chaplain) in
a letter to Sydney Catholic Press :
We were preparing to encamp when the crack of a Lee-
Metford was heard. One of our troopers fell to the
ground. Lieutenant Waters, of Tasmania, approached
the trooper to inquire what had happened, when the
poor young officer shrieked a.s he fell dead. Lieutenant
Sale, of West Australia, advanced towards Waters’ body,
when he, too, fell wounded, and I am afraid mortally.
Five horses, one after another, were killed. At last the
men became mad with rage, and rushing forward they
saw a young Boer lying in the grass. Twenty bullets in
an instant had pierced his body. The Boer had one of
our rifles, and had fired the last cartridge in it, and the
last he was to fire in this world. Very little is known
about this daring Boer. He was seen leaving town in the
morning with a blanket and a rifle. He said he was going
to scout on foot for a change. He had evidently made
up his mind to die, and he certainly sold his life for more
than its price. Very great indignation was aroused
among the men, who, after he had long ceased to live,
used the bayonet in a most shocking manner to disfigure
and rip up the corpse.
Such are the things that don’t appear in the daily
papers.


R3ad what VITA.DATIO is Doing-
Suffered for 16 Years from Chronic Dys-
pepsia, Enlargement of the Liver, &c.
OURED
VITADATIO.
READ THIS TESTIMONIAL.
60 Elizabeth-street, Ashfield,
September 17, 1300.
To Mr. S. A. PALMER.
Dear Sir,—Having heen a sufferer for 16 years from
Chronic Dyspepsia, Enlargement of the Liver, and other
complications, and having been treated by 17 doctors and
9 herbalists and specialists, and receiving no relief what-
ever, I was advised to give your VITADATIO a trial.
Reluctantly I yielded to the advice ; and, after taking
5 large bottles, to my surprise, I found myself recovering
from the above dreaded complaints. lam a painter by
trade, and, thank God, 1 am able to resume my occupation
without any return of my former illness. lam well-
known in and around this district, and all my friends
congratulate me on my speedy recovery, as they all ex-
pected me to succumb, after being so unsuccessfully
treated by some of the best medical faculty that Sydney
could produce.
For the sake of suffering humanity I present you this
grateful testimonial, trusting that some poor sufferer may
give your medicine a fair and impartial trial.
Any person doubting the validity of this statement can
see me at the above address. Wishing you prosperity in
your present enterprise, and may you live long to herald
the glad tidings to poor suffering humanity,
I remain, dear Sir, yours ever grateful,
SAMUEL SEARLE.
For further particulars,
s. A. PALMER,
184: Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
A POLICY FOR THE
Now Ready.
Price (id. ;
Posted, Bd.
COMMONWCALTN.
CONJURINC
APPARATUS
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST
of TRICKS, PUZZLES, Etc.,
Etc., FREE.
ef
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
EXTRA SPECr ' - CATALOGUE
OF 800.. ••'ItEE.
STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTES OF ANY COLONY TAKEN.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE,
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
CHARLES READ & CO..
BUSHMAN WATCH.
M
m
as
TTrHI
Wif) rup for-2QYEARs
Camden Buildings,
420 George St., Sydney.
Three Doom from.
Strand Arcade.
A Saving: of
25 per cent.
JEWELLERY,
SOLID SILVER GOODS,
SILVER-PLATED WARE.
Write for 80- Paged Illustrated Catalogue Post Free
EDWARDS
*
fa
THE GREAT
HAIR PRODUCER&RESTORER
Tha Very Finest Dressing. Specially Prepared and Delicately Perfumed.
A LUXURY AND A NECESSITY TO EVERY MODERN TOILET.
m
m
Restores the Hair
Promotes the Growth
Arrests the Fall
Strengthens the Roota
Preserves the Hair
Removes Dandruff
Allays all Irritation
*HARLENE*
Preserves,
Strengthens and
Invigorates
Children’s Hair.
w
Full description and directions for use in 20 languages supplied with every bottle•
1/-, 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4-/6 per Bottle of Druggists &c., all over the World.
EDWARDS’ “HARLENE” Co., 95 & 96, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
MILES AHEAP OF ALL OTHERS
.. Are America’s Representative Typewriters ..
s
The If"'!
.. D'nsmore
.. Hem Century
Why Search. Elsewhere?
WE Alone can Offer You
a Choice.
WE WILL ADVISE YOU WIIICII IS BEST FOB YOUR WOBK.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue —Free.
UNITED TYPEWRITER & SUPPLIES CO. (LARGEST DEALEB3 IN AUBTBAUA
114 Pitt-st., SYDNEY; 362 Collins-st., MELBOUBNE ; Barrack-st., PEBTH.
Webster & Co., Brisbane ; Beeves & Co., Adelaide ; Hedley Button, Launceston and Hobart.
Now
Ready.
•P 8 t P 9 QQTJdT
HIIV3MNOMIMIO9 3HI HOJ AOIIOd V
CYCLISTS PLEASE NOTE!
9
“DUNLOP”
RIDERS
always keep ahead
of ail others. • .
efa
For HARD WEAR, SPEED and RELIABILITY
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE 00. of Aust. Ltd.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth Brisbane and Christchurch, N.Z.
SYDNEY ADDRESB:
150 CLARENCE STREET.
Beware
of
Imitations!
sf
are only
genuine
when the
cover and
tube are
embossed
with this £3T
Trade Mark.
as
Who Samuel Byrnes is.
The writer is glad to take the hand of Mr.
Samuel Byrnes and give it a hearty squeeze.
That we are parted for the moment by ten
thousand miles of seawater doesn’t count. May
you live right along and prosper, Mr. Byrnes.
In this grumbling old world, more full of aches
and pains than an American water-melon is of
black seeds, it is jolly to hear a man sing out, “ /
am first-class every way ; and, as for my health, it
couldn't be better."
This is great, especially when we understand
what went before it. For several _ y’ears Mr.
Byrnes was in bad form. Dyspepsia it was, and
a very nasty variety of that abominable complaint.
He got but little sleep —so he writes—and was in
pain most of the time. He called in the doctors,
one after another, and asked them what he was to
do.
They agreed on the main point, and they were
right. Indigestion, liver disorder, and the nerve
troubles which are thrown in as make-weights—
the doctors said these things once got rid of, our
friend would be all right.
And they did their best to bring it to pass —
these worthy men. They gave him drugs—the
same, no doubt, that have been so often and so
vainly given.
“After the doctors gave me up,” says Mr.
Byrnes, “ I tried everything I could think of, or
others recommended to me. At first, I felt sure I
would come upon something helpful, but I never
did, until somebody told me about Mother Seigel’s
Syrup. Even after reading what was printed in
books and papers, as to the merits of this prepara-
tion, I still shook my head.
“ ‘ Not likely to be any better than the rest,’ I
said; ‘the chances are all against it.’ For, you
see, my heart was, as you may say, down in my
shoes, and I was not in the mood to take hope
from any testimony that could be produced.
“All the same, I began taking the Syrup; I
don’t know why. The good effect was almost im-
mediate. I stopped casting up my food, and com-
menced to feel stronger and better. Without
troubling you with the story of how I got on step
by step, I will merely say that the medicine
seemed to build me up, and put me together bit
by bjt, until I was sound and well as any man
wants to be.
“I have lived here sixty-one years, and many
people in this neighbourhood know what I have
said to be true, and were as much astonished at
my recovery as I was myself. lam now seventy-
one years of age, and hale and hearty'. For this
wonderful blessing I thank God and Mother
Beigel’s Syrup.
“ As the reader looks at my signature and says,
‘Who is Samuel Byrnes?’ I present him my
compliments, and reply that, if we ever meet, I
shall be glad to tell him by word of mouth much
more than I have written, and to testify all day
long for the remedy that made me the man I am.”
Samuel Byrnes, Lemon Grove, Penrith, N.S.W.,
September 1 st, 1899.
Apparently, the war is only just beginning!
It is over a year since Bobs entered Bloemfontein,
and shortly after the Free State was alleged to be
completely “ occupied.” Now the cable tells that
Boshof, only 70 miles from Bloemfontein, has been
relieved after a long siege by the Boers, the garri-
son, for the last two months, being on half rations.
To declare that Australians are not musical
is, to say the least of it, rather extreme. Just
take, for example, the well-known music books
published by Allan’s, of Coll ins-street, Melbourne.
They were only started a few years ago, but the
all round sale has risen to something like a
hundred thousand copies every year, we
are getting four new numbers, viz., 53 to 56. No.
53 contains fourteen popular items for American
organ or harmonium ; No. 54 consists of twelve
easy pianoforte solos, each named after an
Australian wild flower; No. 55, which is al
pianoforte number, contains eight operatic so
including dear old “Maritana,” “ Trovatore,
“ Lucia,” “Bohemian Girl,” etc. ; and No. 56 is a
capital collection of pianoforte duets of medium
difficulty. These books are only Is. each, and all
persons whom they may concern are invited to
send to Allan’s for a catalogue. The prodigality
of musical firms in the matter of catalogues is
quite alarming.
The deaths of three Vic. old-age pen-
sioners were reported on Monday last week. Two
of the cases seem calculated to alleviate the
Treasurer’s alarm re the spread of the old-age
pension list. William Brown, aged 80, was an
inmate of the hospital, or other “ home ” at Ingle-
wood at the time when his pension was granted,
whereupon he went forth, a gentleman at large,
and camped in a hut until the police took him to
the hospital to die of general want of attention.
Tom Dee, of Heathcote, had a wet and joyful
time with his pension, and was found defunct in a
Daddock. Dan Delaney, of Trentham, “ was
found dead in a sitting posture in a hut.” A pen-
sion had been granted to poor old Dan, and the
first instalment was due on the day he ceased to
feel the need of it. These three cases in one day
ought to silence even the Akgus protests against
the “ reckless ” character of the O.A.P. system.
The Tory doctrine that pensions would be re-
quired for an ever-growing army of deathless
ancients is not borne out by facts. A sudden 10s.
a week income kills some of them, and doesn’t
appear to cure the others.
“ H E.” : “Second week’s debate of the
Commonwealth Senate brought out some of its
bigger guns, and oh ! what a contrast to the old
Vic. Leg. Council which used to meet in the same
chamber. Even with the bores it possesses to
lower its average, the Senate is miles above either
of the Vic. State Legislatures in all-round ability,
and as far as democratic sentiment is concerned,
it leaves both standing. The men of the lowest
calibre, strange to say, come from the States
which had most to choose from, and when Millen,
Pulsford, Mary Jane Gould, Walker, Fraser,
Zeal and Sargood are excluded from the Senate,
it is a body of which Australia might be proud.
When one listens to the tone of the debates in this
chamber, the fatuity of the Labor parties who
opposed Federation because of the Senate,
becomes truly manifest. Its speeches are more re-
miniscent of the sentiments of the Trades and
Labor Councils than of any other bodies. It is also
a straight-out fighting chamber, and to listen to
the utterances, Ministerial and Opposition alike,
on the subject of the Kanaka, it is only necessary
to close one’s eyes to imagine somebody is reading
the leading articles from The Bulletin. The
Senate does not rest content to say ‘Kanakas
must go,’ it says ‘ They are going ’ ; and through-
out tne debate were thinly-veiled threats to
England on this and the High Court question.
The speeches of Play ford, M‘Gregor, Dawson,
O’Keefe, and Keating, the smart young politician
from Tas., all seemed to breathe the sentiment
that colored labor was to be kept out of Australia
‘no matter what happens.’ In the face of such
strongly-expressed views, Sargood, who is never
very fond of a fight, was discreetly quiet;
Simon Fraser made a blundering interjection
every now and again, to be floored by the Speaker
on every occasion ; and little Zeal, ixe the cap-
tured Soudanese, apparently went over to the
enemy, for he did nothing but make strongly
Protectionist remarks and cheer the revolutionary
sentiments of men who would have been torn to
pieces in the old Vic. Leg. Council. On the fiscal
question, tne majority of those who sit on the
Ministerial side have announced themselves as
‘ fiscal atheists,’ but they are going to vote for a
Protective tariff all the same, and manage to
score off their opponents in the frequent sallies.
The Foreign-traders are solid enough on the
subject of Foreign-trade, but no two give a similar
definition of their fetish, and every other speaker
opens by demolishing all the arguments of 1 is
predecessor, and giving totally different reasons
for his own adherence. The Foreign-trade
Senators are like a score of Kilkenny cats, only a
shade more various.in their views.”


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
cs*
&
BILLS
discounted*
ZKT.S.-W.
fHontdepietefl.^|.Co.,L*<l.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
174 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
■ SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
“ '—THE—. _
Colonial Mutual Life
assurance society limited,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. O. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A.. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,600—assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses- equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
" —THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. .. £4,800.000 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. £3,216,885 0 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman ; J. 0. Syme,
Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. 11. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon. N. Thornier, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors : R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager : Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Biahopagate Street Within
corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers . The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES!
SYDNISY - 273 GEOIIGB STREET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
Haymarket, Gosfc.-d (with, aareucy at Wyong), New-
castle; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers £3,000,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Established 1879.
THE
United Australian mutual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices :
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital £500,000
Subscribed Capital ... 251,260
Paid-up Capital .. 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance. Agents required where not represented.
Alfred Websteb, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
The jjankof north Queenaland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ... £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 100 ... £350,000
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amoun tof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital _ .. £2,500,000
||eui Zealand Insurance (Jo.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL ..
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES
£1,000,000
420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
J. A. MINNETT, n, DS-ft Q 4. Clldnnn
Manager. 81 Pitt St., Sydney*
fbT Trdstccs, CxccCitorS,
AND
AgCOCy Con>paoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE LIABILITY
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business)
Amount at Credit of Estates. Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1900 . 16,326,343 0 0
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C._M. Officer,.Esq v ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managed J
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
£150,000 0 0
£90,000 0 0
£150,000 0 0
£8312
0 0
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Sat., June 15,12 Noon.
Leura, Saturday, June 22, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer Early.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Steamer Early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Tyrian, Saturday June 15,12 Noon.
Burwah, Tuesday, June 18, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., June 22, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian, Saturday, June 15,12 Noon.
Peregrine, Sat., June 22, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter*
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
THE “ALL RED” MAIL ROUTE
TO LONDON.
THE ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
or TUB
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
Under contract with the Governments of New South
Wales, Queensland, and Canada, leave Sydney every
four weeks as under, for
BRISBANE, HONOLULU, VICTORIA and VANCOUVER.
Connecting at Vancouver with the
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
This is the Imperial Route Home, as well as the most at-
tractive. It avoids alike the heat of the Red Sea and the
cold of Cape Horn. The railroad journey between the
Pacific and Atlantic Oceans (Vancouver to Montreal)
occupies about 4 days, and is made
WITHOUT' CHANGE OP CARRIAGES, '
through the grandest scenery in the world—over the
Selkirk and Rocky Mountains, across the Prairies, and
along the North Shore of Lake Superior.
Passengers have the choice of a number of overland
routes, enabling them to visit the principal cities of
Canada and the United States.
For Railway Maps, Guide Books, and all other informa-
tion, apply to
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors—Sydney : Sir W. M'Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks,
Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.,
Branch Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W.
N. M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montefiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting (Jumpy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
-DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, ap ly to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
Business Announcements.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
1-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
JAM€S REID
"PREPARES STUDENTS FOR ALL EXAMINATIONS,
MATRICULATION, MILITARY, SURVEY,
ENGINEERING, MINING.
Subjects —Classics, Mathematics, Physical Science,
History and Geography. Technical College, Mining, or
Engineering Students, or others requiring Special Teach-
ing carefully coached personally or by correspondence.
Mr. REID may be communicated with at
198 Springfield Terrace, Grafton St., Bondi Junction.
RUNKENNESS
Positively CURED by Administering
EUCRASY
It can be given in
drink or food with-
out the subject’s knowledge. Perfectly Harmless, and
will effect a Speed.v Cure. Write TO-DAY for Free Book.
Address THE EUCRASY CO., 62 Hunter-street, Sydney.
ASK YOUR JEWELLER TO SHOW YOU
The Patent Unbreakable
‘ONE-PIECE’ STUDS
Masterpieces of mechanical skill,
Made in Gold, Silver, and Gold-Cased.
Once
Worn
Always
Worn.
Beauty of
Contour
& Finish.
ef
Avoid
imitations
None
genuine
unless
stamped
* Patent.’
If damaged from ANY cause, a new
one given in exchange.
Wholesale only ■
SAUNDERS & SHEPHERD, LTD.,
279, GEORGE St., SYDNEY, & London, Eng
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrie & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, CALLING at PLYMOUTH and
LIVERPOOL Via CAPETOWN,
Calling at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz.:—
PERSIC, 11,948 tons, to Sail About 21st JULY.
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
RUNIC, MEDIC, AFRIC, and SUEVIC.
The attention of the travelling- public and shippers
generally is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric light
throughout.
For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents, O’Connell-st., Sydney, and Watt-st., Newcastle.
nxr. d. l.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL FLEET.
. . COMPRISING .
129 Steamers of a Total Tonnage of
506,754; Horse-power, 403,245.
Mileage run in 1899, 3,545,000 ; Over 3J million Pas-
sengers carried since 1857.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, London,
Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin screw.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
REGULAR SERVICE to
HONG KONG, via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW
BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and YAP.
S.S NUEN TUNG, 1341 Tons,
Captain Schoenberg,
LEAVING SYDNEY, 10th JULY NEXT.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
Medical.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
asd
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole A merits for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, che.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST..SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
Business Announcements.
“ PRIMUS ”
Kerosene Bath Heater
HOT SHOWER INSTANTLY.
NO WICK. NO SMELL. Ekom 75b. Each.
NO PLUMBER’S WORK. FIX IT YOURSELF.
COSTS HALF THE PRICE OF GAS.
Large Stock BATH HEATERS for Gas and Wood.
Send for Catalogue.
BRAN DT BROS.,
236 PITT ST., SYDNEY, AND
422 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
USB *
SPOONERS
fas
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for "
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(T.l M IT El 0-
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping:at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Cintra. Friday, June 14
(Transhipping- at Mel-
bourne).
S S. Wollowra, Saturday,
June 15. (Without
Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Allinga, F)iday,
June 14.
llest and ('/leanest Itoate to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and W. Howard Smith and
Sous. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Coy Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERYICE.
THU POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE -Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekiy.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON-Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKIiTOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via ISris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenf/er Aceornniodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
°f the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. 11. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, In Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
P. AND O." I COMPANY;
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
The Company’s steaipers now call at Fremantle
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON -Single, i 38 [Os to 677
Ditto Ditto Return ■7l 10sto 6121
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon)between intercolonial pores
are available for Return by Orient find Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to EDWARD TRELAWNY, Superintendent in Aus-
tralia. Exchange Corner, Pitt and Bridge Streets
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows:
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
I)E THUY, Principal Agent.
fluddart, parker § (Jo’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. AND A.” LINE.
The Steamships of the above Company will be despatched
as follows for
MANILA, CHINA, and JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S?S. CO LD.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
IH < |luiraith,H| < Eacharn&|Jo.
prop. l:d.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS
K-A-LQ-OOIR/IjIIIZE], 4500 TONS,
COOXjC3-JLI?.IDIE, 3500 TONS,
SAIL FOItTNIGHTLY between
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
West Australian Ports.
Passenger Accommodation Unsurpassed. Liberal Cuisine.
MHLWRAITH, M'EACHARN AND CO.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany and Fremantle-
Sydney Agents—BUßNS, PHILP & CO. Ltd.


“ Nothing is more offensive than a white
. coat and vest with black trousers. — Edwabd VII.
Bull : “ What I’ve got I’ll hold.” Sam :
“ And what you haven’t got you’re after.”
Writes the American Israelite : —
Dishonest practices in business may be, as they no
doubt are, as frequent among non-Jews as with Jews, but
when Solomon Moses does a dirty trick it hurts all Jews,
while John Smith may be a great scoundrel without
bringing discredit upon Christianity.
A magistrate visiting an outlying N.S.W.
coastal locality had to journey a few miles by
water, and hired a fisherman to. pull him. Later
on, his gondolier faced the music on some slight
charge to the tune of 5s. and 4s. lOd. costs. Ar-
rived home, the beak asked what the fare was.
“Five bob and four and tenpence,” said the
fisherman, without a smile. The man of law
chuckles as he tells the yarn —“Leniency is its
• own.reward —I nearly fined him a pound.”
Loud literary shout from one Captain
Joseph, published in Rockhampton Capricornian
' (1 Wl):
The beggars (Boers) were firing explosive bullets at us,
which were cracking in the air as loud as pistol-shots.
The real explosive bullet only blows up when it
strikes something—it is the Concussion which
makes it explode—so Joseph had better try again.
Moreover explosive bullets are so rare as to be al-
most non-existent. Probably the nearest anybody
of the Joseph family got to meeting a real explosive
bullet was when Potipliar lost his temper and
blew up in Egypt.
NAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended, various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURC YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-strcet, London, England.
Agents ; ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade ipark of the Grasshopper on a
gteen label on each box. (Regd: copyright).
ef
FRINGES,
Natural Cur)/, from B/e sack
PLAITS and TAILS,
Wn. long, 6 As. all real ho&
cuttings & ooußutm
•Oflted up, 2/0 per oz.
w« ore ttio chcapiSUo ta»
(•alia for all Hair Work,
Send Color of Uair.
W. H. Wigzcll,
)10 VVIU-UM STOKOT,
»rner of Palcnor aUeot,
r SYDNEY.
CteMo Tram will step at Dora.
Seed stamps for Pit) Pries Met
Pwatpt ottonfclnrfjrlven to Oonutiy OvStriK
as
df
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment of
Catarrh, Bronchitis, Hay Fever, Asthma,
Colds, Influenza, Headache, Catarrhal
Deafness. Book of Treatment, Free.
Price of Medicator (size, 4 inches long, Nickel-
plated), and 4 months’ treatment, 1 Bottle Com-
I pound Inhalent, and 1 tin
Nasal Ointment, only
10/-
Post Free.
HOME CATARRH CURE CO.
231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
DON'T POISON
. -
YOURSELF
With DRUGS. All Diseases of the Nervous System l
Lame Back, Sciatica, Liver Complaint, Dyspepsia, Des-
pondency, Brain Fag, and, in fact, all chronic weaknesses
and ailments can now be Speedily Relieved and Cured
without Drugs or Medicine of any kind. Address—
ARTHUR HALE, 44 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
PHOTOS
From Life, for Lovers of Art, Beauty, and
Chic; Carefully Selected Assortments,
Cabinets or Stereos, with Illustrated
Catalogue and Minatures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s.
Money Order or Cheque on London.
English, French, and German Rare Books,
Explain wishes and requirements, and full satisfaction
will be obtained.
R. GEIMNERT,
89c Faubourg St., Martin, Paris, France.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
TOILET
SOAP
BEST FOR THE SKIN and
COMPLEXION.
Antiseptic, Emollient, Refreshing.
Sold by Chemists, Stores, &c.
F, C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
asdfas
awef
%
asd
NATURES TRUE REMEDIES.
Nature has provided a TRUE REMEDY for Every
Complaint. It is, therefore, unnecessary to contaminate the
System with Mineral Poisons, which leave the System Weak
and Debilitated. Sufferers from Blood and Skin Diseases,
Nervous Affections, Piles, Rheumatism, and Affection of
the Liver and Kidneys, Chest and Lungs, Consumption,
General Debility, Costiveness, Influenza, Melancholia, iEnemia,
can rely on a Cure from these Remedies. * ,
ALFALINE
REMEDIES
Are a guaranteed
Cure for the
above Complaints.
They have Cured
Thousands, and
stood a Test in
Australia for over
20 years. They
have never been
known to fail in
a single case, and
they are purely
NATURE’S
REMEDIES.
is
*!TS
KNttfWpttti
linUNE^
WUiBNK
? ALFALINE
! HERBAL
REMEDIES
Have been Awar-
ded several Gold
Medals, and
More Testimon-
ials than any
known remedy in
Australia.
A Special
Guaranteed Rem-
edy for each
Complaint.
Em RASSMUSSEFS CHIEF LABORATORY.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Are a Guaranteed Cure for All Nervous Affections, Weak Spine, Brain and Nerves, Pool
Memory, Tired Feeling, and General Debility. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Coarse, 28/6.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
Are a PERMANENT CURE for the Most Chronic Blood Diseases, Skin Diseases, Blotches,
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, etc. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
Purify the Blood and Build up the Weakest Nervous System. A Guaranteed Cure for
ASnemia, Wasting Diseases in Females. A General Blood and Nerve Tonic
for both sexes. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS
Are Guaranteed to Cure Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn,
Biliousness, and the Liver and Kidneys. BOXES, ONE SHILLING. Posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills —A
cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lum- Wonderful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Con-
hago. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 12s. and sumption, Bronchitis and Influenza. Boxes,
235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free, posted, 35., 65., 12s. and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— Electric Belts— Containing powerful and
This Suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, effectual Electric currents unequalled as a
at the same time as it supports the parts. cure for all Spinal and Kidney Affections ;
Price 215., posted. 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Sufferers can only obtain the Alfaline Herbal Remedies from
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office or Branches, the addresses of
which appear below. Letters should be addressed and Cheques
and Money Orders made payable to Herr Rassmussen’s full
name— Hans Peter Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head
Office or Branches. Register all letters containing money.
All Remedies sent unobserved, packed in plain cover.
Correspondence held confidential.
ALFALINE
PILE POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/* and 6/-
ALFALINE
FAT-REDUCING
POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
HAIR-RESTORER,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
CORN CURE, 1/-.
OINTMENT, I/-.
f
asdf
e
A USEFUL BOOK
SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmussen’s
valuable book, The
Alfaline Guide to
Health, which con-
tains valuable in-
formation for all
Complaints, and
copies of Testi-
monials, will be sent
free in plain cover,
on application.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD OFFICE,
(HANS PETER RASSMUSSEN)
547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Alfaline Remedies can only be obtained from his Head Office and his
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES:
MELBOURNE , 150 Bourke-street
BRISBANE, 309 Queen-street
ADELAIDE, 154 Rund/e-st.
N.Z., 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A.—PERTH, 481 Hay-street.
KALGOORLIE, Hannan-street.
BOULDER CITY, Piesse-street.
FREMANTLE, Henry-sfreet.
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of the ALFALINE
REMEDIES.
OR. J. COLUS BROWNE’S
f HLOROPYHE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BEOUCHITIS,
DIAREH(EA, bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr. J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS at
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlobodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
fas
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIO
BELTS and
A TELIA NCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all ! stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing,>e prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
“ COMMON SENSE EAli DRUM”
THE
DEAF
HEAB
pOMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other -remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A TESTED AND INFALLIBLE REMEDY,
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write lor treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C-S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
Over
100
years
have
proved
their
value.
G. L. ROBERTS, M.D.
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
Born 1766, Died 1834.
INVENTOR OP Dr. ROBERTS’
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
The best for all Wounds and Skin Diseases,
Chronic Sores, Ulcerated Dogs, Pimples,
Sore Eyes, &c.
use Dr . ROBERTS’
ALTERATIVE PILLS,
For all impurities of the blood. Invaluable for Skin
Diteases. Prices is. ijd. and 2s. gd. each of all Drug
Stores.
Sole Makers: BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd.
BRIDPOBT, England.
nrn
DEAF
ism
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
r to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible._ Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St.j Melbourne.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address. —L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
Efi
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles,
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one of these
Cabinets. Price 25/-
Head and Face Steamer, 3/6.
Can be forwarded to any address.
J. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne,


Take
REUTER’S LITTLE PILLS.
For all LIVER complaints-
Ever Had Indigestion ?
THIS MAN HAD IT AND RHEUM A r TJSM-—I DR.
MOUSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS BANISH
HIS AILMENTS.
Such is the valuable testimony of Mr. John
Chase, No. 3 King-street, Newcastle, N.b. VV. :
“It is with pleasure that I recommend Ur.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills. Some twelve months
ago I suffered with Rheumatism and Indigestion.
I tried several remedies, but of no avail. I last
gave your pills a trial, and am glad to state, after
taking two bottles, Rheumatism and Indiges-
tion have both gone. lam by occupation a
sea-faring man, and constantly getting wet,
but ever since using the pills I have not had
rheumatism. I keep the pills by me, occa-
sionally taking a couple, which keep me
properly regulated. You may use this m
any way you think proper.” Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills positively cure Biliousness, In-
digestion, Constipation, Dyspepsia, Headaches,
Liver and Kidney Complaints, Piles, Pimples and
blotches. Sold by chemists and storekeepers, price
Is. bottle, or six bottles 6s. 6d. Sole pro-
prietors, The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd. (Australa-
sian Depdt), 58 Pitt-street, Sydney. Packed in
amber bottles, and the full name blown thereon.*
The Bulletin regrets to have given cur-
rency (25/5/’l) to a statement that W. Munro, of
Cairns, employed white labor only to get a large
profit from sugar-cane. Munro’s labor was chiefly
Chinese. The erroneous statement appeared in
Q. WORKER.
The Australian in S’Africa and China has been
conspicuous by his resourcefulness and suddenness of
mind. To have plenty of promptness alwai's on hand is
the best guarantee of success, and this happy condition
is best attained by having a bottle of D.C.L. whisky ever
ready for one’s emergency. The man who stands by
D.O.L. alone will never fall. Taken moderately, it pro-
vides healthful support in the time of business-worry or
social-tiredness. The man who carries a flask of D.C.L.
in his pocket need not die of snakebite. Hence its title,
The Whisky of the Wise.*
The British list of Boer war casualties
ought to include the six members of the Butler
family who figured in recent cable news.
Quartermaster-Sergeant Butler, of Woolwich,
having received orders to get ready for service in
S’Afriea, went mad, declared war against his
children, killed five of them, and left the sixth
desperately wounded. Why is Butler such a
murderous name ?
If N.S.VV. Premier See really proposes to
try bis hand at appointing a batch of new
M’s.L.C. he will add one more to his many mis-
takes. The See Government is just going to the
country, and in a few weeks it will find out
whether the country wants to again entrust it
with the power of appointing M’s.L.C. There-
fore any attempt to make appointments now will
look as if See knows defeat to be certain, and
wants to snatch a few small spoils of office before
the inevitable disaster strikes him. Atkinson,- in
M. and Dibbs, in N.S.W., both tried a very
similar device, and, by way of an omen, neither
Atkinson nor Dibbs ever saw office again.
The See-ites, or Progressives, and the Lee-
ites, or Liberals, are in a difficulty over the Labor--
party in the matter of the approaching N.S.W.
elections. At last elections, the Labor men were on
the Lee (or Reid) side, and the Lee party natu-
rally did not oppose their re-election. Now things
are mixed. No one knows how the Labor men
will vote in next State Parliament. They don’t
know themselves ; the caucus will decide, but
until after the election they don’t know who will
compose the caucus. If the Lee crowd doesn’t
fight the Labor men at the polls it may be per-
mitting its enemies to get back unopposed. If it
does, it may be fighting against its friends ; also,
by splitting _ the vote, it may let a real enemy, a
See-ite, get in where he otherwise wouldn’t. The
See-ites are in the same fix. If Ministers were
elected by the Assembly it would be necessary for
the Labor men to declare themselves in favor of
somebody, but as things are—well, just listen to
Lee and See talking in their sleep.
The choice of candidates for the coming
N. State elections often partook largely of
Gilbertian opera. Frinstans: M. and N. threaten
to fight to the death for the seat of Sydney
Nowhere in the Lee interest. M. and N. are
invited to meet the committee. M. and N. rush
round the members of the committee to “feel”
their chances. M. discovers that he will be
adopted ; N. finds he is out of it. M. thereupon
states that as a thorough Liberal he will loyally
bow to the will of his party, as lie recognises that
the party is greater than the individual. N.
writes stating that, though a thorough Liberal,
he cannot surrender his independence, the noblest
birthright of every British subject. Then N.
hurries over to the committee of the Progressive
(or See) party, and petitions for its nomination,
just as M. would have done had positions been re-
versed. The two programmes being the same, M.
and N. fit either side equally well.
To be up-to-date is the ambition of every
modern progressive man, and to be right up-to date is to
know exactly where you are and why you are at any
time o’ day. This personal knowledge can always be
accurately secured by carrying a Silver Kevless Watch,
particulars of which, including catalogue, will be supplied
to any Bulletin reader, post free, by 11. Newman,
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, as per advertisement else-
where in this issue.*
About the best brand for Sheep in the market
is Kemp’s Branding. It goes further, and is considerably
cheaper than any other. It will dissolve in the scour,
and should oerlainly be used by those who hope to get a
good price for their wool. E. Rich and Co., Sydney and
Brisbane, hold stocks.*
Among the sundry little “ frisks ” attributed to
the “ Jook ’’ when he was a sailor-man is that of tattooing
his royal limbs. Presumably as the giddy pictures thus
produced are warranted not to wash out, the Jook in his
rational middle age regrets that he didn’t use Tattoo Oil,
which is growing in favor among wool-producers the
world over for marking, because it can be easily washed
from the wool and is innocent of pitch, tar, lead, or any
deleterious substance. Years ago this journal remarked :
—“ The Bulletin doesn’t know whether this is a suitable
dye for the human skin, but now that the British
aristocracy is seized with a craze for pricking patterns
into its arms, legs, and other parts, The Bulletin would
like to hear of Tattoo Oil being tried upon a Duke.”
N.Z. Loan and M.A. Co., Ltd., reports for
week ended 8/6/1, a somewhat better inquiry for wheat
at *2s. Bd. per bushel for prime grain. F.A.Q., 2s. 6d. to
2s. 7d. per bushel; chickwheat and other descriptions
show an alteration on low rates. The slight increase is
said to be due to news of some difficulty experienced by
certain charterers in completing loads, and is not expected
to continue once the clearance is effected.*
f
ase
AT BROKEN HILL
W. MARTIN, the American
Champion, on his
Red Bird Bicycle
DEFEATED ALL COMERS in the International Scratch Race.
THE RED BIRDS ARE TRUE AS STEEL AND SKILL CAN MAKE THEM.
branches in every state. G-OOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King Street, Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Nominations for the two big things of A. J.C.
Spring-rnfeet closed Monday, when 117 subscribed to the
Mile (Epsom) and 96 to the Metrop. Strangely enough,
Epsom total exactly equals last years, and Metrop. is only
9 less. December Stakes has 98 against 86 ; Champagne,
143 against 123; Derby, 131 against 107, and Leger, 123
against 103. Victorian noms. for Epsotn and Metrop.
respectively, number 17 and 18 and include top-notchers
Paul Pry, United States, Malster, Hautvilliers, Revenue,
Wakeful, Aurous and George Frederick. La Carabine
and Kinglike are in the Metrop., while the crack South
Australian, Footbolt, is on the Epsom list. Names of Sea-
horse and Record Reign came from M.L. for both races.
The home State will play a strong hand with Ferryman,
Simile, Cyanide, Parapet, San Fran, Fighting Mac., Un-
daunted, Nymagee, Kulaui, Sequence, Paradox, Rabato,
Lucknow, Gauieon, and Reviver—in both..' Watchdog
and The Chief are in the short event only, and Hautboy,
April Fool, Australian Colors, Royal Purple and Ibex are
content with the longer one. Westralian Derby-winner
Warrior II figures in both.
■ . * * * •
The two Cups nominations (closed Monday),
from the Cornstalk State total 100, and others are not to
hand at time of writing. Simile, Nymagee, Cornhill,
Kihglike, San Fran, Fighting Mac, Hautboy, Grasspan,
Lord Rudolph, Bengonia, Sequence, Paradox, Lucknow,
Gauieon and Rabato, are among those entered for both.
April Fool, Australian Colors and Lygon, favor Melbourne
Cup only. Ferryman, Cornhill, Hoop-iron, Nymagee,
Fighting Mac, Allinga, N,ewry, Beanba, Lucknow, Kenley,
Acrasia, Australia, are pretty freely distributed over the
other more important events. Caulfield and Flemington
Grand National “ lepping” races have induced Konowai,
Volcanic, Battler, Marton, Right Honorable, Rock Forest,
Billy Manton and Aberdare, to pay the first contribution.
* * * *
Big, strapping, Lochiel-Redemption gelding
Redeemed, did Randwick trainer Wotton a good turn at
Moorefteld, Saturday, by easily pulling off Kogarah Stakes
and Stewards’ Mile. Though humping a 71b. impost for
the second event, his task therein proved softer than in
the first. Redeemed first saw light at Ilford. His dam Re-
demption is by Kingsborough from Hussy, by Yatteudon
from Ultima. Holbrook was one of the family.
• • • •
Coincidences turfy : On Jook o’ York’s birth-
day, Royalty closed on the V.R.O. Cornwall Handicap,
aud another nag of the same name (by Prince Consort),
appropriated an event similarly designated at Perth
(W.A.). While one Mafeking went under at Flemington,
another gave punters a knock at Randwick.
• • • •
Sale of Footbolt—a few days before he won
Adelaide City Handicap—for nearly half the money he
won in that and another race recall’s the case of Banter,
which, just before securing the Adelaide Cup, was parted
with for £3OO. Vendors of Footbolt also got rid of
Chieveley for £2OO or thereabouts. That nag subse-
quently brought home double the sum paid for him, and
could find ready sale now at thrice £2OO.
* • • •'
“ Punt ” : According to Mudgee (N.S. W.) Post
Mr. Rouse put it this way at the recent settling over Gun-
tawang races : “ Mo.’s methods offer a premium to owners
to scratch or run crooked. It is only, fair that those who
have to keep and train nags should have first chance with
doubles and straight-out bets, at longer odds than the
Sublie. Owners would then back their mokes freely, and
to. would benefit by getting the strength of the various
stables.” Rats! If this practice were followed, Mo.
couldn’t open his “book” till owners have had their
“ cut.” which, like sensible men, they often put off com-
ing for till the last moment, as then ’’tis known what they
are bumping against, and whether the horse is fit or
otherwise. Besides, there’s frequently a wide disparity
between what layers and owners consider fair odds.
Punters don’t anticipate stables nearly so much now as
in the past. Bitter experience has told them to hold off
till something comes from the right quarter ; hence the
fact that Mo. isn’t finding his game quite the good thing
it used to be. ;
» * * *
“ Gun ”: If you “ follow the money ” at Melb.
Suburban race-meets these times, you’re mostly right.
Instances of what one well-known Mo. calls “ rehearsals
of form ” are so common that glaring cases pass unnoticed.
Recently Martyr ran in one race apparently without a
hope, and, a day or two later, started red-hot for Epsom
Jumper's Flat event and got home cantering. Next race
saw Pirillie responsible for something similar. There are
reversals and reversals. F’rinstance, Locksmith and
Peeress went under at Epsom, and yet on the following
Monday accounted for much stronger fields. Explanation
here is that as Locksmith only goes when he likes, ifo
matter whether the money is on or not, he happened to ■
“ like ” on the “ jocks ” birthday, and that the extra
distance of the Birthday Handicap just suited Peeress.
Still, there’s heaps of cronk running that no amount of
“ explaining” would render swallowable.
• * * *
Cabled that English Derby, last week, went to
Volodyovski. At 2 years the colt ran nine times—with three
displacements, five wins, and one second. The late Lord
Beresford had him leased then, and the owner only got
the nag back from the executors by a law suit. Volo-
dyovski started favorite. Subsequently English Oaks also
went America-wards. The winner—Cap-and-Bells—be-
longs to Mr. Foxhall Keene, who handed over the prize-
money (£4500) to English and Murkan charities. This
was a complete Yankee victory, for Cap-and-Bells—bred
and owned on t'other side of the Atlantic—had an Ameri-
can jockey up.
* * * *
Vlodyovski, the “ American,” so-called, is
an English-bred horse, owned by Lady Meux (whose
name spells Brewery, and is identified with hun-
dreds of British pubs.) trained in England, and
merely leased to an American sport. The Prince of
Wales, now Edward Rex, was the owner of Vlodyovski’s
Sire, and of his two brothers, Persimmon and Diamond
Jubilee, who each won the Derby for H.R.H. To bracket
this year's champion with Iroquois, the colt that won. the
Derby for Pierre Lorillard in 1881, is rather absurd.
Iroquois was about as American in blood as any thorough-
bred racer could be. The owner was American, and the
colt was brought to England by an American trainer, and
prepared for his engagements in a way which was then
quite foreign to old Newmarket ideas.
* * * •
“ Spare-me-Days ” : Ikey Mo, who dearly loves
to lay till the cows come home against something “ in the
bag,” cuts up very rough when the hoof is at the end of
the other leg. A Sydney owner not long since had two
horses in a race, and getting hold of a couple of notorious
tale-bearers, gave them £5O each to put on A, with strict
injunctions as to secrecy. As was expected, the tale-
bearers immediately rushed round the books, telling them
to day against B to any amount, and, as a guarantee of
good faith, kept showing the five tenners they had to put
on A. The bait took, and the owner got a big poultice at
very remunerative odds on B, who cantered home on his
own. •
* * * *
Belmore C.C. (Sydney) Federal Cup (100 gs.),
with £5O from stakes, contested t’other day, fell to
veteran Rooty Hill courser, Sam Bladon, whose Brad-
don’s Blot and Beeline whacked winner’s and runner-
up’s money. Braddon’s Blot is by Leopold out of Besant,
and is a second-season dog, scaling 661bs. Last year he
got away with N.S.VV. C. A. Challenge Stakes from 118
others, including most of the best in the Commonwealth ;
and M.L. Beeline is bred the same way. She weighs
641b5., is in her third season, and has no equal on a hare.
Once “in” nothing can supplant her. In Beeline’s
initial season she gathered in N.S.VV. Oaks, Moonee
Valley Waterloo Purse, N.S.VV. Bracelet, and was runner-
up in Bendigo Plate. Last year she appropriated Moonee
Valley Plate and Belmore Bracelet.
* * • *
Orange coursers (Messrs. Loughnane and Car-
penter) were in it on last day of Belmore (Sydney) Federal
Cup meeting. They won three stakes with Comedian,
Loch DhU (by Drinan Dhu—Lucille), and Corinthe (by
Gameboy—Lucille). First-named couple are litter brothers,
19 months old ; while Corinthe (a remarkably clever bitch)
verges on 4 yrs. old.
.* * * •-
Victorian “feather” bruiser Silver, after, a day
or two previously, defying all 8.4 (give or take 21b.) men
P. er medium of Sydney Referee, went
r»il u wf /V?! Btui ' llttl e Frost, of Pyrmont, at Golden
on, te o f'°- (Sydney), Saturday night. ’Twasn’t a fight at
any stage. Silver moved as far off, and dodged and
aS ' n hhn lay, while Frost kept going
at high pressure till he landed a paralysing punch on the
temple, rendering his man half-dazed ever afterwards, and
1? 'V>' e ”togoup in Silver’s corner as the
fifth rtrnnd ended, frost hasn’t shaped so well for
months, hut most good judges knew he was capable of
such a showing, when he felt up to requirements or the
occasion suited.
. • • • 7
Probabilities are that clever but somewhat
ancient Mick Dunn and Otto Oribb mav get to it again
ere long. If they do, writer sizes it up that firstnamed
will shape much better than hitherto, while latter may
not toe the mark as good a man as before. He doesn’t
look it now at any rate. That “ Murkan ” trip seems to
have taken a heap of stability, steam and confidence out
of him. Dunn talks of many mistakes which he certainly
did make in last year’s fight, and which were inexcusable
where so clever a man was concerned. Oribb gets hack
with : I ought to have been in the hospital instead of
the ring that night ; my' right thigh was badly lacerated
through a bike accident some days previously.” Clinch-
mg of the match is delayed awhile because the principals
won t take a £lOO purse, nor give 25 per cent, of the
K at ® ’ t0 u the Gaiet y A.C’s hall. They’ll probably , run
the show themselves, and make as big a mess of it as all
their kind do in such circumstances.
* • . «'
/^^^^ orn -^ P u f?ibst Peter Jackon is at Roma
(Q-) sanatorium, under the care of Dr. L’Estrange, who
has him well looked after on a good farm. Writing to a
Sydney' friend, Peter says he now tips the beam (overcoat
and everything on) at only list. 111 b., which would make
him at most lOst. 101 b. stripped. For years he has kept
just on the 14st., and eight months back scaled 15st. odd.
Though he can’t walk 20 yards without feeling tired,
Jackson is still sanguine of recovery. Both lungs are
now affected and the digestion impaired ; but if a big
heart can pull Peter through, he ought soon to be “ on
deck” again.
•■* * •
“Old Timer”: Re par. (B. 8/6/’01) anent
English boxer Billy Smith’s death. It’s marvellous what
an outcry is made when a pugilist dies as the result of a.
boxing-contest, yet dozens of deaths may occur on the
racecourse or the football field without more than passing
notice being given them. Throughout nearly 170 years
(from 1700 to 1867) of bare-knuckle fighting, at the rate
of many fights a. week, history only records half-a-dozen
deaths of prominent bruisers. Owen Swift, a “ dead-
ring” for Roberts, now on trial in connection with Smith’s
misfortume, fought Anthony' Noon twice between 1832
and ’34, and won in 65 rounds the first time and 74
rounds (occupying 2h. 6m.) on the second occasion.
Noon never recovered consciousness, except to ask
if he had won. If the answer had been in the
affirmative ’tis odds on that he would have re-
covered, as he gave out prior to the battle that
he’d. sooner die than lose. Swift’s next victim was
“ Brighton Bill ” (Phelps) at Royston. On Dec. 11, ’55,
Madden met Jack Jones, and the latter succumbed to the
punching he received. This match was made from Jim
Ward’s house. The night previous to the battle, Mrs.
Ward dreamt that Jones was brought back dead. On
July 23, ’5O, Tommy Griffiths died after a fight with
Paddy Gill, but through an act that hasn't a parallel in
the annals of the P.R. It is said that one of the Broomes
(Harry or Johnny) wanted Griffiths to “go down,” but
he refused, and one of his seconds, bribed, placed an
overdose of nicotine on the sponge, which he put in his
principal’s mouth. Griffiths never recovered. Most
tragic of all was the death of Sandy M’Kay (the best
heavy-weight Scotland ever produced) at Sel’cey Forest,
Northamptonshire, June 2, ’3O. Simon Byrne was Sandy’s
opponent. At the end of an hour’s battling Sandy
became unconscious and died. Three years later Simon
Byrne himself was killed by “ Deaf ” Burke.
* • • *
“ Spare-me-days ” : Melbourne detective Chris-
tie, who leads the army of detectives in attendance on
the Dookoyork, was a good all-round athlete in his
younger days. He rowed a good pair of sculls, and was
very handy with his fists. It was in defeating Christie
with the raw ’uns that bookmaker Jack Thompson built
up his reputation as a slogger. Latter was in partnership
with Jem Mace in Melbourne, and Mace had knocked
a lot of science into the long fellow. Thompson was
matched against Christie, and almost as soon as
the men put their hands up Thompson got a lucky
blow home, which practically ended the fight. How it
would have gone had Thompson not got the hit home
early in the fight it is hard to say, as Jack was certainly
not built to stay. Anyhow, that one slog made a reputa-
tion for bookmaker T. Without a doubt but for Jem
Mace’s visit to Australia, the latter-day Australian world-
beaters would never have been heard of. Larry Folej'
was then a natural fighter of the bull-dog order, but
under Mace’s tuition he developed into the most soienced
boxer this country has produced, and that is saying
a good deal. Foley taught Peter Jackson, Slavin,
Fitzsimmons, Griffo, Jack and Jim Hall, Mick Dooley,
George Seale, and others. Jackson in turn brought along
Steve O’Donnell, Billy M'Carth}', Billy Smith, and Dan
Hickey—all of whom are now in the States, where they
have made a name for themselves in the ring.
* • • •
Depends on how you view it. English files tell
that recently, in Paris, several bouts of La Savate
(the kicking style of fighting) were contested-, and two
“ Murkan ” boxers wound-up with an affair under Qpeens-
berry rules. A punch on the “mark” put one of them
out, whereupon the chief of police decided that there
should be no more English style in France—that Frenchy’s
method only would be tolerated. Which means that,
though it will be all right to kick an opponent’s head off,
or plunk a No. 10 foot into the middle of his"stomach,
there must be no pummelling with a pair of, heavily-
padded hands. Every man to his own taste. Likewise
every nation.
* * * * -
Australian ’Varsity 8-oar race is down for de-
cision on the Yarra over 2£m. course this Saturday.
Venue present year should have been Adelaide, blit the
Wheat State couldn’t get a crew. So far, N.S.W. eights
have done best with 7 wins in 12 starts. Melbourne
secured 4 and Adelaide 2in 10 attempts. Sydney lot this
time are all new, and scale less than 86st. —sst. under
Melbourne reps., who have had ex-Cambridge oarsman
“Steve” Fairhairn as mentor. Worth telling that the
“Old Blues” of Oxford and Cambridge presented the
Cup which the winning crew holds each year. With the
trophy is a roll giving the names of all subscribers—many
of whom occupy high positions now.
»** . •
N.S.W. Bowling Association’s champion rink
final (Saturday) went to Manly four (Dimelow, W. Hor-
rocks, Black and Nightingale), who beat Waverley reps,
all the way, and finished 30 to 22. Losers scored five in
the last “ head," but the effort came too late.
• • * •
Cabled last week that at the big bowling tour-
ney, organised t’other day by veteran cricketer W. O.
Grace (manager of Crystal Palace 8.C.) in honor of Aus-
tralasian team’s'.visit, M.L. crack player, J. V. Dingle,
won the “fixed jack” competition from 134 others.
Dingle plays “third” for Paul, the premier skipper of
M.L. contingent, and is just the class of bowler to shine
in such an event, as he “ draws ” superbly. Might be ex-
plained—for “ fixed jack ” contests (under that name) are
unknown in these parts—that ’tis nothing more nor less
than “ drawing the shot ” as understood in the ordinary
game.
* • • •
Cabled, Monday, that of three matches played
at ’Ome by Australian bowlers they won one (against
Brighton) by 4 ; other two went to Brownswood (among
England’s leading clubs) by 22, and Hound’s Green by 28.
Iri all three “ Jim Hanigan (Manly 8.0., N.S.W.) is
mentioned as having skippered a successful four, while
Chas. Wood (Vic.) similarly distinguished himself in two,
and Nathan (Vic.) and Bentley (Vic.) in one each.
. Bias : The two defeats of Australian bowlers
m three matches “ down under,” related by cable this
week, surprised no one, especially now that M.L. men
have gone on their own. Latter were looked upon as the
backbone of an otherwise extremely shaky combination.
Writer predicts that the seceders, who begin in Scotland,
where the hottest bowlers of Britain are, will be heard
from to some purpose in a day or two. Victorian con-
tribution to the crowd only embraces a few players of
note in that State, while the Cornstalks are very weak.
’Twasn’t reasonable to expect otherwise. None were
chosen ; every man who wanted to go went. Many
weren’t known as exponents of the game outside their
own clubs, and this scribe doubts if some were known as
bowlers even within those narrow limits. The team’s un-
doubted and pronounced “ tail ” will render it fairly easy
game anywhere, though a few members may often make
an individual impression.
• * *
Annual lacrosse match between S.A. and Vic-
toria will be decided on Adelaide Oval this Saturday
(15th). Victorian team has few veterans, though White
is captain as in former years. Notable absentee from
S.A. team is the 17st. champion, Julian Ayers, by far the
best goal-keeper Australia has seen. On paper, the match
is a good thing for S.A., which has six men in its team
who have been playing for years.
* • * *
Saturday’s senior-grade Rugby at Sydney bristled
with the unexpected. Up to then results had been very
much in and out, but latest happenings topped all.
’Varsity and Newtown (first and second last on the list)
match looked almost any odds on the students finishing
at least a fair margin to the good. It ended without
either side notching a point, after a hot, high-tension
struggle from end to end. Western Suburbs’ triumph
over South Sydney by 13 to 9 was another big set-back ;
while North Sydney’s success against filebe (5 to 3) proved
a still greater staggerer. Eastern Suburbs, tipped at the
outset as sure absolute winners of the competition,
couldn’t do better than get away with a draw in their
engagement against Balmain, albeit the latter had
gone under in all previous struggles and was absolutely at
the bottom of the list —every other competing club having
secured at least one match, ’ “ Uni.’s” and South Sydney
are first and second in points, as named. Relative form
up to now makes it about as hard to guess at the uVi-
mate winner as to prophesy next century’s weather.
• • * •
S.A. and Victoria meet at football on Melb.
Cricket Ground this afternoon (15th). Former State
sends over its best available team, the only notable absen-
tee being J. Reedman. Victoria has always held S.A.
safe in recent years, but the game has revived wonder-
fully in Adelaide of late, and the team from the pious city
will make a battle.
The N.S.W. police are now agitating to
have their pay and privileges raised, to the Vic
torian standard, and a large proportion of the
Sydney ironworkers are still on strike for the Vic.
wage rate. Yet the N.S.W. Foreign-trade poli-
tician talks through his imported hat about how
Protection reduces the workers’ remuneration
with all his old energy.
Richard Speight, after being spoken of for
days as the Westralian Minister for Railways in
Leake’s Cabinet, didn’t get the billet, after all.
It fell to Holmes.
Be that recent international trouble at
Tientsin in which some British infantry—attacked
“ with bayonets and bricks ” by French and Ger-
man soldiers—fired and killed one man and
wounded seven. Li Hung Chang was right when
lie said : “ Keep quiet and sit tight; the foreign
devils will soon begin to fight among themselves.”
The disastrous Bill Lyne has a scheme on
hand for taking the Federal Parliament round
bodily to look at proposed Federal capital sites.
This is almost the most awful idea in Bill’s record.
It would take at least a week—probably a
month—to inspect one site intelligently. Any
useful inspection must cover soil, water supply,
means of access, facilities for drainage, &c., over
a huge area, and all the Federal members can do
is to go at great expense to a proposed site, eat
and drink there heavily, hear certain reports
which they could have read just as well in Sydney
or Melbourne, and go away again. A whole
session wouldn’t be sufficient for any useful
inspection. The Federal Parliament has other
things to do, and if it can’t trust its permanent
offioials to supply it with information like this it
had better get new officials.
Randolph Bedford, “Randolph the Reck-
less,” doesn’t often get a paper out, but when he
does it is something to be remembered. Two
numbers of the Clarion are now on sale, the Vic-
torian number containing 68 pages and about 300
pictures. The Cornstalk number has 84 pages
and 360 pictures, all for one shilling, or post free,
one and sixpence. Victoria is dealt with from
1804 to 1900, and N.S.W. from 1770 to last year.
Within 24 hours recently Maoriland was
struck by two of the most disastrous fires that
have afflicted that much-burnt land for many years.
At 2 a. m. on the morning of May 30 Mt. Vic-
toria, Wellington, was in a blaze. The fire started
in a carpenter’s house, and, helped by the high
wind, inefficient water-supply, and the wooden
nature of the buildings, ate up 24 houses and
cleaned off nearly three acres. Wellington is built
on a fault—that is, a vast mass of very hard rock
resting on much softer, stone. The action
of the water wears and rots away the soft stone,
and when sufficient is rotted away, Wellington
slips down anything from the 63rd to the 32nd
part of an inch. Brick or stone buildings are
liable to be wrecked thereby; so most of
the houses in the windy capital are wooden.
Fortunately, no lives were sacrificed ; the worst
loss was the library of Public Librarian Rowe,
which consisted of over 5000 volumes* The
chances are that, unless someone presents
the erudite little M.A. with another, he will
pine away and die. About 1 a.m. next morning
a fire was discovered at the Grand Hotel,
Auckland ; and the ensuing scenes were hideous.
The fire blazed up the staircase, and the people in
the second and third storeys were cut off. There
appear to have been no fire-escapes, and the un-
fortunate wretches had to either bum or dash
themselves to pieces against the pavement below.
Three children of the proprietor perished in the
blaze. A housemaid was severely burned,
and then leaped from the window; she
died from the burns and from injuries re-
ceived in the fall. Mr. Fred. Ayres, of
the Bank of Australasia, also failed to escape.
The hotel was considered the finest in the
northern capital, and was being prepared for the
reception of the Ducal party. It was very old,
and went like matchwood. Indeed, so sudden
was the flare-up, that the “boots,” sitting in a
back room, had just time to rush up to the second
storey and back —he couldn’t even reach the third
floor where the three children slept—before the
fire was absolutely beyond control. Owing to the
preparations being made the place was practically
empty. What sort of a holocaust would there
have been bad it been full, as it usually is?
Presumable the Duke will now be fixed up at the
Northern Club, hard by.


«s=
Silver Hall-Marked
MATCH BOXES
PLAIN 5/" *"GRAVED 5/6
WRITE FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SOUVENIR CATALOGUE
MAILED FREE. ....
The Modern Art Jewellery Go.
PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
California spruo of figs
NATURE’S
PLEASANT
LAXATIVE.
Whilst possessing remarkable medicinal
properties, California Syrup of Figs is so
delicious in flavour that the word “ medicine
would seem less descriptive of it than the word
“luxury.” Its action is as gentle as its flavour
is delightful; and children,to whom the admin-
istration of medicine is usually a source of distress, will take
California Syrup of Figs as a great treat. It does not gripe, nauseate Of
weaken as phis and purgatives do, but gives relief pleasantly; and *s use may
be discontinued as soon as the system is so relieved and cleansed. There
is no discomfort or inconvenience and its results are healthful regularity, and
total freedom from dangerous impurities in the system.
F/c
A
California sprup of figs
AGREEABLE,
MILD,
AND SURE.
Indigestion, Biliousness, and Flatulency
arise in tne majority of cases from constipa-
tion. Headaches, depression, heaviness after
meals, dizziness, squeamish appetite—all these
everyday ills can be traced to the same source,
and call for immediate action, lest they should
lead to more serious disorders. California Syrup of Figs, by its un-
obtrusive laxative action, will at once dispel these disagreeable ailments. Just as
the delicate mechanism of a watch needs cleaning and regulating, so the
human mechanism, with its ceaseless activity, requires cleausing and putting to
rights. California Syrup of Figs performs this duty surely and effectually.
f
California Sprup of Figs
is a positively reliable, and at the same time, the most
agreeable remedy for
CONSTIPATION, SLU66IBH LIVER, HEADACHE, BILIOUSNESS,
INDIGESTION, FEVERISHNESS, DEPRESSION,
LOSS OF APPETITE,
and all other complaints arising from a disordered con-
dition of the Liver and Stomach, speedily restoring health,
appetite, energy, and good spirits.
California Sprup of Figs
THE TRUE
AND
ORIGINAL
REMEDY.
—unlike other articles offered to effect the
same result —does not require to be taken in
doses of constantly increased strength. The
ordinary dose is alv/ays effective, because
while relieving the weakened organs of their
trouble it strengthens them against recurrence
of the disturbance. Because of these merits
physicians everywhere recommend it. There are imitations and substitutes in
plenty, but they all omit the essential quality—viz., the curative. It is therefore
absolutely necessary to insist on being served with the genuine and original—
that is, with California Syrup of Figs. In the process of manufacturing, figs are
used, as they are pleasant to the taste, but the medicinal properties of the
remedy are obtained from an excellent combination of plants, know to be
medicinally laxative and to act most beneficially.
Remember the full title. ASK FOR CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS, and look
for the Name and Trade Mark of the
asdf
California Fig Sprup Co
Of all chemists and stores, is. i|d. and is. gd. per bottle.
Depot, 32 SNOW HILL, LONDON, E.C.
THE GOOD IT DOES IS PERMANENT.
as
RINGS
6 Choice
Diamonds, £5 ss.
18ct. Gold, with Pearl 15s,
or Small Diamond, 20s.
aa^Hß
Ruby and Diamonds,
£8 Bs.
Plain Figure
Cash Prices.
WE ARE RING MAKERS -
We buy the unset gems in quantities for cash.
We carefully throw out faulty stones.
We make the settings in our Hunter-street workshops .
We employ setters of special skill.
We thus save all intermediate profits.
We sell for cash—no bad debts.
We sell at London Cash Prices.
Our turnover enables us to do it.
It affords us pleasure to send catalogue and prices.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
Vice-Regal Jewellers, 23 Hunter Street', SYDNEY.
“ SHARPSHOOTING
For Sport and War”
ef
By W. IF. GREENER.
Hits the Mark!
<5-1/- N ETT^
If you wish to know how to guard the
Empire—if you are one of those who will
rally round the old flag—read this book.
It teaches all about Rifles and Rifle
Shooting, how to aim and make allowance,
&c., and it contains chapters on Ranges and
Rifle Clubs, with a history of the part
played by the Armed Civilian in the past.
The Best Shilling’s Worth ever Published !
ISO Pages, 100 Illustrations for 1/- nett.
Of all Booksellers, orC. W. Buckland, Agent
for W. W. Greener, 317 Collins St., MELB.
ISM
IliilOrillMulilliO
i-irr nii'imri
iji'i;! II ii arrrirl
i
8
-nsp
FOR the person who Is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“Ellis’King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 60 KING STREET, and near the General Po«
Office.
Proprietor - * GEO. W. ELLIS.
Golden Horseshoe : Sydney E. News says that
Sydney and Adelaide shareholders are disappointed at the
announcement of a ss. div.—they fully expected 10s., as
the mine is believed to be making a profit of £55,000 a
month. The News is possibly ignorant of the fact that it
takes £150,000 to pay a 10s. div. on Horseshoe capital.
Last year, it made a profit of over £300,000, after allowing
nearly £20,000 for depreciation and over £21,000 for
income and duty taxes. It paid three divs. of 65., absorb-
ing £225,000, leaving a balance of £111,685 ; subsequently
another ss. div. was declared, making 20s. for the year.
Production: 67,095t0n50f oresenttothemillfor67,2l9oz.;
33,418 tons cyanided for 24,6130 z. ; 25,959 tons slimes
filter-pressed for 13,1590 z.; 10,023 tons of sulphide ore and
concentrates sold to smelters realised £75,193, after pay-
ment of smelting charges—bringing total value of gold
produced in year up to £470,627. That was the biggest
production from any W.A. mine. No doubt it
will be maintained "for some time to come for
how long, ’twere hard to say. It is much
easier for a camel to go through the eye of a
needle than for a man to go through the Horseshoe
Mine. Local newspaper men slavishly record anything
they are told about this and some of the other mines at
Hannan’s. A few months ago they reported that the
main lode was again dangerously near the Great Boulder
boundary. The shares rose £3 in face of the information,
which was probably a lie. Now the yarn is that the lode
is not only dipping further into the Horseshoe ground,
but that the main lode of the Great Boulder itself has
started to underlie in that direction. As big a mine as
the Horseshoe undoubtedly is,' it may be taken for
granted that it is not worth four millions of money, the
value represented by the present price of shares; also,
that some of the yarns recently spread about it were in-
vented for the purpose of inducing some people to over-
sell the shares when they were under 1 10, and to force
them to cover now that they are over £l3.
■ • » * .
Hannan’s Kapai: A London co. that struck a
little rich vein outside of the Golden Mile some two
months ago. But it seems to have vanished as suddenly
as it appeared. Gable to London : “ Sample from winze
assayed Sdwt. 15gr. Frequent assays have been made ;
confining operations at present to prospecting. Con-
sidered most advisable to follow pay chute. ’’ Quite right.
Keep on the gold ; never leave it if you can help it; better
still, shut up the mine. It never should have been
opened, but that is no reason why it should not be closed.
■ • • ♦ •
Silver-lead in W.A. : The last discovery was
80 miles from Onslow, and numerous samples forwarded
to Perth have given satisfactory results in lead, silver and
copper. W.A. is desperately hard-up for these metals.
It would make all the difference in the world to the Fre-
mantle smelting works if they could obtain lead or copper
ores in the country instead of shipping them from
Broken Hill and elsewhere. In the absence of a smelting
base it is extremely doubtful if the works can be made to
pay, despite all the Govt, encouragement received.
* • • *
Q. mining notes: Big limestone deposits being
worked near Rockhampton. Ravenswood still lying
low. : A brisk move in N.Q. tin-mining district, prob-
ably influenced by British and foreign tin quotes.
Gympie divs. for May over £15,000, and a few good
crushings ; calls, £6672. -Towers looking fairly well.
Brilliant Central crushed 770 tons forl030oz.; buyers, 755.
May results: Divs., £32,500; calls, £2100; 21,000 tons
stone crushed for 19,0000 z., and 38,000 tons cyanided for
15,0000 z. Mt. Morgan, 7d. div. (the 160th). Things
very sluggish Callide way, despite the trumpeting.
**• ■ •
“ Trotter” writes from North Queensland, and
The Bulletin takes it with a peck of salt: —“ I thought I
had seen copper before visiting Cloncurry. (North Queens-
land), but I hadn’t. For a radius of 100 miles this district
is simply one mass of ore. You can pick up 30 and 40 per
cent, stuff anywhere on the surface. Coolullah, on the
Leichhardt, and 70 miles from Cloncurry (owned by
Power Brothers) is a magnificent show, some of the ore
going 80 and 90 per cent.—large masses of copper. The
parcels (picked at random) sent from Monakoff, 14 miles
from Cloncurry, went 40J per cent., 34 per cent, and 13J
per cent. But the Hampden, 66 miles further south,
takes .the biscuit. There’s 116,000 tons of an average
grade of 15 per cent, copper, valued at £1,260,000, avail-
able for extraction. The total quantity of ore raised,
stacked and sampled on the mine up to the end of last
year was 625 tons, of an average grade of 40 per cent.,
2691 tons of 13 percent., 2271 tons of 6£ per cent.—or a
total of 5587 tons, containing a gross value in copper of
£52,811. Along the track bound for Normanton I met,
this month, five antiquated teams, travelling eight miles
a day, loaded with ore, and it makes me smile. In any
other land this country would be all life and bustle, with
a railway and a decent township. Here you have millions
lying under the sod which would give employment to
thousands of men and open up a fine pastoral district,
and the country is a deserted wilderness. When the
railway does come along this scribe ventures to gamble
that this district will be the greatest copper-producer in
Australia. By the way, some of the gold specimens I
have seen in Cloncurry are very handsome, and valued at
£4 2s. 6d. per oz.” [And The Bulletin wonders if these
Northerners, who proved so wide awake at Mount Morgan
and the Towers, are really as sleepy as “ Trotter ” takes
them to be, or if they took the stranger in.]
* * • •
The British Australasian has done its best to
establish itself as a mining authority, but its best is
hideously bad. It spends a lot of money in cables re W.A.
and othermines, and devotes much space to special articles,
usually written by correspondents who have the boom
bump too strongly developed. Six weeks ago it published
a special article on the Glenfine South—that the hope of
mining in Victoria was centred on that field ; that it was
the greatest gold producer in Vic. ; that there were only
35.000 shares in the co., which at the time of writing were
quoted at £B, and that the fall of £3 was the result of an
intrusion of mullock in the lode, and concluded : “ It is
certainly the best mining investment in Victoria to-day,
and when the lode is struck at the 310 ft. the shares will
not be purchasable at twice the present price. What
will the B.A. say now that the shares are down to one-
fourth the price they were then ? Probably, it will be as
dumb as a tinned oyster.
• * • *
Tarcoola, S.A. : Goods news comes from Ade-
laide concerning this field. 90 tons crushed from the
Tarcoola blocks for 2000z5., and the fact that the battery
only worked 6J days is recorded, as if that made any dif-
ference, The Govt. Geologist directed attention to the
field as a promising one eight years ago, and it is wired
that his opinion has been thoroughly borne out by the
discovery of rich and permanent reefs there. Nothing of
the kind. It is too soon to call them rich, and altogether
premature to regard them as permanent. Announced
that although the Tarcoola Blocks has probably got
the pick of the field, there are many other promis-
ing shows, and every sign of permanence is given.
Not mentioned in what way. Adelaide enterprise is
patted because in 12 months it got a battery to work on
a goldfield 300 miles from any railway. It is even
declared that the success already attained at Tarcoola
will help along the transcontinental railway, and as allot-
ments are about to be sold, the S.A. Govt, will benefit
considerably. This description only recalls others from
the same source re long-forgotten S.A. mnshroom gold-
fields.
• * • •
North Mt. Lyell: Upwards of 100 men em-
ployed at the smelting site on excavation and construc-
tion works, and much is said of the magnitude of the
buildings, etc. The plant will include eight 75-ton re-
verberatories, and a converting plant, 'an electrolytic
refining plant, and a copper sheet and wire mill. Also
proposed to establish a new industry in the province—the
manufacture of explosives.
• • • *
The versatile Horatio Bottomley is coming out
in another character—that of an author. The Sun
(London) announces that it is about to commence a new
feature, viz., regular contributions by Horatio Bottomley,
under the comprehensive title of “ The World, the Flesh,
and the Devil.” Bottomley wears the belt as the boss
boomster of the century. He is an inspired bounder.
His greatest inspiration was when he was desperately
hard-up, and conceived the idea of calling the share-
holders of the Hansard Union together for the purpose of
returning them the modestsum of £250,000 that they had
lost in the scheme of which he was the founder. Without
a bean he did it;~ami4st the applause of- the- crowd who
assembled, and some of the widows present shed tears of
gratitude. They never got any money. Bottomley gave
them Shares in His Westralian and other “wild cats,” and
they took them at such prices, and with such liabilities,
that after atimetbey realised that Bottomley’s tnaginifi-
cence was really only adding an insult to an old injury.
He has been allowed to play the same trick in other forms
over and over again, until it would seem that there are a
great many people in London that would prefer to be
without their money than without their Bottomley.
As the Critic puts it, “ The World ” probably represents
the people he has fooled, “ The Flesh ” the race-
horses which he purchased with the boodle, and “ The
Devil” the individual to whom his “wild cats” were
sent after they had done their duty for their author.
» » » *
An interesting advt. by the Jungle Syndicate
appears in the latest Bull newspapers to hand. The
Jungle boodlers of Broad-street, London, invite a £52,000
subscription for the Gamelsoo Concessions in the aurifer-
ous Denkira district of Gold Coast Colony, where the
assays of ore from “numerous native shafts” show
results ranging from 6to 50dwts. per ton. As a guaran-
tee of good faith the Jungle directors (of Broad-street,
E.C.) have fixed their joint remuneration at £lOOO per
annum, “divisible as they shall decide amongst them-
selves,” plus 5 per cent, of the divisible profits in each
year after 10 per cent, has been paid on the share capital
—“ provided the total amount of such further remunera-
tion shall not exceed the sum of £5000.” The modera-
tion of these directors raises a fear that they will end up
in the workhouse. They only want 2 per cent, per
annum on the capital, profits or no profits, and not over
£5OOO a year besides !
* * * *
“ Yril ” : Re copper-impregnated water at Cop-
perfield, Q. The process of settling and collecting copper
contained in the water was to fill a sluice-box arrange-
ment —about 200 feet long—with scrap iron and old tins
of all descriptions. The water ran over these and crusted
them with a coral-like formation of metallic copper—not
the green oxide. This mode of precipitation is now
dropped and the copper - impregnated water simply
pumped to waste. Scrap iron ran out, jam'tins got to a
premium, and the management not having enough capital
to fight the jam interest, which kept up the price of tins,
reluctantly closed down.
• * * *
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buciiu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
« » » •
When a uniform Federal banking law is drafted,
for the sake of common sense let it abolish the publication
of “ quarterly banking returns,” and provide instead that
the full balance-sheet of every bank, building society and
public co. shall be printed in the Government Gazette,
The quarterly banking-return idea was taken from a
British law of about 60 years ago. It worked well enough
in Britain. In those days the business of most British
banks was confined to the United Kingdom, and a return
of all business in the U.K. was really a full and useful
statement of the bank’s position. In Australia the busi-
ness often spreads over several States. In many cases it
spreads to England, Maoriland or Fiji-right outside the
Commonwealth. Each State’s quarterly returns only set
forth assets and liabilities in that State, and convey no
useful information whatever. Even a return of assets and
liabilities in the Commonwealth would convey no useful
information in very many cases. The silliest feature of
all is that the return includes the amount and rate of last
dividend, and the amount of profits reserved it was
paid. Therefore, a bank like the Queensland National
or A.J.S. can keep stating the rate and amount of the
last dividend—paid five or six or seven years ago—and
the amount of its then reserves, and the State gravely
publishes these things as new and useful knowledge. And
an extra clerk is required in almost every bank to prepare
this foolishness.
* * • *
A Melbourne* land agent has for sale two
houses at £2400 each. In the boom-time, a religious
body lent £5OOO on one, and a publican lent £5OOO on the
other. Thus did it rain alike on the just and the unjust.
• • * *
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
Some time back, it was cabled that the
Boers had “murdered” a Dr. Walker, shooting
him three times, and then battering in his skull
Following is the account given by Capt. H. G.
Casson, South Wales Borderers :
As I was in command of the post captured at Modder-
fontein, I trust that, in common fairness to the enemy,
you will allow me to offer an unqualified denial to the
statement. Dr. Walker was hit once only, and by a stray
bullet. He died the same afternoon from the natural
effects of the wound. Every possible kindness was shown
to the wounded by the Boers. The Boer commandant
expressed to Dr. Walker his sorrow that he should have
been wounded, and the Boer General his deep regret for
the occurrence, while burghers, when conversing with
my men, also spoke to the same effect.
Will the Jingo papers, which shouted in huge
black letters about the alleged “murder,” kindly
reprint.
The Mormon apostles travelling Maori-
land in the interests of the Joe Smith push
are experiencing a bad time. Mobbed out of
Christchurch, they fared no better at por-
ridgebyterian Dunedin, where they had to take
refuge in the police-station from enthusiastic
admirers carrying a testimonial of loose bricks.
Mob waited for them on following evening, led by
a few rival fancy religionists, ripe for “ con-
troversy,” and, as the Mormons failed to appear,
the crowd turned on its own leaders, and egged
them with a large, generous hand. All this on
the Scotchbyterian Sawbath. Things got so
bad that the newly-elected Mayor and a posse of
police were sent for ; and the former, resplendent
m a new “ lum ” hat and his Jook-reception toga,
came on the scene with the Riot Act. The hat
and the Riot Act were promptly confiscated by
the crowd, and the police had to remove his Wor-
ship in some haste, lest the playful gathering
should take his shirt also.


The peace and quiet of Bunbury (Wes-
tralia) were recently broken up by the advent of
an eminent practitioner from the eastern States.
Bunbury stood him for awhile, and then one day
the local corporal of police propped up a dis-
hevelled heap of beer and mud in the police court,
and told a tale to the bench. He said the medico
never paid his board, for one thing. He had
hired an empty shop on credit and described him-
self as the “eminent hygienic specialist ” and
announced that he took phrenological and patho-
logical observations, but the force never saw him
take anything but beer, and lie took it without
payment as a rule. He offered to cure advanced
cases of consumption on the spot in the three-
penny bar, and take it out in tanglefoot, and
Bunbury was so desolated by the specialist raging
up and down its streets to heal everybody for
drink that it couldn’t get its proper rest. The
court gave the hygienic specialist three days, and
told him that unless he found honest pick and
shovel work after that period he would get some-
thing extra.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
A returned Melbourne demonstrationist
informed writer that one day of the shivoo he got
outside the city proper and couldn’t find his way
back again. So he wandered around the suburbs
eating sandwiches like bricks and drinking stale
beer until his legs gave out. That night he slept
under the bushes in a private garden at Toorak.
and at dawn was chased by the head gardener, in
a pot-hat and patent-leather boots, with a rake.
He ruined his demonstration bags climbing sud-
denly over a spiked fence about 16ft. high just as
the gentleman in the hat jabbed the prongs of the
rake through his regulation straw tile. When he
reached the city the whole population was munch-
ing its breakfast on the roofs, and a bobby Bft.
high told him the streets were wanted for the
Dook, and if he didn’t go home, or climb on to a
roof, he’d run him in. He went home.
condensed -war history.
[For The -Bulletin-.J
Men run
Get gun,
Take ship,
Go trip
To war,
Shoot Boer
Join hunt
At front,
Catch De Wet,
You bet ;
No go,
No show;
Come home,
Write pome.
A. B. Smtthe.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 .years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
“ Melb.” : I can’t give away bed tickets
for the Salvation- Army Metropole. Deadbeats
won’t take ’em.
The following incident is vouched for by
five sensible men :—A party had been staying in
the vicinity of Newcastle (N.S.W.), and during
their stay a strong attachment arose between one
of the men and a girl living at the house. It
was the last night they were to be together, and
she sang Tosti’s “Good-bye” with a great deal
of point and fervor. The next day the men went
out fishing and camped on an island. That night
about midnight they were startled to hear some
one singing “Good'bye” outside, and recognised
the voice. On going out they saw on the sand
outside their tent the print of two bare feet—the
great toe and first toe being webbed in both cases.
They reached land, and the first thing they heard
was that the girl had died that night. They told
their story to the woman who attended her after
death, and on viewing the body both feet were
found to be webbed !
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while.to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt, on page
23 of this issue *
KEMP’S PATENT SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
It will stay on the sheep’s back as long: as required. It will NOT injure the wool.
the ordinary scouring process.
It will dissolve out under
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
FEtTOII, GRimillHDE * CO, OIECBOURDC.
BLACK , BED. and BLUB (in 8-gallon Cases)--
PRICE IN MELBOURNE ..
„ SYDNEY (E. Rich & Co. Ltd.)
„ BRISBANE (E. Rich & Co. Ltd.)
„ HOBART (Wm. Crosby & Co.)
3/e
3/e
3/e
-3L/3
per Gallon.
99
99
99
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE FA.MOTJS REMEDY EOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain. _ _____ .
T=tT:w A-RE OIF* COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l ain writing to tell you
about, the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I bad been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the. chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “ can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwell.vn,
“ Ivatunga, Vic.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to mv mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.”
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus —as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.’
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HE ARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows : —“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“ Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure. —I remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Years’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. I am more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
snudl bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for live years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every.other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently 'beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes : —“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 3' ears ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:—“l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch Qffi ce; N ot First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD for
INFANTS
5
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, Sc., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
and
the aged.


B*B SJ
TIQPG-E
WOOD
SPLIT
PULLIES
Guaranteed to transmit from 25
to 60 per cent, more power than
any iron pulley made with same
tension of belt.
70 per cent. Lighter than cast
iron.
40 „ .. wrought
iron or steel.
No Key Seat to cut.
No Set Screw to twist oft.
No Shaft to take down.
Perfect Balance.
Perfect Shaft Fastening.
Write for Prices and Particulars to Sole Agents
for Australasia —
PIRKEHfICy Co[td.
60 Gllarence-St., Sydney, n.s.w.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
*l*o DlSIi’Y CO MPiITIT lON.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
BALDNESS.
CAPILLA
(Registered.) H&l T-T OH EC«
The Captain of the New South Wales Cricket Tea,m writes“ S/l/’Ol. Your
Remedy—it does all you claim for it. Can recommend it to anyone troubled with w
Wherever it is possible, CAPILLA will produce hair.
‘ Capilla ’ is indeed a wonderful
eak, thin, or falling hair.
“SYD. GREGORY.”
None need despair of obtaining a good head of hair.
Leading Sydney Chemists,
and from the Proprietor -
W. RICHARDS, 168 Pitt-st., Sydney.
2/6 per bottle, post 3/2 ; 4 bottles, which will effect a cure in the most obstinate cares, postod free for 10/-.
EVERY HOUSEHOLD and TRAVELLING TRUNK OUCHT TO CONTAIN A BOTTLE of
ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’
mm
*2
For P* eventing’& Curing- by Natural Means
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
TESTIMONIAL. “ I have been a nurse for ten years, and have nursed cases
of scarlet fever, pyaemia, erysipelas, measles, gangrene, cancer, and almost every
mentionable disease. During this time I have not been ill for a single day, and
this I attribute to the use of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt, which has kept my blood in a
pure state. I recommend it to all my patients during convalescence. Its
\a ue as a means of health cannot be overestimated.”— A Professional
Nurse ( Qualified ).
THE EFFECT OF ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ ON A DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS, AND FEVERISH CONDITION
IS SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. IT IS, IN FACT, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, AND AN UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION —See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it, you have a
- - * WORTHLESS IMITA TION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., at the ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
SAUC
THE SALT OF THE EARTH
Is as nought compared
with the appetizing
qualities of
O&sO’
SAUGE.
SAU6
I Cure Fits
You are •
not asked <
to spend ;
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance,
&c. All you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottleof medi=
cine and to try it. I am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H.G. R00T, 38, Endsleigh Gdas., LON DON.
“SANITAS”
NATURE’S
GREAT DISINFECTANT.
Nan-Poisonous*
Does Not Stain Linen •
FLUID, POWDER, SOAPS, &c.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
Valuable book, “HOW TO DISINFECT,”
free on application.
The “SANITAS” Co., Ltd.,
BETHNAL GREEN, LONDON.
f FREEMAN# WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL & SURGICAL INSTITUTE.
The Two Eminent Specialists
who have the Largest Practice
in Australasia.
And the Only Specialists in Australia who have
Received Highly Cominendable Press JS otices
in Leading Australian Journals.
Specialties = Nervous and Chronic Complaints, Blood and Skin Diseases,
Heart, Kidney, Liver, Bladder, Rheumatism, Sciatica, &c., &c.
ancl certificates of Qualification and Registration by the Govern-
soSth » a .e., view,a, south AU.W,,,
Britain and America, open to Inspection at the Consulting Rooms
by our Physician-in-Chiefi
Pis an acknowledged fact the world-wide over that no
single individual or combination of men can be .ab-
solute masters of every phase and branch of art, science,
medicine, or other professed avocation of a limitless
sphere of operation and magnitude. At best the greatest
scientists of the day—men like Lord Kelvin and Edison,
§§y
v
Yours truly . . .
HOW ARD FREEMAN ,
Sydney’s Leading Specialist.
Professor of Electricity as applied Medically, Member
Dr. Harmon’s College, Washington Cor., Cal., U.S.A.
Director and Founder of the Institute.
for instance, whose fame is universally known-class
themselves as infants in scientific invention and research,
and modestly tell us that they have but a smattering of
knowledge of the possibilities, extent, and development
We have only to look at the fine buildings that occupy
the corner of Elizabeth and Bathurst streets to gain some
idea of the extent and importance of their professional
work. But to have the privilege of being shown through
the building by the Specialists themselves, and to see ami
learn something of the real character of their wide pi ac-
tice, is a treat that only comes the way of a fortunate in-
dividual like the writer. .
The instrument-room was, as usual, one of particular
curiosity. Laymen always have a penchant for eyeing
and examining the polished steel articles with which so
many extraordinary acts are performed upon the human
body. The collection in this room is in every way up-to-
date. Whenever a new instrument comes to the front,
and its worth is proved beyond question, it is added to
this rare assortment. Another room full of absorbing in-
terest is that devoted to the galvanic batteries, of which
there are several magnificent kinds. The noted Gailfe
batteries, the finest French makes, are here in perfection,
irrespective of their high cost. If any article or mechani-
cal and electric contrivance is found necessary in main-
taining the fame of this institution, the price is never
allowed to stand in the way.
The correspondence- department is a veritable eye-
opener. Its sacredness is a bar to a stranger’s admission,
but a full view of the work going on is had through the
glass doors. Half a-dozen typists are seen driving their
machine-writers at electric speed. To the principals only
are known the names of the persons throughout Australia
who are being treated as skilfully in their homes about
the metropolis and away in the interior as if they were
present in personal consultation at the institution.
The packing-rooms are likewise shut off from curious
and prying glances, and the work of one department is a
mystery to the others. No better system for holding
secret the nature of sufferers’ troubles, for safe-guarding
their interests, and giving due heed to the feelings and
sensitiveness of patients, could be Imagined. Packages
are not plastered with advertising labels, they are put up
in such a way that only the names and addresses are m
1 What a practice is here revealed and what a consola-
tion must it be to these eminent specialists to know that
they are permanently curing and restoring to health and
happiness thousands of people whose lives were a burden
to them. The young, the middle-aged, and the healthy
are treated with the same amount of success. The pro-
digious nature of the work accomplished by these
specialists necessitates —not the stereotyped morning and
evening two hours’ consultation ticket, but their constant
attention at the institution from early morning till late
into the night. “ I can assure you,” said Dr. Wallace,
“ we don’t put in these long hours because we are fonder
1
mm
Premises : Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts. (Opp. Hyde Park, Sydney
(All Trams Stop at the Door).
of electricity, and only a fringe of imagination of the un-
I told stores of strength and wealth wrapt up in this
! phenomenal power.
! Therefore it requires no argument to convince the
i most pronounced of optimists that the field in any one of
the great and honored professions of the day is far too
, vast for the thorough comprehension of the most per-
fectly brain-endowed man, or body of naturally-gifted
men. Yet in respect of the most delicate and difficult of
all professions—that of prescribing for the ills and
diseases of mankind—we find doctors, scattered over the
globe, off-handedly and without careful, minute, and
searching examination and diagnosis—without any know-
ledge of the past lives of patients—flippantly dashing off
prescriptions for every class of complaint, as if a cure was
as simple as falling over the proverbial log.
I Thanks to the march of civilisation, culture, and edu-
I cation, people are getting to know that modern medical
I men who are worth consulting confine their practice to a
] certain class of cases. Realising the utter hopelessness of
i mastering and curing everything under the sun, and find-
| irig that “gullibles” are not so plentiful as they used to
I be, the wise and progressive men of medicine devote
themselves to one or other class of cases, and work out
the remedies for them to the best of their skill and
bility.
a What better and more striking illustration of the suc-
cess of Specialists in Skin Diseases, Heart, Kidney, Liver
Affections, Rheumatics, Sciatica, Nervous Diseases, could
the people of this magnificent .continent, Australia, have
than the enormous practice of the famous practitioners of
the Electro-Medical Institute. Their skill, attainments,
position, and renowned reputation stamp them as the un-
doubted masters of the classes of diseases and complaints
which have been the study of their professional lives.
When we speak of electricity we think of Edison. Why ?
Because he dwarfs other men in this branch of science.
In the same way, when we talk of specialists, we at once
associate the names of the Freeman and Wallace Insti-
-1 tute. So it is in every branch of scientific medicine;
some one or two men stand head and shoulders above
their fellows.
It is the aim, object, and devotion of certain doctors to
be pre-eminent in some defined class of disease rather
than to tinker w r ith a host of complaints about which
they can have but a hazy notion, and superficial know-
ledge. To use a hackneyed but expressive phrase, they
are “ Jacks of all trades and masters of none.” Never
since the time of Rioord, the noted French Specialist,
have any men conducted so gigantic and successful a
practice as that conducted by the Freeman-Wallace
Electro Medical and Surgical Institute.
of hard work than any other medical men ; we do it in
the best interests of sufferers. We don’t keep them
waiting longer than we can help, and we suffer many in-
conveniences for our patients’ sakes.”
Noble sentiments, thought the writer, as the time came
for his departure, and the Specialists returning to their
Yours truly . . .
RICH ARD WA LLA CE,
Physician-in-Chief,
M.D., L.R.C.P., L.F.P.S., L.M.,
Late Medical Staff, British Army; late Consulting
Staff, Homoeopathic Hospital, Melbourne.
consulting-room. How many doctors in our midst can
we bracket in this category ? Dinners and drives and
conversaziones are more frequently uppermost in the
mind of top-loftical medicos than the speedy treatment
of sad and suffering patients.


foreign - STAMPS.
mum
GEHEfII
asdf
immm
WLoraHMaj
/'■''HEAP SETS.— 40 Japan, Is Od ;
47 Spain, 2s ; 4 Tientsin, 3d ;
16 Heligoland, Is 8 Egypt, Cd ;
30 French, 9d ; 7 Iceland, 9d ; 9
Labuan Pictorial, 2s 6d; 11 Canada,
6d; 9 Canada Duty, 6d ;5 Bolivia, 4d.
Packets 50, Is ; 100, 2s 6d. Stamps
Purchased. New Catalogue of
Stamps, Albums, etc., Gratis.
CHARLES DOKNE, 346 Little Collins-et., Melbourne.
Hollow Ground
asd
iF*
fas
ef
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADH&
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale : OSBORNE, GARRETT, & CO-. LONDON, ft
Missing Friends.
%A#ILL James Duncan, who left Hillmorton,
Christchurch, New Zealand, about eighteen years
ago, communicate with the undersigned without delay.
MEARES & WILLIAMS,
Solicitors,
Christchurch, New Zealand. ■
PATRICK CROSBIE.—PIease communicate
with Executors of the late P. Crosbie,
“Balmattum,” Euroa,
Victoria.
A J*T. —Third and Last Time. Will give One Week to
send Address ; if not, will send for you. Will tell
Martha you know what I know.
O. M. A.,
Star Hotel,
10/6/’Ol. GEORGE STREET, REDFERN.
Legal Notices.
IN THE WILL OF FRANCIS SCHAUPP, late of
ARMIDALE, Land-holder, Deceased.
JF JACOB SCHAUPP (nephew of abovenamed deceased)
who was last heard of in Sydney working as a baker)
will apply to the undersigned, he will hear of something
to his advantage.
JOHN A. MCDONALD,
_ Solicitor, Armidale.
Election Notices.
LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL ELECTION (VIC.)
SOUTH YARRA PROVINCE.
W. L. BAILLIEN
IS A •
CANDIDATE
AND
Solicits your Vote & Interest.
J. M. BALFOUR, General Sec.,
875 Collins Street, Melb.
UNDER DISTINGUISHED
asd
ROYAL PATRONAGE.
x
R
■
v'.x
1
m
m
%
\\
‘fjhi
Va
fas
From H.R.H. PRINCESS HOHENLOHB.
(The German Ambassador’s Daughter.)
" * KOKO ’ for the Hair is the BEST Dressing I
know, it keeps the head cool, promotes growth,
and is in EVERY way excellent.
PRINCESS HOHENLOHE.
Recommended and Used byH.M. The
Queen lot Greece). Princess Victoria
(of Schaumburg Lippe), Princess
Hohenlobe. Princess Marie
(of Greece), Princess Henry Reuse,
Rear-Admiral Tinklar. &c.. Ac.
KOKO FOR THE HAIR
ill | 8 “u t 0 i n v lK°™t"ig preparation. causes the hair to grow. keep. It soft and pliant. Impart.
11l c?eanfy'ot a?[ t halr , pre , paratlon 8 r l**' Pr ° VentS half ' r ° m falling ' iB th<S “° Bt
OI.D PKDPI.E UKE IT
111 for its wonderful power to invigorate decayed hair, and Induce an entlrenewgrowth when that is possible.
middi.k-peopi.e i.ikk it,
iiT because it keeps dandrlff away, and makeß the hair grow thick and strong
YOUNG BABIES UKE IT
111 it wUI jre*aa!n? )eaU^U * g,0,,,3r lUBtre ' Bnd eDab,eB th,m to dreBß 14 ta " hat -
CHU.PRKX LIKE IX.
I|l pos!t?lndeBfred Bthehairanll SCa,P 0001 “ Bd c, * an ’ a,layll lrrltatlon > and keeps the hair In-whatever
THEY AEE LIKE IT •
because it is pure as crystal perfectly colourless, contains no poisonous substances, dye. sugar ot
lead, sulphur nitrate of silver or grease, does not soil or colour the scalp, face, or the most delicate
rabric In clothing. produces a wonderful, pleasant and cooling effect on the head, and no other dressing
is needed to give the hair the most elegant appearance possible. Try it once, and you will use no other.
ef
Is., 2s. 6d. v and 4s. 6d., of all Chemists, Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
Australian Depot: Koko-Maricopas Co., Ld., 14,Castlereagh St.,Sydney,N.S.W.
CAHTTON.—See that this Registered Trade Mark is on every bottle. _
as
Publications.
The Secret History
. . OF THE . .
CONINCHAM
——CASE.
Mtinm’s munii
BY 46 ZERO.”
[lllustrated by over a hundred original documents .}
Intending Subscribers are notified that
only a Limited Edition is being issued.
The work is now complete, and publica-
tion will be immediate. All those, there-
fore, who are desirous of obtaining a copy
should send orders at once to
D. COOPER,
Box 265, Gr-JF»_o., Sydney
Business Announcements.
gpv* A
ABSOLUTELY THE BEST
?OVN^'
SOLE AGENTS—
N. GUTHRIDGE,
LTD,
71 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
T)EAR SIR,—I have been cured of Weakness and De-
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and -null
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBERT
E. PARKHUR3T, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Amusements.
JHEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Under the Patronage and in the Presence of Ilia Excel-
lencey the Lieutenant-Governor Sir F. M. Darley, G.C.M.G.
THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY,27th, 28th, 29th June
Mi*. F. M. ALEXANDER’S Production of
THE MERCHANT OF VENICE.
Mr. Alexander interprets ‘ Shylock,’ and will be assisted
by Miss Edith Tasco-Page as Portia, and members of his
Shakespearean Society will undertake the other characters.
OWN HALL, M E L B O U R N E.
ADELAIDE, 22nd June to 29th June, SYDNEY to follow.
JEAN GERARDY,
The World’s Greatest ’Cellist.
Under the Direction of Mr. A. H. CANBY.
SATURDAY AFTERNOON, 15th JUNE, LAST MEL-
BOURNE APPEARANCE.
Watch this Column. JOHN. H. TAIT.
TOWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
■ Under the Direction of Mr. AVON SAXON.
IMPERIAL CONCERT COMPANY
(op London).
MADAME BELLE COLE, the World-renowned Contralto.
Millie. Virginia Cheron, Soprano (from the Principal
London and Provincial Concerts). '
Mr. Avon Saxon, Baritone (late of the Carl Rosa Opera
Company).
Master Raimund Pechotsch, the Marvellous Boy
Violinist.
POPULAR CONCERTS.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is.
Box Plan now open at Allan’s.
FRED. W. NEWMAN, Representative.
ATHEN/EUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
** Under the direction of Mr. Robert Brough.
EVERY EVENING, BRILLIANT RECEPTION of
Mr. CHARLES BERTRAM
THE ROYAL and IMPERIAL COURT MAGICIAN.
ADMISSION—3s., 25., Is. Box Plan at Allan’s
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS, 2 p.m.
Wt/ld and Friedmans 9
ONLY GENUINE * J
BRITISH BIOGRAPH
ON TOUR
"WIECST
INCLUDING GOLDFIELDS.
“ The Best Australian Boole of Short Stories.”
Castro’s Last Sacrament
■ Bt ALBERT DORRINOTON.
4s 6d.
Business Announcements.
o Or New Catalogue
Posted Free to any Address in the •
Commonwealth.
AN APPLICATION ON A PENNY POST
CARD WILL DO.
KINDLY WRITE FOR ONE.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
SYDNEY’S LEADERS OF FASHIONS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
(We pay Postage on all Parcels of Drapery
to any town in this State.)
Amusements.
JER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
' ■ Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson,
ins. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
THE WILLIAMSON OPERA COMPANY.
TENTH WEEK AND CONTINUED SUCCESS of
FLO R O D O R A..
Box Plan at Nicholson's, George-street. Prices as usual.
|3ALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
THE HAWTREY COMEDY COMPANY,
T^'T«. T °-. NlailT - oat URDAY. m JUNE.
I’lrat .1 in»e »n Aiinu'uliil. tiic
ITJ the
A Farcical Comedy In 3 Acts, by Ralph Lumley, now In
its tenth month, and sti 1 in its zenith at the Strand
Theatre, London, preceded at S by FOR CHARITY’S SAKE.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices —55., 35., 25., and Is.
S JXT A. ZELL E.
4UEEN’S HALL, PITT ST., opp. Criterion Theatre.
The Enormous Success of SNAZELLE, with West &
Sons’Glorious Moving Illustration of OUR NAVY, will
be continued NIGHTLY at the QUEEN’S HALL, opposite
Criterion Theatre. SNAZELLE, with West & Son’s
Indescribable Illustration of Britain’s “FLEET IN
BEING.” Prices : 35., 25., Is. Matinees, Wednesday and
Saturday. Every Evening at 8.
Children Half-Price to all parts.
Manager for SNAZELLE, Mr. CHARLES MACMAHON.
Manager for WEST & SON, CAPTAIN EDWARDS, R.N.
CRITERION THEATRE, BYDN EY.
Under the Direction of Mr. Charles Holloway.
A UNPARALLELED TRIUMPH.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
MR. CHARLES HOLLOWAY
and his POWERFUL COTERIE OF PLAYERS, in
THE MILESTONES OF LIFE.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Early doors (Cd. extra) open 6.55;
ordinary doors, 7.30. Plan at Nicholson’s.
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
6th WEEK and LAST EIGHT NIGHTS of
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMAT-C ORGANISATION, headed by
Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN,
NIGHT BIRDS OF LONDON.
PRICES—3s, 2s and ONE SHH .LING. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
Empire theatre, Sydney.
(Late Royal Standard, Castlereagh-street.)
14th WEEK. (Still More Novelties.) 14th WEEK.
JOHN FULLERS EMPIRE CO.
Every Evening at 8. Every Saturday at 2.30.
Children Half-price to all parts (.Matinees).
SATURDAY NEXT.—Special Engagement of HERR
PAGEL, the German Hercules, who lifts a pony and
boy with one hand. Mr. DENNIS CARNEY (the. York-
shire Comedian), our third English Importation.
Prices—2s., Is., and Cd.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee J. 0. Williamson.
Sub-Lessee G. Musgrove.
A Real Hearty Laugh, and the Laughing Season will
Commence on
Saturday, June 15,
When the Renowned English Comedy Actress,
JENNIE MAYNARD,
Will produce for a Limited Number of Nights
THE VERY LATEST ENGLISH COMEDY SUCCESS
NURSE,
DIRECT FROM THE GLOBE THEATRE, LONDON,
Supported by
The Leading Young English Actor, Henry Ludlow.
PRICES AS USUAL.
Rickards’ tTvoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor .. .. Mr. rv Rickards.
Re-appearance after a long absence of
JOHN COLEMAN.
Enthusiastic Reception of LITTLE ERIC, the Boy
Wonder, THE 'POLYPHONE, THE FAUST SISTERS,
FRANK and JEN LATONA, AUSTIN RUDD, ALBERT
WHELAN, THE BIOSCOPE, and all Our Great Co.
Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Saturday and Wednesday.
BIJOU THEATRE, ~
Sole Lessee .. .. .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
ALFRED DAMPIER,
Supported by a Most Brilliant Coterie of Dramatic Artists.
EVERY EVENING,
AN .EXCESS OF ENTHUSIASM,
ROBBERY UNDER ARMS.
RICKARDS’ NEW OPERA HOUSE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY
COMPANY.
MARIE LLOYD,
ALEC. HURLEY, ALEC. HURLEY.
Celina Bobe, Mary Lynne, Irene Franklin, and the
Misses Noni and Madge Rickards in the Coon Ballet.
■THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee and Manager .. ~ Bland Holt.
ANOTHER GREAT POPULAR HIT,
IN LONDON TOWN,
The Exceptionally Powerful Drama, by Messrs
• George R. Sims and Arthur Shirley-
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 25.. Is. 6d. and Is. Bo
Plan at Allan’s CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
■JER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
■ ■ Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson
Bus. Manager. Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas.. Mr. E. J. Tai
MAGNIFICENT SUCCESS of WILLIAMSON’S
ITALIAN OPERA CO.
THURSDAY and FRIDAY. JUNE 13 and 14
LUCIA Dl LAMMERMOOR.
SATURDAY, JUNE 15, ERN A N I
JiErJ£ e8 ’ S'* ll8 ’ 6 «1 Stalls and" Famil
Oirole, 8a * Pit and Gallery, In. Box Plan at Allan's.
The stream of manuscript-musie that poured in on the
Jook tor approval was one of the sore trials of his private
secretary. Latter's struggles to keep his temper and yet
explain to Australia generally that the Jook wasn't a
music publisher wore pathetic.
If the quarantined Ada Reove accepts an engagement
this trip it will be from Rickards—that seems almost
certam. Rickards holds out the tempting offer of a
three-figures salary for seven appearances per week,
which mean more than 10s. a minute for all
the time she is on the stage, Ada’s health must be badly
run down if she can’t do with a little work on those
terms.
Bertram, the conjuror whom Brough is running through
Australia, is the hero of a well-known “poker" storv
He was a passenger on a Cunard liner, crossing the
Atlan ;c, when Lempriere Pringle induced him to break
his ru re card-playing and join in the interminable
t ran ’ e ° f ’Poker, which is the dissipation of some men
and the business of others on the six-days’ trip This
was the last day. Bertram, having chipped into the
ga '! lh i e J, u ' der > ,re3BUre - sim P>y waited for his deal, and
® n “ e “ tlle ff ame as far as he was concerned. After he
had thrown up his own hand as worthless, two of the
players started to bet against one another until the order
came for lights out.” By this lime they had raised the
stakes to a-giddy height, but were still intent on ruining
one another The two hands were sealed up in
envelopes and confided to the captain’s care, and next
morning the rival raisers resumed betting. At last
when the boat was nearly due at Liverpool, thev agreed
to see one another. Bertram had dealt a royal 'flush to
.;? ertram , can do much more wondc rful things than
that with a pack of cards in an apparently careless wav,
jet he will find it- hard to astonish any Melbourne people
who have been present at one of Benno Scherek’s private
displays of card trickery and mind-reading. Scherek is a
staggerer. Which reminds The Bulletin that Herr Benno
the musician and m.vsterian, is said to he leaving Aus-
tralia shortly—going to Europe, or Maoriland, or both
If he were to suddenly disappear in a burst of red fire and
blue smoke the incident wouldn’t be rno.'e surprisin''' than
some of his wizardry.
Marie Lloyd was so disappointed at her seeming failure
to get firm grip of the audience during her first nights in
Melbourne, that she proposed to ask Rickards for a
release from her £l3O a-week engagement. If she hadn’t
caught on later, she would probably have asserted her
right to be taken ill. Success is positively essential to
the business of a nervous lone-hand artist like Marie
Lloyd. In comparison with a “ star” actress in a stage-
play, she has nobody but herself to blame for a distinct
failure. She would simply sa.v “ They don’t like me,”
and cry her eyes out. '
An Australer in England writes Tins Bulletin : “ In
Newport Town, Monmouth, I found as manager of the
Empire Music All a neat and natty old gentleman of 69
years, Major Gallagher, who was through the Maori fight-
ing in 1861-65. Also in the same town encountered W. T.
Carter, ex-M.P. for Williainstown (Vic.) He was barrack-
ing the dockers and coal-miners for the Conservative
candidate, and in the face of the Coal Tax talked him into
the seat by a narrow majority. The men thought W.T.O.
a wonder—and I thought so too ! ”
The Freemasons of Parramatta entertained the Masonic
inmates of the various local asylums at the town’s Masonic
Hall. Among the guests was an erstwhile brilliant actor
high up in the Thespian world. A recital which he gave
proved that he had not lost all the power of the olden
time.
“ Adelaidean ” ; Had a shilling’s worth of “ Macbeth ”
last n'ght; .Nance O’Neil has lost some of her condition
and picked it up in ability. Her acting* was superb. The
local gods found Shakespeare very home-like and familiar
the opening line of ‘‘Macbeth 0 being “What bloody
man is this ? ” They recognised the adjective and
applauded tremendously.
George Musgrove began life selling shilling tickets, in
the pit-box, at the Melb. Opera House, under Lyster.
Musgrove’s father sold the two shilling tickets, for the
upper circle. George also had the monopoly of the opera
books. His first start in management was when he took
Lyster’s Opera co. to Maoriland.


R. U. O.K. & A 1?
IF NOT! WHY NOT?
*
Read the Records of Recovery.
The Case of Mr. S. W. FINNIE,
{For the Sydney Star.)
Mr. Sidney William Finnic made an
appointment for our reporter to call at
N<>. 32 Bay-street, Ultimo, one evening, so
that he would have plenty of time at his
disposal to furnish a complete account of his
wonderful recovery from a complaint which
had caused himself and relatives a great
amount of anxiety. Mr. Finnic is now a
splendid specimen of manhood, being over
thirteen stone in weight, and with a com-
plexion which testifies to the robust health
he enjoys.
“You do not look a likely subject to
speak with authority about sickness,” said
the reporter.
“No ; but if you had seen me a little
while ago, you would have had a different
opinion,” was the reply. “My direful
illness was brought on in a very simple
manner—through treading on a piece of
glass. That little accident was the pre-
cursor of subsequent complications, from
which my sufferings can barely be expressed.
My foot received a terrible gash, which
necessitated a number of stitches. I lost a
large quantity of blood from the wound, and
had to go about on crutches for six weeks.
When I could dispense with my crutches 1
found myself in a dreadfully weak and
nervous condition. I remember getting an
awful shock one day when passing a house,
with a hearse and mourning coaches outside.
It was a place where a friend of mine used
to live, and, on making enquiries, I found
that the poor fellow had died of the plague.
My nerves were incapable of withstanding
such a dreadful shook, and I went home
eeliug as cold as ice, and trembling from
head to foot. On arriving at my own place
1 was the colour of a ghost, and I quickly
fainted away. When I recovered conscious-
ness, the pulsation at my wrist was light
and fluttering, and my mind was depressed
and disquieted. My thoughts were in a
state of confusion, and I was totally be-
wildered. I had to obtain relief from my
laborious duties and take to bed, as I was
thoroughly broken down. My face became
p dlid, and wore a strange expression, with
tt.'e pupils of my eyes dilated and yellow
circles underneath. Sometimes my breath-
ing was very feeble, and my skin was cold
and clammy. When laying down 1 could
hear my heart beating against my ribs, and
I would then sit up to get a little ease. As
soon as I resumed my former position the
palpitation used to come on again. Short
stretches of sleep came occasionally, and
then I had terrifying dreams, from ‘ which
I awoke with a start in a condition of great
nervous excitement, and while still only
partially awake I had impressions of dimly-
seen objects or imperfectly-heard noises,
which became fresh sources, of horrible
images and ideas. It took mie some time to
regain my normal balance after these experi-
ences, and 1 was often afraid of my own
shadow. Then my digestion went all wrong.
No matter, how light my meals were, the
food obstinately remained heavily on my
fitomach, causing exasperating pains, which
were only relieved when the victuals were
vomited. Before being siok I used to belch
sour gases from the stomach, the taste of
which was never out of my mouth. Pains
in the back of my neck and under my
shoulders caused me a lot of misery, and my
headaches were a Bource of great torment.
Fits of dizzinesß were frequent, and when
sitting on a chair I felt as though it was
going round and round with me. Even-
tually I could not sleep at night, and the
vomiting became more frequent, leaving my
head in a whirl. All my strength and
energy had left me, and I was reduced over
two stone in weight.”
“What did your doctor think of your con-
dition?”
“ Apparently he did not know what to
think, for his treatment was not benefiting
me in any way I was afraid it was the
plague I had, and a number of other folks
were of the same opinion. In fact, when I
at length went to consult another doctor,
the neighbours were grouped together dis-
cussing my sickness, and on my return they
were still there, eagerly waiting to hear the
verdict. To our mutual gratification they
were informed that it was not the dreaded
plague.”
“ Did the second doctor manage to restore
your health ? ”
“Xo ; he was just as unsuccessful as the
first, although he gave me a great quantity
of physic. I became heartily sick of his
advice and medicine, because there was no
sign of an improvement. I had lost heart,
and did not expect to pull through my illness.
I was in this state of deepondency when I
was brought faoe to face with Clements
Tonic, w A friend sent me half a dozen
bottles, and guaranteed me a cure it I took
them I shall never be able to wipe out my
obligation to that man, for a few bottles of
Clements Tonic completely put me right. A
couple of bottles cured my nervousness and
brought me peaceful sleep. My aches and
pains all went away, and I could soon eat
heartily. In about three weeks I was as well
as you see me now, so it is not necessary to
say any more. I have every reason to be a
strong advocate of Clements Tonic, and you
are welcome to publish my opinion and
statements far and wide.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Sydney William Finnie, 32 Bav-treet, Ultimo
Sydney, in the Colony of New Sou.h Wales, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have care-
fully read the annexed document, consisting of
three folios and consecutively numbered from
one to three, and that it contains and is a
true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full per-
mission to publish in any way my statements —which
I give voluntarily, without receiving any payment;
and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the
provisions of an Act made and passed in the ninth
year of the reign of her present Majesty, intituled
“An Act for the Dfe-e effectual abolition of Oaths
and Affirmations taken and made in the various
Departments of the Government of New South
Wales, and to substitute Declarations in lieu thereof,
and for the suppression of voluntary and Extra-
judicial Oaths and Affidavits."
Wi/Zcam
cunce.
Declared at Glebe, this third day of September,
one thousand nine hundred, before me,
THOS. I NO. DUNN, H>.
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING.
HATTE’S Popular Department.
Our Three-Guinea. Dress Suit, with Silk Facings, beautifully cut and Finished. Cannot be equalled.
Our Five-Guinea Dress Suit cannot be procured elsewhere under £7 7s.
We carry an immense stock of West of England, Scotch, Irish, New Zealand and other Tweeds, al
in the Latest Designs and Patterns.
GENTS’ MELTON or SERGE OVERCOATS, from £2 ss.
New Zealand or Scotch Tweed Suits, to measure, 455.; usual City Price, £3 3s
Hatted Famous Tweed Suit, with Extra Pair of Trousers, hundreds of Patterns to select from, made
to measure, £2 2s.
Gentlemen residing at a distance have only to write for Self-Measurement Forms and Patterns to
have their orders faithfully executed. All our Tailoring done on the premises.
Our Chief Cutter is the Best in the State.
C. G. HATTE, Newtown.
THE
‘PLUM’
fsd
THE
PLUM
P ENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
vX like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR BTROP, specially made for this Razor, 7b. 6d.
“ RAZOLEB” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
_ /Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 108 6d j Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21s.
Price g; n g] e R azol> i n ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful ease, 30e.
Registered and sent Post Free to ant part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchamge on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
“I’ll Try It.”
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
(Japillarine
Posted (under cover)
> to any part of Austra..
lasia or New Zealand
Price, 108. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Remit.
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Ourly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Evbry Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to any part of Australasia.
ORAIG & AITKEN4:
New Bouth Wales Barber’s Bupply House,
680-882 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Business Announcements.
good Tailoring.
AUTUMN.
Rough Tweeds and Worsteds •
PURE INDIGO SERGES,
TO STAND ALL WEATHERS.
FANCY T!tOUBERINGB> VESTINGS, Ao.
Patters and Self-Measure Charts Post Free.
David Braham & Go.,
Tailors and Outfitters,
73 and 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR.
AH Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
HOLIDAY
PHOTOGRAPHY
No holiday is perfect without a means of
photographing interesting places and
incidents. Kodak Cameras are light,
compact, and eminently suited for all
holiday-makers, ladies, cyclists, &c.
Kodaks are mastered in a few minutes,
and require no dark room for changing
the films. Kodaks from 58. to £7 15s
Send for illustrated price list and mention
this paper.
Of all Photographic Dealers, or of —
KODAK, Limited,
The Block,
284 Collins Street,
Melbourne
THEM IS NO KOUAK BUT
THE Fft STM AH KODAK.
Medical.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy .
PATERNOSTER'S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdestuk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstke & Tkuman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
CURES COUGH.
• Cured my son of a dreadful Cough.’
Mrs. Johnston, Belleek, Fermanagh.
GIVES REST & SLEEP.
HAYMAN’S
BALSAM
of Horehound
Safa and Pleasant for Children.
•NOTHING LIKE IT FOE A COLD.’
Mr. W. Hird, Norwich.
STOPS COED.
*7
♦
•J I SUNBUg?|^fWING,
€P\C HAjKD' S. j
V \X &C..&C. y
»>■»
'v
Pff 'ETO
RS . • ►
f/
fa
Those
suffering
from weak
and sore eyes,
and blight, should
SINGLETON S OINTMENT
Never Fails. Restores Eyelashes.
- ALL CHM(IBTB.
Business Announcements
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the Footsteps of the Wise, and
Buy the Best, Cheapest and Most
Stylish Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & Co.
252-254 Flinders St., Melbourne
(Opp. Station).
Our Suit to Order at
42/-- is marvel’ous
value, perfect fitting
and beautifully finish-
ed.
Trousers. 12/6.
Dress and Clerical Suits,
to order. £>•
Biding Breeches, 25/-
Men’s Miits. Beady for
Wear, 25/-
Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indig i dye, 25/-
Lone Chesterfields, 30/-
Tweed Overcoats .21/-
Waterproof Coats, full
capes. 18/6.
Tweed or Serge Trousers,
6/11.
Travelling Rugs, 10/6
13/9.
Black and Blue Vicuna
Coats and Vests, 19/6.
Undressed White Shirts,
2/6,9/6, 4/6. 5/6.
Crimean Shirts, 5/6.
7/6.
Gent’s Bal*
moral 800t5.6/9.9/6
We like to write letters,
so don’t be afraid to
ask for any informa-
tion. Our book 7he
Philosophy of Dress .
patterns of all kinds
and s If measurement
forms post free. Write
for them.
ewf
Don’t Forget to Writ* for Patterns.
H. NEWMAN’S
SILVER KEYLESS
WALTHAM
WATCH
£2 10s.
FOR
FOR
A Splendid Timekeeper, with Beautifully Finished
Nickel Movement: Three-quarter Plate ; Compensation
Balance ; Seven Jewels; in Heavy English Hall-marked
Silver Cases.
On Receipt of Remittance one of these Watches will be
forwarded, securely packed, carriage paid, and at our
risk, to any part of Australasia.
H. NEWMAN,
The Waltham Watch Agency,
175 & 177 Elizabeth-st., Melbourne.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and 2OUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Joker’s Love Bond, or Siamese Links ; Parisian
Skirt Dance (a book bound and can be carried in vest
pocket), Book of Conjuring Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which
causes roars of laughter), Yankee Rubber Baby (can be
carried in vest pocket and blown out to life-size, to the
astonishment of all), Wizard Fish (gives the definition of
your character, very superior, for parlor entertainments),
Wizard Pack of Cards (can be changed as you please,
instructions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON Manager.
(Mention this paper when writing.
\%
BLAIR’S
GOUT ( RHEUMATIC
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBACO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 329,
Btrand, London, and sold at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d.
nor boat, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.


DO YOU WANT A WATCH?
Perhaps not for your own use, hut you may want one for your wife or von* W
t r £ a ha J e all k i nds and at all Prices hy the hundreds. We ilkS
trate and descnhe a few worthy ones. All of these have been made especially
for us and bear our name and we guarantee them to be thoroughly good and reliablJ
Unless you are m the trade or at least a close observer you will not detect the
difference in Watches as they appear in shops. A few WMk dfys Lm.tFmesJ
h o»e'e r . wiU show yon the defects of the inferior kind. Our
been selected from the best manufacturers in the World whose renutatiou for
Mffh-grade Watches ha, never been questioned. S these
Watches could not be improved. You can buy cheap Watches but a Watch
months b it to last a lifetime. If it only gives you satisfaction for a few
S riC ®' f Tlie Watches described here are the kind that
stand the wear and tear of everyday use and give satisfaction all the time. We
need hardly remind you that shortly a duty will be placed on Watches.
BUY KTOW !
n
This is a medium or six size
“Lady’s” 18c. Gold-case Hunting
“ Waltham ” Lever Watch. The
cases are nicely engraved in a
variety of Styles and are made
Extra Heavy. The Movement is
a fine Nickel f-plate with 17 Ruby
Jewels, Raised Gold Settings,
Exposed Pallets, Patent Micro-
metric Regulator, Compensation
Balance (adjusted to temperature
and position), Patent Briquet Hair
Spring. One of the finest
Watches made and at £l5 10s
it is good value.
asd
PRESENTATION
GOLD WATCH
We give an illustration here of a
Gold Watch suitable for presenta-
tion. The case is a heavy one of
18ct. Gold and can be had either
plain or engine turned. The move-
ment is a high-grade Waltham
.Lever with 21 Diamond and Ruby
Jewels, 2 pairs Diamond Caps, both
Balance Pivots running on Dia-
monds. Raised Gold Settings, Gold
Train, Double Roller Escapement,
Compensation Balance accurately
adjusted to temperature and posi-
tion, patent Brequet Hair Spring,
patent Micrometric Regulator, £35
Sft£^3===ssgaasss
.
m
mmm
mmm
MlMm
mimem
llliiiw
-mmmi
m wm
i
THE GOLD-FILLED
WALTHAM LEVER.
Gold-filled, with us, means 2 plates
of solid 14ct. Gold and 1 plate
of Composition in between. The
makers of the case guarantee it to
stand for 25 years, and as they are
THE case-makers of America their
guarantee is good. The movement
is a f -plate Nickel, highly finished.
It has 15 Ruby Jewels, patent
Brequet Hairspring and Regulator,
Compensation Balance. We guar-
antee this watch to give unqualified
satisfaction. £5 10s.
This is a small size
“ Lady’s ” Watch.
The case is full
Hunting 18 ct.
Gold and very
substantial. It is
engraved very
artistically. The
movement is f-
plat e w ith 17
Ruby Jewels,
Raised Gold Set-
tings, Patent
Regulator and
Breq u e t Hair
Spring, and is
adjusted to tem-
perature and posi-
tion. JBI4 10s.
fa
This shows a medium
size Hunting Keyless
Watch, with strong
14ct. Gold Case,
beautifully engraved.
The movement is a
f-plate Wal th am
Lever, with 16 Ruby
Jewels, exposed pal-
lets, Patent Regula-
tor, Compensation
Balance, adjusted;
also a Brequet Hair-
spring, hardened and
tempered in form.
We can recommend
this Watch as being
fit for the use of any
lady. Price JB9 lOs.
In open face £8 10s.
ef
This ill us t ration
shows one of our
Lady’ssmallsize Key-
less Hunting Waltham
Lever Watches. The
case is made of 10c.
gold and is nicely en-
graved. The move-
ment is a nickel §-
plate, 7 Jewels, ex-
posed pallets, Com-
pensation Balance,
Patent Brequet Hair
Spring, Hardened
and Tempered in
Form, and we guar-
antee its Timekeep-
ing quality, <£6 10s.
We have this Watch
in open face at <£6.
m
Wm&M
mm
uiimi
mmssesm
mm
This illustration shows our
Gentlemen’s Gold Hunting
Watch. It is a Watch fit for
the most exacting, being a per-
fect timekeeper. The case is
solid 18c. Gold, Engine Turned,
with Shield and Garter. The
movement is f-plate Nickel
Waltham Lever with 17 Jewels,
exposed pallets, Micrometric
Regulator, Compensation Bal-
ance, adjusted, and a Brequet
Hair Spring, hardened and
tempered in form. £lB 10s.
\
%
/
This is a fine
quality Waltham
Lever Watch.
The case is solid
and substantial,
Sterling Silver
vdth Gold Joints.
The movement is
gilded and finished
off in Nickel. It
has 17 Fine Ruby
Jewels, Gold Set-
tings, Double
Roller Escape-
ment, Exposed
Pallets, Compensation Balance adjusted to Tcmparature and Posi-
tion, Patent Regulator and Patent Brequet Hair Spring. We
have them Open Face with strong Crystal Glass and Hunting
at £5 10s.
OUR GUINEA
LEVER WATCH
Has been specially constructed
for country use, and we can recom-
mend it as a Reliable Timekeeper.
It is correctly designed, well made,
well finished and jewelled. The
cases are of oxidised Steel and are
very tight-fitting, thus excluding
dust and damp from the move-
ments. Strong Crystal Glass,
£1 Is. In Hunting Cases,
£1 5s.
Cl
*
This is one of the well-known—
and justly well-known—Rother-
ham Keyless Lever Watches. The
movement is on the f-plate
principle and has 15 Jewels, Com-
pensation Balance, Patent Brequet
Hair Spring, and is carefully
adjusted to temperature and posi-
tion. The case is strong and of
solid Silver. These Watches give
satisfaction everywhere. JO(J 10s,
H
We remittin C t Xa Fnv e TO S a tch keforewesend tt on *- >“* of.the Watches described above will be sent by post, registered, at our risk on receipt of
remittance. For many other styles of Watches write for our illustrated Price List. Your name and address on a Post Card will bring one along?
STEWART DAWSON & CO
And at Melbourne, Vic.; Perth, W.A.; Auckland, N.Z. ; Wellington, N.Z.; Christchurch, N.Z.; and London.
412 George St.
The Strand, Sydney


IMPURE BLOOD, ECZEMA, ERYSIPELAS,
PIMPLES, BOILS,
ABSCESSES, ULCERS, and TUMORS.
1/MTiunW’e POWDER nurifies the Blood. It rapidly draws out and expels the liquid exudate from Boils,
Pimples, Inflamed Glands, Ulcers, Erysipelas and the e“fce
“me”Xy “c* lSriLn and mal-assimilation. It fortifies the system against the contraction of any contains
disease
STRIKE AT THE ROOT OF THE DISEASE.
The advent of spring is at hand at aeh, LWev Spleen,
of poisonous deposits which the feretory g visible deposits then are unmistakeably discerned in the form of congested puss
carries the noxious matter all over the bo y- , Boils P and Inflamed Glands ; these may easily develop into more serious
or purulent matter, degrees, suet> aboils, or other disfigurement of the Skin, and
Ulcers, Abscesses, or Malignant lumors. To re g Qf V disease bv a thorough cleansing of the entire sys-
to prevent Ulcers, Abscesses, and Tumors you m , fcho Dotenfc factor against disease, it is the vivifying, nutrifying,
tern, and toning or bracing up ofjthe constitute • . crimson stream which is constantly pumped through the vascular chan-
and force-engendering power, the hquid vita y • g ora ti ve is KUTNOW’S Improved Effervescent Carlsbad POWDER,
nels to feed the hungry tissues Nature *. Great a convenient, agreeable, and inexpensive form,
made from the constituents of the f m to dispense with the necessity of a Continental trip, by the more preferable
enabling even the wealthy with leisure at hSth, whereby all the foul, noxious, and poisonous deposits are
use of Kutnow’s Powder at Home. is ® ourifvina the blood' The Blood is enriched by arousing all the nutritive forces,
neutralised and expelled from. the system, “JP3 Stimulating cell-life throughout the various organisms. It is used
increased secretory activity giving tone to the e:nt ■ Hospitals at Home and Abroad, endorsed by the Medical
•>; lh ; »•* Fam,ly -
Received the Diploma of Merit, Paris Exhibition, 1900.
Kutnoui’s Powder, the perfect Organic Cleanser!
, -mrc 4. POWDER mav be obtained in capsuled bottles of all Chemists and Medicine Vendors.
KUTNOW’S Improved Effervescent , P LEAP), AND THE AUTOGRAPH
Pronrietors- S- KUTNOW & GO., Ltd., 41 Farringdon Road, London, EC,
rrOpiltJLUlD . n US A ; KUTNOW BROS, Ltd., 883 Broadway, New York, U.S.A
The War in South Africa
AND
Kutnow’s Pouider.
Tan-y-Bwlch, Chester Road, Eddington,
4/2/1901.
Messrs. Kutnow & Co., Ltd., London.
Dear Sirs.— l have recently seen your advertise-
ment and offer in the London Morning Leader, and
shall be glad if you will send me a bottle of your
Carlsbad Powder for use in my family. I first heard
of your preparation from Sgt. Gardener, R.A.M.C.
(St. John Ambulance Brigade, Birmingham (City)
Division), who has just returned in charge of invalids
from South Africa. He was for some time stationed
at Princess Christian Hospital, Pine Town Bridge,
Natal, and had also served at several other base
hospitals. His first dutv on arriving in Durban, in
April last, was to assist in burying four victims from
Enteric Fever. As I was about sending out nine
more men (they sail on the Lismore Castle on the
7th), I asked him to address them. In the course of
his remarks he urged them to lay in a supply of
Kutnow’s Powder. He himself had attended to
HUNDREDS of CASES of ENTERIC, and the only
medicine he partook of was KUTNOW’S POWDER
twice or thrice a week as instructed on the bottle.
He had never been “ SICK OR SORRY ’’ for an hour,
and he attributed this fact to the bi-weekly use of
KUTNOW. In following Sgt. Gardener I suggested
that the men should lay in a stock of KUTNOW, and
I trusted they would benefit from the advice given
and would return to England, looking as strong and
hearty as he did.
Yours faithfully,
J. R. STAMP,
Supt. Sec., St. John Ambulance Brigade,
Birmingham (City) Division.
Malaria, Typhoid, Enteric
Fever, Dysentery, etc.
The above practical evidence demon-
strates that Kutnow’s Powder, by
cleansing the system, toning arid
strengthening the organs,. and bracing
the nerves, becomes the absolute safe-
guard against the contraction of any
contagious diseases.
Along the Castlereagh.
BOBBIE’S “TROUBLE"
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Norah came home, Aunt flared up at first;
but her heart is softer than bread, and she
did not insist upon Norah going away again.
Norah is Uncle Jim’s first wife, and the
Woman with the Past. She came back one
dripping night, years after all thought her
dead, to claim her son Bobbie, and she has
been on the selection ever since. Norah
is a good worker, faithful to Aunt’s children, and
much sought by the motherless kids in the dis-
trict. After Norah came home Bobbie grew like
a sapling; he was almost a man before Uncle
Jim’s first weaners were ready for the store. He
was supposed to attend school at Conroy’s Flat,
but he preferred the breezy ranges where he and
the young Brannigans played at bushrangers.
Between them they owned an iron pot, which
Bobbie would place over his head, like Ned Kelly,
as he stood statuesque and defiant at the mouth of
Warrigal cave. The Brannigan clan then assaulted
him with clods and loose bark until he cried out,
“Don’t throw at me legs !” —which was a sign of
surrender. Then young O’Shea Brannigan,
freckled and foxy-haired, would don the iron pot
and rush upon the clan like a whirlwind, shouting
“I’m Ned Kelly! yous can hit me where, yous
like ! ” There is a fine position in the “ foorce
awaiting O’Shea Brannigan. Nine of his family
are policemen ; the remaining ten have degene-
rated into publicans. .
“Rat” Hennessy was Bob’s dearest friend,
and the Castlereagh boys bitterly envied him
his close intimacy with Rat. Rat _was the
mysterious man whom they only saw at intervals.
They knew he travelled to the out-back stations,
crossed the Darling by the punt at Wilcannia,
drifted with mobs of horses from The Towers to
Bourke, bartering, coaxing, and thieving. He
knew blacks as a boy knows locusts. Ihe
police regarded him with suspicion. Many
times Bobbie begged of Norah to let him go
north and earn his living as a shearer or drover;
but Norah, with a wild fear in her heart, cried out
against the idea. Norah Sloan, a drover s daugh-
ter, knew the Bush as a wild-duck knows. the
reedy shallows of a lagoon. Deep in her gipsy
heart lived that queer aching for the dry tracks,
the morning camp on the treeless ridge, the blue
wood-smoke on the gully-edge, . the wheeling
pigeons that hover across the still billabongs. But
she dreaded the thought of Bobbie going away.
“No” she said, “ Bobbie wasn’t old and hard
enough to fight his fight just yet. Maybe in a
year or two she might let him travel. I hen
she would go to his room and put his clothes
straight. Whenever Norah was troubled she dgo
into Bobbie’s room and straighten things up.
And Bobbie grew more and more restless. He
loved his mother and the Castlereagh, its lagoons ■
and magpies ; but his blood sang the song of the
Open Road. Rat Hennessy had glutted him
with stories of wonderful trips with cattle, and
tales of how money was made and spent in Bris-
bane and Sydney. And in the spring Bobbie was
missing for a week. Norah was frantic. Heave
th’ young imp alone!” said Uncle.
glad ter come home first night it rams hard.
One morning there was the thud of hoofs along
the river-bank. Presently Rat Hennessy rode
up the homestead track, followed by Bobbie.
Bobbie was riding a dark little beauty of a mare,
who seemed*to hold a touch of Arab m her small
bones and lean head. Uncle stood and watched
if* mother’s about I’d like to say good-bye
to her, father,” stammered Bobbie.
“ Hurry - up, then ! ” squeaked Rat. His
feet twitched in the stirrups. “This good-bye
business is rot .. . sends a man to chokee. Hel
lfc Uncie took a step towards them. “Whose
horse is that yer ridin’, Bob ? ’ he asked sharply
“Mine,” snapped Hennessy. Nobody s
giving’em away just now.”
Uncle examined Bobbie s mount a little craftily.
“Two straight bars over D; thats Wooloombi
station brand. Things are lookm up, eh, Rat'
Then he turned to 'Bobbie, his teeth set: Cret
off that damned horse ! ” T t 1
“Plug him!” Rat moved towards Uncle
Jim, as though to ride him down.
“ G-et off that horse ! ” thundered Uncle. .
Bobbie appeared to be fighting a mob of invis-
ible devils; the Spring was in his blood and the
North was calling in a woman s voice, and the
North road stretched away, away. He turned
from Uncle uneasily. “Good-bye, father, leli
mother that ” . _ , c , .
“Listen!” said Rat. A far-off hoof-beat
echoed across the Flat. “We’re trapped.
Hennessy rushed his horse up the track, taking
the slip-rails at the end as if he was riding a
steeple-chaser. Before Uncle could seize the
bridle Bobbie was off too, shouting farewells from
a bend in the river. , . ~ .
When Norah came home that night, weary
from her search amongst the homesteads, she
asked Uncle for news of Bobbie. Uncle drew a
long breath and said, “Well, Norah my gel, a
cove called this morning an’ told us that Bob had
gotasteddy job in Queensland. What use
worryin’—he’ll come home first wet night.
• * * *
It was strange how the troopers began to hang
about the paddock. If Aunt or Norah went to
the fence they discovered a trooper leaning casu-
ally behind a tree. Sometimes one would enter
the house suddenly without anybody heapng him
ride-up, and start a friendly conversation with
Aunt while his eyes kept wandering round for
any stray bit of letter-paper from Bobbie that
might be blowing about. At last there was a day
when two came with a warrant for Bobbie s arrest,
and a month afterwards there was news that Bobbie
had been taken at Bourke on a charge of stealing
Paddock Queen, the property of Michael Feeney,
of Wooloombi station, on the Qastlereagh. Bobbie
got three years, and they sent him to Wilcannia
ga Norah didn’t see the papers, but someone had
to tell her. Aunt blurted out the news one night
when Norah was putting the children to bed.
Norah sat still in the chair with an undressed
child in her arms. Aunt said, “ Three years isn t
long, Norah. P’raps it’ll make a man of him.
You may be sure they’ll take to him, him being a
likeable lad. Most men take to him. Of course
it’s hard. But I’d bear up, girl. Damn that
Rat Hennessy !” Then Aunt looked at Norah s
face, and went into the other room to quieten the
children. , , 4 . ,
Norah sat so still that the child m her arms
slept. Somehow her dark gipsy hair became un-
loosened from its fastening, and tumbled about
the child’s face. Uncle came in and stood awk-
wardly beside her. “ Are yer asleep, Norah, my
gel?”
She answered, with her face close to the child’s,
“ No, Jim, I’m not asleep.” , .
“I’m thinkin’,” said Uncle, shuffling his feet;
*« l» m thinkin’ of takin’ up a bit more land, so s
when Bob comes out I can give him a good start.
Gaol’s a hell of a place,” he said, scratching his
forehead —“ a hell of a place. Well, good night,
Norah, my gel! ”
“ Good night, Jim.” . _
Nobody seemed to go to sleep that night, x ast
midnight, when the rain was thundering on the
roof, Uncle Jim heard a low sob from the room
where Norah was—such a sob as sometimes comes
from a hurt child, and, immediately after, it was
repeated at his side. Aunt had heard it, and was
crying too.
• • * *
Three years soon slipped away, and Uncle was
doing well. A few months before Bobbie came
out he opened an account at the local bank, and
thereafter received blue official envelopes ad-
dressed “James Sloan, Esq.” Whenever any-
body called, Uncle would turn the conversation
on banking matters and “ my friend th’ manager.”
One afternoon Aunt saw a man in a grey suit
walking towards the house—with Bobbie. Uncle
Jim and Norah were away at the siding. Bobbie
seemed slightly dazed when Aunt spoke to him ;
he appeared to have forgotten her. He stood
holding the verandah-post and wiping his hot face
with a handkerchief. The man in the grey suit
explained that Bobbie wasn’t quite that
he’d be all right after a day or two. Hedidnt
stay, but went back to the station.
It was dark when Norah came home. _ Aunt
met her outside, and told her that Bobbie had
arrived. She took a deep breath and made quick
gestures with her hands. “Where is he? Has
he been asking forme?”
“Of course he has.” Aunt gave her the lie and
the State-orphan Aunt had got to help
with the children, was reading aloud from a paper
something she was going to recite at the Bran-
nigan’s ‘ ‘ social. ” Norah slipped round the veran-
dah to where Bobbie was sitting in a chair, his
face to the river. She approached him like a
woman who had pictured their meeting through
long, aching nights and days. ...
“Bobbie!” She knelt beside his chair, and
tried to draw him towards her. He leaped up
white-faced, and fell back crouching against the
verandah-rail. “ Take away your handcuffs !
I’ll be quiet. . . . What’s the good shoving
a man about; if I hit back, it’s solitary. . . .
Yous trapped me all-right Where s Rat
Outside Bourke . . . Yous fired on me. . . - Bad
luck for me—it didn’t, eh? Ha! ha! Wish
those warders wouldn’t sneak about . . . sending
me up for solitary. I’ll behave. Don’t bang me
He stood wide-eyed and trembling, his hands
thrown-up as though pushing back some ponder-
ous shape, the sweat of fear streaming down his
“ It’s me —your mother. I won’t hurt you,
dear. ” She stood up, and tried to soothe him.
“Stop!” he whispered. “No talking after
lights are out. ’S’h ! ” He turned his white face
towards her, and for a fraction of time intelligence
stayed in his eyes. “ Hush . . . Mother !”
Then reason vanished like a harlequin through
one of the million traps in his brain. His hands
went up again to keep off the dreadful gaoler. .
Uncle and Aunt stood inside, talking in whis-
P< From the stillness of the house came Maggie’s
voice, flat and monotonous, reciting her “piece”—
“I know not whether laics be right ,
Or whether laws be wrong,
All that I know, who lie in gaol,
Is that the wall is strong,
And that each day is like a year —
A year whose days are long.
“ For they starve the little frightened child,
Till it weeps both night and day;
And they scourge the weak, and flog the fool,
And gibe the old and gray ;
And some grow mad, and all grow bad,
And never a word may say.”
And Bobbie stood slouching against the veran-
dah-rail, wagging his head. “I’ll say anything,”
he whimpered, “ if you won’t bang me against the
wall.”
Norah sat down on the boards, with hands
clutching her knees. “They’ve drove him mad !
. . . Oh I . . . God forgive them 1 ”
m m m *
It is strange how the kids have taken to Bobbie
since he came out of gaol. He doesn’t rush about
as in the old days, but sits on the creek bank play-
ing a mouth-organ. If you speak to him, he smiles
meekly, but does not answer. He eats and sleeps
well, but always as if he was watched. Norah has
no trouble with him ; and, when the Fear takes
him, he always comes to her for shelter. Uncle
Jim will sit, sometimes for an hour, watching him
until he can watch no longer. Then he goes away
softly, muttering, “By Gawd ! ”
N.S.W.
ALBERT DORRINGTON.
Some See-Lee Syllables.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
State politics are very mixed,
As anyone may plainly See,
When ’twixt the two opposing lists
No greater difference exists
Than Tweedledum from Tweedledee.
When prosperous times bring sweet content,
And surpluses grow easi-Lee,
The Premier smiles in manner bland,
And proudly says, “ You understand,
lam the country’s saviour—See ?"
When cadging deputations come
And ask for votes so sturdi-Lee, .
He thinks how he may gain support,
And answers them with cautious, short,
And hypothetical “ We’il See.”
“ The Ship of State sails well,” he cries,
“ With a wet sheet and a flowing See.”
When “ ’Bout ship ! ” the commander says,
What happens if she misses stays?
Grim, threatening rocks are on her Lee.
His adversary takes the stump
And rates him with scant courte-See ;
The Premier gets upon his feet
And answers him (in Scotch) with heat,
“ The scoonril’s tale is a’ a Lee.”
The billowy main is treacherous ;
Dark secrets hath the deep, deep See. . . .
“ My skeletons I safely keep ;
But may not jobs as sound-Lee sleep
Beneath the soft and verdant Lea ? ”
For difference between L and S
The people do not care a D .
They only murmur, in a glow
Of cynical contempt, “ We know
It’s all a thing of £ s. d.”
M.L.
J. L. KELLY.


People Who Work I
(i
r
Take out of the world the
people who work and there
wouldn’t be enough left to
make a respectable commun-
ity.
The working people are the
hone and sinew of the human
race.
Hand" work makes had
backs, give the kidneys too
much to do and backache is the first note of
warning, followed by urinary trouble if not
relieved.
A Sydney Man
Mr. James Hudson, 10 Lennox-street, Newtown, this city, says: “I work in the Bondi sewer.
There is a constant drip, drip there; and when working it mostly happens that one is wet through.
Some parts are better than others; but while working in the shafts one is continually damp, and this
affected my health. My trouble came with a bad cold in my kidneys, which caused terrible pains in
the back. I did my work, but it was most fearful torture for me to do so, as you can well understand.
I was exceedingly bad with these pains, when I saw Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills advertised, and it
struck me by the name of the remedy that it should be good for my complaint. I procured a box at
Newman’s Pharmacy, in King-street, and they cured me in a fairly quick time. I could not take
them constantly, being afraid to use them while working in the wet sewers; but I managed to take
two doses a week. The nature of my work causes me to nave slight returns of the pain ; hut I take a
dose of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, which never fails to oure me. lam never without them in the
house.”
The household duties which
devolve on most women tax the
Kidneys. Stooping positions,
straining the back, and the cares
of the home will in time affect
the most healthy of womankind.
Every woman will find quick
relief and permanent cure in
the use of
V
Doan’s Backache Kidney pills.
They act on the Kidneys only, and never
fail to relieve the aching back and cure every
form of urinary disorders.
» — 1 © o ’ 1
A Sydney Woman.
Mrs. Wright, 6 Red Lion Street, Balmain, this city, says:—“About twelve months ago I used
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, which I procured at Newman’s Pharmacy, to see whether they would
cure a cold which had settled in my kidneys. The pain in my back was very bad indeed, so bad that
it caused me very much inconvenience as well as pain. You see it was in such a place that it affected
the whole of my system. Less than one box of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me. In fact, a
few doses rid me of all pain, but I took a dose now and again to make sure that that terrible pain
would never return. They are first-class pills, and I hope that anybody who is having such an experi-
ence as I had will lose no time in getting this extremely valuable remedy.”
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS are for sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at
28. 9d. per box, or six boxes for 15s. 3d.; or same will be forwarded on receipt of price by the pro-
prietors, Foster McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Eczema.
Ever have any irritation of the skin ? There are
many forms of it, any of them bad enough to tax
your patience. Hemorrhoid, a plague of the
night; no rest for the sufferer from this complaint.
Eczema, too; hives don’t sound dangerous, but
they cause much misery to those unfortunate
enough to be troubled with them. Doan’s Oint-
ment is “a wonder” for any such trouble. No
troublesome irritation of the skin can resist its
healing, soothing influence. We know it, and lots
of Sydney people know it now.
A nurse, residing at 428 Jones-street, Ultimo,
states: “I have been a sufferer from itchiness of
the skin for some time. I did not know the cause
of it, but it irritated me very much indeed. I
have cured many skin complaints for other people,
but I could not get anything that was good for my
own ailment until I used Doan’s Ointment, which
I procured one day when visiting Newman’s Phar-
macy in King-street. I think I must have used
almost everything for such troubles, but Doan’s
Ointment is best of all. It cured the itchiness
which I suffered from entirely and almost imme-
diately.”
The lady gave us these facts twelve months ago,
and now she speaks further upon the subject: “ A
year ago I gave you a testimonial regarding the
medicinal properties of Doan’s Ointment. I have
used this Ointment for various purposes since, and
noticed its splendid curative powers, and must
acknowledge that it is the finest remedy for skin
diseases I have ever come across. It seems to cure
permanently in every case, and its quick effects
are simply marvellous.”
Doan’s Ointment is splendid in all Diseases of
the Skin, Eczema, Piles, Hives, Insect Bites, Sores,
Chilblains, &c. It is perfectly safe and very effec-
tive.
Doan’s Ointment has been tested in so many
ways, in hospital work, in private practice, and
has proved so successful that a special arrange-
ment has been made by which all readers of The
Bulletin who have not already tried it may
obtain a sample pot, free by mail, by sending us
their names and addresses and a penny stamp to
pay postage. We know that this Ointment will
cure these affections, that it will cure them abso-
lutely, and we want you to know it. It is per-
fectly unnecessary for anyone to suffer from Hies
or Eczema for one moment. Doan’s Ointment
will cure them absolutely, but do not take our
word for it; send a penny stamp for a sample box.
The large size box is sold at 2s. 9d. per box (six
boxes 15s. 3d.). If you cannot obtain it locally
from your chemist or storekeeper, same will be
posted on receipt of price by the proprietors
Eoster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
When writing for sample please mention The
Bulletin.
Marketin’.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Did you ever get your livin’
In the market-gard’nin’ line—
Turnin’ out of bed at midnight
In the wet or in the fine ?
All day long you put-in slavin’,
Gettin’ ready with your load,
Then you snatch a few hours’ sleepin’
Ere you start upon the road.
Wife, she gets the coffee ready,
And some hot scones crisp and brown,
But it’s pitch-dark, and it’s rainin’,
And it’s twenty miles to town.
With a sack across your shoulders
And another o’er your knees,
You are doin’ what you can do
For your warmth and for your ease.
Patiently the old horse trudges,
Teachin’ you a lesson bright—
But you feel right at your lowest
In these late hours of the night.
Dreary looks the sleepin’ oity
As you trace the echoin’ street;
And a sad and lonesome object
Is the bobby on his beat.
But it’s down at Paddy’s Market
Is the dreariest of all;
Waitin’ for the place to open,
How the weary minutes crawl!
When it’s bargainin’ with Chinkies,
Or a “ Strike-me-balmy ” “ bloke ” :
“ Whaffor ?—too much ! Me no givee 1”
“Bli’me, mate, I’d quick be broke I”
When you’ve ploughed, and hoed, and harrowed,
Watched and tended, night and day,
And the price you get is nothing
But “just givin’ stuff away.”
Then you swear you’ll “chuck ” the gard’nin’,
And you’ll try some other “ game”—
But the summer follows winter,
And you’re at it just the same !
But there’s nights the stars are glorious,
And the moon’s a picture grand—
When the quietness and beauty
Make it seem another land.
From the ridge the velvet darkness,
That envelops all the town,
Makes the city lights resemble
Bright stars that have fallen down.
And there’s times you strike it lucky,
When the stuff’s a “ rippin’ price ”
When the “ strike-me ” bloke’s a brother,
And a Chow smells almost nice !
Then you swear you’ll stick to gard’nin’—
It’s as good as any “ game ”;
And though summer follows winter,
You are at it still the same.
N. S.W.
ULOOLA.
That Face!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was when I had half-time schools a couple of
hundred miles from Sydney. I got travelling-
expenses before leaving the' city ; and, when I
reached the township nearest to my destination,
was 9s. 6d. to the good. This went for grog. I
had a pretty glorious night, and a lovely head for
breakfast.
On Sunday, the local board-secretary drove me
to my destination, and I took up my quarters
with one of the best families. Hitherto it had
only been suspected of cattle-duffing. The bad and
medium families had been convicted, and had
either served their sentence or were in the middle
of it.
On Monday morning I set out for the school,
six miles away. I rode along a bridle-track
between walls of dense scrub, with, at intervals of
100 yards or so, big gum-trees near the track. I
was rather startled to see—projected from behind
the first of these —a man’s grinning face. I spoke,
and the face disappeared like a flash. Next tree
the same face—a hideous, distorted countenance-
showed itself. I shook up the moke, in order to
shake off the face, but it was no use. The thing
peered from behind every big tree I struck.
“ Well,” I thought, “last night’s grog may be
at the bottom of it ” ; so, instead of returning to
my quarters in the evening, I rode into the town-
ship to interview the publican. Told him I’d been
‘ ‘ seeing things ” —didn’t mention what —and asked
if he thought his liquor had anything to do with it.
He was indignant, and called in a big pound-
keeper who acted as chucker-out, and who wanted
to fight me for a sovereign. “ Would make me a
present of five bob if I stood afore him for six
rounds.”
The publican said: “Why, darnit all, man, I
remember yourself saying it was good tack.”
This was true. I had been led into complimentary
remarks about the stuff—as half-a-dozen loafers
now suddenly remembered —and testified. The
pound-keeper reckoned it a fair thing for me to
shout for all hands and apologise, which I did.
Then he wanted badly to know what I had been
seeing, but I wouldn’t say. In a fit of depression
I wrote home and told about the “face.”
Next morning I started for the seminary, and
again the awful face dodged along; but this trip
it was surmounted by something like a decayed
sugar-mat. It was dreadful!
After school I wrote-out my resignation, and
told Prigg—the man I lodged with—what I had
done, and why. He guffawed, and said, “ Why,
bless your innocence, that’s only me wife’s brother
Jim ! He’s been balmy for years, but he’s harm-
less as a child. It’s only tricks he’s up to ! ”
I endured the face for a month, but didn’t like
it, as it interfered with my digestion and sleep. I
was wearing to a shadow.
Now, when I was a youngster, I’d had a
tick in the top of my head, whioh must have
gone close to the brain, as it nearly settled
me. I broke part of it off, but neglected to
extract the remainder, whioh kept on boring.
the® wound Tju C6 \, probed , and dressed
I
anxicms If Son> and they were naturally a bit
“ face ” thev Y he a th ®y heard about the
as W b ° a T ternbl y alarmed, and wrote,
asking me to come home at once—which I didn’t
About a week later, two strong men turned-up
at the school and said they had “mediS
oufet/v^ 1 authority,” an d asked me to “go
quietly. I went, but not quietly. Whilst the
Afterwa?ds WaS ° n> \ he P u P ilBtoo k tothe scmb.
neonhThS ’ oa P tors explained that the old
S a S and th ®y advised me to be
qumt’ as they didn t want to knock me about.
n Jed n iat mght at the P ub -i and, after tea,
the fat poundkeeper came into the room and said
how very sorry he was for me. I must havelooked
somebodv l iwL the fellow > on leaving, remark to
EH ln the passage: “Blowed if I didn’t
IKed ofTe u“„r ““ y “ ehl he “ m '
~i™L th later > 1 a billet with a chemist and
uvea at home —under surveillance.
. * *_ * *
Last time I saw Jim, he was behind some bars
at Tarban Creek.
It was Prigg he had killed !
YARRUM.
Mickey.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mickey was a born black-mailer, and I lived to
know it.
It was this way. When we were boys together,
I was guilty of the crime of my life, and Mickey
was the only living soul besides myself who knew
of it. I wanted to fetch a colt in from the country
and Mick volunteered to lend me a hand. I
mounted the first moke I came to, which hap-
pened to belong to the bailiff, and Mickey rode an
animal that had worked all day for a butcher.
It was just after dark when we set out. When
we got the colt out on the road, and headed for
home, he went at a terrible rate, and we looked
like losing him at a cross-road.
I left Mickey to bring up the rear, and sent the
bailiff’s horse along to head the young ’un.
I just managed to come up with him about half-
a-mile from the turn-off, and then there was a
neck-and-neck go. After a bit, I heard something
crack; and my horse and I sprawled over the
road, in against the bank of a cutting.
When Mickey came upon the scene, he wanted
to know, and I told him of the crack. Then he
fot a light, and found the animal’s leg broken,
t must have been an old break.
I made Mickey get a big stick and soratoh the
bank well to make it appear that the crock had
slipped and rolled down. Animals were in the
habit of rolling into that cutting. I had been
riding without a saddle, so I just nipped the
bridle off, and we double-banked to town.
In next issue of our local paper I noticed that a
man claimed five shillings from the municipal
council for removing a dead horse from the road.
Then I breathed freely again—but not for long.
Mickey took to borrowing threepences, and he
came so often that I resented the attacks, and re-
minded him that I was neither an elder brother
nor a parent.
One night I was going to a circus, and Mickey
—who thought he’d like to go, too —wanted to
borrow a shilling. I reminded him that I had
only the one; and he, after speaking of the inci-
dent at the cross-roads, said it would be just as
well for me to let him have it. Mickey was pre-
sent at that circus—l wasn’t.
One Sunday I was going to church, and he
wanted to borrow “ thruppince.” I had only one
on me, and that was for the plate. I told him I
hadn’t one, and he said it might be as well for me
to find it. I found it.
A few days after I was going down town to buy
a pair of fancy pigeons, and had the half-crown
with me. Mickey turned up, and wanted “ the
lend of two shillin’.” I couldn’t see it for a bit.
Then Mickey indicated the bailiff, who was step-
ping up the street, and I had to go without my
pigeons.
Another time I had to burgle my little sister’s
money-box to supply his wants.
Mickey was getting intolerable. Altogether, I
had lent him about £2, and it never struck me
until the other day that I might have settled the
whole matter with the bailiff for any sum from
twenty-five shillings down.
After a while it occurred to me that my only
hope for peace lay in murdering either Mickey or
the bailiff, and after mature consideration I de-
cided that Mickey would have to quit. I had not
quite settled on the particular poison, when a
fever came along and took him. Often since then
I have thought what a splendid thing it was for
Australia that he didn’t live to be a man.
I visited him when he was near his end, to make
sure that he hadn’t sold his interest in me to the
hospital-nurse, or somebody.
Just before he went-out he looked up at me and
whispered : “ You’ll—have ter —100k—after —me
dorg—or I’ll tell —the bailiff —about .”
YARRUM.
A copy of “A Policy for the Common-
wealth,” The Bulletin’s particularly suc-
cessful pamphlet, will be posted from this office 'o
any Australian address on receipt of Bd. in stamps
(of any State).
Earl of Dundonald, the swaggah officah in
command of Buller’s cavalry before Ladysmith,
seems to have taken the Boer tactics to heart. He
proposes that the future British defence of S’Africa
shall be maintained on free and easy lines, the
men being allowed to work for themselves in their
own time, wearing any kit they choose to adopt.
This from a man of Dundonald’s training in the
school of plumes and pipeclay amounts to an aw-
ful satire on Australian military fiddle-de-dee.
Gadara, somewhere nearTumutand Adelong
(N.S.W.), has now entered the running the
billet.of Federal capital. But if the Federal Ter-
ritory is to be large enough to prevent the
increased land-values (created by the expenditure
of the Commonwealth money on the building of a
Federal capital) from spreading over the border to
be mopped-up by the private landlord outside,
then it should take in three or four counties.
And when two or three pin - point villages,
within half-a.-dozen miles of each other,, howl
at each other for separate possession of the
capital, the situation is ridiculous. There is
no reason why Gadara (apparently named after
the New Testament place, which the swine left in
such haste), or Tumut, or Bombala, should not be
a speck on the surface of the Federal Territory.
But they can’t be the Federal Territory, unless
the Federal Legislature has lost its head.


Was Very Weak
Lost Flesh Rapidly,
Took Quantities of Medicine, Failed all the Time.
Was Quickly Cured with
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
-V*
i
il
!
“Some time ago I had a very severe attack of influenza which left me
nreatly weakened. I lost flesh rapidly and was in a very bad way.
’ “I took quantities of medicine, but constantly grew worse all the time.
R'inallv I tried Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and began to improve from tiie start.
“Itook about six bottles and was perfectly cured. I have used this remedy
in my family a great deal and I know it to be a thoroughly reliable health-
- IRailway Station Master, of Sunnybank, Queensland, sends us
this letter together with his photograph, which we reproduce above
This is a strong letter, one which must remove all doubt, It is additional
propf that Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine-”
You ought to profit by it greatly, for if you are weak, have lost flesh, are with-
out appetite, and feel languid and depressed, here is a quick
Perhaps the trouble is with your blood and you are suffering from headache,
boils, eruptions of the skin, scrofula, and rheumatism; or if you are suffering
from weakness of any kind, here is a prompt and most perfect cure.
AY ER ’ S Sarsapa ri 11 a
Removes 111 Effects of Hot Weather.
AYER'S PILLS A Vegetable Laxative for the Whole Family.
26
TEARS’ SUCCESS
AS THE '
UNIVERSAL REMEDY
FOR
Coughs, Colds,
Asthma,Bronchitis,
Influenza, Whooping
? Cough, Consumption,
HAS MADE
♦
jungloTilc
AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY IN THE HOME
OR KIT OF EVERY COLONIAL.
It saves many Lives.
There is no difficulty in obtaining it, so
when you ash for Owbridge’s Lung
Tonic, insist upon havirig it, as
other so-called remedies are
often substituted .
Prepared by
W.T. OWBRIDGE, M.P.S., Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottles, at ls.l£d. t 2«. lls ".
by all Colonial Medicine Vendors.
COPYRIGHT.
Worth a Guinea a Box.
REE CHAM'S
/ILL MAKE YOU
LOOK
PILLS
These family favorites are com-
posed entirely of Medicinal
Herbs, and are warranted free
from mercury or other poisonous
substance. They can harm no
one, and may be given to children
or to the aged and infirm :with
perfect safety. They cleanse the
PRICE IS.ItXJ
Sold ty ili* Proprietor
ST. HELENS
LANCASHIRE. ENGLAND-
the
tomach and bowels, and purl
m
the whole nervous system, and give tone and energy to the muscles.
BEECH AM’S PILLS have stood the test of
'ver ft ft If years witho at the jpw l) J/icati on of
<stimonials. Parents recommend them to
heir children , Friends recommend them to
ne another, and BEE CHAM'S PILLS recom-
mend themselves.
FEEL
WELL
AND
KEEP
WELL.
"
The Manufactory at St. Helens is a model of system and
cleanliness, and the care bestowed on their manufacture ensures
BEECHAM’S PILLS being always reliable.
6,000,000 Boxes are sold Annually, and wherever
tried they have been adopted as the specific to be depended on
for defeating those evils which usually assail health in our daily
lives, and if taken in time will ward off many a, serious illness/
-v •
mm.
.
SOLD EVERYWHERE IN BOXES, Price Is. 1
U V-
(168 PiUs).
s. FREEMAN # SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPW’IAI.TIES:
BATHO’S
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
PRIZE
POWDER.
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR,
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE, WINYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
■
mm
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Bheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
■■MHSH
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
4
n :
Sold Throughout the World.
DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
N.B-ASK FOR
O
ef
IRISH MOSS
TOR
-The best remedy-
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS.
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS.
ASTHMA
Ask for Banning ton’s
and seetkatyou get it.


RUBBER GOODS
Waterproof Coats, 15s to 70s.
Rubber Boots, 17s 6d to 20s.
Goloshes —Ladies’, 2s 6d and 3s.
Gentlemen’s, 4s and
4s 6d.
Leggings, 4s 6d, ss, and 6s 6d.
Driving Rugs,
10s 6d, 16s 6d, 2ls, 30s
Hot-Water Bags, Best English
Rubber, 6s and upwards
PERDRIAU & CO.,
RUBBER MANUFACTURERS & IMPORTERS,
(Catalogues Post Free) 270 George Street, Sydney.
I
YEARS DYEING
for the LADIES.
W. C- ,-F! T,,.TO -R.T"nODE & CO..
S YI>NEv
40 ¥ Oil li NT 1i Sii j,; p
(0| l>. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
GEORGE & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY. "
APARTMENTS : Bedroom (single), 3s. per Day, or 21s.
Week"° m (double) > 6s ‘ P er day, or Two
BrG "HrL r L^G°Cpw a rds rler fr ° m
Letters and Telegrams .addressed to “The Manager’’
will receive prompt attention.
WORTHINGTON
All have Wrought Iron Valve Gear.
PIMIPS, both Horizontal & Hertical,
. . . KEPT IN STOCK . . .
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Sole Australasian Representatives,
32 and 34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Send for Catalogue.
PUMPS
. WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
as
PLUN6ER ANO RING PATTERN
TANGYES
df
DUPLEX PUMPS ARE UP tq DATE.
BENNIE, TEARE& CO.
HAVE DEPOTS IN
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, PERTH, GOOLCARDIE,
And oarry Stocks of Materials and Furnishings for
MINING, ENGINEERING, IMPLEMENT-
MAKING and IRRIGATING.
SOLE REPRESENTATIVES IN AUSTRALIA OP
TANG YES LIMITED.
THIS ZPZEaiJDIE
OIF COG-Tl\A_C-
— BRANDY.
ESTABLISHED 1795.
asf
N.S.W. Fresh Food & ice Co> ltd.
Fish and Game, hard frozen and well packed, forwarded to all parts of the State.
People residing in distant localities where Good Butter is unobtainable, are recommended to obtain their supply from the above Company, proprietors of the
well-known *« Golden Star ” brand, and Sole Agents for the famous “ Berry ” brand. Both kinds are Pasteurised, and have excellent keeping qualities.
Our Bakehouse Goods, for Balls, Parties, (fee., are conceded to be the finest manufactured. Sent well-packed to any town in N.S.W.
Head Office ; HARBOUR ST., SYDNEY.
JPrice Lists and Particulars sent to any Enquirers.
C. C. LANCE. Manager.
1
Sli
!?: #/ ■
® 1 f ;: / ' » i <
u
A
Vv,y4
i - .:"‘!®'n«. 'l*
*1
1
a -s: papte
* litesafVMsss - • ■ ! ;v-- ■ ,; k
■' ISSfel
IV
0
ARKE &
L
COMPANY LIMITED
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS,
Manufacturers and Importers of
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES & BOILERS;
IN STOCK
Knowles Steam Pumps, Ingersoll Rock Drills and Air Compressors, Nagle
Horizontal and Vertical Engines and Boilers, Pennsylvania Return Tubular
Boilers, Buffalo Blowers and Exhaust Pans, IVlorris Dredging Pumps,
Bullock Diamond Drills, Dodge Rock Breakers, Roger Rolls, Gates’ Rock
Breakers, Challenge Ore Eeeders, Huntington Quartz Mills, Wood and
Iron Working, and Laundry Machinery, and Mine and Mill Supplies.
And at
San Francisco and London
‘A3 NO AS ‘-*S OOUOJHio 09
EAM PUMPS
SINGLE
AND
DUPLEX OUTSIDE PLUNGER PATTERN.
Pumps for Every Possible Pumping
Boiler Feeders
Light Service Pumps
Mining Pumps
Vacuum Pumps
Air! Pumps
Air! Compressors
. j ---
Sole Agents in Australasia —
H. P. GREGORY* CO.,
Sydney # Melbourne.
m
mmsESSESSk
ftIIEiw»S3S£BSS
.-fe:
■ ■' :-
•
fii'.W,
: _ 5 --’ m'i"-
&!st|9BPsPB|
!KB»lNfe!!sn.WM*g
DUPLEX PISTON PATTERN.
