

McEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. BEAVER STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best
Cadbury's Cocoa
Of
Highest Purity-”
The Lancet.
R. Car. WATKINS £& CO.,
10*7 Kent street, Sydney,
M in mg - and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS' and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
INSIDE BEARINGS.
axie part round and v ßquare
at ends, rnetted?
GIBSON, BATTLE &C° M Pitt strM ,, SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for Samuel Osborn & Co*, Sheffield, makers of Mushet’s Titanic Borer Steel for Miners’ Drills, Bessemer Steel, Cast Steel, Mushet’s
Self-Hardening* Tool Steel, Mtafag* Wfell-frorfVigr r Spring:, and Tyre Steel, Steel Castings of all Descriptions, Steel Truck Wheels and Axles.
INDENTS EXECUTED, SPECIFICATIONS SUPPLIED FOR ALL KINDS OF MACHINERY.
J3TEEE CASTINGS, HAMMERS, El EES.
THORNFS
A 1 WHISKY.
HELIDON SPA:
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
TOOTH: & CO. Ltd., Agents, Sydney.
1
IS
iim
HOBART
Hadley’s jjrisnt [jots!.
■Mffty
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, onnosite
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hnt!
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week
RESERVE EXTRA. RESERVE SPECIAL. RESERVE EXTRA SPECIAL SUPREME
SAN DEMAN’S AUSTRALIAN WINES.
241 PITT STREET, SYDKTEY.
PETTY’S HOTEL
IS UNSURPASSED
by that of any other in Sydney for
Comfort, Privacy, Convenience and
Healthy Situation.
The Sanitary Arrangements are of the
most perfect description.
The Hotel is under the Direct Management and
Supervision of
MRS. WILLIAM GANNON, Proprietress,
Telephone 274. Church Hill, Sydney.
10s. per Day or £3 3s. per week.
SPECIAL TERMS CAN BE ARRANGED FOR
FAMILIES AND PRIVATE APARTMENTS.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia,
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J, C. LUDOWIC! & SOM, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
Branches:—P. Frankel & Co., Edward-st., Brisbane, Q.;
H. Summers, Barrack-st., Perth, W.A. ; H. K. Pysh and
Co., Collins-st., Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter & Co., Auckland ;
Blackburne & Smith, Cashel-st., Christchurch, N.Z.
Fair girls and gray horses
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
JOHN JdfflESON
“THREE-STAR” WHISKEY.
Agents ; J. BABBE JOHNSTON & CO., Xioftns Street, Sydney.
EMPIRE HOTEL, SYDNEY
HVCOST CEUTBAI.LY fiTTTT A H^-FTO
OTARD-DUPUY
Estbd. 1795. 25 Years BRANDY.
m
SB
PROOF
%
fef&EN 1
USE
Head Office:
10 BLiGH ST., SYDNEY
AT THE CLUB, IN THE HOME,
TOR THE SICK AND THE SOUND,
V EVERYWHERE, AND FOR EVERYBODY
BOOMERANG BRANDY
.IS THE BEST.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10kS.
CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive anti carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
tfTmlMUlTi
Catered for
on Most
Banquets and
tf?TFSn:fniE
Reasonable
Terms.
Jim i MM iCTTfKEI
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
various sizes supplied.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €ii)brocatioQ
f°r Cuts Sprains, Bruises, Hheumatism,
Saw S ° f Joints 't. MAN and
BEAbT. As _ unscrupulous persons ara
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s Cnjbrocatioi).
KAY EYE
LAGER
The Bulletin
VoL 22.—N0. 1131. j
[Saturday, October 19, 1901.
Registered -at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
o
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Re
, . Contain. NO cocaine or other poisonous drug
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, In Tins, 1s 6d ; frofe the Proprietor, G. HUDSON, Chemist,
free on receipt of stamps* Sydney Depot i 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
ed).
Queensland—pcss
THE RED PAGE
Robert Richavdson.
ROBERT RICHARDSON, who died at
Armidale, N.S.W., on 4th Oct., aged
51, was a writer of considerable taste
and charm. Australian by birth, a
private income rendered him independent of
the scanty monetary rewards of literature; but
he took pleasure in writing for the writing’s
sake, and during his residence in Britain (in
the eighties) he established himself as an
occasional contributor to the magazines, and pub-
lished several books for children. His prose was
essentially feeble, but in style often gracious and
fragrant; and his recent articles written round old
schoolfellows were more than commonly interest-
ing. The best of his verse is shrined in a little
book called Willow and Wattle, printed at Edin-
burgh in 1893, and worth perusal. Always,
however, one feels the need of strength and
passion ; and in the piece which follows, —the most
poetic in the book, —the author makes his own
confession of failure.
AD MUSAM.
Sometimes upon a green mid-July day,
When all the world is still, and very still,
No sound aloft, alow, save the faint rill
Cooling the windless air, I’ve made my way
Into the hushed heart of the dreaming wood,
Where only reverie and silence brood,
And the grave shadows stretch from hill to hill.
And seated by the sedgy stream methought
Amid the sighing reeds darkling I caught
A glimpse of thy tall form, and shadowy hair
Crowned with dim myrtle carelessly inwrought
With the wild honeysuckle ; twilight eyes
Bent down upon me with a vague surprise,
Dreamlike, as I have seen them otherwhere.
I heard the rustle of thy mantle light,
But when I reached my trembling hand to touch
Its hem, it may be eager overmuch,
Thou passedst swiftly from my longing sight ;
And I was left by the cold stream alone,
And only heard its fugue-like undertone.
And sometimes at the magic sunset hour,
When all the heaven is like a tropic flower,
Bourgeoning in flame of crimson, the wide sky
Afloat with gleaming island-capes that lie
In myriad shapes along the golden west,
Dreamlike as fabled islands of the blest;
And some like ships stooping beneath a weight
Of golden canvas, and a balmy freight
Of spice and amber wine of Thessaly ;
And from that rose-red, iridescent glow,
In mystical faint Whispers, clear and low,
To me strange waf ;s of twilight music flow—
Subtle and -wandering airs, but passing sweet,
As from Pan’s careless reed-tops—flute-like, fleet,
To which shy fauns and naiads rhyme their feet,
What time between the dark and dawn they meet
To lead the dances on a thymy lea
Dipping upon a mermaid-haunted sea,
Within a moonlit bay of Arcady.
Those halcyon isles set in a fairy foam,
Are they, O Muse, thy loved and favourite home :
There Upon summer evenings mayst thou float
Down glimmering tides, within a golden boat,
To music by attendant nereids breathed
On horns of sea-pearl delicately wreathed ;
While fairy forest bells sustain the chime,
And the low moon and waning stars keep time.
And well, meseems, the strange, enchanted hour
To the rapt soul might give the pristine power,
The larger utterance, and the regal dower
Of rich imperial speech that did belong
To the great makers of our English song,
Who swept the chords with fearless hand and free,
Weaving a web of full-orbed harmony,
Majestic as the music of the sea.
But my faint preludes do the Muse but wrong;
The thought in passionless thin sound expires ;
From the wide splendours of the sunset fires
My pale cold line no warmth or colour takes,
The trembling string no lofty music wakes,
And the tense heart with a pained longing aches.
Dear mistress, I have wooed thee many a year,
Have waited for thy coming long and late ;
Was ever mistress proud and shy as thou !
Yet I have been a lover tried and true,
And sometimes thought I felt thy presence near,
So near that we in speech together sate,
So near that on my flushed and throbbing brow
I felt thy soft cool kiss like falling dew ;
But ever have I found thee still and cold,
And never didst thou suffer me to hold
Thy gleaming form one hour, thy finger-tips
I did but touch and drop, my waiting lips
Thou never touchedsb with the kindling flame
That on thy altar burns like fire of gold.
My passion faints and dies in mute eclipse,
And I can only name thy lovely name.
Yet others get the gift, and win thy love ;
They get the gift while I but stand and wait;
They enter calmly through the enchanted gate
That leads unto the mystic Delian hill,
And breathe the sweet air of the heights above,
Where thou art seated consecrate, alone,
A sunset-crimsoned cloud thy airy throne,
Dusk stars amid thy hair, and in thy hand
For sceptre a green budding laurel wand.
And I but linger in the valleys chill,
With timid, groping feet, and as I pass
Gather some withering leaves of wayside grass,
And hear through the hushed twilight faintly falling
The voices of my happier brothers calling,
And watch afar, with aching, dazzled eyes,
Clear peaks that climb into the lucent skies
By shining paths my feet will ne’er surprise.
Suppressing Balzac.
APROPOS the Govt, prosecution of a Vic.
bookseller for importing a translation of
Balzac’s Contes Drolatiques —which Prof.
Morris, of Melb. University, testified
was “ thoroughly indecent,” and should be sup-
pressed :
“Pyalla ” writes —
In 1888, at the time of the case Regina v. Vizetelly, a prose-
cution instituted to suppress certain of M. Zola’s novels in
England, the publishers of the translations issued a book
containing extracts, principally from English classics,
showing that the legal suppression of M. Zola’s novels
would logically involve the bowdlerising of some of the
greatest works in English literature. This book of
extracts was addressed to the then Solicitor to the
Treasury, and was intended for private cir-
ation only. For sheer “ indecency,” according
to the conventional notion, those 87 pages from the
English classics cannot be surpassed. And the extracts
were from the works of Shakespeare, Beaumont and
Fletcher, Massinger, Defoe, Dryden, Dean Swift, Prior
Rev. Laurence Sterne, Fielding, Smollett, Ben Jonson,
Wycherley, Byron, Dante G. Rossetti, Swinburne, and
others. It is ridiculous to interdict Balzac or Paul de
Kock while the English books -Tom Jones, Roderick
Random, Moll Flanders, The Country Wife, The Maid’s
Tragedy, The Relapse , and similar works—are permitted
to circulate. This excerpt from one of Lord Macaulay’s
Essays bears directly on the subject:—
i .^ e cann °t wish that any work or class of works
which has exercised a great influence on the human
mind, and which illustrates the character of an important
epoch in letters, politics, and morals, should disappear
from the world. . . . The Athenian Comedies, in which
there are scarcely a hundred lines together without some
passage of which Rochester would have been ashamed
have been reprinted at the Pitt Press and the Clarendon
Press, under the direction of syndics and delegates ap-
pointed by the Universities, and have been illustrated
with notes by reverend, very reverend, and right
reverend commentators. Every year the most dis-
tinguished young men in the kingdom are examined
by bishops and professors of divinity on the ‘ Lysis-
trata of Aristophanes and the Sixth Satire of
Juvenal . . . writings compared with which the loosest
tale in Prior is modest. ... A man who, exposed to all
the influences of such a state of societv as that in which
we live, is yet afraid of exposing himself to the influences
of a tew Greek or Latin verses, acts, we think, much like
the fe on who begged the sheriffs to let liim have an
umbiella held over his head from the door of Newgate to
. the gallows, because it was a drizzling morning and he
was apt to catch cold. The virtue which the world wants
is a healthful virtue, not a valetudinarian virtue—a virtue
which can expose itself to the risks inseparable from all
spmted exertion—not a virtue which keeps out the
common air for fear of infection and eschews the common
food as too stimulating.”
Contrast the attitude of Prof. Morris, of Mel-
bourne University, with that of Prof. MacCallum,
holding a similar position at Sydney University.
Prof. MacCallum gave evidence on 9th October,
1900, before N.S.W. Legislative Assembly Com-
mittee on Working of the Free Public Library;
and the following passage is taken from the official
report (p. 98)—
231 J. [Chairman :J.C. I. Fitzpatrick ] Dq you know
that Casanova’s book is the most licentious book ever
known to he written ? I can hardly believe that. One
of my reasons for doubting that statement is that it was
a favorite book with an extremely witty and respectable
writer, that is, Leland, the writer of Hans Breitmann’s
Ballads. He mentions that he has read the book thrice,
i It was also a favorite book with Oliver Wendell Holmes.
I do not see that the question of license comes very much
into consideration here. I think that there are three
classes of objectionable books that any great public col-
lection ought to have. One of these classes is objection-
able books of undoubted genius—masterpieces of litera-
ture like Rabelais.
2314. It is a classic ? Yes ; in the second place, every
great public collection ought to have books, even if objec-
tionable, which throw light on the origin of literary
masterpieces. For instance, the book called “ Shake-
speare’s Library ” that gives the stores from which he
drew, consisting of a number of extremely offensive
stories and plays. It is indispensable to Shakespearian
students. In the third place, I think a public collection
should have such books as do not possess literary interest,
but which, though not written bv any man of genius, are
still important as showing the manners of the time. I
have felt quite ashamed of myself once or twice to-day in
having to confess that I have not read Casanova. I
ought to have read it. It is a book which historical and
literary students ought to be familiar with. The only
reason I have not read it is that everyone has his special
fad in literature, and I have never been much attracted
to the eighteenth century. I have read the Comte de
Grammont, and I could not have gone on with my lec-
tures about the Restoration period only for that.
2315. A question has been raised as to the impropriety
of having such a book in the Public Library, even under
lock and key would you suggest that it should be under
lock and key? Yes.
2316. Haß the book, apart from its objectionable
character, a value for the student of history and soci-
ology ? That is undoubted from what I have heard and
read of the book.
2317. Did Casanova visit Voltaire, Frederick the Great,
and the various Courts of Europe as well as of England,
and make shrewd observations, thus rendering the book
very valuable, apart from its objectionable features ? Yes,
I have no hesitation in saying that. There are two sets of
readers for whom I have supreme contempt. The first
are readers who read such books simply because they 'take
a pleasure in their vileness—they have the morals of
baboons; the other class are those who will not read such
books when they come in the way of their reading—they
have the brains of rabbits.
2318. In the old classics, principally Roman and Greek,
are there not some things worse than appear in any
English literature ? lam not prepared to say that.
2319. Does not English literature deal with much that
is vile—for instance, the dramatists of the Restoration
period? Yes.
2320. Has not even such a critic as Macaulay made an
eloquent plea for the preservation of such literature,
although he calls it a disgrace to any literature and to
our humanity ? That is so.
2321. Would not that apply to literature of the character
of Casanova’s works ? I quite agree with you.
2322. [Mr. Price.] Are you aware that that book was
exposed on the shelves of the Public Library, and that its
character was only ascertained by accident ? I am not
aware that the book was on the public shelves of the
Library, and I have no hesitation in saying that in my
opinion that and other books of the same class should be
made somewhat difficult of access.
2323. Do you condemn the fact that it was so available
to the public? Yes. .
2328. [Mr. Anderson.] In the answer [by W. Dymock]
to Question 764, it is stated : “ I do not think that ‘Moll
Flanders’ is a book that ought to be in a public
library ” do you agree with that ? That is so extraor-
dinary an opinion that I can hardly believe that anyone
expressing it could know what English literature means.
To reject from a great national collection the novels of
Defoe is too absurd to refute.
2329. [Mr. Price.] Would you put them all on the
public shelves ? I should think it would be very difficult
to adopt a hard and fast line. If the question came up
with regard to our University library, I should say let
them be put in the main room, because “ Moll Flanders,”
to my mind, is not a very objectionable book.
2330. Take a public institution, where youths and chil-
dren go ? We do not admit children into the Public
Library. There are some gross parts in “ Moll Flanders,”
and there are some gross parts in other novels by Defoe,
but you have to take the whole lot. You have to take
the good with the bad. I should like to ask :Do you
think we ought to have Shakespeare on our shelves ?
2331. Certainly ! Then why not have Defoe ? There
is a great deal of admirable matter in Shakespeare, but
also a great deal that is objectionable. It is the same
with Defoe. . . .
The Eternal Sloppy.
“ Children, making books will pay,
If you take the Cainine way ;
Noble thoughts you need not harbour ;
Simply, dears, avoid the barber.”
IT is not necessary to read The Eternal City.
The book settles Hall Caine’s place in the
Abyss (ground floor No. 666—knock next
door for Miss M**** C******). Indeed,
now that it has been authoritatively affirmed that
Hall Caine and Wilson Barrett are one and the
same person, and that the business of that person
is to tear religious sentimentality to tatters, one
can be excused for thrusting sim right over the
verge of notoriety into oblivion. But while se
hangs on the edge by sis eyelids and adjectives,
it is possible to take languid interest in what The
Academy (and all the others) say about sis new
(!?!?!).
The main fact of the novel is so wildly impossibly, so
unthinkable, as to render any serious criticism of the
book as a realistic'study entirely supererogatory. There
is no humanity in the work, no genuine observation of
life. . . . You cannot choose a single episode—from the
first, of the Italian accordeon-boy and his squirrel dying
in a snowstorm under the portico of the great house in
Soho-square, to the last, where the old gentleman, with a
face “ full of tenderness and a white head full of Jovian
grandeur,” stands in front of “ a marble tomb which bears
an inscription of one word only, Volonna ” —which is not
both sentimental and melodramatic to the extremity of
crudeness. . . . The incident, which frequently shows
constructional ingenuity, is consistently theatrical. . . .
One example . . .
She felt a sensation of swelling in her throbbing heart,
and rose up with shining eyes.
“ Roma, I confess that when I escaped from the police
I came here to avenge myself. They are following me,
and I shall inevitably be taken. But if you tell me that
it was only your love that led you to denounce me—your
love, and nothing but your love—though I am betrayed
and fallen, and may be banished or condemned to death—
still . . .”
“I do say so ; Ido ! I do!”
“ Swear it, Roma.”
“ I swear. . . .”
“ The woman lies,” said a voice behind them.
The Baron stood in the bedroom doorway.
It might be a passage from one of Bret Harte’s
Condensed Novels. The faults would matter less
if the book were bright; but it is dull as well as
false. And yet it is often funny—when the
author is most serious: this travesty in a London
publisher’s circular is far from unfair—
Prologue.
On a doorstep in Soho crouched a little Italian boy,
with an accordeon and a monkey. As is usual in such
cases, it was Christmas Eve and the boy had lost his way.
He was hungry and homeless, and it was snowing as it
never does on December 24 in real life. He moved fur-
ther into the limelight and prepared to die. At that
moment an Italian refugee Doctor fell over him.
“ Corpo di Bacco! ” he cried.
He looked at the boy closely.
1 ' Italian/) ? ” asked the Doctor.
“ Si, Signore.”
it was enough. He led him into the house, where they
were met by Roba, his tiny daughter.
“ Oo a boy ?” she asked.
He smiled.
“ Oo me brudder?"
He paled.
“ Oo lub me?”
“ This is rather sudden,” he managed to gasp.
So are destinies moulded.
Book ll.— Bona Roba.
11.
. Bona Roba was a type of the fair lady who has appeared
in the history of every nation since the days of Helen of
Troy—one of those exquisite creatures whose lovely eyes
and rosy mouth exercise a function in the State. This is
as broad a hint as one can give in a ladies’ magazine,
without losing serial rights.
But Bona Roba’s diplomatic wit and influence were
alike exploded before our story begins : you will find no
trace-of them here.
She had raven hair worn over the forehead, a golden
complexion and violet eyes—a curious blend.
Book V.— Lovk.
I.
Bona Roba was notorious in Rome, but she had but to
tell the Hon. Rossi that Rome was mistaken, and he
believed it. Then they went fox-hunting together.
“Ob lub me?” he said, as the night fell wonderfully
over the old Campagna.
The words awakened in her a memory—Soho, a cold
night, a little Italian boy, an accordeon, a monkey.
She saw it all.
It was Fate.
Book Vll.— The Vatican.
11.
“ Eminence,” said the Pope one day to the chief of his
staff, “ may I have a word with you ? ”
“ Holiness, you may.”
“ Eminence, is there any reason why a Pope, before he
becomes Pope, should not have a wife and a family?”
“ Holiness, none whatever. But it is not usual.”
“Eminence, I thank you.”
111.
At that moment a ring was heard at the Vatican door.
“ What is it, Eminence?"
“ Holiness, the army wish to come in.”
“ I will go to them,” said the Pontiff.
He slowly descended, and, standing on the doorstep,
bade the army enter and do its worst.
Not a man but wept, and, flinging aside his arms, fled
away.
Book IX.— Mrs. Grundv.
I.
And Bona Roba ? Alas ! Young women who misbe-
have with Prime Ministers cannot be let off by Manx
moralists. She died young.
Yet Hall Caine wrote The Manxman, The Bond-
man, The Deemster. But melodrama is a mael-
strom : once caught on the sloping wave the
descent to Avernus is sure.
Notes.
THE first number of The Commomvealth,
to be published as an annual by A.
C. Rowlandson, of Sydney, is a credit-
. able attempt to win popular favour,
Many well-known Australian writers and draughts-
men are rfinrpqoiitorl -ind -in r.mt+
“ l, “ 0St T cas ® s •IT
presented by decent work. Fred. Leist s
drawings are particularly good : Leist has made
excellent progress lately. There is a good story-
sketch by Albert Dorrington, and another by J
H. M. Abbott (son of the late N.S.W. Speaker
Abbott) a Svdnev iournalist and nrnrtiking*
J ■ v. an ■ P^ omisln S
writer. A want, of taste is shown m the typo-
grapny or the magazine, which is printed on
glaring papier, often from bad type, in heavy
columns which strain the eyes to read. The pro-
cess-engraving is noticeably good ; and, taken all
round, The Commonwealth is a splendid shilling-
worth.
Death • Robert Ford er spn&rkt and
f~U'anf dJ S ’ and retQrmer ’
and friend Of Bradlaugh.
R.A.K! : Referring to a statement that a former
servant-girl of Shelley’s once lived at Collingwood,
Vic., an enthusiast writes to Melb. Herald —
That particular period of Shelley’s life [when with
Harriet Westbrook] has been much written about, as
further light was wanted as to the relations existing
between Shelley and his wife, and the causes of their es-
trangement. It struck me that if the matter was drawn
attention to in your widely-circulated paper, possibly
someone might come forward who had known the woman
and talked to her about her life with the Shelleys. It
would, indeed, he strange if this had not happened. It
would be something to value to have talked with a woman
who had seen Shelley face to face.
?h°.s ar,-4rt,wHr “
there s chance or bright light being shed on
the unhappy domestic affairs of the Great,
Fancy the meeting between this letter-writer (on
his knees) and the friend of the servant-mummy
who saw Shelley throw a saucer at Harriet in lbl4 .
Sampson Low and Co. publish The Connoisseur,
a new monthly maga., for collectors of everything
except old clo’ and bottle-O.
“ Vulcan ” : Correcting a small brother’s home-
lesson t’other day, he said this, in answer to cer-
tain strictures on the formation of some of his
letters : “The teacher told us, when the inspector
came for dictation, and gave us words like
“ believe,” “receive,” and “relieve,"’ and we
did n’t know if the “e” or the “i” was first, to
make ’em both alike and put the dot in the
middle” (!) What does Censor Hebblethwaite
think of that!
Brisb. Telegraph is indignant with the new Q.
duty-stamp :
The King’s half semblance, full-faced, and full-chested,
looks extremely tawdry. In fact, he looks anything but
like Aphrodite, fresh from the foam. [How could he look
like Aphrodite ?—poor fat seraph of sixty !J The Guelph
countenance always looks better in profile; the heavy
Teutonic jaw is then partially concealed.
“ And,” continues The Telegraph in a fine flurry
of language, “ what more is necessary than the
hare torso ? Why show the gimcracks of office ? ”
Yes: a “loyal” paper is permitted to say that
about its hereditary monarch !
The Society of Arts (British) Committee on
bookbinding and book-preservation reports that
the fumes of burned gas are fatal to books ; that
tobacco smoke is very bad for them; and that
sunlight is so injurious that all library windows
exposed to the direct rays of the sun ought to be
f lazed with glass of a slight yellow or olive tint.
Ividently the solemn burning of a naughty book
by N.S.W. Free Library officials was a blunder.
All the naughty books should be put in a sunny
smoking-room, and destroyed gradually by tough
smokers of guaranteed Morals.
Part of a Litany from The Day Book of John
Stuart Blackie, recently published—
From the three infallibles—the Roman Pope, the editor
of a party newspaper, and a woman when she is in the
wrong.
Good Lord, deliver me.
From a fair woman when she weeps, from a false
woman when she smiles, and from a clever woman when
she talks,
Good Lord, deliver me.
New Canterbury Tales is the title of a book
which Maurice Hewlett has just finished.
The Soverane Herhe: a History of Tobacco,
issued in London by Grant Richards, is adver-
tised to tell everything about its subject—even
disclosing “tlie relation of tobacco to genius.”
And morals ?
From Augustus Hare’s reminiscences, The Story
of My Life —
At a dinner-party Lady Colin Campbell wore a curious
necklace. People kept looking and looking. Finally, it
seemed to move of itself, and the women were startled’.
With a glucose smile, Lady Campbell said : “ I see you
are looking at my snake. I always wear a live snake
around my throat in hot weather ; it keeps one so cool.”
In fact, it was a live snake.
An army officer had lost in battle one of his legs. To
go thus through life galled and tried him. The wooden-
legged soldier heard of Lourdes and its miraculous cures.
To Lourdes he made a pious pilgrimage. He came up to
the grotto, he dangled his legs in the water of the sacred
spring and prayed to our Lady of Lourdes, “ O blessed
Mother, make my two legs alike ! ” He felt a thrill in
his members. He was sure the Virgin had performed a
miracle in answer to his prayer. He lifted out of the-
water his legs. Both were now wooden legs !
A Book of Verses, by Mrs. James Glenny Wil-
son, the Maoriland writer, is just issued in London.
It is like looking through the big end of a tele-
scope to read this notice of A. L. Gordon, in Sept.
Book Buyer, apropos of a “ selection ” of his work
published in New York—
The Australian poet Gordon, who died young a genera-
tion ago, has always held a place in anthologies because
of the vigor and distinctive quality of his verse, especially
that dealing with the turf ; and the handsomely-bound
edition of his Racing Rhymes, for which Henry Kendall
writes a blank-verse memorial, pitched in the top key of
laudation, is very welcome. There is red blood in these
pieces, which are racy in a double sense ; the lines leap as
do the horses under the wire, and Gordon’s gift for
musical diction is marked. His> poems on graver th<.
have a haunting, melancholy cadence that at times sug-
gests Poe, and the spirit of the man seems summed in
these words of his, which cling to the memory :
“ Life is mostly froth and bubble,
Two things stand like stone :
Kindness in another’s trouble,
Courage in your own.”
In the matter of Henslowe’s Annual, Leonard
Henslowe writes: —
In protesting against the spiteful paragraph in Bul-
letin, Oct. sth, on Henslowe's Annual, might I suggest
that it has nothing to do with your correspondent or the
general public what terms I come to with my contributors.
I had matter from over 40 writers and limners to choose
from, so that your correspondent’s remark about blind
choice of “ gift-horses ” falls rather flat. Moreover, there
is no question of “ gifts,” as the Annual is going- well. I
have to-day received an order from Gordon and Gotch, in
Melbourne, for 1000 copies. It should be remembered, in
criticising sweepingly, that the work of some eight of our
foremost men is involved, also of many young Australians,
who promise well. As to my two drawings, I admit
copying Phil May’s style, and partially his figures. Have
not many others, who are now prominent, done the same
thing at my age? I am 23 to-day (Oct. 5). What had
your correspondent “V.” done at this age ? I can imagine
him as a disappointed old cynic.
Fred. Brown writes—
In answer to “ V.’s” remarks re Henslowe’s Annual,
in which he implies that’contributors are “ gift horses,”
as a contributor to the magazine I can assure “ V.”
that a N.S.W. artist or man of letters is not so over-
whelmed with wealth that he can afford to give any-
thing away.
Cecil Fabris writes:
Few lines o’f explanation in reply to V., Red Page,
5/10/’Ol. Know well that I, in common with half a dozen
others, gave our work to Henslowe, not as a gift-horse
at all —we merely agreed to accept payment by result,
and to await result for payment. Hence, “V.’s” abuse
on this head is misplaced. The strictures on Henslowe’s
artistic work may, or may not, be deserved. Not being
an artist, I will not judge, but “V.’s” remarks appear
spiteful. Anyway, does not the publisher and editor
deserve sympathetic criticism rather than spiteful op-
probrium ? Had “ V.” written as smartly for the Annual
and in it, his efforts would have been appreciated, but,
apparently, he appeared to prefer holding aloof that he may
abuse. The old story again—who stands by and shouts
does little to pull the waggon out of the mire.


NTDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP
THE ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUS DIP.
IVTDOUGALL BROS., 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Agents: 3NT.55. X-. Ltd. LOOAL AGENTS EVERYWHERE
WOOL
SEND
YOUR
WOOL
WINCHGOMBE, CARSON & GO. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
If you want to get the best
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.
Wool and Produce Brokers.
Consolidated Charge!
for Selling Wool J
21 Per Cent.
J Includes all Charges excepting
(cartage from steamer’s wharf.
Fat Stock Salesmen, Stock & Station Agents.
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.
try orders.
Tails. Plaits,
FRINGES, Best Natural Curly Hair, 3/6, 6/6,
7/6, 8/6,' 10/6 each. TAILS and PLAITS,
20in. loner, 5/6, ; Extra Thick, 7/6 ; 24in.,
10/6; Extra Thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings Worked Up, 2/6 per oz.
Don’t be misled. Our Plaits and Tails are
twice as thick as sold elsewhere at same
price. Send Color of Hair. “ Only ONE
Address’’:- W. H. WIGZELL,
110 WILLIAM-ST. , Corner of Palmer-st.,
Sydney. Cable trams will stop at door. All
work guaranteed. Illustrated catalogue
post free. Prompt attention given to coun-
Wigs made oh shortest notice.
LADIES.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FR BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address —L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
-ST. ALBAN’S,
113 Macleay St., Potts Point
Board and Residence.
Suites. Hot Water Service. Home Comforts.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG, X
Wonderful Value-a Packet of Eight Different Articles,
comprising Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket (a good
trick), Book of Conjuring Tricks (oontaimng over 100 Coin
and Card Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard
Fish (gives definition of your character), That Wonderful
Cinematograph or Book of hiving*"Pictures, Mafelting
Grub (or nerve-strengthener), That side-splitting Look
and Laugh Glass, and, last of all, The Spider and the Fly
(an ingenious mechanical toy). Instructions enclosed.
yhis splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. fid.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
__ 718 George-street, SYDNEY.
X, H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
HAVE THE
BEST.
1
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE
Is built by a light, handy machine, easily operate 1, which will weave
THREE CHAINS OF FENCE AN HOUR.
FOE CATALOGUES AND PARTICULARS ___
“ CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE PENCE CO.,
128 Franklin St., Melbourne ; 143 Sussex St., Sydney.
NEITHER CRACK
NOR BURN.
SOO6
s e
5807
5808
CBB
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BITTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
GUARANTEE. —ShouId o,»r CelebratedCAN^Y-B-BEAT^Brlar Crack or Burn .
New One
tfe Exchanged Tbr it immediately on Application.
Sold by all Tobacconists. By Post, Is. 2d.
Mick Simmons, haymarket, Sydney.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offioesi 11 PHILUP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sol© 3 Per Cent, to tHe Growers.
We are the 'Only Selling' Broken who do not Charge 4<i. per Ib. to the Buyer*.
“On Our Selection.” By “ Steele Rudd.
HUMAN POISONS . . .
and THEIR ANTIDOTE.
The Blood in the course
of its circulation be-
comes laden with vari-
ous poisons produced in
the human body by the
mere act of living.
It is the province of the
Kidneys and Liver to
filter and extract these
poisons from the blood.
When the Kidneys and
Liver are unhealthy the
poisons remain in the
body and give rise to
such diseases as
Indigestion
Dyspepsia
Biliousness
Sick Headache
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Backache
Sciatica
Ansmia
General Debility
Blood Disorders
Bright’s Disease
Gravel
Bladder Troubles
All these diseases are
caused by Urinary and
Biliary Poisons being
deposited in the mus-
cles or joints, or being
retained in the blood.
Warner’s Safe Cure,
by its specific action
upon the Kidneys and
Liver, causes these
poisons to be naturally
eliminated and expelled
from the body.
The disease is then
cured permanently.
Explanatory Paaapklet post free
on application to
H. H. Warner & Co.,
Ltd.,
Australasian Branch, Melboiirae,
VICTORIA.
p
Explanatory Pamphlet post free
on application to
H. H. Warner & Co.,
Ltd.,
Australasian Branch, Melbourne,
VICTORIA.


TATTERSALL’S.
Address: Care GEO. ADAMS, Hobart.
MELBOURNE 0. November 5.
100,000 Subscribers at 20-
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me_ __shares in the
above.
Name
Address
£ : : “ “
MELBOURNE 0. November 5.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the
MELBOURNE 0. (SPECIAL)
(DRAWN MORNING OF RACE) 100,000 Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name
Address
ALSO
OPEN ON
Sandliurst 0., 2*7tli 3XTov , 100,000 at 5.
Newcastle C., 13/tli Dec., so,ooo at 5.
Summer o.„ 26tli Dec., so,ooo at 5.
Carrlniton S-, 28ttL Dec., 50,000 at 5.
Brlgliton P., Ist Jan., 25,000 at 5.
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars
Address “ Tatters all,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


«
\
Why not look
young ? There’s
genuine pleas-
ure in holding
back Father
Time fif-
teen or
'twenty
years. You
can do it
easily with
Ayer’s Hair
Y igor, for it
gives all that dark
ai d rich look to the
hair which belongs to
young life.
Ayer’s
Hair Vigor
You know the story how good
Queen Bess, pointing to the beautiful
hair of a peasant girl, said, “There’s a
real royal crown. I would trade my
golden one for it.” That was long ago.
Now you can have a “ real royal crown ”
of your own, simply by using Ayer’s
Hair Vigor. It makes the hair grow
thick and long and stops it falling out.
When your hair is rich and heavy,
and when the closest inspection fails to
detect a single gray hair, you will cer-
tainly look a great deal younger, and
you will be much better satisfied with
yourself, too. Isn’t that so ?
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
i^Oooe
,iiu.V
c A\p I
„ ins,£Cs
Beware: 1 -
DOFIAny^TIONSo,
mm
The Hotelkeepers’ Friend.
Soda. Water, Id. per doz.
Lemonade and Ginger Ale, 3d. per doz.
HOTELKEEPERS MAKE THEIR OWM SUPPLIES OF
AERATED WATERS.
No skilled labor required. Anyone can learn
to operate the Machine in ten minutes.
TESTIMONIALS.
“ To the Daylesford Mineral Water Co.
“ Dear Sira.— The Machine purchased from you is per-
feet The stuff turned out is splendid. It is the best
tmeculation I have entered into since I joined the Licensed
Victuallers.— Geo. Nicholls, Royal Hotel, Swan Hill.”
Mr. Klug, Hotelkeeper, Charlton, says “It is worth
its WEIGHT IN GOLD.” _ , ,
Mr. P. Kennedy, Ooolgardie, says : Profits saved by
making my own supplies of Aerated Waters with the
Machine pat the rent of my hotel.”
Mr. Lewis, Heidelberg, Victoria, says “ I have made
thousands of dozens. of the best Aerated Waters with the
Machine, and it has not required sixpence worth of repairs.
No Hotelkeeper should be without one of them.”
Mr W Atkinson, Hotelkeeper, Wentworth, N.S.W.,
says “It is the greatest money-maker yet discovered
for hotelkeepers.” „ ... .
Mr. Burk, Yalgo, W.A., says “ Since getting one of
your Machines, and making my own soft stun, I have
saved its price ten times over.” .
W. H. Jones, Peak Hill, W.A., says “Machine great
'"e 0 Davis, Peak Hill, W.A., says “ Cannot speak too
hisrhly of effectiveness and simplicity.”
G N Murdoch, Abbotts, W.A., says : Value of
Machine indisputable ; quality and cheapness of stuff
U Th!Xliams, Mossman, Queensland, says:—“ Highly
successful, and recommend to all hptelkeepere.”
jS. Davidson, Bundaberg, Queensland, says:— Great
saving compared to previous cost of stock.”
A Drofltable business awaits pushing men in many small
centres of population, where a deeply-fejt want exists for
a good quality of Aerated Waters. Observe the profits.
Call and see these Machines, or write for Circular desenb-
ng them, also Price List
407 001
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-duor wpr-k our Silk strife
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirta
are highly recommended.
83il- per Half-dozen, free by poet throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MQUNTCASTLE * SONS, Brisbane, Q’land
Australia!) ProVidcijt Society.
MONEY TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street, Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON, J3ecretary^__
tutfiugrV.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 108 r
H. Hillier,
130 Susaex-st.,
SYDNEY.
BST Send for a
Catalogue.
%
m
Bent-Shaft Sullstea
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT) NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest .
H. HIIXIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works :MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue-
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
y
mm
ms
%
%
Will
WHOLESALE
Distributing Agents
New South Wales —
M. RUTTY & CO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrence & 00.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Queensland —
Thos. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Ptiilp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand—
B. Benjamin & Co.,
Dunedin, Wellington
and Christchurch.
H./
kW:M
- ■■:■ 4?
'■
p Sbjyfe *t
ai 1 4 gSMSB ,>-*--•
=■ - <
-
ROB6RTS’
George and Market Sts.»
SYDNEY ii
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (Single) 3s. PER DAY.
BEDROOM (Double) 68. PER DAY.
TERMS:
Cash in Advance. No Booking:-
Meals Paid For when Obtained.
Letters and Telegrams addressed to
“ THE MANAGER,”
will receive prompt attention
THE
‘PLUM’
the
THE
PLUM
n ENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
Ijr jjke a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
ed£re that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had.them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. Bd.
“RAZOLES” LICHTNINC RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price
Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21a
Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15a j Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30a
Registered and sent Post Free to any part op the World.
jgp” please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
w
“ I’ll Try It:
The Only Certain
Momtache Producer.
(apillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Result.
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern ol Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Evert Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to any part of Australasia.
CRAIG & AITKEN
New South Wales Barber’s Supply House,
680-652 GEORGE STBfET, SYDNEY.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manirf. Company
When In town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description oi
SADDLERY? It so, send for our Price List. 3§ou
will save 20 per ce.nt. by buying from us. _
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sullyes, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggips from £9
10s. Ladies' Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every desgriptio n of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SAPOLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Pri.ee List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we oan. They oannot do eo, and you pay 16 pet
cent mote tot your requinments-
193 to 195 Cloveland-streot, Redfern, SYDNEY
OUli SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
Delivered at any Wharf er
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Surge of Spring.
The songbirds all are singing :
Of life and love they sing ;
The bees are heavy winging
With all the sweets of Spring.
And love and life are calling
Upon my youth to play ;
To leave the city palling—
To rise and ride away.
Who now hath not desire
To follow bird and bee ?
Come, love ! with eyes afire,
And ride afar with me,
Where wattles shower garlands
Of sun-gold, drawn and spun
With gold from distant star-lands
That are to earth love-won.
There, ’mid the honey’d flowers,
We’ll drink the wine of love—
Pale wine of happy hours,
Distilled from Heaven above.
Now, ere the bloom be dying,
I’ll saddle up the steeds ;
Come, love ! the days are flying,
And flowers fade to weeds.
The swan is on the river,
The swift is in the sky,
And mated is the plover,
And youth is young to die !
Lo ! I have warm desire
To follow bird and bee ;
But thou, with eyes afire, —
Thou wilt not answer me !
M. O’M.
Dora.
Dora’s lips are soft as velvet,
Dora’s teeth are white as pearls.
Here’s no sentiment; I shelve it
While I sing my best of girls.
Better be a reckless lover
Than a dumbly-meek adorer . . .
Ah ! there’s none on earth above her ;
Heaven has none more fair than Dora !
Dora’s face Dan Cupid’s glebe is ;
Sunbeams linger longest there,
For her face is sweet as Hebe’s—
More than Hebe’s freshly fair.
Dora’s eyes—what use to strive for
Words to tell ?—so scant the store is !
Seas in which the seraphs dive for
Evening-stars and morning glories !
Eyes of brown, with golden flashes
When the sunny soul peeps through,
Shyly through long drooping lashes, —
Pure and womanly and true ;
Deep, cool lakes of night, reflecting
Heights where Love’s own altar-fire is—
Angels spent an age collecting
Dawning-glows for each warm iris.
Dora’s voice is rich and clear as
Distant bells in summer rain ;
Soft and gentle, subtle, dear as
Pleasure dashed with cherished pain.
And her breath’s—so poor my skill is !
All faint perfumes mixed together,
Say a blend of vinebuds, lilies,
And half-opened purple heather.
But sweet Dora’s rarest treasure,
When all ? s said, is quite apart;
I am free of every pleasure
Since she yielded me her heart.
Dante yearned for Beatrice ;
Someone ate his heart for Laura ;
Modern singers have their screechy
Modern girls. . . Well, give me Dora !
TAB.
FBANK MORTON.
The Steeds of Satan.
The Devil yoked his favorite pair,
A dark, dark Soul and a Body fair;
The weighty Car of his Evil Deeds
Finds no more willing or eager steeds—
The dark, dark Soul, and the milk-white skin :
Their course is set on the Road of Sin.
Though the Driver needs not whip or goad,
The Chariot fills with its human load;
Each bright glance flashed, and each smile serene,
Brings homage new to the Devil’s Quean-
Fierce passions stir to a strife within
As a victim springs on the Car of Sin.
For rich and poor the Chariot waits —
The fare is naught to the gloom-crowned gates;
The portals, silently opening wide,
Take Driver, steeds, and their load inside ;
For the dark, dark Soul and the milk-white skin
Must rest at last in the House of Sin.
On the wild road where the team has passed
Lie those who fell in its passage fast, —
Despoiled of honour, wisdom, wealth—
With minds distract, or with broken health, —
Who bowed them down in the dazzling glare
Of that dark Soul and that Body fair.
M.L.
V.H.G.
Where’s that N.S.W. Patriotic Fund got
to?


MONKEY
BRAND
SOAP
Makes Tin like Silver;
Copper like Gold;
Crass like Mirrors;
Windows like Crystal;
Crockery like Marble*
Cleanses and polishes at one and the same time.
IDoes not polish the din in, polishes the dirt out.
Cleans and Brightens everything, but
Won't Wash Clothes ,
all the rage Tma season
BEST SILVER-PLATED BELTS, 4/6, 5/6, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6 ; SOLID SILVER, 47/6 to 60/- each.
CROCODILE and LIZARD BELTS, WITH PLATED MOUNTS, 10/-, 14/- : SILVER MOUNTS, 25/- to
BEST SILVER-PLATED CLASPS, 3/-, 4/-, 5/-, 6/-, 7/6 ; SOLID SILVER, 10/-, 12/6, 15/- to 25/-.
50
DIFFERENT
PATTERNS.
Post
Free.
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue.
J EWELLERS & OPTICIANS
r /Ad%
90 King ST, Sydney.
Post
Free.
A
ft
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
tF YOU WISH TO BUCCEEP
IN LIFE,
CULTIVATE YOUR MEMORY.
w THE PELMAN SYSTEM
OF MEMORY TRAINING
ENSURBS
SUCCESS AT EXAMS.
CURE OF MIND WANDERING.
SPEAKING WITHOUT NOTES.
BOOKS MASTERED IN ONE READING.
HUNDREDS OF TESTIMONIALS FROM SUCCESSFUL
PUPILS ALL OVER THE WORLD.
@*T- BASED ON SOUND PRINCIPLES. TAB
A DOCTOR WRITES :—“ I can strongly recommend
Pelman’s System to anyone whose memory is bad or
defective. It is based on sound principles."—Allan Perry
Stinson, L.R.O.P. and S., Edin.
THE SYSTEM IS TAUGHT THOROUGHLY BY
CORRESPONDENCE LESSONS.
Send To-day for Free Explanatory Brochure and Pros
pectus Giving Full Particulars.
Address— THE SECRETARY,
The Pelman,School of" Memory Trainings
G.P O. Box 4q2, MELBOURNE.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Hennessy’s
Label
is
a certificate
endorsed
by the
World’s
Best
Connoisseurs.
THE
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
!#
Purely a
matter of
REFRIGERATION
Re THOSE COLD ROOMS or FREEZING CHAMBERS ,
Have you decided what Insulation you will use ?
Here’s a Table showing the relative
values of various Insulating Materials.
(by chas. e. emery.)
BUT
none of them are worth the space they occupy if any form of moisture is
allowed to come in contaet with them.
A great desideratum, therefore, is to exclude all moisture from the
insulation. To do this an absolutely moisture-proof protection must be
provided, one that will stand the great range and variety of temperature
incident to chilling and freezing rooms without deterioration. It must
also be capable of withstanding the shrinkage of the timbers to which it is
attached.
Many materials have been tried, and for a time have given question-
able satisfaction. Some papers are made temporarily waterproof by the
use of oils, which (in a short time) are absorbed by the boarding against
which they are laid, which leaves the paper totally unfit for waterproof
insulation. Other papers never were and never will be waterproof,
although so represented. P& B Insulating Paper (impregnated) and
P & B Ruberoid Roofing are, however, the only materials which have
stood the test of time and are known to furnish complete immunity from
moisture. The cost of insulation with P& B Paper or P& B Ruberoid is
approximately the same. We therefore say unhesitatingly—
USE P& B
INSULATING PAPER
RUBEROID ROOFING
Ea RICH Ea/SlCla
SYDNEY AND
BRISBANE,
Agents.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 22.—N0. 1131.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1901.
Price 6d.
BARTON (Ioq.): “YOU DIRTY BOY!”
;QuEE:NSL.4\ND
|tHTtK£.ST.
(to Tfse.
£or*) r-jONWG.^I-rTH
W GfR-SV-RrP.-V


Frebtuadb,
1891
Protection,
1895.
FllKETRADB
1897.
Butter, lb.
<D
O
'£
Ph
1/1
D
Q
/I p. lb.
V I >.,
o
X' 3
CL, ! G
1/- /2 p. lb.
QJ
'll
Ph
1/-
”3
3 Duty
CD
Cheese, ,,
/9
/2 „
/8 /2 „
/s
Potatoes,cwt.
•V-
Free
4/3 /6 p. cwb.
5/3
>»
Maize, bushel
2/11
Free
2/9 /10p. cental
2,3
»»
Bacon, lb.
/10
/2 p. lb.
/7i /2 p. lb.
/s
»*
Eggs, doz.
1/6
Free
1/-, 10 p. cent.
!/-,
*»
Rice, lb.
n
60/— p. ton
/2A 60/- p. ton
/2A
»»
Oatmeal, ,,
m
Free
/2 40/- „
2A
»>
Salt,
a
20/- p. ton
fd 20/- „
id
»»
Soap, ,,
m
Free
/2 60/- „
/a*
M
Starch, ,,
/6
Free
/4 /I p. lb.
/4
Sugar, ,,
/3J
100/-p. ton
/2£ 100/- p. ton
/2J 80/p. ton
Bread, loaf
/3i
Free
/9 , i Wheat
cental
/3
Free
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Austral in for the A nsf ml hi ns. n
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspapet Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ••• ••• ® ®
Half-yearly ... ... " "
Quarterly ... ••• (J b b
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Half penny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with Us. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition o f 1 \d. postage, the subscription
to Tin! Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease of in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—li'd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTION.
By sending direct to Tiie Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Biisiness Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other parkof the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, SOOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that toe
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in JUaeJe and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-draum —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street <fe Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. — L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
South Africa. — ll. A. Thompson and Co., S Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. 3. Solomon
and Co., 22 Uout-st., Capetown. Gwelo News Agency
Rhodesia.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1901.
The Federal Tariff.
The Federal tariff made its long-anticipated
appearance last week. It is mainly a
Protectionist tariff, though its protective
incidence is frequently modified by the neces-
sity for obtaining revenue. This was only
to be expected. Freetrade is a dead super-
stition in Australasia, except where it lingers
in N.S.W.—artificially supported by a
Freetrade press which itself enjoys 50 per
cent. Protection under the postal laws, and
which is further subsidised by free special
trains put on at the taxpayer’s expense.
But even in N.S.W. the Freetrade delusion
only lingers. So many of the Cornstalk
industries are protected ; and there have
been of late such gruesome revelations of
the horrors of sweating in the industries that
are run on Freetrade principles ; and the
demand of the Cornstalk artisan for an
increase to “the Victorian rate of wages ”
has become so monotonous ; and the
spectacle of the Freetrade importing
monopolist declaring 10 and 15 and
per cent, dividends, and denouncing the
“ extortion ” of the protected manufacturer
who is generally satisfied with about 8 per
cent.—all this has grown so ridiculous that
the brass god of shoddy stands much less
securely on its pedestal than it did. And,
besides, the Foreign-trade cult has always
lived mainly on the one great fact that
Britain is Freetrade, and that Britain is the
boss industrial country of the world. And
now that Britain’s manufactures have sunk
to be little more than one-third those of the
United States, and it has lost its position as
the greatest exporting country of the globe
eo far as the export of its own products is
concerned, and foreign shipping is increasing
in British ports while British shipping is $
decreasing, and “ Made in Germany ” has ‘
become a dread instead of the joke it. was a
dozen years ago, the bright example is
somewhat dimmed, and the one great argu-
ment of the gang of foreign importers isn’t
all that it was.
* * * •
The men who built the Federal tariff had
this difficulty to confront. Except for certain
very small and purely temporary arrange-
ments, all inter-State duties are abolished.
Last financial year, even with these duties,
only two States of the Commonwealth
(Tasmania and Victoria) contrived to show a
surplus. Tasmania was £131,000 to the
good, and Victoria had a credit balance of
over £lB,OOO. But against this S.A. was
£22,000 short, Westralia £87.000, Queens-
land £528,000, and N.S.W. over £130,000
(the amount would have been over £260,000
if the rents of the resumed area had not
been treated as revenue, while the cor-
responding interest bill was left unprovided
for). The whole Commonwealth showed a
deficit of £618,754, and if over £2,000,000
of unproductive expenditure hadn’t been
paid out of loans the net deficit would have
been nearly five times that figure. And the
Commonwealth found itself confronted with
the problem of raising enough customs and
excise revenue—
(l) To make up for the abolition of inter-State duties,
hitherto a great source of revenue.
(2) To pay its own expenses. These are microscopic,
certainly, still they amount to something.
(3) To return the States so much more than they
received even when inter-State duties were being collected
that they would be able to avoid deficits in future.
(4) To return N.S.W. in particular so much more that
it would be able to meet the large new outlay involved
by the payment of Old Age Pensions—an extra item
which commenced with the new financial year.
* » * *
Westralia is specially provided for under
an agreement whereby it may still charge
inter-State duties (though on a declining
scale) for five years, so it may be left out
of the question for the time being. As re-
gards the other States, it seems that South
Australia, Victoria, and possibly Tasmania,
will be in a reasonablygood financial position,
and that the neediest States—the two that
are most distinctly left in the lurch—are
N.S.W. and Queensland. N.S.W. gains a
considerable increase of revenue, but with
its new liability for old age pensions,
the great increase of its interest bill, and the
fact that the “ resumed area ” dodge can’t be
done twice, Treasurer Waddell reckoned
that it was only possible to pull through if
£2,200,000 was handed back to the State
Treasury out of the Federal revenue. Even
with the heavy proposed tariff it is calcu-
lated that it is only possible to hand back
£1,922,491, and this leaves N.S.W. with a
prospective deficit of nearly £300,000. As
regards Queensland, that State used to col-
lect, under a very large semi-Protective and
semi-revenue tariff, the highest customs re-
venue per head in Australasia—Westralia’s
only excepted ; and even then it closed last
year with the prize deficit of the seven pro-
vinces. No tariff that could be devised
would yield the same return with
border duties abolished. Queensland must
needs levy that land and income tax which
it has hitherto, in its tender consideration
for the local capitalist, refused to impose.
And if this is insufficient, the Federal Par-
liament will have to come to its assistance
until better times, and—what is still more
essential —better government put it on its
feet again.
* » * •
Tasmania will certainly lose a considerable
amount of revenue under the new arrange-
ment, but Tasmania, last year, with the
smallest population in Australasia, had the
enormous surplus of £131,249, which leaves
it with something of a margin. And Tas-
mania, last year, paid only 7s. Bd. per head
in direct taxation, against 11s. 3d. per head
in N.S.W. and Victoria, and its land-tax is
only id. in the £, consequently it has a
great reserve of taxing powers. Victoria
will also lose some revenue, but it had a sur-
plus last year after paying its war expenses
and old-age pensions, and it hopes to have
less war expenses this year, and its Peck-
sniff Ministry is already cutting down pen-
sions. South Australia apparently remains
just about where it was. But New South
Wales last year levied far more direct taxa-
tion than Tasmania ; it collected the
largest land revenue in Australasia ;
it annexed the rents of the resumed
area as revenue ; it didn’t pay old-
age pensions (that is a new expenditure
for the present year), and even then
it had the second largest deficit in the seven
provinces. It also used more loan money
for revenue purposes than any of its neigh-
bors ; and it hasn’t got its land-tax in
reserve as a perfectly new source of revenue
as Queensland has. If Treasurer Waddell’s
calculations are correct, then N.S.W., with
the largest prospective increase of revenue
under the Federal tariff, promises to close
the year with the second largest deficit.
And if Queensland possessed a Government
which had the courage to levy a land-tax,
and the sense to manage its railways on the
same economical principles which prevailed
in 1894-95, and to stop the incredible
expansion of working expenses, then
Treasurer Waddell’s prospective deficit
would be actually the largest of the lot.
Queensland’s financial troubles are practically
all traceable to the increase, inside four or
five years, of over £400,000 (about 64 per
cent.) in the cost of managing a railway
system which has increased very little in
actual mileage.
V * * *
The venal and unpatriotic gang of im-
porters (mostly representatives of foreign
firms whose profits are spent chiefly in
Europe) which still, to some extent, bosses
New South Wales, is, as might be expected,
loud and frantic in its protests. The old
spectre of inter-State jealousy has been dug
out of its dusty tomb, and propped up
against a tree, and illuminated, as usual, with
the candle of mendacity in its hollow and
unwholesome interior. The new tariff is said
to be “ due to Victorian influences,” and
“ devised to support Victorian industries,”
and all the rest of the old foolish shibbo-
leths. Victoria is to the hired organ of the
Sydney importer what King Charles’s head
was to the other lunatic of whom Dickens
wrote, and everything is ascribed to it more
or less. As Victoria only musters 29 votes
out of 111 in the Federal Parliament, and
it is less strongly represented in proportion
to its population in the Federal Ministry
than any other State, this extraordinary and
overwhelming influence which it is alleged
to exert is either a drinky vision, or a silly
hoax, or a striking evidence of the fact that
the Victorian policy appeals strongly to the
common sense of Australia in general. Asa
matter of fact, however, the great bulk of
the new duties are a considerable increase
on the Victorian rates, and in only a very
few instances has the Victorian rate been
adopted by the Commonwealth Treasurer.
The new tariff is more nearly a copy of the
Maoriland tariff than of anything else. The
desire to meet, as far as possible, the dire
necessities of the States—most of all the
necessities of Queensland and New South
Wales, as shown by their big deficits of last
year, and their extraordinary estimates of the
amounts required to keep them afloat this
year—seems to have forced the Common-
wealth Government, in many cases, to pile
up duties that might otherwise have been
spared.
* • * •
Whether the tariff will get through or not
is an open question. It is calculated, with
a reasonable show of probability, to yield
between £8,500,000 and £9,000,000 a year,
therefore it is expected, in addition to afford-
ing Protection to Australian industries, to
return the largest customs revenue per
inhabitant upon this earth, that of Maori-
land alone excepted. It isn't likely that
any change that could be devised would
make it yield much more than this ;
when a country has got the second biggest
customs taxation on earth it is difficult to
get far beyond that. The fact that even this
tariff doesn't give the N.S.W. Treasurer
the amount which he reckons he requires
(including the old - age - pension liability)
makes the situation of the Sydney importers
who clamor for the rejection of the
tariff and a reversion to Foreign-trade
principles look somewhat remarkable. Pre-
sumably the idea is that N.S.W. might do
with a smaller tariff if it abolished its old
age pensions almost before they have fairly
started, and if it cut down the wages of public
servants. That is the only visible method
by which the State could pull through if it
got the kind of customs policy that its selfish
and bigoted foreign importers are clamoring
for. Curiously enough, however, some
members of the Labor party seem to have
thrown in their lot with the importing gangin
this matter. That party was largely respon-
sible for the passing of the old-age pension
law and for the granting of increased wages
to many of the State servants. It didn’t
provide the money to pay these things;
it merely enacted that they should be paid.
They* formed a large addition to the
outlay of N.S W., which was already
in a chronic state of deficit, and, apart
from Kingston’s new tariff, nobody has
shown any method whereby that out-
lay can be met. The position of the im-
porter is understandable. He is mostly the
agent for some large and wealthy sweater at
the other end of the globe. His interest lies
in suppressing local manufactures in order to
preserve the Australian market for his im-
ported goods, and to do that he has to lie, to
flood the country with bogus facts and sham
statistics, to enlist the aid of a silly and
venal press—in fact, to do anything and
everything that will prevent Australia
becoming a self-depeudent and self-
supporting country. Old Age Pensions
and trifles like that are good enough
provided they don’t get in the way
of the importation of the foreign sweater’s
calico, but when they do they must go
under. To find the foreign importer in a
state of frantic denunciation against the only
policy which seems likely at present to
supply the money with which to pay
N.S.W.’s old age pension invoice is intelli-
gible. But to find any section of the Labor
party acting as agent and jackal for the
importer in this matter is a surprising form
of mental delusion.
How Freetrade Raises Prices.
On the morning when the Federal tariff made its
appearance, and every morning since, the im-
porter’s section of the Australian press has in-
formed the public, with tears in its eyes, that there
is going to be a tremendous and ruinous rise of
prices by reason of the new Protective policy.
Prices, the public is informed, will inevitably go
up at least 25 per cent., and stay at that giddy
elevation ; that sort of thing being the necessary
and invariable result of Protection, the matter isn’t
worth arguing about. In fact, the importer assures
Australia that the only policy which can save the
country is the policy by which he —the said
importer—makes lots of money, and the country
has his own reliable information that if it adopts
a system by which he won’t make so much
money it will never be quite the same
place again. And, meanwhile, by way of creating
evidence in support of this statement he has put up
prices as far as possible, and in as many directions
as possible. And he devoutly hopes that Aus-
tralia won’t remember that when N.S.W. changed
from Freetrade to Protection at the begiuni »
’92 he told the same lie and tried the same swi »
but was only able to keep it going for a few we •
and thereafter an era of cheapness set in sue
N.S. W, hadn’t experienced for many years be »
and such as it hasn’t enjoyed since. -Also,
importers’crowd hopes to suppress the fact *
Freetrade and high prices came back toge '
and have remained together ever since. * y
South Wales is the only Australian State wlucn
has tried both policies in recent years, and ev
the hardest lying can’t disguise the fact that
brief period of Protection gave the country a
Siderable increase of revenue, and at the same ti
enabled it to get the necessaries of life at a nguie
to which it is now a stranger.
These statements rest on the evidence °
Coghlan, the official statistician of N.S.W. l' ,e
most devastating importer has never ventured to
say that Coghlan cooks his figures, nor did the
Reid Government have the courage to sack him
on a charge of issuing facts at the Government
expense which gave the lie to all the Rki.O
Government’s theories and assertions. In his
article on the “Prices of Commodities” in the
“Wealth and Progress of N.S.W.” for 1898 9
(pages 523 to 540), he gives the retail cost of all
the most common articles of food in N.S.W. for a
period of 78 years. The following are the prices
for 1891, the last year of the old Freetrade period ;
1895, the last year of the Dibbs Protective period ;
and 1897, the second year of the Reid Freetrade
period. Every article quoted on Coghlan’s list,
which had a new duty or an increased duty put on
it by the Dibbs Government, is included :
Unfortunately, Coghlan doesn’t carry his figures
further, but, even so far as they go, they cover a
good many of the necessaries of life. And the net
results are these:
Not one article permanently increased in price when the
Protective duty was put on it.
Eleven articles were cheaper, after three years of
Protection, than they were when on the free list.
Only one article out of the 12 on which Protective
duties were abolished became cheaper after the abolition.
Six cost as much without any duty as they did with it,
and the price of one on which the duty was reduced also
remained stationary.
Five became dearer when Protection was removed.
And the State lost £700,000 a year of revenue, to make
up for which it imposed £446,000 of direct taxation, and
increased its borrowings by £170,000 a year, with further
increases since.
* * * »
These things are bad for the legend about the
cheapness that comes of Freetrade, and the dearth
that arises through Protection. Certainly, when
Dibbs’s Protectionist tariff was imposed, at the
end of 1891, the rapacious importer made a heroic
effort to maintain his legend by putting up prices,
but circumstances, and the increased competition
of local producers, were too much for him. He is
going to make the same effort again, and again, it
is practically certain, circumstances will be too
much for him. * He may, by combination, make
an artificial rise that will last for show purposes
till the tariff discussion is over, or even longer, for
it takes a little time for the increased local pro-
duction to assert itself, but he has no permanent
hope. The great importers, who have made 10
and 15 and 20 per cent, dividends for their British
and German principals, and posed as the salt of
the earth and the only genuine repositories of the
Terewth, have bad times before them.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The “Ricketty” Protected Industries of
New South Wales.
Last Friday Sydney Telegraph interviewed
tobacco-merchant Blashki on the Federal tariff,
and Blashkt, whose talent for the inopportune
appears to equal that of Balaam, the son of Bkor,
said this
The tobacco and cigar factories of New South
Wales have prospered marvellously under the o!d
system, which protected them to the amount of nine-
pence A POUND ON TOBACCO AND 2s. 6d. A POUND ON-
CIGARETTES AND CIGARS.
Mr. Blashki, when he was on this disastrous line
of admission, might have added that the N.S.W.
brewing, biscuit, confectionery, and jam indus-
tries have' also prospered marvellously under the
heavy Protection which was granted them in
Freetrade New South Wales. Comparing 1896
(when the present N.S.W. tariff originated)
with 1900, the hands employed in these five
heavily protected N.S.W. industries show up
alongside those employed in all the other indus-
tries of N.S.W. after this fashion :
1896. 1900. Increase.
Employees in five'!
heavily-protected
N.S.W. industries I oon , ™ ~,
(beer, tobacco, f 2 - 804 3 ’ 969 or 41* p.c.
jam, biscuits, and I
confectionery). J
Al iud o uitries N ‘ S-W '} 47 > 036 56 ’ 810 9 > 774 or 2 °i P-c.
These first five come under the heading of what
the confused Freetrade organ calls “ ricketty in-
dustries.” In a frantic article on October 10 it
said: “We have here no ricketty industries for
the keep of which the Federal taxpayer is asked
to contribute a single shilling.” The Telegraph
itself, having for many years enjoyed 50 per cent.
Protection under the free-postage swindle, is also
a ricketty industry, for the keep of which the
country has paid a very large amount —but that is
a side issue. The real question is : Seeing that in
N.S.W. the few “ricketty” protected industries
are growing twice as fast as the beautifully-sound
Freetrade ones, that they pay as good wages as
any other industries, and that their products are
no dearer in proportion to English prices than the
products of Freetrade industries—then, for the
sake of a country which badly wants a steady job
and three square meals daily, let all our industries
be made ricketty with every possible speed. The
fact that employment has increased twice as fast
in the ricketty Protected industries as in the other
kind, and none of the alleged counter-balancing
evils have shown themselves, proves that ricketti-
ness is what N.S.W. wants. And if the Tele-
graph editor, manfully drawing a good screw from
his own ricketty newspaper enterprise, which
enjoys 50 per cent. Protection, and stating on
page 6 that his ricketty Protected circulation is up


to 70 000 copies, isn’t of the same opinion in his
secret heart, that gentleman doesn t know a good
billet when he has it.
Marine Item.
Last Thursday the Sydney Morning Herald
was aroused, by the arrival of the protective
Federal tariff, to say something large and vigorous
about the obvious commercial supremacy ot
Britain under the blessed influences and advant-
ages of its Foreign-trade system. The Herald
began with the unlucky statement that tor tiie
first nine months of the present year the imports
of Britain were £5,472,009 more than for the
corresponding period of last year, and that the
exports of British produce were £9,108,665 less
than for the first nine months of 1900. This isn t
a cheering outlook, and seems rather to signify
that the British manufacturer is losing Ins grip
on both his own and foreign markets ; also
the fact that imports are now nearly £200,000,000
a year more than exports rather suggests that
a lot of the money which was invested abroad
in former days (much of it in Britain s Pro-
tectionist days) is coming back and being
eaten up—that the country is living on its own
tail, in a manner of speaking. But this is
a matter on which it is only possible to theorise ;
absolute accuracy is impossible. Where the
Herald’s disasters really began was where it
started to publish a list of the vessels which
entered and cleared at the ports of the United
Kingdom in 1899 and 1900, and the progress
made by each nationality in seizing or retaining
British trade. This was the result
SlIIl’S ENGAGED IN FOREIGN AND BRTTISII-COLONIAIj COM-
MERCE Entering and Leaving Ports of the United
Kingdom.
1899. 1900. Increase
German (tons) 5,238,057 6,027,208 789,151
Spanish 1 „ ) 2,006,440 2,709,247 702,807
Italian ( „ ) 1,087,806 1,409,078 321,272
French ( „ ) 2,535,136 2,822,375 287,239
Swedish ( „ ) 3,318,348 3,597,198 278,850
Russian ( „ ) 903,547 1,179,497 275,950
Dutch ( „ ) 2,950,447 3,213,707 263,320
Norwegian ( „ ) 7,442,597 7,661,571 218,974
Belgian ( „ ) 1,474,438 1,601,606 127,168
Danish ( „ ) 3,375,632 3,494,797 119,165
Austrian ( ,, ) 413,229 491,222 77,993
Other countries („ ) 818,242 1,045,739 227,497
Decrease
American ( ,, ) 569,979 559,552 10,42/
British ( „ ) 65,648,989 62,710,836 2,938,153
So the net result is as follows :
Suits engaged in Foreign and British-Colonial Com-
merce ENTERING AND LEAVING PORTS IN THE UNITED
Kingdom.
1899. 1900. Decrease.
British (tons) .. 65,648,989 62,710,836 2,938,153
Foreign ( „ ) .. 32,133,898 *35,812,857 3,678,959
97,782,887 98,523,693
Its commerce and its supremacy at sea are the
points above all others on which the Freetrader
rests his theories of British supremacy under its
Freetrade policy, and when the trade in Britain’s
own ports begins to show results like these a wiser
Freetrade organ than the 8.M. Herald would
have left the subject alone. Yet, if the investi-
fation had been carried a little further back, the
[erald would have discovered even worse results.
Compare 1897 with 1900 : —
SHIPS ENGAGED IN FOREIGN AND BRITISII-COLONIAL COMMERCE
ENTERING AND LEAVING PORTS OF THE UNITED KINGDOM.
1897. 1900. Decrease.
British (tons). .64,426,545 .. 62,710,836 ..
Foreign ( „ ). .25,772,318 .. 35,812,857 ..10,040,539
The same disastrous authority deals with ship-
building after this fashion for 1898 and 1899 : —
Ships Built.
1898. ' 1899. Increase.
Britain (tons) .. 870,608 949,010 78,402
United States ( „ ) .. 180,458 300,038 119,580
It will be a very long while before Britain’s
marine supremacy goes where its manufacturing
supremacy has gone, but all the same these are
not the sort of figures that a sensible Freetrade
organ would publish as an argument against the
first Protectionist tariff of the Commonwealth.
There are times when it is well to lie low, and the
paper that can’t recognise these times when it sees
them is the paper that gets left.
♦
An Impending Tram-Strike.
There is serious discontent among Sydney
Government tramway employees, and unless
N.S.W. Legislative Council passes that much-
wanted Industrial Arbitration Bill and
leaves the State employees within its
jurisdiction, in all probability Sydney will
be shortly paralysed by a tram-strike. The
Union is growing every day, and so is the dis-
content. The men complain of excessive hours,
niggardly and insufficient despicable
trickery to prevent them qualifying for increases
of salary, breaches of the Railway Act with
regard to promotions, and general tyranny.
The real grievance is insufficiency of pay. A
conductor starts at 6s. 6d. per day, and works at
that wage for two years. After that he works two
more years for 7s. per day, when he is raised to
7s. 6d. But his rise is only due two years after he
is “permanently” appointed. The time he
serves as a casual or “temporary” hand does
not count in his term of service, and it
is complained that the Commissioners keep a
man as long as 18 months on the “temporary”
list, and so get three years and six months out of
him at 6s. 6d. per day. When the conductor has
served his four years on the permanent staff and
risen to 7s. 6d. per day, there he will stick, con-
duct he ever so wisely. His only chance of ad-
vancement is to become a driver, and as such he
must serve one year at 7s. 6d., and at the end of
three years driving he finds himself in receipt of
8s. 6d. per day. Under no conditions are the
wages princely. The maximum of 7s. 6d. for
conductors might, by a stretch of imagination, be
considered enough for the work, but 8s. 6d. for a
driver is a bad variety of sweating in the State
service, and a disgrace to the department. lo
begin with, both drivers and conductors are com-
pelled to live near their depots. Other people at like
wages can live out in the suburbs where rents are
cheap, but the tram hands have mostly to live in
the city, where rents are dear, to be ready to take
the early trams out. The electric-car driver
has to thread his way along the narrow,
crowded, crooked streets, teeming with vehicular
and passenger traffic. When on a continuous
shift he stands there for nine hours straight off,
eating his meals as he can snatch them, while
skimming along with an inch to spare on either
side between the lines of traffic. He works for
ever with a charge of manslaughter hanging over
his head —for a maximum salary of 8s. fid. per
day. In the winter he is exposed to the
weather, and during this last bitter winter many
developed rheumatism badly. The danger and
the strain of the responsibility are increased
in wet weather by the greasy rails, which render
it hard to stop quickly, and make “ rear collisions”
much more difficult to avoid. The worry and
strain, shaking and vibration, break up the men’s
nerves and temper, and drivers have told this writer
that after about six hours on the Circular Quay-
Railway Station run, when they see a cart
in the road the driver of which shows no
inclination to get out of it, there comes a fiendish
impulse to hump him out —and sometimes,
possibly, the impulse gets the upper hand. So
far, it is explained, the impulse to run over foot-
passengers who “act the goat” on the track has
not developed—but it’s only a question of time
and exasperation. Nine hours continuous shifts
at this work are too much for any man —and
8s. fid. per day for it is far too little. And a huge
majority of the men have not yet climbed to that
giddy eminence. Yet the State service of Syd-
ney is batter than that of the syndicate services of
Brisbane and Melbourne. But, though the Sydney
pay is better than that of the unholy private
monopolies of other cities, it is still niggardly and
not fair value for the work done, and that is
what all the row is really about. If the strike does
come off the Commissioners are bound to go
down on the question of hours alone. The nine
hours continuous shift is too much for a driver ;
it is a menace to the public safety, and should be
reduced at once. And any attempt to replace the
drivers with blackleg labor in the event of a strike
for increased wages would result in a harvest of
street accidents that would cost much more in
compensation than the increase in salaries de-
manded.
■ ♦
The Logic of John Thomas.
John Thomas Annear (was there ever a capable
or large-minded man called John Thomas?),
member for Maryborough (Q.), offered to Queens-
land Assembly the other day this memorable
defence of the Cloncurry private - railway
shindykit:
There were 17,824 miles of railway in Canada, of which
only 1170 belonged to the Dominion, the remainder being
in the hands of private companies. The concession
proposed to be given here was a mere nothing compared
to what was given in Canada, where the land handed
over to the co’s as subsidies aggregated 51,655,640 acres.
The co’s sold the land at 6s. an acre. . . . The U.S. was
the greatest country in the world, and that had largely
been brought about by the construction of private rail-
ways. There the concessions given totalled 185,587,000
acres of land. The rates and .fares on the lines, too, were
25 per cent, less than in Australia.
This is the kind of argument which the dull John
Thomas or Thomas Jones or Jonah Thompson
of this country always uses in defence of the
railway shindykit policy. Any logical mind
would see that it is really a damning indictment
of the shindykit principle, but the stodgy John
Thomas person isn’t logical. Canada, according
to the disastrous statement of Maryborough’s
John Thomas, gave its railway co.’s land worth
£15,496,692—and the figure is grievously under-
stated ; it should be about £25,000,000. It also,
though Annear doesn’t mention this, gave the
co.’s over £37,000,000 cash aid—say £02,000,000 in
all. It likewise lent them about £4,000,000
without interest, and made them a present
of 713 miles of railway. If Queens-
land, which owns a railway system
over one-sixth the size of Canada’s, was
proportionately liberal, and gave its railway
department £4,200,000 worth of public lands to
sell and £6,000,000 cash out of taxation, and other
aid to the extent of about £1,000,000, so that there
would be no interest to pay on £11,200,000 out of
the £20,000,000 which the lines cost, Queensland,
under State management, could show enormously
better returns than Canada is doing under
private management. The United States really
gave its railway companies, besides large money
grants, nearly 240,000,000 acres in land grants—
about 1300 acres for every mile constructed. And
this was land along the line of railway in every
case—land that fetched high prices as the natural
result of its position—with minerals thrown in.
Suppose Queensland, in like manner, endows
its railway department with 3,640,000 acres
right alongside its railways—townships and
mines included ; and with this asset, worth
probably about £12,000,000, Queensland could
cut down its rates 50 per cent, instead of 25.
The private-railway boodle politician invariably
compares the results of the State railway depart-
ment, which is expected to pay interest on every
penny of the cost of the lines, with that of foreign
private companies—those incorporated paupers
and mendicants who got half their capital given
to them gratis by the community. Let Queens-
land, seeing that land alongside its lines is no
longer available, and railway township sites are
sold, give its railway department (say) 40,000,000
acres of the very best land remaining to it (for even
the best remaining land isn't up to very much) as an
endowment, and on every new line constructed
let it give the railway department 1300 acres
alongside the line for every mile of new railway.
Then, with the rents of this estate to help its
receipts, and the proceeds of its gradual sale to
pay off the railway debt, let the Queensland State
system see how it can compare with the systems
of Canada and the U.S.
Reid-ivivus.
As leader of N.S.W. Opposition, Mr. G. H. Reid
was accustomed to move a vote of censure almost
every week, seldom with any real hope of its being
carried, but on general principles. Possibly his
censure motion in- the Federal Parliament (with
an announced dozen or so others in the back-
ground) is devised on the same principles.
Possibly from a careful study of what principles
are demanded of him at the present moment, he
thinks that he has a good chance of success. Mr.
Reid has a facility unequalled in Australian
politics for acquiring the fixed convictions of a
lifetime at short notice, and if any platform at all
can win the day for him, that platform will be
his. But any expression of fear that Reid will
succeed constitutes so serious a reflection on
the good sense of the Federal legislature as to
amount to sedition and contempt of Parliament.
The Barton Ministry is not a perfect one; no-
thing on this earth is perfect. It has made mis-
takes, and will probably make more mistakes.
But they have been, and probably will be, errors
of judgment rather than deliberate political frauds
—mistakes of generosity rather than the tricks of
intriguing meanness. The Cabinet is perhaps not
absolutely of the strongest personality that could
be formed, but it comes remarkably close to com-
prising all the talents of Australian politics, in-
cluding, as it does, honest, sober George Turner,
sturdy, brainy Charles Kingston, the brilliant
Barton and Deakin, and R. E. O’Connor— in some
respects the best working politician of them all.
George Reid asks Parliament to throw out that
administration and replace it with one formed by
him—a Cabinet which, from present appearances,
would have Joseph Cook and Conroy as among
its strongest members. He asks this on the general
ground that he is more to be trusted than
Barton. Ostensibly, the tariff issue is the
main ground of attack in a drag-net motion,
which is designed to embrace everything, from
the dubious employment of a junior clerk to the
Government attitude on colored labor. The great
Yes-No seems to hope to secure the M‘Eacharn
vote by favoring colored labor on mail boats ; the
Labor vote by declaring against all alien immi-
gration ; the Freetrade vote by raping against
any tariff at all; the Protectionist vote by
pointing out that some of the duties pro-
posed fall below the ideal of Protectionism.
In addition, he will probably seek to attract
the small economists with criticisms of
some peculiar appointments, and those who
want to make a splash by promising a
huge loan, and post-offices, with clock-towers and
clocks, all over the face of Australia. It is a fine,
large programme, magnificent in its inconsistency,
essentially Reidian in its conception. But its
success would be so serious a reflection on Aus-
tralian intelligence as to amount to a national
calamity. It was possible for Retd to have raised
a definite tariff issue. He might, as a National
Protectionist, have objected to some of the
purely revenue duties, called attention to
the absence of provision for old-age pensions,
and demanded Federal direct taxation to contri-
bute a share of the revenue. Or he might have
demanded a Freetrade tariff and heavy direct
taxation. But he does neither of these things.
If in office, he would seek to raise the same sum
through the Customs, and necessarily in some-
what the same way. The only difference that he
would make would be to do away with the Pro-
tective incidence of the tariff as far as possible, and
retain all the burden while abolishing the blessing.
He may also promise the Labor party to exclude
aliens with a rude shove, instead of just as
efficaciously keeping them out with a polite,
apologetic smile: he promised to do that before
when N.S.W. Premier, and at the first hint of
opposition, backed down to Chamberlain and
left the other Australian Premiers, who were pre-
pared to support him, in the lurch. All sorts of
other things he may promise, but the only real
issue of the debate is whether an Australian
Parliament is willing to exchange Barton,
Turner, Kingston, Deakin and 0‘Connor for
Reid, the champion figure-fakir and political
prevaricator of the continent. A straight vote on
that issue can have only one result.
♦
The Smellful “.Resumed Area.”
It is the sorrowful peculiarity of N.S.W. finance
that hardly anything is quite clean or quite
honest, and almost every new idea that comes
along appears to be looked at, first of all, as a
possible means of cooking the accounts and post-
poning the inevitable day of extra taxation. Last
financial year the N.S.W. Government resumed a
lot of Sydney city property. The rents became
State property from the date of the resumption,
and, of course, the State’s liability to pay interest
on the purchase money began from exactly the
same moment. The rents, however, began to
come in immediately, while the interest couldn t
well be paid until the amount of the purchase
money was decided. Therefore, the simple
way was to pass an Act of about three
clauses (which would have occupied an hour
or so) authorising the Treasurer to put this
year’s rents of the resumed area to a suspense
account that they might be available to pay this
year’s interest when the amount of the interest
was ascertained. But the Lyne and See Govern-
ments carefully refused to do this, and, having
thus purposely made it necessary to put the rents
into ordinary revenue, they point out that they
are compelled by law to put them into revenue.
Which is quite true ; they took every sort of care
that they would be so compelled. Therefore, last
financial year the revenue was swelled by
£66,183, rents of other people’s property
(besides £60,744 received under similar con-
ditions through the resumption of Harbor Trust
properties) and the Lyne-See Govt, spent this as
ordinary income, and set aside not one penny to
cover the interest due to the previous owners.
This financial year it expects to receive £120,000
from the same source (besides £242,000 from re-
sumed Harbor Trust properties), and again it sets
aside not a penny to pay interest due to the pre-
vious owners. And again the question arises:
When the Government pays for these properties,
with interest for the period since the date of re-
sumption—the period during which the Govern-
ment has been receiving the rents—-does it propose
to pay that interest out of borrowed money or out
of the rents it has received ? There is not a word
in Treasurer Waddell’s estimates about the
revenue disgorging these back rents to cover the
interest, so presumably the amount will be paid out
of loans. And if that is done it will he about the
meanest of the many political swindles which make
up the financial system of N.S.W. No less than
£126,927 of the increase in last year’s revenue
(the increase which was such a glorious proof of
the prosperity of the State) was owing to the
dodge of the unreliable house-agent, who treats
his clients’ rents as his own private income ; and
much of the expected increase this year comes
from the same source. And while the N.S.W.
Government has been treating this £123,927 as
ordinary revenue, and leaving the corresponding
interest liability to take care of itself, it has also
been borrowing money to improve the resumed
properties, and making a little extra prosperity
by the expenditure of the same. Many a bank-
director has got into gaol over just these methods
of accountancy ; the process of putting the assets
in the balance-sheet, and leaving out the liabili-
ties is regarded rather seriously in mercantile
circles. The fact that there is a law—Reid’s
Cash Basis law—to serve as a precedent for this
sort of thing makes it not a whit more respec-
table.
4
Sydney Telegraph now takes up the view that it
isn’t necessary to legislate against the coupon
disease, because the shopkeeper who doesn’t want
to give coupons needn’t do it; “as soon as he
finds it unprofitable he can refuse without any
Act of Parliament.” By the same mode of reason-
ing, it isn’t necessary to have a compulsory arbi-
tration law —people can arbitrate if they want to
without a law. Nor is it necessary to make it
compulsory to have dangerous machinery fenced
in, to have a system of inspection of mines, to have
any laws regulating boilers, or any guarantee
against leaky ships going to sea; people can
refuse to work in dangerous mines, or beside
rotten boilers or unguarded machinery, or to
go to sea in coffin-ships. Even laws against
adulterated liquor are quite superfluous by the
same process of reasoning; the publican can
leave off spoiling his trade by the sale,
and the public spoiling its stomach by the
purchase of bad liquor, without State inter-
ference ? But the fact remains that a very large
number of shopkeepers want to be saved from the
coupon disease, and, presumably, they know
something about their own business. Their case
is something like this :
The easily-deluded public is persuaded that it gets the
same value in goods with the coupon as without. So,
under this persistent delusion, a large section of it prefers
to deal at the coupon-giving establishments.
The shopkeeper, not being able to make headway
against this delusion, gives coupons.
As the "loupons absorb a large proportion of his former
profits, he has to make good the shortage thus created
by giving inferior goods, or by charging more, or by
straight-out adulteration, or by cutting down wages, or
by some surreptitious process or other. Some shop-
keepers object to being driven to these devices, and want
the State to abolish the cause of them.
That is the attitude of the shopkeeper, or of many
shopkeepers, in the matter. The retail trader
can’t leave off coupons any more than a hopeless
dipsomaniac can leave off drink without outside
assistance, and he asks for the assistance.
♦
The Westralian Legree will have to hurry up
with his verdict of acquittal upon himself, for
evidence which says “ guilty ” is accumulating.
A police report on the aborigines of Broome, estimates
the number in the district, “ mostly living in a state of
disgusting immorality, at 1100, of whom 300 are young
men and boys, 150 being under age, and 100 old men, the
remaining' 550 being women and girls/ The ports of the
district are described as “harbors of debauchery,, the
girls being bought shamelessly for immoral purposes.
When the full facts are known, probably the posi-
tion of the blacks in V/.A. will be judged
by civilisation as vastly worse than that of the
negroes in the slave days of America.
The enormous number of brutal assaults and
robberies in Sydney and Melbourne of late calls
aloud for a vast increase of * the police force.
In both cities there are cases where one policeman
—one solitary, harmless bobby—is in charge of 30
miles of streets, roads and lanes, and is supposed
to provide for the safety of all that area. Accord-
ing to population, Sydney and Melbourne are as
well guarded as some European cities, but it isn’t
a matter of population so much as of area. For
their population they spread over a wide space,
and that makes the protection utterly inefficient.
To give anything like reasonable security the
police force requires to be at least doubled, and it
would be much better if it was trebled. Mean-
while politicians find comfort in statistics which
show that Australia is a law-abiding place, and
there is really nothing to be agitated about. The
published statistics, be it observed, deal only with
arrests, trials, convictions, and the number of
prisoners ; and the fact that the prison population
is steadily diminishing affords much consolation.
Judging by the evidence, however, it is only
diminishing because the police force is now so
weak in proportion to the criminal population
that it can only catch its offender in about one case
out of ten. The reduction of the prison popula-
tion is just where the disgrace comes in.
*
Fragments from the censure debate in that dig-
nified Chamber, N.S.W. Assembly
Mr. Jessep : It’s the witching hour of midnight.
Mr. D. O'Connor : When the grave yawns and hell gives
out its talent. (Laughter.)
Mr. Jessep : We know what we’re doing. You’ll be
tired out by the morning.
Mr. D. O’Connor : You haven’t got a corporal’s guard.
Mr. Jessep : Sit down, Dan.
Mr. Sleatii : All right, Tomatoes. (Laughter.)
Mr. D. O’Connor (to Mr. Jessep) : How dare you, sir, in
the exuberance of your vulgarity. (Laughter.)
Mr. Jessep demanded a full and unconditional with-
drawal and apology.
Mr. O’Connor : I say you are not exuberant in your
vulgarity, but great in your humorosity. (Laughter.)
Mr. Storey : The Government was responsible for the
distress in the suburbs.
Mr. Broughton : I know nothing of it.
Mr. Storey : That shows your hard heart.
Mr. Broughton : That shows your foul mind. . . .
Mr. Broughton said any stick was good enough to beat
a dog. In April
Mri Jessep : The first of April ?
Mr. Broughton : No ; that is your birthday. . . .
At 3 a.m., Mr. Jessep drew attention to a remark by
Mr. Kelly, that “ members were not going to sit there
listening to this drivel all night,” but the Chairman said
he had not heard it.
Mr. J. Hurley moved that the “ Rylstone squirt ” be
no longer heard. (Uproar.) . . .
Mr. Dacey : The hon. member for Waverley says that
this thing is a farce.
The Chairman: Or-der! Is the hon. member for
Waverley here ?
Mr. Kelly (going to a back bench where Mr. Jessep was
lying down) : Yes ; lie’s here.
" The Chairman : Does the hon. member for Botany
assert that the hon. member for Waverley said the com-
mittee is a farce ?
Mr. Dacey : Yes.
The Chairman : Is the hon. member for Waverley here ?
Mr. Kelly : Will you permit me to wake him up ?
Mr. Webster : Why, he’s asleep !
Mr. Kelly : Order the Sergeant to wake him up.
The Chairman : I will not allow the committee to
degenerate into a farce. Is the hon. member for Waver-
ley here ?
An Hon. Member : No.
The Chairman : Then I must ask the hon. member for
Botany to withdraw and apologise.
Mr. Gillies (pointing to where Mr. Jessep was lying
down) : He’s there all the time.
The Chairman : If the member for Waverley is not
present, the member for Botany has misled the committee.
Mr. Dacey: Allow me
The Chairman : The hon. member cannot enter into
a discussion with the Chair.
Mr. Kelly then went to the back bench and pulled up
Mr. Jessep, who started to rub his eyes. He gently
pushed Mr. Kelly away.
Mr. Kelly : Mr. Chairman, is the hon. member in order
in striking me? (Laughter.)
The Chairman : I ask the hon. member for Waverley if
he used the expression. I hope the committee will
recognise that this is not a burlesque. I ask if the hon.
member used the words that the proceedings of Parlia-
ment were a farce ?
Mr. Jessep (still yawning and rubbing his eyes) : What’s
it all about ?
An Hon. Member : How do you plead ?
Mr. Jessep : I think Che hon. member for Botany must
be asleep.
The Chairman : Did the hon. member use the words ?
Mr. Jessep : I must have been asleep if I did. Anyhow,
I apologise.
“ E.F.” writes from Melbourne :
In my letter published last week re “ The Law and the
Liquorer,” the word “ Excise ” appears two or three times
instead of the word “ Customs,” and, although every-
thing that I said against the increase of taxation on
spirits would be just as true if I had been thinking of
Excise duties rather than Customs duties. I hasten to cor-
rect the mistake lest Percy Mallby should seize upon it as
evidence of unsoundness in my argument. One is apt to
think carelessly that Excise and Customs are inter-
changeable terms as regards spirit duties, because the tax
in either case exceeds the manufacturer’s price for the
liquor. That’s how I came to speak of Excise duty on
imported whisky, a mistake which probably explained
itself to those readers who perceived it, whilst the
majority of your readers would not notice the error.
The duty on imported spirits is a Customs duty. It has
been raised since I wrote, from 12s. to 14s. per gallon
seemingly, so I would like to say, in a louder voice than
before—“ An addition of 2s. per gallon to the duty must
inevitably tend to make the whisky not so good as we get
it now, if hotel-keepers are to continue the present system
of passing the bottle. The public, not the publicans, are
the greatest sufferers by a rise in the whisky tax, and all
the babbling of all the Percys who ever misrepresented a
case will not alter that solid fact.”
The Eight Hours Celebration in Sydney
this year was attended by five State and one
Federal Minister, the Mayor, and numerous
M’s. P.—a favorable augury of progress, for where
the politicians gather there will be found the
strong. Provided the unions don’t lose their
heads, they are booked for a period of prosperity.
The Federal tariff differentiates against
cotton-seed oil, which in 98 cases out of 100 is
palmed off as pure olive oil on the public. Very
little pure olive oil is sold by grocers ; the fried
fish of the city is almost invariably cooked in
cotton-seed ; and the same inferior article con-
taminates the salad. Even oil bought for medical
purposes is seldom pure. Australia can produce
a good, cheap olive oil of her own, and should do
so now with 70 per cent, on the cotton-seed
produot.


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
of the United States.
LIBERAL TERMS TO AGENTS OF GOOD STAMHIMR
In order to improve the position of its Agents in Australia, and to better conserve
the business, the Equitable now offers RENEWAL CONTRACTS to
first-class agents, thus giving them a pecuniary interest in their business for
several years, instead of for only one year as at present.
For particulars, refer to
S. W. D’ ARC Y-IRVINE, Manager for New South Wales and Queensland,
Equitable Building, Sydney j or to
G. G. McCOLL, Manager for Victoria and Tasmania,
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
C> CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
The New
Field Glass
For the Races , dkc.
Very powerful, as used by
Officers of the British Army
in South Africa. Easily
focussed by the patent
quick draw.
Magnifying 1 5 times, 65s ; Aluminium, 84s.
Magnifying 6 times, 73s ; Aluminium, 85s.
Ix Solid Leather Sling Cases.
WOOD, “The Optician,
Only address in N.S. IF.,
299 Ceorgre-Sfc, Sydney (opp. Hunter-St.V
and EQUITABLE BUILDINGS,
Elizabeth St., Mblbouene.
»
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
E° yAL Brough and Co. (Last Nights).
Lyceum “ A London Arab ”
Her Majesty’s Italian Opera.
Criterion “Said Pasha.”
Empire Fuller Co.
Palace “ World’s Entertainers.”
Tivoli Rickards’Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “The Charity Ball."
Her Majesty’s “ The Casino Girl.”
Bwou “ Tom, Dick and Harry.”
Theatre Royal “ Taken From Life.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
New Building (off
Prince’s Bridge.. Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus.
Town Hall Alice Hollander Concerts.
Exhibition Buildino.. . The World’s Fair.
Next Wednesday (23rd) will see the
deeply-regretted conclusion of the Brough season
in Sydney. Mr. Posket_will make his unseemly
arrival at Mulberry-street police-court up till and
including Friday night. Then “Mrs. Dane”
ensues till Tuesday, and after that “ Sowing the
Wind ” is to have a long and brilliant run of one
night. The Scripture, or some other authority,
has it that those who sow the wind reap the
whirlwind, and anyone who desires to investigate
the matter further can purchase the necessary
seed at any public-house in Australia, and in many
places besides.
» * * •
The present version P>{ the “ Magistrate”
suffers a little by comparison with other occasions
when the Brough co. has laid that mild and
well-intentioned beak before the public. The play
itself isn’t dimmed by age, nor has the corroding
hand of Time been laid on the circumstances of
the memorable supper at Achille Blond’s hotel.
The “ Magistrate ” remains the best of all that
long series of comedies wherein an old gentleman
goes out on a one-night tear when he has become
too old to keep ahead of the police in a long stern-
chase and has lost the inventive faculty which
explains away the bruise on his nose next morn-
ing. But two of the characters don’t fit their
parts as they might, and the net result is some-
thing of a falling-off in the effectiveness of the
show as compared with old-time versions. Leslie
Victor has certainly a large contract on hand when
he undertakes to be Dot Boucicault’s successor as
Cis Farringdon, and it isn’t his fault that there is
only one Dot, and that he isn’t that Dot. If
Boucicault had never played Cis then Leslie
Victor’s representation would have had a much
better chance. Miss Susie Vaughan, however, is
hopelessly misplaced as Agatha Posket. The whole
trouble is built upon the fact that Agatha is 35, and
has successfully passed herself off for 30, and
when she makes up as a lady of 50 her deception
loses most of its point. Brough’s magistrate,
however, is as excellent as ever; and Mrs.
Brough suits the part of Charlotte to a hair.
Cecil Ward also fills Titheradge’s shoes as Colonel
Lukyn as well as the former possessor of those
feet-garments, and Titheradge’s mind took no
small size in boots. The balance of the co., too,
is well-suited to its respective billet—especially
Miss Temple, who wears the cap and apron of a
blameless servant-girl as very few local actresses
do since Polly Emery left these shores. In fact,
the servant-girl at the present writer’s domicile
having departed unexpectedly, leaving eight stale
loaves under the kitchen sink and a large piece of
bacon in the coal-box, and there being an urgent
demand for a girl to attend the door and keep up
appearances on one special afternoon next
week, he would like to open up negotiations
with Miss Temple to play Emma Popham,
as a sort of private matinee, at his house.
If that lady’s price for one consecutive
performance is not too exorbitant it might be
possible to do business. Among the smaller
characters the large, wooden policeman who goes
out with twopence to buy a bright red tie for the
magistrate, deserves a kindly mention. As a
representative of the class which gets 30s. a week
and conspicuous clothes and a pair of deafening
boots in order that it may go stealthily in pursuit
of crime, and drop on it with unerring intelligence,
there are points about that officer.
* * * iff
The grand opera season at Sydney
Majesty’s has reached its final eight nights.
Nothing new has been produced within the last
seven days, but the old things have been repro-
duced—as a rule with all the old brilliance.
During the small remainder of the season
“Rigoletto,” “Faust,” “II Trovatore,” “Lucia,”
“La Traviata” and “La Boheme” will go
past in swift procession. On 26th October
Wilson Barrett comes to Sydney’s big theatre with
the “ Christian King ” —the story of one Alfred
who was the boss of a race which had ferociously
invaded England and put the ancient inhabitants
to the sword when it didn’t put them to some-
thing worse, , and which regarded itself as a deeply
injured community when another race just like
itself tried to treat it in similar fashion.
X* * *
As previously hinted in this column, the
Josephine Stanton comic-opera co. from America
opens at Sydney Criterion, on Saturday, in
“Said Pasha.” Never having seen either the
company or the “Pasha,” this paper offers no
opinion. It merely suggests that Sydney should
provide the visitors with an excellent first-night’s
house, and on future nights with such conse-
quences as the case deserves.
■» iff iff *
“ The London Arab ” continues at Sydney
Lyceum till further notice, the public generally
seeming to like the much-thrashed child and the
impossible mother who goes off to Africa, and
calculates to be back before the last inch of life is
spanked out of her offspring. The veldt is as
empty of aggressive Boers as ever, and the dia-
tribes against that race sound like a dim story of
ancient times in the ears of a community that used
to darken the air with its flying sixpence for the
benefit of a brown person going south.
** # *
At Sydney Palace on Saturday an heroic
effort was made by the Musical Burglar and the
eccentric Nelstone to give an appearance of change
to the same old programme. The ragged man
with music in his soul and a merry, beery imp in
bis brain is always able to come out with some-
thing fresh, and he has been the staff of their
declining days to the World’s Entertainers. The
clever Mahr Sisters have also helped to keep
things going with agile toes. This co. leaves in a
couple of weeks, but in February next Lee and
Kial will return as permanent tenants of the
Palace with a new variety organisation.
** * *
The Braun* has condemned the inanity
of the nigger and other minstrelsy “ first part ” of
variety shows for years, and now feels glad to
have attended its funeral in Sydney. On Satur-
day the old first part” disappeared entirely
from the halls. The Empire replaced it with a
dramatic sketch, “ Ransom,” a story of the bush-
ranging days, which was robustly played to the
satisfaction of a big audience. In spite of great
competition, the Empire continues to prosper.
** * *
Sydney Tivoli has shown a promising
gleam of originality in its new first part “The
Carnival. The performers promenade about the
stage instead of remaining glued to their seats
most of the evening. John Bromley, an imported
h tenor, sings to his own accompaniment,
Tom Bowling” and “Ever of Thee, ” in a sympa-
thetic voice that has a few slightly tired notes in
it. It is the sort of comforting organ that would
do good in a hospital, and any deceased would feel
a little less dead if John Bromley would sing
with that same voice at the funeral, but it
mu doubtful if it will take in the Tivoli.
The marvellous Craggs consist of seven
lithe-limbed personages who dance on one
another’s hands in a light and kittenish fashion.
The smallest brother jumps affably from one
fraternal pyramid to another heap of the same
material. When he finishes by bolting along
the upturned soles of the brothers scattered along
the stage the Craggs have the neatest and swiftest
possible method of being impossible. If Joseph
of Genesis could have fled at half that speed over
the feet of his eleven brethren he would never
have been sold into Egypt, and the world’s history
might have been greatly altered. Johnny Cole-
man does his familiar scarecrow dance with Little
Gulliver as a shadow ; and Ted Box is the usual
comedian that the gallery loves.
** * *
The little Sydney Alhambra seems to be
progressing somewhat,, inasmuch as the last show
was a step upward from the show seen the week
or so before. There is a fixed price now instead
of a collection, and printed programmes are
passed round so that the audience has no
longer to rise up and go outside to read the
name of the next performer chalked on the
door. The first part contained some dozen or so
performers, mostly billed as being “dashing
senos,” or “ everybody’s favorite,” or something
like that. The dashing serio didn’t dash overmuch,
it may be, but the boy soprano was a taking item.
A dog was brought in and stood on its hind legs
considerably, and some of the scenery fell and was
apologised for by a person in authority. There
were a great many other things, as well as a farce,
and the gallery got the whole lot for 3d.
** * *
A new comedy-drama, “The Charity
Ball,” was sta-ged at Melb. Princess’s on Satur-
day, in a style worthy of a more interesting piece.
“The Charity Ball” is a weak-minded narrative
of a stock-broker who doesn’t want to marry the
girl he seemingly got into trouble before he went
to Paris for the benefit of his health. She some-
how comes to live with his relatives during his
absence. The relatives are the stockbroker’s
brother, a rector in strange clerical garments,
their blind mother, and their young sister, a
damsel who frisks around and calls them darlings
and angels. They all live at the rectory, where
also the organist of the tabernacle hangs out, the
organ being apparently situated in the room next
to the rector’s study. The daughter of a rival
stockbroker is another lodger at the rectory,
and a Judge named Peter comes there to
tell his love to an elderly widow of stock-and-
share tendencies. Another resident is a
ragged small boy, picked up by the rector
in the street and answering to the name of Cain,
but this casual waif is introduced only once for
the sake of some cheap sentimentality and a
puerile joke re the “raising of Cain.” Next to
the infant Cain in point of foolishness is the stereo-
typed youth who becomes engaged to the 15-year-
old sister, and quarrels with her in a manner
befitting their tender years. The programme
makes no statement as to whether this is an
American comedy-drama, or what kind of a rector
it is who wears a long black gown with a cape to
it, as though he were a cardinal in mourning. But
one supposes “ The Charity Ball” to be a mild
story of New York life, because the conversation
turns always on stockbroking, and the two prin-
cipal speculators lament the impossibility of
ruining one another on Christmas Day, on account
of all business being suspended until Dec. 26th.
**A * »
As regards the girl who ought to have
been married to the rector’s brother, it appears
that the other girl discovers her commonplace
secret in the second act; so in the third act they
both_ invade the rector’s study, and make
it evident that something is on their minds. They
make it so very evident that even the rector
understands, and when his brother presently
drops into the study to talk stockbroking, the
good man bluffs his relative into marrying the
girl on the spot. Rector joins their hands, and
proceeds to unite them in holy matrimony by
means of a prayer-book. The curtain falls on this
unlawful situation, and the fourth act finds them
all wandering in and out of the rectory as before,
with the exception of the brother who got rushed
into marriage. _He has died in the meantime. The
resident organist mentions casually that deceased
succumbed to heart disease —good old dramatic
heart disease —after a brilliant coup , which raised
him to the throne of the Stock Exchange. His
widow looks happy and contented, as is natural;
likewise the blind mother, and Judge Peter (who
married the widow on learning that she hadn’t got
a cork-leg), and the drivelsome young sweet-
hearts, and the surviving stock-brokers The
rector had not yet become engaged to the other
girl when The Bulletin reporter left the theatre
at a somewhat late hour, but there was every
reason to believe that he would tell his tardy love
and close the show. Tyrone Power runs
the heavy rector character on heavy lines.
Miss Crane has a colorless part as the very good
girl, and Miss Richter shows considerable drama-
tic style, but not much experience or confidence, in
the capacity of the girl who was no better than
she ought to have been. W. F. Grant is a gloomy
stockbroker; Oily Deering and Mrs. G. B. Lewis
make a capital attempt to provide comic relief in
the matter of the supposititious cork-leg ; Miss
Juno and Eva MacDonald are pleasing, and the
scenery is handsome. That’s all. “ The Charity
Ball”is.not very amusing, or stirring, or enter-
taining in the way that a Bland Holt melodrama
entertains. But it will be a passable thing when
the. management has pruned the luxuriant growth
of intervals between the acts.
** * *
“The Casino Girl” has accomplished a
prosperous first week at Her Majesty’s, and will
repeat the indiscretion all the time she is there,
provided the management doesn’t make the time
too long. Wallace Brownlow was called away
somewhere to take the place of Bathurst (indis-
posed), in a “Elorodora” co., and Fred. England
now appears as the not very funny person who
was formerly Brownlow, a change which is rather
comforting than otherwise. The female portion
of Melbourne loves to take its beauteous Brown-
low seriously, so the unexpected appearance
of that dear young man in a grotesque
disguise was a shock to the sex at large.
Under the circumstances, his disappearance
supplies a want. A sudden retirement of Miss
Palotta would be equally successful. From the
masculine point of view, a misplaced Palotta is
not so pleasing as a vanished dream, and in this
part of Roxana Rocks, where she gets no chance
to pick up her skirts and smite the Philistines
with her mere manner, the tall lady is quite mis-
placed. Fortunately, J.C.W.’s ballet is as
joyous as usual, and Carrie Moore is going strong.
Also the deceitful fowl smokes a cigarette, and
Lauri gets himself hurled through the air with a
violence that is greatly admired.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal, anarchist Brown
continues to blow himself up with a bomb, for
reasons which are open to conjecture. “ Taken
from Life ”is not a drama to be trifled with. The
bomb incident needs careful watching. Brown
must have a motive for causing a bang on the
prison roof whilst Walter Baker gets away from
the warders he has overthrown, but in the excite-
ment of the moment this motive has thusfar
escaped the eye of The Bulletin. Bland Holt’s
reasons for doing sundry things are also rather
hard of comprehension, although the drama makes
it clear that Bland the bailiff is governed in a
general way by a craving for drink. At
one time he purloins Baker’s baby from a
back-room, and, later on, he helps the
bereaved parent to break from the clutches of the
law, after which he repents of having stolen
Baker junior, and gets a free pardon from the
gallery. Brunton’s scene-painting and prison-
building are loudly admired in the drama afore-
said, but a word <of protest is due against the
landscape which he supplied as a specimen of
Walter Baker’s genius. If the hero can’t dash off
something better than that he mustn’t find fault
with his luck in being arrested for Brown’s crime.
His own crime, as revealed on the easel, deserves
a severe sentence.
** * *
The bill at the Bijou is “ Tom, Dick and
Harry,” preceded by “A Highland Legacy,” as
before. Hawtrey’s attempts at Scotch accent
have not been a brilliant success up to now,
nevertheless the “Legacy” would look painfully
amateurish it that unconvincing Highlander
didn’t shine by comparison with the younger
members of the cast, some of whom reappear to a
little, less disadvantage in the red-headed farce.
Considering the number of unemployed young
men in Melbourne these times the general acting
of the Bijou co. suggests that the management
ought to advertise for a few new raw comedians,
and turn some of the present incapables out to
grass.
** * »
At the Opera House'; a biograph was
added to the proceedings last Saturday night.
Also, Madame Dante came along with her illu-
sionary fire-dance, and Ivy Scott was there for the
first time since long ago. But the most pleasing
turn in the Opera House programme is supplied
by the four young local Williams Sisters, who
would probably be much more talked about if
they were known as the unrivalled somebodies
from London.
** * *
Fitzgerald Bros’. Circus, which has been
a missing quantity in Melbourne since it appeared
at the Exhibition Building a year ago, will hoist
its banner again next Saturday. The circus this
time is to be located in a permanent building at
the south end of Princes Bridge, and the glory of
the advt. defies description in a mere paragraph.
A long list of novelties, both human and gee-gee,
concludes with the announcement that city tram-
tickets drop you right at the door, and matinees
will happen twice a week, or oftener.
** * *
To-night (Thursday) Miss Alice Hollander,
described as a Glorious Contralto from Maoriland,
gives a first concert at Melb. Town Hall, supported
by clever Una Bourne and basso Reginald Gooud.
And way out at the Exhibition-building the
World’s Fair is taking place every afternoon and
night until further notice.
** * *
Maggie Moore and co. went along to
Westralia the other week, heralded by furious
Clifford Ferle.y. The latest revival of Maggie
Lizzie Stofel Moore is the most successful revival
she has known for years. Some of her receipts
within the past few months have been records,
partly because she arrived at the right moment,
but largely on account of her name. As a rule
the Australian theatre-going world disdains senti-
mental attachments, but it seems that Maggie
Moore has grown into the exception which proves
the rule.
Dr. Dwyer, of Maitland, and Dr. Kelly,
of Geraldton (W.A.), are the only natives of Aus-
tralia in the R. G. Episcopate.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
In the matter of new debt —apart from A ic-
toria’s renewal loan of £3,000,000 —a good many things
have been happening of late. New South Wales, vvest-
ralia, and Queensland have just borrowed, among them,
£0,874,213 in London. The Federal Government
to borrow £1,000,000. South Australia is on hand
with a loan of £850,000. Tasmania is floating a loan
of £450,000. Considering that there have been three
or four millions of other loans, large and small, previous
to these, it looks as if the Commonwealth would add
£12,000,000 to its debts during 1901. It is a solemn fact
that this will almost certainly be the biggest loan year in
Australia’s history. There is still a tendency to speak
sorrowfully of the boom-madness which overtook _ this
country in the 80’s—as if it was a dear dead relative —
something past and gone, and repented of, and quite
recovered from. But the same loan-boom is here now with-
out anybody noticing the fact. The old spectre is on the
premises again. Probably another ’93 is already pre-
paring, and Australia’s financial institutions haven’t more
than half recovered yet from the last ’93. This country is
hanging on to a post, with a pot of beer in its hand, and
explaining how it used to drink, and the awful conse-
quences, and how it repented and swore off. And it
doesn’t seem to dream for a moment that it is holding
the same old pot all the time.
* • • *
Seeing that N.S.W, Treasurer Waddell bloated
out his estimates to such an extent that ho only just saw
his way to pull through if he got £2,200,000 back from the
Federal Government, and seeing that he is likely to be
£300,000 short of that, it seems to be time that Mr.
Waddell unbloated himself, or else that N.S.W. got a
new Treasurer. N.S.W. is the only State which gets a
very large increase of revenue under the Federal tariff,
and if Mr. Waddell’s estimates come out right it won’t be
solvent even then. N.S.W. has £300,000 a year more
interest to pay than in the days when its politicians
talked glibly of “ financing the needy States,” and it has
a new liability of, perhaps, £400,000 a year for Old Age
Pensions ; but still it has the biggest land revenue in
Australasia, and its present situation is a disgrace.
* • * »
Year after year the N.S.W. Treasurer comes
out with a beautiful fish anecdote about the profit made
on N.S.W. railway and tramway system, and just as
regularly the Auditor-General follows with a statement
showing that the profit was made up by omitting items
of expenditure, and there is really a heavy loss. A few
weeks ago Treasurer Waddell declared that the profit for
the year to 30th June was no less than £114,000. The
tramways are alleged to yield a better return than the
railways (£4 2s. Id. per cent, on capital against the rail-
ways’£3 18s. 9d. per cent.); and it appeared that they
must be yielding a gorgeous profit, so the men asked for
an eight-hour day. And it was refused on the ground
that there was “ practically no profit.” What a bursting-
up of the legend 1
« • • m
The Provident and Industrial (life) Insurance
Company of Maoriland completed its twelfth year on
30th June, 1901. Some figures are appended showing the
progress of the co.’s assurance fund, taking into con-
sideration actual earnings only;
Accumulated
Loss on
Income. Outgoings. Assurance
Premiums. Interest. Claims. Expenses. Fund.
1897 £509
1898 £8,399 £274 £2,530 £7,837 2,203
1899 8,914 263 2,835 6,462 2,323
1900 9,370 427 2,936 6,195 1,657
£6O Forfeited Capital added to Assurance Fund 1,597
1901 10,371 367 3,332 6,205 396
Assurance
Fund
Nominal
£3240 added to book value of the co.’s
office in 1898 makes £2,844
This cheerful company has just declared a 5 per cent,
dividend, though the amount is not yet brought into the
accounts. It will presumably absorb about £238, in
which case the life assurance fund will be left with a net
loss of £634 to show for 12 years’ work. At the end of
1899 the Provident and Industrial had 8518 policies in
force, and the amount assured under them was £195,237.
And it hasn’t yet saved one single copper towards meet-
ing this liability. Things have been better during the
past year than at any previous period, yet even now the
co. has spent its entire income during the 12 years of its
existence, and £396 more. For a concern in this state to
pay a dividend is wholly outrageous. The only semblance
of an accumulation it possesses was created by writing up
the paper-value of its premises.
The interest-account is a curious study. The
co. has a pait-up capital of £4765, and it professes to have
an assurance fund of £s244—total, £10,009. But out of
this it was apparently impossible to find £5OOO of loose
cash with which to make the necessary deposit with the
Government, so £2804 appears to have been borrowed
(this appears as “ advance account, £2304,” and “ de-
posits, £5OO ”). So the co. last year received £367 in
interest and rents, as shown above, and paid out £215,
leaving a net income of £152 in interest and rent. It
professes to have £9508 of investments, of which £2804
were presumably acquired with borrowed money, and
the other £6704 seem to be the co.’s own property. The
property, therefore, yields about £2 ss. 4d. per cent, net
on its written-up value. This looks like a very cheerless
reflection on the written-up value.
The Provident and Industrial Insurance Co., as
already mentioned, claims to have accumulated an assur-
ance fund of £5244. This is how the accounts work out :
Liabilities. Assets.
Capital paid up .. £4,765 Government deposit £5,000
Advance .. .. 2,304 Original valuation of
Deposit .. .. 500 property .. .. 1,268
Sundry debts .. 458 Added to valuation
Assurance Fund .. 5,244 of property .. 3,240
Expenses not
charged, but car-
ried forward as an
asset .. .. 2,399
Premiums, &c., un-
paid .. .. 754
Stationery, &c. .. 610
Cash, apparently nil
£13,271 £13,271
Of these the first two items look sound enough. Of
the “ Premiums, &e., unpaid, £754,” premiums consti
tute £5lB, and these may, or may not, be recoverable ; it
is all a matter of chance. The £2399 (called “ Extension
Account”), which is money actually spent, but treated as


Gross
Income.
Outgoings.
Accumu-
Working
Expenses.
Losses on
Property.
lated
Loss.
August, 1896
February, 1897
£4
£712
£3752
£11,336
15,796
August, 1897
179
305
3
15,925
August, 1898
2
344
7295
23,562
February, 1899
10
240
2501
26,293
August, 1899
27
181
3
26,450
February, 1900
94
152
1
26,509
£13,339 capital forfeited and written oft
13,170
August, 1900
259
306
13,217
February, 1901
14
246
2638
16,087
August, 1901
13
249
16,323
stocks Kept ■=•
RAND ROCK DRILLS & AIR COMPRESSORS
BY THE SOLE AGENTS—
N. GTJTHRIDGE, LTD., 71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
And at 486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE ; WELLINGTON, N.Z.;
214 HIGH STREET, FREMANTLE ; KALGOORLIE.
TRAMWAYS. TRA.MWA.YS.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop. Ltd.
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material.
Locomotives from 10 to %50 h.p.
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel Sleepers,
Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &e. Technical advice gratuitously
rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated Catalogues and Photo-
graphic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different parts of the World, upon
application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
City Leader, London, 20th July, 1901, re the
Colonial Mutual Life : “ It is particularly gratifying to us,
as we have consistently praised the management of this
excellent office, to note that the funds are continually
increasing.’’*
* * m *
Cyanide, caustio soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grim wade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
* * * *
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
fillan and McOreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
The Great Curse in these colonies is indigestion,
and the Great Cure for it is Zetz Spa Water taken with
meals. It is rightly called the “ Premier Natural Table
Water.” *
* * * •
A very successful trial of the Gardner Electrio
Drill took place at the works of the Austral Otis Com-
pany, South Melbourne, a few days ago. The drill,
although only temporarily fixed, bored 8j inches in three
minutes through hard basalt. A number of prominent
mining men witnessed the test, and expressed themselves
as greatly pleased with the machine. The Austral Oti3
Company have been appointed Sole Agents in Australasia
for the Gardner Electric Drill.*
m * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,"
Melbourne.*
* * » *
If you' want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Bock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* * * *
Ward off influenza by taking
Bow’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* # • *
If further proof is needed that Luhrig Yanners
are the best and most economical machines for dressing
fines and slimw, it will be found in the fact that the Tas-
mania gold mine, Beaconsfield, Tasmania, has decided to
increase the number of these machines in the extension
of the present mill and reduction works. When com-
pleted it will have over 100 head of stampers at work, and
60 Luhrig Vanners, including the additional 24 of the
large type. Before finally adopting plans the Tasmania
board sent its manager to inspect the chief reduction
works in other States. Messrs. W. and J. Lempriere, of
Melbourne, are the Sole Agents for the Luhrig appli-
ances.*
• * * •
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, andallsortsof iron-work.*
• * » *
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Bow’s Buchu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Arsenic, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting Charges.
Hy. Harkwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; 27 Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
Auckland, NZ.
WILD CAT” BRIAR PIPES Wild
8
D.
ea.
IN A DOZEN DIFFERENT SHAPES.
Posted, lOd.; 6s. per Dozen—posted, 6s. Bd. ; 725. per Gross —$ST Carriage Pree to any
Railway Station in New South. Wales.
8
D.
ea.
Cat
H. WOOLF & 00.,
376 George-atreet (next GhP.O.),
SYDNEY.
/
an asset of the “goodwill” description, is merely an
entry in a book, and the amount added to the paper
value of the property is always a doubtful item. What the
present value of the co.’s liabilities under its pohmesmay
be the writer has never heard, but whatever they are th
amount actually accumulated to ineetthem ls > ° n
evidence of the co.’s own balance-sheets, £396 less than
nothing. That a concern like this should be ahowed to
exist is a dismal reflection on the want of a decent
insurance law in these States.
« * * .
The Langridge Mutual Permanent Building
Society (Melbourne) completed its 21st year on 20th Sep-
tember, 1901. Some recent figures :
Written Total
Profits. Dividends. off Reserves.
Properties.
1891 .. .. •• £7 > 856
1892 ”£8,264 .. •• ••
1893.. 5,149 .. - •• 21,269
1894.. 3,378 ... ~ £55 .. 24,592
1895.. 3,046 .. .. 2861 .. 24,777
ioq« i qi7 ## 78 •• 26,616
mt 2§4 - 882 .. 27,988
1898.. 2 472 .. •• •• 00,4bU
1899!. 2J6S 2 p.c. =£1,682 .. 545 .. 21,001
1900.. 2,918 2£ „ = 2,024 .. 283 .. 21,612
1901.. 3,149 3„ = 2,382 .. 1,924 .. 30,455
The reserves consist of contingency fund (£27,708) and
undivided profit (£2747). The total of £30,455 looks
handsome, but, as a matter of fact, the directors esti-
mate that the contingency fund may be required to provide
for losses on foreclosed properties which still stand in
the books at the old values, and if that theory
proves correct the real reserves are only about £2747.
At this rate, it is to be hoped that the management won’t
increase the dividend too violently. It is growing faster
than the profits ; the surplus, after paying the dividend,
was £lOB6 in 1899 ; £894 in 1900 ; and only £767 in 1901.
The society’s investments, if the contingency fund is
deducted, yield £5 ss. per cent, net on their written-
down value ; so, apparently, the provision for losses is
sufficient, but the process of building up a genuine new
reserve is somewhat slow. The strongest point is that
the Langridge has no heavy liabilities to depositors, the
total deposits being only £9758. An institution which
trades almost wholly on its own funds can stand a lot of
storms.
• » • *
The Assets Purchase and Realisation Co. of
Australasia (Melb.): —
The co.’B capital is £24,827, of which £8504 is nominally
intact. No new business of any size seems to have been
done for a long time. The largest asset is described as
“ Interest under Will, £6028,” and this is the sort of
asset that brings in nothing until somebody dies. Appa-
rently somebody has died, and the asset is in process of
being collected. This addition to the revenue-yielding
funds should be about sufficient to enable the co. to pay
its way. Apparently, however, it isn’t intended to go
into active business again ; in fact, there is little doing in
the Assets Realisation line in Australia nowadays. It is
anticipated that some 20s. or 30s. per share (£3 10s. paid
up) will be ultimately returned to the shareholders.
* * * *
The Sun Insurance Office (founded 1710), an
English co. which does some fire business at this end
of the world, sends along its balance-sheet for 1900. The
year’s profit was £123,770 (after adding £17,168 to reserve
for unexpired risks)— equal to a shade over 100 per cent,
on the paid-up capital of £120,000. A dividend of 85 per
cent absorbes £102,0X) and leaves the co. with £1,943,625
of reserves —equal to over 16 times the paid-up capital.
This shows what may be achieved by 191 years of careful
attention to fire insurance.
* * • *
The Permanent Trustee Co. of New South
Wales (Sydney), starting from the time when it still had
a debit balance by reason of preliminary expenses
Profits. Dividends. Total Loss.
5ept.,1891.. £202 £1,480
„ 1892 .. 146 1,334
Total Reserves.
„ 1893 .. 1,358 £24
„ 1894 .. 764 788
„ 1895 .. 1,007 4 per cent. = £l,OOO 795
„ 1896 .. 1,035 4 „ „ 1,000 830
~ 1897 .. 1,672 5 „ „ 1,250 1,252
„ 1898 .. 2,249 5 „ „ 1,250 2,251
„ 1899 .. 2,807 5 „ „ 1,250 3,808
„ 1900 .. 1,700 5 „ „ 1,250 4,258
„ 1901 .. 2,074 6 „ „ 1,500 4,832
The business is steadily increasing, though the profits are
still below the remarkable figures of 1899, when the co.
earned £ll 4s. 6d. per cent, on its capital. The earnings
for the year just closed were at the rate of £8 ss. lid. per
cent, on capital. For the co.’s clients the security offered
is magnificent—£97s,ooo of callable capital ; £25,000 of
paid-up capital; and £4832 of reserves—and it is in-
credible that anyone should trust his widow’s little pile to
any private trustee while such a co. is in existence. But
to be a shareholder and incur a possible liability of £975
for the sake of getting 6 per cent, on £25 is the sorb of
thing that might keep a man awake at night—especially
if a dog was barking persistently at the same time.
• * * •
The Australian Brewery and Wine and Spirit
Co., of Sydney (paid-up capital, £96,000)
Nominal Re-
serves (Good-
Profits. Dividends. Written will included
off. as an asset).
1893.. £14,067 .. £13,000 £6,621
1894.. 14,568 .. 9,100 12,089
1895.. 13,244 2£ p.c. =£2,400 7,100 15,833
1896.. 13,798 5 „ = 4,800 9,100 16,731
1897.. 9,588 2J „ = 2,400 2,600 20,319
1898.. 7,644 .. 3,100 24,863
1899.. 7,472 .. 3,000 29,335
1900.. 6,985 .. 4,000 32,320
1901.. 7,715 .. 40,035
The reserves are growing reasonably large on paper, but
there are certain drawbacks to set against them. One
large asset is described as “ Freehold and Leasehold
Lands, Buildings, Plant, Machinery and Goodwill,
£76,942.” How much of this is goodwill doesn’t appear,
but the amount, whatever it may be, requires to be
written-off before the real reserves are arrived at.
Goodwill is an objectionable item in every case. It is
especially objectionable when the amount is an unknown
quantity, and that method of concealing essential infor-
mation requires to be suppressed by Federal Act of Par-
liament. Moreover, the fact that the co. has re-
frained from paying dividends for four years seems to
imply that the reserves (described as adjustment
account, £22,000 ; reserve for bad and doubtful debts,
£2500 ; and undivided profit, £15,535) are really required
to cover losses, and are being hoarded up for that
purpose. The directors mention that they purpose
shortly to “lay certain proposals” before the share-
holders. It is to be hoped that the absolute writing off
of the “ Goodwill” item, whatever it amounts to, is one
of them.
* * * *
The coupon people, whose business Vic-
toria threatens to abolish by Act of Parliament,
have the gall to ask for compensation. The coupon
companies allege that they only issued their bits of
paper to certain traders whose business, they claim, was
largely increased thereby. Did the companies compen-
sate the other traders—the ones whose business was
damaged ?
• • * *
Boulder Main Reef: “Directors considering
the advisableness of taking down the main shaft another
200 ft. No use disguising the fact that, unless some
deeper development work is soon done, the mine will be
in an unenviable position as to milling supplies. But
there are absolutely no grounds for believing that the
bottom has fallen out of the mine.” Refreshing and
novel to hear some straight criticism about a W.A. mine.
* * * *
Croesus Proprietary : “ The mine manager tried
to arrange for the treatment of 20 or 30 tons at Hannan’s
Star mill, but the parcel was too small to be handled, and
he is now trying to make other arrangements for the
local treatment of the stuff.” Glorious news for share-
holders—and how fortunate they were to call it the
Croesus 1
• • • •
A W. A. amalgamation scheme. Again
rumored that the amalgamation of the big producers at
Hannan’s will be soon brought about at London. That it
will include the Lake View, Golden Horseshoe, Boulder
Perseverance, the Ivanhoe, and the Ivanhoe S. Extended ;
that the Rothschilds will be in it; and that O. De Rose,
chairman of the Horseshoe and Lake View, and Kaufmar,
the founder of both mines and the cunning manipulaton
of many others, hadlrecently acquired Frank Gardiner’s
interest in the Perseverance. Also, that a big issue of
6 per cent, debentures will take place in re the scheme—
which probably has been denied in toto since the first
publication of it. This yarn seems to crop up two or three
times a year, and Rothschilds are always in it. It is
much easier to create a rumor of the amalgamation of 20
mines than to accomplish the amalgamation of two.
Al#eady it has been denied that Gardiner has lost control
of the Perseverance, and if the Rothschilds were in the
habit of contradicting all the yarns about their buying
mines and entering into schemes, all their time would be
emploved in that business. Why, too, the Ivanhoe
South'Extended?—which has nothing to recommend it
except that it is owned and controlled by the Kaufman
crowd, and has a paper-value for its shares without
having any apparent value in the mine itself.
* * * *
W.A. reconstructions : North Kalgurli, retain-
ing its name and taking in Brookman Bros.’ Boulder,
capital of £175,000, in double that number of shares, and
issuing 50,000 shares.—Central and W. Boulder, 250,000
shares of £l. No initial public issue. This mine has a
little six-acre block wedged in between the Lake View
and Associated Mines. It worked for some time a pay-
able oxidised run of ore, which gave out at depth. The
shares have been up to £6 and down to 6s. A more
sensible plan would be to sell the block to one of the
other mines. It can’t be worked without a plant,
and that isn’t justified by either its area or its pros-
pects. The N. Kalgurli has only position to recommend
it: it is just on the fringe of the Golden Mile, and if any
golden run of stone got outside of that area, as in the
case of the Brown Hill, it might have had a chance of
finding it, but so much money has been spent in pro-
specting both these mines as to make the hope of ever
finding a div.-paying ore body very remote. It is on the
compass line of the Perseverance, and that is about all
that can be said in its favor.
* * * *
Golden Bar: Cleaned up 960 tons tailings;
cyanided for 103 oz. There is no money in that. Sold
1,571,000ga15. salt water for the month ; price unstated.
If there was much profit in it the public would have
heard all about it. There is too much competition in
water-mining in Coolgardie for any money to be made at
the game. There is no gold-mining there, and the field
isn’t in want of water. Coolgardie’s present great last-
ing want is Whisky, and it can’t get that at the Golden
Bar.
* m m *
Oroya (W.A.): “What seems a definite ore
channel was struck on Friday, and very high assays were
obtained from stone broken on Saturday. This is not
thought to be the Associated Northern run of gold, as it
was found at least 100 ft. higher than expected.” Shares on
Monday last, 47s 6d. buyers in London, and that represents
a valuation of more than half-a-miilion for a mine which
has made many calls, undergone one or two reconstruc-
tions, and paid Is. div. in five years. It has no sulphide
plant, but it is in a good position to pick up the Northern
Associated run of gold, which it is believed to have struck
in a bore-hole a few months ago.
* • * *
Yet more amalgamations. The latest scheme
is to include several mines outside of the Golden Mile, but
on the compass-line of the big gold-producers at Han-
nan’s. It will include Block 45, Croesus, Brown Hill
Central, and two or three others, and a working
capital of £60,000 is to be provided. Probably three
times that amount has already been spent in prov-
ing their worthlessness. True, they have ore bodies
which, in other places, might be worked to pay, but on
this field, where miners’ wages are the highest in the
world, and wood and water the dearest, nothing can be
done with mines of such a sort. If they would amal-
gamate for the purpose of spending £60,000 in an effort
to find a payable mine in some other district, there would
be some sense in the idea ; but to waste another £60,000
on these shows is the height of folly.
* • * *
Star of the East, Vic. : “Developments at the
Guiding Star shaft in this mine are being closely
watched.” That seems to be the condition of things in
mining right through Victoria. Every mine with any
prospect of producing any gold is being closely watched ;
brokers, mining boomsters and speculators generally are
closely watching one another in Vic., and are having a
starvation time of it. Melbourne Stock Exchange admits
having passed through an unusually bad year, and they are
not doing the business in a month now that was once done
in a day. Their own stocks, almost without exception,
have been paralysed from time to time. Long Tunnel
from zenith to zero, Extended do., Loch Fyne almost the
same. Gle'nfine South from over £l2 to under £2 —and so
in every district. Outside of Victoria it has been worse,
particularly those mines in whjch Victoria played a promi-
nent hand. Mt. Lyells have suffered enormous depreci-
ation, North Mt. Lyells a considerable one, and other
alleged mines there have been wiped off the market slate
for ever ; pity is they were ever put on it. The depreciation
in Barrier stocks amounts to a collapse, and runs to
millions; the losses amongst prominent mining Vic-
torians have been very great, and in some cases ruinous.
Last of all they have had to suffer on account of the Ohil-
lagoe fizzle. There was more Victorian money in this
gigantic scheme than all the other States together put
up for it. Tens of thousands of shares were bought at an
average of £2, and they are now 10s.—with no possible
prospects of ever seeing £2 again.
• *• * •
Glenfine South : This mine is suffering from an
intrusion of mullock. It is always suffering from some-
thing, and, no matter how severe the shock in mine or
market, the newspapers generally regard it as nothing.
The latest :—“ There is a fine mass of stone in the south
face. It is given as 22ft. in thickness, but it is thicker
than that, as the foot-wall is going away nearly at right
angles. The block, which has been referred to as a
* horse,’ hardly answers that description, though it may do
so later on. The lode looks well going down. In the
face now is about 4ft. of brokert-up stringers and country
rock, and, in the south, the appearance of the faces is
not without encouragement, though there is nothing rich
showing.” “My face is my fortune, sir, she said.” It’s
all about the mine’s different faces, but seeing these
shares are down to 405., and were once up to £l2, the
back of the show is obviously broken.
* * * *
Chaffer’s: The shareholders are called upon to
exercise theit*rights for preferential allotment in the co.’s
new flotation, to be called the South Fingall—a co. of
750,000 four-shilling shares. Altogether they have had a
remarkable experience with Chaffer’s, where over £lOO,OOO
has been spent in trying to pick up a continuation of the
Horseshoe or some other run of gold. The present co.
consists of 500,000 four-shilling shares, of which all but
some 20,000 have been issued. At one time it had a
market valuation of over a million, and this on account of
a mere prospect on a 12-acre lease. It has sunk a shaft of
about 1000 ft., and has done some thousands of feet of
driving and sinking in all directions. That it has found
next to nothing is shown by this attempt to find gold in
some leases adjacent to the Great Fingall—probably only
another prospect.
• * * *
From Derby (Tas.), under date 7th Oct.: —N.E.
Coast mining never looked so prosperous as at present. _ All
the comprehensive constructive works on the Briseis mines
are nearly completed, and a large area of rich tin drifts
is exposed and ready for manipulation wholesale. The
present average output of tin (20 tons per month) will
now be much increased. An area of over 30 chains of face
is now open along the line of lead ; along this face very
rich tin seams are visible, and boring operations to a
depth of 35ft. below present sluicing level have proved
the lower drifts to be exceedingly rich in ore. New
Brothers Home No. 1. claim is situated upon the course
of the Briseis leads, and beyond is a most valuable
property. At present, very little if any tin is being won ;
the management is confining the whole of its energy to
stripping, the basalt being very heavy. However, good
progress is being made with the removal of overburden,
and should this policy be continued long enough ere
attempting to raise tin, I feel sure that shareholders will
be handsomely rewarded.—J. H. Bryant.
9 * * *
The Hector (C.Q.) some years ago gave pheno-
menal crushings. Now the old reef has been struck
again, and it bids fair to turn out a good and permanent
mine. Machinery is going up fast, and Mr. Isaac Williams
(late of Mt. Usher) has taken over the management. The
Hector is only about 7 miles from Rockhampton.
* * * *
By the way, somebody at Mt. Usher mine
recently tried to blow the new manager up —with half-a-
plug of dynamite in a salt-bag placed under his house. It
went off with a very weary sort of bang, and (so it is
said) “ blew both the manager and his son out of their
beds ” —a rather improbable-looking story.
From Woolgar, Q. (16/9/’01): Another battery
landed here last week—been about 12 months on road
from Oroydon. The field at present looks better for
miners than it has done for several years. There is about
600 tons of stone at grass ; no crushing done for the last
two months. Several leases and claims are being pegged.
Expect this field to go ahead when the new battery starts.
Reefs are plentiful.
*•» • •
Results of operations of dredging companies
working in or owned in Otago (M.L.) from inception of
industry to Sept. 19 Number of div. paying cos., 36 ;
number of shares, 283,871 —capital practically ail called up
at £1 per share. Total gold won, 149,4840 z. lOdwt.
21gr. ; total divs. paid to date, £270,439 ; gold won since
last divs., 10,3270 z., 3dwt. 19gr. Of these the famous
Hartley and Riley, on a nominal capital of £7OOO (£5OO
unissued) has divided £57,687.
* * * *
March 31st last there were in Otago (M.L.)
and the West Coast 145 working dredges ; 11 standing
idle, 4 undergoing removal, and 122 building.
• * * •
N.S.W. Mines Dept, declares that a large per-
centage of Inverell (N.S.W.) diamonds, sent to Amsterdam
(realising small prices on the plea of extreme hardness, en-
tailing great expense in cutting!, have been polished with
diamond-dust, and re-sold as genuine Brazilian brilliants.
The gems once sold at 7s. 6d. per carat now command as
high as 265. 6d. The largest stones (averaging two to a
carat) are found at Bora Creek, while at Bingera, further
along the lead, it takes ten to a carat. These, however,
command a better price than Bora Creek gems. The
leads are said to extend from Bingera to Cope’s Creek—
-40 miles. The largest gem found was a Bora Creek
octahedron, 3£ carats, valued, at £BO in the rough.
* • • •
The zinc-concentrating (magnetic) people are
moving again. The falling freight-market has almost as
much to do with this as much-talked-of improvements in
the plants. Apropos improvements, the applicants for
the Carmichael-Bradford desulphurising patent are now
threatened with fight from two or three quarters.
Meanwhile, however, the experimental work proceeds at
Broken Hill.
* • * *
Such has been the development of Cobar, which
was only given a railway a few years ago with many mis-
givings, that it has now a larger railway revenue than any
other country station in N.S.W.—not including New-
castle, of course. It paid £64,823 in the last railway-
year.
• • * *
A shipping ring, operating on outward vessels
from Great Britain to Australia, has the effect of adding
from 20s. to 40s. per ton to the fair freight-rate. Pity
that the Freetraders have to print this, because it is only
under Protection that rings are supposed, by them, to
exist.
R. D. Meagher, M.L. A., has been elected to
Sydney City Council, polling 316 votes out of
2284 on the rolls. The choice, and the smallness
of the vote, indicate pretty clearly what Sydney
thinks of its “reformed Council.”
Stalwart Radical, “ Billy ” Russell, pub-
lioly told Premier Jenkins, in S.A. Assembly on
Oct. 10, that he will vote against the Govt, if it
shilly-shallies further with the Council Franchise
question. “What a pity it is,” he exclaimed,
“that Kingston has gone out and left us to the
mercy of a spineless Cabinet, which dances to the
piping of the leader of the Opposition ! ”
Truthful Tozer, Agent-General in London
for the Boodlewraith gang, has been denying
fiercely that the Q. Kanaka trade is a veiled
slavery. Yet, at Cairns police-court on Sept. 10,
two Kanakas, charged with absenting themselves
from their employer’s service for three days, were
each fined £5 with £lss. 6d. costs; and three were
fined £2O and costs —in default two and four
months’ gaol. As the average Kanaka wage is
£6 a year, the “ boys ” naturally went to gaol. A
fine of £2O to a £6-a-year laborer is surely the
height of satire ; and a sentence of four months’
gaol (if the Kanaka trade were not veiled slavery),
would be simply monstrous.
In view of the Afghan situation (since
the Ameer’s death the Indian boundary-line has
been kept under electric searchlight all night,
field-hospitals have been mobilised, and all pre-
parations made for war), John Bull must bitterly
regret that he was led by Chamberlain’s insane
desire for limelight into the Boer war. Over
200,000 troops are tied up in S’Africa, and the
end of the struggle is still remote. Meanwhile,
Britain has had to eat humble pie in China
instead of her usual sumptuous fare of territory
and concessions. In India, if the threatened
trouble comes, humbleness will not serve.
The many Bulletin readers who remem-
ber W. J. Falconer’s clever cricketing sketches
will be grieved to read this from a recent issue of
London Sun :
We regret to hear of the death of Mr. William John
Falconer, a gifted young artist of twenty-four years,
known to readers of the Sun as “ Sol.” “ Sol ” was a
young man of remarkable promise in black and white art.
His amusing cricketing caricatures had gained him much
popularity. He came from the Sydney Bulletin. His
birthplace was Melbourne. His last sketch represented
“ Bobbie Abel ” out for 2at the Oval. The young artist
caught a cold, and pneumonia supervened. His modesty
and other personal qualities secured for him the high
esteem of his colleagues and friends.
“ Yang Anyut ” discourses :
No one is more anxious to keep out the colored races
than is the German farmer, yet he, as well as his town-
compatriot, is bitterly opposed to Barton’s Exclusion Bill,
because he objects to being classed (as one who, in many
cases, can’t read English) with Chows and co. Have
spent hours in pointing out that the examination is per-
missive, not compulsory, but the daily-paper lie has
taken firm hold. What’s wrong, anyhow, with passing
the present Bill and agitating for an uncompromising
substitute later on ? There is no logic in the
man who in one breath tells us that we are free
and independent, and adds that we will not be per-
mitted to pass an uncompromising Bill, but there’s even
less logic in him who advocates such a Bill believing that
it won’t get the Royal assent. Even had we to ruin the
sugar and any other industry (which will not be the case),
anyone with experience of Asiatics must feel the awful-
ness of Australia’s end unless something is done, and
done at once, to keep off “ the touch of the tar-brush.”


DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
*- George Street, SYDNEY.
SHIRT TAILORS
MERCERS HOSIERS
and GLOVERS
SHIRTS & COLLARS
Cut and Made by our EXPERT.
FIT GUARANTEED. PRICES MODERATE,
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
Hand
Cameras
m
i
|
r .v
a
1
i
Stand
Cameras
From
08.
£5O
Pocket
Cameras
VISIT OUR SHOWROOM
or send for Illustrated Catalogue— Free.
Kodaks
Home Cigarettes.
THE LATEST BULLETIN.
They are the Sweetest, the Nicest, the
most Commomvealthiest Cigarette.
All Tobacconists.
Society
LEROY
LIQUEUR
BRANDY
The Pastoralists’ Review, which, during
the Q. shearers’ strike, shrieked so loudly for
“Lawnorder,” now states, in a leading article,
“that responsible men of Queensland are seri-
ously talking of resorting to civil war rather than
submit to the expulsion of the Kanaka.” Fat
Man only believes in law and order for the other
fellow, reserving the right to threaten civil war
when the policeman treads on his own toes.
* * * *
Premier See, the other day, told a deputa-
tion that there were great difficulties about
effecting an amendment in the N.S.W. libel-law
because M.’sP. feel a kind of smouldering anger
at the press and are in a hostile mood. The
trouble, it seems, is that newspapers report
“scenes that unfortunately occur in Parliament,
and which are much regretted.” Apparently the
price at which Parliament will grant a just libel
law is an agreement on the part of the papers not
to report the uncouth antics of the honorable and
bounding member for Smith’s Curse, or the shouts
of the representative from Beery Ruins.
A WAIST OF MATERIAL.
P. J. O’Connor’s motion in favor of
Sunday opening of Melbourne National Art Gal-
lery and Public Library will be discussed in Yic.
Assembly this week or next. The blessed Non-
conformist conscience is opposed to the motion,
as of yore, but this time the Labor party will
speak as a convert to the religion of Common
Sense. The Ayes seemingly will be outvoted by
the bigoted Noes, for the notion that the working-
man was made for the Sabbath has a mixed crowd
of advocates.
* » * »
The Dean of Melbourne says the Anglican
church “ views with alarm ” a foolish motion in
the Senate to make the divorce laws of Australia
similar to those of Victoria. “ The church,” con-
tinued the Dean,. “placed between the human
law. and the Divine, cannot hesitate as to her
choice.” She doesn’t usually hesitate; she
generally howls with the biggest crowd. “We
protest,” says the Dean, “ against the civil magis-
trate’s assumption to put asunder those whom
God has joined, or to break a covenant stamped
with that seal of indissolubleness, ‘ Till death us
do part.’ ” This wail must be at least 19 centuries
old. Fancy this gentle old clergyman taking up
the position that he has a right to hold the door of
a room from the outside whilst a drunken brute
of a husband bashes his unhappy wife inside “ till
death us do part!”
* * * *
At the recent Melb. Anglican Church
Assembly, a member proposed that the Sacrament
should no longer be administered from one chalice
a reliable authority having pointed out that iii
passing from lip to lip the chalice was likely to be
an active vehicle of contagion. The president
ruled the motion out of order, impious, and quite
accursed, the implication that the holy sacrament
could, under any circumstances, be a source of
anything but purity to the communicant being
regarded as evidence of a devilish lack of faith.
All the same, evil communications corrupt good
matter, and prevention is better than faith-heal-
ing.
* * * *
Dr. Gresswell, chairman of Melbourne
Board of Health, has taken action which augurs
his intention of suppressing the filthy chalice
practice common to Anglican churches. At the
present stage of bacteriological science, it seems
incredible that any educated body of men would
cling to the disgusting practice of making, or allow-
ing, several hundreds of people to drink from the
same vessel. The number of good Christians who
have perished for the glory of religion in this
manner probably equals that of the Coliseum
martyrs. Dr. Gresswell says that, in one-third of
the eases of one particularly unpleasant and deadly
disease, there is nothing to directly indicate how the
complaint was acquired. It would be interesting
to note how many of these patients are Anglicans
who boast of never missing a communion. The
British, _who abolished the Juggernaut and the
Suttee in India, entirely overlooked this fatal
practice in their own religion. Dr. Gresswell’s
attention should also be directed to the “loving-
cup ” disease-disseminator which is circulated at
Scottish gatherings. At a dinner of the Melb.
Caledonian Society, a couple of years ago, a
Sassenach visitor was nearly claymored when he
refused to risk contamination by putting to his
mouth the cup from which a hundred men had
drunk before him.
* * * a
The fund of the N.S.W. Presbyterian
Church is merrily mounting upper medium of the
cash and promises so enthusiastically collected by
Rev. John Walker. He has talked in almost
every part of the State, and the result to date
stands—Cash, £23,410 ; promises. £18,673 ; total,
£42,083. If Mr. Walker consistently keeps up
the large Scotch pat on the back which he so
deftly deals out in the Pkesbytekian to Tonald
MacTavish, of Jogalong Station, and Tammas
Mac Nab, of Wauchlethroo, for their generous
donations, he should top £50,000, provided he
doesn’t wear himself out meanwhile.
* * * *
Melbourne municipal councillors as-
sembled, t’other day, on the invitation of the
State’s prize Jingo—J. W. Fleming, of Bruns-
wick —and resolved (1) that it was desirable a
national monument should be erected to soldiers
who have fallen in S’Africa ; (2) that it was as
well to wait and see if Government was going to
erect one ; and (3) that if Govt, wasn’t taking any
memorial the municipalities should be invited to
contribute—presumably out of the rates. Same
old Jingo dodge ! Same old loyalty at the other
fellow’s expense! And the Queen’s-statue fund
has reached a miserable £6500 after eight months’
cadging ; and the Women’s Hospital appeals for
aid ; and the Fever Hospital stands useless and is
commencing to decay for want of a few thousands
to finish it. A memorial to a lot of farm-burners
and pillagers ! O Lord !
* » * *
Pitiful to notice the coldness greeting
Major Reay’s brilliant proposition, that hunks of
statuary be erected every few miles all over Vic-
toria, to commemorate the battle of “Pink Hill.”
Further evidence of the horrors of that awful
two-men-and-a-dog scrap is continually cropping
up. T’other day, when one of the Major’s noble
Pink Hill warriors was being tried for house-
breaking and robbery—he had stolen two rolls of
cloth, and sent them to his mother’s house, 100
miles away—it was impressively related in court
that the poor fellow had, at Pink Hill, been
“exposed to the sun for hours.’’ Then a doctor
testified that exposure to the sun might induce
“mental collapse,” and that “might cause the
accused to act impulsively.” The loyal beak was
so affected that he made “ a few commiserating
remarks ” as he allowed the poor cohentingenter
to get off with a month’s quod. But, what the
deuce did Majah Reay mean by leading his men
into an awful battle of that sort without their
umbrellas ?
The above cohentingenter returned invalided,
and has been drawing a pension from Govern-
ment for about a year —plus sick-pay from his
friendly-society. He only spent six months in
Africa. What may we not expect on the return
of the gangs who have been looting and burning
women’s houses for a year or two ? This country
will have to nail everything down hard when they
come back.
* » * *
A Wellington (M.L.) parson started, some
time ago, to collect subscriptions for a church.
At first it was to be a “ peace-memorial ” church.
The scheme “caught on,” and funds came in
fairly well. When peace-prospects faded, the
rev. gentleman announced that the church would
be in commemoration of the Maorilanders who
fell (for the cause of Cohen) in the Transvaal, and
PUBLIC FLATTERY.
THIN SOARLET VOIOE: "Hello. Fairy!”
the foundation was laid on a recent Sunday by
Premier Seddon, who got off a perfervid political
sermon. The “prospectus” of the new church
contains m the centre a plan of the building;
around it are printed choice hymns, and outside
these are various emblems of war, with the photo-
graphs of Barnum-Powell and other “heroes.”
Ihe pulpit should be decorated with Boers’ teetli
and whiskers to completely fit the place for the
worship of the god Jingo.
* * * •
The bill for refreshments for the Duke
still comes in. That not very hungry-looking
personage visited Perth Zoo, and hadafternoon-tea,
and possibly a casual whisky. As a result, the
Sandgroper Parliament is now looking with a
dazed expression at a bill for £795.
* * * *
The decision of Judge Power, at Rock-
hampton (Q.) Supreme Court, that it is not
unlawful for Kanakas to repair roadways about
plantations, knocks the legal stuffing out of the
cherished idea that Johnny Malicolo must work
in the sugar-field only.
*»' * *
If the present system, whereby one-fourth
of the Vic. railway staff consists of “casual” or
temporary employees put on by political influence,
isn’t suppressed, travelling on the Vic. lines will
presently become a fashionable inode of commit-
ting suicide. On top of reports of recent derail-
ments comes word of a repetition of the Jolimont
episode—the despatching of a train on the wrong
set of rails. This time it was only an engine—-
sent to replace one that had broken down. It
was sent on the wrong line right through from
Ballarat to Warrenheip. Nothing happened to
be in the road, and the department’s luck held
good. As it wasn’t in Melbourne, with inquisi-
tive persons prying round, nothing was heard of
the circumstance officially; it only leaked out
accidentally after an inquiry had been held in
private, and those responsible lightly fined and
cautioned. Also, the other day, a baby fell from
the “up” Bendigo night express. The corridor
car doors were locked and there were no com-
munication-cords. The passengers vainly shouted
and beat their sticks on the carriages in the
hope of stopping the train. Not until the next
stopping-place—Harcourt— was reached could the
down express be held and a messenger sent back—
to find the little one lying across the rails, un-
injured. This sort of luck won’t hold for ever.
•* * * *
Said Mayor Graham the other day :
“ Sydney is now known as something more than
‘ the City of the Beautiful Harbor;’ it is known as
the city where they fine people for spitting on the
streets.” This fact was proudly mentioned at the
recent congress of consumption experts in London,
and, says Dr. Graham, “on one recent Friday no
less than 42 people were fined for spitting.” May
the fines go on and prosper !
* • * »
Forty-seven fatal and 221 other accidents
were reported on Sydney tramways for the first
seven monthsof 1901. The Commissioners minimise
the figures by showing that only one in 7,650,000
passengers was killed during the period—so that
all Sydney could take 12 rides before one life was
lost. Still three deaths occur, on an average,
every fortnight.
* * * *
It will be interesting to keep track of and
see what happens to the men who are leading the
Sydney tramway employees’ agitation. The Com-
missioners’ refusal to recognise the union should
steel the men to see that their present leaders do
not suffer for their bold championship of fellow-
toilers.
Both the patch-work Sydney proposals to
cope with the evils of the drink traffic are absurd.
If the “ Crickville ” prohibition suburb material-
ises, it will have tram-communication with the
world where drinks are, and there will be such
things as big gin-bottles, jugs, buckets and billy-
cans to act as storage-reservoirs and provide
against drought. To abolish hotels on the Rocks
resumed area would only drive the thirsty to
adjacent public houses. Even should Govt, try
the Gothenburg system on a small scale there,
and open unattractive drink-shops with the oldest
barmaids available at the beer-pump, and the
sourest of civil servants at the cash register, the
result will be the same —a pilgrimage to the pub.
outside, where the beer is blessed with a subtle
sub-flavor of naughtiness and is imbibed with a
feeling of rollicking dissipation. There is
nothing to be gained by reform in spots.
• * * *
Sydney Daily Telegraph played its
usual game by running among its advertisers for
“ opinions ”on the Federal Tariff. These persons,
of course, piled it on in confirmation of the Tele-
graph’s views. The fact that Soft Goods and co.
were asked, as “leaders in the trade,” for an
expression of opinion was a good, thumping advt.
for the firm, and X. and Sons gladly dilated at
length as to how the “superior class of goods”
they dealt in would be affected.
DECAY.
“ How is your father, Ikcy?”
“ He’s failing, sir, failing."
“ For what amount, Ikey?”
Concerning bush schools, “ J. 8.” writes
Re the N.S.W. bush schools mistaken for “ shanties” bv
Cardinal Moran, Rev. Dill-Macky has investigated, and
found “ there are none.” Widespread experience is
evidently not his strong point. About the New England
ranges, the sandy Dubbo plains, and the mangrove
swamps around Bateman’s Bay, there are school buildings,
boards shrunken, unceiled, shelterless, verandahless.
Yet, but for these “ shanties,” the scattered R.C. children
(concerning whom the Cardinal maintains a dignified
silence), would have no opportunity of learning even their
alphabet. Once let a public schoc reach an attendance
large enough to suggest paying results for a convent
school, and Mother Church swoops down, like an infuri-
ated hen, to gather up her chicks beneath her wings.
* * * *
The World's Fair committee offers a prize
for the biggest man who presents his length
and breadth at Melb. Exhibition Building any
time during the four weeks’ run of the Fair.
TO AGATHA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Her touch no passionate pulse of bliss
Within me stirs;
One mouth could slay me with a kiss :
It is not hers.
And yet, I think, did all my part
So badly end
That to unlock a breaking heart
I sought one friend.
(So heavily may our sorrows need
To be confessed),
The altar where my sins should plead
Would be —her breast.
Then in her hands would solace be,
And in her eyes
Cool peace, and the serenity
Of comfort wise.
So when the eyes of gaunt Despair
Blaze on my own,
Let me my hour of torment bear
With her alone ;
Till on my icy brow her breath
Shall make me seem
To have encompass’d, e’en in Death,
A gracious dream.
VIC.
PAGAN.


J.D.K.Z. GIN.
4
Only a little higher in price than other gin,
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
only—largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 16'5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Sydney. «
Raff an’s catarrh remedy
Invaluable for Restless Exhaustion.
RAFF AN’S CATARRH REMEDY
Excellent in “ Breaking-up” of the System.
RAFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY
Specially in Dyspepsia and Sleeplessness.
RAFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY
In Extreme Depression and Headache.
RAFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY
A Specific Influence on the Nervous System.
2/0. RAFF AN, Carlton, Melbourne.
m
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers'
Gazette, and Sailing List with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Collins-st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
Italian clericalists were fond of asserting
that Crispi made a fortune out of politics. Now
that he is dead his widow has had to leave the
Villa Lina and retire to cheap lodgings. What
little property the statesman had was heavily
mortgaged. And “ his last piece of jewellery was
sold.”
The last speech of note by President
M‘Kinley was intended to counteract a Jingo
utterance of the then Vice-president Roosevelt.
M'Kinley deprecated war, claiming that the real
eminence of the States rested upon the victories
of peace. That was on Sept. 5. The next day he
was shot.
The other day, in S.A. Assembly, an in-
dignant and tired stranger in the gallery yelled
“Bosh! bosh!” and retired. This is locally
believed to be the only sensible speech made in
the House during the last three months.
Obit. ( : Matthew Holmes, aged 84, the third
Maoriland M.L.C. to die within a quarter. He
was in business in Victoria in the early ’so’s, went
to Scotland, and then settled in Otago in ’59, acting
for the No. 2 Land Co., and bought large blocks
in southern M.L. with capital furnished by the
City of Glasgow Bank. He subsequently took
up land on his own account, and became the most
noted M.L. breeder of pedigree flocks and herds.
* There is only too good reason for fearing
that the Federal fourteen-bob-a-gallon duties on
spirits means a large consumption of inferior
liquor. The D.C.L., however, standing head and
shoulders above all rivals, is more sought after
than ever. No duty can come between the wise and
discriminating whisky-consumer and his duty to
himself, i.e. , to remain true to his favorite brand.
Once a lover of D.C.L. always a lover of D.C.L.,
if you are blessed with a palate and a prudence.
The Whisky of the Wise.*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It dri\es away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
SILVER STAR STARCH.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Copy of letter received at N.S.W. Educa-
tional Dept. :
Dear Sir,—As I have no offspring of my own, and want
a little girl, would vou inform me how to go about it.
Yours truly,
Mrs. ••
THEN—AND NOW.
In
days
long
ago (in
the six-
ties you
know) when
Grandma
went walking
she held
her skirts so!
What
would she
say if she
saw girls
to-day with
skirts
clutched
so tight-
ly they
all
look
this
way?
—London Outlook.
That hideous Ramsay’s Bush crime (N.S. W.
Govt, has now increased to £2OO its reward for
the arrest of the child-outrager) is causing much
trouble. About a dozen suspects have been
arrested to date and put through the identifying
process. In fact, it isn’t safe for anyone with a
scratched face, or whose blucher-mark resembles
the perpetrator’s, to move out of doors. Sad to
relate, a man arrested the other day was positively
identified by a person whose opinion should have
been valuable, but who was found to be demon-
strably wrong. Which fact will greatly handicap
tie police if ever the right man is caught.
* * *
During the exhumations at Devonsliire-
st. (Sydney) cemetery a skull was found to have
so decayed as to have split apart, but contained
a perfectly-preserved brain. None of the medicos
who have seen it can explain the phenomenon.
The exhibit will go to some anatomical museum.
NOBLESSE OBLIGE.
"Now, is there anything else you'd like?"
“ Oh, you are so kind. Would you mind bring
ing somebody interesting to talk to."
Certain of the Sydney harbor resorts
begin to lift up a bottle-battered head again.
The bold newchum visiting one of these
places on Eight-hour Day, or any other
classic holiday, often comes back the richer
for much experience. He begins by asking
a donah for a dance ; she doesn’t mind, so
they goes and does it. After it is over, the
emboldened youth asks her out to enjoy the light
of the moon and the pureness of the atmosphere ;
and then appears the Bloke, who wants to know
“ why the newchum ain’t satisfied with a darnce,
without wantin’ to give his tart a ’uggin’.” Then
the Bloke calls up his mates and there are ructions,
till a much-damaged innocent reaches the boat,
with both ears much shifted and his nose on one
side ; also, he is minus hat and coat ; and some-
times, in fact, he hasn’t much shirt left, or skin.
The officers of the law allow the battered one to
pass the gate and catch the first boat to town, but
his assailants have to wait for the next if they
wish to follow him. That is the etiquette of the
plaoe. And it makes it impossible for the poor
pushite to properly “deal with ” a stranger.
• * * •
The minimum wage, and no mistake !
Recent S.M. Herald advt. :
IRLS Wanted, to Sew on Buttons. 3s. 6d. to
start.
Per week, of course. Seven pence a day ! And
N.S.W. Premier See talks of seven shillings !
A sensational child-abduction case has
just been investigated at Wanganui (M.L.) The
abduction was the sequel to an interesting divorce
suit, Soler v. Soler and J. Tucker. Soler divorced
his wife, who subsequently married the co-
respondent, Soler securing legal custody of the
child. Sent to school as usual one day, the lad
disappeared as completely as if the earth had
swallowed him, and for 32 months the father
vainly spent large sums in trying to trace him.
Young Soler was induced to go to a strange house
where he was disguised in girl’s clothes and false
hair, taken by train to Masterton, where he stayed
at his mother’s residence, and afterwards removed
to a sheep station. He then resumed male garb, but
when the police scent got hot he was re-dressed as
a girl, shipped to Lyttelton, thence to Invercargill,
and subsequently to Balclutha, where the police
discovered him. He was then in boy’s garb, and
had assumed the name of Fred. Davis. His
mother sent money for his maintenance but never
saw him. Soler then proceeded against everybody
who had been concerned in the theft of the boy,
claiming £550, and the jury awarded him over
£3OO.
* * * *
Surgery extraordinary ! A Victorian rail-
way-porter lately had the top joint of his finger
sliced off between a “ full ” barrel and a truck he
was unloading. Bystanders commiserated with
him on his loss, but he replied that he didn’t
think he had met with any loss: picking up the
joint, he stuck it on, and then got the finger
dressed. It has now knitted, and is as good as
ever, the only inconvenience being a slight ten-
dency on the part of the finger aforesaid to
“crook”—probably owing to the barrel having
been full of beer at the time.
Concerning N.S.W. Leg.
Council, a Sydney pressman
writes: —
Curious people crowd the side
benches and back spaces of the Equity
Court quite as frequently as they
press into the gallery and reserves of
N.S.W. Leg. Council. The provoca-
tion is as keen from either quarter.
Just as the court janitor starts at the
appearance of anybody who is not a
law-clerk or a reporter, so the Council
atten lant stares at a stranger who
loses his way into the nominee cham-
ber. There are citizens of Sydney
who have been stewing in politics since
Responsible Government, who count a
thousand visits to the Assembly, but
never trespassed on the stone-stair way
of the Council hall. In the popular
mind, the Council is immaterial. It
excites no more interest in session
than it creates in vacation. It does
not even challenge attention as an ex-
crescence on the Constitution. With
almost co-ordinate legislative powers
with the elected chamber, it has con-
sistently failed to impress the multi-
tude with either its presence or its im-
portance. It is beneath the dignity
of Democracy. Its very existence is
ignored, and even its abolition would
hardly advertise it. It is the unseen
and unregarded aspect of the Consti-
tution. It is the lapsed fact in the
legislative argument. It has ceased to
be published, and is vaguely under-
stood to haunt an abandoned building.
The writer strayed into the Council
Chamber the other evening. He was
the only stranger outside the barrier.
His appearance agitated the attend-
ant, who motioned him to a seat. Soon
he became aware that the eyes of the
nominees were upon him. He had en-
tered so noiselessly and so reverently
that he felt confident that the scrutiny
was not provoked. The attention of
the Chamber remained fixed upon
him. Venerable gentlemen stood up
to get a better view of him. The Chair,
and the Government, and the Opposition,
and the Clerk, and the Black Rod stared him
intently and unanimously. Meanwhile, the silence was
well preserved. The writer felt uncomfortable and
vanished. He understood, afterwards, that a visitor was
a distracting curiosity in the Council.
• * * *
New feature of savagery from a M.L.
cohentingenter’s description of looting a farm-
house :
Everybody is looting a beautiful homestead. I have
secured some music, which I will send to Charlie. . . .
Things such as large clocks and bureaux were smashed for
fun, beds were ripped open, books trampled under foot,
an 1 [other familiar items omitted]. We had great fun
reading the girls’ letters, which were more or less interest-
ing. I will enclose some for your perusal.
• * * »
A man, working near machinery-shafting
in a Broken Hill ore-dressing mill, the other day,
probably owed his death to the frayed ends of his
belt. A little while ago, another engine-attendant
stood near a fly-wheel with a piece of cotton-waste
in his pocket. The moving machinery played
with the loose end, at last caught it, jerked the
victim to itself, and, finally gripping his coat,
pounded his life out.
* * • *
The latest development of the coupon
industry is in the grog business, in Melbourne,
where publicans have started' giving a coupon
with each beer, twelve coupons buying another
beer. Attorney-General Gillott is now considering
whether this is a breach of the Licensing Act,
which prohibits the receipt in payment for liquor
of anything except current money, cheques, or
orders for payment. The Church is now about
the only business that doesn’t give coupons.
* * * *
“They have left a great blanky in our
life,” writes a S’African citizen to The 8., re the
returning Australians.
The respectable aldermen of the
Sydney railway suburbs, influenced,
haps, by their wives, are steadily oppos-
ing the idea of an all-night train
service to Parramatta. At present
the last train (midnight) is known
as “ the drunks’,” and wobbles along
in an atmosphere of mixed liquors,
gradually disembarking, to the accom-
paniment of much language and biff,
tattered Flossies and belated citizens
who have lingered where the beer
is long and numerous. Travellers
of respectability there are, too,
of course, but to catch “the
drunks’ train ” home is al-
ways reckoned to be a
matter needing explana-
tion. The aldermen seem
to think that later trains
would be still more drunk
and disorderly and more diffi-
cult to explain, and that the
man who can’t get to the rail-
way-station by midnight had
better stay in Sydney for the
good of his suburb and get his
lie ready for the morning.
Melbourne Argus grows
alarmingly frivolous of late.
Editor Willoughby has given
free rein to the reportorial
fancy, and, as every reporter
thinks himself a misplaced
Mark Twain, a strange Spring
humor is breaking out all
over the face of the paper,
and accounts of suicide, mur-
der, and sudden death are
given in a most cheerful spirit.
The Argus’s report of the
Hawthorn tram sticking-up
was perhaps the most desper-
ate effort to be funny that has
ever convulsed a respectable
daily. The strain almost
tore the paper. To quite
appreciate the Argus’s
lighter mood, one must
remember that it regards
Gr. H. Reid as the only
politician in Australia worth
of grave consideration.
Reply to an advt. for a shop-walker
by a big Sydney drapery concern :
Der sirr in anser 2 ur advertisnt i take The pleasure of
dropping you this not in hops two be sucksful in regards
to the experns i have none of that bisens what Ever but
would onely be two glad to lern With pleasure to you and
hops to get an Answer from you with pleasure.
* * * *
The new Oollingwood (Melb.) railway, to
be opened Oct. 21, will much benefit the local
public at the expense of the rapacious Melb.
Tramway Co., not to mention the struggling
“keb”men. One station is fixed at Clarendon-
street, opposite “Cliveden,” the red-brick Clarke
mansion, and the line to this point will carry
hundreds of passengers to Melb. cricket-ground
on big-match days—passengers who have hitherto
paid 3d. a time for travelling to and fro the same
point by tram-car from Prince’s Bridge. It now
remains to be seen whether the tram bosses will
start a penny section opposition on this route.
“ All the way to the cricket-ground for a penny ”
sounds probable.
•* m * *
At the miserably-attended “indignation”
meeting at Melb. Temperance Hall, held to sym-
pathise with Charles Rose in his prosecution by
the Vic. police and “ honorary ” justices for cer-
tain “ blasphemous ” remarks, the veteran materi-
alist complained of vindictive action on the part
of the authorities. The court, he said, ordered
that he should be detained at the watchhouse
while his friends tried to find sureties for the pay-
ment of his fine. He was taken to the watch-
house, but was only kept there for three or four
minutes, and then bundled off to gaol. There he
was examined by a doctor to test his sanity. He
was also informed that he, a man of 81, was not to
get any food until 24 hours after his last meal. He
was given the choice of sleeping on a bed in the
same room with a notorious criminal, or of sleep-
ing on the boards in an ordinary cell. Fortu-
nately, his friends managed to find the fine and
release the old man before night. Gaol-regula-
tions may explain much of this, but Rose seems to
have been treated with unnecessary harshness.
Granted that he was guilty of offensive stupidity,
that did not justify the law in treating him to
about 10 times the amount of punishment it metes
out to the savage pushite.
• • • *
Now that letters are appearing about
double-decked trams, one recalls the time when
spitting competitions were held by Sydney school
boys off the tops of the old two-deckers, the
target being the hat of some fair passer-by.
♦ * -* *
One of the oldest identifiable hostelries in
Melbourne has sacrificed its historic name at the
altar of Federation. Hockin’s Hotel, Elizabeth
and Lonsdale streets, is now known as the Com-
monwealth. In the fifties and sixties Hockin’s
Hotel and Hall were the popular meeting places
of politicians of all creeds.
* * * *
A man of weak intellect was recently
missed from the Colac (Vic.) district for three
weeks. Then he was found in a hollow tree in
the Beech Forest, in an emaciated condition. He
had subsisted for over 20 days on the juice sucked
from portions of tree-ferns.
An Australian lady recently issued invita-
tions to celebrate her silver-wedding,
notwithstanding her husband had
been dead some years*
THE ONE MODEST ACTOR.
THE LANDLADY: “ Are you an actor, Mr.
Jones? ”
THESPIAN: " Well, I don't know, madam. I
have been asking myself that question for
many years, and have been unable to answer
it so far.”
R& crime eccentricities, “J. 0.” writes:
“I have known a bank-clerk pay for a ‘Jimmy
Woodser ’ with his own cheque for £5 on his own
bank, 100yds. away, where he had never had an
account. The remarkable financier was dismissed
by wire next morning. The grog-man compounded
on having his £4 19s. fid. returned and the drink
paid for. Now, what did that clerk hope to gain,
beyond the joy of feeling himself a desperate
law-breaker? ”


The Charm of MARK FOY’S is the Price.
One of the keynotes of Mark Foy’s success is the working
up of the Men’s and Boys’ Outfitting Trade. — _
y°wvj gentlemen in offices, students, apprentices, and others
who wish to present a good appearance, we call special attention to
MARK FOY’S SMART SUITS FOR BUSINESS YOUTHS.
Every youth on entering his business career desires to be smartly
dressed, but the stern necessity of rigid economy with small
salaries necessitates care in spending the coin.
MARK FOY’S NAVY SEROE YOUTHS’ SUITS (Ready-Made )
but not what is known as slop-made. These are manufactured in
our own factory only, from
GUARANTEED PURE INDIGO DYED ALL-WOOL WORSTED SERGES
The cut, style, and finish of which are perfect, and the value is
unknown but at Mark Foy’s. e
Holy Adelaide is the only Australian capital
which cannot boast of a single statue to a man
connected with the public life of the State.
.Besides the effigy of Queen Victoria, it has statues
ofßobby Burns, Hercules, and Venus—a lovely
trinity from a holy point of view.
“Perfumes on draught” are in great
demand at Westall Guest’s, 229 Bourke-street,
Melbourne Stephanotis, wall-flower, lily of the
valley violet, heliotrope, white rose, &c., at the
rate of Is. per oz., postage 2d. extra. Mr. Guest
imports only the finest triple extracts from the
South of France. The latest importation, “ Wood
Violet, is of marvellous quality—you should
write for a sample ounce.*
The Worlds Fair was lucky in securing
such a lion as “Fighting Mac” to assist at its
opening. Braw Hector gazed with keen admira-
tion upon the throng of well-dressed, shapely
women, and, no doubt, wondered at the grace of
form and motion so reminiscent, in its ease and
naturalness, of the bonnie lassies of his native
hame-land. Possibly the secret of this charm, the
j cors et, is not altogether unknown to the
Macdonald. Lives there a warrior who has not
a roving eye and an eager arm—for a pretty
waist and is not familiar with the irresistible
allurement of the P.D. figure ? *
eonzflCEz insi'Aca’i
. . . CELEBRATED . . .
PORT WINE.
»
Known in all parts of the world as
THE VERY BEST.
A ralian Representatives:
SWIFT & COMPANY
7 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
A WOMANS LETTER.
Sydney, October 8, 1901.
My Dear Arini, —
Every woman seems to be working for bazaars
and garden-fetes in aid of charities, and taking
1 tonics to brace herself against “ this trying
climate,” and swapping headache-cures. Sydney
is a very headachy place in the spring. I can’t
see Sydney’s points as I used before the tariff.
Lace (old, heirloom lace, of course) which I bought
the other day for is now 7id., but that was a
swindle on the part of the seller, as the firm is
carrying about six months’stocks of everything on
which they have not paid, and will not pay, a cent
of the new customs duties. Anyhow, it will make a
' nne large opening for women and girls who do not
care for working in shops and tobacco-factories.
They can now settle down and make lace in their
1 °wn homes for sale. But about the Sydney head-
ache, men have it almost as badly as women, but
with them it is “rheumatism in the head.” So
1 much more manly, you know.
society memory of last week is of the
, Admiral’s two garden parties. Perfect hosts,
perfect weather, superb view, a good band, vats of
cream, barrels of strawberries, and crowds, and yet
: again crowds, crowding the launches and the
lawn. And the crowds resolved themselves into
groups on the verandahs and against the sea-wall,
1 and I have another memory of them, of high, un-
■ modulated voices, beautifully-groomed hair, deli-
rcate complexions, light eyes without particular
| depth or brightness, of pretty features, of long
I backs, badly-carried heads, long skirts, largo,
I patent-leather-shod feet and an assumption of
jgay abandon., and content, and much pretty
' dressing.
.There was a sash of pale blue chiffon, nothing
mean about it, that hung right to the green lawn.
It looked distinguished, and it was not duplicated.
r ® c ' gown of grey, double-gossamer betrained
and befrilled that seemed to 101 l on every grass
blade. What name the material would give
itself I know not, but it looked like silk
Sa - mer ’ was sure the fairies in the
Admiral s glades (“glades” is a good word) jumped
on to the train and took little rides. A young,
fragile-looking woman was inside this gown. Such
a lot of floral muslins were there ; also white book
muslins, with fichus and skirts swirling out
towards the hem. These white “books” always
remind me of Speech Days and Confirmation cere-
monies. In my lofty opinion (I used to say humble
opinion till people took it at that valuation) the
same women look older in a ballroom than at a
garden-party—uncompromising daylight to the
contrary notwithstanding. But, of course, at
the latter function there’s a lot more covering,
such as hats, veils, and entirely-draped figures.'
Concerning hats, those at the garden party were
mostly m full bloom ; others were seedy.
But Nature herself does not make better forget-
me-nots than I saw on one toque. They even
deceived an insect. You know those long-bodied
flies with two sets of triple-expansion gauze wings,'
called dragon-flies—well, one settled on to the
forget-me-not hat to sample the flowers, and his
surprise and mystification at their lack of scent
and honey was qui.te apparent to humans, let
alone other dragon-flies. If sun-bonnets would
only come in as wear for Admirals’ and other
garden-parties! Pink, white, and blue sun-
bonnets. Coffee-coloured Italian officers from the
Puglia wandered about, but otherwise there were
few young men. A couple of priests and parsons
helped to trample the grass and eat the straw-
berries ; a garden-party is such a safe amusement
tor those in Holy Orders.
Miss Nellie Cook is the next bird out of the
local aviary to leave for foreign study. Her
benefit concert takes place next month. Miss
Holroyd’s concert realised close upon £2OO, and
the Scandinavian fgte in aid of the Children’s
Hospital has brought in £4OO, and when the sur-
plus goods are auctioned there will be a consider-
able increase.
A strawberry tea was given in the great hall of
™ e University last week by the Sydney Uni-
Women s Society, in aid of one of the society’s good
works, a club for working girls. The club-room is
in Woolloomooloo, and the S • U,W.S. go in small
detachments there three nights per week to teach.
As the_ society wanted to pay its rent and care-
taker, it did so by means of two-shilling tickets
and strawberries and oream. The Chancellor and
the Senate sent their wives, the graduates and
under-graduates swarmed, and a few outsiders
came inside.
In the late eight-hours’ procession, the profes-
sional musicians’ gaily-decorated car headed the
process ii. Maidens, disguised as allegorical per-
sonages, were disposed on the outside, but the
professional musicians, whoever they were, hud-
dled inside, and didn’t allow a glimpse of them-
selves to Labor’s holiday-makers. And thereby
hangs a tale.
Miss Crawford, of the Grand Opera
chorus, writes to say she is not engaged to Signor
Miss Josephine Stanton, whose operatic 00.
opens at Sydney Criterion Theatre next Saturday,
is a Buffalo girl, very fair, above the medium
-fj an . on plump side as to figure. At
midday,, without a veil, she looks about five-and-
• twenty. Facially, she recalls Nance O’Neil, the
same roundish contour of face and infantile com-
plexion., mouth and eyes, with a deep dimple in
the chin. She has been on the operatic stage ten
years, and knows_ by experience sixty operatio
parts. Also, she knows what it is to appear
nine times in a week. That includes two
inatmees and a Sunday performance—Sabbath
shows are legal in the States west of Chicago.
Miss Stanton has played along from New York
to San Francisco, Honolulu, and Auckland. Her
director (and husband) had to fairly kidnap her
away from Honolulu, where she had a pocket-
palace m a cocoanut grove. Cocoanuts would
break the silence, and themselves, falling on the
roof, and there was a blaze of scarlet flowers
everywhere. You had to go in search of the
leprosy. At Auckland, Miss Stanton, for the first
time m her recollection, went to bed by candle-
light. It had a tearful effect upon her. Lack of
the electric-button makes the hotel bedroom seem
stone-agey to Americans. Mr. Hallam, her hus-
band, was, as a boy, a chorister in his native
England, and came out here, while still a boy, to
die peacefully of consumption, but went, instead,
into Lysters opera-troupe, and has prospered
exceedingly ever since. In New York, Miss
Stanton used to hear Madame Sapio sing at the
swell Presbyterian Church, for which the de Vere
got the highest regular pay—outside of St. Peters-
burg.
Some years ago two Australian girls in London
went to see Melba, as Marguerite in “ Faust.”
I hey intended to go into the cheapest place, so
took only seven shillings between them for their
lodgings; that would leave a shilling over for
bath buns and coffee—so they thought The
‘cheapest place” proved to be 10s. 6d. each. But
the girls were determined and resourceful. They
went to a pawn-shop and pawned their umbrellas,
lip in the “cheapest” place their heads scraped
the ceiling, and Melba looked the size of a doll.
Deceased Victorian wine-merchant Kirkby left
property in N.S.W. valued at £OO,OOO, but the
bulk of his treasure was in Victoria. The grand-
child mentioned in his will as legatee of the
income of £3OOO per annum is the daughter of a
deceased son by his marriage with one of the
Vnleneuve-Smith girls. The young widow was
one of the prettiest women in Melbourne, and a
short time since re-married—a country solicitor
this time.
Miss Amy Beatrice Roberts, third daughter of
Hon. C. J. Roberts, one time Mayor of
Sydney, was married on Tuesday, at St. James’
Church, to Mr. Carew Reynell, of the staff of
Brisbane Courier.
uat i c funeral accorded the remains of the
bite Mr. A. E. G. Thomas, an officer of the
Sydney Flying Squadron, who died a year or so
ago at Samarai, New G-uinea, was a picture of deli-
cate coloring. A turquoise sky, flecked and lined
by drifts and strata of slate-colored clouds with
opalescent edges. Below, the silver-grey waters
of the harbor were dotted over with white and
" r!■ W behind the launch that carried the
coffin to Watson’s Bay. The breeze was low
and the great flotilla hardly drifted along. Bursts
of funeral music drifted across the sleepy waters.
. I 11 ?® wind: the sun streamed through the
rifts in the slatey clouds, turning the white sails to
onyx and the yellowish ones to argent. As they
filled and glided away, the strains of Beethoven’s
Funeral Hymn ” rolled grandly across the
ripples. At Watson’s Bay the coffin was taken
ashore, placed in a dingy on a lorry, and dragged
up the steep hill by four grey horses to South
Head cemetery.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Before the House of Reps, composed itself to
hear the Budget and the Tariff explained on Tues-
day week, members draped themselves artfully in
their seats, and a flashlight photo, of the bundle
was taken for the use of a local paper. The
thing was woefully theatrical, and the struggles
of various members to appear on the point
of bursting with intellectuality just before the
flashlight illumined the scene, made the judicious
snigger. George Reid’s effort to ‘realise the
poster, so to speak, was an unblushing bit of
attitudinizing, but George was the only man to
lift up his voice against the innovation, which he
found to be unseemly and derogatory to the dig-
mty rf Parliament. Nathless, Parliament had
not disdained to put on its best bib and tucker for
the occasion, and moustaches were spiked, and
curls dolled, and ties elaborated with conspicuous
care. The higher a man is placed the greater
grows his desire to ‘ look nice.’
“ Of course there was a great rush for free seats
on the night when Turner and Kingston starred,
and to have accommodated all who desired to hear
the talkers it would have been necessary to hold
the sitting in the centre of Albert Park. The
House was raided by one rustic, who trailed
him a large wife and several very fat
children, and made great trouble in the
lobbies because he could not make his way into
the chamber. He charged the officials at a'll the
entrances, and threatened revolution when his
authority was repudiated with scorn. The open-
sesame he presented was a slip of paper upon
which was written : ‘ Admit bearer and friends ’
audit was signed by the Mayor of Cow Flat, or
Dingo Hill, I forget which.
Hector Macdonald showed up carelessly at
the Fair on Friday, with their Exes. Everything
about him was careless—his flannel suit, his
smile, his manner, his tossed forelock. While
speeches were being thrown off sundry official
chests, Hector spread himself in a saddlebag
chair, stuck his hands in his pockets, and watched
the gapers with a quiet smile. This devil-
may-care get-up and unwarrior-like attitude rather
gained on a crowd that has been much surfeited
by the tinsel of carnage-trappings. Speaker
Mason linked arms with Hector after, exchanged
war intelligence, and fought the crowd in the
wake of their Exes.
Archbishop Carr’s speech was too gummy to
be heard far or with affect, but nearly every full-
stop was marked by an inclination towards the
vice-regal pair. But if Dr. Carr failed to deliver
his punctilious compliments any distance, the
nervous vein-twitching of the Governor-General's
face, while he pitched his voice over the heads of
the throng, was a Tar more painful thing to
observe. Meanwhile, Her Rigidity sat stiffly
beside her lord, in a white-voile under-trimmed
frock, and a big, bright-pink ruche with which
went a bright - pink toque quietened down
with something like a black rooster’s tail.
Mayoress Gillott was a smiling picture of con-
tent find gratification. Among the dames flanking
their Exes, were Mrs. Judge Williams, in a girlish
muslin and vivid scarlet hat; Mrs. Nicholas Fitz-
gerald, in another tricky white, with lenten collar
and toque. The heartiest and most vigorous part
of the platform-performance was Mrs. G. Turner’s
handshake with His Ex. It lasted for some
time, till the poor man winced and grew white,
and the bouncing lady released her grip and
broke out into a hearty lfuigh. The Snow Lady
bit her lip as if in anger. «
“There was a swagger* gathering at Mrs. W.
Leonard's Toorak house, the other day, to have
tea, and talk, and inspect some of the World’s
Fair (E. Melbourne jjall) fancy goods. The
result was that half the exhibited things were sold
by the hostess, who is a keen sport, and an Irish-
woman into the bargain, and knows how to set
about a business of this sort. The Naicest call
Mrs. Leonard ‘Pat,’ and she lives up to her
name.
“In some of the ‘ naicer ’ stalls of the World’s
lair, the exhibits include specimens of work
turned out by Sassiety flutterers—some of them
really good performances. The Fisken girls are
clever at dainty work. A blouse of green banana
fibre, cut out and designed by Miss Fisken, is one
of the cutest in the whole show. Miss Carter,
the white-haired lady who has made such a social
success of her single-blessedness, does the hand-
somest point lace work imaginable— true work of
art. One never sees, however, the spinster decked
out in any of her own trellis laces.
i ere was a free fight (in one sense) over
the balloting for stalls at the World’s Fair. One
influential candidate held that, owing to her
official position, she should not be asked to sub-
mit to the lottery. She declared her right to
the best stall, and to leave the rest of the
bazaar fiends to fight apart. But the boss of
the show demurred, and explained, and apolo-
gised, and in the end carried his point. All the
same, the lady with the official claims is blessed
with a nice, prominent stall out of the ruck and
the draughts, and all the rest are murmuring in
discontent.
“ A slip-shod crowd, and a sulky one, trailed out
to the Caulfield Guineas meeting on Saturday.
I he grey clouds dribbled all day long in an irritat-
ing fashion, and a disappointed, chagrined pack of
women sat huddled up on the stand, or marched
under dripping gamps to the sloppy Bird-cage.
I lie gloom never lifted, and the afternoon
snailed its way along in the dullest man-
ner. Women of Mrs. Lorimer’s stamp,
who step out clean-shod in all weather, were
the best-off. Their tailor-built garb kept clear of
the earth, and their business-like gem hats didn’t
go out of curl, and their dark gloves didn’t show
dirty smudges like white kids, and, altogether,
these trim clippers of the sex weathered it cleanly,
and were a pleasure to look upon. The pre-
tentious summer hats that grinned from a superior
coign of vantage over the musty winter wear,
proved an eye-sore. In fact, the whole damp
mass of feminine humanity taking its pleasure so
sadly was painful.
“Mrs. Philson, wife of the midget Major, bears
a confusing likeness to Lady Mary Lygon. The
other day, at Flemington, when she was seated in
the box with Lady Hopetoun, people remarked that
they had to level their glasses twice before they
could decide that this wasn’t a twin of the Yorks’
lady-in-waiting.
“One Melbourne scribe, writing of the races,
makes this extraordinary statement—
Sir Hector Macdonald was expected, but, contrary to
expectation, did not appear. He thus lost a chance of
showing what he could do to thrill a limb assemblage.
Is that Hector’s weakness ?
“The Family that serves as Royal in these
parts affects to take the native-born Hon. Oharles
Melbourne Hope in a quite serious Australian
spirit. Attended by his governess fie was sent to
the Theatre Royal the other night to see ‘ Riding
to Win,’ because the bicycle-race, and other
events in Bland Holt’s drama, are scenieally located
in the city which has the honor of bearing the
infant Charley’s second Christian name. Charles
Melbourne was graciously pleased to enjoy it
immensely.
“Old Mr. A’Beckett is recommended to retire
on a yearly pension of £3OO, after 37 years spent
in the service and within the precincts of the
University. This ancient retainer is related to
Mrs. Harrison-Moore (Judge A’Beckett’s daughter)
who was joined in the bonds according to
Wesleyan methods because she jibbed at the
promise ‘to obey’ included in the Anglican
marriage service. At the time, this bridal pre-
caution was generally pronounced uncalled-for.
The bridegroom, our Professor-at-law, the
Mighty Atom ’ (as students called him when he
first arrived, blushing with ingenuous youth and
bristling with legal lore) was, and is, the incama-
tion of Burns’ ‘ wee, modest, crimson-tipped
flower.’
“ Honeymooners and their baggage generally
play at cross-purposes. Recently, Dowager
Clarke s son, Prank, and his new wife found
themselves en route for England accompanied only
by so much of their joint outfit as would squeeze
into a hand-bag. Old school friends and neighbors
of young Mrs. Clarke, whose father bank-manages
at Daylesford (Vie.), were gratified that their for-
mer crony, farewelling the home and friends of
her spinsterhood, brought along her gilded bride-
groom, plus other attractive exhibits, such as
travelling cushions matching her various gowns in
color.
“The wedding of Captain Lindsay Inglis and
Miss Bertha Pratt, one of the most festive
frockers m Melbourne, is booked for sweet No-
vember. For some reason or other, mainly the
other, the affair is to take place in the house, and
Melbourne’s great multitude of gapers will thus
be deprived of the sheeniest, loveliest spectacle of
bridal blossoms and snowy chiffons that ever was.
The bridegroom-to-be was a brother of the late
Mrs. Sprmgthorpe, of monumental fame.
An inter-State wedding which is causing
some flutter is that of Commissioner Wollaston’s
daughter Winifred to Collector Lockyer, of the
N.S.W. Customs. The event is booked for
October 30. The bridegroom-elect is a rose-
fancier, so the nuptial feast is to be very rosy. It
is a marvel to all Government officials how the*
Collector, who took a hand in framing the tariff,
ever found time for love and courtship, much
less marriage, but Mr. Lockyer is a widower, and
so travels over familiar ground.
"A disastrous thing occurred at a suburban
dance the other evening. A couple were strolling
round the grounds in the moonlight, when sud-
denly a scream and a splash ! Then a youth
rushed into the house to inform the company that
Miss Blank had fallen into the pond. “Is she
alive?” gasped the mother, with an hysterical
screech. “I don’t know—she’s there still,” said
the gallant youth. The parents brushed by, and
dashed to the pond, and found their dripping
daughter hanging herself out to dry on the lawn.
The youth, who was perhaps suffering from the
shock of the sudden parting with his charmer,
decamped quietly and suddenly.
“At the Bijou, where ‘Tom, Dick and Harry*
send people into laughing hysterics, Ruby Ray,
prettiest of Hawtrey’s charmers, shows as the
nimblest stage-runner we’ve seen—that is to say,
in a drawing-room, young-ladylike way. Ada
Reeve, Carrie Moore, lots of ’em, have whirled,
romped, madly kicked up their heels, or coyly
twitched-up their skirts, but the Ray runs a
sprint on its own merits, unassisted by lingerie,
ankles, song, dance, or by-play. There is nothing
remarkable about the stage clothes. The Ray
darts .about in a fawn house-frock, with no neck-
band but deep, turn-down collar of good lace.
With this she dons a long, loose, fawn coat and
pale-blue toque. Fawn promises to be rampant this
season, and though it’s a delightfully-refined shade
—what old ladies call “ chaste ” —it is becoming to
few complexions. I felt so glad when “ the
General”(Hawtrey)fiercely slapped one of the red-
headed puzzles on his too-ostentatious socks. I
wish someone would go round rapping the shins
of every man who can’t sit down without baring
his hosiery.
“The losses in dressing-rooms of laces, cloaks,
and furs have lately increased to an alarming
extent. Wise virgins wear old wraps and cloaks
on that account, or take their best ones into the
hall and plant them beside the duennas —if there
are any. The other night a magnificent cloak,
worth about 20 guineas, was stolen from the
Masonic Hall. Now the detectives are on the
trail.
“ Judging from the moderate size and quality
of the attendance at the Princess’s, when the
Women’s Hospital took a well - advertised
benefit, t’other day, one would say that john-
niedom. was scared by the thought of being
rushed into buying half-crown buttonholes, and
flowers and things between the acts. The an-
nouncement that 15 theatrical sirens would be
waiting to swoop down on every ss. patron of the
good cause who ventured into the theatre had the
very opposite to the desired effect. A matinee
under dramatic fete ’ conditions is altogether
too expensive a luxury. Once in a while, with a
fairly long interval ’tween whiles, the gentle
johnme is prepared to come up smiling if the
benefit programme promises a little excitement
for the money. But the programme last Thurs-
day was a caution in itself.
“ Little has been heard lately of Marshall Hall,
but the hymnster is said to belaboring with a new
musical composition in a room at the top of boom-
time Queen’s Buildings, opposite Melb. Exhibi-
tion. The ‘Prof.’ changed his quarters from the
comparative comfort of a down-stairs flat to evade
the discordant jangle of innumerable pianos, and
incidentally, to be ‘near the stars/ His new
quarters, never finished, are miserably cold in
winter, and hot as Marshall’s pet strophes in sum-
mer. On bleak nights, when the tired Wagnerite
has missed his train home, he sorrowfully couches
himself up there, on a litter of strictly German
music, with his baby composition for a pillow
and an open umbrella to save his head from the
chill top-o’-the building draughts.
A N.S.Wi squatter and nominee legislator
has been having his portrait done by a well-known
Vic. artist, who idealised a bit by sticking some
whitey-yellow splodges in the distance for sheep.
Ihe squatter’s agent, however, has a discerning
eye, and sent along a set of photos, of prize rams
and ‘yows,’ with the remark that the remotely-
suggested animals in the picture were long-
woolled, and a pet aversion of his employer’s
Ihe agent would therefore be obliged, eto , if the
painter man would turn them into short-woolled
varieties. The disgusted artist himself is puzzled
to know how anybody could detect whether the
dabs m the distance wore short or long fleece and
his less impressionistic friends question whether
they even look like sheep.
“ Times have changed since Dick Whittington
revelled in the prospect of becoming Lord Mayor.
Civic prestige is apparently not what it was.
Recently, m a Melb. suburb, scoffers smiled when
they learned that the dark, dignified personage
announcing the guests at the Mayoral shivoo, was
by occupation “sanitary inspector,” i.e., municipal
scavenger m chief. Later on, however, when this
official resigned his position (with emoluments
amounting to £l5O per annum) who, do you think
eagerly applied for the position ? His Worship’
the Mayor!
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


THOS. WHITELAW & GO.
WALL PAPER MERCHANTS.
TELEPHONE 3768.
LONDON,
SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE
Artistic Wall Papers. Latest Designs and Colorings.
Novel Ceilings in Absolutely Fireproof.
Plaster Effects. A Charming Assortment.
The full London and Continental Collection of the above Goods are now on view at the Firm’s
New Warehouse and Showrooms—39l GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
These Decorations comprise the most delightful Assortment ever shown in Australia. Invited.
Clients will find our Art Goods are most inexpensive. Patterns forwarded on application.
Jerome tells, in one of his books, of a
curious clock lie had. When this clock struck 25,
say, and the hands pointed to ten past four, he
knew, by elaborate calculation, that the right time
was quarter to six. Having to make calculations
such as that must have been rather tiring, and
most people haven’t time now to do that sort of
thing ; they prefer to keep clocks which point to
the right hour at the right time and don’t tell two
lies at once, especially when clocks are now so
cheap. You may get splendid 8-day timekeepers
in imitation marble with a cathedral gong for 305.,
355., 375. 6d., as well as a large variety of other
clocks, from Mi‘Lean Bros, and Rigg Ltd., 107
Elizabeth-St., Melb.*
| FACILE PRINCE PS. 1 [ SEMPER IDEM.~|
BUCHANAN WHISKY
w
Lightest
Austral
es
A
IN
N
Supplied to H.R.H. the Duke of York.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Stated now that the Duchess of York
expects an interesting event next January.
Jawbone Neild, annoyed by interjections
from Senator Higgs (Q-)>. “ I don't want any of
these Higgs-ass-perating interjections.”
Trades Minister Kingston completes his
51st year on Tuesday next. He takes politics very
seriously, and his friends fear that his health will
break under the strain.
A leading R.C. politician : “The heaviest
handicaps N.S.W. Catholics have to bear are the
blundering of Cardinal Moran and the advocacy of
his organ, the Catholic Press.”
Adelaide Register distinguished itself on
Thursday (Oct. 10) by announcing the arrival of
the Boer Commandant Scbeepers “at Appen-
dicitis”—when really it was appendicitis which
had arrived at the Commandant.
A judicial joke, less watery than usual.
At Tam worth (N.S.W.) Circuit Court the
jury applied for softer seats, and Mr. Justice
Cohen remarked that the Tender Board had re-
refused an application to that effect.
“ Experience in the Federal Parliament
has confirmed my previous impression that B. R.
Wise is absolutely the most brilliant speaker and
debater in Australia,” said a prominent N.S.W.
member of the House of Reps, the other day.
Speaker M'Court referred, in N.S.W.
Assembly, to the late ex-Speaker Joseph Abbott
as “illustrious.” It is generally the very weak
man who staggers under the load of the largest
possible adjective. Does Mr. M‘Court look to the
day when lie will be accounted “ illustrious” ?
In the Commonwealth number of the
Melb. University paper appeared a very flattering
appreciation of Dickson, the late accountant of
the University, with the jocular addendum that
he had been marked out for knighthood by the
Jookoyork. At the present time, Dickson’s chance
is a poor one.
“ A permanent memorial ” to the glory of
John A. Wallace, M.L.C. (who is still very much
alive), has been proposed, in all seriousness, by
the Beech worth (Vic.)
admirers of that for-
tunate old capitalist.
Wallace, M.L.C., as
the Beechworth dis-
trict beholds him, is
a person who ought
not to be permitted
to depart this life
without leaving a
marble statue, or a
stone building, or
other durable re-
cord of his great-
ness to mark the
place where once
he reigned sup-
reme. And yet
there are other
ways of looking at
the late millionaire
lvioiiaghan’s son-in-
law. Wallace,
M.L.C., as The
Bulletin views him,
is a man who, in his
ignorance and arro-
gance, so far de-
parted from his duty
to the legatees of the
late Monaghan that
his own sons were
able to oust him, by
legal process, from
the administration of
the estate. Also, he is
the obstructive M.L.C.
who brought ridicule
upon himself by his un-
grammatical appeal for
election to the Federal
Parliament. Likewise, he
claims so much credit for
being a “large employer
of labor” in various min-
ing operations that The
Bulletin would like to ask
what sort of a figure he cut in the witness-
box, some three years ago, when the wisdom of
his operations was being inquired into? A per-
manent memorial to J. A. Wallace, M.L.C. !
When are the Victorians going to erect an effigy
of Tom Bent ?
In introducing the tariff, Kingston said a
neat thing. An opponent objected to one of
his arguments as being borrrowed from Syme’s
organ. “That’s all taken from the Age’s
policy,” he interjected. “My friend,” replied
Kingston, “says that the Age is behind us; but
he himself is behind the age.”
James Sinclair Taylor M‘Go wan, N.S.W.
Labor leader, adopts a yes-no attitude on the
Federal tariff. J.S.T.M‘G. is doing pretty well
in politics just now, with a seat on the Public
Works Committee, and he is learning the valuable
lesson that it is the man who has no particular
views at all about anything who is the most
favored with loaves and fishes.
Maoriland’s legislative boss, Seddon, when
going to the King’s Coronation, is to be saved
alive from the anarchists by a squad of Maori
soldiers. Seddon has developed an abnormal
appetite for military protection, and is every day
forgetting some more that he is “ Digger Dick,”
the people’s hero. Also, the people are forgetting
it also. Which goeth before a fall.
Apropos the recent Bulletin par. about a
first-rate scheme by which, for several years,
Broken Hill Hospital was kept prosperous without
cadging, the originator of it, J. W. Shevill, a
figure of the Melbourne land-boom, fell down a
Mt. Garnet (N.Q.) working late last month, and
was killed. Shevill had a huge capacity for busi-
ness and other less solid things ; drifted with other
land-boom wreckage from Melbourne to the Ear
West, thence to Broken Hill as hospital secretary
—and was just making another start up North
when a false step ended it all.
So far, the most glaring treason alleged
against Dr. Krause, on trial in England, is the use
of insulting language in regard to Kitchener and
Milner. If he is found guilty will the British
Government hang him ? Consistency demands the
step, but, however many hangings of “ traitors ”
there are in S’Africa, Chamberlain will probably
hesitate before he dangles the corpse of a leading
Boer representative right under the nose of
London.
Apropos the charge of wilfully casting-
away the yacht Ariadne, now pending against
Thomas Caradoc Kerry and another —it’s inter-
esting to know that, before the vessel left Sydney
on what proved to be her final cruise, Mr. Kerry
invited sundry local literary lights—poets and
others—to go voyaging with him to the South
Seas. The Illuminati, however, liked it not.
Had they gone upon that unfortunate trip heaven
knows what might have happened !
Cabled that Kruger’s health is rapidly
failing. (He has long suffered from Bright’s
disease.) Early in September he was medically
urged to go to the South of France, but he refused
with what is now called obstinacy, but may yet
be recognised as heroism, in that he had a hope of
being able to see the Czar and urge intervention
as the latter passed through Holland. It was an
unrealised hope ; the grey old man waited fruit-
lessly in the cold and foggy North. A pathetic
picture, which hardly chimes in with English
accounts of Kruger’s unconquerable selfishness.
Pitcairn Island now numbers 12(1 inhabit-
ants. They are healthy and happy; eschew
medicines, don’t smoke or drink, and their only
troubles are—an early decay of upper teeth, for-
getfulness of the English language, and a lack of
marriageable men for surplus females. They have
a Parliament of five—including three Youngs and
two Christians, the only unrelated members being
President M‘Coy and Secretary Warren. The
oldest man is Thursday October Christian, son of
pioneer Thursday, etc., and grandson of Fletcher
Christian, mate of the Bounty. He is 83, two
others are 75, and the oldest woman 72.
“ Adelaide ” : Hector Macdonald surprises
those who now see him for the first time, by
looking much younger than a photo, makes him.
Otherwise, he exactly fills the popular idea. Not
tall, but very powerful; an abstemious man in
IN THE NEAR FUTURE.
POLICEMAN (compiler of electoral roll, calling at
front door, book-in-hand): “Now, madam,
may I trouble you for your name and occu-
pation, to be registered on the electoral roll."
ELDERLY SPINSTER : “ Go away, you rude man.
Take away your nasty vote; how dare you
insinuate I’m old enough to have one!”
face of much temptation; a self-possessed, though
not fluent speaker, with much pawky humor in
private conversation. He had quite a royal
progress in and around Adelaide. He looks
exactly what he is known to be, the kind of
leader that men would follow anywhere. In
features he has a considerable resemblance to a
well-known Australian cricketer.
Sir G. S. Clarke, Victoria’s new Imperial
Governor, writes to Premier Peacock, saying he is
delighted with the appointment. “ I was an
advocate of the Commonwealth in years gone by,
when it seemed a visionary project,” says the
effusive new man. When and how ? Men who
advocated the Commonwealth in the year 14 b.c.
(meaning—Before Cook) are becoming very
numerous, and Federation has more fathers than
it knows what to do with, without importing ’em.
Sir Clarke thinks he is being quite nice, but Aus-
tralia does not regard with joy the prospect of
having yet another father Porn to her.
General Hector Macdonald is understood
to be touring Australia for his health, but Ade-
laide Scots gave him no peace. The local civilian
swashbucklers, by the way, clad in magnificent
uniforms, were “ taken bad ” to find Mac. wearing
not too new mufti and a knockabout felt hat. At
Melbourne, also, the local warriors turned up in
“fullpaint” to meet a bored-looking man in blue
serge and a pink shirt; in which rig he afterwards
accompanied the Gov.-General’s gorgeous party
to the opening of the World’s Fair in the Exhi-
bition Building. Not much of the “twopenny
colored ” about Macdonald, who has evidently
been physically a fine man, but now runs to flesh,
and is visibly much out of sorts.
ROBERT RICHARDSON.
Photo, by W. D. Solomons, Armidale (N.S.W.).
P.M.G. Drake’s Federal duties will not
clash with a decent Bar practice. Drake was not
popular with the plain barristers and attorneys
of Leperland, owing to his being an “amalgam”
attorney-barrister.
As already here printed, S’Langdon
Bonython, boomed as an orator by press friends,
reads all his speeches, the matter of which, it is
whispered, is sometimes set up beforehand in the
Advertiser office. With all his care, Bonython
was, a few days ago, made the victim of an
inexpressibly - hideous mistake, his strongly-
Imperialistic utterance being credited by a W.A.
paper to Crouch —whilst some of Crouch’s blas-
phemy against the gods of England was ascribed
to Bonython. Said, on unreliable authority, that
Bonython cabled to England to disavow in
advance the authenticity of the Westralian report,
so anxious was he to clear himself with Cham-
berlain.
Iu the S.M. Herald, Telegraph, E.
News and Argus reports, Dry Dog Reid always
comes off best in a verbal skirmish ; on the other
hand, the times when he falls in heavily, and
crawls out scraping the mud of contumely off his
clothes, are carefully recorded in the Age. When
Barton pointed out that it was Reid who first
introduced the educational test in Australia in
place of straight-out nigger exclusion, the best
retort that the brassy one could think of was that
Barton should imitate his good attributes, not his
worst ones. Barton’s reply that Reid’s attributes
changed so ofteu that lie had better get them
photographed, by way of a record, the first time
they were sufficiently stationary to face the
camera, left the Dry Dog man squirming.
The opening of Bendigo R.C. Cathedra] re-
vives tales of its pioneer priest, the German Dr.
Backhaus. Within a few weeks of the discovery
of gold, Dr. Backhaus arrived at the City of
Tents. His tabernacle was a tent surmounted by
a cross. The tent had only a small capacity, and
diggers who couldn’t get in were permitted to
“hear Mass” in this convenient way : A great
pole was erected outside the tent, and a white
flag with a cross was manipulated to indicate the
progress of the service. The diggers, kneeling
or standing outside, understood and followed
the signals. Dr. Backhaus was allotted a plot
of land for a residence, but, when the surface
was disturbed for the foundations, the precious
metal gleamed from the mullock ; £lO,OOO was
offered for the right to mine the acre. The
worthy shepherd was beloved by Bendigonians ;
and great was their grief when he retired to his
native Germany. He died worth £250,000 —made
chiefly out of his judicious investments in corner-
allotments, and all bequeathed to churches and
charities.
Concerning a tough old sea-dog :
Oapt. Strachan, hero of many strange sea-tales, not
long ago put in at Singapore with the Sydney schooner
Envy, to give up the cook on a charge of attempting to
poison Strachan and his wife and son The alleged insti-
gator was an Arab sailor, who sought to, make the
skipper sick enough to want to put into port somewhere.
This Arab was thereupon clapped into irons, and was
found dead next morning—poisoned himself, it would
appear. But, whatever the actual facts, the strange hap-
pening may be added to the long list of sensational
adventures wherein the burly old sea-horse has figured.
Somewhere about 30 years ago he rose from out
the great Pacific, and since then he has figured as tem-
perance organiser, guano hunter, timber trader, labor
recruiter, navigator, explorer, &c. —disappearing occa-
sionally for a year or two, only to bob up again as the
central figure in some sea-drama with his vim unim-
paired. He was once, with a hoy, fishing off Bird Island,
when a hurricane blew the boat out to sea. The pair
were several days without water or food, but at last
struck land and life at Gladstone, Q. Some few years
ago Strachan suddenly blazed up in London as the dis-
coverer of a new island somewhere near Papua. Pall
Mall Gazette interviewed the adventurous navigator and
described him as a Robinson Orusoe-CKWi-Smbad. He had
traded to the Cape, run the blockade during the American
war, been frozen in Nova Scotia, scorched in India, had
worn the pig-tail in China, gone a-whaling, been nautical
instructor to a Jap prince, commanded a Chinese warship,
hunted for guano islands in the Pacific, circumnavigated
Australia, explored the Malayan Archipelago, led several
expeditions to Papua, discovered an island 750 miles in
area, and bought it from the natives, <Scc. Taking his
long silence as an indication that the gallant Strachan
had really disappeared from the face of these troubled
waters, a Tasmanian paper, in ’94 or ’95, pub-
lished some “Old-Time Echoes” of Tasmania. Capt.
Strachan was one “ Echo,” and by some strange chance a
copy of Che paper fell into his hands at Singapore, where-
upon he swooped down and collected £2OOO from the
proprietors of that paper for libel.
“ F.C.” : In that picture of the authoress
of the first real Australian novel is seen if I
mistake not —the typical Australian woman of,
say three generations hence. With all. respect
to the lady—comely and intelligent-looking—the
features and poise instinctively suggest a reversion
to the aboriginal type, even as the typical
American of to-day suggests the features of his
copper-colored, hatchet-faced precursor.
Sydney D.T. should not allow a timber-
merchant to say this in its columns :
There is a lot of Oregon timber imported, but, owing
to the great slackness in America at the present time, J.
think it likely that the f.o.b. price of this timber will fall
to the extent of the duty, and that the producer, and not
the consumer, will pay.
Th at is rank Protectionist heresy. S.M. Herald
is also rascally enough to print, from its London
correspondent, Henry Lucy :
The hint dropped that when next the British Govern-
ment go to the country it will he under the flag of fair
trade has profoundly stirred political circles.
“Fair Hide” is, of course, Protection. What
chance have the Cobdenite members if their news-
papers won’t lie and suppress for them, but on
the eve of the tariff-fight print statements that
the consumer does not always pay a customs
duty, and that England thinks of abandoning her
Freetrade policy ?
During the debate on Lee’s motion of
censure in N.S.W7 Parliament, Labor-member
Hall deposited this piooe of information before
the Assembly
The Labor party had determined to look with disfavor
on the expenditure of any loan money on non-mterest-
produeing works. (Cheers.)
By way of an opening for further cheers, how
would it be if the Labor party, in addition to
looking with disfavor on the above-mentioned
public fraud, was also to vote against it ? The
bankrupt practice of using loan money for wholly
unproductive works, which should be charged
against revenue, grows continuously worse while
the Labor party keeps its unfavorable eye on it,
and yet vo+es for it every time. N.S.W.’s unpro-
ductive debt is over twelve millions, and it is
accumulating now at the rate of about £900,000 a
year, and it is the Labor vote which carries the
fraudulent Loan Estimates almost every year.
Yah for the Labor party’s unfavorable eye !
A glass eye would be just as useful.
STRAIGHT WIRE.
CHARLIE : “ When Spifkin went away on his
holiday his wife sent him a wire to remind
him he was a married man."
MINNIE : “ Yes, did he reply?"
CHARLIE : “ Oh, just said, ‘ Wire arrived too
late! ”
Since 1873, N.S.W. Judges have had to
deal with 3920 odd divorce petitions. The list for
the present sittings is a record.
Thus an indignant Maoriland cohentin-
genter at the front, who, Wellington Times is
assured, is not a man who would complain without
serious provocation :
The hardships have been terrible and quite needless.
The whole menage seems-to be in the hands Of young
officers. . . . Nothing requires inquiry so much as the
carelessness and sacrifice of men’s lives. On the open
veldt we are dying' off like flies--seven out of my 20 odd
are in hospital; cause, exposure and starvation. . . .
England will never conquer these colonies, and the war
will be like Acheen to the Dutch —a useless drain of
young blood.


MACONOCHIE’S
Fresh Herrings,
Kippered Herrings
Herrings in Tomato Sauce
Findon Haddocks
PRESERVED FISH: OF ALL KINDS.
marmala.de
UNIVERSAL PICKLES.
BOTTLED FRUITS
POTTED MEATS
SALMON and SHRIMP PASTE.
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
Maconochie Bros., Ltd.
LONDON.
Australian Representatives—
Swift it; Co., 7 Spring St., Sydney.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
DAVID STORER & SONS’
Registered
Trade
Mark.
TATTOO OIL
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE
Wool-
Marking or
The Perfect Sheep-Marker. — SHEEP BRANDING OILa
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
Hotel
Australia
RATES:
12s. 6d. per Day,
and upwards.
This Hotel has popularised hotel-living in Australia.
During our enervating summer, the cool and ele-
gant drawing rooms, the charmingly - arranged
dining room, the readiness and perfection of the
attendance, and the splendid appointments of the
Hotel throughout, prove a boon and blessing to
visitors. The Hotel is so loftily-built and situated
that residents sleep in a distinct atmosphere—a cool
light air, entirely free from the dust and impurity
of the city.
J. SMITH (Late of Menzies’), Manager,
Oastlereagh-st., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. — ln the ease of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
The bush-pub. was honored by the pres-
ence of an artist, making sketches of the house
and its occupants, but stubbornly refusing to join
the company in the bar and “come an’ ave a
drink, mate.” So one day, when “the lads” were
more than usually drunk, and the sight of this
paint-dabber more distasteful than usual, they all
bowled up to him, and said one, “ Come and try a
wet, mate?” “No, thank you,” from the artist.
Said another —“ Well, will yer try a swig of tea
and a bit of brownie, then ?” “Not now, thanks!”
“ Well,” said big Paddy, “ will you have some
bran and chaff if I get it for yer?” “Certainly
not ; what do I want witli your bran and chaff?”
“ Well, it’s this way, mate : we thought we’d try
you all round, and the conclusion we’ve come to
is that yer not fit company for either man or
beast! ”
* • • *
“ Yarruin ” : About a ’possum up a gum-
tree :
At Mt. Kembla (N.S.W.) five coal-miners went out
possumingon Eight-hour Day. They ran a ringtail up a
sapling, and one who had been a sailor climbed up in pur-
suit. The sapling bent, with the weight, towards a big
gum-tree, and, when the ’possum was about cornered, it
jumped into the eucalyptus. The man followed, and
found himself far out on the lowest linrh, 30ft. from the
ground, with no chance of climbing down, as the trunk
was much too big for him to encircle it with his arms and
slide, llis mates held a consultation, and decided to dig
their heels in and join hands to catch him. The casual-
ties totalled a broken nose, four teeth gone, three black-
eyes, a fractured collar-bone, and about a hatful of skin
and hair removed.
ANOTHER TIGHTENING OF THOSE
SILKEN BONDS.
“ The Admiralty has decided to use in future
Australian wines at the launching of ships at the
London dockyards.”— LONDON NEWS LETTER.
“Bullaman”: Re bird sense. I know a
cockatoo out West owned by a family for 14 years.
He is much attached to one of the sons, whom he
fellows about all over the run, sometimes going as
much as 20 miles after him. If benighted he
roosts out and returns home by sunrise next
morning. Cockie is a great nuisance when his
owner is riding a young horse, as he flutters about
the horse’s head and scares him. In consequence,
many a wipe has been made at him with the
stockwhip, but without avail, as cockie can guage
the length of a lash to a nicety. Much as the
bird likes one brother, he has an equal dislike for
another, whose saddle, boots or hats he will
destroy when he gets the chance. He never
meddles with anyone else’s things, and no matter
how many saddles are on the fence, or boots on
the floor, the bird never makes any mistake.
* * » *
Anyone who lias long lived “far out”
will see the pathos of this letter, written by a
humane constable to The Bulletin. The subject
is one which should engage the prompt attention
of the medical authorities of all the States -
I wonder if any of your medical contributors would be
so charitable as to fire off a few prudential rules for the
treatment of the “horrors” in cases (common in the
bush) where medical aid is not accessible. The two
principal points would be as regards the stoppage of the
»rog and.as to what would be an effective, and not too ex-
pensive outfit of medicine for inducing sleep, and steady-
ing the nerves, when the grog- is stopped. "From personal
experience as a policeman in a far bush town, I feel sure
that the lives of many men could be saved by a more
general knowledge on this subject.
• * * *
Present season’s record load of wool comes
from Pine Ridge, near Mudgee, N.S.W. : 70
bales, weighing 13J tons.
The N.S.W. “ Western Commission ” re-
ports that amongst the curses of the Western
settlers the sandstorm ranks high, inasmuch as it
strips the country of all loose soil. One leasehold
of 460,000 acres, it is stated, has nearly a quarter
of that area “ as bare as a floor,” in spite of recent
considerable rains. The report goes on to say : —
On Tarella station the soil had been carried away to the
depth of from four or five inches to a foot. Quantities of
feed had been buried under sand deposits. In many
cases rabbit-proof fences have been completely buried.
The addition of a second storey to the fences in some
cases has met with a similar fate, while other instances
were quoted where, instead of the sand being banked up,
it had been carried away from a fence, with the result
that there was a space of 6ft. from the bottom of the net-
ting to the present surface of the ground. Sheep yards
had frequently fared in the same way as fences, and been
buried in sand.
A 7ft. high stockyard on Albemarle station had, within
IS months of erection, been so completely submerged that
the witness drove over it in his buggy. The most serious
form of the evil was, however, the {tiling up of tanks and
drains. A 4000yds. tank on a plain could, it was stated,
fill up in three months.
One witness said that upon his holding in the Mosgiel
district he left, one morning, some weak sheep watering
at a 400yds. or 500yds. tank. A dust-storm occurred dur-
ing the day, and by night-time all traces of the tank, ex-
cept the embankment, had disappeared, a number of
sheep having been buried alive.
At Ebagoola (N.Q.) t’other day, an old
fossicker rooted out a gold-slug weighing
from a (dock of ground about 4ft. square in a gully
which had been fairly turned upside-down. The
old fellow had been sick almost all the time he
had been on the field, and had got down to a few
shillings when he struck the luck.
m m * •
Roebourne (N.W. Australia) consists of
two towns; the brown, yellow and black con-
glomeration on one side of a creek, and on the
other the so-called “white” town, consisting
mainly of a large gaol (prisoners mostly .yellow,
brown or black), four pubs, (which employ none but
Japs.), and five stores, two of which are run by
Chinese, who also run the only bakery in the
place. Advance Japstralia !
A black-tracker at Tilpa lately illustrated
the carrying powers of even the slothful Darling.
He fell into the river near his own station ;
and, when the body was hauled out, it was
at Wilcannia, 250 miles lower down. Of
course the stream was rising what time
Tommy took his passage.
A brogue-striqken native of
Comity Clare, who had been for
years railway-porter, at (say) Bungo
(Blue Mountains, N.S.W.), was made
night-officer at a small station further
West. Here during the day he worked
hard upon a bit of land he had bought,
with the result that he was always
asleep when the midnight cattle-tram
from Bourke steamed into the station
and roused him from his slumbers.
For months, when thus suddenly
awakened, he would seize his lamp
and rush along the platform, calling
out “ Bungo ! Bungo! Any pas-sing-er
for Bungo ! ” Then he would make
frantic efforts to unlock the door of a
truck, until the guard would come
along and de-hypnotise him with a
stream of blanky.
“Spring”: Writer once met, in Bris-
bane, a Kanaka who boasted the legal name
of George Stewart Mackenzie.
* * * *
The new thermal outbreak at Rotoinahana
(M.L.) is beginning to strike even the hardened
Pig-islander with tremors. A huge new geyser plays
into a half-acre lake, the temperature of which is
187 deg. The geyser fires off every 36 hour's or
so; huge volumes of water are thrown up, and
hunks of rock weighing 60 and 80 lbs. fly through
the air to an estimated height of four and five
hundred feet—and they are not particular where
they land. The clouds of steam expelled are
6000 feet high. For hundreds of yards around
steam spits and spurts from every crack and
aperture in the ground. Some old Lakes-district
stagers have packed a hurried carpet-bag and
departed, in fear of another outbreak on a
Pompeiian scale.
* » * *
A titled lady-tourist, accompanied by a
few tons of band-boxes and a toy terrier, struck
Rotorua (M.L.) lately, and soon she was sorry.
Earth tremors, distant boomings, and uncanny
rumblings scared her during the first hour or so ;
but on seeing boiling springs, bubbling cauldrons,
and other weird wonders, she took a fit. Her dog
had meanwhile met his death through barking at
a geyser and walking backwarks into a hot-mud
hole. The lady rushed to the railway-station and
offered £50 for a special to take her out of the in-
fernal regions forthwith. The station-master,
however, had no specials about the premises, so
the horror-stricken lady returned to her pub., and
spent the night on her knees praying for safe
deliverance. Next morning she entrained for
Auckland with devout thanks to an over seeing
Providence.
• * * *
Queensland pastoralist J. J. S. Barnett
warns N.S.W. cattle-men not to wait for the tick
to get too close, but to make preparations for dip-
ping and to inoculate even now. He further
advises N.S.W. to co-operate with the other
States in obtaining the services of Prof. Lignieres,
the great expert on tiek-fever and its kindred
diseases. Sound advice; the pest is travelling
southwards, and no restriction laws can keep it
out of N.S.W., where the losses may be even
greater than in Queensland, because the country
is more heavily stocked.
“ Werrimee ” : Richmond
River (N.S.W.) selectors have
a curious way of inducing
the confiding ’possum to
go and hang himself.
A pole is set at an angle
of 45 deg. against fre-
quented trees, and
midway on this is a
bent wire to which is
attached a running noose.
When caught in this the
jerk throws the ’possum off
the pole, and he is dulv
“scragged.”
SAME SIGNS.
KING BILLY (of Barranjoey, suffering a recovery
in the park, accosts kind-looking old gentle-
man): “By cripes, mister, gibbitt tickpencc.
Gottem sore throat tonga binjie.”
O.G.: “ Poor fellow, what is the matter?”
KING B.: “Mine think it same as Gubner
Gen'ral; wantum brandy.”
“L. 0.” writes : Dredging the Turon is
not nearly such a new game as is generally sup-
posed. During the first rush thither, a party of
four Parramatta men, Gilbert Smith, Mat Lowe,
Dr. Rutter and another, went to try their luck dig-
ging, taking with them a cart full of very miscel-
laneous tools and accoutrements. Half-way over
Razorback the cart upset, and from the doctor's
bundle of paraphernalia there rolled a most
mysterious implement, the like of which none of
the quickly-gathered crowd had ever seen pre-
viously. “Hold your tongue, Gibby. Don’t let
the crowd know or we’re done. It’s—let me
whisper—an oyster-dredger for the nuggets.” So
it was, and the good old Dr. tried it well, in
several of the waterholes —and then threw it into
the deepest.
A NEW TYPE.
AUNTIE ANNIE: “I suppose you’re going to make
heaps and heaps of cash when you grow up,
eh, Ray?”
RAY: “ Yairs! I’ll be a tram-ranger in Vic-
toria.”
A white wood-hen was recently captuied in
Maoriland ; it had scarcely a feather which was
not pure white. The man who trapped this
curiosity lately caught a yellow parroquet.
Another freak just found at Wellington is a cross
between a barn-door fowl and a pheasant. Speak-
ing of hybrids, the writer has often thought that
a cross between the giraffe and the rabbit would
be a good adaptable animal in Australia, The
kind of rabbit best fitted to battle along here is
one with a neck long enough to reach over fences.
Recent
experiments
by Dr. De
Hour a, of
Brazil, tend
to provethat
nake- venom
is a cure for
lepros y.
This bears
out the late
Char 1 e s
Juuor’a ar-
gument (“Dead
Men’s Tales,”
page 35). The
account of the
doctor’s ex-
periments in
Melbou me
Agk of May
11th, 11)01,
corrobor-
ates the
Australian
explorer’s
testimony, which
Mr. Junor sub-
mitted to the Australian public “ as an interest-
ing contribution to the perplexing literature of
human anti-toxin” (same book, p. 41), three years
ago.
* * 9 *
An ex-protector of Q. aborigines asserts
that one-third of the blacks on the Georgina (Q.),
between Camooweal and Bivdsville, perished in
six years of hunger and disease. He expects
that another drought will wipe them out entirely.
if * * *
“T.F.G.”: Re that ointment-eating
boundary-rider (“D.H.R.,” 8., 15/6/’01). I once
knew a shepherd on Murawambie station (Bogan
River) who spent most of his wages on hog’s-lard,
which he would eat by the lb., and pain-killer,
which lie preferred to whisky. Although 70 years
of age, he had a thick head of hair, which he attri-
buted to his consumption of pig-fat.
» ■ ♦ * •
“ J.J.” : At a farmers’-union auction sale,
held at Gur.nedah, N.S.W., the other day, was
offered a pair of half-bred blucher boots, very
much the worse for wear, with the following label
attached :
Worn by Trooper Smith in Pretoria, have been in a battle.
The trophy was put up at auction, but there was
no bid.
“ Via ” : Not generally known, but
a fact that saltbush is a fair substitute
for vegetables, and stops the dreaded
“ Barcoo rot,” if taken early and properly
cooked (boiled like young greens.)
Wanted badly, a reliable botanical list
of what are, and what are not,
edible anti-scorbutic native shrubs
and plants.
“N.Q.”: Re patent-medicine
“scoffers” (8., 5/10/’01). We have
a champion up this way, not a “hatter,”
but a squatter. He gets outside a box of
Beecham’s pills in one act, and goes through
the performance about twice a year. He is
known as the meanest man in the North,
and after the pill business no doubt lie feels
that way. This reads like a lie, but it isn’t.
“Alpha” : Re aged people cutting new
teeth (B. 14/6/’01). Know a 75-year-old German
innkeeper at a hamlet a few miles from Bombala
(N.S.W.) who has a perfect set of teeth. As soon
as a tooth becomes loose, the old man promptly
yanks it out, and in a month or so a new tooth
appears. Any Bulletin reader know of a similar
case ?


THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBL, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University, writes—
“ Hunyadi Janos Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has proved specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipation,
venous obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.”
Average Dose :— A wineglassful before breakfast , either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
' ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Par
of the Label.
CLEARS
the BLOOD
through the
KIDNEYS
SCHNAPPS.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, qu
safest, best, restores the natural color,
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer,
bottles Is. everywhere.*
ickest,
Look-
Large
USED IN THE ROYAL HOUSEHOLDS
“CEREBOS SALT
Besides being the most Dainty, Dry, and Economical
Table Salt, “Cerebos" contains the strengthening and
constitution building properties which are wanting
in White Bread, owing to the removal of the Bran.
It is, therefore, invaluable in the daily food of
growing children, delicate mothers, and all brain
workers.
Wholesale Agents .‘-HARRISON & ATTWOOD, 334 and 336, George Street, SYDNEY
Sold by Grocers and Stores.
She had been showing her brother
from out-back the sights of the city, and
was feeling disappointed at the stoical
indifference with which lie regarded all
she could point out. She was more than
satisfied, however, with her last attempt,
for, passing one of the theatres, they wit-
nessed the arrival of some of the dress-
circle dames. “Look, Will,” said she,
“look at the beautifully-dressed hidies.”
“ Beautifully-dressed ladies? ” he returned.
“Why, the d women are three-parts
naked !”
• * * *
“A.P.R.”: Nearly every deserted
hut out-back has its ghost, which, as a
rule, carries its head under its arm, and
rides a white horse. In one hovel near
llubbo, stones are said to fall from the roof
all night, though they are not to be found
on striking a light. In other places heavy
footsteps break the stillness for hours,
caused probably by that “little grev-
bearded man with no legs ” that old hands
so often see. Most of these delusions are
traceable to the nocturnal ramblings of
’possums.
* * * »
“ Vincent N.” : In Maoriland, grass
grows everywhere. At Hunterville (North
Island) is a pet lamb whose back is covered
with “ feed ” ; the result of seeding cocks-
foot and a damp fleece. Query : Is this
the beginning of a new thing in the pas-
toral line—the self-supporting sheep or
paddock-backed freezer? Or will the
result be like the fate of those caterpillars
of the Auckland bush, which, impru-
dently swallowing a seed, ohange gradually
into plants?
Re that 9ft. 4in. carpet-snake skin
(B. 5/10/’01). Mr. Joseph Cottrell, of Wellington
(N.S.W.) possesses a “carpet” skin measuring
24ft. 7jin. Mr. C. killed the reptile near Cook-
town (Q.) some years ago.
* * * *
“ Ex-West Indian Medico”
(B. 31/8/’01) says that the earth stops revolving at
the hour before the dawn. Now, it is “the hour
before the dawn ” at some meridian of longitude
for every hour of the 24. Hence, according to
“ E.W.1.M.” the earth would be stopped all the
time ! [On looking-up the item referred to, we
find that “ West Indian Medico ” actually did say
so on his “own.” We took him at the time to be
merely voicing a nigger-superstition.—Ed. B.]
* * * *
“ Brolga ” : Was rabbiting on Nanin
River, and one day, when digging out a rabbit, we
bottomed on a 10ft. carpet-snake. After dis-
patching him, his unusual girth led us to hold a
post-mortem, and inside we found a goanna 3ft.
Gin. long, 9in. in circum. After being exposed to
the sun for about five minutes, the goanna made
off, none the worse, apparently, for his “sojourn
in the interior.”
TV**
“ Walgo ” : Sheep eat the Bathurst-burr
for the sake of a sweet, pithy substance which ib
contains, and which, if allowed to remain
in the sun, changes into small, glisten-
ing grains like sugar. It is therefore
not correct that “sheep will only eat
the burr when nothing else is obtain-
able.’ - I have seen them, when the burr
was just seeding, devouring it wholesale,
although grass was at the time plenti-
ful. Some sheep, however, won’t touch
the burr in any circumstances.
* * * *
“ Boulder ” : To “ Vril ” (B.
31/8/’01). In the West of Ireland there
is a belief that every puppy is born with
a worm in the tip of each ear and one in
the tail, which from the start are work-
ing their way to each other. Result of
their meeting, hydrophobia. As a pre-
ventive the majority of Connaught dogs
have the tips of their ears and tails cut off.
There is one place in Sydney where the
business of money-lending is carried on in an
equitable manner and where those in need of
financial accommodation can rely on being
decently treated. The sensible man who wishes
to get rid of his monetary worries at a minimum
of cost and trouble to himself goes to the offices of
the Australian Equitable Investment Co., Ltd.
The co. has a large capital for investment at low
interest, and is always open to advance money on
risks winch the banks would decline; and acts
generally as a medium between the banks and
ordinary money-lenders. Men in business can
obtain assistance for their venture at a figure
which will leave them a fair profit for themselves.
The eo. advances money to any extent on deeds of
land, bond warrants, merchandise, stock in trade,
scrip, interestsunder wills, furniture and all classes
of security. Press notices which have been pub-
lished from time to time express the favorable
opinion which generally exists regarding the co.
Mr. J. E. O’Brien is the Managing Director, and
the co.’s offices are at 45Elizabeth-street, between
King and Hunter-streets.*
"THE BULLETINS ” AMATEUR ART GALLERY.
THE DROUGHT BREAKS OUT WEST.
THE KID (having his first bath): “Say, father, this
is wot yer call rain, ain't it?”
“ Babu ” : “ Anglo-Indian ” (B. 25/5/’01)
has white-ants ! The Indian native is a liar, and
perjures himself unspeakably in court and else-
where. “ A. 1.” also says very few interpreters can
speak more than one language. I know at least
half-a-dozen (in Madras and Bangalore) who can
speak English, Hindustani, Tamil, Telegu,
Ganare.se, Burmese, Malayaram and several
others, for all I know. This cocksure person also
says that Urdu is “only a camp language.”
Tommyrot!—Urdu is high-class Hindustani, and
all the newspapers in the Deccan are printed in it.
A LARGE ORDER.
VOICE FROM BELOW: “Hillo, Mick!”
MICK: “Hillo, Paddy below.”
PADDY: “Sind me down two stand-ups, a go-
across, a fistful av palin’s, a loomp av grease,
the leather-kig, what's the time, an'— where's
the boss! ”
A sight for the gods. An eight-hour, ten-
sliilling-a-day trade-unionist wearing a pair of
2s. lid. trousers.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabetli-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
Observer (Wanganui) : Received your ignorant
howl about how democratic government has driven
capital out of Maoriland, smashed the farmers, and shut
up the factories. Seeing that the employees in M.L.
factories have increased from 29,879 in 1895, to 48,938 in
1900 —the biggest increase in M.L. history ; that it
produces far more value of goods annually per inhabitant
than N.S.W., Tasmania, South Australia or Victoria ; that
it produces more value in crops than any other State in
Australasia; that it has the two best-paying banks in
Australasia (though one of them has a lot of old losses
left over from the old Tory days to pay off) ; that it has
more savings-bank deposits per head than any other
State in Australasia, save S.A. ; that its bank deposits
have increased five millions in the last ten years, while
those of Australia have diminished—considering these and
other things you evidently don’t know when you are well
off Petrarch : Dear Sir ;do they stir the porridge with
their bare feet in Maoriland ? An early answer will oblige.
Pimph : In the Undaunted grounding case the weight
of the evidence seems to be on the side of the shipmaster,
but it is always a principle of the law to believe
its own policeman whenever that is possible Dum
Dura : Some restriction on the circulation of unclean
books—even of the works of unwashed erotic genius—is
certainly necessary : else would the sane and wholesome-
minded of the community be constantly affronted by the
aberrations of sex-maniacs ; and manure would be flung
in the streets to fatten dirty minds, which can be now in
some measure starved. The problem is the old, old one of
distinguishing between Liberty and License, and is
best solved without the trammels of hard-and-fast
rules and with the aid of robust common-sense
R.W.L. : Why not have asked directly “Was any letter
received ? ” instead of skiting all over a side-and-a-half of
typed matter about your god “ having feet of clay ’’—and
other stereo’d blither of the same sort? J.D. : Triolet-
form is no use without triolet-grace W.S.T.: Yes, the
Comic Spirit smiles when the Parliamentary hero of 100
blue smoke-room stories and diligent student of Uassanova
(in the Parliamentary library) rises in his place to profess
disgust at Fielding and Rabelais E.L. : You quite
mis-state the case. The returned M.L. cohentingenters
per Tagus were dragged around to the Bluff to make a
local show, despite medical protests, They were paraded
amidst rain and snow in bleak Invercargill; result,
several cases of pneumonia, some fatal. Seddon was
taunted by Oppositionist Allen in the House with being
responsible for thus exposing men’s lives for political pur-
poses. Then rough blew the blasts, and finally Allen
apologised and the disloyal accusation was ordered to be
expunged from Hansard C.J.: Always glad of really
bright paragraphs ; the story-market suffers from over-
supply, though anything of special merit is safe for pub-
lication 0.P.0. : Bulletin never objected either to
postage on newspapers or to a duty on printing-paper.
This paper, like all the rest of the N.S.W. papers, has had
a real good time so far as the State is concerned. For 21
years it lias been hugely subsidised by the N.S.W.
Treasury, and is now quite content to pay a fair thing to
the Commonwealth. Tiie Bulletin is a commercial con-
cern, and has never posed as anything else
Dean Sloe : 120 long lines of verse ! Please remember
you aren’t writing for the Bible. Humorous idea—might
go if 60 per cent, compressed A.1t.8. (Brompton):
Our appetite for facts insatiable C.H. : Bridget’s
cavernous mouth will have to gape in some other paper.
M‘Leith : Good enough idea, but as it stands it is the
detailed story of a justifiable homicide suitable for
recital at a coroner’s inquest Sligo: Indicted for
w'riting verse, a man may plead—(l) such exaltation of
thought as to demand spondees and dactyls ; or (2) such
grace and facility of treatment as to make a common-
place theme musical. Now, what could you plead?
Helen W. : Cost-of-baby discussion, interest now ex-
hausted. But it is not a fact, in Australia, that parents
“ low in the social scale have recklessly large families.”
Nor does the absence of family show “less animalism.”
R.A.K. (Vic.) : A bright little report—of an event nearly
six months old. There are only two good occasions to
print a report—the day after and 50 years after. You
must now wait patiently for the second.... .Ita. : In-
geniously laborious analogy. But you can find in
Shakespeare, or in any other writer of a vast bulk of good
matter, foreshadowings of any modern event A Melbourne
scholar used to, week after week, annotate current happen-
ings with wonderfully apt Shakespearean quotations....
Alone : A mere coincidence. Also, if the man, according
to the prognosticating humbug, was certainly “ soon to
be killed by an accident,” what was the use of her
advising him to be “ very careful ” ? J.R. : Couldn’t
drag us by a string of pearls into a discussion on S’African
war-tactics. Running a war and running a paper are the
two things about which everybody knows everything—in
everybody’s own opinion.... S.: Your barracking for Capt.
B. doesn’t persuade this journal that he would be an
ideal Chief-Corn, of Vic. Police. What the Dept, needs
is a strong, business-like administrator to come in from
the outside, with a stock of new ideas and a keen eye for
old abuses... .X. : The “ irregular” practitioner, and all
other practitioners, would smile at your suggestion. To
bring about such results no definable “ instruments ” are
needed Grant: The Gibson man isn’t identical with
Andrew Sard.... Jack-a-C.: Your informant may bean
“ anti-liar,” but he’s a fool, all the same. Raptorial birds
don’t eat vegetables. Verse is very crude : but, con-
sidering your age, we shouldn’t like to say there’s no
prospect.. . .Grant M. : “ Hooshtah ” good ; others boot-
less— i.e., pantless... .Wharparilla : Mere lists of towns
have been pretty well exhausted, unless you can put
poetry into them', or combine so that they make a mean-
ing.... .It.A.K. : Madden, C.J., said the “ ’.vorld is
infested with women who want to seem more respectable
than they are ” — i.e., woman who want to take up a false
position of “gentility.” You omit the word “seem”
from your quotation.. .. B. (Kalgoorlie) : Hobson’s “ War
in South Africa” and “ Psychology of Jingoism” are
unprocurable in Australia ; but can be posted direct
from London to your address for 3s. stamps each,
sent to this office. Delivery in about II weeks....
J.O.P. : No distinction H.R.M. : “Refinement” un-
usable... .Artholo : Too stiff and labored Grant:
“Sins” returned; “Beers” is a good basis for shorter,
livelier re-writing ; “ On Beat ” keyed too high ; “ Pipe ”
flat.... J.S.U. : Funny. Wonder who wrote it ? F.M. :
Considering “Science.” A.P : Good point; heavily
treated. Where did we see it before?... .Will J. :Your
blood’s too thin ; go on a beef-and-beer spree Via ;
F.H. : Not much interested in Janet apart from her
poetry George G. : Verse reprinted; copy posted.
Don’t care for “Agnostic.” Rei Panes : Too thin....
F.H. : Poem looks like the bone missing from Mother
Hubbard’s cupboard Olive: Rather ineffective....
E.P.G.:“L. after L.” is an embryonic gem of imagina-
tion, but the treatmenc is deadly flat... .Riverina :
Coaching-song far too clumsy. In such things melody is
almost everything S. le W.: If we printed that con-
fession the railway people would make it hot for you
B. He is a wise parson, for he saved the exchange on
the cheque P.A.C. : Subject anticipated by another...
Van Winkle : The devil as billiard-marker is a tame and
diluted spirit.. .G. M. Train : Will print “ Arbitration. ...
Garvan Nash :Is it original ? No name or address....
C. : No, thanks. We don’t want any but the most
glittering of reprint... .Kioro : If we gave you large
print you’d very soon howl that there wasn t enough
reading in the paper. Anyhow, if you didn't thousands
of others would... .Speatha : Nothing in em . Sniff :
Funnv in spots, but, as a whole, not up Waihora .
We rejected that before.... 888 : Too incoherent and
mistv . F.C.B. : Intolerably prosy Duam :No force
or skill.. ..H.J.R. : Not worth print... H.S.R. : You are
too literal. For cartoon-purposes all things are possible.
Milesian : Not worth the space Jimmie P. : Not
enough interest in the lady’s internal pains ....Bn .
That trouser-button has figured in 1000 yarns.. .. E.M.I • •
Much below par....8.L. : A hoary chestnut... .G. a.
Poll : Hardlv merit enough... H.V.C. : MS. got separated
from letter. ‘ Name and address should be on former, in
any case... ,L. MMX : Sketch worth consideration. Verse
not quite on the mark... .Reginald M. : Too elaborate
Bones : Verv dvy bones... .Geo. H. : Some of it bumps
and some of it slumps.. . .Jack Mac. : Well put, but veil
one-sided.. ..Hamer : Tale, will consider. Verses not
A CAS;, OF SECOND-SIGHT.
DRUNK (who has been trying to stagger past old
gent, for about ten seconds): “If you’ll only
(hie) shtand shtill, gentlemen (hie) I’ll walk
between ther two of you.”
up....F.P.D. : Total lack of 5ki11.... Harold R. : May
use W.P. : Write to South African Chartered
Co., Bulawayo, Rhodesia, S’Africa J.A. : Faint
promise only H.F.H.: Humorous, but too slight
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
F.J.F. : Good M.E.S. (Vic.): Drawing shows great
promise, but we can do nothing with those subjects
Raupo : Poor drawing and a very ancient wheeze....
Beng. S. (Tas.): Note posted. Second drawing won’t do
at all W.D. : Tempting, but too brutal. A lovely
caricature, but he’s an inoffensive old man Unavail-
Royal S., R.M.T., .Consider the Lilies, F.R.0.,
H.G.N., N.C.R., Zif.
An Eight Years’ Feud.
“It commenced just eight years ago, but
though the feud was a bitter one it’s come to ah
end at last,” said Mr. Matthew Abberton, of
Mummel] (near Goulburn) when interviewed.
“It is as far back as 1893 that the worries of
my everyday life were added to by the pains of
indigestion followed by liver, kidney and severe
internal complications which waged war upon
my health and happiness. I was afflicted with
sleeplessness, heart palpitation, a feeling of
excessive fulness after meals, and I became weak
and run down—l felt as tired when I got up in
the hot summer mornings as when I had gone
to bed the night before. One doctor said it was
liver trouble and heart palpitation, another told
me it was kidney complaint, a third said
palpitation, whilst a fourth did not diagnose my
case. Then I tired of doctors and tried nearly
every patent medicine —without effect. I had
actually been in misery for eight years, when a
friend persuaded me to take Dr. Williams’ pink
pills for pale people. These pills suited me, and
after taking two boxes I felt improved. I slept
better, and the fulness, lassitude and disinclina-
tion for work totally disappeared. Seven boxes
cured me. Now I sleep and eat well without
ill effect and am in excellent health. Those who
are dyspeptic, weak, and languid in the summer
should try this medicine ”
To cure liver and digestive troubles move the
bowels freely with a simple aperient several
times, then take one of Dr. Williams’ pink pills
after each meal; the second week, take two after
each meal, and a cure, will result. As these pills
are a blood-builder and nerve-tonic, they cure
neuralgia, hysteria, nervous exhaustion in men
and women, St. Vitus’ dance, disfiguring skin
diseases, blood poisoning, consumption, bronchitis,
anaemia, debility, diarrhcea, etc. ; from chemists
and storekeepers, and the Dr. Williams’ Medicine
Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney, two and nine a box,
six boxes fifteen and three, post free. They
restore regular health to ladies and induce a
brilliant complexion.


NOTES ON THE TARIFF.
A TAX ON TOP HATS i
—The partial eclipse ot Storey.
The Geebuug party are working the
new bogey for all it is worth.
Geo Reid (to the Dry Dog ): “Now, here's the oppor-
tumty of your life If you-don’t learn to
now, you never will. Fetch ’em ! ”
f rt n« The . S D ' T 'i. W . aXes P athefcic over *e tariff as
in VI S t ae fc h e hardest cases, as showing the
incidence of the new taxation, was that of a young-,
mother who had to bring up her infant on artifical food.
„Thejmce, she said, had been raised id. a tin, and as
pur artist is here seen using np the stump of his ’lasb
imported pencil. If some enterprising party isn’t
“stimulated” to start a local pencil factory soon, he.
will have to “close down” his cartoon-mill. This is
pathetic, if true.-'
the little one consumed two tins a week, there was an
increase of Bd. weekly in that one small item of house-
hold expenditure. ‘lf this goes on,’ she added, * I
shall not know how to make ends meet.’ ”
The obvious reply to this, of course is that babies at©
a luxury, and must stand their little ad valorem.
AN EXCLAMATION POINTS
®Eold this up on a level with the eye, look at
it endwise, and you’ll see the “point.”
Old Resident : “ And what do you think of our »
New Arrival: “Your harbor? Why, it’s simply
O.R. : “Harbor, be hanged! I refer to our fariffj ”
OVERHEARD ON TARIFF-DAY.
Pat Importer (on wharf) : “Oh, you
beast ! Why couldn’t you have
arrived yesterday?”


MELBOURNIAN A.
\We S iS i
liehy 019 Trje. . j> I
Sbeci&J frrToiys I*7 % /Viff-
e«A> Lk
1,401 V fa
“tfjese *y* Ironies
Won faAiwJm
if
\?vV^
v>*
Sce Ve - Office of
Vic A««+ C,c7« \
L?*-Judge (X)*Y ; 'ffeAVcrjlV.
I My Word ! WoVt" yoa be.
117 f 0 *' . »
w Jj
AiTGuaciN cstraca asasMßE*.
THE ORtmca AND FEDERAL LEGISLATION.
Is it for the oharoh or for the clergy to
decide between theories so conflicting ? I say
unhesitatingly it is not. That is politics, not
pligion. It is for the State, not for church or
minister, to determine what particular readjust-
ments will give the relief or the security which
society demands. But the study of sooial ques-
tions from the religious and moral. point of
1 wew with no thought of interference with
affairs, but for tbe unravelling of error, the
| healing or sores, the pacification of dispute,
lor the exposure of injustice, is occupation worthy
lof the Christian man, or of the Churoh Society.—
J)w? <”?
■kAc-t-^rA
[<4eK
' Que^id' 7 J>-
r s -ov. M. o-uvr
°ff 076
50U 1 170 , Couldn't - ‘Wjiyfc
of li”". |>o)i'ttc-S
170 T religim;." ||s^
B/illa eat, Monday.
The snake-charmer, James Morrissey, charged
v-r-ii being drunk while having in his poaaes-
pjrin tour reptiles of the black species, was
brcaght before the City Court to-day to answer
for h's conduot. Constable Nicholson, o on
dom-e gave evidence that Morrissey was so
drunk that he was inoapable of managing the
cakes. The wriggling movements of the eer-
pents, which were each fonr feet m length,
' oau3ed a great scare, and one of the snakes
' nearly wound itself round his (Constable Niohol-
son's) feet.
Vie" ! 'fyis H
Safety *.
I Kec ord
Captain Percy Chiruside, M L. A, t
cad an unpleasant experience on
n Monda y- Captain and Mrs. Chirnside 1
were entertaining a Humber of guests <
from Melbourne at a garden-party at
The Manor,” Werribee, and during the
afternoon he ' ate a sardine sandwich. I
Almost immediately he developed symp. I
toms of poisoning, which increased in I
violence for some time. I
| ~r ' 1^’ — Y%
J fuKsy, toy
s J J/oar
£3 n7oi'C 5W01U7 i^pjr/
27 u^«.aj.
r luVsy. M-LA ■
"its fis»7..t>ol3o 7 ; 7^r
U^S
fo4 c : ][ ajtjrT g;oi«7 A
wkd a. rough Jfie, Wi ff "tys® If"
g4?7-§ f ,|^..-p^° 7


A. SAUNDERS’
Watches, Clocks, Jewellery, and Silver plate at FREETRADE PRIC-jj^
Save 25 per cent, to 50 per cent.
Showrooms:
815 GEORGE-STREET, SYI> E\.
EREETRADE
PRICES.
NO
ADVANCE.
/
\
ifUIII jj UKORCiE S 5 SYDNEY
V
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong, Reliable LEVERS, “The Challenge,” 15s.
The Unrivalled Lever, in Black or Nickel, 20s ;
perfect timekeeper. The London Lever, new 2-plate
model, 255; in Solid Silver, £2 2s; in Double Case,
£2 10s £3. Rotherham LEVERS, £3 10s, £4, £5,
£6, £7, £B. Gold WATCHES, £4 4s, £5 ss, £6 6s,
•£7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O. Mind, we guarantee
you the utmost satisfaction, “ otherwise we will
exchange watch for you.”
Send for illustrated book of particulars, post free.
Solid Gold CHAIN (Single or Double), .£2 10s, £3,
£3 10s, £t, £4 10s, £5. 15ct. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6,
£0 10s, £7, £B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Send for Price Illustrated Book.
A. SAC.N UERS.
2-Bar Gold, Diamond Cut Amethyst, 22s 6d; 15ot.
Gold, £2.
ms
A. SAUNDERS.
Registered Gold 2-Bird 2-Heart Amethyst BROOCH,
2:)s ; Pearl Set Bird, 22s 6d ; 15ct. Gold, £2.
loot. Gold Bar and Scion BROOCH, Pearls and Red
Stone, 85s; quite new.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Buckle BROOCH, Set with 8 blue or red
stones, 12s 6d; latest style.
A. SAUNDERS.
(Registered) Gold Secret Name BROOCH,
15ct. Gold, Diamonds, £2 10s, £3, £4. Any
Name or Motto Free.
Six different patterns, similar.
A. SAUNDERS.
atest Secret Name BROOCH, Red or Blue
u .one, Three similar patterns, 20s and 255.
Any Name Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
026 Latest Half Moon and Star Gold
BROOCH, Pearlette, Pearls and Red or Blue
Stones, 21s ; 15ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold BROOCH, 2 Hearts, 2 Bars,
Diamonds, 17s 6d ; vneat.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Motto Registered Gold “Dinna Forget”
BROOCH and Amethysts, 9ct. Gold. 17s 6d;
15ct. Gold, 80s; 18ct. Gold, 355.
A. BAUNDEBS.
15ot. 2-Bar Pure Diamond Double Cut, £2.
15ot. Gold BROOCH, 2-Bar Scroll, Diamond and
Ruby Set, £2; very ohoice.
A. SAUNDERS.
Newest Solid Gold Name BROOCH, 7s 6dj with
Raised Flowers each side (Any Name) loot.
Gold, 15s; Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
Extra Strong 15ct. Gold, Diamonds, Rubies, and
Pearls, £3 ss; Eire Diamonds, £4, £5.
Ladies’ Curb Gold Chain,
Snap Padlock, 255, 30s,
355, £2 ss, £3; 15ct, £2los,
£3, £4, £4 10s, £5, £6, £7
10s, £B, £9, £lO.
10s extra for Key Pad-
All with Safety Chain.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bamboo Gold BRACELET, all the style, price according to
width, 20s, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s; 15ct. Gold £3, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
DIAMOND BRACELET, 15ct. Gold, three Pure Double
Cut Diamonds, with Safety Chain, £5.
9et. Gold Square or half-round BRACELET, 8 Red or
Blue Stones, £2 ; very neat and cheap.
A. SAUNJJERS.
Nioely Chased Gold BRACELET, 255; very neat and pretty.
THE FEDERAL TARIFF.
THIS I HAVE ANTICIPATED.
MY CASH PURCHASES have been
enormous, and I am in a position
to sell at EREETRADE PRICES.
£32,000 worth of Watches, Jewellery,
and Silverplate to choose from. It will
save you 25 per cent, to 50 per cent.
This is a consideration.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Wish Bone and Arrow, with Red
Stone, 12s 6d.
■ -
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Bar, Raised Flowers, 5s 6d; Larger,
6s 6d; Largest size, 7s 6d.
These are indeed very pretty.
A. SAUNDERS.
2-Bar and Garnet BROOCH, 15s, larger
size, 21s j very strong and neat.
F
Gold 2-Bar Ivy Leaves, Chain and Heart,
10s 6d ; very neat.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mizpah BROOCH, 2 Hearts, 10s
larger, 12s 6d ; a nice Brooch.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ot. Solid Gold, Pure Double Cut
Diamonds, £lO.
9ot. Gold, two Twisted Bars, Bell and Chain,
12s 6d; Amethyst Heart, 13s 6d.
0.. P 1.9.9 9
IS o
Gold 2-Bar BROOCH Scroll, Pearl Set with Red
Stone, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS’ Latest Turquoise and Curb Gold Chain Padlock Bracelet, the very latest London style, £2 15s. In nice Silk Case
4®“ ALL, ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting- Keyless, ‘2ss, 30s, £2,
£2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £5 ;
Superior Quality, £O, £7, £B, £lO.
ALL GUARANTEED.
14
15
10 11 12 13
A. SAUNDERS’
FREETRADE PRICES.
10. Round LINK, Oct. Gold, £2, £2 10s,
£3 ; 15et., £4, £5.
11. —Rope Pattern, Oct. Gold, £2, £2 10s,
£3 ; 15ct., £4, £5.
12. —Curb Pattern, Oct. Gold, £2, £2 10s,
£3; 15ct.. £4, £5.
18. —Rope and Ball, Oct. Gold, £2, £2 10s,
£3 ; 15ct., £4, £5.
14. —Curb and Link. £3, £4. £5, £O.
15. —Chain and Ron I £'to £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Pearl and Turquoise
Floral and Ribbon BROOCH.
£2 10s.
London’s Newest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Pearl and Turquoise
Heart BROOCH, £2 2s.
The Latest Style.
Post Card Gold CHARM, 10s.
Any Name Free.
Silver, gilt, 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold LOCKET, 15s
15ct. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Dinna Eorget,
10s 6d.
Our Own Registered
Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Shield LINKS,
10s 6d; Silver, 2s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS (Regis-
tered) Gold LINKS, 20s;
15ct. Gold, 82s 6d; Silver and
Gold, 10s; all Silver, 6s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Shield and
Dumbbell LINKS, 12s 6cl;
15ct. Gold, 255;
Silver, 8s 6d.
15ot. Solid Gold Opal LINKS,
with Initial, £2 10s.
Extra Strong.
A. SAUNDERS.
Beautifully Chased, 9ct. Gold,
large size LINKS, 22s 6d.
Plain, 21s, or with initials
nicely onased, 22s 6d ;
16ct. Gold, £2 ; Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Full Set of STUDS, Link Collar
Stud, and 3 Fronts, 9ct., 35a.
Similar style, 25s and 80a t
15ot. Gold, £2, £2 10s, £3.
ALL FREETRADE PRICES.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, 2 Hearts, Diamond,
and Ruby, 355; 2 Diamonds, £2 ss.
9ct. Gold Stone
RING, 10s ;
3 similar patterns.
Solid Gold Turquoise
and Pearl, 20s.
Newest Style.
Miapah Gold
CHARM, 4s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ot. Gold Hearts, 12a 6d ;
15et. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Solid Gold LINKS.
Plain ITS od, 20s, 255;
15ot. Gold, £2, £2 ss, £2los.
Monogram, 2a 6d extra.
Gold Shield Link and
Dumbbell, 15s 6d:
15ct Gold, 80s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Signet Plain RING,
9ct. Gold, 20s, 255: 15ct. gold,
80s, 355; 18ct., £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold,
Pure Double Cut Dia-
mond, £8 ;
other size stone, £8 10s,
£4, £5.
18ct. Solid Gold,
8 Opals, 4 Diamonds, £5;
Smaller Diamonds,
£2 10s, £3, £3los, £4.
18ct. Gold Buckle BING,
Diamond,
and 2 Rubies or
Sapphires,
£2 10s.
:
18ot. Solid Gold Diamond
Band, £2, £2los, £8;
15ot. Gold, 80s.
18ct. Buttercup
Single stone Diamond
RING,
£B, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold,
8 Pure Diamonds,
2 Opal Hearts, £4 10s.
Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Band,
Opal, 17s 6d;
16ot. Gold, 80s;
18ct. Gold, £2.
Send for Size Card.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold,
5 Pure White Double
Cut Diamonds,
£5.
Splendid Value.
GENT.’S BING.
Solid Gold, Amethyst, 25s :
15ct. Gold, £2;
18ct. £2 10s.
“ Hi |ll||
18ot. Gold Extra Strong.
Diamond, and 2 Bed
Stones, 255.
15ot. Gold, Diamond,
and 2 Bed Stones, 20s.
18ct. Solid Gold,
Extra Strong and Heavy,
1 Diamond, 2 Bed or Blue
Stones,
£2, £2los, £S, £4, £5.
18ot. Solid Gold
MARQUIS BING,
Diamonds and
Rubies, Sapphire and
Opal Centres,
£lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
18ct. Solid Gold,
5 Pure Diamonds,
£8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O, £25, £3O.
Smaller, £5, £6, £7,
£7 10s, to £3O.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, 5 Opals.
First-class, £2los;
Size larger, extra
good, £3 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
• Hand-made Wedding RINGS and KEEPERS.
9ot. Solid Gold, 7s 6d, 10s each ; 15ct. Gold, 15s;
extra heavy, 25s ; IBct. Gold, 20s ;
extra heavy, 80s, 355, 405., 50s. Send for oard.
fci- CALL AND SEE OUR JEWELLERY EXHIBITION—A SPLENDID DISPLAY;
OB SEND FOB OUB 1901 COMPLETE ILLUSTRATED FREETRADE PRICE BOOK, POST FREE ANYWHERE.
AUNDERS,
LEADING ART JEWELLER,
815 & 817 GEORGE-ST,
Nearly Opposite
Kailway Station.
SYDNEY.


FALIERE’S PNOSPNATINE
pkosphatwe:
faueres
The Only
Food
containing
Phosphate
of Lime.
For INFANTS and
INVALIDS.
AN ESSENTIAL REQUISITE IN THIS COUNTRY.
THE MIGA LUBRICANT GO., SOUTH SHIELDS, ENG.
Lubricants and Packings for all purposes. Patent Mica Grease saves 90% in cost of lubrication, and keeps
bearings perfectly cool. Patent Mica Packings last twice as long as ordinary, and are 25% lighter. They do
not score the rods, but put a mica surface on them, similar in appearance to electro-plate.
Sole Agent for Australasia : R. A. HERVEY. Depdt, 171 Olarence-stSydney, N.S. W-
BRAUN ORE SAMPLE-CRUSHER
and PULVERISER.
1
I m
Combination of a Jaw and Roll
Pulveriser working together.
May be operated by either hand or power.
Jaws, 3J in. wide; Roll, 6 in. diameter; Belt
Wheel, 16 x2l in. Total Weight, 2851 bs a
Write for Particulars to—
PARKE & LACY CO., Ltd.
60 Clarence-St., Sydney, n.s.w.
MINING ENGINEERS & MACHINERY
MERCHANTS.
HOTELKEEPERS!
MAKE YOUR OWN
>ERATEDWATERS.
rPHE “AUSTRAL” DERATED WATER MACHINE occu-
pies only Four Feet Square, will produce 150 Dozen per day of
Finest Waters (LEMONADE, GINGER ALE, SOD A WATER, &c.)
at a Cost below Fourpence per Dozen. This machine
supersedes all others for SIMPLICITY and USEFULNESS, as it
requires no skilled labor to work it.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
214-216 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
VINOLIA SOAP
FOR DELICATE, SENSITIVE SKINS.
The Public think Soap is Soap.
So it is—but there’s a great
difference in Soaps. Some injure
the Complexion, but VINOLIA
improves it.
VINOLIA SOAP is Specially prepared
for delicate , sensitive skins, and is acknow-
ledged in every country the Finest Soap in
the World for the Complexion .
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
*l*o DEFY COMiPETIXIOKT.
WINES *• *£* ** * SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS
Catalogue
Free . . .
French’s Acting Edition,
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
Books Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
STEAM
ENGINES
FROM 5 HP. TO 100 HP.
DYNAMOS
MOTORS
FROM 1 HP. TO 60 hp.
CAN BE SUPPLIED PROMPTLY
FROM STOCK.
NOYES BROS.
31 O’Connell-st., SYDNEY; 17 Queen-st., MELBOURNE,
DA.PTO (XL. e^lSO
«
(LIMITED*
llawarra)
near syDUEV.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODXJCJSRS
OF
fine silver.
m
■
' "y- ' '
m
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co, of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AMO
“ ILLAWAREA”
.. BRAND OF, >
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORE!, PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to P, S, Mouse, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.


A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
■We learn that a most useful Veterinary
Book is attached to every bottle of Condy’s
Fluid. This Book contains instructions for
curing most of the ailments and accidents
affecting Horses, Dogs, Sheep, Cattle, Poultry.,
and Birds of all kinds.
Condy’s Fluid is an absolutely certain cure
for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs, Broken Knees,
Grease, Thrush, Cracked Heels, and Mud
Fever in Horses.—Scab, Foot Bot, Fly, etc.,
in Sheep.—Binderpest, Hoove, Foul in the
Foot, Wounds and Sores, Foot and Mouth
Disease, and Diarrhoea in Cattle.—Distemper
Mange, Canker, and Eczema in Dogs.
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists and
Stores. Beware of local substitutes, all are
inferior. Insist on having Condy’s Fluid.
cm mm
GrO TO HELL-
<I I GOLAN J) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagco,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price*
lis gratis.
“ fl - T .s- HATS
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Important Announcement to our Gity and Country
Constituents.
WRLT€R BRAPLCy » CO.,
J'urniture unci Fine Art Auctioneers)
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION 4. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Countrj', conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the A action ltooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
'CWIdMWS
J^ALTBOR
FOR THE COMPLEXION
An emollent, soothing and healing pre-
paration for preserving and beautifying the
Skin in all climates; it cools and refreshes
the Pace and Arms in hot weather, removes
Freckles, Tan, Sunburn, Fedness and Rough-
ness of the Skin, heals all cutaneous Erup-
tions and Insect Stings, produces
SOFT, VELVETY SKIN,
Imparts a luxuriant beauty to the com-
plexion and a matchless whiteness to the
Neck and Arms unobtainable by any other
means. It has been known for the last 75
years as the most curative and harmless
preparation ladies can use. Ask Stores and
Chemists for Rowland’s Kaiydor, of 67,
Hatton, Garden, London.
HIGH-GRADE
FARM—-
Massey-Harris Co. Ltd
35 BROADWAY,
George-street West, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Senate has refused to allow “sedi-
tious” matter to go through the post, at the same
tune makmg no objection to “blasphemous”
matter I lie King is tenderly protected; the
Almighty is neglected.
It surely cannot be that the blind rage
and hostile attitude on every question displayed
by a prominent Northern politician against the
federal Government is because the billet that
might have been has faded out of view.
The most amusing things of all are said in
solemn earnest. Thus David Storey, in N.S.W.
Assembly (on the Governor’s-salary debate): “If
•pn 66 anv " s^STn °f the disintegration of the Empire,
111 start to stop it at the very beginning.”
Bruce Smith, in his magazine, United
Australia, now defends George Reid’s “Yes-
'll. 0 attitude at the first Federal referendum.
Mr. Smith is starting early to clear away any
obstacles to his inclusion in a Reid Cabinet.
Givens (Q.), member for Cairns, compares
the local Ministry to the man who, reproached
with selling his country, “thanked God he had a
country to sell.” But Givens complains that the
Q. people are not even selling their country—they
are only giving it away.
The British Cabinet, it is cabled, has not
met since August. Members are evidently in the
state of mind of the man who has made such a
mess of things that he dare not even open
his morning letters, but can only drift hopelessly
along, to the deuce or otherwise, as chance may
decide.
One chapter in Tasmanian Judge Inglis-
Clark’s new book on the Federal Act queries the
validity of the Governor-General’s instructions
from the Colonial Office. If he is right, and if
there are any Higinbothams left, we may expect
a renewal of the old Vic. ructions with “ the man
Rogers.”
YEARNING FOR REFORM.
“Most of the opponents of the Convention Bill were loud in proclaiming that
they would hail reform of the Legislative Council with delight, but were not pre-
pared to delegate the work to any outside body.”— Melbourne daily 'payer.
ARGUS (to Premier Peacock): “ How dare you insult the gentleman!
He'll reform hisself if he wants to.”
Now that the Kanaka press and partisans
talk of armed resistance to Federal authority, it is
interesting to recall that when the Q. bush-workers
threatened armed resistance, in the early 90’s, the
Continuous Ministry sent the military out to
dragoon them, and promptly gaoled their leaders
for conspiracy..
There won’t be much difficulty in passing
the tariff through the Senate, despite the “Free-
trade majority ” there —so, at least, the knowing
ones state. In gratitude for Barton’s firm attitude
re protection against the Kanaka, the Labor
Senators will reciprocate by sinking their
Cobdenite views.
The visit of the Duke, the suspicion of
Chamberlain’s Japanese affinities where “White
Australia ” is concerned, and the wanton charges
of cowardice made by an English officer against
Australian troops, will prove, in Australia,
fowerful disillusionising agents in matters of
mperial Federation and Jingoism.
“Twopence per lb. on starch,” moans
Major Randal Carey’s Sydney Foreign-trade
daily, “is an absurd tax. Starch is required by the
poor people, and this tax increases the cost of it
from 2£d to about 4fd per lb.” So it might if
the Australian had to pay the duty—if he was
sucli a poor, feckless object that he couldn’t
make a little thing like starch. But when Dibbs
put on Id. a lb. duty the price promptly went
down instead of up.
on hi h f f 9 1 ? 1 . 1 War 111 Queensland,
on behalf of the shmdykit Kanaka, does credit to
the mventors imagination. “No man,” says
Ingersoll ever shouldered a musket in defence
blnnd°in ding ' ho h® e ' And 110 man ever shed his
blood to save his mortgagee. Fancv ueonlo
arming to defend a Q.N. Bank overdraft PP
George Reid, as was to be expected, makes
a great point of the fact that the Federal duty on
woollens is higher than that on silks. Australia’s
champion political misrepresenter fails to explain
that the woollen duty is Protective, while the silk
duty is a purely revenue one and graded at as high
a point as possible for revenue-producing purposes.
Will any Freetrader be consistent enough
to protest against the sixpence-a-doz. impost on
the unspeakable Chinese egg? Or suggest a
countervailing excise impost on the product of the
Australian hen ? The Chinese egg question
China can easily sell us eggs at 3d. a dozen
landed here) is a good touchstone for Cobdenite
principles.
The blood-feud between Auckland and
Wellington is shown by a question in the M.L.
Mouse of Reps, whether the Govt, would consider
the advisability of disfranchising Wellington
owing to its being the seat of Govt, and thus exer-
c’sln b r disproportionate influence in political
affairs Washington, U.S.A., was instanced as a
precedent.
Wanted a limit put to the abuses of
Parliamentary privilege. Some members take a
delight m circulating, under circumstances of
absolute safety, the wildest of charges: at times
the business is carried on as an adjunct to news-
paper enterprise. It is just as safe, and as low-
down, as the girlish habit of swearing a damaged-
honor yarn against a man.
The fact that N.S.W. Opposition-leader
Lee could only muster a bare 30 votes on the
Freetrade side in his want of confidence motion
against Premier See, proves the deadness of the
fiscal issue in State politics. The effect of the
division will be against Reid’s party in the
Federal House, for any capital that is to be made
out of it will be on the Barton side.
Melbourne Trades Hall is not altogether
pleased with the Barton tariff, and has appointed
a committee “to watch the interests of the
workers.” There is, in fact, a good deal of
growling in Melbourne at what is called in Sydney
a “purely Victorian tariff.” A new scheme of
taxation is certain to displease some people ; and
those whose withers are wrung make a fuss, whilst
the great body of the people who are satisfied say
nothing. One can’t, therefore, judge of the real
feelings of the people in regard to the tariff by the
newspaper cursing on the subject.
The People, organ
of the Sydney Socialists,
actually opposes the
Compulsory Industrial
Arbitration Bill, be-
cause it will deprive the
workers of the right and
power to strike. During
strikes, it argues, the
capitalists’ dividends
cease, and this measure
is a deeply-laid plot to
prevent strikes. The
little paper has got the
revenge fever very
badly—that’s all. Dur-
ing strikes the work-
men’s wages—their divi-
dends—cease also ; and
he workers have no re-
jirve to live on, like the
capitalists ; so the
workers’ wives and chil-
dren suffer privations
that those of their ene-
mies never dream of,
no matter how success-
ful the strike. What-
ever victories Labor
has gained by strikes
have mostly been at
such terrible cost to
the children as to be
hardly worth winning.
In Maoriland the Indus-
trial Arbitration Act has
practically secured a minimum wage to every
industry that has had the sense to organise and
bring itself under its provisions.
“lain not in favour of civil war,” says
Premier Philp re the Kanaka question. Seeing
that the Federal elections showed about four
Queenslanders out of every five to be anti-black
labor, and this huge majority has the other five
States behind it, Philp probably doesn’t advocate
civil war. It would be the ant attacking the
elephant—with the ant fat and out of condition.
The one wholly lamentable feature about
the Federal financial statement is the proposal
to float a £1,000,000 loan. There is to be a 1
per cent sinking fund attached, it is true; but,
all the same, if the Federal Government goes
loan-floating, that will make seven Governments
all actively borrowing in the Commonwealth.
Seven borrowing Governments is a large order
for some 4,000,000 people.
The Senate wishes the post-office to abolish
the discrimination at present exercised in most of
the States against foreign-printed supplements,
and has amended the Postal Bill to that effect.
Even N.S.W. for a time refused to give equai
postal facilities to the locally-printed paper and
the cheap Eurasian labor product from abroad.
The tender care for the foreigner shown by the
Senate is largely the result of the folly of N.S.W.
in sending there five out-of-date Cobdenites—such
people as Gould and Pulsford.
GOING TO EXTREMES.
KITCHENER: “By the living Jingo , if this keeps
up much longer Til issue another Proclama-
tion!”
Signs of an approaching deluge of legal
works on Federation are frightening even the
“sharks.” Quick and Garran were the petrels.
Judge Inglis-Clark has just published Ins com-
mentary. Isaacs and Mackey’s is advertised as
being in preparation, and there are rumors that a
weighty contribution from little Prof. Harrison-
Moore is on the stocks. Griffith is also mentioned
as a probability.
It is nonsense to talk of the Federal
tariff “adding 25 per cent, to the cost of living.”
Tea, coffee, cocoa, and one or two other items
may go up in price, but jam, butter, bread,
porridge-meals, fruits, and, in time, woollen goods
and boots will actually cheapen. The home
grower and manufacturer, assured of an extensive
market, will be able to produce more cheaply, and
internal competition will make him sell more
cheaply.
The 25 per cent, ad valorem, on patent
medicines is a feature of the Federal tariff which
will be warmly welcomed by medical men. It is,
too, a commonsense impost. England taxes
through the excise all patent medicines, even
those manufactured for export; and Australians
have been for years tickling their livers and feed-
ing their colds to the great benefit of the English
revenue. Now our own Treasurer will reap some
of the pill-harvest.
Maoriland exporters, it is cabled, are
“staggered” at the Federal tariff, and reckon
that it was “framed directly to exclude their
products.” It is difficult to see what they have
to stagger for. The Commonwealth duties on the
things Maoriland sends us are mostly rather less
than the duties which Maoriland itself charges ;
in many other cases the duties are identical. If
the sight of its own tariff directed against itself
makes Maoriland stagger it will probably just
have to lean up against something solid like Dick-
Seddon till it recovers.
Sydney Telegraph suggests that the
special excise on sugar grown by colored labor
may be “discriminating legislation and so
forbidden by the Commonwealth Constitution.
That cock won t fight. There is no discrimination
between the States in a duty which applies
equally over all Australia, and hits a black head
wherever it finds it. The fact that most of the
black heads happen to be in Queensland makes
no difference tp the equal incidence of the duty.
It might as well be argued that the duty on tea
discriminates against N.S. Wales, seeing that
N.S.W. consumes most tea.
That dreariest of all bores, living or dead,
Dawvid Storey, M.P., Sydney hat-importer, once
beat Edmund Barton in an election for the horsey
suburb of Rand wick. Great was the Federal
leader’s indignation at a defeat from “a man with
a thousand hats and not enough brains for one of
them. ” Now Dawvid, who is a very self-important
person and cherishes hopes of being N.S.W. State
Treasurer, would almost seem to look upon the ten-
pence specific duty (in addition to an ad valorem)
on the cheap imported hat as Barton’s personal
effort to get even with him, and talks of the
People rising in their Might to protest.
Whenever the tariff question arises in any
shape the first instinct of the Sydney importing
press is to curse Victoria in general terms. It
does that first of all, by way of clearing the air,
before it even attempts to find out what the
trouble is about—-does it mechanically, and in its
sleep so to speak. So it was quite natural to find
this sort of thing dotted all over the Sydney im-
porters’ papers the day the tariff came out:
The tariff has been framed to suit the heavily-protected
industries of Victoria.
This is the price which Australia has to pay for the
protection of Victorian manufactures.
They are all agreed that the tariff is essentially
Victorian, and largely framed with a view to protect
Victorian interests.
Victoria is first, South Australia second, and the rest
absolutely nowhere.
No wonder the Victorian grows inflated. The
cry of the Sydney morning paper, whenever any-
thing goes wrong, that N.S.W. has been cruelly
assaulted by somebody one-fourth its own size,
is calculated to make any small State, with an
inherent tendency to bumptiousness, quite inflated.
N.S.W. Govt, has the impudence to ask
Parliament to vote money for Sydney swimming-
baths ! Let Sydney pay for its own
baths. If the baths already
available are not sufficient, it
is in the City Council’s pro-
vince—and it is the City Coun-
cil’s duty—to provide others.
Or let the influential Sydney
Swimming Association raise the
money to provide them. W hile
stock are dying all over the
State for want of water-supply;
while the men on the land —
the men who earn the
money spent in Sydney—
cannot get their produce
to market for want of
roads and bridges; and
while all the conveni-
ences of country life are
insufficiently provided in
comparison with the con-
veniences in Sydney,—•
Premier See actually
proposes to grease the
fat pig further ! Let
Govt, give the backblocks
water, and let Sydney Dro-
vide baths for itself.
There are some new ideas in Kingston’s
tariff—one of the most valuable being that of
charging ad valorem on cigars and tea. Under all
previous tariffs the shilling-a-pound post-and-rails
of the buslunan paid equal duty with the article
at 2s. 6d. a pound for the Potts Point and Toorak
brew ; and the working-man’s twopenny manilla
paid just as much duty as the Henry Clay, Bock,
or Muria of the clubman. Now the impost is
graded on value. There is no more tricky business
than the tea-trade. A blend, the f.o.b. price of
which is 7d. per lb., generally costs the consumer
from Is. 6d. to 2s. Tea-importers naturally don’t
like an ad valorem duty, which will cause inves-
tigation into some of the secrets of the trade.
BEERY WILLIE (caught in the act of expectorating
on the footpath): “Eh! Wojersay? New
reg'lations! E'yer tit; me fer a con-
sumptive?”
For “ White Australians.” (The policy is
fixed, but it lias got to be carried out properly.)-
America has the most drastic immigration laws on
earth, so it gets only the best; Preetrade nations
get the worst. In the first five months of this
year the U.S. took 19,695 English, 17,150 Irish,
and 2978 Scotch —all of the pick of the country ;
while from all other nations they only took
34,285. It cost Britain about £2OO to rear, edu-
cate and train each of these, and they are worth
about £2OOO each to the States. The inferior and
incompetent are left to England, and she fills the
places of her emigrants by Russians, Poles,
Greeks, &c. Admit cheap, low class labor free,
and you drive the superior man to a highly-pro-
tected country.
The Foreign-trade person’s conviction that
a mere Australian can’t possibly manufacture
anything for himself, but must needs buy every-
thing through the medium of fat British importing
concerns like that of William M‘Billion, sticks
out everywhere. For instance, the Argus
published a list (joyfully reprinted by other
Foreign-trade papers) of 74 new Federal duties,
with the shrieking headline above them : “Rough
on the Farmer; Duties he Must Pay.” And
looking down the list it appears that Australia is
never, by any chance, to produce even its own
molasses, tinned meats, salt, tents, harness, whips,
axle-grease, cement, &e., &c. It is always to
import all these things from Europe and America,
for the greater profit of the M'Billions, and
therefore pay the Federal duty on them. The
Foreign-trade doctrine seems to rest on the theory
that Australia is naturally a home for incurable
idiots, who can’t be expected to do anything more
ingenious than take the wool off a sheep, and send
it away once a year, and stand round for the rest
of the time with their lower jaw hanging down.


The Pianola will play any piano . Any
one can play it .
Zfyt (ptanofa
And What It Means to the
% Heretofore Passive Listener
A NY ONE CAN BE A PLAYER and individualize his
Ik own identity in his rendition of the piece.
/-Ml It stands as the “open door'’ to the world of
i jEL. music—its delights, its influences, its education.
The prohibitory tariff of years of patient and tedious
practicing to acquire the technical ability of striking
the right note at the right time has been completely wiped away
Of the “ technique ” the Pianola is complete master.
In “ tempo ” and “ expression ” it is your servant and as
responsive as the human fingers, which, after all, are but finely
adjusted mechanism controlled by the mind.
It is the only piano-player which appeals to musicians as
well as novices.
No other piano-player has ever received the endorsement of
a musician.
This fact, coupled with the source of pleasure it opens to
every household, should induce every one to investigate it.
You arc cordially invited to call and hear this wonderful instrument. We keep a
staff of assistants whose sole duty is to show the Pianola and .Eolian to visitors,
to explain and to pla% these instruments. We are glad to show the Pianola
to the merely curious as well as to the intending purchaser.
If unable to call, write for Catalogue
C
HtNRY M, BIR6E & CO.,
Sole Agents f or Australasia,
323 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Pianola is sold at no other address
in Sydney.
A Wonderful Discovery
.... IS ....
VITADATIO
+ .
A PURELY HERBAL BLOOD
MIXTURE.
Clerks and Business Men
If you suffer from COLLAPSE OF THE NERVOUS
SYSTEM, due, perhaps, to HEAVY STRAIN AND
PRESSURE OF BUSINESS
Mr. S. A. PALMER.
Dear Sir, —About 18 months ago I was forced to give up
mv position owing to an attack of CONGESTION OF THE
BRAIN, caused by EXCESSIVE STUDY and WORK.
For some time I was very ill, and was under the care of
four of the best doctors in New Zealand. I found that
although I had recovered from the cerebral congestion,
THE NERVOUS SYSTEM had received such a shock, and
had become so weakened that my medical advisers
informed me that I would have to take perfect rest for a
long time, and that it would be from TWO TO THREE
YEARS before I would thoroughly regain my strength,
and be what I had been prior to my breaking down.
Knowing of the wonderful results which had followed
the taking of Vitadatio, I resolved to go in for a course of
it, and after drinking about 12 LARGE BOTTLES, I
rejoice to be able to say that I am now WELL AND
STRONG AGAIN, and enjoy the best of health. I feel
that I cannot but let young men who struggle through
the weary days of their office work, feeling so weak and
ill that life has very few pleasures for them, know what
your medicine has done for me. To all such I earnestly
recommend Vitadatio, as I am perfectly sure it will
thoroughly tone up the system, and drive all impurities
out of the blood.
Yours, very sincerely,
EDWIN O. SERVICE.
“ Linthorpe,” Newtown.
===========
Tor further particulars,
s. A. PALMER ,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
American Naphtha Launches for Sale.
One 18ft., one 16ft.—Quite New.
Sharpies’ Cream Separator & Dairy Supply Co.,
143 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN . . .
STAMPS
Highest Cash Prices Paid
to any amount for
o]d or Rare Stamps,
Used or Unused.
For Sale—The Largest Stock of STAMPS, ALBUMS, etc.,
in the Southern hemisphere.
BMYTH & NICOLLE, li Hunter-st., Sydney.
The First
Australian Stamp.
l£3 POSTAGES!
n•~ i -
THK WEW
EDISON TALKING MACHINES.
J2*
The Bijou Phonograph'
With Complete Outfit, including 6
Assorted Records, £2.
The Standard Phonograph
With Complete Outfit, including 24
(2 dozen) Assorted Re-
cords, 2 Blanks, £5 108.
Undoubtedly the Best
Value ever offered.
Extra Edison Records,
20s. per dozen ; 12s. per
half-dozen. Concert (5£
inch) Records, 6s. each,
60s. dozen.
Send for Catalogues con-
taining 3000 selections.
REEVES & CO. I ADELAIDE and BROKEN HILL
TJSE
SPOONER’S
m t
SPOONERS
y T$S y
IMTENT LEATHER BOOTS
‘GLAZED RIOS «
4'*' |«l
rrry^"ii"J
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
l<'or Cleaning' and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
I Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
Missing Friends.
A<| R. FREDERICK CONSTANTINE HOPE
CHARLESWORTH. Information re-
quired concerning the whereabouts of him and
his children (if any) for their advantage. Last
heard of at Parramatta in 1887. Refer to
THYNNE & MACARTNEY, Solicitors, Bris-
bane, Agents for CULL & BRETT, Solicitors,
Staffordshire, England.
IF EDWARD O’QRADY, known as EDWARD BTEVENBON,
■ son of the late Mrs. Johanna O’Grady, of Wahring, in
the State of Victoria, will communicate with THE
TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS AND AGENCY COMPANY.
LIMITED, of 412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, he
will hear of something to his advantage.
Government Notices.
General Post Office,
Sydney, 27th September, 1901.
ATTENTION is directed to Government
Gazette notice inviting TENDERS for
the performance of a large number of MAIL
SERVICES. Tenders, which must be addressed
to the Deputy Postmaster-General, Sydney, and
endorsed “ Tender for Conveyance of Mails,” will
be received at this office up to noon on the 28th
proximo.
J. DALGARNO,
cp2l Deputy Postmaster-General.
A number of M.L. Premier Seddon’a
supporters raised Cain when asked to vote £2250
to Gov. Ranfurly on account of expenses over the
Royal visit. They argued that the £2250 was
spent in entertaining a select few, the mud from
whose carriage-wheels splashed the common
people who were now asked to produce the
“ dust.” The ultra-imperialistic Premier lashed
out all round, and was once called to order for
using prohibited language. He got his way as
usual, however, and His Ex.’s wine-bill passed by
38 to 22.
Wanted.
TX7 ANTED, Good Foreman tor Copper Smelting Works,
' ' accustomed to reverberatory furnaces. Apply Sec.,
North Mount Lyell Copper Co., Equitable Building, Melb.
BEST THE BUBDEN
of your correspondence
on the
New Century
Typewriter instead of on your steno-
grapher, and you will get more work,
cleaner work, better work: It has no
equal for speed, lightness of touch and
durability. Fine new catalogue sent
free.
United Typewriter & Supplies Co.,
11U Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S.W., Aus.
[jjorld’s flecord Qrderj
The LARGEST TYPEWRITER ORDER
for the WHOLE WORLD . .
Has recently been placed with UNITED TYPEWRITER
and SUPPLIES CO. by the Austro-Hungarian Govern-
ment for
500 New Centurys
The New Century has been extensively ordered by N.S. W.
Government Departments, and is the Machine adopted by
His Excellency the GOVERNOR-GENERAL, and also
the State Governor, Sir Frederick Darley, K.C.M.G.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE,.
United Typewriter $ Supplies Co.,
(By appointment to His Excellency the Governor-General)
114 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
London Tailoring Depot
%
nothing Succeeds [ike Appearance.
UP-TO-DATE STYLE FOR UP-TO-DATE PEOPLE.
The Suit
To Order
42s
With
Extra Trousers
Holds the Commonwealth’s Record
..FOR..
STYLE, FIT * FINISH.
Send for Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms to our only address —
OPP. G.P.0., BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE.
CYCLING
is more enjoyable
and cheaper
when
DunjlqpTYres
Dunlop Tyres
are ridden.
They ride easier,
wear longer, and
are more reliable
than any other make
of tyres.
Roadster Tyres Guaranteed for 12
months*
Beware of Imitations.
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. OF AUS. LTD.,
150 Clarence Street, SYDNEYJ
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
$
&
-^5
BILLS
discounted.
uxr.suw.
(IJunt deplete j).»s I. Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
rjA CASTLEEEAGH ST., 74
1 SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
■ — r l’l 115 ->
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon J F Burns, Chairman ; Hon. O. J. Robbrtb,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruck Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,491,989.
Policies issued 85,372— assuring £26,085,346.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,576,850.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eouitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
file |ank of |jerth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Oo. I Ad.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700.000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 900 ... £350.000
Queensland Smelting Qompg.
** (LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
-DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
I) Cornier Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, ap ly to GKO. V. S. DUNN Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the liranun
Office, 52 Market-street. Melbourne.
Dew Zealand Insurance go.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES
£1,000,000
420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
, A. Bl pjtt S y dney .
Tb« TrOstees, EwOtorS,
AND
Ageocv Conjpagy Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE LIABILITY
RESERVE FUND (used in Company s
business) ...
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1901
£150,000 0 0
£90,000 0 0
£150,000 0 0
£BB5B 7 3
£6,388,976 5 3
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED. *
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. . • • • £385,187
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 245,119
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 55,000
£685,306
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Ass. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors—Sydney : Sir W. M'Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks.
Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq. Wellington : H.
Beauchamp, Esq. , , , ~ . T
Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlank ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montefiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Established 1879.
THE
United Australian mutual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices :
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital £500,000
Subscribed Capital 251,260
Paid-up Capital 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
AGENTS required where not represented.
Alfred Webster, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £BOOO, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties in Victoria, _
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victona,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Shipping.
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Saturday, Oct. 19, 12 Noon.
Oabo, Tuesday, October 22, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Oct. 26,12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tuesday* October 29, 5 p.m.
ALRANY
FREMANTLE
Gabo, Tues, Oct. 29, sp. m., takes pas-
sengers & carjo for transhipment to
S.S. Buninyong,leaving Melb. Nov. 1
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNOABERG
Peregrine, Sat., Oct. 19, 12 Noon.
Konoowarra, Tnes., Oct. 22, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Oct. 26, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Peregrine, Sat., Oct. 19, 12 Noon.
Lenra, Saturday, Oct. 26, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GEKALDTON
CAIIINS, &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Caryo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual. Life Buildings, corner (ieorge and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves —Foot of King-street.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIH€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows :
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street. SYDNEY
ffuddart, parker & Co’s Cine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOB A ItT,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND POUTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Cu"rent Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
A.3XTI3
LINE
via
San Francisco,
California.
SPLENDID NEW TWIN-SCRZW STEAMERS,
SIERRA
SONOMA
VENTURA
.m
Over 6000 Tons each.
8000 H.P.
Length, 425 feet,
Passengers booked through to American, Canadian and
European centres at current rates.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts., SYDNEY.
TIME TABLE.
THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
THE “ALL RED” MAIL ROUTE
TO LONDON.
THE ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
OF THE
CANADiAN-AUSTRALIAN LIME
Under contract with the Governments of New South
Wales, Queensland, and Canada, leave Sydney every
four weeks as under, for
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
This is the Imperial Route Home, as well as the most at-
tractive. It avoids alike the heat of the Red Sea and the
cold of Cape Horn. The railroad journey between the
Pacific and Atlantic Oceans (Vancouver to Montreal)
occupies about 4 days, and is made
1 WITHOUT CHANGE OF CARRIAGES,
through the grandest scenery in the world—over the
Selkirk and Rocky Mountains, across the Prairies, and
along the North Shore of Lake Superior.
Passengers have the choice of a number of overland
routes, enabling them to visit the principal cities of
Canada and the United States. . .
For Railway Maps, Guide Books, and all other lnforma-
tion, a PP l^ |^ O N §teAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government
Amount, of Capital payable by Shareholders
2,000,000
600,000
Total Capital .. •• £2,500,000
The permanent trustee co. of new south
WALES, Limited.
The Fourteenth ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING of
the Members will be held in the Chamber of Commerce,
the Exchange, on FRIDAY, 18th OCTOBER, 1901, at
Noon.
Business:
To receive Reports and Balance-sheet to 30th Sep-
tember, 1901.
To elect One Director in place of W. C. Goddard,
Esq., who retires (under clause 77 of the Articles
of Association), and who offers himself for re-
election.
To elect Two Auditors in lieu of W. Clarke and
Fredk. Phillips, Esqs., who retire, but are eligible
for and seek re-election.
To consider any other;? business, of which due notice
shall have beep' given in accordance with the
Articles of Association.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD,
Manager.
Sydney, 4th October, 1901.
*3
Reader, why not he able to nse the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feats
i that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
I conquer pain; win reluctant affection,
[gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
I illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
lof the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is ihe most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever \ übl shed. For a short
time I wi 1 se <1 this magnifi-
cent work FRSEf sealed on
receipt of 6il. ( tamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a chance of
a life-time. Address—
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
IST. 33. 3L».
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*Twin screw.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
REGULAR SERVICE to SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. DRESDEN, 4527 Tons,
LEAVING SYDNEY, 14th NOVEMBER NEXT.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
Publications.
NOW READY at Turner & Henderson, SYDNEY.
Toilet & Troubles of the Skin & Hair
by Dr. ALFRED NEALE ; new edition, post Is Id.
TRICHOLOGY, a Study of the Hair, post 7d.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties.
Madame Panza,—^
913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
FOREIGN STAMPS.
[fJ]EiJp3H2
pHEAP SETS.—4O Japan, Is 6d ;
47 Spain, 2s ; 10 Bulgaria, (id ;
16 Heligoland, Is : 8 Egypt, 6d ; 30
French, 9d ; 12 Indian Telegraghs,
6d ; 9 Labuan Pictorial, 2s 6d; 11
Canada, 6d; 9 Canada Duty, 6d ; 5
Boli via,4d. Packets 50, Is; 100,2 s 6d.
Stamps Purchased. New Catalogue
of Stamps, Albums, etc., Gratis.
CHARLES DONNE, 346 Little Coilins-st., Melbourne.
A Modern Sclent fis Tr.umph, the
“ ELECTRICON”
The first and onlv absolute safe and successful
means ever perfected to apply pure Metallic Galvanic
Electricity direct to the ears, permanently curing'
DEAFNESS
and completely banishing all distressing
HEAD NOISES
by restoring natural life, stren_ h and activity to the
affected parts of the ear and 10 he nerve of hearing.
Simple—harmless—positive. Cure guaranteed or n
expense. For full information and complete descrip
tion, address with stamp—
The L. R VERNON COY.,
60-64 Hunter-st., Sydney
DEAR SIR,—I have been cured of Weakness and Re
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr, ROBERT
E. PARKHURST, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports^
S.S. Adelaide, Friday,
October 18.
S.S. Marloo (from Melbourne)
Tuesday, October 22.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Kockton, Friday,
October 18.
Jtest and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after one
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and Howard Smith Co.,
Ld. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, JjjYDNEY^
A. U. S. IN. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE -Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bria
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Rassent/er Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamera
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. 11. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and VV. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO, Ltd., Agents, It) Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Porta
P AND O. COMPANY’S
** * ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting- at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
Steamer.
ARCADIA .
♦INDIA
OCEANA
BRITANNIA
AUSTRALIA
Commander.
Syd ney,
Noon
6663 A. C. Loggin .. !Oct. 19
911 W. D. 6. Worcester, R.N.R. .Oct. 31
6603 C. Gadd .. ... .. |Nov. 16
6525 F. A. Seymour ... .. 'Nov. 30
6901 F. J. Cole .. ... Dec. 14
* Leaving two davs earlier on account of Melbourne Races.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B 10s to £77
Ditto Ditto Return, £7llos to £l2l
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific, and
Messageries Maritimes Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street, Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77.
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having- room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
“E. AND A.” LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially lmilt for t e Eastern
pass nger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Passengers booked through to points in Can via, Unitel
States of America and Europe at special rate's in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific Railway and Steam-
ship Company.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and C<>., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LI).
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
ffi'lluraiih.fiPEachara&De.
PROP. LTD.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS
iKT-A-XiG-OOIEiLI-E, 4500 tons,
COOLGABDIE, 35-0 tons.
SAIL j'OL’TX ICHTLY between
Sydney, Adelaide, and
West Australian Ports.
Passenger Accommodation Unsurpassed. Liberal Cuisine.
M'ILWRAITH, M‘EACHARN AND CO.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany and Fremautla
Sydney Agents—BUß«S, PHiLP 00. Ltd.
GENTS.''*
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.—L.D.l., 300 Collins 3c., Melbourne
n POLICY FOR THE"5!*^
(’rice (id. ;
Posted, Bd.
commonwealth


HAVE YOU
ABADLEC
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your Anger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the 6kin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, yon
never can recover, but go on suffering till deatli releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may he discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don't say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and FILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, 1/1 jd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
fHLOROPYNE
Caution . G enuine Chlorody ne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BfiOHOHITIS,
DIAERHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr. J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, saya:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodynk. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
’ BELTS and
A PE LI A N GES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTICE. —Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
GOOD HAIR FOR
ALL !
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation tor Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY'IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
m' For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
m For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
I
e/?
w
■Washington H. Soul & Oo. f
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT
HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
PLAIN HOM€ TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1200 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1901 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted to any address for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic, Is 6d, post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevassb’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Sono Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
Balzac’s Droll Stories, Is 3d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather hound, my price, 15s post paid.
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Pa, Ma and Baby, by Gust&ve Droz, posted 2s.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Metal Working, Brazing, etc., Is 3d.
Send for my Illustrated Big: Book
Catalogue—post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
Dr. Clarkson’s Electric Belt
will All your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy, and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-IN VIGOR ATOR
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is trnlv wonderful
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC. organs is truly wonaerful.
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
CALL OR WRITE—
OWL
CUT
RATE
DKTJG STORE,
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
Now
Ready.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMON WEALTH
Price 6d; Posted. Bd.
NATURES TRUE REMEDIES.
Nature has, provided a TRUE REMEDY for Every
Complaint. It is, therefore, unnecessary to contaminate the
System with Mineral Poisons, which leave the System Weak
and Debilitated. Sufferers from Blood and Skin Diseases,
Nervous Affections, Piles, Rheumatism, and Affection of
the Liver and Kidneys, Chest and Lungs, Consumption,
General Debility, Costiveness, Influenza, Melancholia, iEnemia,
can rely on a Cure from these Remedies.
ALFALINE
REMEDIES
Are a guaranteed
Cure for the
above Complaints.
They have Cured
Thousands, and
stood a Test in
Australia for over
20 years. They
have never been
known to fail in
a single case, and
they are purely
NATURE’S
REMEDIES.
mnuN(s
msi/iiiM
ALFALINE
HERBAL
* REMEDIES
Have been Awar-
ded several Gold
Medals, and
More Testimon-
ials than any
known remedy in
Australia.
A Special
Guaranteed Rem-
edy for each
Complaint.
HERE RASSMUSSEFS CHIEF LABORATORY,
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Are a Guaranteed Cure for All Nervous Affections, Weak Spine, Brain and Nerves, Poor
Memory, Tired Feeling, and General Debility. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Course, 23/6.
ALFALIHE BLOOD PILLS
Are a PERMANENT CURE for the Most Chronic Blood Diseases, Skin Diseases, Blotches,
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, etc. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
Purify the Blood and Build up the Weakest Nervous System. A Guaranteed Cure for
ASnemia, Wasting Diseases in Females. A General Blood and Nerve Tonic
for both sexes. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-. Courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS
Are Guaranteed to Cure Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn,
Biliousness, and the Liver and Kidneys. BOXES, ONE SHILLING. Posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to
cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lum-
bago. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 12s. and
235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage—
This Suspender imparts Strength and Vigor,
at the same time as it supports the parts.
Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -A
Wonderful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Con-
sumption, Bronchitis and Influenza. Boxes,
posted, 35., 65., 12s and 235. 6d.
Electric Belts —Containing powerful and
effectual Electric currents unequalled as a
cure for all Spinal and Kidney Affections ;
425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Sufferers can only obtain the Alfaline Herbal Remedies from
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office or Branches, the addresses of
which appear below. Letters should be addressed and Cheques
and Money Orders made payable to Herr Rassmussen’s full
name— Hans Peter Rassmussen, whether you send to his Head
Office or Branches. Register all letters containing money.
All Remedies sent unobserved, packed in plain cover.
Correspondence held confidential.
ALFALINE
PILE POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
FAT-REDUCING
POWDERS,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
ALFALINE
HAIR-RESTORER,
Boxes, 3/- and 6/-
CORN CURE, 1/-.
OINTMENT, I/-.
s&gajIMERR RASSWUSSI9it
A USEFUL BOOK
SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmussen’s
valuable book, The
Alfaline Guide to
Health, which con-
tains valuable in-
formation for all
Complaints, and
copies of Testi-
monials, will be sent
free in plain cover,
on application.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD OFFICE,
(HANS PETER RASSMUSSEN)
547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Alfaline Remedies can only be obtained from his Head Office and his
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES :
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke-st.
BRISBANE-309 Oueen-st.
ADELAIDE —15 Pulteney-st.
W. A.—PERTH, 481 Hay-st.
KALGOORLIE—Hannan - st.
BOULDER ClTY—Piesse-st.
N.Z.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington.
FREMANTLE—Henry-st.
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of the ALFALINE REMEDIES.
In New Plymouth (M.L.) recently three
men were, on three separate occasions in the
course of one week, run over and killed by the
train.
“T.M.” wants to know :
Be vourpar. KB., 14/9’01) on the proposal to abolish
30 of the Irish seats in the Commons. England has cer-
tainly the best of the cards in her political game ot
beggar-my-neighbour with Ireland, and Judas Chamber-
lain’s proposal to unseat about a-third of the Irish mem-
bers is a threat to pay back the latter for their last
session’s persistent stonewalling tactics—the only course
open to them, for Irish Nationalist M’s.P., unlike their
Scotch brethren, are allowed no say whatever in legisla-
tion affecting their own country. Macaulay remarked,
many years ago, that Ireland was better represented than
Scotland in the Commons, yet Scotland was by far the
better governed country of the two. The trouble wuth
Ireland, in fact, is but remotely affected by under-repre-
sentation or over-representation in Parliament. Tim
Healv, M.P., the Radical of Radicals, recently declared
that it would do Ireland no harm if all the constituencies
of the country, instead of 30, w'ere abolished and the
government placed in the hands of the resident landlords
—or he even would not object to an Orange despotism,
so utterly unsatisfactory is the existing Constitution If
Ireland, with a population greater than that of the Aus-
tralian Commonwealth, can be towed about by Britain
like a punt behind a man-of-war (to use Gladstone s
simile), how many inches of rope would Australia get if
she dared to embark on the unknown sea of Imperial
Federation, and was represented in a Parliament of the
whole British Empire in proportion to population !


Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER ....
c
GO
REUTER'S
LITTLE
RILLS
FOR THE LIVER.
?Off.
A Living Witness.
‘‘For
the last
six oi-
se v e n
years I
suffered
from that awful
complaint arising
from the liver,”
writes Mrs. A. C.
Cufley, Cubitt-
street, Richmond,
Victoria, “and
always had that
weary, run-down feel-
ing, and my complexion
was sallow. I used to
get up in the morning
feeling more tired thaD
when I went to bed at
night. Besides this
weakness I had nasty
pains in the head, also
a disordered stomach.
There were times when
I had to take to my
bed, and lost all energy
in my household duties.
I tried many remedies
and doctors’ medicine,
but lost all faith in
them, as they did me
no good. Not long ago
V
A*
a friend of mine, and also my daughter, advised
me to give Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills a trial,
which I did, and have received great benefit from
them. lam now free from pain in every way,
and that weary, run-down feeling has quite gone,
and I feel as well as I did before that terrible
complaint fastened upon me, and will be glad
to answer any questions regarding my case,
should anybody care to know.” Dr. Morse’3
Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood purifier
and a positive cure for biliousness, indigestion,
constipation, headaches, sallow complexion,
liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils,
blotches, and female ailments. Sold by chemists
and storekeepers, Is per bottle, or six bottles
6s. 6d. Sole proprietors, The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd. (Australasian Depot), 58 Pitt-streot,
Sydney. Packed in amber bottles, and the full
name blown thereon.*
General Hector Macdonald supposes that
he has a brother somewhere in Australia, and
hopes to run across him. The brother disappeared
from Scotland years ago.
The late German Empress Frederick
(Queen Victoria’s eldest daughter) left £150,000 to
Count Seckendorf, to whom she was inorganati-
cally married after “ Our Fritz’s ” death.
On Saturday one of the plate-glass fronts
at Messrs. Brandt Bros., 236 Pitt-street, Sydney,
was broken. Acetylene gas, buggy, table and
bicycle lamps, as well as acetylene burners for
house-lighting, were 'damaged, and are being
sold at half-price.*
“Piles and Their Cure.”—The pamphlet
by Albert Sharp, entitled “Piles and the Way to
Cure Them,” without operation, sent free, on
application to the Sydney Depot, 257 George-
street.*
By Special
Appointment.
G. H. SMITH and SON,
TROPICAL HELMET
with special air-space,
in white drill , <Scc. and
in all colors in felt.
10/6 and 12/6
Hat and Cap Manufacturers
and Importers,
302 George-st. Sydney
Sombrero Soft Felt Hats,
All Shades and Sizes
Soft Felt Horn bergs.
In all Sizes and Colors.
Straw Hats. Stetson Hats
Polo Caps, Military and Naval
Caps, Livery Hats, Clerical Silk
Hats, Etc., Made to Order.
Victoria Racing Club.
CUP WEEK.
DERBY DAY NOV. 2.
CUP DAY NOV. 5.
OAKS DAY NOV. 7.
STEEPLECHASE DAY ... NOV. 9.
LARGE ENTRIES.
ACCOMMODATION FOR THOUSANDS.
The Conveniences for the Comfort of Visitors now
surpass anything in the World.
HOLIDAY EXCURSION FAnES
H. BYRON MOORE, Secretary,
.»«««<• «JU&
ITlefbourne
Jhe best House for
music. Pianos. Violins and
all Musical sundries
Collins SI..
Situation Wanted.
II THOROUGHLY PRACTICAL CUN MAKER, with Know-
** ledge of the Cycle Trade and Sporting- Goods gener-
ally, will be open to an engagement after next April.
Many years’ experience in England and Australia. Ad-
dress—Manager, Gun and Tool Departments, Army and
Navy Co-operative Stores, Bombay, India.
Branches in Evert State.
JUST A WORD WITH YOU. IF
The Red Bird Bicycle
Can withstand the strain, wear, and tear of the 165 miles Warmambool to Melbourne Road Race and win,
doesn’t it stand to reason that a Red Bird is absolutely the most serviceable Bicycle you can buy for Road
or Track work f GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The hurdle-race, at Rosehill, Saturday, was a
clean skinner for Moses, not one of him having paid
against winner, King Pin, over and above the odds to
half-a-sovereign. The “cute ones’’—trainers, touts,
tipsters ; also spielers, and thieves generally—would have
nothing but Redlight, and laid 5 and 6 to 4 “ on ” freely.
Tommy Varcoe ranked next, at 2’s, then Frontier, a
point longer. At last jump, King Pin was upsides with
leader, frontier, and beat him home. Odds of 20 to 1
were available in heaps. King Pin’s lineage is most im-
bong by His Reverence out of one-time performer
(skittles, and is owned by his breeder, Mr. H. V. Foy.
At Rosehill, on Saturday, Yankee jock Ames
gave this country the first correct exhibition*of Tod
bloan s method of riding, and proved that Frank Kuhn
who was supposed to be a Todsloaner, was a long wav
from it. Ames shortens his leathers, bringing the calves
iorwarci of the pads on to the p rad's shoulders. Through
riding work at Randwick for weeks he has many imitators
who, though they shorten stirrups and lean out on the
horse s neck like Kuhn, have not got the correct thing
Ames, in the second race, got Portland Light well off
and was four lengths clear at the £ mile. Then the field
closed upon him, but he plugged away and skilfully won
by half a length from Bother, who made the pace.
Several of our first-class riders have lately failed to bring
Portland Light home. Ames, though the public shied at
his mount, got a reception going to scale. Later he ap-
peared on Monaghan’s green 'un, Calah, which refused
to gee from the barrier, then on Portague, on whom he
finished third in October Stakes, and finally on Rudyard
in the Welter Mile, and did well enough to satisfy good
judges he is considerably the biggest dog in the jockey
line about Sydney just now. J
• • • «
The remarks of some professional punters and
trainers anent Ames’s riding are rather amusing. Most
of them are crusted Conservatives, and what they aren’t
used to is no darned good. They declared “ that style of
riding was good enough till the pinch came.” The fact
that Ames survived a “stiff pinch” on a nag that
*}?” previously failed at that psychological moment
<< i n t convince them—it was all fluke, or put down to
•iu ‘ j ®l° an had a similar prejudice to contend
with, and it was only when he won with favorites and
outsiders indiscriminately, and made much cash change
hands, that Tod was not sniffed at. Ames is a gentle-
manly, well-built, athletic-looking man who does all his
weight-reducing in the gymnasium, and keeps a tight
rein on himself. He has now been riding six years all
° ve f U.S.A., and is 25 years old. His biggest handicap is
that he 11 probably not be able to ride less than Bst He
is only here for a tour to keep weight down, and will pro-
bably give M.L. a visit on his way home. v
* * • a
The muddy racing at Caulfield last Saturday
was unsatisfactory, insofar that it seemed to favor the
nags that got a break on the field and were able to keep
ahead of the flying dirt. Wakeful made all the running
in the Caulfield Stakes, likewise Ibex in the Guineas
The victories of Heloise and Bonnie Chiel were assured a
long way from home. The heavy going suited them, and
they made the best of it. Perhaps the results would have
been much about the same under better weather
conditions, but the fact remains chat rain and mud tend
to multiply the chances of good and bad luck in the game.
Wakeful’s runaway win was the most impres-
sive. The time was good, and the field being small and
spread-out, there was no particular excuse to offer for the
animals that couldn’t decrease the mare’s lead. Wakeful
must be in great heart just now. The nine-furlon°-
scamper didn’t take it out of her to any extent, though
clearly the daughter of Insomnia is open to a little im-
provement in condition, and should be more nearly ripe next
Saturday, if she goes out for the Cup. For that matter
Hymettus sweated profusely after the Stakes gallop, so if
the strapping fine chestnut puts in a good week’s work he
may be expected to make a show against Wakeful on
Saturday when he meets the mare on 71bs. better terms.
And it goes without saying that his stable companion
George Frederick, ought to put up a good fight every time;
he carries stable money this spring. Should the dis-
appointing son of Carbine be seriously backed by his
friends next Saturday in preference to' Hymettus, then
even the wondrous Wakeful may get taken down. All
the same, Wakeful at a short price is a better punting
investment on “form,” past and present, than anything
else in the race. She may not actually win the Caulfield
Cup, which is rarely captured by a top weight, and is,
moreover, notorious for disasters, but given good luck
Wakeful will obtain a “place” anyhow.
Grasspan’s prospects have improved since last
week. The lameness that the colt suffered from was due to
a splinter in its leg, and the removal of that foreign matter
restored him to his proper stride. Grasspan is probably
going to win the Derby, and he may take one or other of
the Cups into the bargain. Appearances must be very
deceitful if Grasspan and Haymaker are not better stayers
than Ibex and the handsome Hautvillers.
Last week this scribe fancied Ampier, Massin-
issa and Seaport for the Caulfield Cup, but, at time of
writing, Ampier and Massinissa are scratched and little
Seaport has seemingly gone amiss. It is an old truism
that anything can win a Caulfield Oup. Saturday’s race
may produce a “ turn-up,” but more probably the follow-
ing lot of 10 will include the four placed horses—Wakeful,
George Frederick, Hymettus, Vocalist, Grasspan,
Blunderer, Cretonne, Revenue, Strathjoy, and Flagship.
To make a guess—
WAKEFUL « - 1
GRASSPAN „ „ „ 2
HYMETTUS ... .. 8
* • • •
Wallace—Bonnie Rosette three-year-old Bonnie
Chiel, who won Toorak Handicap on Saturday at V.A.T.C.
Caulfield meeting from end to end, leaving the first favorite
(mysterious Ampier) nowhere, is owned by big Vic. caterer
Skinner. B.C. is brother to Kinglike (the huge Caulfield
Cup disappointment of a year ago), and up to Saturday
had cost his owner a small fortune in bets. Cretonne
beat Him twice, but B.C. has improved, and is worth
watching for Caulfield Cup (71bs. penalty), V.R.O. Derby
and Melb. Cup (6.10 with 71bs. penalty).
* * • *
A little tale is told re the victory of Ampier in
the Stand Handicap at Caulfield, t’other Saturday ; but
there are two sides to every little turf story, and neither
side is true, as a rule. All the same, the unexpected
backing of Ampier, and the victory of that rather mys-
terious animal, can be instanced as evidence of the
misleading nature of daily-newspaper pars. Only a few
weeks back the Argus described the" gelding in question
as being very “ backward ” owing to a stoppage in its
work, and still more recently came the casual announce-
ment that Ampier was suffering from an abscess in the
mouth. A horse belonging to “clever” people rarely
gets a bad advt. at this time of the year, unless business
is meant. ’Tis a dead bird that fouls its own nest, as the
proverb says.
* » * •
All “loyal” Australians should bet on Royalty
in the two cups. Royalty, like Albert Edward, was born
and reared in a tight little island, and each, according to
the press, is suffering from rheumatism.
* » * *
Maribyrnong Trial Stakes, won by Tom Pay-
ten’s Great Scot, is only four years old, and in ’9B Payten’s
Badge was second to Lady Lilian, in ’99 his Skein Dhu
followed Polyxena home, and last season his Grasspan
was third to Black Watch and Sweet Sound. This season
he won it—Great Scot 1
• • • »
Heloise—winner, from 18 others, of V.A.T.C.
rich Debutante Stakes, Saturday last—is an extra
shapely filly by' Wallace from Emmie, by Robinson
Crusoe, from Olga (dam of Ruenalf), by Piscator, and
n-t-.-lied 280 gs. at St. Alban’s stud sale. Caulfield trainer,
Ike Foulsham, owns her. Sydney colt, Brakpan, started
favorite, but only squeezed into second place from
Niphetos, a comely daughter of Bill of Portland. N.S.W.
bred and owned nags, Wigelmar and Hautain, got home
m 99 and last year. Heloise’s penalty in Maribyrnong
Plate for this success is 101 b.
* * * *
Ibex’s time for Caulfield Guineas, Saturday,
was clocked 2fur. in 27f, next two in 25J and final four in
52| —1J slower than Kinglike’s win last year.
¥ * • •
Hautvillers’ failure to get a place in the Guineas,
Saturday last, though starting first favorite, hasn’t, ap-
parently, scared everyone off him for the Derby. That
•Jiffht, 500 to 200 was taken, with 1000 to 500 on offer.
Adverse weather conditions might have injuriously
affected some nags’ chances while it aided others’, hence
one would, perhaps, be justified in ignoring relative form
of horses engaged that day. The Officer accounted for
Newhaven in the Guineas, before the latter won the
Derby and Cup, and when Tremarden (at 12 to 1) got
away with the Guineas, even money was taken Scorn.
• * » *
“Lucre”: Most people holding back for the
stable-move on Wakeful for Caulfield Cup were badly
euchred on Friday last when, in one sudden swoop,
money was taken as freely as available, which isn’t saying
much, for Mo kept his mouth and book closed tightly
directly he scented the commission. First lot was
laid at hundreds to 7, then 8, 9 and 10, and
finishing quotation was eights. Wires from many
who missed the ’bus went to Newcastle, Orange
and other big centres for “ Wakeful money ” at four-
teens or twelves, but it was too late—the lot had
been snapped up early by the stable operators. Wakeful’s
load is 9st. She is by Trenton—lnsomnia, and has Oak-
leigh Plate, Newmarket, and Doncaster wins to her
credit, as well as third in Sydney Cup to San Fran and
Australian Colors—all scored last season. Wakeful’s
price (fours) at time of writing promises to shorten fur-
ther before the day. If there’s anything in form, Wakeful
is good goods. This writer will have her above all others,
with Flagship next best, and Hymettus or Caledonia to
follow.
• • • •
Flagship’s gallop with Australian Colors, t’other
day, smothered all previous records for Caulfield sand-
track. He covered 1J miles in 2.14, beating the Melb.
Cup favorite by 12 lengths. Sydney jock. Richardson
had the mount, and, riding Kuhn (mis-named Tod Sloan)
fashion, stuck hard to the inside, shaving corners in hair-
raising fashion. First impression was that Flagship ran
bare-hoofed, but it leaked out subsequently that he was
shod. Even with this in, as well as the fact that the in-
side is faster than where Australian Colors struggled ;
also that the turns were closely skimmed, the gallop
was a great one. Had Flagship worn ordinary steel
working shoes, the Caulfield Cup to-day would have
verged on a “cert.” for him with his feather of 6.7. He
was bred by Mr. S. G. Cook in ’97, and is by The Admiral
from Leona (a first-flighter on the flat and over the sticks),
who was by Swiveller from Soldene, by The Barb from the
twice Derby-winner, Florence, by Boiardo (imp.) by
Stockwell. Though Flagship looks like giving this
(Saturday) afternoon’s big mile-and-a-half a great shaking,
previous performances (bar the above-mentioned gallop)
don’t indicate that probability. He has lined-up about
25 times so far, and scored one win (in a maiden race),
three seconds, and five thirds.
* * * •
Interesting that Hymettus has won races at
four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten and eleven furlongs.
Will he gee away with the twelve to-day ? Caulfield is
his favorite course ; he has scored brilliantly there, and
can stay with the best.
• * * *
Havilah (N.S.W.) H. C. White’s yearling colt
and filly, bred to English time, went ’Ome Friday
last week. Lochiel sired both. The colt, on appear-
ances, is the best that ever left these parts, and is from
an English mare—Muta—imported by Mr. White seven
years since. The filly also takes the eye well. Her dam,
Lady Superior, owes origin to Gibraltar—Lady Spec (imp.),
by Speculum. Might be mentioned that Mr. White has
so far scored well “ down under " with Georgic, Form,
Old Clo, and Scopos.
» * * •
An impending scoop by M.L. turfite G. O.
Stead : Three-year-old Stepniak-Pibroch colt Menschikoff'
won Auckland Guineas easily in I min. 41sec.—2sec. better
than the previous best (Renown’s), and 2Jsec. inside Sea-
horse’s speediest. In 15 starts last year Menschikoff scored
11 times. Now his St. Leger-Forme nag Cruciform has twice
beaten Menschikoff, which means, on paper, that if Cruci-
form’s advancement has been as rapid as Menschikoff’s,
all Maoriland w.f.a. and 3-year-old events will be at the
merev of the pair.
* • • •
One-time Sydney horse First Mate fell during
exercise at Perth (W.A.), and was so badly injured as to
be finished off with the revolver. He was by Gozo from.
Pastime, and passed from Billy Miller, of Rosehill, to R.
Phillips, a Westralian Mo.
* • • *
Invitations to N.S.W. Sports Club amateur
boxing championships to-night (Thursday), and Friday
and Saturday hint that evening dress must be worn.
Which reminds that members of the National Sporting
Club, London, attend all fights clad that way, and it was-
only a toss up that members of the old Sydney Amateur
Gymnastic Club in York-street were not compelled to do
so on special occasions, particularly when the Govt, house
party was there incog, filling the chairs round one corner
and the Attorney-General held the watch. Those were
the palmy days of the game in Sydney, and that club was
as well managed as any in the world.
* * * •
“ Adelaide ” : English newspaper protests
against slow play by English cricketers are surely not to-
be taken as an excuse for tedious batting by Australians
in Australia. You draw the wrong moral.
• * * *
“Adelaide”: Re tote-fractions, which “the
writer believes ” (B. 7/9/’01) to be divided among chari-
ties in S.A. They are so divided, and have been for years.
They average £5O a day, which comes out of the pockets
of perhaps 1500 winners. They form the only and suffi-
cient support (except for a trifle from jockeys’ fines) of
the fund for disabled jockeys. After every meeting a
lump sum is voted to this fund, and the balance of the
fractions goes to a dozen or more charities in cheques of'
from £2 to £5. By the way, it is obvious that (to take
extreme cases) if there are 1000 tickets out on a winner,,
the fractions ought, with luck, to average £25 on that
race alone ; whereas with only one ticket they can’t
amount to more than lid. There are still one or two-
institutions that refuse the cheque.
* * * *
The retirement of Jock MTvor, Victoria’s most-
promising lightweight, is rumored by his friends, though
not officially announced by Mac. himself. As he is in a
steady job just now, MTvor’s “retirement” from the
ring will probably last until the return of Jack M'Gowan.
Pugs’ retirements are like actors’ farewells—good until,
the chance arises of a pot.
Irishman Moloney and Melbourne Jack Willis
supplied the most willing thing in the shape of scraps
seen at Sydney Gaiety A. 0., t’other night. Moloney
rushed, charged, floundered and flopped incessantly;
while Willis ducked, side-stepped, sprinted, and occasion-
ally hit when the other fellow wasn’t looking. Moloney
wrestled viciously, and referee Beckett had to wrestle with
both parties to separate them. Willis, as slippery as
a bagful of eels, evaded all Moloney’s attempts to get close
and slog to a finish. Then Moloney lost his temper, and,
rushing into holts, gripped his man and tried to sledge-
hammer him right out. This promptly brought disquali-
fication, and things grew lurid. Moloney bunched
himself together, and, with a screeching hurroo, bounded
across the ring, and bore Willis to the floor with an
awful bump. For a space there was nothing but a
mass of whirling arms and legs, and the lights burned
bluely in the storm of oaths, till a dozen people tore
them apart, and threw them roughly into their several
corners. Then Moloney’s trainer and Willis’s brother ran
foul of each other, and dealt out stoush liberally. All
the crowd that could swarmed into the ring and simply
roared again, while four men sat on each principal and
kept him quiet. Then, when the crowd could roar no
longer, the lovely affair came to an end, and everybody
went home apologising freely.
• * * *
The Warrnambool-Melbourne cvcle road race
on Saturday saw 58 out of 70 acceptors start at 5 a.m.
Scratch men averaged 20 miles per hour to Golac. At
Geelong rain was falling, but riders were still going
vigorously. A. Nioa, with 40 min. start, won in 9h. 20m.
40sec. H. M. Farmer, with 50 min. start, was second in
9h. 33m. 4sec.;and A. H. White, also 50min. start, third,
in 9h. 36m. 60s. Nioa is a rural rider without a record ;
Farmer is only 18 years of age ; and White is brother to
the overlander. Distance was 165 miles, and all States,
bar N.S.W., had their best roadsters there. Previous
winners were : 1895, A. Oalder ; 1896, J. Carpenter ; 1897,
W. O. Jackson ; 1898, W. Collins. This is the first com-
petition since ’9B, but it is now to be kept going.
* * • *
Some people’s luck. A Broken Hill cyclist
named Butson has just broken an arm for the fifth time
in cycle accidents.
* * • •
Norwood, by beating Port Adelaide, has secured
S.A. football championship. The recent season’s gate-
money receipts have beaten all records for years. Nor-
wood had not secured top place for seven years.
• » » •
For general willingness and enthusiastic bar-
racking, the final for the Vic. junior football premiership
far outdid the “ big ” club matches. It lay between
Preston and Blenheim (which really means Port Melb.
juniors), and a large contingent of the “ Blimeys,” as their
friends term them, took van-express to Preston t’other
Saturday with the avowed intention of bringing back
the pennant or their opponents’ scalps. Two con-
certinas and a melodeon played “There’ll be a
hot time in the old town to-night,” and the Blimey
supporters threw encouragement at their own men and
turf-clods at the others. There was no science and little
pace but things were “ proper willin’.” As Preston
established a good lead the Blimeys got annoyed, and,
when they failed to legitimately stop a wing forward
trekking towards their goal, a tremendous welt on the
jaw brought him down. Several of the southern club’s
players were reported and will likely be wiped out; but,
the Blimeys’ troubles 1 Plenty more where they came
from 1
• * • •
Second round of Sydney first-grade cricket
closed Saturday. Wickets—sodden from Friday’s rain-
favored bowlers somewhat. Two bats topped cen-
turies—Farquhar (Central Cumberland) 156, and Vic.
Trumper (Paddington) 108. Paddington nearly squelched
Sydney in one innings, and finished with a wide margin
of 171 to the good. Central Cumberland notched 355 to
Burwood’s 86. Waverley declared its innings closed at
six for 364, and only let Redfern gather 138. North
Sydney, too, stopped at six wickets, with a total of 239,
and Glebe responded with 107 and three for 45. Farquhar’s
effort in Central Cumberland’s interest was full of merit,
especially through it being his first time out this season.
j’North Sydney and Paddington are level in points, and
ihead the list-—4 each. Leichhardt-Balmain and Central
Cumberland follow—2 each.
• * • *
Middle distance ped. McLachlan hit Newcastle
(N.S.W.) miners where they live on Saturday, by easily de-
feating local favorite McManus. McManus allowed 10yds.
in i-mile but never had a hope, and McLachlan, at an easy
swinging gait, breasted the tape 20yds. to the good with
something up the place where his sleeve should be. The
rutty, thick-rank-grassed track hampered speed, but
McLachlan did it in 1.50 and finished fresh. The other
Me. didn’t finish, realising he couldn’t catch his tartar.
Betting was 6 to 4 on McManus with few takers.
* * * *
Roberts-Weiss match dragged through last week
and up to Tuesday night; houses were mostly very poor.
Sydney has been surfeited with Roberts and Weiss, and
would be glad to have Brown and Jones or some other
couple for a change. Roberts made a big pull-up on
Monday, and at the close of that night’s operations
totals were : Weiss (in play), 19,714 ; Roberts, 18,053
1197 behind on averages. Weiss wanted 1286, and
Roberts 2947, to win.
• * » *
16-Stoner Arthur Smythe, the well-known
heavy-weight amateur cyclist, reeled off half-a-mile in
60 4-ssecs. (Australian amateur record) on Sydney Cricket
Ground last Saturday morning. The big man rode his
Massey-Harris racer geared to 104in.*
* * • *
Maorilander G-. Sutherland put up a real good
go with Joe Megson in the Five Miles Australasian
Championship, run on the Agricultural track at the
8-Hours’ Carnival, Sydney. Suthe.v secured a most
•creditable second on his “ Massey ” racer.*
The numerous political sponsors for Snow’s
unspeakable tramway grab are hysterical because
the Laborites, the only people in S.A. Assembly
who oppose private ownership, have succeeded
in blocking business every time the Bill is reached.
That such a course is politic is proved by the
fact that the advocates of public ownership are
daily making headway. The opposition to Snow’s
monstrous scheme has not grown in Parliament,
however, for reasons which can only be con-
fidentially mentioned.
William Hopkins, in an open letter to the
Vic. Premier, complains that the new Governor
of Victoria, Sir G. S. Clarke, was one of those
responsible for foisting on the State, some years
ngo, obsolete and useless rifles. That Clarke was
a member of the Colonial Defence Committee
responsible for the scandal is true, but the
majority of the committee were Victorians. J.
Bull looks upon his colonies as dumping-grounds
for out-of-date goods and out-at-elbow ne’er-do-
wells, and whilst responsible Australian poli-
ticians agree with that idea, and get an occasional
ititle as the price of their agreement, the trouble
!seems to be not so much the great selfishness of J.
.Bull as the great folly of the Australian voters,
•who put up with the Imperialistic brand of
Cabinet Minister.
Ex-Speaker Bent plays up just as he likes
in Vic. Assembly, but, t’other night, when he
jumped up unceremoniously to stalk across the
floor, Speaker Mason mischievously called on
him to speak. _ Bent’s revenge was to jabber about
old-time politics for about half-an-hour. Deakin,
when similarly brought up for his habit of wan-
dering around, stammeringly flopped into the
handiest seat. He afterwards admitted that the
Speaker “had” him, and made a point for months
afterwards of curbing his pedestrian inclinations
in the House.


Presents
FOR EVERYBODY
AND FOR
ALL TIMES.
No Increase
in Prices»
fi*.
’pfS lij
.WtEl
aesa
m
m
asaffli!
SILVER-MOUNTED OUT-GLASS TOILET SET, IN CASE, 45/"
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY GO.
187 PITT-ST., SYDNEY
(Next Shadier’s Cafe.)
ANOTHER CHAMPIONSHIP GAINCP.
Again demonstrated that it runs easy and keeps running easy, when E. Wilksoh won the Mile Championship
of South Australia on his Massey. When you buy, buy a Massey, because on road or track its superiority is a
proven fact. EASY TERMS.
West Australian Depots: Hay Street, Perth; and Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie.
throughout N.S.W., Victoria, South Australia, Queensland, New Zealand. - *!
GLOBE TEA GLOBE TEA GLOBE TEA
GLOBE TEA GLOBE TEA GLOBE TEA
GLOBE TEA
GLOBE TEA
ONE SHILLING
Per PoCii?d for a Real <Sood Tea.
Duty or no duty you can't buy Tea in Sydney that will compare
to this Tea, at anything like the price. Most places would
charge you Is. 6d.
ATCN€RL€Y ai)d DAWSON,
TEA
MERCHANTS . .
284 6COR6E ST., SYDNEY
Sold in Half and
One Pound Pate
AT THE
City Depots
92 King Street
AND
23 Segal Arcade
or delivered
regularly by cart
“Golden Star”
Pasteurised
Duller •*
Perfection
of Quality
Churned fresh
daily from the
Finest Cream
I THE
N.S.W. FresHFood ft ice Co. Ltd., smm
ill
mm
in i ii
n
• •• •/
-W
i 1 ■*•- ■*
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“Ellis’King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
WW. GREENER’S New Book, “ Sharpshooting for Sport
■ and War.” All Riflemen should read this Book.
Price 1/2 posted.
W. W. Greener’s New Rifle, 3XO bore, made expressly
for Cadet Corps, very accurate ; 10 shots in 2 inches at
100 yards at last Bisley Meeting, price £3 3s.
Sporting' Martinis to take 44 Winchester Cartridges.
Adapted for Kangaroo Shooting, &c.
Greener's Lee Enfield Rifles, Govt. Viewed, Guaran-
teed First Quality.
These Rifles are in the hands of many of the best rifle
shots in the States, and in every case are giving great
satisfaction. Twenty-one consecutive bull’s eyes made
with one of these rifles at 700 yards ; 98 out of possible 105
at 400, 500 and 600 yards made by Mr. Jordan, Oapt.
Warmambool Rifle Club ; 104 out of possible 105 at 400,
500 and 600 yards by Mr. George H. Tolley, of Stawell.
Greener Cuns from 9 to 30 Guineas always in Stook.
Prices and Catalogues on Application.
Clxas. "W. Buckland.,
Representing W. W. GREENER,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
m a
m
m
Mi
■hair
Under Royal
Patronage.
KOKO for the Hair is a tonic, cleansing, invigorat-
ing and delightfully cooling preparation, causes the
hair .to grow luxuriantly, keeps it soft and pliant,
eradicates dandriff, prevents hair from falling and
turning grey, promotes growth, contains no dye or
greasy substance, is the most cleanly of all hair
preparations, and is perfectly harmless. The unique
testimonials received prove it to be undoubtedly
the best dressing for the hair. 1 /-, 2/6, and 4/6, of
all Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Australian Depot: Koko-Maricopas Co., Dd«,
14, Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
CAUTION.
See that this registered Trade
Mark is on every bottle.
25/6
GENT.’S l-LEVER, 12 Jewels,
15 Years’ Guarantee - - ■
Fairfax
& Roberts
3
Byline-.-
&
London
I
The Demand for .
“Fx.&R.” Waters
Has been so enormous that the manu-
factory is many thousands in arrears
with orders.
From the Ist November
we shall be compelled to add the Federal
Duties to the prices. Write for your
requirements this month.
There is no Watch made to equal it for
Cheapness—Strength—Reliability.
Strictly
Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
Vice-Regal Jewellers, 33 HUNTER STREET
Tbe
Callagfrai)
Boot
i
i—ik
I0‘:0 \ X k',
.
s
S; •
■ *
.
M ■ f M
SM;”- . -•/■
51« C .t# •: ■ :
tmt 1%4.^
few-
r
Honest Wear
In every pair.
THIS
BOOT IS
PHOTOGRAPHED
PROM
STOCK.
Our Boots can be
EXCHANGED if not
correct, as we wish
DISTANT customers
to be as pleased as
those in town.
Your money RETURNED if you
are not satisfied with the
Boots.
Calf Lace, full goloshed, medium wide welts, bespoke appearance, 21/-; post paid, 22/-
Tan Willow Calf Lace, full goloshed, fast color cyclists, perfect fitting, 22/6 ; „ 23/6
All Sizes and Fittings.
Others have ordered.
Have you ?
CALLAGHAN & SON j 395 Gcorge-st., Sydney.
George Reid, in the Federal Parliament,
on tariff night:
I was the first member of Parliament in Australia to
give Victoria the benefit of a free border, anyhow (Cheers).
This is just a trifle out. George Reid never gave
Victoria a free border ; he left a customs-house at
every crossing-place, and collected duties in the
good old way. A very long time ago, however
(in 1855), border duties were wholly abolished
between N.S.W. and Victoria. In 1864 N.S.W.
terminated the agreement and put up customs-
houses along the Murray. In 1865 the Murray
was again made a free border, on condition that
Victoria paid N.S.W. a considerable sum annu-
ally—these were the only terms on which N.S.W.
would hear of border Freetrade at that period—
and this arrangement lasted until Parkes broke
the common tariff agreement in 1873. Dear old
George suffers from many delusions, and the idea
that he abolished border duties is one of them.
“ Hermes ” : Apropos the tariff : The
counterblast to the storm of yells raised by a gang
of greedy hucksters as they rush to raise the prices
on goods imported before the tariff, is coming
very fast. Already several Sydney firms who
manufacture most of their boots, and import only
a few, as against firms which import most and manu-
facture only a small, cheap tail, have started to
raise the wages of their operatives by ss. per week.
The Sydney bootmakers can make as comfortable a
boot as the Yankee, and the average Sydney-made
foot-gear wears longer than the imported ditto. I
have bought locally-made boots from the Sydney
T Boot Co. for 12s fid. which outlasted three pairs
of imported beetle-crushers at 225. 6d. each.
1 Knowledge in five minutes. Book,
“Business, Memory and Figures.” Sydney
Daily Telegraph says: “It is crowded with
curious short cuts of calculation, valuable
| memory aids, hundreds of wise saws and modern
instances, which, if followed out, should lead on
to fortune.” Is. postal-note; J. C. Cox, Darling
st., Balmain, Sydney.*
At Poverty Point.
The case of Ernest Swallow, who made his “ first
appearance in Australia ” at Melb. Opera House a few
Saturdays ago, was a sad little story with some touches
of human kindness in it. Swallow, a sickly-looking
stranger, twanged a banjo pleasingly enough on the
Saturday, and again on the Monday night, after which
he was reported as missing at Rickards’. News came
that the poor fellow had gone to Melbourne Hospital to
die of consumption, and John Coleman, who was appear-
ing at the Opera House at the time, went round to see
the patient. Swallow, it seemed, had no friends in Aus-
tralia, no professional past, no anything that he cared to
speak of. Subsequently, the theatre people learned that
he had worked his passage out as a steward, and was
being anxiously inquired for by his mother in England.
So manager Rickards undertook to see that the poor
fellow wanted for nothing in the way of “ extras ” in his
last illness. Swallow was dying for about a month. A
question as to whether “bncle” Rickards would bury
his banjoist was answered in the affirmative. Finally, the
dying man sent a message, and Rickards reached
the hospital in time to hear his last words. The few
clothes and other belongings of Ernest Swallow were for-
warded to the mother in England, and Fred Aydon and
Frank Barnes followed her son to the cemetery.
San Francisco Chronicle tells the story of an actress,
once well-known in Australia :—“ On a marble slab in the
Morgue lay, on Monday, the body of Louise Davenport,
once an actress of prominence. As the wife and leading
lady of W. E. Sheridan, a tragedian of more than usual
note, she won much popularity throughout the West.
She was Lady Macbeth to his Macbeth, Portia to his Shy-
lock, Parthenia to his Ingomar. For fifteen years this
woman had been forgotten, but all that time she had
lived, and each year she sank lower and lower in the
social scale. Yesterday morning her body was found
lying in filth in a wretched abode at 143 Minna-street.
There was nothing to relieve the situation of its horror.
The room was desolate, bare, hopeless, and, above
all else, filthy. It reeked with the dirt of years.
The bed was of straw and covered with rags, the
floor was bare, or would have been had it not been
for the coating of dirt. On a table near the window was
a small oil stove. This constituted the kitchen, and the
cooking utensils consisted of two tin cans. On the
mantel were candles stuck into the necks of whisky flasks,
and with them lay gaudy red dancing slippers, old photo-
graphs, bits of lace and velvet, the flotsam and jetsam of
the stage. The only clean things in the room were the
whisky flasks. There were literally hundreds of them, all
empty and all clean. The body was discovered shortly
after 4 a.m. yesterday by George Bowen. He was her
only friend and the only person who will grieve for her
death. He at once notified the coroner, and
then proceeded to hunt for money with which
to bury the woman. All the morning he went
from place to place crying and begging for aid.
No one remembered Louise Davenport, and no one would
give him any money. Finally an appeal was made to the
Managers’ Association by a man who had never even seen
the woman, and the promise obtained that the association
would defray the expenses of burying her. ... In com-
pany with her husband, she travelled all through the
West until 1886, when with him she went to Australia.
There, on 18th May, 1887, Sheridan was seized with an
apoplectic stroke and died. His wife was at that time
playing in Adelaide, and she reached his bedside two
hours after his death. Sheridan died miserably
unhappy. His life had been made a horror by dissi-
pation and drink. For some years after her husband’s
death Mrs. Sheridan played in Australia. In 1804
she returned to this country, in order to find her sister,
Etta Waters, who was known to be a morphine fiend.
After a long search she found her in the gutter at
Bakersfield, in this State, and brought her to this city.
Three years later the sister died from the effects of mor-
phine poisoning. Then the once beautiful actress began
to try to forget. Money was hard to find. She had a
small pension allowed her by the Government, for her
husband had been an officer in the Northern Army during
the Civil War. On this she lived. All she seemed to
want was oblivion, and this she found in drink and mor-
phine. On Monday came the inevitable end.”
This awful story will interest many Sydney
people, who remember what became of the
once-prosperous and popular local doctor, who
long ago was Louise Davenport’s particular friend.
Writer doted on the beautiful Louise when, as a small
boy, he saw her with the veteran Hoskins at the mysteri-
ous little old Royal Theatre, Ballarat, long since passed
away. Here the scribe heard a bit of original criticism
from a miner in the gallery. Louise was appearing as the
ingenuous heroine in “ Ingomar,” and suddenly the
galleryite arose and interrupted the performance with a
yell : “ My Gord, Louise ! —you act like a fool, but you
look like an angel ; and I’d forgive you anything." They
wanted to put him out, but Louise made a speech from
the footlights insisting on his being left alone.
Amusing to read the solemn announcement in the
press that Tyrone Power has accepted, “ for production
next Christmas,” a new and original historical drama,
written by a Melbourne journalist (E. A. Vidler). Who is
going to “create” the stage-management and general
fixings of this new romantic story, the scene of which is
laid in France at the time of Louis XI ? A lot of work,
other than literary authorship, is represented in a success-
ful production of that sort. The few fairly profitable
historical shows put upon the Australian stage within the
past 20 years were imported in a complete state. Dot
Boucicault tried a play of his own at Meib. Bijou in ’9l—a
play of old-time French character, called “ Devotion ”
but the experiment was a failure.
Walter Everard, the B. and B. comedian of yore, just
now taking a business interest in the “ Message from
Mars” Co., had his name on an Australian programme
some years after his return to England. He was a part
author of “ Uncles and Aunts,” the farcical comedy which
B. and B. produced here in ’92, with Tom Cannam in the
principal part. Cannam, by the way, migrated to the
West and faded out of the memory of Sydney and
Melbourne, but he will be popping up again when the
present Charles Arnold Co. is taken over by George
Willoughby. Seems that Sharp will leave the co., and
our old friend Cannam will fill his place.


WHEAT. PRODUCE. GRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
A.CT AS SELLIKTG BROKERS OKTLY.
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (f) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
'(lncluding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) 'on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
will be
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb :
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
, under
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing 1 .
Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT.
Every inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by the Company.
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent when
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
Sole Agents in New South Wales for
Walter A. Wood Reapers and Binders, Mowers, Rakes, etc.
Mitchell’s Harvesters, Strippers, Winnowers, Ploughs, etc.
Alston’s Windmills, Buncle and Sons’ ChafFcutters.
Donald’s Patent Woolpress.
AGENTS FOR McDOU GALL’S SHEEP DIP.
Si
o//.
■JSt
Crozine Blacking
is a waterproof polish that produces a brilliant and permanent
gloss, which will not rub off. Shoes polished with “ Crozine
Blacking” wear long, because it is an oil dressing, which softens
the leather. “ Crozine Blacking ”is guaranteed to be absolutely f
free from all harmful substances, and will be found to be the
most satisfactory dressing made for all walking boots and shoes. ,
Sold almost everywhere. If not found, write at once to
C. L. IIAUTIIAWAY SONS, Boston, Mass., U.SA.
STRENGTH
FOR
THE
WEAK.
Dr. JAMES WILSON writes: "I have thoroughly examined and tested Hale’s
new Patent Electric Belt, and I am satisfield that not only is it a genuine article, but
it generates an electric current capable of overcoming the resistance of the body. I
consider it a valuable agent, especially for ladies and gentlemen of tender skin, as no
metal substances come in contact with the body, and I am only too pleased to recom-
mend a genuine electric appliance.”
“ Dr. FOWLER presents his compliments to Messrs. Arthur Hale and Son, and
has much pleasure in stating that he has carefully examined their new improved
Electric Belt, and finds that it is perfectly genuine as to electric properties.”
Dr. DEWAR writes: “I have examined Hale’s new Electric Belt, and find that
it is capable of generating a powerful electric current, although no metal substances
come in contact with the skin. I consider this a great improvement, as it prevents
the irritation so often caused by other appliances.”
PERCY NEWELL, L.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., writes: “There is no doubt about the
Electricity, as my patients constantly feel the current.”
“ THE MEDICAL MONTHLY,” August, 1893, says : “ The firm of Arthur Hale
and Son, of 105 Regent Street, London, W., has distinguished itself in the develop-
ment of electrical science as a medical agent. By an entirely new method of applica-
tion they have succeeded in producing an Electric Body Belt, which for comfort,
efficacy, and genuineness, is unquestionably far superior to any previous invention.”
&
y
m
Hale & Son’s Improved and Patented Electro-Galvanic Belts and Appliances are
Nature’s Chief Restorers. Our Plain Belt, our Special Belt and Suspensor for Gentlemen,
and our Abdominal Belt for ladies are guaranteed to be the most Scientific and Genuine
Electric Appliances yet produced. They will speedily relieve and Cure Nervous Exhaus-
tion, Rheumatism, Pain and Weakness in the Back, impart tone and vipjor to the whole nervous
system, and make life a pleasure. We invite all sufferers, no matter what the disease or ailment may be,
to call or send for our Free Book, entitled, “ Modern Treatment of Disease by Electricity.”
Consultation Free.
l j -3Q C tr»
HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists,
105 Regent St., London, W., and 44 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
Please mention this paper.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR.
A great proportion of all Australians have Catarrh in either the first stage or
chronic form. Probably 20 per cent, of all the people we meet have but one good
nostril—the other is clogged with catarrhal deposits, or by some weakness whose
parent was a neglected cold. This forces them, perhaps unconsciously, to breathe
through the mouth, and, unless attended to, will result in a life-long annoyance
and serious trouble. Home treatment with our Medicator will restore the organ
to its natural condition, and enable it to perform its functions properly and
healthfully. It relieves and cures Catarrh, Hay Fever, Cold in the Head, and all
Nasal inflammations. It soothes, cleanses, heals; contains no injurious drugs.
Pamphlets Free on request —a postcard will do.
Medicator, with. Complete Treatment, post free, 10/-
HOME CATARRH CURE CO.,
229-231 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Medicatob.
COPE’S NAVY CUT and PRAIRIE FLOWER
(SPECIAL MIXTURE)
As supplied to the ARMY and NAVY.
TOBACCOS
Manufactured in England.
Agents—Virgoe, Son and Chapman.
• TEE HU
FREEMAN & WALLACE
This is the only Medical S
Institute in Australia with s
a bona fide capital that $
stands behind guarantees -
as evidence of faithful per-
formance of all contracts.
Electro-Medical apd
Stirgical IpStitCitc—
IN A
N AGE which is so remarkable for its progress in all departments of Art, Philosophy, Manufacture and
ii . . -a as Science it is surprising to find the practice of Medicine so deplorably in the rear, while thousan
- ii_.i_._i- . • ■ is i Th« Freeman
of practitioners in the healing art prefer to remain in the conventional groove of iheir predecessors. The Freema
and Wallace Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute consulting staff rise superior to the false code of ethics wmc
tyrannically bind the medical profession, and announce to the public that upon all special complaints they still con-
tinue to be consulted by the afflicted at their old address, Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
%
m
'XM
M*
m
&
EXPERTS FREEMAN AND WALLACE,
The Specialists who conduct the largest practice in Australasia.
CDEOIAI MATIPE No one should hesitate to consult us, as consultations either by letter or In
OrEulnL IIU I IUE. person are given FREE OF CHARQE, and Strictest Privacy is always assured.
OUR, COMMONWEALTH POCKET DIARY.
Every Farmer, Miner, Mariner, Station-hand, Book-keeper, and other Toilers should send for a copy of this
Useful Memorandum Book. POST FREE ON APPLICATION—ALL COLONIES.
400-PAGE MEDICAL WORK (Illustrated, containing 80 Engravings, Many Useful Prescriptions,
Hints on Sick Room, Accidents and Emergency) Price 6d (POST FREE) ON APPLICATION.
<ASP€CIRLITI€S
Heart, Kidney, Liver Affections.
Nerve and Brain Complications.
Gravel, Bladder and Spinal Affections.
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Epilepsy, Gout.
Rupture and Piles Cured without Operation.
Blood and Skin Diseases,
, >*
• «-
if Sr:
WHY WE ADVERTISE !
Because Advertising is the legitimate means vouchsafed to enlighten people
to acquaint each other with their avocations and wants. If a man has a
Speciality, and has devoted years of his life and expended large sums of money in studying that Speciality and in
purchasing the necessary appliances, etc., for treating certain diseases, it would be absurd for him not to announce
the fact, and disseminate the knowledge universally, We have no apology to offer for informing the world throusrh
this advertisement and otherwise of the means of relief we can afford to sufferers who need our help Therefore
however opposed to your own preconceived ideas and to those of your medical advisers, our method of treatment
may be, the fact still remains that it is successful, and this is verified by the thousands of testimonials received from
grateful patients. We make no secret of our mode of practice. We only claim to have utilised in a common sense
way the result of scientific research and long experience. If you listen to the counsel of vour sceptical friends and
jealous physician you may omit consulting us, but remember if you allow the disease to run riot in your system vou
are guilty of culpable neglect, and are alone responsible for your future pitiful condition. ’ J
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration by Government
Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, Great Britain
and America Open to Inspection by Dr. Wallace, our Physician-in-Chief.
Late Consulting Staff, Homeopathic Hospital, Melbourne.
Late Medical Staff, British Army.
HOME TREATMENT.
—lf you live out of town and cannot visit us, this need not deprive
you of the benefits of our wonderful treatment, because in the new
system of combining- medicine and electricity a complete Electro-Medical home treatment is provided for Scarcely a
day passes that the news does not reach us of some wonderful home cure of a person living so far away that a per
sonal visit could not be made. Write a plain statement of your condition, explaining your feelings and symptoms as
clearly as possible, and from it we will be able to accurately diagnose your case. It only costs you the trouble of
writing, and twopence postage to get the opinion and advice of Australia’s Leading Specialists.
DO NOT BE DRUGGED TO DEATH BY QUACKS
When there are so many quacks and impudent pretenders in the field of Medicine, who arrogate to themselves
the monstrosity of giving counsel and advice in matters of which they are profoundly ignorant and who have
nothing to recommend them but their audacity, sufferers cannot be too careful whom they consult AHhoutrh
liberty of choice belongs to all, discrimination is necessary. In consulting THE FREEMAN AND Watt Arp
ELEOTRO-MEDIOAL AND SURGICAL INSTITUTE patients may feel assured that they shall receive the advice
of those fitted by superior skill and education, the result of special study. Our reputation and unparalleled
success as Specialists entitle us to your confidence. ‘
Medicines forwarded to all parts of the WorId—CONTENTS
FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
a Elizabeth $ BatbCirstSts, Sydney
For privacy Patients may address “ Messrs.. F. & W.,” 225 and 227 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
N.B.—QUEENSLANDERS are hereby informed that a person advertising as Dr. Wallace
in Brisbane is in no way connected with the Institute.


New Sfcvle 15c. Gold
Brooch, set Pearls
and Sapphire, £3.
No. FlOB.
9c. Gold Links, 17s 6d.
Silver, 4s fld.
tilii
All Goods sent Free and Safe by Post on receipt of
remittance. Write for our Illustrated Catalogue.
No. F 5713. Fine Quality Pearls and 15c. Gold Necklet of Exquisite Design, £l4 10st
Others, equally pretty, at £8 10s, £lO 10s, £l2 10s.
Gent.’s Signet Ring,
9c. Gold, £1 10a;
18c. Gold, £2 17s 6d.
No. F 2995. Hair-Pin Box,
Cut-Glass and Solid Silver.
12s 6d.
No. 247. 9c. Gold Tooth-Pick, 8s 6d ; Solid Silver, Ba.
<®r -£»
9c. Gold Safety-Pins, 4s (id, 5s 6d and 6s 6d
(according to size).
-No. F 4404. New Design, 15c. Gold Brooch, set
with Rubies and Diamond, £3 10s.
No. F 6892. The New Flat Pencil-Case, Engraved, 9c. Gold, £1 7s 6d.
No. F 1946. 15c. Gold and Pearl set
Hearts and Knot Brooch, £2 2s.
No. E 9136. Solid Silver Sweet or Cake Forks, 3£ inches
long, 3s each.
Massive Silver Cake or Fruit Basket, Saw Pierced and
Embossed, £l3 10s ; others at 18.
No. E 9533. Small Silver-plated Saw
Pierced Sugar Basket, Glass-lined, 8s 6d.
No. E 7168. Best Silver-plated and
Out-Glass Butter Dish, 12s 6d.
]
§§§l
11
nmi
No. F 2804. Dinner Gong, Polished Oak" Base, Real Horns, Silver-plated
Mounts, £1 12s 6d. v<
No. F 96.
9c. Gold Links, £1 Is.
Silver, 4s 6d.
New Style 15c. Gok
Brooch, set Pearls and
Ruby, £2 7s 6d.
j.aitiiijijHiiiiinniijnj.fe
[Mil
No. F 1572. Magnificent 5-Light Candelabra, in
Silver-plate, £5 5s ; 3-Light ditto, £3 15s.
Best
M.
No. F 548. Finest Silver-plate on Hard Metal
Hot-Water Kettle, £5 10s.
BALL AND WELCH
PROPRIETARY LIMITED.
Visitors to Melbourne during the Coming Racing Season will find
their Requirements Catered for in all Departments of the Ladies’ and
Gentlemen’s Trade. We heep Large and Well-Assorted Stoclcs of the
Following Goods :
Ladies’ Gloves in Kid and Fabric, Hosiery, Umbrellas, Parasols, Handkerchiefs, Laces,
Ribbons, Trimmed Millinery, Waterproofs, Mantles, Costumes, Corsets, Dress Goods, Mourning
Goods, English and American Boots and Shoes, Fancy Goods, Perfumes, Soaps, &c.
Gentlemen’s Tailoring, Mercery, English, American and Italian Hats, Ties, Gloves,
Umbrellas, Walking Sticks, Best English and American Boots, Boys’ Ready-Made Suits, Mercery,
Ties, Hats and Boots.
Manchester Goods, Blankets, Flannels, Carpets, Linoleums, Furniture, Bedsteads, Bedroom,
Dining and Drawing Room Suites, Ice-Chests, and Furniture of all descriptions.
We keep all the leading makes in medium and good qualities in all departments, and the
Public can rely on all goods offered for sale by us being the quality and makes represented.
Our Flinders-street Warehouse, occupied as the Head Branch of our Business, being situated
opposite the Prince’s Bridge Station, is central and convenient of access for both lown and
Country Customers.
A penny-tram will bring Inter-State travellers from Spencer-street or the wharf, and we shall
consider it a favor if Visitors to Melbourne will call and inspect our premises and stocks, whether
they require to make purchases or not.
FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.
&SO K-W. Three-phase Oenerator
GANZ& G«
DYNAMOS, MOTORS.
EVERYTHING ELECTRIC.
Expert Advice Free.
Sole Agents for Australasia.:
The Austral Otis Engineering Go. Ltd.
SOUTH MELBOURNE.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.
Price SlXE*EKrCß=l*oateti, Oc3L.
t
►■V
VfJ
mmm
I'VJV.'T
'A
When
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired o' STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
- ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
; Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
- sstrator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
* CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
! THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
Ido not despair, do not suffer
S LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
.Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
' Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
I They impart vigor and potency to every function,
> brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibilitv «■>'
detection. They have cured thousand*-
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
2 2 0
3 8 0
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells
Extra powerful, with suspensory
atta ehments. ..
ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 22 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to
A. D. STEPHENSON, „ , „ a
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
HAIR TONIC
The Guaranteed Remedy for
Weak, Thin, and Falling Hair.
Testimonials from International Cricketers and
Footballers, Leading Sydney Solicitors, Business
Men, and from Parliament House with each bottle.
2/6 per bottle, post 3/2 ; Intercolonial, 3/6 ; 4 bottles (posted under cover) which will effect a cure in the
most obstinate case, posted free for 10/-. Intercolonial, 11/-.
W. RICHARDS, Proprietor, 168 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TO BE OBTAINED AT ALL STOREKEEPERS AND CHEMISTS.
CHARLES READ & CO.,
6-stone Half-Hoop
DIAMOND RING,
Price, £5 and upwards.
6-stone Diamond and
Sapphire Ring.
Price, £3 108. and
upwards.
6-stone Australian Opal
Ring, 22/6.
Camden Buildings, 420 George St., Sydney.
15-et. BROOCH, with Opal
Turquoise,
Price - - - 17/6.
Three doors from
Strand Arcade.
A Saving of
25 per cent.
JEWELLERY,
SOLID SILVER GOODS,
SILVER-PLATED WARE.
Write for our 80-paged ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.


HORDERN’S V
HAVE NOT RAISED
THEIR PRICES ON ACCOUNT OF
THE TARIFF.
So please order as soon as you can.
HORDERN’S try to please their customers and
will hold to their old Freetrade Prices AS LONG
AS POBSIBLE, and will continue to deliver Goods
CARRIAGE FREE by the PARCELS POST to
any TOWN in NEW SOUTH WALES.
(If Ladies and Gentlemen residing in the
Country tell their Sydney Relatives or Friends
to come in to us, and select for them, they will
receive every attention.)
HORDERN BROTHERS,
SYDNEY’S LEADERS OF FASHIONS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
amusements.
PRELIMINARY ANNOUNCEMENT.
R ITER lON THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Director .. .. Mr. H. HALLAM.
General Manager .. .. A. MIDDLETON.
A MUSICAL SENSATION.
ADVENT TO AUSTRALIA of the
JOSEPHINE STANTON
AMERICAN
Comic Opera and Musical
Comedy Company,
SATURDAY, OCT. 19,
Grand Initial Performance of Stahl’s Delightful Oriental
Operatic Conceit,
SAID PASHA
SAID PASHA
SAID PASHA
SAID PASHA
SAID PASHA
SAID PASHA
SAID PASHA
SAID PASHA
And
First Appearance in Australia
of the
Charming' American
Prima Donna,
Miss JOSEPHINE STANTON,
Supported by
A Complete American Company.
An Efficient ORCHESTRA, under the Direction of
Mr. A. O. PELL.
PRICES : Dress Circle, 4s. ; Stalls, 2s. 6d. ; Gallery, Is.
Plan of Reserved Seats at Nicholson’s.
Day Performances: SATURDAY and WEDNESDAY.
Treasurer, HARRY ABBOTT.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS of the
GRAND OPERA SEASON.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S ITALIAN OPERA COMPANY.
THURSDAY, OCT. 17, RICOLETTO (for the Last Time).
FRIDAY, OCT. 18, FAUST.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCT. 19, IL TROVATORE.
Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6s. ; Stalls, 3s. ;
Family Circle, 25.; Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
LAST 12 NIGHTS
of the
THE WORLD’S ENTERTAINERS
(POLITE VAUDEVILLE)
SATURDAY NEXT, GREAT FAREWELL
PROGRAMME.
ttm- REMEMBER ! ! !
EVERY NIGHT and at the
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY at 2.30 p.m.
No Extra Charge for Reserved Seats.
PRICES—Is., 2s. and 3s.
Seats at Elvy’s and Theatre.
Empire theatre, Sydney
Castlereagh-street, Next Fire Station.
FULLER’S EMPIRE VAUDEVILLE COMPANY.
EVERY EVENING, at 8. SATURDAYS, 2.30.
In Addition to the Vaudeville Entertainment,
Mr. W. J. Coulter’s Combination,
In the Sensational Bush Drama iu one Act,
RANSOM.
Headed bv Miss DORA MOSTYN, supported by a
'Powerful Co. 1*“ AN EVENT.
Prices—2s., Is., 6d. Children Half-price except 6d. seats.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Under the Management of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative .. .. Mr. Allan Hamilton.
LAST SIX NIGHTS of the
THE BROUGH COMEDY COMPANY.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
THE MAGISTRATE.
SATURDAY, MONDAY, TUESDAY, OCT. 19, 21 and 22,
Revival for 3 Nights Only, MRS. DANE’S DEFENCE.
WEDNESDAY, OCT. 23, LAST NIGHT of the SEASON,
SOWING THE WIND.
Box Plan at Elvy’s, George-st. Prices as Usual.
Amusements.
TIVOLI T
■ Sole Proprietor
HEATRE, SYDNEY.
Mr. Harrt Rickards.
THE CRACCB, the 7 Most Marvellous Acrobats in the World.
WILL WHITBURN, Australia’s own Comedian.
PROFESSOR DE WYNNE.
LITTLE GULLIVER.
NEVA CARR GLYNN.
DORA TAYLOR.
ERNEST SULLIVAN.
JOHN COLEMAN.
IDA MAY.
JESSIE WILLIAMS.
HOWARD CHAMBERS.
DORA TAYLOR.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Saturdays & Wednesdays.
DIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee .. .. Mr. Harrv Rickards.
Sub-Lessee .. .. Mr. William F. Hawtrey.
THE HAWTREY COMEDY CO.
3rd WEEK of the Funniest of Farcical Comedies,
TOM, DICK, and HARRY,
Preceded by “ A HIGHLAND LEGACY.”
PRICES—Ss., 35., 2s. and Is. Plan at Allan’s.
DICKARDS’ NEW OPERA HOUSE,
■* . MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY
COMPANY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, THE TYLER FAMILY,
in their Unique and Unequalled Risley Act.
FRED. BLUETT, Comic Vocalist and Eccentric Dancer.
Re-appearance of FRANK LEON, England’s Greatest
Character Comedian and Champion Dancer of the World.
And Miss LIZZIE KIRK, the Fascinating Young English
Serio and Comedienne, and all Our Great Co.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
2nd WEEK and INCREASING ENTHUSIASM.
The Fascinating Melodrama,
TAKEN FROM LIFE.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Box
Plan at Allan’s CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
Under the Direction of Mr. Tyrone Power.
For the First Time in Australia, a Grand Comedy,
THE CHARITY BALL
New and Magnificent Scenery, New Costumes,
New Music.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Business Manager, FRANK MUSGROVE.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. O. Williamson.
Bus. Manager. Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas.. Mr. E. J. Tait.
EVERY EVENING. EVERY EVENING.
2nd WEEK of
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S OPERA 00.,
In the Brightest of all Musical Comedies,
THE CASINO GIRL.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, 5s ; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
FITZGERALD BROTHERS’
CIRCUS <sc MENAGERIE.
MELBOURNE SEASON—I9OI.
OPENING NIGHT :
Saturday, October 10,
CAULFIELD CUP NIGHT.
ST. KILDA ROAD, ST. KILDA ROAD,
In a Special Building Erected under the Superintendence
of Mr. DAN FITZGERALD.
THE GREAT JUMPING HORSE,
NEWHAVEN,
Winner of the High Jumping Prize at Bendigo Show,
with the Record Jump of 6ft. 9in.
Will Jump Over 6ft. Every Evening in the Ring.
HAL GEORGE. \
FRANK JONES. /
Keps.
WORLD’S FAIR,
Exhibition Building,
MELBOURNE.
insr zepttijlj swiug.
GRAND PROGRAMME OF AMUSEMENTS.
£lOOO
To be Given for CYCLING, ATHLETICS and
TUC-O’-WAR, &c., &o.
ALSO :
A R. T UNION,
VALUE :
£IOOO I 3XT FRIZ 353 S.
TICKETS, 18. SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Admit to Fair and Give Chance in Art Union.
P. J. O’CONNOR, Hon. Sec.,
Modern Chambers, Melbourne.
Amusements.
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manaper .. .. William Anderson.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION,
In the Stirring, Sensational, Interesting Surrey Drama,
in 5 Acts,
A LONDON ARAB.
PRICES—3s, 2s and ONE SHILLING. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
Q RAN D PIANOFORTE RECITAL.
Y.M.C.A. HALL, PITT ST., SYDNEY,
Friday, October 18th.
Mi&S Paisy E. Cban?icr
FROM THE
FRANKFORT CONSERVATORIUM, GERMANY.
Plan at Palings. 3s. (reserved), 2s. J. Edward Sykes.
The Eucrasy Company’s Book
. . ON . .
DRUNKENNESS.
The Eucrasy Company, of Sydney, extracts from whose
book on the disease of drunkenness have been published
by this paper from time to time, have lately issued the
third edition of their pamphlet, explaining the action of
Eucrasy, and pointing out their method of curing those
addicted to the liquor habit.
The Eucrasy cure is one of the oldest, having been
before the public since 1882, at which time sanatoriums
were in successful operation in many cities in America,
and the succees of their remedy is shown by hundreds of
grateful patients all over the world.
A well-known merchant, residing at Newcastle, says
“ I have much pleasure in testifying to the excellent
qualities of Eucrasy. I felt even after the first dose a
different person, and may say now that lam cured. The
craving has entirely gone, and I can with full confidence
recommend it to anyone, no matter what hold the liquor
habit may have of them.
“Thanking you sincerely for your kindness, I am,
yours faithfully, (( >(
Any reader of The Bulletin can obtain this book free
by addressing THE EUCRASY CO., 62 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
A lad has been fined in N.S.W. for looting
Kruger coins from a returned eohentingenter. A
few degrees of longitude make a lot of difference
in the way of looking upon the acquisition of
Kruger coins.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue *
The
FEDERAL
10
Balmoral
BOOT
Onr -new “ Federal ’
Balmoral is the best Boot this season. It is made
of finest Dongola calf, with kid legs, is leather lined,
the sol* s are fair stitched and standard screwed.
The “ Federal” Balmoral is made p lrposely for us.
and von can’t pet it elsewhere. In all the new fashion-
able shaped toes. Price carriage paid to a v address
in the Australian Commonwealth *>r 'lew ySeaUnd is
half a guinea pair Your money back if not satisfied.
The DON Cash Trading Co.
JOHNSTON ST.. COtLINOWOOD.
MELBOURNE
A
eras.
S\AS
I do not ask you to Bpend
money to test ■whether my
remedy doeß or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus'
Dance, etc. All I ask of you
is to SEND for a FREE
Bottle and to try it I abide
by the result. A safe remedy-
approved by the Medical
Profession.
H. G. ROOT, 28,Endsle?gh
Gardens, London. N.W.
K
Those
suffering
from weak
and sore eyes,
and blight, should
if?" ■■ -
SINGLETON’S OINTMENT
Never Fails. Restores Eyelashes.
ALL CHEMISTS.
THE HEALTHIEST
TOBACCO.
In
three
Strengths,
e=>
Sf
&
a?
ss
a
ABSOLUTELY
PURE.”
Mild
Medium &
Full.
"a ew
Name of nearest Agent post free from M. RUTTY & Co. Sydney.
O&AJb Cyj&
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
yjTSTinnnn
sauc
VgG)
WNdPWE
JLSLSUUL&SLBJL2JL
( nrYwr?mrr?p|
SAUG
vgea.
(MW
sD
SLSLSISLSLSUISL
SA UCE.
o&sCb
'&rM#iA4
AGENTS
VIRGOE, SON & CHAPMAN,
&. D. COHEN & CO., SYDNEY.
n
i
PHYSICIAN AND
SURGEON
Registered by the
Medical Board
of N.S.W.
H
AVING had 30 years experience in all parts of the world, and also having lately made an extended trip through Europe and America, he
is in a position to treat every case submitted to him according to the methods of the most recent and eminent Specialists of the
Every Case treated on its own Merits.
Sufferers at a distance, unable to describe their cases to their own satisfaction, should write for Dr. Watson’s
“Guide to Diagnosis,”
which will allow them to give exact and full particulars, so as to enable him to report fully as to the disease and its radical and rational
method of treatment.
COKTSULTATIOKT FREE (Personally, or by Letter).
The publication of crowds of symptoms, testimonials and puffs of one’s skill and attainments savours too much of self-praise ; so the public
should look with a doubtful eye upon all those who “ doth protest too much.”
Dr. Watson does not pretend to say that “ One Pound is sufficient to send," as stated in certain advertisements, fo r he considers that the
public are quite satisfied to pay a fair price for fair and legitimate treatment.
Write for small
«Guide to Health,”
and Method for Self-Diagnosis.
(Please mention this paper when writing.)
mm
137 Elizabeth-St.,
SYDNEY.
1
uu.m.i.i.h i
mmm


The Enervating Heat of Summer
TAKES ALL THE LIFE OUT OF ONE.
THE VITALISING ANTIDOTE.
The Case of Mrs. A. KIPKB.
(By our Reporter.)
The beautiful light-green foliage of
the stately trees which flourish on either
side of Howe-street, Auckland, afford a
charming sight to the residents of that
locality, one of whom is Mrs. Annie
Kipke. A reporter had the honour of
an interview with that lady, and as the
subject is of no mean importance it is
given below in the interest of readers.
“I desire to elicit a few facts concern-
ing your health,” said the reporter.
“By all means,” was Mrs. Kipke’s re-
ply. “Come inside and be seated, and
then I will gladly tell you all about my
bitter experience. lam a native of the
North of England, and therefore I am
accustomed to a cold climate. Some
years ago I came to live in the colonies,
and the change disagreed with me very
much. The enervating heat of summer
took all life out of me, and made me
sick in many vways. I found myself get-
ting more feeble and listless every day,
and I was soon convinced that my
health was seriously affected.”
“Were there many symptoms to jus-
tify that conviction?”
“More than I like to think of, al-
though a good space of time has inter-
vened since then. For years my liver
was sluggish, and it became more inac-
tive under the altered climatic influ-
ences. My digestive organs were com-
pletely upset and caused no end of tor-
ture and annoyance. Whatever I ate
failed to agree with me, causing a great
amount of pain in the chest, like a
heavy load squeezing the breath out of
me. It was hard to catch my breath
when the feeling of suffocation was on,
and the short gasps always produced
sharp pains in my side, as though a
needle was being run through my ribs.
These dreadful sensations also attacked
me in the back, under the shoulders,
and my head was in a continual state
of agony with piercing streaks of pain
which drove me almost frantic. It was
impossible to sleep, and I turned rest-
lessly in bed night after night without
closing my eyes. With weary limbs I
dragged myself from bed in the morn-
ing, feeling greatly the loss of the sleep
that my excruciating pains had kept
away. My senses were dull on arising,
and I was incapable of realising the re-
sponsibilities of the day until it was far
advanced. Instead of commencing the
duties of my house with a light heart
when the morning meal was over, I sat
about the house in a dejected mood,
without enough energy to do a hand’s
turn. The only time I got a little relief
from the awful stomach pains was when
the undigested food was vomited. The
food turned sour instead of digesting,
and a lot of wind used to arise and
cause much pain and inconvenience be-
fore the act of vomiting came on. This
unpleasant operation came on after
nearly every meal, and the retching
which continued long after all the food
was thrown up increased the severity of
my headaches and left me in a state of
helpless exhaustion.”
“It* is a wonder you were able to eat
under such circumstances.”
“Quite true. But my appetite did
not last long after my sickness got a
fair hold of me. In a few days I had
lost all desire for food of any kind. The
appearance of delicacies which usually
tempt the most fickle appetite had the
effect of making me feel sick at the
stomach. I dreaded the setting in of
very serious trouble on account of the
way my heart used to palpitate. What-
ever was the cause of this source of
anxiety I do not know, but I can tell
you that the unnatural fluttering of
that organ accounted for many an hour’s
intense grief and discomfort. An un-
wholesome taste was always in my
mouth, making everything offensive to
the palate. My tongue was covered
with,a moist, bitter substance, and my
breath bore disagreeable evidence to the
unhealthy condition of my stomach,
which could not hold nourishment of any
kind. Consequently I became awfully
thin in face and body, and my strength
gave way completely. I had no colour,
my hpe being almost as white as my
face. My eyes were no longer clear
and bright, but were dull and heavy
with a burning sensation behind them,
and often little black specks dazzled in
front of my vision, and made me feel
quite giddy. Day after day I sank lower
into the depths of misery. My vitality
slowly but surely spent itself, until I be-
came so weak that my aching bones
could not find a resting place in any
position. I could neither sit down nor
walk about with any comfort, and my
disposition entirely changed. Being
so dead beat and languid, and unable to
rest anywhere, I got quite cross and ir-
ritable. The most trifling effort to
exert myself brought on a feeling of un-
conquerable faintness, and I had to exer-
cise great care in all my movements.”
“Did your nervous system keep up
under this strain' ?”
“No; on the contrary. I became ex-
cessively nervous. At times I fell into
a heavy doze, after tossing about for
hours, and I always woke up with a sud-
den jerk, as though I had come into
contact with an electric battery. My
nerves were never still, but kept on
twiching and jumping in an alarming
manner. My mind was ill at ease,
particularly at night, when I had very
distorted and ugly imaginations run-
ning through my head. Noise of any
kind, startled me, and set me trembling
violently. The longer my complaint
lasted the more my troubles increased.”
“ Surely you did not have any other
ailment to contend with?”
“Believe me, I had. In course of
time I suffered greatly with biliousness.
I became more drowsy and lifeless than
ever, and the oppression at the pit
of my stomach .was more distressing and
tingling sensations appeared in my
limbs. My eyesight was more imper-
feot, and I could only see about one-
half of an object. The attacks of vomit-
ing were more frequent, and a yellow-
ish bile was ejected from the stomach.
Constipation became very marked, and
I was never without an unquenchable
thirst. Coming, as they did, on top
of the afflictions I have already told
you about, these additions to my suf-
fering drove me into a state of great
physical' and mental depression.”
“ What measures did you adopt to get
rid of your complaint ?”
“I resorted to many medicines dur-
ing my long term of illness, but not
one of them gave me relief until 1
took Clements Tonic. I was going to
see a doctor one day, when I met a
neighbour standing at her garden gate.
After sympathising with me for being
in such a wretched condition, my friend
asked me if I had tried Clements Tonic.
I told her I had not, whereupon she
advised me to save doctors’ expenses
and buy some Clements Tonic at onoe.
This I did, with the most beneficial re-
sults. Clements Tonic strengthened my
weak stomach, and set my liver and di-
gestive organs properly to work. My
aches and pains were quickly relieved
"by Clements Tonic, which gave me a
good appetitie, without suffering dis-
comfort after eating. Headaches, gid-
diness, and faintness left me entirely,
and every night I slept soundly. My
strength returned, and I was soon able
to work cheerfully, without any sign
of nervousness. The depressing bilious
symptoms have never returned, neither
have any of my previous ailments. This
shows that Clements Tonic effected a
thorough cure of my disease, after every
other physic failed, and you can pub-
lish my testimony in any way you like,
to show my deep gratitude.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Annie Kipke, of Howe-street, Auckland, In the
colony of New Zealand do solemnly and sincerely
declare that I have carefully read the annexed
document, consisting of three folios and consecu-
tively numbered from one to three, and that it
contains and is a true and faithful account of
my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
contains my full permission to publish In any way
my statements—which I give voluntarily, without
receiving any payment; and I make this solemn
declaration, conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act of the
General Assembly of New Zealand, intituled “The
Justioea of Peace Aot, 1882.**
Declared at Auckland this twenty-sixth day of
October, quo thousand uiae hundred, before me.
I, CATCHPOLE, J,P.
ERASMIC
PERFUME
Is delightfully fragrant and pleasant to use.
A DAINTY, DELICIOUS DELICACY.
. . . ASK YOUR CHEMIST FOR IT . . .
A Policy for the Commonwealth.
PRICE, 6d. ; Posted, Bd.
Business Announcements.
(aood Tailoring-
SUMMER.
New Neat Designs in Worsteds
and Tweeds.
PURE INDIGO SERGES.
FANCY TROUSERINGS* VESTINGS, &c.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post tree.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Mercers,
73 AND 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
“SANITAS”
NATURE’S
GREAT DISINFECTANT.
Non-PoSsonousm
Does Mot Stain Linen*
FLUID, POWDER, SOAPS, &c.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
Valuable book, “HOW TO DISINFECT,”
tree on application.
The ** SANITAS” Co., Ltd.,
BBTHNAL GREEN, LONDON.
Medical.
* NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdhstrk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizks, 9d. <fe Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, Loudon, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
THE NEW FRENCH REMEDY
THERAPION
This suc-
cessful
and highly
popular remedy, as employed in the Continental Hospi-
tals by Ricord, Rostan, Jobert, Velpeau, and others,
combines all the desiderata to be sought in a medicine of
the kind, and surpasses everything hitherto employed.
THERAPION No. 1 maintains its world-renowned
and well-merited reputation for derangements of the
kidneys, pains in the back, and kindred ailments, afford-
ing prompt relief where other well-tried remedies have
been powerless.
THERAPION No. 2, for impurity of the blood,
scurvy, pimples, spots, blotches, pains and swellings of
the joints, gout, rheumatism, and all diseases for which
it has been too much a fashion to employ mercury, sarsa-
parilla, &c., to the destruction of sufferers’ teeth and ruin
of health. This preparation purifies the whole system
through the blood, and thoroughly eliminates every
poisonous matter from the body.
THERAPION No. 3, for exhaustion, sleeplessness,
and all the distressing consequences of dissipation, worry,,
overwork, etc. It possesses surprising power in restoring
strength and vigor to those suffering from the enervating
influences of long residences in hot, unhealthy climates.
THERAPION
may be procured of the
principal Chemists andi
throughout the world. Price in England, 2s. 9d.
and 4s. 6d. In ordering state which of the three numbers
is required, and observe that the word “ Tiierapion
appears on the British Government Stamp (in white-
letters on a red ground) affixed to every genuine package-
by order of His Majesty’s Hon. Commissioners, and with-
out which it is a forgery.
RKCORD’s
fcSSfcfl cef °? F
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope.
Agents for Australasia— PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
Australian Drug; Co., Ltd., O’Connell St., Sydney. Alt
Chemists, or Box 165, C.P.O.
CURES COUGH.
* Cured my sou of a dreadful Cough.’
Mrs. Johnston, Belleek, Fermanagh.
GIVES REST & SLEEP.
HAYMAN’S
BALSAM
of Horehound
Safe and Pleasant for Children.
•NOTHING LIKE IT FOR A COLD.’
Mr. W. Hird, Norwich.
STOPS COLD.
Business Announcements
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Best,
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia.
LINCOLN, STUART &CO.
1 PUOPRIETAIIT LIMITED,
262 So 264 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
White Shirts to meuure.
Our Suit to order at 425. !•
marvellous value; made from
all-wool Tweeds,Vicunas, or fast
color Series ; it is perfect fitting
and beautifully finished.
A splendid Butt to order from
any class cf material, £3 3s. To
measure, capital Trousers, very
good patterns, l£s. Gd.
Dress Suits, to measure. £.?•
Clerical Suits, to measure. £s*
Hiding Breaches, £s*.
Hiding Habits, Ac.
We supply ready-made. Men's
capital TWeed Suits. £ls, A £ss.
Famous Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye,£ss.
All-wool, fawn, grey, or brown
Sergei ette buits, 30s.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, ss. ltd.
All-wool blue ajid black Vicuna
Sacs and Vests, 19s. Gd.
Men's Grass Cloth Summer
Suits, 19s. Gd. White Drill
Sacs and Trousers. 10». Gd,
Khaki Suits, shrunk, l£s Gd.
Black and Grey Alapaca Sacs,
Gs;9d, White and Brown Drill
Trousers. 3s. 9d., 4s. 9d., ss. Gd.
Travelling Trunks, Bags and
Hugs in great variety.
Men’s White Shitts, colored
front and cuffs. £s. 9d.
Fancy Blouse Shirts, new
designs, ss. Gd.
White Matte Shirts, collar and
pocket. 3s. Gd.
So.t Alpine Hats, 4s. Gd., all
colors.
Hard Hats. 4 ■ Gd. Caps, Is,
Merino Undershirts or Pants,
ls.9d,
Neckties, all shapes and colors.
Is.
Gents' splendid Balmoral Boots,
£s. 9d., 9s. Gd.
We like to write letters; so don't be afraid to ask for any
Information. Our book, “ The Philosophy of Dress " and
patterns of all kinds and self-measurement forms posted free.
Write for them. ,
BLAIR’S
GOUT $ RHEUMATIC
PIIiIiS.
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. ljd. and 2s. 9d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
€V€RY MAN
Should send for a VALUABLE PAMPHLET explaining
how all NERVOUS and ORGANIC derangements may be
SUCCESSFULLY TREATED by a NEW METHOD. It is
EASY and PLEASANT, and will effect a PERFECT and
PERMANENT CURE. Sent post FREE. Address—
THE BOTANIC INSTITUTE, VICTORIA CHAMBERS,
ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
ItHEI
Beat
by using Wilson’s Com-
mon Sense Ear Drums.
Wonderful Results obtained in
cases considered beyond any
treatment. Soft, comfortable,
and invisible when in use.
Head Noises Relieved.
Pamphlets and Australian
Testimonials Free.
J. CHALMERS, Sole Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no mvtter of
■how long standing. Are ti e same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. •
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the=re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, dec.
DENYER BFfOS.. Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles,
Neuralgiaj Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one of these
Cabinets. Price 25/-
Head and Face Steamer, 3/6.
Can be forwarded to any address.
J. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and infallible remedy.
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R'C.S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
“ The Best Australian Boole of Sea and Sailor Verse."
The Ways of Many Waters
By E. J. BRADY.


Thus “Kiwi,” from Maoriland :
Apropos the paragraph in 8., 14/9/’Ol, about the rejec-
tion of the Referendum Bill by our “ Lords,” and
Seddon’s supposed insincerity thereon, here is the history
of the Bill epitomised. It well illustrates the evolution
of Seddon The Referendum Bill was introduced for the
first tijne in '93 by Eugene O’Conor. Seddon had about
the same regard for O’Conor as the devil is supposed to
have for holy water. So Richard passed the word round
to vote against O’Conor, and the Bill was killed on the
motion to read it a second time. Then came the general
election of ’93. O’Conor was defeated, but the Referendum
found another champion in O’Regan, a newly-elected
member. The Bill found many supporters, but Seddon
still opposed it, going so far as to declare that in Switzer-
land, * where the Referendum originated, women were
hauling carts like beasts of burden. The Bill was again
rejected, but during the recess there were unmistakable
signs that it had many adherents in the country. On its
being re-introduced the following year, the astute
Richard, finding that its support had grown stronger,
abstained from voting; the second reading was then
carried, but the measure made no further progress that
year. Another session found the Referendum Bill a
policy measure of the Government, but nothing was
done with it. Its name has appeared on the Order Paper
every session since 1896 as a Government measure—a
measure that the Seddon Ministry yearned after—but not
until the present session did it come up for discussion.
Its rejection by the “Lords”—a large number of whom
ur» nominees of Seddon’s —satisfies me that “the boss”
(' sVt want the Bill.
Allcnburgs Foods.
A PROQRES3IVB DIETARY, unique In providing nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers of YOUNG INFANTS from
The “Allenburys”
The “ Allenburys ”
birth upwards, and free from dangerous germs.
Milk Food No. i
Specially adapted to the first three months of life.
Milk Food No. 2
Complete Foods,
STERILIZED, and
needing the addition of
hot water only.
Similarly adapted to the second three months o! lile.
The “ Allenburys” Malted Food No. 3
For Infants over sir months of age.
To be prepared for use by the
addition of COW’S MILK,
according to directions given.
No. 3 Food is strongly recommended for Convalescents, Invalids, the Aged, and all requiring a light and easily digested diet.
The London Medical Record writes of it that —“No Better Food Exists.”
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING Free on application to the Wholesale Depot, 484, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Core.
THE FjSLMOXJS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and' troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your .Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
V
Dear Sir. —I suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Mouths Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured hy One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vio.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“Dear Sir, —I am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very had coughs, and one bot tle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER."
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that, previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus —as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am strqnger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.'
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows:—“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day.
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
neyer had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor, told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not Require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it'has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure. —I remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker's Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Tears’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had 'to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney."
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes “After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 16 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it."
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:—“l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma."
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot- q ffice . 5 ]?i rs t Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d ; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
LOADED & UNLOADED
IN DAYLIGHT.
No dark room required
for changing films.
Photography - -
- - Simplified,
EASTMAN’S
KODAKS
LIGHT, COMPACT,
PORTABLE.
Kodaks all Prices, ss.
to £7 15s.
Send for Price List and
mention this paper.
KODAK Ltd.
284 COLLINS STREET.
MELBOURNE
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food f ° r
Infants
5
FOOD Is not only highly
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the ypungest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
•» BERBER'S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, As., everymhsrs.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
, AND
THE AGED.


THE
ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the World
solely for Toilet Soap was obtained by
J,
A.* F. PEARS
Reduced Facsimile
of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the
jurors of the
Paris Exhibition,
1889.
SOAP MAZERS,
BY
Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND TO
His Royal Highness
The Prince
of Wales.
EDWARDS’
THE GREAT
HAIR PRODUCER & RESTORER
The Very Finest Dressing. Specially Prepared and Delicately Perfumed.
A. LUXURY AND A NECESSITY TO EYERY MODERN TOILET,
•ffl
Restores the Hair
Promotes the Growth
Arrests the Fall
Strengthens the Roots
Preserves the Hair
Removes Dandruff
Allays ell Irritation
'HARLENE'
Preserves,
Strengthens and
Invigorates
Children's Hair.
vrrfm
Pull description and directions for use In 20 languages supplied with every bottle .
1/-, 2/6 and (triple 2/6 sire) 4/6 per Bottle of Druggists &c., all over the World.
EDWARDS’ “HARLENE” Co., 95 & 96, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
EVERY HOUSEHOLD and TRAVELLING TRUNK oucht to contain A BOTTLE of
ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’
Fop Preventing’ & Curing* by Natural Means
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
TESTIMONIAL.—“ I have been a nurse for ten years, and have nursed cases
of scarlet fever, pyaemia, erysipelas, measles, gangrene, cancer, and almost every
mentionable disease. During this time I have not been ill for a single day, and
this I attribute to the use of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a
pure state. I recommend it to all my patients during convalescence. Its
value as a means of health cannot be overestimated.”— A Professional
Nurse ( Qualified ).
THE EFFECT OF ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT' ON A DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS, AND FEVERISH CONDITION
IS SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. IT IS, IN FACT, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, AND AN UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION See capsule marked ENO’S ‘ FHUIT SALT.’ Without it, you have a
’’ 1 WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. 0. ENO, Ltd., at the ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
At the Sign of the Crows.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The district had long been preyed upon by
cattle-stealers. Not only cattle, but at times
valuable horses, were spirited away, and squatter
and cookie raised their voices in condemnation
of the inefficiency of the police. But, though the
sergeant and his men did their best by day and
by night, no clue did they discover. The sub-
inspector visited the scene, but found himself
helpless; so he returned to head-quarters, where he
penned a severe reprimand, hinting that if the
criminals were not soon run to earth, he would
have to suggest the removal of the present police
to easier paths of duty. In this, however, he was
unfair. The men did their utmost and brought
to the matter a certain amount of ability; but
they had clever men to follow.
The cattle still continued to disappear (by one,
by two), so completely that not a print of a hoof
could be picked up -to track.
“ The divil himself must come and take them
away,” said the senior-constable.
Trooper Martin had his suspicions, but, as they
were his and not the sergeant’s, they seemed to
his higher-placed officer ridiculous, and were
treated accordingly. The suspicions of Martin
fell on two brothers, or, to speak more truly, on
the whole family or olan of the M'Dermotts.
These men came from a very hardy old Scotch
family. The lads followed, but very occasionally,
the occupation of drovers. They also, at times,
bought and sold cattle. The father of the clan
had had a bad reputation years ago.
Trooper Martin, on his rounds one day, had
left the road, and, mounting a hill, came down
upon Angus M'Dermott’s house from the back.
This worthy he found a little way from his home,
and well hidden by thick trees, busily engaged
in dressing a bullock. On the ground was a hide,
with a neighbour’s brand clear and distinct. It
was a clear oase, and Angus submitted with what
grace he could. Under cover of the trooper’s
revolver, he carried the hide home. A horse
was secured on which the hide was placed, and
Angus, handcuffed, mounted behind; thus they
started for the town.
It was a hot day, the sun poured down blister-
ing, and both constable and prisoner felt oppressed.
It happened that the road they had to travel ran
past a public-house kept by an aunt of the
M'Dermotts. The roughly-painted sign appeared
to both very inviting, and, as they approached,
Angus said : “ Say, constable, let’s pull-up. This
old aunt of mine will give us a drink.”
The trooper looked a while at his prisoner and
then said: “Bight; but nothing crooked, or, by
Jove, I’ll use my pistol ! ”
“Don’t fret yourself about that,” the other
replied.
There were great lamentations on the aunt’s
part, when she saw her nephew in custody;
with much strong language she gave the con-
stable to understand what she thought of him
and the rest of the force. But the old lady, after
much grumbling, agreed to supply them with
drinks. Martin thought it better to stay outside,
though he dismounted and stood near Angus’s
horse ;he did not intend to run any risks. The
aunt hobbled out with the whisky on a tray, and,
taking one glass, gave it to the trooper; she was
handing the other to her nephew when the
constable took it from her and passed his own to
the prisoner. At this action Angus M'Dermott
roared in his merriment till the whisky was spilt
over the hide in front of him and the glass fell
from his manacled hands, shattered to pieces at
the feet of the astonished woman.
“ What ails the laddie ? ” she asked.
“Why, Constable Martin thought ye were
trying to poison him.”
Martin, when he saw the look of scorn that the
old woman gave him, felt rather ashamed of his
suspicions. “Ye can gang an’ seek aboot the
toon an’ niver see so silly a loon,” she said.
Just as they were about to start and Martin was
mounting his horse the old aunt rushed out,
crying: “Oorkitchen’s on fire, an niver a mon
aboot!”
“ Help her, for God’s sake ! ” said Angus, “or
the whole place will go.”
“Yes, but you ?”
“I’ll give you my word that I won’t try to
escape.” The trooper seemed to doubt. “Look
here.” The prisoner scrambled down from his
horse. Undo this hand, and fasten it around this
sign-post. I can’t climb. I can’t pull it down.
I’ll give you my word that I won’t try to escape.”
The trooper took all precautions, shook the
post (it was four feet in the ground if an inch)
then handcuffed his man round it, and rushed off
to render what aid he could. A few buckets of
water sufficed to extinguish the flames. The
building that had ignited was an old, tumble-
down shed used as a wash-house and for rough
cooking.
“ It’s verra kin’ o’ ye, an’ nae a neebor aboot.
Have a wee—” and she held up a glass. The
fire had not been very much, but it was a
particularly hot day, and the extra exertion had
made the trooper thirsty. But he still had a
slight suspicion; the old lady read it in his face.
“Hoot’s mon! dinna fret yersel. Nae harm ’ll
come. Sit doon. The laddie’s weel.”
Martin looked out. Yes, Angus was all right,
his arms still encircling the post.
• * * •
Once more they were on the road, and in due
time arrived at the police-station.
“Well, Martin,” said the sergeant, “you seem
to have run your man down. Whose beast was
it ? ”
“ Barrington’s.”
“Barrington’s? Why, he is in town. That’s
fortunate. Put the hide in one of the other
cells.”
Next morning the case was called. Barrington
had gone with the sergeant to inspect the hide.
You can imagine the anger of that officer, and the
amazement of the trooper when the squatter
could not identify the hide as his. “ The hide
that I strapped on the horse was Barrington’s.
T know every brand in the district. The hide
has been taken out of the cell,” said the trooper in
wrath. This he soon came to acknowledge was
impossible. Of course the case broke-down. The
old aunt swore that she had sold a beast to her
nephew and the brand on the hide was hers, as
indeed it was. Then the whole thing dawned
upon the trooper. While he had been extinguish-
ing the flames the day before, some one had
changed the hides.
But Martin swore that he would catch them
yet. Though he had failed to secure a case
against McDermott, he had gained by his
experience some considerable knowledge of the
method of work adopted by the brothers. So he
waited and watohed.
How little will give a clue! One day trooper
Martin was riding in the bush when his attention
was attracted by a lot of crows hovering
around a thick clump of saplings. Tethering his
horse just inside the cluster of trees, he approached
very cautiously that part over which the crows
were gathered. He had not proceeded far when
he came across a cart, the horse unhitched,
standing close by. With more caution, he
approached, and soon entered a small natural
clearing. In this was formed, with the aid of the
branches of a huge tree, a rough gallows, on which
hung a newly-killed beast. Two men were
en ff a ffbd in dressing it. So busy were they that
they did not notice the trooper’s approach. The
men were the brothers M'Dermott.
Martin had no doubt that he had caught them
at last. Looking to his revolver he found it all
right. Then he waited till the brothers came a
little more into the clearing and closer together
so that he could the more easily cover them.
Then he stepped out.
“Hands up! ”
The M'Dermotts were surprised, but, recover-
ing themselves, were about to walk back to the
gallows and nearer their knives.
“Stop, or I’ll fire. I mean it!”
They saw the barrel pointed towards them,
and, knowing that there was not a better shot in
all the district than the trooper, up went their
arms.
‘‘Now,” cried Martin, throwing handcuffs to
their feet, “ put on these. Steady ! not a move
till I tell you. Your right hand, Angu3. Your
left, Keith. Don’t lower your hands.” The
trooper meaningly rested the barrel of the
revolver on his left fore-arm. “You pick up the
handcuffs, Angus, when I tell you, not a second
before.”
It was a moment of peril; the men were
desperate. Their faces showed it. They sub-
mitted because there was not the slightest chance
just then for successful resistance. The trooper
knew that well. If he gave them the merest
chance of success they would rush him and do
him to death.
. “ By God ! Martin, you’ve made a mistake this
time,” growled Keith.
“Well; I don’t think so. But, if so, I’ll have
to stand by it now.”
“Look here ” continued Keith.
“ Shut-up ! Talk after the darbies are on. Not
a word before. _ You know what you’ve to do,
Angus. No fooling, or ” and again he brought
his left fore-arm under his revolver. “Now
Angus, stoop down, pick up the handcuffs. Put
them on Keith first. Let me hear it click.
That’s right. Now your own. Let me hear it.”
The brothers did not take kindly to the
domineering of the trooper, and dark, angry
glances they threw at him, but the deadly glitter
of the revolver’s barrel and the steady hand of
Martin convinced them that submission was the
wiser course.
“ Now turn round, backs to me.” The trooper
walked to them and satisfied himself all was as he
wished. Then with a piece of rope he secured
them to a tree. Walking over to the hides—
there were two—he found to his great delight
that they were branded with the brand of Lott and
Co., squatters of the district, who had been the
greatest sufferers in the robberies.
“Now, boys, what is it to be? Walk or drive.
If you help me honestly to harness-up, you can
drive ; if not you shall walk every step and carry
the hides upon your backs. What is it to be?
Come.”
“Well, Martin, you’ve cornered us this time !”
said Angus. “ We’ll harness-up.” This they did,
and drove into town, brooding sulkily over the
damning evidence of the captured hides.
Trooper Martin followed them, revolver in
hand. No fire this journey burnt fiercely enough
to delay him.
Then for years the district had peace.
E. WALKER.
Wanted: a C.C. Act.
“ Ben dee ” writes to The Bulletin from a popu-
lar lunatic asylum :
Sir,—l wish to point out per medium of your
valuable journal that an Act for the Suppression
of Country Correspondents is absolutely necessary
in order to prevent the overcrowding of our
asylums. I, myself, am a victim to C.C’s., as you
will doubtless have observed from the “ per
medium ” above :
In support of my contention for a Country
Correspondents Suppression Act, I am willing to
pay £5O to this, or any kindred, institution if, out
of a report of any country dance selected, I fail to
quote more than half the substance without seeing
it. And I will forfeit £5O if the majority of the
following phrases are not contained in every re-
port of a country dance published in the Gumleaf
Groveller since its birth :
A most enjoyable social was held at the residence of
Mr. Bontodger. Towards 8 o’clock numerous lovers of
the terpsichorean art might be seen (although the night
was as dark as a blackfellow’s feet) wending their way
(they always wend) towards the rendezvous. The room
was tastefully decorated with evergreens. Dancing was
commenced about 9 o’clock, and kept up without inter-
mission (no ten minutes for going out to see about that
cattle-pup) till 1, when an adjournment was made
(always an adjournment) to the supper-room, where the
table groaned (it always groans) beneath the weight of
good things provided. After full justice was done (your
true 0.0. always sees that they do full justice) to the
viands (“ viands ” is too good a word to be ever left out),
dancing was resumed and the votaries of Terpsichore
continued to trip the light fantastic toe (if the O.C.
happens to leave that part out the editor always puts it in)
till the wee sma’ hours —or till old Sol rose in the east.
(As a general rule, the “wee sma’ hours” is a moral
cert., but sometimes capital is made out of old Sol
rising in the east, instead of in the west). Everyone
seemed to- enjoy themselves to the utmost. Mr. A. J.
Mudhead made a most efficient M.C. Great praise is also
due to Mesdames Frump and Frill for the manner in
which they performed their onerous duties. (We must
lighten the burden of Frump and Frill under the Country
Correspondents’ Act.) The honor of belle was divided
between Miss Sketch in black and white, and Miss Copper-
top in heliotrope and pink. Miss Jamm in bottle-green
looked sweet, as did Miss Whoaboys in a spring-cart.
Miss Butterby, junior, was also much admired. The dresses
worn were as follows :
But there ! That always ends my lucid interval.
“The dresses worn,” ha, ha ! “Wee sma’hours,”
he, he! “ Tastefully decorated, ho, ho ! “Votaries
to Terpsic ”
The letter breaks off abruptly here.
Perhaps the most remarkable Yictorian
election was for the Talbot and Avooa, seat in the
Assembly—the first under the Constitution Act.
Of 12 candidates nine lost their deposits. Aspi-
nall and David Blair were returned


Time is the Test
H
a
/
o
Doan’s Backache Kidney Mis are sold by all Chemists
and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes, 15s. 3d,), or
will be posted on receipt of price by Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt-street, S|ydnqy.
The Testimony of Sydney People Stands the Test.
THE test of time is what tells the tale. “ A new broom sweeps clean,” hut
will it “ wear well ”is what interests most. The public soon find out when
misrepresentations are made, and merit alone will stand the test of time. Sydney
people appreciate merit, and many months ago local citizens publicly endorsed
loan’s Backache Kidney Fills
They do so still. Would a citizen make the statement which follows unless con-
vinced that the article was just as represented ? A cure that lasts is the kind
that every sufferer from kidney ills is looking for.
FROM RANDWICK.
Mr. W. Hibberd, St. Paul’s-street, Randwick, this city,
sa ys : “ For years I have been a sufferer from backache. In
my work I have to stoop a good deal, and prolonged exertion
of this kind would double me up with pain. After stooping I
would be scarcely able to stand up straight again, but would
have to unbend gradually, and get the kinks out of my back.
I used many sorts of medicine for this ache, but with poor
success. The doctors I saw were also puzzled, I think. I
procured a box of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills at Newman’s
Pharmacy in King-street, and I am very pleased to tell you
that these pills gave me almost immediate relief. They went
right to the root of my trouble. The pains diminished after
further treatment, and at length totally disappeared. I shall
always recommend these pills for backache trouble.”
Twelve months later Mrs. Hibberd states: —“It is now
more than a year ago since my husband used Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills for backache. lam now enabled to sajr that the
pills wrought a permanent cure in his pase. The pains never
returned since. I can speak with conviction ©n the marvellous
way they aeted in hi» case. He is very enthusiastic about the
pills, is always recommending them for sneh ailments as
the piHs are meant for. He had been bad ever ten years, so
you can see it is no common remedy tljat could sure him the
way Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills did.”
FROM BALMAIN.
Mr. P. Smith, No. 1 Cheltenham-street, Balmain, says
“ Over twelve months ago I used Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills for Kidney Trouble, and they worked a miracle in my
case. I had been under three doctors at different times, but
their treatment did me no good. I used to be so bad that I
would have to be carried home in a cart if an attack came on
me when working, or when in the street. Sometimes when
walking I have been taken bad, and would be taken to the
hospital. My wife said she never expected I would live
through some of these bad turns. I suffered with a kind of
biliousness, vomiting egg-like stuff. My secretions were in a
frightful state. I could never bend my back or move at all
when I had a bad turn. The people at the hospital gave me
medicines and recommended rubbing in liniments, but it was
no use; they did me no good. I saw an advertisement for
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, stating that these pills had
cured Mr. Dunn, and knowing him led me to procure this
remedy. I only took a short treatment, and they cured me.
The first dose relieved me. When I had finished them I
started work, and have worked ever since. 'lt is heavy work
lam doing, but it does not affect me. These pills cured me
after years of suffering? and the relief was almost instan-
taneous. I might state that since then I had an attack of
lumbago, which laid me up one month, but I never thought
Doan?* Backache Kidney Pills were good for this complaint.
Then I remembered that I had a few in a box, and, not having
any other medicine in the house, I tried them. They cured me.”
BUT BE SURE YOU GET DOAN’S.
Gray Dawn.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The dawn-light floods the far lands,
The stars have ceased to shine ;
Sweep up the withered garlands 1
Throw out the dregs of wine !
Dear lips are hushed of laughter ;
Dear hands unclasp and part ;
And gray dawn mantling after
Creeps chill across the heart.
A man may have no lover,
And still the night be glad ;
But when the dance is over—
Ah ! why, and why be sad ?
The gay throng homeward going,
Linked arms, by two and two—
Cold, cold the dawn-wind blowing,
A lone gray road for you.
The music sobs and falters,
And far and far away
Burns red on Eastern altars
The sacrifice of Day ;
The gay forms cease their gliding,
The rhythmic feet are still,
And Joy itself lies hiding
With the moon behind the hill.
Take down the dead adornings !
Turn out the paling lights !
It is the cold gray mornings
That wreck the silver nights.
Forget your gold-haired idol 1
Fling your wild hopes away !
Take up the brown mare’s bridle
And ride for breaking day !
WILL H. OGILVIE.
A Dog’s Death.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The boss of Widgeon Springs had been over to
see the Baxter-girl early in the day, only to find
that she was out. This put him into an evil tem-
per, and he spent the afternoon laying poison-
baits for dingoes. Laying baits was always
soothing to his nerves. But devils were still
tugging at his heart as he opened the gate of the
horse-paddock.
At the entrance he met the sundowner—blear-
eyed, dirt-encrusted, ancient—oarrying a box-
bough to ward off the Barwon sandflies. After
the sundowner loped a dog of all breeds, lean-
bodied and shaggy.
His master could have told you that the dog
was the greatest company on “ Gawd’s yerth,”
and that his name was “ Laughing Dick,” from his
peculiar and engaging grin. They had been mates
for a long while now, and the dog was all that
kept the man’s drink-soddened brain a-balanoe on
the side of reason. Dick kept the weird sorub
shadows from materialising and sharing his
master’s lonely camp-fire. Dog and man were
hungry, and a pleasant smell of cooked meat
mingled with the scent of the clematis climbing
round the willows in the creek. Widgeon Springs
of old was given a very good name. Now, how-
ever, a notice on the horse-paddock gate—“ No
rations given ” —damped expectations.
The boss was a big man, a splendid animal,
with his sleek black head and heavy jaw, and the
red blood showing beneath the smooth, olive
skin. The sundowner smiled ingratiatingly, and
said that he would like to stop the night at the
hut.
“You can just move-on,” was the answer.
. “I never got refused a camp here in Martin’s
time—never, s’elp me ! ” said the tramp, with dig-
nity, and was then reminded that Martin wasn’t
boss of Widgeon Springs now.
“ Well, p’raps, you’ll give me a bit of sugar an’
tea—if you can spare it, o’ course.”
But the boss wasn’t going to give any blanky
rations to any blanky tramp, and advised a
shift to M‘Guire’s pub. And he wasn’t going to
allow a dog like “Laughing Dick” to hang about
his ewe-paddocks.
“Kill sheep!” cried the indignant owner.
“Why, he’d as soon kill me ! And if I can’t
stop here, I’ll camp where I like,” he added,
significantly.
The boss seemed suddenly to lose his scowls. He
dismounted and walked alongby the old man’s side,
apparently arguing the point with reasonable re-
straint. He held his hands behind his back, and
in them was something he had taken from his
saddle-bag, which he dropped softly as he strolled
along. For all his vast experience of the ups-and-
downs of life, Laughing Dick wasn’t proof against
a piece of juicy mutton when he had tasted
nothing but a crust of damper for 24 hours.
His master was too busy proving how much better
things were managed in Martin’s time to notice
what was going on. It was quite 20 minutes
afterwards that he retired, worsted and cursing,
from the horse-paddock gate, to which the boss
had escorted him. He hinted darkly that he and
the “dorg” wouldn’t go supperless to bed, any-
way.
The boss fitted the key into the padlock—he
had a mania for locking gates —and laughed:
“ D’yer think I’m such an ass as to let a dog like
that loose on my run ? ” Laughing Dick was
having his first strychnine-fit just then.
The wretched tramp’s curses and helpless rage
soothed the boss’s wounded feelings wonderfully,
and he walked back to the house, smiling.
* * * *
The girl at Baxter’s had struck her colors at
last. She was a slim slip of a maiden with a re-
finement of looks that took the big man’s fancy,
and with all sorts of possibilities in her dreamy
full-lidded eyes to fire his blood. To-night, as he
rode slowly along the indefinite track in the river
paddock, he was thinking of the difference her
presence would make at Widgeon Springs, and
flushing a little at the remembrance of the kiss
she had given him.
The river paddock ,was overgrown with coarse,
tussocky grass, with occasional vast patches, of
dried reeds that rattled as the strong north wind
tore through them. The grey horse was tired,
and stumbled over a sun-crack hidden by a swathe
of grass, and then horse and rider pitched over.
The horse struggled to its feet and galloped off
into the darkness. The man lay still, with a
broken leg and a shock to the spine, which
made movement almost impossible. His brain
was clear, and he calculated his chances to a
nicety. They might possibly look for him
from Widgeon Springs if be did not _ return
in a couple of days’ time, and the girl at Baxte
would grow uneasy only at the week s end when
the mailman did not bring the promised letter.
Even the horse could not get home to give a mes-
sage of the accident, for the key of the ga e
padlock was in the boss’s pocket. It was unlike y
that anyone would cross except by chance. 1
high road was nearly a mile away he would are
well enough through the night, but unless he cou
pull himself into some sort of shade betore tne
burning day found him, his chances were small
indeed. He shuddered, because he had seen men
who had died in the sun.
He coo-ee’d over and over again, for his voice
was strong and carried far, and he was not very
surprised (he had all the healthy animal opti-
mism that belongs to such fine physical develop-
ment) to catch a faint, answering cry, and to hear
someone breaking through the reeds. It was tne
one chance in a thousand, but it was his.
A harvest moon had risen, and the figure of the
old man who stumbled forward was distinct
enough, but brought no shadow of recognition to
the injured man’s eyes.
“The Devil looks after his own,” he said,
laughing heartily, in spite of his broken limb ;
and then rapidly explained the accident, and
asked the traveller to make tracks to the station
at once for help.
The old man listened and laughed too.
“ Help ! oh, yes, I’ll go for help. D’ye
remember turnin’ me out o Widgeon Springs
without a bit of tucker? D’ye remember pizenmg
of my dorg—my beautiful dorg that laughed just
like a man, and used to hunt away,the devils and
the snakes from the fire o’ nights ? ”
The boss didn’t remember in the least. It the
man was a softy, his luck wasn’t as much in as
he had thought. But he was still confident.
“Hurry your stumps,” he said. You 11 get
another dog, and anything else you want, at the
station.” . ... , ~
“I’ll send you to hell!” answered the sun-
downer, calmly. “Your sort ain’t got no right
to go about alive and laying of baits. Do you
remember me, now/” And he peered closely into
the fallen man’s face. “You see this ere match t
That’s going to do the work better than any
pizen. I’m going to fire the reeds.”
Deaf to the other’s curses and shouts and
prayers, the sundowner shambled off into the
shadows, chuckling as he went. The boss shouted
as long and as loudly as he could—recollection
had returned to him now —and as a dark form
sprang past him down the track, with a steady
lope and canine suggestion in the pnek ears and
lowered tail, he remembered the shaggy mongrel
and its death-contortions in the head-station lane.
A faint crackling in the distance and a pungent,
burning smell told why the dingo had left its lair.
A thought of the Baxter-girl’s clinging arms
and passion-promising eyes assailed him, and he
made a great effort to drag himself along the
ground. The long grass crackled under his hands,
and the forest of sun-dried reeds shivered and
rustled behind him. He succeeded only in turn-
ing upon his face. . ,
There was a fierce roar as the strong wind drove
the towering flames down the close-set ranks—
drowning the echoes of maniacal laughter as it
came. The man threw out his arms as if to ward
off the terror.
“ A dog’s death !” he groaned ; By God !—a
dog’s death ! ”
Q.
ETHEL MILLS.
A Futile Fellow.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Andy was fanning “on the pinch-gut system.
His aggregate of bushels last Christmas had been
almost too meagre to bother about. He spent
most of his time teaching muttonless sheep to
walk, and skinning those that had toppled-over
for ever. Only the family and the family appetite
grew on the farm.
A vague shadow from the back years of child-
hood put into Andy’s mind the thought of Hell
not the convenient and familiar Hell of profanity,
but the Hell of theology. And it came to him
with absolute clearness that life was worse than
Hell. Live, and repeat the struggle of the past
30 years, or butcher himself with a shovel ? Joe
Gatman had taken a dive only seven years before,
merely because of the missus. But that was an
easy way to die—a something heavier than air to
breath, then an end. But he might shovel at
himself for a fortnight, and die at 104 with a
portion of the weapon in his brain.
Andy abandoned thought of the water-way.
With no water in the district, how could he
drown himself? The next best way was a piece
of new rope; and, after much deliberation, he
decided to try it. That night he slept little ; and
next day didn’t care whether the dinner was
all hash, or hash and gum-leaves. But he did
nothing. The black rings about his sunken eyes
made his face daily more like a hawk’s. His wife
fell to kicking him, and calling him a log. He
was growing film-eyed, and yellow, and stupid.
Every day he gazed on the rope and thought
“To-morrow, or perhaps the next day.”
At hist the man embraced his resolution. He
would hang himself at once to the kiddies old
swing-tree—and no more fuss. He went to the
stable, and thrust a furtive eye about for that
rope, but it was gone. The man raged, but dared
say nothing, and that was just the very devil
of it. Dick had it away with the team, no doubt.
Now, if he could only canter down and pull Dick
about by the ears, and shove a clod into his mouth,
and swear at him, and get the rope, it wouldn’t
matter. As it was, he muttered vigorously, and
loafed about the earth a little longer.
Several more opportunities came, but fantastic
Fate juggled with the rope. It was always out
of his reach at the chosen moment. The man
dropped to hiding it away till the mood should
hit mm, but the rope was positively human in its
avoidance of his “ moments.” If Dick hadn’t
made a coupling of it, young Paddy had used it
as a bridle, or Baby had taken a skipping excur-
sion. The missus tied up onerous hens with it,
the calf lost it, and the foal seemed to relish its
company.
Meanwhile the man slept in a rusty tank, and
fed on what he could thieve. “No work, no
accommodation ! ” said the missus. She put-in
the time calling him a “skulky, hunintelligible
’unk.” At last the man gave-up the rope. There
was other rope ; but he was blind to the fact.
His rope— sacred as a king’s signet—was gone. He
was doomed to life.
When the rain came the doom was more endur-
able.
DONALD, VIO.
WILL JARRATT.


The Father of Wellington
Eighty-eight Years of Age; Cured of Rheumatism
One Bottle Made the Cure.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
muz.
•t.
Mr. John Plimmer, of Wellington, New Zealand, sends us his photograph,
from which the above illustration was made. He is known as the “Father of
Wellington.” He is eighty-eight years of age and one of the best-known residents
of the city. His letter, which we give below, was written in a strong, clear, bold
hand. He says :
“ I consider Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla a great remedy for the rheumatism. I had suffered
from that painful disease for many years. iwas asked to try Dr. Ayer s Sarsaparilla andso I
purchased a bottle. This one bottle of it cured me and I have not felt the slightest return ox
the trouble since. I always keep a bottle of it in the house, for I find it a very refreshing remedy
for many conditions.”
After reading this letter you are certainly not surprised that in all parts of
the civilized world people call Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
This great remedy takes out all poisons from the system and makes the
blood pure and rich. You cannot have rheumatism, scrofula, boils, pimples,
nervous exhaustion, and general debility if you will use Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
During the trying hot summers a few doses of it will rest and refresh you.
It is a wonderful medicine for weak and delicate children, too ; it gives them all
the strength and vigor that belong to youth.
S Sarsaparilla
Restores the Sick to Health.
AYER’S PILLS are the best liver pills you can buy.
26
YEARS’ SUCCESS
AS THE
UNIVERSAL REMEDY
FOR
Coughs, Colds,
f A sthma, Bronchitis,
influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Consumption,
HAS MADE
AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY IN THE HOME
OR KIT OF EVERY COLONIAL.
It saves many Lives.
There is no difficulty in obtaining it, so
when you ash for Owbridge’s Lung
Tonic, insist upon having it, as
other so-called remedies are
often substituted.
Prepared, by
W.T.OWBRIDSE, M.P.S., Chemist, HulL
Sold in bottles, at Is lid., 2s. 94.. 45.64., & 11s., A
by all Colonial Medicine Vendors.
OOPTEIGHT.
THE WORLD’S MEDICINE.
Beechams
For Bilious and Nervous Disorders, Flatulence and Pain in the Stomach,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, a sense of Repletion and Discomfort after Eating,
Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flushings of Heat, Loss of Appetite,
Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Scurvy and Blotches on the Skin, Sleep-
lessness, Disturbing Dreams, Low Spirits, Loss of Energy, and Nervous
Dyspepsia in all its forms. THE FIRST DOSE GENERALLY GIVES
RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction, for in countless
cases the immediate effect has proved remarkable.
Every Sufferer is earnestly invited to make a trial of BEECHAM’S PILLS, which will fully
justify their reputation of being
Worth a Guinea a Box.
FOR FEMALES of all ages these Pills are simply invaluable, as a few doses will restore
free and regular conditions, and effectually remove the causes of much suffering to the sex. For a
Weak Stomach,
Impaired Digestion,
Disordered Liver,
BEECHAM’S PILLS act like “MAGIC,” and a few doses will be found to work wonders on
the most important organs in the human economy. They brace up the nervous and muscular
systems, revive the long lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into
action the, too often, slumbering energies of mind and body. As a blood purifier it is not
too much to say that THEY HAVE NO EQUAL.
One of the best guarantees that can be offered to the nervous and debilitated is that
BEECHAM’S PILLS have by far the largest sale of any
Patent Medicine in the World, being Over Six
Million Boxes per Annum.
This has been achieved Without the Publication of Testimonials, the convincing fact
is that Beecham’s Pills Recommend themselves.
Prepared only by the Proprietor, THOMAS BEEGHAM, St. Helens, England,
and sold by Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers, everywhere.
In Boxes, 1/1J and 2/9 each, containing 56 and 168 Pills respectively,
-with full directions.
S. FREEMAN vSONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S
FREEMAN'S
BAKING
POWDER.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAP OFFICE : WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
-
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indig-estion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cura
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DiNNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
m
3 mi
Sold Throughout the World.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA,
IRISH 10SS
FOR
-The best remedy-
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA.
Ask for Banning ton's
and seetkatyou get it.


Rufebsr Manufacturers
(Established over 20 Years),
ARE STILL TO BE FOUND AT
Their OLD and ONLY Address
270 George Street,
SYDNEY.
80
TEARS DYEXHG
FOR THE ladies.
■W- O- &c GO.
DYERS & CLEANERS!,
40 yolMv HXiIEET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hail).
Country Orders by post from all Use colonies promptly
attended to. “
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort aud oonvenienoe at—
MRS. TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beacons'field Parade
ST. KIL.DA.
rpilE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
o Coiomes. 100 rocmw. alagnifleent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. Oitv
1-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
The Bulletin Booklets, No. 111.
THE CIRCLING HEARTHS,
A New Collection of Yerses by Roberic Quinn.
Enveloped; I*. 9d. post-free.
RW Only 500 copies are printed for sale. “ The Hidden
Tide,” a companion lx>oklef> by the same author, was
sold out almost immediately on publication ; and many
orders have been refused.
Post-free for postal note or stamps of any province
Orders received now will be forwarded immediately on
publication.
The Bulletin newspaper Co., Ltd.,
214 Georgs Si'rbist, Sybnet, Australia.
Sole. Wholesale Agents : Edwards, Dunlop & Co.. J/m>.
BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
-
%
. ■■
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Mingtoi Finps
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send for Catalogue.
GENUINE
BELTING.
BENNIE, TEARE & CO.
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
PERTH
GOOLGARDIE
AND
Representing in Australia
TANGYES LIMITED.
STOCKS CARRIED
IN ALL THE STATES.
OIJ.d3SU.NV
S.NVMIM3N
NEWMAN’S
in King: St.
PASTI
X/“ El JBOZC
g-r—
-gwr»
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
stay on the sheep’s back as long: as required. It will NOT injure the wool,
the ordinary scouring: process.
St will dissolve out under
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
FEETOO. GWOBE * CO.. mEtBOURnE
- * '■ r 1 "*■, -? , .T" " 5i.:... ■■■■ 1 , ■ .
BLACK, BED, and BLUE (in 8-gallon Cases)—
PRICE IN MELBOURNE ; 36 per Gallon.
„ SYDNEY (E. Rich & Co. Ltd.) 3 6
n BRISBANE (E, Rich & Co. Ltd.) .. ti 3/9 ”
it HOBART (Wm, Crosby & Co.) ’* ”
AIR
COMPRESSORS.
w
Ingersoll-Sergeartt Rock Drills and Air Compressors hold the highest
average records throughout the world. They have met and defeated in fair competition
every machine brought against them, and have never failed to sustain their reputation for
doing the most work at the least expense. Write for Catalogue to '
The Representatives in Australia of
ROC K
DRILLS
it
New Ingrersoll.”
THE
LACY
S
C°. v . L T °
•ST, 3XT.S.-W.
74 Clarence Street SYDNEY & MELBOURNE "435 Bourke Street
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants.
Blake Steam Pumps
Pay’s Woodworking Machinery
Tanite Emery Wheels
Sturtevant’s Pans and Pdrges
Pickering Governors
Ludlow Valves
Schultes’ Kbrting Injectors
“ Champion ” Lubricating Oils
Hoyts’ Leather Belting
Genuine “ Atlas ” Metal
Empire Laundry Machinery
Stratton’s Steam Separators
American Tool Go’s Lathes
Goubert’s Feed Water Heaters
n±mms
c.o
itlßi:
MS&M
