

McEWAN’S ALE
Reid’s London
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
V
V
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
xs. Gk 'WA&.vxx.xryrs se. co ,
107 IKZezit Street, Syaney,
—FOE—
Milling and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
na
:
Over 2700 Hydro-Extraotors Sold and at work
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried in vest
pocket and blown out to life-size (causes roars of
laughter), Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket, Book of
Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin and Card
Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard Pish (gives
the definition of your character), The Mafeking Grub (or
nerve-strengthener), and, last of all, that side-splitting
Look and Laugh Glass, Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
Box 3, G.P.0., Haymarket.
H. L. HUTCHINSON,
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-streefc, SYDNEY
X
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° •» ntt street, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS 1 FOE BROADBENT’S stea d m r drlven HYDRO^EXTRACTORS!
These machines have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried Goods, Sugar
Salt, Chemicals, the Production of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STOCKED. Send fo,
Testimonials and full particulars.
THORNES
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
M
iky °'k
iw.
EEOBA.EIT.
•
DUNEDIN, N.Z.
CITY HOTEL
(First Grade).
J. A. TURNER - - Proprietor.
a
m
w>
i
gsd
11 Genuine
-Lancet, June 28th,
1902.
:
PIONEER
gh
LEATHER
'BELTING'
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 2J 3 Si 4 5 6 8 10 12 inch.
-/7 -/9 -/10J 1/- 1/2 1/6 1/11 2/8 3/4 4/-
1/2 1/4 1/7 1/10 2/2 2/11 3/5 4/5 5/7 6/9
Agents in every State.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWIGI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
IN order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever seen in the
jewellery trade— viz., the above handsome Brooch
(any name or three initials) made of extra quality
9et. gold-filled wire, with heart pendant ; guaran-
teed the same quality as the brooch advertised,
complete. Sent post-free on receipt of P. 0.0. or
M.O. for ss. in round wire or sq. twisted wire, loot
gold, filled, Ss. 6d. . Illustrated catalogues sent free’
SIMS and ELRICK, Manufacturing Jewellers.
Our only address —
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE, fivELBCIiKKE, AUSTRALIA
THE
sdgh
11
THE
O.ENTLEMEN. —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, ri rigs
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “ PLUM ” BAZOR BTEBP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
" BAZOS.ES ” LtesrcWHQ RAZOR BHAEPEKER, 6d cake.
Price /Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6e! ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 219.
r*t ok Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 1KJo; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG <& ASTKEi, 680 Oeorge-st, Sydney.
11 ON OUR SELECTION/ 5 by Steele Rudd.
Price, 65., Postage Bd., from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
PROOF
USE
K
Head Office:
10 mm SI., SYDNEY
sfd
Dr. J. W. GIBBS’
. Electric Massage Rollers . .
For use on Face and Body.
For NERVOUS HEADACHES*
NEURALGIA and RHEUMATISM
—a specific. Removes Wrinkles.
Gold, 21/- Silver, 16/-
Post Free. Pamphlets Free.
AMERICAN AC2NCY ODM PAM /,
Box 440, G.P.0.,
Melbourne.
&
OV
Those
suffering
from weak
and sore eyes,
and blight, should
use
SINGLETON’S OINTMENT
Never Fails, Restores Eyelashes.
- AH CHEMISTS.
n
A NICE PRESENT.
The New Combination PIN-
CUSHION, THIMBLE & REEL
HOLDER, nickerplated, plush
top. Clamps on to any table
by means of a spring. Price,
only 2s. ; post free.
Star Novelty Qompatty,
229-231 Cciiifte^A.,
MaCbcurne.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBi
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfietd Parade
ST. HILDA.
T H £ Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
n u° °^L es ' 100 rooms - Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
i-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
■WHEN buying a KEROSENE GAS ST®fE insist
on getting a noiseless
i :-.7-r. - ►
JUPITER
The Very Latest
I raven tJen.
Barns Noiselessly,
Without Smell
or Smoke,
Perfectly Safe.
Obtained. First Prize
wherever exhibited.
Stocked by all Leading Hardware Merchants and
Storekeepers.
Sole Agents for Australasia —
Weison and Robertson,
17 LQFTUS ST., BYBNHT.
The Bulletin
Vol 23—No. 1175. ]
[Saturday, August 23, 1902.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE LATEST BOOKS AT
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd,
Hatton, Vision of Betmty, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, postage 6d,
Max O’Rell, Betvyeen Ourselves, 3s 6d, p. (id.
Linesman, The Mechanism of War, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Atherton, The Conqueror, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Raine (Allen), The Welsh Witch, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Temples, Progress of India, 6s, postage 7d.
Nugent, Lectures <m Drill, 2s 6d, p. 4d.
Itickert, Out of the Cypress Swamp, 2s Gd & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Waineman, Heroine from Finland, 2s Gd & 3s 6d, p. Gd.
Hope (Graham), My Lord Winchenden, 2sGd &3s 6d, p. Gd
Write to us for any JBook or Magazine you want.
- We are alwaus Vi
v> J
We are always pleased to answer Inquiries.
m
ST SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at' Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London
u
ft
fiis Urnes
and tetters
*
With Memoir by
“ Frank Renar.”
“BUSHMAN & BUCCANEER—Harry Morant,
His ’Ventures and Verses ”
S'ives the Life and Writings of “ The Breaker.” A first
impression of 5000 has now been exhausted, and
The Second Edition is Now Ready.
A BOOK which EVERY AUSTRALIAN should have.
Wholesale from EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO., Ltd.,
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE.
Retail from all Booksellers, and Post-Free from
“ The Bulletin ” Office Is. Id.
Story Book
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN-
AUSTRAL] AN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
Che Best Short Stories
of two Decatles.
lifting' better typical
cf Australian Eetters.
VIVID
VIVID
VIVID
VIVID
iHoraa
iHoraa
iHoraa
xHoraa
EACY
EACY
EACY
EACY
Price a/6 ; Post Free from Bulletin Office, 5/-
For -tlie X.XTJSTC3J-S, tSa-ts THROAT, 1 1-a.e "VOICE
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
‘ for the Cure of
Coughs ! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
w r .
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
IS. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
1). A lobe of one of the lungs,.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered),
Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous drug . .
cm n PV an CHEMISTS in Tins, 1s 6d : from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland—posi
free on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE, and, FELTON, OEIMWADE & C0 V
Melbourne, Agents. ‘ , ■
THE RED PAGE.
Maeterlinck’s New Play.
have always been men who have seen
I in the Universe a temple of mystery where
‘ ® soul, like a flame, consumes away in
adoration, consoling itself with beauty and
worship. Mystics, symbolists—call them what
you will—men who know that our life is of “such
stuff as dreams are made on ’’—they mediate
between religion and art. The Flemish poet,
Maeterlinck is such a one, a notable figure stand-
ing aside from the lewd and commercial literature
of modern Europe. Novalis and Emerson and
Walter Pater seem by turns to be revived in him ;
St. i rancis of Assisi might have rhapsodied with
him over his garden of bees or sung with him a
hymn to the sun. On the other side, Gabriel
D’Annunzio, though without the ethical chastity
of Maeterlinck’s spirit, is own-brother to him in
reverence for the delight of life and the tragedy
of passion. The Belgian poet rather resembles,
perhaps, some Emerson become more artistic,and
more sensuous. He writes in French with lucid
beauty of style, but the Germanic seriousness
continually breaks through the lilt and lightness
of his romance form and claims him for a
Northerner. '
How clear these two contrasted notes come out
in his last writings, in the “ Tresor des Humbles,”
1896, for example—a terrible and beautiful book,
in which his treatment of Words, to seek an
analogy in painting, strives after that indefinable
spiritual atmosphere, in which is now recognised
the charm and power of Millet ! But in the back-
ground of all Maeterlinck s pictures the everlasting
Germanic vision of Death looms, with its dread
and its solace. It lends its sinister charm even to
the “ Drarnes pour Marionettes.” Everybody has
been reading his last book about the life of bees
(“La Yie des Abeilles”) and fallen to thinking
whether it might not be equally good and profit-
able to read also his writings about the lives of
men.
The plays Maeterlinck has written have been
found almost impossible for the stage. They were
intended to be so, in as far as they neglect the
traditions, parade and superficiality of the
modern stage. But now there is a growing
curiosity to understand and to approach them in
a more sympathetic spirit towards the artist.
Maeterlinck himself has been at pains to explain
the dramatic innovation he has attempted in an
essay on “The Modern Drama.” There exists,
he says, in all great works, by the side of the outer
story, a second plot, borne on an undercurrent of
dialogue. This second plot seems always to be
subordinate and never forces itself upon the
attention of those who have no eyes for it. The
object and intention of his own plays is to bring
this hidden dramatic action into the foreground.
It is the soul of life and of the drama which is his
theme. Thus he has hitherto scorned the rabble
conditions and garish show of the modern theatre,
and his pieces have mostly failed for lack of what
people call a story.
All this, however, seems to be altered in his last
play, “ Monna Vanna.” It has scored a great suc-
cess at the Nouveau Theatre. His young wife (who
was the beautiful actress, Georgette Leblanc),
played the title r6le. The play is inspired by Italy,
and the “ story ” in it is both interesting and pro-
minent. When the curtain rises it reveals the
town of Pisa (it is in the fifteenth century) be-
sieged by a Florentine army under the Condot-
tiere Prinzivalle. The garrison is in extremities,
the ammunition and food exhausted. Guido
Colonna, the Governor of the town, has sent his
grey-headed father, Marco, to the hostile camp, to
sue for terms, and the return of the old man is
eagerly awaited. ■ At last he comes, but dejected
and unnerved, unwilling to disclose the secret of
his negotiations. Finally, he reveals the Condot*
tiere’s demand. Prinzivalle, who has news of
plots against him in Florence, will consent to help
Pisa with food and ammunition under one condi-
tion—Vanna, the young wife of Colonna, shall
come to him that night in his tent. The husband,
furious, helpless, and hesitating, lays before the
signora Prinzivalle’s terms, on which the lives of
the citizens depend. He determines to leave the
decision in his wife’s hands. Monna Yanna
(played by the lovely and newly-wedded Georgette
Maeterlinck) consents to the sacrifice. “I will
go to-night to his tent,” she says.
The second scene shows the dim lamp-lit tent of
the expectant Condottiere. He is at the parting
ways of his fate, for to-day, as he knows, he has
beeii denounced at Florence and superseded in his
command. But what matter ? He has the consola-
tion of his love. The lady comes, alone as
he has .stipulated. In words of quiet rapture, he
tells her of his life-long love, reminds her of their
childhood together in the palace-garden of her
parents. She has forgotten. She had grown up
.and been wooed by the Lord Colonna, and he, in
those days of his humility, had not dared to
aspire to her hand. When she was married he
had ridden away to distant lands to be Fortune’s
knight. This is bis story. Monna Vanna listens
and confesses to have dreamed of such a love in
her girlhood—a dream unrealised in her, life.
They speak together about the beauty and
the felicity of true love, and she tells him
that from the very first sight of him that night, she
had known that the shameful contract of her
coming was a pretence. A page interrupts them,
with the news of the Florentine troops who are to
arrest Prinzivalle.'. He determines to become‘a
wanderer once, more, but Vanna offers him shelter
and protection in Pisa. As they set out through
the darkness,, the joy-bells, are already heard
ringing from the city and bonfires are blazing, for
the arrival of the promised relief supplied—Pisa is
saved. “ The bells are ringing as on my wedding-
day,” she says to him as she leads him into Pisa.
In the third scene, Colonna awaits the return of
the wife he has sacrificed and yet so passionately
loves. At the sight of Prinzivalle and his wife’s
triumphant face, he sees in her a new Judith.
Breathless, she tells him the ' story of
Prinzivalle’s love for her and the safety
of her honor. Colonna believes not a
word of her tale. Mad with jealousy and
hate, he commands his men to seize and
bind Prinzivalle, and put him to the torture.
In a flash, the character of her own love and that
of her husband is revealed. She knows, too, the
cause of the happiness she lias felt that night.
Her resolution is soon taken.. She confesses that
her story was a lie, and that she has enticed her
ravisher to Pisa but to revenge herself upon him.
She had lied, she maintains, to conceal her shame
an 1 that of her husband. Hers alone shall be the
revenge. She alone will keep the key to this
prisoner’s dungeon.
So ends the play. Effective, and full of pas-
sionate human interest as it is, it distinctly de-
parts from the older symbolical manner of the
author,, but the symbolism runs only the more
deeply beneith the story. It marks a turning
point in Maeterlinck’s artistic career.
BERLIN.
F.S.D.
Aboriginal Food and Frivolity.
IN tlie third and last of his etymological bulletins
in connection with the Australian aboriginal,
Dr. Roth, Northern Protector of Aborigines
in Queensland, tackles the huge subject of
“Pood —Its Search, Capture and Preparation”;
and out of the mass of material at his hand he has
written a most readable monograph. The Australian
black revels in horrific combinations of food-stuffs,
of which he partakes in enormous quantities with-
out any subsequent suffering. Moreover, he has
no specified time for eating. If there is anything
over from the night before (which is unlikely) it is
promptly consumed by the just-awakened carnp;
if not, they just wait patiently until something
edible turns up as the result of the day’s search.
The principal meal is the gorge just after sun-
down, when the hunters have returned with their
spoils, unless, as sometimes happens, the said
hunters have taken an unfair advantage and have
eaten where they killed. Vegetables, of which
Dr. Roth has listed some 240 as lit for food, are
prepared for cooking by washing, grinding,
pounding or grating; while meat, fresh for pre-
ference, is cut into convenient pieces with flint-
flakes or a lawyer-cane saw. It is then either
broiled on hot ashes, baked in an oven of hot
stones, boiled in a bark trough, or grilled on a
grid of sticks. If there is nothing more attractive
obtainable, clay from ant-hills is used to fill
the aching void, while kaolin, judging by the
careful preparation it undergoes, is looked upon
as a sort of bonne Louche. The blacks eat Zamia
fruit, which is dried and pounded into a kind of
flour, and an intricate set of preliminaries attends
the conversion into food of the mangrove radicles
—the cobbler’s pegs of our youthful days. The
larvae of certain ants’ eggs (your black is an
epicure as to the species) as well as the ants them-
selves are eaten raw, after a process of kneading
the ants and eggs into one lump, while a keen
appetite is always evinced for some of the Ooleop-
tera, the big fat white lice, grubs and caterpillars.
A fish diet is procured by treading, and muddying
the water or stupefying the fish with some vege-
table poison. The native angles for eels with
a particular sort of sucker-eel impaled on a lawyer-
cane or, in the case of small fry, he limes them
with an adhesive bait. Fish-hooks of bone
are fast being civilised out of existence, but the
“sucker fish” is still used, as are also various forms
of nets and traps from the hollow log to the more
complicated woven ones capable of holding a turtle
or a dugong. Dr. Roth explains all these various
methods at length, with many notes on peculiari-
ties in their use.
. In big game hunting a deal of trouble is taken.
Emus are either snared at their usual watering
places or driven into traps or pits, while all over
the North the spear is used after stalking the
quarry behind bushes. Smaller birds are speared,
meshed, or struck with sticks, and the aquatic
varieties the blacks swim or dive for with an
infinity of precaution. Kangaroos are hunted in
many ways. They may be tracked and caught
while resting, run down with dogs, netted, driven,
or speared, and the use of circling fires often
assists the men in gathering the marsupials into a
confined space. Dr. Roth found indubitable evi-
dences of cannibalism in the North of Queensland,
though the practice is becoming more and more
nearly obsolete. Killing to eat is not the rule,
but use is made of the fallen in battle,
or of those who have died from natural causes.
Sometimes cannibalism was indulged in for pure
devilment, and there have been occasions where
women have been eaten for no Other cause than
to provoke a quarrel with the unfortunate victim’s
relatives. One instance was recorded of an inter-
tribal fight where both sides “took time,” occu-
pied a pleasant interlude in amicably devouring
the corpses of those who had already succumbed,
and then resumed the contest with renewed vigor.
No special ceremony or cooking is practised in
cannibalism. Men alone indulge in it, and that
it is not the recognised thing it was once with the
Maoris, is shown by the fact that they always dis-
cuss the matter in whispers, as if there was some-
thing uncanny about it.
After the food there comes the frivolity,
provided that too much has not been eaten,
and Dr. Roth writes a special bulletin on
“Games, Sports and Amusements of the
Aboriginals.” The list, when one comes to look
into it, is quite a formidable one, ranging from
dolls to tournaments, and from hide and seek to
a social and dance. Dr. Roth classifies his sub-
heads under such high-sounding titles as : Imagi-
native Games, Realistic Games, Imitative Games,
Discriminative, Disputative, Propulsive, Exulta-
tive, and Introduced Games. Imaginative Games
are plain yarn-spinning, and each tribe has a stock
of fairy tales, told purely for amusement. In
some cases, men look on this sort of thing as
effeminate, but, in others they take especial pride
in the story-telling, and the narrator is frequently
interrupted if he dares to meddle with the corrobo-
rative detail, and embellish on his own account.
Under Realistic Games Dr. Roth classifies the keep-
ing of animals as pets. As a general tiling, the un-
fortunate captives have a very bad time of it, for
the blacks never think of feeding them, and unless
they are free to hunt on their own account the
young wallabies, kangaroo rats, snakes, etc., which
are caught, soon die. Dogs, of course, are an ex-
ception, and true domestication arid training only
takes place; with the dingo. The aboriginals
appear to be very fond of their dogs, share iheir
food with them, speak to them as intelligent
beings, and do not believein “ sooling” them on to
each other. Different forms of hide-and-seek are
popular with young and old, the latter being
usually satisfied with testing, their keenness of
vision by searching for some minute object thrown
in sand by one of the players. Wrestling con-
tests (Disputative Games) are . fairly common in
the Princess Charlotte Bay district, the contes-
tants endeavoring to throw one another off their
feet by lifting them round the loins—-time and
time about. Propulsive Games are another name
for ball, top and other games; “catchers,” bowls,
rounders and top-spinning are all represented
among the aboriginals, and the boomerang, in its
more primitive form the cross-stick, is universally
brought into requisition to while away an idle
hour.
• The most interesting part of the bulletin is,
however, that which deals with Imaginative and
with Exultative games. As might be expected,
the former are almost.solely the province of the
youngsters, and *the piccaninny is just as fond of
pretending to be a grown-up a'nd to do grown-up
things as any child of our own. They will play at
houses, or with dolls go to war or to hunting and
climb trees in the footsteps of their elders, and, as
is the case all over the world, there are certain
formula to be observed in their games, which are
as the laws of the Medes and Persians. Women
as well as children are exceptionally expert at
“ cat’s-cradle, ” and out of a length of twine they
will, singly or in couples, evolve a truly astonishing
number of designs, all having their own signifi-
cance and representing some object, natural or
artificial. More than, passing notice should
be taken of the regular “ prun ” or tournament
in the Cardwell and Tully River scrubs. This
institution is “essentially an entertainment
(though the opportunities may be taken of wiping
off old scores, and so settling disputes either real
or imaginary), and gives men a chance of showing
off their prowess and courage before the women.”
The “prun” is held at regular intervals all the
year round in a particular place, and all the
neighboring tribes take part in it. It com-
mences either by throwing a boomerang or
spear into the mob with whom a fight is
desired (“ the gauntlet’s down ”), or by a
slanging match, wherein all the most exasperating
insults are hurled about and the women take a
more important part. When the requisite pitch
of anger is reached by one or other of these
methods, the fun commences, and a regular
“willing go” is the result, lasting till sundown,
with a final bout next morning before dispers-
ing. The women are in great form all
through ; and as they, as well as the men, yell
at the top of their voices' during the fight, it
can be well imagined that the “prun” ground
is not a peaceful spot. Dr. Roth thinks that
the “ prun ’’ helps to settle old scores, and, at
the same time, promotas social intercourse and
amusement, and it is curious to note that Spencer
and Gillen, according to a published interview
with the latter, found a similar practice in vogue
among the Warramunga tribe of Tennant’s Creek
(Central Australia). There, at the conclusion of
a fire ceremony, all the men who had quarrelled
painted themselves with fireclay and then belted
each other with fire-pticke, after which they
were supposed to be good friends. The whole
affair was a carnival, and while it was in progress
the men chaffed each other incessantly and some-
times said the most insulting things to each other,
just as the Tully blacks do.
A word regarding the music of the blacks —their
songs, dancing, entertainments and musical instru-
ments. In the first named it is not surprising
that the coarser element predominates, and one
will find in a blacks’ camp as great a pride in the
composition of “ Limericks ” as ever exists in a
present day school. It is obscenity pure and
simple with the aboriginals, and the greater the
amount of filth the singer can voice the more he
is honored. That Dr. Roth, who is ordinarily
the most plain-spoken of mortals, finds it neces-
sary to use Latin in translating them is sufficient
proof of their beastliness. The same class of songs
is used, by women especially, in order to provoke
quarrels. The natives also sing dirges for the
departed, a different song being composed for
each occasion, and here may perhaps be seen
first faint glimmerings of the minstrel who sings
arma virumque. Another queer variant of
songs are the “waru-waru” (which means in
plain English, “acting the goat”), whiph are
sung at the prun on the deaths of certain persons
and in connection with newly married men. They
are excessively filthy in their nature and in the
details accompanying them (commencing with
chewing the leaves of the stinging-tree and' so
working up a frenzy). With the males dancing
consists in the main of a stamping move-
ment of the feet, and the females vary . this
movement in different ways. The dancing is
always individual. The corrobboree comprises.any
ordinary “social and concert” generally, but not
necessarily accompanied by a dance, and is an
entertainment given by.the tribe in general. The
corrobbor.ees are most often held at night, but the
women sometimes hold one on their own account
in the afternoon —“evening parties;” and “after-
noon teas,” in other words. The musical instru-
ments of the blacks are either wind or drums and
sounding sticks, implements not capable of -an
extended scale, but as the blacks’range of har-
mony is a small one this is no drawback. __
T.D.
Fighting Journaliasm.
THE death of the American Meat Trust con-
cludes one of the pluckiest and most effec-
tive journalistic campaigns on teeord.
Early in this year the Chicago meat-
packers formed a Trust to control the-buying and
selling prices of beef. Swift land Armour were
the leading spirits, and they raised capital and
developed an organisation to control the whole
of the buying in the West and the selling in
the East. They had the killing of the cattle
solely in their own hands, and by strenuous and
sinuous measures they got hold of 75 per cent, of
the sellers of the great cities ; New York particu-
larly was in the hands of the Trust, and the only
purpose of those hands was to squeeze. Not one
leading member, of the combine who was-, not
already a millionaire; but what of that ? They
wanted more, always more. And Having- contrtl
of the great staple -of life, reckoned that
the human kind of the States could be got within
their nippers. Retail butchers had to become
agents of the Trust, or put up their*shutters.
Everything was arranged with th.e trade, and
put to all people who might make them
selves troublesome before the first turn was given
to the screw; and that didn’t trouble anybody
much. The maize crop was to some extent a
failure in the United States last' year, and as
from 200,000,000 to 500,000,000 bushels are fed
to cattle every year, there was excuse for a rise.
But soon it became plain that the rise wasn’t
even. If the grower got one dollar a hundred
more, the retailer was charged two; and shortly
dollar after dollar was put on to the consumer
through the retailer, while the grower didn’t get
cents. The result was that meat buyers were
being squeezed to the tune of millions a month,
and when they turned to other articles of diet
the Trust arranged to follow them with a screw of
another sort.
For the People the New York Herald resolved
to fight. The campaign was begun with a special
edition of the paper and continued day by day
with facts gathered up from the length and breadth
of the continent ; with smashing leading articles,
with cartoons significant as the old black bull
head served up to a guest at a Highland dinner.
The Herald had the Trust as a body on the dis-
secting table, and bared the springs of all its
machinations in the face of the world. The
Herald appealed to all associations of workers, and
political or municipal organisations. The Herald
forced the Central Federated Labor Union with
its membership of 250,000 to rise and protest.
The Herald compelled Tammany'into a belated
championship of the People’s right, and when
the mind of the whole People was thoroughly
stirred, and its demand unmistakeably voiced,
declared plainly “ this matter is now up to Con-
gress, and let Congress see that the administra-
tion acts.”
The infamous wrong of the whole business had
been made so plain, that to have delayed action
would have been to court .overthrow, and then the
State Governor poked up the State Attorney-
General, and the President, the United States
Attorney-General, and the result, as the cable
curtly states, was an injunction granted by the
Supreme Court of the United States at Chicago
(the Court of last resort), which bursts up the beef
combination. The New York Herald has killed
that combination ; fighting journalism has killed
it. But it did not die without a struggle. A good
many of the journals who kept silent throughout
the fight are not the poorer therefor, and every
charge which the Herald made was answered by a
shower of pamphlets, crammed with lies, audacious
and convincing as money could buy. And yet
the fighting paper and the good cause won, even
in the United States ! The law was, and is, per-
fectly plain in the matter, though this doubtless is
news to many of our latter-day Cobdenites who
are for ever prating about the tyrannous usage the
people of these States will yet get from Protec-
tion-cradled Trusts. It has been laid down by the
Supreme Court in Washington that—•
The people have a right to the necessaries and con-
veniences of life at a price determined by the relations of
supply and demand, and the law forbids any combination
whereby the price is removed beyond the satisfactory
influence of legitimate competition.
By the statutes of the United States an offence
against that law is punished by fine or imprison-
ment. By the law of the State of New York,
Swift or Armour, if convicted within the State,
could be summarily sent to gaol. Is it the same
in England, or does Freetrade, amongst other
things, render Trusts innocuous there ? If it Were
so in N.S. W., how would that Homebush combine
amongst squatters, butchers, auctioneers and the
Sydney Meat Preserving Co. stand ? It is only a
paltry affair, but so far as the interests of the
Sydney consumer are concerned, it certainly does
remove the commodity of meat beyond the sphere
of legitimate competition.
Trusts, when they come to be hundred million
concerns, are awkward things to tackle, even when
the statutes are plain. Laws are apt to be silent
under their influences, and the fighting journal is
about the. only power which will set the law
effectively in motion. Unhappily there is no such
thing as a fighting journal among the Australian
daily papers.


WOOL
WINGHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN,
SYDNE Y.
IDDoipirs Fruit-Tree (flashes
Chief Agents; F. LASSETTER & CO.
SKINS
Kangaroo,
Wallaby,
Rabbit,
Opossum.
SEND ALL SKINS TO
WINCHGOMBE, CARSON & GO., Ltd.
SYDMEY,
The Leading Salesmen. Full Values and Quick Feturns.
SFJBCIAL NOTICE,
COLDSBROUCH, MORT & COMPANY Ltd.
SYDNEY.
Compare our Reduced Produce Charges
with those of
other Brokers.
Our Reduced Charges.
3 per cent.
3 per cent.
2 per cent.
3 per cent.
4 per cent.
3£ per cent.
per cent. (Minimum 5s per ton) BARK 4 per cent. (Minimum 4s per ton)
•While thus selling Produce at these unprecedently Low Rates, we desire to emphasise the fact that we are
fully maintaining' the high efficiency of our Produce D epartment, and Consignors can therefore, when entrust-
ing their produce to us, rely on securing results that will favorably compare with those obtained by sending
elsewhere. Special Terms offered to Agents influencing business. Correspondence invited. All Proceeds
absolutely safeguarded by our Trust Account system. GEORGE MAIDEN, Manager.
Old Charges.
4 per cent.
4 per cent.
2J per cent.
4 per cent.
5 per cent,
per cent.
HIDES
SHEEPSKINS
TALLOW (£lOO and over)
TALLOW (under £100)
HAIR, HORNS, BONES, &c.
FURRED SKINS
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYBMONT.
Sole CJiarge : 3 Per Cent, to tlie Growers.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Buyers.
WONDERFUL VALUE IN CIGARS
SINGLE BOX AT WHOLESALE PRICE.
GUARANTEE: EVERY CIGAR SOUND AND IN PERFECT CONDITION.
Goods Exchanged or Money Returned.
ROMA QUEENS
LA PAROLA, Reliable Smoke
HIGH LIFE MENDOZAS
NIMROD REINA VICTORIA ..
LA SPECIAL, from Choicest Leaf
SANTIAGO LA FLOlt, Fine Quality
“LEOLA,” Borneo, Mild Smoking
“ EL RIVAL,” Borneo, Full Flavor
HEAVY WEIGHTS (P. De Mendoza) ..
“PERLA”BOUQUET
“EL HONDO” (Rothschilds) ..
“MENDOZA” (Rothschilds)
“ PERLA ” (Rothschilds)
“MINERVA” No. 1 MANILA ..
“WINDSOR LADY” (Manila Regalia) ..
“PERLA MINERVA,” MANILA, Fine Quality
FLOR DE NAVES (Havana Reina)
HENRY CLAY (Havana Couchas, Extra)
DELIVERED FREE OF DUTY AND CHARGES.
Post Free
N.S.W.
s. d.
25 in box 9 2 per 100
1 oin box 10 2 per 100
1 "l in box 13 2 per 100
lu in box 13 2 per 100
100 in box 13 2 per 100
50 in box 14 11 per 100
50 in box 14 11 per 100
50 in box 14 11 per 100
ICO iii box 16 11 per 100
50 in box 18 8 per 100
25 in box 20 11 per 100
25 in box 25 2 per 100
25 in box 25 2 per 100
100 in box 15 5 per 100
50 in box 18 11 per 100
25 in box 24 11 per 100
100 in box 28 11 per 100
50 in box 35 0 per 100
Post Free Usual Rktati
Ohier States. Prick.
SEND FOR
OUR
LIST
OF
C. 8.8,
BRIAR
PIPES
*
TOBACCO MERCHANT and IMPORTER,
MICK SIMMONS,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
Tobacconists and Storekeepers may obtain Wholesale List on application.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS
Catalogue
Free . . .
French’s Acting Edition.
hsfd
Rare Rooks
French Novels
Books
for
the
Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
Books Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
HEALTH
AND
HAPPINESS.
TO the men or women who want to regain their health, who want to
feel like they did before misfortune overtook them, we offer one
of our Books, which will show the road to happiness. They
are brimful of the things you will like to read, which will give
you courage and enlighten you as to the causes and cure of your troubles.
They will point out the pitfalls and guide you safely to a future of
strength and happiness. They are beautifully illustrated, and tell what
others have suffered, and how they have cured themselves. They are
free, and will be sent, closely sealed, without marks. If you are not as
well as you ought to be, send for one to-day.
Dr- fflctaughlin’s Electric jilt
11l
\
A
yWH
\
Oif
Z#S
ft?.
-JV
<f'd
y~r£L
M
ri
V
cy<^>
,
y?
: I
*
~..|IVHVW\
Ij'Th
w
\W(
a
™/i»»ii/i
iJIII/llilHM
Mm
"""'iimin11 hniii!,, s
AND
FREE ELECTRIC
SUSPENSORY.^]
Cures in every case where recommended.
We have proven that Electricity is the basis of all animal life, ami that WEAK MEN, DYSPEPTICS, RHEUMATICS,
SUFFERERS; FROM INERTIA, WEAK KIDNEYS, PAINS IN THE BACK, HEAD, CHEST, AND SHOULDERS, are
weak in Electricity. Our Electric Belt restores this life in a few weeks, and cures every case where specially recommended.
South Olifton, June 6th, 1902.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.
Sirs,—Just a line to let you know that the
Belt is doing me a lot of good already. The
pains were eased almost immediately, and I
would not part with the appliance.—Yours
faithfully, ALBERT DRAYTON.
Perry-st., Brisbane, 3/8/’O2.
After 20 years of indifferent and generally
poor health, 1 consider myself a new man. I
am strong and vigorous in every way, and it is
all due to my using your wonderful Electric
Belt.
J. JENSEN.
I am pleased to say that the Belt has done
for me what you claimed. The most notice-
able improvement is from the waist down-
wards—that is, below the Belt. I do lots of
walking now without fatigue.
W. E. WICKHAM.
Bungooka, N.S.W.
Every day letters like the above reach us. They are the best proof of the genuineness of our Belt. Of course, we have certificates
from practical electricians ; also, ours is the only Belt bearing “AUSTRALIAN PATENT” RIGHTS.
-No one who ever saw our Belt doubted its genuineness, because it speaks for itself. Accept no other.
Your Belt is worth its weight in gold. For
years I have suffered a living death from
Sciatica, but a few short months of your electric
treatment cured me, and put me right again.
It gives me pleasure to recommend your Belt
to both my friends and strangers.—Yours
gratefully,
Wm. OGLESBY,
Kegworth-street,
Leichhardt.
Your Electric Belt worked wonders on me.
Over two years suffering and no relief, and
then your Belt to put me right in a few weeks,
seems marvellous. Send any skeptics to me.
J. WHITHORN,
24 C Shed, Vic. Markets, Melbourne.
Parkes, June 9th, 1902.
the dr. McLaughlin 00.
Gentleman, —I am pleased to be able to tell
you that I km well satisfied with the effect of
your Belt. ! I use it but very little, and I find
even that has the desired effect.
My wife has worn it also for rheumatic pains
with success.
; Yours truly,
F. J. GLASSON.
Mail Facilities
We have by far the largest mail or home treatment business in, not “ A.USTRALIA,” but THE
WORLD ; having more than twenty large branches, consequently our system is the most complete
known.
You write for book, and it leaves by return mail. All diagnosis are written in plain language, and are free, made from your
tatement the day we receive it. Also, our Belts are sent packed, free from observation.
NO MEDICINES are required, and this, of course CUTS OFF the LARGER PART of THE EXPENSE to the patient
ft|OTICE
If you have an old-style Belt that disappointed you, send it in, and we will allow you for it in exchange. We do this not because the
old Belt is any use, for it is not. But we wish to show people, candidly, that there is only one real electric appliance to be had, and
that we have nothing in common with concerns selling a cheap, worthless article. Call and have a free test, ■and get our free book
explaining our methods. Don’t delay.
the dr. McLaughlin co.,
85 KING ST., SYDNEY.
HOURS —9 a.m. to 9 p.m.
Melbourne Office: 167 E Swan si on-street.
Agents or Chemists are not allowed to sell our Goods.
When you use our Belt, you are under the care of a skillful dootor.


GENERAL
ELECTRIC
COMPANY.
Capital - - - £5,250,000.
Manufactures the Highest Grade of
Electrical Machinery.
THEIR NAME IS A CUARANTEE.
Dynamos, Engines and Motors up to 250 H.P. in Stock.
Lighting and Power Plants for Immediate Delivery.
Arc and Incandescent Lamps and Supplies of all kinds.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC GO.,
Electrical Engineers and Contractors,
SOLE REPRESENTATIVES.
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, Melbourne and Sydney.
ROBERTS' HOTEL, you enjoy your lunch
George and Market Sts.*
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAY.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY.
Single Room, with. Bull Board, Bs. per
day, or JB2 2s. per week.
TERMS. The convenient
system of paying 1 for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
When you come to Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Rooms ; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays thpre is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp—from Is.—and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner q,nd
tea from 5.30 to 7-30 —from Is.
upwards. Silver grill at work.
HEALTH GIVING,
ENO’S
REFRESHING,
—‘FRUIT
AND INVIGORATING. SALT.
2h.p. to lOOh.p.
KING. MARINE OIL ENGINES,
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
'iiMw/wturmwi/S/AffM
Noiseless Uuderwater . .
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
J. F.
Telephone 2671.
WITH THE KING ENGINE—ONE LEVER CONTROLS THE WHOLE.
MCDERMOTT & ..COMFABTT,
37 MARKET 1 ' STREET, S
Low, Languid, and Dispirited.
The Vagaries of a Torpid Liver.
A Useful Lesson for Sufferers.
The Case of Mir. J. DEGNAN.
(FOR THE “ REDFERN TIMES.”)
Among the most important missions of
inquiry placed on record was that recently
made by our reporter to the home of Mr.
John Degnan, Garden-street, North Botany.
This is due as much to the magnitude of Ins
discoveries as to the interest of the incident
he elicited on inquiring.
“ Will you favour me with a complete
outline of the vicissitudes you successfully
combated ? ” ,
“ Right willingly,” answered Mr. Deg-
nan, as he offered the pressman a seat. 3? ive
years went by from the time my illness
started till it was finally conquered, and if
I did not have a bad time it was a caution.
Bear in mind, it was all through the torpid
state of my liver, and, believe me, I got
into such a very wretched condition that I
did not care whether I lived or not. Before
I was really aware what disaster was be-
falling me I used to feel as though I had no
life in me, and was always low-spirited and
sleepy. There was only one thing that I
was tit for, and that was to lie down, but
when I did so 1 could not sleep, my mind
being actively engaged in going through a
multitude of unhappy thoughts which
seemed to be born of the melancholy condi-
tion I was in. What caused me considerable
uneasiness of mind was that my appetite
became poorer every day, and still more
anxiety was engendered by the knowledge
that what food I did eat was of no benefit
to me, my ability to digest any kind of
eatables having vanished. In this way it
transpired that my strength wasted away
till it was often compulsory for me to knock
off work, although my employment at that
time was not of a heavy description.”
“ How did you feel after your meals? ”
“Just as if I had swallowed so much
lead. Something like a heavy ball seemed
to form in my stomach, the pains arising
from which were simply horrible, and from
the stomach the heavy sensations travelled
up to my chest, thereby giving me extra-
ordinary difficulty in breathing. My head
ached to a degree which proved almost dis-
tracting, for I could not settle down to
read or do anything, and there was even a
swollen feeling in my eyes to annoy me.
Owing to a pricking sensation under my
shoulder-blades I used to think I had
caught a cold, but experience has taught
me that that was a deranged liver symptom,
while another one, although more torment-
ing in its persistency, was a nasty aching
pain across the loins, which I felt very dis-
tinctly whenf* moving about. The bitter
taste in my mouth was enough to turn any
man off' his food, and the dirty coating on
my tongue used to make me feel sick. At
times, when exhausted nature claimed a
few houis’ rest, I fell asleep, but there was
no comfort in doing so, as the ugly diearns
I had simply beggar description The flesh
gradually fell away from my frame till my
bones were quite visible, and my prospects
were anything- but rosy, especially as my
head had long since been troublesome.
W ithout any ostensible reason it used to
start beating violently against my ribs, the
sound it made being quite loud enough to
be heard several yards away. It seemed
more than likely that my heart was diseased,
particularly so as those fits of palpitation
were usually accompanied by feelings of
faintness. The worry of mind and pain of
body at last succeeded in wearing out my
patience, for it took but little to make me
irritable and excited, after which I sank
into the old gloomy groove of misery till
something else occurred to upset me. Ner-
vousness was not the least of my ailments,
as my nerves twitched involuntarily when-
ever anything happened to disturb me, and
in spite of the medicines I had taken, they
?till trembled at the least provocation.”
“ Where did you get your medicine from,
Mr. Degnan ?”
“ I refer to the medicines which my*
doctors prescribed for me, but which I
might as well have left untouched for all the
good they were. I was always paying
money away to doctors, and never got any
value back for it; but now if I should
have the ill-luck to fall into bad health
again I would go straight for Clements
Tonic, as I know it to be the best medicine
ever brought within the reach of suffering
humanity.”
“That being your opinion, why did you
not take some earlier than you did ? ”
“ Recause I had been suffering five years
before I was told about Clements Tonic,
and another reason was because I had de-
cided against taking any more medicine, as
I thought it was useless. But a relative
came upon the scene and told me how
Clements Tonic had cured his complaints,
which were like mine in nearly every detail;
so I promised to try it, and when I did so
it was the best day’s work I ever did, for
Clements Tonic piloted me to health. I
used to dread the very idea of taking any
food, but when I had been on Clements
Tonic a few days it was quite different, as I
was always the first to sit down to meals
and the last one to finish eating, and before
a week was over there was a great reduc-
tion in the severity of my pains in the
stomach. My food did not ferment and
turn to wind as in former years, but it
digested quite readily, and of course I got
the benefit of its The weary
feelings which had darkened my days were
wafted away by the invigorating qualities
of Clements Tonic, which likewise buckled
together my shattered nerves and made
them firm and true. The greatest surprise
I ever got in my life was when I discovered
what a splendid medicine Clements Tonic
was for promoting healthful sleep, and I
say ‘ healthful ’ advisedly, for there was no
languidness or depression on awaking, such
as is experienced after taking sleeping
draughts or other such means for producing
slumber. The anxious misgivings which I
had borne in silence when my heart was
given to palpitating were not long in being
dispelled, for Clements Tonic made that
organ beat with the regularity of a clock,
and I can make the same statement in
regard to my internal functions generally,
for I never suffered from constipation after
taking a few bottles of Clements Tonic,
which relieved my chest pains, and head-
aches very easily. It was pleasant to get
up and notice that my tongue was clean and
that the bitter taste had left my mouth,
but what was still more 1 o be appreciated
was the fact that every ache and pain had
deserted my body, which was regaining its
weight from day to day.”
“ Are you sure about the completeness of
your cure ? ”
“l am quite positive that Clements Tonic
made a new man of me by giving me better
health and more strength than I ever had
before. Not long ago I was helping to cut a
road through the mountains, about ten miles
from Nowra, and I found that I could do
the heaviest manual labour going without
being unduly fatigued, and, as Clements
Tonic gave me the health to do it, you can
publish my story in any way you want.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
1, John Df.gnan, of Garden-streer. North Botany,
in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth
of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare
that I have carefully read the annexed document,
consisting of five folios, and consecutively numbered
from one to five, and lhat it contains and is a
true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic; and also contains my full per-
mission to publish in any way my statements —
which I give voluntarily, without receiving any
payment; and I make this solemn declaration con-
scientiously believing the same to be true, and by
virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Darlinghurst this twenty-
eighth day of February, one thousand nine hundred
and two, before me,
THOMAS MOORE. J.P.
THE GREAT EVENT.
HATTE’S coronation fair
rpHE
Kinc rules bv right of descent over Millions of Free-born Britishers, and Hatte, by virtue of
Good Value, exercises a gentle sway over the Ladws of New South Wales. Just now-
The Great Coronation Fair
And the People of both High and Low Degree are Rejoicing.
is on
There are £250,000 of Absolute FAIRING BARGAINS and 400 Highly Efficient
Assistants waiting to give a ROYAL WELCOME to the LOYAL LEIGES
of THE KING OF THE DRAPERY TRADE.
Ladies ' come early to the Fair (it will console you for being absent from Westminster), and
send for a Fair Book-the Greatest Bargain List ever published.
r Q. HATTE, Newtown.
“On Our Selection.” By “Steele Rudd.”


Inherited Cough
“ Yery anxious about him —Father
and Brother died of Consumption ”
A cough that defies all efforts to suhdue it
gives rise to many an anxious hour. It need
not: the right thing will cure it, though all
the wrong things in the world will not.
Here is the illustration :
“ 13, Embankment Residences,
“ Cremorne Road, Chelsea,
“ London, England, Oct. 29th, 1900.
fl Dear Sirs, —I have much pleasure in
testifying to the excellent results obtained
from taking Scott’s Emulsion. My son,
Sidney Blackman, had a very trying and
stubborn cough, which would not respond
to treatment, and I was very anxious about
him, having lost both his father and brother
from that dread disease, consumption. My
son was recommended to take Scott’s Emul-
sion, and after taking it for a short time his
cough was decidedly better. The treatment
was continued with the result that my son’s
cough was completely cured, and his general
SIDNEY BLACKMAN.
(From a photograph.)
health was greatly improved, and I feel con-
vinced that Scott’s Emulsion has been the
means of building up his constitution. I
consider it a wonderful preparation, and so
much nicer and easier to take than the
ordinary cod-liver oil, which my boy never
would take plain, but experienced no
difficulty whatever with Scott’s Emulsion.
I feel that the benefits to be derived from
Scott’s Emulsion cannot be too widely
known, hence the reason of my sending
you this letter, trusting it may be the means
of benefiting many who may read it.—
Yours faithfully,
“ (Signed) M. 0. Loder.”
The story Mrs. Loder tells we have heard
o’er and o’er : how people wandering on the
b >rderland of consumption go on trying all
sorts of substitutes for and imitations of
the right thing and are no better, even
worse, because discouraged. Then suddenly
they are advised to try the right thing—
Scott’s Emulsion—and as suddenly they are
better, the cure has begun, the remedy they
need they have, and once again existence is
attractive, for the life within them seems to
stir again.
There must be many who will read this
paragraph who secretly have admitted to
themselves that they fear consumption.
They need not if they will attack the com-
ing trouble with Scott’s Emulsion. We
have hundreds of similar unsolicited testi-
monials in cases exactly similar to Master
Blackman’s.
And there is a solid reason why Scott’s
Emulsion makes short work with consump-
tive tendencies. The cod-liver oil it contains
in such palatable form enriches the blood
and stops the wasting, which is consumption.
Then the attacked tissue is strengthened
and healed by the hypophosphites of lime
and soda. These three elements, combined
as they are in our process, promptly and
definitely eradicate consumptive tendencies.
How long will you go on trying useless
things before you begin with the right thing,
which is—Scott’s Emulsion!
A man carrying a big fish is our trade
mark ; they must be on the wrapper of the
bottle if you want the right thing.
You can obtain a sample of Scott’s Emulsion
by sending fourpenceto Scott & Bowne, Ltd.,
483 Kent-street, Sydney, and mentioning this
paper. All chemists sell Scott’s Emulsion.
CURES
COUGH
HfcVE'fOU K COUCH
COLD.
used pR° niPTLY
STOPS
COIID
bmsm*
WWW**
STOPS
COL£>
*nd
faV slasble in N«' se f
10 ■ « Crtd.l' 0 ' 2 ' 6 -
Cas^? nceS ’
CURES
COUCH
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand,
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Ou new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per cent,
of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
BICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
MOMitm.
Commercial
Puggy,
£l4 10s.
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
43T Send for a
Catalogue.
I
Bent'Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicle#
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HIILIER, 130 Sussex-street.
W : MELBOURNE-ST„ CONCORD, SYDNEY
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for Catalogue. Agents wanted.
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
SUM
I
''lfJijU
f
m
/ s
WHOLESALE
Distributing Agents
Hew South Wales—
fVl. RUTTY & CO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
<l. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrence % Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
I
[
Western Australia —
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland —
Thos. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Philp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie A Co.,
Launceston
Xcv Zealand —
D. Benjamin & Co.
Dunedin, nejungton
and Christohurcn.
*
m
The GANZ
Electric Apparatus
are built right.
Let us give you some
evidence of their
superiority.
Canz Direct Current Air-Propeller. 1 SOLE AGENTS:
The lustral Qtis Engineering go., [td., South Hfelb.
■ ■ 1
“A genuine
old Brandy
made from
Wine.”
Medical Press.
THREE STAR
Particularly suitable
for Medicinal
Purposes.”
The Lancet
hfd
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description o i
SADDLERY! If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not ba
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 pat
cent more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Clc vulaud-stroet, Redfern, 6)LOA A it
OUK SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
Delivered at any Wharf er
IV.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
hfgd
Price 6s.
Post Free.
“ON OUR
SELECTION.
jj
BY
“Steele Rudd.’
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Fascination.
Grey Eyes, Grey Eyes, thou canst not know
Thy changeless, cruel charm !
Else, nun-like, veiled thou wouldst go
To spare the world a harm
Such as its fevered past hath known
From fateful eyes like thine —
The crash of monarchs overthrown,
Tall city, tower and shrine
Withered away, and sullen red
That stained the river tide
From eager hearts that nameless bled,
And unremembered died.
No one, Grey Eyes, will ever dare
Divine what meaning sleeps,
Like a crouched lion in his lair,
Within those shadowed deeps,
On thee, far rapt from prayer or boon,
An antique wonder lies,
Like a remote mysterious moon
Amid englamoured skies:
As to the moon the sea-tides yearn,
So in the hearts of men
To thee, full-flood, love’s tide shall turn,
Nor ever ebb again.
ZADIG
In a Fern Gully.
A grandeur there is that can awe,
A beauty serene, without passion;
A garden of roses is fair,
But roses are wedded to fashion.
We leave the old paths, and we roam
The deeps of the hills, fresh as morning,
That all the long ages have spent
Their unplundered wealth in adorning.
Here beauty unmeasured, unsung,
Time ripens, and man doth not sully;
A wild, wanton grace, that enchants,
Runs riot in this lonely gully.
This paradise made to refresh
A land that grows wan and sun-dreary—
This bower of a virgin who smiles
And hushes to sleep the world-weary.
Rich drapings of shimmering green,
Embroideries no art surpasses,
Of blossom, and berry, and leaf,
And ferns that outnumber the grasses.
The dead that lie here are not dead,
Soft mosses their starkness o’er-cover;
The sensuous air doth embrace,
And whisper, and sigh, like a lover.
We hear the low throb, and the moan
Of seas that beat back the world’s thunder,
Those seas we have crossed, and full much,
The years that have gone have trod under—
The loss hath seemed more than the gain,
And thorns have been gathered for roses ;
The wind through the gum-boughs may rave,
But not a sound awes when day closes.
The dying, the dead, shall we mourn ?
We front not the Dark, but the Dawning,
And kiss the fresh lips of new loves
That give life a richer adorning—
Time opens the gates that were shut,
And unrolls the scroll as he races
And Beauty more beautiful grows,
And flowers bloom in earth’s desert places.
The music of water and wind
Is symphony, passionate, tender ;
The birds in the musk bushes sing
Of love that to love would surrender,
And love steeps the odorous air—
The full love that Nature confesses —
The love of a mother who tends,
And spoils a spoilt child by caresses.
ANDREW SARD.
To Lydia.
As tho’ you heard me I will sing;
As tho’ you e’en were here ;
My thoughts shall float on Fancy’s wing
Till dull earth disappear;
And then perchance may sink to rest.
Where you yourself may be ;
Then, if they nestle in your breast,
You must remember me.
I’ll sing, but not of love; for that
Is far too deep a theme.
All song love well might cavill at,
Love, too sweet e’en for dream !
I’ll only tell you that my days
spent with shapes of you ;
All clothed in many diverse ways—
In robes of many a hue.
I’ll only tell you that my nights
Have you for their lode-star;
That life with all its flashing lights
Is centred where you are.
I’ll only tell you—no, I’ll pray
That love may aid me well,
And tell you that which, night or day,
Myself can never tell.
AHAU.
Sydney Sunday Times (3/8/’O2) has, in
this cable, made a most important discovery :
NANSEN’S RECORD BEATEN.
The' Baldwin-Zeigler North Pole expedition has re-
turned. Though it did not reach the Pole, it got as far
asBldeg. 33min.
[Nansen’s furthest north, the previous best, was 86deg.
175min.]
■!6deg. 175 min., it may be explained, is equal to
one pound, 36 shillings and 23 pence, or to eighteen
bushels past 12 in the morning, which is the same
as one mile, three quarts and two ounces of road
measurement. And the Sunday Times actually
doesn’t know that 86deg. is nearer to the Pole
than Sldeg.


A
THE
BEAUTIFUL FABRIC.
Velveteen.
NOTE WELL!—Each Yard of Genuine “LOUIS” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L“0"U-|-S and in no other
way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
S. FREEMAN # SONS L!^
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
PRIZE
POWDER.
PICKLES
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Hennessy’s
Old Battle Axe
Brand
is
Known
and
Appreciated
all the
World
Over.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
/Q
V .
I -
1
Ac
1
In every section of the civilised world may be found agents
for Ruberoid, which is unequalled as an economical roofing.
cstMm.
%rv
> ;
r >ran
BPS*
I f
a ,-
.’ B
rs
RUBEROID BUILD NO AT ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SHOW, SYDNEY, N.S.W
E. RICH & CO.
LIMITED.
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
AGENTS—
Brooks, Robinson & Co. Ltd.,
Melbourne, Vic.
A. W. Sandford & Co.,
Adelaide, S.A.
J. M. Ferguson Ltd.,
Fremantle, W.A.
James W. Jack,
Wellington, N.Z.
Hedley Button,
Launceston, Tas.
•£?
r'A
&
EEBEEOID


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Voi. 23.—N0. 1175.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 23, 1902.
Pricb 6d.
THAT BEAR
"Owing to John Forrest's indiscreet utteranoes in London the Federal Cabenet has obliged to usggest to the Premier the necessity of 'muzzling' him"-NEWS ITEM.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australian». ,>
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
, Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
1 At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERI
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
Notice to Subset'liters in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westrnlin and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
41, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no except ion to this r ule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of lid. postage, the subscription
to Tiie Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of Tub Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
tvhich you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to 3 F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable). Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But ive
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
i,e , any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tub Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
San Francisco. — L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
South Africa. —it. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Capetown. Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 23, 1902.
The Victorian Railway Troubles.
Whatever may be the end of the disturb-
ance that has been raised in the Victorian
public service by the Irvine-Shiels Govern-
ment’s famous sweating scheme for the partial
restoration of the finances (for it isn’t certain
even now that the end has been reached), the
episode itself is discreditable all round. The
coarse, ignorant brutalities of Minister Bent,.
no doubt,, aggravated the case. A man with
more of the finer instincts that are supposed
to, differentiate humanity from the lower
aaiimals might have cut down the wages of
the railway servants with less trouble, but
Bent’s constant tendency to add insult to'
injury, his pot-house methods, and his fixed
idea that to be a “strong man” it is necessary
to have the manners of a chucker-out, were
bound to create friction. Minister Bent
is one of these unfortunately-constituted
members of the bear tribe who could hardly
raise the wages of the men—to say nothing of
lowering them—without causing irritation.
Butapart fromthe mistake involved hißents:
political existence—which mistake was in
itself about equivalent to appointing a prize-
fighter to be ambassador at Paris or St.
Petersburg—the whole business was a piti-
able example of slipshod administration,,
incapacity, lack of courage, lack of foresight,,
lack of everything, in fact, that goes to make
a statesman.
« * * *
The proposed reduction in the wages of
the Victorian railway employees, which led.
to all the trouble, was not based on the
assertion that they were overpaid. The only
reason assigned was that an inept Govern-
ment, or a series of inept Governments, had
wandered into a bog of difficulties, and wanted
to find the easiest way out. It had to find,
money somewhere, and if it was a
Government created wholly by the Victorian
civil service, then it would be a fair thing j
to lay a specially heavy tax on the civil ser-
vice to make good the failings of its special
Government. Or if the old age pension
expenditure and war expenditure, which are
partly the causes of the deficit, were solely
for the benefit of the civil service, then that
body should be specially taxed to pay them.
Or if the abolished inter-State duties, the
loss of which is also largely responsible
for the shortage, were taken principally off
the shoulders of the civil service, then
that body should make up the loss. As
none of these things are so, the retrench-
ment proposals are a cowardly device in the
way of class taxation —an attempt to put an
extra share of the load of the Government’s
incapacity on a section of the community
whose sole qualification for bearing it is its
comparative helplessness. There is no
earthly reason for charging the railway
engine-driver an extra 9d. or Is. in the £
income-tax, without exemptions , to make up
the shortages of a Government for whose
existence he is no more responsible than
anybody else, than for similarly charging
Frederick Sargood, or Austin Zeal, or
Simon Fraser, or Baronet Clarke —save
that the Unspeakable Bent can terrorise
the engine-driver by threats of the “sack,”
while he can’t very well sack Sargood.
The Unspeakable, in fact, prefers to hit
something smaller than himself.
* • • •
Treasurer Shiels, as one reason for his
wage-reduction proposals, averred that
there are 4000 superfluous persons in
the Victorian public service. If that is
so, it suggests either gross incapacity
or shameful corruption on the part, among
others, of one William Shiels, who was
lately joint-Premier for a year (1899-1900),
and didn’t reveal this fact or take steps to
remedy it, but rather, by new appointments,
made the evil more aggravated. Also, as
Shiels has even now come forward with no
scheme for the gradual abolition of the
alleged superfluous 4000, he seems as incap-
able as ever. In any case, the Victorian
public servants didn’t themselves appoint
the superfluous 4000, and to cut down their
wages to make up the price of other people’s
political corruption is absurd, to say nothing
of being dishonest. If the Victorian rail-
way employees are over-paid, that again
reflects on the courage or honesty of one
William Shiels, who hasn’t the courage to
tell them so even now, and who recently held
the joint Premiership for 12 months without
doing anything to prevent these railway ser-
vants fromlootingthe pubfic. But no one says
the Victorian public service isoverpaid. Even
Bent doesn’t assert that. He merely says
that the proposed reduction only amounts to
3s. a week taken off the wages of a first-class
engine-driver, and a trifle like that is no
justification for a strike or other disturb-
ance. By Bent’s own showing this is
exactly the same as if the income-tax, in the
case of the very best-paid engine-driver, was
increased by about 4s. 6d. in the £ (from 4d.
to 4s. 10s.)—the tax being only chargeable in
Victoria on that part of the income which
exceeds £2OO a year. Probably, if the
engine-driver’s wages were accurately ascer-
tainable at the moment, the increase
amounts to more than that. It is a pity
Bent and co. do not try an increase of even
Is. in the £ on the income-tax of the
Kyabram reformers, and see how that
trifle—which is 75 per cent, less than
the trifle now under consideration—
would be received. Retrenchment (when
it doesn’t take the form of discharging
superfluous employees, but of cutting down
the wages of indispensable workers) and taxa-
tion are exactly the same thing. One is giving
less to a man ; the other is taking more from
liim. One is no more honorable than another,
if they are both applied allround. But to re-
trench one class or to tax one class, not
because it is the one best able to stand it, or
the one of least value to the community, but
because it is the ■ only class that Bent can
yell at with impunity and threaten with the
loss of its means of livelihood if it resists, is
a cowardly sacrifice of principle to expedi-
ency. If Bent, who proposes to raise the
income-tax rate on the best-paid engine-
driver by 4s. 6d. in the £, had threatened
the Kyabram reformers with an extra
Is. in the £ they would have used far worse
language than the engine-drivers. And Bent
himself would probably have crawled in
apology and explanation.
* * •
The most visible immediate causes of the
present Victorian financial trouble are these
eight :
(1) The granting of old age pensions (which was a good
thihg) without making any arrangement for raising the
money (which was not a good thing). Quite a number of
the present retrenchment crowd gained much popularity
by advocating the payment of old age pensions, without
tackling the unpopular job of finding the money to pay
them with. The public service isn’t responsible for this,
nor are old age pension! for its special benefit.
(2) The S’African war bill, and the flat refusal of the
wealthy class which howled most loudly about its desire
to “ make sacrifices for the Empire” to sacrifice a copper
in payment of the bill.
(3) The overloading of the civil service through corrupt
politicians (who now cry bitterly for retrenchment) foist-
ing their incapable relatives and constituents on it
wnfen there was no real work for them to do. They did
this from the meanest motives of self-interest, and
Treasurer Shiels says that the practice has loaded the
service with 4000 superfluous employees. The wages or
these 4000 are in themselves said to be equal to the whole
deficit. The politicians who brought this about now
expect great credit.for partly making good the shortage
by cutting down the wages, among others, of capable
public servants who got into the service on their merits.
But thev don’t offer to find their hangers on employment
elsewhere, nor do they offer any guarantee that they
won’t push 4000 more incapable and superfluous friends
inti the service. , ~
(4) The railway shortage. The railways don t pay
because grasping landowners loaded them with an im-
mensity of needless debt by the wholesale way they
swindled the Government over the land resumptions.
Also because there is too much railway in proportion to
population, the land-owning class having log-rolled alt
manner of hopeless lines for land boom purposes. Like-
wise because the farming and pastoral class (the Kyapram
reform class) insists on having its produce carried below
cost at the expense of the general taxpayer.
(5) The abolition of a large number of taxes by tne re-
moval of all inter-State duties, and the refusal of a weak
and incapable Government to levy new taxation to nil
Tefthe shameful dishonesty of Kyabram “ re-
formers” and other grasping and selfish characters,
who repudiated the obligations they had solemnly
entered into when their irrigation works were con-
structed, and shifted the burden on to the general
revenue. ,
(7) The greed and mendicant habits of the Local
Government bodies (largely representative of the land-
owning class), which, in the country especially, refuse to
levy nearly enough rates to pay for their local works, and
are perpetually cadging on the Treasury for aids and
subsidies.
(8) The fact that the great bulk of Victoria pays
no land-tax, and its unpatriotic landlords would sooner
see the State insolvent than pay. Only estates which are
over 610 acres in extent and also over £2500 in value pay
tax in Viotoria, and then merely on the value over and
above £2500. All Melbourne is exempt, it not being divided
into 640-acre blocks.
• * * »
These are the most immediate reasons of
the Victorian deficit. Behind them is the
huge burden of public debt. Also the in-
capacity of the great Bent and Shiels tribe
of legislators, whose rule is to take no thought
for the morrow, and to pay off none of the
debt in good years, but rather to accumulate
new loans, so that there will be an intoler-
able burden of interest to pay in bad years.
Behind everything, there is the greed and
cowardice of the propertied class, whose
burden of taxation, local and national, is
about one-fourth that carried by the cor-
responding class in England, and whose
pitiable wails for still further reduction of
its burdens, keep the Treasury always on
the verge of insolvency, and always accumu-
lating fresh liabilities and fresh deficits.
There is no unavoidable misfortune about
the matter only corruption, greed,
cowardice, incapacity, hard lying, miserable
pandering to the propertied class and the
Kyabram looters, and Shiels and the Un-
speakable Bent on top of all.
« • ~ • *
Probably enough, even the retrench-
ment proceeding would have passed off
quietly if Bent’s methods had not been
so suggestive of the slum or the prize-
fight, and if the reductions had been accom-
panied by an increase of taxation. But
when almost the most lightly-taxed crowd of
landlords in the world didn’t offer to carry a
penny of the burden, and instead shunted
the cost of its private irrigation works on
to the State—when Shiels informed the
public servants that the wage of the working
section of them had to be cut down because
he and his kind had put 4000 of their super-
fluous friends and hangers-on and political
supporters into the service as useless para-
sites—and when Bent jeered at the superior
railway officials for objecting to pay 4s.
lOd. in the £ income-tax when the Kya-
bram patriots lament about paying 4d. in the
£ —and when they heard a country which
is more lightly taxed, even with its Old
Age Pensions, than the United Kingdom is
without them, complaining that its burdens
were so heavy that it could only pay its way
by sweating its employees —when the
service heard all these things its attitude
naturally became unfriendly. The yellings
of the bull-voiced Bent may bear down
opposition, but they won’t make the Irvine-
Shiels-Bent Government any the less a
pitiable combination of cowardice, shuffle,
and incapacity.
Capital Punishment.
The Bill to amend the law in regard to Capital
Punishment was, as usual, talked out in N.S.W,
Assembly last week. The Parliamentary system
rarely allows a private member to carry through a
Bill of any importance ; measures which are not
adopted by a Government as their own have but
small chance of getting successfully through the
many stages which must be passed ere a Bill be-
comes an Act, even though there is a fairly strong
public and legislative opinion in their favor. But
The Bulletin hopes to see very shortly a Bill for
the abolition of Capital Punishment brought for-
ward as a Cabinet measure in every Australian
State. The whole tendency of modern sociology
is trending steadily against the community paying
back a murder with a murder, against a system
which is as inherently illogical as that of
the Corsican vendetta. This, needless to say,
arises from no sympathy with assassins as a
class; no desire to make things easy for persons
committing wilful murder, but from a profound
conviction—a conviction unassailable in argument
—that capital punishment is useless as a deterrent,
barbarous as a reprisal, and utterly mischievous,
in that it tends to allow criminals to escape due
punishment, and to permit maniacs, who should
in the community-interest be shut up for ever, to
have freedom and opportunity for further out-
lages- .
There is also the argument from reason ; it is
as clear a priori as a posteriori. Hanging is
admittedly a barbarous act as an act. No j udge, no
sheriff, no “respectable person” will hang a man
himself. The actual work is left to some degraded
criminal, who can thus earn a concession from
prison discipline, or to a freeman who is willing
to become a pariah among his fellows, and whose
nature can be accurately judged by that very
willingness. The. hangman to any ordinarily
constituted person, is a loathsome being; very,
very few would con|ent to eat. with him, talk
with him, or allow him the rights .of human
intercourse. The community, in this attitude
towards the instrument of its decrees, admits the
barbarity of those decrees. If it is not a savage
and brutal thing to hang a man, why hasn t the
hangman the right of every other civil servant
the right of the sheriff and of the Judge, to go to
Government House and have the honest hand
which does such valuable work for the community
grasped by the Governor and fondled by the
society lady? The community knows it is a
savage thing to pay back the killer with a killing,
to throttle, as in some cases, the mad victirn of a
cruel destiny ; and, whilst it permits hanging, its
sentiment, more or less conscious, revolts against
hanging and refuses to help actively m a hanging.
Tfierein lies the grave danger to the community
in the system of Capital Punishment. A jury
with, say, a murderess, clearly and unmlstake-
ably a murderess, before it for judgment, hesitates
to say “ guilty ” ; the spectacle of the woman m
the hands of the hangman comes to its eyes.
Better a lie than that, and the woman goes out of
court, perhaps to murder another. Or, a cold-
blooded murder has been committed, and the
criminal, some dangerous lunatic with a mama for
killing, or some wretch whose ungovernable fits ot
fury are a peril to all with whom he has to asso-
ciate, is fleeing from justice. By right every
member of the community should be eager to
help the law to lay its hands on the criminal; and
it is usually sought to stimulate this eagerness by
the offer of a money reward. But in practice,
who gives really practical aid to the officers of the
law ? How many, on the other hand, do all that
they can to shield the offender ? In the nnnd of
every man who has the option of helping the law or
the criminal, there is the thought of tne choking,
the horror of the blood-money. To help to cage the
criminal, he is more than willing; to help to
hang him, no. The scaffold scene would haunt
his nights afterwards. So the police rarely have
murderers betrayed into their hands, except by
women, whose smaller sensibility permits them
often to do things at which men would revolt.
• • * •
The purpose of the law should be to deter the
criminal as far as possible, and to shut up for ever
those whose instincts make them a source of
danger to the community. It is of vital im-
portance that the law should be sure ; there is no
need for it to be savage. To shut up nine mur-
derers out of ten i 3 better than to hang five and
leave five with a chance to repeat their crimes.
The system of capital punishment tends, in the
first instance, to brutalise the community, and to
make life less sacred ; in the second instance, to
allow homicides sometimes to escape trial, some-
times to escape conviction. The plea for its
abolition is not put forward on behalf of assassins,
but on behalf of those who are liable to be
assassinated.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
M'Millan’s Testimony in Favor of
Protection.
William M‘Millan, the one-time Freetrade
Treasurer of New South Wales, who heavily pro-
tected newspapers, beer, wine, tobacco, cigars,
sugar, all kinds of woodwork, fruit, bacon, bis-
cuits, butter, candles, cement, cheese, confec-
tionery, hams, tongues, all kinds of galvanised
iron, jams, jellies, salt, and a number of other
things, is a man of many parts. The same brief
and rather excitable William is deputy-leader of
the Freetrade party in the House of Representa-
tives, where, despite his N.S.W. career as a
Treasurer who protected the State’s principal
industries and denounced Protection at the same
time, he poses as a man whose devotion to Free-
trade has always been solid and unquestionable.
And as he stands upon an envelope in order
to see over the top of twopence he is full of
pitying scorn for Protectionists who not only
preach but practise their creed, and wants to
know why they can’t see the simple truths of his
own faith —the truths which he so badly failed to
see himself. Also M'Millan represents here the
rich absentee firm of M‘Arthur and Co.—which
had to be Freetrade in the old days, because it
lived by bringing the products of cheap English
labor into Australia, and the advent of a decently-
paid Australian industry would naturally inter-
fere with its business. But times have changed.
Australia has a tariff which aims at fostering Aus-
tralian industries—not the outside industries of
rich absentees ; and, in practice if not in theory,
M'Millan moves with the times. This is an
extract from a circular issued by his firm early in
the present year:
In future it is our intention to manufacture locally all
lines that can be made up here to advantage, thus saving
the heavv import duties on apparel.
The Clothing Factory.—Owing to the very large in-
crease in this branch of our business we have been com-
pelled to add two additional storeys to our factory, and
throughout it is now equipped on entirely modern lines
and able to cope with all demands.
Our Shirt Factory has been established for some three
months now, and during that time has been engaged in
making up goods for the new season ; these shirts will
escape the 274 per cent, duty on imported lines. In this
factory we have already over 100 hands employed.
Straw Factory.—ln this branch we have also had to
duplicate the machinery to enable us to keep up output
with the demand, and are now turning out 500 dozens per
week ; clients may, therefore, thoroughly rely upon all
orders placed with us being duly executed in the future.
That is the painful spectacle of M'Millan ad-
mitting that Protection increases local industry
and supplies the Australian people with work and
good wages (it can’t be supposed that M'Millan
pays sweater’s wages). And after preaching for
years that the 274 per cent, is not only added to
the price of the goods, but that it adds 40 or 60
per cent, to the price of the goods, the above
shows M'Millan assuring the public that, by
buying his protected manufactures, they will
ESCAPE THE 274 per cent. duty. Then here is an
extract from another circular (dated 20th Feb.,
1902) also issued by M'Millan’s firm :
THREE GREAT LINES OF FLANNELS AT LESS
THAN FREETRADE PRICES.
28/29-inch. 60yd. lengths, at 9d. per yard.
30-inch full, 48yd. ~ lid. „
36-inch full, 48yd. ~ 13d. ~
In Assorted Colors as Samples enclosed.
Please COMPARE these with any imported or
locally purchased goods you may have obtained before
the Duties were imposed.
You will recognise these GOODS are of EXCEP-
TIONAL VALUE, and it will prove to your advan-
tage to fill requirements for the coming season
IMMEDIATELY.
Our supplies from the Mills are coming forward
freely, and we are prepared to execute your orders at
once', or if placed with us now can guarantee delivery
for either March Ist or April Ist, as you may desire.
That presents the solemn spectacle of M'Millan
assuring the public that nis goods are cheaper
under Protection than they were previously under
Freetrade. Finally this is from M'Millan s
newest circular (9th August) :
The demand for Locally Manufactured Goods has in-
creased to such an extent that we have also had to
extend and add further equipment to our Clothing.
Shirts and Straw Hat Factories ; we have also under way
a Factory for our Mantle and Underclothing Depart-
ments. . . , . . ~
These goods we can no longer import owing to the
Duties now levied on same, but we are in a position to
make all this class of goods locally, and compete success-
fully with any goods entering this Market.
Not a word, be it noted, about any increase of
prices owing to Protection, but a cordial assur-
ance that the new tariff supplies much-needed
employment to builders, carpenters,-bricklayers,
tailors, tailoresses, shirt - makers, hat-makers,
mantle-makers, seamstresses—all no doubt at good
wages, forif M'Millan’s firm paid sweating wages,
the fact would doubtless have been honestly men-
tioned in the circular. And by furnishing em-
ployment for these people in Sydney, the tariff,
on M'Millan’s plain evidence, helps.to build up
Sydney, and make it the great city it should be.
And at the same time these new industries, which
M'Millan has started by reason of Protection,


are not loading the country with debt for the
purpose of making roads and railways to “open
up ” the rabbit-infested backblocks; they don’t
ask huge loans for irrigation works, or clamour to
have fodder carried at one-tenth of what it costs
to carry it—as the alleged “ natural industries ”
which M ‘Millan bids the people rely on are re-
duced to doing. Instead they give employment
to people who help to pay the interest on the
great loans contracted to boost up the country’s
alleged “ natural industries.” Likewise they sup-
port M'Millan, and he is an “amusing cuss”
whose loss would be much felt, and who couldn’t
make axle-grease for himself if he “went on the
land ” and depended on “natural industries.” In
one way and another M'Millan is a very good
advertisement for Protection, and this paper
begins to regard him as a brother —a small
brother, that is. It may yet be able to regard
him as a full-grown brother—who knows ? The
first step in the direction of complete brotherhood
is a very heavy absentee-tax on M'Arthur and
Co., the absentee principals of the M‘Millan
concern, which may compel them to sell out the
above flourishing protected business to Australian
owners.
The Cornstalk Savings Bank.
Arthur Griffith, M.L.A., writes on the above
subject:—
As you are, of course, aware, the Saving- Bank of N.S. W.
is worked under an Act passed 40 years ago, when condi-
tions of life and settlement were very different from what
they are to-day, and I feel sure my fellow-trustees are
fully seized of the need of an amending Act to bring our
institution up to date. In my opinion, the chief defects
of our Act are :
1. The provision which prevents the officers of the bank
in any place outside of Sydney from receiving deposits
from the public and confining such duties to local
honorary trustees. One result of this restriction is that
in a great centre, such as Newcastle, with a large indus-
trial population, and between 3000 and 4000 depositors,
the time for the receipt of deposits is limited to three
hours per week, and these outside of ordinary business
hours. It has been found quite impossible to get an
honorary trustee to attend during business hours. We
have in this branch two highly-paid officers, who are
compulsorily idle during almost the whole of their time.
In the new Act I would propose the abolition of country
trustees, and the placing of the entire control of the local
officer in our Board, assisted, of course, by a competent
inspector.
2. The provision in our Act which permits money to be
lent only on land held in fee simple, and the immemorial
tradition that the bank may advance only on land on
which are erected brick or stone buildings, prevents the
bank from lending on the best security in the State—
good agricultural, horticultural, and pastoral land—and
from assisting the very class which would make the best
possible use of cheap money in small lots. A direct result
of this limitation on the operations of the bank has been
to force it to place vast sums (according to our last annual
report aggregating £1,168,000) on fixed deposit in the
Sydney banks at 3 and 3£ per cent., as compared with
the beggarly sum of less than £lO,OOO advanced by us to
country producers.
Personally I regard this as a shocking state of things, as
any financial crisis seriously affecting the Sydney banks
might land us in a loss of hundreds of thousands of
pounds without any tangible security to show for it. A
very large amount of our money was shut up in the re-
constructed banks during the last crisis, and some of it is
still irrecoverable. As a matter of fact, the amount
deposited by us forms an enormous percentage of the
fixed deposits of some of the Sydney banks. According
to the last published N.S.W. banking returns, the total
amount of money on fixed deposit with one Sydney bank
was £107,000 odd, of which we had deposited over £61,000
or some 57 per cent. Another holds £90,000 odd of fixed
deposits from the N.S.W. public, and £75,000 from us,
while seven other banks hold our deposits in nearly as
high a proportion. Now, if our depositors wished to have
their money placed in these privately-owned banks, they
could put it there direct without passing it over our
counters, and I feel sure the Savings Bank of N.S.W. was
never intended as an institution for the collection of
deposits for other banks.
Supposing we were to withdraw all this vast sum of
money from the Banks (except, say, £lOO,OOO to meet any
unexpected run or crisis) and invest it in mortgages on
good productive lands in the country we would not only
have tangible security for our money but would be able
to reduce the interest to our present as well as our future
clients from 5 and 6 to 4£ per cent, and still earn over
£lO,OOO per annum more interest than we received last
year.
By way of a healthy contrast with our present methods
I will call your attention to what the Victorian Savings
Bank is doing.
Under their Credit Foncier system, they have advanced
£1,200,000 to some 3000 farmers at 6 percent. (41 being
interest and 11 sinking-fund), on which terms principal
and interest will be paid off in 31 years.
. As a result of five years’ operation of this system, only
six of the 3000 farms have been foreclosed upon, and not
one penny of either principal or interest has been lost by
the bank, which has paid 0) per cent, interest and carried
over £20,000 to its accumulated profits-fund.
~ln view of the unmixed benefits of this system I am
going to ask our trustees to agree to the establishment of
this Credit Foncier system in the new Bill which I am
about to introduce. There are one or two other matters
which I think will be necessary to deal with before we
have our institution up-to-date. When we abandon the
system of stowing our money in the Sydney banks and
lend it to the customers of those banks (oil very much
better terms than they can) it will be necessary to avoid
the invidious position caused by having on our trust
directors of rival banks. I intend! therefore, to include
in my Bill Section 7 of the Victorian Act, which enacts
that “ no trustee shall be a director or member of the
managing body of any banking institution.”
I should also like to suggest, by way of enhancing
public confidence, that we should adopt the Victorian idea
of submitting our accounts annually to the Auditor-
General.
A furGher indication of our backwardness in meeting
requirements of the public as compared with our progres-
sive Victorian rival is the fact that whereas we have in
New South Wales only 13 branch savings banks, two in
the metropolitan area, and 11 in the country, the Vic-
torian Savings Bank has 48 properly-constituted branches,
one in each of the large Melbourne suburbs, and one in
each important country town. Further than this, eaoh
of the 48 branches of the Victorian Savings Bank is a
properly-constituted bank, where the public can pay in
and draw out money all day and every day, while our
branches, with one solitary exception, are mere agencies,
open to receive deposits only three hours per week.
A Missed Iniquity.
Many years ago Thomas M‘lt wraith devised a
fearful and wonderful scheme whereby Queens-
land was to induce certain British specu-
lators to build railways in its territory by giving
them a present of land to about twice the whole
value of the lines, and was then to buy the lines
from them for about times the price at which
it could have built them in the first place, so that
it would ha ve lost the land and yet have been a great
deal deeper in debt than it is now. The same
frantic project, or one very like it, was revived in
later years, but each time the scheme dropped
through. Now Queensland has fallen on evil
days, and certain Bat men and Bat influences
begin to remark in the papers that the trouble
all arises through not building those railways on
the lunatic-asylum terms proposed. Having
ruined the. State by his own short-sighted pro-
fligacy, it is so like the Bat person to point out
that the disaster is all owing to the misconduct of
the Democratic party in not allowing him to be
so profligate as he ought to have been. The
causes of Queensland’s disasters are obvious
enough to any intelligent person, and these are a
few of the largest of them :
The idea that the one essential was to get population
without making any provision to find work for it when it
came. Instead of trying to make Queensland a desirable
place to which immigrants would come naturally.
Queensland spent nearly £3,000,000 of loan money on
buying people. It bought no less than 112,714 assisted
white immigrants between 1881 and 1899, and so many of
them left the neglected and ill-governed country as soon
as they looked at it that Queensland only gained 111,970
immigrants in all that time, including niggers, Ohinamen
and persons who paid their own passages.
The building of far more railways than the population
could profitably use—more, proportionately to popula-
tion, than are possessed by any other country on earth,
save Westralia.
The discouragement of agriculture by selling or giving
away the best wheat land in big estates to sheep farmers.
Queensland spent immense sums in importing small
farmers, and had practically no small farms to offer them
when they arrived.
The refusal of the grand old inflated pioneers to pay
direct taxation, and the adding of deficits (about
£2,500,000 in all) and the cost of unproductive works to
the public debt till it is the biggest debt per inhabitant
on earth. The wholly unproductive debt is now close
on £3O per inhabitant, which is just about equal to the
total debt of the most embarrassed European country.
And the £46 per head of “productive" debt only pro-
duces enough to pay about half the interest, so half of it
may also be called unproductive debt. This makes a
total of £53 for every inhabitant, the interest in which
has to be paid out of taxation.
The discouragement of every kind of profitable industry
by the employment of a ridiculously large proportion of
the people on unproductive public works.
• childlike faith in the policy of encouraging the
influx of foreign capital, which has led to most of such
enterprises as Queensland does possess being owned
abroad, so that the profits go to foreign lands.
. T he wasting of immense sums on such silly political
jobs as the attempt to make artificial harbors at Rock-
hampton and Townsville, while good natural harbors
at Bowen and Gladstone, right alongside, were neglected.
. le frantic haste to make a whole nation at any cost
in 50 years, when there were 5000 years ahead that would
have done just as well.
There is no need to look for the cause of Queens-
land’s depression in the iniquities it has left un-
done. The iniquities it has done are sufficient to
account for anything. The drought comes into
the question only indirectly. Queensland bought
population with loan moneys, and rushed them
out into the dry West. It stocked the dry West
with sheep and cattle largely bought with money
borrowed from English and other outside institu-
tions. It made railways with borrowed money,
so that the people it had obtained with borrowed
money might get the produce that was required
to pay interest on borrowed money down to the
port that was made with borrowed money (if the
truck that was repaired with borrowed money
didn’t break down by the way), and put it on the
foreign-owrted ship. And the Western drought
struck this foolish business below the belt, and
knocked the foundation from under the house that
Jack borrowed. But the drought wasn’t the
original trouble, nor anything like it.
♦
The Opinion of Alderman Boggs.
Within the last few weeks The Bulletin has
read at least a dozen statements to the effect that
this or that set of suburban aldermen has con-
sidered the Greater Sydney idea and disapproves
of it strongly. Also N.S. W. politicians in general
have considered the question of abolishing a large
number of themselves and disapprove of it
strongly. Burther, the last person who was sen-
tenced to be hanged lias considered the idea in all
its bearings and disapproves of it very strongly
indeed. All these things are of one piece and are
evidences of the same habit of mind. No person
of any comprehension supposed for a moment that
the typical alderman of the small halfpenny
suburb would approve of a scheme which begins
by setting forth that he is a failure, an incubus
and a back number, and that the system which
gives rise to him is a fraud ; and which ends by
proposing his abolition. At the same time no
person of any intelligence expected that he
would tell the true reason of his opposition
to the Greater Sydney idea. No man is likely to
acknowledge that he seeks to sacrifice the interests
of the community to his own mean little im-
portance, any more than he is likely to advertise
Damp House for Sale at much above its real
Value.” Therefore, as a matter of course, he
opposes the idea of making the N.S. W. metropolis
a decently-governed city, and struggles to preserve
the old chaos, stagnation and lack of enterprise
from (ostensibly) the noblest motives. And when
he does favor some kind of Greater Sydney he
proposes to preserve the existing 40 odd councils
and merely create a Bederal Municipal Council in
addition—not ostensibly to save himself from ex-
tinction and to avoid sinking from Alderman
Boggs to plain Boggs, but again from the noblest
motives. Why anyone should ask an alderman’s
opinion on the matter, or think it worth while
publishing it when it comes to hand unasked, is a
problem.
♦
Th.e Illegitimates.
In Brisbane, according to recent statistics, out of
every 100 births 13 are illegitimate, but out of
every 100 children who die 24 are illegitimate.
The illegitimate child has the same chance to be
born healthy and to grow up healthy as other
children have, if it is given the same opportunities.
In fact it has a greater chance, because the ille-
gitnnate is, in a very large proportion of cases, the
child of a young mother, and her child has more
vitality as a rule than the child of a middle-aged
woman. In N.S.W. over 35 percent, of the births,
where the mother’s age is between 15 and 20, are
illegitimate, and so are 11| per cent, of the births
where the mother is aged between 20 and 25. The
only possible explanation of the vast excess of
deaths among illegitimate infants is plain murder,
or privation and neglect which may be intended
to end in death, or which, again, may not
be so intended but be merely the result
of poverty. The neglect, when it happens
at a baby-farm, is generally intended to be slow
murder—just slow enough to prevent the law call-
ing it such. The discovery which has shocked
Brisbane is not a new one ; it is old and almost
world-wide. In N.S.W. seven out of every 100
children are illegitimate, but out of every 100
children who die before reaching the age of 12
months 25 are illegitimate. This is even a worse
record than that of Brisbane. And though the
unlawful infant has a worse show, all the world
over, than the lawful one, he seems to have the
worst show of all in Australia. Here it may be
roughly calculated that the illegitimate child has
three chances of dying before the age of 12
months where the legitimate child has only
one ; in most European countries the odds
against the love-child, as compared with its
“ respectable ” brother or sister, are only
about 2to 1. But everywhere the odds are
enormously against the offspring of unmarried
parents, and no one can find a remedy. Plain,
obvious murder may be suppressed, but that
lack of intense maternal care and attention
which often turns the scale between life and death
can’t be. Even the largest and most conscientious
policeman can’t make a mother do her utmost to
keep her infant alive if she doesn’t want it to
remain alive ; and ten large policemen can’t make
7s. fid. a week a sure guarantee that the infant
will get everything it needs to give it a fair show
in this world, even supposing that there is no
lack of maternal attention. The fact that the
illegitimate is usually the child of young parents
tends, to start it out with a healthy frame and a good
constitution. It also tends to furnish it with a
father who is earning £1 a week as a beginner at
some ill-paid occupation, which is a counter-bal-
ance. Some illegitimates have the luck to have a
wealthy K.C. in large practioe for a father, but
they are few.
«
A Sinking Fund.
A few years ago that reasonably honest man,
Premier Turner, of Victoria, started the first
beginnings of a sinking fund for the repayment of
the Vic. public debt. The proceeds of the sales
of the mallee lands were to constitute the fund,
and it has now got as far as £7s,ooo—which isn’t
much with which to repay £50,000,000 of debt,
though it is something to go on with. And already
the dismal and incapable Shiels proposes to seize
part of the money for current needs, to make his
deficit look less, and to help to avoid facing the
difficulty, for Shiels, in all his political dealings,
is a cocktail at heart and never faces anything.
The rest of the sinking fund will doubtless go in
like fashion very soon, and then the mallee lands
money will begin to go into revenue, and that will
be the last of Turner’s reform. Turner also re-
solved that when there was a surplus at the end of
any financial year, it was not to be carried
forward to ease next year’s taxation, but applied
in reduction of the accumulated deficit. Just as
soon as Turner went out of office that wise proviso
was suspended, and another sinking fund went
bung. In like manner, the Lyne Government in
N.S.W. decided manfully to pay a considerable
extra sum annually in reduction of the deficit—
and then suspended the new arrangement inde-
finitely before the first payment fell due, and kept
it suspended. Maoriland also has a sinking fund—
the weirdest of all. Every year the Govern-
ment scrupulously and honestly makes the stipu-
lated payment into the fund, and then borrows a
corresponding amount and puts it into revenue.
The sinking fund also increases by the accumula-
tion of interest, and the Government borrows
an amount equal to the year’s interest accu-
mulation, and puts that into revenue like-
wise. Obviously, the sinking fund never gets any
“ forrarder ”—in fact there is none, except in
name. The other States that have sinking-funds
(except Westralia) have annexed them, except in
name, by similar processes. The payment to the
funds made a deficit in the revenue, and more
money was borrowed to make good the deficit.
Obviously, Australasia can’t be trusted with its
own sinking-fund any more than a monkey can
be trusted to deal honestly with a bag of nuts. In
the ordinary course of events, the fund is started
with a great flourish of trumpets one year ; and
suspended next year; and in the third year
the first year’s payment is seized. The fact
that these seven States haven’t enough stability of
purpose to stick to their good resolution for three
years running is childish and pitiable, and sug-
gestive of Kipling’s description of the chaotic
monkey republic, which had no fixed laws
or purpose, but merely whirled its tail pro-
miscuously _in the tree-tops but the fact
is too obvious to be shirked. The Bulle-
tin would seriously suggest that an organised
effort be made to take up a subscription among
the rich men of Australia to create a real sinking-
fund, and that the money be deposited with the
Bank of England. There it would have to accu-
mulate, the interest being re-invested every year
in the purchase of securities (not necessarily Aus-
tralian securities, for otherwise these Governments
might get at the sinking-fund by refusing to pay
interest on the bonds held by the fund) till the
total amounted to enough to wipe off the whole
debts of the six Commonwealth States. It would
be a pity to hand the business over to an outside
institution and let it receive the per cent, com-
mission on the income—which would be a large
item in course of years—but the money couldn’t
be entrusted to an Australian institution; if it
was, an Act for the confiscation of the whole lot
would be passed before ten years had gone by. If
the hat was passed round, would Australia pan
out for a total subscription of a million to start a
real sinking fund ? Or would that hat be seized
by Shiels or Waddell as it went by and sold for
2s. fid., and the half-crown be put into revenue ?
4
The Enfranchised Female.
The women Qf New South Wales have now full
franchise rights, both for the Federal and State
Parliaments. One-woman-one-vote is as much a
r «ahty as one-man-one-vote. A body of voters
suddenly enfranchised could not wish for a better
opportunity than the N.S.W. women now have
to start a political career in a notable way.
Women are, without a doubt, by nature or by
training, of a more economical nature than men
(speaking ot women in general, not of the few
society ” women). The housewife in Australia
Has, as a rule, precious little to housekeep on, and
what she gets she has to do with. There are no
means by which she “can raise the wind,’’outside
of the sum. from £1 to £4, which her hus-
band brings her home at the week-end. Tne
amount may be miserably inadequate to provide
even decent comfort; but she has to make it do.
There are no surplus goods in the household on
which she can borrow money without courting
absolute disaster by the sale of “ her few sticks.”
She has precious little credit, and practically no
hope of a “windfall.” Her life, therefore, has to
be one of steady grinding economy. Now, as her
domestic conditions, so the national conditions of
N.S.W. at the present time. The indebtedness
of the State is such that it can’t afford any frills,
and, figuratively speaking, should eat molasses
with its bread because butter is too dear, and give
EP aii expensive display and face the situation.
What woman has to do in the household
N.S.W. ought to do in the State. And women
paving the franchise can see that it is done.
The block woman vote, if cast for a regime of
household economy in public affairs, would utterly
overwhelm the Owe’Sullivan’s gorgeous extrava-
gance and probably bring that pliant politician to
the front with a platform of cut-to-the-bone
economy. Woman in private life can’t be a bor-
rower. The average woman won’t lend money to
another woman, and the woman who borrows
money from a man has generally to pay for it
otherwise than financially. Let her in public life
be as little of a, borrower as she is in private life,
and N.S.W. in a generation or two will rise
up and call political woman blessed. The
Bulletin has not at heart much hope that
woman will rise to the occasion. It is
more than probable that her eye will be captured
by the cheap Brummagem glare of the borrowing
policy and that she will be an unreasoning
follower of the system of having a glorious time
to-night and darn the headache to-morrow. But
the opportunity is there, if woman is equal to it —
as great an opportunity as a newly-enfranchised
class has ever had in history.
♦
Sydney Telegraph has laid in a new and
infuriated correspondent (one “Britisher”),
who apparently wants German ships shut
out of British and Australian ports, and
who goes qn in a terrible fashion about what
Britain has done for Germany, and the debt of
gratitude Germany owes to Britain, and how
“Germany has feasted and prospered under the
systematic manner in which she has worked
England’s Freetrade policy,” and so on. He is a
desperately excited person, is “ Britisher,” and
he is a fine representative of a strange but very
popular delusion. The British Empire lives to a
considerable extent on Germany—that country,
despite the “made in Germany” joke, buys far
more from the British empire than it sells to the
British empire. It is Britain’s best customer ;
yet the average person, who never reads trade
statistics, has a wild idea that the German is pick-
ingl British pockets all the time. Germany didn’t
impose any protective duties against British goods
till sundry of the British States set the example
by penalising German goods—a thing they
were perfectly right in doing. There is
more British shipping in German ports than
tnere is German shipping in British ports.
“ Britisher’s ” bitterest grievance is that
the German Government is said to be a
shareholder in the North German Lloyd’s. Even
if that is so, it is difficult to see that there is any
more harm in it than in the British Government
being a shareholder in the Suez Canal and making
£830,000 a year out of its shares (over 20 per cent,
on the £4,000,000 it paid for them), a profit partly
made at the expense of German shipping. There
are many countries which are making a good
thing out of Britain’s Freetrade policy (the United
States does more in that way than any other three
countries put together), but Germany, almost the
only really profitable customer Britain has, arouses
more enmity than all of them. It is a kind of
trade insanity.
♦
The proposal, affirmed in S.A. Assembly by 21
votes to 16, that the Government should buy the
Fulton pipe works, now for sale, and make pipes
for the public, would be at all events a sensible kind
of relief work, even if it proved to be nothing better
than relief work. There would at least be no debt
attached to it. The Government would get pipes
for the money it paid, even if it didn’t get so many
pipes as it should do. Compared with the usual
process of floating a loan, and making a road that
is of no real use to anybody, and then paying
some hundreds every year to keep the road in
repair, the pipe-making idea has a whole ocean of
common sense behind it. Even if it was so badly
managed that the State paid £lOOO for the pipes
it could import for £BOO there would still be £BOO a
year less going out of the country to pay for im-
ported pipes, whereas the “ public works ” device
leaves just as much money as ever going out to
pay for imports, and generally something extra
going out to pay interest. It is better for Australia
to pay its people £lOOO for the pipes than to pay a
foreigner i/800iind haveits own people unemployed.
It is better, if the unemployed must be relieved,
to set them making anything that will save the
country paying for imports, than to set them forest-
thinning and doing like jobs which leave the
country with just as much imported goods to pay
for as before, and which add to the public debt at
the same time. If the unemployed difficulty can’t
be got over otherwise, let us have State cotton
factories, linen factories, distilleries—anything
where the wages will give some tangible return
and where the present generation will pay the bill
if there is one to pay—anything except the big
loans and scrub-cutting jobs, and the relief work
which gives no return, or practically none. Even
if the Treasury lost £1,000,000 in running these
new industries it would probably mean £20,000,000
less paid away to the foreigner for imported goods,
and the country would be much better off. A
million spent on the usual kind of relief works
generally means: (1) that the £20,000,000 has
gone away to pay for imports just as usual; (2)
that it is necessary to spend another million to
prevent the scrub growing again. Also, the
worst-managed State factory may always be made
profitable by better management, but the scrub-
cutting job is just an expanse of dust, and all the
good management on earth won’t make it any-
thing more.
The history of the Factories and Shops Act
Continuation Bill in Vic. Leg. Council fully
justifies Liberals in the Assembly putting their
whole souls into the Reform Bill now before that
Chamber. The Factories Continuation Bill was
passed through all its stages in the Assembly in a
few minutes. It provided merely for the con-
tinuation of the present law until such time as the
Royal Commission, appointed to inquire into
industrial legislation, had reported to Parliament.
While the Bill was on its way to the Council that
rat-necked body dodged out of its wav by
adjourning for a fortnight. When it met again it
carried a resolution postponing the second reading
of the measure for a month. The object of that
move stuck out plainer than a Leg. Coun-
cillors waistband. The Factories and Shops
Act will expire at the close of the pre-
sent session. If anything happens, such as
a dissolution, to close the session suddenly,
the Act will be wiped off the statute-book. Fat-
man does not like an Act that compels him to
The Limited Monarchy.
(A Study in Constitutional Evolution.)
When Log the First was gone— a useless thing,
Then cried the Frogs : “ Again we seek a King—
A King, 0 mighty Zeus, with tooth and maw,
A King to lay the backs of rebels raw,
A King to guard us and a chief to guide
And fill the hearts of Frogland high with pride.”
The Lord of great Olympus smiled again,
And sent a Watersnake to rule and reign.
The slimy Ruler, fierce of fang and jaw,
Soon filled the poor Batrachian tribe with awe,
For ev’ry morn he gulped a fatted score,
And every evening called for twenty more.
His son succeeded when the father died,
And bitter anguish filled the Frogland wide.
At length great Zeus, to ease their bitter pain,
Drew up their King, then cast him down again,
But sent him back (to where he’d ravened red)
With ne’er a tooth to arm his greedy head ;
Whereat the frogs, elated, burst the skies
With song and croak and wild exultant cries,
Yet seemed to love His Kingship'more and more,
And paid him greater reverence than before.
Said Zeus, astounded : “What, ye fools, ye hail
As King a toothless wretch of no avail;
A helpless reptile wriggling through the flood,
A limp and harmless Lord of marsh and mud ! ”
“ We joy, 0 Lord,” the sapient frogs replied,
“ To see our King in splendor cleave the tide;
We joy to think, although he cannot bite,
He almost looks at times as if he might;
We joy to know, in loyal bosoms glad,
He has no teeth, but then his father had / ”
Q.
P.L.


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
of the United States.
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOR YEAR ENDING 31st DECEMBER, 190 L
ASSETS
INCREASE IN ASSETS
SURPLUS ••
INCREASE IN SURPLUS .. ..
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE ... ..
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1900 bi ...
£68.966.608
£5,508,678
£14.797.717
£1,039,973
£245.682.651
£13,000,350
£8,088,718
LOCAL DIRECTORS:
Sir WM. M‘MILLAN, K.C.M.G., Chairman; Hon. C. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.0.;
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR. General Manager for Australasia.
/ S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S.,
F. C. COWLEY, Secretary. Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
desist from the game of sweating at which he has
played so long, and the Fatman’s House is doing
what it can to shake off the Factories Act. The
representative of the Government got the former
resolution, putting off the second reading until
Sept. 2, rescinded, but only by promising that
the Government would not bring any fresh trades
under the wages provisions of the Act till the
report of the Commission had been received. It
has come to a pretty pass when the Leg. Council
can absolutely dictate the policy of the Ministry.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal. Brough Farewells.
Lyceum “ With Flying Colors."
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Palace “San Toy.”
Criterion “ The Lady Slavey."
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ Sweet Nell of Old Drury.”
Her Majesty’s “ Robin Hood.”
Theatre Royal. ........ “ The Ladder of Life.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
♦
Being driven like a dry leaf before the
Wind of Circumstance by an unexpectedly loud
demand for more “Village Priest,” Robert Brough
abandoned his intention to reproduce the
“Tyranny of Tears ” at Sydney Royal, and that
item is off the bill. The “Priest” was a good
Eerformance, though Brough’s abandonment of
is fine old part of Jean Torquenie for that of the
Abbe was a regettable circumstance. Lovell did
Jean in fairly good style, considering that that
light young man only howls along the gloomy
paths of tragedy once in a while, but Brough was
much missed. On the {other hand Robert B.’s
first appearance as the Abbe was a large event.
Neither Titheradge nor Carne ever did that
humble pastor better, if, indeed, they did him
quite as well, yet both looked better fitted
physically to doze in the bosom of the Church
than Brough does. The miracle, whereby a
casual draught blows over a leaf of the Scripture
happened as usual; it is a well-oiled miracle, and
always happens up to time. One thing that will be
regretted, now that “The Village Priest ”is gone,
is the garden. It was a nice, cool, green garden,
with ancient, mossy walls around it, and in a
country where the haggard post-and-wire fence
straddles the dry leagues of land such a garden is
a blessed thing to look upon.
* * * •
Unless there is some more unexpected change
in the arrangements, “Mrs. Tanqueray” will be
on at the Royal this (Thursday) evening. It
will be the last appearance of that eminent mem-
ber of the oldest profession on earth—that
profession which doubtless began with the Fall,
when sin, ugliness, pickles, tobacco and
procrastination, to say nothing of other ills,
came upon this world. “When We Were
Twenty-one” is due on Friday and Saturday,
with “ Sowing the Wind ” to follow. Just now,
when most other branches of agriculture are under
a temporary cloud, it is pleasing to note that this
branch is still prospering, and The Bulletin
appeals to the Sydney community to roll up at the
Royal and give one of our great natural resources
some encouragement. The seed may be sown almost
anywhere, and if it is watered with loans, beer,
girl and profanity, and a veil of hypocrisy is drawn
over it when the sun is hot, the crop is something
extraordinary. “Niobe,” “Lady Ursula” and
“The Liars” on Wednesday, Thursday and
Friday of next week are to close the Brough
season —the last Brough season of all.
* * *
“ San Toy,” continuing its bright career at
Sydney Palace to crowded houses, gives no reason
to modify the first favorable impression of its
entertaining power. The comedy element is
chiefly relied upon for success, and it would be
hard to get a better comedy team than Li, Yen
How, the Emperor, and maid Dudley. Mr.
Frank Pierce, as Yen How, sings his patter songs
so well, and talks with such a humorous air of
melancholy, as to quite rival Mr. Graham’s efforts
as Li, the bland heathen with “ kleptoluniac ”
habits. On a second hearing, too, the music of
“San Toy ” shows as of finer quality. There is
no ambitious attempt at orchestration, nor even
any startling degree of novelty, but the songs are
always melodious, and their setting quaint and
pretty. Miss Rose Musgrove has more confidence
than on the opening night, and sings more clearly
and strongly ; and Miss Digges’ chirpy voice
chirps better, and her dainty, bird-like hopping
hops better with longer acquaintance.
** * *
“The Lady Slavey ” continues to wind up
her useful career every evening at Sydney
Criterion by wedding her millionaire in a remark-
able hurry, also in a fashionable costume which
she seems to have had put together in the space of
ten minutes or so, or else she kept it by her in
case a millionaire should happen along. The elec-
tric lamp which bogus-millionaire Sheridan sports
in his shirt-front by way of a diamond shines bright-
ly, as do the various musical gems of this fairly
bright production. Whether Sheridan’s play will
do the harassed modern “ missus ” a good turn by
making girls take to domestic service in hope of
marrying a millionaire, or whether it will make
the few girls already in the business more inflated
and unbearable by reason of the improved pros-
pect opening before them, is not clear. A special
matinee, which is to be held at the Cri. on Satur-
day, may throw further light or further darkness
on this problem.
** * #
At Sydney Lyceum “ With Flying Colors ”
pursues the uneven tenor of its way, the supposed
suicide being as unconvincing as ever, and the
scenery still atoning for much. As a drama that
roves from London railways to wayside cottages,
and that is equally at home at a naval ball and at
Dartmoor prison it is hard to beat, though the
colors don’t fly to any extent worth mentioning,
and the name of the drama bears little relevancy
to the drama itself. Not that that is at all un-
usual. As a general thing the name of any drama
would do equally well, or just as badly, for any 27
other dramas, and if all dramas went by the same
name it would save a great deal of trouble.
*# * *
Smith’s Empire Company, which hangs
out at Sydney Protestant Hall, is a combination
which modestly eschews programmes as a for-
mality of which it is not worthy. All the same,
it gives a very large show with a great many
items in it, and a good deal of audience is gener-
ally present, some of which spends the time in
genial slumber. The night The Bulletin dropped
in a large baby and some small juggling tricks
were amongst the items, but the greatest applause
was won by a girl who left off in the middle of her
item to have hysterics behind the scenes, and then
came on once more. For there is more joy in Syd-
ney over one singer that breaks down and gets up
again than over 99 righteous persons who reach
their top note and need no repentance. Though
there are no programmes somebody mentions the
name of each performer in an indistinct voice, so
that everything is satisfactory.
** # *
A Mount Kembla disaster benefit concert
on a large scale is to be held at Sydney Town
Hall on Saturday. Social and official dignitaries,
of such weight that the globe tips up when they
step, are lending their joint and several counten-
ance. Misses Amy Castles, Maud Dalrymple,
and Eva O’Connor, also Phil Newbury, Neal
M‘Cay, R. Needham, and City Organist Arthur
Mason are among the names on the programme,
likewise Hazon, Benno Scherek, and the Sydney
Amateur Orchestral Society in general.
** * *
A few grown-ups and a lot of children
presented an original three-act comedy at a
matinee at Sydney Palace on Saturday. The
piece has the alliterative title of the “ Marrying of
Ma,” and it is by one J. C. Lee, a local youth.
Mr. Lee has made a good start as a playwright.
He has got off a few decent epigrams and several
very comic situations. He ought to achieve some-
thing distinctly good on the same lines as Broad-
hurst, but of better literary merit. The youngsters
who interpreted the piece evidently had excellent
drilling, and were the best amateur juvenile
mummers this writer has ever seen. They reflect a
great and shining credit on the Players’ Club, to
which they belong.
*& # *
Barron Morley makes his farewell to-nighfc
(Thursday), in the Centenary Hall, York-street.
All good Australians know that pianist Morley is
far ahead of Paderewski, and that he can out-con-
certo any dead pianist, even the great Rubenstein
himself. He leaves for America by the Ventura,
on Monday, to give the Yankees a much-wanted
treat. We repay evil with good, and loan them
our star pianist in return for the unasked-for loan
of the awful Geil and Torrey. Tenor Newbury
is associated in to-night’s concert with the Fertile
Morley.
** * *
America, the land of the five-minutes*
dinner, has set itself to condense the drama into
ten-minutes playing time, and a specimen of the
compressed show was offered in Sydney by the
Drews at the Tivoli last Saturday. “ When Two
Hearts are Won” is Shakespeare’s “Taming of
the Shrew,” as revised, improved, corrected, and
brought up-to-date by an American author. In a
very dainty and novel setting (the bridal apart-
ments of the Hotel Astoria, by Clint), Mr. and
Mrs. Drew developed their comedy within 10 or
15 minutes to a perfect hurricane of laughter.
There is no very high art about play or
players; simply broad, slap-dash comedy
and character-drawing of the poster type;
but it is genuinely funny, and altogether
novel. Mr. and Mrs. Shamley have been married
just six hours, and Mr. Shamley sees that his
wife’s main devotion is to her dog and that she
has a cayenne temper. He starts to fight fire
with fire, and effects a complete cure by wrecking
the flat, almost murdering the dog, and threaten-
ing to “biff” the lady—all in a few minutes.
Cinquevalli now does some quite new juggling
tricks, and Tom Woottwell sings a fresh budget
of songs. Miss Florrie Gallimore re-appears after
a somewhat lengthy absence through illness, and
shows as a clever dancer and a bright singer; but
she should give up “yodelling”; she hasn’t got
the voice for it.
** # *
“ Robin Hood,” which came new to Mel-
bourne, at Her Majesty’s, on Saturday, is the
work of a capital musician, who had the misfor-
tune to take a deplorable Henry B. Smith for
librettist. Composer De Kovan, notwithstanding
his baptismal name of Reginald, falls only a little
short of excellence in his music, whereas Henry
B. Smith rarely exceeds puerility in his “book.”
The result is rather irritating to people who
would have welcomed “Robin Hood” in
a serious, romantic opera form, even though
the plot had been as seriously ridi-
culous as “The Bohemian Girl.” On the other
hand it is not likely to delight the multitude that
wants a light opera to be quite as conversational
as, say, “Dorothy.” A flimsy pantomime narra-
tive set to sparkling music is treated by a musical
comedy co., the performance being too good for
Henry B. Smith, and not good enough for De
Kovan. One leaves the show with the feeling
that there was nothing harmonious in it, except
the melodies. Regarded as food and drink for
the soul, it had the effect of salt pork on a rare
porcelain plate, and choice champagne in a
pewter-pot. It was acted above its merits, and
sung beneath its deserts.
The legendary Robin, as he appears in the flesh
at Her Majesty’s, is a piump,
who fools round the ancient town of Nottingham
waiting to be a rightful earl when he r
age of 21. Carrie Moore, whom heßas never
is under instructions to marry his title,
Carrie comes along disguised as a page, in a-green
suit, trimmed with superfluous cherry nbbonsto
see what sort of earl was abotted to her
They interchange a few mild remarks and mingle
their mutual admiration m a d “ et - J/ 1 ®"
George Lauri and Hugh Ward transpire
Lauri being the Bailie of Cornev-no, the Sheriff
of NottingLm-and Ward a droll sort of d isciple
suffering from general imbecility and co
nose. For financial reasons Lauri declares his
palsied follower to be the rightful earl whois
going to wed Carrie’s dowry, whereupon Robm
swears to trump La un’s trick (in a 12th century
way of speaking).. With a view to secreting
the four aces in his buckskin boot, angry .
Hood loins the firm of Thorley, Ban took, Bathurst
and Co., warblers and outlaws. The °H, tla ws
have shifted in the 2nd act to Sherwood Forest
where Carrie Moore comes along in another cos-
tume to see her rightful earl, as before. Also,
Lauri and Ward arrive on the greenwood scene as
tinkers, armed with a warrant for the arrest or
everybody. Sometimes Lauri seizes the outlaws
and sometimes they seize him, but finally he lands
Robin in gaol for the purpose of making _ him be-
hold the nuptials of Carrie and the imbecile.
Then the outlaws reassert themselves, and the
opera terminates. , , *
The staging and the chorus are the best
features of this tuneful production, yet the chorus
singing and the orchestral work as a rule might
be more expressive. Not one of the principals. is
a conspicuous success. Miss Young, whose voice
has gone off of late, got most applause on Satur-
day for the well-known ballad. “O, promise me,
and Miss Carrie Moore’s prettiest notes rang out
sweetly in “If all the stars were mine, the
song she used to sing in a pantomime. But
Carrie Moore strains after effect. Her style
is louder than her voice. She opens her
mouth and shuts her eyes too much. .Also
she rolls those eyes too much. Lauri and Ward
would be irreproachable if they were brighter
vocalists, not that Lauri sings badly for a low
comedian. Miss Ghiloni is out of place as Dame
Durden. Miss Chetwynd doesn’t sing the part of
Annabel effectively, or look in the least like a
girl of any period but the present. Thorley, as
Littlejohn, isnotan impressive outlawed baritone,
and the fine song Stannis Leslie sings in a rich
voice might as well be Greek as English.
New tenor, George Lyding, starts with the dis-
advantage of an American accent, which, though
quite in keeping with an allusion to trump cards,
seems utterly foreign to Robin Hood. He fills the
stage very well, and his voice is of “ manly tenor
quality.
*# m «
“ Sweet Nell ” is proceeding steadily at
Melb. Princess’s. Two nights last week Albert
Gran was kept out of the cast by a sore throat,
and in his absence the lurid villainy of the Lord
Chief Justice fell to Harry Hill’s care. Hill, a
better character actor nowadays than many other
people who get better opportunities, made Jeffries
a comparatively quiet and probable - looking
monster. Gran boils over with wrath all the time,
Hill’s hatred and malice were less demonstrative,
but what the show gained in naturalness it lost in
atmospheric effect through the change. Gran
amounts practically to an intermittent thunder-
storm, and the play, being gilt-edged melodrama
in a poetical binding, can carry off a good deal of
electrical disturbance. The original Jef resumed
his gross injustice on Saturday. Meantime
Nellie Stewart’s throat had gone wrong, so. the
picturesque king in his high-backed chair didn’t
get favored with her song about the pleasures of
love.
** # *
At Melb. Royal there will be only two more
nights of “The Worst Woman in London.” Mel-
bourne has shown a sufficiently warm interest in
the Worst Woman and her vengeful lunatic, but
the Anderson season has other dramas awaiting
their turn within a limited number of weeks.
Therefore the elderly husband will go to bed in
his boots for the last time on Friday night. ‘ ‘ The
Ladder of Life ” comes in action again on Satur-
day. Although “The Ladder” is otherwise
known as “Gordons to the Front,” its fiery
patriotism is tempered with considerable humor of
a sort.
** * *
At the Opera House things are the same
as they were a week ago, except that Fagan has
departed, and Harris, the lamp-post inspector, is
telling his sad old tale once again. Pictures of
Sand ow in all his muscular nakedness adorn the
Opera House vestibule; also the appalling majah-
general who poses at the entrance is observed to
have a more padded chest development than
usual; therefore Melbourne assumes that the
Strong Man will arrive shortly.
** * *
The Bijou, where “Cyrano de Bergerac ”
perished of cold neglect, is now awaiting the
return of the “Mars” company; and the
Athenseum Hall will probably be vacated by
M'Adoo’s Jubilee Singers after Saturday.
** * *
At Adelaide Royal Charles Holloway has
made a personal appearance in ‘ ‘ The Power and
the Glory ” —which, taken to pieces, turns out to
mean only the power of wealth and the glory of
“ motherhood.” It was finely mounted and
well acted, Holloway, in particular, being every-
where at all times, after the ordinary manner of
a British tar. At present “The French Spy” is
being produced, with scenic effects varying from
Paris to Kronstadt and back. At the Tivoli,
Sandow carries the programme on his back, as
well as men and pianos and other baubles. He
made a preliminary appearance before a stageful
of doctors and lawyers, and obtained a certificate
that he was sound in limb and wind. His feats
of strength, besides being marvellous, are excel-
lently stage-managed, and his show is the talk of
the city.
The Wild Cat Column.
The Standard Life Association, Limited
(Sydney), one of the new crop of proprietary life assur-
ance institutions which have sprung up in recent years,
publishes its third annual report (for year ended 30th
June, 1902): ~ ,
Total Added
Total Claims. Ex- Out- to Deficit.
Income. penses. goings. Funds.
1900 . £9,193 £2lO £12,998 £13,214 £4021
1901 24 593 453 23,833 24,280 £307 3714
' Assur-
ance
Fund.
1902.. 31,481 1081 25,838 26,919 4562 848
Includin' 1 - the paid-up capital of £12,500, therefore, the
actual funds are £13,348. As is usual with new com-
panies in the industrial business, part of the expenses are
carried to a suspense account, which makes the assurance
fund look like £6348, but this species of suspense account,
not being a real asset, is disregarded in the above state-
ment. The income for the year just closed consists of
interest, &c., £248 ; ordinary life premiums, £6926 ; and
industrial premiums, £24,307, which is a very large
income for an office in its third year. The A.M.P. was in
its 12th year before it had such an income ; in its third
year the A.M.P.’s receipts were only £1667. But the
A.M.P. in its third year spent barely 25 per cent, of its
revenue on working expenses, while the Standard Life
Association shows up as follows:
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1900.. £l4l 710 per cent. 1902 .. £B2 1 6 per cent.
1901.. 96 18 2 „
These rates, large as they are, are nothing very
unusual in the pursuit of the thriftless and extravagant
industrial life business. But though the balance-sheet,
for the last two years, has shown the ordinary and
industrial premiums separately, it doesn’t show the
expenses of the two departments separately, nor
is there any separate assurance fund shown for the ordi-
nary life business. If the ordinary life business is being
done at a cost of 30 per cent, then the industrial business
is still costing 97 per cent.—which would mean that about
19s. sd. out of every £1 paid by the co.’s clients went last
year in expenses, and only 7d. was left to accumulate
towards payment of their policies. And as yet the share-
holders have received no dividend—if they had things
would have been worse. Of course there can be no doubt
that there will be a material reduction in the expense
rate as time goes on, but with the great competition that
exists in industrial business there is no prospect of it ever
being conducted cheaply enough to make it worth the
while of any sensible person to take out an industrial
policy. The industrial business lives on the fools and the
ignorant.
The best feature about the Standard Life
Association is that its investments (£10,502 in all) are
solely in Government debentures and Sydney municipal
securities. Presumably, no matter what the great Aus-
tralian loan policy leads to, the interest on locally-owned
State securities will be paid, and, so long as it sticks to
this system, the Standard Life Association will never be
going round Sydney trying to sell a big building for
£16,000 less than the amount of.the mortgage. But the
Association should, at the earliest possible date, begin to
keep a totally separate account of its ordinary life busi-
ness. That is a thing to be taken seriously, even if the
industrial allair isn’t. Further, the multiplication of
proprietary offices nowadays is a powerful reason why
every possible haste should be made to pass a sensible life
assurance law providing for rigid State audit and State
valuation of securities, making an actuarial valuation
compulsory at certain fixed intervals, and fixing the basis
of that valuation on a standard which will make solvency
a matter of certainty.
• • ■ •
The Australian Brewery and Wine and
Spirit 00., Limited (Sydney), recently had a great
cleaning-up, in the course of which £48,000 of capital
(half the entire sum paid-up) and £40,035 of alleged
reserves were written off. It now starts afresh on a new
and, it is hoped, more payable basis
Written Added Nominal
Profits. Dividends. to Re-
° ' Reserves, serves.
1891.. £12,214
1892.. £14,021 4 p.c. = £3840 £16,841 .. 5,554
1893.. 14,067 Nil 13,000 £1067 6,621
1894.. 14,568 Nil 9,100 5468 12,089
1895.. 13,244 2Jp.c.= 2400 7,100 3744 15,833
1896.. 13,798 6 „ 4800 9,100 .. 15,731
1897.. 9,588 2£ „ 2400 2,600 4588 20,319
1898.. 7,644 Nil 3,100 4544 24,863
1899.. 7,472 Nil 8,000 4472 29,335
1900.. 6,985 Nil 4,000 2985 32,320
1901.. 7,715 Nil 40,035
(£48,000 capital written off.)
1902.. 5,716 3 p.c. 1440 .. 4276 4,276
This last transaction makes £155,876 (£48,000 capital and
£107,876 out of earnings) written off to cover losses since
1891, which is a large amount for a concern whose whole
capital and reserves in 1891 were only £108,214. And
even now the co. appears to be deeply mortgaged. Its
balance-sheet shows no cash or liquid assets (apart from
debts due by customers and the ordinary stock-in-trade)
in hand, while among its liabilities appears “ Sundry
creditors and due to Bank,” £74,835.
* * * *
Investor (Ballan): We think they are good
enough at the price. Writer has backed his opinion by
purchasing himself.
* * * •
The Melbourne Tramway and Omnibus Co.
finished a highly profitable year on 30th June, 1902. This
co. lives, to some extent, on the sympathy of the public as
a monopoly that isn’t doing too well. Its reserves are made
to look much smaller than they really are through £230,000
of them being transferred to capital. Its dividends are
made ,to ‘look much smaller that they are by being des-
cribed as 12£ per cent, bn £480,000 capital when they are
really 24 per cent, on £230,000, which was the capital
actually subscribed by the shareholders. In the follow-
ing table an effort is made to show things exactly as they
are, by calculating the dividend on the £250,000 actually
subscribed by the shareholders, and including in the re-
serves that £230,000 which was disguised by being trans-
ferred to capital account. All purely paper items are
eliminated from the reserves. Owing to a certain lack of
detail in some of the earlier accounts the profits shown
for 1889 are a close approximation only ; from that date
onward they are absolutely accurate:
Net
Reserves
Including
Dividends on £250,000 Capital -
actually paid-up by Written ised Re-
Profits. Shareholders. off. serves.
1889 £207,260 12 per cent. =£30,000 £120,552
1890 170,552 25£ „ „ 64,000 227,104
1891 131,501 38£ „ „ 96,000 262,605
1892 111,816 29 „ „ 72,000 302,421
1893 51,270 9 $ „ „ 24,000 329,691
1894 45,460 9j „ ~ 24,000 351,151
1895 52,870 9} „ „ 24,000 380,021
1896 40,069 91 „ „ 24,000 396,090
1897 51,978 9J „ „ 24,000 £15,000 409,068
1898 43,159 9| „ „ 24,000 428,227
1899 56,629 llj „ „ 28,800 10,000 446,056
1900 73,270 15J „ „ 38,400 10,000 470,926
1901 107,505 24 „ „ 60,000 10,000 508,431
1902 92,538 24 „ „ 60,000 10,000 630,969
The reserves of the Melbourne Tramway Go.
are made up as follows: —
Capitalised Profits £230,000
Renewal Reserve .. 261,827
Reserve for return of Capital ... ... 41,514
Undivided Profit .. 25,994
Dividend Reserve.. ... ... ... 12,000
£571,335
Less balance of a goodwill item in
process of writing off > ... 40,360
£530,969
These things don’t necessarily prove that the Melbourne
Tramway and Omnibus Co. can afford to reduce fares or
grant any of the other concessions asked for by the
public, but they go a very long way in that direction.
The co. is one of the richest monopolisers of a valuable
public concession in this hemisphere, and even in the bad
times, when its annual report was full of dirge-like
remarks about the falling off, it was doing better than
most concerns did in the heyday of the boom.
* • * *
Wheat was quoted in Sydney a few days ago at
4s. 9d. a bushel and flour at £lO a ton, and Sydney
Telegraph stated in an excited tone that “some people
are making fortunes out of fodder and grain just now.”
Pity the Telegraph didn’t notice the same fact under
Freetrade in 1896 and 1897. In 1896 wheat averaged
4s. 3d. a bushel in Sydney, and flour averaged £lol3s. Id.
a ton ; in other words, the grower received 6d. a bushel
less for his wheat than the Protectionist figure the
Telegraph was lamenting about, and the consumer paid
13s. Id. a ton more for his flour, and the blessed importer
or middleman grabbed the rest. Again, in 1897, under
Freetrade, wheat averaged 4s. sfd. per bushel, and flour
£l2 ss. 3d. per ton—the producer received 3Jd. a bushel
less, and the consumer paid £2 ss. 3d. per tou more than
the figure the D.T. was so much grieved about.
• * *•■■■'• '■
“ Nemo ”: The A.M.P. is the better of the two.
•■•* • . . »
The Bank of New Zealand publishes its
seventh balance-sheet since it came under State control,
covering the 12 months to 31st March, 1902. The whole


XR A.M W A. YS. TRAMWAYS.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Proprietary, Ltd,,
gfh
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material
Locomotives from 10 to 250 h.p. "*1
STOCRS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel
Sleepers, Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical
advice gratuitously rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated
a w otogra P hlG Albums showing Tramways constructed in different
parts of the World, upon application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,"
Melbourne. *
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * m
Local Government Journal, July, 1901;
“ The Colonial Mutual in 1900 : Funds, 31st March, 1875,
£2864; Funds, 31st. December, 1900, £2,491,989. We
believe that we are correct in stating that no life assur-
ance office in the world can show such a record as that
given above.”*
• * * •
The finest Rubber Mills in the Southern
Hemisphere have been erected in Melbourne by the
Dunlop Tyre Co. who are now prepared to execute orders
(in any quantity) for Suction, Drill or Air Hose, Packing,
Valves, etc. Mine Managers can place orders with the
Dunlop Company—with the greatest confidence as to
quality, price and workmanship. Correspondence
invited.*
* * • •
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-street, Melbourne,
having returned from his visit to England, is now pre-
pared to purchase approved Mines and Mining Properties
situated in any part of Australasia requiring Capital for
Development and Machinery. Only genuine and
legitimate ventures, capable of bearing the strictest
examinations, will be entertained.*
* * * *
"Very extensive alterations and improvements
have just been completed at the engineering works of
Mephen Ferguson, Melbourne. The principal item of
interest is a new Electric Welding plant, which is now in
use welding the steel-plates required in the manufacture
of the patent spiral riveted pipes which are in such large
demand for water-supply, mining and other purposes.
The new method of welding is giving very satisfactory
results, and is well worth seeing.*
* * * *
The antidote to cyanide poisoning, as supplied
by Ernest de Beer, 439 Bourke-street, Melbourne, has
been approved by the Victorian Mines Department as
being the only real antidote known. All who use
cyanide should keep one or two of these on hand. The
price is 10s. each.*
* * * *
A Sure Fortune.— The best investment in
Australia is buying land at Esperance, W.A., the natural
port of the Kalgoorlie goldfields. With a railway,
Esperance will become one of our busiest ports, as the
trade of the goldfields will pass through it. A permanent
survey is now being made ; the railway is a certainty.
Get in early and make a fortune by purchasing a few
blocks before the great rush sets in. Price, £2O a block.
Terms, £1 a month. Write for plans and particulars to
The Esperance Land Company, Nicholson Chambers,
Swanston-st., Melbourne.*
* • • •
Many doubtful claims have been advanced on
behalf of duplex pumps. Some makers state that their
duplex pumps are “ double the capacity of single pumps
of same diameter and stroke.” An A. S. Cameron single-
acting pump can be run safely and comfortably at a speed
that would knock a duplex pump to pieces. But even at
a low speed, duplex pumps seldom attain even their
theoretical capacities, and the reason for this can be
readily explained. Apply to the Agents, Messrs. W. and
J. Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, for
further particulars. The A. S. Cameron pumps are noted
for their simplicity, durability, and absence of outside
valve gear. *
* * • *
The Austral Otis Engineering Company, Ltd.,
of South Melbourne, have under construction at their
works a complete waterworks pumping plant for the
Greenbushes Tin Mining Co., West Australia. The plant,
which consists of a set of Triple Expansion Condensing
Duplex pumping engines with Multitubular boilers, is a
very fine and powerful one, capable of supplying one
million gallons per day. The pumps have to deliver
through a line of pipes 6£ miles in length, and raise the
water 800 feet in height. To do this heavy work the
pumps have been specially designed with four rams or
plungers, directly connected to the triple-expansion
engines. The Austral Otis Company make a speciality of
waterworks pumping plants, and were the builders of the
fine new sewerage pumping engines, lately installed by
the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works, and
which weigh upwards of 240 tons.*
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Under license from the A.G.O. of A. Ld.
SPOT or FORWARD. LOWEST PRICE 3.
Storage can be arranged.
HY. MARK WALD,
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Auckland
Dunedin and Wellington,
institution really consists of the Bank and the Assets
Realisation Board, and it is necessary to take them both
into account to get a real knowledge of the position.
This is how the Bank stands taken separately :
How Disposed of.
A
Old Losses and Paid towards Interest
Oolonial Bank Losses of on Money ad-
Purchase Assets Reali- vanced by
Profits. Written off. sation Board. Government
Balance £384
1896 119, mo £35,709 £84,375
1897 130, SOI 39,391 97,600
1898 182,632 £10,132 74,900 97,500
1899 191,420 43,920 60,000 97,500
1900 242,520 95,020 50,000 97,500
1901 300,242 100,665 50,000 89,577
1902 289,502 Divide^ 5 .. ffiSS}
For the first time since the State took chief control of
its affairs the profits of the Bank of New Zealand show
a diminishing tendency. All the same they are very
large profits indeed. The 5 per cent, dividend is the first
that the private shareholders (whose paid-up capital
stands at £427,320) have received for a good number of
years.
The Assets Realisation Board, which is the
institution into which all the worst assets of the Bank of
New Zealand were put when the new regime commenced,
shows a much worse falling off than does the bank itself.
This concern began with what may fairly be called a
visible deficit of £54,507, inasmuch as it took over its
properties at £54,507 over and above the latest valuation.
If this is included (though in some previous notices in
this column the item was omitted) the progress has been
as follows:
Less re-
Loss Loss on Total ceived
on Property Loss. from Deficit
Busin- -s. sold. B.N.Z.
£54,507
1896, .£ L',860 £43,860 £35,709 62,658
1897.. 4J,814 £45,231 87,045 39,391 110,312
1898.. 56,629 55,924 112,553 74,900 147,965
1899.. 53,010 28,355 81,365 50,000 179,330
1900.. 6,623 28,403 35,086 50,000 164,416
1901.. 22,185 22,530 44,715 50,000 159,131
1902.. 62,280 18,365 80,651 151,135 88,647
The Assets Realisation Board took over practically all the
stations and other landed assets of the old Bank of New
Zealand ; and also became responsible for a liability of
£2,680,285 in 3£ per cent, debentures, of which it has, so
far, only redeemed £330,285, leaving £2,350,000 still out-
standing (of these £1,600,000 worth are held by the bank).
The process of winding up is, therefore, decidedly
slow. The year just closed was the very worst
the Assets Realisation Board has had, so far as
concerns the earnings of its properties. It had £82,827
to pay in interest, and only earned £20,541. It has only
succeeded, out of its own resources, in paying off £30,000
of its debentures, the other £300,000 having been paid on
its behalf by the Bank of New Zealand.
The real situation as regards the private share-
holders is best arrived at by taking the net earnings of
the Bank of N.Z. and its Assets Realisation Board as one.
The interest paid on sums advanced by, or raised on the
guarantee of, the State is first deducted. The balance
shows what is available to write off old losses, either those
of the Bank or the Assets Realisation Board, and for
dividends:—
Combined Report, Bank op N.Z. and Assets
Realisation Board.
Bank Applied to Old
and Purchase Losses Dividend
Assets of Colonial Actually at 5
Board. Bank. Paid off. per cent.
Balance £384
* Loss.
1896 .. 8,535
1897 .. 2,423
Profit.
1898 .. 28,403 £17,829
1899 .. 40,910 .. £5,000 .. 35,910
1900 .. 138,397 .. 10,000 .. 128,397
1901 .. 188,480 .. 60,000 .. 128,480
1902 .. 147,216 .. 125,850 .. £21,366
The net amount provided since the Bank of New Zealand
came under State control in reduction of the losses of the
old private management has thus been £436,466. In
addition £75,000 has been provided out of earnings
to pay for the purchase of the Colonial Bank’s
business, and one 5 per cent, dividend has been
paid in seven years. The net earnings of the joint
institution last year (£147,216) were at the rate of
£34 9s. per cent, on the private shareholders’ capital,
which is the record for Australasia. At the same
time if the Bank of New Zealand were situated as other
banks are, and all its capital ranked equally for dividends,
the earnings would be only at the rate of £9 7s. 3d. per
cent, which is a considerable difference. The business is
steadily increasing; deposits are now over £10,000,000 ;
and the reserves of cash and liquid securities are very
solid, amounting to over £5,500,000, without reckoning
£1,600,000 of the debentures of the Assets Realisation
Board. The only drawback is the serious falling off in
the earnings of the joint institution. If there is any per-
manent slump in the Assets Board’s earnings it may tend
to postpone the final clearing up of the debris of the old
institution, and till that is finished the Bank’s share-
holders can’t expect to get the dividends they might
otherwise look for. And the realisation process is slow
enough, without any further delay. Also, if the earnings
of the Board continue at anything like last year’s low
rate the value of the assets must be much less, and the
deficit to be made good by the Bank much more, than was
formerly supposed.
* * * *
Swallow and Ariell, Limited (Melbourne),
manufacturers of biscuits, jams, &c., to April, 1902 :
Profits. Dividends. Reserves! R^*ves.
1895 • • £7,058
1896 .. £10,200 Nil £10,200 17 258
1897 .. 10,470 2Jp.c. =£3648 6,822 24,080
1898 .. 3,386 l| „ „ 1824 1,562 25,642
1899 .. 6,530 2£ „ „ 3648 2,882 28,524
1900 .. 6,359 2j „ „ 3648 2,711 31,235
1901 .. 7,124 2J „ „ 3648 3,476 34,711
1902 .. 15,883 3f „ „ 5473 10,410 45,121
The profits for the year just closed were equal to a shade
over 10J per cent., but there are good and sufficient
reasons for keeping the dividend down to 3J. The whole
paid-up capital of £145,953 wasn’t sufficient to pay for
the original purchase of the property. Most of the
reserve has since been invested in additions to the build-
ings and plant; and the huge business (stock on hand
alone is valued at £110,212) is mostly run on borrowed
money. The record of the mortgages and bank over-
draft has been as follows :
Mortgages. Overdraft. Total.
1896 .. £26,100 £38,747 £64,847
1897 .. 23,600 48,562 72,162
1898 .. 21,350 50,294 71,644
1899 .. 20,350 48,166 68,516
1900 .. 19,350 62,623 81,973
1901 .. 18,350 59,920 78,270
1902 .. 18,250 66,559 84,809
It is a case of running an immense and growing business
on a capital which, large as it is, is quite insufficient. If
the present system of small dividends is continued the
accumulated reserves may, in time, enable these heavy
liabilities to be paid off, but it is essential to keep the
dividends low till that is done.
■» * * #
The South Australian Treasurer reckons on
making ends meet next year by levying a 2| per cent, tax
on money going through the totalisator; by increasing
the bank note tax to 3 per cent. ; making it obligatory to
put a Id. stamp on receipts for sums over £2 ; raising the
land-tax to fd. in the £; and lowering the income-tax
exemption to £l2O, with a slight increase in the tax on
large incomes. By these devices it is expected that next
year will show a surplus of £lll2—the old deficit being-
shunted comfortably into the great mass of the public
debt. Thus no attempt is even proposed to pay off any
part of last year’s deficit, or to check the process of using
loan money for purposes of ordinary expenditure.
An Australian Treasurer isn’t supposed to keep the
finances solvent ; all that is expected of him
is. to put last year’s deficit out of sight and
make a plausible paper calculation to the effect that
things this year won’t be so bad as they might be. The
S.A. Treasurer bases his calculation on a 6-bushel per
acre harvest —a thing that S.A. hasn’t had since 1894,
though it has had harvests since then that were over five
bushels—and also harvests that were under two bushels.
There have, been exactly two S.A. harvests in the last
11 years which realised six bushels or a little more to the
acre.
• * • #
The Deniliquin and Moama Railway 00.
(N.S.W) had a moderately good half-year to 30th June,
1902. This co., in addition to its visible earnings, has
unexplained increases and decreases of its reserve fund,
which have to be stated separately, in order that the
position may be arrived at:—
Increase Decrease Dividend
Profits. of of (at 4 Reserves.
Reserve. Reserve, p. c.)
Dec., 1899.. £2,999 £36,006
June, 1900.. 682 £390 £2,000 35,078
Dec,, 1900.. 4,603 1,583 2,000 39,264
June, 1901.. 973 £1,584 2,000 36,653
Dec., 1901.. 4,106 218 2,000 38,541
June, 1902.. 2,228 13 2,000 38,782
This is the best June half-year that the Deniliquin and
Moama Railway 00. has had for some time.
* » • #
How the pleasant old delusions stick ! Wes-
tern Mail (Perth, W. A.) tells its readers:—“Of course
the primary industry of this State is undoubtedly mining.
No one doubts that. But just as certainly the second
place of importance belongs to agriculture.” This is a
flattering dream, but it won’t bear inspection. The
things on which “Westralia really lives, and the annual
income it derives from them, according to latest available
statistics, are these :
Mining ..£6,346,000
Manufactures .. .. „ .. 1,515,000
Borrowing 1,495,292
Pastoral, dairying, &c. 1,120,000
Cutting down forests and selling them 734,000
Agriculture 600,000
£11,710,292
The mining business isn’t permanent, for the Golden
Mile won’t last for ever. The forests are not permanent;
that business consists in selling the country’s capital. The
loan business isn’t permanent. And as for agriculture, it
takes practically the whole value of the agricultural pro-
duce of Westralia—not the profit made out of the in-
dustry, but the whole value of the output—to pay interest
on the State’s public debt alone. And Westralia’s public
debt isn’t a circumstance to its private debt. Also, in
Westralia borrowing is about three times as big a resource
as agriculture. Last year, astounding as it may seem,
the Australian continent borrowed almost as much as the
whole value of its agricultural produce I Also, very
nearly, if not quite, its whole agricultural output was re-
quired to pay interest on its foreign public and private
liabilities—the profits of agriculture, after allowing for
the maintenance of the people employed, weren’t suffi-
cient to pay one-third of the interest on its foreign
liabilities! Australia is a barren country, and in
order to increase its crop by £lOO,OOO, it generally spends
at least £2,000,000 of loan moneys on roads, railways, and
other processes of “ opening up the country.” That is
why The Bulletin believes in the encouragement of
manufactures which don’t require such a costly process
of “ opening up."
• * • *
Sydney and Suburban Hydeaulio Power Co.
(Sydney)
Deficit
Written (Goodwill not
Profits. Dividends. off. reckoned
an asset).
Y«nr
1894 .. £13,535
1895 ..£6,537 6J p.c. = £5,063 12,061
1896 .. 7,209 8J „ „ 6,562 11,414
1897 .. 10,016 10 „ „ 7,500 £1250 10,148
1898 .. 11,531 10 „ „ 7,500 1250 7,367
1899 .. 11,614 10 „ „ 8,438 1250 5,441
1900 .. 16,498 10 „ „ 11,250 1000 1,193
1901 .. 10,058 10 „ „ 11,250 2,385
i year,
June,
1902 .. 6,560 10 „ „ 5,625 1,450
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Co. claims to
have £13,550 in reserves (Plant Renewal account, £9250;
Waterloo Lease Reserve, £2750 ; and undivided profit,
£1550). But against these it still keeps a goodwill item,
“ Parliamentary Rights and Concessions, £15,000,” stand-
ing among its assets, so it has an actual deficit of £1450.
And if the two reserves are really required for renewal of
plant and to cover the deterioration of the co.’s lease,
then the real deficit is £13,450. The absence of any
attempt to write off the £15,000 goodwill item is a very
bad feature about the management of the Sydney and
Suburban Hydraulic Co.
* * * •
The Sydney Hydraulic and General Engi-
neering Co. (Sydney), an off-shoot of the above, presents
its first annual balance-sheet with these results :
Carried
Profits. Dividends. to ue '
Reserves. serves *
1902.. £4400 15 p. cent.=£22oo £2200 I-,—*-
New Share Premiums .. 579
The new co. commences under promising circumstances.
* * * *
An amalgamation of two Sydney banks is
alleged to be on the carpet.
* • • *
In the Municipalities Bill, now before N.S.W.
Assembly, a special provision has been introduced for the
rating of mining properties. The system proposed is that
adopted in Queensland—that the rate is to be on the sur-
face of the land at the same value as is fixed for land of a
similar quality in the municipal area, and without regard
to production. In Victoria and W.A. mining properties
are exempt from municipal taxation. The Bulletin has
cited several instances where the assumption of munici-
palities that they were entitled to impose rates on the
value of the products of mines has acted most pre-
judicially to the mining interest. It is understood in
political circles that Premier See will have no difficulty in
inducing the Assembly to agree to the proposed system.
• • * m
Balmain New Ferry Co. (Sydney):
Profits
less Added
Depreci- to Re- Re-
ation. Dividends, r serves. serves.
June, 1898 .. £1477
Dec., 1898 ..£1372 10 per cent. = £648 £724 2201
June, 1899 .. 1355 10 „ „ 648 707 2908
Dec., 1899 .. 1687 10 „ „ 648 1039 3947
June, 1900 .. 773 10 „ „ 648 125 4072
Dec., 1900 .. 975 10 „ „ 648 327 4399
June, 1901 .. 990 10 „ ~ 648 342 4741
Dec., 1901 .. 494 10 „ ~ 648 4587
June, 1902 .. 1031 10 „ „ 648 383 4970
The figures are decidedly better than they were six
months back, but they are still much below the profits
that used to be earned two or three years ago.
* * * *
Last half-year, with lead at =6ll 7s. Id. and
silver at 2s. 2Jd., the B.H. South made a profit of £23,622.
In the previous half, with lead at £lllos. 7d. and silver
at 2s. 4id., it made a profit of only £8695. In
the half-year to June, 1902, it treated 15,624 tons
more crude ore than in the half to December,
1901 (67,359 tons against 51,735 tons), in addition to
12,276 tons “old tailings.” The average value of the ore
and the percentage of extracted metal remained about
the same. Costs were a trifle lower. The increased
tonnage would account for about one-fourth more profit
than in the last half of ’01; the economies would no more
than counterbalance the further fall in metals—would, in
fact, hardly do that. This would leave over £13,000 of the
total profit to be accounted for by the “old tailings” ;
and, as these tailings will be exhausted in about six
months, it is pretty evident that, unless the metal mar-
kets improve a lot, South shareholders must not expect
after this current half-year any more profits of between
£23,000 and £24,000. In plain English, the previous half-
year’s profit of £8695 forms a far truer basis for estimating
the co.’s profit-earning capacity than the past half-year’s
£23,622. Of course, the mill’s capacity is larger than
when the £8695 was earned—between 40 and 50 per cent,
larger—and that must be allowed for.
The most hopeful feature about the B.H.
South’s report is the steady reduction in costs, not-
withstanding a steady increase in the percentage of the
metals extracted. Six years ago mining costs were
16s. 7Jd. per ton ; they are now 9s. lOd. (This is apart
from development.) Milling costs, formerly a fraction
over 55., have now been got down to 3s. 4fd. Meantime,
the recoveries have gone from 61'89 per cent, of the lead
to 70'22 percent., and of the silver from 47’60 per cent,
to 54’90 per cent. ; and instead of the concentrates being
“firsts” and “seconds,” the realisation charges on the
latter being very heavy, they are now all “ firsts.” These
double-barrelled improvements are the result of brains
and steady application. Compare the figures with
those of the Junction prior to its shut-down in
the middle of 1900. The recovery was there 30'7
per cent, of the silver and 52 per cent, of the
lead; the mining costs were 13s. 4£d. ; the milling
costs 4s. 6fd. That a mine should fail in those circs, isn’t
wonderful. Since then a new plant has been provided
at the Junction, but it, like its neighbour at the North,
is waiting for the lead-market to move. Probably the
Junction will never be able to give such good results as
the South ; but, in view of the work which the South is
now doing, long-suffering Junction shareholders certainly
need not despair, Indeed, there have been several
developments in the mine lately good enough to make
them very hopeful.
* * * •
The B.H. South Block half-yearly report (to
June 30) deals in generalities which are not good enough
in mining. The “work of development has progressed
satisfactorily." No. 3 shaft has been sunk “through
high-grade ore.” Other workings have been in “good ore,”
and the exploratory work has been “of a satisfactory
nature.” This is the sort of information which directors
and managers give. Not a single assay-return, not a
single fact by which to judge whether this “ high-grade
ore ”is payable or not. It seems most likely that, though
“ high-grade,” it would not, at present prices, anything
like pay to treat. The co., this half-year, brought 843
tons of “ good-grade ore ” to surface, at a cost (apart
from development) of, say, £B5O ; and its estimated value
is £295 ! That doesn’t look very promising. It is even
doubtful whether the co. could get £295 for it. The co.
still has £5517 to its credit; but that will not go very far
towards providing the concentrating-plant which will
have to be got before the co. can hope to make a profit,
even with a very substantial improvement in metals.
* * * •
Mt. Boppy, near Cobar, an off-shoot of the
Anglo-Australian Exploration Co. which floated the
Gibraltar, Gallymont and Bimbimbi mines in N.S.W., has
paid a div. absorbing £5157. Value of gold produced last
year, £18,822 ; expenses, £13,397. The magnificent plant
which was erected at Gallymont on the advice of Eissler,
was removed to Mt. Boppy. Reported that there are
several years’ work in sight, but the water difficulty is
seriously retarding operations. A large condensing plant
is now being erected to provide fresh water for the boilers
and other purposes. The Anglo-Australian Co. was very
unfortunate in its speculations in N.S.W. It developed
three mines on an extensive scale, and equipped two of
them correspondingly for the benefit of tributors. All
that now remains at Gallymont as evidence of Eissler’s
over-sanguineness is a big dam, the existence of which
has provoked many a big D 1 Eissler now poses as a
copper expert. But he made a sad bloomer when he
refused to recommend to his principals the purchase of
that splendid mine, Burraga, for a paltry £37,500.
* • * *
Reported that Mitchell’s Creek Freehold mine
(N.S.W.) is under offer in London for £200,000. Develop-
ments of late, no doubt, have been very good, and the
mine has been equipped with a fine up-to-date plant, but
there is a mighty jump between the value fixed by an
arbitrator about two years ago (when the then owners
were dissolving partnership) and £200,000. It has been
one of the standard gold mines of N.S.W. for years, not
sensationally rich, but remarkably consistent and with
marvellously long shutes of ore. Mitchell’s Creek presents
a conspicuous example of the lack of local enterprise. In
the Freehold mine there is one level about 4000 ft. long,
nearly all in pay ore, yet neither north nor south of this
mine has any legitimate attempt been made to locate the
lode. Rich surface patches were worked at both ends
many years ago.
* • * *
Though in the attack made upon them the
Moonta and Wallaroo directors won by 83,611 to 45,862,
the adverse vote was so great as to compel a change.
For the directors know there is more behind. A. G.
Downer, the largest shareholder in the co. and a man
whose word goes very far in S.A., declared for “new
blood ” ; yet it was well known that he would either not
vote at all on the motion to remove the directors, or vote
against it.
* * * *
The Walhalla (Vic.) amalgamation proposal has
developed into an unseemly wrangle between the two
co.’s as to the values of the mines. Long Tunnel people
assert that they have practically three mines to develop
within their ground, but that it will cost £30,000 and
take three years for them to again reach div. stage. The
Extended authorities reply that the L.T. figures are
largely imaginative. Noble, manager of the Extended,
hits the nail squarely when he asks, “ Would it not be
better for the L.T. people to grasp the substance which
is within reach than wait for three years and expend
£30,000, with the chance of finding only a shadow ?’’
Why not appoint three impartial men to appraise the
values of the mines and accept their decision as the basis
of amalgamation ?
* • • *
Fraser’s (Southern Cross), the forerunner of Cool-
gardie and Kalgoorlie, has long been under a cloud, bub
looks like emerging again and soon becoming a regular
producer on a larger soale than ever before. Previous co.
only worked the oxidised zone in a very primitive fashion.
New owners are opening up the sulphides systematically
with the aid of every known modern labor-saving device.
Results are proving highly satisfactory, the long-lost con-
tinuation of the lode having been located, of a payable
value, in No. 5 level.
* * * •
Bewick, Moreing and Co. continue spreading
their net to capture W.A. mines, their latest haul being
Bellevue Prop., Mt. Sir Samuel. This co. was but recently
reconstructed and provided with £70,000 in extra cash
capital. Mine so far has been a vast disappointment
though the property has great possibilities. B. C. Banon,
late of West Fingall, and previously of Hannan’s Kapai
and Kalgoorlie Mint, has been placed in charge. The mine
makes the man, and with such cats as these Banon
has not had a chance to earn a big reputation. Bellevue
may give him a show.
• • • •
May’s patent process, now in operation at the
Flagstaff, Ooolgardie, and also installed at the Eclipse,
Kalgoorlie, not fulfilling expectations. Plant was
warranted to treat 10 tons of concentrates daily, because
it treated experimentally that quantity of crude ore—a
vastly different proposition. Capacity of plant on con-
centrates said to be 3 tons only, so that the estimated cost
of 15s. per ton will be enormously exceeded.
* * * *
Merton’s Reward (W.A.) nob developing at all
well; the more work done the less promising does the
show look. No really defined lode can be found, which
accounts for the fruitless search going on all round
during the last three years. Half the mill is now running
on oxidised ore from the open cut, and very high averages
will doubtless rule for some time to whet John Bull’s
appetite for the Barmecide feast being prepared for him.
* • * •
W.A. July gold yield of 184,2270 z. brings up
the total for the seven months of the year to 1,219,9630 z.,
an increase of 201,5560 z. over the similar period last year.
Island Eureka (W.A.) paid its 15th div. of 3d.
on July 3i, bringing up total to £ll,OOO. It would be
better for co. if divs. were temporarily suspended and
developments pushed further ahead. Tnere is no hope of
this, however, as local holders look to the monthly div.
for beer-money, and with the approach of summer the
thirst question will outweigh all others.
* * * *
®y^ ne y Mint, Kunanalling (W.A.), just
provided the sensational result of 36Goz. from 3cwt. of
stone. Mine is owned by Berliner and Bester, who have
been lucky enough to drop into a very rich patch. Mines
of this sort generally have a short life and a merry one.
however * a Soodtace of highly payable ore is
Hannan’s Oroya (W.A.), after cross-cutting
considerably further east than the point at which it was
anticipated that the continuation of the rich chute woHld
be found at No. 8 level, have started driving north, or
parallel to the lode, if it exists. Same policy was pursued
ere the lode was finally located at No. 6 level. As the
crosscut has merely confirmed the bore test, it looks as if
the chute had either cut off, or is above No. 8 level.
* * * *
A new reef, carrying rich gold on the surface,
has been located at Edjudina, W.A., and Boulder Hamil-
ton is reported to have secured an option on the prospec-
tor’s blocks for £12,000 on behalf of Boulder No. 1 Co.
Capt. 0. M. Harris and Mr.-, Hadden, of Hannan’s Proprie-
tary, have gone out to try and secure a block to change
the breed of their wild cat litter. Some very fine speci-
mens have been exhibited in Kalgoorlie, broken from cap
of reef.
* • * •
“Ida H.” gold-mine, Laverton (W.A.). “A
Miner ” writes : Everything is now in readiness to give
shares in this mine a boom, but . Facts are :At 300 ft.
level ore worth 6to lOdwts. Ore too poor to crush, as
reef averages under 12in. At 200 ft. ore being picked, the
best only going to the mill. At 100 ft. level everything
being rooted out as fast as possible. All development
knocked off to keep expenditure at lowest ebb. The
stamps all weighted to increase crushing capacity. At
present rate of progress, all payable reserves will be
exhausted inside 12 months, out meanwhile mine will
make a big show, and the unloading boom may come off.
Then it will be a case of shut up shop or reconstruct.
An attempt to introduce “ boy ” labor and the whittling
of contracts was met by a strike, and had to be aban-
doned, as a strike would not be conducive to a boom in
shares. Management very partial to foreigners, and
every pay-day some of us have to stand aside to make
room for another square-head."
The following figures show the cost of each sov.
distributed in divs. by the 11 chief mines of the Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile (W.A.) The cost of plant is included in total
costs, as in most cases, such as the Oroya, Brown Hill,
Kalgurli, &c., the original plant has been wholly dis-
carded, and in almost every case it soon will be. The
total revenue includes cash, working capital, and value
of gold
Gold Total n . Cost per
Won. Revenue. IV9, Sov.
£ £ £ s. d.
Boulder.. .. 2,600,000 2,838,127 1,025,650 35 4
L. V. Consols .. 2,765,000 2,795,000 1,312,500 22 7
Horseshoe .. 2,090,000 2,125,000 820,000 31 10
Ivanhoe.. .. 1,830,000 2,098,600 697,630 40 2
Associated .. 1,030,000 1,919,500 299,650 108 1
Brown Hill .. 1,295,000 1,578,000 448,125 50 5
Perseverance .. 1,390,000 1,440,000 235,125 102 6
Main Reef .. 350,000 420,000 60,000 148 0
South Kalgurli 170,000 358,500 Nil
Kalgurli .. 185,000 309,000 15,000 392 0
Oroya .. .. 125,000 259,000 10,000 498 0
13,830,000 16,140,727 4,913,580 45 8
The totals are Working capital, £2,310,727 ; gold won,
£13,830,000; total revenue, £16,140,727; dividends,
£4,913,580 ; average cost per sovereign, 455. Bd. Viewed
from all points, these are mammoth figures ; the produc-
tion has been phenomenal; expenditure has been propor-
tionally abnormal; on working capital the return is over
200 per cent. ; but on production it is less than 38 per
cent.


DAVID JONES and COMPANY.
The
‘Orient’
Boot • • •
Black Yici Kid,
Round or Narrow Toes,
28/6
George and Barrack
Sts., SYDNEY.
fgd
HARRINGTON’S
LINE
'
Cam eras from £5 to £5O
and every conceivable Photo
Requisite and Novelty.
HARRINGTON’S
TRADE MARK
An Assurance of
Good Value.
HARRINGTON’S CARD
HARRINGTON & CO., Ltd
Photographic Merchants,
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY
AND
93 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Agents:
Craven A Co., Melbourne,
A. L. Tilly, Perth.
P. Ash, Hobart, Ac., Ac.
SOCIETY
Speasal Liquest
"P&O"
Scoren WKISKY
[?]ar[?]
CLARCON
The story of the Drayton Grange, as dis-
closed by sworn evidence before a Royal Commis-
sion, is about the most horrible The Bulletin can
recall. The transport was a floating Black Hole
of Calcutta, with the agony drawn out over weeks
instead of hours. Filth, squalor, stupidity,
cruelty—which stands out more strongly in the
unspeakably squalid tragedy it is hard to say.
But one thing is certain, that the voyage closes,
with an absolutely fitting incident, the story of a
shameful participation in a shameful enterprise.
The Drayton Grange sums up and epigrammatises
the whole war, so far as Australia is concerned ;
and in the return of these men, pest-ridden,
vermin-infested, reeking with the mire of the
styes in which they were immured, Australia
may see symbolised the just reward of her part in
the war.
So far, the Drayton Grange has claimed 12
victims; this will probably not complete the list,
as there are several still ill of pneumonia. The
Britannic, which brought to the island of the
Chief of all Frozen-meat Patriots, a crowded con-
signment of done-with warriors, has had about an
equal death roll. Why not extend the Royal
Commission on the Drayton Grange to the
whole question of the treatment of Austra-
lian soldiers in S’Afrioa ? There were many things
which occurred in S’Africa about as scan-
dalous as this Drayton Grange business, but
which were more or less hushed up. The
THE GREEN-EYED MONSTER,
“I thought you and Miss Fluffy were great
friends.”
“ We used to be, but we've both been in the same
church choir for nearly three months.”
cables from England, whilst always careful to
record the marmalade with which Lord Roberts
and Mr. Chamberlain spread the Australian
soldier, kept a stolid silence, or went in for hard
lying, about the many occasions on which Austra-
lians were victimised—shot as scapegoats, bullied
by bounder-officers until they were forced to
mutiny, pressed into the most unpleasant and
dangerous work to save pet English regiments
from trouble, and so on. A bit of the truth about
War Office treatment of Australians having floated
to Australia, we might as well have all the facts.
• • • • •
The postponement of the final consideration of
the Federal Defence Bill from the Jingo days of
war to the tainted times of peace, with a Drayton
Grange smelling loudly in the background, will
probably save the Australian people tens of thou-
sands of pounds annually in military expenses.
Will General Hutton now kindly revive his pro-
posal that there should be two armies raised in
Australia—one for local defence, the other to be
available at John Bull’s call for service beyond
the seas !
• ■ • •
“ Swaddy ” writes :
While the high military authorities exhibit a desire to
hush up the Drayton Grange scandal, and aver that the
published reports are “ exaggerated,” those who were on
board know that not half the full facts of the case have
yet come to light. The returning men were simply a
chaotic mob, less amenable to discipline than scrub
cattle, not through their own fault, but the circs, of the
voyage. They were thrust into the space that should
have accommodated half the number, and were able to
get fresh air only at the cost of soaking clothing that
there was no provision for drying. The rule on troopships
that one-third shall always' be on watch duty—giving
those sleeping sufficient room for comfort —had to be dis-
regarded, and, for 24 hours in the day, 1943 men lived and
took their meals in a Black Hole charged with their exhala-
tions and exudations. Added to these were the fumes—no
other word can describe them —from the multitude of
hospitals that had to be erected about the ship, at the
cost of further curtailment of space; and, by the time
the ship reached Albany, the whole vessel absolutely
reeked. Measles has an odor of its own, discernible
when a number of cases are clustered together, and
a blind-folded medical man, taken to the gangway
of the Drayton Grange, would have pronounced
the ship a death-trap without knowing any more.
The frightful atmosphere was aggravated still further by
the fact that the latrines were so situated that their
stench pervaded the surrounding space for several yards,
and as it was impossible to clean up the floors they
became so insanitary as to be a menace to life. The dis-
cipline is alleged to have been good, notwithstanding that
the men openly refused orders and threatened to toss in
a blanket any officer who ventured among them ; and, on
one occasion, an officer of high rank, endeavoring to allay
the discontent of the soldiers, was howled out of
the ’tween decks with blasphemy and contempt.
The true state of the discipline is shown by
the admission that the orders to discontinue spitting on
the upper decks were disregarded, and the plea that if
the men had only taken to their hammocks like profes-
sional soldiers or sailors there would have been no trouble.
If this was the case, why did the officers not see that the
hammocks were used? To anybody who visited the
Drayton Grange ’tween decks the wonder is, not that 10
men died, but that 10 were alive at the end of that three
weeks’ horror. It is significant that in this matter the
conflict of evidence is between Imperial officers on the
one hand and Australian officers on the other.
♦ * * *
Federal Commandant Hutton escaped abad
quarter-of-an-hour by omitting to visit the Dray-
ton Grange when she steamed into Hobson’s Bay.
As the anchor was dropped a launch approached
with several officers in staff uniforms. The
sweltering, fever-stricken swaddies, clustering like
bees on the side, mistakenly identified one figure
as that of the General, and cries of “Stand still,
damn you ! ” were cast at the nearing launch.
The news quickly spread all over the ship, and
the germ-laden soldiers rushed about, wildly
threatening what they would do with the Com-
mandant if he came aboard. Under ordinary
conditions, such talk is talk only, but the Drayton
Grangers were desperate men and utterly un-
disciplined. The uniformed officer turned out to
be Brigadier-Gen. Gordon. Had it been Major-
Gen. Hutton, it is possible that onlookers would
have witnessed the spectacle of a wet and profane
officer being dragged on board a launch with a
boat-hook.
• • • •
Cards of private entree threaten to damage
the social peace of Governors’ levees. In N.S.W.
the heads of a couple of churches receive the
pasteboards now, but one by one the heads of
others put in claims.
* * * *
A long church service makes the best of
Governors yawn. He “shouldn’t show it,” said
a cleric lately. But that is a mild way of ‘ ‘ showing
it ” compared to Botany Bay’s early way. The
most pathetic letters written in Australia were,
possibly, those of Parson Johnson, the first N.S.W.
chaplain, on the insulting way in which
Governors treated his Sunday services. Johnson
was too long-winded one Sunday, and Lieut. -
Governor Grose struck up the tattoo and
marched his soldiers and convicts out right in the
middle of the sermon.
• * * *
Legislative enactment against the use of
naked lights in any coal-mine is evidently neces-
sary. Mount Kembla disaster has shown that
a “tunnel” mine may be just as unsafe as a deep-
shaft mine. The Mt. Nicholas (Tas.) mine is,
like Kembla, a tunnel in the hill-side, and strongly
suspected of being unsafe. Yet naked lights are
used. Left to itself, Tasmania will never institute
legislation. The inhumanity and incapacity of
State Legislatures is driving the Commonwealth
irresistibly in the direction of Unification.
• • • «
After all, the Kembla disaster will not
mean anything like the drain on the Miners’
Accident Fund that people who haven’t gone into
figures seem to think. Though only 18 months
old, the fund is .£45,000 strong. Widows and
certain other dependents receive Bs. a week; chil-
dren under 14, 2s. 6d. each. Say there are 35 of
the former and 120 of the latter (and the
number is steadily decreasing), the “pay” would
amount to .£l5OB a year ; while £45,000, at 3J per
cent., would bring in £1575. And the fund
is growing all the time. Probably there
hasn’t been a single mine-accident relief fund in
Australia which hasn’t surprised its administrators
by its vitality. It is that way with the Bulli, the
Australian (Creswick) and the Broken Hill South
SEMPER EADEM.
FIRST PERSONAL PRONOUN: “I notice Bertie
Johnson is not going so strong with Mrs.
Smith as he used to."
SECOND PERSONAL PRONOUN: “No; I believe
her husband cut him out.”
disaster-funds. The last of these three is the
youngest; yet already half of the widows have
gone off the books through re-marriage.
* m * •
When a Victorian railway strike appeared
imminent, there straightway crawled from their
lairs and caves those strange animals, “ Pro Bono
Publico,” and “House Father,” and “Constant
Reader,” and “ Head of a Family ” and others, to
suggest, in the press, that the railways ought to be
leased to a syndicate, so that Private Enterprise
might get a’chance to prevent such horrors. A
shapeless idea that the great Australian maritime
strike, and the various shearers’ strikes, and the
huge U.S. railway strikes took place on Govern-
ment property seems to haunt “Pro Bono Pub-
lico’’and “House Father,” and such-like casual
human happenings.
The Long Arm again : One of the two
boys drowned at Parramatta recently, a few
days before visited a cemetery to see a
tombstone erected to his grandfather’s
memory. “ When I die,” he said, “there
will be no need to put my name up
there, as it is the same as grand-
father’s.” A week after his body was
buried beside his namesake.
* • •
A man just back from Maori-
land tells the writer that he met an
old friend, now a local resident, in
a prohibition town. As they sat
together in the parlor of a local
boarding-house my friend be-
thought him that it was a rather
dry town, and remarked the
same. T’other man rang a bell.
“Waiter,” said he, “you’ll find
a couple of bottles of English in
my room. Please bring them here.”
The waiter did as he was told. After
the ale had disappeared the man
with the well-stocked room rang the
bell again. “Waiter,” he said, “you’ll
find a bottle of whisky in my room.”
The waiter did find one, and the two
friends went to bed mellow. Next night the
visitor sat alone and dry, and he thought of his
friend’s room. “I wonder if my room has any-
thing in it like that ?” he thought. He rang the
bell. “ Waiter,” he ventured, “ you will find a
bottle of ale in my room. Please bring it here.”
Then he waited in agony of mind. But the
ale came. He says that when you visit that pro-
hibition town you can make your room respond
to orders for all sorts of drinks.
* * » *
A member of the Gimlet brigade writes to
Melb. Christian Citizen, under the heading, “A
Polka Sitting ” :
Sir,—At one of the fashionable society dancing-halls, a
lady missed her daughter, but, on going through the
alcoves, which are regarded as resting places, she saw her
daughter sittingwith a gentleman, his arm round her
waist, and her hands on his shoulder, the attitude gene-
rally, I believe, taken in dancing a polka. When she saw
her mamma, she said, “ Oh, mamma, let me introduo*
Captain to you. I was so tired, and I tad pro-
mised him a polka, so I am giving him *
Sitting.’ ” I make no comment!—Yours faithfully, K.
Holme, senr. _ . _
Now, what was in the mind of this envious and
unhappy Puritan?
v m • •
Apropos of Torrey and Geil’s craze about
dancing as the root of immorality : It was stated
in evidence that that Inglewood (Vic.) girl who
cruelly left her infant out for two frosty nights m
a paddock, had never attended a dance m her life.
She was also a consistent and much-respected
Sunday-school teacher.
* * * *
N.S.W. Arbitration Act does not apply to
domestic servants—which is reasonable enough,
for the female who drops the dishes in the hall is
so nearly extinct that she may be considered a
non-existent quantity. But the restaurant-keepers
of Sydney claim that their employees are domestic
servants, and therefore outside the Act, 'which is
quite an unlooked-for slab of impudence. When
did the shop where the sixpenny chop swims un-
naturally in cheap grease become a home, and
why should the person who sells cooked food be
more domestic than the one who sells it raw ?
Also why should food consumed on another per-
son’s premises be more domestic than ginger-beer
consumed on another person’s premises—say over
the counter of Julius Dago, fruit-dealer? As
a rule the tired girl who tells you that chops are
“off,” but that there is still corned beef to
be had, doesn’t even live on the premises.
Then the status of the barmaid who supplies
counter-lunch, and the theatre manager who
allows pea-nuts to be supplied and consumed on
the premises while he is on the stage playing
“Hamlet,” comes into question. Also, there is
the domestic servant who runs the midnight pie-
stall, which is a restaurant on wheels ; likewise
the person who cuts down trees for starving cattle
to eat, and who is a precarious restaurant for
cows, and is mostly named Bill. He may be a
domestic servant, but it is better to call him one
by telegram.
• * • *
Recent affiliation cases in Sydney courts
seem to demand that the young woman should,
before going astray, fortify herself with a properly-
attested statement as to the young man’s income.
Affiliation thrift should be as good as any other
thrift.
■ » * *
At Sydney Central Police Court Stipen-
diary Donaldson laid down the law, as understood
by him, in an affiliation case as follows :
I shall make an order, but she seems to have contri-
buted so much to her own undoing that I shall make
only a small order. „.
Defendant was ordered to pay ss. a week and £llos. 6d.
costs.
A wrongly-interpreted law. The weaker the
woman, within certain limits, the greater the
responsibility of the man.
* * * *
The Pall Mall Gazette glorifies Mount-
morganaire D’Arcy:
He belongs, I am given to understand, to a branch of
‘the great Anglo-Norman family of Darcy.’ He can
claim descent from farawav John Darcy, Lord Darc.v of
Ivnaith, County Lincoln—a barony which the House of
Lords is likely to be asked to call out of its six or seven
centuries of abeyance.
As money can do most things now-a-days, hey for
Baron Darcy, late of Rockhampton !
Knox D’Arcy has a very long tail now. Assisted
DOUBTFUL .
SERIOUS FRIEND: “Are you certain that you
love him? ”
FRIVOLOUS ETHEL: “It’s this way: I got quite
mad when I saw him kiss Mary Smith.
But, then, you see, I’ve always hated Mary
Smith. ”
by his charming wife (formerly Miss Boucicault,
0 f Rockhampton), he entertains “the very best” at
4 2 Qrosvenor-square (a big mansion not far off the
j) uke 0 f Westminster’s). At a ball given by the
D>A recent ly there were present 1 duchess,
2 princesses, 12 countesses, 3 Marchionesses, 2
LOVE-WAYS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Which Love-way’s best, you bid me prove :
The man’s love, or the woman’s love ?
The woman gives her heart—her all;
Man —crumbs that from his table fall.
Because our love leaps hot and fast
Proves not your slow love will outlast!
A woman loves for all life long—
The man’s love dieth with the song . . .
The man'B love pauseth to take breath ;
While woman loves till Death—till death!
QUITS.


Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address.—
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George-street
or King street, Sydney.*
r II
• 1141
MARK
TRADE
S^CTORIAIi
**Dis is wot
1 grov/d ON /v,
BILE BEANS
Pi
#
Troubles.
viscounts, 4 earls, 17 lords, 1 baron, 1 marquis,
and about 200 “sirs” and “ladies.” Verily
Gilbert only foreshadowed a fact when he said
that dukes would be “ two a penny.”
* * * •
The sort of thing David Syme prints now-
adays without a blush. Melb Age (30/7/’O2): —
T ADY, with small income, would housekeep gentle-
man, over 35, view matrimony. Bell, G.P.O.
* * * *
Servant girls object to register themselves
at N.S.W. Government Registry Office through
fear of being confounded with girls whom the
Government has had to treat penally.
• * * *
A lady (Frances Campbell) writing a real
Australian story in the Pall Mall Gazette, with
all the £uide-book local color—“sky of palest
aquamarine ” and so on, makes a ship steam from
Cairns to Brisbane and pass the Quetta Rock on
the way. The P.M.G. (now one of the most
crawlsome sheets on earth) is vastly proud of its
knowledge of the “ Empiah.”
* • * *
The Government of Icicle Irvine has
“mitigated ” the sentence of death passed lately
on a Gippsland youth into 15 years’ gaol and two
floggings. This “mercy” appears to have been
extended to the culprit—a lad of 17 —on the
ground that he was of weak intellect ; that, at any
rate, was the jury’s recommendation. The lash,
as a cure for weak intellect ? If it could only be
tried on an occasional Cabinet Minister !
• * * *
Concerning the latest Melbourne sensa-
tion :
Just as Melbourne was settling down to be interested
In Thos. Bent’s efforts to get up a railway strike, there
came news of the Dandenong tragedy, and the report
that the murdered man’s wife (arrested on sus-
Sicion of complicity) was a sister of Thekla Regina
'ubberke, the masterful, handsome “heroine” of the
Boot-box tragedy. Melbourne instantly dropped
politics and centred all its interest on Dandenong.
The widow, Selina Sangal, and her fellow-accused and
alleged paramour—an ex-employee named August Tisler
—both began making statements at an early stage. So
far the yarn seems to be that someone entered the San-
gals’ bedroom late at night; that the wife got up and
went into the children’s bedroom, and Sangal was then
violently assaulted. He struggled for a space, then called
for a drink of water. This his wife took him, then
retired, and he was battered some more. Meanwhile
two “ hands ” were sleeping in a hut 20 yards away, but
no one made any attempt to call them. Also, it is stated
that Sangal’s son, a lad of 11, awoke, and wished to see
why his father called out, but his mother prevented him,
••lest he should get hurt "—which, considering all things,
was quite likely. Mrs. S. made no mention of these
« S,TI , h d .t‘Th.'“sS,r. n „1
desired the police to come and investigate her well, as
she thought her old man had committed suicide down it.
He was down it, right enough, but as his throat was cut
and his head much battered, it didn’t look like a suicide,
Tisler says that at the time of the murder he was at a
certain place in Melbourne, but the man whom thq police
found there put the matter otherwise ; he said that Tisler
asked him to say that he (Tisler) was there, which was
quite a different thing. Tisler seems to have even written
down a full statement of the story he wanted his Melb.
friend to tell, and the police now hold the document,
Certain blood-stained clothes, said to have been sold by
jsra.* sssstfrs
covered from a contingenter, who might otherwise
have found the stains handy to corroborate many a
whirling narrative of battle, slaughter, and sudden
obliteration on the veldt. Last of all, an alleged Spaniard
has come forward to swear that he was offered various
sums to murder the late Sangal, but that his request for
some money in advance was refused. The other party
reckoned that the transaction should be caBh on delivery
of corpse. It is a long, sordid, gruesome series of allega-
tions—the most gruesome being that the loving wife took
her partially-murdered husband a drink and then retired
till the homicide should be finished. That item deserves
to be preserved in spirits and put in the Chamber of
Horrors.
• * * «
About the only notable “ Coronation ”
function in Melbourne was Mayor Gillot’s dis-
tribution of 10,000 medals to the city children.
Three unfortunate kids —duly coached by some
sycophantic worm—reciprocated with an awful
effusion setting forth: “ May it please your
Worship, In the name of the boys and girls of
Melbourne we wish to thank you with our hearts
for the entertainment you gave us on 27th June.
We were very sorry that His Majesty, King
Edward VII., was unable to be crowned, etc. We
shall try in return for your generosity to be good
citizens of Melbourne and the British Empire, and
pray that God may bless Lady Gillott and your-
self with long life and happiness.” Several of the
medals were subsequently found in an adjacent
penny-in-the-slot machine, which badly fails to
corroborate the greasy effusion above quoted.
* * * *
One doctor now suggests that the fashion-
able appendicitis, whose causation is still obscure,
i 3 mainly the result of sitting with the legs
crossed.
• • * •
Holy Adelaide has just sent “ up ” for two
years’ hard labor another saint. In this case, aa
in others, the young man went to church every
Sunday, spoke with great earnestness to his Sun-
day-school class of the everlasting hell in store for
those who smiled or went fishing on the Lord’s day,
and flushed rosy-red at the very sight of a Flossie.
And because he did these things his unsophisti-
cated employers let him oollect the cash and lock
the safe by himself till the yearly audit, when over
£2OO was missing. The pious young man allowed
that he took the cash, but whether it went in
Flossies or fishing-taokle or prayer-books didn’t
transpire.
* * * •
The See Government proposes to place
female nurses in the male wards at Parramatta
Hospital for the Insane. This does not meet
with the approval of the male or female attend-
ants. Some nurses will resign rather than under-
take the new duties. In many cases patients have
to be forcibly bathed by the attendants, and it is
hardly women’s work to hold a naked madman
under a bath. A tussle with a nude maniac is
fairly common in the wards at night; and it
doesn’t seem reasonable to call upon women to
undertake that responsibility.
* * • *
The Sydney Yellow Pup speaks below its
breath of the
other insectari*
an crowd as the
“Kelly gang.”
• *
B a rton’s
“sowing the
mustard seed ”
phrase recalls
a story of Syd-
ney divorce-
court. A man
and his wife
quarrelled and
she went
away, but in
absence be-
came tempor-
arily recon-
ciled to her
husband, who
prepared to
welcome her
back to their
home. Among
other things,
the family gar-
dener planted
mustard and
cress, so ar-
ranged as to
form the word
‘ Welcome.”
"Bu t,” sor-
rowfully said
he afterwards
in the divorce-
court, when
the trouble at
last came to a
head, “only
the mustard
came u p.”
Alas, the mus-
tard always
comes up
every time —
in politics and
elsewhere.
A case heard in a police-court the other
day well illustrates the fate of the hapless
;■> n.s.w„ wh S? , £ the
Social Purity party and others, a foundling hospi-
tal is unknown. A mother gave her baby to a
“kind lady” who adopted it for a few pounds
down. Then maternal instinct impelled her to try
and ascertain how her boy was getting along,
a fter some difficulty sho fnmid th« “ hind Wlv”
Alter some aimculty she round the kind lady,
n 0 trace of her son. After being bluffed
for a week or two, the mother invoked the aid of
a policeman, who elicited from the “kind lady”
that one night shortly after the “adoption ” she
was drinking in a public-house when she met a
t M w r ho °f eto d to " lop “ h ?
child. olm forgot_ to ask her name, and
had not the faintest idea where this person lived,
She was arrested and told that unless either the
child or the kind lady who had adopted him were
MATRIMONIAL.
Young Lady, Refined, 28, fair, sweet disposition,
wishes to meet reliable tradesman not over 30, tail,
dark. Apply ‘Confidential.’”—ADVT.
SHE: “No rabbits to-day, thank you.”
HE: "'Tisn’t that, mum — I've called about the
advertisement.”
produced immediately, her position would be very
serious. She then confessed that one evening she
had deposited her charge on the verandah of a
house somewhere near Sydney, at an establish-
ment which she remarked (one would almost
think ironically) “she thought was a home for
foundlings.” The records of infants found in
trains, cabs, verandahs, and paddocks were
searched, and attention fastened on to one aban-
doned infant that the mother was fairly sure was
hers. This infant had been admitted to an
asylum, but had long since ended its little life.
• * * *
Casual point of interest in that Ade-
laide divorce-case is the statement of one of
the man-servants that he and another man-servant
spoke very seriously to their mistress about her
alleged misconduct with the preacher man, and
warned her to desist for the sake of herself and her
family and morality in general. Judging by the
evidence, the lady was first subjected to severe
reproof by the gardener in the kitchen, and then
admonished by the coachman ; and, though it
doesn’t appear for certain that she was also spoken
to as an erring sister by the cook, and subjected to
contumely at the mouth of the housemaid, these
things may also have happened. It was a luxurious
household, where the lady’s allowance ran to some
thousands a year; yet when she was semi-publicly
reprimanded by her own menials in the kitchen,
beside the slush-bucket and adjacent to the rolling-
pin, it was a striking evidence that wealth can’t
purchase happiness.
• * • •
The D.T.’s guileless young man com-
placently regards the gathering of men (at a lec-
ture “to men only”) in Sydney Town Hall as a
refutation of the charge of religious indifference
on the part of the sterner sex. Yah 1 As if “to
men only ” doesn’t carry with it the sort of sugges-
tive invitation that is borne by a book entitled
“The Romance of a Fair Girl’s Bathroom.”
* * -• * *
One disloyal item from Australian press
account of King Ned’s Coronation :
After the exaltation, the Archbishop of Canterbury did
homage. The venerable prelate kissed the King on both
cheeks, and then nearly collapsed.
* * * *
Apparently more or less apropos of the
newest Victorian sensation and of certain things
connected therewith:—
Seems to be about time that the State Governments
published some statistics showing what proportion of the
murder, manslaughter and mysterious tragedy business
in this country is associated with people of distinctly
non-British parentage. More than a fair share of the
name 3 that become public through gruesome newspaper
stories, coroners’ inquests, and trials for murder are, in
an English way of speaking, foreign names. Australia
needs all the light it can get upon the subject of white
aliens and their tendency to increase and multiply and
furnish the local press with congenial cross-headings. An
inquiry into the importation of murderous proclivities
from Europe would give a new turn to A.N.A. sentiment.
• • •
The two fresh outbreaks of plague, one at
Brisbane, t’other at Newcastle (N.S.W.), call
forcibly to notice the necessity of continuing pre-
cautions against the disease even after it seems
to have entirely disappeared. With regard to the
Newcastle outbreak, the lasting wonder of those
who know the coaly city is that the present is but
the second case it has produced so far. The town
itself is one long, water-side street, and a
more or less successful attempt to build on the
almost perpendicular sides of a hill. Most of the
town is right on the water-frontage, and the
wharves are about the cosiest place a plague-rat
could ask for.
* * ♦ *
The clergy put a feeble oar into the turbid
waters of the Melb. civil-service embroglio.
Hyndinan says the clergy business is to chloro-
form and hypnotise the working class in the
interest of capital.
* * * *
Latest thing in feminine sentimentality.
A girl found drowned in Sydney harbor (suicide
through love) had two photographs of her young
man plastered on her breast over her heart.
* * * »
In Adelaide live-meat market the other
day a bullock brought £23 7s. 6d. Record ? No ;
a Maoriland bullock was sold in Sydney last week
for over £29.
A Melb. woman, the other week,
sued her fourth husband for main-
tenance and recovery of money lent.
One of her previous three partners
was a bigamist, and all
of them, it appeared,
had done their best
to sicken her of
matrimony, but she
went for No. 4
with eager arms,
and financed him
in a love’s-young-
dreamy way, and
clung to him hard
until he got off
with the boodle.
The confirmed vic-
tim in this case
would, doubtless,
worry around for a
fifth husband if she
were left a widow to-
morrow. One thing that
man can never under-
stand in woman is her capacity
for deriving a melancholy satis-
faction from the married state.
Even the missus whose old
man drags her round the room
by her nair can pride herself
on being a respectable married
woman.
Salvation strikes fruitful soil
at times. Six-year-old had got it,
and, lamenting over his pony gone
the same way as the rest, said: “There’s
one comfort, I rode him to service last
week andhe must have died in the Lord.”
Even amid the howl for retrenchment at
the railway worker’s expense to block fresh
direct taxation, the Vic. dailies cannot altogether
prevent such items as this from creeping into
their country news:
BROADFORD, Monday.
Much indignation is felt at the sweating carried, on at
the local railway station, where the hours are about
thirteen per day per man. Customers of the department
also complain that they do not receive the attention they
deserve, and attribute this to the fact that the staff has
been reduced.
Present writer, who considers himself a very hard-
worked man, wouldn’t change places for much
money with some of the up-country railway
servants he has met. He has particular recollec-
tions of a G-ippsland station-master-booking-clerk-
telegraphist-porter- sh unter - and - everything - com-
bined, who was deprived, about a year ago, of the
assistance of a night officer, and only got him back
by reason of falling ill from overwork at the end
of two months. During that period he had to get
up before seven to take the “staff” from the
driver of the early goods train, remained at his
post all day in his capacity of township post-
master, and finished up just about midnight by
seeing another goods-train off the premises. In
addition to his duties as stationmaster and
postmaster, he was supposed to run telegrams
across the township to any recipients who lived
handy, and likewise performed duties con-
nected with old age pensions, dog-registration and
similar matters. And now, this versatile
individual is to have a chip knocked off his £3 a
week to preserve the pockets of under-rated shire-
property owners from assault.
• * • *
Apropos that N.S.W. Abolition-of-Capital-
Punishment Bill. A doctor who has attended
many hangings tells The Bulletin that the idea
of killing by that method (to shed no blood) is not
guite technically correct. Blood is shed, but
internally; the victim is first rendered uncon-
scious by an effusion of blood on the brain (just
as though he had been sand-bagged), and is then
killed by strangulation. A hanged man is often
alive lOmin. after the drop, but generally (so far
as can be ascertained) suffers no pain.
The importance of hanging, as a Bulwark to the
Bible and the Constitution, in John Bull’s mind,
is shown by the fact that, in the Crown Colony of
British Gruiana, the barrister who defends a penni-
less person charged with a capital crime is only
paid 24d01. by the Crown ; but the hangman, for
hanging the accused after his conviction, gets
25d01., with the loan of a black suit, a hat, and a
pair of spectacles!
Writes “ C.H.L.”
Re “ crumbling houses in Sydney’s suburbs” (B. 2/8/’O2).
There are many cottages in the suburbs built with only
4£in. brick walls, and with foundations that simply beggar
description. About a dozen years ago, present writer,
then himself in the building-line, saw,' in Balmain, some
workmen, just after knock-off time on a Saturday, leaning
against the outer face of a chimney-stack in the wall of a
small building, which had evidently been finished only
that very day. On entering into conversation with the
men, they told me that the contractor had gone to the
proprietor to draw the balance of the money, and that
they were meanwhile holding the blanky thing up until
he returned with funds to pay their wages.
ALNASCHAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He woke from dreams, and kicked the Basket o’er
That held a dozen cosmic Eggs, alas I
A dozen universes smashed like glass—
The Landlord thrust him from the Tavern Door.
V. J. DALET.
To Lydia
For The Bulletin
A T this far lonely village on the sea,
Waiting until some marriageable purse
Prostrates himself before your dainty skirt
For better or for worse,
You deign, fair Lydia, to flirt with me ;
And I am grateful ’tis with me you flirt.
You praise my verses with a kindling eye,
You have a glad, quick smile for all my fancies ;
Pansies I praised to you, and so, since then,
N.S.W.
You have worn pansies ;
And yet, dear, if you treat me tenderly
’Tit but that there are here no other men.
I ask not, Lydia, that you should be mine,
I could not for one week afford to dress you !
Vm grateful for your gift of passing smiles,
And so God bless you :
A month of water you have made all wine
With the vjhite magic of your maiden wiles.
P.F.R.


hfd
Dress fftßßies
Are Stocked bv the
_ Leading Drapers. ...
TT ADE m A VkTHE varnished board
SET OF TEETH ONE GUINEA
Beautiful and Lifelike in Appearance and Guaranteed Perfect Fit. Absolutely Planless
Extractions and Stoppings Guaranteed.
Special Attention Given to Regulating Children’s Teeth.
Mr. J. SPENCER NOLAN, R. 0.5., Surgeon Dentist, 43 Oxford-st., Sydney.
" BE SURE IT’S
CHARLES
HEIDSIECK-
facile princeps.
SEMPER IDEM
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
P.D. Corsets}
Latest Specialty, Straight Front, Erect Form
{ P.D. Corsets
A WOMAN'S LETTER.
Sydney, August 19, 1902.
My Dear Arini.—
From two “visitations of God” —drought and
the Mt. Kembla disaster—our attention is dis-
tracted by a third horror that calls for a visitation
of Justice on someone, or several. Out of the
depths of the Drayton Grange infamy comes the
exceeding bitter cry, “ Sad Death of a Returning
Trooper”; the dailies are keeping the line in
type. The mother of Trooper Burke-Thompson,
who died of pneumonia a few hours after the arri-
val of the steamer* in Melbourne, lies seriously ill
in Sydney, where she had come in the expectation
of meeting her son. Another of her sons was
buried less than a month ago, and one 18 months
since. The dead trooper was the eldest
son of the late James Thompson, of Mt.
Emu, Tarbrax, and Fairlight stations,
Queensland, and he was said to be the
first white male child born in Burke, N.Q., where
his father was an early pioneer. A funeral “with
full military honors ” was given his body—when
it was dead. Alive, it couldn’t secure as much
honor as a hor3e—which isn’t overcrowded on a
transport, and is “groomed every morning,”
according to the army regulations.
Lady Rawson opened the Babies’ Home, at
Newtown, last week, in the presence of 28 babies
(who sang “Three Blind Mice’’and “Pop Goes
the Weasel ”), a group of clergymen, and doctors,
and. philanthropists. Babies’ Home is the out-
come of a creche , founded by a few ladies, nearly
14 years ago, in Macquarie-st. In its present
state, there is only accommodation for 30 children,
but, when the funds allow, it will take in about 20
more. After Dr. Walter Spencer’s speechlet,
Lady Rawson must be fully impressed with
the faot that a neglected child is a menace
to the State. He also told her, in
language that wouldn’t bring a blush to
the cheek of the Blessed Damozel herself, that
the society of which the Home is an offshoot
chases the male parent who tries to escape the
affiliation order, and compels him (when it can
catch him) to contribute to the support of the
babe ; also, that mothers are expected to contri-
bute out of “theirscanty earnings” towards the
same small object.
Their State Exes., Mis 3 Rawson, an<T Capt.
Watt, came to the Town Hall on Saturday to hear
Mr. Alfred Hill’s Maori maiden, Hinemoa, tell
her love to the young chief, who played the flute
like Lemmone, and wore a slab of greenstone
in his nose, the huia feather in his hair, and a red
flax mat on his tattooed front. Hinemoa does
the running, or swimming rather, as thoroughly
and gracefully as her cultured prototype, Shake-
speare’s Rosalind. Libretto of “Hinemoa” was
written by that disconsolate half genius, Arthur
Adams, who came amongst us a few years
ago—a blue devil seated in either fine
dark eye—and later, went hence to San Toy
land. Now he is in London. Music of Hine-
moa is captivating in numerous places. The
orchestral number, “Lake Music,” deserves the
most delicate of praise adjectives. Alfred Hill
has enticed the voices of the raupo, and the wind
whispering through the taua trees, into his score.
But the conducting of this melodious bantling of
his must have been anguish. He looked more
spook-like than ever after the closing Maori
maidens’ and braves’ chorus.
Soc. of Artists’ show of students’ work, mostly
in black and white, comprises work of some 50
students, after some six months’ study. Mr.
Bradbury, one of the proprietors of London
Punch, who is in Sydney at present, was looking
round and pounced upon two sets of studies
by girls named Derbyshire and Lovett, and said
that the work was some of the best student effort
he had ever seen. The former girl is a Russian by
birth, latter a Tasmanian. Miss Derbyshire
resides with a very young aunt, and a very pretty
one, whom she has used as a model in many
phases of attire. The Amalgamated societies will
hold their exhibition on Sept. 8, in the old
society’s rooms. It is said they are keeping to the
premises, though they are badly lighted, for
sentimental reasons. The sentiment is probably a
keen desire to triumph over “the other animal.”
There was so much of the crusty old solitary in
each of the art. societies which have just united
that the manage is rather suggestive of the happy
home of two strictly-teetotal old bachelors.
Queen Alexandra has, if London and M.L.
papers speak with authority, succeeded to her late
mother-in-law’s Sydney-conferred title of “Pre-
eminent in Grief.” An English and M.L. daily
of almost the same dates have had leaders on the
Queen Consort’s crown of sorrows—counting the
thorns thereof with loyal care and watering
each with a tear. Though the Queen, it seems,
has had an “idyllic married life ” and has never
had a tear or even a sigh wrung from her by Ned
staying out late or making eyes at another
cat, she had an attack of acute rheumatism when
she was 22. She got better of that (Sydney brand
of rheumatism is like the Biblical poor). After
that first woe came the deaths of her elder son,
of the Duchess of Teck, of Mr. Gladstone (“to
whom she was greatly attached ”), her mother and
mother-in-law; and so she is a “Queen of
Sorrows.” Yet all these, save the poor young
Duke of Clarence, had a pretty long life-innings.
Gladstone, the late Queen Victoria, and the Queen
of Denmark were over 80. The D. of Teck over
60. What one of us can’t name friends, children,
parents, lovers lost ?
The dead are very many, the living few.
There’s a crawful craze to place monarchs on an
imaginary lonely height, made an island by
tears of their own shedding. The crawl papers
seem to like to persuade the people who have to
do the paying into the belief that the monarchical
life is infinitely more sorrowful than any other,
despite its gilding.
A Brisbane correspondent points out that her
city has the advantage of Sydney, or any other
city in Australia, in at least one particular—that
of garden breakfasts and lunches. These meals
used to be cooked by a first-class chef, who had
Eaid to the public garden trustees £24 per year for
is stand. Trustees must have had their eyes
opened to the value of the concession, for this
year’s accepted tender is £4OO. The retiring chef
has leased the top of the Courier buildings, where
he will plant a roof-garden and continue his
admirable cooking and service. Now, why doesn’t
someone here profit by Brisbane’s example : Why
can’t we have garden meals in Sydney ? Hyde
Park at present is a loafing ground for dead-beats
and a place wherein the sandbagger lurks. If the
railings were removed, the human, canine and
other rubbish swept out and flowers planted, tea
and luncheon rooms started, the place would be
beautiful and useful. Now is the time for some-
one to deputationise the park trustees, that is
if anyone can find where they are. They are
probably lying low, leaving the park to become as
useless as possible, so that presently it may be
grabbed for a rail way-station or other public ugli-
ness.
Twenty-five guineas for a man’s hat! Ex-editor
Brient, of Sydney D.T., writing from London,
mentions hat and price in astonishment. “ You
may see as many straw hats in Oxford-st. and the
Strand as in George and King-sts.” But this
simpler, more rational clothing is, for the benefit
of the London Johnny, made in very expensive
qualities. The favorite hat for both men and
women is the Homburg-shaped Panama, sold for
the common herd at from half-a-guinea to two
guineas, but for the swelled head of the real Lon-
don Johnny (who will have none of these bargain-
counter prices pressing on his exquisite brain) it is
geared up to 25 guineas.
A mining man who recently went to London
has been confirmed in his belief that “know-
ledge by suffering entereth.” He drew the
favorite for the Derby in a sweep, and a man
offered him £7O for his chance. He declined and
the horse didn’t even get a place. He went out
to the Derby in new clothes with his son, a pocket-
ful of money, and several tips, which he intended
to back. On the way he was robbed of all his
coin, and so he could not back his fancies, all of
which won. Then the rain came and he and his
son had their clothes spoilt because they hadn’t
the price of a cab. Later he went to Paris
to look at the Grand Prix with two other
men, and one of the party was robbed of
a valuable pearl pin. They caught the thief
(but after he had passed the pin to a
confederate, who escaped) and the robber pulled
out a swag of gold and' offered £5O for
his liberty and the pin, and the Englishmen
agreed, and were just taking over the money when
a French somebody in police uniform came up and
told his men to take them in charge for com-
pounding a felony. And they had a lot of trouble
in proving that they were only innocents abroad.
Two London correspondents on Regina Nagel:
No. 1—“ Miss Nagel’s London concert was almost
ignored by the press. The Sunday Sun said that
her merits as a vocalist did not justify the
enthusiasm with which she was received, for her
voice was uneven and lacked charm. It recom-
mended study.” No. 2—“ Mr. W. Yert, the suc-
cessful London entrepeneur, has stated that at
Miss Nagel’s recent concert in St. James’s Hall
there was more money taken at the doors than at
any of the debutantes’ concerts this season. Miss
Nagel is at present only accepting a few of the
many engagements offered her. The song which
is received with the greatest favor among those
which Miss Nagel is now singing is ‘The Land
of Roses.’ ”
After the supper at a recent Friendly Society’s
annual ball the M.C. requested the company to
suspend the toast-list as the district secretary had
just died—would the company go back to the ball-
room and resume dancing ?
Miss Vida Goldstein, a little plumper, a little
more attractive, and with a hint at an American
accent, was met on her return (per Ventura) by
an elated group of woman-suffragists and the
joyous news—“We have got IT!” They then
caught her up in a chariot and whirled off to Miss
Rose Scott’s residence. The pretty emancipator
is speaking this week in Sydney on her American
Lesson, learned at the international Women’s
Suffrage Conference, held in Washington. She
attended and addressed scores of meetings, inter-
viewed the President, who is a suffragist, and was
charmed by hint, noted the good work being done,
especially in an aesthetic direction, by women’s
leagues in the poorer parts of New York and
Chicago. In reply to an interviewer’s question
about the vote just granted her sex, Miss G. said :
‘ ‘ What the ballot-box cannot do we still hope to
accomplish by subtler methods.” Now, that
“ subtler methods ”is very significant. Same old
chiffons, same old sighs, same old curl in the
middle of your forehead, open-work stockings and
Louis shoes, same old dimple and glance and
engaging moistening of the lips ?
Mary Chatteris, the white, plump, petite ingenue
with the funny little marmot profile, brought out
by the Broughs a year or more ago, was married
on Thursday to Mr. W. Allen, son of Mr. W. B.
Allen, of Waverley, and the pair left on Saturday
for London. The Allen family have a soap-factory
and are well-off.
Captain Bosanquet, R.N., who died last week,
near Sydney, was one of the most popular men
that ever sighted a cannon or handled a sub-
marine missile. He was commander of the N.S. W.
Naval Forces and staff officer in charge of torpe-
does. His widow and four sons survive him.
Sydney’s Mayoress, Mrs. T. Hughes, will be At
Home to her friends in the Town Hall this (Thurs-
day) afternoon. In her rooms at the Hall, mind
you ; so, if even a fourth of the people in Sydney
roll up as they did at her last “ At Home,” there
won’t be enough room, or tea, or pie.
Writes my Brisbane correspondent:—
“ The Lady Lamington (women's) Hospital com-
mittee has had the most successful ball of the
season. The ladies recognise that children of
a larger growth have a passion for dressing up.
Their first poster ball made them financially
sound, and the present ‘ sheet and pillowslip ’
function gives them a substantial building nest-
egg. Even Vice-royalty donned the classic cover-
ing.' In their robes of purity, some looked like
Druids, some like Dabee Singh and other fish-
vendors, while others were as if arrayed in the
plainest of bedroom garments ready for ‘ bye-bye.’
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ There was quite a breeziness about the Coro-
nation festivity at ‘Stonington’ on Monday night,
due to the sweet smiles that Gov. Clarke and Lady
Silverlocks and their ewe lamb threw in with every
hand-shake. Meeting them you really think that
the dearest wish and highest gratification of their
hearts has been achieved by your particular
presence ; and that is the secret of ‘ charm ’—the
secret that makes a ladies’ doctor or a dentist
successful. Things swung right from the start,
the State fossils taking on a caperish air and
waxing as facetious as juveniles. ‘ What a bright
party ! ’ murmured a much-medalled Consul to
the V.lt. host; ‘We are quite brilliant without
the Federal element.’ ‘ Ah,’ was the perky reply,
‘ we must see that the State holds up its little
head,’ and Gov. Clarke gave an upward jerk to
his own, like a dear little cock-sparrow thinking
over a triumph ; and one or two near neighbors
thought how very determined was His Nibs to
show his State how to do it. Such a perky,
pleased, amiable little Governor, with a frank air
for all his little conceits !
“ Lady Clarke was in a red silk outfit, draped
with black lace, cherry-colored chiffon ridges on
the bodice, and diamonds everywhere. Miss
Clarke was pretty and unaffected in black, dis-
engloomed by a little turquoise. She converses ;
therefore old politicians and grave-looking officials
with rows of decorations on their braided coats
haunt her side. As one of them put it the other
night, ‘ Miss Clarke does not try to say things
admirably, she tries only to say them plainly.’
He had been reading Landor. Herr Carl Pin-
schoff, sporting the brightest red coa, and the
chastest white continuations in the gathering,
shook off his grand, gruff consequential air, and
talked to the leading spinster like an uncle.
Madame, his wife, was in the front row of the
frockers, and showed herself a favorite at ‘ Ston-
ington.’ The Clarkes have a passion for music.
“ Standing out in that State party, as a good
deed in a naughty world, was the superb figure of
Mrs. Harry Payne. She stands up to her inches,
and rears her head in a way that suggests horse-
manship. Appropriately enough, she boasts one of
the best mounts of the hunting-field. Her dress
was a smoke-grey satin voluminously trained,
with sunset-red ridges rising above the cloudy
background. Diamonds flashed about the neck,
shoulders and hair. Her husband walked beside
this vision, full of diffident pride, humbly con-
scious of her outshining all the sex that night.
For a politician, he is unusually bashful. Two
new arrivals in this State were Mrs. W. Wallace
(a broad, dignified, well-set-up dame wearing a
black gown with spangled net-veiling and occa-
sional white lace ornaments with diamond out-
posts), and Mrs. Gordon (a fair, placid, composed
lady, with fine shoulders, in cream overlaid with
ivory-tinted lace). The latter’s military spouse
again strutted his peacock hour. A swashbuck-
ling Athos is this Brigadier-General Maria
Gordon, who has come to lick the State militia
into shape.
“Where do all the decorations, orders and
medals come from that the official world wears ?
On the ‘Stonington’ occasion, almost every
common or garden individual breasted a couple.
Even a politician who has a corner in chiffon,
sported a big, bright, beautiful star. The most
microscopic of the lot was a tiny cross—only the
strong-sighted could detect it—pinned on the coat
of the Italian Consul. The most courtly figure of
the knee-breeched order was old Sir Henry Cuth-
bert, tall, pinlt-cheeked, whose velvet trappings,
rich white lace frills, gold braidings and silver
locks were entirely suitable. The average man
looks like an ordinary goat in court-trappings;
the extra-average man, like a dignified regimental
goat.
“A pathetic sight at this Gov’ment House
party was the tall figure of Minister M‘Kenzie
being led from room to room, and from, group to
group, by his wife. The stranger cannot tell that
the keen, intelligent face has sightless eyes, and
to hear his bright, brisk, cheerful and intellectual
conversation no one would credit that the speaker
is totally blind. There was not a cheerier man
in the gathering, yet his hand had to be directed
to that held out to him, and his steps guided ever
so carefully.
“One saw with half an eye, at the Tennyson
Coronation spree, what assiduous court Better-
Not Wally paid the Federal Powers. He went
and gathered in Lady Fysh to the supper-table,
collected certain other Senate dames, dallied at
the buffet with William Lyne, laughed to his
ears and round the back of them at one of the
sprightly Deakin’s jokes, and conveyed the im-
pression of great fondness for all the Federal
party. A rather fat Federal billet is said to be
waiting for Wally, who will fill it to perfection.
“ An Australian tells me, this mail, of a dinner
at the Vagabond Club, London, which Dick
Seddon spoilt with his swelled head and swelled
speeches. Conan Doyle was in the chair, and
among the pen-people there was the author of
‘My Japanese Wife.’ The dinner was excellent,
only three toasts listed, and the music promised
to be first-class. Everything prepared one for a
brilliantly good time. But they’d reckoned with-
out their guest. In reply to the toast of his health,
Mr. Seddon got on the hustings and bellowed and
roared heroics and gibberish for three-quarters of
an hour. Then, in reply to the toast of ‘ Com-
merce, etc.,’ proposed by Lord Charles Beresford,
Seddon got on the stump again for another eter-
nity. Londoners marvel at the sublime egotism
of the man who could thus let loose his election
eloquence on a ‘ booky ’ gathering. One of those
present put it this way :
This man from the Antipodes
Has sure a swollen head on ;
He talked of lands beyond the seas
And said, and said, and Seddon 1
He talked till 11 o’clock to a gradually-emptying
room, and the concert was lost. He looked
fatigued at the end, but evidently enjoyed himself
immensely.
• °f Woman’s inhumanity to
smirched sisters and make the most of scratches,
inflicted by Hospital Catmittees, on the feelings
of unmarried inmates. But ‘ when lovely woman
stoops to folly, she’s apt to find brother man, too,
none too willing ‘ her guilt to cover,’ provided, of
course, he is not personally interested. This
really happened in a local hospital, managed
wholly by men. A young student questioned a
Sl r an d noted down her answers. Next,
a full-blown doctor went the rounds of the ward,
with a following of boy-Sawbones, one of them the
little diagnoser, with a note-book. The young-
ster read out his jottings. ‘Did you believe her
when she said that ? ’ chuckled the Senior. ‘ Yes.’
Why, you Infant, she’s been enciente (only he
put it more brutally) four months ! ’ guffawed the
kind physician. Nearly everyone in the ward
overheard and those who didn’t were told by the
others, so that the woman without a wedding ring
soon got to Coventry. Even the nurse snapped
away a chair with a vicious jerk, when the sick
hussy took the liberty of propping her bad leg
thereon.
“‘Sweet Nell,’gives generous glimpes of her
gorgeous hose in the second act, when she sits
touching up the eyebrow of Dryden’s Muse.
Sitting at the spindle-legged table in front of the
audience. Mistress Gwynne first allows a glimpse
of her Cinderella shoes of turquoise shade with
jewelled buckles. Then she nurses one leg, while
the other, dangling, kicks the audience and fixes
its vision. It is such a poetical limb. Dryden
might have written a finer sonnet on it than he
did on the eyebrow. The stocking? Oh, yes,
wonderfully woven and spangled, or embroidered
or hand-painted, but after all a mere covering.
“Petticoats and hose now vie with chiffons in
the social cake walk. Fancy under-skirt frills,
and open-work novelties and embroideries about
the hose d la, ‘ Nell Gwynne,’ were sported by all
the flash promenaders at Flemington. Dress
upholsterings were lost to sight, and all the grey
clouds were rolled up for the sake of their silver
linings. No wonder the pedicurist flourishes.
Women now pay more attention to their Trilbies
than to their teeth. And there is a fortune await-
ing the toilet-saloon that can treat knees effec-
tively—-make ’em pretty and graceful, take out all
the knobs, and accentuate the dimples. The time
is rapidly coming when Mrs. Flash’s knee-dimples
will be noticed in the papers.
“ The Maddens are enthusiastically celebrating
the recent arrival of the Vallange heir. They
are old-fashioned enough to rejoice at family addi-
tions, while so many Sassiety folk tilt up noses at
such plebeian events.
“Men have taken alarm at their wives’ visits to
the sibyls of the city. There is, in fact, much
cause for it. The mischief done by these people
is very great, not alone in encouraging supersti-
tious folly but in promoting criminal conduct.
And one of the chief things that the average
woman wants to know when she consults a fortune-
teller is, how long her husband is going to live.
Every woman is at heart a widow.
“How is it that the friends and admirers of
Carrie Moore do not bother about handing her up
floral trophies ? It seems years since she had to
reach forth her hand for even one of these offer-
ings. But she manages to look (such is her art)
perfectly happy as the other girls of the co. scoop
in the crumbs from the rich man’s table.
“ Some Melbourne people have been scared by
receiving solicitors’ letters on behalf of a musical
lady who, after her marriage with a rather well-to-
do gentleman, found that old pupils were quietly
ignoring her claims for a settlement of outstanding
accounts. A first gentle reminder from the bride
failed to bring in the guineas., A second re-
minder, kindly but insistent,"' met with no re-
sponse, and at last the lady handed her little list
of debtors to a solicitor. The effect was magical.
Next morning’s post brought a sheaf of apologies
and cheques from the laggards, with humbie re-
quests from the writers to say no more about it.
“Maie Saqui, the sparkling little skirt-dancer of
many years ago, has developed of late. A
recently-returned globe-trotter describes her as
quite massive, but one of the most stunning of
Gaiety Girls. The same trotter reports a falling-
off in the Maesmore Morris charms. She is no
longer the aesthetic creature of grace, looking as
if she subsisted on fresh air and flowers, but is
plumper than of yore. Londoners like her, and
her portraits are in prominent display all over the
Big Smoke. She puts up at the Grosvenor, so
things look prosperous enough.
“ A learned professor of Melb. University told
a dinner-party, the other night, while the discus
sion of Women’s Rights was under we’igh, that
the female in bloomers and knickers was fore-
shadowed when Omphale donned the skin covering
of Hercules and carried his club. After that the
subject was not pursued seriously.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
“ A graceful form and well moulded bust
are essential to perfect beauty. Lacti, the
wonderful “ Skin Food ” is nature’s remedy for
giving back those essentials when lost through
sickness or action of time, and for supplying them
when constitutionally deficient. It fills all hollows,
develops and gives a charming roundness to neck
and arms. Price 7s. 6d. per jar, post Bs. 3d.
Westall Guest, Toilet Specialist to the Gov.-
General, 229 Bourke-street, Melbourne.


WATSON’S WHISKY.
Hotel
Australia
BATES:
12s. 6d. per Day,
and upwards.
««THE AUSTRALIA ”is loftily situated ; from
its dome, the Pacific Ocean can be seen, and tbe
■whole of Sydney.
To its favorable and airy position, “TOT
AUSTRALIA ” adds every comfort and appoint-
ment. It is fireproof from tower to basement;
and an efficient staff patrols the building day and
night. It possesses the most elegant of drawing,
rooms, handsomely appointed dining-rooms, cosy
bar lounges and winter gardens. The system
and attendance of the hotel are unsurpassable.
J. URE SMITH (Late of Monties’), Manager,
Oastlereagh-st., Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
N.S.W. has four stipendiary magistrates
over 70 years of age and 11 between 60 and 70.
Premier Seddon, it is cabled, has refused
a baronetcy. He probably wants a dukedom.
Tommy Bent’s full-length portrait as
Speaker, at Melb. Aquarium, now doesn’t look
quite so foolish as it did.
“Napoleon” (T. Fitzgerald has re-
signed his position as hon. indoor surgeon of Melb.
Hospital, after 44 years’'ser vice.
“ Mr. Donald Cohen,” “ Mr. Gordon
Lazarus,” “Mr. Roderick Moses.” Painting the
lily with a vengeance, this giving of Scotch names
to the Hebrew.
Graham Berry, the “Grand Old Demo-
crat ” of Victorian politics—despite the taint of
his knighthood—will complete his 80th year next
Friday (Aug. 28).
“Consolidated” Levy, M.L.A., is desig-
nated by some of his faith asN.S.W.’s first Hebrew
Premier. South Australia has had Solomon and
M. L. has had Vogel.
The late Brunton Stephens’ daughters
have received appointments m the Queensland
civil service, and six months’ salary has been
given to his widow by the Govt.
The Melbourne public is wondering how it
happened that news of the remarkable suicide of a
certain young man was duly detailed by one
morning paper and carefully suppressed by the
other.
Obit.: T. M. Sloinan, aged 91 years. He
arrived in N.S.W. in 1833, and in 1835 went to
Bathurst, where he resided up to the time of his
death. Think of a man existing in Bathurst for
67 years!
Among the celebrities that the Australian
XI. met when they were guests of Lord Warwick
was Marie Corelli, who takes a deep interest in
the game, and knows all about the abilities of Dar-
ling, Trumper and Trumble.
The only objection taken to the Westralian
Govt.’s appointment of a new boss-detective from
Scotland Yard is that Mr. Mellish, the chosen
one, is past his prime—he will not see 53 anymore.
Mellish’s beat has been the East End.
Opinions are converging to one astronomer
and one meteorologist for the Commonwealth.
One of each should certainly suffice, but vexation,
heart-burning and scientific riots crowd round the
selection and the residences of the officers.
Whether or not Selina Sangal is guiltily
implicated in the Dandenong tragedy, the repro-
duction in print of misdeeds of her sister,
Thekla Dubberke, at the present stage is a crime.
It is trying the woman in a blood-red atmosphere.
Rev. G. H. Frodsliam, consecrated bishop
in St. Andrew’s, Sydney, on Sunday, goes to
North Queensland. But can N.Q. hold him?
N.Q. seems an episcopal nursery for some more
“ toney ” dock. It should grow its own C.E.
bishops.
They say that Shiels, when Vic. Premier,
suppressed Deeming’s autobiog., because of reflec-
tions on the Prince of Wales (now King Edward),
and that Marshall Lyle, Deeming’s attorney, lost
£2OOO over the business. Couldn’t it have been
appendicitised ?
Bishopscourt, the E. Melb. palace, is
being readied-up for the new Anglican Bishop.
The three successive Bishops of Melbourne, Perry,
Moorhouse, and Goe, were all married, but child-
less. So their wives never bothered about missing
bannisters from the stairs.
Better-not Wallington’s line of business
(private secretarying to Governors, Governor-
Generals, and sich) has its precarious side. So it is
understood that he will be offered and will accept
the billet of secretary to the Federal Executive
Council at <£6oo a year, which the Govt, is about
to create.
Premier Irvine (Vic.), glorying over the
recovery of King Edward, said that H.M.’s
“marvellous” restoration to health was due to
“his indomitable courage.” That’s the best of
being a king—people even think better of you for
getting well. Only monarchs get credit for their
improvements in this way.
R- Murray Smith, Yic. Cobdenite apostle,
has a standing grievance against Melb. Age,
which always prints him plain “R. M. Smith.”
Brigadier-Gen. Gordon, on the other hand, doesn’t
like his middle name to be spelt out, but D.
Syme’s men take good care it is—and “J. Maria
Gordon ” goes in every time.
The unexpected is always happening.
Frank Madden has positively made a joke in
Vic. Legislative Assembly. O’Neill remarked of
Treasurer Sliiels that he was “like a banshee to
the Cabinet, always wailing.” Whereupon Frank
Madden interjected—“ The banshee only cries
when someone is going to die.”
That very well-advertised person, Herr
Borchgrevinek, has been engaged by a Washing-
ton (U.S.A.) body to undertake another Antarctic
expedition. Herr B. is a splendid example of the
business maxim that if you want to have a thing
done well, do it yourself; he doesn’t leave his
exploits ” to be sung by others.
After all, S’Langdon Bonython is making a
name for himself in the House of Reps. Members
laugh at his “remount-depot” fad, but they have
a admiration for his success as an inter-
mediary between Opposition and Govt. If any
little agreement is to be worked, and can be
worked, S’Langdon is the chap for the job.
Tommy Bent is fond of his phrase : “ This
Government has no knees ! ” and repeats it when-
ever opportunity offers.
The Minister has knees enough,
And yet contrives to screen them ;
His joints are there, but then it’s years
Since portly Tom has seen them !
Died on Aug. 12 Mrs. Ellen Cook (82),
widow of ‘ Christie ” Cook, who at the time of his
death Bth Mareh last, was one of the oldest
overlanders ” in the Commonwealth. Mrs.
Cook was married at Goulburn, N.S.W., in 1839
when she was but 17 years old, and reared a family
oi 11 children, leaving over 100 direct descen-
dants.
W. P. Reeves, Maoriland’s Agent-General,
wntes a long artide in a recent issue of Welling-
' • -Times on the “King and Queen and
the Lmpire. Among other gossipy items he tells
his democratic readers that “ His Majesty looks
every inch a King! ” Weak Reeves i He no
doubt would say the same were the poor little P.
of W. king.
Wben the death of Lord Arundel was
cabled from England some weeks ago all the dailies,
save Adelaide Advertiser, killed a little-known
Cornish peer, Baron Arundell, of Wardour. It
was the weakly (imbecile) Earl of Arundel, only
S ?j t i e u , lce o£ Norfolk, who died, and so the
oldest English, dukedom will pass to a brother
ot the present holder.
John Norton, the pioneer lawyer of the
Vio. N.-E. district, died at Wangaratta (Vic.)
last week after a residence dating from ’53. ‘ ‘ Old
J ohn was a noted sport in the palmy days, a
sound lawyer and successful pleader ; but it was
as an epicure that the ancient was most notable.
He planted the first vineyard in a district where
wine-growing is now an industry.
Paris Nesbit s very latest is to calmly apply
to the S.A. Attorney-General for “a pardon” to
1, . .; B- deland, medical superintendent of
Jrarkside -Lunatic Asylum, and Mr. Leslie Eord
h ? sa^s » wer e “co-conspirators”
With Chief-Justice Way, Mr. C. C. Kingston and
others, in keeping him (Nesbit) shut up : the testi-
mony of these two, he says, is required as King’s
evidence. &
I retnier John See’s official keeper at the
N. S. W. Colonial Sec.’s office is a gentleman
P a “ IP d kitchen. Sleath, M.P., was voyaging
into Mr. See s room t’other day when Mr. Kitchen
barred the way, firmly, with an “over-this-bodv-
Uy-?ill-y ou -g o ” air. “ You can’t go in there”!
What do you want ? ” asked Mr. Kitchen. “Oh
1 only wished to ask the Premier if I might see
Mr. Kitchen,” replied Sleath, humbly.
Millionaire Carnegie has been successfully
tapped” by some resourceful Toowoomba (O.)
y™ , 3 ’ who, having obtained University passes
and having no cash, wrote to him stating their
case. He replied by offering to pay five years’
tuition at any British university. When the
news gets round a bit the Carnegie letter-box will
need enlarging, and some of the requests will be
wortli their weight in gold as “ copy.”
King Ned has, it is cabled, fixed on the
deck of the yacht which carried Queen Victoria’s
body from the Isle of Wight to the Isle of
Jhngland a brass cross, inscribed :
“Here rested the beloved remains of Victoria on
February 1 and 2, 1901.”
The King’s English seems to be even a shade
worse than the late Queen’s English. It was
surely Victoria; not her clay, that was “beloved.”
Wason, M.P. for Orkney, who, cable tells,
has seceded from the Unionist ranks, and joined
the Kadicals, was for some years a member of
Maoriland Parliament, in which he was opposed
to bed don and all his works. He was never taken
seriously, however, and his subsequent election
to the Commons surprised everybody. Wason is
a wearisome speaker, and his oratorical peculiari-
tms won him the appellation of “ snake-charmer”
in M.L. House of Reps.
Riddoch, M.L.C. (S.A.), in supporting the
Hill for the regulation of dentists, alleged, as proof
of the evi! results of letting unqualified men prac-
tise, that one of them dragged him three times
round the room and didn’t get the tooth out after
all. Apart from the unpleasantness to Riddoch
fhfi ntgOo r i° r the °f the Upper House
that one of its members should thus be towed
ticula a P ar£men£ as Jhe were nothing in par-
Paddy Hannan, the discoverer of Kal-
goorhe, paid_ that part a visit t’other day, and
Kalgoorlie Miner heralded the fact with a two-
line par. Every glorified grocer, however, who
happens to own shares in the Golden Mile and
comes from London on a tour of inspection, is
granted a 2-col. interview in which to ladle
out slush about the greatest mining field on
earth, the great future of the industry when water
and labor are cheaper, and so on.
A legal light of Victoria is perfectly sane
on most points, and his kinsfolk have all they can
do to circumvent his efforts to get out of the insti-
tution where he is detained. A little while back
when the patient appeared in Court to urge his
release, his alertness staggered opposing counsel
and almost convinced the Judge of his sanity till
JULIAN AYERS, the South Australian
lacrosse goal-keeper.
they got him on to his weak point, cryptograms.
Then, he gave himself away by alleging that most
of the advts. in the Age agony column were com-
munications in cipher from accomplices, planning
personal harm to him.
According to the report of Melb. Herald
editor Reay, Bigjohn Forrest surpassed himself in
his violent Imperialism, at the London Conference.
Reay states that the Emperor of the West was
declaring that the colonies should support the
defence of the Empire, and added, “I care not a
snap of the fingers for the opinions of Canada or
Australia.” If this is true, Bigjohn should be
given an opportunity of showing his contempt for
his own country when he returns.
Mr. Balfour, England’s new Prime Mini-
ster, owns a big estate in Wairarapa (Maoriland),
and the local paper suggests that something should
be done to compel its high-placed owner to cut it
up for closer settlement. The property is sur-
rounded by enterprising and industrious settlers,
whose efforts to improve their own farms result
in greatly enhanced value to the idle Balfour
estate. If the M.L. land-tax were not a mere
fleabite, such a state of affairs would be impossible.
“ Vic.” : Demise, at Deniliquin (N.S. W.),
Herbert Henty. I know not how far the state-
ments are true about his connection with Mortimer
Franklyn’s Melb. Evening World, weekly Fede-
ral Australian, and monthly Victorian Review.
Henry and Herbert Henty were partners. It is
alleged that, during Henry’s absence in England,
Franklyn bled Herbert of £90,000, all spent in
stuffing news it didn’t want down the Public
throat. Has anybody ever gauged how much a
newspaper will swallow? No. “In the lowest
deep, a lower deep,” Milton’s paradox.
One of Melbourne’s best-known city swag-
men is a German mason, who occasionally gets
arrested “on the vag.” While he was doing one
stretcli in Melbourne gaol, he was ordered to re-
move the initial “ W.” over the grave of murderer
Deeming (who was hanged under the name of
Williams) and substitute a “D.” Next day,
when he came along the wall where the executed
criminals are buried, the Governor found that
everyone of them, right back to the fifties, had a
“D” after the initials previously sculptured.
Demanding an explanation from the mason, the
latter looked up cheerily and remarked—“Vy,
dem all dead, ain’t it ?”
A correspondent :
Bulletin par. (9/8/’O2) re shooting of Father Scanlan in
mistake for Dan Kelly recalls the shooting of Father
Healey, of Wangaratta (Vic.), in 1876. Mr. Sutherland,
surveyor, reported to the police that certain articles had
been stolen from his camp at Tagumin. Sergt. Foley and
Const. Townsend, suspecting a man named Turner,
tracked him towards Narandera. At the Belmore Arms,
Ganmain, they were informed that a strange man had put
up there. As Foley had an ordinary overcoat over his
uniform, and Townsend was in plain clothes, it was only
natural that the “ strange man ” (Father Healey) mistook
them for criminals and “ drew a bead ” when they bailed
him up. Result was that Foley mortally wounded him.
Father Healey died a few days after at Wagga hospital.
No one thought it worth while to question him, and a
verdict of justifiable homicide was duly returned at the
inquest on the body of the supposed John Turner. It
was only later on that the mistake leaked out. Foley
and Townsend were tried for manslaughter and acquitted.
Foley, now dead, afterwards kept a pub. for some years
at Narandera.
Adelaide, a handful of people with 900,000
square miles of country to rest upon, talks about
a meat-famine and Govt, help to bring stock from
Maoriland. There are not many cattle, and what
there are, it is now seen, are in the hands of the
Kidmans, who also pretty well manage the Wes-
tralian meat-market. A remarkable family are
these Kidmans, a big brotherhood of them, none
of them old yet, but all experienced, hard-
grafting, keen-bargaining cattle-men. They
started at Kapunda (S.A.), wandered over into
N.S. W. still droving and grazing and butchering ;
made a pot out of feeding Broken Hill; took up
bit by bit hundreds of thousands of acres of
country in Queensland, N.S.W., and S. Aus. ;
fingered western mail contracts so long as there
was anything in them ; and early scented the
possibility of repeating on a bigger scale in the
West what they had done on the Barrier. In
many respects they are following Tyson methods
—for one thing, like him, they practically make
the bank keep their books. But, unlike the
Queenslander, they are inclined to “play up” a
bit of their makings on the turf.
Rev. Horatio Gilbert Parker, one time of
S.M. Herald, and who, although a man that
doesn’t know the tail of a horse from the
animal’s ear, lately favored Australia with advice
on the breeding of remounts, publishes a “ poem ”
in Harper’s Weekly. Horatio wrote it on the
Oceanic and calls it “ Verses at Sea.” There are
twenty verses of it, but the first three are above
the average:
Our ship is a beautiful lady,
Friendly and ready and fine ;
She runs her race with storm in her face,
Like a sea-bird over the brine.
In her household work n© hand does shirk,—
No need of belaying-pins,
And the Captain dear and the Engineer,
They both look after the Twins ;
The Twins that drive her to do her best
Where the Roaring Forties rage—
From the Fastnet Height to the Liberty Light,
And the Customs landing stage !
Yet Horatio has some sort of a following and his
alleged novels find type somehow. But his
“poem” has done its work. The Rev. Horatio
is Sir Gilbert now.
Australia is a very big island. Wherefor
a little ABC about Tommy Bent, for the inform-
ation of Longreach, Cambridge Gulf, the caboose
on the top of the Blue Mountains, and the empire-
sized constituency of Page, M.H.R. Bent began
as rate-collector in Moor-abbin, near Brighton,
Vie. He ousted Higinbotham as M.P. for
Brighton, because Higgy “ was no local good.”
Bent rose to be first Minister of Railways, then
Speaker. Was knocked out as a land-boomer,
and got back into Parliament, after sundry years,
as a very forlorn-hope-looking man. The dog
days were not over.
THE HERO'S RETURN.
W IFE: “Of course, William, I’m glad to see you
back, but the children have all got the
measles, and mother’s down with the influenza,
and there’s a man next door sickening for
plague, and I’m”
RETURNED CONTINGENTER (wearily): “Lot bless
you, Maria, that's nothing; I came over in
the Drayton Grange.”
The Vic. railway enginemen sadly miss
their former gen. sec., that born fighter, G.
T. Ross, in their present struggle. The masterful
organising ability of “Tommy” Ross was the
despair of ex-commissioner Mathieson. Hence
his (Ross’) promotion, it is said. Ross left
the Drivers’and Firemen’s Association some years
ago to take a position as Loco, foreman.
HERO M'CABE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Major M'Cabe I they laid him down,
In Dead Man’s Acre hy Wollongong town.
On the soldier’s hier, to the soldier’s grave,
They hore him with panoply grim as brave.
Death drums rolling their awful notes,
Death shots roaring from cannons’ throats.
Over the roofs of the little town ;
Over the beaches, golden-brown ;
Over the Islands Five, whereon
The long wave thundered in Antiphon.
Upward to Kembla’s riven side ;
Over the ridge of the Big Divide.
They will name him better another day,
When, the smother of agony rolled away,
Each record of horror shall stand and shine
On a fair white stone in a golden line.
For Hero M‘Cabe was the man to dare
Battle with princes and powers of air,
With the unchained terror whose track was knows
By corpses of strong men overthrown ;
By the jagged rift on the shatter’d hill;
By the reek of the White-damp, deadly chill—
He counted-the odds by the Fates arrayed,
He reckoned and ’countered them undismayed.
Life was the stake, there was life to win.
But the Silent Player his life dragged in.
Major M‘Oabe might have won renown
In a spatter of blood when the Boer went down |
But Hero M'Oabe gave his life’s last breath
To win back life from that pit of death.
There’s a prayer for the soul of the Hero M‘Oabe
From each widow who croons o’er a fatherless babe)
“ The Hero M'Oabe ! ” is the silent toast
Where’er man pledges man on the Wollongong coast.
And the Islands Five, and old Kembla’s head
In boulder and beach sand shall be spread,
Ere that prayer and that toast are there forgot,
Or lapse with Life’s mean things which matter not.
F.M.


A MOST APPETISING Tj.EI.TSH
MAOO^OOHIE’S
WORCESTER SAUCE,
Swift & Company, 7 Spring Street, Sydney, Australian Agents.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
DAVID STOKER & SONS
In Three Colors—BLACK, RED and BLUE
Register!-:!)
Trade
Mark.
TATTOO OIL
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE
Wool-
Marking or
The Perfect She SHEEP BRANDING OIL.
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors.— ln the ease of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
Cable tells us the present Nile flood is the
lowest on record, so the drought is getting fairly
universal. Apropos of drought: Starving horses,
on a Liverpool Plains -(N.S.W.) station, recently
killed weak sheep and ate the wool.
• * * *
“ Walgett” : Be prickly-pear in Queens-
land. Cattle do all right for a time on boiled
pear, but they soon sicken of it, and unless it is
cut up, it kills them. No doubt pear cut up and
mixed with bran or chaff will keep cattle alive,
but horses quickly die from it, as the fibre forms
into a ball in the stomach. I have seen many post-
mortems on horses and cattle which have been fed
on it, and the cause of death lias been through the
insufficient mastication of the fibre. Cattle,
through chewing the cud, live much longer, but
should they drink on top of a feed, they die. I
have seen cattle live for months on pear in its
native state, hut you should see the inside of them
after death ! Every practical cattle-man whom I
have spoken to on the subject has not a good word
to say for pear as a fodder for cattle. As regards
placing it on Queensland’s coat-of-arms, why not
also place ticks, rabbits, dingoes, marsupials and
droughts! Prickly-pear has such a tremendous
hold of S.-W. Queensland that it will simply cost
millions, to. get rid of it. In the Maranoa and
other districts it has completely overrun the
country ; is impenetrable in places; and is 10 and
12ft. high. Instead of Irmng a blessing, it will in
years to come be one of the greatest curses of a
very much-cursed land.
* * * •
A Westralian teamster recently travelled
300 miles in a dry country on the Murchison with-
out washing himself. At his journey’s end he
fought a man who referred to his uncleanliness,
and travelled hack 300 miles with the dried blood
of combat on his face.
» » • •
“Shearer” writes :
If N.S.W. Pastoralists’ Union wants to come to a fair un-
d ‘rstandingr with the shearers and fret to the Arbitration
Court with clean hands, it should shunt or muzzle its
chairman. Look at his stuff in S.M. Herald : “As shearers
pay their cooks £4 to £5 a week in a shed of 20 to 25
IT WAS DEADLY.
“I wuz diggin’ a post-'ole when up comes a black snake sicc fut long,
an’, bedad, ’fore I could get me boot on ’im ’e bit the pick. An’,
would yer believe it, the ’andle o’ that there pick swelled
up so big that it bust the eye o’ the iron.”
shearers, as they keep the same table as a first-class hotel>
as they feed all swagmen and sundowners, exercising a
semi-royal hospitality, how can they expect to make and
keep big cheques?” There is no doubt that a good many
more pastoralists would like to get back to the old days
and the old ways, when bread and butter were luxuries,
and jam prescribed like opium ; and any troublesome
hand could be sent along to an obliging magistrate-neigh-
bor who would give him five-and-twenty for insolence.
Still,'in a serious time like the present, plain truth might
be told about plain facts. For instance, Mr. Abbott
knows as well as any man in the country that feeding
travellers in shearing-time is regulated by custom as well
understood as statute-law. Shearers feed she.-.r rs,
rouseabouts go to rouseabouts’huts ; unless th ■ station
shuts right down and the shearers have to give the poor
devils a bite or see them go hungry. Cooks, and they are
never too plentiful, get 4s. a week from every shearer,
and out of that pay their own assistants. As to grub, I
don’t know much about first-class hotels, but am pre-
pared to swear that any well-managed sixpenny eating-
house in the city makes a better show every meal than
any shearers’ hut in the country. The food is better now
than it used to be, thank God ! The cursed meanness of
squatters and cockies in the matter of grub (which
shearers "are slowly reforming) has sent thousands of men
to look for billets or join the unemployed in the towns.
* * * *
A farmer near Stanthorpe (S.Q.) recently
spent some hundreds of pounds in erecting an
irrigating plant to water a patch of fertile, low-
lying land. Result : A splendid crop of lucerne,
from which aforesaid farmer realised a
handsome return. Second result : A plague of
wild ducks that settled down like locusts on the
lucerne, and had finally to be exterminated at £1
a hundred. This fact speaks volumes for the
severity of the drought.
* * * «
There is an aboriginal weather-prophet at
Picola, Vic., wlmse latest forecast appears in the
Nathalia paper, and gives fine weather, approach-
ing summery, for August, with a good supply of
rain in Sept., and is signed—“ J. Hawkins, x his
mark.” Jacky’s modesty should make Wragge
blush.
A glimpse of the drought
Leaving Queensland at Goondiwindi, you pass through
70 miles of dusty wilderness —no vestige of grass any-
where—to Moree. Dead carcases, and dying sheep
which haven’t the strength to get out of the
way without falling everywhere scrub is being
cut wholesale, and the timber is gradually being
demolished. The stations are all hand-feeding. One
is keeping 1200 sheep alive on whole-maize. Bags,
with a small hole cut in the bottom, are placed on
the back of a horse and ridden amongst them ; the corn
is thus scattered. The cost is Gd. per week per sheep.
Another, near Moree, is keeping 7000 starving sheep alive
on chaff, which is thrown broadcast on the land ; esti-
mated cost of this feeding. £2O per day. On the Macin-
tyre a sheep-man is irrigating 1000 acres with a 10 h.p.
steam pump ; 201 showed a nice spring in the grass which
a flock of wild ducks devoured in one night. Emus,
kangaroos, and wallabies are easily run down on foot; the
carriers’ boys are helping to keep things going out of the
skins ; the fences along the road for miles are hung all
over with grotesque carcases of birds and beasts, placed
in all kinds of fantastic positions. At a selection I saw a
widow and her two daughters cutting scrub all day and
boiling prickly-pear half the night to try and keep a few
head of cattle alive. You witness some pathetic sights
en route, —foals standing over dead mires, calves over
dead cows, lambs over dead ewes. Near Bogabilla I saw
a carrier shoot four equine skeletons, the remainder of
his team, unable to keep them alive, with chaff at 15s. a
bag, and maize at 9s. 6d. per bushel. At a mail-change I
saw the horses eiting their own dung. The bores are the
saviour of this part of the State as regards water—prac-
tically no rain for 12 months. Sheep don’t need much shear-
ing, as the little they have comes off in handfuls. Although
the stations are employing a number of hands scrub-
cutting, skinning dead sheep, feeding, &c., when rain
does come there will be no employment in these parts,
and there will practically be no shearing. Provisions are
going up to famine-prices any distance from a railway ;
meat is becoming a luxury ; beef, Bd. and lOd. a lb., and
hardly fit to eat at that; vegetables unprocurable. From
Moree to Narrabri you pass through G 6 miles of barren
plain country with dead sheep huddled together every-
where. All the stations are hand-feeding and keeping a
few sheep alive. From Narrabri to Walgett (120 miles),
passing through Wee Waa, Pillaga, “Come by chance”
the country is one vast wilderness with nothing living to
be seen, only bones and skeletons everywhere. All
parched, perished, dust and desolation. The mighty
bush a great sorrowful waste—cracked, burnt, baked.
A horror ! a hell!
• » » *
“Wyoming’': lie the lifting-capacity of
trees. Outside O’Brien’s blacksmith shop in W.
Narrabri, N.S.W., stands a tree with a waggon-
wheel on one of its branches 18ft. from the ground.
Years ago, when the old shop was in work, this
wheal was put against a stout sapling, and the
branch has grown through the wheel and in its
ascension with the growth of the tree has carried
the wheel with it. The wheel would weigh about
160 or 1701 b.
Agent - General
Reeves, in his book on
Maoriland, called “The
Great White Cloud,”
shows that the Maoris,
being from a tropical
region, never became
thoroughly acclima-
tised in their beloved
country, where they
are essentially as
foreign as the Boers in
S’Africa. Their num-
bers never exceeded
153,000. They fell very
far short of occupying
even the North Island,
and were disinclined
to go south. Reeves
touches on the diseases,
especially chest - dis-
eases, to which they
are subject. There is
a good deal that is
deceptive in the fine
Maori physique. Thus
far there are faint
hopes that their num-
bers will pluck - up.
Reeves, like others,
points out the superior-
ity of Maori men over
the women.
“ Geo. W.” :*On a
station near Gunnedah
recentl y killed a gravid hare, which I found to
contain nine young ones. A leporine record ?
* * * »
“J.”: On the Macquarie River, near
Euchareena, met with a large carpet snake, which
came by its death in a peculiar manner. Appar-
ently it was endeavoring to swallow a rabbit a
little over half-grown, and bunny, in its struggles,
kicked one hind-leg completely through the
snake’s neck, thus causing its death.
* * * *
“Boko”: In April, ’B9, caught an eel
with an 18-inch black snake inside it. In Feb.,
1902, at Casino (N.S.W.) killed 4-foot black snake
(red belly) in act of swallowing a 2-foot eel. Had
18 inches of eel down when killed. Don’t know
how snake caught eel, and not at all clear how
eel caught snake.
* * * *
Treesfts well as humans can be killed by
insomnia. “If powerful lights are glaring upon
trees all night long, the leaves will gradually
wither and drop from the branches. This
deadening of the tree is often plainly noticeable
upon the side affected by the light, and a number
of trees in London are being slowly killed by
electric light.
* • * *
“A.H.T.”: “ Di. W.” re bird mimicry
makes a bloomer in crediting the female lyre-bird
with powers of mimicry. As far as my many
years’ close observations go the female bird has
but one note, a long drawn-out “ Quis-s-s-s-e.”
It is the male that is the mimic.
* * * *
“F.M.” writes: Be the bell-bird par
(2/B’/02) your correspondent seems to have had
better luck than usual. One tree on one flat, and
one bird who sat and sang and showed his throat
working to one observer, is a happy combination.
B. L. Far jeon in one of his Australian books tells
us how he saw “ flocks of bell-birds passing over-
head and dropping their long liquid notes.” He
BEST “ HOME-MADE.”
SWAGGIE: “Say, mate, yer nobblers ’re gettin'
purty small.”
BUSH PUBLICAN: “ Well, an’ phwat more d'ye
want cons id her in’ the terrible drought round
about!”
was happy, too, and exceptional. But as to the
“echo’’note. It is the most characteristic the
bird has and is never omitted. “ Ting ! Tong !
Ting! Tong !” he calls always and then down
something like an octave, to the muffled note.
The whole call should he reproduced with accuracy
on the piano, and a Bell-bird gavotte might pre-
lude a Drought sonata or Overland symphony.
♦ • * *
“ Jaymac ” : The “ bower ” of Chlamydod-
era maculata, is not as commonly supposed, its nest.
The bower is constructed by the male and female
birds merely for a playhouse. Two parallel lines
of gravel and clay are laid down about lOin. apart,
and often three feet long. Into this rubble long
shafts of silk-grass and kangaroo-grass in bloom
are firmly planted to a depth often of four inches.
The tops of the grass, often 2ft. Gin, high, are bent
till they overlap. Then the birds set to work
to beautify the bower, and co lect quantities
of pretty pebbles, bones, bits of glass, fencing
wire, copper cartridge-cases, gold watches—when
they can get them (they stole Gould’s watch once)
silver or other coins, etc. When rain falls and
the grass gets set in the ground it is difficult to
believe that it has not grown there. The birds in
spring come to the bower at about 10 o’clock a.m.,
and skylark for over an hour. They chase each
other through and around the bower imitating
every bird in the locality, and often one throws
itself down on its back and holds up a bright some-
thing in both of its claws, which the other snaps
from it and bolts, only to bo pursued and robbed
in turn. The finest examples of bowers are found
in Coonamble district, N.S.W. '
The usual wild and woolly person, down
for the sights, ! struck Melbourne at show-time
and was first heard from when he
blundered into a very superior
Collins-street establishment, and,
throwing his bundle on the luxuri-
ous furniture, asked : “ I say, you,
is Mr. Blank in ? ” Nobody knew
Mr. Blank. “What! don’t yer
know Mr. Blank? Blank, M.P.,
I mean. He’s my member, Blank
is, and I want to put up where
he’s puttin’ up, sd’s he can show
me round.” The stranger from
Dim Distance was thunderstruck
when nobody could tell him
where he could put his finger
on Blank, M.P. He took up
his bundle and stumbled out
on the track of Blank, and for
two whole days a shaggy
man, with burrs in his hair
and rabbits in his whiskers,
haunted Bourke-st. and its
environs, and drifted in and
out of its hotels and public
resorts, and persecuted its
policemen with inquiries
about Blank, M.P., and the
more he wandered the greater
was his wonder. Nobody had
the slightest idea where Blank
was to be found, and at last
the shaggy man in the short
clothes, wearing a mangled
bundle as big as a barrel, got so
drunk seeking Blank in cheap
bars that he was run-in for ob-
structing the Force with his.
idiotic quest. When he was trotted
out the weird spirit of the Aus-
tralian bush fixed its dead eye on
the Bench, and said : “Look "here,
Mister, it’s like this: Blank’s
my member; I can’t find Blank.
Put me on to Blank, an’ I give
yer arfer quid.” They put him
away to cool, and Blank came out of the keg
he had been hiding in.
* » * *
“ Thurla”: Feather-tailed mice (marsupial
and nocturnal) _ are fairly plentiful in Barraba
(N.S.W.I district. They are there known as
flying-mice, because the hind and forelegs on each
side are joined by a strip of skin, which acts as a
kind of wing. The tail is exactly like an emu’s
tail-feather, only that -the shaft is thicker. The
animals are grey, with a white belly, and are
about the size of ordinary house-mice. When
handled they throw off an offensive musky odour.
* * * *
“ Hix ” : Travelling once per s.s. Mana-
pouri from Hobart to Sydney, when near Barren-
joey, I saw a flying-fox rise from amongst a stack
of fruit-cases on deck. Got astern some distance,
but caught up again, and followed in the wake
like a gull for over an hour. Would like to know
how far the f.-f. can fly, and whether they often
move in daylight.
* * * m
During a recent rain-storm at Warwick
(Q.), there came to the ground great numbers of
small fishes—resembling bream-fry. According to
Darling Downs Gazette, the ground was covered
with them for acres. Occasional occurrences of
the kind are so well-authenticated that Rouge-
mont’s account of such a happening is not neces-
sarily a lie.
* * * 9
A bush yarn—Old Polonius :
It was at a country race-meeting up the Murray. The
day was a scorcher, and I had just got outside of a luke-
warm “shandy” at the bough-covered booth, and was
making back to the crowd, when I noticed an old fellow
hanging up to the old fence—a big, dark chestnut horse
with a white hind foot. His legs were a wreck, and he
was dog-poor, but something in the set of his game old
head attracted my attention, and I stood for a moment
speculating idly as to what might have been. A little
bandy-legged chap, walking past with a dirty towel in his
hand, came over.
“ They don’t breed that sort these times, sir,” he re-
marked.
“ What is he ? ” I asked.
“That’s Old Polonius, the hurdle-racer,” he said.
“ The best horse I ever threw my leg over—bar none.”
“ Yes,” I assented, “he looks as if he’s been a good
one.”
“ Good,” he spat eloquently, “ you’ve just said it. He
was an out-an’-outer. I rode him in most of his wins, so
I ought to know. Game as they make ’em, too. Never
need to ask him twice. The feel of that fellow under yer
in a finish was something to remember, I can tell yer.
Poor old Pol. He don’t look too good on it now. Most
of his teeth’s gone, but all the same I wouldn’t like to
show him a fence without a good pair of reins, old as he
is. I could tell yer many a yarn about him—but it’s
d d hot here,” he broke off irreverently.
We drifted over towards the booth, and I shouted, and
waited deferentially.
“ I remember one time,” he said, wiping the froth from
his scraggy moustache with a corner of the towel, “ I
went up to a race-meeting on the Monaro side. It was
after ‘ Old Pol.’ brokedown—and—and after I broke down
too,” he added, hesitatingly. “ I was riding him. I was
only up to have a look-round, but there happened to be a
hack race on the programme, and, after seeing the
cuddies that were going to run, I decided to give the old
chap a cut. The entry was twelve bob, and I only
had eight, but I borrowed a crown from the chap
that had the booth, and shoved Old Pol in. He was
awful crutchy, but when I cantered him he shook it off a
bit, and I took my place among the others. Some of the
chaps laughed, and one young fellow on a slippy-looking
black mare asked me if I thought I’d get round in time
tor tea. I didn’t say anything, I wa3 hoping Old Pol’s
near foreleg would stand to him. If it did there- would
be no need for me to talk. He got off the mark all right,
and as we came round the turn I got a good position,
close up to the leaders—the black mare and a low-
set chestnut horse. The mare was a bit fresh, and
swung out wide. I troubled Old Pol with my heels,
and steered him into the gap. As we closed
up the kid on the chestnut said, “By gawd!
the old ’un’s goin’ strong ! ” The chestnut was too fat,
and I could see he wouldn’t last it out. He dropped back
soon after, and a furlong from home we were neclt-and-
neck with the black mare, and three lengths clear of the
rest. I shook Pol up a little, and at the next post he
had half a length of a lead. The chap on the mare got
out his whip, and she closed up on us. We raced together
for a hit. I was frightened to “ ride ’’ the old chap-
thought his legs wouldn’t stand—but, bless you, he’d for-
gotten all about them himself. About a hundred yards
from home the boy made his run, and I sat down on
Pol, and asked him the question he had never
shirked. By God, sir, it does my heart good to think of
it now ! He never finished stronger in his life. Of course
the mare hadn’t a hope. We romped in.
“ I’m a bit ashamed of what happened after,” he went
on after a pause, “ but it’s no use ‘ whipping the cat ’
now. But I ought to have been shot for it. I led him
THE WRONG MARK.
NEW GIRL (to the ragged old man): “Get out
of the shop, we've nothing here for you!”
ARRIVAL: "I'll soon see about that. I'm, the
landlord come for the rent.”
round to be declared, and then hung him up to the fence
and went over to the booth. I had no money, but the
chap knew I’d won a race, and it was all right. He carted
me into town next morning with the other empties in the
dray, and two or three days after he told me he had col-
lected for me at the settling and it was all gone and I had
better go, too. He gave me a stiff nobbier to steady me
a bit, and I caught Old Pol. (someone had taken the
saddle off him and let him go in the racecourse) and left ”
—Albar.


CLEARS
the BLOOD
throuffit the
KIDNEYS
WOLFES
" SCHNAPPS.
ActCial
f^akgrs’
Prices
Are a Revelation
to Retail Buyers.
WE are Designers,
WE are Makers,
WE are Setters,
15ct. Gold Locket,
set with exquisite
Pearls, in case, 80s
Smaller Size, 50s.
WE-are Retail Vendors.
WE save for the Buyers every time.
We make Solid, Heavy Goods of the Most Exquisite
Finish.
OUR PRICES are often Lower than London Prices,
and never exceed them.
FAIRFAX dc ROBERTS,
We make the above
Locket also in Tur-
quoise and Pearls, in
Opal, & in Diamonds.
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney,
23 HUNTER ST.
The late Mr. F. A. Packer was in the first
rank of Australian musicians. During his stay of
many years in Tasmania he got into the way of
expressing in song-music the quiet melody of
Nature in that pleasant island, and composed
many songs, such as “Listening” and the “Yellow
Wattle,” which have gained a world-wide reputa-
tion, and some more ambitious works which,
whilst not gaining so much public recognition,
show the spirit of a scholarly musician.
A Bulletin correspondent lately pointed
out that the Vic. railways’ raw recruit engine-
cleaner would be doing things soon. Here is a
fair start: —
Bairnsdale, Wednesday.
Owing to an unfortunate occurrence in the railway
sheds at Bairnsdale, the department is likely to sustain a
rather serious loss. On Monday morning the cleaner in
charge of the engine which was to take the 6 o’clock train
to Melbourne was getting up steam, when he found that
the water was leaking out of the boiler through the blow-
off cock. Not knowing what to do he went to call the
enginedriver, but when they returned to the shed the
water had all escaped from the boiler, which was red-hot,
and the packing of the boiler was on fire. It was after-
wards found that the tubes had been burnt to such an
extent that the boiler appeared to be completely ruined.
Should this prove to be the case, the loss to the depart-
ment will be about £5OO.
Lukas Meyer’s heart-disease, which
accounted for his death the other day, was the
immediate cause, no doubt, of the Boer overtures
for peace. When the British “flying ” columns—
i.e., the columns that didn’t invariably crawl—
began to bustle Meyer and his attendant officials
from place to place the Acting-President of the
Transvaal practically threw up the sponge. The
cable stated at the time that the invaders had
given him very little rest. Meyer, as it now
appears, was physically incapable of bearing the
excitement of hasty retreats when he finally sent
a messenger to Kitchener under a flag of truce.
With Steyn paralysed, and himself practically
dying, he thought the fleeting shadow of Boer
Government had better retire from business.
“Revilo ” writes from M.L. :
The recent typographical award in Wellington, Tara-
naki and Hawkes Bay districts doesn’t please the unions.
Court, after much dilly-dallying, split award into three
sections. Country comps, get two guineas ; in the larger
towns £2los. and £2lss. day and night work respectively ;
in a couple of towns the wages were fixed at £2 ss. and
£2 10s. ; hours, 48. Preference-to-unionists clause was
completely knocked out and master-printers given almost
unrestricted power to employ boys. This was a severe
blow to the union, which spent a good deal of money in
working up the case. Presiding Judge Cooper is an ex-
type-snatcher. On one newspaper, where the staff was
on piece-work and earned from £3 to £4 a-week, the
Scotch proprietor, when the awardcame in, put all hands
on award-wage of £2 15s. In other plan- s union
“agitators ” were fired out. On several struggling sh ets,
however, the award is a dead-letter, and the old system
of 66 hours and 30s. and 355. a week is still in force.
When Edwards and Martin were the Arbitration Court
judges, their decisions met with general approval. But
Judge Cooper doesn’t give satisfaction in labor circles.
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. Cd.
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor, W. Martin, Pharmaceutical
England.*
“ Via ” : Up the slopes of Mb. Pring (back
of Bowen, Q.) are to be found dwarf pines that do
not grow more than 18in. or 2ft. high. Spent a
couple of days collecting specimens, but out of 15
only one survived ; they don’t take kindly to
transplanting. The one living is now about 2ft.
high, and is at least seven years old. It is very
delicate. Has any B. reader seen them elsewhere
in Q. ? I have questioned travellers unsuccess-
fully.
* * * *
Claim presented on behalf of the
“Batchers’ Club,” Tarcoola, S.A.:
Batchers’ Mess Olub,
Tarcoola, Aug. 3, 1901.
To Messrs. - - and ——- and Co.
Dear Sirs,
I’m informing you, as being the Owners of the Goats
that is doing damage to properitv, and I hereby put in
claims for damage and loss of food from Batchers’ Club
on the 25 &26 July last, the above goats broke into the
Batchers’ Club on the above date & wifully destroyed the
following:
s. d.
l-21b. oatmea .. ..2 6
41b. rice 51b. .. ..18
7 loaves bread .» .. 4 1
i yard Hessen .. .. 9
Repairing Damage & loss
of rest keeping them off 10
18 0
Stewart
On behaif of Batchers’ Olub.
* * * *
“Doris”: He “West Indian Medico’s”
par (B. 31/8/’01) “ Does the earth stop twice in the
24 hours?” Have heard an old well-borer say
that after striking good flow, the best time to
attempt to control it is at noon, as the pressure
eases off at that time. Perhaps some Bulletin
reader can trace a connection between loss of
pressure and the hour before dawn. [Time some
one took up the much fresher question : Does the
ocean dry up twice a day.—Ed. B.]
* * * •
“Trotter”: Was recently talking to the
editor of a N. Q. coast paper when a man com-
menced to fill the office up with vegetables.
Asking what this meant, I was told, “Oh, that’s
the way lie pavs his subscription.” Once, at
Bellinger River (N.S.W.), I was surprised to see
cartloads of pumpkins going to the race-course.
Discovered that, as the cookies had no money they
did their wagering in pumpkins.
• • * *
Can any botanist recognise the difference
between the male and female paw-paw (Q.) trees
before the flowers appear ? Growers suffer great
loss for want of that knowledge. When the trees
come up they grow nearly nine months before
they flower, and then the males have to be
chopped out (and they are always in the majority).
One farmer told writer that out of 100 plants set
only three were females, and another time of 1000
seeds only 18 were females.
“ H.N.” : My mate and I were work-
ing some distance apart, and he was hidden
by the rising ground. I could see the fast-
drying top of the tree he was at. When I
had finished my log, I gathered up the tools
and was walking over the rise, when I saw
a big, dry limb drop out of the tree my mate
was felling. It had probably been broken
off, and, hanging across another, was dis-
lodged by the vibration caused by the axe-
strokes—the sound of which instantly
ceased. “Good God !’’ I thought—-“he’s
killed. The branch has fallen on him ! ”
After a moment’s horrified pause I rushed
on till I could see my mate sitting with his
back to the trunk of the.tree. Alive, at all
events!—for he moved. Throwing down
the tools I ran to him. “ Hard luck ! ” he
growled. “ Here’s a big lump of a limb fell
out of the head of the tree, knocked the axe
out of my hand, and smashed the blessed
handle. And we haven’t a spare'handle
left in the camp.” Some men don’t know
good luck when they see it 1
• * * «
Recently at Hillington (Queensland)
Germany and Ireland came to blows, bub
previous to the commencement of hostili-
ties the former removed his false teeth
and handed them to his backer. Each
round ended in the disappearance of the
combatants in the prevailing dust. After-
emerging from the grit of the fifth round
Ireland claimed the tight on a foul, stating
that Germany had been eating his neck.
This Germany’s backer stated could not be
true, as he had his man’s teeth in his pocket,
and he produced them in evidence. Foul dis-
missed.
* * * *
Unique death notice from the bakblox :
. On 28th inst., Amy Jane Wary , youngest
daughter of Jane and William , aged 1 day 21 hours.
The bereaved and heart-broken parents tender their
hearty thanks to Dr. ——— for his unremitting attention
during the illness of the deceased, and for the moderate
brevity of his bill. Also to Mrs. for the loan of
clean sheets, to Mr. for running for the doctor, and
to Mr. for recommending mustard plaster.
» * « *
“G.F.8.”: Re mean men. I know one
who once walked 50 miles (25 miles each way) be-
tween two country towns to save 6d. exchange on
a cheque. Same man, when travelling the country,
if he arrived near a town near nightfall, would
always hobble his horse, and sleep in the open, to
Save the price of a bed. Yet he was brought up
in liberal circumstances in England, and educated
for the Bar.
* * * «
Thus oracularly the M‘Cooey :
Let all authorities on the Australian blackfellovv listen.
One marvellous attribute of the aborigine is the power or
gift of putting his or her finger on the precise spot one
points at. If one stands 10 yards from ope, and point
with a pencil at any part of an aborigine’s face or body,
upon the precise spot our black brother or sister can put
a finger. This I discovered 30 j ears ago. A female first
cousin of mine, who isn’t a black gin, also has this gift;
but probably only one in a thousand possesses this
peculiar attribute. This is unquestionably the outcome
of inherited practice stopping missiles thrown at their
ancestors in combat.
The M‘Cooey’s remark that his kinswoman
above-mentioned is not a black gin perhaps has
something to do with his name M‘Gooey. The
Mao part is white (or, at the worst, Sandy), but
the Cooey is suspiciously aboriginal and smacks
of waddies and dilly-bags.
* * » *
“W.A. Bushman”: Whilst in Africa
recently I noticed that the niggers there couldn’t
hold a candle to our myalls in following up
“spoor.” At Marandellas (Rhodesia) one of the
N.S.W. bushmen astounded the natives by track-
ing to his hut in a kraal, four miles out, the bare-
footed nigger that had stolen a l’ifle from arm-stand
in tent at main camp. The nigger had followed
the pad used by hundreds of niggers, all bare-
footed. In W.A. I have seen gins track the
bungarra across bare granite rocks. I believe the
yarn about the Forbes police tracker who was
able to trace a mosquito across a galvanized iron
roof to be a lie, yet at Pendinni, in this State, I
have seen a native who could tell which way a
wild turkey flew oft a calm day half-an-hour after
it had passed by the track it left through the air.
Have any of your readers seen this excelled ? The
nigger referred to could always discern the stars
on cloudless days, and I have known him to recog-
nise rum three miles off in pitch darkness.
* * * *
The various Australian Lands Departments
contain stacks of letters which go a very long way
to show how minds become unhinged in the grey
and melancholy bush. One Gippsland settler re-
cently sent his 50th letter to the Victorian Minis-
ter, threatening to do for the whole office, because
of a ti-ivial imagined slight; another persistently
draws attention to the facial resemblance of the
calves born in his district to a certain local official.
Scores of these interesting, but wholly irrelevant,
documents reach the Department in the course of
a year.
* * » *
Writes “ Alpha Crucis ” :
He par (16/8/’O2) about explorer Gregory: Neither
Gregory nor any other explorer crossed this continent
from east to west, or from west to east. Gregory never
tried to, never wanted to, and never talked of doing it.
It does not require a profound knowledge of mathematics
to take a stellar observation, nor is it at all an exceptional
thing for an explorer to do. On the contrary, the latitude
is always ascertained by stellar observation. Longitude
cannot be obtained by solar observations on land, nor is
anyone such a muff as to try, for the simple and obvious
reason that Greenwich time cannot be kept. A chrono-
meter will not stand land carriage. There is not a place
in Australia, outside of telegraphic communication, the
longitude of which is accurately marked. Travelling on
an East and West course, the ascertaining of the latitude
is of little service, and dead-reckoning has to be relied
on. On a North and South course, the latitude is invalu-
able, and on any course which includes much northing
and southing, it serves to check the dead-reckoning.
The early explorers were much more correct in their
positions than the modern ones, but their parties were
larger, and more attention was devoted to the survey.
» * m «
Farmers in the north of S. Aus. who, a
few months ago, to pay their accumulated
“ tucker bills,” sold their hay in the paddocks at
17s. Gd. a ton, have lately seen the same hay,
chaffed, sold on the trucks by merchants for £G
10a.
MISS EVA MYLOTT , the N.S.W. contralto,
whose farewell benefit will take place shortly.
Photo, by The Swiss Studios, Sydney.
“Alia” : Not long since that, under the
influence of the “local member,” Govt, was in-
duced to spend a considerable sum in trying to
eradicate the water-hyacinth from some of the
confluent streams of the Clarence River, various
statements being made that navigation would be
impeded were the plant allowed to spread. Since
the drought, however, it has been found that an
acre of hyacinth-covered water is equal in fodder-
value to five in any of the best paddocks.
* » * *
“ Scutum ” : “ Why spend so much on
education?” (B. 14/<J/’O2). A Sydney suburban
shopkeeper (one of those who reckon their profits
by ha’pence) lately received this order
tj Aroat biscarts, 1 of youp to lices lolies, 1 of confer
lolies and a lond of a shilling.
This he partly translated : Alb. arrowroot-biscuits,
Id. eucalyptus-lollies, Id. conversation-lollies.
But the last item he positively refused to under-
stand.
Miss Eva Mylott, who is to be tendered a
farewell concert, August 27, at Sydney Town
Hall, lias won an established place on the plat-
form as much by the charm of her manner as by
the beauty of her voice. Miss Mylott is a native
of N.S.W., and was trained by Mr. Riccardi for
voice-production, and subsequently by Mr. Hazon
for Italian and oratorio, and soon won a position
as a star contralto. She now intends to go further
afield and study under the best masters of the old
world ; and, as a farewell, her friends have
organised the concert on the 27th inst, which
should be a marked success.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficient’y
stamped. Name and address must appear on ’/ i.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contri't i •
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by pod, or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un»
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
W.B.L. : There are many moments in the life
of a “ respectably brought-up ” young spinster person
when she is expected to consider herself deaf, dumb,
blind and legless—especially legless H.W.D. : If your
dates are right, the insurance society’s predatory demand
for 6d. is just retail bushranging.... J.D.M.: Better begin
at the other end. Manufacture £10,000,000 worth
annually of the goods we now import. Then we would
have 1,000,000 more people to pay for irrigation works
and to buy the produce of the irrigated farms. To load
the country with another huge debt for irrigation works,
and still another for more railways to fetch away the
produce, and then pay freight on it to Europe and sell it
cheap in a glutted market, would be plain bankruptcj'.
It is just the old idea that the country can be saved by
getting into debt, all over again A. Peto : No rocm
for further controversy about the superiority of the Jap
to the Australian or vice versa. As we’ve repeatedly in-
sisted, it doesn’t matter whether the Jap is an angel,
we don’t want him, and his half-breed will certainly be
a devil.. . .Colowi : Verses all too pretty-pretty, nicey-
nicey. Bulletin was never a nicey-nicey paper.... A.G.:
Bulletin now publishes no announcements of matri-
monial engagements unless in cases where the parties
personally attend at this office and swear eternal love in
the presence of the office-boy .. . C.M.VV. : The saving of
time which will be effected when shorthand writers re-
port evidence, etc., will shorten trials, and so prevent
some expense ; but, in case of appeal, the cost of printing
verbatim notes will be very much heavier than that of
printing the judge's short notes. .L.L.P. : We understand
that Kate'Kelly was drowned 3 years ago near Forbes,
N.S.W. She was married there, and three of her
children are now located with Mrs. Kelly, at Greta,ls miles
from Benalla, Vic., where Jim Kelly is also staying
San Remo : Don’t think your scheme would help Irish
Home Rule worth 2d. There would be a spasm of in-
terest, but no community is interested very long in any
affairs save its own, and the matter would be forgotten
again in six months... .G. : Well, as long as Ballarat sub-
scribes to thg Kembla fund it doesn’t matter about the
people staying away from the Kembla meeting. For our
own part, we loathe meetings where dull, stodgy, self-
advertising men orate at great length about “ this
’orrible haccident.”. ~ T.N. : Politicians live on people
like you, who don’t hunt up facts for themselves, but take
the yarn for granted... .Fred. B. : From all we know we
reckon the New Hebrides group is a good place to stay
away from. At least, we are paying the passages
there of some people we strongly object to
Macleay : Alas, Toby Barton takes his title in company
with such great men as Rev. Horatio Gilbert Parker and
with Lipton of the Energetic Cheese (now baror.et)
R.S. : “Monotone” monotonous S. : You write—
“ It occurred to me that the enclosed might be of suf-
ficient interest for you to consider,” etc., etc. Why not
just write your name on the copy and send it in : explana-
tory letters are always exasperating.... The Shadow An
utterly selfish and cruel sort of yarn is “ Yum-Yum.”
G.E.11. : Bill’s affecting rhapsody to Jim on the Joys of
Heaven quite out of our line G. : But you haven’t re-
vised it to scan : the same number of syllables in each
line doesn’t necessarily make a metre.. ..Riverina : Yes,
back copies can be got here ; (2) a note to him at this
office would reach T.T. : Deaths from all causes of
British (and allied) soldiers during the Bo r war were
22,450... .Rob. T. : There’s more flounder than soul about
your verses Trust : “ What do we think of your son-
net.” Well, we have tried hard not to think about it....
A.K.A. : Not so; the employed classes of N.S.W. will
make a big mistake if they let themselves be driven into
antagonism with the Compulsory Arbitration Court. The
working of the Act may be improved, but its main prin-
ciples amount to a charter which will enable Labor to
command a legal fairplay undreamt of 30 years ago. In-
stead of standing aloof from the Act, or talking
about repealing it, every section of it should be
called upon with the view of testing its legal force
and perfecting it in the direction of its intention.. .
E.W.P. : London newspaper references to Irving and his
performances nowadays are not more trustworthy than
the descriptive reports of Edward VII. and his perform-
ances. The estimable Irving is a British institution....
L. : But the man who, when he shakes hands with you,
crushes your finger-bones to show that he is strong, is
not necessarily strong at all. He is sometimes only
“ flash ” and rude, and very often he is an epileptic....
M. : Nicely written, but not interesting.... Pankaroo ;
Incident not treated with any strength Theta : For
Heaven’s sake don’t write a column on two slips of
paper, unless for the Argus, which has 100 eyes
J.P. : A lovely libel on the teacher named... .S.W.M. :
Pretty-pretty Uloo : W’hat have we done to have the
world’s oldest parrot-profanity story sent to us in verse?
Trouvere: Images strained and unnatural ...Mat.:
The only satisfactory definition of kissing is that of the
girl who said it was “a pleasant pastime.”.... Unsuitable :
N. , W.F.A., Ajax, Steff C F.F.T. : Old ideas in
indifferent verse. . .R.J.B. ; Profane and not picturesque,
only inane Francis d’Elleshope : If you can write
equally good verse on abetter subject it may le acceptable.
W.W. : Merely objectionable and objectless
A.M. : Melb. Working Men’s College is not at all a likely
subject for an “aw'ful scandal” or a “shocking exposure.”
It is simply not everything that it ought to be... .Old
Stickar : Your poem upon Dr. Torrey, the Dancing Der-
vish, is especially beautiful in the second verse, where it
is written :
They shall find his words infallibel
In the awful scorching flames of hell
With mocking fiends of horrid smell
God’s wrath they then shall taste.
But why add a horrid smefifulness to the old-established
horrors of Hades? W.A.F. ; (1) It hasn’t been pub-
lished. (2) Don’t remember the quotation Billie :
Will consider any you send along Yarrum : 'Will watch
the man who seeks to jump your pen-name J.B.S. :
We don’t remember the verses ; you must give date.
Tiie Bulletin Reciter is published at ss. 4d. po^-free....
A Democrat (Sale): Much obliged Will J.: “ Wot’s the
u.” very rocky metre and very conventional ending.... B.
Hig. ; Snake-charmer idea excellent as a subject Far-
quhar Y. : That is an old wheeze, the Irish policeman
deposing that he was sure the Scotchman was dead be-
cause he didn’t move when a hand was put into his
pocket Zealandia: Get a typewriter, or some-
one who writes plainly and leaves plenty of space
between lines... ..Kawero : Why not have it type-
written ? We can only laboriously spell it out,
and would have to go through it at least twice
to ascertain what it’s all about. (2) Bulletin doesn’t
want long stories; let the other papers take them
H. M‘C. : “When” rather below usual standard
W.P.Y. : Quite unsuitable... .Ajax : If the metre were
but one-tenth as good as the intention ! !... .W. Wat-
son : Few things are sadder than to strike a large patch
of your scrawl about 10.30 p.m Nigel Gordon : Pretty,
but weak... .Doko : Apparently your heroine took her
swim very late at night, with all her clothes on
R. M‘l. : Sorry unavailable Abbott Hofred : No climax
to “Solid Friends.” W.L. : “Loans” rather shaky
verse Mildura : The story of the drunk who gets into
the wrong house has been often told, and told much
better O.M. : Never mind ; even if it was an act of
favoritism it was a merciful thing to d 0.... Delphin : The
man is, unfortunately, mad Ela :In Sydney they say
“Jimmy Woodser” ; in Melbourne, “ Johnny Woodser.”
Why, Heaven only knows W.P.R. : Hardly enough
strength.. ..C.L.R. : “Roselle” for print; other too
elusive in thought J.E. : Ideas good, but metres
faulty Adelaide P.: Subject anticipated.... Falder : A
long poem with a whole lexicon of phrases in explanation
has no show.... Dan Delew :Is it your own ?... Row ;
Metre of “ Drayton ” all at sea; some lines much over-
crowded with feet... :.N.W. : Too labored..... Bob R. :
Joke too mechanical II.R. : Sentiment of “Sorrow”
verges on the bathetic B.C.W. : A pretty story, but
off our beat... ..F.R. : Too gruesome A.0.M.: Some
skill, but too slight... .G.0.W.: Peculiarities of that ferry
not of sufficient general interest.. .. A. Conway ; Not bad
.Yarn, but- too much like watered-down Bret Harte
■Wyoming : “Tommy’s Soul” a wild and humorless
vvhirroo Q.: “ The River ” not strong enough It. R.:
Unavailable, as rather close to another story Zasa :
Your tragedy stumbles over the prosaic Bronco Bill:
Entirely unsuitable W.S. : We’re rather tired of the
to l )lc A.E.K. : Yes, the offer-tomy mission would
Hamer: After consideration, “ Tiie Accident” not
up to mark.. .Graeme Dhu : “ Steele Rudd ’’—and water.
The Late Mr , F. A. PACKER, Musical
Composer.
Photo, by Charlemont, Sydney & Melbourne.
W.A.P. : Yes, if you remit cost; appeared Oct. 14,
1889... .Romulus (M.L.): Hannan came from Queensland;
has relatives in Brisbane; is at present in Japan ; his
initials are C.H.G., and he is, we think, an Australian....
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Arthur May : That joke was made between Cain and
Abel, and came to ns via London Punch A.W. (B.) :
Ping-pong subject perhaps available for re-drawing, but
not for direct reproduction. Your friend must learn to
draw less woodenly and more firmly. This he can only
accomplish by studying from life under a competent in-
structor G. W.P. : “ Great Chances ” and “ Impetuous
River ” may serve as themes for illustration, but neither
could be printed as now drawn F.S.T. 'One may pos-
sibly serve Ida E.E. : Will use your notion, but you
should study to improve your drawing Unavailable:
John G. (Q.), Frank J., S.T.D. (memo : death’s-head sub-
jects played out), Alf. W., M.M., P.D.N M.B. : Yes
very promising. He should study from life under o-ood
tuition.... E.W. (Blayney): Too thin Nell C. N. : As
an i ( ' ea A.P. : You can’t expect vour sketches re-
turned unless you give name and address, and send
stamps.


AT. THE FEET OF GAMALIEL.
Husband : “ Now, my dear, that you ,
have got the franchise, it were well,
for you to know something of the //
rudiments of politics. First, V/
I may tell you that / /
there are two greatA/
parties ” ( f
'W&fk : “ Two ! Howl
lovely! And have
we invitations to 'a
• botht” m
“ Last Thursday week was observed as a day for
fasting and prayer in connection with the Torrey-
Alexander mission."
And our artist was able to get some studies of still-
life at the various pubs, throughout the city,
where, as the poet says, he—
~\\ Felt like one who trod alone ,
kL Some free-lunch hall deserted. /
A FREE TRANSLATION.
“ Say, wot does E.R. meanl
“ W’y, ‘ ’E Recovered,’ o’ course!
iW Editor : "You might make some refer-
ence to the passing of the Womanhood
Suffrage Bill in your • Cartoonlets ’ this
.WCCK i
Abtist {with a nigh) : “ Ah, well, I s’pose HI
* ave 40 drag in the breeches again somehow 1”
Editor fin still mall voice); «Yes, I’m afraid
thaPp unavoidable.”
AT LAST!
I (Note. —This cartoon is the result of a
brief consultation between the Editor
and our Artist, depicted in the small
illustration to the left.)
“ f meeting of the Women’s Progressive
Association held immediately after the passing
of the Woman’s Franchise Bill in N.S.W. Legisla-
tive Council, a subscription-list was opened in the
room, and the sum of five guineas was collected as
the nucleus of a fund to present John See with
* fitting testimonial.”
THE NEXT MORNING.
Kino Ned : “ Now, where did I put that
blessed crown last night 1 ”
“ 10 form this her® testi-*
mooi?J shall take,"/said Lady Wogram
Luggms, “ I beg tw move that it b<Ta
, each and eveiy
which, I feel sure a fc . !tro ' dd a sweet, womanly way of showingour gratitude,
whiskv-flask. Ts«ri/? I ? or8 spp** ol than a gold-mounted warming-pan or a silver-plated
V for «mld[save money by it, and apply the surplus to our fund for Razing the
™ge vuxent. (Seconded by Mra Hnmbuddy, and carried b> acclamation.)
wantJJhem M,n * 0VfMr8
John Boll: “What mv A,.,
you used to in the bad old KWor that - vou can ' t . earn 15s, a day, as
privilege of living under the grand old fl ’ I^ member ’ now > yon have the
CARTOONLETS.


STATE RETRENCHMENT.
Mr. T. Ml Botoks s There were qaen in’
his branch of the service whom it would
I take fifteen years to achieve a salary which
the Factories Act (applause) fixed as a mini-
mum for the lowest type of labor—7a per
day. Some men were kept eight years
. without an increase, and they then got 2d.
<p#r day. (Laughter.) -r y~ 1
METROPOLITAN BOARD Off 'WORKS.
CRITICISM BY PRAHRAN COUNCIL.
At the Prahran Council meeting last evening,
Councillor Naylor, in giving his reasons for
• voting in favor of building new Board of Works
offices at Eastern Hill, stated that the supervi-
sion of the board’s offices at present was scan-
dalous. He had been told that some gf the
board’s officers had two hats, at times one
hanging up, whilst the other would be out
.somewhere. (Laugh ter.)
ri z
du*i**rj f
as to the suggestion that pubEc servants
did not perform that last tittle, that last
little absolute finishing touch of work that
was ground and extracted by the pnva e
employer, probably with his eye to the key
hole, the denial of that could be found. ,
/ \\\^ > 2* *"iy, ip lie lT b/oW
S^el^jO^A^ge^S —
fi
kSt-'t'S- 1 * *
At'yri S_L——-
■kanaka deportation. /
Recording to yesterday’s cable mwaages
the Imperial « OV ™kas thHw to be
oerned about the Soma of the
d T rt iribTm Q t^ n “ 8 object *° tb !
Of their
M <*onjS the safety of t&e K»nakafc ;
teds&k* t
fit ***4 A* k
oi o,
«*>2> C rf
THE CEMENT INDUSTRY
Two facta which have recently transpired
require to be stated together. A couple of
months ago the Metropolitan Board of Works
aocepted the tender of a firm in Germany
for supplying 6000 casks of cement. Last
Friday the Geelong Cement Works shut
down, and has thrown 130 men out of work,
because of the large stocks of cement for
yhich there Is no local market.
fi£ I ROp
Boar?
o'
&Sm
h
■BB
■it -li ~, i " vm <Xii!!MKg:jlM^^^W^
TOrr r W|i rrai*^!
J)teXi *1 ffbTW sewt ) •
t'oorri etjouplj 'fijr u<y eJ?
Were "jou i \fere ? «
In the tiew* programme of, instruction re-
cently issued for the State schools, provision
is made for “nature study” for the junior,
classes, in lieu of the formal object-lessons
which were previously given.
Ji/sf -Sort” °f 't^ive^
WeVe *ll
T c
FROM VICTORIA


A. SAUNDERS.
Unrivalled non-magnet LEVER.
Perfect Timekeeper, Screw Cases,
dust and water tied it, 20s.
S lver, 355. Hunters, £2.
A. written Guarantee given with
each Watch.
20s.
20s
A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN AND MINERS.
ROTHERHAik SPECIAL MADE ENGLISH
LEVERS, Full Cap, Hand Finished, Extra
Jewelled Works, Perfect Timekeeper, with Pure
Silver Cases, Dust and Water Tight, £3 10s.
Extra Quality, with Chronometer Balance,
£4 10s, £5, £5 10s, £6, £7, £8 ;
Solid Gold, £lO, £l5, £2O.
A written certificate for 8,4, 5, and 6 years.
Try one ; you will not regret it.
Key,
«£3los.
Keyless,
£5.
Fine
Dial,
255.
Railway
Dial,
30s.
LONDON
(amws&ssM
A. SAUNDERS.
NEW MODEL LONDON LEVER,
|-Plate, Full Ruby Jewelled,
Chron. Balance, J ewelled Lever, Double Roller,
JeweUed, Brynet. Patent Time Spring.
255, 30a. Silver Hunter, £2 10s, £3.
Will last 25 years.
Kept in repair for two years
free of charge.
WALTHAM LEVEES.
We are Direct Buyers.
Pure Solid Silver Hunting Cases, Extra
Quality Movements,
£2los, £3, £3 10s, £4, and £5 ;
fluid Latent Cases, Walthams, £4 4s, £5 5s
Solid Gold, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O, and £25.
3,4, 5, and 6 Years’ Guarantee.
Solid
Silver,
<£2 103.
Gold
Cased,
M 4s.
Double
Case,
£6.
N=3
It!'*;
“FLY-BACK CHRONOMETERS.”
These we have at Every Price and Style. In Solid
Nickel or Black, 30s ; Extra Quality, £2, £2 10s;
Split Seconds, £3 LOs. Pure Solid Silver, as above,
£5, £6, £7, £B, and £lO ; Solid Gold, £l5, £2O,
£25, and £3O.
A written certificate for 2,3, 4,5, and 6 years.
TRY ONE.
Solid
Silver,
£b.
18ct.
Solid
Gold, £lO
Extra
Strong-,
£l2los
IlSlll
m
«
A. SAUNDERS.
!Bct. Solid Gold Keyless WAUTUAM
WVEK, Eull Jewelled Works, Patent
Action, New Model £lO, £l2 Ids.
You Can’t get a Better Watch.
14ct. Solid Gold. £8 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold LOCKETS
7s tsd, 10s, 15s,
fdh
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless WATCH,
Full Jewelled, 255, 30s, £2,
£2 10s.
Price to quality of works.
Guaranteed 2,3, 4 years.
15ct. Gold
Turquoise
Forget-
me-Nob
and
Pearl
Scroll,
20s.
Ml
mst
s
(A<
U
i
m
<sm
KS
15
Mw
SR
S2v*»
A. SAUNDERS.
6^=-ADD ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 2f s, 30s, £2,
£2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £5 ;
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
ALT. GUARANTEED.
Floral
PIN,
Pearl and
Tur-
quoise,
s
15s.
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Keyless WATCH,
Good Timekeeper, 15s;
Extra Quality, 20s.
GUARANTEED.
A. SAUNDERS.
Secret
Gold LOCKET,
20s.
Gold Boot
CHAIIM, 5s 6d.
Latest Style.
Solid
Gold,
£6 10s,
Silver,
£2 10s.
m
m
SSSWI
H t
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ WALTHAM SOLID
GOLD KEYLESS,
f-movement, Chronometer Balance,
Jewelled, Perfect Timekeeper,
Extra Strong Cases.
Full Size, £6 10s ; Small S ze, £5 10s
Pure Solid Silver, same works, £2 10s
Post Card Gold
CHARM, 10s.
Any Name Free.
Silver, gilt, ss6d.
.■solid Gold CHAIM (.Single or Double), £B, £3 10s, £4,
£4 10s, £5. loot. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7, £B,
£lO. Pure Silver, 10s, l'2s 6d, 15s, 20s. Send for Price
Illustrated Book. Guaranteed EngLsh Hall-marked.
iIUBTA
Gold BIiOOCH. 2 Bar Dnmond, with 4 Bed or
Blue Stones, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Newest Solid Gold Name BROOCH, 7s 6d;
with Raised Flowers each side (Any Name),
15ct. Gold, 15s. Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
loot. Gold Ivy arid Pearl Gold BROOCH, 255;
9ct. Gold, smaller, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Motto Registered Gold “ Dinna Forget ’
BROOCH and Amethysts, 9ct. Gold, 17s 6d;
15ct. Gold, 30s ; 18ct. Gold, 355.
A. SAUNDERS,
loot. Gold, Diamonds and Rubies,
with Ivy Leaves, 255.
Very Cheap.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Pure Double-cut 5-Diainond
BROOCH, £1 4s.
A. SAUNDEBS.
New Style 2-Bar Gold BROOCH,
Diamond and two Red Stones, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Gold Forget-Me-Not BROOCH,
English Hall-marked, 10s.
m
Ladies' Curb Gold
Oha'ri,. Snap Padlock,
255, 30s. 355, £2 ss,
£3; loot., £2 10s, £3,
£4, £4 10s, £5, £6,
£! 10s, £B, £9, £lO.
10s oxtra for Key
Padlock.
All with Safety Chain.
A. SAUNDERS.
Diamond BRACELET, 15ct. Gold, three Pure Double Cut Diamonds,
with Safety Chain, £5.
Pure Pearl NECKLETS, Solid Geld, Very Late, t Style,
£3 os ; loot. Extra Quality, £5.
15ct. Gold 2-Heart with 2
Ofal Hearts-', Ivy Leaf,
Knot, and Diamond,
£2 10s.
A. SAUNDEIIS.
15ct. Gold Pearl and
Turquoise Floral and
Ribbon BROOCH, £2 10s.
London’s Newest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Raised Flowers, 5s 6d.
Larger, 6s 6d and 7 s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Style, Gold KRoOCIi, llall-rnarked,
Diamond and 2 lied Stones, 22s (id.
A. SAUNDERS.
Newest Style, loot. Gold BROOCH, Pearl Set,
;32s (3d.
A yERS.
Solid Gold, Hall-marked, Eorgel-me-Not
BROOCH, 10s (id.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. 2-Bar Pure Diamond, Double Cut, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Extra Strong 15ct. Gold, Diamonds, Rubies,
and Pearls, £3 5s
5 Diamonds, £4, £5.
No. 1.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Long MUFF CHAINS,
Hand Made, Extra Strong, £3, £3 10s, £4
15ct. Gold, £4los, £5, £6, £7 10s.
Price According to Strength.
No. 2.
Ladies’ g F<l Gold Long MUFF CHAINS,
Hand Made. Kxt a. Sti-.n-g, £3, £3 10/, £4
15ct. Gold £4 1 £5, £ £7 10s.
Price According to S^vUgth,
r?g»3333333gEßS^^6aB&g
No. 3.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Long MUFF CHAINS,
Hand Made, Extra Strong, £3, £3 10s, £4;
15ct. Gold, £4 10s, £5, £6, £7 10s.
Price According to Strength.
A. SAUNDERS.
(Registered).
Gold LINKS, 20s
15ct. Gold, 32s 6d;
Silver and Gold, 10s;
all Silver, ss.
A- SAUNDERS.
Gold Dinna Forget,
10s 6d.
Our own Registered
Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Solid Gold LINKS.
Elam, 17s 6d, 20s, 25s ;
15ct. Gold, £2, £2 ss, £2 10s.
Monogram 2s 6d extra.
Silver Initial HAT PINS,
Parisian Diamonds, 4s 6d;
Turquoise, 3s 6d.
Solid Silver, Is 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Beautifully Chased, 9ct. Gold,
large size LINKS, 22s 6d.
Plain, 21s, or with Initials,
nicely Chased, 22s 6d.
15ct. Gold, £2; Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15et. Gold Pearl and Turquoise
Heart BKOOCH, £2 2s.
The Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lucky Heather,
Is, 2s, 3s ;
Gold, 7s 6d, 10s.
Call and See our
Jewellery
Exhibition.
A Splendid Display.
Or Send for our
1902 Complete
Illustrated Book,
Post I'ree Anywhere.
A. SAUNDERS.
Opal B ind RINGS,
Pet. Soli i Gold, 17s 6d;
15ct. Gold, 30s ;
ISct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Buttercup Single
Stone Diamond
RING.
£3, £4, £5.
M
A. SAUNDERS.
18et. Gold, 5 Opals,
1-Hoop, £2, £2 10s,
£3, £3 10s.
GENT.'S RING.
Si’lid Gold, Amethyst, ‘2ss,
loot, Gold, £2;
18ct., £2 10s.
A. S \ LINDERS.
18ct. Soi 1 Gold, 5 pure
Diamoi. is, £l2 10s ;
Smaller. £5, £6, £7,
£7 10 , to £3O.
SP»
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold.
3 Pure Diamonds,
2 Opal Hearts, £4 10s.
Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Solid Q-old Buckle,
17s 6d; 15ct. Gold. 30s ;
18ct. Gold, £2.
O ms
m
18ct. Solid Gold,
Pure Diamond and
2 Rubies or
Sapphires, £2, £2 10s,
£3 ; 3 Diamonds.
£2 10s, £3, £4, £5.
With Name, Band RINGS,
9ct. Solid Gold, 12s 6d, 15s;
15ct. Gold, 20s, 25s ;
18ot. Gold, 255, 30s, 355, £2.
dm
18ct. Solid Gold,
5 Pure Diamonds, £5.
Diamond and Sapphire
or Ruby, £3 10s ;
larger, £4 10s, £5.
18ct. Solid Gold Diamond
Band, £2. £2los, £3;
lott. Gold, 30s.
A. SAUNOiiKS.
18ot. Gold,
3 Sapphires, Rubies,
or Opals, 4 Diamonds,
£3, £3 10s, £4,
£4 10s, £
Signet Plain RING,
9ct. Gold, 20s, 255;
15ot. Gold, 80s, 355;
18ct., £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-made Wedding RINGS and KEEPERS.
9ct. Solid Gold, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s each ; 15ct. Gold, 15s
extra heavy, 25s ; 18ct. Gold, 20s ;
extra heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send for Card.
A. SAUNDERS.
JEWELLER AND SILVERSMITH
815 AND 817 GEORGE-ST.,
NEARLY OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY.


Ih liiifiT
KIOP °°°°
Four Crown
Whisky
' ■ —
%r-** ■,
.1
h
CORSETS.
♦
The Recognised Standard
HIGH-CLASS CORSETS
LATEST SPECIALTY
Straight Front
Erect Form.
Obtainable from Leading Drapers
Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that each
pair bears the Manufacturer’s ‘ ‘ Trade Mark ” on
band inside, as above.
'ask
s
M
nit?
Marvellous Effects
YOUR PICTURES IN SOLID RELIEF.
The.
Pgppl
Stereo Weno
For Stereoscopic Pictures upon KODAK
daylight changing cartridge Film.
Price,
£6 6s.
Only.
Send for new Illustrated List, and mention this paper.
THE BLOCK,
KODAK, Ltd., & Reduced, m 25J2?“e'b.
Free Lessons Daily, at 3 p.m., at the above address.
TOOTH & GO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
lu 13ulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I'O DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, tea.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
BUSHMAN WATCH
PI
m
m
‘ UL |
'ER
VSE
fd
JL
hfd
h
fdh
Sufferers from Deafness or Head Noises
desiring a complete and permanent cure
should write to The L. R. VERNON CO
(0 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet desc ibing an entirely new self-
applied method which we will send post
free on mentioning this paper.
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Nights
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head aches &, all Nerve
Pains removed by BUNTER’S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
“Ab a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I hare
used it successfully for years."—Prof. W. Wilson, M.D,
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORSDELL'S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, &c,
Of all Stores.
35 YEARS PROVEN EFEICACV.
TaKC
\NStED
OIA
ef/i
m
w
==KS
tJtaJS .
I
OF AU QiEMISTS
jhroughoutGßEATßrlMlN a rut COLONIES
Cathariicum Pius Pur.-iyttymMi
r 46 Coaculine •
Transparent Cement for ail Broken Articles
.CAN’T YOU BREATHE
freely ? Have you to sit up in bed gasjjing for
breath? If so, you are only one of a countless
number whose lives are made a burden to them by
ASTHMA.
If you wish to rest again at night, and breathe
with head erect by day, send ss, to NEWHAM
WATERWORTH, Edward-st., Brisbane,
who will forward post free a sample bottle of a
New Remedy for Astbma, a few doses of which
will prove to you that life is still worth living.
I CURE
VARICOCELE,
PREVENT PARALYSIS,
And Restore the
NERVOUS SYSTEM.
«
Every man who has Varicocele recognises,
by evidences which are unmistakable, that
he is physically and mentally below par. It
is impossible that the self-generated toxins,
formed in the sluggish blood currents of
neglected Varicocele, should be absorbed
into nerve matter without producing morbid
conditicns that affect the entiie organism
Varicocele is unquestionably the cause
of thousands of business and social failures,
because it strikes at the very seat and centre
of physical and mental power —the nervous
system.
My treatment not only cures the Vari-
cocele, but gives back strength of body
and brain. It gives to a man the reserve
power that is the prerequisite of all success.
I seek cases where all else has failed.
Young, middle=aged, and old men can
recover the same degree of health,
strength, and energy experienced in
former years by consulting
PROFFSSOR k EAD,
who has restored thousands of sufferers to
vigorous health.
DO ANY OF THE FOLLOWING
SYMPTOMS OR CLASS OF SYMP-
TOMS MEET YOUR CONDITION:—
Do you feel nervous debilitated, fre'ful, timid,
and lack the power of wiil ard acton? Are you
subject to loss of memory, feel listless, moping, unfit
for business or pleasure, and subject to fils of
melancholy? Are your kidneys, stomach, urinaty
organs, liver or blood in a disordered condition ?
Have you lost confidence in yourself and energy for
business pursuits? Are you subject to restless
nights, broken sleep, dreams, palpitation of (be
heart, confusion of ideas aversion to society, dim-
ness of sight, pimples on the t.ice and back, and other
desponding symptoms?
If you are afflicted, why further neglect
your health when by a single consultation
(which costs nothing) you can be placed on
the way to health, strength, and vigor?
All correspondence held sacred. A speedy
and perfect life cure is guaranteed in ail
cases I undertake, where doubt exists the
sufferer is frankly informed.
I CANNOT TELL YOU ALL
I desire in this announcement, therefore I
invite every man who is interested to write
me fully and freely, describing his case, and
I will advise him the best course to pursue.
My new book, which 1 send free
(six stamps to cover postage should be en-
closed), describes in detail my special
methods of curing the diseases to
which I limit my practice.
No premises mrde that age, integrity, and
long experience do not justify.
Address : Prof H. READ,
165 COLLINS ST., MELBOURN _
/
I Colds often hang on.
You try this thing and
that thing, every kind
of home remedy and
cheap cough mixtures,
and yet your cold con-
tinues to hang on.
You must not deal
lightly with these old
colds. You must get
jrid of them just as
' soon as possible. You
| I must take something to
break their hold.
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
soothes irritable throats, heals inflamed
bronchial tubes, and quiets congestion
in the lungs. This is why it so quickly
controls these old coughs and pre-
vents pneumonia and consumption.
“I was troubled with a very hard
cough which I could not get rid of.
When I read of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
I sent to Johannesburg and procured
a bottle. It completely cured me, and I
have many comrades here who have had
hard coughs cured in the same way. ”
-Wm. Sessions, Company C, Second Royal
Berks. Reg.,Nel’s Spruit. Transvaal, S. Africa.
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of them! Be sure
you get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Two sizes. Large and small bottles.
Prepared hv Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass.. U.S.A.
Skins Soft&White^
BY USING
m
il'-i
Healthy'
Complexions Preserved.!
FITS CURED
From the first close of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when
every other remedy had failed. Price 4/6 and 11/.
Thousands of testimonials.
OF AX.I. CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
WHOLKSALK AGENTS'
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W, NICHOLL, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
25 HIGH STREET, BELFAST. IRELAND.
EVERY MAN
SUFFERING from DEBILITY and WEAKNESS should
send for a valuable Pamphlet explaining- how all
Nervous and Organic Derangements may be success-
fully treated withoutstomach medication. The method
is easy and pleasant, and will effect a perfect and per-
manent cure. Sent in a plain sealed envelope free of
charge. E. NORTON, 59 &60 Chancery Lane, London,
SM E.vo. Over 30 years’ continuous success. a{
Business Announcements.
ITa!
o o
o
p
p
o
s
I
T
E
G
P
6
p
A
T
T
E
R
N
S
F
R
E
E
Art is
a
Necessity
of Life.
42f
We are
Artists
in
Tailoring,
LONDON TAILORING DEPOT,
M£,LB. F, S. Meyers, Manager,
“I’ll Try It.”
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
gspsElarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
43
The Result.
CRAIG &. AITKEiM, N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
House. 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A GIFT for the LADIES
■
f 1
Graceful and
becoming for Younj
or Old.
Ostrich
Tips.
5/-
Tiie BuNCir,
Worth 10/6.
TWO VERY SUPERIOR TIPS, with
OSPREYS, in Black, White or Cream.
Post Free. Send Postal Notes.
Miller’s Feather Shop,
Corner Bourke & Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Mention Tub Bulletin.
Ask your music-seller for
FREDERIC H. COWEN’S
Beautiful Song,
The Mission of a Rose
Sung with the greatest success by
Miss AMY CASTLES.
The Illustrated London News says : “ It is a gem.”


A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
Amost useful Veterinary Book is attached
to every bottle of Condy’s Fluid. This Book
contains instructions for curing most of the
ailments and accidents affecting Horses,
Dogs, Sheep, Cattle and Poultry.
In this Book eminent Veterinary Sur-
geons recommend Condy’s Fluid as a
certain cure for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
Broken Knees, Grease, Thrush and
Cracked Heels in Horses.—Scab, Foot
Rot, Fly, etc., in Sheep.—Hoove, Foul in
the Foot, Wounds and Sores in Cattle.
Condy's Fluid is made by Gondy &
Mitchell, Ltd., of 65, Goswell Road,
London, England, and is sold by all
Chemists and Stores. Beware of Colonial
substitutes. Insist on having Condy’s Fluid ■
■
WEAK-SUSHTCP REAPERS
Who are unable to read small printed matter, or to see fine
stitching or writing with comfort, whose distant vision is dull
and who suffer from persistent headaches or pains after close
application—you may rest assured that you are suffering from
Ageing - or Impaired Vision, and Need Glasses. You
should visit us, and have your sight scientifically tested, and
be supplied with Glasses adapted to your individual case.
fli COUNTRY READERS who cannot visit us personally, we send, Post Free to any address, with full instruc-
tions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT. By its use
youcan Test your own sight and determine for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you may need.
H- A. BARRACLOUGH, Consulting Optician,
371 George St., Sydney,
next door to the A. J.S. Bank.
King and George Streets.
And at 232 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, opposite Age Office.
hfd
<3-0 TO HELL,
JliOfiANl) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to,
Fred. Hageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
MATS. HATS. hats.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise tha
trade. All the newest shapes fatted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons*
BHISBA.KTE .
POLITICAL
POINTS
Australian history as regards the S’African
war:—
1900.—Transports of joy.
1902.—Transports of woe.
The burning question with Q. Federal
employees just now is whether they can be com-
pelled to pay up under Philp’s income-tax pro-
posals. The Federal public servant has an
insatiable and discreditable anxiety to dodge the
income-tax.
Bananalancl Govt, doesn’t believe in old
age pensions, and yet 887 males and 652 females
last year received an allowance of ss. a week
a-piece. Received it plus the stigma of a pauper
allowance—a brand carefully retained for sound
economical reasons.
The second reading of the Bill for the
Reform of the Constitution was carried in Vic.
Assembly by 79 votes to 5. Despite which the
House of 48 Rich Landlords will doubtless say, in
a shocked tone of voice, that there is no evidence
that the country wants the Bill.
S.M. Herald and Sydney D.T., under
various disguises of feigned moderation, deter-
minedly egg-on the Senate to reject the Repre-
sentatives’ tariff; and at the same time they
maintain that the trading public is woefully
harassed by tariff uncertainties.
THE OLD PEOPLE’S BIT.
“Altogether Victoria has paid £5,000,000 in Civil
Service pensions.”— News item, Melbourne Age.
VICTORIAN TAXPAYER : “ Well, I think that I
can stand that little hit, too.”
There are no recruits to drill in S.A., and
the 10 instructors sent over from N.S.W. and Q.
by Gen. Hutton are being employed on clerical
work, to the exclusion of local officials. Just
now (the time of paying has come), the farinaceous
State is so heartily sick of gore, guns and glory
that it shudders at the sight of kharki.
They have the usual patent way of squaring
the public finances in S.A. There was a deficit of
£239,174 at the end of last June. Of this, £174 is
to be paid out of revenue, while the £239,000 is to
be met by the issue of Treasury Bills. Yet the
Govt, is indignant if it is stated that interest is
Said out of loans. At present, S.A. owes the
•ritish capitalist £27,000,000, and pays £1,037,000
annually in interest.
A certain John Millar, of Glasgow, has
opened up communications with Premier Philp re
a proposed concession of 15,000 acres of land for
growing materials for tanning. Land is to become
the property of Millar if the scheme is successful,
and to revert to the Crown if unsuccessful. As
Millar is about the largest purchaser of tanning
materials in Great Britain, producing about
£250,000’s worth of leather per annum, the scheme
is attracting attention. But why John Millar,
who proposes to raise tanning material, should get
a present of the land required, any more than
Jack Smith, who raisas wheat and potatoes, no-
body can explain.
A good point about Vic. Treasurer Shieis’
Kyabram interim budget is its kick against the
consistent tapping of the Treasury by country
municipalities, the majority of which rate only up
to Is. in the £. Every hole in a road, or plank
out of a bridge, is now made the subject of a
deputation to the metropolis, and the cost of some
of these little pleasure-jaunts by a dozen or more
si lire councillors would go far towards defraying
the cost of the repairs they ask for. There is
little _ self-reliance about the Man on the
Land in Victoria. He has been encouraged by the
newspapers to ask Government for everything,
and the Melb. dailies every morning contain
columns of cheap local growl about twopennv-
halfpenny local jobs that the Government hasn’t
attended to —and shouldn’t attend to.
The proposed reduction of Ministers in the
Q Cabinet has dwindled down to something very
trifling. One Minister only has been dispensed
with, and he has received a compensatory billet in
the position of Vice-President of the Executive
Council—a position usually occupied by the
Premier. The Vice-Presidency carries with it a
solatium of £3OO per annum, and was doubtless
gladly accepted.
The impudence of a common M.P. :
Mr. Quinn asked the N.S.W. Premier whether he would
communicate with the Admiral in order to ascertain if
he would send some of the idle war-ships of the Austra-
lasian Squadron in search of the missing vessel (Quirang).
“ Idle war-ships ” indeed ! Mr. Quinn evidently
doesn’t dine with Excellency Beaumont more than
three times a week.
If the White Australia law can do what it
was started to do, Federal Ministers should be
only too glad to publish monthly a return showing
the number of colored persons who sought admis-
sion during the month, the number allowed to
land, and the number rejected under the regula-
tions. The alleged reluctance of Ministers to
provide such returns, except in answer to specific
motions in Parliament, admits of a bad con-
struction.
S.M. Herald :
Our special reporter in Melbourne states that Federal
Ministers seem to be of opinion that the Northern
Territory would not he a very desirable acquisition for the
Commonwealth.
For that matter Australia isn’t a very desirable
acquisition for the Commonwealth, but that can’t
be helped. Desirable or not, Australia has ac-
quired Australia, and it has to take it as it comes,
the Territory included. It won’t “acquire” the
Territory any more by putting it under the
Federal Government than by leaving it under the
S.A. Government, though the Federal authority
may be able to put the Lost Province to better
use. _ The foolishness of needlessly acquiring the
outside wildernesses and niggers of Papua and the
New Hebrides is obvious enough, but we can’t
help acquiring our own country.
Premier James, of Westralia, proposes to
cut down the two Houses from a membership of
50 and 30 to 46 in the
Assembly and 21 in the
Council. Even that means
67 legislators for about
200,000 people—one to
every 3000 inhabitants.
Yet in a huge country like
Westralia 46 M’s.L.A. are
not too many if it is in-
tended that the Assembly
shall have some know-
ledge of every part of the
country it is legislating
for—it is the 21 M’s.L.C.
whoare superfluous. James
proposes adopting the
Joint Sitting as a remedy
for deadlocks, but the best
remedy for deadlocks is to
make it a Joint Sitting all
the time—the Sitting can’t
be too Joint. Premier
James says that “it
struck him as a private
individual that there
ought not to be any neces-
sity in a small State like
Westralia for two Houses.”
The sooner this obvious
fact strikes Mr. James
as a public individual also,
the better. A Premier is a public character, and
things like that ought to strike him publicly.
The Federal Government has been fighting
hard to establish, by means of bonuses which will
be paid by the whole Commonwealth, a great iron
industry in New South Wales. Yet this fact
makes not the least difference in the conviction
of the cranky parochial party in Sydney that
the Federal Ministry, in which Victoria is,
in proportion to population, the worst represented
of all the States, is “a Victorian Ministry ” bent
on selling N.S.W. bodily* to some imaginary
person of bad character in Melbourne. The
Carruthers crowd has dwelt upon that imaginary
person of bad character in Melbourne till he has
become a monstrous mental disease.
The soul of Daniel Levy is harassed over
the constitutional position of M’sL.A. in N.S.W.
Leg. Assembly who are at the same time news-
paper proprietors. There are at present four of
these—Messrs. John Norton, “Monaro” Miller,
Arch. Campbell and R. Davidson. As these
members receive Govt, money for Govt, advts.,
Mr. Levy asked Premier See whether such was
not an irregular thing. Mr. See replied that the
matter had been settled in ’95, when it was
decided that the transactions referred to did not
amount to a “ contract,” as defined by the Consti-
tution Act. Certainly, the fact that a member of
the House has the chance of securing, by conces-
sions, a liberal supply of Govt, advts., is open to
suspicion.
Just now every Freetrade rag on the face
of this continent is rising to say that it will be
nothing short of a crime on the part of the Federal
Government and the Protectionist party in the
House of Reps, to provoke a conflict with the
Senate by not consenting to all the requests of
that body for reductions in the tariff. A long list
of the woes that will afflict the land if this evil
course is persisted in is then reeled off, and the
hope expressed that better counsels will prevail.
So far none of these papers has been struck with
the idea that it would be a crime on the part of
the Senate to provoke such a conflict with the
JAeps. by demanding wholesale reductions of the
tariff. All the sophistry in the world will not get
away from the fact that the men who designed
the Constitution intended the House of Reps, to
be the predominant partner in matters of finance.
The Constitution is plain enough on the subject,
and if any crime is committed it will be by the
fanatical, unpatriotic Senators who wish to
destroy Australian industries for the benefit of
the importing gang, of which M‘Millan, the Dry
Dog, and the blatant Conroy act as agents.
Maoriland basis. Even admitting
that the consumer pays all, it
seems that in paying he would
save British agriculture, close
British workhouses, render half
the existing poor-rate sufficient,
and make a good many things a
little more as God Almighty in-
tended them to be. But what is
all that if it involves sin against
Cobden ?
In 1901 England imported 120 million
bushels of wheat and 22J million cwts. of flour.
One shilling a bushel on wheat and 2s.
per cwt. on flour would return £8,250,000
a year, which would give old age pen-
sions to the Britisli people on the
A feature about M.L. re-
ligious census of 1901, which
makes the church organs whoop
excessively, is that while the lead-
ing denominations have increased
nearly 12 per cent, since 1896, Free-
thinkers and Agnostics have declined
about 28 per cent. Another aspect is that
the emotional religions are barely holding
their own—Roman Catholicism doesn’t in-
crease very much and Salvation Army-ism
shows a huge decline. But Presbyterianism
—the Cash religion—is stronger than ever.
Premier Irvine of Victoria, when it
seemed possible that the railway strike might be
averted, began to put on the airs of a Kitchener
and talk about “demanding unconditional sur-
render” and about the terms on which the
leaders of the men who disliked having
their wages cut down would be “forgiven.”
Irvine has only to maintain this insulting
attitude long enough to get his strike after all,
and then he will probably be sorry. His apparent
position is that he and Bent are willing to risk
dislocating the whole trade of the community
merely to gratify a coarse desire for the humilia-
tion of their opponents—the desire of two poor
mean men to be apologised to, whatever it may
cost. And the country isn’t so anxious as all that
for Bent to be apologised to. Bent never apolo-
gised to Victoria when it lost its good deposits in
the financial institutions he used to be connected
with.
Be that clause (carried by the Representa-
tives) prohibiting the nomination of a member of
State Parliament for a seat in the Federal Parlia-
ment. Nearly all the Q. Federal Democratic
legislators owed their return to the fact that
they were already members of the State Par-
liament and as such had become well-known
and well - advertised politicians. Conse-
quently the action of certain of them in sup-
porting above-mentioned clause looks very
like an attempt to break the ladder that hoisted
them up for fear someone else might use it. This
thing will infallibly militate against Democratic
progress. The Fat Man candidate (even when
not a State legislator) can always get abundance
of advt., and his social position is a big thing,
while the Democratic Federal candidate (unless
he has won reputation in a State Assembly) comes
forward handicapped by the fact that he is un-
known, and has no public political record.
Writes “ Gumleaf ” :
If the Victorian railway men did not strike, it was not
the fault of the Irvine Ministry. The arrogance and
ignorance of Bent and his Tory colleagues in dealing with
the question of classification and retrenchment in the
Railway Department have been colossal. Bent is a
blusterer who has hustled his fellow Ministers into a ridi-
culous position. All trouble could have been avoided by
a promise to put the scheme of classification, agreed to
between the Commissioner of Railways and the men, into
force as soon as possible. If that had been done the men
would never have raised any objection to the percentage
reductions. Bent refused the classification in the most
piggish manner. All along, Bent, Irvine and co.
have irritated the men whenever they got a
show. The merits of their case were never con-
sidered by the Cabinet. Ministers found it was popular
to cut and hack at the public servants instead of putting
on a decent-sized land-tax, which Premier Irvine himself
has admitted over and over again is the proper way to
CURIOUS HEATHEN RITES LATELY WITNESSED IN THE
NORTH. WANTED, MORE MISSIONARIES.
pull the country out of its financial troubles. They also
found that the two Melb. newspapers, in whose shadows
they eternally stand and shiver, were going to lend their
aid in jumping on the Public Service, and particularly
the railway men. This quarrel between the public and
its servants seems to indicate that the people of Victoria
have lost the last remnant of honesty. They have turned
to the doctrine that might is right. In effect they say
“ We shall howl for remissions of taxation, we shall insist
upon the expenditure of large sums of money on roads
and railways that do not pay ; on S’African and China
contingents ; on ducal razzle-dazzles ; on old age pensions
(the one commendable item on the list), and we will make
the public servants pay the piper.”
ALL ROADS LEAD TO ROME.
H ER: "Not married yet? ”
HIM: “No; not silly enough.”
HER: “ Heavens, if you were any sillier you,
would require a keeper.”
HIM: “ Um, yes, it does seem to come to the'
same thing.”
Rev. Silly-Dilly Macky sees a great danger
to the cause of the Yellow Pup in N.S.W. in
Womanhood Suffrage, as the R.C. women “will
vote as their priests tell them to.” Thus, though,
as he admits, “the Protestants could muster three
adherents to every one Catholic,” Popish domi-
nance is threatened ! Mr. Macky finds an effec-
tive reply to his own foolish statement. If the
R.C.’s only number one-fourth of the community,
it is nonsense to pretend that they can, by their
votes, oppress the other throe-fourths. So soon
as they attempt anything which the rest of the
community doesn’t agree with, they’ll fail, and
that’s an end of it. What the people who are now
so industriously fanning the sectarian flame aim
at, is not Protestant equality with R.C.-ism, but
the absolute subjection of the R.C. section, as in
the Kiama Ghost days ; and in this aim they are
being very materially assisted by the foolishness
of some R.C. dignitaries of the Cardinal Moran
stamp.
A Victorian pressman writes :
The present political situation in the Cabbage-Garden
is, in some respects, wildly humorous, the most comical
view being the one that has the large, squat figure of Bent
in the middle distance. Bent has made the somewhat
common mistake of reckoning men as cabbages, and the
possible results of this are large and various. Somehow,
railway men don’t seem game to strike, though they must
know that by so doing they could turn the State upside-
down in a week and gain all they want. A strong Liberal
Ministry would stick to the retrenchment scheme (having
once promulgated it)and give the men what they want more
than non-retrenchment—a fixed, just classification, with
reasonable certainty of tenure and freedom from super-
session by the “ casual ” hands. But such a Ministry
doesn’t seem obtainable at present in Victoria. The one
thing Victoria gets with absolute certainty is a crowd of
Sleepy Immovables, dwelling stolidly in one place
and refusing to budge. The House of Fat, at latest, had
consented to hasten its consideration of the Factories
Act. It’s even betting that its “ consideration ”of that
measure will end in its throwing it heavily into the gutter
and dropping off to sleep again ; and if that eventuates
anything may happen. It is only the necessity for
renewing the Factories Act (which expires with the
session) that keeps Irvine in power, and if that goes
Irvine, Shieis, Bent, Peacock and the rest of the In-
capables will go to the country forthwith.
N. S. W.
Ministers
profess to de-
test as strong-
ly as their
predecessors
the current
system of
appointing
J’s.P., but
plead that
all other
methods sug-
gested are
worse. In the
U.S. they are
appointed by
popular suff-
rage, and in
England by
the county
lieutenants,
and neither-
way is con-
sidered an
improve-
ment. The
Judges have-
been consult-
ed on the
matter, and
have firmly
declared that
they will
have nothing to do with the business, as to-
attend to it properly would absorb too much,
time. The old plan is, therefore, down for a
further run.
Sydney Telegraph was solid, and S.M.
Herald was no flabbier than usual, on the point
that it was the duty of N.S.W., in case of a
Victorian railway strike, to supply men as far as
possible to take the places of the strikers, and
otherwise to help to down the cause of Labor and
to prop up the cause of Bent.


THE
CALLAGHAN
‘ :
i
-v
■«
MR it
■■
mMmmm
n
.
:&■v ■
‘
'Hums
LONG
WEAR
23/6
POST
FREE.
DUTY
FREE.
Gentlemen’s Fine
Calf Lace Boots,
Whole Goloshed,
Calf Kid Legs, Made-
to-Order Appearance
PRICE
22/6-
You ought to wear CALLAGHAN BOOTS, because they are the handsomest, most
comfortable, long-wearing, and satisfactory Boots made at any price.
You can’t get them unless you buy from us. They are not Bargain-counter Boots. They
are not “ seconds.” They are never behind the times or stale.
Delivered Post Pree
and Duty Pree to
any Address
In the Commonwealth upon receipt of 23/6 -per pair ;
or in Tan Leather for 24/6. State Size of Boot, also if
Pointed, Medium, or Broad Toes are desired.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 qeorce st., Sydney.
Catarrh, of the Stomach
COMPLETELY CURED BY
VITADATIO
302 Oxford-street, Woollahra,
April 27, 1900.
Mr. S. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Dear Sir,—For ten (10) years I have suffered from
Catarrh of the Stomach, suffering intense pain during
the whole time. Several times my life was despaired of,
and at last the doctor said he could do no more for me.
At this time I read your advertisement, and determined
to give VITADATIO a trial. The result has exceeded my
GREATEST anticipations. lam now FULLY RE-
COVERED, and am in better health than I have been for
the past twelve years. I earnestly recommend the
medicine to similar sufferers. You are at liberty to
make what use you like of this, and I shall feel a pleasure
in answering any questions re my complaint.
Yours truly,
(Signed) ISABELLA CUMMINS.
For further particulars,
s. A. PALMER,
* 184: Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The Price of Medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
%n
/
V
as
m
Price,
21/-
Post Free.
Price,
21/-
Post Free.
NO BETTER VALUE
IN AUSTRALIA!
We offer a Special Line in Watches at manufacturer’s
prices—viz., 21/-. If you buy one you know you are
not paying the middlemen’s profits and you know
you are getting absolutely the Best Watch procurable
at the price. It is Solid Silver Keyless Lever and is
doubly cased. Unless unfairly used we keep it in
good order for 2 years free of cost.
Carriage Paid Anywhere.
Money b ick if you want it.
L. I. FLEGELTAUB,
Watchmaker & Jeweller,
06 KING "STREET, SYDNEY (and at London).
J. G. Griffin, alderman, Sunday Shell-
back wild-cat tipster, member of the Water
and Sewerage Board of Sydney, and other
things, too numerous for print, has now
handed over to the St George Cottage Hospital
the business of the notorious Chain Letter.
According to the statement rendered by Mr.
Griffin the people who sent the used stamps for-
warded none of exceptional value, as the number
received (between two and three million, according,
to Sydney D.T.) only realised £248 17s. 6d.
Mr. Griffin’s well-meant enterprise has thus met
with very bad luck; this writer has seen £l5O
worth of used postage stamps stuck on one page
of a collector’s album. In future the hospital
secretary will receive the stamps and dispose of
them for the purpose of erecting a ward at the
institution.
“Clinical Experiences.” —There has
never been published in Australia a more excellent
or worthy addition to the literature of the colony
than the 1902 edition of “Clinical Experiences,”
compiled by the Consulting Staff of Specialists
of the Freeman and Wallace Electro-Medical
and Surgical Institute, Bathurst and Elizabeth-
streets, Sydney, whose advertisement appears in
another column. The treatise is a handsome one,
and is of an interest to the public, which can be
readily understood when the volume is shewn to
comprise the large amount of si>o pages, which
again are interspersed with 150 full and half-page
plates of the human system, and of the Institute.
These medical illustrations show the perfection
of illustrative excellence, and will enlighten the
reader of much that refers to his anatomy, or the
various functions of his body. The book is invalu-
able to persons living in the country, and may be
secured by posting to the Specialists of the
Institute the sum of One Shilling in Stamps,
which will mail it free to all Australia.*
A weird story, true or untrue, of the
sea was lately told in Sydney Water Police
Court by Chun Yun, head fireman of the
S.S. Chingtu, per medium of an interpreter.
Chun declared that when the steamer was
about a day out from Hong Kong, Li Hing
went on deck to get some water, and the chief
engineer, finding him there, fell upon him with a
club and struck Hing across the shins, whereupon
Hing fell down and started to sing out. Just
here the second engineer happened along, and
according to Chun, a common impulse seized the
two officers, who promptly grabbed up Hing and
swung him over the side of the steamer ; and then
proceeded to smoke with the aspect of gentlemen
who had performed an onerous duty to society.
Chun said he didn’t complain to the captain as he
was afraid he might go the same way, and that the
same sensible conclusion occurred to the other
Chows who saw the little unpleasantness. Ten
Australian ports were touched at, but Chun said
he was not allowed to land or communicate with
anyone at any of them, and it was not till he
reached Sydney that he managed to get a letter
ashore. The alleged murder is said to have taken
place about 9 a.m , on the lower deck, in a most
public place and manner. A curious feature of
the case is that the prosecution was conducted by
some private personages, although it was for
murder on the high seas ; and the accused, though
committed for trial, were allowed bail on the under-
standing that they are to work their steamer back
to China and will be tried by a special court when
the steamer returns. Meantime the Chinese
witnesses are to be detained in Sydney.
N ervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue *
Obit. : John F. Malcolm, of Canterbury
(Vic.), aged 74. He was one of the members of a
party which went in search of Sir John Franklin
in the Arctic regions.
A Bulletin correspondent:—
Vic. Govt, proposals re percentage deductions, tnough
appearing moderate to some, have only added to the un-
rest of the public service, particularly the Railway
department. Doubtless, could the original intentions of
the Irvine-Shiels crowd be known, they were much more
severe. The agitation caused by the hint of percentage
deductions was fruitful, inasmuch as it almost certainly
moderated the cutting policy. The railway employees
have a particular horror of percentage deductions. They
have not forgotten the 1893-98 reign of the system. But
when the trouble comes to a ballot for or against a
strike itTinds the men much divided. A strike is more
dreaded by many than the retrenchment policy. Accus-
tomed to a monthly (or fortnightly) pay-day for years,
as accustomed to spending the pay, many prefer even
a “ retrenched ” pay-day, to the nsk of no pay-day at all.
And the old “ compo.” men pause ere risking the
loss of pension-rights. Some say, “ All right; the public
demands retrenchment. We will retrench too. Nothing
but bare necessaries of life in future. Goods subject to
Customs duties especially to be eschewed. The Age and
Argus want retrenchment. We’ll retrench them."
Paris Nesbifc, K.C., is privately circulating
in Adelaide copies of a petition he has sent to
Lieut. Governor Way, against the 20-years sen-
tence on Flynn, lately convicted of highway-
robbery. Lawson, admittedly guilty, declared
solemnly when sentenced that Flynn had no share
in it. The “humble petition ” sets out that the
verdict was against the weight of evidence, also
that the presiding judge showed great animus
against the prisoner and misdirected the jury ;
and a fresh trial is asked for. And the presiding
judge was Way himself ! However, the petition
reads seriously enough up to Clause 7, which
merely sets out that * ‘ One good turn deserves
another,” the next clause claiming that, though
Flynn is “only an Irishman,” he has as much
claim to consideration as if he were “of Russian
or any other nationality.” This is of course a
delicate allusion to the Andersen case, where a
Russian sailor, convicted of manslaughter, was
quietly released after a time by the Holder Govt.,
after reference to Way, and without reference to
Judge Bundey, who had tried the case ! It was
always understood that Russian Govt, influence,
working through Chamberlain, brought about that
curious leniency, and the point is still a sore one
to touch. Altogether, reading between the lines,
Nesbit’s Humble Petition must be pronounced
“ red hot.”
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
Simples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis*
gurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
‘HARLENE’
™ HAIR.
The very Finest Dressing.
Restores the Hair*
Promotes the Growth*
Arrests the Fall.
Strengthens the Roots.
Preserves the Hair*
Renders it Beautifully Soft*
Removes Dandruff.
Allays all Irritation.
Preserves, Strengthens, and Invigorates
Childrens’ Hair.
Full description and directionsfor use in ■
so languages supplied with every bottle.
V-t 2/6, and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per
Bottle from Drug-gists, &c., all over
the World.
Edwards’ Harlene Co.
High Holborn, London, Eng,
H»»u
ILS
“Mamma, shall I have beautiful long hair like you when I grow up*'*
“ Certainly, my dear, if you use Edwards’ 1 Harlene.’ *
At Poverty Point.
They can’t keep away. Dorothy Vane (Mrs. Menzies)
comes back to the stage, for one week only, under Mr.
Harry Rickards’ management, to earn £5O for the Mt.
Kembla fund.
George Rignold’s sale (at Sydney last week) was respon-
sible for a miscellaneous collection of autographed photo-
graphs. Known and unknown celebrities from the early
fifties to the present day were there in plenty, and G.R.
himself, in the dress of every period, from 2000 B.C. to
1902, A.D. Forty-seven plain, colored, charcoal, chalk,
pastel, oil, watercolor, mezzotint likenesses represented
the Limelight Monarch in equestrian, aquatic, frowning,
smiling, warlike, peaceful, and kingly attitudes. The
theatrical effects were slaughtered—s 2 wigs went for 265.
No bids for scenery or Australian rights of “ Fedora ” or
“Romany Rye," but Bland Holt secured “Lights o’
London” for £26o—not a bad prioe, considering that
George Rignold has had nearly 20 years’ use of it; but
there’s money in, “ Bess—Bess, my poor Bess,” yet.
“ Adelaide ” to The Bulletin concerning Sandow before
the doctors, attired as Susannah before the Elders:
“ Exactly like his portraits. He is even as good-looking
as those portraits—an unusual thing for a public per-
former. ‘ Quite a small man! ’ That is the second
thought. It is not strictly true, of course. He is sft. 9yin.,
as he explains on being asked, but the size of him every
other way takes away the apparent height. Sandow
shakes hands gently—no such grip as you get from Ernest
Jones or A. H. Jarvis—and hopes you will call on him at
his hotel. As he stands a little later, naked except for a
leopard-skin belt and a curious pair of open-work boots,
before a hard-staring, semi-circle of doctors, lawyers, and
men about town, with no unnecessary fuss he shows
up his various muscles, and then invites and answers
questions from all-comers. They come fast enough, but
his wit is ready, and the merely frivolous questions are
skillfully turned. It is not well to inhale when smoking ;
one can eat pretty well anything if his System is in need ;
it is absurd to think that one gets sufficient exercise in
the daily’ moving about; games of all kinds have his
cordial approbation, but you must use his System for 20
minutes daily'. ‘ I have a good appetite, but not a very
great one,’ he says in a pleasant voice with a strong
German accent; ‘ but I always leave off feeling that I
could hold a little more. That is important.’ ‘ And the
same with drink ? ’ puts in an irreverent lawyer ; and for
once Sandow has no reply ready. Then the leader of the
medical profession tests his heart. ‘ I wish I had it,’ says
the professor, simply.
The Lady’s Realm (London), which came to grief so
amusingly and decisively over the Coronation number
that it printed far in advance, described ceremonies
that didn’t take place, and maliciously criticised artists
who didn’t perform, is run by that unco guid firm of Con-
gregational publishers, the Hutchinsons (writes The B.’s
London correspondent). Punch, under heading “ Clara
Vraie de Vraie ” (which is a drive at “A Peer’s Daughter,”
the Realm’s lady-contributor), verses stingingly on the
matter, and libel actions are in the immediate vicinity of
Hutchinson and Co,
The sudden closing of Melb. Bijou after the Bth night
of “ Cyrano de Bergerac ” is said to be likely to result in
interesting legal proceedings. But the Bijou has known
several sudden closures since Brough and Boucicault
resigned the lease some 10 years ago, and on more than
one occasion the expected law-case did not ensue.
A complimentary ben. is being arranged at Melbourne
for Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis, the Rose Edouin of yore.
Though she only looks 40, she has the hardihood to
notify that her first appearance on the boards was just
50 years ago, at the Strand Theatre, London. The
Edouins were Charles, John, Eliza, Rose, Willie, Julia.
The new Queen’s Theatre, Melbourne (n&e the Victoria
Hall), is as pretty a little place as there is in the city ; it
has been redecorated by architect Billy Pitt, but it will
not even hold as much money as Toole’s little old crib of
a theatre in London. And the two entrances are long,
narrow passages, on either side of a pub. A fatal
objection.
The only authenticated portrait of the real De Bergerac
—if it is authenticated—represents him as a rather good-
looking man with a not abnormal nose of the Hebrew
type. But in the drama it is spoken of as quite abnormal.
Ragueneau, the pastrycook, says that when you see the
nose you think it is a joke and expect to see De Bergerac
“ take it off.”
Irving, in the winter of his career, finds himself a
financial wreck. The house he had lived in since 1870
was sold just five years ago, his cherished library follow-
ing. A few months afterwards Terry’s daughter, Elsie
Craig, opened a milliner’s shop off the Strand,
principally patronised by “ the profession.” By the way,
a famous dictum of Ellen’s is, “ Never insult a ballet-girl,
she may be manageress of a theatre next week.” Every
poor, but attractive, young ballet-girl carries a sealskin
jacket in her shabby carpet bag, so to speak.
There seems to be an Anglo-Australian association for
sounding the praises of one Madame Minna Fischer, as a
singing mistress. Madame Minna secured Amy Castles
for an occasional “pupil” when the damsel came to
London. Regina Nagel followed the Castles lead, and then
the whole army of London paragraphists for Australian
papers (including, of course, the British Australasian)
started to boom Madame Minna aforesaid. The audacious
puff for the teacher is accountable for pars of this sort:
“ Miss Nagel has made some improvement under Madame
Minna Fischer, but her middle register is still very weak,
and I fear &c., &c.” The fact is that Regina Nagel had a
magnificent voice and was beginning to sing beautifully
when she cut herself adrift from Marchesi, who had had
her in hand for two years, or more. Her throat became
more troublesome than ever after she left Paris, and the
result of sundry operations on her enlarged tonsils and
post-nasal growths has been rather disastrous. Her voice,
it would appear, has lost power and “ quality.”
In the prettiness of his pianoforte-playing, Barron
Morley reminds one of Albert Friedenthal, who travelled
through Australia some three years ago. Perhaps Morley
is equal to Friedenthal in Chopin music, but, at present,
he can’t be compared with that gifted person as an enter-
tainer. Friedenthal used to keep his audience for two
hours, and everything he touched was made bright and
interesting. But, then, he didn’t give his delicate, un-
assisted performance in town halls. The pianist who
would draw a couple of thousand people to a big building
must be a powerful and tempestuous thumper in the first
place. By the way, Mark Hambourg is said to be due in
Australia again early next year.
Brough has engaged George Bromley, a clever young
Melbourne pianist and musician, to manage the little
orchestra for his forthcoming Indian tour. *
The End of The War.
“Thank goodness, the war is about ended,”
remarked Brown. “ What’s that ? ” asked Green.
“I say that the war is nearly over,” repeated
Brown. “What war?” asked Green. “Great
Scot! ” shouted Brown, ‘ ‘ don’t you know that the
British Empire has been fighting the Boers for
three years?” “Now you refer to it more par-
ticularly, I think I have heard it mentioned; but
then, you know, I never had any memory for
small matters.” Brown groaned, and had thoughts
which he rejected as unfit for utterance.
That’s just the trouble with some of us—we
are unable to perceive the importance of certain
profoundly important things. Nothing warms
the upper part of a tall building in winter so
effectually as for the basement to be well alight—
but the subsequent developments are too rapid
and destructive for the comfort to be long
enjoyed, and it is as well to adopt practical
measures at once. Now here is the true story of
a woman threatened by a danger who, instead of
ignoring it or vainly hoping to dodge it, wisely
fought and conquered by aid of the best and most
approved weapon for that purpose.
Mr. Charles M. Morrison, of Arcade Buildings,
High-street, Armadale, Victoria, writes _on
January 9, 1902: “In 1887 a fire broke out in a
house I then occupied in Melbourne. My wife
discovered it and rushed forth to give the alarm.
A neighbour’s dog, hearing her outcries and
seeing her run, sprang at her and knocked her
down. Fortunately, the fire was soon extin-
guished ; but the double shock of the fire and the
dog’s attack had a calamitous effect upon my
wife. For a time she was prostrate, her nervous
system being entirely deranged. It was bub little
food she was able to retain ; more often than not
it caused violent fits of vomiting. Her sleep, too,
was much disturbed, and she wasted away
alarmingly. Notwithstanding that she was
treated by five doctors, she continued in this
pitiable condition for years. No doctor seemed
to understand her case or able to afford her
relief. We had lost faith, both in doctors and
medicine, when, about three years ago, a friend
recommended us to try Mother Seigel’s Curative
Syrup. He was so persistent that we procured a
bottle of it. My wife took it regularly, and soon
began to benefit by it. In a little while she was
able to take ordinary food, and to retain it. For
three months she took Mother Seigel’s Curative
Syrup, by which time she was quite cured. She
has remained well ever since, and at present is
quite able to perform her household duties.”


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
tJpon~raJi . Classes - of
Security.—^
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
hfd
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3XT.S.-W.
Iflont deplete QJ|. Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
ty/L CASTLEREAGH ST. f *7 A.
** SYDNEY *
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
'—THU-.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offioes - • 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
JHon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. 0. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Mili.hr.
Accumulated Funds, £2,595,870.
Policies issued 88,299—assuring £26,826,380.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,767,115.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—pouitably distributed.
Head Office:
*l9 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
file Bail l of north Queensland
I.IAII TKI).
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director -JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. I*. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250 100 ... £350.000
Royal Bank of Queensland
" LIMITED. W
CAPITAL PAID-UP £451,307
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 181,859
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 56,000
£689,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 A3CHURCH LANE.
18 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
THE . . .
fm IHIITBIt LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
Established 1879.
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection HUNTER, BLIGH and CASTLEREAGH
STREETS, SYDNEY.
The CITY MUTUAL LIFE is generally
recognised as the most liberal and pro-
gressive institution of its kind in Austra-
lasia. It retains on its books a larger
proportion of business than any other
Life Office doing business in these States.
GEO. CROWLEY,
General Manager.
Queensland Smelting jjompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street. Melbourne.
THE SAVINGS BANK IN VICTORIA
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £15,000, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties,
and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of Lo ndon
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jkssop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, \V. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar.
J. J. ALLEN. General Manager for Australia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building’s, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital ... •. £2,500,000^
GEIMTS.^-
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
A—ftESS.— L..D.I., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
Shipping.
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Saturday, Aug. 23, 2 p.m.
-Buninyong, Tues., August 26, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, August 30, 2 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyong, Tues., Sept. 2, 5 p.in.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyong, Tues., Sept. 2, 5 p.m.
(No Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Tyrian, Saturday, August 23, 2 p.m.
Konoo warra, Tuesday, Aug-. 26,5 p. m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Aug. 30, 2 p.m.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian, Saturday, August 23, 2 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Aug. 30, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked throuirh.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
TH€ RB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SALAMIS ..
ABERDEEN
DAMASCUS
T. F. Cambell ...
A. Robb
R. McKilliam ...
Noon, August 22
Noon, Sept. 12
Noon, Oct. 3
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. £55 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. £3l 10s .. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £l2O.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Huddart, Parker & go’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBAItT,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTItALIA,
NEW ZEALAND POUTS.
Pares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
AND
&
SPLENDID NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS,
be jmit;
via
San Francisco,
California.
TIME TABLE
THREE-WEEKLY BERVICE.
SIERRA
SONOMA
VENTURA
Over 6000 Tons each.
8000 H.P. .
Length, 425 feet,
Passengers booked through to American, Canadian and
European centres at current rates.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO., El'D.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
FOR ACETYLENE GAS
h
fdh
“ WE ARE
THE PEOPLE.”
Over SOO of our Reliable
Acetylene Gas Genera-
tors in daily use, and all
giving satisfaction.
We also supply Table,
Portable, Street, and
other Lamps for Acety-
lene Gas and all accesso-
ries.
We carry large stocks of
Carbide of Calcium.
Send for our No. 56
Acetylene Gas Catalogue
Martin’s Advance Acetylene Table Lamp. Price £1 7s. 6d.
James MARTIN & CO.
161 Clarence Street,
Nr, King-st., Sydney.
to A^"' eteS ’ « A.
P^<
' A CU^ eS
ro \ds-
atvd Col
CO " S xojUa* 0 ® 8 '
TVVO
m
fdh
FRINGES
Hade of the Best Natural Curly Hair,
from 3s. 6d., ss. 6d., 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d.
to 10s. 6d. each,
jW. H. WIGZELL
HO WILLIAM STREET,
' PLAITS S YD " EY ’
fdh
7s. 6d.
22iD.,.105. 6d.; 22in., extra thick, 12s. 6d.
24in., 15s. 6d.; 21in., extra thick, 18s. 6d.
26in., 205.; 26in., extra thick, 255.
2§in., 305.; 30in., 35e.; 30ia., extra thick, 40s.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as thick as
those sold elsewhere for the same money,
WIGS MADE TO ORDER, '
BAIKWOIUC DUTY FBM IQjOXSJSB SSATBS.
STEAMERS LEAVE
ARRIVE
(NORD-DKUTSCIIER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
Interstate First Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co. 3.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. STETTIN, 3rd SEPTEMBER,
And Regularly Thereafter.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ ALL-RED ” ROUTE.
SPECIAL
ROUND THE WORLD
TOURS.
Saloon: £7l to £l3O.
STEAMERS SAIL:
Sept. 8, Oct. 6, Nov. 3.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
RUPTURE
CURED
without
f&i.
operation or pain,
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. io. Address:
SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R C.S., ENG.,
Cor Russell &. Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
Throw away
your Truss.
HIMSELF CURED
Mr, Robert E.
PARKHURST
■ “ of Pitt St., Sydn y, ss.ys if any sufferer from DEBILITY.
KIDNEY or BLADDER DISEASE will write him he will inform
them of the perfect home cure that did the work in Lis case.
SUpplng,
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE \
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping-at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Adelaide,
Friday, August 22.
S.S. Wollowra,
Saturday, August 30.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Warrego, Sat., Aug. 23.
S.S. Adelaide, Sat., Aug. 30.
S.S. Allinga, Friday, Sept. 5.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and Howard Smith Co.,
Ld. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. 8. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
A. U. S- N. Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Maoltay.
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Twice weekly, via Bris-
bane, Maryborough, and Bundaberg.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 8 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
via MELBOURNE—Fortnightly.
Passenger A ccorntnodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
firstport between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. 11. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, 1(1 Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Porta
P. AND o
COMPANY’S
ROYAL. MAIL STEAMER 3
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line'Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific,
Messageries Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with ths
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistanoe
in landing and passing their luggage through the
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Officer
Queen's Corner, Pitt Street, Sydnev.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
“E. AND A.” LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer.
AIRLIE
AUSTRALIAN
GUTHRIE
EASTERN
Tns Commander. iLeave Sydney.
2500 St. John George.. August 30
3000 P. T. Helms .. September 27
2500 A. E. Dabelle .. October 18
13600 Winthrop Ellis .. November 15
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Through bookings to points in Canada, United States
of America and Europe at special rates.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
Lowest Fares and Freights.
For further information apply to
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agent*.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
SMOKE
(tf.
fd
GBD
hfd
hfd
INSIST
on having this Brand
and no other.
Largest Depot:
231 CLARCNCC STR€€T,
SYOJXTEY.


Walking-stick Dibbs ! It is somewhat
milder than his Chicago front name.
Extract from the chairman’s speech at the
annual meeting of theMulgrave Central Mill (Q.):
The directors had arranged for a plentiful supply, of
Island labor, and were prepared to find the growers with
the whole of the labor they required to carry on their
farms. ... If the farmers wished this efficient labor
supply to continue it was necessary that they should
avoid contracting for any work outside the mill “ boys.”
They must find work for these “ hoys ” ; if they were idle
they would still have to he paid. If the farmers did not
employ these “ boys,” but employed outside labor, they
would have 2000 Kanakas sitting down, and the share-
holders be paying them for doing nothing. They must
encourage the use of these “ boys ” during the slack
season in every shape and form.
That lets a big cat out of the bag. The Kanakas,
imported only for field work, are to be used for
“ every shape and form ” of farm toil.
The petition now being signed at New
Caledonia, asking the French Government to re-
commence the sending of convicts, repeats in
almost identical phrases the petition sent by a
section of N.S.W. society to tne British Govern-
ment requesting a renewal of convict transporta-
tion. The development of the country is the
basis of the petition in both cases. That is
followed by the need for “ reliable labor,” and so
on. When transportation to Botany Bay was
stopped the wages of labor jumped up. . That was
really the whole trouble. But so speciously was
the case stated, and such all-wool patriots did the
petitioners represent themselves, that the British
Government was for a time seriously minded to
revive the old diabolism, and would probably have
revived it but for the vigorous stand made by a
little group in Sydney. N.S.W. and Victoria
have had much to do with the stoppage of trans-
portation to New Caledonia, as the New Hebrides
and the Australian coasts tempt escapees, and it
would be as well not to let the petition go too far
without a corrective.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
s i on ? ** 8 ?» un^®r *h e you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
Wa !£' have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and FILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bumbns, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
DRUNK
ENNESS
CURED
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
See my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, 1901, wherein I agree to
accept 100 Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free,
W. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S.. Eng..
68 Russell St., Melbourne.
30 Days’ Trial.
h
We grant every purchase!
of our
ELECTBIO
BEETS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, whioh is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. It it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), (riving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Stbeet. SYDNEY.
CALVE RT S
CARBOLIC
TOILET
SOAP
BEST FOR THE SKIN and
COMPLEXION.
Antiseptic. Emollient. Refreshing.
Sold by Chemists, Stores, &c.
F. C. CALYERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
-rr-T-ca-cr*
SPOONEE’S
SPOONER’S
m
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
LOVELY COLORS
BRILLIANT
GLOSS.
REJECT
IMITATIONS.
K
-
■
w
li
'i
SPINALIS
: OXI D I S ED
ENAMEL, i
READY FOR USE
ERFECT
s®
Mmm
'nwi^
TTondonT s.e
i 111
See that AtpinaH’s name
and Medals are stamped
on every Tin.
MANUFACTURED BY
ASPINALL’S ENAMEL, Ltd., NEW CROSS,
LONDONENG.
Dr. Clarkson’s Electric Belt,
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has keen brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
han any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
e xpense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGO RATO R
V
* •
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is tmlv wonderful.
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC. “
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVTGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
OWL
CUT
RATE
OAijJj or write-
DRUG STORE,
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS* SYDNEY.
WISDOM I
SAVE YOUR
SAVE YOUR
TIME,
#
m WHERE TO
<*er
%
A3NOIAI
PROSPERITY
CAN’T LAST FOR EVER WITHOUT THE
PUBLIC’S CONFIDENCE AND APPRECIATION,
EVIDENCE OF WHICH IS DAILY RE-
CEIVED IN THE FORM OF TESTI-
MONIALS AND GRATEFUL LETTERS
BY
Herr RASSMUSSEN
>v
&
'
(
THE WORLD-FAMED DANISH
HERBALIST & BOTANIST
PROPRIETOR OF THE
ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
REGISTERED
A FEW WORDS TO THE UNINITIATED.
PERSONAL AND PERTINENT.—Those who have Dot met Herr Rassmussen, and
who have not given his Alfaline Herbal Remedies a trial, may find it beneficial to become
acquainted with the good work which he has done in the interest of suffering humanity for
the last twenty years.
ALONG BACK IN THE BEGINNING OF THE EIGHTIES
Herr Rassmussen introduced his now world-famed Alfaline Herbal Remedies to the Australian public at 547 George
Street, Sydney. Australia was then flooded with American importations and proprietary remedies, manufactured
by doubtful persons with assumed names and fictitious addresses, who took the people’s money without
responsibility, and very often without giving them fair value for same.
HERR RASSMUSSEN BROUGHT ABOUT A REVOLUTION
by straightforward and fair dealings with the public, offering to stake his reputation and future if his remedies
were not as efficacious as he claimed them to be, accepting all responsibility, and willing to abide by the people’s
verdict.
THE HAPPY RESULT IS KNOWN TO EVERYONE.
Over twenty years have passed away, hundreds of remedies have come and gone—many of them were forced on
the public in numerous designing ways—thousands of pounds spent on advertising same with the assistance of the
world’s greatest experts in laying traps for the unwary; but the public would have none of them, and they have
disappeared as suddenly as a flash of lightning.
“THE ALFALINE REMEDIES EXCELL ALL OTHERS,”
and are well known to be more popular to-day than they have ever been. They have not only obtained, but
have retained the goodwill and confidence of the Australian public, and have become famous throughout the
civilized world. The first Sydney Office not only yet exists, but offices have been opehed up for their sale at
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Wellington, N.Z., and in West Australia at Perth, Fremantle, ICaigoorlie and
Boulder City, with Agencies throughout the world.
LET THE PUBLIC JUDGE FROM THE FOLLOWING:—
The Alfaline Remedies have held their own for over twenty years in Australia, and Herr Rassmussen has
been awarded the Parisian Acadamies’ Gold Medal and Diploma of Honour ; Gold Medal, Sydney, and several Silver
Medals; honourably mentioned in almost every newspaper in Australia; received many thousands of unsolicited
testimonials—every one of the originals open for inspection at his Offices. The Alfaline Remedies have never been
known to fail to cure in a single instance.
ARE THEY NOT WORTH A TRIAL?
if they are, why not try them to day ? why leave it till to-morrow and, perhaps, lose your chance and time ? No
order so small that it is not welcome ; no order so large that it cannot be executed at once. If you first wish
evidence of the efficacy of the Alfaline Remedies,
SEND FOR HIS FREE BOOK,
and read what the experienced have to say, and what the Australian newspapers have to say—the double distilled
extracts from the Press speak for themselves.
A FEW OF THE ALFALINE REMEDIES:
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS never fail to cure Nervous Diseases, Weak Spine,
Troubled Brain, Fatigued Nerves, Despondency, Poor Memory, Debility, Want of Confidence,
restore Vital Strength, and preserve the system against being affected by age more than any
known remedy. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-; course, 23/6 posted.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS are a permanent cure for all Chronic, Blood and Skin
Diseases, no matter how caused, or of how long standing—Blotches, Blood Disorders, Gravel,
Diseases of the Urinary Organs, etc., etc. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-; courses, 23/6 posted.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS completely cure Wasting Diseases in Women
—Antenna, Wlutes, Poverty of Blood, Sallow Complexion, Dull Eyes, and act as a perfect
Blood and Nerve Tonic. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-; courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE RHEUMATIC PILLS cure Rheumatism,Gout,Sciatica,Lumbago,Ravages
from Rheumatic Fever, Chalky Formation in the Joints. Boxes, 3/-, 6/-, and 12/- ; courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS remove all Stomach Troubles, Costive-
ness, Indigestion, Flatulence, Heartburn, Wind, Biliousness and Headache. Boxes, 1/-.
GENERAL ALFALINE REMEDIES.
Alfaline Pile Powders cure internal and external Piles, boxes 3/- and 6/- ; Varicocele
Powders, boxes 6/-; Blood Capsules or Globulus, 6/-; Fat Reducing Powders, which remove
Corpulency, 6/- ; Hair Restorer, 6/- ; Corn Cure, 1/- ; Ointment, 1/-; Eucalyptus Oil and
Jujubes, boxes 1/- ; Flesh-Producing Powders, 6/-; Complexion Beautifiers remove Pimples
and Freckles, 3/- and 6/-; Alfaline Embrocation removes all sorts of Muscular Pains, Stiff
Joints—good for Footballers, bottles 1/6 posted; Worm Tablets, 1/-; Headache Tablets,
Instant Cure, 1/-; Soluble Quinine Pessaries, 5/- ; Electric Belts, Suspenders, Bandages.
Enemas, Glass Syringes, etc. Circulars with all particulars sent Free.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALITY.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has made special arrangements for attending
personally to his Clients living in the Country, and letters will receive
most careful personal attention. Advice or information sent free and
unobserved. Patrons may rely on skilful, honest and confidential treatment.
His Remedies will be forwarded to sufferers, packed in plain cover and
unobserved, together with Advice and Directions. Letters should be addressed
to Herr Rassmussen’s full name—HANS PETER RASSMUSSEN—and
Registered if containing Money, and may be sent to any of
Herr Rassmussen’s Addresses:
Head Office: 547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
ALSO AT
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke Street
BRISBANE—3O9 Queen Street
ADELAIDE—IS Pulteney Street
N.S.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington
W.A.—PERTH—4BI Hay Street
KALGOORLIE—Hannan Street
BOULDER ClTY—Piesse Street
PREMANTLE-117 High Street
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of Alfaline Remedies.


Tortured by Rheumatism.
Like a thief in the silence of the night
influenza and common cold have carried many to
the silent grave. It is caused by a sudden
check of perspiration by which the stomach is
rendered inactive, and the lungs become loaded
with corrupt matter which enters the blood, and
disease is the result. .Rheumatic fever and rheu-
matic pains are frequently traced to a cold con-
tracted when the system was run down through
indigestion and a disordered stomach. Mr. John
A. Phypers, of 173 Pitt-street, Redfern, Sydney,
graphically describes his own experience along
this line, and we cannot do better than use his
own words, which are:—“Some years ago,
while fishing on the Hawkesbury, I got very wet
and had to sit in my clothes for hours, the conse-
quence was a frightful attack of influenza, which
ended with rheumatic fever. I was under the
doctors for months. I seemed to get better,
but shortly afterwards I got back the old rheu-
matic pains, and from that time (about five years
ago), I suffered more or less, the pain almost
driving me mad. I tried everything; tried
rubbing the affected parts with oil, and outward
applications, but seemed to get worse and worse,
until I tried Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and
they speedily proved effectual. After taking one
or two bottles the pains in my legs and back
became less acute, and in a short time I was
able to get about again. Besides curing the
rheumatism, the pills improved my health
generally, and I may say that I am practically
cured altogether.” Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills are a perfect blood purifier, and a positive
cure for biliousness, indigestion, constipation,
headaches, sallow complexion, liver and kidney
troubles, piles, pimples and blotches, and for
female ailments. Put up in amber bottles and
the full name blown thereon.
RED BIRD BICYCLES
The epitome of Strength, Speed and Comfort. In the Dunlop Road Race on Saturday last, Goulburn to
Sydney, 134 miles, Littlechild won on a Red Bird.
We hold all records and have won all the most important Races on Road and Path for years.
. WHY *? Write and we’ll tell you.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King Street, Sydney.
Hardy’s
Absolutely Pure;
Tintara Wines
Fully Matured; 700 Medals, etc.
Adelaide:
CURRIE STREET
Melbourne:
COLLINS STREET
Sydney:
GROSVENOR STREET
SPORTING NOTIONS.
For the present, there is no more complaining
that test-matches in England are' limited to three days
this season’s experience has been quite satisfactory to
Darling and 00. In the first test, the Englishmen won
the toss and scored 876 for 9 wickets, the innings being
declared c.osed. Then the Australians lost 10 wickets for
86, and 2 for. 42. .At a rough calculation, the three days’
rule saved them from a defeat by an innings l and 200
runs. The weather conditions had given them no earthly
chance of winning, therefore it came fair enough that the
delays caused by rain enabled them to “ draw.” In the
second match the wicket was wet at the outset, and only
the best of weather could have made it otherwise than un-
favorable to the side that lost the toss. The Englishmen
won the toss. When they had scored 102 for two wickets the
tv? own . a gain and lasted on and off for three days.
Did the Australians complain that the three days* rule
relieved them of the necessity for waiting until a fourth
or fifth day in order to finish the match on a quagmire
when their opponents had led off with 102 for 2 wickets ?
Not much. Darling won the toss in the remaining three
tests, and, although there were interruptions every time
caused by rain, or failure of the light, it was possible to
finish the three games. Australia won two.
A three days’ test-match in Engiand provides
what would be four days’ play under the drag-it-out sys-
tem prevailing in this country. To get a hard, “ true ”
painfully true —wicket for three successive days you must
have at least four clear days of sunshine —a rare occur-
rence in England, anyhow. When you have got your
three true-wicket days, which are equal in length to four
Australian days, it may be fairly argued that the
side which cannot win the game within that time
has not shown cause why the other side should
get beaten. If a game were stretched into a fourth
or fifth day of continuous play the side which
got last strike would be almost certain to suffer the disad-
vantage of a somewhat worn wicket, and truly it wouldn’t
deserye to get beaten by time. In such cases a time-
limit is a fair thing. The English three-days’ rule prac-
tically tells the side that wins the toss to go in and beat
the other side, or rest contented with a draw if it doesn’t
get beaten itself. All things considered, the rule makes
for fairness in the rainy country. Lengthen the day’s
play, and it would be a good rule for Australian cricket.
What can be more ridiculous than the conclusion of some
Australian matches? The teams battle for four days,
and at the end of the fourth day the team that lost the
toss has a fair chance to make the (say) 150 runs required
for winning the match. A deluge of rain comes. No
play on the fifth day. On the seventh day, half-a-dozen
wickets fall for 50 runs, or less. The weather wins the
match for the team that had the luck of the toss.
In the natural course of things Time mostly aids
the side which batted first on a sound wicket, if the game
is carried beyond three days. But with a three days’ limit-
rule Time mostly aids the team that lost the toss, and it
thus tends to equalise the luck. The Australian system
of allowing a whole week, if required, to inter-State
matches whilst limiting each day’s play to 5 hours is a
rotten gate-money system. So there now ! The cricket
reporters for the newspapers sing the praises of this rotten
system because it suits them very nicely. Likewise the
old fogies whose sole remaining dissipation in life is
watching the game and talking about it between the acts.
The game cannot be too slow a tragedy for them, and as
for the unfairness of the present system—well, those iged
enthusiasts prefer it. It enables them to indulge the
oftener in their gay and sparkling truism that “Cricket
is a funny game.”
• * * »
Some fifth test-match trifles : The game ended
sensationally, and is certainly one of the most remarkable
of English-Australian tussles. Judging'by the queer
happenings, the wicket was decidedly doubtful. Trumper
and Duff broke the ice, and Duff, Hill and Darling were
all out to Hirst by the time 69 had been scored, and of
these Trumper had contributed 31. When Noble joined
Trumper the score shot up to 82, and then a slow one
from Hirst ended Trumper’s precarious existence of one
hour-and-a-quarter, during which he managed to make
42. It took four men to make the other 40 of the meagre
score bo far accumulated. It took Gregory and Noble
half-an-hour to make even three against the bowling of
Hirst and Braund, and eventually Hirst added Gregory’s
scalp to his little lot at a cost of 23. The first innings
lasted shr. 35min. and resulted in a total of 324. Best
score was Trumble’s, who made 64 (n. 0.)
Second day saw Palairet and Maclaren begin
for England on a wicket sodden with a night’s heavy
rain, and something like a debacle ensued. Hirst hit out,
and knocked-up 43 in 45min., and Lockwood flashed
through 25 in 25min., but in three hours the Englishmen
were all out for 183. Australia went in, and eight wickets
fell for 114 in 2h. 45min. Next day, Armstrong was
biffed out early, without scoring; and when Kelly, the
last man, had reached 7, Trumble got 1.b.w., and the
innings was over for 121, leaving the Englishmen 263
behind. When five English wickets were down for 48,
Britannia’s prospects looked particularly blue, and the
appearance of the unreliable Jessop with Jackson was
not calculated to get the Lion’s tail up a little bit. But
in 75min. the Unreliable had hit up 104, when Nohle
caught him. He had hit one five and 17 fours. When
eight wickets had fallen, England only wanted 19 to win,
and people were holding their hair. Hirst and Rhodes
steadily piled them up, and England won by one wicket.
Hirst had batted for 80min., and made 68 (n. 0.), of which
24 were made off six hits.
* • • ■»
Australians only wanted to win latest to be
level-pegging with England in test-match successes.
* * • »
Vic. Trumper is a Crown-st. (Sydney) schoolboy
and first showed his cricket promise as the pride of the
school eleven at the early age of 13.
* • * *
The manner in which Darling worked his
bowling in the second innings of the last test looks, half
the globe away, incomprehensible. Saunders and
Trumble bowled unchanged until the Englishmen had
only 100 to win. The result, of course, might have been
all the same, anyway.
'* * * *
“ The third test-match,” writes The Bulletin’s
London correspondent, was the best and most satis-
factory defeat of England-at-home for very many years.
The papers were unanimous in speaking of the ‘ brilliant
victory,’ and their praise was almost unalloyed. They
were also terribly agreed that O. B. Fry is at present not
test-class—well, five runs. in four test-matches ! Read-
ing his column of stuff each day in the newspapers
explains much, and proves that, for batting averages, the
pen is not mightier than the willow. Listen how he got
out, first innings, as related by himself : ‘ It was almost
impossible to see the ball from the pavilion end. When,
after making a single off Noble, I faced Saunders, I found
I could not get any sight of the ball. Playing purely at
the bowler’s arm, I missed the ball, which was rather
wide, lost my balance, and was stumped. ... It seems
contrary to cricket to make excuses, but the light was
very sorry.’ Of course, a batsman who goes wobbling
about hitting at a bowler’s arm which is not there is more
than likely to be bowled by a ball that is. It was a great
match and a glorious win.”
* * * »
Consider Hirst’s share in the glory of England’s
success over Australia. In both innings he came to the
rescue at a critical juncture—first, by making 43 and
saving a follow-on, and next his extra strong nerve and
cool judgment undoubtedly won the match. Put together
Hirst’s runs for the two innings totalled 101 for once out.
His bowling, too, on the first day resulted excellently—
five wickets fell to him on a batsman’s pitch for 77, which
compares favorably with Trumble’s 8 for 65 under con-
ditions that favored the bowler. Wherefore Tate’s in-
clusion and Hirst’s shutting out from the fourth test is
inexplicable at this distance.
* • • *
Australia-M.C.C. match started at Lords,
Thursday, last week. M.C.C. batted first, and scored
212 ; highest individual notchings being 60 and 27. Howell
got 6 for 105 and Armstrong 3 for 53. Australians made
427, towards which Hill brought 136, Gregory 86, and
Noble 70. Armstrong bagged 6 for 44 and Trumble 3 for
61. Visitors succeeded by an innings and 34 runs. Pre-
vious match this tour between same sides was a draw,
with scores: M. 0.0., 240 and 280 (innings closed); Aus-
tralia, 271 and 3 wickets for 217. Latest M.C.O. team was
remarkably weak, compared with first .one, and its easy
walloping no surprise. Big county matches probably
absorbed most of the best players. Hill made his fourth
century of the tour, and Noble reached his 1000 runs ; he
is now second in the batting averages, Gregory’s 87
against M. 0.0. is the best done by him so far in England
this time.
• • . • * .
Cabled that projected tour of ’Murka by Aus-
tralian XI. has been abandoned ; they’ll take in Westralia,
homeward bound, instead. Strange no cricket combi-
nation from this section has visited S’Africa, though
invasions by Englishmen are common.
* « * *
How blindly turf - scribes generally accept
official pronouncements! Timekeeper’s clocking of crack
lepper Col. Shillinski’s last mile of recent Caulfield G.N.
Steeple shows he got over it and at least four fences—
possibly five—in 1.56 J, carrying the backbreaker of 13.2.
A Carbine twice over couldn’t do this, under the condi-
tions ; it’s questionable, too, whether, with only half the
weight, Shillinski would clear a mile and the same
obstacles in the time. A similar mistake occurred when
Arcadia won last year ; he was made to do the finishing
mile of the four in 1.55| or thereabouts, and the state-
ment was laughed at everywhere. Small wonder that
seasoned touts, racecourse guns and the like won’t have
the official watch anywhere at any price, and usually
place “form "above the evidence of the best “ticker”
ever held by the most capable man.
* * * *
Adelaide Grand National meet ended Saturday.
Tote investments reached £10,497, and, compared with
last year’s total for two days, evidenced a shortage of
t'2948. Express and Convoy were made hot for the
Steeple, but Sir Oliver—Myrtle nag Supple Jack got
home easily and paid better than 20 to 1. Carlyon—Lady
Doris colt Troubridge showed high-class form in annexing
the Mayor’s Mile, and Carlyon—Sylvan Queen colt Caer-
leon, humping top weight and' lining up at odds on,
secured the 2yr.-old event.
* * • •
In view of coming Spring’s turf events, running
of some prads at Rosehill on Saturday was impressive.
Manner in which handsomely formed Air Motor appro-
priated Clyde Handicap made her look particularly
“good goods "for the Epsom, next month. Stillwater
showed marvellous improvement on recent form by fairly
spread-eagling Parramatta Mile field. With only 6.8 to
hump in the Metrop. he ha 3 certainly much better than
an outside chance. Top-rung quality nags disputed w.f.a.
Rawson Stakes—such a swell lot hasn’t lined up for many
a day. Blue Metal, Felicitous, Sir Leonard, Glenore,
Patronage, Abington, Horace, Brakpan and Abundance
were there. Brakpan was first choice. Big odds could
have been had about Patronage (allowed 71bs. through
never previously having won a w.f.a. race) till some
minutes before flag-fall, when coin came freely. Patronage
triumphed with a run that branded him particularly hot
for the Metrop. or one or other of the Cups—as those
pulling the strings desire. He humped 8.11 (91bs. over
his Metrop. and Melb. Cup loads, and 81bs. in excess of
the Caulfield allotment). Cyanide was another worth
noting for future reference ; she annexed August Handi-
cap in hollow style, and landed a big stake for those'
behind her. Cyanide has 8.3 in the Epsom and 7.13 in
Metrop., and should give either or both a big shaking.
• * * *
S.A. tote extension Bill will be amended con-
siderably if Dixon, M.P., has his way, and ’tis said a
recent reckoning up revealed a majority for him.
Summed up, what he wants means legalising bookmakers,
as incorporation of Lottery and Gaming (’75), Totalisator
Repeal, and Gaming Further Suppression (97) Acts is
aimed at; also, he purposes introducing two fresh clauses
which will clearly define a “ place ” and prevent betting,
unless with the consent of clubs licensed to run totes on
particular racecourses.
• * * •
Leading M.L. turfite, Mr. G. C. Stead, tells
that he hasn’t backed one of his nags for 12 years, and
yet no owner in Australasia has been a more consistent
winner.
» • * •
Looks just now as if A. J.C. and V.R.C. Derbies
are going to induce bigger fields and be much more open
than hitherto. Brakpan’s shaping at Rosehill, Saturday,
takes away from the sure-thing appearance he wore the
day before. Recent displays by Abundance, Free State,
Homeward Bound, Loyal and Troubridge create the
impression that every one of them will need some reckon-
ing with, leaving Long Tom, Ceres, Point Piper, Great
Scot, Clytus, The Caretaker, Good Speed, Lord Middle-
ton, Strata Florida and War-i-an out of the question,
though the greater number of those are high class and
not by any means unlikely winners.
* • * *
C.M.K. (Adelaide) : Any information you need
as to that particular business of Geo. Adams can be got
from the Tasmanian Tourist Association, Royal Exchange,
King William-st., Adelaide —or from the Tas. Tourist
Association aforesaid at 87 Queen-st., Melbourne.
* * * *
Yol. 14 of the Australian Racing Chronicle,
just issued, deals with 882 race-meetings that happened
in sundry parts of Australia and Tasmania between
Jan. 31 and Aug. 1 of the present year. Punters who are
looking for evidence re conflicting “fancies” for the
Spring handicaps had better buy the Chronicle. It may
help them to find a winner, arid at the worst it will add
very little to their loss. The vol. is posted free for
10s. 6d. by J. J. Miller, Post-office Place, Melbourne.
* • • *
Colonel Shilinski is one of the best-bred of the
jumpers. His sire, Zalinski, was by Nordenfeldt (the son
of Musket, who begat Carbine) out of Frailty ; and his
dam, Rosalie, was a daughter of Vengeance, a Caulfield
and Australian Cup winner. Rosalie was of no account
on the turf, running only once, but Zalinski, as all old
sports remember, ran second for the Champion Stakes to
his stable companion, Strathmore, and subsequently won
the Loch Plate.
* * « *
Harry Punch-Billy M‘Kell glove fight’ at
Sydney Gaiety A.C., last week, disclosed a second Joe
Goddard in lightweight Punch. M‘Kell perambulated
generally, but Punch, though bumping up against heavy
ones coming from all ways and often, took them mostly as if
they were nothing, and drove a straight left in that made
t’other : man squirm visibly. Only once (in the third
round) did the fight look like going to M'Kell, and then
he had Punch sagging and rocking ; but latter gathered
himself together and was boss thumper ever after till the
wipe was skied from M'Kell’s corner at the close of the
sixth round. The beaten man went home badly used up ;
but the winner’s iron countenance barely showed a sign of
the bombardment it had stood.
• * • •
Recent scrap ’tween ’Murkan heavyweight
Scanlon and the mining footballer Mick Cullen, at New-
castle, was a tough scrambling riot that was exciting
while it lasted. Cullen shaped crudely, but with wicked-
ness and vim begotten of bruising instinct and unusual
force. But equally strong and much cleverer Scanlon
breasted the cyclonic charges and coolly waited for
openings, through which he mostly scored heavily.
Cullen acted the mad footballer from end to end, while
the house screeched in excitement. In the second round
Cullen sprawled, the result of a smasher on the jaw, and
in the next three minutes a right found the “ point ” and
a left the bingy, with such power that the miner sank
limp and sick, a badly walloped man. Scanlon showed
much better than with M'Coll, better than he has yet
done in Australia, and more in keeping with his Yankee
reputation, but still much below championship form.
• * * *
Extent of boxing boom in Sydney is evidenced
by the fact that every night present week there’s
scrapping at one |or other hall, also that a big athletic
club, with a capital of £15,000, for pug purposes princi-
pally, is in course of construction.
* * * *
Announced that Larry Foley will return to
teaching the gentle art of sto'ush. In the future, heavy-
jawed individuals with the corners knocked off their
beauty will be common sights in Sydney streets. Seems
the first thing that has to be drubbed into the novice is
to keep out of reach of the other fellow’s fists, and the
best way to instil that idea is to make a chopping-block
of the novice aforementioned till he learns what his feet
were given to him by a benign Providence for. Ana
Larry is the man who can bring home that truth quicker
than anyone else on the continent. Anyhow, men who like
real bruising will be glad to hear that the veteran is
returning to his teaching, as the present age Australian
pug is a very crude and inferior product.
* * » •
■A big cycling meeting, is mooted by N.S.W.
League for next season. Among other big things,
a handicap for more money than has ever been
given in any part of the world for. a similar com-
petition will be run off. Matters are in train towards
bringing negro world’s champion bikist Major Taylor
here, and to this end the cable has been freely utilised.
A bait of £lOOO for an Australian tour failed to tempt
him, though that consideration would have ensured his
figuring in eight races. The Federal Cycling Council pur-
poses adding another £5OO, and this, they are satisfied,
will fetch the attraction. Races are to be run on Sydney
Cricket Ground afternoon and night, while three separate
carnivals will be held—in Nov., Jan. and March. Prizes
of £5OO each are to be given in the first two instances,
and £lOOO on the third occasion. It is expected that a
big proportion of the 700 Australian bikists affiliated, as
well as visitors from all parts of the world, will compete.
At least 300 Australians are expected to line up for the
big money.
* • • *
English swimmer J. A. Jarvis’s announcement
that he would, besides the mile, compete only in long-
distance (7 miles) supremacy this season is a nasty knock
for Australians Cavill, Read, and Lane. They went ’Ome
purposely to have a cut at Jarvis. Read and Cavill were
certainly beaten by him in the mile, but Cavill had only
arrived five days before, and Read five weeks
previously. The long swim on the Thames was much
beyond anything either Australian had ever thought of
doing. Both did excellently to finish without having
undergone that special preparation which, long-distance
work at any athletic exercise exacts. Jarvis’s back-down
looks like a bad attack of scare, as previous years he com-
peted everywhere in the British Isles and in everything.
Cavill has now swum himself into form enough to
seriously menace the English amateur champion’s posi-
tion. Oavill’s hundred with Lane, and his half-mile
world’s record a week or two ago, clearly demonstrate
that Jarvis made no mistake in sizing the situation up as
he apparently did, still it doesn’t justify his shabby back-
down.
• * • •
Details of English mile swimming supremacy,
and happenings prior thereto, indicate that Australian
George Read “ chucked it.” Against his 26.51 in the race
Read’s friend and mentor, Farmer, tells that he did 24.40
in a trial, which, strangely enough, was exactly the time
put up by the ultimate winner, Jarvis, in a test of his
capabilities. English files state that Farmer left for
Sydney disgusted, and also left his proteg6 behind.
* * • *
Australian pigeon murderer, Don Macintosh,
made a big splash at London international meet, July 5.
Five-pound sweep, with a £5O cup thrown in, saw him
and Frenchman De Bons, at 33yds. rise, account for 38
other contestants and whack first and second money.
Shooting on for the trophy, Macintosh won with 9 kills.
Later same man shared a £3 sweep with Vernon Barker,
each grassing 61.
**, * *
Hard luck that Bladon’s Braddon’s Blot should
go under by one point in final for N.S.W. National
Coursing Ass. Champion Cup last week to his half-sister,
We Two, whom old “Sam” Bladon gave away as a puppy
to present owner. Same bitch also put “the Blot” out
in Sydney C.C. Cup a week or two since. We Two hasn’t
the toot of Braddon’s Blot, especially if the going be soft,
but she is nearly as fast, and when on the game heaps
closer. Sensational Great Heart, though sized up a world-
beater in some quarters, succumbed to We Two in second
ties without notching a point. He wasn’t, by long chalks,
the dog that gathered in the rich Challenge Stakes a
month ago. Latest was the first time Great Heart had
been led up, or saw more than three points notched in
opposition to him.
* • * •
Present position of Sydney first-grade Rugby
toe-ball competition is that Glebe and ’Varsity, who
divided last year’s premiership, top the list. This Satur-
day these two will ’rastle, and the result should virtually
decide absolute supremacy.
* * * •
“W.S.T.”: No such thing as luck in life, say
the Gradgrinds who laboriously pile one shilling on
another. But a well-known Western N.S. Wales M.L. A.
can tell another story. In early life he made a small pile
“ backing ’em,” and this led to bold speculation that
landed him in affluence. Circumstances then again, how-
ever, brought him to the bottom of the ladder, but a
week or two ago Fortune gave the wheel another turn.
A visitor upon leaving the member’s house, presented the
youngsters with a sov., and told their mother to put it in
“Tatt.’s.” This she did, with ss. of her own, on the
principle of “ luck in odd numbers.” Ten days later the
news came that a horse was drawn and had run second,
giving a div. of £703 net. With rare discretion the money
was used to purchase a suburban home, with several
acres of land, orchard and garden, and before the price
was all paid, a premium of £2OO was offered by another
buyer, who was a little late in the market. Now, if these
things were not “ luck,” what were they ?
* • « •
“H.P.”: Many cricket fads are being given a
chance of proving their worth during the present English
season. The much-talked-of leg-before-wicket alteration
is being tried in all M.O.C. and Ground matches. The
rule, as it now stands, requires a ball “ to be pitched in a
direct line from wicket to wicket ’’ to enable a batsman
to be given out l.b.w. ; the suggested alteration is that
should a batsman prevent the ball from hitting the
wicket with his legs or any part of his body he shall be
out. The idea is not meeting with favor, and will
certainly be dropped. Another experiment which is
being tried at Lord’s is the painting of the cricket stumps
white. On the whole, it has been favorably received.
* * * *
The humor of Scotch cricket! The Australian
XI. played their match at Edinburgh on a ground which
had a hump in the middle, and tapered away like the
back of a tortoise. The only local player who was not in
a blue funk was a Victorian, studying medicine in “ Auld
Reekie.” When the Australians took the bat they passed
the Scottish total of 109 without losing a wicket. Steven-
son, a local bowler, delivered underhand lobs, and fielded
by turn to his own bowling at mid-on, mid-off, extra
mid-off, and cover-point. Once he got to point, only to
see Noble step back and pull the ball to square-leg.
Queerly reminiscent of the matches played by the first
All England XI. that visited Australia.
* • * *
A Voice from Vic. : Eor rough football, go
on the land, young man, and watch country teams per-
forming. Principal causes—ignorance of the game and
amateur umpiring. Saw two cookie eighteens battling
t’other Saturday. Contestants didn’t bother much about
the “leather ’’—they simply played each other. Slinging,
throwing, tripping, rabbitting, pushing—in fact, any-
thing was allowed ; the supposed umpire only giving one
free kick throughout the afternoon. Excited barrackers
followed the game all over the ground with “ Kick their
livers in!” The modern football patron is twin-brother
to the raging animal who stands outside the ropes and
punctuates a prize-fight with shouts of “ Kill the
blanker! ”
As the strike of Vic. Railway men now seems
unlikely to occur it is presumed that somebody
has been soothed to calmer reflection by a more
peaceful spirit. D.C.L. Whisky again no doubt.
After careful treatment with that unerring
remedy, the best side of everyone’s nature and of
every circumstance comes on top. For nipping
in the bud any looming unpleasantness D.C.L.
should always be on hand. In every emergency
it is The Whisky of Wisdom and Conciliation.
Pastor Dill-Macky’s calves must have lost
their springiness on Tuesday when the news came
that King Ned had given a Crucifix with a figure
of the Virgin Mary to Westminster Abbey. Ned’s
gift seems to be a return for Cardinal Vaughan’s
cute and courtly compliment in calling his
new Cathedral tower “St. Edward’s Tower.”
But the'flattered King is not nearly so slim as the
Cardinal, who leaves himself free to explain to the
faithful (who might be shocked at all avowed
compliment to a Protestant king) that it’s Saint
Edward, not King Edward, at all, at all, whose
glorification is aimed at, whilst Ned’s round-
aboutly-reciprocal gift is distinctly not one that
can be explained away to bigots on his side.
The second reading of the Bill to reform
the Vic. Constitution was passed by the Leg.
Assembly last week. The voting was 79 for and
5 against, but this is no indication of what will
happen the bill in committee. Like the Irvine
Ministry, which fathers it, the measure is a sad
mixture of rank toryism and liberalism. Liberals
rightlyobject to a number of dangerous concessions
which the“ Bill makes to the 48 Rich Men, and
Tories cannot bring themselves to swallow the
double dissolution and the joint sitting. Then
there is not a man in the House who really believes
that the number of representatives should be re-
duced to 56. No explanation has been given why
the Govt, selected that number. It seems to be
agreed that Irvine and Shiels made it 56 so as
to save their own skins at the Ministerial elections.
Even if the measure gets through the Assembly
in anything like its present shape it will be thrown
out by the 48 Rich Bosses and the Irvine Govt,
hasn’t got the stomach to fight them.
A Nasty Jar from Johannesburg!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[Some of the influential mining houses upon the Rand
are said to be preparing the way for the introduction of
Chinese labor.— Vide Cable.]
When you rushed to the ranks, old chap,
When you went to the war,
What did you think the row was about ?
What were you fighting for ?
Read that cable there, old chap,
Secret’s all out now 1
You went to the war
To slaughter the Boer
For the sake of a blessed Chow.
When you went to the war, old man,
You thought, and so did I,
You went to fight for the English right
With the Union Jack on high.
Of course, we knew of the Cockney Jew,
But gulped that down, somehow;
And nobody thought
The fight was fought
For the sake of a pigtail Chow !
When you went to the war, my friend,
You went in a time of need,
“ With impulse grand to lend a hand
To the boys of the bull-dog breed ? ”
You fought for the Anglo-Saxon race,
You fought for the Grand Old L ind
To help in the fight
For the Empire’s right
To the rule of the Golden Rand !
And now it’s the man with the mustard skin
And the man with the almond eye
Who comes along, with a cautious grin,
To work where the white men die ;
To gather the grain that the white man reaped
With the sweat of the white man’s brow.
The war’s at an end
And the loot, my friend,
Reserved for the docile Chow !
Oh, you’re all right for a long, fierce fight,
And the chance of a dose of lead !
To sleep in the soaking rain all night
With a pack-saddle under your head !
Oh, you can live on the potted dog,
And the beef that hums with stink ;
But when there’s a show
Of reward, you know,
Clear out! —make room for the Chink !
W. T. GOODGE.


Frozen Fish
lias the same FRESH*
N ESS and DELICACY
of FLAVOR as when
newly *f
1 * 1
©
It can be sent with safety during the winter
months to almost any far distant railway
7 . .. ■■- = station in the State. — =
SMOKED FISH (our own curing) forwarded
by Parcels Post to back-country districts
Please send foe Catalogue of
the different Hinds and prices
15he N.S. Wo FresH Food (Si Ice Co. Ltd.
n ea d Office and Refrigerating Works* Harbour *t.» Sydney
.. a m > a . . _ a * a a a a . .a • a
The Cushion Frame “Massey”
makes it possible to ride fifty miles with less fatigue than is felt in riding twenty-five
° n t lhe r cushion C frame must not be confounded with spring saddle parts ; it is not a fad,
but a practical invention of the highest merit.
Massey-Harris Bicycles
fitted with cushion frames, are unquestionably the most desirable mounts you could
possibly purchase, both for safety, speed, and comfort.
We hold complete and up-to-date stocks of
High-Grade Sports Goods ...
catering for all Clubs at very moderate prices, in spite of the highest possible
quality.
Canada Cycle and Motor Co., Ltd., 357 G-eorge-st., Sydney.
open a.ll day Saturday. Branches in every State.
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY WHEN YOU
BUY A
REMINGTON
Double-Barrel . •
Hammerless Gun.
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept in stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
Remington Arms Company,
Head Office: 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
REMINGTON GUNS, £5 ios. to £is
REMINGTON RIFLES, 23/6 post free.
McLEAN BROS. & RICO, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
A NIB,
A BOTTLE OP INK,
A SHEET OP PAPER and
A PEN CARBON BOOK
makes a complete outfit with
which any
MAN,
WOMAN OR
CHILD
can write a letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy without
leaving the slightest sign of copy-
ing on the original.
22
*
It keeps a duplicate of bills you send out, of orders, receipts, bank checks. It leaves no vague
uncertain mark, but a tracing that is often clearer than the original.
From its testimony there can be no appeal. It will save any house or family much money by its
indisputable record.
There is no man or woman, professional or not, who would not at some time or other find
THE PEN CARBON LETTER BOOK
A True and Valued Friend.
For fullest particulars, price, etc., write to the sole
Agents Tor Australasia : E. RiCH & CO. LTD., Sydney Brisbane
GOOD
HAIR FOR ALL!
All Chemists
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. ' Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
"Washington H. Soul & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT
HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
SHARPSHOOTINg
fdh
lor Sport and War,
By W. W. CREENER.
HITS THE MARK!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nett.;
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W. W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Greener’s Representative).
By Special
fdh
Appointment.
6. H. SMITH and SON,
fdh
Hat and Cap Manufacturers
and Importers,
302 George -st. Sydney
Sombrero Soft Felt Hats,
All Shades and Sizes.
Soft Felt Hombergs.
Inrall Sizes and Colors.
Straw Hats. Stetson Hats.
Polo Caps, Militairy and Naval
Caps, Livbry lAvrs;Clerical Silk
Hats, Etc., Mads to, Order
TROPICAL HELMET
with special air-space
in white drill , the. ant
in all colors in felt. ,
10/6 and 12/6 4
MM
0=
0
1
ffl =
TnOR the person who is not a millionaire, thereis ONLY
-E ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY-
That is “Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace, TWS
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor — GEO. W. ELLIS.
Next
Time
you are wanting any
description of
Rubber Goods
drop a post card to us
for a sample of our
manufacture which,
we are satisfied, will
cription.
&
M
mm
s» And
on
ftggjid&t'ion.
sthe Lowest
Quality
r m * I STar ! "irA» l ?n?: c s^^ ,> *
28 Adelaide St., Brisbane ; <54 Barrack St., Perth.
give you every satis-
faction as to
Quality,
Workmanship
AND
Price.
Artistio Illustrated
Booklet upon appli-
cation.
’N.S. W. Depot-
-150 Clarence Street, Sydney,
Colliery Disasters and their Cause.
A working miner (writing on Monday) tells The
Bulletin this (name of colliery suppressed, but
the Government inspector can have it):
I and mate, with three other pairs of men, are driving
four bords towards a large area of worked-out ground,
usin°* open lights. Both the under-manager and deputy
warn us every day, on their rounds of inspection, to be
very careful about the lights when we break through,
as there is sure to he gas in the old workings. We asked
about a month ago for safety-lamps, as the gas
might reach our lights before we had time to put
them out, but we were told that the gas in this pit is very
“ slow,” and, besides, there might be no gas at all. Since
the Kembla disaster we renewed our request for safety-
lamps, and were told that there was not a spare one on
the premises. Someone then suggested that the under-
manager should give us a long drill to bore ahead and
test the air through the bore hole, but as that would cost
a small amount of extra pay per yard, it was not approved
of. However, we were told that we could use
our own drills, which bore only just four feet and
are, therefore, useless for the present purpose. So the
matter stands thus : If there is no gas—against expecta-
tations—in the old workings, or if it is slow enough to let
us blow out the lights, there will be no accident; other-
W Now, is it reasonable or is it criminal to risk a catas-
trophe—perhaps more disastrous than the recent one if
six or eight safety-lamps or the expenditure of
a few shillings in boring would insure safety l ldo
not think the under-manager or deputy is to blame,
because they seem to feel very anxious themselves.
I have no burning desire to see this statement published,
but, if you consider that it would be instrumental in
causing an investigation, or act as an effective caution
in similar cases, I would be willing to lose my job over it,
and even chance being called an informer.
Assuming the correctness of this,. there is.no need
for any Royal Commission to inquire into the
cause of N.S. W. colliery accidents in general; the
cause is as plain as a pike-staff.
Another cherished theory exploded.
Stated that the 800 men employed in Paris sewers
suffer less from sickness than the average popu-
lation ; further that they are seldom or never
attacked by zymotic diseases.
The Westralian State Labor bureau seems
to be really doing something to bring employers
and workmen together. This year, down to the
end of July, engagements had been fixed for 1106
men, of almost all trades. The bureau’s report
confirms the private news that there are not
enough jobs now to go round ; practical trades-
men especially are having a bad time “owing to
there being many arrivals from the other states.
Premier Irvine is the weakest of leaders.
During the whole Reform Bill debate he .was in
total ignorance of the state of mind of his own
following, and at one time Peacock took matters
in hand and told the nerveless Irvine that some-
thing serious might happen unless he controlled
the House a little better. Of course the Smiler
wouldn’t have given him this gratuitous informa-
tion had there been any intention to let the thing
happen until the present Govt, has properly
stewed in its “ reform and retrenchment ” fat. At
the present rate it will not.be very long before
Irvine and co. have been nicely browned. Then
A lick the Gleeful will step up and eat them, and
it is tolerably safe to say that he will be helped in
this congenial task by Mr. D. Syme, of the Age.
Harry Morant and his sorry fate, told of
in “Bushman and Buccaneer” (now in its second
edition). The history of the Breaker and his
verses and letters, including photo, reproduction
of the Petersburg gaol MS. Price one shilling.
Wholesale from Edwards, Dunlop and Co. Retail
from all booksellers and Bulletin oflfoe (post
free Is. Id.)
The Boer generals visiting England seem
to have been treated with the extreme of what
“society” would call “condescension.’ Daily
paper account :
The King received the Boer generals on board the
Viet iria and Albert. His Majesty was on deck when the
Boers arrived, and, seeing them approach, went towards
the gangway to receive them. After they were presented
his Majesty shook hands with each of the generals, and,
later, introduced them to the Queen and Princess Vic-
toria.
King Ned went to meet them —a mark, (among
people who take any count of these things) of
equality and comradeship. The King seems to
have acted like a gentleman, and the “filthy,
barbarous, treacherous, murdering, ignorant, de-
graded, superstitious ” Boers acted with a dignity
which bears out all the good opinions that the few
reasonable people in Australia last year had
formed of them. They neither grovelled nor
gushed.
When, two years ago, R. D. Meagher,
M.L.A., the solicitor who was struck off N.S.W.
Supreme Court rolls for having conspired to
defeat the course of justice in the memorable
Dean poisoning case, applied to the Court for
re-instatement, after he had been for several
years outside in the lay world, his application
was refused. Chief Justice Darley, however,
remarked that, though it was premature tor
Meagher to apply for re-admission, such
an application might be favorably con-
sidered “in a few, a very few yearn.
The ex-solicitor, who doubtless reckoned he had
impressed the Court with his formidable petitions
(signed, among others, by 113 M’s.P. and 113
attorneys) decided to re-apply after two more
years had passed, and this application was heard
the other day. But the result showed that the
Chief-Justice (now absent from the country) was
the only Judge inclined to grant him mercy ; the
other Judges were as adamant, and unanimously
refused hi 3 appeal. The moral of which is that a
man may be good enough to be a M.P. or an
alderman, and yet not be fit to be a trusted officer
of the Supreme Court —the one institution of the
land which should be emphatically without re-
proach or blemish.


V
RIS
© I do not ask yon to spend
money to teat whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’
Dance, etc. All I ask of you
is to SEND for a FREE
Bottle and to try it I abide
by the result. A safe remedy—
approved by the Medical
Profession.
H. G. ROOT, 28,EndsleIgh
Gardens, London, N.W.
SUN-PROOF'. . .
INDNSO SERIES
. . AND . .
■ni/rrnc -
% To stand Hard Wear.
"'s T*
Faocy Worsted SCiitiQgS
(Sannockburns and Homespuns).
David Braham & Co.,
TAILORS & OUTFITTERS
73 & 75 KING ST., SYDNEY
(round A.J.S. Bank corner).
SOLE AGENTS in N.S.YV. for
yERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR SHIRTS . . .
White or Colored Shirts, made to order, from 5/6
fd
hoSKOKO
HAIR
J2®r
MISS GRHOE PflLOrm
AVrftea>-Havmg tned**K.OKO for the Hair*! can honestly recommend it to
my friends as a most pleasant and delightful preparation, which has greatly
improved my hair.*
A 4/6 TRIAL BOTTLE FOR 2/-.
AUSTRALASIA
to those who have
sot ret tried
KOKO
SPECIAL OFFER in
A 1
SBS
Any Person forwarding this Coupon wit* l
Note for 2s. and Postage (postage >s ninepence) will
receive immediately for trlel, by parcel post, undercover,
prepaid, one regular l2oz. bottle of.Koko for the Hair.
the price of which is 4a. 6d. provided it is ordered within 14
days from the date of this offer. I® n 0 caßo
more than one bottle be sent for the use of the Bane person
on this Coupon, aa we make the offer sol el v for trial, knowing
that it createa a demand when once uaed ; and this large bottle
gives it a fair trial. We find it better to thus practically give
away one bottle to make a customer than to spend large amounts
m advertising. Any person into whose hands this offer
_ comes may make use of it. Address all Orders with
Coupons to the KOKO-MARICOPAS CO.. Ltd.. 12 DEAN’S PLACE. SYDNEY, N.S.W. .Orders may be sent
with this Coupon after the expiration of date, providing we are then issuing these trial Coupons, and if we are
not, the money will be returned. This Coupon will bn racaivad at 12 Daan’s Place. Sydney, 'and only 2A
will be required when postage Is not necessary.
W Dean's Place is off 270 GoOrge Streak
1/-, 2/6 & 4/6 per bottle, Chemists and Stores everywhers.
THE WORLD’S BEST.
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS’
PEERLESS GLOSS
is an oil dressing which so softens the leather that
smaller sized shoes can be worn with perfect comfort.
“ Peerless Gloss ” is the great dressing triumph of the
world, as it imparts a brilliant and permanent polish to
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
shoes that outrivals all other dressings, and yet it does not
contain anything injurious to the leather. Beware of
imitations. Demand Hauthaway’s “Peerless Gloss,” and
take no substitute. For sale nearly everywhere. Made
only by C. L. Hauthaway & Sons, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
TRADE
FOX
MARK
FOX Bros. & Co., Ltd., warn the public that their Trade Mark consists
OHfILIT OF THE WORD FOX
which is a guarantee of. soundness of material and quality of dye of all
Worsted Coatings, Serges&Tweeds
on which it is stamped.
As the result of many years of experience . .
FOX’S PURE INDIGO DYE
is recognised as the best in the market. All FOX’S Standard Cloths are
stamped every two yards on the back—
FOX
PURE INDIGO
and without this stamp are not genuine. These celebrated serges can be
obtained from the leading Tailors and Drapers throughout the Colonies.
rox BROS & Co., Ltd,, WELLINGTON,IOMERSEI, England.
Missing Friends.
G. R. LANGSLOW -
LATE OF CLUN, SHROPSHIRE, ENGLAND,
arrived in Sydney, from Vancouver, 3J years ago.
Last address, “G.P.0., Sydney.”
Mrs. Langslow, Clun, Salop, England,
would like to hear from him, her sot).
<7 on our selectionT 7 ”
By STEELE
Price 6d., Postage Bd.
RUDD.
PHOTOS
Models from Life,- Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet size photos.
ss. P.O.C. or stamps.
S. RECKNAGEL NACHF, Munich, 1 Brieffach, Germany.
LADIES—->•
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
3
Cheapest House in Australia for EDISON
Phonographs * Records
"BIJOU,” with 6 Records £\ 10 0
EDISON “ STANDARD,” with 12 Records .. 510 0
EDISON “ HOME,” with 24 Records .. .. 810 0
COMBINATION A 1 “GRAND,” taking both
Large and Small Records, with 12 Records, 6
Concert (sin.) Records and Large Horn .. 10 10 0
EDISON RECORDS, English and American,
per dozen 100
CONCERT(Sin.) RECORDS, per dozen.. .. 3 0 0
Send for Splendid New Illustrated Catalogue containing
'OOO Selections to choose from. Electric Fans, with
Battery, £5 ; Electric Bike Lamps, 21s ; Flash Lights,
icarf Pin Lights, 10s 6d ; Vapour Bath Cabinets, 20s; &c.,
Free.
Records can be posted to any address. Machines care-
fully packed and forwarded to any part of Australasia.
RBHVES & CO.,
KING WILLIAM STREET, ADELAIDE.
Publications.
N€W SON 6
WSJ®
V
m
a £44-ill:
7
1
’tasi?
"Aftm the Ball •
Price 2jmf
Allan & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Melbourne
Read the Words
If You Please, Miss, Give Me Heaven.
“ Papa, I’m so sad and lonely,”
Sobbed a tearful little child ;
“ Since dear mamma’s gone to Heaven,
Papa, darling, you’ve not smiled.
I will speak to her and tell her
That we want her to come home;
Just you listen, and I’ll call her
Through the telephone :
Chorus—
-1 If you please, Miss, give me Heaven—for my Mamma’s
there;
You can find her with the angels on the golden stair.
She’ll be glad it’s me who’s speaking—call her, won’t you,
please,
For I want to surely tell her we’re so lonely here.”
When the girl received this message,
Coming o’er the telephone,
How her heart thrilled in that moment,
And the wires seemed to moan ;
“ I will answer, just to please her :
‘ Yes, dear heart, I’ll soon come home.’ ”
“ Kiss me, Mamma, kiss your darling,
Through the telephone.”
Chorus—“ If you please, Miss,” etc.
t?
PROP., Ltd.
276-278 COLLINS=S T., MELBOURNE.
44
OLD’S
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSA
OF HOREHOUND
For Coughs and Colds.
Every Dose Effective.
Will Cure when Others Fail.
For Pain in the Side.
Best for Influenza.
In Bronchitis and Loss of Voice.
Whooping Cough and Croup.
For Children, Safe and Sure.
A Distinct Advance in Infant Feeding.
THE
s’ Foods.
flljfijs
m
■ 3
'•"TmrmstSMoMtifir j
BMH
Hanbo
urs
Mle n
The “Allenburys” Foods provide nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers
of the Infant, and constitute an altogether distinct advance on the mischievous expedient of trying
to make the child’s stomach accomodate itself to a food essentially unsuited to its digestive powers.
Farinaceous foods of all kinds are totally unfit for infants under five or six months of age, such foods
being a potent cause of digestive troubles, rickets, and many disorders arising from mal-nutrition.
The “Allenburys” Foods are especially valuable in hot
climates. They are in the form of powder and keep perfectly.
[jiKSp Pamphlet on"' INFANT FEEDING” (48 pages) free, from
495, Bourke Street, Melbourne.
ALLEN & HANBURYS, Ltd., London, Eng.
MILK FOOD No. 1.
From birth to three months.
MILK FOOD No. 2.
From three to six months.
MALTED FOOD No. 3.
From six months and upwards.
The latest New York notion is a cold-air-
servlce for every house. An invention has been
patented whieh will enable a cold-air-place to be
fitted to every room just as conveniently as a fire-
place. A tube from outside will connect with the
“ grate,” which will take-in up to 20,000 cubic ft.
of air a day at outside temperature and deliver it
inside as required, down to 18 Eahr. Cost about
equal to that of a fire with coal at 3 dol. a-ton.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
“ Burglar Bill ” writes :
Re Bulletin comments on the number of insane persons
in gaol. The Separate-cell system may have done much
in keeping prisoners from the influence of older “ hands,”
but the complete isolation of the confinee from 4 p.m. till
6.30 a.m. has (especially with boys) fostered practices
which are held to be largely conducive to the increase
of insanity in prisons.
With the now abolished separate treatment of nine
months “solitary” for all sentences of three years and
upwards, the unfortunate wretch had one hour out of his
cell in the 24 (during his non-working hours, between 3
p.m. and 8 a.m.). Next morning, he was allowed a book
(all light reading barred). Certainly, gaol is not supposed
to be a pleasure-resort, hut separate confinement without
interesting reading-matter furnishes a fine forcing-ground
for lunacy.
And the ordinary gaol doctor ! Well, I have seen him
get through 16 patients in 2Jmins.! He generally prides
himself on his smartness in not letting a prisoner “ bluff”
him, and doesn’t take much pains to discriminate between
the “ malingerer ” and the really sick man.
“ R. 8.” : Stated recently that the Jews
are the healthiest of people. In the face of the
facts of their in-breeding and rarely doing any
other work than office-scheming, I doubted this
much, and now I find that, of all people, the
Hebrew is the most subject to nervous and mental
maladies, which, Dr. Kroeplin states, are directly
traceable to consanguineous marriages. “Out of
100 cases of paralysis, there are 20 among Jews.”
Another specialist found that Hebrews furnished
25 per cent, of the paralytic cases in his experi-
ence. Of 1219 cases of mental aberration examined
at the psychiatric clinic at Vienna, 134 were
among Jews—lo’9 per cent. Yet, although alco-
holic madness forms the largest proportion of the
general total, not one Jewish instance.is known.
The psychosis of the Jew is the type known as
hereao-degenerative. Pilez, the great psycholo-
gist, of Austria, says that the Jews’s tendency to
mental trouble is aggravated by his keenness in
the struggle for money,
T. W. Chambers writes Irom Milparinka:
I take exception to the allusion made to the proposed
Cobar-Wilcannia railway in your issue of 26th ult., on the
ground that the comment is not fair. Firstly, you deal
with 120 miles of the proposed line instead of 160, cutting
off its connection with Cobar altogether. It would be
just as reasonable to speak of the paying nature of the
line from Bathurst to Sydney by stopping short at Pen-
rith. Secondly, you omit to say that when the line is
brought to Wilcannia it will be within 60 miles of
the prosperous settlement of White Cliffs, a mining
township with from 2000 to 3000 inhabitants, and
that the intention is to carry the line on to
this and other mining centres and the unexplored mineral
country lying west of Darling River up as far as Mt.
Browne. Furthermore, the Bill proposes to take power
to levy a special rate on the pastoral country through
which the railway will pass corresponding with the
advantage accruing to the pastoralists by its construc-
tion. My experience of the Darling country dates back
to the year ’65, and I admit that the expenditure of £4OOO
per mile on the proposed line is not justified—light lines
of railway are all that will be needed for the next 50
years in this Darling country, and with such an
outlay as would be required for a light line
interest and working expenses will be assured from
the start. In years to come, when the water flowing
down the Darling (spasmodic though it may be) is utilised
as it should be, the production of this western country
will be largely increased ; meanwhile the line is urgently
required to assist struggling settlers in both the pastoral
and mining industries, and it is to be hoped that the
present Government will reign long enough to carry out
their Public Works policy in regard to the Western Divi-
sion of this State, despite all the adverse criticism that
is being showered upon them.
As regards the above: (1) The fact that Cobar is
at the eastern end of the proposed line doesn’t
show that it will pay, unless Cobar is going to
send traffic into the howling wilderness. A line
from Cobar to the wilderness, or from Melbourne
to Sahara, or from Sydney to Gehenna, won’t
necessarily pay . owing to the fact that a town
is at one end of it. The Goulburn-Cooma line
doesn’t pay, though it has a city at one end.
(2) The prospects of a line must be judged to some
extent by the country it will pass through. (3)
The Bill says nothing about any extension to
White Cliffs, or Mount Browne, or even Sheol.
But if the line is going out into the region of
diminishing population and one inhabitant to
five square miles, then so much the worse.
(4) A special rate may be levied on the pastoral-
ists ; there is no difficulty about levying anything
—on paper. But there is a very poor show of col-
lecting any of the money levied. (5) The work
should only be built out of revenue. It has hardly
a ghost of a chance of paying, but it is an act
of charity, just like old age pensions. Charity
shouldn’t come out of loans.


Our ELECTRIC “ INVICORfITOR.”
fl Special Offer.
We are SPECIALISTS in all DISEASES of the SEXES from WHAT-
EVER CAUSE ARISING. We understand thoroughly the applica-
tion of ELECTRICITY as a remedial factor in the re-building of
debilitated and weakened constitutions. Our Electric “ LNVIGORATORS ” are certificated as “ MEDICALLY PERFECT ”by leading Sydney electricians.
the Specialists who m
Our “ IHYICORATORS ” have for years passed the Customs as GENUINE ELECTRIC APPLIANCES,
They are manufactured similar to those used by THREE IMPERIAL PHYSICIANS to the LATE QUEEN.
it-M :
- v-* . ■ .* * • . - /
' View "of HYDE .PARK 'from our Corner'
XD OTr
vV
. A^SiSfe
***&£&*■ is
eonlyMEDlCAl INSTITUTE
'"in AUSTRALIA wth a bona,fide capital
that stands behind guarantee as evidence
faithful'performance of all contracts.-
CHARGES MODERN
£»rcr esT
T; / A- 3 ® ■
: v
privacy always.
'ARO
The Founder of the Institute,
HEALTH THt
y/?j
r-.-N Special Notice
FT:'NO one should hesitate to-eonsyttus
Corisultatiohs ei then fcy. letter or person are v
always given FREE jJF CHARGE
MS*
„. , S’V'Cfl F! . ;r, n
3 .N!EDI cAL °
AND SURGICAL INSTITUTE VK IF ; -: U f
. -njoawt.Ot;a«st<J he
-1. j. 'J;
C©
tyfyort
i ! TPS The well known Corner opposite Hyde * 13 1
SS^fcfc.Bafhur§fsWeet£
ira®?
'* nk 32-gf kaiSQt
- - ry
c °ncf (
Uc feo
Electric Baih under Legal Medical Supervision.
Testimonial from Sir Dominic Qjrrican;
Fbxsiciap to ourljate |)UEEpi
| entertain* Very high opinion of _ ,
Was Lace both personally and in respeet of,
his professional attainments. ‘
by Medical Boards of r
f j New SoufcWaies. Victoria, South Auslralib
J
Corner in the Typewriters’ Department 7We have been com-
'DISTINGUISHED
above all others are the SPECIALISTS of
THE FREEMAN AND WALLACE INSTI-
TUTE, *a leading Pathologists and Exports in the
'cure of grave Organic and Functional Nerve Dis-
order*. We daily receive testimonies from the highest
‘’persona in the land proving our system of ELECTRICITY and
*iIEDICIJtfE is certain of ottre whore the system lacks nerve for
■and a man is weak and strengthless. This system gives new
•life and health. Mr. JOSEPH MEGSON, Champion
Cyclist, says: "YOUR TREATMENT AND ELEC-
TRIC "INVIGORATOR” SAVED ME FROM'
CONSTITUTIONAL BREAK We
Can do lor anyone what we havi
done for thia man.
Specialities:
Heart, Kidney, Liver Affections.
'Gravel, Bladder and Spinal Disease*
Nerve and Brain Complications.
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout.
Rupture and Piles Cured without Operatioa.
Blood and Skin Diseases.
Epilepsy, Paralysis, Consumption;
Diabetes, Dropsy, Neurasthenia,
and all Serious Disorders of
Men from WHATEVER
CAUSE ARISING.
Prioes of Eleotrlo “ INYIGORATORS ” used in our Medical Treatment: Solid Gold (containing 2oz, 18ot. Gold), £10; Solid Silver, £3; Bilver-plate, £1 10s. j Copper-plate, £1 (specially recommended).
Our £1 ELECTRIC
INVIGORATOR” is EQUAL to BELTS SOLD ELSEWHERE at £lO.
rpu„ : T ,fl 11 p T 1 (,„ nnnn HiiTAofion of the ELECTRO-MEDICAL treatment is rapid and effective. It is followed by improved digestion, good sleep, re-strengthened nerve power. The patient
receives Lw vS and Sowfr and finds no physical effort which he cannot conquer. Write to the SPECIALISTS for SPECIAL TESTIMONIES TO THIS EFFECT. We give private tests
to anyone who cares to Sll? These Sruments are ABSOLUTELY THE BEST USED IN AUSTRALIAN MEDICAL PRACTICE.


presents that mill please
’OU cannot possibly be disappointed by visit-
ing us, so come here whether you have
a definite idea of what you want or not.
We offer you the biggest variety and the most
reasonable prices it is possible to offer.
If you have not seen our new Catalogue,
ask us for one. If you live out of town
send us your name and address on a post-
card and you will get one by return mail.
Ko. F 4703
Silver-piated
and Pearl
No. F3462.—Fine Leather, and Silver-
Mounted Pocket Book, 10s 6d.
No. F3939.—Gent.’s Silver Hair
Brush, 21s.
No. 374 A.—6 Silver-plated Tea Spoons
and Tongs, 10s 6d.
No. 363.—A1 Silver-plated Sugar Tongs,
3s 6d.
w
No. 253. —Solid Silver Match Box, 10s 6d.
Silver
Glove
Buttoner,
Is 6d.
hfd
472 GEORGE ST SYDNEY .
t3&3555S
No. 20.—Gent.’3 Opal
Ring, 18et. gold,
£4 103.
No. EBO3l. —Tasteful 9ct. Gold Bangle, £ll7s. 6d.
No. B4B9o.—Dia-
mond Ruby and
18ct. Gold Ring,
£3 103.
No. M.—lsct. Gold and Opal Fly Brooch, £llss.
No. 120.—IBet. Gold, Diamond and Ruby
Brooch, £2 7s 6d.
No 121A.—15ct. Gold Anchor Brooch,
£ll2s 6d.
% }o. E 6251. —Oct. Gold Bird and Heart
Brooch, 12s 6d.
16ct. Gold Heavy Band Bracelet, £4 4s. Smaller, £3.
No. E 6659. —9ct. Gold Engraved Bracelet, £ll7s 6<L
No. 193.—Links, Oct.
Gold, 15s 6d. 15c.
Gold, £llos. Silver,
4s 6d.
No. 197.—Links, 9ct. Gold,
£1 ss. 15ct. Gold, £2 ss.
Silver, 6s 6d.
No. E7707.—9ct. Gold,
Pearl and Turquoise
Lace Brooch, £1 Is.
Fine Diamond Marquise
Ring, £4O.
0
c
No. 241.
Diamond-set
Scarf Pm,
£3 17s 6d.
Na 240.
15ct. Gold
and Pearl
Pin, £1 ss.
No. F6l2B.—Silver-plated Toast
Hack, 12s 6d.
No. F 3562. —Silver Cabinet Photo.
Frame, 16s 6d.
No. E 6444. Engraved
A 1 Silver-plated Napkin
Bing, 6s 6d.
No. EB499.—Purse and Card Case,
4 Silver Corners and Lock, £1 Is*
No. 359.—Silver-plated Breakfast
Cruet, 13s 6d.
No. E7o72.—Silver
and Ivory Rattle,
13s 6d.
Fine Opal and 15ct.
Gold Heart, £6 5a
Smaller, 75a.
Silver-plated
Spectacle
Case, 14s 6d.
An interesting extract from an official report re
the great line of pipes which is to carry water to
the Coolgardie goldfields. The report covers a
stretch of 14 miles
Miles.
117— Three leaks.
117i —One leak.
117| —Signs of water.
118— Earth fallen in two placet
1181 —Two small leaks.
118| —Two small leaks.
118 70 chains—Two small leaks.
118 75 chains—One small leak.
118f—Earth sinking six places; signs of water seven
chains further on.
119— Earth sunk at joints.
1191—Earth sunk at joints in three places.
1191 —One leak.
1191 —One leak. , , ~ ~
110f —Earth sunk seven places; two chains further, eartn
sunk one place.
120— One leak ; four more at joint-locks.
1201 —Water squirting 21ft. thick.
1211—Leak in cement culvert.
12lf —Water about; chain further, earth sunken.
122 Ditto.
1221—Water lying about.
122i—Ditto.
123 Ground sunk ; water about.
1231—One leak: further on small leak.
1231—Ground sunk badly ; water about.
1241—Ditto.
124|— Appearance of leak ; further on a leak,'
125—Signs of leaks ; further on joint leaking at culvert;
further on leak and sign of water.
126 J—A leak ; further on small leak.
128 — Bad leak: water in hole and still running.
129 Appearance of leak ; water lying about.
131—Ditto.
Mr. Isaacs, M.H.R., brought up in the
Reps., the other day, the question whether Lord
Tennyson was properly sworn in as Actmg-
Governor-General. Attorney-General Deakin re-
plied that Mr. Chamberlain had sent the neces-
sary instructions by cable. The history of the
affair is that Mr. Crouch asked about the matter
in the House in June last. In consequence Mr.
Deakin cabled Mr. Barton, who saw Mr. Cham-
berlain, who got the King to sign a warrant to
appoint a Victorian Judge to act instead, of the
Federal Justice (not yet appointed) required by
the original Governor-General’s instructions.
What would have happened if Crouch had not
called attention to the matter ?
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Agents for N. S. Wales.: Sayers,
Allpart and Potter, Sydney. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
There is a project afoot for bringing meat
from the Northern Territory down to Adelaide,
where the butchers have “ ringed ” mutton chops
up to 7d. a pound and beef-steaks to nearly a
shilling. Why is Australian meat so much cheaper
in England than it is in the Commonwealth ?
SHAKESPEARIAN THERAPEUTICS.-If
anything can “ minister unto a mind diseased it
is assuredly Hunyadi Janos, which will “cleanse
the stuff’d bosom of the perilous stuff which weighs
upon the heart,” It is an arsenal of therapeutics,
being speedy, sure, and gentle.*
It is said that the King wished for a
Regency to be appointed at once if his own illness
was found to cause any delay in State business;
but the Prince of Wales showed deep reluctance
to assume the office. The Mighty Atom does not
value himself at the high figure of the grovellers
who surround him.
The Bendigo spinster, a domestic servant,
whose baby was found wailing in a paddock 24
hours after she had dumped it down to take its
chance of death or rescue, seems to have struck
Judge A’Beckett in one of his softest moods. In
excuse for her heartless abandonment of the un-
welcome little stranger the girl pleaded that she
herself had been heartlessly treated by the child s
father. His Honor, after sternly remarking that
the sins of the father didn’t affect a baby s
claim to natural affection from its mother, sen-
tenced prisoner to 12 months “ hard. He might
as well have raised the question whether the bad
young man didn’t temper his iniquity with pre-
science when he bolted from his victim.
Surely there is no marriage made in Heaven for the
sort of girl who plants her month-old babe in a
lonely paddock on a winter day, and then journeys
away, cursing “ the villain who deserted her.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR. .
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
hfd
RAMEY'S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment of Catarrh, Hay Fever,
Bronchitis, Influenza, Catarrhal
Deafness, etc.
Medicator, with complete treat-
ment, only 101-, post free.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY
229,231 COLLINS ST„ MELBOURNE.
CAPILLA
HAIR
TONIC
The Hair Benewer of the Age.
2/6 per bottle.
All Chemists.
W. RICHARDS, Proprietor,
164 Pitt Street, Sydney.
OFFERS WANTED for a Complete File of The Btoletin
from 1883 to October, 1899. Apply, W. D. PONDER,
Advertising Agent, Adelaide.
.. TIVOLI MUSIC and
NO. 10 SONG ALBUM
JUST OUT.
Every Song Up to Date.
PRICE, Is.
jjgr Obtainable Everywhere.
Amusements.
m meatrE ROYAL, SYDNEY,
T Lessee Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Under the Direction of .. Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative .. .. Mr. Allan Hamilton.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS of
MR. and MRS. BROUCH in AUSTRALIA
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), AUG. 21, Farewell Perform-
ance of THE SECOND MRS. TANQUERAY. FRIDAY &
SATURDAY, AUG. 22 & 23, WHEN WE WERE TWENTY-
ONE MONDAY & TUESDAY, AUG. 25 & 26, SOWING
the'WIND. WED., AUG. 27 (Matinee & Night), NIOBE.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Nicholson a.
Lyceum theatre, sydne y.
Lessee Mr. Wm. Anderson.
Sub Lessee .. Bland Holt.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING BLAND HOLT’S
Latest Melodramatic Spectacle,
WITH FLYING COLORS.
BRIGHT 1 BRISK 1 BREEZY !
POPULAR PRICES—3s„ 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’3.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
RITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
SOLE LESSEE
Manager
JOHN F. SHERIDAN.
Frank Weathersby.
THE SHERIDAN SEASON.
THIRD WEEK and CONTINUED SUCCESS
THE LADY SLAVEY.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY at 2.30,
§0- SPECIAL MATINEE, SATURDAY, AUGUST 23.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is. 6d., and Is. Box Plan at
Nicholson’s. Day Sale, Early Doors Only (6d. Extra to
All Parts), at White Rose Confectionery, corner of Royal
Arcade and Pitt Streets ; also Box Plan after 5 o clock
week days and 1 o’clock Saturdays.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Tipsseeg . Messrs. LEE and RIAL.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
SECOND WEEK of the WILLIAMSON
MUSICAL COMEDY COMPANY
in the Charming Comic Opera,
SAN TOY.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Nicholson and Co.
MISS EVA MYLOTT’S
FAREWELL CONCERT,
Town Hall, Sydney,
Wednesday, August 27»
PRICES—Bs., 25., la. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
amusements.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Great Society Actors, MR. & MRB. SYDNEY DREW,
in their one-act comedy, When Two Hearts are One.
L’incomparable PAUL CINQUEVALLI.
Splendid Reception of Miss FLORRIE GALLIMORE.
MARK ANTHONY, TOM WOOTTWELL, EMILY
LYNDALE, OHAS. W. WALKER, IDA MAY, THE
DIAMOND DUO, WILLIAMS QUARTETTE, MISS
LULU ZESCH, &c., &c.
Prices as Usual. Matinees Wednesday and Saturday.
Rickards’ new opera house,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RIOKARDS.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30 p.m.
Madame LYDIA YEAMANS-TITUS.
Mr. FREDERICK J. TITUS.
7 THE FLORENZS 7
THE HARVEY BOYS. ADA “ELROY.
Professor FRED. HARCOURT. RAY JONES.
SAM HOLDSWORTH.
Prices —2s. 6d., 25., Is., and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee Mr. Bland Holt.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
Bus. Manager, James Hendy. Treas., Julius Grant.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION, headed bv Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN.
FRIDAY, AUGUST 22, LAST NIGHT of
THE WORST WOMAN IN LONDON.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 23, THE LADDER OF LIFE, or
GORDONS TO THE FRONT.
The Greatest Dramatic Success ever produced in Melb.
p r ; ces — 3 a> 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Director, Mr. George Musgrove.
Manager .. .. Mr. T. P. Hudson
EVERY EVENING, Australia’s Greatest High-Class
Comedy Artiste,
MISS NELLIE STEWART,
in
SWEET NELL OF OLD DRURY,
Assisted by Geo. Musgrove’s New English Dramatic Co.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allans.
Wednesday Matinees.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tait.
EVERY EVENING. The First Time in Melbourne,
ROBIN HOOP,
An Opera of Magnificent Choruses, -Delightful old English
Melodies, Greenwood Romance & Picturesque Comedy.
Prices as Usual.
Box Plan at Allan's.
ATHEN/EUM HALL, COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE,
SHOW WEEK. SHOW WEEK.
September 3rd, 4th, sth, 6th .
NjIcADOO’S Original
FISK JUBILEE SINGERS
FISK JUBILEE SINGERS
FISK JUBILEE SINGERS
RECOGNISED AS BETTER THAN EVER.
POPULAR PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
, r. H. COLLINS, Manager.


ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
ISF” Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
EVERY MAN IS
More or less interested in the curative powers of
MEDICAL GALVANISM and the proper method of
applying' this wonderful agent. Before purchasing
Electric Belts' or Batteries send for our valuable FREE
BOOK entitled “THE MODERN TREATMENT OF
DISEASE BY ELECTRICITY.” It will tell you what
you ought to know, and may save you time, money
and disappointment. Address—
ARTHUR HALE & SON,
44 Castlcreagh Street, Sydney.
Too Stout
I was for yearsby chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st.- to.lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending 1 stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
O® RX CORJO’s
£ SSEH GE °y F £•
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope
Agents for Australasia —PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St,
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
F. H. Fauldlng- & Co., 16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
CEB
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
fX es ' Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address— A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
DEAF
'W
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
f hloropyne
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS
DIARRHCEA, & c -» bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—.
Dr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
"If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlobodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.”
FINSEN’S——
NAEMATIN - ALBUMIN
TABLETS
A Certain Cure for POVERTY OF BLOOD.
AN/EMIA and WEAKNESS, from whatever cause
arising. The latest wonderful discovery by the great
Danish Scientist,
PROFESSOR NIELS. R. FINSEN.
GIVE THEM A TRIAL !
Obtainable from- S. HARRIS, Chemist, 82 King-st •
WASIHNGTON H SOUL, Pitt-st. ; PATTINSON & CO.,’
Ltd., and all their Branches ; and all leading Chemists, at
3s. 6d. per box.
PHOTO
From Life, for Lovers of Art, Beauty, and Chic ;
Carefully Selected Assortments, Cabinets, or
Stereos, with Illustrated Catalogues and Minia-
tures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s. Money Order or Cheque
on London.
English, French, and German Rare Books
Explain wishes and requirements, and full satisfaction
Will be obtained.
R. gennert,
89c Faubourg St., Martin, Paris, France.
London Bankers:
L. and SOUTH WESTERN BANK LTD., Head Office.
WOOL PRODUCE. CRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
ACT AS SELLING BROKERS OM2L.Y.
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (f) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
'(lncluding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
will be ... ... ... 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb ..; • 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
under ... ... ... Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing 1 . Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT.
Every inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by the Company
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months, free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent when
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
AGENTS POE, McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
J. BARTRAM & SON,
34 & 36 Market Street, Sydney
(Corner of
Clarence Street)
10, 21, 23 King Street, Melbourne.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES . .
The ENGLISH DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
Makers of Steam Turbines, Turbine Dynamos, Turbine Pumps, Turbine Fans.
(Over 80,000 Horse-power in use.)
Messrs. GREENWOOD & BATLEY LTD., Albion Works, Leeds.
Machine Tool Manufacturers and Electrical Engineers, Dynamos, Motors, Pumps, etc.
Messrs. CONNOLLY BROS. LTD,, Manchester.
Cables, Wires, Tapes, eto.
h
81
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
And consult Old Surgeon Langston, who will Cure
you. Forty years’ practice as a Specialist is sufficient
Guarantee of the doctor’s ability.
AVOID unskilled pretenders, flaming advertisements and specious
cure-alls.
Vigor and Strength for all who
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, located in Melbourne
since 1886, has so perfected his method of treatment that it can
almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable cases.
Be the equal of your •fellow man.
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
See It tb.e Truth, it; costa KTotliing!
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, cor. Russell & Collins Sts,, Melbourne.
fdh
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
£u?ri h ? ° ccur *° the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
t 0 ’ nnu .™ erable interesting subjects concerning mar-
wnnfen w h h I?,akes^ lt \ su P erlor guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
ln new 1902 edition just arrived.
. ATI SFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged
edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE P 1
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; is 6d post
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d. P
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards Hina
Is; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted'
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk Is 9d
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is ’ "
The Art of Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.) Is 3d nost
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is Sd posted. Clog Dancing Tutor Is
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camille Is 3d
Secret History of the Court of England, 1/6 post free’
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted’
Lovers Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history) Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle's Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.’
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Ghevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest sones
„ ,3 s „ P°sfc free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d. ’
Cx. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. Sappho Is'
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted. ’ '
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
NT ’ 2sod. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted. ’
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 paves
r . , 1600 l! ’ l , IS - Leather hound, my price, 15s post paid’
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted. *
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200Ol D . TimbSongs ( wor( j s and music complete), Is 6d
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, os 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big: Book
Catalogue—post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
fdh
OWEN’S DANCING POWDER
For Ballroom Floors.
No Preparation Required.
Sprinkle it on the Floor.
The Dancers do the Rest
Sample Packet sent
receipt of 3 stamps.
2s> 6d. Packet covers
600 feet.
H. OWEN, 436 Collins-St., Melbourne.
BLAIR’S
GOUT S RHEUMATIC
The Great English Remedy for
COUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBACO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. ljd. and 2s. > 9d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
Don’t shout”
fd
" I hear you. t can hear now
as well as anybody.
*■* How ?• Oh. some-
thing new— The Wilson.
Common-sense Ear-'.
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now. you can't see them
they're invisible. 1: wouldn't
know I had them in myself,
only that I hear all right.”
\The Wilson Ear-Drum Is
really a substitute for the
forking parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire. Invisible, easy tb ad
just, comfortable. Totally
different from any other de-
hfd
| vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request 1
|.P. CMALWtBS. 239-231 Collins SI., MelP.j
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
w
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English
American and made to order
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief andcure of deformities, &o.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, <b c.
DEIMYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Maken
281 CEORCE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
hfd
Vapor Bath Cabinets.
Price, 25/-
Head and Face Steamer, 3/6
Carriage paid to any railway station
on direct route in Victoria, N.S.W.,
and S.A., or any seaport town.
We also have a better quality
Cabinet at 45/- (Head and Face
Steamer/ree to advertise this line).
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Mtism
*9
Reader, why not he able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with*
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feats
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain ; win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I'have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For a short
time I will send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is acl auce of
a life-time. Address—
i
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
For Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
ORIMAULT & Co., Paris. Sold by all Chemists.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poinodrstke & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold is two sizes, 9d, <fc Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poisodestice <fe Tuumas,
71 Old Kent Road, Loudon, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.


There is already in operation a Bush veldt
Carbineers’ curse. The man who really originated
the corps has, it is reported from S’Africa, lost his
reason and been put under restraint.
Curious medical item from Maoriland in
the dailies: —
While a young lady was recently taking a hot-air bath
at Hanmer Springs, the gas ignited, and every bit
of skin was burned off her body. The sum of £350 now
appears on the estimates as compensation.
Seeing that the loss of less than half the skin sur-
face (to say nothing of any shock) will kill the
average human being, this lady, who seems to be
alive and collecting skin-compensation, is indeed a
marvel.
Italy has just struck the suspicious fact
that it is still paying pensions to 18,421 alleged
survivors of the campaign of 1848. That was 54
years ago, and the Italian Govt, begins to feel that
it is being taken in.
Mr. Barling, of N.S.W. Public Service
Board, will have well repaid the cost of his trip
to England if he succeeds, as he is at present
sanguine of doing, in placing N.S.W. hardwoods
on London market for street-paving. The im-
mense quantity of paving-woods used in England
opens an illimitable field. Barling, Works
O’Sullivan, and Agent-General Copeland are the
trio on the job.
ROB ROY pens
Hinks, Wells & Co. beg to draw attention to this new series of
turned np pointed and other pens, made of the same material, by the
same tools by the same process and at the sapaeworks, as t
known series of Waverley Pens, which Hinks, Wells & Go. nave ior
30 years and upwards (prior to September 1001), manufactured or
and supplied to the proprietors thereof.
hfd
h
fdh
fdh
fd
6d., Is. & gross boxes.
Sold by all
Stationers in 18
varieties in
WELLS & CO., Birmingham,
England.
HINKS
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK; Price, 4s. 6d
(rachitis Core.
Ii3ECB1 i 3ECB
FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OP ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain o
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure It is most com
flirting in allaying irrihjn in the ttrott and giving strength to the voice, and it neithertallowy <*ngh or'Asthma .to d»lf&oeSS^S^
never been known to exist where Oouglis
and a Complete Cure is certain.
have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT lIE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
"Orange, N.S.W.
“Mr. Ilearne.—
"Dear Sir,—l enclose for yotir own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
B f London, England, from which you will glean that
(•our medicine has been a perfect God-scnd to a martyr to
folds and bronchial asthma. I do not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
nnd. You can see for yourself v. hat an immense success
It. was.—Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above
"You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
irrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
imch interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
iff the empty bottle to'find out if he could get a full one
(j-om a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
tupplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS* TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
‘‘Dergholm, Victoria.
•< Dear Sir, —I wish to add my testimony to the won-
lerful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
nonths, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
idvice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’without avail. I tried
rours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
Irst dose, and though X have had but two bottles I feel I
,m a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
nay depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
roiiderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
" Yours faithfully,
" JAMES ASTBURY."
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
learne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
ectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
indoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
be .Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
ifty-riine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
"I tiscrt your Bronchitis Care for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
Ihe medicine yet; but lam sending- for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M'DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.”’
“Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
•
.*< My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
©
“ I have used one bottle of j T our Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
®
“I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine. —JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
®
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
®
“ My cold, had as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
®
“ J lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous. —F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
®
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
©
"Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
©
“I am very pleased with vour Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” 9
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle. —W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
•
“ I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.—S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” 0
“ i suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial.—JOHN C.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
“Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well,— H. HOOD,
Brooklands, A'voca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
•
« Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This : medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, OzQne House, Lome, Victoria. ’
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
•
“ The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
‘•The Scientific Australian Office,
“169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
••Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequentl,
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Vietorii
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work
ing for and singing the praises of Ilearne’s Bronchiti
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ao
countant, Collins-street, and the effect that it had was si
marked that he has ever since been continually recom
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value o
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has easet
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people evei
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO."
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Please send us 3t
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose oui
cheque to cover amount of order.
“We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a chib
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quiti
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
‘ THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemisti.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPEH
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir, —Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“ I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUAItRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertiser.'’
"Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562,
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
The SMELTING & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
1901, Limited..
SMELTERS
AND
REFINERS
SILVER
BULLION
Works: IQA-IF-TO, Lalce Illawarra (56 MILES FROM SYDNEY)
~~7,~
ti Wmi ;; l-v ; <
mm
MAKERS OP
S. Go. of Australia
AND
‘ ILL AW ARRA”
BRANDS OF
SOFT LEAD.
Assay Offices, General Offices, Store and Sulphuric Chamber.
Highest Price paid for GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CIANIDE SLAGS, and JEWELLERS’ SWEEP, &c
For all information regarding Rates, apply to HEAD OFFICE, DAPTO.
' Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay.
W. L. HOYT, Manager.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical. JRecord.
Bengasi Food’
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
Far Infants, Invalids, and the Aged. Delicious, Nutritive, and Digestible.
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c,, Everywhere-
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
t > find. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘ Benger’s
Food’ everywhere.”
“If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


| Pleasant and Refreshing to the Taste
\ and
Truly Beneficial in Effect.
,**"**>•.
m
t'Z.
is above all things a natural remedy; that is> it assists nature to
perform the functions essential to health in an absolutely natural
way, without any injurious or weakening effects. Its perfect
freedom from every objectionable quality and substance makes
it the ideal laxative. California Syrup of Figs,
NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE,
acts gently and painlessly upon the Liver, Stomach and Kidneys,
thoroughly cleansing the system, promoting healthful regularity,
and leaving the organs permanently strengthened. It is the best
and most pleasant remedy for Constipation, Sluggish Liver,
Biliousness, Indigestion, Depression, Feverishness, Loss
of Appetite, Headache, and all kindred complaints, speedily
restoring health, appetite, energy and good spirits.
Ask for CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS, and look for the
Name and Trade Mark of the
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP COMPANY,
31 & 32 SHOW HILL, LONDON, ENGLAND.
Australian Branch —7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
Of all leading Chemists,
■
■
n
■— BliMillß
mmwm<
H
m
■
MBH
IHH
H
B
■
■■
H
■
It
■
m
A Nepean Idyll.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In his mouth was a short pipe. He was sitting
before an easel beyond the bridge where pine and
willow cast dark green shadows over hummock
and river. A ruffled coote clung to the shade of
a large wet stone almost opposite him. Lower
down a brindled bull moaned in the hot stillness,
the wet reeds brushing his red flanks, his surly
head bruised against the bank.
The artist made sudden strokes with the brush ;
his brow creased as his eye drank in the Dantesque
shadow of the bull.
A fence creaked, wires twanged, a small na,ked
boy flashed suddenly into the near perspective;
the coote vanished, and the artist looked up
sharply. “ Hullo, sonny ! ” softening at the sight
of pure flesh —“ having a wash?”
The naked boy appeared too suspicious of the
artist to answer immediately. He splashed towards
a snag in mid-stream, thrashing the water hand
and foot. The artist painted on, and secretly
thanked the gods for the sending of the naked
cherub. “Wonder if he will stay there for a
while?” he muttered, “just as he is. All the
posing in the world wouldn’t give him such an air
of unconscious impudence. . . . Walks right into
my picture unasked, unbidden, and yet there are
men who say the gods are dead.”
After a while the artist discovered that the
boy’s persistent splashing disturbed the river sur-
face until the long shadows quaked and dripped.
For a moment his eye gloated on the live, warm
flesh silhouetted against the willow-fringe. But
. . . the imp’s feet were tearing the shadows to
smithereens.
“I wish,” he began, blandly, “you wouldn’t
smack the water for a while, sonny, I’m—l’m
doing something with it.”
“It’s our crik.” The cherub leaned back
sulkily. “An’ if mother kitches yer drorin’ it
she’ll shot rocks at yer.” And, to the artist’s
grief the cherub slipped from the snag and stood
waist deep in the stream.
“Surely,” smiled the artist, “you will allow
me to take the shadows back to town ? ”
“Yer better not.” The cherub frowned.
“ Mother ’ll rock yer if she kitches yer takin’ our
shadders. We ain’t goin’ ter buy criks an’
shadders fer yer to dror. See ! ”
There was a long silence in which the artist
painted with great rapidity. In the sun-spaces
of the dark bush beyond he saw three magpies
fluttering towards a lean, drab fence.
A cloud drew across the sun like a ragged
shawl; the river turned leaden-gray ; a thin trail
of wild duck streaked from where the cranes were
standing in the river. A black and white heifer
passed near, and the artist heard the grass being
torn in rich mouthfuls from the earth.
The bull nosed the bank and moaned, “That’s
our bull.” The cherub grinned at the artist,
“He’s a terror. Git aout, Bill!” He hit the
beast’s flank with a stone. “ Git aout, Bill! ”
Bill, the bull, swished from the cool reeds and
trotted sullenly into the dark scrub.
The cherub thrashed his way into midstream
and eyed the canvas with a degree of contempt
that soon passed into the freezing stage. “Are
yer paintin’ me?” he demanded. “You wait
till I git me clothes on. I’ll git mother ter rock
yer.” Another incautious step took him into a
hole, and it was evident he could not swim.
Turning from his canvas, the artist saw the
cherub battling for life in the deep water. Then
he remembered that he himself was unable to
swim. “Boy,” he said, hoarsely,' “is this an
infernal joke ? ” But the boy began to drown
with such dreadful earnestness that the artist was
seized with a shaking of the limbs. He already
saw himself carrying the small body to the door of
the slab hut at the end of the paddock : he saw
the cherub’s mother gaping in agony at her dead-
son.
The boy continued to drown.
The artist turned in frantic haste towards the
paddpck. ‘ ‘ Help ! help !” he shouted.
A gaunt man with a dusty slouched hat was
crossing the footbridge lower down ; his hands
in his pockets jingled the two-and-six he’d
probably received for the last load of hay. The
artist seized him almost fiercely. “For God’s
sake, man, can you swim ? ”
“Swim!” shouted the man; “I’ll swim any
bloke on the river fer a hundred quid,
down now ! ” His voice had a far-away sound, as
though his dense beard muffled it.
“There’s a boy drowning,” gasped the artist,
“up there under the willows. I’ll give you five
shillings if you’ll bring him out.”
The man with the dusty beard ran to the bank
flinging his coat to the earth. “ Make it ten bob,
mister,” he said earnestly, “and I’ll fetch him
out.”
The boy continued to drown.
“ Hurry, for heaven’s sake ! ’’shouted the artist.
“Five shillings is all the cash I have at present.”
“Ten bob,” said the man, stubbornly, “will
only buy me a new pair of pants. Make it ten
bob.”
The boy curled over in the water ; his head sank
into the reeds. The artist tore his watch from
bis pocket and thrust it into the man’s hand.
“Fetch the boy put, for God’s sake ! T a ke every-
thing I have.”
The man with the whiskers in his voice placed
the watch in a secure spot, then dashed into the
water and brought the cherub to the bank. Then
he took the watch from its nook, bit the case to
see if it was real silver, and began pumping water
from the boy. “This kid,” he said, turning to
the artist, “gits drowned about every fortnight.
He’s a terror for gittin’ drowned.”
- The boy opened his eyes suddenly and looked
into the man’s face. “Hullo, father!” he said.
ALBERT DORRINGTON.
A Cock-fight at Scanlan’s.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Scanlan was a man of importance—something
between a cockie and a squatter. He owned
Wonbadgery, where cock-fighting was a favorite
Sunday indulgence. Scanlan’s champion was an
old bird he called Draggletail. The name fitted ;
it seldom had more than one shabby feather
waving at the back of it.
The heir to the dungheap was a beautiful
young bird. His name was Bill. Scanlan took
much pains to teach him the way a rooster should
go ; but Draggletail had kicked so much terror
into him that he rarely had company except when
he found a hen away out by herself somewhere.
He always took the precaution to look carefully
around before stooping to pick up a grain of corn ;
and, when he occasionally mustered courage to
crow, he would stop in the middle of it, to ascer-
tain if Draggletail creeping, up behind
him. He was the last to roost at night, and the
first off in the morning ; even then the most
horrible squawks would come from him in his
sleep, and sometimes he would start running and
nearly brain himself against a tree before he woke-
up. He was dreaming of Draggletail.
Scanlan was much troubled on Bill’s account.
“I’d give ah ’onest fiver.ter see Bill turn round
an’ knock slops out o’ that old dog,” he said, as
Bill started across the 40-acre paddock on one of
his wild stampedes. I suggested whitewashing
as an effective means of bringing on a battle. I
explained the idea, and Scanlan chuckled m
anticipation.
On Sunday he whitened the old fellow from
head to foot, and when the coat was dry set him
at liberty, and threw out some grain. Bill came
sidling up, looking suspiciously round for Draggle-
tail. The latter spied him, and immediately took
the offensive. Bill thought it was a newcomer,
and stood rigid until the intruder was within
reach. Then he let fly, and Drag, was knocked
kicking on his back.
The old chap got up slowly, and stood glaring
at Bill, while his head shook, and peculiar
noises came out of his throat. Nothing in the
world was ever more surprised. Then in-
dignation filled his feathered breast, and he made
a furious charge at the presumptuous cockerel.
Bill .met him again with a staggering drive.
The veteran couldn’t understand it. For another
moment his head shook as if he was trying to
swallow something. Some of his favorite hens
began to cackle at his downfall, and that seemed
to rile the ancient more than anything. He put
down his head, flung out his neck-feathers, and
fairly flew at his rival, but only to be knocked
sprawling for the third time. Draggle thought
there must be something radically wrong some-
where ; he surveyed the youngster with a critical
eye. It was Bill sure enough, the fellow he had
thumped a score of times. Where had Bill got
his courage and prowess from ?
Drag, shook the dust off himself, and seemed to
pluck up courage from the memory of former vic-
tories. Then the pair went at it hammer-and-
tongs, and for 10 minutes it was the best cock-
fight ever witnessed on Wonbadgery. Scanlan
danced with delight. The veteran had met his
Waterloo, and Bill was licking him out of recog-
nition, kicking skin and feathers off him, and
jumping on him all over the yard.
“Good on yer, Bill!” yelled Scanlan, “kick
the old (beauty’s) lights out! Well done, Bill!
Well done//”
Bill started to crow in triumph, but stopped
short, and a scared look shot into his blinking
eyes. The whitewash had all been belted off
Draggletail, and Bill recognised him. He stood
straight up, his neck stretched, his head jerking
from side to side, and chucked in a scared manner.
His comb was a shade paler than usual, and he
began to back away.
Draggle had regained breath, and came sidling
up to make one more desperate attempt to main-
tain his reputation. Then, with a frantic screech,
Bill turned and sped across the paddock with the
stride of an emu; and after him full tilt went
Draggletail.
Scanlan was speechless, and stared after them
with his mouth open. A mile from the house was
a round swamp, and we could just make out the
birds, as they crossed the clear spaces, pelting
round it. All at once they disappeared.
“Well, I’m d—d!” said Scanlan, straighten-
ing-up. “ Put my saddle on Bowler, Paddy.”
We saw him ride some distance round the
swamp, then turn suddenly and ride into it.
When he pulled-up he stared at the water and
back at the house alternately. Finally he picked
up two limp-looking birds by the necks, and when
he bashed Bowler across the ribs with them we
knew there was peace at last between the two
roosters.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
Tnough the S’ African war is now a back
number, this note, which comes from Maoriland,
and is inspired by a recent Bulletin item, will
stand perusal:—■
I have just returned from S’Africa, where as sergeant in
the Prince of Wales’ Light Horse (the Maorilanders)
and as special intelligence scout with various columns, I
came in contact with officers and men of all classes,
belonging to irregular and regular bodies. I had, on
occasion, men under my command who had served in the
Canadian Scouts and in Strathcona’s Horse —the roughest
lot of “ boys ” that drew a bead upon the enemy on the
British side. Our orders, when engaged against the
rebels in Cape Colony, were not to take any prisoners in
kharki. That was the only case I can call to mind of any-
thing like severity of treatment of the enemy. It was
only by the greatest difficulty that, in some cases, the
men were prevented by the officers from retaliating on the
enemy (a rebel enemy) for certain dastardly acts. The
murdering of sentries by single snipers or farmers at
whose houses the troops had bought bread the day before
is not war, and has never been considered as such. I
have every reason to believe, since several told me who
said they were present upon the occasion, that the men
of Strathcona’s Horse did hang a party of Boers who had
murdered some of their comrades under the white flag
“ slim ” trick ; and I believe scalps were taken on several
occasions, but these incidents were very rare.
The statement made by your unseen and sniperlike
correspondent as to the chivalrous character of the Boer
is hardly worthy of remark. The Boer, with many manly
virtues, cannot be called humane or chivalrous. The
atrocities committed by “ up-country ” Australians upon
the defenceless natives have been equalled, if not sur-
passed, by the Boers, which is saying a great deal.
Your correspondent found Tommy Atkins to “ approxi-
mate to the city larrikin”; well, he does incases, no
doubt. Personally, I found him far better than I had
expected. The mounted regiments are much superior in
every respect to the foot. The militia are a disgrace to
any country. The 3rd Middlesex were the only cowards
under fire that I saw during my time in the country, save
a few of Nesbit’s Horse —who were “loyal Boers,” and
whose capture by the enemy meant sudden death at the
hands of those chivalrous gentlemen.
Were I asked the great difference between the British
and the Boer armies I would, say that,. broadly, the
former was a drunken army and the latter a sober one.
No one would believe how many lives and battles were
lost through the alcohol-clouded brains of the British
officers —especially the younger men. I have on several
occasions seen men taken out to disaster and death at
the hands of officers who had deliberately stupefied them-
selves with whisky because their grog-poisoned nerves
would not stand the strain without more hair of the dog
that had already bitten them. One example : When we
were on a march with “light saddles” and men and
horses on the lightest of ghostly rations, one Regular
officer had a Cape cart carrying about a dozen cases of
whisky “to his own cheek.” This cart was so heavily
laden with this and'other “creature comforts” that it
caused delays that nearly brought about the capture of
the whole command (170 men and about 12 Cape carts)
by 650 of the enemy, who, at one point, surrounded us and
caused us a 20 miles running fight in retreating.
In conclusion, the chief source of damage done to these
States through their participation in the war is in the
drunken habits engendered in the younger soldiers at the
base and detail camps—especially in Capetown. lam not
by any means a teetotaller, but I am sure of one thing—
that the efficiency of the British Army and of the Aus-
tralian troops is being undermined by the drunkenness of
their officers; and "there is hardly a doubt that the
authorities in Africa, by their liberal reading of the
canteen regulations at the base camps (drink could be
cheaply obtained all day and night at most), have ruined
the unformed characters and bodies of thousands of young
fellows, both British and Australasian. Colenso and
Magersfontein are not the only examples of the curse and
disgrace alcohol has been to the army, and that, too,
strangely enough, under a Commander-in-Chief who is
supposed to be a temperance man and whose advocacy of
coffee as against beer in his “ pocket-book ” caused much
remark at the time of its first issue.
A new patent, Keytes’ automatic lire-
escape, invented by a Maorilander, has a decidedly
promising appearance: —
The “escape” is a wire rope with an iron ring at the
end of it, the rope being wound around two drums, and
controlled by a ratchet wheel and brake. You fix the
apparatus beside the window, and when your house is
afire each member of the family in turn catches hold of
the ring and descends to the street just as rapidly as the
brake will permit. On letting go of the ring, the rope
rewinds itself at the instigation of a balance-weight and
is ready to the hand of the next customer. Or a light
cage can be attached to the rope, and two or three per-
sons may descend together when the weight-carrying
capacity of the machine has been regulated to suit the
emergency.
Test descents are satisfactorily exhibited by Mr.
Mackesy, who has bought the patent-rights of the
automatic escape, and is taking them to America
and England.
A remark on lawyers by Vic. Justice
Hodges:
The profession of the law had been spoken of in very
high terms, and when that profession was honestly fol-
lowed he did not think those terms too high. To be
engaged in an effort to separate the guilty from the inno-
cent was as noble a calling as any man could be engaged
in. But it could be made a calling in which persons
were engaged in mixing up the innocent and the
guilty, in which a man was engaged in an endeavor
to prevent the due administration of the law.
And Judge Hodges says this just as blandly as if
he didn’t know that every lawyer’s business is to
save.the guilty from punishment and to prevent
the injured from getting justice, provided the
guilty pays his fee and the doer of injustice
approaches him properly through a solicitor and
makes it reasonably certain that the cash will be
forthcoming. .


IS
m
/
O
7
0
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all Chemists
and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes, 15s. 3d.), or
■will be posted on receipt of price by Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
The Testimony of Sydney people Stands the Test.
HTHE test of time is what tells the tale. “ A new broom sweeps clean,” hnt
will it “ wear well ”is what interests most. The public soon find out when
misrepresentations are made, and merit alone will stand the test of time. Sydney
people appreciate merit, and many months ago local citizens publicly endorsed
loan’s Macho Kidney Fills
They do so still. Would a citizen make the statement which follows unless con-
vinced that the article was just as represented ? A cure that lasts is the kind
that every sufferer from kidney ills is looking for.
FROM RANDWICK.
Mr. W. Hibberd, St. Paul’s-street, Randwick, this city,
says : —“ For years I have been a sufferer from backache. In
my work I have to stoop a good deal, and prolonged exertion
of this kind would double me up with pain. After stooping I
would be scarcely able to stand up straight again, but would
have to unbend gradually, and get the kinks out of my back.
I used many sorts of medicine for this ache, but with poor
success. The doctors I saw were also puzzled, I think. I
procured a box of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills at Newman’s
Pharmacy in King-street, and I am very pleased to tell you
that these pills gave me almost immediate relief. They went
right to the root of my trouble. The pains diminished after
further treatment, and at length totally disappeared. I shall
always recommend these pills for backache trouble.”
Twelve months later Mrs. Hibberd states:—“lt is now
more than a year ago since my husband used Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills for backache. lam now enabled to say that the
pills wrought a permanent cure in his case. The pains never
returned since. I can speak with conviction on the marvellous
way they acted in his case. He is very enthusiastic about the
pills, and is always recommending them for such ailments as
the pills are meant for. He had been bad over ten years, so
you can see it is no common remedy that could cure him the
way Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills did.”
FROM BALMAIN.
Mr. P. Smith, No. 1 Cheltenham-street, Balmain, says
“ Over twelve months ago I used Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills for Kidney Trouble, and they worked a miracle in my
case. I had been under three doctors at different times, but
their treatment did me no good. .1 used to be so bad that I
would have to be carried home in a cart if an attack came on
me when working, or when in the street. Sometimes when
walking I have been taken bad, and would be taken to the
hospital. My wife said she never expected I would live
through some of these bad turns. I suffered with a kind of
biliousness, vomiting egg-like stuff. My secretions were in a
frightful state. I could never bend my back or move at all
when I had a bad turn. The people at the hospital gave me
medicines and recommended rubbing in liniments, but it was
no use; they did me no good. . I saw an advertisement for
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, stating that these pills had
cured Mr. Dunn, and knowing him led me to procure this
remedy. I only took a short treatment, and they cured me.
The first dose relieved me. When I had finished them I
started work, and have worked ever since. It is heavy work
lam doing, but it does not affect me. These pills cured me
after years of suffering, and the relief was almost instan-
taneous. I might state that since then I had an attack of
lumbago, which laid me up one month, but I never thought
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were good for this complaint.
Then I remembered that I had a few in a box, and, not having
any other medicine in the house, I tried them. They cured me.”
BUT BE SURE YOU GET DOAN’S.
The Sea Calls.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The waters softly washing
The sea-swept ocean side;
The sweet breeze-sirens singing—
The gold gleam of the tide ;
The spars and funnels swaying;
The house-flags streaming free ;
The ships, the winds, are saying:
“ Come back, come back to sea !”
The big white liners lying
Beside the hot gray piers,
With cool, soft voices bid me •
Re-taste my old sea-years.
The ferry-craft and “trampers ”
Join in one litany—
The whole sea-world is crying :
“ Come back, old man, to me !
“ Come back—leave street and city,
Reave love and land forme;
Come back, come back, my Jason,
O, come back to thy sea !
Reave land and come a-winging
Down trails of cream star-foam ;
Reave land and care and trouble—
Come home, sea son, come home ! ”
All day the sea-call quivers
Rike arrows in my soul;
I hear the cordage singing,
The waiting seas a-troll.
All day and night I hear it,
Above the roaring cars—
A mist of sweet sea-music
Clings round the far-off stars !
At dawn, at dusk I listen;
The sea sings its one song ;■
One rune of peace, of pleasure;
One hymn its whole life long.
I hear it, hear it, hear it,
In streetway and hotel—
My sea-call, softly ringing,
Rike an immortal bell.
I hear it, and I heed it,
The ocean’s endless hymn;
I leave the land-star; vessels
Do wait me, sweet and dim.
The ships are calling, calling ;
The sea sings songs to me ;
Good-bye, good-bye, O cities—
I leave ye for the sea !
GRANT HERVEY.
Paris Nesbifc, K.C., celebrated his 50th
birthday, in Adelaide, last Friday (Aug. 8).
Please and Defernot were the quaint
names of a couple of recent Melbourne litigants.
Please prayed for the restoration of his accordeon,
about the return of which Defernot dallied over-
much.
The Third Generation.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Well, this is the end of it, mother; I’m not
going on like this any more.”
The old mother burstinto querulous questioning.
“ The life isn’t worth the living,” said the girl,
stormily; “only just making enough to live to
make more, and always falling short of our wants
in everything. What is the good of that ? And
what does it all end in ? ”
“But what else are you to do?” asked the old
woman. “ This is the only way to live—and we
must be content.”
“It’s all very well for you. You have experi-
enced life a little; and you have had us. Having
had children is a sort of happiness. It makes your
life worth living. But what is there for me ? ”
Nervous apprehension of what she knew was
coming, and wanted to stop, kept the mother
silent, and by-and-bye the girl went on.
‘ 1 There’s a man I pass every day in the street- —
Yes,” she burst out fiercely at an interruption,
“I saw a man, and I know what I’m talking
about —and I’ve—l’ve fallen in love with him.”
“Fallen in love with him !”
“ Yes; we used to pass and he seemed to take
no notice of me, and I wanted him to. One day
last week I spoke to him.”
“ You spoke to him ! ”
“I spoke to him! I was dying for him—and
the weakness of starvation doesn’t produce re-
straint. He was kind and tender when I told
him all about myself—which did me good.”
“Girl, what have you been doing ? Don’t you
know that—that if anything happens a man al-
ways takes the opportunity of using that sort of
thing to put it on to the girl’s shoulders ?”
“I know that—and I don’t care. It seems to
me my veins were desperate with longing then.
He says he will do anything for me. Look what
he has given me ! ”
She extended a couple of fine, glittering rings,
at which the old woman looked with a face of
passive misery. But she made no attempt to
excuse or condemn her daughter; her heart,
knowing her sufferings, could not.
“ He says he will give me a great many things.”
“ You don’t think he will marry you ? ” expostu-
lated the mother.
“Of course not; I don’t want him to.”
“ A man expects some return ”
“ I know he does ; and I—it will be happiness
to me as well as him—happiness to be loved and
petted.”
“But you don’t see! —you don’t consider—what
it will bring in the future —what ruin it will mean
to you ! ”
“Do you think I haven’t thought of that! I
know—and I’ll risk it.”
* * • *
The mother sat in the miserable room in which
she lived, ate and slept, with her face in her
hands, long after her daughter had gone. Her
stare was fixed on the golden bounty of the
man to whom her daughter had gone, but no
heroic resolve to cast the money into the mud in
the street rather than touch it filled her —for
heroics are harder in the homes of the wretched
than on the stage. At last she stirred.
“Well, why not?” she muttered —“it will be
her period of enjoyment in this life ; and she will
come back to me trained for her life of everlasting
monotony.”
A man sat looking abstractedly over the top of
his paper at the girl reading a vulgar tale of
impossible dukes and duchesses. He was only a
young man, not much over twenty, and still a crea-
ture of untamed impulse. Just at present he was
sick at the apparent squalor of his life. _ Months
before, when that girl had spoken to him, it had
been an almost chivalrous impulse that made him
take to her. He pitied her sadness, and wanted,
with the sadness that belongs to poets, to cheer
it —and she did not beg for anything but
love. So he had taken her up and given
her everything she desired. At first it had given
him almost sublime happiness. But how every-
thing about her palled upon him—most of all her
intense, glaring want of taste. He absolutely
hated the gaudy way she dressed; her taste, in
pictures, in reading; the untidy splendor of the
furnishing of her room. The mere idea of the
sensuousness to which she had abandoned herself,
that at one time had gratified, now revolted him.
He wished to return to a fresher, cleaner life, and
this was the one who had called him with the clear
voice of an angel.
Suddenly, as she finished her book, which
dropped carelessly on the floor, the girl yawned
unrestrainedly. Then she came over to him
suddenly. “I’m tired of reading,” she said.
“ I’m coming over to sit on your knee.”
He felt a sick sensation sweep through him,
and rose hastily.
“ I’m sorry, Amy, but I was just going to tell
you—l’ve got an engagement that must be kept,
so I’d better be off now.”
And he fled.
• * • •
The mother and daughter again sat in the old,
weather-beaten attic—and a third, the grand-
daughter. It was dressed in a tawdry attempt at
finery. The last of the money Amy’s lover had
left had been spent on it. Amy was bent over it,
a dejected and weary figure covered with the
ashes of burnt-out animation.
“So it’s over,” she said broodingly. “But I
have been really happy, at least for a time. ”
The baby,” interposed mother, softly, “will
now be your happiness. It will make you happy
for the rest of your life.”
“The baby!” exclaimed the daughter, aston-
ished at the soft tone. Then her face darkened.
“ But she must pass through all the misery of the
life I have passed through—and perhaps finish
worse than I shall finish. I sometimes think that
it would be best for her if I killed her before she
knows what trouble is.”
•“ No, no, Amy ! you must cherish the baby, for
its love will save you.”
The girl looked up more surprised than ever.
“Mother, you have said nothing hard tome,
but I thought you would hate my baby. Why are
you so tender about it ? ”
“ Because I have known, too,” said her mother,
with a sudden hoarseness in her voice. “Because
I can feel, too. Because in exactly the way you
have borne this child I bore you.”
The younger mother was standing with the
girl-child in her arms, her face stiffening.
HAMER.
The 29th July, 1902, was the 50th anni-
versary of the day on which the Chusan, the first
P. and O. mailboat seen in Australian waters,,
entered Port Phillip. The Chusan was a screw
steamer of 699 tons. The last P. and O. boat put
on the Australian route was the Mongolia, 10,000
tons.
A Sussex-Street Idyll.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Why, strike me, Andy, yer ain’t goin’ to leave
me j us t becos I ’ad a drop too much. I’m 19 to-
d an ’ 8 time since I took up with yer.
“ I’ve gone straight, I ’ave, for all big Jim’s
’ad plenty o’ brass since ’e come back, an an
pretty sweet on me, too. Look ’ere, Andy, I
a ; n ’ t > ad n 0 easy ]jf e . The old woman pegged
when j wag 12 Yer didn>t know j > ad two
. . ... T
brothers, did yer? Blast yer, listen a bit. I
won’t keep yer long. Yes, I ’ad two brothers,
Q a wd knows where they are now. When the
o i e woman went they kicked me out—sold the few
, T ,, , „„ „ i
sticks an’ cleared. Its alwers been ard work
smce thcn Andy. Ycs an’ it needn J a been fer
I ain’t too bad-lookin ; but I d rather do a bit o
washm’ to keep body an’ soul together than go
into one o’them there’ouses what Tilly’s in. She’s
plenty o’ togs an’ brooches, but I got too much
f elf _£ espe ' t to g b et > em that way, I ’ave.
f “ A «£j “7 bttle room clean? Didnt I wait
yer that time you was pinched, an ave a bit
° cash fer yer when yer come out. Amt I
alwers been good to yer, Andy ? It was Long
Annie what started me, She ony come out o
9?? d T es ,^ er u a Z" ? was all over her poor little
kld > what’s better dead, Gawd knows. Er bloke
come ome drunk, an e got callm the ole Scotch
woman next door names. She went fer ’im. She
throwed a kerosene-tin at ’is’ead, an’ cut it open,
A come inside an kicked the kid. Id e
Annie, she s fair cut up she is, an I
bked the poor little kid too ; an when she come
me > lookin horrible, I run down to the pub.an
§?* somebecr an brandy. Selp me, Ancy a
d } dn * take ™ uch - + , Ask e [ n afc tke , P ub htt 6
May’amt about the best round ere. The ole
bloke 11 tell yer I never use no dirty language li e
al l tjmn l others. ~ .
Aer duds 1S ad in thcre And .Yi ™ c e a ” clean
and ™<mded ; an’ I got a bit o rabbit m the pot.
Make it up ole cove ; make it up. Dont I love
every ’air o’ your J ead, blast yer ! ”
E.A.R.
<« Shaker ” nrnnnnnds a theorv •
v J n J dealing with a ,L (B. 5/7/’O2)
As a rule, just as soon as a man finds himself in posses
s i on of a glorified dog-kennel, which he calls a store, and
£5 worth of stock- usually got on tick—he becomes dis-
gustingly Respectable, and is found in opposition to the
class out of whom he makes his living in any struggle,
industrial or political, which may arise. It is quite pos-
sible that White Australia mi = ht a ™ve sooner, and with
a better guarantee of permanency, if the working popu-
lation were to consistently refuse to deal with any but
aliens, so long as the latter are available.
Of the 3870 foreigner, who have been
naturalised in S. Aus. there are but 13 from the
£.B. to keep Premier Jenkins company; but
there are so many as 2668 other Germans to join
Homburg, late leader of the Opposition. Next to
Germany, Norway and Sweden bulk largest,
though they are only good for 288; after them,
China, with 284. Of Frenchmen there have been
only 42, against Austria’s 117 and little Denmark’s
107. Another curious feature is that of 13
naturalised doctors no less than six have been
Greeks. All this big foreign immigration, how-
ever, is a thing of the far past. S.A. has been
found out.


Reduced to a Shadow
Could Hardly Walk, Doctors Said Slow Recovery. Disappointed
Doctors and Myself by Getting Well Quickly.
/11l
jf
Mr. Wm. B. Mackie, of Dunedin, New
Zealand, sends us Ms photograph and
says:
“Not long ago I was run over by a
wagon and severely injured. For weeks
I was confined to my bed. I was reduced
to a mere shadow, so weak I could hardly
walk. The doctors told me it would be a
longtime before I could regain my health.
I felt I could not wait, so procured a
bottle of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. You can-
not imagine how quickly my health and
strength began to return. The first day
I felt an improvement. In a week I had
a better appetite, and was much stronger.
And only a few bottles wrought a most
marvelous change in me. I like your
medicine especially because it seems to
give just the aid nature sometimes
needs.”
“The World’s Greatest Family I^edscm©.”
If you have been sick and are not recovering rapidly, just try a bottle of
.Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It is the strongest tonic you can buy, and it aids nature
wonderfully. The better way is to take tlia Sarsaparilla before you get really
ill. Take it when you first begin to feel poorly. It will cure you quickly
then and save you much suffering and large expense. Tet even when you are
sick, you cannot find a better medicine.
There are many so-called Sarsaparillas. Be sure you get Ayer’s, the oldest,
strongest, and best Sarsaparilla. Don’t experiment with imitations.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Gives Strength to the Weak, Courage to the Depressed
Ayer’s Pills cure constipation, biliousness, sick-headaciie, coated tongue.
Prepared by SB. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
i'he UNIVERSAL REMEDY foe
27
YEARS’ SUCCESS
AS
Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Hoarseness, &c.
HAS MADE
( Abridge
” £ung Tonic
AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY TO EVERYBODY.
Important Notice:
SUBSTITUTION.- There are so many in
of this successful, and therefore popular, remedy l,
it is of the utmost importance > you should use the
word “ OWBRIDGE ’ ’ when buying Lung Tonic,
and TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, KI.P.S, Chemist, Hull.
Sold everywhere in bottles, at Is. lid.
2s. 9 d., 4s. 6 d.. & 11s., by all
Colonial Medicine Vendors.
COPYRIGHT.
m
mm
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the' East,
THE BROWN=SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
■
THE
IS
m
Pm
(10
9?
- ! fi
/
'
W'7>
//ff
/////
'
rw Wtf f
OaHgeroUs
smam*; if
to
✓ /
* i
»
I
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of tlie
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
hfd
■ft
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
E P PS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST—SUPPER.
I) ON’T MISS ' THIS
OPPORTUNITY, if you ave suffering with WEAKENING,
NERVOUS, and DEBILITATING Diseases. Our CON-
CENTRATED BOTANIC REMEDIES will CURE YOU.
So CONFIDENT are we of this that we will send to any
sufferer a TRIAL COURSE (Free of Charge) and abide
by the RESULT. Send NOW and your ultimate CURE
is CERTAIN. Address—
BOTAWBC INSTITUTE,
Victoria chambers, Siteafoeth-street, Sydney.
The Bulletin Reciter:
By Eighty (80) Bulletin hards. With Illustrations by “ Hop,” N. Lindsay,
A. J. Fischer; F. Leist, 1). H. .Souter, and H. McCrae. In handsome cloth,
decorated. Price, 55.; postage, 4d.
The besr remedy-
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA
Ask for Banning ton’s
and seetkatyou get it.


WATERPROOF COATS
ROBBER BOOTS
*» GOLOSHES
PERDRIAU and COMPANY,
(between Bond & Hunter Streets)' ;270 QeOrge StfOSt, Sydney
60
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. G. EX,t)EIDG]E & GQ.,
DYERS & CLEANERS, '
40 YOEK STREET, SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
i.
*
VO,
j .~t *>
sw
0<
JW
m
-
Mfetea-r
i-
$*r»
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send, for Catalogue.
Large
Stocks
CARRIED BY
BENNIE,
TEARE,
&CO.
GENUINE
BALATA
BELTING
AT
Sydney,
Melbourne,
Perth,
CooKgardie,
■ E B
Sole Australian
Representatives
of
TANQYES
LIMITED.
KEMP’S PATENT SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOJt IT.
It will stay on the sheep’s back as long as required. It will NOT injure the wool. It will dissolve out under
the ordinary scouring process.
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
FELTMI, BHHK *CO., IEtNME.
BLACK | RED, and BLTJE (in 8-gallon Cases):—
PRICE IN MELBOURNE ... ... .. 4/- per
„ SYDNEY (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.) - 4/- >:
„ BRISBANE (E. Rich & Co., Ltd) « « 4/- >:
„ HOBART (Wm. Crosby & Co.) ~ -• 4/- i
Gallon.
a
Portable Drills; Radial Drills, Drill Presses, Lathes, Planing
Machines, Slotting Machines, Punch and Shears, Steam
Hammers, Pipe Screwing Machines, Metal Saws, etc., etc.
WOOD WORKING MACHINERY.
Ingersoll-Sergeant Koek Brills and Air Compressors, Knowles Pumps, Gates
Rockforeakers, Roger Rolls, Vertical and Horizontal Engines and Boilers of
all kinds, Engineers’ Fittings and Mine and Mill Supplies.
WRITE FOR PRICES AND PARTICULARS.
*
Street,
Fremont Street,
San Francisco.
: Tj
■5nfc
Rescued
From Drink
by* new disoorery, odorless end tasteles w ich any lady can
gbra in te«, coffee or food. It doea its wort so silent! y and surely
that while the devoted wife, sister or daughter looks on, the
drsmkard is reclaimed even against his will and without his
knowledge or co-speration. Send name and address to THE
aCCTULWY CO., 6S HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W., and
they will send you booklet and particulars free.
h. p. mm i co.
Melbourne & Sydney.
HAVE IN STOCK-
Blake’s Steam Pumps.
Fay’s Woodworking Machinery.
Mundy’s Hoisting Engyies-
Empire Oo.’s Laundry Machinery-
American “All Steel” Pulleys-
Harris Champion” Lubricating Oils.
Mason Reducing Valves-
Ludlow Sluice Valves-
Sortings Injectors and Ejectors-
Tanite Emery Wheels.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
— CLOTH, 300 PAGES.
BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRITERS. PRICE, 4s. 6d.; POSTAGE 6d,
Sole Distributing Agents—
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.,
71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
for-
Solarine Metal Polish
Billett’s Patent Tuyere
“Vitaphone” Talking 1 Machine
Dodge Standard Wood Split
Pulley
Atlas Pipe Wrench
“Abbott” Germ Proof Filter
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South. Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10US. •^CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guaranies
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Bails
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets ami
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
m,
TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
