

MeE WAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
BEAVER STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity-”
The Lancet.
K. G. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
. . —FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE
RUSTOM Compound Dredge Engine,
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG, X
Wonderful Value—a Packeb of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried in vest
pocket and blown out to life-size (causes roars of
laughter), Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket, Book of
Conjuring Tricks (containing- over 100 Coin and Card
Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard Pish (gives
the definition of your character), The Mafeking Grub (or
nerve-strengthener), and, last of all, that side-splitting
Look, and Laugh Glass, Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Proeon receipt of 2s. fid.
Box-’Sj Ck'P.O., Haymarket.
H. L. HUTCHINSON,
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-street, SYDNEY.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° ss Kttstre.t, SYDNEY
Have in Stock and to arrive, the following': Huston, Proctor & Co.’s Compound Dredge Engines and Boilers, Centrifugal
Pumps, Steel Wire Hopes, Bucket Lip Steel, Tyre Steel, Mild Steel, Manganese Steel for Pins and Bushes, &c.
Buckets, Crab Hooks, Links, Grab Hook Points, Tumblers, &c., made to order. OSBORN’S STEEL'CASTIftEGS-
ENGINES & BOILERS, &c., FOR GOLD DREDGING
WHISKY.
HOBA.IRT.
JjSfS*
fiadley’s Orient fjotel.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.
CITY HOTEL
(First Grade).
J. A. TURNER - - Proprietor.
PERFECT
,
ASSISTS
DIGESTION
SHOULD
|BE|
I CED
■
11 Genuine and Wholesome, specially adapted for Invalid use.” — Lancet , June 28th, 1902.
14
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 2| 3 3J 4 5 6 8 10 12 inch.
-17 -/9 -/10| 1/- 1/2 1/6 1/11 2/8 3/4 4/-
1/2 1/4 1/7 1/10 2/2 2/11 3/5 4/5 5/7 6/9
Agents in every State.
Made by
l C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
IN’ order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever seen in the
jewellery trade — viz. , the above handsome Brooch
(any name or three initials) made of extra quality
9ct. gold-filled wire, with heart pendant; guaran-
teed the same quality as the brooch advertised,
complete. Sent post-free on receipt of P. 0.0. or
M.O. for ss. in round wire or sq. twisted wire, 15ct.
gold, filled, Bs. 6d. Illustrated catalogues sent free.
SIMS and ELRICK, Manufacturing Jewellers.
Our only address —
COLE’S BOOK ARCAOE, MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA
Mini
ining and Dredging Plants. Engines, Boilers, &c.
Fowler Traction Engines.
The CtYDE Engineering C?t. Ltp
Dessicating Plants.
Hopper Waggons, &c.
PROOF
USE
Head (
V * -in di mu or
Office :
10 BUCK ST., SYDNEY
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
CLOTH, 300 PAGES.
BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRITERS. PRICE 4s. 6d. ; POSTAGE 6d.
Sole Distributing Agents —
Edwards, Dunlop & (Jo, f Ltd,, Sydney and Deis bane.
A NICE PRESENT.
The New Combination PIN-
CUSHION, THIMBLE & REEL
HOLDER, nickel plated, plush
top. Clamps on to any table
by means of a spring-. Price,
only 25. ; post free.
Star Novelty Company,
229-231 Coltins-st.,
Melbourne.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfleld Parade
ST. HILDA.
T H^ ar ? eBt Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Beaoh° rvf S ' 100 ro ? n ? s - Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City
J-hour by tram. Billiards, etc. ° ly *
W HEN bu - v !”F a KEROSENE GAS STOVE insist
on getting a noiseless
JUPITER
The Very Latest
Invention.
Burns Noiselessly,
Without Smell
or Smoke,
Perfectly Safe.
Obtained First Prize
wherever exhibited.
Stocked by all Leading Hardware Merchants and
Storekeepers.
Sole Agents for Australasia —
Nelson and Robertson,
17 LOFTUS ST., SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Vol. 23—No. 1177. j
[Saturday, September 6, 1902.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE LATEST BOOKS AT —^
Geo. Robertson & Co.
Emboce, Hearts'of Elaine, 2s 6d &3s 6d, postage 6d.
Orosland, The Unspeakable Scot, 2s‘6d &3s 6d, p. 6d.
Watson, Godfrey 2s 6d & 3s Od, p. 6d.
Barry O’Brien, A Hundred Years of Irish History, 3s 6d, p. 4d
Geil, W.E., Ocean and Isle, 55., p. lid.
Marriott, Love With Honor, 2s 6d & 3s 6ri, postage 6d.
Matthews, My Lady Peggy, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Praed, Dwellers by the Rarer, 2s 6d & 3s (id, p. 6d.
Turner (Lilian), Young Lotil 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Buskle, History of CivilisattMJ,S vols.(ch. edt.),los 6d,p. Is
Please Write to us for any Poole or JUayasine you want.
We are always pleased to astttwer Inquiries.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London
AUSTRALIA’S—
SINGER.
Victor J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,
handsomely bound, makes a fine presentation
volume to friends abroad. Post free from Bul-
letin office, ss. 4d.
ii
Che Breaker
Bis Uerses
and Setters
£
With Memoir by
"Frank Renar.”
Wholesale from EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO., Ltd.,
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE.
Retail from all Booksellers, and Post-free from
“The Bulletin” Office Is. Id.
The Bulletin publications.
Forwarded to any address in return for postal
notes, stamps, or P. 0.0. for prices stated.
Send Id. stamp for The Bulletin Book Circular,
No. V.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages; price, 4s. fid.; postage, 6d.
The Bulletin Reciter:
By Eighty Bulletin Bards. With illus-
trations by “Hop,” N. Lindsay, A. J.
Fischer, F. Leist, D. H. Souter, and H.
McCrae. In handsome cloth, decorated ;
price, ss. ; postage, 4d.
Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
Stories:
By Albert Dorrington (“ Alba Dorion ”).
A handsome volume of 350 pages, bound in
cloth, decorated ; price 4s. 6d.; postage, 7d.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd”). New
Issue. With about eighty illustrations by
Mahony, Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher
and Fullwood; 6s. ; postage, Bd. *** “The
j oiliest book yet printed in Australia.”
Fair Girls and Gray Horses, with Other
Verses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. New Issue. Blue
cloth, blue edges, with portrait; price, 55.;
postage, sd. *** A charming presentation
volume.
The Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J. Brady. Buckram, gilt top ; price,
ss. ; postage, 3d. *** Australia’s best book
of sea and sailor verse.
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, gilt
top ; price, ss. ; postage, 3d. *** The best
book of Maoriland verse yet published.
The Last of Six:
Tales of the Austral Tropics. By Ernest
Favenc. Paper covers, 141 pp.; price, 6d.;
postage, 2d.
A Hose of Regret:
Verses by .James Hebblethwaite ; being
No. II of The Bulletin Booklets.
Enveloped, Is. fid. ; postage, Id.
The Circlii.g’ ilearths:
By Roderic Quinn. No. 11l of The
Bulletin Booklets. Enveloped, Is. fid.;
postage, Id.
Dreams in Flower:
* By Louise Mack. No. IV of The Bulle-
tin Booklets. Enveloped, 2s. fid. ;
postage, 2d.
THE BULLETIN BOOKS.
Sole Distributing Agents :
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
Special Wholesale Agents :
New South Wales .. Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd.
Queensland .. .. Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd
Victoria George Robertson Proprietary.
Tasmania George Robertson Proprietary.
South Australia .. E. S. Wigg & Son.
Westralia .. .. E. S. Wigg & Son.
Auckland and district Wildman, Lyell, &; Arey.
Others to be appointed.
Sold by All Leading Booksellers.
The Bulletin Newspaper Go., Ltd.
214 George-st., Sydney, .Australia. ■
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOLJUJUBES
FOR THE THROAT! THE ¥©IGE* THE LUHSGS!
Miss AMY CASTLES writes:—“l have used your Eumenthol
Jujubes and have fourvd them invaluable for the throat, par-
ticularly in case of colds.
I should like to recommend them to all singers. ’
THE RED PAGE.
The Lord and IIis Britain.
“ f 1 1HB Great Alternative : A Plea for a
1 National Policy,”* by Spenser Wilkin -
■ son, reflects the pessimism which just
now fills the minds of those who may be
called the “earnest Jingoes” of England. The creed
of the “ earnest Jingo ” is a simple translation into
modern English of thefanaticalV’ ff of the ancient
Israelites, “We are the Chosen I ople of the Lord,
and in His name should set ourselves to possess the
earth.” The curious phenomenon of a survival of
such a belief into the 20th century —a belief not
merely held by a few visionaries, but deeply
tinging the national policy of England, and find-
ing, at any rate, partial acceptance in the minds
of many representative men—almost tempts one to
join “ the Anglo-Israelites” and uphold the theory
that the alleged “Lost Tribes of J udaea ” peopled
the British Isles. The keynote of Mr. Wilkinson’s
book is that the British race hasthedutyof peopling
the most desirable portions of the earth, bossing
the rest, ruling the ocean, and directing all human
affairs; and it is every year more and more de-
parting from that duty, and allowing France,
Russia, America, Germany, and other Moabites
and Amalekites, and Philistines a voice in the
world’s affairs, instead of smiting them, hip and
thigh, before the face of the Lord. Britain must
rule India, for
There are no Indian patriots except the English and a
very few of their native .pupils. . . . India for the
Indians means a fair field and no favor for all the inhabi-
tants of the peninsula. That is attainable only in one
way—by the exercise of British authority in firm and im-
partial, that is, British hands.
How noble this confidence of Mr. Wilkinson in
himself and his compatriots ! Again :
The outlines may even now be seen of a European com-
bination of which the purport can be nothing else than to
usurp England’s function of keeping the balance of
Europe.
Europe is not to have any say in her own affairs.
Mr. Wilkinson is shocked and grieved at her pre-
sumption in seeking to keep her own balance
without the dictation of what Talleyrand once
called “the small islands off our North Coast.”
That is the whole spirit of the book. It is Eng-
land’s solemn duty to boss Creation; but un-
happily she isn’t bossing it just now, and Mr.
Wilkinson asks “ Why,” and can only ascribe this
sad state of things to a national carelessness or a
national degeneracy. The remedy is to be found in a
“ revival of duty ” and general war with everybody
on the slightest provocation—a somewhat vague
programme, but consistent with Mr. Wilkinson’s
religious ideas of England’s function in the scheme
of Creation. The alternative to that is the terrible
one—that England will not be the boss of the
universe and thus frustrate the purpose of the
Almighty.
Mr. Spencer Wilkinson is a publicist of stand-
ing. His knowledge of foreign affairs is pro-
found, and in a series of works he has
done much to enlighten the public on the complex
developments of inter-European politics. But in
his “Great Alternative,” a Cromwellian idea of
patriotism leads him to the ridiculous. Surely
there is some middle way between English supre-
macy of the whole earth and absolute chaos?
Let his ideas prevail (and they are the ideas
represented by the Chamberlain school in politics),
and Australia will have much contingenting to do
in the near future.
The Literary Woman.
A NOTE on “ The Literary Woman ”
from Constance Clyde
De Rougemont, who probably hit upon
some genuine customs by accident, relates that, in
a certain savage tribe, when the lady of the house
felt annoyed with her husband, she made no direct
remark to him on the subject, but squatting on
the ground within hearing distance, chanted a
long and elaborate lay, with the faults of a man of
weak and vicious tendencies as the subject. This
person would have the same eyes and hair as her
husband, and would miss his kangaroo just as
often. The epic poetess could judge her efforts to
be thoroughly successful when her husband rose
and hit her with a club, and she thus learnt in the
early dawn of literary effort that the “laurel
springing from the breast of a woman brings
pain.”
But woman has not always found a literary
gift a repellent force towards men, as some
imagine. Since the days when the great
serial novelist Scheherazade won her right
to live and be loved by the power of the
brain alone, the attractive force of the literary
feminine on the non-literary masculine has its
examples (the literary man and the literary
woman, by the way, don’t generally attract one
another). It is said of the mistress of a French
king that she won her “honors” by the literary
ability of a note which she wrote him at the request
of the reigning favorite. Probably that favorite
was careful to keep rival tresses and witching
eyes away, but forgot that coquetry could lurk in
an epigram, and the turn of a sentence prove as
dangerous as the turn of a neck. Boccaccio tells
of a lady charged with adultery (then punish-
able by death) who, by a clever argument, so
impressed the judges that they pardoned her and
passed a law allowing ladies to be giddy under
extenuating circumstances ever after.
In these modern days most women were timid and
conventional writers at first, inspired mostly by
religious and domestic sentiments, because it was
propertobe so inspired. When they wroteof human
love, they expressed, not woman’s sentiments on
it, but what man expected them to think about it.
But they have now got free from those trammels.
The woman writer, it will be observed, whether
she writes or speaks of it, generally invents her first
love affair. The first invention is more brilliant
and real than fact, as Charlotte Bronte’s Roches-
ter is more alive than Parson Nicholls. But she
is able to create only one man, and from that
one, • if she remains inexperienced, come paler
replicas through successive books. She never
creates again. Her best step after novel I. is to
hurry into matrimony. For the sake of her
literary children, she should mate wisely and not
too well, remembering that she can no longer
create a bad, interesting man, but can only copy
one. There are a number of gentle, dispassionate
young authoresses growing up in England and
Australia whose work loudly calls for a husband
of disreputable tendencies. When the woman
writer has evolved somewhat further, she will
decide matrimonial offers not 'as a woman but as
an authoress, and with any decline of her ability
will banish the no-1 anger-inspiring husband.
It seems probable that the woman writer will
have a harder tight this next century than during
the last half of the 19th. Religious and domestic
novels are both dead. The sex problem sleeps.
The open-air novel comes to the fore and the story
that deals with the lives of nations. And woman
never has, never will, move as much, see as much,
hear as much as man. Her travelling generally is
along the emotions, from the Plain of Waiting to
the City of I-am-Beloved. So she must make
brilliant discoveries in the realm of the emotions
to score a success ; and are there many more such
discoveries to be made ?
♦
An unwittingly humorous publication is a
“Memento of the Coronation of King Edward
V 11.,” published at Grafton, and the joint work
of Sir John See, K.C.M.G., Mr. Victor J. Daley,
Mr. Sam See, Mr. E. J. Brady, and others. One
expects crawl literature to be absurd, but this
specimen is more than ordinarily ludicrous—the
glorification of King Ned is so often forgotten for
the glorification of John See. About John See,
we learn, in an unsigned article, that he is
“now famous,” and unites “ the qualities of the
merchant prince and the successful legislator ” ;
that additional interest attaches to King Ned’s
coronation because he knighted John See; and
further, this (from Mr. E. J. Brady)—
The King of to-day is expected to he not only the first
Gentleman of the Land, but the most humane and cul-
tured Man therein. That the King wisely recognises
and nobly accepts this, the loftier and more elevated of
his titles, is shown by his recent regal munificence to the
poor of London, and by the fact that, on the first honor-
list, men of conspicuous intellectual achievement were
singled out for decoration.
That’s the best thing said of the King—that he is
a man (in small caps.) because he fed the London
poor and gave that other hungry person, John
See a K.C.M.G. for “conspicuous intellectual
achievement.” When it is sought to praise poor
old King Ned on his own, away from the magnifi-
cence of Sir John See, the best that can be said is
this:—
He refused to sanction the single-breasted frock coat,
which was pressed upon him, and held out for some time
against the innovation of brown boots and the popular
“ turn all the way round ” collars.
Contrary to what might be expected the greatest
offences against the King’s English are not
committed by Sir John See in this book. The
best he can do is :
It is with feelings of sincerest thankfulness to The
Almighty we have heard that His Majesty has progressed
so favourably towards recovery from the serious illness
which precluded the ceremonies taking place (sic,) on the
date originally fixed, as to enable him to attend the
Ooronation.
Which Mr. E. J. Brady easily beats with—
This Royal Heritage of Empire—vaster than the realms
o£ Tamerlane or Darius—could not have fallen upon one
more suitable from all points of view, than the Royal
Guelph, who’s (sic) name will be scrolled in future re-
cords as Edward VII., of England— whom God save, and
spare, is this day the loyal prayer of millions of the
world’s people.
«**
Jules Verne, author of many stirring stories of
scientific adventure, is said to be dying in destitu-
tion at Amiens, France. Yet he must have earned
much money in his day, producing, as he did, two
books a year. Generally speaking, his yarns were
founded on an intelligent anticipation of scientific
discovery—the sub-marine boat and the steer-
able balloon are almost here to-day. But one
shocking “bloomer” stands on record against
Verne. He tells of a Dutch professor who
manufactured and let loose great quantities
of oxygen in a certain town : consequence, every-
body increased in size, and the animals and the
trees flourished exceedingly. Practical effect of an
excess of oxygen on animals would be not growth,
but a quicker, more feverish life; on trees it
would have a starving effect, as they want carbon
and nitrogen.
J*
An interesting note from “Altiora Peto”
(M.L.)
Re Nietzsche and Blake : Lombroso, in “ The Man of
Genius,” does not assert, as does “F.J.8.” (“Red Page,”
2/8/’O2), that Blake was “born mad.” Had Lombroso—
who shows even Darwin to have been a neuropath—in-
cluded Nietzsche in his list, he would have regarded
Nietzsche’s obvious megalomania in calling himself
“ Zarathustra ” (after Zoroaster, the author of what was
once the noblest and purest Asiatic religion), his Apol-
lonian theory, moral iconoclasm, and other peculiarities,
as very typical of the insanity of genius. Napoleon,
whom Herbert Spencer calls “ a transcendent criminal,”
also said, “ The laws of morality and decorum were not
made for me.” True, Lombroso’s own mind is limited ;
the materialistic mind encloses itself in the smallest
circle of a series of concentric rings, and refuses to believe
that it is possible to draw a larger circle outside its own
small one. Blake, drawing the soul of a flea, is not
more eccentric than Schopenhauer, who refused to pay
his debts to people who spelt his name with a
double “p” ; than Johnson who was compelled to touch
every post he passed ; than Hegel who believed himself
divine ; than thousands of other instances of eccentricities
of men of genius. Also before scoffing at the soul of a
flea, it would be more logical to prove that a flea has not
a soul 1 Authors’ lists of “ all to whom they owe an intel-
lectual debt ” are interesting, but not convincing to those
who recognise the universal media of ideas. Goethe was
even more honest than Nietzsche, for he said : “ Every
one of my writings has been furnished to me by a thou-
sand different persons, a thousand things. . . My work
is an aggregation of beings taken from the whole of
Nature; it bears the name of Goethe.” It is impossible to
prove that Blake knew nothing of Buddhism. Buddhism
reached Plato, probably through the Persians, or the
Indian who cremated himself in Athens, and has more or
less permeated European thought since Plato’s time
(“F.M.,” “Red Page,” 19/7/’O2). Every beery professor
I met in Germany expressed a profound contempt for
English thought and literature —an amusing con-
tempt when traced to its source, which was certainly
not intellectual superiority. One does not find racial
jealous} 7 in a great philosopher. Had I considered the
“ modern Zoroaster’s ” ideas of great benefit to humanity
I could have had the task of translating thb book into
English, five years ago. But Nietzsche’s ideas are sub-
versive of democracy, and his mental attitude (for
psychological reasons) directly productive of insanity.
Blake is more read in English literary circles than
“ F.J.8,” is aware of—but certainly not by the class who
go to Reynolds’ for their literature. Maeterlinck’s popu-
larity shows the present revival of interest in mysticism ;
also, the fact that the poet who gained this year’s Sull.v-
Prudhomme prize is a student of esoteric wisdom.
Lawrence Oliphant’s “ Sympneumata ” is as extraordi-
nary as anything of Blake’s, and Oliphant was well
known in London society. As to Blake and his wife
playing at Adam and Eve, I know four married couples
who do the same, only they dispense with the summer-
house, and are satisfied with .sunshine and fresh air, and
a lonely hill-side for a shelter. They are the idealists of
Life and Love, and are as little likely to become inmates
of an asylum as is H. Spencer. One of them, a well-
known scientist, measures each person’s moral and men-
tal type by his or her capacity to follow suit. No doubt
moles deny that the sun and stars exist, and think larks
mad for soaring in the sunshine rather than dwelling in
subterranean passages and caves, but their denial is no
proof that the sun and stars do not exist, or that larks
are insane.
J*
“The nation that turns the.greatest proportion
of its irresponsible adiposity into social muscle will
certainly be the nation most powerful in warfare
and in peace, will certainly be the ascendant
nation before the year 2000. In the long run, no
heroism and no accidents can alter that; no flag-
waving, no patriotic leagues, no visiting of essen-
tially petty imperial personages hither and thither,
no smashing of the windows of outspoken people,
nor seizures of papers and books, will arrest the
march of national defeat. The patriotic party —
the particular gang, that is, of lawyers, landlords,
brewers and railway directors that wishes to be
dominant—-will be forced to become an efficient
party in profession at least, and to organise to
bring patriotism under control.” — H. G. Wells.
A Jingo poem, solemnly printed in small pica
by a London Tory organ :
Could I but blast, with withering fire, the worms
That live to gnaw their country’s vitals bare !
Could I but conjure from hell those brimstone storms
Which Dante’s vivid fancy painted there !
Mine were the task, with blighting pen, to pour
Ink, fire, and brimstone on each vile pro-Boer.
. Had I the power, with one fell blow, to smite,
To wipe for ever from njy country’s page !
To hurl deep down, to sink in blackest night,
These minions—nor feared to soil my gage !
0 fist of Hercules ! Ah ! nevermore
Should Britons vomit at the name pro-Boer.
Mother who bore him hide your stricken head,
Mourn ye your fate, who, under Nature’s ban,
I Once, in the long ago, ere hope was dead,
Fondly beguiled, had deemed ye reared a man.
Blush for your offspring, ’twas no man ye bore,
Only “ a prodigy ” —a mean pro-Boer.
Judas, thy crime was great, as all agree ;
And evermore that crime shall bear a curse 1
Henceforth the best that can be said of thee
Is, History proves, that others have done worse !
For selfish ends betrayed, and thus foreswore
Thy Master ! Virtue this in a pro-Boer.
0, Eve ! our common dam, had’st thou but known
What sorrow threatened human kind ! What grief
Lav in the vengeance dealt thee frqm the throne !
Thou might’st have risked the murderer, or thief;
But thou hadst never sinned, we may be sure,
If thou hadst known the penalty—“pro-Boer.”
Vanish, ye anti-patriot, devil-spurred !
Sneak to thy covert by the base back-stairs !
Tho’ thy foul breath were forfeit, Death preferred
To claim his own until ye’d said your prayers !
Fearful his reputation (bad before)
Might suffer in your company, “ pro-Boer.”
The humor of it—especially now when we are all
pro-Boers !
London Daily Chronicle, having remarked that
there was only one rhyme for month, artfully
refrained from mentioning it : then, after being
bombarded by the inquiries of poetasters, revealed
the secret :—“ Its only rhyme, which was dis-
covered by a Cambridge mathematician, is atn+l,
which is, of course, read “x to the n plus oneth.”
But why not take liberty to give a shortened
“th” termination to an inflection of “run”?
Telleth has been used as tell’th, why not make
runneth into run’tb.” Only—try it on some other
dog. Sheridan, by the way, had a rhyme for
month, which is guaranteed authentic as to places
and names, and for another awkward rhyme-word,
“ orange ” i
From the Ganges to the Blorenge
Came the Rajah in a month,
Sucking now and then an orange,
Reading all the way his Grunth,
The Blorenge is a range of hills in Wales, and the
Grunth is a sacred book of the Sikhs.
Pall Mall Gazette in an interesting article on
the lack of originality, the blind following of
English customs, in the Australian man’s habits:
More serious again is the inappropriateness of the
English hours still observed for work and meal times. In
summer (which lasts two-thirds of the Australian year),
instead of utilising the cool of the morning for work, and
taking a siesta in the fierce heat of noon, the Australians
still have, as if they were in England, their 8 or 9 o’clock
breakfast, 1 o’clock lunch, and 6 or 7 o’clock dinner or
tea. An Australian Governor (for society in all countries
imitates upward) might do a real service to the country
who would set the fashion of early rising and the siesta,
duck and cotton for summer dress instead of cloth, and
Australian wines instead of Scotch whisky and English
beer. v .
Similarly, too, in literature, the article complains.
But therein is a little out-of-date. Australian
literature does get some sort of a show now, and
all our reading matter is not made in England.
Concerning a well-known Victorian scholar and
literary man:
The late Alex. Sutherland, M.A., in 1574, was bracketed
with Higgins, M.A., LL.B., for the Shakespearian Scholar-
ship, the great Melb. University prize. Alex, was, at
first, like his fisherfolk ancestors in Scotland, a good
Presbyterian, attending Rev. M'Eacharn’s church, in
Carlton. One Sunday, in the ’7o’s, he anhounced, at the
midday dinner, that, as their pastor had given them, for
10 Sabbaths in succession, a detailed account of the horrors
of Hell, he now yearned for Heaven, and, as he did not know
of any church where Heaven was to be found, he would in
future seek for it in green fields and work. When Alex,
became headmaster of Carlton College he had to take his
boarders to the Scots’ Church. But nature and hard work
still represented his religion and that of his clan. Too
much Hell drove them from Calvin. They all worked too
hard, and forget- that for health, if not for religious
reasons, one day’s rest or change of work is necessary in
seven. Most of them suffer from overwork. His eldest
sister, a clever painter, has been laid aside by heart
trouble for some years. Alex, worried greatly over the
Melb. ’Varsity Reg'istrarship, his predecessor having been
reprimanded for neglect. lie worked like a demon, and
accounts bothered him. His English lectures were splen-
did, attracted crowds of outside students. But Suther-
land loved literature. It was the Registrarship killed him.
♦
The pantomime (and now “ push ”) gag, , What-
ever you say, you say yourself,” is evidently a
variant of the very old motto of Marischal College,
Aberdeen University, ‘ ‘ Thay haif said ; quhat say
they, lat yame say ” (in English, “They have said
what they say, let them say ”).
£
To Correspondents :
W.P.M.A. : “ Prises” is not, as you say, incorrect ; as,
in addition to “pry,” there is a verb “prize’ or
“ prise ”=to raise or force with a lever. “Pry” is not
much used in the sense of levering now, for fear of confu-
sion with “ pry=to look into,” and spelling of “ prize ”as
‘f prise ” is preferable to avoid confusion with “ prize— to
value.”
*“ The Great Alternative —a plea for a National Policy,”
by SpenserWilkinso.n (A. Constable & Go.)-


WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
SYDNE Y.
NTDOUCALL’S SHEEP DIP
THE ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUS DIP.
M‘DOUGri\.LL BROS., O Spring Street!, Sydney.
AGENTS:
N-Z- L. & M.fl. Co., Ltd., Australia and New Zealand : Straohan, Cheedle & Co., Adelaide; J. B. Curran, Hobart.
SKINS
SEND ALL SKINS TO
Kangaroo,
Wallaby,
Rabbit,
Opossum
WINGHCOMBE, CARSON & GO., Ltd.
SYDNEY,
The Leading Salesmen . Full Values and Quick Returns,
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge : 3 Per Cent, to tlxe Growers
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Bayers.
S. FREEMAN * SONS L!«SS£
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES?
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 65., Postage Bd., from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
WONDERFUL VALUE IN
Sales 150,000 Weekly.
PIPES.
“Cant B Beat!
Briar Root Pipe/
•Gu^ d /
NOT TO /
CRACK /
OR //
burn/
CBB
LATESTMOST
UP TO DATE SHAPES
Pt« ce 1/.
Quality not better in a Guinea Pipe.
-*3)Ciejei)p
Should any of our Celebrated C. 8.8. Pipes crack or burn a new one will be
exchanged for it immediately on application.
MICK SIMMONS, Sydney
Direct Importer of Tobaccos, Cigars, Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods, Hairdressers’Requisites, Leathe'
Goods, Cutlery, Rolled Gold. Jewellery, Haberdashery, Stationery, Fishing Tackle, Sportin|
Goods, Guns, Ammunition, etc.; etc. ’
Price Lists on application.
TOP QUALITY BOTTOM PRICES.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFJBTITION.
WINES ne Bm ‘ B ? nds °' U ' J 0> SPIRITS,
oc
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &<j.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
EVERY man knows how false
have been the claims of
quacks who have promised
to cure him with drugs. Drugs
never cure weakness, never stop
vital drains, never cure a weak
stomach (they cause a good many).
Drugs excite, stimulate like
whisky, but they have no substan-
tial strength in them. Hence they
never cure. There is only one cer-
tain way to regain strength, to re-
new vigqur, to restore vitality, to
build new tissues, cure Lame Back,
Nervousness, General Debility,
Rheumatism, Weak Kidneys,
Sciatica, and, in fact, any Chronic
Ailment. The way is to pour a
soothing, strengthening current of
Electricity into the body, for
hours at a time, while you sleep.
2Hr ELECTRIC BELT
AND
FREE ELECTRIC
SUSPENSORY^-*
PROVIDE YOU WITH MEANS TO GET ELECTRICITY,
strength direct from Nature. It develops all the vital organs and emaciated tissues, and renews
It will permanently cure the worst case of Weakness in three months after every other remedy has
STOP DRUGGING and try it; you will thank us for thus urging you. Your immediate decision will
Gives
vigor.
failed.
lay the foundation for your future happiness.
CASSILIS, N.S.W., June Ist, 1902.
THE DR. McLAUGHLAN CO.
Dear Sirs,—l am very pleased with the Belt
which I purchased from you. It has done me
a lot of good. I can do my work as well as
when I was young, and feel no pain. The pains
in my back are gradually going away ; in fact,
I feel a new man, and life is worth living. lam
so thankful for what the Belt has done for me,
and I thank you and Almighty God, that in a
short time I shall be all right again.—Yours
faithfully, ARCHIBALD TRAIN, Blacksmith.
AN OLD CASE.
Marine Department, Edward-st., BRISBANE. I
THE DR. MCLAUGHLIN CO.
Dear Sirs,—l suffered for a long time from
general weakness, debility, and nervous ex-
haustion. I tried everything—change of cli-
mate, etc.—but your Belt gave me the first real
relief I ever had, and ultimately cured me.
I can never thank you enough for what you
have done for me.
Yours truly, JOHN KING.
“Launchley,” Uralla, N.S.W.
Other so-called electric belts had failed me
entirely; but your Electric Belt cured me of
my lame back, which had troubled me for
years. One week’s wear seemed sufficient, as I
have no further pain.
A. J. GREENLAND, J.P.
Frg€ Book.
If you don’t feel well, we want you to write for one of our beautiful illustrated free Books, giving cuts and showing how the
Belt is applied in different ailments. It gives the names of many people cured, and you may find some friends amongst them.
We have cures in nearly every hamlet in the country. Book sent sealed and post paid. Costs you nothing.
Call and have a free practical test. Consult us, and if Electricity will cure you, your restoration to health is certain.
7^,
/
X
m
i
o
%
tit
all 111
£
/=
c*
J t
£
fr*=\
- E^=3
<3— 5> £>
<?
How Glad he is!
He escaped from the
Drug-dosing Quacks
to be cured by
The Hr. |j|c[aughlin Co.,
85 King-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Office: 167 E Swanston Street.
Mail Facilities,
We have by far the largest mail or home treatment business in, NOT “ AUSTRALIA,” but THE
WORLD ; having more than twenty large branches, consequently our system is the most complete
possible, and assures general satisfaction.
You write for book, and it leaves by return mail. All diagnosis are written in plain language, and are free, made from your
statement the day we receive it. Also, our Belts are sent packed, free from observation to all the States.
NO MEDICINES are required, and this, of course CUTS OFF the LARGER PART of THE EXPENSE to the patient.
[NOTICE
,^ ave an le Belt that disappointed you, send it in, and we will allow you for it in exchange. We do this not because the
old Belt 10 any use, for it is not. But we wish to show people, candidly, that there is only one real electric appliance to be had, and
that we have nothing in common with concerns selling a cheap, worthless article. Call and have a free test, and get our free book
explaining our methods. Don’t delay.


AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHERS
find in
The Folding Pocket
Kodak is made in
Four sizes.
No. 1, for Pictures
2\ x 3£ ins.
No. 1A f for Pictures
2\ x 4£ ins.
No. 2, for Pictures.
3£ x 3£ ins.
No. 3, for Pictures
3£ x 4i ins.
Peicks feom
£2lls. 6d. to £4 7s. 6d.
Loaded and Unloaded
in Daylight.
THE
FOLDING POCKET
KODAK
A light, compact Camera for hand or stand work,
taking large pictures, yet folding up so as to he
readily carried in the coat pocket. Specially
suited for holiday-makers, cyclists, tourists, Sic.
No dark room is needed for changing the films.
Send for Price List, and mention this paper.
KODAK, Ltd., & Reduced,
THE BLOCK, 284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Free Lessons Daily, at 3 p.m., at the above address.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL, you enjoy your lunch
George and Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAY.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY. .
Single Room, with Full Board, Bs. per
day, or JS 2 2s. per week.
TERMS. The convenient
system of paying: for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
When you come to Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Rooms; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp—from Is.—and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7.3 o—from Is.
upwards. Silver grill at work.
PRIZE NEPAL DRESSING.
HAUTHAWAY’S
PEERLESS GLOSS
takes first prize medals at Boston, Vienna, London, Phila-
delphia, Melbourne, and all other leading cities, for pro-
ducing the finest possible polish, and absolute freedom
from all substances injurious to the leather.
It is the favorite dressing of the world for
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
shoes, as it is easily applied, retains its brilliancy, and will
not rub off and soil garments. Try it once and you will
use it always. Sold nearly everywhere. Made only by
C. L. HAUTHAWAY £. S©NS
BOSTON, MASS.
I U. S. A.
HEALTH GIVING,
ENO’S
REFRESHING,
COOLING, ‘FRUIT
AND INVIGORATING. SALT.
2H.p. to lOOh.p.
MARINE OIL ENGINES.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
mmm
Noiseless Uuderwater . . .
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
WITH~ THE~KING ENGINE —ONE LEVER CONTROLS THE WHOLE.
J. F. M cDE R M OTX & CO IMC F A. W Y,
telephone 2671 37 MARKET STREET, SYDKTBY
Before Taking Clements Tonic,
MISERY & HELPLESSNESS.
After Taking Clements Tonic,
CHEERFULNESS & ACTIVITY.
A Very Convincing Narrative.
The Case of Mr. P. B. HUNT.
(by a SYDNEY BEPORTER.)
The ready compliance of Mr. Percy
Bordon Hunt, of No. 8 The Terrace,
Bourke-street, Redfern, with the request
of a special interview, illustrates a
series of difficulties and complica-
tions from which there was no immediate
prospect of escape. After mentioning that
he was a native of London and a resident of
these colonies for the last ten years, Mr.
Hunt went on to say :
“ It was when I came out to this country
that I had a very bitter experience with bad
health, and I hope I shall never have to go
through anything like it again, as once in a
life-time is quite enough. I had previously
suffering from a complaint called locomotor
ataxia, and I had never felt really well since.
The change in climate evidently did not
suit me, for my head started to ache most
unmercifully, making me feel quite unfit to
take part in anything- I was so drowsy
and low-spirited, too, no pleasant thoughts
ever coming to give me a moment’s happi-
ness, and I did not seem to care what
happened.”
“ Did you receive any medical attention?”
asked the writer.
“Yes. I had been to several hospitals,
where the doctors prescribed physic for me,
but it could not have been suitable for my
complaints, as it took no effect upon me.
Their medicines were so useless that I might
as well have thrown them down the drain.
The doctors said it was next to impossible
to properly- recover from the complaint
which had made of me, and this was
and awful reflection for one who had always
been so hale and hearty before, and naturally
making me more sad and hopeless than ever;
but I thought I would try some other
medicine before giving up all hope, and
when I had done so my condition was just
as bad as ever. I could not get my breath
freely owing to the heavy sensation in my
chest, and I could not sleep at all well. If
I did doze off I was made restless by
dreams that were most repulsive, and, once
more finding myself awake, I dreaded the
thought of falling asleep again because the
dreams were so unpleasant. That was
through being sc nervous, I suppose, for I
trembled at the slighest noise and was
excited at every turn. My mouth had a
nauseating taste which I imagined came
from the white coating on my tongue,' and
there was such a strange feeling about my
e y es _ a heavy sensation as if they had
swollen during the night. When in London
I was secretary to one of the most eminent
Congregational ministers in the city, and con-
sequently had a great amount of brain work
to do, so that when I came here and felt so
brain-weary and fagged out I felt my position
all the more keenly. There was no life in
me, and I gave myself up as helpless to
throw oft the utter deadness of vitality
under which I was existing. Simply through
excessive weakness my limbs were racked
with aches. It was just the same in the
morning after lying down all night, for my
legs were as tired as if I had been climbing
steep hills instead of trying to rest myself,
and the mere though t of going to work made
me shudder in despair. There was something
radically wrong with my loins, too, as the
painful aches across them caused me no end
of inconvenience, and more so when I had
to walk to any place. But so far as that
goes there was nothing that I could find any
pleasure in doing, as my loss of energy was
so great that it was almost a trouble to dress
myself. For a man whose temperament is
naturally active and energetic it was a
terrible hardship to be in such a weak and
powerless condition, but the most melancholy
phase of the situation was that I could get
no medicine to help me out of my difficulties.
It seemed a forlorn hope to think of recover- ,
ing my health again, but was there anything
I had not given a trial to ? I asked myself. A
little reflection told me that Clements Tonid
had escaped my notice up till now, and ai
my deplorable state of feebleness required
immediate attention I said I would give il
a trial.”
“ Were you pleased that you did so.
“My word I was, for Clements Tonic
acted on my system as no other medicine
had done. Do you know that I had no real
appetite from the time I was taken ill until
I took Clements Tonic, which made me so
hungry that I was always wanting food. I
was overjoyed at this success, especially as
my pains were diminishing with each bottle
of Clements Tonic,which made my digestive
apparatus able and willing to assimilate my
food and fill my veins with pure, rich blood,
and with my heart strong and vigorous to
pump that blood to every part of my body.
As time went on it became apparent that I
was on the road to recovery, as my head-
aches and giddiness were gone and my sigh#
was good. I breathed freely owing to chest
pains being relieved, while the flatulence
which had affected my stomach did no!
trouble me after using a few bottles ol
Clements Tonic. Would it be possible for
me to speak too well of a medicine which
did so much for me when all others failed ?
My opinion is that I will never be able to
liquidate my debt to Clements Tonic for its
miraculous influence over me, for it actually
raised me from misery and helplessness to a
life of cheerfulness and activity. This was
done by degrees, of course, for I got
stronger because I was 'getting plenty of
rest, my sleep being sound and dreamless,
and the morning life found me equipped for
the duties of life as I had not been for many
a day. I was no longer sickened by a bitter
taste and a dry tongue when I woke up,
neither was I troubled with that weariness
of limb which had made all my movements
so irksome. I had reason to look at life in
an entirely different aspect then, thank God,
as the pain-killing properties of Clements
Tonic gave such prompt relief thut I was
soon free from all my torments, and as a
remedy for invigorating the nervous system
I am sure that medicine is the best in the
world. My nerves were so ready and keen
that my daily work became a pleasure, and
a capacity for physical and mental exertion
proportionally increased. I did not re-
linquish the use of Clements Tonic until my
health was as sound as it had ever been,
being an entirely new man, and as I have
since enjoyed immunity from the ailments
waich nothing but Clements Tonic could
cure it is only fair to my fellow colonists
that I should tell them by what means 1
was released from wretchedness.”
“It will be necessary to print your
statements, then.” .. ,
“ Of course it will; and you may publish
them in any way you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Pbrcy Bordon Hunt, of 8 The Terrace, Bourke-
street, Eedfern, in the State of New South wales,
Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly and sin-
cerely declare that I have carefully rea< J the
annexed document, consisting of ’
and consecutively numbered from one to tour,
and that it contains and is a true and faithful
account of my illness and cure by; Clements Tonic,
and also contains my full permission to publish
in any way my statements—which I volu -
tarily without receiving any payment; and l mate
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing
the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions
of The Oaths Act, 1900.
/T?
Subscribed and declared at Redfern, this twenty-
second day of April, one thousand nine hundred and
two, before me, PATRICK STANLEY, J.P»
THE GREAT EVENT.
HATTE’S CORONATION FAIR
rjpHE
Kins; rules by right of descent over Millions of Free-born Britishers, and Hatte, by virtue of
Good Value, exercises a gentle sway over the Ladies of New South Wales. Just now—
is on
The Great Coronation Fair
And the People of both High and Low Degree are Rejoicing.
There are £250,000 of Absolute FAIRING BARGAINS and 400 Highly Efficient
Assistants waiting to give a ROYAL WELCOME to the LOYAL LEIGES
of THE KING OF THE DRAPERY TRADE.
Ladies ! come early to the Fair (it will console you for being absent from Westminster), and
send for a Fair Book—the Greatest Bargain List ever published. •
C. G. HATTE, Newtown.
Just
Published.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER:
Harry Morant.
His ’Ventures
and Verses.
Price 1/1
Post
Free.
Y By FRANK RBNAR. \f
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney.


“A friend
in need is a
friend in-
deed.” This
is an old
proverb,
but as true
as it is old.
Here is just
such a friend.)
Never be
without it. Keep it
close at hand all the
time.
Ayers
Cherry Pectoral
It will prove a good friend when you
have a fresh cold, bringing immediate
relief. You will find it equally true
in old colds, bronchitis, whooping-
cough, asthma.
And you will declare it “the best
friend in the world” if you will use
it for an irritable throat or weak lungs.
It acts as a strong tonic, clearing up
the throat, giving tone to the relaxed
tissues, and greatly strengthening the
lungs.
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of them! Be sure you
get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Two sizes. Large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr- J. C. Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.. U S.A.
Skins Soft&White
BY USING
Complexions Preserved.
Business Announcements.
I
o
p
p
o
s
I
T
E
G
P
6
I
p
A
T
T
E
R
N
S
F
R
E
E
Art is
a
Necessity
of Life.
42 1-
We are
Artists
in
Tailoring,
LONDON
ME.LB.
TAILORING DEPOT,
F, S, Meyers, Manager,
I’ll Try It.'
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6cf.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Resttft.
CRAIG & AITKEN, N.s •W. Barber’s Supply
House, 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
This New
Fashionable
Mount,
I TWO TIPS WITH
, OSPREYS,
"in black, white, cream,
or black tipped with
white,
3/ THE BUNCH.
/ Post Free.
We make this special offer to
advertise our
Ostrich Tips.
Write To-day. Send Postal Note.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE
Mention The Bulletin.
SUN PROOF . . .
INDKSO SERIES
. . AND . .
y»JFrnc
To stand Hard Wear.
Faocy Worsted SCsitiQgS
(Bannockburns and Homespuns).
David Braham & Co.,
TAILORS & OUTFITTERS
73 & 75 KING ST., SYDNEY
(round A.J.S. Bank oorner).
SOLE AGENTS in N.S.W. for
VERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR SHIRTS . . .
Y/hite or Colored Shirts, made to order, from 5/6.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Establishes 1349. For pjfe Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand,
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Ou new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per cent,
of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
SEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary,
Commercial
Bugrgry.
£l4 108.
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
33W Send for a
Catalogue.
p
Bent< Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15a.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicle#
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLI&R, 130 Sussex-street.
W MELBOURNE-ST., OONOORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class vVorkmen. Send for Catalogue. Agents wanted.
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
m
WHOLESALE
Distributing; Agents
New South Wales —
M. RUTTY & CO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria—
■l. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —■
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Western Australia—
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland—
ThoB. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Phllp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand—
D. Benjamin & Co.
Dunedin, Wellington
and Christchuron.
THE
‘PLUM’
Pfo
THE
‘PLUM’
/'^j.ENTLEMEN. —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Prick / sin £ Ie Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21s.
\ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to anv part op the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
ROB ROY pens
Hinks, Wells & Co. beg to draw attention to this new series of
turned up pointed and other pens, made of the same material, by the
same tools by the same process and at the same works, as the well
known series of Wavcrley Pens, which Hinks, Wells & Co. have for
30 years and upwards (prior to September 1901), manufactured for
and supplied to the proprietors thereof.
<J&
Sold by all
Stationers in 18
varieties in '
6d., Is. & gross boxes.
HINKS,
WEiliEiS & CO. s Birmingham, England,
“A genuine
old Brandy
made from
Wine.”
Medical Press.
THREE STAR
“Particularly suitable
for Medicinal
Purposes.”
Tiu Lancet.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY.' If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, JB7;
3-Spring Sulkies, t 7 15s. Our Special Bent Sha.il)
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £J
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
toOrder. HARNESS and SdDDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not bo
misled by any linns who say they will deliver forlejj
;han we can. They cannot do so, and you pay ii jjC
cent more lor your requirements.
193 to 195 Cleveland'Street, 140 diem, .a if on j. /
OUU SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
Oelirered at any Wharf or
N.S.W. llailways, Station
£lO 10/-
Price 6s.
Post Free.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
Steele Rudd.’
Various Verses
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Lust of the Things That Are.
Oh, Life had shown him a goodly share ;
But he walked with one called Devil-May-Care !
Clinking their glasses above the bar,
They drank to the lust of the things that are.
But many a widow and many a child
Dropped blood in their wine as they sipped and
smiled;
And oft in their goblets of foaming beer
They drowned the faith of a friend a-near:
For, many a night, they had won a bride,
To cast her at morn, with her weeds, aside—
Leaving a lie where they found fair truth,
And seeds of Hell at the core of youth.
Yea ! Many a heart they had filled with pain—
But they drank to the lust, and they sinned again.
Oh, Life had shown him a goodly share ;
But he walks with one who is called Despair !
Nursing their glasses above the bar,
They curse the pain of the things that are;
For wild, wet eyes, that in anguish shine,
They see, deep down, in their cloudy wine;
And under the foam of each frothing beer
Are only the dregs of the Insincere ;
And many a night have they lain awake,
With shrouded forms in their arms, a-quake;
Or fled the spectres to face the street—
Shadowy harlots of old to meet;
While ever and ever within their ears
Is sounding the toast of the King of Tears,—
“ Clink your glasses above the bar
And drink to the lust of the things that are ! ”
V.
MILKY WHITE.
When the “Prince” Went Down.
U. L.
She was a tramp, deep-decked and old
With rusted plates and gear,
Her engines shivered as they rolled- -
She was a brute to steer.
From Suez to the Farewell Light
She’d earned a rogue’s renown,
And yet —it was a mournful sight
To see the “ Prince ” go down.
The waves were silvered by the moon
That touched the hills afar—
The reef-surf sang a dismal tune,
The lighthouse showed its star.
A cold wind drenched the boats in spray
And in a far-off town
Perhaps a woman knelt to pray,
That night the “Prince” went down.
The skipper watched with hard-set lip—
God knows she was his home—
And pale stars mourned the dying ship
From Heaven’s purple dome.
And as we waited standing off
Some sat and stared afrown—
And one there turned to choke a cough
Because the “Prince” went down.
She swung and shuddered, sinking slow
With side-lights burning queer — j
She bowed her old head very low
And raised her screw-blades clear.
Her masthead light sank swiftly, and
We saw the bridge-lights drown ;
And one man wept behind his hand
To see the “Prince” go down.
She seemed so lonely and so old,
And home lay very far
Across the shouting seas that rolled—
Beyond the lighthouse star.
The moon was shining clear and bright
Just on the mountain’s crown.
Yet, God ! It seemed a black, black night
After the “Prince ” went down.
QUILP N.
Roselle.
A red moon swims athwart the night,
And tingling stars are far and fair;
And you—l kiss the sinless white,
Ashine against the pillar there,
I bathe my forehead in your hair,
To ease the flame that leaps within ;
To blind me from cold eyes that stare
, And mocking lips that prate of Sin.
A jealous Fate hath filched the warm
Of laughing love that lived for me ;
To-night 1 lie upon your arm,
And dream, dead heart, of this and thee.
Outside are canting lips ; a sea
That cries to know where yet thou art ;
And I, since such wild things must be,
Lean down to cry against your heart !
One time we laughed the tongues to scorn,
Content upon our golden way.
For us the glory, morn and morn,
For them the years unloved and gray,
And you in your sweet disarray,
That bent to kiss mine eyes awake,
Strong-souled and safe, looked down the day,
And damned the wide world for my sake.
The taunting tongues, I hear them now.
There is no shame, God knoweth well 1
Here, with my lips against your brow,
A vow is born, as fierce as hell,
That sears my heart and soul, Roselle !
Ah, arms and limbs that bar the gloom !
And arching mouth that may not tell
The mystery of all this doom !
Fate, drunken with Omnipotence,
Upwrought in a delirious might,
O’erleaped our vain and poor defence,
And lusted for you in the night,
When all the darkness shook with fright,
And wild wings beat the window pane,
He kiss’d you, and the rose was white ;
And God looked on and saw you slain !
* 9 f y
My burning eyes are in her hair,
My lips upon her still mouth ache
For tender things that are not there,
Since Death must be and heart must break.
1 press the eyes that may not wake—
The long white arms —so white, so white
A wail.! The echoes shift and shake —
What cries across the doom-fraught night ?
Vic.
C. L. RIVERS.


ORNAMENTAL NAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 6s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
J3F" Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia.
CRAIGr & AIXKEM,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
EVERY MAN IS
More or less interested in the curative powers of
MEDICAL GALVANISM and the proper method of
applying this wonderful agent. Before purchasing
Electric Belts or Batteries send for our valuable FREE
BOOK entitled “THE MODERN TREATMENT OF
DISEASE BY ELECTRICITY.” It will tell you what
you ought to know, and may save you time, money
and disappointment. Address —
ARTHUR HALE & SON,
44 Castlereagfh Street, Sydney.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to XOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
06 RX CORO’S
f .ss^ HcE ° f U ?
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. llicord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 128. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope
Agents for Australasia —PERRY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
F. H. Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
iiTR
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free, f
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c -» beal ' 3 011
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor —
Pr. J.COLLIS BROWN€.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“If I were asked whicli single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlouodynk. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.”
rmoROpyNE
FINSEN’S—
HAEMATIN - ALBUMIN
TABLETS
A Certain Cure for POVERTY OF BLOOD,
ANAEMIA and WEAKNESS, from whatever cause
arising. The latest wonderful discovery by the great
Danish Scientist,
PROFESSOR NIELS. R. FINSEN.
GIVE THEM A TRIAL !
Extract from The Baptist of August 1, 1902 “We
can speak from personal experience and testify that these
Tablets are an invaluable remedy for weakness occasioned
by Poverty of Blood, Anaemia, and other similar diseases.
All Chemists, at 3s. 6d. per Box.
From Life, for Lovers of Art, Beauty, and Chic ;
Carefully Selected Assortments, Cabinets, or
Stereos, with Illustrated Catalogues and Minia-
tures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s. Money Order or Cheque
on London.
English, French, and German Rare Books
Explain wishes and requirements, and full satisfaction
will be obtained.
R. GENNERT,
89c Faubourg St., Martin, Paris, France.
London Bankers :
L. and SOUTH WESTERN BANK LTD., Head Office.
WOOL. PRODUCE. CRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
.A.CT AS SELLING BROKERS
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of t is ompany.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (!) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
''(lncluding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
will be _ •••
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb i ••• •••
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
t under
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing 1 .
Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
BALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT.
Every inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by the Company
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Gncu
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
AGENTS FOR McDOUGAEL’S SHEEP DIP.
J. BARTRAM & SON,
34 & 36 Market Street, Sydney Clarence Street)
19, 21, 23 King Street, Melbourne.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES ...
The ENGLISH DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
Makers of Steam Turbines, Turbine Dynamos, Turbine Pump 3, Turbine Fans.
(Over 80,000 Horse-power in use.)
Messrs. GREENWOOD & BATLEY LTD., Albion Works, Leeds.
Machine Tool Manufacturers and Electrical Engineers, Dynamos, Motors, Pumps^etc
Messrs. CONNOLLY BROS. LTD,, Manchester.
■—mu-inaniateri Cables, Wires, Tapes, etc.
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
And consult Old Surgeon Langston, who will Cure
you. Forty years’ practice as a Specialist is sufficient
Guarantee of the doctor’s ability.
AVOID unskilled pretenders, flaming advertisements and specious
cure-alls.
Vigor and Strength T°
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, located in Melbourne
since 1886, has so perfected his method of treatment that it can
almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable cases.
Be the equal of your fellow man.
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for hook of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
Seels: tiie Trntb., it; costs KTotliins!
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, cor. Russell & Collins Sts., Melbourne.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists, Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6d post, j
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus. |
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestltno, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post, i
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is. j
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d. I
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camille, Is 3d.
Secret History of the Court of England, 1 6 post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Ciiiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Bead Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s Od posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. S appho, Is.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s Od. Write me for any Book you want.
Tiie Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather hound, my price, 15s post paid
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
Tiie Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big Book
Catalogue-post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st, Sydney.
Dr. J. W. GIBBS’
. . Electric Massage Rollers . .
For use on Face and Body.
For NERVOUS HEADACHES,
NEURALGIA and RHEUMATISM
—a specific. Removes Wrinkles.
Gold, 21/- Silver, 16/-
Post Free. Pamphlets Free.
AMERICAN AGENCY C3.VI7AM/,
Box 440, G.P.0.,
Melbourne.
FITS CURED
From ths first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very -worst cases of Epilepsy -when
every other remedy had failed, trice 6 and Ilf
Thousands ot testimonials.
OF ALL CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
WHOLESALE AGENTS-
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNL» V
Prepareo by I. W. NICHOLL, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
25 HIGH RTRF.ET, BELFAST, IRELAND.
BLAIR’S
GOUT A RHEUMATIC
F 11.1.5.
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved, and cured in a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
Those Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. lyd. and 2s. 9 .
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist oi btoro
throughout the Australian Colonics.
«<
Don’t shout
>»
•• I hear you. I can hear now
as well as anybody.
•'•How?' Oh. some-
thing new —The Wilson
Common-sense Ear-\
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now. you can’t see them ,
they’re invisible. I woulan t
know I had them in myself,
only that I hear all right.
The Wilson Ear-Drum is
really a substitute for the
parts of the
natural car. Has no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable Totally
.different from any other de-
vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
S>. CHAtmggt, 829-231 C«Hh>s MclP.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS.
With Patent RUBBER i'EEJ.
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English
American and made to order
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, dse.
DENYER BROS.. Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORCE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
m»T=Ere
Bufferers from Deafness or Head Noises
desiring a complete and permanent cure
should write to The L. R. VERNON CO.
GO HUNTER ST., SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet desc ibing an entirely new self-
applied method which we will send post
free on mentioning this paper.
Hypnotism
deader why not he able to use the
mosfmysterious H ud powerful
S y a^our y .“ wHh-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous max®
I that are possible to the Hypnotist.
' Through Hypuo tism you cau curedisease
I anno nfr pain; win reluctant affection.
Sty your ambitious, and produce
sasraasavars
Hypnotism, which fully explains
j the mysteries and secrets
]of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive tiling of the kind
ever published. For a short
time I wi.l send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a chance of
a life-time. Address—
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ASTHMA CURE
KRIMAIIirs INDIAN CIGARETTES
For Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault's Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
GBIMAULT & Co., Paris. Sold by all Chemists^
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, aud all pains of Head, face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy. 1
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstrk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Load, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacv, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman'S NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
SOLD IN TWO sizes, 9d. & Is, 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.


UNDER THE ROYAL PATRONAGE OF
H.M. THE QUEEN OF GREECE.
H.R.H. PRINCESS MARIE OF GREECE.
H.R.H. THE PUKE OF SPARTA.
H.R.H. THE DUCHESS OF SPARTA.
H.R.H. PRINCESS HOHENLOHE.
H.R.H. PRINCE GEORGE OF GREECE*
(High Commissioner of Crete, &c., &c.)
EDWARDS’
FOR
THE
Photo a specially for the •* Harlene • JO., by Langfler, Bond St., W t
Hay market rheatre, London.
Miss JULIA NEILSON
writes —
“ I am at present trying your ' Harlene 'for my
hair, and I find it one of the best Hair Tonics and
Restorers I have ever used, and I have tried many.
Will you kindly send me two more bottles."
THE GREAT HAIR
PRODUCER and RESTORER.
THE FINEST DRESSING SPECIALLY PREPARED AND
DELICATELY PERFUMED. *
A LUXURY AND A NECESSITY TO EVERY MODERN TOILET;
“Harlene” Produces Luxuriant Hair. Prevent its Falling Off and Turning
Grey. Unequalled for Promoting the Growth of the Beard and Moustache.
The World Renowned Remedy for Baldness. For Preserving, Strengthening;
and Rendering the Hair Beautifully Soft, for Removing Scurf Dandruff, &c.,
'also for Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Colour. *
Crown Prince’s Palace, Athens. \
H.R.H. PRINCESS MARIE OF GREECE
writes—“ Messrs. Edwards’ Preparation, ‘Harlene’ for the Hair, has given entire
satisfaction. H.R.H. wishes six more bottles of ‘ Harlene sent as soon as possible.
Kitegyhaza, County Bikis, Hungary.
COUNTESS DENIS ALMASY
writes—“ Please forward me three more bottles of ‘Harlene, _asl am particularly satisfied
with the two bottles sent me to Switzerland, and have been using it ever since.
Full Description and Directions for use in Twenty Languages supplied with every
Bottle. 1/-. 2/6, and (three times 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle, from Druggists, &c.,
all over the World.
A
4%.
§,
A
M
v>
Photo’d specially lor the “ Harlene Co., hy tanglier, Bond St., W.
Gan ick Theatre , London.
Miss VIOLET VANBRUGH
wi ites —
** I am very pleased to testify to the excellent
qualities ot 'Harlene,' it is most refreshing and
invigorating and I have found it very Stimulating
to the Growth ot my Hair.
“ P'S.—l hope fate will never take me to any
quarter of the globe where / should be unable
to procure 1 Harlene.' "
EDWARDS’
HARLEME” Co., 95 & 96, High Holborn, London. W.C.
GENERAL
COMPANY.
Capital - - - £5,250,000.
Manufactures the Highest Grade of Electrical Machinery
THEIR NAME IS A GUARANTEE.
Dynamos, Engines and Motors up to 250 H.P. in Stock.
Lighting and Power Plants for Immediate Delivery.
Arc and Incandescent Lamps and Supplies of all kinds.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.,
Electrical Engineers and Contractors,
SOLE REPRESENTATIVES
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, MELBOURNE AND SYDNEY.


THE
A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC.
| Oil IS Velveteen.
NOTE WELL!-Each Yard of Genuine “LOUIS” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L-OIH-S and in no other
way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free^
PLAYS
French’s Acting Edition.
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
Hooks Free .
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
HENNESSrS
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Safeguard
your
Health
see
that your
Brandy
is
bottled
in
Cognac.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
—*• (
rs
9~
3
&
%
d&
1
- :
«
A 3
<t
THE BULLETIN RECITER
mass' a ira: ssaai*
'S' Distributing Agents — PRICE 55.; POSTAGE 4d
Dunlop & Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
The Bulletin Story Book.
A Handsome Cloth-bound Volume of over 300 pages. The best
collection of Short Stories and Literary Sketches yet produced in
Australia. Price, 4s. 6d. Wholesale : Edwards, Dunlop and Co.
«wV iS;' o yWy:b/ •• ->
vWk;- r'~ yEF? i* K %
-',/S
/^7
.. 'V* V
- *< ■' Ty^K^k
vi(o
4A*
h
A
■- /
Mfi#:
; .«#
*.»sH! I
Hss
1
y>!
$
Ti
»
ir/pliml
If "/////'WI
''/Mm/
<nii“i/iiii
"'ii
0
i
to
!l
<Vry+
4. —=.
S 3.
o£v-*
."I
•V-
THE WRONG WAY.
Ruberoid Building used as a OVTiner’s Hut.
Some folks have been known to lay P & B Ruberofd over bare rafters without
boards, battens, netting, or ventilation. V Don’t do it I ’ fc
State Agents
'Wellington, N.Z.
Brisbane, Q.
Adelaide, S. A.
Melbourne, Vic...
Fremantle, W.A.
/
l
Mr. James W, Jack.
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Ltd.
„ A. W. Sandford & Co. »
>, Brooks, Robinson & Co., Ltd,
»» M. Ferguson, Ltd.
For further Particulars, Samples and. Prices, write
for
CATALOGUE
B
E. RICH & CO., LT&-
Sydney.
Brisbane.
Rubrroid Building at Agricultural Show.
Unlike ordinary roofings P & B Ruberoid Roofing is absolutely airtight,
consequently it requires special ventilation. If you should raise the eaves
of a Ruberoid roof higher than the ridges, it would still be watertight, no
matter how heavy the rainfall; not so with other roofs, which would leak
like a sieve. It is through these holes in ordinary roofs that a great deal
of ventilation comes, which is not possible with roofs of P & B Ruberoid.
We, therefore, strongly recommend special provision for ample ventilation
at the ridges as illustrated.
THE RIGHT WAY.
fig
£
as
iiUUir
i4-U
S'
V' NS
ill
~tpr>
m
UJ
:i : i:, 11 j—'iKTraj
m
iiVTi
lIIM I I 1 U
***»on/eo
10-u-m-w-l;
111 l
IIDMV
i n.i J
"M
tir-


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 22.— N0. 1177.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1002.
Price 6d.
THE COMING CHEAP GOVERNOR-GENERAL.
"The Times says that if Australia is reluctant to provide a salary proportionate to the vice-regal magnificence expected in a Governor-General it may be necessary to appoint
some one whose expenditure will be strictly according to his salary.”
FUTURE GOVERNOR-GENERAL (receiving public bodies): “SODA OR WATER? BY THE WAY, HOPE YOU BROUGHT YOUR PIPES. CAN’T AFFORD TO KEEP
CIGARS IN THE HOUSE.” (public bodies would have a fit at first, but they would soon gel used to it.)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
" A ustrnlia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,.
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... ®
Half-yearly ... ... 0 u 6
Quarterly ... ... ••• U o b
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
T Vcstrulia and ATaovilund.
hi consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
nostage on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£ l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of\\d. postage, the subscription
to Tiie Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To case of in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —] \d. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition o/Tiiß Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
Tin sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have Tiie Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed'to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
'The whole concents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowlctlge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understandfhat we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To A >n<itours in Made and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct' reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
■ — i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Cotch, iAidjate Circus.
San Francisco. — L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
South Africa.— R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetoivn ; also in the Transvaal. F. 11. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Capetown. Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1902.
The London Octopus.
Among the schemes of imperial aggrandise-
ment which fell flat when the miscellaneous
Premiers were gathered in London at
Edward Yll.’s Coronation, few could rival
in complete flatness that one which aimed at
the establishment of a species of imperial
zollverein. It was a hazy and uncertain
scheme which was intended for the improve-
ment, in a hazy and uncertain way, of the
trade and manufactures of the Empire by a
system of mutual preferences and conces-
sions. It fell because Chamberlain and
Co. were utterly unable to comprehend that
the empire, in this connection, meant any-
thing outside of Great Britain and Ireland.
Despite the promiscuous howling of Seddon,
who performed wildly on the outskirts of the
political circus, and professed to be the origi-
nator of things in general, the demand that
some special measures should be taken to re-
tain the trade and industry of the empire in
the hands of the empire’s own people was, in
the main, an English demand. It was bound
to fail for that very reason. England, and
the dependencies which are governed directly
by England, are the only sections of the
empire which persistently outrage the prin-
ciple of giving a preference to the empire’s
own people. Also England declines to give
up outraging that principle. That was the
rock on which the business split and fell
asunder.
* * * *
It must be remembered (what Chamber-
lain and Co. never seem able to remember)
that Sydney and Melbourne, .Montreal,
Quebec, Auckland, Dunedin, Adelaide,
'Brisbane, and Hobart are quite as much
British territory and parts of the British
empire as London. When the people of
Victoria decided, by imposing a heavy Pro-
tective tariff, to give a preference in all
things to British subjects and British pro-
ducts (those of the British State of Victoria)
over Frenchmen, Germans and Americans,
and over French, German and American
goods, whether the goods came direct or
through England, they recognised their duty
to the empire in a practical way. So, more
or less in similar fashion, did Westralia,
S.A., Tasmania, Queensland, Maoriland, and
Canada. So, in a less degree, did N.S.W.
Under the Federal tariff all Australia and
Tasmania now give a preference to goods of
the British empire, and to the people of the
British empire, over the goods and pe«ple of
everybody outside. The object of their
tariff is to build up the industries, the cities
and the peoples of the British empire, and
to discourage as far as possible the industries,
commerce and progress of Edward Vll. ’s
enemies. Like practical men, the statesmen of
the Commonwealth, in their desire to give a
preference to Imperial products, start with
those Imperial products that are nearest to
them. Meanwhile, England stands aloof
from the movement, and so does India under
England’s compulsion. England, with its
Freetrade system and its Freetrade fetish,
refuses to give any preference to British
products, and not only that, but it utterly
fails to recognise the work that Australia,
Canada and Maoriland are doing, and how
they are attending to the duty which England
leaves undone.
• * • *
Australia, even if it desired to extend the
preference it already gives to certain goods and
people of the Empire to all the goods and all
the peoples of the Empire, could not do so.
England stands in the way. Unless England
does something in the way of shutting out
the goods of France, Germany, and more
especially America, to offer a preference to
British goods is really offering a preference to
everybody’s goods imported via Britain.
Things are too much mixed to be sorted out.
And Australia, having just had the greatest
burst of Jingo fervor that it ever suffered
from, doesn’t want to pamper the empire’s
enemies by opening its ports to their goods
either directly, or via Britain, or via any
other place. The fact that England does so
is no reason why we should follow suit.
Australia doesn’t want to help along the
foreign cities of New York and Paris and
Hamburg, as England does. It wants to
devote all its energies to building up the
British Imperial cities of Melbourne and
Sydney, and other parts of the British
empire adjacent thereto. It already gives
an immense trade advantage to 3,000,000
square miles of British territory, or nearly
one-third of the empire, while Britain offers
no preference whatever to a single Briton,
or a single acre of British territory. A
certain class, it is true, can’t see that any
preference is given to British products unless
the profits of it go to further bloat the un-
healthy octopus of London, but that is an
utterly one-sided view of the case. Thargo-
mindah is as much a part of the British
empire as London, and anyone who can make
two pairs of bluchers grow at Thargomindah
where only one pair of bluchers grew before,
is doing more to help along the industries
and prosperity of the British empire than if
he bought 100,000 pairs of Parisian boots
through a French agent in London, and got
them sent out here in a British ship owned
by Morgan, of New York. And if this
country puts up its own ironworks and steel
mills, and builds its own bridges, shutting
out British and foreign competition alike,
it will still be reserving the work solely for
British people, and doing vastly more for the
empire than England does when it buys its
iron bridges in Belgium and the United
States.
* « * *
The only aspect of the case which applies
to the average Jingo mind, however, is that
Australia should reduce its import duties on
manufactured goods sent here from British
ports. But seeing that Britain utterly fails
to supply itself with manufactured goods, and
imports about £200,000,000 worth, it seems
absurd to suppose that Britain could supply
us. If we abolished or greatly reduced
the duties on goods received here from
England, we would doubtless get a vast quan-
tity more of American, French, Belgian and
other goods sent to us via England ; but
that isn’t exactly the thing which the Jingo
party aims at. And we could only absorb
these by manufacturing less—by damaging
the industries of the British empire, as
represented by the British Imperial cities of
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, &c ,
in order to assist the empire's enemies.
This country may not have done all it should
have done in the way of giving a* preference
to the goods of the empire and helping along
the empire’s industries, but it hopes to do
better. It lias been hampered by shame-
fully disloyal Freetrade persons like Reid,
M'Millan, Puls ford, the two Smiths
(Bruce and Pumpkin), Conroy, and Joe
Cook —the renegade individual who left the
Labor party when a portfolio arose in the
east —who constantly demand that the trade
and industrial preferences granted to British
subjects under our Protective tariff should be
abolished, and the Russian, German,
Frenchman, &c., put on the same trade
level as loyal British citizens who helped to
loot the Transvaal and sack Albany. But
still something has been done, and when
these debased agents of Britain’s foreign
enemies are out of the way a good deal more
may be accomplished.
* * * *
It is certainly not good for the empire that
its industries, its wealth, and its commerce
should all centre in and closely around the
bloated metropolis of London. A gorged
centre, congested and apoplectic with wealth,
and some 10,000,000 square miles of help-
less, dependent and atrophied extremities do
not make a healthy state, An immensely
rich central pawnshop and 10,000,000 square
miles of mortgage do not constitute a healthy
state either. The most servile Jingo should
be able to see that it is much more im-
portant to the Empire to build up the com-
paratively small cities of Australia than to
further bloat the biggest city in the world,
unless he is a Jingo with whom centralisa-
tion has become a disease. And he should
be able to recognise that the last place in all
the British Empire to which Australia should
offer any preferential privileges is Britain.
Britain is almost the only important section
of the empire that has voluntarily thrown
the British ideal overboard. Australia,
Maoriland, and Canada, all give a preference,
extending as high as 25 per cent., to the pro-
ducts of the industry of Edward Vll. 's
subjects. England gives no preference at
all, and any little it can do in the way of
discouraging the industry of Edward VII. ’s
subjects by buying £413,000,000 worth of
goods per annum from Edward Vll. ’s
enemies it does. The people of Great
Britain spend, on an average, £lO each per
annum in buying goods from Edward Vll. ’s
enemies ; the people of the Commonwealth
spend about £3 10s. Chamberlain s scheme
for giving special concessions to the trade of
the empire fell through, partly because the
man who proposed doing the thing wouldn t
do it himself, and partly because the men he
urged to do it were doing it already. Only
Chamberlain, in his blank inability to
understand that there is any empire except
London, probably fails to see it.
The Debts That Are Palling Due.
The Victorian “ Citizens’ Reform League ” is a
body with occasional gleams of sense. It had one
of these in a partial form the other day when it
decided that
Parliament be asked to take early steps to confer with
the Parliaments of the other States and the Federal Par-
liament with the object of obtaining the highest expert
financial authority to devise some workable scheme,
equitable to all the States, for consolidating and convert-
ing; the State loans as the3' fall due into Australian
Consols, bearing a lower rate of interest.
This shows a tendency to move in the right direc-
tion, though a body with a bigger gleam would
move more definitely, and much m<?re vigorously.
The Citizens’ Reform League idea implies a large
exchange of communications and protocols, and
such like, and a great collecting of opinions
from financial experts, and all this while time and
money and opportunity would be slipping
away. There is no need of any such
elaborate scheme to commence with. A
short Bill of a dozen clauses would suffice
to fill the present emergency, and it could
be drafted in one night, and put through the
Federal Legislature in another. All the elabora-
tion could come afterwards. What is required
now is an Act authorising the Federal Govern-
ment to take over each State debt that falls due,
to renew it by issuing in its stead Australian
Consols, and to charge each State with its share of
the interest, sinking-fund and expenses, pending
further arrangements. There is nothing really
difficult about that. If the first £10,000,000 of
Australian Consols issued represented £5,000,000
of Victorian debt taken over, £3,000,000
of N.S.W. debt, £500,000 taken over
from Tasmania, £500,000 from S.A., and
£1,000,000 from Queensland even a very ordin-
ary intellect, figuring things out with a very
blunt pencil, could ascertain that, out of every
£1 paid by the Federal authorities for interest,
sinking fund and management expenses, Victoria
would be debited with 10s. ; N.S.W. with 6s. ;
Queensland with 2s. ; and the other two States
with Is. each.
• * * *
This method would, of course, be only a tem-
porary proceeding. Later on,'Australia needs a
scheme for federating all its State debts on equit-
able principles, and without any clumsy book-
keeping methods. But while the scheme is being
thought over and digested by financial authorities
of great mental tonnage, State debts are
persistently falling due. These are being re-
newed at a needlessly high rate of interest, for the
credit of the States is not very good at present,
whereas the Federal Government, with no debt,
no ugly financial record, and with the whole
customs and excise revenue at its disposal as a
guarantee of its ability to pay, would almost
certainly get much better terms. A needless
amount of expense is being incurred through the
fact that six different State authorities are looking
after these renewals. The old nefarious plan of
providing no sinking fund, and of making the
debts repayable on a fixed date whether the
market happens then to be good, bad, indifferent,
or awful, is being perpetuated. And every State
loan that falls due and is met by the floating of
another State loan fixed for 20 or 30 or 40 years,
postpones, or makes more difficult, the ultimate
and much-needed unification.
« * * *
There is no need to raise any question just now
about any large conversion operation. Probably it
will be better if no such question is raised at all.
Maoriland did an insane operation in that line
which resulted in an addition of £2,100,000 to its
public debt, and left it with a £21,000,000 loan re-
payable in one lump at a fixed date, and if that
date happens to be a time of financial disaster
Maoriland will have a bad experience. But the
federated States have £1,500,000 falling due in
1903, nearly £6,000,000 at the beginning of 1904,
£3,200,000 in 1905—in fact, they have a steady
average of about £4,000,000 falling due every year
for the next 30 years or more. Every one of these
debts should be taken over by the Federal Govern-
ment as it matures, and replaced by new Federal
Consols which will be fixed for, say, 20 or 25
years and then repayable at the option of the
Australian Government only, so that the Aus-
tralian Government can’t be cornered in a time
of panic as the State Governments so frequently
are. There should be a sinking fund, however
small, attached to every loan. And the Australian
banks, not the Bank of England or the London
and Westminster or any other English institution,
should do whatever work is necessary in London,
and get whatever loot is unavoidable. The
Federal Government’s credit may not be very
much better in reality than that of the State
Governments, but there is no possible doubt that
it would be regarded in London as being better.
And if it was even better to the extent of paying
2s. per cent, less interest, the saving, by the year
1910, on the debts that would have matured and
been taken over in that brief space of years, would
be £32,000 a year—this without reckoning the
additional saving by having one management
instead of six. Australia can do with £32,000 a
year just now, or even more.
* * * *
There are six harassed and mostly incapable
State Treasurers at present to whom it would be
no inconsiderable relief if some larger authority
would take off their hands the care and anguish
of renewing old loans, and leave them to float new
ones in peace and quietness. Meanwhile they are
struggling along as best they can, and every time
a State renews a one-million loan for 30 years at
(say) 2s. per cent, higher interest than might have
been paid if the Federal credit had been at the
back of the renewal, it fools away £30,000, or
rather £50,000, allowing for the way interest itself
increases at compound interest. If the Federal
Parliament moves in the matter now, instead of a
year later on, it may easily, in view of the fact
that some huge loans fall due at the end of 1903,
mean a saving of £250,000. Even the largest and
most dignified of Parliaments might condescend
to hustle a little for the sake of saving £250,000
especially as the saving might prove to be
£500,000. If the Citizens’ Reform League can
impress on the parties concerned that this is a
matter which calls for immediate attention, it
won’t have lived wholly in vain.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
State Fire Insurance.
The news that the proposal for the establishment
of a State Fire Insurance Department in Maori-
land has been hung up on the nail of procrastina-
tion at the hack of the door of uncertainty, is not
a matter calculated to cause surprise. The more
the subject is considered the more evident it
becomes that State fire insurance will only work
where the State takes over the whole business,
and insures everything (except, perhaps, the pro-
perty of persons already convicted of arson, who
might be declared permanently uninsurable as
part of their sentence), and carries the entire
risk itself. There is no earthly reason why it
shouldn’t do these things. With the whole assets
and credit of the State for its capital it could
insure the whole of every city in Maoriland with-
out carrying so large a risk in proportion to the
size of the fire insurance institution as any and
every private eo. does. It would save money
by concentration, by having fewer offices, man-
agers, directors, &c. (to see about 15 fire insurance
offices, managers and staffs in a paltry city like
Dunedin, where one office could do all the busi-
ness, is a shocking spectacle in the way of extrava-
gance), and if fire insurance were universal and
compulsory in the State office it would save the
great outlay for commission on the acquisition of
business. Also, it would have the immense ad-
vantage of doing a closely-concentrated business
in one State only. The interested private insur-
ance liar, or expert, always saps that State fire
insurance is impossible, because it will necessarily
be confined to one country, and “ all experience
shows that a wide diffusion of risks is essential
to success.” As a matter of fact, experience
shows the exact contrary, but this is put forward
because it is the only lie which can profess to
create a really insuperable difficulty in the way of
State fire insurance. Practically every Austra-
lasian office which went broke, or came near to
being broke, owed its disasters to doing a
widely - diffused foreign business; and only
the other day the Economist published a
bitter wail to the effect that the English fire
offices which did a foreign business only
Advance Advertisement.
A Bill to prevent the disfiguring of beauty-spots
by hoardings, introduced by Mr. E. M. Clark,
has been rejected by N.S.W. Assembly, after a
long debate in which Mr. Sleath, Mr. STOREY, Mr.
Affleck and others took part:—
Alas, that men, with tongue and pen,
Should thus together band
To take away from other men
The Art they understand.
They would from Mr. Storey bar
The sights he loves to see,
Although to him the Hoardings are
His Picture Gallery.
They would to Mr. Affleck close
The view of colored yells,
Which are his sole Correggios,
And only Raphaels.
The artist who, in colors warm,
And with suggestion sly,
Depicts the winsome Female Form
To cheer the Jessep eye,
They would, if they could have their way,
And do the thing they feel,
To Darlinghurst at once convey—
And break upon a wheel.
Such bigotry is overdone ;
A man with eyesight dim
May say a slush-lamp is the sun:
It is the sun—to him.
Shall Clarks our Hoardings fair deface,
And rage in frenzied bands,
Like rabid Ruskins round the place,
With hatchets in their hands?
Nay ! Hoardings'shall have greater scope,
And, tow’ring to the sky,
- Like London’s column —vide Pope—
Shall “lift their heads and lie.”
And Art with Trade, in concord fair,
Shall march o’er land and sea,
And move amidst a pomp and glare
Of circus blazonry.
The Forests shall no longer brood
On secrets strange and grand ;
There shall be np more Solitude
In all this wild, weird lfhd.
The peaceful hollows of th§ hills,
Where Silence used to dream,
Shall sing the praise of Perkin’s Pills,
And Smith’s Cosmetic Cream.
And poor lost swagmen, lying down
To take their final rest,
Shall read upon a stump—“ Try Brown !
His Coffins are the best.”
CKEEVE ROE.


Averaged a profit equal to £1 4s. per cent, of their
premiums, while the ones which remained strictly
at home in their own country, where their busi-
ness, though smaller, could be more closely super-
vised, averaged a profit of £l7 12s. sd. per cent.
But to be a success the State fire insurance depart-
ment must do the whole business compulsorily ; it
can’t save the cost of commission, for instance, if
it has to scramble for public custom in competition
with private institutions. It can’t make a com-
promise by compulsorily insuring property that
is not otherwise insured, for then the private
offices would take all the good business they could
get and the State Department would compulsorily
insure all the dangerous risks which they refused
to touch, with a certain amount of good business
thrown in. It must carry the whole risks of its
business itself. It can’t do a universal insurance
business, and yet reinsure a portion of its heavy
risks as private offices do, for private offices
won’t stay in the country merely to do a
re-insurance business with the State, and if they
are allowed to stay and compete with the State
for direct business, then, through that competi-
tion, all the saving of working expenses vanishes.
In fact, the private and State fire insurance busi-
ness can hardly exist side by side, for they belong
to a totally different category. The State idea, is
to insure all property, to prevent any possibility
of anybody suffering total loss by fire; and to
make the Department pay its way and build up a
sufficient reserve, which reserve will be the pro-
perty of the people who insure with it—the
E' "c. The object of the private office is to
up a large reserve, which is the exclusive pro-
perty of shareholders, and to pay good dividends
to shareholders, and if it could do these things
without insuring anybody or anything, it probably
wouldn’t insure anybody or anything. In its
official capacity it doesn’t care a straw
if the whole community is burned out
without any insurance, provided the fact
doesn’t interfere with its profits. The
private insurance office, in fact, doesn’t want to
insure anybody or anything, and only does so as
an unavoidable evil incidental on the process of
making money. The State office would want to
insure everybody—not so much to make money,
for it would only seek to make as much of that as
was necessary for safety, as to save the people
from loss, because it would be the people. Two
businesses, built on so widely different a basis,
won’t mix profitably. The State should take the
whole contract or none, and it can carry the
whole contract easily. If a fourth of Auckland
burned down in one act, the loss, buildings and
contents included, would probably be about a
million, and that would be no larger an item in
proportion to the State Department’s premium
income, and the resources behind it, than ones
which private institutions carry as a matter of
ordinary everyday business.
Checks on Tasmania’s Hasty
Legislature.
Premier Lewis now introduces his “ One House ”
proposals in what he calls a modified form. In-
stead of the original proposal of a House of 30
members —20 “lower” and 10 “upper” members
to sit together and vote by “orders” —the numbers
are increased to 24 and 12 respectively. The
voting by “ orders” is made optional:—
Councillors and members may vote separately in cer-
tain cases. To wit—(a) In all proceedings upon Bills
other than the first reading thereof. (6) In all proceedings
in Committee of Supply, of Ways and Means, and of the
whole House.
Any Minister of the Crown, or any three Councillors, or
any three members, may, before a question is put, request
that the votes of Councillors and of members be counted
separately.
Upon such count, if a majority of the Councillors and
of the members vote in favor of the question it shall be
considered carried.
If a majority of the Councillors and of the members
vote against the question, it shall be considered lost.
The President will only have a casting vote.
If upon any count a majority of Councillors disagree
with a majority of members, the question shall be con-
sidered lost, but shall be subject to re-consideration under
terms to be prescribed by Standing Orders.
All this to provide the “checks to hasty legisla-
tion ” which Mr. Lewis considers so necessary in
a violently socialistic State like Tas. But,
curiously enough, the last clause on the list makes
“ hasty legislation ” more easy of accomplishment
than ever. It is provided that: —
The rule that a third reading of a Bill shall not be pro-
ceeded with until at least 14 days have elapsed from the
last report of such Bill from the Committee of the whole
House may be suspended in cases of urgency if a majority
of both the Councillors and members then present signify
their desire for such suspension.
This means that some night, when the “ right-
thinking ” and gouty legislators happen to consti-
tute the majority present, the word may be passed
round the secret haunts of Dodery and Douglas,
and the Bill for the Abolition of Education and
the Re-establishment of Ignorance and Chaos may
get through in such haste that Tasmania won’t
have time to realise what struck it.
-
The Shearers’ Strike.
There’s a curiously persistent demand in Sydney
D.T. (which represents, seemingly, thePastoralists’
Union in this struggle) that the N.S.W. Govern-
iment should make a compulsory reference of the
shearing strike to arbitration. On the face of it,
that is a fair enough demand. The Arbitration
Act was passed to prevent strikes, and to punish
people who went out on strike instead of sending
then* grievances to the court for adjudication.
But, in reality, there is a great deal more in it
than an abstract desire for fair play and industrial
peace. All the facts need to be known
and taken into consideration before it
is seen what the D.T. (or P.U.) demand is
stuffed with. At the beginning of the shearing
season the bush-workers’ union (the A.W.U.)
announced its intention of demanding an increased
shearing rate and prepared to bring its case before
the Arbitration Court. The P. U., reasonably or
unreasonably, fearing a straight decision on the
point, promoted the Machine Shearers’Union—
an organisation of the non-union workers in the
shearing industry. The A.W.U. strove to en-
force the provision of the Arbitration Act that
there must not be two industrial unions in the
same industry, by moving the Arbitration Court to
cancel the certificate of registration of the M.S.U.
The application failed, partly through the
faulty manner in which it was framed,
partly because in the A.W.U. rules were included
certain political prohibitions which no Court of
Justice could approve, and which made it impos-
sible, therefore, that the workers in the pastoral
industry should be practically compelled to join
its ranks. That is the legal position now; and it
means that the A.W.U. is, so far as the Arbitra-
tion Court is concerned, a discredited body until
it legally amends its rules. It is at present mov-
ing in that direction, and will shortly ask the
Court again for recognition as the sole
industrial union in the pastoral industry.
But until that is effected, it has not the
ghost of a chance of success in any pro-
ceedings before the Court. It would go to
arbitration with the case decided against it to all
intents and purposes. The eagerness of certain
people to force it to the Court has only one object
—the destruction of a union which, whatever its
faults, has been the only bulwark to the bush-
workers in their campaign for decent wages and
decent conditions of labor. A fair decision under
the Arbitration Act can only be come to when the
employers stand on one side and the employees on
the other, without any bogus union intervening on
behalf of the capitalist. The honest-minded public
must recognise that, and recognise that it is the
Pastoralists’ Union which has set up. the obstacle
to a peaceful settlement of the shearing difficulty.
A Local Government Mockery.
One provision of Premier See’s N.S.W. Munici-
palities Bill incites nearly every member for the
mining districts to resist it in the hope of getting
a better—the provision which exempts mines
from taxation. Mr. See’s idea is to rate mining
land “ without regard to the value of any improve-
ments (except buildings) made or erected upon the
land, and without regard to any metals or minerals
contained, or supposed to be contained, in it
and as mining land is generally wilderness, and of
no value except for mining, this means that for
all the revenue it will yield it might just as well
not be rated at all. Nature plugs most of her metals
in the least desirable places; and when Premier
See decides that no part of the wealth which the
owners get out should be devoted to making the
place which yields it a bit more habitable, he is
guilty of great foolishness. If the man who draws
the divs. lived alongside his mine, and swallowed
his fair share of dust and grime, and was occa-
sionally jerked with a mangled limb over unmade
and unlighted streets, and dared not have a bath
for fear of exhausting the local water-supply,
there would be less to say ; more or less, he would
then contribute. But he knows better; he is an
absentee nine times out of ten, and the absentee
is a good person to tax on general principles.
See’s apology is that to tax a mine is to tax indus-
try and the men who work in the mines:
Take the case of Broken Hill. If, as I believe, there
are 4000 or 5000 miners employed on the various mines
there, I do not see why the output of the labor of those
mines should be taxed for municipal purposes. If it be
taxed, there is simply an imposition on the man who
works in the mine, because the more you tax him the
less he gets.
On precisely the same statesmanlike grounds, of
course, the co.s ought to be let off income and
every other form of tax, and everybody else ought
to be let off every sort of tax, and John See
oughtn’t to get his hair cut, because the more he
has it done, the less he is able to pay his domestic
Mary Ann. Besides, the positionin Broken Hill
and every other mining municipality is that the
co.’s already do pay tax. What Premier See
proposes to do is to make them a present of that;
and if he thinks they will then pay their men
any more he doesn’t know as much as a man of
his age should. It might a lot more reasonably
be put this way:
Take the case of Broken Hill. The place is a wilder-
ness of dust, largely because the mining co.’s stripped
the country of timber. The miners who do the hard
graft have to live there when they don’t have to die,
stewing at 115° in iron shanties in the summer and
freezing in the winter, whilst the men who draw most of
the divs. live in England. So far the mostly-foreign
B.H. Prop. Co., which makes even now in bad times an
average of £200,000 a year profit, has paid £l5OO a year-
less than 2d. in the £ of its profits—to improve the bar-
barous local conditions ; and now some fool-politicians,
while pretending to promote Local Government, propose
to abolish even that 2d.
«
A Cabbage-Garden Horror.
A horror strangely suggestive of the Middle
Ages was related a few days ago before the coroner
at Research (Vic.). That useful but rather belated
public official was inquiring into the death of a
woman named Annie Walker. A policeman
reported that he found her body, clothed in bags,
on the premises of Joseph Rodda, farmer. It
was lying in a shed floored with cobble-stones, and
decorated with the wreck of a bark roof, through
which the wind howled and the rain dripped as
they listed:
From inquiries made he learned that the poor creature,
who was an epileptic, had been confined in this outhouse
for many years. Few people in the district outside the
inmates of the Rodda household were aware of her
existence. Fits of violence visited her at regularly re-
curring intervals, and at such times she would tear her
clothing and smash anything breakable that she could
get hold of. Her food was given to her three times a day
in a kerosene tin, and it was through falling upon this
tin during one of her paroxysms that the wounds upon
her temple had been caused. She was locked in the shed
every evening between 7 and 8 o’clock, and her relatives
stated that her condition alternated between sanity and
madness. Her night clothing was so filthy that it had
been burned before Dr. Cole arrived.
The people who had charge of Annie Walker
explained that when they found her having a fib
in the shed they “usually took no notice.” In
the end she gashed herself so badly with the edge
of the kerosene tin while the Rodda family
was taking no notice, that she died of
shock, exhaustion and loss of blood. Her
body was covered with scars, and one ear was
partly burned off, The wife of farmer Rodda
explained that she had had charge of, and been a
sort of mother to, the epileptic for 17 years, most
of which period had apparently been filled in with
solitary confinement in the shed. The last time a
doctor had been called in was 10 years ago.
Annie Walker was not a member of the Rodda
family, but was entrusted to them by her real
mother, who paid ss. a week for the shed accom-
modation and the food in the kerosene tin. She
was a humane mother, so it was carefully ex-
pounded, and could not bear the idea of her
daughter being in a lunatic asylum, though she
seems to have borne up manfully against the
thought of her daughter being clothed in bags and
spending her life on the stone floor of a cold,
leaky outhouse. The coroner’s jury was deeply
shocked at hearing these things, and proposed bring-
ing in a verdict that Anne Walker’s death was
due to the gross neglect of Joseph Rodda, bub
learning that this would be equivalent to a verdict
of manslaughter on Joseph Rodda it hastened to
tone down its remarks. Why any jury should be
so alarmed to find it had been on the verge of
saying something severe about Joseph Rodda it
is difficult to imagine; it might rather be sup-
posed that 12 ordinarily-constituted men would
feel a profound joy in casting all the aspersions
they had about them on that callous agriculturist.
The statement that few people outside the Rodda
household knew of the skeleton that dwelt and
howled in the bitterly cold shed for so many
years has a certain interest. It implies that
soma people, at all events, were aware of what
was going on ; and the fact that nobody interfered
casts a dismal light on the workings of the bush
soul and the agricultural conscience.
Some Means of Saving 1 .
When the N.S.W. Government really does begin
to retrench in earnest (that will probably not be
until the day when its 1.0. U. is looked at with
scorn in every money-market of the world, and
the squalid shadow of the bailiff falls over Pinch-
gut), the Treasurer who has the hideous task of
making ends meet will probably find in a sound
system of Local Government;with a correspond-
ing decentralising of expenditure, one of the most
valuable means of saving. Money is like elec-
tricity, it loses enormously in transmission.
When a central Sydney administration spends
£5O in putting a plank on a Walgett bridge, it
is generally safe to assume that had the money
been raised locally for the work, about
half the sum would have sufficed ; the rest goes in
transmission and red-tape administration. Local
works, too, are very often carried out, under the
present centralised system, by the State Govern-
ment, not because of any real necessity for them,
but as a concession to the insistence of a pushing
local member. Further than this, the system of
centralised Government leads to enormous ex-
penditure on various accounts, such as schools of
arts, parks, charity societies, &c., which a country
in such sore straits as this can hardly afford. A
circulating library of novels, a park and football
ground, and an agricultural society are provided
for most centres of population by the State Govern-
ment. The time arrived long ago when an honest
Cabinet would have declared frankly that the
country could no longer afford these “frills,” and
that localities wanting schools of arts, parks, etc.,
must pay for them or go without. The time
arrived long ago; the honesty still lags on the
road. It will not be a pleasant thing to do, to
retrench the subsidy towards the Narrabri man’s
Marie Corelli and his annual agricultural show.
But some day, and that very soon, a Government
will have to face the music and resolve to carry
on without borrowing ; and when that day comes
the many thousands now frittered away on such
things will have to be considered. The ultimate
problem of retrenchment is not to bridge over a
small deficit accruing after from three to five
millions of money have been borrowed and spent
on reproductive and unreproductive works, but to
carry things on without any aid from the pawn-
broker at all. When that problem insists on
being solved the Government of the day will have
to do some brutal things.
♦ -
Unsectarian Education.
The clerical party in Victoria is just now urging,
as a measure of “ educational reform,” the adop-
tion of the N.S.W. system, which allows of
religious instruction by the various sects during
school hours. The clericals profess to consider, in
Victoria, that to be a fairly “godly” system,
which, in N.S.W., they condemn as quite “god-
less.” If so much concession is granted to them,
then it will be used as a lever to secure further
“reform” in the direction of mixing up theology
with the A.B.C. and arithmetic in the system of
State education. The clerical party in politics
will never be satisfied short of an absolute
destruction of the system of unsectarian education.
But the only logical attitude for a State which
makes elementary education compulsory is to
teach only what is generally considered necessary
and what is unanimously considered true. How
to read, how to write, how to count, the element-
ary facts of history and of physical and other
sciences may be, and should be, taught by_ the
State, because a knowledge of them is requisite*
for civilised life, just as air and food and clothing
are requisite. But beyond that no State has a
right to go. Parents may in addition teach their
children whatever they like of various controversial
matters or teach them nothing at all. That’s no
business of the State’s. Since it takes on itself to
compel all children to learn certain things, and
taxes the people generally to meet the expenses of
teaching, it cannot, without injustice, either itself
teach, or lend its machinery for others to teach,
anything on which there is a reasonable difference
of opinion in the community. That’s the case for
unsectarian education in a nut shell. The people
may be rightly taxed to teach their progeny facts,
but not to teach them anything which a very large
proportion of the people regard as fictions.
4
A recent N.S.W. Leg. Council debate on the
unemployed question aroused one member—a
one-time alleged democrat, who seems to have
degenerated into the paths of ancient dry-rot- to
propound the strangely antiquated theory that
labor-saving machinery was the cause of the
trouble. This awakening of Rip Van Winkle
excited no apparent surprise, and the member
wasn’t told that he was a fool with half the energy
that the case called for. Think of ascribing the
lack of employment in N.S.W. to the multiplicity
of labor-saving machinery when the State is
annually importing some £10,000,000 worth of
manufactured goods for want of sufficient skill,
enterprise, and labor-saving machinery to make
these things for itself ! Roughly speaking, there
is work for 50,000 unemployed, and support for
them and their families (say 200,000 or 250,000),
and support for all the subsidiary industries that
would be dependent on them (equal to another
250,000 people), drifting past our doors. No
wonder there are unemployed, but it is the lack,
not the super-abundance, of labor-saving ma-
chinery that makes them.
4
“ Gumleaf ” writes :
It looks as if there was a strong ring in Victoria at any
rate to bear down the wages market. Everywhere
employers are pulling long faces and decrying the coun-
try without rhyme or reason. The Tory crowd of poli-
ticians at present in power, representing, as it does, the
capitalistic portion of the community, has been doing its
best to help the movement of rushing down salaries to a
lower standard. Irvine, Robert Reid, McKenzie and 00.
knew well enough that the first effect of percentage re-
ductions in the Public Service would be an all-round reduc-
tion in salaries outside the service. Already this has come
about, and there will be plenty of it soon. The general
movement is supported by scandalous lying as to the
condition of the State. Politicians and newspapers have
combined forces to prove that Victoria is insolvent. This
is a colossal lie. These people talk a lot about patriotism,
but they are out-and-out traitors. Whatever the effect of
the drought may have been in other States Victoria is
remarkably prosperous. The general State revenue was
better, the railway revenue was greater, the returns from
the income-tax higher, and the volume of bank clearances
larger last year than has been the case for some years
past. The ’banks and financial institutions are mostly
paying dividends, and the Melbourne Tramway com-
pany’s dividends are almost up to the boom-time level
again. In the face of these facts it is criminal to say that
Victoria is not as prosperous as ever she has been. The
employers o^labor got a relish for so-called “ depressions ”
because, on the last occasion, they were able to bear
down the wages market about ‘25 per cent., and, although
wages afterwards increased, they are still below the
previous standard. If the present nefarious attempt is
successful it means another 5 or 10 per cent, permanent
reduction in the earnings of the workers.
4
A Bulletin correspondent’s comments on the
cabled announcement that Premier Seddon had
satisfied the Austrian Ambassador in London
that Austrians in Maoriland are not treated on a
footing different from people of other nationali-
ties :
Mr. Seddon’s assertion is both amusing and amazing.
I have already explained (8., 5/7/’O2) the peculiar hard-
ships to which gum-digging Outlanders are subjected
here. Granting that foreigners were badly treated in the
Transvaal, there was there nothing worse than actually
exists in Maoriland at the present moment. One great
> pretext for the gum-digging legislation was that the
Austrians were mere “ birds of passage” who drained so
much wealth from the soil and took it to their own
country. The Austrians have given the lie to this
assertion by settling and prospering on land in the
North on which the enlightened Britisher was never
able to make a decent living. From personal know-
ledge I can say that the Austrians are model settlers, and
such is the opinion of those of their neighbors whose
opinion is worth having. Within the last three years
hundreds of these people have applied for naturalisation
papers, in order to assert their influence as citizens yet
these applications have been deliberately hung up.
Delay in dealing with such applications has never before
been experienced, and the sole explanation is that the
Ministry is afraid of the applicants. The puny-brained
politicians who were at the bottom of the shameful
restriction on'alien diggers know that their political doom
would be sealed if their victims had votes, and hence the
diplomatic delays in dealing with the papers. Yet, it is
asserted that the Austrian Ambassador has been per-
suaded that his countrvmen are not subjected to peculiar
hardships in Maorilan'd—probably because he believes
that it would bp impossible for the Government, which
has just been helping the Rhodesian buccaneers to reform
the corrupt Boers, to be guilty itself of worse corruption.
—
Thk sordid row which arose'through some R.C.
authorities trying to dodge payment of rates on
the Catholic presbytery at Lismore (N.S.W.)
draws attention to a much-needed reform. There
should be no exemptions whatever in the
matter of water or sewerage or municipal
rates. Government property of every sort,
including Crown lands, should pay municipal
rates like the rest. So should churches,
charitable institutions, religious homes, brother-
hoods, sisterhoods, priories, boneyards, monkeries
and sundries. Municipalities might be authorised
to make grants to their own charities, and the
State can vote what it pleases, but the assistance
should be public. When it is done surreptitiously,
by subterranean concessions ami exemptions, no
one knows how much State assistance the sects
still get.
How fond the Reids and M'Millans and
Bruce Smiths were of “ sneaking in Protection.”
It now leaks out that they kept the little N.S.W.
iron industry alive at Lithgow on this basis :
A ton of bar iron could be sent from Eskbank to Sydney
for 10s. 6d. The freight for a similar distance from any
other railway station would be 435. The iron could be
sent from Eskbank to Parlces for 16s. 9d., and imported
iron or bar iron made in Sydney cost £6 Os. 4d. to land in
The rate gave iron made at Lithgow a similar advantage
if sent to Bourke or Hay or Albury, and consequently a
practical monopoly of the whole of the trade in bar iron
of the Western and Southern parts of the State.
Of course this device didn’t enable Lithgow to
capture the iron trade of Sydney, where it had to
compete with iron imported by sea, and the fact
that the concession wasn’t secured by law, but
might be abolished any day, made it impossible
to build up a big industry on the strength of it.
Still, it was by the Protection sneaked in by the
Reid, M‘Millan and Smith clan that Lithgow
maintained the precarious hold it possessed,
though these people didn’t scruple to point to it
as a fine sample of a rising young industry under
exclusively Freetrade conditions !
♦”
At a meeting of the Victorian Chamber of Manu-
factures to endorse the attitude of the Govt, to-
wards the railway employees, a Mr. J acobs said
that the Premier and the Minister for Railways
deserved the thanks of the community for having
averted a great disaster. Presumably the “ great
disaster ” Jacobs referred to was the possibility
of the wages-reductions not coming off. But the
gem of the discussion was when a blitherer named
Blythe balanced himself on his corn-end with his
alleged brain-end in the air, and said that he
personally “was one of those who had been
anxious for the men to strike. ... as it would
have been better for them to have been put down
once and for all. The thing to do was to hand the
railways to a company, who would know how to
deal with railway-hands better than members of
Parliament.” . It is perhaps a pity the men didn’t
strike, and that men like Blythe, who never put
down, “ once and forall,” anything more ferocious
than champagne and fowl, didn’t try their hands at
shunting and engine-driving. With dreary
Derham in the signal-box, Jacobs at the points,
and Blythe being fried under a wrecked engine,
the latter might have realised that the engine-
driver is worthy of the wages paid him, even if
those wages are double what the man behind the
counter receives. The risk of an unutterably
horrible death", the certain knowledge that one
day the nervous system will go to pieces through
the constant vibration of the rocking engine, are
surely as worthy of special remuneration as a
special knowledge of how to make a six-and-six-
penny shoe look worth half-a-sovereign.
♦ _ ■
S’Malkum M ‘Eacharm’s bitter complaints against
Kingston’s administration of the Customs, which
he alleged caused him to relieve the Govt, of
his valuable support, merely moved the House to
mirth, and gave Kingston a chance to state plainly
why he was prosecuting certain “respectable”
tea-merchants. Said C.C.K. : “The Customs
officers and analysts reported that these Indian
teas which were stopped were mixed with a sub-
stance other than tea, contained more than the
prescribed amount of ash, and rotten and decayed
leaves. The substance other than tea was simply
mud, and a very large quantity of mud. The
Crown Solicitor had reported, that there was a
clear cruse, and the law was set in motion.” Which
declaration made hash of M'Eachabn’s virtuous
indignation about “respectable merchants being
dragged to court.” Respectable merchants don’t
sell mud as tea. But in the past “ respectable
merchants ” have been in the habit—when found
out—of going and talking the matter over quietly
with the Customs Minister and paying, or else nob
paying, a small fine—the matter being concluded
without unnecessary publicity. And all that is
altered now.
♦
Shiels, the Financial Raven of Victoria, now
says that the deficit will be £lOO,OOO more than he
anticipated a few weeks ago, instead of ranging
from £450,000 to £OOO,OOO, he now finds it may be
anything between £550,000 and .£700,000. Yet
the Doleful One has only made arrangements for
meeting some £350,000 of the shortage, and much
of these arrangements were simply dodges for
stealing sinking-funds and postponing payment
of liabilities. And there is no word of any
further steps—especially nothing about an equit-
able land-tax, or an absentee-tax. Shiels hates
to part with his misery. He enjoys being
wretched, and is much happier weeping over the
shortage than making a few simple and easy
arrangements to have no shortage at all. It is
practically certain that he won’t try to make ends
meet, because if he hadn’t a deficit at the end of
the year he would have nothing to be picturesquely
miserable about. Shiels, by the way, acknow-
ledges that the taxes and railway charges taken off
in recent years represent more than the antici-
pated deficit, but the simple device of putting
them, or something equivalent, on again seems
beyond him. He can’t let go his blessed griev-
ance.


The equitable life assurance society
of the United States.
FINANCIAL - STATEMENT
FOR YEAR ENDING 3lBi DECEMBER, .1901.
INCREASE IN SURPLUS .. „ .. «. « .. £1,039,973
ASSURANCE IN FORCE .. .. •• £245.682,651
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE .. . . .. .. ... ' £13,000,350
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1900' by ... ... £8,088,718
LOCAL DIRECTORS:
Sir WM. M‘MILLAN, K.C.M.G., Chairman; Hon. C. K. MAOKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.0. ;
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D,
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
Bought, Sold & Exchanged
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. H. SMYTH & CO., 88 Kinff-st.,
BYDKKI’.
SAWMILL MACHINERY.
BAND or CIRCULAR MILLS, very heavy for
hardwood timber. Complete Outfits of any capa-
city. BAND RESAWS. ENGINES. BOILERS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
PULP MACHINERY. GRIP PULLEYS.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Boyal “A Chinese Honeymoon."
Lyceum “ Riding to Win.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Palace “ San Toy.”
Criterion “ The Lady Slavey.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ Mice and Men.”
Her Majesty's. “ Robin Hood”(last three nights).
Theatre Royal “A Woman of Pleasure.”
BIJOU “The Lady of Ostend.”
Opera House Sandow.
«
When the “Chinese Honeymoon” ap-
peared in Melbourne, this paper, always anxious
to think kindly of a small, fat brother, spoke of it
as a play which had room for improvement. The
room has now expanded to the dimensions of a
cathedral, but very little of the improvement
whioh ought to fill it has arrived. “ A Chinese
Honeymoon” will, almost certainly be a great
success in its new home at Sydney Royal. It has
all the bad qualities which point in that direction.
Speaking cf it as it appeared on a cold, sodden,
wretched night, when the chariots of the mighty
were bogged in Castlereagh-st., and the cab of the
ungodly couldn’t get to the theatre-door because
the horse had fallen down on the wet blocks, it had
few good qualities, and these few were far apart.
It might look a little better on a different
kind of night, or again it might not. The plot is
faint ahd not strikingly funny. It turns to to
great extent on the fact that an insane Chinese
Chancellor has made a law by which any person
who kisses, or is kissed by, a Chow of royal blood
must marry that royal Chow immediately. Conse-
quently, when bride Pineapple allows herself to be
bugged by a bloated Mongol, alleged to be a bill-
poster, solely by way of revenge on bridegroom
Pineapple, whom she suspects of running after a
strange Chinese girl in glaring trousers, she starts
a. series of rather dreary and wooden complica-
tions. They include the decision of the Emperor
to bestow his niece—the girl in the trousers that
look like two large drain-pipes—on bridegroom
Pineapple; the Emperor’s later resolve to fry
Pineapple, in accordance with a deranged statute
which, under ce. tain ciroumstances, confers that
hot and greasy fate as a special honor;
the troubles of an admiral who is under sentence to
be tickled to death with agricultural implements;
and that terribly old acquaintance, the mother-in-
law joke. It is not a bright variety of the mother-
in-law joke, either. These things move along to
no particular ending, and, in the main, they look
just about as cheerful as the country on the road
from Hungerford to Ha.y via Hades.
• • m *
There are no songs that linger very per-
sistently in the memory, and no music that seizes
on you like a policeman or a crab, and won’t let
go; though the composer’s part of the show is at
least respectable. The case may be summed up by
saying that the music isn’t quite A 1 and the words
are about Z 3. The Oriental potentate who boils
people without animosity has faded a little since
first the Mikado was lingering but humorous ;
and the Chow emperor’s imported official mother-
in-law is a poor shadow of the Mikado’s daughter-
in-law elect. Miss Bessie White represents her
as the regulation gaunt horror, like a poke bonnet
on top of a telegraph-pole, who never really
existed within the memory of man or dog. Miss
Josephine Stanton is plump and bright and
cheeky as the emperor’s niece, and keeps
her part of the show moving along vigorously,
and Henry Hallam is a large, smooth,
fat emperor who looks as if he could sit with
weight on a good, strong, old-established throne.
Miss May Beatty is wasted in the character
of a cockney waitress, whose humor consists mostly
of a strident voice and a lost “ h.” Edward Lauri
is undoubtedly a good comedian, and with better
opportunity he would be a better comedian ; and
J. C. Piddock makes a good, ordinary young-man
herb, who is not brilliant either in his .acting, or
his singing, yet isn’t disgraceful in either capacity.
The “Chinese Honeymoon” is splendidly mounted
and richly clothed, but it represents the decadence
of a thing that never amounted to very much at
any time; and it has old jokes in it, and old
nursery rhymes, and old reminiscences, and though
it gets off a good new joke of its own now and
then the event is rare. The man who starts out
to walk from one of these jokes to another needs
to carry a good large water-bottle, or his bones
will be found in after years beside the mother-in-
law witticism or bleaching adjacent to the lost
“h.”
#* * *
Bland Holt’s new drama, “Riding to Win,”
is due at Sydney Lyceum this Saturday. The
Bulletin said in a recent issue that it was due
last Saturday, which it wasn’t, but ought to have
been, for “Flying Colours” was growing a trifle
ancient, and it began to seem as if it were time it
flew definitely. This appears about as good an
explanation of the discrepancy as can be offered,
but six other equally good explanations are avail-
able if this paper’s old friend, Bland, has any use
for them. “ Riding to Win” is a bike drama, not
a horse drama, as foreshadowed in this column
last week. The Bulletin knew it was a bike
drama, but alluded to it as a horse drama by way
of breaking the news to the public gently, just as
one might tell a lady that her husband was
dead, so as to lead up to the fact that he
was still alive, but was going to start an
evening paper. The Bland Holt management
relucta tly admits that the bike scene in “ Riding
toWi j ” v.ill beat the “Ben Hur” chariot race
hollow, so it should be worth seeing. Manager
Chris. Simoiisens, by the way, celebrates a birth-
day on Saturday when he won’t be nearly so
young as he deserves to be. He has put in 12
years with the Bland Holt combination—but then
a man can put in 12 years with B. Holt and look
younger than if he had put in six with some
managers.
“San Toy” continues its successful run
at Sydney Palace, being made acceptable to the
public chiefly by its hilariousness. If the co.
only had one or two really good singing voices
the indications are that the piece would fairly
gallop.
** * «
“ The Lady Slavey,” at Sydney Criterion,
is not improved this week by the substitution of
somebody else for Frank Crossley as a tame
nobleman of the pale-haired dude type. Mild
disapproval may also be bestowed on the new
man’s dreadful ballad, which states that the Eng-
lishman went to the Boer war from trivial motives,
but that the Australian took part in that now
forgotten episode because his holiest impulses
drove him to it. In other respects the musical
comedy of the high-class servant-girl and the
bailiff-millionaire-flunkey with the African com-
plexion remains the same.
** * *
The Eva Mylott farewell concert at Sydney
Town Hall was an artistic triumph. The Meister-
siiigers warbled pleasantly about the flower that
St. Patrick is erroneously supposed to have planted
in Ireland, and at the close, very appropriately,
came Kuchin’s “Farewell.” The Meistersingers
are not the best quartette this writer has heard,
but they are eminently respectable. Right through
the programme there was not one item that The
Bulletin can conscientiously declare unenjoyable,
but Miss Frost’s manipulation of the organ, Miss
Edith King’s songs, Laurence Phillip’s piano solo,
and Miss Mylott’s ‘ ‘ Sing Me to Sleep ” were
superb. The last-named thing is the best Miss
Mylott has done in this paper’s hearing. A better
organiste than Miss Frost is not to be found in
Sydney and her contribution, as an encore of the
“Storm” was a very glittering gem. A streak
of low comedy business was supplied by Dan’l
O’Connor, who rose up in the interval to babble
about the “beauty and grace of the fair singer
and the glory and splendor of her majestic voice
that had soared through the empyrean and was
now knocking at the gates of Paradise ” then
the audience started to applaud, and Dan’l leered
hideously. It was a leer worth £5O per week at
Rickards’, but at a highly-respected singer’s
farewell concert it merely proved that Dan’l is a
primitive humorist who wants chaining up.
*m m *
At Sydney Tivoli on Saturday Miss Alice
C. Orr displayed for the first time a contralto
voice of pure quality, thoroughly well trained, not
of much volume, but withal much better than that
of any other singer at this theatre for many
months. The Harvey Bros., who combine
“ knockabout comedy ” with a boxing turn, also
made a first appearance. They understand the
boxing better than the comedy, and would be
more popular if they gave the public more “ biff ”
and less talk. Cinquevalli and the Drews are as
popular as ever. This Saturday Miss Dorothy
yane (now Mrs. Norman Menzies) will play a
little realistic comedy “They can’t keep away
from it ” —at least, that is what the management
does not announce. At any rate she will appear
and sing or say or act something.
** * *
“ S.A.M.” writes :
I had a short talk with Brough. The night before, I
had seen him in evening dress making love coolly and
effectively to a girl upon the stage. Now he was in one
of his stores working, sweating—hot and grimy. “ Look
at my hands,” he said, as he knocked the dust off them,
“ I’ve been going through my scenery and wardrobes ;
I’m taking (in measurement) some 300 tons of plant to
India, and 20 or 30 plays. Yes, the plant weighs
more than the plays. Do you know that Mrs.
Brough and I have each played nearly 300 parts
in Australia; we’ve never been out of harness except
when we’re asleep. I sleep only six hours a night; Mrs.
Brough scores better. Coming down from Brisbane, I
did nine hours right off in the train. That was before
‘ Iris.’ I didn’t sleep quite so well after ‘ Iris.’ I have
no plans for the future. lam just sitting on a rail.
People who have seen Mrs. Brough this time play
Paula Tanqueray have been so impressed with her
that they ask, ‘ Does Mrs. Brough intend to play
Paula in London ? ’ I say ‘No ! ’ There is no plan in the
back of our heads regarding London. Our plans carry us
only as far as Shanghai, where the Eastern tour ends.
How can we have any plans beyond that? I haven’t
even decided whether after Shanghai I shall become an
actor again ; whether I shall ever again put on the war-
paint and face the footlights. It will cost me a dreadful
heart pang, a big choking in the throat, to say ‘ Farewell
for ever 1’ to all my characters. There —that is all that
is in my mind about my future. The hard work has not
knocked me out. Yet, during the whole 15 years that
we have been entertaining the Australian public I have
never had my ; plays off my mind. Australia is most
fortunately situated as regards plays. Here we produce
only London successes ; the Londoner has to swallow 50
failures with every success ; a gallon of skim-milk with
every spoon of cream. But the Sydney playgoer has been
treated by us to the whole string of London successes,
and a Londoner could see these plays only by attending
the theatres over a course of years. The Sydneyite gets
the lot in a few weeks, and hasn’t to waste a shilling even
in seeing a failure.”
** * *
The Hawtrey Co., at Melbourne Bijou on
Saturday, found business brisk, especially in the
higher-priced parts of the house. If there’s any-
thing in the name, “The Lady of Ostend ” looks
hardly the sort of title to tickle curiosity in the
local galleryite. The fancy of untravelled natives
lightly turns to thoughts of giddiness at the
mention of “Gay Paree” or Monte Carlo, but
Ostend (the place where the rabbits come from),
for all they know, may be a foreign facsimile of,
say, Geelong, and the Lady thereof a starched
version of the “Lady of Lyons.” In reality, the
“ lydy ” in question is a bold-faced female,
clothed in scarlet, who, before her marriage
to a pugilist, is hired by a cinematograph co.
to decoy “swells” into flirtatious attitudes on
Ostend sands, thus enabling her principals to
“ snap ” compromising pictures of dupe and vic-
tim. Nothing very shocking is recorded by the
camera spy—a proffered kiss by an English
married man, a concerted bathe with a fat French
bachelor. On these “motifs,” however, the situa-
tion hinges, for the weak-minded Britisher unsus-
pectingly escorts wife and mother-in-law to the
cinematograph show ; while the fat Frenchman,
though not immured in matrimony, does not
get off scot-free, for he is recognised in the
picture and pursued for his life by the
jealous professional pugilist - husband of the
Ostend lady who lured him into the surf.
Cregan MacMahon, who leavens his business with
souvenirs of Herbert Ross, takes the part of
“ Whortles,” the stereotyped young husband,
who lives in amorous dread of his charming wife
owing to his own proneness to stay out all night,
returning with his collar hanging by one stud,
and his hair in the last stage of dissipation. Oily
Deering is a delightful father-in-law, an oily,
fruity, rollicking, old Sinner, the Sinner of 1000
farcical comedies, who goes to a oostume-ball as
Cupid and dances a hornpipe on the table.
Mrs. G. B.W. Lewis makes the mother-in-law very
convincing—a dragon, but comely. The average
stage mother-in-law burlesques her tyranny
and makes-up so repulsively that the veriest
worm that ever crawled about in the semblance of
husband or son-in-law would arise and order her
off the premises. Hawtrey, as a Frenchman with
“a rattling past,” is animated and engaging, but
not altogether French. He’s more like a Swiss —
a sort of Franco-Prussian blend.
• * • •
C. P. Hammond, as the Gripper, looks
impressively large; Laura Nicholls, as a jealous
young wife, is dressy and pretty. All the same,
she doesn’t preserve her incessant nagging from
monotony. The first act of “The Lady of
Ostend” is the dullest, but closes brightly. Second
and third acts, with Hawtrey and Deering in evi-
dence, keep things moving, though there’s a
childish lapse when the pugilist smashes the de-
tachable furniture and M‘Mahon basks under the
table, with his head sticking into the foreground,
as if the giant resembled Sampson in his blindness
as well as his destructiveness.
* • • *
The curtain-raiser, “Counsel’s Opinion,”
deals chiefly with an unnaturally precocious small
boy, who reconciles his widowed mother to her
estranged father (Hawtrey). The juvenile actor,
a youngster named Halliday, has a good appear-
ance and strong voice, but the usual tutored air of
stage-childhood stiffens his excellent elocution and
deportment.
** * *
Dramas are moving fast at Melb. Royal,
and the management, which mounted “The
Ladder ” regardless of expense, is about to with-
draw “The Ladder” at the very height of its
popularity, or thereabouts. Unless General
Desire prompts William Anderson to keep a large
force of local troops in action for another week
that enterprising civilian will change his bill on
Saturday (6th). Meanwhile Robert Inman con-
tinues to bind up his wounds and scatter the
enemy. Also, the Nasmyth hammer blows off
steam in a most lavish style, and the missing
codicil descends to long-haired Willard like
a brick from the skies. Willard, the relent-
less, was unable to take up his old evil job
on the first night of the revival, but he
turned up again last week, bringing his potent
sneer with him. Present scribe must confess to a
sneaking reverence for Willard. He lodges his
false accusations against Inman as though the
breath, of slander came natural to him, and never
forgets to raise his eyebrows philosophically when
the game is up. One feels sorry to know that
Willard’s familiar game is always fated to be up
in the last act, but his beautifully calm acceptance
of adversity when it arrives is a lesson in manners
to the hero and heroine, who are apt to heave and
totter considerably during their three hours of
mental anguish. Melodramatic virtue, as com-
pared with vice, seems very lacking in repose.
** * *
On Saturday (6th), if the attractive advt.
sticks to its promise, “A Woman of Pleasure ”
will start to enjoy herself at the Royal. This
drama, which involves a prologue in addition to
four thrilling acts, is new to Australasia, and the
principal scene shows a troopship on fire, with the
gallant British soldiery singing their own beloved
Anthem whilst getting a foretaste of the other
flames in store for them.
** » *
“Robin Hood,” at Her Majesty’s, prospers
sufficiently. Melbourne regrets the modern
American accent of George Lyding, and would
like him better if he were a bolder outlaw as re-
gards his upper register, but, apart from these
defects, the new tenor is satisfactory. He would
be still more so if he didn’t follow the ’Murkan
rule of trying to look effeminate rather than
manly. Life in Sherwood Forest was rough on
the complexion, no doubt; Robin, in the opera,
looks addicted to the use of somebody’s patent
bloom restorer, and is otherwise a rather “ dolled-
up ” denizen of the sylvan glade. The dressing
of several characters is nearly all that it ought not
to be. Miss Carrie Moore, as the romantic Maid
Marian, wears a pantomime-boy costume for
her first disguise, and anon she decorates her-
self after the crude devices of her own
art. A painfully over-trimmed lady is Miss
Carrie Moore. In the second act she might
be going to a fancy-dress ball in the char-
acter of Fuss and Feathers, especially Feathers.
Carrie nowadays seems to have formed her style
from the exuberant coon-songstress who walks for
de cake. She is very young, and her promotion
has been too rapid to permit of her learning lots
of things that an actress ordinarily learns before
she achieves principal parts in opera. “The
Circus Girl” and “Robin Hood” have drawn
special attention to the fact that Carrie Moore is
at present merely a sprightly soubrette with a No.
9 smile.
#* * *
Miss Florrie Gallimore, from London, is
the latest feature at Melb. Opera House. Miss
Florrie, together with the professor of magic, Miss
Ada Delroy, and a few other people now on the
bill, will remain to form an environment for
Sandow, who starts his chest expansion at the
house on Saturday next. Sandow’s wonderful
strength was applied to the prices at Rickards’s,
and with one mighty effort he raised ’em to 4,3, 2
and 1 for his approaching season. The advent of
this muscular Christian means the disappearance
of Lydia Yeamans-Titus, the Florenz co., Wrigley
and Harris and Walters, some of whom will be
missed when they are gone. Even Harris and
Walters will be missed, for reasons too obvious to
mention.
** * *
At the Athenaeum Hall, the “ Marvellous
Corrieks ” concluded their short season of inoffen-
sive musical entertainment last Saturday, and the
little family party is now understood to be strug-
gling for appreciation round the suburbs, This
week, M'Adoo’s Jubilee Singers are back at the
Athenaeum for four nights, after which they will
tour some more.
ife * * *
“Mice and Men," the romantic comedy
wherein Nellie Stewart and the Musgrove Comedy
Co. were to have faced the music last Saturday,
was put back until Wednesday of this week, and
will be duly discussed in next issue. The last few
nights of “ Sweet Nell” brought little grist to the
Princess’s mill. People who might have gone to
renew their old acquaintance with Nellie Stewart
as the promoted orange girl did not roll up
in battalions to sample the novelty of Miss Minnie
Sadler’s performance. Miss Sadler’s work was
intelligent and pretty in its way, but the under-
study lady lacked a good many of the arts and
graces that had made Miss Stewart a brilliant
success, despite her obvious insincerity at emotional
moments and her exaggerated comedy in the pen-
and-ink episode. Miss Sadler was a little more
sincere and a lot less effective.
# efc * #
The dates of the Melba concerts, at Mel-
bourne Town Hall, are fixed, and the box-plan for
guinea seats will be opened to-morrow (sth). The
plan for half-guinea seats opens next Thursday.
Madame Melba’s dates are Sept. 24, 27, and 30,
Oct. 2 and 4. In the meantime, Miss Amy
Castles is going to have another farewell concert
at Melb. Town Hall. This new farewell is adver-
tised as a Farewell to Australia, on behalf of
Melb. Hospital, and it will happen on Sept. 10.
#* * *
At Adelaide Royal, Charles Holloway’s
season has ended in a blaze of burning houses, a
revel of distressed females escaping by a casual
telegraph-wire, and a scuffle of heroes in khaki
refusing to soil their honest steel with the blood
of “ that traitor there.” But the same thing now
goes on at the Tivoli, with the scenery cut down
a little to fit the smaller house, and the prices
reduced to a modest 3s, 2s, and Is. The Sandow
season absolutely crammed said small house. The
strong man, who is very popular off the stage,
had a splendid farewell. He introduced no fresh
feats, except for turning a clean somersault
(without using the hands) from a standing posi-
tion, to show that the half-ton just piled on to
him in the Tomb of Hercules had not troubled
him at all. With him went Tom Nawn, and
the popular Wiltons, also Roy Murphy, who was
an Adelaide boy to start with, and whose cycle
tricks steadily improve. At the Royal, “Sherlock
Holmes” has come in, with Plimmer as the wily
one, Athol wood as Moriarty, and the “Ben Hur ”
people, last seen at the steepled city in Shakes-
peare, as
Fourteen members of the Victorian House of
Rich Landlords retired by effluxion, the other
day, and were all returned unopposed, and now
they shake hands with themselves, and prate
about how they possess the entire confidence of
the electors, and about the evidence thus afforded
of the satisfaction they give to the country. As
a matter of fact, when the people are only allowed
to select their M.’sL.C. from among about 1900
landowners, almost all Tory, and when only about
200 of these care to, or have time to, go in for
politics, the people have just to take the land-
lord that offers. They took these 14 rich and
insolent frauds over again, because in not one
single instance was a rival fraud forthcoming to
even profess to contest the seat. The electors,
poor beggars, have no voice in the matter.
When the handful of rich men who alone are
eligible to moulder in the Council decide among
themselves that Bingey, M.L.C., shall not be
opposed, then the electors have to express their
confidence in Bingey, M.L.C., by returning him
without opposition. There is this much to be
said for the electors, anyhow—there is hardly a
member of the Vic. House of 48 Rich Landlords
who has had a single vote given in his favor by
his alleged constituents for the past dozen years.
The people tolerate them because they can’t
get rid of them, but they don’t disgrace them-
selves by voting for them.
Brisbane Courier (Aug. 29) writes on 9’Africa :
Some of the Boer farmers will probably resent the
determination that the right of a white man “ to wallop
his own nigger” shall no longer be exercised.
The Courier evidently doesn’t know that the
white man ‘‘wallops his own nigger” in the
British Empire to a bigger extent than he does in
any other empire. In Westralia he not infre-
quently wallops him to death ; in N.Q. (vide Dr.
Roth’s evidence) he is commonly guilty of out-
raging the young nigger gin, and treating the
aborigines employed on the Northern pearling and
trading boats with scandalous cruelty; while in
India (vide Kipling) he regards the local nigger
with contempt. Again the Courier
At Johannesburg the desire of the mine-owners to
import Chinese has aroused the hostility of the white
workers. . . . The Boers are reluctantly compelled to
acknowledge not only defeat, but also the eventual
absorption of their own nationality into the wider life of
a great Empire.
The ingratitude of the Boer who is not prepared
to be thankful that he is to be absorbed into a
“wider life ” that embraces Natal coolies, Canton
and Hongkong fan-tan artists—to say nothing of a
quaint blending of half-castes—is truly stupendous.
+
When the last Maharajah Scindiah of
Gwalior died, it was found that he had a secret
treasure of two millions sterling—evidently with
an eye to a possible rupture with England,
though he posed as an enthusiastic pro-Britisher.
The Viceroy borrowed it.
There is a striking contrast between the
evidence tendered at the Drayton Grange Com-
mission and the stories related when the boat
arrived. Everything is now minimised; the
blame is removed from everyone in authority
and placed on the backs of the soldiers themselves.
But, as those in command were there to see that
orders were obeyed, even if the rank and file had
been pigs instead of men, the responsibility would
have been the same. Anyhow, the one man who
stands out of the whole trouble in a highly credit-*
able light is young Dr. Shields, whose courage and
determination, in standing up against a gang who
Eossess the power to do him much professional
arm, should command the admiration of every
Australian. And, despite all attempts to gloze
over the grossness of the affair, not one witness
has yet dared to combat any of the definite charges
formulated by Dr. Shields.


The
THAMWA.YS. TRA.MWA.YS.
Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Proprietary,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Ltd.,
Representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material
!Dff“ Locomotives from 10 to 250 h.p.
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel
Sleepers, Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical
advice gratuitously rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated
Catalogues and Photographic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different
parts of the World, upon application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-streeb, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “ Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * •
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-street, Melbourne,
having returned from his visit to England, is now pre-
pared to purchase approved Mines and Mining Properties
situated in any part of Australasia requiring Capital for
Development and Machinery. Only genuine and
legitimate ventures, capable of bearing the strictest
examinations, will be entertained.*
• * * *
Very extensive alterations and improvements
have just been completed at the engineering works of
Mephen Ferguson, Melbourne. The principal item of
interest is a new Electric Welding plant, which is now in
use welding the steel-piates required in the manufacture
of the patent spiral riveted pipes which are in such large
demand for water-supply, mining and other purposes.
The new method of welding is giving very satisfactory
results, and is well worth seeing.*
* * * *
A Sure Fortune. —The best investment in
Australia is buying land at Esperance, W.A., the natural
port of the Kalgoorlie goldfields. With a railway,
Esperance will become one of our busiest ports, as the
trade of the goldfields will pass through it. A permanent
survey is now being made ; the railway is a certainty.
Get in early and make a fortune by purchasing a few
blocks before the great rush sets in. Price, £2O a block.
Terms, £1 a month. Write for plans and particulars to
The Esperance Land Company, Nicholson Chambers,
Swanston-st., Melbourne.*
• • • •
Many doubtful claims have been advanced on
behalf of duplex pumps. Some makers state that their
duplex pumps are “ double the capacity of single pumps
of same diameter and stroke.” An A. S. Cameron single-
acting pump can be run safely and comfortably at a speed
that would knock a duplex pump to pieces. But even at
a low speed, duplex pumps seldom attain even their
theoretical capacities, and the reason for this can be
readily explained. Apply to the Agents, Messrs. W. and
J. Lempriere, 5G6 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, for
further particulars. The A. S. Cameron pumps are noted
for their simplicity, durability, and absence of outside
valve gear.*
* * * *
New patents of great importance have lately
been granted to the'Wilfley Ore Concentrator Syndicate
Lim., and all Wilfley tables after this date will embody
same. The Austral Otis Company, of South Melbourne,
are now building the new pattern, which is considerably
stronger than the old pattern. Improvements have been
made in the head motion, which is stronger and simpler.
The working table is now mounted on an intermediate
frame, with wedge adjustments at either side, so arranged
that the movement of the adjusting lever raises one side
and lowers the other at the same time. The table top-
can now either be laid quite flat, or inclined at a very
considerable angle. Further improvements have been
made in the feed-distributing box and wash-water
launder, and also in the middlings launder and elevator
wheel. These improvements increase the capacity of the
table, and the concentrating work is more efficient.*
* • » *
A revolution in smelting furnaces seems pro-
bable. The aid of gasoline has not been recognised,
Ernest de Beer, 439 Bourke-street, Melbourne, supplies
forms to suit assayers, which are marvellous in their
efficiency.* »
* * * *
£25,000 has just been expended on machinery
alone by the Dunlop Tyre Co. at their big Rubber Mills,
Melbourne. The Company is now prepared to supply
Suction, Drill or Air Hose, Packing, Valves, etc. Quality
and prices the best in Australasia. Samples and prices
upon application.*
* * * *
Local Government Journal, July, 1901:
“The Colonial Mutual needs no endorsement—it#
stability is beyond question.*
• ■* * *
Despite Warren’s, “I must congratulate you
on being the possessors of a profitable and permanent
mine,” Smith’s Creek tin shares have dropped to
12s. 6d. sellers. Captain Jack’s congratulation seems
hardly consistent with the general tenor of his report.
The fly which he detected in the ointment was the failure
of the management to drive 46ft. to connect two shafts.
If only for ventilation this would have been a desirable
thing to do, and that it was not done suggests a serious
doubt. Potter’s latest sampling of the dump returns
7J per cent, of tin oxide, but this statement will not
influence the public against Warren’s sampling of 4 per
cent. It is reported that Smith’s Creek slump has
flattened out several Adelaide speculators, who would
have stood to make millions had Warren seen with their
eyes.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Under license from the A.G.O. of A. Ld.
SPOT or FORWARD. LOWEST PRICES.
Storage can be arranged.
HY. JYEARKWALD,
Melb urne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide,Auckland
Dunedin and Wellington.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Melbourne Permanent Building Society
(Melbourne), continues to look up a little, its record for
the year ended 31st July, 1902, being the best for a long
while: *
(Debenture Interest 5 per cent.)
Added
Business Loss on Total to
Loss. Property. Loss. Reserves. Reserves.
£56,548
1893 £5605 £10,587 £16,192 40,356
1894 6352 16,802 23,154 17,202
(Debenture Interest reduced to 2J per cent.)
Profit. Total Profit.
1895 508 1,817 1,309 £1309 18,511
Profit. Loss. Total Loss.
1896 884 1,168 284 18,227
1897 1220 3,010 1,790 16,437
1898 1523 7,718 6,195 10,242
1899 1913 7,122 5,209 5,033
„„ Total Profit.
1900 2614 603 2,011 2011 7,044
Profit.
1901 3423 841 4,264 4264 11,308
Loss.
1902 4733 10 4,723 4,723 16,031
The net profits (£4723) represent £2 13s. 4d. per cent, per
annum on the paid-up capital of £177,164, against
£2 Bs. 2d. earned last year. Of course this interest is only
earned because the Melbourne Permanent Building
Society gets its £207,000 odd of debenture money at the
very low rate of 21 per cent. If it paid the ordinary
bank deposit rate of 3J per cent, its profits would be re-
duced nearly one-half. Still it is making very solid pro-
gress. In particular it is steadily paying off its liability
to its debenture-holders, the amount due being as
follows :
Owing on Deposits, Debentures, and Interest.
1892 .. £455,951 1898 .. £283,420
1893 .. 435,536 1899 .. 262,707
1894 .. 407,874 1900 .. 241,720
1895 .. 368,985 1901 .. 222,489
1896 .. 322,195 1902 .. 208,287
1897 .. 304,367
There is probably a large amount of depreciation to be
provided for on the society’s £355,870 worth (nominal) of
foreclosed properties or properties in possession. Still a
substantial reserve is being built up to cover this depre-
ciation, and taking into account the increasing earnings
and the great reduction in the liabilities, it should be
possible to provide for everything without sacrificing any
of the capital—if the shareholders have patience. The
Melbourne Permanent certainly occupies a far more pro-
mising position than most institutions of its kind.
• • * *
“Mary B.”:\We consider them reasonably
safe.
• • * *
The Sydney Meat Preserving Co. Limited
(Sydney):
Loss Pastoralists’
on Subsidy Added to Re-
Business. Received. Reserves. serves.
Dec., 1898 .. £66,474
June, 1899 .. £2136 .. £2346 .. £2lO .. 66,684
Dec., 1899 .. 2714 .. 3726 .. 1012 .. 67,696
June, 1900 . . 5526 .. 4074 .. .. 66,244
Dec., 1900 .. 8011 .. 6514 .. .. 64,747
June, 1901 .. 7660 .. 5518 .. .. 62,605
Dec., 1901 .. 3544 .. 4749 .. 1205 .. 63,810
Profits.
June, 1902 .. 280 .. 4827 .. 5107 .. 68,917
The last year has more than made good the losses of 1900
and the first half of 1901.
* * * *
There are 10 different jarrah timber companies
doing business in Westralia, all owned in London. They
are not prospering as a rule, by reason of excessive com-
petition, excessive capitalisation, and costly manage-
ment, but they are cutting down the VV.A. jarrah forests
at a great rate with very little profit to VV.A. Now an
amalgamation scheme is proposed, and if it pans out all
right there will probably be more profit for the companies
and just as little for VV.A. as there was before.
* * * •
The Albert Building Society (Melbourne) is
one of the many institutions which haven’t managed to
live up to the improvement shown last year :
Loss on Visible
Business . Property Net Reserves.
Profit. ► Sales. Profit.
July, 1895 £8964
„ 1896 £ll4 £ll4 9078
„ 1897 135 135 9213
„ 1898 90 90 9303
„ 1899 305 £B2 223 9526
„ 1900 402 70 332 9858
„ 1901 712 340 372 10,230
£356 Surplus on Terminating Shares, 10,586
„ 1902 681 523 158 10,744
The earnings are at the rate of £1 3s. 7d. per cent, per
annum on the paid-up capital of £57,800, so it is evident
that there is a very large amount of depreciation still to
be written off. The assets are mostly foreclosed pro-
perties at the old book value—this item represents
£69,413 out of total assets, £74,045. They are being
realised in this rather slow fashion :
Loans and Realised during
Foreclosed Properties. Year.
1896 .. £74,277 ... _
1897 .. 73,740 £537
1898 .. 73,340 .. 400
1899 .. 72,675 ... 665 '
1900 .. 72,378 .. 297
1901 .. 70,820 .. 1558
1902 .. 69,413 .. 1407
Property to the extent of £4864 has thus been realised upon
in the last seven years, and during the same period the
Society’s liabilities have been reduced by £4236, and over
£6OO cash has been accumulated. The Albert Society is
earning more than enough to cover losses on realisation
of property, so it will come right without writing off any
capital—if no new losses are made and the shareholders
only wait long enough. But at the present rate they may
have 20 years of waiting still before them.
* * » *
For the year ended 30th June, 1902, the'Jf.S. W.
railways and tramways only provided £1,491,000 towards
interest on their cost, as compared with £1,619,000 pro-
vided during the year to June, 1901. It is a huge falling
away, and as there is much more interest to pay, as well
as £128,000 less money to pay it with, the deficit will be
much larger than usual. Sydney Evening News, by the
way, announced the disaster in these words :
“For the first time for several years the Railway
Department has worked out its operations with a distinct
and definite deficit. Since the reorganisation of the
railway service by Mr. Eddy, the State has got into the
habit of looking to the Railway Department for a
substantial yearly contribution to the cost of “ running”
the country, and for the first time this source of revenue
has failed. In fact, the tables are turned. Instead of
the public revenue benefiting materially bv the trans-
actions of the railways, the Consolidated Revenue will
have to pay' out £33,321 to make up the balance between
the earnings of the Department and the average rate of
interest at which the money for the construction of the
railways and tramways has been borrowed.”
That statement represents another phase of that con-
spiracy of silence which makes reform so difficult in
N.S.W. Every year the Auditor-General’s published
report shows that the N.S.W. railways have registered
another big shortage, and the accumulated shortage 12
months ago was well over £8,000,000. N.S.W. hdin’t re-
ceived any Contribution from its railways towards “ run-
ning the country ” within the memory of man. The
only difference this year is that the deficit is likely to be
rather worse than last year, and almost as bad as it was
a few years back. And the Sydney dailies know
these facts well enough—but all the same the
sort of silly lie published by the Evening News
represents their regular attitude. Any amount of infor-
mation about the Victorian railway deficit can be
obtained, but about the N.S.W. one the silence is as that
of the grave. And, of course, the papers which persis-
tently deny that there is a N.S.W. railway deficit (in order
to keep up the fiction of how the Reid policy of Foreign-
trade made the State rich and prosperous), can’t incite
Parliament to do anything towards stopping that deficit.
» • » *
The Assets Purchase and Realisation Co.
of Australasia (Melbourne) has a gleam of luck, inas-
much as the half-year to June, 1902, is the first for quite
a number of years when the business covered working
expenses.
Loss on Loss on
Gross Ex- Busi- Pro- Total Deficit.
Income, penses. ness, perty. Loss.
Aug., 1896 £11,336
Feb., 1897 £4 £712 £7OB £3752 £4460 15,796
Aug., 1897 179 305 126 3 129 15,925
Aug., 1898 2 344 342 7295 7637 23,562
Feb., 1899 10 240 230 2501 2731 26,293
Aug., 1899 27 181 154 3 157 26,450
Feb., 1900 94 152 68 1 59 26,509
£13,339 capital forfeited and written off Deficit 13,170
Aug., 1900 259 306 47 47 13,217
Feb., 1901 14 246 232 2638 2870 16,087
Aug., 1901 13 249 236 236 16,323
Feb., 1902 108 212 104 104 16,427
Profit.
Aug., 1902 182 178 4 14 10 16,437
But for the fact that the co. sold a bit of property at £lO
under book value, and thereby spoiled the symmetry of
things, it would have shown a profit last half-year. The
co.’s investments are nominally worth £10,300, so the
gross income represents £3 10s. Bd. per cent. A big com-
pany might pay a 3 per cent, dividend out of that, but in
a very small one it mostly goes in rent and gas and
postage-stamps. There is £9589 capital nominally intact,
so the net profit of £4 doesn’t represent a dividend of
quite one shilling per cent, per annum. If arrange-
ments could be made to amalgamate a lot of small ruins,
such as the Assets Purchase and Realisation Co., which
now litter up Melbourne, and a similar lot in Sydney, and
thus save working expenses, they wouldn’t look nearly so
ruinous as they do. When a co. withers away to such
small dimensions, even though its investments yield a
moderate return, office expenses absorb nearly 90 per
cent, of the income, however fine office expenses may be
cut. Even the most prosperous apple-stall can’t main-
tain a board of directors, manager, auditor, &c., &c., and
that just about sums up the situation.
* * * *
Westralia’s net debt (debt, with sinking fund
deducted) at end of June, 1902, was £14,455,573, or £69
7s. lOd. per inhabitant, which is £2,177,621 more in the
gross, or _£4 10s. 2d. more per inhabitant, than it was a
year previously. Another two years at this rate should
see Westralia oust Queensland from its proud position as
owner of the Biggest Debt on Earth in proportion to
population. The Westralian debt is £34 more per in-
habitant than it was in 1893—this despite the fact that
there are three times as many people to spread it over as
there were in 1893. To keep the blessed boom going at
this rate the debt, by 1911, will be about £lO3 per head.
One sign that the boom is breaking is to be found in the
railways, which yielded 11£ per cent, on their cost in
1896, and which, for the year just closed, apparently
yield about 3 per cent. As late as 1900 the W.A. railways
paid working expenses, and left £398,042 over to cover
interest. For 1902 the balance left to cover interest is
only £218,955—n0t much more than half, and there is a
lot more interest to cover.
• • • •
The first balance-sheet of Tooheys Limited,
the big Sydney brewery which was recently floated into
a joint-stock concern, is nominally for six months, but it
really covers a rather indefinite period, the co. having
only been registered on 7th May :
Deficit
(preliminary
expenses)
Profits Carried £5605
(less Dividend. to Nominal
depreciation). Reserve. Reserve.
July, 1902 £11,416 Nil. £11,416 £5Bll
The prospect looks good. Tooheys Limited, by the way,
shows the principal item in its balance-sheet as “Brewery,
plant, machinery, goodwill , rolling-stock, freehold and
leasehold properties, £398,956 ” The fact can’t be too
strongly insisted on that goodwill, as a purely paper
asset, should be stated separately, not lumped in with
real assets in the above fashion. Also, a beginning should
be made from the very commencement of a company’s
career to write off this paper asset. Tooheys, of course,
has no real reserve as yet. A real reserve is the nominal
reserve, less the amount of goodwill and any other paper
items. When the amount of the goodwill item is con-
cealed, the real reserve or real deficit can’t be arrived at.
Still, judging from the results so far, Tooheys should be a
very solid dividend-paying institution.
• * ' ' > * •
The Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of
Works applied this week for a 34 per cent, loan of £400,000
and only got £349,850. Considering the awful muddle
and extravagance of the Board, its huge deficit, the utter
lack of any attempt to make ends meet, and the fact that
the only visible alternatives are insolvency, State as-
sistance or a great increase of taxation, it is no wonder.
As regards the increase of taxation, the Melbourne water
and sewerage rate is too low to pay expenses, and is less
than some British towns pay for water alone. But
judging from past Australian experience it is probable
that Melbourne would prefer bankruptcy to levying a
sufficient rate. The idea that water and sewerage should
only cost half as much here as in England because “ this
is a new country ” is incurable.
* * * *
Mort’s Dock and Engineering Co. (Sydney)
concluded, on 30th June, 1902, a decidedly unfortunate
half-year. This co.’s balance-sheet frequently shows
additions to the reserve which are not explained in the
profit and loss account, or decreases which are not ex-
plained by any statement that amounts have been written
off for depreciation. Adding these increases to, or
deducting decreases from, the visible profits, results are
as follows: —
Net Dividend.. Added to . Re-
Proflts. Dividends. Reserveg . gervea .
Dec., 1899 £8,894 6 per cent. = £5872 £3022 £22,637
June, 1900 7,727 6 ~ ~ 6000 1727 24,364
Dec., 1900 10,307 6 „ „ 6000 4307 28,671
June, 1901 4,305 { gf ° ” gj»} - 27,726
Dec., 1901 8,844 6 per cent. „ 6000 2844 30,570
June, 1902 2,147 Nil. 2147 32,717
A very robust law-suit, in which a judgment was given
against the co. for £11,139 was the biggest trouble of the
half-year. The verdict may be reversed on appeal
—most large verdicts seem to be reversed, so it isn’t such
a cause of anxiety as it looks—but that fierce carnivorous
animal called Costs is doubtless doing some injury to the
profits meanwhile. For absolute rapacity the tiger and
the crocodile don’t begin to compare with Costs. At all
events there is no dividend this half-year.
• * * *
At the annual meeting of the shareholders of a
newspaper co., the chairman of directors was explaining
a deeply funereal balance-sheet. There was no dividend,
and much talk about the obstinacy with which the public
refused to buy the journal. “ But,” said the chairman,
trying to throw a ray of sunshine on the proceedings,
“we have £6OOO worth of printing-paper in stock.” And
a shareholder sent a strident voice to the platform,
“Wouldn’t it be better to sell it before you put the
printing on ? We’d get something then.”
City of Newcastle Gas and Coke Co. (New-
castle, N.S.W.)
Added to Re-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
Dec. 1900 £42,901
June, 1901 £3137 15 p.C. = £lBB5 £1252 44,153
Dec. 1901 2494 15 ~ „ 1885 609 44,762
June, 1902 2660 15 „ „ 1885 775 45,537
The reserves include reserve fund £14,700 ; two renewal
reserves amounting to £30,020; insurance fund, £250;
and undivided profit £567. Paid up capital is £26,622, so
the reserves are much larger than the capital. The co.
has £16,727 of its accumulations invested in N.S.W.
Government stock. In its small way the City of New-
castle Gas and Coke Co. is a much more prosperous
monopolist than even its big brother in Sydney.
» * * *
The Parramatta Woollen Mills, Limited
(Parramatta, N.S.W.), shows these results for the first
three years of the co’s existence —its third year ended 31st
July, 1902:
t, tv. Carried to Net
Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1900 £lB4 Nil. £lB4 £lB4
1901 2249 6 per cent. = £lOl3 1236 1420
1902 1890 6 „ 1267 623 2043_
The new co. is certainly beginning well, except as regards
its tangled method of drawing up its balance-sheet, which
isn’t a document to be especially proud of. The balance-
sheet for 1901 set forth that the 6 per cent, dividend
would absorb £BBB, and that £545 would be carried forward,
but as the balance-sheet for 1902 only brought forward
£420, and the difference doesn’t appear to have gone into
reserves, the only possible way of squaring the accounts
is by assuming that the 1901 div. somehow absorbed
£lOl3. The fact that £202 disappeared without explana-
tion out of the reserve account between 1900 and 1901 is
also a curious matter. Reserves shouldn’t do these un-
accountable things.
* * * *
A pretty story is going around about how N.S.W.
Public Works Dept, fell in while bargain-hunting. The
bargain was the site of the Convent of the Good Samari-
tan, which was required for the new Sydney railway
station. The Dept, approached the matter delicately, but
when it found that the good people of the convent held
modest views of the value of their property, it rushed
things, and took opportunity by the scalp-lock so to
speak. In fact, the convent was taken by storm, and the
nuns accepted £23,000 to get out before they knew exactly
what was happening. Then, so the cheerful lie goes,
they were asked to hand over their deeds, and replied in
a surprised tone that they never had any. The Dept, had
bought their title to the property for £23,000, and their
sole title was the right of possession, and the nuns were
amazed at the generous treatment of the Dept. Further
investigations are said to have proved that the ground
was Crown property upon which the unworldly nuns had
squatted by tacit consent in the long, long ago. Tub
Bulletin doesn’t say this story is true, but it is refresh-
ing.
• • • *
W. H. Hardy writes from Burra, S.A., in
reference to Bulletin par. (23/8/’O2) regarding May’s
patent process, now in operation in West Australia, not
fulfilling expectations, and points out that this process
has no connection with Mr. M. May’s patent concentrator
as manufactured at Gawler, S.A.
* * * *
Under the N.S.W. mining regulations, the
occurrence of an accident in a mine is prima, facie
evidence of the owner’s or manager’s negligence— i.e., the
owner or manager has to prove that he took reasonable
precautions. Yet so trampled on and derided is this
regulation that, t’other day, a coroner’s jury in its
verdict actually thanked the manager for his “ courtesy ”
in assisting the jury to view the scene of an accident by
which, through gross carelessness, a miner had just been
killed 1 So dead is the regulation that only on the rarest
occasions is the manager put into the witness box or is
his name so much as mentioned. Instead the vicious ten-
dency is to shift responsibility from the manager to the
Govt, inspector.
* * * »
Broken Hill South directors abandon their re-
construction scheme ; but, while the contributing share-
holders are allowed to retain their full interest in the co.,
they are to be compelled to pay calls towards the new
shaft and the additional plant. “The directors hope to
be in a position to continue to declare divs., and, subject
thereto, the surplus profits will, with calls (which the
directors will make as reasonable as possible), afford the
necessary funds for the work.” The contributing shares
(78,962) have still a liability of 11s. 6d. (£45,403), and the
necessary works will cost at least £30,000. After the
“ old tailings ” now being put through are exhausted,
which will be in less than twelve months, the
gross profits are not likely to exceed £15,000 a half
year unless the metal market improves a lot; and that
is only enough to pay eighteenpence a share divs., even if
nothing is written off for wear and tear. For the next 12
months the divs. are not likely to exceed 3s. 6d. and for
the second 12 months 2s. 6d. ; and 6s. on the contributing
shares means only £23,688. It is pretty plain that the
directors are going to make the contribs. pay up ; so tha t
there is every prospect of a dry two or 2£ years ahead of
the latter.
•*■ * *
Prospects brighten at the B.H. Consols, the
remarkable mine which has kept going for 15 years on
occasional pockets of almost pure silver. With trifling ex-
ceptions, J. Bull holds the shares, and Australia has been
quite content to let him.
» * * *
The attempt to galvanise Euriowie tin-field (far
west N.S.W.) has failed. Outsiders close uptight when
the name is breathed, and a lode-tin show without capi-
tal is as unprofitable aa a three-legged racehorse during a
fodder famine.
**• * *
“ J.W.” (Toowoomba): The price of lead is
regulated by supply and demand. The Bulletin has not
heard of any £10,000,000 American trust been
formed to lower the price still further. The report which
you mention is obviously a fake, as America cannot con-
trol the lead production of the world.
* * * •
Paddy Lackey mine, Sunny Corner, N.S.W. :
This has been one of the few consistent gold mines in
N.S.W. For several years it has been worked by a co-
operative party, and has averaged about an oz. per ton
from a shute about 500tt. in length. Mine was worked in
the most primitive way until recently, when the acquisi-
tion of the plant and leases of the Deep Levels Co.
enabled the owners to put up decent equipment. Lode
has just been struck at 650 ft., where it is 6ft. wide and
fully equal in value to what it was in upper levels. The
former owners of the Deep Levels leases will kick
themselves when they hear of the co-operative party’s
success in cutting the reef from their shaft. Mine
was offered to the Deep Levels Co. at a very low
price, considering the excellent prospects which were in
view, but Bouchier, the deep-levels faddist, representing
an English co., thought he was doing a cleverer thing in
taking up the side-on blocks. His co. sank a deep shaft
and altogether spent more money on their leases than
they could have acquired the original mine for. Not
meeting with the reef as expected they gave up the ghost,
the Paddy Lackey party buying leases and plant for a
mere song. Paddy Lackey mine has been examined by
more experts than any other gold mine in the State, but
it has been generally condemned because, as alleged, the
reef was too small. Mine was always good enough to be
worked honestly on a legitimate capitalisation, but it was
not adapted to booming tactics—no sensational patches
to assist “ insiders” to fleece “ outsiders.” Lode has been
consistently good from surface to 650 ft. which is a unique
occurrence in N.S. Wales. There are several promising
shows in same district but enterprise cannot reach them.
They are all held by shepherds who will not dispose of
their interest unless they are made Darling-Pointers right
away. There is plenty of scope here for the Mines
Department to insist on labor covenants being complied
with.
• • • •
Writes “ Waddy ” : The Miners’ Accident
Relief Fund Act (why “ Miners’ ? ”) as it stands compels a
payment of 4Jd. every week by every mine employee
whether he is a boy or a man. It also pays to each, when
injured, 12s. per week relief money while unable to work.
So it is apparently fair enough in the sense that, as boys
and men pay the same insurance premium, they each get
the same relief. But it is very unfair if it is remembered
that boys only earn from 10s. to 255. per week ; and 4£d.
per week paid by the boy is a much heavier rate of insur-
ance to get the same benefit as the man receives, who may
earn from. twice to five times as much as a boy and whose
work carries more risk with it. Paying a boy 12s. a week
who, when working, only earns 10s., is not much induce-
ment to make him honest; for such indefinable things as
ricked backs or sprained toes take a while to mend under
such conditions. Considering the total money received
from all sources per employee, the relief of 12s.
per week is too small for adult members, and
the death payment of £l2 is also too- small. The
Fund can well stand some increase in the benefits. For
the first year of its existence its money-accumulation
shows signs of outgrowing, at a very excessive rate, the
calls and liabilities on it. Even the lift. Kembla holocaust
will not absorb the interest that last year and this year’s
accumulated funds would produce if invested at only 2J
per cent. This year will find that the growth of money
to the credit of the Fund will be larger than last year’s
sum, for the amended Act includes, as liable to pay, a
number of workmen who were previously exempt. The
administration of the Fund by the local Committee sys-
tem on each mine is not a success. Malingering is on
the increase among certain classes of the workmen, who,
if they could be assured of 12s. per week, would never
work. Also the growth of claims for trivial accidents has
enormously increased and needs checking. In one mine I
know of, it amounts to over 150 per cent, increase to the
claims made when private insurance existed.. At one time,
when a man had a cut finger, he tied it up in a piece of
rag and went on working ; now he “ goes on the Fund.”
Such men, to be fair, are usually single and have a taste
for “ two-up,” and also suffer badly from that tired
feeling. The better class of workmen resent the money
they compulsorily pay to the Fund being used in this
fashion ; the employer and the Government can only look
on. Hence it needs a strong hand somewhere in the
administration of the Fund; the Committee system
should be severely controlled or swept away.
* • * *
Vesuvius (0.T.) has been the gambling stock in
Melbourne for the past few days, shares jumping from 9s.
to 215., and in and out between those prices. Latest
report is that they have found 4ft. of mineralised stone.
At first it was payable ; then it was questionable whether
there was any gold in it at all, and now, it is declared as
a certainty, that it is the continuation of the Queen Cross
reef. If that be so other high-priced mines in that
section of the field haven’t the ghost of a hope of finding
the reef. On the Towers Vesuvius has always been re-
garded as a hideous wild cat, and it is only within the
past month that the stock was listed on the local
exchange.
• « • •
Mt. Garnet shares have been selling down to 45.,
which is 4s. more than they are worth apart from the
supposition that there will soon be an appreciation in the
value of copper. It will have to be a big advance to
make Garnets worth anything. Amusing to find brokers
circularising their clients to the effect that Chillagoe
Mungana and Garnet are practically valueless, owing to
their “ impossible financial position.” A warning from
them in the boom times might have saved the public a
lot of money. But that would not have helped the class
who never scent a wild-cat until it is long dead.
(Continued on page SO.)


DAVID JONES and COMPANY.
The
‘Orient’
Boot • • •
Black Yici Kid,
Round or Narrow Toes,
28/6
George aad Barrack
Sts., SYDNEY.
HARRINGTON
* CO. Ltd.
66 KING ST., SYDNEY, and
93 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
1902
BY THE WORLD 1 !
HAND
CAMERAS
STAND
CAM ERAS
((W
-m THIS IS
OUR
TRADE MARK
EFFICIENCY AND
GOOD VALUE.
From ss. up to £5O.
Photographic
Materials
of Every
Conceivable Kind.
CAMERAS
BEST MAKERS
POCKET
CAMERAS
KODAK
CAMERA)
THERE’S
OUR
ADDRESSES
Agents in all tub Principal
Centres.
Society
Spc[?] Ligoer
"P&O".
Scoich [?]
[?]
Since particulars of the Cameron-Trotter
dispute reached Tasmania, the island is seri-
ously reconsidering its position in regard to a
monarch. *‘Tattersall” Adams feels his throne tot-
tering, and contemplates abdicating without offer-
ing battle to Colonel Cameron. Tasmanians haven’t
been so excited since the Chiniquy “riots'’ hap-
pened in Hobart, and the papers are running
cross-heads, like this from the Jingo Mercury :
COLONEL CAMERON AND TIIE UPSTART BRITISH
OFFICERS.
One very exuberant journal gives a list of
instances of British military arrogance. The
snubbing of colonial officers before the War of
Independence; the greasing of cartridges to
humiliate Hindu soldiers; the treatment of
Napoleon at St. Helena, &c., &c., are vigorously
stressed ; and then :
One turns with pleasurable delight to reflect that the
Commander-in-Chief of the British Army, who apologised
to Cameron, is a right-minded Irishman, that Cameron
himself is a Tasmanian of Scottish descent, and that
Ireland and Scotland always contrive to furnish whatever
ma3 r be admirable in British domination, while all that is
despicable therein emanates as a rule from the descend-
ants of the ruthless Saxon robbers, Hengist and Horsa.
By the way, we want a Governor-General for our Com-
monwealth. What about Lieutenant-Colonel Cameron ?
The editor of the paper that goes on like this is
one of The O’Murphys from Ballysomeclough-or-
other, and Cameron’s just Cameron, ye ken.
Whirroo ! Likewise, Hech, mon 1
* * • *
Ballarat boasts that it was the only city in
the Empire that sent an address “ on its own ” to
the King for his Coronation. Probably because
IN 'ORSPITAL.
RELIGIOUS VISITOR: “Let mi give you some flowers.”
DAVIE MACPHERSON : “ Naw, thank ye, Miss, Ah'm no a marrying mon.”
Ballarat is the only city in the Empire that
possesses a Shoppee. A specimen of the grovel
in the address:—
.We are proud to say we show our continued fealty and
homage, as evidenced by the many beautiful statues that
adorn our streets.
Now, the chief statues in Ballarat are those of
Peter Lalor, the “rebel,” who took up arms
against his gracious Queen, and who, if he could,
would have played the part towards her that
Washington played towards George III.; Bobbie
Burns, the bitter satirist of the House of Han-
over ; and Tom Moore, the Irish poet,. who,
though he dearly loved a lord, cannot be considered,
by any stretch of imagination, as a shining example
of loyalty tp the British Crown.
* * • •
A number of returned cohentingenters were
stranded in Hobart, t’other day, the Federal De-
fence Office having made no arrangements for their
accommodation during their stay there. After
deputations to the Mayor and Premier, the Im-
perial Coffee Palace put the men up temporarily.
Ichabod ! Also, sic transit, etc.
After all it would seem that the Drayton
Grange was a representative sample of a uc
rather than of the bad management of the
Imperial authorities. Very many °ther transports
were just as shamefully overcrowded Wlth Aus-
tralian soldiers—the Aurania, for instance, about
which a trooper who was on board writes.
I slept on deck all the way across, though it was Min-
ing and seas were breaking on deck; and 80 “ .
403 others. I think there were about 16 or 18 washing
basins for nearly 1900 troops, and the water was only
available for about two hours in the morning and evening.
Of shower baths there were none on the ship save those
in the saloon, which one could secretly use at midn „ 3
“ tipping ” an official ; of latrines there were about 15 for
1900 troops. The hospital on the ship was right over the
propeller, but the officers’ concert and smoking-room was
for’ard where there was no noise and little n •
Twenty officers on the Aurania had as much room as 1900
men. 'it was due to good luck only and not to good
management on the part of the transport authorities,
what has happened to the men on the Drayton Grange
did not happen to the Aurania men.
The callousness of the English War Office in
regard to the “done-with” Australians was per-
haps most clearly shown in the Wakanui case.
The Wakanui arrived at Capetown with two
smallpox cases on board, but, despite that tact, 66
soldiers were put on board of her for Hobart and
Wellington. By good luck this experiment of
shipping soldiers on a lazar-ship did not turn out
disastrously, and the vessel came into port without
a big death-list. She was, however, refused per-
mission to land any of her soldiers in Tasmania,
and went on to Maoriland.
- * * *
It is now promised by N.S.W. Govt, that
there will be a full inquiry into the “ Quiraing
shipping disaster. To satisfy the public, that in-
quiry should cover the whole ground of manning,
fitting and cargo. It would be interesting also to
inquire (in a general way) if the inspectors insist
upon the same standard of efficiency in the equip-
ment of non-passenger-carrying vessels as they do
of passenger-carrying ones.
• * • *
Auckland Weekly News (14th August)
announces that the steamer Balmain, owned in
(Sydney,” was being held at Auckland for repairs.
The steamer recently took a cargo of coal from New-
castle (N.S.W.) to Gisborne, on discharge of which she
proceeded to Whangarei and took in a supply’or bunker
coal preparatory to leaving for Kaipara to load timber for
Sydney. It was then discovered that the boiler tubes
were leaking so badly that the engineers would not take
the risk of proceeding to sea in the steamer before proper
repairs were effected, and consequently the Balmain came
down to Auckland tor that purpose. After the engines and
boiler had been fixed up to the satisfaction of the Govt.
Inspector of Machinery, the steamer’s clearance papers
were granted by the Customs, and she was ready to leave
for Kaipara. The crew, however, then stepped in and
demanded a survey of the hull. A preliminary survey
showed that one of the plates in the steamer’s stern was
in a very bad state; in fact, so bad that the inspector at
once decided that the steamer must be docked, so that a
complete survey inside and outside should be made. The
Balmain was floated into dock on August 8, and the sur-
veyors, after a thorough investigation, decided that the
crjw’s complaint was justified, and have reported to the
Marine Department that the steamer is unseaworthy.
This unseaworthy vessel had evidently run the
gauntlet at Newcastle (N.S.W.) and Gisborne
(M.L.) Then owing to the engineers finding out
things she was stopped. At Auckland her
machinery was fixed up and she was franked for
sea again, when owing to the comp'aints of the crew
there was an inspection of the hull and a con-
demnation of the vessel. Evidently there is some-
thing very seriously amiss in the system of marine
board inspection in Australasia. It would almost
seem as though it was only when the crew inter-
fered that a genuine survey is made. When the
crew is too dead-broke to be able to turn up its
nose at the risk, presumably any sort of vessel can
go to sea without hindrance.
*** * .
Had that big Adelaide divorce-suit gone
before either of the other two S. A. Judges, the
lady and her rev. tame-cat might have had a
“possible.” But Judge Boucaut, who took it, is
too cynical to swallow many yarns of platonic
canoodling. “Proof of the fact-why, you don t
get it once in a hundred times!” he exclaimed.
And he told of the English case in which the co-
respondent (whose name certainly ought to have
been Johnny) wrote to his pal. Tommy: Dear
Tommy, I have fallen in love with your wife, and
your wife has fallen in love with me. I gave her
a kiss. I am very sorry I did so, but, on my
honor, dear Tommy, I assure you no adultery has
taken place between us.” “The Judge in that
instance held that he must exercise his common-
sense,” and there was a rule nisi, as his Adelaide
Honor believed there ought to be. Alter that
there wasn’t much hope for the pair who kissed
and cuddled and cabbed, and said when the world
winked that it was a wicked, evil-minded world.
Characteristic bits from Judge Boucaut’s judg*
ment in the Hall divorce case (S.A.): •
Counsel said it was strange that they were discovered
at the psychological moment of the kiss. That is always
the case. People are always discovered at the psycholo-
gical moment. T ,
You all know the adroitness and skill of ladies. I do
not hesitate to say that, when a woman once makes up
her mind to be untruthful, she can lie with a skill and
boldness and art that no man can ever hope to emulate.
What would an innocent man have done ? He would
have said, “ In the face of a legion of devils, I will fight
this thing out to the last.”
Which latter is all very fine. But every innocent
man isn’t a nerveful man. In fact, it is only the
nerveful man who can lie effectively—in the
witness-box.
• • • *
To a Sydney suburban benevolent society
a distressed widow, with six young children, lately
appealed for assistance. Her husband, a mechanic,
had died, leaving £5O between his family and desti-
tution ; £2O of this the widow had expended in a
“ decent funeral,” flowers, advts. and all. Keep-
ing up appearances is as slavishly followed in
most cases among the working classes as in more
“genteel” circles. It is quite common among
families on the books of charitable agencies to
rush to the photographer’s when they happen to
be momentarily affluent.
¥ * •
In a recent Melbourne coroner’s court
case Dr. Godfrey was much heckled by “lay per-
sons,” including a constable, because of his
medical evidence that an old man might suddenly
get broncho-pneumonia and die a few hours after-
wards. There was a tragic sequel to the incident.
A few days after, that same constable went off
duty at four o’clock seemingly in robust health.
At three o’clock next morning his wife was
awakened by his cry of pain, and ere a doctor
could be summoned the constable was dead —of
broncho-pneumonia.
• ♦ * •
“ Cleo ” writes on London :
As one who visited London a few years ago, let me
cordially endorse all that “ L.M.” and Henry Fletcher
disagree in saying about London. That city is certainly
the most soot-begrimed, rosy-tinted, dirtiest, cleanest,
poorest, most opulent, most flinty-hearted, most sym-
pathetic, ugliest, most beautiful, most bewildering col-
lection of mansions, hovels and terrace-houses that this
old world has ever seen. There “the sordid, great,
squalid, magnificent, tragedy of human fate” is acted
every day and all day long, like an American continuous
vaudeville. Nobody has ever accurately described the
monstrous city, and nobody ever will describe it, for
nobody ever sees London. There is no unit London.
There are a multi-million of little Londons, each pro-
jected from the brain or imaginative faculty of each and
every beholder and observer of the mighty wen. I my-
self have seen worse savagery in the West End than ever
I saw in the South Pacific. I once saw a young man so
ragged that he made me turn away—his nakedness shone
through his tatters, and white nakedness is so very much
more naked than brown or black nakedness ; he was in
College-st., Westminster, right close up to Parliament
Houses. But then I also saw the Thames in summer-after-
noon light. “ Earth has not anything to show more fair.”
That’s the worst of London. You can’t take an impartial,
unbiassed view. You begin to get sentimental at once.
You try to get the view from Westminster Bridge, of
course; that persistent sonnet comes into your mind.
You are in City Road, your heart sunk to your very boot-
soles at the grimy everydayness of it, when suddenly the
recollection flashes that Wilkins Micawber’s address was
Windsor Terrace, City Road. You pick out his house
and straight away love the place. You lose yourself in a
street off Oxford-street, and wander into a smoky little
churchyard and read an almost illegible inscription on a
humble little tombstone to Chapman, who wrote the
English Homer, and then you hear yourself thinking,
“Oft have I travelled in the realms of gold.” You go
into St. Paul’s to muse over the uncompromising no-
mysticism of Wren, and read, cut into a wall tablet, per-
haps, the curt record of deeds so gloriously brave that
you have to wink hard to keep the tears back. And so
on, and so on. Every impression in London is over-
charged with a plethora of associations. London is a
palimpsest of which the parchment has been so written
upon by the never-ending procession of its men and
women that no coherent impression is decipherable.
* « * •
A rude man having been allowed to
speculate in The Bulletin as to what plump
woman did with her abdominal adiposity when
wearing the new straight-front corset, a lady has
been kind enough to send along the facts “from
experience.” It seems that, having put the corset
on, loosely laced, woman pulls up the superfluous
tissue “with both hands,” and then somebody
else laces up hard. So the “ tissue ” is forced ujj,
and, so to speak, is used to stuff the chest with
The fair scribe remarks, however, that the
straight-front corset doesn’t cause woman to
waddle but to “strut”: the extra load above
giving a pouter-pigeon gait.
A DIFFICULTY SURMOUNTED.
SHE: “Of course you have heard the latest
scandal about the Moores?”
HE : “ No, what was that?"
SHE : “ Oh, I promised not to repeat it.”
HE: “Don't, I prefer your version.”
“Colocynth, M.D.”: Re medical adver-
tising—
It’s natural, I suppose, for the public to inquire about
the diseases that afflict the bodies of its big guns. But
that information, I say, should be supplied by accredited
medical authorities, and not, as often is the case, by
doctors who can neither claim any particular distinction
in their profession, nor any special knowledge of the
diseases under review, but have the hide of a pachyderm
and a thirst for an undeserved notoriety.
* • * , •
Truly, Australia sowed a choice crop of
wild oats when, in a drunken frenzy of spurious
patriotism, she sent peaceful bushmen a-cohentin-
genting. Here is a sample of the ripening crop,
from a letter of the “chairman of unemployed
soldiers ” tp Melb. Age
“ To many of us various amounts up to £5O are still
owing, and these we cannot obtain. Now, for men to be
compelled to bear this injustice, together with their
unemployed condition, after repeated promises made
before they went away, and on top of this to be refused
an interview with the State Premier, is enough to breed
all kinds of desperation ; and if this should break out the
blame must rest on those who have inflicted the injus-
tice,” etc.
There are evidently unexpected possibilities on
hand with all these farm-burners wandering about
this country, awaiting their back pay and starving
meanwhile.
*
Postmaster-General Drake has secured the
passage of a regulation giving him power to can-
cel the hire of any P.O. box if he is satisfied that
the box is used for an improper purpose. This
ought to lead to the suppression of the philan-
thropic gent, who, through the papers, invites
ladies to write to him for full directions, etc., etc.,
and the other ghoul who uses the P.O. for the
distribution of obscene literature and prints.
AFTER THE CORONATION.
DICK SEDDON : “ Now, then, Your Majesty, I
have stopped the war, borrowed millions,
refused purses, and made your Coronation a
complete success, but where do I come in?”
KING EDWARD : “Sh! I will make you the
Duke of Gloster, and then you will be King
R chard the Fourth
DICK S. : "Then God help the little princes !”


Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address. —
30 Sydney Arcade, .entrance from George-street
or King street, Sydney.*
SILVER STAR STARCH
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
In Vic. Criminal Court, t’other day, Justice
Williams released a bank-clerk who had embezzled
£2BO, only requiring him to enter into recognisances
to appear when called upon, on the ground that
the theft was his first offence. Next day, Mr.
Panton, P.M., sentenced a first offender to three
months 1 imprisonment for stealing 10s. worth of
skins !
* • • •
The Owe’Sullivau’s gymnasium in Sydney
Domain hasn’t killed anyone yet, but a promising
start was made last week when a child’s skull was
cracked. With a forethought unusual in N.S.W.
administration the gymnasium has been placed
right behind Sydney Hospital.
••• • .
Before leaving Queensland Evangelist Geil
paid a visit to a Kanaka district, and came away
much impressed with Tanna’s capacity for im-
provement. Strange how impressed every gospel-
grinder is with Tanna ! When Tommy T. isn’t a
bloodthirsty cannibal and potential homicide he’s
mostly a simple, happy fellow—imposed upon by
every plausible humbug, and ever ready to drop a
sixpence into a spieler’s fist or a parson’s col-
lection-plate.
• * * *
A popular Adelaide lawyer was the victim
of a fair “ knock-out” at a recent dance. Going
round in the third figure of an unexpectedly-
vigorous set of Lancers his next neighbor loosed
hands, and he went spinning, took the floor with
the point of his jaw, and was scientifically “put
to sleep ” for 30secs. or so. He pluekily saw the
dance out, but, an hour or so later, on going to
apologise to a lady for missing her dance a
little after the fall, he found that he had kept
the appointment and “ sat out ” the dance with his
partner, without having the slightest recollection
of doing so !
* * * *
A Bill to prevent a testator from leaving
less than one-third of his property to his widow,
beloved or otherwise, will pass into Victorian law
shortly, if no organised opposition happens to
defeat it. And how about the case of a testatrix
desiring to cut off her aged husband with a
shilling? Does the Bill propose to protect a
widower against the post-mortem vindictiveness,
or religious selfishness, of his sainted Maria?
Again the Women’s Rights question.
A STUDY IN “MAKE-UP.”
Mr. Hugh Ward as the imbecile Sir Guy in
“Robin Hood .”
“ C.R.” writes :—-
Your par. (30/8/’O2), concerning medical men engaged
in asylum work, should not be allowed currency in the
face of facts. (1) Allegations are not frequently made
against asylum doctors and you are hereby invited to cite
one other in the Commonwealth. (2) Asylum doctors
have a special immunity from brain troubles, and for one
to become insane or “ queer,” even after 40 years close
association with lunatic patients, is almost unknown.
(3) The statement “strange manner and optical exr
pression” is as ridiculous as it is monstrous, and the
“o.e.r of the lunatic is, in the main, a myth. (4) Drug-
taking is also extremely rare, and in the history of this
State (N.S.W.) there has not been a single instance
during a period covering nearly 70 years.
[Paragraph was the result of a too sweeping
generalisation by a writer in another State
generalising from statements made at an enquiry
over 20 years ago, and The B. would imprint it,
if that were possible.]
* * * *
From Sydney D.T.
Sir Edmund Barton advocated at Edinburgh University,
recently, that two years’ study at a recognised colonial
University should count towards an Oxford degree.
TTia Scotch audience would not have been very
enthusiastio had they known that a Scotch
solicitor, after taking a four years’ course in Arts
and two years in Law at a Scotch University,
serving articles for four years in Scotland, and
passing all the necessary exams, in General
Knowledge and Law, is at present refused ad-
mission as a solicitor in all the Australian States.
Ere he can obtain admission in these parts, he has
to serve articles to a colonial solicitor (of course
paying a premium), and pass all the exams., just
as if he were an Australian youth, fresh from
school. The Secretary of State for the Colonies
has pointed out the anomaly to the N.S.W.
authorities, and suggested an alteration in the
rules for admission.
* * * »
A big surgeon .was doing the rounds of a
Sydney hospital when he came to a lady-student’s
“case,” neatly bandaged. Removing the outer
wrapping he discovered a rather dirty bandage,
and demanded of the terrified lady “ med.” an
explanation, which wasn’t forthcoming. He com-
mented : “ Do you, miss, wear a dirty ” (well,
petticoat, which was not the word he used) “ when
you put on your visiting costume ? ”
That converted Salvationist who, in the
fervor of his conversion, lately repented of and
confessed to three murders allegedly done many
years ago in Queensland, now states that he never
did these murders at all. And it is quite probable
that he didn’t. In the enthusiasm of the torchlight
repentance that goes on where the big drum has
its lair, the man with no particular sins to repent
of takes to repenting of other people’s offences, or
of imaginary offences, for the sake of fame. One
of the biggest rows that ever occurred in Maori-
land happened at an Army meeting when Jones,
who was a beetle-browed converted ruffian of the
worst description, was just getting up slowly on to
a pair of muscular bow legs to confess his many
deeds of violence, and Smith, who was small
and glib a,nd swift on his feet, climbed on
the platform ahead of him and confessed to
all Jones’s principal sins as his own, and
thereby left Jones no sins to confess. They were
mostly large, brawny sins that only a sizeable
iiian of wrath could commit, and when admitted
to by a weedy, colorless person with a thin voice
they became ridiculous. In the end, it took two
captains, a lieutenant, a cornet, an ensign, an
adjutantess, a commissary-general, and two pri-
vates to haul the large convert off the small one,
and Jones’s repentance was “off.”
• * * *
On the Westralian goldfields, where con-
ventions don’t count for much, even the churches
can sometimes get opt of their rut. Kalgoorlie
paper par:—
Further to the rear a substantial wood and iron build-
ing is to be erected for the purposes of a gymnasium,
game-room, and reading-room. Again, on the Boulder
side of the church (Congregational), a space capable of
accommodating 300 seats is to be enclosed by steel roller-
blinds (leaving an entrance from the front), floored, and
furnished with garden seats to the extent indicated. It
will not be roofed, and, by an ingenious arrangement,
people sitting there will be as well able to hear the
preacher as those inside the church proper. The idea
will assuredly not fail of appreciation in the summer
months.
Now, if the pulpit were also brought up to
date
* * * *
The libel law is in such a curious state in.
N.S.W. just now that interest attaches to a judg-
ment by the Acting-Chief Justice that the pre-
liminary proceedings of any lower Court of Justice
can be reported by a newspaper with full privilege.
King Ned’s donation of Osborne, pos-
sibly worth a million, indicates confidence in
his throne’s stability. Melb. Govt. House is
an imitation of Osborne. No reflection on
the distinguished architect Warded, who de-
signed it—also St. Patrick’s, Melb., and St.
Mary’s, Sydney. Warded submitted an inde-
pendent design to Gov. Canterbury, whom
unluckily he allowed to see a plan of Osborne,
by reference to which he supported his own
design in some interior details. Cantuar
then insisted on the Osborne outside. Although
there were 100 rooms, the Governor demanded,
in addition, “A quiet little place to eat a
chop in.” Mr. Warded told this to presenb
writer.
N.S.W. Social Purity Society favors the
raising to 18 years of the “age of consent.” Bub
why not raise it to 81 ?
* * *
From a teacher :
N.S. Wales ought to be moral. A couple of years ago,
in the interests of morality, it was ukased that boys,
irrespective of attainments, on reaching the mature
age of eight (big, hulking rascals) should no longer
remain in the infant schools where the sexes are together.
These desperadoes are continually reinfwced by illiterate
over-age newcomers. Together they form what is known
as a Special Class (for this term see prison regulations).
Matters lately have reached a crisis and the male teachers
are crying out for fire-arms to keep these monsters from
crossing the fences to get back to their former haunts.
The more cunning of these criminals have taken to
Sunday-school, where alas! the old bad state of things
continues.
• * • *
A woman recently presented herself before
a N.S.W. country magistrate in one of the States
with a surprising story. She stated that Mr.
“had gone to gaol;” that Mrs. “seemed
silly like,” and “ that there were 11 children with
no one to provide for them.” The eldest of the
family was about years old. Inquiries showed
that the woman had been keeping nouse for the
couple, as the wife was incapable of looking after
affairs. Nearly half the children were hers,
but which were hers, and which were the lawful
offspring of the wife, neither of the women pro-
fessed to have the slightest idea. When pressed,
they simply “didn’tknow.” And what was more,
they didn’t know how to find out. As the P.M.
didn’t know either, and as the Govt, never assists
illegitimate children while in their parents’custody,
there was a difficulty. The father of this interest-
ing manage had been in receipt of 225. 6d. a week.
* * * *
A Ballarat shepherd, on a recent Sunday,
moved to anger by the beggarly array of “ tray-
bits ” that were on the collection plate, patheti-
cally told his sheep (abstainers to a ram) that “he
was very much afraid a teetotaller was a man who
would not drink for fear he might sometimes have
to shout for others ” —a cold truth, probably.
* * * *
The monthly figures supplied as to attend-
ance at N.S.W. Art Gallery would be a much
better guide to the art enthusiasm of the State if
there were designed a turnstile which would
differentiate between the men who go to see the
pictures and those who go to see other men’s
wives.
An Arraidale J.P. recently
commented strongly on the fact that
two girls over 18 years didn’t know
that heaven or hell existed, when the
oath was being administered. But
does that J.P. himself know?—or has he only
heard about the matter from some Dill Macky or
Cardinal Moran or other ?
* * * *
John Campbell, the man who wanted
£lO,OOO compensation from Q. Railway Dept, for
incurable damage sustained through falling outof a
railway carriage, has supplied a very big legal sen-
sation. Campbell alleged that he and another man,
a complete stranger, were in a carriage on the rail-
ways ; that a lurch threw him against the in-
securely-fastened door belonging to the Q. Govern-
ment, and that he fell through on to the Q. Govern-
ment’s hard and inhospitable embankment. Cer-
tainly it was reported at the next station
that a man had fallen out, and a search
revealed plaintiff lying, apparently insensible, at
the point where he had apparently fallen
out. The case presented very remarkable features.
Several doctors diagnosed Campbell’s trouble as
one of spinal injury, and consequent paralysis of
the lower part of the body, and in hospitals and
elsewhere plaintiff passed inspection for over six
months as a genuine case of paralysis. He pro-
ceeded against the Government for £lO,OOO dam-
ages in a horizontal position, and came into court
on a stretcher. The Crown theory was apparently,
(so far as could be gathered from the evidence it
put forward) that plaintiff was never in the car-
riage and never fell out; that the person in the
carriage who gave the alarm about him falling out
was an accomplice; that he was found lying by
the railway-line because he had carefully lain
down there; or that, if he really fell out, he did it
carefully and intentionally; and that he and an
accomplice had been falling out of railway carriages
in a similar fashion in other parts of Australia, and
corroborating each other, and recovering damages.
In this instance, however, the corroborator didn’t
turn up to corroborate at all, and his identity
wasn’t very clear. Certain persons swore to plain-
tiff having passed under an alias which he swore
he never used, and in a very confused case this
item looked about as solid as any other. Anyhow,
the jury found a verdict for the defendant Depart-
ment —which presumably meant that the jury
didn’t believe plaintiff fell out of the alleged rail-
way carriage, or else that he fell out on purpose;
and the verdict was also probably intended to
express a doubt about the reliability of the
paralysis. Then Chief Justice Griffith committed
plaintiff (lying in possibly more than one
sense on his stretcher) for trial for perjury
in swearing that he hadn’t gone by a certain
alias and hadn’t had any previous acquaintance
with a person named Henderson. This leaves out
the question as to whether he also committed per-
jury in stating that he fell out of the Q. Govern-
ment’s carriage, and that he was paralysed through
bumping on to the Q. Government’s hard embank-
ment, and the subsequent proceedings will conse-
quently lose some of their interest.
MIGHT HAVE BEEN WORSE.
“ Shut up, you old ass, it's mighty lucky for you
I wasn’t on me motor-car.”
HE KNEW.
GRANDMOTHER : “ So, Willie, you've got a new
little brother.”
WILLIE : “ Yes, and I know who brought him."
GRANDMOTHER : “Do you? Who? ”
WILLIE: “ Oh, the butcher. I saw it on his cart
yesterday, ‘Families Supplied Daily.’”
Mrs. Sangal, nde Dubberke, who confessed
• to having been in the bedroom or thereabouts
what time friend Tisler was killing her husband,
r seems to have made a humorous pretence of
i anxiety as to the “ old man’s ” absence next
> morning. She sent her little 9-year-old daughter
i to ask one of the men working on the farm if he
had seen " dad ” anywhere, and when the child
i came back with the inevitable “No,” the fond
wife and mother said “ It’s a miracle where he’s
l gone to.” This was after she had put an edge on
her appetite for breakfast by cleaning up the
gory trail of poor “ dad’s ” corpse, which extended
all the way from the bedroom to the well where
Tisler had dropped it.
Critics are remarking that Thekla Dub-
berke’s talent for disposing of dead bodies doesn’t
run in the family. In the Boot Trunk Tragedy,
the body of Mabel Ambrose was most discreetly
removed to the Yarra, and would never have
come to light but for an excusable error in the
burial arrangements. In the Dandenong murder
case, the mere bundling of farmer Sangal’s
damaged body down a well was a device quite
unworthy of Thelda’s sister. Seems that Mrs.
Sangal is very proud of her relationship to Thekla,
and well she may be. Thekla was a compara-
tively brainy person, not to mention her personal
attractions.
• * * •
S.M. Herald allowed itself to be badly
beaten by Sydney D.T. over the Mt. Kembla
relief fund. If the Fairfaxes had had more nous
they would have capped the D.T. contribu-
tion of £500 with -61000; but as it was, their
belated falling into line with a merely equal con-
tribution killed the chances of their collection.
Figures last Saturday—S.M.H., £1257 15s. 9Jd. ;
D.T., £2261 8s. 7d. But Sydney D.T. is allowing
now an undue amount of advt. to be mixed with
the charity of subscribers to its fund. Some
examples:—
. Gladys F. E. Brown-Wilson .. .. .. 0 2 0
Proceeds of Concert, Mount Victoria, £13 2s.
9d., and collected at above concert in re-
sponse to Mrs. H. G. Rienits’ rendering
“Pay, Pay, Pay,” £1 i7s. 6d., per Miss
Minnie Beales 15 0 3
No lady should be allowed a hyphenated name
under £1, and mention that such and such a lady
sang “Pay, Pay, Pay” should be barred at any
figure under a fiver.
m * m * «
“Index”: To “Burglar Bill" (B.,
19/7/’02)
Doubtless the reduction in the average length of sen-
tence helps to bring about an apparent decrease in N.S.W.
prison population on any given date. But a much more
potent factor in the creation of these vamped-up,
valueless figures is the fact that under the First
Offenders Act many convicted persons have their
sentences altogether suspended, whilst others,
after a few months, or weeks, of prison, get the
same benefit extended to them. Yet both classes,
being under police supervision
and bond of good behavior,
are still practically a part of
our “prison population.”
The Comptroller has, of
course, to justify his exis-
tence by showing that
his system—either as a
deterrent or . reforming
influence—helps to keep
prison-cells empty; but
misleading statistics of
his sort sh(uld rot be
tolerated. The detei rent
effect is little, for most
men reckon on not being
found out, and the' re-
forming influence is nil. The
thing lies in a nutshell. Most
men get into gaol because tither they lost their 8( If-respect
or they never had any. Anything that will restore or
create that, will send a man out of prison never to return.
The system, though perhaps well meant, is ill-considered
and in some respects childish, and it will never bring
about the result which the Comptroller claims to be an
accomplished fact.
THE MISTAKES OF LIFE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I hear a Voice unfolding
The dark secrets of my holding.
“ Yes, you erred,” It says, “ and faltered,
And yet wish nothing altered.
Weakest, when most you thought
Your strength great deeds had wrought;
Wrong, when of right secure ;
Blind, when of clear sight sure ;
Proud, confident, and vain.
Reap the harvest now of pain
Which your own mistakes have sown,
And yet know before God’s throne
They were tools to hew away
The earth, the dust, and clay ;
Till the tired heart grew strong,
And the spirit learned to long
For the-home where pain is dead,
And the riddles all are read.
And beside the tree of Life
Passed away the weary strife.”
N.S.W.
MAGGIE SULLIVAN.
THE GOOD WORK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ The widow —1 ” We were horrified
“We saw you, parson 1 Ho,
We’ve found you out 1 ” “Not so,” he sighed,
Right piously and slow ;
“ I teach the Scripture, as applied,
And comfort her, you know.”
“You had one chair between you, though,
. You held her by the hand! ”
—“ Er—Holy Love,” he answered, low,
“ Had made me—hem—unmanned ;
But you—poor heathen—do not know,
And cannot understand.”
And as we stood nonplussed at that,
—Who thought him brought to book—
There stole upon his visage fab
A most unholy look,
Like some sly titbit-loving cat
That circumvents a cook.
v.
MERIDEN.
ONE SORT OF LOVE.
We kissed in the mornings ; the dim afternoons
Were dear kiss-frilled spaces by slow sunny seas ;
Her hot lips were cooled in the impudent breeze
That found us how often—’neath how many moons ?
How cheap is a kiss ? She has taught me. She knew
Not a thrill when our eager lips met in the touch
That still tingles for me. God ! I love her as much
As I loved when the world was a dream of us two.
M.L.
M. CORMAC.


Dress Fabric
Are Stocked by the
_ __ Leading Drapers.
varnished board
A SET OF TEETH ONE GUINEA-
Beautiful and Lifelike in Appearance and Guaranteed Perfect Fit. Absolutely Painless
Extractions and Stopping's Guaranteed.
Special Attention Given to Regulating' Ch ldren’s Teeth.
Mr. J. SPENCER NOLAN, R. 9.5., Surgeon Dentbt, 43 Oxfo d-st., Sydney.
Dean Stubbs, of Ely, in his new book,
“The Minster Garden,” gives an anecdote of his
visit to Archdeacon Rushton at Chicago. The
Archdeacon is a Yorkshireman, and his wife a
Cauadian. Their children were born in Chicago.
One of the little sons came home full of a school
lesson about the War of Independence. He asked
pa and ma if they were Britishers. “ Yes,” they
both replied. Then, said he, “ Though you had
the King’s army, and we were only a lot of
farmers, we whacked, you ! ”
A graceful form and well moulded bust
are essential to perfect beauty. Lacte, the
wonderful “Skin Food” is nature’s remedy for
giving back those essentials when lost through
sickness or action of time, and for supplying them
when constitutionally deficient. It fills all hollows,
develops and gives a charming roundness to neck
and arms. Price 7s. 6d. per jar, post Bs. 3d.
Westall Guest, Toilet Specialist to the Gov.-
General, 229 Bourke-street, Melbourne.
The other day, when offering an embezzler
the choice of gaols—comfort versus convenience-
judge Williams forgot to also offer a choice of
whiskies. This is just as well. Any misdemeanant
of educated taste would elect D.C.L. every time,
and straightway convert “chokee” into a place
of sweet content. Then Victoria would be flooded
with crime for the sake of the champion whisky,
that came to comfort the evil-doer in his loneli-
ness, D.C.L., the whisky of the wise and other-
wise.*
CHARLES
HEIDSIECKy
* J
-
FACILE PRINCEPS
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, September 2, 1902.
My Dear Arini.—
It is September—nay, do not shy, I am not
going to quote Kendall, on Mooni’s marge. If
you haven’t a calendar, or a daily paper, you may
know it is the yellow-haired month by the perfume
of the pittosporum abroad in the land. The gold
of the daffodil is also scattered over the city, and
the Horticultural Soc. of N.S.W., which banks
the gold once a year, held an exhibition of it last
week. Men who have the daffodil rat in full
squeak would run to see a fresh seedling in prefer-
ence to watching the run for Melbourne Cup. Mr.
Burton Bradley, the hon. sec. of the Soc. (and
chief banker of the rainbow gold), Messrs. Yates,
H. Selkirk, and Lockley have all got, not one
daffodil rat, but whole nests, and as for “Went-
worth Falls ” Pitt, when he begins to talk Nar-
cissi, he is known as the Bottomless Pitt.
Curiously enough, most of those who are so
daffo-daft care nothing about the flower in litera-
ture. If you offer them a daffodil anthology from
Homer downwards, they would glance at it, and
then tell you the writers were not practical
growers. At the show were also exhibited some
breast sprays of Australian wild flowers, but even
against the strong relief of black velvet the groups
looked gloomy. Purple sarsaparilla, wattle, native
rose, and those delicate, neutral-tinted ground-
orchids were employed with somewhat stiff effects.
His Ex., accompanied by wife and daughter,
opened the Bth annual show of N.S.W. Kennel
Club last week. Chairman of the Kennels started
his speech with a respectful assurance to Sir Harry
of our loyalty to the throne and person of our
most gracious sovereign ; not even when he goes
to the dogs may the Governor escape those loyal
aisurances. Perhaps not inappropriately. There
is no animal with a more profound respect for con-
stituted authority than the dog. At what poor
shrines do some of them worship with pathetic
loyalty !
Lady R. anfa Miss accepted elegantly bound
and printed catalogues as sweet remembrances of
the great bark. When the Rawsons’ term is up
how full will be the vice-regal ash-barrels of
elegantly-bound remembrances ? His Ex. re-
quested two bow-wows to be brought out of their
stalls and “presented.” They were the local
champion collies, Dryburgh Phyllis (a beautiful
sable-and-white, with protesting brown eyes and a
tail like that of an ant-bear) and Wishaw Jock, the
champion collie dog. The man of whom his Ex.
bought an Australian terrier (really, Sir Harry is
doing his duty by this country) had the viceregal
letter asking the beastie’s price, and requesting to
know when Lady Rawson could see it, pasted
inside his terrier exhibit-stall. Lady R. can’t
even see a man about a dog without the fact being
published. In lonely splendor was Lady Beau-
mont’s fragile Italian greyhound. A lady visitor
brought a white poodle which is shaven so as to
carry on his back the fa-hion of his owner’s crest.
He looked a hideous little snob. Lady Hutton
visited the show, and seemed to fancy the larrikin-
faced fox-terriers.
Mrs. Brough, in the rose pink gown which sl*.e
wore in the last act of “The Liars,” made a tear-
ful, silent adieu to the people before whom she has
played at intervals for 17 years; She drooped her
head over floral good-byes held in either hand, and
in the foreground and middle-distance of the stage
it was roses, roses, roses all the way, and violets
and cards and ribbons. Her husband’s speech
was in the pathos of the minor key, and he gave
her the major praise. “Without her he would
never have achieved anything.” The Broughs
have hosts of private friends, who hope, by-and-
bye, to welcome back Mrs. Brough in a private
capacity.
Liedertafel concert brought together the usual
unvaried audience, looking as if it hadn’t shifted
since the soe.’s last programme. Same mater-
familias and family of girls, same drove of femi-
nine relatives of the horde of males on the song
“ table ”; same shaven young men escorting those
relatives. Same smiling, smart widow in white
satin, with a small boy in blue and white. Same
fresh, shining Mr. Justice Cohen, with two cflive-
faced lads. Same group of solid civic dignitaries,
with spouses who look as if they had been con-
fealed in the act of giving orders for groceries.
feither of the ladies, Miss Ethel Miller and Miss
Dalrymple, who sang at this concert, was at the
top of her musical condition. Of the detached
numbers the best were those of baritone W. H.
Clarke and Mr. Bryce Carter—latter on ’cello.
Alfred Hill, who left for M.L. last Saturday,
batoned his farewell at this concert, and the ’tafel
fave a valiant rendering of his fine chorus —“Ra
la” from Hinemoa. Concerning tlieget-up of the
Liedertafel programmes, I would most disrespect-
fully suggest to the soc. that it should set the young
gentleman who selects the quotations which
precede each number on to the books of James
Huneker, the American author-critic, whose
music-phrases are winged for world-wide flight.
I’ll give the soc.’s excerpter my borrowed copy of
Huneker’s “ Melomaniacs, ” and he can put, for
instance, “all God’s mud made moan for recogni-
tion ” before some orchestral number.
Queen Wilhelmina’s birthday, August 31, was
celebrated by the Consul for the Netherlands,
Mr. Edmund Resell, by a reception and garden-
party at “The Swifts,” his house at Darling
Point. “The Swifts” is that castellated pile so
familiar from seaward to people who go to and
fro on our harbor. It was bought by its present
occupant from Brewer Tooth, and the Govt, tried
to secure it as a State lair for Governor Rawson.
About 60 guests attended the royal birthday party,
and they said that the Royal Party herself couldn’t
have treated them better. State Governor’s two
A.’s.D.C. and all the foreign consuls were among
those who prowled about the four acres of garden
and sunned themselves in the orchid houses and on
the tennis lawn.
Related that at a recent shivoo at Govt. House,
Hobart, a distinguished officer, in khaki, who had
previously raided the supper-room with a partner,
was again approaching when a resplendent
“ aide ” barred the way, and ukased “You have
been in once before—please retiah ! ” This equals
the gay days when Gov. Hamilton regaled his
guests on strawberry-jam sandwiches, and carried
his lunch to the races in his tail-pocket, wrapped
up in the Mercury.
Have you heard of the latest garment for the
cold snap? It is a sort of combination affair for
courting couples, and I am not yet quite sure
which party is supposed to possess it. Lovers cling-
ing together in the open air in this winter weather
have known the need of a comprehensive garment
that would enfold two, and yet leave the arms free
to be worn as waist-belts, or for neck-wear in the
old familiar way, and the new season’s goods fill
the long-felt want. The article is really a cloak
broad enough for two, buttoning right down to
the ground, and having collars for two necks.
The fond ones sit in it as in a small, warm tent,
or very much as they would sit in a vapor bath
built for two. The courting cloak may make
al fresco flirtation unusually popular during the
time of frost.
Talking of charitable institutions: When one
hears of a man, old, sick, and unable to work (as,
for instance, the Belgian who suicided recently
because of a combination of those three causes),
one wonders if such persons are in ignorance of
say, the Little Sisters of the Poor institution. Or
have they a horror of any and every “ benevolent
asylum,” preferring, as the old Belgian did, two
years of semi-starvation in his lonely hut, and
finally, self-slaughter in the same lonely hut that
was all his very own ? Other day I saw two of
the Little Sisters go into the Australia Hotel col-
lecting broken food—a pathetic sight. It gives
one a feeling that one ought not to be well-fed and
wear shoes not down-at-heel. They entered
meekly, as if awed by the diamonds on the hall-
porter’s uniform, and handed a huge covered can
and a long white bag like a bolster-case to an
official, then waited standing, with downcast eyes
and hands meekly folded in the wide sleeves of
their robes.
I thought “San Toy” silly until I witnessed
“A Chinese Honeymoon.” But, in comparison
with the Whaffor Bridal Journey, “San Toy”
shines as the New Jerusalem, coruscates with wit
and is Confucian in its wisdom. China is now
something more than the place where the opium
comes from, and where they slay the obtrusive
missionary. It is an invaluable file upon which
the librettist may hang his blank cheques of
intellectual bankruptcy. All the actors, men
and women, in this Honeymoon do their very best,
and a talented best it is, to make bricks without
straw—for that matter without sand and clay;
and the quality of the music is not much above
that of the libretto. But, like “San Toy,” the
opera is a triumph of scenic elaboration. Bizarre
blues, morris-greens, drowsy reds, white and gold
shot with sudden black—the grotesque, the
apotheosis of the grotesque. And the chorus
are like living flowers—those orange-red dresses
with the trail of the serpent all over them
in white !
In the considerable imbecility and vulgarity of
some of the characters the audience seems to
delight, but the venerable age of certain jokes
should have protected them from unseemly mirth,
“ What do the Americans do with their fruit?”
“ They eat what they can, and they can what they
can’t! ” Audience wriggled joyously, all save
American “Steel-Trust” Jones, a tawny, White
House looking young man with a big head, who
represents the gigantic American combine out
here. He will build a bridge for you, or if you
are a starving genius give you a Carnegie cheque
for a million dollars to enable you to remain away
from New York. Audience was a very smart one
and mostly wore its (feminine) hair “Geisha”
fashion, and, as it watched the pretty Chinese
trot-shuffle-skate, considered whether it wouldn’t
be well to adopt that walk and drop the Sydney
waddle. Miss Josephine Stanton’s double-bar-
relled tubular garments were equally popular with
her seers and hearers.
In Act 11., the interior of the Emperor's palace,
there is a hanging lamp. Sydney Town Hall
authorities are hereby requested to do away with
their awful early Victorian chandeliers and replace
the crude, glaring, beehive things witti Ylang-
Ylang hanging lanterns like that in the Pigtailed
Honeymoon.
A London illustrated daily shows a picture of a
stylish damsel in evening dress who carries
stamped on her Sandow-developed arm a portrait
of her fiancee. Same paper asserts that this is the
correct way to wear the beloved one’s image—not
to hang it to a muff chain. Also, if your name is
that of a flower —Lily, Rose, or Ivy—you can’t be
much of a somebody if you haven’t your name
flower embroidered on your hose.
“The Girl Who Refused Kitchener.” A re-
putable London weekly thus advertises its principal
article across its cover. The girl is Miss Maude
Gonne, who is well-known as “ the beautiful Irish
rebel.” She is a daughter of a colonel in a Lancer
regiment, known as the “ Death or Glory Boys.”
Kitchener met her in Paris, just after he had
broken the Mahdi. She was the first woman he
ever loved, says the paper, and a fortnight’s
acquaintance was followed by a proposal. She
would accept him on the condition that he resigned
his commission in the army of “ tyrant England.”
Maude Gonne must be getting on for 40, so per-
haps K. of K. might try again, and—a foregone
conclusion.
Eva Mylott, who is about to depart for Europe,
received a splendid send-off at her valedictory, the
guerdon of many valuable services in the cause of
charity. A considerable audience rolled up, with
the commanding front of Governor Harry and the
silvering head of the O’Sullivan in the van. Eva
herself, in cream satin, with a white plume in her
red-gold hair, looked as imposing as an Olympian
of old, standing on the steps of the giant organ.
During the interval Minister for Works intro-
duced the contralto to the Gov., and that gallant
Viking “said a few words,” and presented her to
Lady and Miss Rawson. The vice-regal party
then left, and The Works remained to do the
honors.
Another send-off concert was tendered to little
Miss Mabel Batchelor, who is going on an ex-
tended tour with Lemmone’s Concert Co. Lady
and Miss Rawson were present with the Attorney-
General in charge of the proceedings. This grace-
ful little black-haired soprano sang delightfully,
and was, during the interval, presented with a
beautiful star pendant, many flowers, and oceans
of good wishes.
Letters from London say that Alice Hollander
is getting capital press notices and many private
engagements. Her teacher, Mr. Bethune, has
settled down in Fogtown to the business of
teaching.
Minister of Education opens Art Society’s
Annual Show on Monday. A pathetic sight for
the last few days has been that of the rejected
artists bringing aw iy little things of their own
under their arms or on lorries. No less than 500
pictures were rejected out of 800 sent in. Mr.
Lister Lister has a big Hawkesbury scene; Ashton
a frame of Views of Sydney ; Sid. Long a com-
position picture, flamingoes and red-hairel dam-
sels (birds of a feather), and two portraits of
children. Garlick has a picture of the drouth;
Leist a pastel portrait of a local lady, and a
nocturne with a fallen angel in the background.
An Adelaide correspondent writes: —
Mrs. Sandow has come rather as a surprise to Adelaide.
Most people had expected to find the Strong Man’s wife
either a German frau or a kind of Strong Woman. When
it was discovered that she is a tall, graceful, and pretty
Manchester girl she was fairly rushed with invitations.
Sandow himself is as quiet off the stage as he is demon-
strative upon it, but he has made a name both for plea-
sant conversation and for business-like keenness. His
wife never by any chance goes to see his performance ;
but they usually have a small supper-party afterwards.
Men who have been invited speak admiringly of the
System, which seems to make champagne and oysters a
natural and healthy diet for the hour after midnight.
The System itself is having a Society boom. Stout
matrons report to confidential friends how they lie in
their baths and kick, rhythmically and on scientific prin-
ciples, with a view to taking down their superfluous
waist-measurement. And the Tivoli has been crowded
during the past two weeks by people who never had
entered its doors before.
My Brisbane correspondent writes :
“Another of those apparently motiveless
crimes, resulting in the extinction of a whole
family, has occurred at Nanango, Darling Downs.
Albert May, a steady, respectable young farmer,
is supposed to have murdered his wife and family
with a claw-hammer, and then to have committed
suicide. Observable in most of these' domestic
tragedies the youth ; of parents and the-number of
children. Is this more than a coincidence ?
Writes my Melbourne correspondent -
“ We have many ways of advertising our grief
in Melbourne. A prominent citizen welds his into
tons of marble and an annual dinner, whereat the
memory of the departed is toasted in silence, and
the glasses broken afterwards lest they might be
desecrated by joyful drinkers. Another mourner
gave an order for handsome photos, of the weeping
family as they appeared around the bier. A well-
known society lady wears, round her neck, a
miniature tombstone with the names of seven lost
infants engraved thereon; and a newly-made
widow has taken out her store teeth and given up
her toupee, declaring that, now dear John is
gone, no other man shall be attracted by her false
allurements. This last example is the most
touching of all, and the most genuine. How long
will it last ?
“ When the sandy-haired Corricks trooped on
to the Athenaeum platform, last Tuesday, the
audience fancied itself for a while at a choir
rehearsal, Such a plain, honest, homely brood !
But they can tootle and strum cleverly, and the
flower of the flock, Miss Alice Corriclr, shows
vocal strength and sweetness in a series of bird-
like warblings. Mamma Corrick dovetails elderly
contralto notes into a duet with the silvery pipings
of daughter Alice. The father of the brood —
leader of the orchestra, choir-master, first violin
and what-not—has a spare-looking Scotch dominie
look. What labours have been left behind him
in the training of his eight children to the Orpheus
habit!
“Senator Ewing, the dandy Westralian, com-
plained during the Gov.-Gen.’s residence debate
last week of the severity and harshness of the
Melbourne winter. How sorry the girls will be
that he felt it so ! So that is why Melbourne has
seen the russet, healthy-looking Senator from the
wild West top-coated from chin to heels all the
winter, gloved too, and guarded like a rare exotic.
Now, if the spare, delicately - complexioned,
effeminately-fine, exquisite Senator Mathieson
had complained, no one would have wondered.
Instead, the big-jawed, well-upholstered Senator
Ewing squirms at the cold, whilst Mathieson bites
his thumb in fine fighting form at big Bill Lyne.
“OomßillLyne lent his long, lugubrious self
to the chair at* Suffragist Goldstein’s welcome
home shivoo lall Tuesday, at the Masonic Hall,
and led the proceedings with a slow jog-trot
speech. Oom Bill is a torturing talker. He
labors along as if he had a world burden on his
shoulders. His compliment-paying is most awk-
ward, and one is in physical distress, as well as
mental throes, listening to his elephantine efforts.
His long, lame, and halt, Christian endeavour,
more fitted for a funeral than for a meeting of
hope, was followed by Senator McGregor’s tall
tirade. He laughed up at the roof all the time,
and said stupid things, some of which made Miss
Goldstein bury her nose in a posy of violets.
Senator Higgs said funny things in a small voice
and parsonic manner and got home with the
audience.
“ When Miss Vida Goldstein took the floor she
showed as a smart, piquant-looking, attractive
personality from Vanity Fair booked for a dry
discourse on the suffrage. She had set down
her violets, and had taken from her smiling
supporters a dainty bouquet of daffodils. This
campleted her reception look, with her American-
ised figure, her cute frocking, and her tricky
Tuscan head-gear. American experience has
certainly improved her dressing. That was
at once evident. But had it softened or mel-
lowed her mind? It hadn’t. Vida has grown
as sharp and trenchant as a pair of bright new
scissors. She is keen, shrewd, matter-of-fact,
devoid of humor and mental laces. She spoke for
an hour (from memory and without notes) giving
an account of her stewardship in a concise and
conscientious manner.
“ It seemed rather an absurd thing to see the
Gore artist, Donald Macdonald, reporting the
female Demosthenes. The big man sat at the end
of a row of petticats, taking his notes laboriously.
In front of "him sat H. H. Champion (brother-in-
law of the speaker), looking not too robust. A
paralytic stroke has left him sadly maimed for
awhile ; but undaunted he smiles, and enjoys his
mental activity to the full. Mrs. H. H. Cham-
pion is developing into quite a pretty and chic
froeker. She has dropped the Academic air, and
thinks, with the aid of Divine hope (i.e., Christian
Science), that she may soon drop her gold-rimmed
specs.
_ “ Melbourne’s smartest flocked to Mrs. Palmer’s
birthday benefit concert at the Masonic Hall, last
Wednesday. The Maddens, Stephens, Rowans,
and all that musical clan showed in the high
places of the hall. Lady Madden’s mother,
armchaired on the dais, resembled one of
those shrewd, old, p'cturesqu i dames of Horace
Walpole’s intimate _ circle. Tricked forth in
voluminous black silk with grand white lace
frescoes, she sat, with her hands folded, her white,
high-built head erect, her bright old eyes as
vigilant as a bird’s. She is a very clever old lady.
Mrs. Palmer glowed in blue and moonlight
silver radiance, with thunder-black specks of cloud
in the corsage vicinity. She sang with some of
her old beauty of style. For years Melbourne had
not heard her in such fine form. A mild-faced,
convent-branded girl, Reba Rangan, debuted.
She has a fine voice of pure soprano quality. Miss
Gertie Kearns was another star singer.
“A sober element was given the Kirby benefit
concert at the Town Hall on Saturday afternoon,
by the presence of the purple-capped Archbishop
Carr and a bevy of attendant priests, with the
Clarkes, the Maddens, and other shining lights.
The balcony was crowded with swagger women—
Srominent being those two dressy sisters,
Irs. George Chirnside and Mrs. Bertram
Armytage, and Miss Millicent Fairbairn.
Lord Dick Nevill was in that party. Olive
Kingston’s warbling was the treat of the
day, but her frocking worried one. Her com-
plexion wasn’t suited by rose-pink millinery. Mr.
Kirby himself warbled his best. As Miss Clarke
says, Mr. Kirby ‘deserves his chance.’ Miss
Carrie Moore’s frock was of more account than
her twangy ‘ Laguna ’ coon song. It was a cedar
confection with lace ridges, and flounce fans at
intervals, which her tripping feet put into opera-
tion. The large, pink, balcony hat was a furnishing
to the tricky top-storey. The highly-polished Rebot-
taro sang some of Miss Clarke’s favorite numbers.
Tenor Lyding’s long-drawn ‘ Ad-e-la-ida’ number
was too classical for afternoon delectation—espe-
cially after a twanging coon song.
“Archbishop Carr providentially left the Kirby
benefit before a lugubrious-looking gentleman
began a random talk on ‘ Love and kisses.’ That’s
a subject R.C. shepherds prefer not to seem in-
terested in.
“Miss Amy Castles sat through the Kirby
benefit by the side of her grandmother. Some
comment was caused by her refusal to add her
name to the programme. Governor Clarke made
the petition prettily, but the dear girl wasn’t
having any.
“Amy Castles, in the role of a famous singer
revisiting her native Australia, has made a small
fortune. In consequence, acute homesickness is
rife among eminent Australiennes abroad. Melba
is the first to follow the girl from Bendigo. Next
comes Ada Crossley, who has written to her old
chums of the Australian Church choir, telling
them that she is due here in 1904, and that the
first place she wants to visit when she arrives is
the Australian Church with Parson Strong in the
pulpit.
“In the well-regulated affairs of Vice-regal
families seldom does anything go amiss. But on
Saturday, after the Kirby concert, amiable Aide
Browning handed over the Governor’s glossy hat
to some common, unknighted male, and, after a
wild chase in the tracks of the individual, had to
return, cry peccavi to his chief, and send him.home
bare-headed. The Captain was much exercised in
his mind as to how he came to mix matters in this
way; but the girls giggled excessively, and de-
clared that a mistake in such a well-regulated
family was as amusing and refreshing as a scandal
in a holy shepherd’s household.
( Continued on page 25.)


Hotel
Australia
RATES:
12s. 6d. per Day,
and upwards.
“ USE AUSTRALIA ” is loftily situated ; from
its dome, the Pacific Ocean can be seen, and the
whole of Sydney.
To its 'favorable and airy position, “THE
AUSTRALIA" adds every comfort and appoint-
ments It is fireproof from tower to basement;
and an efficient staff patrols the building day and
night. It possesses the most elegant of drawing-
rooms, handsomely appointed dining-rooms, cosy
bar lounges and winter gardens. The system
and attendance of the hotel are unsurpassable.
1. UilL SSHffai (L«,Le of Menziest), Manager,
Qostieseagh-st., Sydney.
LADY FAIR.
Would you like to know the secret of rosy cheeks and sparkling eyes ?—lt is
good blood!
Beauty cannot be bought with complexion soaps or cosmetics. They are
worse than useless. Your beauty depends on your blood.
Pale blood is the basis of every pale complexion. Bad blood is the basis of
every bad complexion. Good blood is the basis of every good complexion. You
know that yourself.
And all the world knows that Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills make good blood—
blood that is pure and rich and red—blood that gives pink cheeks, ruby lips,
sparkling eyes, high spirits, health, strength, happiness and beauty.
That’s the every-day work of the great blood-builder and nerve-tonic.
Rosy Cheeks in Orange.
“My cheeks and lips were pale—my
hands and feet were cold—my blood was
thin and poor. I suffered from indiges-
tion, throbbing, shooting headaches,
heart palpitation and languidness. At
times my limbs swelled up, and I was
too weak to do housework. Nothing did
me any good till I tried Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills. Three boxes brought the
rosy color of health to my cheeks and
lips. Ever since then I have been in the
best of health and spirits, ** says Miss
Laura Griffith, of March, near Orange.
Dr. Williams pink fills for pale people;
Ei«j« «ii£iniste and storekeepers and the Dr. Williams’ Medioine Co., (Queen’s Plase, Sj'd*vey, 2s. 9d. a box, site boxes lor Us. 3d., post free.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
J. C. Williamson had a birthday on Aug.
26th, when he was—just as old as he looks.
The statue of Queensland ex-Premier
Byrne is most unfortunately located —right in
front of a small groggery.
Said that Selina Sangal (nee Dubberke),
accused of complicity in the Dandenong murder,
may expect the birth of another child soon.
During one day of last week G. H. Reid,
K.C., was down to lead four different cases in
N.S.W. Supreme Court. That pays better than
politics.
“ J.P.” : lie the giving of Scotch names
to the Hebrew. Writer has seen on a shop-sign
in Scotch Highlands : “ Aaron Mclsaac.” He
now suggests “Roderjc Jew.”
Strong-man Sandow is married, and has
one son, six years old, who is left behind in
England. His wife, a young and pretty English-
woman, accompanies him to Australia.
Not generally known that Marcus Clarke’s
“For the Term of his Natural Life” was pub-
lished in Germany two or three years after its
birth under the title “ Deportirt auf Sebenszeit.”
There is something sweetly bathetic in the
Statement that King Ned was “fortified in his
illness by the knowledge that one of his maid-
servantshadsuccessfullyundergone an appendicitis
operation.”
Big Bill Lyne hotly objects to the attempt
to put all Commonwealth soldiers into plain
kharlci. He says he refuses to do away with a
number of the handsome uniforms now worn.
Clothes Lyne!
They are auctioning the valuable Mel-
bourne city property-remains of widow Hanna.
Her husband, well-known as M.L.A., began Aus-
tralian life working a punt-boat, over the Yarra,
at the wharves.
One Australian Governor, who is striving
to be all things to all men, evidently keeps a
classical “ghost.” All his speeches are adorned
with a quotation or two from authors who
flourished b.c. or thereabouts.
A VALUED CONTRIBUTOR.
“I see you’re a great contributor to THE BUL-
LETIN.”
“ Now did you know that? I never had anything
accepted.”
" Oh, I often see your name in the ‘ Answers to
Correspondents.”
Under the Fisheries Act N.S.W. Govern-
ment proposes that there will be a paid Com-
missioner and a Board of five who will receive fees.
Tub Bulletin can name the Commissioner “in
one,” and the hundreds who are getting claims
ready needn’t worry ; it’s all fixed.
Premier Seddon has, in England, taken
occasion to state that he refused a money-presen-
tation before he left M.L. But isn’t it a fact that
a cash-testimonial was organised with his approval,
and that the money is now awaiting his return ?
Senator Mathieson—brother to a baronet,
or nephew to a belted earl, or something like that
—most irreverently, not to say blasphemously,
referred to the ancient Dobson t’other day in the
course of debate as “Dobbie”! The Senate
laughed ; and Mr. Dobson hasn’t yet recovered
from the shock.
Admiral Sir Chas. Hotham, who com-
manded the fleet at the Coronation naval review at
Spithead, is the son of the Vic. Governor of the
same name, who was buried in Melb. cemetery on
the 2nd Jan., ’55, after 18 months’ administration
during the most distracted period of the State’s
history.
A question in N.S.W. Assembly has
elicited that H. S. Darley, associate to his father
the Chief Justice, still draws £290 a year, despite
the appointment of an Acting Chief Justice with
an Acting Associate. Mr. Darley (humorist that
he is !) has offered, the Premier explained, to assist
the other associates while the C. J. is away.
T. M. Burke, A.N.A. president, the man
whom Vic. railway-men talk of running against
Bent at next election, is a son of an old Vic.
mining pioneer. His friends always understood
that he had political longings. A dull speaker
of the kind of cag-mag that passes for oratory at
A.N.A. meetings ; otherwise, a decent fellow.
Daniel Cooper, Baronet, of N.S.W. and
London, died a poor man, comparatively, his
estate for probate being valued at £150,531, of
which £137,961 is personality. The old gentleman
had doubtless transferred to his children much of
his once huge estate ; and much of it had been
dissipated in keeping up style in'“great” com-
pany.
A petition to King Edward of “ The Eng-
lish Medical Profession ” says :
The medical profession has long merited acknowledg-
ment, and the finest acknowledgment would be the enrol-
ment in their body of a Prince of the Blood.
Which quite recalls the days when the surgeon
was a chirurgeon, and shaved your beard and cut
your corns as well as looked after your liver. The
crawl instinct survives many generations, as
worms know.
Despite the innumerableness of the Smiths
only one of the name ever came to the front politi-
cally in any of the seven Australias—a certain
Francis Smith, who was Premier in Tasmania
from 1857 to 1860. And not one
solitary Brown has come to the
front. Nobody with Mac before
his name ever attained the Pre-
miership in N.S.W., S.A., West-
ralia, Tasmania or Maoriland;
though there were Macalister,
Mackenzie and Mcllwraith in
Queensland and M‘Culloch,
M'Pherson and M‘Lean in Vic-
toria. Nobody with the large
O’ before his name ever held the
Premiership in N.S.W., Queens-
land, S.A., Westralia, Tasmania
or M.L., though Victoria pro-
duced Premiers O’Shanassy and
O’Loghlen. The Owe’Sullivan of
N.S.W. hasn’t arrived yet. There
are some quaint and curious
names on the long list of Austral-
asian Premiers —probably Dick
Dry, of Tasmania, owned the
most curious of them all.
Federal Auditor - General
Israel is a small, yellow-faced,
sunken - eyed' cadaverous indi-
vidual. He looks jaundiced, but
nothing in Melbourne, save C.
C. Kingston’s Titanic energy,
equals the zeal of the man. He
sums up things at a glance, and
plunges into problems with
astonishing vigor, sifts everything
to the dregs, trusts no deputy,
and has spurred his officers on to
the same keenness.
When Major-Gen. Hutton
is in Sydney he puts up at the
Hotel Australia, and “flies his
flag” from its topmost battle-
ment. It’s one of the few bits of
style that haven’t been shorn off
the military establishment. The
General is said to pray earnestly
for Barton’s return; Bill Lyne is not nearly so
amenable to reason as Barton.
The dormant commission of Lord Tenny-
son as Administrator of the Commonwealth was
signed on 10th July, 1901, because the Duke of
York and some members of his suite wrote from
Melb. in May of that year that they were struck
with the delicate appearance of Lord Hopetoun,
who had not then fully, recovered from his Indian
illness.
Paris Nesbit’s new Adelaide weekly is a
continual joy. The latest number contains a
passionate (and really poetical) rondeau, signed
“Vera,” with the refrain, “Of thee I dream !”
At the end is an editorial note : “ This is all very
well, Vera, but there has been dreaming enough.
Don’t you think it is time to do something?—
Paris.”
The Henty will case, which put about
3210,000 into the pockets of the Melbourne lawyers
last year, and was thought to be settled, popped
up again in the Practice Court last week. The
business of the Court in question is, as everybody
knows, to prevent finality in law-suits by clouding
the judges’ decisions in doubt. Practice makes
everything Imperfect.
That clever artist, Fred. B. Schell, well
and kindly remembered in Sydney in connection
with the Picturesque Atlas of Australasia,
died in New York recently under painful circum-
stances. He had become hopelessly paralysed,
and was found dead under a high window, from
which he had somehow dropped. After leaving
Sydney Mr. Schell was for some years art-manager
for Harper Bros.
Home-Secretary Lyne recently stated in
the House of Reps, that at one election time
he had to pay a newspaper £lOO for half a
column. If the statement is correct no wonder
leading statesmen in Australia leave nothing be-
hind them but a mountain of debts, and all the
more reason for putting a strict limit to election
expenses, so that unprincipled papers can’t bleed
Our Bill in this fashion.
“ Warrigal,” the young “limb” who
gained notoriety, some months ago, by trying to
get to S’Africa as a stowaway on various trans-
ports, came again before the “beak,” last week,
on a charge of assisting to relieve a woman of
some £7O, which she had stowed away. “Warri-
gal ” objects to other people stowing away. He
was sentenced to six months, and conditionally
released from gaol under sureties for good
behavior.
A quaint application has been made by an
officer of N.S.W. Lands Department, who wants
a year’s holiday to enable him to enjoy a pressing
invitation he has just received. He proposes to
do without any salary for the period named. He
is to lodge in one of the gaols for the coming 12
months (over a little matter of costs), and under
the circumstances is not, he thinks, justified in
drawing his salary during that time. But he
hopes, after the rest and change of scene, to take
up his duties a year hence with renewed zest.
For delicate humor (of the municipal
variety) it would be hard to beat a remark made
in Adelaide City Council last week. The ex-
May or, A. W. Ware, has walked lame for some
years, as the result of an accident, one leg being a
little shorter than the other. A skilful operation
in London, the cutting of a sinew, has -just made
him (it is hoped) a sound man again. And on
receipt of the news a councillor rose to propose
that a message of congratulation should be sent
on his “ having had his leg pulled in London.”
The Vic. system of giving life railway-
passes to Ministers leaves the way open for many
abuses. It would be interesting to know what
becomes of these passes after the deaths of
recipients. The Vic. Statistical Register just
issued by statist Fenton, for instance, includes the
late Vincent Pyke (for many years a Maoriland
legislator after serving a term of Ministerial office
in the Vic. roaring days) among living Executive
Councillors, although he has now bean dead several
years. Possibly Pyke never troubled about
having a gold railway-pass, but if he did have one,
it is to be presumed that it hasn’t yet been returned
to its proper owners, the Vic. Govt. If so, what
is to stop its fraudulent use ?
Vic. Govt.’s determination to get rid of
London commercial-agent Sinclair, paves the way
for Minister Taverner to the position whenever
the reduction of portfolios is brought about.
Taverner has had his eyes on the London billet
ever since his well-remembered trip Oine for the
Turner Govt. At that time Sinclair foolishly
showed some resentment at finding that Taverner
brushed him aside whenever any kudos was to be
obtained; he should have started looking for
another job as soon as the Irvine crowd reached
office.
How old is Mr. Fitz Gibbon, Melbourne’s
Bard of Works? He claims to have been em-
ployed in England as clerk to a Privy Council
Committee on Education, before coming to Aus-
tralia in 1852. And in ’53, the new-chum Fitz
was sufficiently old and staid-looking to be
appointed “ reader ”• to Vic. Leg. Council by Gov.
Latrobe. In ’56 he was town clerk of Melbourne,
a position that would be barred, of course, against
anybody of youthful and frivolous tendencies.
Fitz must be 80, or 90, or 100. No wonder his
verses are rather lame.
J. L. Purves, K.C., received a verbal in-
vitation, the other day, to a football reception to
Vic. State Gov. Clarke. “I’ll put your name on
the gate,” said the boss of the show. Mr. Purves
duly arrived at the ground, but the guardian of
the gate knew him not. In the midst of his ex-
postulations, Felix, the colored pug., attired in
costly raiment, marched up and passed through
on a mere condescending nod. A veteran foot-
ball man was obsequiously bowed in. But there
was still no room for Mr. Purves. Finally, the
proper authorities were hunted up, and. Mr.
Purves got in, reflecting, perhaps, on the vanity of
human fame.
From Maoriland:—
Seddon, the well-filled Maoriland surprise-packet, will
plant his sunburnt political feet and administrative
bunions in lumpy paths on his return. Seddon has
stayed away too long to be missed. Gushful J. G. Ward,
who has been keeping House in his absence, has dropped
the Seddonian bludgeon into the dust-bin, and has run
the business of the session through with record speed.
He has anointed Parliament with the vaseline of courtesy
and applied the porous-plaster of pleasing persuasiveness
to the exterior of its pimply political pericardium.
[John Norton has not written in vain !] Ward has risen
in public estimation; Seddon has come down with a
bump. He went ’Ome filled to the bung with “Me and
the Empiah ” guff; unloaded his parcel with blood in one
eye and the other on the limelight-man ; and is now
being returned a battered empty. Ward is making a big
bid for leadership next session, and his chances are, on
the whole, distinctly roseate. Moral: Never stay away
too long from your girl, your job, or your wife
The various foreign consuls in Sydney take
themselves very seriously indeed. When officially
visiting a British warship they’re entitled to a
salute of nine guns, provided that they fly the
flag of the nation which they represent. To fly a
flag on a steam launch is easy enough; but an
occasional consul has more dignity than cash, and
a steam launch costs money. A cute waterman,
cognisant of the situation, has fitted his row-boat
with a small flagstaff, and he has accordingly the
monopoly (at special rates) of consular traffic to
the warships. T’other day one consul, too thrifty
to take the boat, or perhaps unaware of its
existence, had himself rowed over in an ordinary
wherry, but, not to be cheated of the guns due to
his dignity, stood up in the boat’s stern and with
outstretched arms personally waved his country’s
flag to the breeze. He got his guns.
A feature of the Sandow boom at Adelaide
was the patronage given to the strong man’s show
by the parsons in the city of churches, who
received a special invitation to the private show
given to medicos and pressmen. Adelaide ,’Tiseb
of Aug. 25 gives a half-column report of a sermon
by Rev. H. Howard, of Pirie-st. Methodist
Church, on “Sandow and St. Paul,”in the course
of which he observed : ...
Sandow had desired him to say that he owed all his
physical and moral strength to the goodness and grace of
God. Sandow was a religious man. Religion did not
mean being knock-kneed and anaemic. Any man'who
thought that and tackled Sandow would find that.he had
run up against a “ snag.” Christianity did not require a
man.to turn himself into a patent reversible doormat for
people to wipe their feet on. Sandow was the child of
Christian parents, and was brought up in an atmosphere
of prayer and family worship. Sandow told him that he
owed all he was to-day to that Divine power. *-
But doesn’t this bump up very hard against what
is claimed in the advt. of the Sandow developer?
Sydney D.T.’s London correspondent (Mr.
L. J. Brient) acknowledges the good work done
by Premier Barton in England
Australia owes a deep debt of gratitude to Edmund
Barton for the admirably cautious, sound, and, states-
manlike attitude he has assumed in his speeches, .no bis
published interviews, and in the position he has taken up
at the conference in relation to such contentious subjects
as militarism, preferential trade, and Imperial political
representation. Speaking from an intimate knowledge of
Mr. Barton’s public life, extending over a quarter of
a century, I am profoundly convinced that never
at any time in his career has he displayed his highest
qualities to Australia’s better advantage than on the pre-
sent occasion. It was a big occasion, and he rose to it.
Both he and Wilfrid Laurier have acted the part of
statesmen. Both have, substantially added to their
reputations, and, in Mr. Barton’s case particularly,
the appreciation of the London press and of English
public men has been keenly discriminating, and justly
appreciative. I can recall no period in his career when
he acted with such consummate wisdom, and was so per-
fectly understood.


MOST DELICIOUS.
MACONOCHIE’S
POTTED MEATS AND PICKLES.
Swift & Company, 7 Spring Street, Sydney, Australian Agents.
• •
K uppers Elberfeld Lager.
DAVID STORER & SONS’ ,n Three Color9 - BLACK> RED and BLUE
Registered
Trade
Mark.
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE Woo, ‘
OHrc Marking
Ths Perfect Sheep-Marker, SHEEP BRANDINC OIL
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors.— ln the case of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientifie value.
“ Yamba ” : A word for the remnants of
the aboriginal tribes in Rockhampton district,
Q. They are now either hiding in the scrubs
round Rockhampton or fleeing to the more inac-
cessible parts of the district, to avoid being forced
to Frazer’s Island. How they loathe the place is
proved by the fact that two escaped therefrom,
and coasted right up past Rockhampton in a
canoe, and threatened to turn Jimmy Governor if
sent back. They say they get no beef and no
tobacco there. All bushmen know how the
darkies pine to get back to their own country—
“towri,” some call their native land. Why
should they be forced away from home and
friends ? When some of them have been forced
into outlawry, the injustice of the thing will
become more apparent.
• » * •
The shocking report has been made to the
Govt, medical officer in the N.T. that of about 190
blacks who comprised the Alligator River tribe
seven or eight years ago only 60 now survive, “a
large proportion of the deaths having been due to
leprosy.” Luckily the tribe does not touch centres
of white population; but it rubs against other
tribes that do.
- * * *
There came down from Charlotte Waters,
Centralia, to Adelaide, the other day, a set of
horse’s hoofs, each 23in. long. The animal had
got away from the Erldunda Station on to a little
back-water in soft country, and it liked the lazy
life of the place so well that it stayed on till it
died. Possibly if it had tried to move on it
couldn’t have managed it with the weight of hoof.
* » * •
The A. W.U. does put graft into its struggle
with the squatters. An instance : Twenty men
were going from Adelaide through Broken Hill to
Corowa. The Adelaide A.W.U. tried “moral
suasion ” with them before they left. That failed.
Then the Broken Hill agent went down the line,
met the train, and travelle 1 up with the gang.
That failed. Of course he was denied a passage
out with the men ; but that was a small matter,
for he hiked after them, 80 miles, and not a yard
of made road all the way. And there was nothing
particular hanging to the fight over that shed
either.
• * • *
At Rochester (Vic.) t'other day an old
pioneer, J&mos Henry, just turned 81, carried
an ordinary-sized bag of wheat from a dray
to his shed—about forty yards—on
his back, under-grip!
AT THE FOOTBALL MATCH.
BARRACKER N o. 1: “My oath, I wouldn’t drop
on a ball like that in front of a rush. You
might get your head kicked in and be laid out
for 20 minutes.”
BARRACKER No. 2: “Yes, but think of the cheers
when you got up.”
BARRACKER No. 1 : “ But you might never get up.”
BARRACKER No. 2 : “ Then think of the funeral
you’d have!” (Collapse of Barracker No. 1.)
“Araxes”: I have been recently em-
ployed scrub-cutting on a station in Moree dis-
trict. During the fourth week of the job, myself
and two mates were asked by the owner (a mem-
ber of the P.U ) to subscribe to the newly-formed
Machine Shearers’ Union. Naturally, as men, we
declined, and were promptly sacked, being told by
this lord of many acres that he had no use for men
who wouldn’t do anything he wanted them to.
What does the Arbitration Court think of this?
• * ♦ •
Notice on a gate on a Q. road : “Carriers
requiring bolts can have them for nothing by
applying at the station. Do not take the bolts
out of the gates.” Written underneath: “Who
want’s your blanky charity ! ”
“Nymsio”: Re drovers and their dogs.
Here’s an- incident that occurred out Pannoo-
millae way the morning after the last welcome
shower. A drover camped on the road for the
night with a mob of sheep. He put wire-netting
along the off-side, drew his cart at one corner of
the lower side, chained his dog at the remaining
corner, and turned in, trusting to the dog to keep
an eye to things. But the rain came in torrents,
and when the cookie came along at daybreak the
dog was sitting in Bin. of water —morning bitterly
cold, too. The cockie, who is fond of dogs, roused
the sleeper and gave him a piece of his mind. The
drover retaliated, a stand-up fight ensued, and the
only friend that drover had when he hurried to
Rochester for medical patching-up was that self-
same dog ! By-the-way, when a droving job is
being discussed with country auctioneers, on
behalf of clients, it is a common thing, when
reference is made to the terms —“ That includes
my two dogs ! ” Let us hear something about the
drover’s horse now—or his wife.
“ L.C.” : Drovers’ dogs certainly are very badly
treated as a rule. A friend of mine, who travels
much on .Bendigo-road, has rescued nine good
dogs within the last two years, and has three of
them in his possession. These animals were aban-
doned by drovers too careless to feed them. On
one occasion he found a poor brute unable to move
from starvation, and gave him his own supper—
two sausages and a hunk of bread-and-butter.
After scoffing these the dog rose, like a giant
refreshed, and made off in the tracks of his
inhuman master, leaving his rescuer to tighten
his belt and make cynioal oomments on the grati-
tude of dumb animals.
« • * •
“The Prooshan ": Re sheep-dog per-
formances :
It makes a drover turn pink to see the ill-constructed
lies on this subject that go the rounds. No need to
strain the truth to write interestingly of the true collie
or the kelpie. No need whatever to make them bump
gate-pegs in with their heads. Here is a fact without
any “ bumping.” We were droving 12,000 wethers from
Paddy’s River to Hiawatha in ’B7, and one of our party
had a collie which he declared “would pick out any
strange sheep we could put into the mob at midnight, if
necessary.” A boundary-rider had seen us throuirh his
paddock at Buddigower, and had raked up all the
station-sheep he could cull from ours, when, darkness
coming on, he decided to get the rest out in the morning.
The coilie’s owner said, “I can get them out for you
quick, dark or no dark. Here, Boss !in you go.” Boss
went in, and in a few minutes he had four ewes and a
lamb out, catching each by the cheek and working them
out to where we stood.
• * • •
They now call themselves “caterers” in
the backblox—the men who cut scrub for starving
sheep.
“Chas.’': lie wet sheep
(“ J.L.,” B., 16/8/’02). The
fertile cause of dispute be-
tween sheep - owner and
shearers is: Boss thinks the
sheep dry, and goes to
much trouble in yarding
them ; the rep. shears one,
turns him out, and pro-
nounces sheep wet. The
majority of the shearers
follow suit, and the men
who would shear also
knock off for fear of
being accused of
“smooging” to the
boss. Boss curses
the shearers, turns
the sheep out, and
takes care they are
dry when yarded
again. So the
trouble goes on and
the shearers lose time.
I once shore in a Vie.
shed. The rep. was
courting a girl m the
township, a few miles
away, and the sheep
were wet in that shed
that year. My experi-
ence has been the oppo-
site to “J.L.’s.” When
men have had a long spell of
dry weather, they are loth to
leave off, and they shear for
all they are worth to cut out.
When there is a lot of broken
time they get “that tired
feeling,” and the sheep
are “ wet ” accord-
ingly. There’s noth-
ing like a horserace
or a football match
adjacent to settle the
wet-sheep dispute every
time.
The man who has to make his living by
shearing sheep charges 12£ per cent, more because
he can’t get half as many to shear as he used to.
That is heartless tyranny. The man who has to
make his living by selling sheep charges 100 per
cent, more, because he hasn’t got half as many
to sell as he had. That is just business.
Holy Adelaide, which thinks it monstrous that
the shearers should try to put up the price of shear-
ing because the drought is bad and flocks are few
in N.S.W., bumps up the price of the chaff she
sends to Sydney from £3 to £7 (because the
drought is bad and flocks are few in N.S.W.), and
doesn’t turn a hair !
• • * •
“ H.L.” : Re timber not dying in Central
Queensland (B. 26/7/’O2). On Pearl Creek,
Coomoobolars, Nutalbyn, Broadwater, Rio, in
fact all up the valley of the Dawson above the
railway line, blood wood and ironbark are dying
wholesale. One selection, 7800 acres, taken up on
last-named run in January, will need little or no
ringbarking if the drought lasts another three
months. Curious thing is that it is the timber
growing on the deep-soil ridges which suffers first
and worst.
A FRIEND IN NEED.
STEVE: “Ah, come along, Bill, can’t ycr?"
PETE : “No fear; thish bloke’s goin’ my way.”
The good that millionaire Tyson did lives
after him. Twenty-three years ago he put in a
crop of lucerne at Felton. When the crop was
taken off it was made into hay and stored in an
iron shed. The manager of the Queensland Trus-
tees lately went up to give delivery to Greenaway,
the M.L. purchaser of the homestead, when the
hay was found to be perfectly sound and sweet,
and was readily eaten by stock.
• » • •
Re possibilities of irrigation in connection
with big squatting. W. 11. Watt, Carathool:
“ A flood increases carrying capacity of covered
country tenfold.” Angus Ronald, Nap Nap:
“ My run carries a sheep to seven acres ; after a
flood it will run a sheep to the acre for four
months.” That is irrigation of the crudest on
unprepared country. S. M'Caughey, North Yanko
(and half-a-dozen other places): “In sorghum I
have obtained a yield equal to 50 sheep to the
acre, and at a cost of 7s. per acre for water.”
That is scientific irrigation on cultivated land.
And still the old school of squatters howl: “ There
is nothing in it.”
* V * *
“Outlaw”: I have never seen twins
amongst the Australian aborigines. Can any
Bulletin reader point to a case of living aborigi-
nal twins ?
“ Cuss ” writes from the West:
During the latter part of ’B6 and the first half of
’B7, I travelled extensively over the Western district
of N.S.W. as medical referee for the A.M.P. Society
(by Western district is meant the region West of the
Darling). Even the stations were managed by their
owners in person, and their hospitality was pro-
verbial. Again, in ’93, another trip was made,
nearly over the same ground, and what a change !
Out of six adjoining stations, two had been gobbled
by bank 3 and their owner-managers kicked out, as
bare of cash as were the runs of grass. The owner
of the third died of worry and overwork, and the
other three had gone their various ways. One was
ejected from the property he had nursed for 20
years, with not enough to buy a loaf of bread, and
died of a broken heart in two weeks. Another,
given the sack without a moment’s warning and
without a dollar, tried to cut his throat in the
nearest township. Yet another was also given the
sack. His successor in management started for
Heaven by the strychnine route in 14 days—the
prospect killed him. One other, when he received
a gentle hint that, unless he made jumbucks grow
fat and increase at a 90 per cent, average on rabbit-
droppings and the (absent) gentle dew from Heaven,
his head would fall in the basket, promptly wired
to Cohen that he could go to Sheol, packed his
traps in a jam-tin, and skipped for the wild and
woolly West, where he'now travels the goldfields for
Bung and votes the Labor ticket.
“J.A.F.”: A great pest to N.S.W.
orchardists is the common “green-leek” parrot.
Just as the fruit is ripening these “ leeks ” swoop
down upon it in myriads. It seems impossible to
frighten them off, and shooting or poisoning is
out of the question. I have heard that the tying
up of an eagle-hawk in an orchard has been effec-
tive, and also that the presence of a couple of
small brown hawks, with wings cut to prevent
escaping, will deter all small birds. Has any
“ B. ” reader tried this ?
“ An Australian ”
expostulates apropos
of the English fishes
which Mr. Dannevig
has brought out and
established at Port
Hacking, N.S.W. —in
the Kingdom of Jack
Want:—
A question which wants
considering is what does
N.S.W. mean by import-
ing, nursing, and coddling
fish and fish-experts at a
very considerable cost
when there are some of
the best in the world ob-
tainable off her coasts and
out of her rivers. For
delicate eating take the
gar-fish and whiting. Is
there anything anywhere
much better? In a big
way, what ails the schnap-
per? Is he not just as
well suited to Australian
banks as is the cod to
those of Newfoundland?
And what of the trum-
peter, whose home is the
waters of Bass’s Straits?
Is he so much behind the
turbot ? Our big sea-
crabs are not in any way
inferior to the lobster,
and amongst other things
of the sort foolishly des-
pised we have fresh-water
eels in great abundance.
Eels rank next to salmon
in London fish-returns.
In Australia they are left
alone in the creeks. Mur-
ray cod and perch are not
without their special re-
commendations. Whoever
heard of nursing them f—
unless in the case of the
fishermen who keep big
fellows tethered by the
gills for a day or two till
the local market rises?
All these, our own fish,
are getting scarcer with
every year, or sinking
more and more into
unmerited contempt.
Wouldn’t it pay us better
to look after them than
to go to Norway and Scot-
land for new stock? We
may not have got much
out of Frank Farnell’s trawling or Jack Want’s Port
Hacking experiments; but they were working at wlmt
should be a big business. What Australia wauls is, first ,
a table supply for her big cities, and then scientific use
of the great occasional surpluses for export.
* * • *
“ Myfra ” to The Bulletin :
Nunky Kidd, N.S.W.’Minister of Agriculture, (ells the
butter-folks that they will need to buck up or Russia will
walk over them in London market. In three years
Russia has quadrupled her butter export, bringing it in
1901 up to 20,000 tons. Nunky might have gone on to say
that there is nothing to prevent Russia going on to 200,000
tons, and within 10 years. But he deemed th' 20,000
enough for scare purposes or encouragem nt. The real
bedrock of the whole business is that Russia, troubled
with no “ sound economy ” ideas of any sort, is marching
on London butter-market just as she is marching
over the Manchurian territory. And she has lesource
enough to take it and keep it. A hundred Dentnarks or
Normandys lie along her S. Siberian slopes. Her
butter-makers know nothing of wages. Her Dureaux
will run factories and railways. Within 10 years she may
—probably' will—place at least 5,000,000 people on
50,000,000 fat acres. And what of our prospect in same
period ? If Cobden’s ghost still walks and scares imperial
fools, it seems that the London butter-market will be
hopelessly lost to us. And how then will our bush—our
butter and general farming bush—keep on feeding the
owns? Perhaps we shall have learned to do without
ttowns by that time. Cobdenitee have often insinuated
that it was impertinence on the part of Australians to
contemplate towns.
AN EXPERT SUGGESTION.
1ST WARRIOR : “I see the King’s gone for a
cruise in the Royal yacht.”
2ND DITTO: “ And the safest place for him, too,
with De Wet right on ’is tracks." (Feel-
ingly): “ You and me, mate, didn’t have no
Royal yacht to go cruising in when he was
after us.”
“ Wombat” : Re throwing a beaji by the
tail (B. 16/8/’O2). I have done it myself frequently
on Gostwick station; it is a very simple matter.
(I have also often seen an old cattle-dog bring a
full-grown steer down on its ribs.) I did the
tail dodge first when but eight years old. My
sister was starting for a ride, when I huug on to
the pony’s tail, bringing him down on hi* ribs and
also on my sister’s leg, breaking it. The trick, by
the way, can only be performed while the beast is
in motion.
COME!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My love is like a camp-fire burning—
With light and heat and cheering splashes ;
To-morrow morn the cinders turning,
But smouldering left, and gray, cold ashes.
Then come and be my love to-night,
And wait not for to-morrow :
For Now it’s dreams and pleasure bright,
And Then it’s pain and sorrow ;
So come and be my love to-night,
And bide not for to-morrow.
GENUNG.


The Bulletin Story Book (price ss.
post-free from The Bulletin office) has been
everywhere hailed as by far the best book of
Australian stories and sketches yet published.
All the best-known Australian writers, for the
last ten years, are represented" and, both for
interest and literary value, the selection is un-
surpassed in this country.*
CLEARS
the IiLOOD
through the
KIDNEYS
res
SCHfIAPPS.
ATSON’S WHISK V.
A Trades’ Hall (Melb.) delegate protesting
against the printing contracts given to Pentridge
prisoners: “lb might be as well, if this sort of
thing is going on, for the unemployed tradesmen
to see if they can’t get jobs there as out-patients.”
A Central Queensland train was recently
pulled up at a certain station by signal and atten-
tion was called to the fact that the bolts and pins
had dropped out of the two upper sections of a
cattle-truck and that 10 out of 12 animals were
missing. The bovines, however, were afterwards
discovered some way back, thoughtfully standing
beside a fence—unharmed. To anyone who has
noticed the snail-like progress of a C. Q. train
this will, perhaps, not appear altogether mira-
culous.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
.Apply Sulpholine Lotion. Ib dm as away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
“8.F.H.” writes from Sam Cha Shan
(Kwangsi Prov.) China :
From papers received from Australia, I see that a great
deal hag been said about the so-called Kwangsi rebellion.
Though I live in the midst of the supposed disturbed
districts, it was only from the Hong Kong papers that I
learned of there being any trouble. On hearing from the
same source that “ Nanning ” (Ngan Foo) had been cap-
tured, I sent to find out if it were true, so as to be pre-
pared, as I am only 70 miles as the crow flies from that
city. I received a message from the Chief Magistrate
that the report was untrue, but that there was trouble in
the Pak Sik district. This trouble has been going on for
over 12 months, to my knowledge, and is caused by the
interference of missionaries with local disputes. The
officials complain that numbers of the brigands of the
district, if captured, claim to be Christians, and the
missionaries immediately interfere on their behalf. From
what I have seen myself, this is the cause of the trouble,
and has been the root of all the disturbances which have
taken place. Till the different foreign Powers withdraw
their protection from the missions, and treat the mem-
bers as ordinary travellers, they will still keep treading
on the prejudices of the people and outraging their feel-
ings, being secure in the knowledge that they are pro-
tected by their Governments. The most unjust part is
that these missionaries, if in their own country, could die
of starvation and no notice taken ; if killed for interfer-
ing with Chinese ideals they are worth a treaty port and
the sacrifice of many lives.
A SCIENTIFIC PICK-ME-UP. —“No better
tonic and restorative for the victims of social fes-
tivities exists than a morning draft of Hunyadi
Janos. Sure, swift, searching, yet safe, and in
every respect salutary. The best and safest
natural aperient.*
Two years ago Britain hadn’t a submarine
boat, and it was the custom in the British navy
to sneer at the under-water torpedo craft as being
as worthless as its brother above water—and that,
in the opinion of a big majority qf the British sea-
dogs, is u-tterly useless, except to destroy the men
who work it. But when the French boat Gustave
Zede made a trip from Toulon to Corsica, Bull
reckoned the time had come to try his hand at
the same sort of toy. The British builders were
very successful, and lately, at Barrow-in-Furness,
they launched a submarine which maintained a
speed of 15 knots an hour under water, twice that
of the Gustave Zede; and generally proved it-
self the most reliable and effective ship of the
class yet built. For bursting up a blockade and
the nerves of coast-raiders an effective and reason-
ably fast submarine will come next only to the
flying machine.
Spoons
. . AND . „
Forks.
Heavily Electro-Piated on White Hard Nickel Bases.
The “ Fx. & R.” Spoons and Forks are the most heavily plated made in England.
The y hast for a lifetime, and look like solid silver the whole time,
they are triple-plated on bases of white, hard nickel silver.
Some
They are white throughout, and engrave like solid silver,
we supplied 17 years ago are still as good as ever, in use at the Gaf6 Francais, George-street.
Our Prices are the Lowest in Australia—quality considered.
LONDON PRICES
PLAIN FIGURES
STRICTLY CASH
FAIRFAX # ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney, 23 HUNTER STREET.
“Banjo” Paterson, in S.M. Herald,
describes a bit of drought-stricken N.S.W. :
For hour after hour the train roared and swung through
the same aching, parching desert. One would hardly see
50 head of stock in 50 miles, except for the horses hanging
up to the fences at the railway stations. These horses,
being maize-fed, found themselves in quite unaccustomed
high spirits.
After a while we began to climb the range up into the
New England tableland. Here there were occasionally
to be seen patches of rough, coarse, rushy-looking grass,
and everywhere there was a litter of leaves where
branches had been cut down to feed stock. The squatter
explained the situation.
“ This,” he said waving his hand towards the surround-
ing grey desert, “is the good country. This is where
they’re sending their stock to, to keep ’em alive. There’s
thousands and thousands of stock being travelled down
here for this grass, such as it is.”
“ And will it save their lives'? ”
“No, it only makes their funeral a hit more expensive.
This rubbishy dry stuff that they have to eat, they can’t
digest it, and it balls inside them and kills them. Cattle
too 1 ”
“ What’s going to come of the country, then ? ”
“Oh, as soon as the rain comes they’ll have to go
round and try and get money for a fresh start, though
where they’re to get it goodness knows. The land’s
mortgaged up to its neck already, and the stock are dead.
They’ve got the price of land too high, that’s where the
trouble is. A man nas to pay such a price to get a pro-
perty in any of these settled districts that he has to over-
stock from year's end to year’s end to pay his interest.
You d think stations would be cheap now, wouldn’t you?
W ell, they’re not! The most of them are heavily mort-
gaged, and the mortgagees won’t let them be sold at a
loss, and the men who are not under mortgage, of course,
they’re not going to sell cheap. It's as hard to get a
place now as ever it was.”
We swung through New England and on up to the
northern districts, nearly to the border. Here we came
on the cattle country, where the ranges are. Here there
was grass of a sort; the sort that is no good. Meat in the
town 6d. a lb. ; butchers going out of business because
they could get no stock to kill !
We left the train and got horses, and rode out past one
of our principal northern towns, over the same bare,
granite-like earth ; but here a bit of alluvial or volcanic
soil had given a chance to grow crops—such crops as
they would sneer at in almost any other part of the
world.
“ What’s this land worth ? ” we ask the squatter.
He looks round over the surrounding parched flats,
where a few “cookies”— i.e., small settlers—were farm-
ing, and where some shadow-like cattle were groping
about among the stalks of a field of maize.
“ They have to pay 15s. an acre rent,” he said. “ The
land isn’t for sale, but, if it was, they’d have to give about
£l2 an acre.”
Twelve pounds an acre for that sunburnt desert 1 We
IN THE BUSH. —HOW A MAN SLEEPS NOW-A-DAYS.
" The N.S.W. Attorney-General has decided not to take any steps in connection with the shooting of Joseph
Heaps at his camp-fire at Ginnindera, on suspicion of his being a murderer.”— NEWS ITEM.
began to understand why some men were off to South
Africa.
After all, is the Drought or the Landlord the
chief curse in N.S.W. ?
* * * *
“ J.G.A.F.” : Re drought effects :
A traveller for a large French firm told me that in less
than a week he secured 180,000 sheepskins in a N.S.W.
Western district, and he is but one buyer out of many !
On the outer fringes of Riverlna it is impossible even to
muster the sheep, and stations which have at great
expense kept a percentage of their sheep alive by hand-
feeding are now likely to lose both the sheep and the
huge cost of feeding.
Australian bards have immortalised the drover’s happy
lot, as riding behind his cattle and sheep, he fills the
solitary bush with rollicking melody, but Ihe drought has
altered all that. Near Junee, a couple of days ago, I met
a large mob of sheep going towards Wagga. ' A man on a
bike was ahead “steadying” them--though, Heaven
knows, if they had been any steadier they’d have been
dead. A couple of footsore shepherds with starved dogs
followed up, and about 100yds. behind came the cook,
pushing a light hand-cart with the camp fixings, plus a
dozen or so sheep-pelts. Not a horse in the whole turn-
out ! Further out I met a mob of skeleton horses coming
in from Trangie way —“ looking for grass ” the man in
charge told me. Might as well look for icebergs in Hell !
And the cookies are in desperate plight. Not one of
them has enough hay or straw to “ set” a broody hen
and the crops are not yet out of the ground. Many of
them, indeed, never will be ! As for the country towns,
with food commodities at famine prices and work scarce,
the poorer classes are well on the road to starvation—
starvation in Australia ! Where now are the good old
times when a man would ride into the towns from the back
stations with a couple of hundred “quid” in his
“kick,” bank the coin, get a cheque-book which he
would hang to his button-hole, and write cheques
galore till the lot was “ blued ! ’’
• * • *
Alas for Bourke, N.S. VV. Writes “fix 8”:
Prayers for rain seem only effectual in the coastal dis-
tricts. There is no Providence out-back. The country
between Nyngan and Bourke, and far out at the back of
Bourke, is in a hideous condition. Edible scrubs are
being cut down wholesale everywhere. God only knows,
should the present drought ever really break, what sheep
are to be fed on in next one. Bourke, once the liveliest
and wealthiest town in the back country, is being aban-
doned by its people en masse. The large meatworks have
been long idle, and are surrounded with ghastly silence ;
the brewery and several large hotels have been compelled
to close, while the open pubs, are empty and as quiet as
churches. Rent-paying is almost a matter of the past,
most house-owners being only too glad to have someone
live in their properties to protect them against decay and
destruction. There are now fully 300 untenanted houses
in Bourke. Few people are seen in the streets, and the
cemetery is the only cheerful place left. The Darling
creeps over her shallows (where she creeps at all) at
funeral pace. The billabongs that fed the river have long
ceased moaning, and every tank, dam, or waterbole is
dry. Emaciated corpses of sheep, cattle, and horses
everywhere! No droving, shearing, fencing, or bush-
work of any description obtainable, and the only persons
who know the feel of coin are the few old-age pensioners
about the place.
* * * *
Some Q. drought items :
In Eidsvold and Degilbo districts the man on the land,
also his missus and the kids, is often clothed in sugar-
bags and living on prickly-pear and pumpkin. Near
Ilawkwood and Miles the wild lemon and tamarind trees,
which have been regarded by bush naturalists as drought-
proof, are dying in all directions. Since March 40,000
sheep have been trucked from the Central district to the
Coast in search of herbage, and 40,000 are now booked for
removal. S.S. Moira, last trip to Rockhampton, took 560
tons of fodder, which was despatched in special trains as
far as Longreach. At Townsville the water supply will,
with care, last another three weeks ; at Bowen they are
trusting in the main to native wells. West from Winton,
Ounnamulla and Thargomindah, the country and the
roads are common and undistinguishable—as much
growth on one as on the other. There are hundreds of
bush children in the S.W. quadrant of Q. who are able
to walk and talk but have never seen rain falling, and to
whom a shower of water would be as strange as a shower
of elephants. Go on the land, young man 1
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.- —Sorry I unintentionally
hurt Ben Bridge’s feelings; I simply repeated
hearsay when referring to the “ Ragged Thirteen, ”
and my mention of them has at least elicited some
facts concerning that mysterious gang.—6xB.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insajldently
stamped. Name an l address must ap pear on It t.
No liability is undertaken in any case ra contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no" case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
Bank Shareholder: Don’t think there are too
many Australian banks—if only they had the whole Aus-
tralian business, and the four mostly-British institutions
were out of the field. There are 17 institutions really
belonging to the Commonwealth, and the very smallest
(Ballarat Banking Co.) is able to pay 6 per cent G.G. j
“ Corpuscles gray got in the veins of men and rolled their
hearts and souls away ! ’’—much too astonishing a state-
ment even for a licensed poet. And you can’t rhyme
“Lethe” and “death.” A.P. : Your ingenious theory
that Joe Chamberlain converted (J. H. Reid to a belief in
Federation by the practical promise of the first Premier-
ship doesn’t fit in with the facts at all. G.H.R. was anti-
Federal until he couldn’t afford to be so any longer ; then
he was enthusiastically Federal ; then, when there was
discontent in Sydney because Sydney didn’t get all it
wanted, G.H.R. hit Federation a blow from behind. A
general election having shown him that the majority in
the State favored union, G.H.R. became a strong
Federalist again. There wasn’t any Chamberlain about
it, only a great capacity on the part of a stout politician
to adapt himself to circumstances... .E. : Well, if Tub
Bulletin had been on the Bench, it would have given the
hank five years hard for employing a grown man, with 11
years faithful service, at £l5O a year and expecting him
to keep a wife and family and a clean high collar, and an
air of haughty, high-bred culture on that salary....
Con. R. : London beauty controversy closed by “Cleo’s”
well-pointed remarks in this issue... .Woolwich : We
can’t rouse any interest in the Buller controversy ; can
you send us anything about that other warrior, Colonel
Neild?... .Ignotus : We’d have been glad to expose the
facts as to that unspeakably brutal child-murder, but
your letter doesn’t inspire confidence in your discretion.
....G.H.M. : You send us a Jingo poem about rallying
round the motherland, dated 22/S ’O2 ! We thought your
sort was now extinct as the dodo F. : Yes, the doctor
tells it, but will he pay libel expenses when the other
man sues ?.... Kelpie : A few lines here to acknowledge a
good intention :
“There some prefer their beds of down (a cold, luxurious
set),
Give me the field where heroes meet and penned-up
pigeons fret.
I wouldn’t harm a wallaby, nor shoot a ’roo at sight.
For I’ve often heard it stated that the creatures some-
times bite.
But give me pigeons in galore (the better if they’re sick),
And place me thirty yards behind, in case the beggars
kick ;
I’ll show you I’m as good a man as ever drew a bead,
Or descended from that good old stock that’s stamped the
bull-dog breed.”
P.W.B.: The man who takes big doses of turpentine
—Heaven help his kidneys 1 See a" qualified doctor
A. : No, but Breaker M’Gillivray, in his book
on Australian horses, shows how the age can be told
up to 20 years... .Nymsie.: A long reminiscence to the
effect that B. Lewis didn’t approve of her young
son smoking cigarettes. Wise Shakespearian matron !
....J.P. : There is often a mighty difference between
doing good and doing _ well H.V. : You send
£15,000 worth of trouble in three paragraphs. A press-
man ought to know something about the libel laws
B. Dobson: Crude and unliterary A.M. : “Passing
Strange ” very indifferent work Monyah : Ends rather
well, but is otherwise weak Stanley P. : “Orgy” is
strained and ineffective Nomad : Hopelessly unskilful.
....J.F.K. : Returned accordingly. Rather clever, but
quite out of Bulletin line....J. P. O’Neill : Sorry still
unsuitable. Returned as desired J. Sutherland : Not
a bad sketch in the main, but shows the prentice-hand
too much... .Oroya : Good deal of skill, but the subject
wasn’t worth it... .G.M.F.: Bulletin can’t undertake to
answer purely technical questions of that kind. Consult
a mechanical engineer.... Sabrina : The verses have grace,
but there’., no idea benind them You-Yangs :It begins
indifferently, improves towards the middle, and then the
last state of that yarn is worse than the first Mary
S.B. : Have an indistinct recollection thereof ; will look
it up and let you know.... Yorky Bill: Have met with
worse stuff—but not very A.T.N. : Well written, in a
somewhat buckram style, but much too long for the
ip teres fc Archie B.: Bad imitation of Kipling
Dynamo: They are all taken from the names of
noted electricians, but they do not refer to the
same properties. An " ampere ”is the unit of current;
n * v °lt,” of pressure ; and an “ ohm ”of resistance.....
R.P.O’D.: Write again in another 15 years G.F.D.: You
are a very hilarious correspondent indeed E.M.: That’s
it; anything which appears in Bulletin at once becomes
good English—we mean Australian James G.: Thanks,
but we can’t monkey with anatomical details of that sort.
... Nym : Tune enough to talk about little Willie when
he has punched the pianny before a metropolitan audi-
ence H.E.R.: Please get another pen-name. Itisdan-
gerous to have your present one floating round the
premises H. Lauri: Gruesome photo, to hand
btdl Waters: Regret very few usable Zeb.:
Possibly it’s a work of genius ; strikes us as gibberish, in
hod handwriting T.A.E.: Have received, andstruggled
considerably with, your diagram M. (Glen Lonely):
Not bad, but hardly good enough The Devil: A dull
devil..... .S.P. : Picture was drawn by The Bulletin's
pedestrian-artist, the regular horse-artist being away in a
boat at the time.... Native Born : Thanks.... E. L.: There
are some fine gorgeous words in “Alga,” but it lacks
coherence. Te Oti : Touching poem about the fate of a
certain outhouse quite out of our line, though we admire
the boldness of your Muse in wandering there for inspira-
tlon-■ Yt° S Y Jaokson ' Don ’ fc remember the lines quoted.
....Robt. Clarke : Yes, address your remittance to the
Mayor of Sydney, Town Ha 11... .0. Rex : “ Circe ” some
good points, but we can’t make out the metre, and you
can t rhyme “Lethe” with “beneath." Song has one
figure, but open to some metrical objections....
G.I.T. : Whilst verses are of a pleasant quality, they’re
quite unsuitable for Bulletin ; and, we fancy, their great
length would also interfere with publication elsewhere...
h. Sphinx : Sermon to women on the franchise not in our
1ine..... A.G.R. : Much promise ; but that sort of descrip-
tion is one of the hardest things to do very well
and it must be done very we 1 1.... Nationalist: We don’t
quite see it on those lines (knowing some of the people) :
there seems to be more notoriety-hunting than anything
else in the matter.. ..W.J. (Vic.): “Spring” too halting.
.... I. B.S. : Shows some skill, but a story of that gloom-
power needs very artistic treatment A.C.M. : Un-
pleasant and not vivid H.K. : Absurd ; try something
simpler... Hopeless: Just so Unsuitable: Nada,
D.K.D., G.E.P., G. 8., N. Martig, Alfred H Fell In :
Too horrible A.M.D. : Old as Mt. Egniont... 11.V.C. :
Why not type matter ? Reading your MS. is indeed a
JO J? P-J.F.: Can’t say till we see them ...
.L.iu.D. : One or two in type and on the way there. Any
rejected will be returned....Petramos : Many of the
London theatres are small and most of them are more
liberal in their space-allowance for sitters than the Aus-
tralian houses. A 10s. stall gives the bloated capitalist
room to stretch his legs in front of him 1.C.0.0 :
You re mistaken in your idea that The Bulletin is"
down on ” servants : we regard the servant-girl trouble
as mostly due to the “ missuses.” A paper is not t espon-
sible for signed articles (except in the libel-courts).
HE DIDN'T UNDERSTAND.
“ Any chance of a feed ’ere, lady?"
“ Well, if you get that axe”-
“Oh, my teeth are orlright, mum; I can eat
anythink! ”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
H.R. : M'Ginty legend too carmine. Inexpedient to
emphasise by illustration the already over-lurid Un-
available: V. 8., W.R.M., J.ILH Arthur M. : Send
something which looks fairly original. Those two draw-
ings might be from anywhere. IVhat's the good of
Bulletin buying Snapshot or Scraps subjects?... Nell
C.N. : Too wooden in present form W.G.G. : Spirited
drawing, but not enough in legend. Try something with
a point in it, and not dependent on a poor pun. ..Alf.
i i j OU * lave a strong sense of “ character,” but you
don t draw freely enough yet. With hard study from life
you should succeed.


y. *V "! 'V
< vt. ° 3>® 'l
vr^
4.° *>■*
B- » A»-
HkV-
r r Kid —SaM ! <ni
Kt)ow< \ 10-T "7o«'» l ...
Urn;— £“ 2J
Knows : *nc KnpWs -ttfe
oj"tt}c *]**> ru *> K .!
°" 6 of U lNunvj<
“*e»Jth. gre »t ce otre9
,**' S 8 . . tie <W
the^.
ci o\
Bill {-fo
n?ot)ey S*fe) "V/otcr v«k ere
•you fool— i^f e ** nSWS
f oK tfOV'f-
(fatliw o^ e i •'
i>
ow
\ NEVER!!" j
e jo'*'-f« Rows. * re
Jff "%t 'l UJ'i H •>«« *’»*'
f *"»
on "flje e^.
(G'f^
LADIES’ HAIR “ FRAMES.”
The hoaxing of the action brought by
Ernest Simpson, hairdressers’ furnisher and
importer, of Coilins-street, Melbourne, to
recover £5OO from Ernest A. Trotter, of
Geelong, hairdresser, for an alleged infringe*
ment of his patent in the manufacture of
ladies’ hair-frames, was concluded before
Judge Johnston in the County Court yes'
te relay.
MEMORIAL TO THE DECEASED
TO THE EDITOR OP THE A RODS.
g; r> The residents of Sorrento and Port-
sea have started a subsciption list to defray
the cost of a memorial, to be erected in the
Sorrento cemetery, over the graves of those
Australian soldiers returned from the Boer
campaign in South Africa per the trame
ports Drayton Grange and Montrose, and
who died of disease in Fort Franklin Bar
racks Hospital through the overcrowding of
the boats.
- -
* -R&V- r>3Xt
s£- /
““r»'““^"’ , sv«' as *
'£%£?»***
| Five of* the six federated' states-
closed the first financial year under the
mew order with a substantial deficit*
the aggregate running to far beyond a
.rilllllon. This is an unfortunate cir-
cumstance, and the worst is made of it
by the attempt of state politicians ta
saddle federation with the blame of It.
]k>/i tje St*ei 5 fcC° —*
" jets bU«7«.
&JA SvKeb pW.
jif fJEl 1
A I
in
?A^
feh Slniikr- f^ c 5 were
■fo-fte »? CctftZlry ~
entered -f** defendant Wilt?
- Y/<? *t"e of or
Sowje otjc n7'pVf °"T
x baCteVf .'for t)c,c * , ,-
t)»,bit" down $««*»>«».
J
„ YJe o >uje Veil
Tbfipr) •—V ‘..
s° r^-
CHIEFLY VICTORIAN.


IS NJS.Vf.
Ist Passer-by : “ Fine day 1 ”
2nd „ : “ By Jove, yes ! ”
(LATTER-DAY ATHLETICS.
Or-<tht> qualities ®f ping-pong.
The present rainfall has been t|js mean* of
.raising the daily intake of
reservoir from between 6,000,000
7,003.000 gallons per day to 25,000,000.
The water in, Prospect Dam now come*
almost up to Jake Garrard’s knees.
A CURRENT AUSTRALIAN GRIEVANCE OVERCROWDED TRANSPORTS.
Here we see Dick Seddon and Toby Barton returning to their hotel after one of the
many Coronation banquets.
Mr. Wise, in his new measure, proposes
.to grant registration to juvenile sellers id
the street. A provision is made for the,
establishment of an institution for tiny chil- !
dren. and a special court to deal with chil-
dren's cases.
v>« \ '
° 'ey +* *. >
*<Vi
7S 1* \ <??* \
<%y£s.
v-v-
-\ *✓
t is reported that Barton has been mooting the subject of
a State bank to the crowned and moneyed heads of Europe.'
Barton, in the character of banker, would add to the gaiety,
.yf nations. Imagine him telling (say) O’Sullivan that he
really must reduce that overdraft, or etc., etc.
AN INDISPENSABLE QUALIFICATION.
Chamberlain (to noble applicant for the billet of Aus-
tralian Governor-General) • “ You have a good
pair of lnngs, I suppose ? ”
Noble Applicant : “Lung! Cawn’t see what
the deuce lungs have got to do with the
mattah ! ”
Chamberlain : “ Why, the fact is, I gather casually from conversing with Barton j
anil Seddon that Australians want a Governor-General -who ' will shout a
great deal ’! ”
CARTOONLETS.


Key,
£3los.
a—E m
liliiii
mm
m
w a
'
J'.-Ss
BB
m
ms
A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN AND MINERS.
ROTHERHAM SP ECIAI., MADE ENGLISH
LEVERS, Full Cap, Hand Finished, Extra
Jewelled W oiks, Perfect Timekeeper, with Pure
Silver Gases, Dust and Water Tight. £3 10s.
Extra duality, with Chronometer Balance,
£4 10s, £5, £5 10s, £6, £7, £8 :
Solid Gold, £lO, £l5, £2O.
A written certificate for 3,4, and 5 years.
Try one ; you will not regret it.
Keyless,
£5.
Free-
trade
Prices.
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong, Reliable WATERBURY WATCHES.
1 >Oll g Wind, 88 6d ;
New Short Wind, 10s ;
New Model, «*., 13s 6d ;
Extra duality, J-plate, 18s 6d and £l.
Silver. 35s ;
Gold, £2 15s.
The reputation of these Watches is a sufficient
guarantee of the reliability.
No
Advance
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Unrivalled non-magnet LEVER.
Perfect Timekeeper, Screw Cases,
dust and water tight, 20s.
Solid Silver, 85s ; Double Case, £2.
A written Guarantee given with
each Watch.
20s.
Black or
Nickel,
30s.
k' M.
t"'T V
s \ /Ai,
r"'
«e
A.SAUftDIRS
-a*
6Z
N^C?,
\y
K,<
itf'i
H
“ FLY-BACK CHRONOMETERS.”
Fly-back only. In Solid Nickel or Black, 30s ;
Extra duality, £2, £2 10s ; Split Seconds, £3 10s.
Bure Solid Silver, as above, £5, £6, £7, £B, and £lO :
Solid (Told, £l5, £2O, £25, and £3O.
A written certificate for 2,3, 4,5, and 6 years.
TRY ONE.
Silver,
£5.
Solid
Silver,
£2 10s.
WALTHAM LEVERS.
We are Direct Buyers.
Pure Solid Silver Hunting Cases, Extra
Quality Movements,
£2 10s, £B, £3 10s, £4, and £5 ;
Gold Patent Cases, Waltliams, £4 4s, £5 ss:
Solid Gold, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O, and £25.
3,4, 5, and 6 Years’ Guarantee.
Gold
Cased,
£4 4s,
Solid Gold CHAfiN (Single or Double), £2 10s £3
£3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5. 15ct, Solid Gold, £5 10s £o’
£H 10s, £7, is, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, l‘2s Od, 15s, 20s.’
Send for Price Illustrated Book.
troici Bar Amethyst BROOCH, 12s 6d.
English Hall Marked.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Style 2-Bar Gold BROOCH,
Diamond and two Red Stones, 20s.
BL
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. 2-Bar Pure Diamond, Double Cut,
£2 ; with Ruby, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Style, loot. Gold Pearl Set Buckle 2-Bar
BROOCH, 32s 6d. English Hall Marked.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Style, Gold BROOCH, Hall-marked,
Diamond and 2 Red Stones, 22s 6d.
h "3
Gold BROOCH
Diamond, with Four Red
or Blue Stones, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
High Grade Ladies’ Solid Silver LEVERS,
Full Jewelled, J-plate,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, and £4 10s.
In Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s, £8 10s, 10 guineas
£l2 10s, £l5, and £2O.
Guaranteed 3,4, o, and 6 years.
A. SAUNDEKS.
Diamond BRACELET, 15ot. Gold, three Pure Double Cut
Diamonds, with Safety Chain, £5.
Ladies' Curb Gold
Chain, Snap Padlock',
255, 30s, 355, £2 ss,
10s extra for Key
Padlock.
All with Safety Chain.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Gold Forget-Me-Not BROOCH,
English Hall-marked, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Our 2 Bird Gold BROOCH, 10s. Very neat.
A. SAUNDERS (Registered).
Good-wish Gold BROOCH, 12s Cd ;
15ct. Gold, 255.
No. 1.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Long MUEE CHAINS,
Hand Made, Extra Strong, £.3, £3 10s, £4;
loct. Gold. £4 10s, £5, £6, £7 10s.
Price According to Strength.
A. SAUNDERS.
loot. Solid Gold Pure
Pearl STAR, £3.
Other styles, £4, £5,
£6, £9, £lO.
A. SAUNDERS.
Any Name.
Secret Name S' old
LOCKET. £1 ;
Pearl and Red
Stone Set,
ir,ct. .Gold, 30.«.
MIZPAH
CHABM,
4s 6d.
A. GLuS.
New Peace Offering- Gold Bird and Pearl Set
Leaf, 25s ;
15ct. Gold, 32. s Gd.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Motto Registered Gold “ Dinna Forget ”
BROOCH and Amethysts, Oct. Gold, 17s (Id ;
loot. Gold, 30s ; l£ct. Gold, 355.
No. 2.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Long MUTT CHAINS,
Hand Made. Extra Strong', £3, £3 10s, £4-
15ct. Gold £4 10s. £5, £3, £7 10s.
Price According to Strength.
A. SAUjST I.'.EBS.
Beautifully Chased. 9et. Gold,
large size LINKS, 22s (id.
• Clam, 21s. or w.tli In. Gals,
nicely Chased, 22s fid.
loot. Gold, £2 ; Silver, 4s Od.
us
A. SAUNDKIIS.
i Registered .
Gold LINKS, 2:>s
loot. Gold, 3*2s Gd
Silver and G-old, 10s;
all Silver, os.
mgr CALL AND SEE OUR
JE \Y EL LK K 1 EXH f BITION.
A SPLENDID DISPLAY.
OR SEND FOR OUR
1902 COMPLETE ILLUSTRATED BOOK,
POST FREE ANYWHERE.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bamboo Gold BRACELET, all the style, price according
to width, 255, 80s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s ;
loot. Gold, £3, £4. £5, £6.
IH1HUIU!!I1!I||
Very Pretty Gold BRACELET Diamond, Red, or Blue
Stones, £2 10s; 15et. Gold, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Newest Solid Gold Name BROOCH, 7s Gd;
witli Raised Flowers each side (Any Name)
Isct. Gold, 15s. Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
loct. Gold Ivy and Knob BROOCH, 25s ;
‘Jut. Gold, smaller, 12s 6d.
strn
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold 2-Heart Amethyst and Love Knot
B HOOCH, Hj s.
A. SAUNDERS.
loct. Gold 2-Bar Diamond Double Cut
BROOCH, £2.
No. 3.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Long MUFF CHAINS,
Hand Made, Extra Strong, £3, £3 10s, £4
15ct. Gold, £4 10s, £5, £O, £7 10s.
Price According' t,o Strength.
i Photo Locket
I
t o
A. SAUNDERS.
New Photo. Gold
LOGKET and CHAIN,
255, 30s, £2 ;
screw top, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
OUK I’E'ACJS lil.Nfl.
18et. Solid Gold,
D;: mond ; nd2 tiub.es
or Sapphires, £2.
Extra Heavy, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Sold Gold Opal Band.
17s fa'd ;
3 Opals, 22s 6d ;
15ct. Gold, 30s ;
3 Opals, £2.
A. .xUNDBKS.
Gold Sword and Pearl Spray BK-OOCH, with Diamona
Heart, 25s ; loot. Gold, £2 sa.
A. BAUN DISKS.
New Peace Ottering Twin Dove BKOOOH,
with Enamelled Leaf, 17s 6d ;
loct. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
loot. •''-Bar Gold BROOCH, Pure Diamond,
Double Cut, £3,55. Very strong.
®5<SC_
m
A. SAUNDERS.
2-Bar English Hall-Marked Gold BROOCH,
Diamond-cut A methyst, 20s;
loot. Gold, £2.
A. nn i N UEES.
Solid Gold, Hill-. Marked, Eorget-me-Not
BROOCH, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Very Neat loot. Gold, I’eail, and Turquoise
BROOCH. £B.
A. SAUNDERS.
(®“ALL ARTICLES POST TREE.
Watch Repairs Guarantet d.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 2f s, 30s, £2,
£2 10s; £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £5 ;
Superioi Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
ALL GUARANTEED.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Solid Gold Opal
LINKS, 30s ;
15ct.Gold, £2los. Extra strong.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold LINKS, very pretty, 12s Gd.
Large size, 15s and 20s.
Silver, 3s Gd and 4s 6d.
18ct. Gold.
pure live Double-cut
Diamonds, £5 ;
3 Rubies or Sapphires
and 2 Diamonds,
£3 10s and £4 10s.
Larger Diamonds,
£6, £7los, £lO, to £5O.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, 5 Opals,
.4-Hoop,
£2, £2 10s, £3,
£3 10s _
A. SAUNDERS.
lKct. Si lid (jrold,
Extra Stioixg and
Heat y, one or three
Diamonds,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct. Gold, 2 Hearts,
Diamond,
and Buby, 35s ;
2 Diamonds, £2 ss.
With Name,
Band RINGS.
Oct. Solid Gold, 12s 6d.
15s ; 15ct. Gold, 20s,
255,; 18ct. Gold, 255,
30s, 355, £2.
For Size, cut hole in Cardboard.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-made Wedding Rings and Keepers.—9ct. Solid Gold, 5s 6d,
7s 6d, 10s each ; 15ct. Gold, 15s; extra heavy, 255; IBct,. Gold, 20s;
extra heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Quality of Gold and Finish First-class.
A. SAUNDERS,
SAVE 25 to 50
L’Ell CENT.
LEADING ART JEWELLER,
SAVE 25 to 50
PEE CENT.
815 & 817 GEORGE-STREET,
Nearly Opposite
Railway Station,
SYDNEY


<3^''
f| r W/^w'fre/
DicK
Al r C*£*f» |^ffaA©>?
b«e*>
or;
nViiuirtf
fa "fWKcs \ >
o\
Is 11-ltalfa* *
'foil Sbo^
nr)*,*! ?
i Well V*
\ * 1 i+Hc of
“ea^b
J<V7e
'HisS
]
4-r
J*7°*7 [>£©»>
,ri r o.p^ e
f
'’■’"A
A h (%cK,r
E^ie
/'fafllcU
9^‘G.aw.^
5V
fyiyor, :
Ve Kjss
V/e
not" bfc
i
Irja/G you seen
%TW B**W.—
Xjli'k'Ze,
5 riooKct'
'W:
Wfr* „v
Miiiy
BURNAND'S “LADY OF OSTEND,” BY THE HAWTREY COMEDY CO., AT THE BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.


A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
A most useful Veterinary Book is attached
to every bottle of Condy’s Fluid. This Book
contains instructions for Guring most of the
ailments and accidents affecting Horses,
Dogs, Sheep, Cattle and Poultry.
In this Book eminent Veterinary Sur-
geons recommend Gondy’s Fluid as a
certain cure for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
Broken Knees, Grease, Thrush and
Cracked Heels in Horses.—Scab, Foot
Hot,' Fly, etc., in Sheep.—Hoove, Foul in
the Foot, Wounds and Sores in Cattle.
Condy's Fluid is made by. Gondy &
Mitchell,’ Ltd., of 65, Roswell Road,
London, England, and is sold by all
Chemists and Stores. Beware of Colonial
substitutes. Insist op having CoMdv'sFlmd^
WEAK-SKSNTCP REAPERS-**-*
Who are unable to read small printed matter, or to *eo hue
stitching or writing with comfort, whose distant vision is dull
and who suffer from persistent headaches or pains after close
aorilication —you may rest assured that you are suffering from
Ageing or Impaired Vision, and Need Glasses. You
should visit us, and have your sight scientifically tested, and
be supplied with Glasses adapted to ypur individual case.
11l COUNTRY BEADERS wfaa cauaot visi SICHT-ME ASU fU NG' pATENT* By ifa u£
Write Jar it to— ’ _
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Consulting Optician,
371 George St, Sydney,
A*»d at 432 r.fILLUNS ST., MELBOURNE, opposite Aaii Office.
wejctdoor to the A.J.S. Bank.
King and Geiwse Sweets.
<3-0 T,O HBLL-
I< iOLA Nll for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real ffood stamps, send to
Fred. Hagco,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 E3izabeth-st., Sydney,
Australian Stamps Bought Price-Lists gratis.
HATS. HATS. HATS L
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise-the
trade. All the newest slaapes titled with tltia
valuable invention-
S 5 * B. Mcwntcastl© & Sons,
BH.ISBA.aT3S.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Wesfcralia is spending £lOO,OOO on a new
Parliament House—at least it is going to owe
tliat amount.
A bet of £5O was booked in a Sydney club,
last week, that Barton would not land in Sydney
as Prime Minister of the Commonwealth.
Satan reproving Sin, and the pot calling
the kettle a black beast, are not a circumstance to
the Kyabramapootras from the Rodney Irrigation
areas denouncing the State Parliament for borrow-
ing money for unproductive works.
Queensland M‘Donald forcefully argued
in the Reps, that all the reasons advanced by the
Commonwealth Government for increasing the
Governor-General’s salary applied with equal
force to increasing the emoluments of members.
There has been a decrease of close upon
3,000 old-age pensioners in Vie. since Dec., 1001.
The average pension is 7s. Id., and the Act is so
administered as to make many of the old people
think it’s worth an extra [half-crown to be without
it.
Though the Owe’Sullivan has filled N.S.W.
Assembly again with Bills for railway and other
works, the members interested have “got the
office ” that the temper of “the other place ” is to
throw them all out. Only the break-up of the
drought may save a few.
“ The Lord tempers the wind to the shorn
lamb.” Last Thursday the Reps, passed the
Postal Rates Bill, which imposes postage on
newspapers. Same night the Senate, which has
already approved of the P.R. Bill, decided not to
p ess its request that linotypes and other type-
setting machines should be made dutiable.
To a deputation of the softer sex Q.
Premier Philp promised a One Woman One Vote
Bill this session. He was nearly offering his old
panacea (extra vote for a baby) but the look of
scorn on some of the faces present warned him
that he had better refrain, and he did. The
elderly spinster dislikes being offered an extra vote
for a baby.
According "to State officers, plenty of
“permanent and reproductive” works, paid for
out of N.S.W. State loans, are falling to pieces
because the Owe’Sullivah is so busy taking on
fresh responsibilities that he can’t afford the
money or the officers to keep the white ants out
of the old ones. The Govt. Architect has reported
that a constant outlay of 2 per cent, on the capital
value of buildings is necessary to keep them in
repair ; yet, in the last two years only Bs. Id. and
9s. 4d. respectively have been available for the
purpose.
FROM HIS POINT OF VIEW.
“Look, George, dear, how the men are admiring
my dress."
“Don’t make any mistake, darling, they’re
only wondering how the deuce I pay for it.”
Three extracts from S.M. Herald article
on Judge Dashwood’s pearl-shell-industry report:
His conclusion generally is that white men cannot do
the work required of them. . . . The conclusion may be
generally taken as proving that white labor cannot be pro-
fit, ably employed. .. . The trend of Mr. Justice Dash-
Wood’s report is in the direction of proving that the
labor involved is unfit for any but colored persons. That
ts, of course, at present rates of pay. If the wages offered
mere-larger, white men would undertake the work.
So it is a question of cheapness, after all.
N.S.W. State Labor Members will need
to gang warily in the Parliamentary fighting ring
for some time. They disclosed their strength as
against a combination on the State ironworks dis-
cussion, and the sly designers of coalitions have
taken new heart of grace. Politicians have lately
made friendly calls on political enemies whom
tliev used to find worse than uninteresting.
“ Wully” Affleck, M.L.A. (N.S.W.), de-
mands retrenchment under various heads, and
winds up with :
Then there are many other savings that could be made
which I have often unsuccessfully assailed, such as the
money paid to clergymen for preaching to lunatics.
So clergymen accept money for preaching to mad-
men ! The humor of it !
Pressure is being renewed on N.S.W.
Government to resume the Macquarie Obelisk
Reserve, Sydney, for the purposes of a military
mortuary. Some time ago, the champions for a
central spot where militarism could be apotheosised
almost won their point. But this is a bad time to
suggest a vandalism on behalf of the military
clique. Do you see the Drayton Grange in the
offing ?
Carried by a Reform League :
That the executive take into consideration the advisa-
bility of securing the unification of all the States under
the Commonwealth.
The motion was passed without debate, but by no
means enthusiastically. The “ reformers ” seemed
to regard it much as a monkey regards a nutmeg :
something neither to be hastily refused nor hur-
riedly swallowed.
The demand for penny postage throughout
the Commonwealth was wisely resisted by the
Federal Government. In a thickly-populated
region penny postage may bring in more revenue
than twopenny postage, but nothing can make
penny postage pay where there is one person to
ten square miles and that person has nothing but
the drought or the bush to write about. A great
part of Australia is in that position.
Sydney Daily Telegraph girds at the
Federal Govt, for “ counting noses ” before intro-
ducing legislative proposals. Any other Govt,
would have to do the same thing, for in no other
Australian Parliament are party ties weaker than
in the House of Reps. As a matter of fact, if a
half-dozen of Reid’s sheep-like followers could be
got rid of, that old fetish, Party Government,
would disappear from the Commonwealth Parlt.
Three degrees in embezzlement in Aus-
tralia :
Collectors for butchers, bakers, &c. (small amounts
generally)—Three months and upwards.
Solicitors collaring clients’ money (fairly large amounts)—
Suspension from practice ; in bad cases, striking off
Rolls.
Governments using large trust funds (e.g., rents of
resumed properties) as current revenue—No prosecu-
tion.
Acting Prime Minister Deakin sensibly
throws cold water on the idea that the retrenched
State civil servants should have first claims for
employment by the Commonwealth. The Com-
monwealth service should be the best in Aus-
tralia, and is not the place for the cast-offs of the
States who, in the ordinary course of events, can-
not be the better portion of the provincial ser-
vants. Any notion of making the Australian
public service a benevolent institution should be
sternly suppressed.
Law, M.L.A., has a notice on N.S.W.
Assembly paper demanding that a great Exliibi-
tion be held at Sydney in 1904. Some
possible local exhibits : (1) The drought;
(2) the public debt; (3) the deficits ; (4)
the sinking fund we haven’t got; (5) the
cottons, woollens and linens we don’t
make; (6) our missing iron industry ; (7)
the machinery we haven’t learned to con-
struct for ourselves: (8) the ships we are
going to build some day to carry our own
goods to Europe; (9) our relief-works;
(10) our pathetic faith in borrowing as a
means of making a country rich ; (11) the
Dry Dog; (12) the Cash Basis; (13) the
State Bank that will come some time;
(14) the Protected breweries and sugar
plantations that grew up in N.S.W. under
an alleged Freetrade policy; (15) the 42
municipalities of Sydney.; (16) the foreign
importers; (17 the rents of the resumed
area; (18) the Plague.
Minister Lyne decided that his intellect
wasn’t equal to drafting a clause in the Federal
Electoral Bill to prevent members being looted of
the bulk of their salaries by the demands of
cricket clubs, football clubs, and all
manner of low-down blackmailers in
their electorates—a process which prac-
tically makes payment of members of no
account. If he can’t, what is the use of
Lyne? The one remedy that is big
enough to meet the difficulty is to make
it an offence punishable by £10 fine for
any institution in any member’s elec-
torate to ask its member or its member’s
wife, son or daughter, for a subscription,
or to‘accept one from him or for him to
offer one—to make the member the one man
in the coriimunity who can’t be cadged from.
No member should be under suspicion of
buying his seat by football donations, or by
shouting for his constituents, or by any other
corruption whateyer.
The good old go-as-you-please methods of
the Flyspeck ! Transpires that the railway
department has for years been carrying news-
papers free without any agreement at all with the
postal department. Seemingly Tas. departmental
business transactions are made verbally at the
corner pub. when heads of departments and
Ministers meet for a junk of bread and cheese and
a small beer.
Dugald Thomson,'in the Federal House,
like the “ Dougai creature ’’elsewhere, has glim-
merings of perception. Through the tariff debate
he flashed out a bit of truth : “If values had to be
declared (for ad valorem duties) it would be im-
possible to do business.” Just so. Let the con-
sumer, the retail buyer, once get accurate^
knowledge of the real value of most commodities
and the importers’ big game would k® done,
operation in mutual distribution woul , ■ ,
a flood, and down would go all the clan of wh
Dugald is an indiscreet fugleman.
N.S.W. Attorney-General has given an
“opinion,” which was needless enough, that
under the Arbitration Act railway employees may
organise into unions and the Railway
missioners must “ recognise those unions,
the difficulty is not settled. The umon men are
anxious for the Commissioners to say definitely
that they will do what they can’t help doing, and
the Commissioners are anxious not to give them
the satisfaction of hearing them say it. A childish
business on both sides.
E. M. Clark’s Bill, giving certain powers
(not nearly such large ones as should be given) or
the abolition of the glaring placards that desecrate
the beauty of Sydney’s three harbors, and for the
regulation of the pill-bill curse generally, was re-
jected in N.S.W. Assembly by a huge majority.
And the row about the “ proposed outrage on
liberty” and the “infringement of the peoples
rights” was as deafening as if the red and yellow
shriek calling on the public to buy Smithson s
tight boots had been Magna Charta.
If the verdict gained by returned cohen-
tingenter Howarth against the N.S.W. Govern-
ment for about £lOO, alleged arrears of hirm-
burning remuneration, holds good, the State
will be struck with another war-bill of some
£40,000. And the irony of it all is almost
worse than the £40,000. When the cohen-
tingents went away, John See left his
vegetable business to address them about the
eternal gratitude of N.S.W. And then they re-
turned to be cold-shouldered and called a nuisance
and to sue the See Government for their lawful
“splosh.”
The way of the undecided is hard. Ihe
Tasmanian House of Ass. threw out the Lewis
Ministry’s Parliamentary reform resolutions
mainly because the Lewis Ministry lacked faith
in them itself. Then it threw out the House-lax
resolutions on top of them by an almost 2 to 1
majority. The Lewis Ministry talks of going to
the country if this kind of treatment continues—
but a lot depends on how a Ministry goes to the
country. It may go like a whirlwind, or it may
go in an ambulance. The Ministry that goes to
the country in an ambulance usually comes back
in a hearse.
A sorry example of the M.L. A.’s mental
incapacity was the mule-like question of one
Daley in N.S.W. Assembly as to whether the See
Government would take steps towards secession
“ in view of the oppressive taxation which Federa-
tion has brought about.” Daley, presumably,
wants to abolish old age pensions, and the eight-
hour system for railway servants, and to rescind
the recent advances of pay —for if the heavy
Federal taxation which finds the money for these
things goes, they must needs go also.- The
cheapest kind of popularity is that gained by
voting for the spending of another million, and the
simultaneous abolition of a million of taxation,
and darn the consequences.
N.S.W., the great iron and coal State of
Australia, and said to be the richest State in
Australia, wants 13 miles of pipes in a hurry to
bring an extra water-supply to Sydney reservoir,
also pumps to force the water through. So
Minister Owe’Sullivan sends to England for the money
(good old loan, as usual).
The pumps are cabled for to England.
The iron plates are cabled for to England.
The machinery for making the plates is cabled for to
Westralia—all because there are in N.S.W. no appliances
to make the plates from our own ores, with our own coal,
and no machinery to make the plates into pipes.
But, thank heaven, some of our own people will get
eleven weeks’ work making the imported plates into pipes
with the imported machinery, and putting the imported
pumps in position. So all is not lost.
Treasurer Shiels’ insulting references to
the outwitted Vie. railway men, in his second-
reading speech on the Reduction of Salaries Bill,
were made with an object. The Irvine-Shiels
crowd started off with the idea of obtaining a dis-
solution within a few weeks, but that calculation
has been upset by Peacock’s policy of keeping
them in to do the dirty work. Every day sees
more of the gradual fading-away of Kyabram.
Shiels, Bent and Co. are all going on the line of
riding for a fall, but their wish is not likely to be
gratified until after the real Budget has been
delivered. Twice, on recent nights, Peacock had
them quite at his mercy, but would not move a
hand to turn out the melancholv crew.
The House of Reps, discarded an amend-
ment favoring the establishment of penny postage
throughout the Commonwealth. Reason, of
course, expense; times being too rocky ahead to
justify any more experiments at present. A
point much dwelt on by the minority was that the
adoption of the penny post would give the
people “some tangible result of Federation.”
The fact that the people would have to pay solid
cash to the tune of tens of thousands yearly was
not enlarged on. The boon of a I ederal tariff
and the assured position against the influx of the
colored man are not tangible benefits, for Aus-
tralia in the eyes of the N.S.W. section, which
chiefly composed the supporters of the amend-
ment.
Chief Secretary Murray (Vic.) is right in
staying his hand in connection with the proposal
to close up some of the aborigines’ stations in that
province. Trenwith’s one concession to David
Syme, when Chief Secretary, was a determination
to close up two of the stations, and shift the
blacks elsewhere, but the trouble was that he
wished to close the wrong places. Murray isn’t
going to stick to his predecessor’s decision, but
will inquire into the matter for himself. The
Framlingham station, in Murray’s own district,
was closed some years ago, and instead of taking
up the quarters offered them elsewhere, the blacks
persisted in remaining close to their old home.
Two or three years of a hand-to-mouth existence
quite demoralised them, and they mostly suc-
cumbed to filth and disease. There is plenty of
good land for closer settlement in Victoria with-
out stealing the last remnant of his heritage from
the harmless blackfellow. ■
THINGS ARE NOT WHAT THEY
USED TO BE.
It is an opinion generally held that it is
simple waste of time sending children to Victorian
State schools when they reach the sixth class,
unless the parents are willing to pay for tuition in
extra subjects. The newly-appointed Director of
Education would do well to investigate this
matter, and devise means to prevent the children
of the poor from being sacrificed to the avarice of
highly-paid head teachers.
The Kyabram Reform party bids tair to
be soon the most smellfully dishonest concern in
Australia. The Kyabram crowd hangs out in the
shire of Rodney (Vic.). Rodney got the Govern-
ment to supply it with excellent and costly water-
conservation works, and pledged its alleged
honor to pay rates to cover interest on the cost.
It didn’t pay—being Kyabram ; and at last
Government wiped off the arrears, and added
much of the principal to the general State debt,
and accepted the Kyabram word of honor that it
would pay interest on the balance. Now it is
£2200 in arrears again, and apparently the State
will be let-in a second time. The first attempt at
making ends meet in Victoria should consist in
putting in the bailiff on Kyabram.
Mr. W. E. Abbott wants an Assouan dam
on the Murray, “somewhere down about
Mildura.” The money spent in making those
worthless Riverina railway lines would have
gone far towards constructing such a dam. If
N.S.W. had tackled that 40 years ago and per-
mitted Victoria to take the Riverina traffic, which
naturally belongs to her, she might have had tax-
able territory down in the south-west, worth many
millions sterling. Instead she has a howling
wilderness, and at least 200 miles of railway
making a regular drain on her revenues. But
then she would have missed the glory of beating
Melbourne by a few thousand bales of wool in the
year and “ the giants of our great past” did not
get much beyond such notions as that.
Sydney D.T. discussing the iron-bonus
Bill: —
The State Governments are importers of upwards of
£1,000,000 of dutiable iron and steel, and as far as they
are concerned the duties are inoperative. The Federal
Treasurer receives the duties thereon only to hand them
back to the State Governments in the shape of the
Federal surplus, and it would not matter whether the
duties were 10 per cent, or 100 per cent, on State goods
as the amount is all returned.
Precisely what The Bulletin has been pointing
out to the fodder-duty fanatics again and again.
Now, why on earth didn’t the D.T. acknowledge
that simple truth a month ago, and, instead of
howling at the Federal Government, point out
that the N.S.W. Cabinet could “abolish” the
fodder duties simply by paying the amount and
having it returned ?
Treasurer J eremiah Shiels asserts that
there are 4000 superfluous public officials in Vic.
public service, and if these were got rid of the
saving would cover the whole deficit—which latter
statement looks probable enough. As it would be
absolutely inhuman, however, to sack 4000 men
(and thereby save .£400,000 in wages) Shiels pro-
poses to leave them in and save instead £75,000 by
reducing wages. Now, supposing Shiels were to
sack the superfluous and useless 4000, giving them
half-pay for a year so that they might have time
to hunt for new employment, he would save
£200,000 for the first year and £400,000 afterwards,
which is a great deal better than saving £75,000
for one year only. The half-pay process could hardly
be called cruel. And it would prove that the 4O0&
superfluities exist, and thus prevent the veracity
of Jeremiah Shiels being called in question.
“ F.C.” makes a few pertinent remarks :
Vie. Employers’ Federation is evidently desirous of
extending the blessings of the State Minimum Wage Law
to the Commonwealth generally, as evidenced by the
statement at one of its meetings recently that, “owing
to the operation of the Factories Act, Mr. Lawrence Jones,
owner of the British Brush Factory, has been forced to
close up after being two years in Melbourne, and transfer
his machinery to Tasmania.” (Age, 20/S/’02.) The plain
facts in this case are that the British Brush Co. was paying
such low wages—much less than other firms were paying—
that practically all the employees and 10 out of 13 em-
ployers petitioned Vic. Govt, for a wages board in the
brush trade. This was granted, with the result that
wao-es were fixed at a very trifling increase on the rates
paid by the other factories, but a considerable increase
on those paid bv the 8.8. Co. Thus other employers
w r ere relieved from the unfair competition of the B. B. Co.,
and rates were equalised. So the 8.8. Co. goes to Tas-
mania, where there is no minimum wage law, so that its
cheap Tasmanian goods may slowly but surely close up
the Vic. factories. The only remedy for which is an
extension over the whole Commonwealth of protective
factory legislation or of a Federal compulsory arbitration
Act, amplified and extended much beyond the limits as
yet recognised.


To Wen —Right away!
.
.
*-
m
It
7
ir : .ri
a
7
£r.
POST FREE
at)d
PUTy FREE
for
24/6
Men’s French Calf
Boots, to Button,
Pointed or Medium Toe,
Fine Made-to-Order Appear-
ance— pr , 0B 2 3 /q
The same boot in TAN at the same price.
Delivered Post Free and Duty Free
to any address in the Common-
wealth upon receipt of 24/6 per pair.
We want to convince everybody that all the Style,
Fit, Elegance, and Durability that seems
possible to be put into a Boot
ts PUT INTO THE CALLAGHAN BOOT.
The trial of ONE PAIR will convince you this is true. If you are not convenient
to our premises, our perfectly systematised Mail-Order Department can fit you to
your complete satisfaction, or your money refunded. State size of Boot Worn,
and whether Pointed or Medium Shape Toe is required.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 georce st., Sydney.
A story told (by a Jingo paper, too) of Mr.
Chamberlain’s boyhood
He was playing with his sister once at a game of battles,
, each having a regiment of soldiers and a popgun. The
game was to try and mow down your opponent’s soldiers.
The gallant Joseph won easily. But he won without
honors, for his sister found that he had glued his men to
the floor!
™c b a r S e of tumour
DOCTORS ADVISE INSTANT OPERATION.
VITADATIO
HAS REMOVED IT.
Read what Mr. ARSOOTT writes :
Mr. S. A. PALMER.
Dear Sir, —I think VITADATIO worthy of great praise
as a genuine remedy. It has saved me a few pounds
expenses in doctors and medicine. My wife had a
Tumour on her neck, causing her much pain and alarm.
The doctors, when consulted, advised instant operation—
there being danger in delay—but my wife shrinking
from this, we consulted an herbalist, who wanted six
guineas per quarter for an indefinate period to remove
the disease. VITADATIO was then brought under our
notice, and we resolved to try it. By the time the fourth
large bottle was used the Tumour had come: right away,
leaving only a mark on the neck where it had been.
There has been no return of the trouble, and my wife
has enjoyed good health since. You are welcome to use
this as you please, I am so satisfied with what VITA-
DATIO has done for my wife.
W. C. ARSCOTT.
Park-street, Hackney, S.A.,
February 2, 1901.
For further particulars,
S'. A. PALMER,
184: Pitt Street, Si/duet/.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The Price of Medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
Newman’s
Antiseptic Pastilles.
The Best for ali. Affections of the Throat.
TRY THEM. PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
S. HARRIS, M. P. 5.,. Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Telephone 2288. 82 KING-ST., SYDNEY.
Franz Josef
APERIENT WATER
is the ONLY PALATABLE NATURAL
APERIENT WATER.
Sole Agents ßocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne.
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet size photos.
ss. P.O.C. or stamps.
S. RECKNACEL NACHF, Munich, 1 Brieffach, Germany.
OFFtR3 VJANTED for a Complete File of The Bulletin
from ISB3 to October, 1899. Apply, W. D. PONDER,
Advertising- Agent, Adelaide.
Henry r L\ Wait, of Sydney, lately deceased,
included in his charitable bequests £2OOO for
‘‘The Parramatta Benevolent Asylum.” There
are three State Benevolent Asylums in Parra-
matta, but it was argued that the money was
no good to them. So the P’matta Benevolent
Asylum and the District Hospital claimed the
bequest. The executors decided that the Govt,
institutions had a better claim than either, and
paid the money to the Chief Secretary. The
Govt, declined to use it as revenue, and will seek
Parliamentary authority to divide the sum
equally between the Hospital and the Ben.
Society. It doesn’t seem to have struck anybody
that the bequest might have been fairly and bene-
ficially devoted to giving some extra comfort to
the Benevolent Asylum inmates. Yet, perhaps
that’s what Henry Wait had in his mind. ’
The extent of the rubber-tyre industry is little
imagined by people outside the cycle trade, and there
are few who would not be amazed at the size of the Dunlop
re Factory, in South Melb., which was formally opened
the other clay. The building covers 60,000 sq. ft. of land
and a great array of up-to-date machinery. The latter
conducts the rubber through innumerable processes
until it is transformed from segments of a tree as large
as a small portion of the Melb. Town Hall into bike and
carriage wheel tyres, small rings for stationary and
ladies’hair-curlers. One hundred and fifty hands are em-
ployed in assisting the machinery in its unerring efforts
to earn a crust for the directors. These magnates, rising l
one at a time above the champagne and sandwiches
prophesied a great future for the concern, and their pre-
dictions are likely to be fulfilled twice over. The bicycle
habit, after all said and done, is only in its infancy.*
„ Twenty-seven years ago, in Hull (England),
Mr. W. T. Owbndge, chemist, struck by a sudden inspir-
ation, made up a special mixture for a patient in whose
hacking cough he thought he heard some echo of the
song they sing within the pearly gates. In a few days
the patient returned, with his chance of immediate
interest in the gates considerably discounted. This time
he wanted another bottle for the children. Then his
acquaintances began to call in for the same mixture, and
neighboring shopkeepers sent round a hurried message
for-a bottle or two. Owbridge found that he had struck
something that had points about it. At this time his
manufacturing plant consisted of a quart bottle and the
ingredients. As the demand increased the quart bottle
was superseded by a gallon jar, and in course of a few
months that, too, gave way to a larger vessel. The mix-
ture was made slightly more scientific, and patented ;
and, he.ped by a little judicious local advertising, the*
demand increased so that a special building, with a pro-
per plant, had to be erected to cope with it. Owbrido'e’s
Lung Tonic factory now consumes every day of the week
not less than 53 tons of pure honey and 70 tons of the
best white refined sugar, and in lands where English is
hardly ever heard the lungy population makes its breath-
ing easier by the preparation. All over the English-
speaking world the man with a cough reaches for
“ Owbridge’s,” and barks no more.*
A Charming Sensation.— We strongly
recommend any of our readers who are in search
of a delightful sensation to add a few drops of
Condy’s Fluid to the daily Bath or Foot Bath.
The cooling and strengthening effects are Simply
Magical. A Condy’s Fluid Bath imparts a most
delicious sensation of coolness, freshness, and
purity; invigorates the body and braces the
nerves. Tired or Tender Feet are instantly re-
lieved, and all the unpleasant effects of perspira-
tion immediately disappear. We take this
opportunity to caution our readers against buying
or using any substitute for Condy’s Fluid, because
all imitations or substitutes are inferior in com-
position and strength. Ask for Condy’s Fluid and
see that the labels bear the words “Condy’s
Fluid.'’ Condy and Mitchell, of London,
England, are the only Makers, but Condy’s Fluid
cvn be instantly 7 obtained from all Chemists
throughout the British Empire.*
A deaf and dumb petitioner appealed to
N.S.W. Divorce Court for a dissolution of
marriage t’other day. Respondent was also a
deaf mute. An interpreter from Sydney Deaf
and Dumb Asylum attended to explain evidence,
but the process was so slow that the J udge post-
poned the case, ordering the parties to put their
evidence on affidavit.
Cockies and cockies’ sons from the S.E. of
S. Australia used to flock up to the West Darling
(N.S.W.) shearing sheds every year. Latterly
the number has been dwindling, and this year
there are hardly any. Nowadays they have to
spend as much time in travelling as they can put
in at shearing, and their net cheques hardly pay
their fares.
“ Melb.” : To-day I bought at a superior
bookshop a copy of the superb number of Illus-
trated London News, with Queen Victoria’s
funeral, for threepence. Its sale price was 3s. It
was wolfed at that figure, and the consignment
went like smoke. Alas for the next! “How
soon we are forgotten when we’re gone,” says Rip
Van Winkle.
The attention of the public is drawn to
the professional testimonial of Signor Carlo Dani,
the distinguished tenor of the Royal Italian Opera
co., who, as its “star,” lately toured Australia.
Subject to climatic influences, Signor Dani
suffered much from lassitude and inertia whilst
resident in Sydney. He consulted the specialists
of the Freeman and Wallace Electro-Medical and
Surgical Institute, whose advt. containing the
said testimonial appears on page 31, and pro-
fessionally subjected himself to their electro-
therapeutic methods. Such testimonies prove
the specialists’ skill in treating grave organic and
functional nerve disorders, also the efficacy of an
electro-medical curative system, the remarkable
remedial merits of which is fast revolutionising
the practice of medicine.*
THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA
LIMITED.
. m. i ■ i ■
BALANCE-SHEET, 28* h FEBRUARY, 1902.
LIABILITIES.
Capital .. .. .. .. £4,500,000
Less : Beserve Liability .. 3,000,000
Paid up .. .. .. .. £1,500,000 0 0
Beserve Fund (invested—in the names of
trustees—as per contra) 875,000 0 0
Contingent account 125,000 0 0
Circulation .. .. 473,766 0 0
Deposits (including inscribed stock
deposits) .. .. .. .. • • 15,418,747 10 6
Bills payable and other liabilities (includ-
ing reserves held against doubtful
debts) 1,760,564 13 11
Balance of undivided profits u ... 121,213 2 3
£20,274,291 6 7
ASSETS.
Specie on hand and cash balances .. £3,072,734 2 {
•Bullion on hand and in transitu .. .. 137,206 14 5
Mon ?y at call and short notice in London 350,000 0 (
Investments :
Reserve Fund.—Consols,
£525,000 ; local Loans,
(Imperial Government
stock), £200,000; N ational
War Loan, £150,000 ..£875,000 0 0
Other Investments
Consols, and ether stocks
of, or guaranteed by, the
Imperial Government .. 81,880 9 9
India Government sterling
stocks and Indian rail-
way guaranteed stocks.. 308,689 12 10
British municipal and
colonial and foreign
Government stocks and
debentures .. .. 227,969 17 11
1,493,440 0 6
Bills receivable, loans, and other securi-
ties at London office 2,276,407 4 (
Bills discounted, hills receivable, loans,
and other securities at the branches .. 12,222,570 11 4
Bank premises and property in the
colonies 693,744 2 7
London leasehold premises £142,304 19 4
Reserve against same,
£13,873 12s. 7d.; six
monthts’interestthereon
at 3£ per cent., £242
15s. lid 14,116 8 6
128,188 10 If
£20,274,291 6 7
STATEMENT OF PROFITS, 28 tt FEBRUARY, 1902.
Balance of undivided profits at 31st August, 1901 £109,499 5 11
Less : Amount applied in reduction of contingent account in terms of last report .. 25,000 0 0
£84,499 6 11
Out of which a dividend was declared of «» .. 60,000 0 0
Leaving a balance of
Profits of the past half-year, after making provision in respect of bad and
doubtful debts
Less:
Remuneration to the local directors, and sal-
aries and allowances to the colonial staff .. £75,104 2 1
General expenses in the colonies, including rent,
taxes, stationery, &c .. 26,813 2 10
Remuneration to the board of directors and
auditors, salaries of London office staff, rent,
taxes, stationery, and general expenses .. 16,496 310
Income tax .. 2,658 5 7
£24,499 6 11
£217,786 10 8
121,071 14 4
96,713 16 4
Balance of undivided profits at this date
£121,213 2 3
London, 10th July, 1902.
ARTHUR FLOWER,
W. B. PERCEVAL,
11. P. STURGIS,
Directors.
A. O. WILLIS, Manager
T. 0. C. SAUNDERS, Accountant.
AUDITORS’ CERTIFICATE AND REPORT.
In accordance with the provisions of “ The Companies Act 1900,” we certify that all our requirements as auditors
have been complied with.
We report that we have verified the cash, investments, bills of exchange, and other assets in London, and have
had access to the accounts sent to London from the various branches in the colonies, and, having examined the same,
and the books and accounts of the London office, we are of opinion that the above balance-sheet is a full and fair
balance-sheet, properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the company’s affairs as shown
by the books of the company.
WHINNEY, SMITH, and WHINNEY, Chartered Accountants, Auditors.
ct^
do. cobsU
CORSETS
The Recognised Standard
High-Class Corsets
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦«
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
NOUVELLE FORM.
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
each pair bears the Manufacturer’s “Trade
Mark 55 on band inside, as above.


Banking. Publio Companies, Ac.
Upon - all - Glasses - of
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
cs*
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
nxr.s ,-w.
(|)ont deplete Dill. Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
*74. CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
1 SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
>
Colonial Mutual Life
assurance society limited.
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. O. J. Robbrts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,595,870.
Policies issued 88,299— assuring £26,826,380.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,767,115.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
*l3 & *2l COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
fhe Banhof ||erth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Canny (Messrs. Burns, Philpfe Co. Ltd.)
.. £700,000
J. P.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... 250 '•00
£350.000
The
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED.
DAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. •• ..£451,307
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 181,859
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 56,000
£689,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
THE . . .
Eith ihutuhl life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD,
Established 1879.
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection HUNTER, BLIQH and CASTLEREAGH
STREETS, SYDNEY.
The CITY MUTUAL LIFE is generally
recognised as the most liberal and pro -
gressive institution of its kind in Austra-
lasia. It retains on its books a larger
proportion of business than any other
Life Office doing business in these States.
GEO. CROWLEY,
General Manager.
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street. Melbourne.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £15,000, on City,
Town and Suburban
and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY. •
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London
Ocean
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. John See, Lt.-001. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jbssop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clynk ; Adelaide, W. N.
M‘Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. . . ,
j. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australia,
101 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amountof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £2,500,000
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.—L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
Shipping.
HOWARD SMITH lINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
! Tyrian, Saturday, Sept. 6, 2 p.m.
[ Burrumbeet, Sat., Sept. 13,2 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer Early.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Steamer Early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Leura, Saturday, Sept. 6, 2 p.m.
Bunvah, Tuesday, Sept. 9, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Sept. 13, 2 p.m.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Saturday, Sept. 6, 2 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Sept. 13, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Qowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves —Foot of King-street.
TN€ »B€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London .
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
ABERDEEN
DAMASCUS
NINEVEH .
FARES:
London .. ST' .. £l6 Osto'S Os.
Cape and Natal .. £3l 10s .. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £l2O.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
tfoddart, parker & Co’s bine
—TO —
Melbourne, hobaut,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND POUTS.
i Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
A.3WD
- |
A
LINE
BPLENDID NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERB,
SIERRA
SONOMA
VENTURA
Over 6000 Tons each.
8000 H.P.
Length, 425 feet,
Passengers booked through to American, Canadian and
European centres at current rates.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., I/TD.,
Managing Agents,
Pitt and Biudqk Sts. SYDNEY.
via
San Francisco,
California.
TIME TABLE.
THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
E. W. Knox, Esq.
Auditors :
W. L. Docker, Esq. Hon. F. T. Humfhery, M.L.C.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Sou tar, Aceo uniant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ; Hon. H S
Littleton
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
United losarapcc Co.
(LIMITED.)
Head Office:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS
SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £500,000.
LtTnonrcinpac! effected on all classes of
Jrire insurances Buildings> stocks, Burn i_
ture, etc. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise, Hulls
of Vessels, Freights, Passage
Money, etc.
Rates very Loiv.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
HE TRUSTEES. EXECUTORS
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-sL, Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £9576 13 4
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager
Marine
ev<* ists
T° A %letee.
Rtf**
s
QS&W w w°;
*»f^ d gs
atvd Cov
0o ug^S . iat \o* s -
TVV°’
\twU a
nxr. id. l.
(NORD-DHUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OP
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
Interstate First Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA. »
G.M.S. TANGLIN, 15th OCTOBER,
And Regularly Thereafter.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
Excursion to California.
CHCAPCST ROUTE
TO
AM€RKA at?d EUROPE.
STEAMERS SAIL:
Sept. 8j Oct. 6, Nov. 3.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
RUPTURE C!JBFD
without
operation or pain,
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. io. Address:
Throw away
your Truss.
SURGEON LANGSTON,
M,R C S., ENG.,
Con Russell & Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
[jIMSELF CURED
Mr, .Robert E.
PARKHURST
ol Pitt St., Sydn y, Buys if any sufferer Irom DEBILITY,
KIDNEY or BLADDER DI-EASE will write him lie will inform
them of the perfect home cure that did the work in Ilia case.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP COi
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Innamincka,
Friday, September 5.
S.S. Marloo,
Saturday, September 13.
BRISBANE \ i
MACKAY I i
TOWNSVILLE |
And Porta North to Cairns '
S.S. Allinga, Friday, Sept. 5.
S.S. Innamincka, Saturday,
September 13.
S.S. Warrego, Sat., Sept. 20.
Best and Cheapest ltoute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and Howard Smith Co.,
Ld. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY^
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Twice weekly, via Bris
bane, Maryborough, and Bundaberg.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
via MELBOURNE—Fortnightly.
V assenp et' A ccoinniodution, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., Agents, 10 Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
PAND COMPANY’S
■ ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B to £/7
Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific,
Messageries Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
lVlessageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows:
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines. '
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistanoa
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-;
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0...
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
“E. ANP A.” LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
* Steamer. jTns, Commander. |Leave Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN .. 300o!p. T. Helms .. September 27
GUTHRIE .. 2500 A. E. Dabelle .. October IS
EASTERN .. 3600 Winthrop Ellis .. November 15
AIRLIE .. 250G'St. John George..'December 6
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Through bookings to points in Canada, United States
of America and Europe at special rates.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
Lowest Fares and Frexsuts.
For further information apply to
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
SMOKE. .
TUJu
4
*
GBD
INSIST
on having this Brand
and no other,
Largest Depot:
231 CLAR€NCe STR€€T,


&mwMm
m
R
MISS ELLEN TERRY
'The great Actress writes!-" 1 have used KOKO for tho Hair fOJ'yeara and
can assure my friends that it stops -the Hair from falling out, promotes its
growth, eradicates Dandriff, and is tho most pleasant dressing Imaginable.
A 4/6 TRIAL BOTTLE. FOR 2j-
SPECIAL OFFER in AUSTRALASIA
to thoM who have
not ret tried
KOKH
-’O2 |
A 1
6-9
S 3
Any Person forwarding this Coupon with Postal
Note for 2s. and Postage (postage is mnepence) will
receive Immediately for trial, by parcel post, undercover,
prepaid, one regular i2oz. bottle of Koico for the Hai^
the price of which is 4s. 6d. provided it is ordered within 14
i price . „ . _
days from the date of this offer.. In case will
more than one bottle he sent for the use of the same person
on this Coupon, as we make the offer eolely for trial, knowing
that it creates a demand when once used ; and this large bottle
gives it a fair trial. We find it better to thus practically give
away one bottle to make a customer than to spend large amounts
in advertising. Any person into whose hands this offer
comes may make use of it. Address all Orders with
Coupons to the KOKO-MARICOPAS CO., Ltd., I 2 DEAN'S PLACE, SVDNEV, N.S.W. Orders may be sen*
with this Coupon after the oipiration of date, providing we are then issuing these trial Coupons, and if we are
not, the money will be returned. This Coupon will ba received at 12 Dean’s Place. Sydney, 'and Only ?V»
will be required when postage Is not necessary.
IS* Dean’s Place is off 270 George Streak
1/-, 2/6 & 4/6 per bottle y Chemists and Stores everywhere.
SOAP BLOTCHES.
A soap-boiling factory smells bad
because of the putrid bad fats
used. Bad fats make Toilet Soaps
poisonous to the skin, and produce
“soap blotches.” VINOLIA is
sweetest and safest for the com-
plexion and bath.
Hotelkeepers, Make Your Own
‘•^3?
DERATED WATERS.
THE “AUSTRAL” DERATED WATER MACHINE
• occupies only Four Feet square, will produce 160 dozen
BOTTLES per day of Finest Waters (Lemonade, Ginger
Ale, Soda water, &e.) at a COST BELOW FOURPENCE
PER DOZEN. These machines are now working in all the
Australian States, New Zealand, and South Africa.
May be Purohased on the Hire System.
13?” Write for Prices and Particulars.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers—
ECKERSLEY AND SONS
214-216 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CAPILLA
HAIR
TONIC
The Wonder of the Age,
ALL CHEMISTS
THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA.
™°_ POINTS,OF MUCH IMPORTANCE-
JQIenbunjs Foods.
The great success attending the use of the “Allenburys” Milk Foods is in a great measure
due to the two following important facts:—
(i) Their similarity in composition to human milk ; the constituents being in (2) The readiness with which they can De digested and assimilated by
the same relative proportions. ... the infant,both foods being as easy of assimilation as maternal milk.
Mixed with water according to the directions a humanized milk is provided. and much more so than ordinary modified or diluted cow’s milk.
The “ Allenburys ” Foods are especially valuable in hot climates. They are in the
form of powder and keep perfectly.
13^
Pamphlet on ik INFANT FEEDING ” (-48 pages) free,
from 495, Bourke Street, Melbourne,
Allen & Hanburys, Ltd., (Sourt, Jbombard St, Jsondon.
MILK FOOD No. 1.
From birth to three months.
MILK FOOD No. 2. '
From three to six months.
MALTED FOOD No. 3.
From six months and upwards.
“ The Seddon girls are reckoned the belles of
the Australian feminine contingent in London.
They were ever common-sense home-adorners, the
elder secretarying for her father after a course of
State School teaching, and the second preparing
to help in the clerical department as well. They
are tall, well set-up, bright girls. One is a fair
rifle-shot and a member of Maoriland’s ‘Lady
Invincibles.’ Both have a tremendous admira-
tion for their royal father. At present, all the
social and political guns of the Big Smoke pay
them hospitable attentions, and those who know
the modest tastes of the two home-loving girls
wonder what changes will be wrought in their
mental outlook by this feting of London Sassiety.
“If you want to get an idea of the art of
up-to-date hair-dressing, put in some time at
any of the Melbourne bun-temples and there
study the crown-pieces of the waitresses. Bril-
liantined, brushed, crimped, padded, puffed,
netted, these well-coiffed heads present a rich and
rare study to the enquiring eye. A black velvet
bow is aslant the ‘ nob ’ of one, Jap. ornaments
stab another pile, a white satin bow rides the
under-crest of another thatoh, and so, in various
ways, the enchantments of the coiffure take shape.
The forehead trimmings provide a study in them-
selves. A ‘barbed-wire’ set of curls is banked
up on this one’s fair brows, a single corkscrew
ringlet centres another forehead, wriggly notes of
interrogation dot that one’s, and a few tendrils
clamber over yet another’s aesthetic brain-bank. A
few, emulating youthfulness, pile all the frivolous
fringe back and show an ingenuous sort of bare
forehead to the butterfly world.
“A travelled bride at the races, the other
day, wore a most curious over-built hat, which
was raised up to an extraordinary height, suggest-
ing a small prop as the elevator. Long, black
ribbon-ends fluttered from all the newest hats, and
heads were further ornamented with wide Alsatian
bows of ribbon. There is a tremendous lot of
mounting to heads just now.
“We are fortunate in having two vice-regal
dames (the Federal and the State) who are so
ready, so desirous, to please. Yet there is a great
difference in their amiable styles. Lady Tenny-
son is good, womanly, happy, and very alert.
Not an atom of strain or of nerves in her cheerful
manner. Lady Clarke makes more effort. She
is amiable, but she wants to appear more so. She
tries her best to please muchly. Her wide smiles
—so generous, so frequent—tell you so.
“Lord Dicky Nevill tells Sassiety the Tenny-
sons are far too modest. He declares that only
for his urgent promptings and strong persuasions,
none of the souvenirs and historic bric-d-brac in
the drawing-room cabinets at Guv’ment House
would at present be displayed. The long-eared
aide has evidently an affection for his Chief.
Wally fits less easily into his new niche. His
asides are lost on the rather phlegmatic Gov.-
General, who requires time to adjust his thoughts
and to marshal his mental forces. It is the
funniest sight in the world to see the pithy Pri-
vate Sec. pouring some information of a certain
individual who is approaching into the big, slow,
attentive ear of his Ex. The sprightly Hopetoun
took his cue as nimbly and as adroitly as it was
tendered, in a sort of minuet manner. The
Tennyson style is more slow and massive—British
oratorio, in short.
“Accounts at length dribble through of the
De la Warr divorce scandal. Pa Brassey was
expected to ‘ fall off ’. the witness-stand in char-
acteristic style. But he was not called, and the
case proceeded without any falling-off. It seems
that the poor Countess had spent a hard life of it
with her spendthrift and giddy spouse. She for-
gave him his sins over and over again, till at
length he visited and spreed all the people in the
Bexhill seat (the De la Warr home) but omitted
to pay a husbandly call on his waiting wife. Later
he wrote to the forgotten Countess : ‘ I have fallen
desperately in love with a tall, fair lady. I tried
to break off the connection. I have no excuse to
offer. I hate and loathe to tell you so, and I know
you will loathe me for it. But I have told you the
truth, and ifeis something off my mind.” And yet
such was the forbearance of the Countess, that
she appea’ed to him to return to her. This he
refused to do. Then came the decree against
De la Warr for the restitution of conjugal rights,
followed by the Successful divorce suit. The
Countess got the custody of her chicks. The
Brasseys have championed her all through.
“ There was tribulation in a swell boarding-
house in a swell suburb of Melbourne one day
recently, when a chambermaid discovered a new
little pink baby, snugly tucked up in the bed of a
spiuster lady employed in the Government service.
Whin the spinster came home in the evening and
heard of the discovery she went into hysterics, and
persisted in them most inconsiderately, whilst a
crowd of curious lodgers were consumed with
longings for definite information. Then a servant-
girl threw herself into the situation in a flood of
tears, and confessed that the pink baby was her«s,
that it had happened recently, and she had
secretly tucked it in the spinster’s bed in the hope
of averting suspicion.
“ Only one Melbourne lady has, as yet, adopted
the mask of the automobilist. The mask, which
resembles a very (arge pair of goggles, has flaps of
green silk covering the forehead and coming over
the nose and round the cheeks, but allowing free
play for the nostrils. The silk flap is drawn back
and buttons behind the head. Needless to say, it
is not quite ornamental, but it is decidedly com-
fortable.
“The moneyed mother nowadays aspires to send
her girls off to a Paris pension for the polish that
is guaranteed to last a lifetime. Quite a dozen
Melbourne parents have packed their girls off to
the giddy capital this year, and presently we shall
have the highly-veneered Amelias coming back to
parlez-vous with their fond old parents, in the
manner of the American heiress, whose education
in Germany and France enables her to return to
the pork palaces and patronise mommer and
popper for the rest of their lives. Frenchiness
has a great charm for some people : It is next to
godliness—even if a long way removed.
“ A prominent member of the Thistle Regiment
told an innocent who asked him how lie hardened
himself to the wearing of the kilt. He began by
playing tennis, before breakfast in his pyjamas
and shoes. Then he rolled these garments above
his knees and played in this style till he could do
it without sneezes. Finally, he bared his knees
to the winter dawn and strutted up and down the
garden-path, till he was absolutely knee-hardened.
“ Card games are flourishing, despite the ping-
pong craze and the theatrical fever; and the pro-
gressive euchre champion and the crack bridge
player (of the petticoat sex) are appreciable quan-
tities. Old Sarah Marlborough once said, ‘ Don’t
talk to me of books—the only books I know are
cards and men.’ And the knaves had a bad time
in her hands. The feminine card-sharper arrived
long ago. She is as definite a feature of society
as the russet-faced golfer and the unkempt artiste.
The keen card-player, who scores at bridge and
carries off all the progressive-euchre trophies, has
a gimlet eye, a sleight of hand, and a mental
agility that an inquisitor, a conjuror, and a diplo-
mat might envy. She appears in virulent form
about Melbourne, and is a menace to male tran-
quility and wits. When man is her partner, she
gives him shame by her tricks. When her oppo-
nent, he is stricken into a stupor, and she plays
the game as she likes.
“ A hobby as uncommon as it is charming is in-
dulged in by a Melbourne professional man. Dr.
Horne, of Clifton Hill, possesses a splendid aviary,
the birds ranging from finches to pheasants.
His collection of our indigenous honey-eaters is
unique and very valuable ; then he has wattle-
birds with breasts the color of our national
blossom, tiny quail-like brown fluffy balls, tits of
all degrees of minuteness, some almost micro-
scopically small, many kinds of canaries, cocky
little white bantams from Japan, and gorgeous
golden pheasants. Several of the walls of the
aviaries are papered with prize tickets won by his
birds at various shows. Many of the flock are
tame, and come when called by name, fluttering
down very prettily on the head and shoulders of
Mrs. Horne and her niece.
“ Does the gallant who encircles his lady’s third
finger with the engagement hoop of gold ever
consider how all the women-folk review and*
criticise the ring—counting, testing and valuing
its diamonds, and approving or condemning
accordingly ? The most important matter (to
fellow-women) when an engagement is clinched
is to inspect the ring, and the sight of a fiancee’s
hand being ungloved in tram, train, or tea-room,
for the trial stakes, is a common one. The
financial position, taste, and character of a male
is judged by the quality and style of the golden
link he confers on his lady love.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
How palpably mechanical the grief of the
wreath “from the Club” which so often
figures in the newspaper reports of funerals !
When Blank, who is a member, dies, the secre-
tary scores his name off the books, makes up his
last whisky bill to send to the executor, and tele-
phones to the florist to send a guinea wreath.
Economical club secretaries have an arrangement
with the florist to allow a 10 per cent, commission
in consideration of getting all the custom. And
so the members display their grief !
The Plague of London.
There are few events about which greater
misconception exists than the plague of London
—that terrible visitation which caused 100,000
deaths in the year 1665, almost depopulating
England’s capital. Comparatively few people
know what manner of sickness that plague was,
for happily it has for many years been quiescent
the world over. Yet London is not without a
plague to-day, though it be less deadly than that
of 1665. A great many Londoners regard the
tax-collecting fraternity as a plague; others so
describe influenza; while some (and these with
strongest reason) apply the term to indigestion.
But indigestion is not only the plague of London;
it deserves the greater distinction of plague of
the world, for wherever there are people there is
indigestion. Some people suffer from it the
greater part of their lives; others wisely fight
and conquer the malady, as Miss C. Halton, of
New-street, Brighton, Victoria, did. Miss Halton
writes thus, on January 15th, 1902:—“I was
fairly robust from my infancy until the age of 18,
when I became a martyr to indigestion and
anaemia. A hard, dry cough settled on my
chest, and my friends feared that I was sinking
into a decline. My aunt, with whom I lived,
took me to Daylesford to consult a doctor, but I
went from bad to worse under his treatment.
Afterwards I was placed in the care of a cele-
brated Victorian herbalist, who undertook to
restore my health in three months. But just
when his medicines seemed to be doing me some
good I had a relapse and- was worse than ever.
My stomach become so delicate that I was
obliged to subsist almost entirely on broths, dry
toast, and a few soda biscuits; and even this light
and scanty fare occasioned me intolerable pain.
I remained in this wretched condition for three
years. During that period I must have consumed
gallons of various medicines, and all to no purpose.
Then my uncle, advised by a friend, bought a
bottle of Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup from
Allen’s store in Daylesford. I had very little
faith in its virtues when I first began to take it,
I had been so frequently deceived by other
patented preparations. But, to my intense delight,
after a few days I observed a change for the better.
I continued to take the medicine, and in a few
mouths it completely restored me to health.
When first I began to take Mother Seigel’s
Curative Syrup I was very thin and pallid, and
weak as an infant. Now I weigh eight stone
nine pounds, have a hearty appetite, and can
work as well as any woman in Victoria.”*
Major-General Hutton, speaking at the
“ execution breakfast ” to Warrant-officer Liggins
(N.S.W.), who is being retired, not because he is
incompetent or incapable of further duty, but
because he has reached an arbitrary age-limit, was
met by the remark “ He’s older than Lord Roberts,
I suppose,” and couldn’t ward off the keen home
thrust. Mr. Liggins, as a matter of fact, is several
years younger than Lord Roberts.
“ Q.N.” : The Great Eastern, until 1899
the largest ship ever built, had a displacement of
28,000 tons and an indicated horse-power of 8000—
applied by means of a pair of 56ft. paddles and a
single screw. Compare her with the Kaiser
Wilhelm 11., whose tonnage is 20,000 and horse-
Sower 38,000, and we see wherein the Great;
lastern’s designer erred. But she was years
before her time, anyhow.


For LONG-DISTANCE WORK
on the road, where strength is desirable and speed not
to be despised, you should be mounted on a
RED BIRD BICYCLE
unless you are willing 1 to risk being left behind. For road-racing-, the Red Bird is consistently famous as
the safest machine to trust with your hopes. Call and see our New Models.
Branches in every State. GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King: Street.
Hardy’s Tintara Wines
Absolutely Pure;
Adelaide:
CURRIE STREET
Fully Matured;
Melbourne:
COLLINS STREET
700 Medals, etc.
Sydney :
GROSVENOR STREET
SPORTING NOTIONS.
A.J.C. Derby run this Saturday is more open
than for years, and the field promises unusually well
I- ayorite Abundance is a Derby colt who will certainly go
the distance. That he is fit and has the pace was proved
by his recent successes at Rosehill and in Tatt.’s Hampden
Stakes two weeks ago. But he isn’t a good beginner, and
on his last public appearance had to be shaken up along
the back of the course. It occurs to this scribe, too, that
before gathering in A.J.O. Derby and Caulfield Cup
Ambente appropriated Hampden Stakes, and Abundance
has opened up humping 31bs. more than the great Car-
bine colt Despite Brakpan’s defeat by Abundance
he is still worth considering, for Hampden Stakes
had penalties attached, and. Brakpan, accord-
mgly, gave away lOlbs. to the winner. It looks
as if Abundance is the better of the two, though if
it isn t altogether a true run race Brakpan’s extra dash
may land him first. Trainer Hickenbotham fancies his
Strati! Florida a bit,” and he’s not a bad judge. S.F's
defeat by Seclusion doesn’t trouble Hickenbotham, for he
contends that his colt was called upon to do somethin**
very much out of the way in giving the Carnage mare
years and poundage over.a middle.distance. That Strata
Florida has stamina is indisputable. Great Scot, the
white-legged son of Lochiel-Scotch Marv, will run in the
same interests as Brakpan, and on his recent showing at
Kandwick has, at least, an outside chance. The Bill of
Portland colts, Homeward Bound and War-i-an, are said
to have been highly tried at home, but nothing publicly
known of them suggests either as a possible Derby winner
Boiled down it seems to the writer that Abundance or
Strata Honda will succeed, with Brakpan most likely to
upset the tip. J
* * * •
Bon Voyage is tipped a “moral” for Epsom
Handicap of A.J.O. Spring meet to-day, Saturday. Hat-
fuls of money have gone on him during past week or two,
with the result that he is a scorching hot first choice at 4
to 1 and promises to line up even shorter, for the coin
still comes. Bon Voyage is a Syr. old by Mostyn out of
Thebes, and up to 4 years had only won once—Granville
Stakes, at Rosehill. _ Stable movements are guided by the
convincing manner in which Bon Voyage accounted for
Seclusion at Caulfield a few Saturdays back and what
Seclusion lias done since. Doesn’t seem to have occurred
to anyone that Seclusion may have come on considerably
since. Still, the tip commands heaps of respect, for it
comes from cute people always known to be well-informed
on such matters, and who go so far as to say that if,
instead of 7, Bon Voyage had 9st. up, his prospects would
yet be rosy. If last year’s Epsom winner, Sequence, con-
tinues as well as at time of writing, he’ll take no end of
shaking off, despite that-his load (10.3) is 131bs. heavier
than before. Previous occasion saw him fairly lose his
field. Air Motor is another who’ll want some beating ;
also Cyanide (said to have shown a gallop good enough to
wm the Epsom before she succeeded at Rosehill the other
dajr), though she’ll be more at home in the Metrop.,
which, bar Patronage, apparently doesn’t include any-
thing with a fair show of beating Cyanide. Two years
?£° Cyanide ran second in the Epsoni with 8.2, and third
in the Metrop. with 7.12, and her present season's form
indicates that she is every bit as good now. Then there’s
Purser, whose running in the Doncaster mile won by Si r
Foote brands him a top-notcher of the first water ; he’ll
have a big following directly the stable makes a move..
Placed nags should come from those named, with per-
haps Bon Voyage or Air Motor first, and Cyanide follow-
mg. The favorite out of the way, the race would wear a
very open appearance.
• * « •
How West Australian turf flourishes ! Kal-
goorlie Club’s latest meet yielded £4OOO profit. Tote
transactions reached £30,000, and even poor, bankrupt
Mo. managed to disgorge £7O for the privilege of betting
at a four days’ fixture, and opposed by the machine, too.
* * * *
Something of a, record. Four-year-old Mozel-
taub, by the Australian Peer —Good Luck, gathered in a
double at YVallsend (N.S.YV.) recently, and, four days
later, repeated the performance at Newcastle J.C.
meeting.
* * t *
Sir Leonard’s mannerof appropriating “Oxboro”
Spring Handicap, Saturday, promises well for his chance
in some of coming A.J.O. meet’s plums. He won, pulling
up, carrying 9.12 over a very sticky course, a success that
should have brought him strongly into the market for
the Epsom, but Mo., labels the nag a doubtful starter.
Sir Leonard is in the Metrop. with 9.5, Caulfield Cup 9.7,
and Melbourne Cup 9.2.
• • * *
If the match between the Australian XI. and
the English pros, comes off at the Oval on Sept. 15—17, it
should be a truer Test than any of the five games that
carried the title. The pros., presumably, will try hard to
; assert their superiority as hard battlers to any mixed
All-England team, and they will not have Maciaren for
captain. The advantage of not having Maciaren to direct
the attack ought to be made very evident.
• • * •
“ When Tate’s stump went down and settled the
4th. Test match spectators sat white-faced with pent-up
excitement. Some actually fainted under the reaction
from the strain of the last five minutes. The wife of one
of the Australians shouted at the height of her voice,
involuntarily ; she was for the moment unconscious of
her outburst. The scene was indeed one of indescribable
intensity of feeling.”—London E. News.
• • * •
For the first time these many years it happened
that the three best bowlers on the English side scored
more runs among them in tests than the three top Aus-
tralian trundlers. Rhodes, of course, owed his imposing
batting average of 63 to the fact that it was his total for
7 innings, 6of them being “ not out,” The captain who
continues to confine a batsman to the extreme tail-end of
a team when he has shown a Rhodesian capacity for
carrying his bat is surely a bad judge of the game, as far
as “ nerve ”is a factor in it. But, then, nobody looking
at Maclaren’s head would suppose him to be a good judge
or a bold captain. Darling would inspire courage at a
crisis, where Mac. would only serve to communicate a
funk.
* * * •
For the sake of his historical interest W. G.
Grace should have been included in at least one of the
Test teams. Even on his 55-year-old batting and bowling
“ form ” the identity had genuine claims to be trotted
out once more. The cable reports that Grace has com-
pleted his 1000 runs this season, which puts him about
23,000 runs ahead of any other man in first-class cricket
record. As a bowler he is already credited with about
750 wickets more than his nearest rival, Briggs. And he
is still bowling.
• * • *
In the recent English series of test-matches Hill,
Trumper, and Trumble “ mixed ” made a slight improve-
ment on til ir general batting average for the 1899 tests.
Noble, Dariing, Gregory, and Kelly showed a great falling
off, and yet none of those Australian veterans were awful
disappointments in comparison with some of the English-
men. Even Fry averaged 231> three years ago. This
year he made 5 runs in four innings. Ranji’s average
dropped from 46’3 for 8 innings to 4'7 for 4 innings, three
of which yielded 6 runs only. Hayward, who played in
all the tests in 1899 and averaged 68’8, was only good for
7 runs in two battings this year. Jackson and Maciaren
played up to their previous form, whilst T.vldesley, of all
the English old hands, was the only one to improve his
test record. Lilley fell with a thud from an average of 45
for 5 innings to a beggarly 6‘5 for 7 innings this season.
* * * *
Trurnble’s attacks on English wickets, always
remarkable, have now become sensational. First
innings of Middlesex saw him bag eight—an eye-opening
feat in itself for one bowler—but he has done the same
thing three times recently, and in three successive
iii igs of English players Trumble’s count was 19, which
made his total, so far, 100, at a cost of 13.48.
* * * •
Vic. Trumper, though not finished yet, has set
something that future Australian cricketers will find far
from soft. First innings of Middlesex match, concluded
last week, saw him, atop of his record number of cen-
turies, exceed 2000 for the season. Prior best for a whole
tour was Darling’s 1886. Previous to that, “Billy”
Murdoch held the record, 1711. Strangely enough,
Graham’s 1453 (in ’93) exactly equalled Geo. Giffen’s
accumulation of seven years before. Murdoch was the
most consistent of all Australian bats in England, for he
gathered most runs three trips in succession (’BO, ’B2 and
’B4) and four times in all—last was the ’9O tour.
• » * •
English mail tells of marvellous, unparalleled
hitting by Somerset player W. Hyman. Bath opposed
Thornbury in July, and, with lh. 50m. to play, Bath com-
piled 466 for six wickets—more than four runs per
minute. Towards this huge total, Hyman brought 359
(not out) —notching 32 sixers. Successive overs from
Dr. E. M. Grace saw H 3-man get 32 runs—four five’s and
two four’s—in each instance. Thornbury bowlers in-
cluded Paish and Spry, who were with Gloucestershire
against Australia this season.
* * * •
Many of the London papers (remarks the B.’s
London correspondent) under the smart of defeat over-
discounted the Australian win in the final test match
and conclusively convinced themselves that morally
they won. The Times minced no rice, however, when it
said: “ Darling seemed to upset the whole English side
by the placing of his field. He got his men close in, even
for such forcing players as Jackson and Maclaren,
and his bowlers kept too good a length to be hit.
The Englishmen seemed to become afraid. Instead of
going forward and hitting the bowlers off their pitch they
played back continuously' at everything. Trumble and
Samulevsyere remarkable in their length and break, and
the Englishmen, having once dropped the game, could
not recover it. The occasion was too much for them, and
it was quite pitiful to see such a splendid side going to
pieces in the way they did.” In fact, if they had been
doped they would have won 1
• • • •
Australia-Lancashira match, ended Friday last
week, finished narrowly in favor of Australia by 18 runs,
which margin was their surplus in first innings’ totals,
each side having made 105 in the second effort. Mac-
laren’s Australian discovery (Sydney bowler, Alex. Ker-
mode) did Lancashire good service by getting 5 for 68 and
2 for 44, while another man (Littlewood), unearthed later
by the English skipper, accomplished a fine bowling feat
in opposition to the visitors, sending 6 back for 49 (first),
and 7 for 49, next.
* • • •
Cornstalk and Bananaland Rugby teams, at Bris-
bane, Saturday last, played the 51at match before 8000
people, and the home side won—l 6 to 11. Play was fierce
throughout, and all over the field at times; but, during
the greater part of the game, Queensland had much the
better of things. When scores were 16-3 against the
visitors, they waded in desperately, and, keeping the ball
in Q. territory mostly, scored everything afterwards,
spite of a powerful and persistent defence. Of the 61
matches played, N.S.W. has won 30 and Q. 18, while three
have been drawn. Bananalanders have been most sue-
cessful on their own ground, where they’ve won the last
six matches.
* * • •
Contrary to general expectation, Western
Suburbs, by 4 to 3, gathered in Sydney football premier-
ship from ’Varsity men, who looked, on their showing with
Glebe, previous Saturday', almost certain victors. 'Var-
sity was somewhat handicapped during the competition
through comparative lightness. Western Suburbs always
showed superb defence, catching and kicking excellently.
Not a single try was notched against them in six matches,
while opposing teams in five others could only make one
try. North Sydney side have better results in the way of
defence, for teams meeting them failed on six occasions
to notch a try, and not at any time did the other side
credit themselves with two. Western Suburbs had two
scored against them once, and three in each of two other
contests. ’Varsity and Western Suburbs met in the first
round of this season’s struggle, and with very unfavor-
able ground conditions Western Suburbs won 11 to 3.
Before the final each team had played eight matches,
Varsity winning seven and losing one, that with New-
town, while W.S. proved successful in six, lost one, and
drew one. ’Varsity’s stock of tries totalled 34 against 22,
and Western Suburbs’, 21 against 13.
* * • •
Ihus Larry Foley: “Joe Goddard—yes, a fair
bull-dog, but you can beat a bull-dog if you tickle his nose
with a straw when you’re on a fence. Bully can’t think
of two things at once. Well, that was Joe. I first struck
him when I had the old White Horse j Joe was navvying
down Illawarra way, and he and his brother came to ask
about lessons. I had Paddy Slavin with me then, getting
him into shape. Slavin used to give me a hand in knock-
ing rough corners off the young ’uns. Slavin gives the
brother a spar, and Joe yells out, * ’lt ’im in the 1'
I Here,’ says I, ‘ P’raps you’d like to hit me there ? ’
Right, ’Ard Face,’ says Joe—he was always game. Well,
I gave him all he wanted inside, of five minutes. No, I
never properly trained Joe. I trained Lang to meet him
after he came back from America. After the fight he
came to me and says, ‘ Blast you, Foley, can’t ye teach
me same as ye teach Lang ? I’ll give ye ’arf me winnings
if you’ll do it and come to America with me.’ You
could teach Joe enough to stop the other man’s clever-
ness, but never enough to use his own. When things got
willing, he let science go to the devil and went hard for
his man. He could stand a bit o’ bruising. His scrap
with Tut Ryan, at Johannesburg, was reckoned one of
the best heavyweight mills this side o’3o years. The
police stopped the second go, and, as they usen’t to be
too particular then, things must have hummed with
numojr one. Hadn’t heard much of Joe since he went
to America the second time, bar occasional spars, saloon-
keeping and the other usual things they take to over
there. But, as the cove says : ‘Youth must be served
my masters—youth must be served ’; though often, when
you see the played-out pug. toe the line, it’s a case of
My poverty, but not my will, consents,' as the broken-
down ’pothecary says in ‘Romeo and Juliet.’”
» » * •
“Crank” : Apropos death of pugilist Joe
Goddard. Bulletin statement (30/8/’O2) that he and
Jackson fought 20 rounds is wrong ; they only fought 8.
Lees was not one of Goddard’s “ victims ’’—their match
ended in a draw. Also/ Goddard was not “points
ahead ” in the Jackson battle, for superbly-scienced
Peter, opposed to Goddard’s crude methods, only had to
be on his feet ready to continue at the end of the stipu-
lated term to have a heap of points the better of the
deal. Truth is, Goddard wouldn’t go into the ring
until Jackson promised to whack the £4OO pir ,e and
make a draw of the match, and the black was per-
suaded to agree. Peter never trained an hour. Goddard
trained all he knew, and it wasn’t his fault that Jackson
didn’t go under. Subsequently no inducement could
bring the white in front of the black man again. The old
Sydney Amateur Gymnastic Club offered a purse of £ll5O
with a loser’s portion of £350, and Goddard signed
acceptance but backed out later. Going to America
afterwards Jackson left word that no matter where he
was a cable message would bring him back to fight
Goddard. 0
« * » »
Bruisei’s Jack McGowan (Melbourne)’ and
“ Rollo ” (Sydney) decided Australasian lightweight
supremacy at Sydney Gaiety' A.C. t’other night. Former
weighed and latter 9.13 at noon on the day of fight.
From first to last Rollo indulged in evasive more than
aggressive tactics, often ducking and dodging rather
cleverly. McGowan forced right through at a fierce clip,
and piled up points freely. In the 14th round a beauty
on the point had Rollo any'how, but the Melbourne
slugger let the opportunity slip. Two rounds later a
couple of dirty lefts in the stomach made the Sydney
man rock and blink badly, but superb condition stood to
him, and the thing dragged, always one-sided, to the
end of the stipulated 20 rounds. Referee “ Jim ” Barron
declared for McGowan. Three-parts of the way through
a fair amount of money was put on Rollo at evens when
it looked—short of an extraordinary' fluke—as if nothing
could prevent McGowan from winning. Close observers
waited for smellful developments that the betting
apparently heralded, but they never came, though the
manner in which some people abused the referee for
giving an honest decision indicated a lot. Rollo gave no
evidence whatever of that great improvement claimed
for him, and proved himself still at best a second-rater.
A ’Murkan scribe lets in some doubtful light on
that hitherto inscrutable mystery, plugger Bilmartins
age. He relates that Martin has been racing 20 years, and
“ although now 42 years of age, is still among the world s
leading racing men.” Same source tells that Martin won
a bike race 4 years before Zimmerman annexed his novice
event. Zimmerman retired years ago. Ere the great old
plugger took to cycling he was a ped.
m * * *
“Jab”: A Victorian alleged pugilistic autho-
rity discusses present-day fighters and old-timers, to the
detriment of the former, and, contending that there is
considerable falling off in grit and the power to stand
punishment, gives as evidence the great number of
rounds the ancients fought as against the brevity of
modern battles. Rats! Under conditions obtaining then
half-a dozen rounds could be reeled off in as many
minutes—a round ended every time one or other combat-
ant went to the ground. Those were prize-ring rules.
Marquis of Queensberry rules, in vogue now, insist upon
three-minute rounds, which are infinitely more exacting
and call for far greater stamina than those that governed
old-time battles. Turned up “ Boxiana” for the purpose
of refreshing memory, and the first fight to catch the eye
was that between Bittoon (the Jew) and George Mallox
(“The Veteran”), which lasted 14 rounds occupying
12min.
Heavy champion bruiser Bill Doherty is the
best looking in the Australian pug game and, bar a few
indistinct marks, the result of scars, gives no indication
of his calling. The flat-topped nose and the “ cauli-
flower ” ear are completely absent. Doherty (34 now)
showed first in a 10.4 tourney at Melbourne 16 years ago
and has been fighting as often as occasion required, or
opportunity allowed, ever since. His best hauls were
made at Johannesburg, S’Africa, where a few years ago
the people were fight mad and would pay anything to
see good men slug each other.
« * * *
The Sandow Institute of Physical Culture,
Ltd., is on the market in Adelaide. Capital, 110,000, in
£5 fully-paid shares. Sandow gets 500 of these for the
use of his name and methods, and the public is asked to
find £7500 in cash ; out of which £4OOO is paid for the
plant and goodwill of the leading local gymnasium, which
had receipts of £llOO for past year. Hugo Leschen, its
manager, becomes managing director of the new co., and
Sandow promises it his “personal supervision,” besides
sending out from London two instructors trained in his
methods. He also remains chairman of directors, the
others proposed being leading business men.
• • * •
Particulars of “long distance” (something over
5 i miles) supremacy of England are to the effect that
Australian swimmer Read led Englishman Jarvis by 10
yards to the initial 100 and stayed in front l.Omin. longer,
when Jarvis passed him and won 150yds. to the good in
lhr. 13m. 37sec. Read was second, lhr. 14m. lOsec. ;
and Dick Cavill third, lhr. 16m. 50sec.
* • * *
Two more unsuccessful attempts at emulating
Webb’s Channel swim ! Holbein tried a second time this
season and was hauled out—badly used up—a mile from
the goal; while Holmes got within six miles of success,
and had to abandon the task through sickness. During
23 hours of immersion Holbein is said to have covered 53
miles, caused by current influences. He made his first
attempt in August last year, only travelling 26 miles in
12J hours, and then being compelled to stop through bad
weather coming on. It isn’t likely that he’ll tackle the
thing again, and, that being so, the late Captain
Webb’s performance may remain unequalled for years.
Holbein is unquestionably a stronger swimmer
and better stayer than Webb ever was, but he has been
infinitely less fortunate with weather and sea conditions.
Webb, though slower and more unlikely to battle through
opposing currents because of floating high and breaking
the surface with his leg stroke, only occupied 21h. 45m.
in crossing, and, during 15h. of that period, had the sea
“as smooth as glass, while a thick haze obscured the
sun.” The great difference in conditions is evidenced in
the fact that while Webb swam 39| miles to complete his
undertaking, Holbein got over 53 miles, and then didn’t
succeed. Webb only experienced unfavorable weather
when 4j- miles off the French coast.
* * » •
Details of Lane’s English 100 Yards’ Champion-
ship win in world’s-record time, last month, reveal that
Dick Cavill was in front from end to end, and only Lane’s
noted quickness to touch beat him on the post. Race
was fought out amid great excitement and, spite of the
judge’s decision, there were men who vowed Cavill had
won, while some insisted that Englishman Derbyshire
and Cavill finished together, with Lane, barely behind
them. In the same race in 1807 Australian Jack
Hellings led till 12 yards from the finish, then a bad turn
allowed Tyers and Derbyshire to overhaul him, and the
three fought neck and neck to the end. The judges were
minutes considering their ruling, then they gave the
verdict to Tyers, with Hellings and Derbyshire, a dead
heat, second. Meanwhile the great crowd looking on
had been yelling out the names of all 'three, and the
general opinion was that a dead heat among them
would have best fitted the situation.
* * • •
Australian dailies’ information that Australian
swimmer, Fred. Lane, “ beat his own record for 300yd5.,”
at Liverpool, previous Thursday, by covering the distance
in 3.42 1-5, is incorrect. Lane didn’t hold the prior
best, it (3.40 4-5) belonged to Dick Cavill, and was put up
in Sydney during February, last year. The fastest 300
Lane had ever before tiff-own behind was 3.46 3-5.
* * * *
Gippsland has many wonders. Bruthen, a
hamlet wayback boasts a rifle-club of unusual excellence
in which two chows, Messrs. A. Ah Chow and G. Ah
Chow, are the leading marksmen. Mr. A. Ah Chow
succeeded in gaining the marksman’s badge in shooting
the musketry course for 1901, and won two local matches
against all comers, while Mr. G. Chow won a match at
400yds. And yet it is generally believed in Australia
that no Chinaman can shoot.
• * • *
There must be something in the dry air of
Echuca (Vic.) which conduces to good rifle-shooting.
Local cadets have scored 61 consecutive wins against
cadets of other schools throughout the State, and proudly
claim to have established a Commonwealth record.
* * * *
From Melb. Age, 5/7/’O2: “At Yarram rifle
range this-week Mr. G. Alford was taking aim at 400yds.,
and, just as he fired, several magpies flew in front
of him, about 200yds. distant. The bullet struck
one of the magpies and brought it to the ground, and a
bulls-eye was registered by the marker for the shot. A
bulls-eye and ‘magpie’ were thus scored for one shot.”
N.B. —Yarram is in Gippsland, where the big worms
and radishes come from.
* * • *
Thirteen-years-old boy “ Parvo ” Fraser topped
all his previous atrocities at sparrow slaughtering by
winning Melbourne Gun Club’s £25 Challenge Cup with
one of the best scores recorded for that event, bringing
down 19 of 21 birds shot at. Fraser never missed one of
his first dozen. Previous tussle for the same cup last June
saw him only beaten by one bird. These people get about
30yds. behind little pigeons with a modern gun, and call
it “sport.” Why the State allows it is. beyond compre-
hension, as pigeon shooting doesn’t make men marksmen
—it only makes them callous.
* * 9 m
The pigeon-butchers at Broken Hill have lately
been varying their “sport” with galah-parrots, which
prove far trickier than the tame birds.
* * * 9
Bill of fare prepared for 118 possible starters in
Saturday’s road-race from Warrnambool to Melbourne
was : 33 doz. bananas, 33 doz. oranges, 34 doz. eggs,
38£lb. muscatel raisins, 38Jlb. chocolate, 24 bunches
celery, 401 b. specially made beef sausages, 281 b. bread (for
bread and milk), 50 gallons milk, Sib. sugar, and 8 gallons
bovril.
* * m fr
The best British golfers seem to be very level
just now. The Open Championship (of 72 holes) .went to
A. Herd with 307, but Harry Verdon and Braid were only
308, and Maxwell (an amateur) 309 (and a golf amateur is
an amateur). Also, the Englishmen can rather more than
hold their own with the Scotch now.
Nothing m sport is more uncertain at present
than the prospects of Melb. Bicycle Club with its next
Austral meeting. The scandal attaching to last year’s
Austral—otherwise, the Billmartin Stakes—may have
disgusted the public who look for honesty in cycling
when the prize is big. Or, it may be, that nobody' cares
whether the performers on the track are performing
“ straight ” or otherwise, as long as they do perform. The
Austral, after all, is a lively entertainment in its way.
* * • «
A feature of English cricket this year is the
success of the old ’uns. Veteran bat Shrewsbury tops
averages, with a record of 50 runs per innings. Bar
Braund, the personnel of each English team opposed to
Australia has embraced players who have been in the
forefront for years, and even Braund is no new hand, as
he has been with the best in first-class cricket four or
five seasons. Shrewsbury was one of England’s team
against the first Australian XI. in 1878, and is now 46
years of age.
* * • *
A high-jump tussle at Singleton (N.S.W.)
Show, last week, saw the breaking of Spondulix’s long-
standing record (6.9 f), achieved at Melbourne show in
’9l. Mr. R. R. Pritchard’s (Gundah) grey gelding,
Rattler, cleared 6.10 J. ’Murka boasts the world’s abso-
lute best (7.4), shared in by Heatherbloom (Chicago, 1902)
and Sure Pop (Nashville, Tenn., 1901).
* * * »
Victorian greyhounds Verse and Planet, litter
sisters by Black Star (son of Livingstone) from Poetess,
by Tennyson, and owned by Clarendon Bros., of Gipps-
land, whacked Moonee Valley Cup last week just as they
did Australian Waterloo Cup two months before. Valley
Cup, last year, saw Planet among four survivors of
the 128 original competitors. Australian coursing
furnishes nothing to equal Braddon’s Blot-Olivia trial in
earlier rounds, when, after working the hottest thing
possible in hares for 4£min., both hounds lay down at
the same moment, completely exhausted.
Lest We Forget.
Speaking in Sydney the other day Home-See.
Lyne said :
This is such a wonderful country that I firmly believe,
in a couple of years’ time, if we get anything like good
rain, we shall forget that there has ever been a drought
here.
Although he meant it as a tribute to the fertility
of Australia, not as a warning, William Lyne
could not have stumbled on a more truthful rebuke
to Australian indolence. Despite head lines in
the daily press and welcome wires from various
favored districts, the drought is by no means at an
end, nor even relieved, excepting in detached
areas. But supposing it was a thing of the past,
and fat seasons were now to be the order of the
day for a while, what sort of benefit would have
resulted from this stern lesson ? It can safely be
said, none. The present drought would only
serve in the future as a text for the oldest inhabi-
tant to drone about. The Australians are a wonder-
ful people whom the extremest chastisement of
Nature does not seem to affect. The harassed
land and the impoverished herbage have had a
long season of rest. Nature, the stern but kindly
mother, has watched the abuse of our land, and
taken the matter into her omnipotent hands, and
said that it must stop for a while, and men 'must
suffer for their wanton wastefulness. And they
suffer and forget. Once more, let us suppose that
the prairies are green, the flocks and herds fat,
the bush is a pleasant place, the stock routes
are fit to travel along, the tanks are full, and the
depleted edible scrub has a chance to re-
clothe its mangled trunk and limbs. The
drought is a bad dream of the past, “an
abnormal season, such as will not occur again in
the present century.” Well, the flocks and herds
increase, and so do the rabbits. Once more the
burdened and hard-taxed soil begins to weary
under the stress of over-stocking; and a lean year
comes, and then another, and once again the con-
tinent is under the lash. Now, apart from all
proposed legislative remedial measures, which,
after all, mostly end in “gas,” the people, who
expect to get a living out of ti e land can do much
to mitigate the effects of drought by under, rather
than over-stocking; by waging relentless war
against the rabbits; and by conserving moie
water in the back-country to relieve the pressure
on the river frontages. Now is the time to smite
the rabbit, hip and thigh, and to insist that those
rabbit-breeding depots—unoccupied Government
lands—should be cleared of the pest. Westralia
used to be badly troubled with “poison plant.”
The Government leased land under a Poison Plant
Act, whereby the lessee, by rigorously keeping the,
scourge down until it was eradicated, acquired
a, certain percentage of land. There is now very
little “poison plant” in the settled districts, of
Westralia. Such a law could not be applied, as it
stands, to rabbits, but a hint could be taken from
it. Again, in the Western State, there is normally
much less rain than in the East, but when a drought
occurs, there is far less outcry or loss. The reason
is simple : The Westralian sheep country will.not
stand heavy stocking. The grasses there are much
inferior to those of the East, but whatis locally called
“top feed,” namely, bushes and scrub, grows
freely enough and forms good pasturage. But the
number of sheep to the square mile is necessarily
limited. This is a kind of compulsory, reasonable-
stocking clause, enforced by Nature, and in con-
sequence the country does not groan in extremity
when a drought comes. Why should not such a
reasonable stocking—stocking for average seasons,
not exceptionally good ones—be made a law of
Man as well as of Nature? Humanity rebels
against hiring a man to work and then working
him until he falls exhausted. Why then should
the earth be treated in this manner? But it is
safe to predict that no attempts at mitigation
will be made: when the good seasons come men
will rejoice and legislators will borrow money and
build bridges and palatial offices, and another ten
years will see us howling again. “We shall forget
there was ever a drought here.^
ERNEST FAVENC.
The Howard Smith Co.’s illustrated time-
table and guide for Sep., Oct., and Nov, gives all
information re the sailing of the ships of their
line for the three months aforesaid, and is a
publication pre-eminently calculated to set the
dusty townsman yearning for sea air and travel.
Every one booking a passage by the H.S. line
should see that he gets one of the purple-wrapped
handbooks.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Fills
Are a perfect blood purifier. They get at the
cause, and cure positively and permanently
diseases of the organs of digestion and nutrition.
They are a positive cure for liver and kidney
ailments, biliousness, constipation, indigestion,
headaches, sour stomach, furred tongue, bad
breath, bad taste, sallow complexion, piles,
pimples, boils, and all female ailments. Put up
in amber bottles with the full name blown there-
on, and sold throughout Australasia.


Frozen Fish
Has the same FRESH*
NESS and DELICACY
of FLAVOR as when
newly caught.
©
It can be sent with safety during the winter
months to almost any far distant railway
~ station in the State.— '
SMOKED FISH (our own curing) forwarded
by Parcels Post to back-country districts
Please send for Catalogue of
the different Kinds and prices
S6e N.S. Wo FresH Food (Si Ice Co. Ltd.
Head Office and Refrigerating Worlts, Harbour St., .Sydney
THE BEST WHEEL
BEST in construction,
BEST in ease of running.
BEST in strength of frame.
MASS EY-H ARRIS
MASSEY-HARRIS
CYCLES
CYCLES
BEST in hi 11 -climbing,
BEST in speed,
BEST in honest value.
v We hold all Speed
Records, both Amateur
and Professional.
IN OUR SPORTS DEPARTMENT
special attention is directed to
DUMBBELLS, WANDS, INDIAN CLUBS
For School Children.
We stock the Highest Grade of Goods for Every Sport.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co., Ltd.
357 GEOROE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches in every State.
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY WHEN YOU
BUY A
REMINGTON
Double-Barrel . .
Hammerless Gun.
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept in stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
Remington Arms Company,
Head Office: 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, TLS.A.
REMINGTON GUNS, £5 10s. to £l5
REMINGTON RIFLES, 23/6 post free
McLEAH BROS. & RIGG, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
A NIB,
A BOTTLE OF INK,
A SHEET OF PAPER and
A PEN CARBON BOOK
makes a complete outfit with
which any
MAN,
WOMAN OR
CHILD
can write a letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy without
leaving the slightest sign of copy-
ing on the original.
%
?/
a?.
It keeps a duplicate of bills you send out, of orders, receipts, bank checks. It leaves no vague
uncertain mark, but a tracing that is often clearer than the original.
From its testimony there can be no appeal. It will save any house or family much money by its
indisputable record.
There is no man or woman, professional or not, who would not at some time or other find
THE PEN CARBON LETTER BOOK
A True and Valued Friend.
For fullest particulars, price, etc., write to the pole
Agents for Australasia: E. RICH & CO. LTD., Sydney bbiBbane
Policemen in Australia, whose modest
ambitions only run to a gold watch and a small
terrace of houses, or a comfortable pub., must
envy their comrades in New York. At the recent
inquiry:
One sergeant, who owned up to being worth £37,000,
declared that ha had made his money by speculation in
diamonds and paintings, and on the racecourse. An in-
spector, with just under £60,000 to his credit, put it all
down to “ luck on the street.” A captain, who was
believed to have over £lOO,OOO at his bankers, admitted
that he had made a good deal out of real estate, that he
lived in an £BOOO house, and was the owner of several
tenements. Two other captains estimated their fortunes
at £40,000 apiece, one of them adding that to lose £2ooo'
at a single race-meeting “did not worry him any. - ’ .
If August Tisler, of Dandenong, isa
typical murderer, the waxwork proprietors will
have to remodel their types. Clad in his blue
waterproof overcoat with its large cape, with,
brown Alpine hat, fair moustache, regular,
squarish face,'and firm, well-shaped chin,, the
alleged Russian Finn looks a somewhat unin-
telligent, ordinary tradesman—not at all the cut
of a murderer.' His open, honest blue eyes meet
you squarely and frankly. His alleged partner, a
stoutish, middle-aged woman of a generally
indeterminate type, kept her face hidden as much
as possible, and her eyes on her thick, plain, un-
prepossessing boots during the wholeof the inquest.
Only when her little 9-year-old daughter, Minnie,
gave her evidence did the stolid woman break
down and weep. In her own stout, ordinary
way Selina Sangal looks just like the ordinary
respectable house-mother who stands on your corn
coming out of church, or serves you with groceries
at the store, or runs helplessly and ineffectively
after the lost tram, waving a futile cotton um-
brella in the air with the hope that the vehicle
will come back for her. The fact that these two
people are so disappointingly like the great multi-
tude of other people is getting on the public’s '
nerves. 1
By Special
Appointment.
G. H. SMITH and SON,
TROPICAL HELMET
with special air-space ,,
in 'while drill, &c. and
in all colors in felt.
10/6 and 12/6
Hat and Cap Manufacturers
and Importers,
302 George-st» Sydney
Sombrero Soft Felt Hats,
All Shades and Sizes.
Soft Felt Hombergs.
In all Sizes and Colors.
Straw Hats. Stetson Hats.
Polo Caps, Military and Naval
Caps, Livery Hats, Clerical Silk
Hats, Etc. , Made to Order
OAFS dubbed Shaving
• are rarely
Shaving Soaps.
In a Class by Themselves
The World’s Standard Shaving Soaps
Williams’ Barber’s Bar
and
Williams’ Shaving Stick
“BARBER’S BAR”
While the natural Ally
Of the. Deft Artist
And his Trusty Blade
Is also the Ideal Soap
Eor Home Use
Fits your Birthday Mug
Once tried, never changed
■“Won’t Dry on the Face.”
Send a Penny Stamp and we will post you Williams’
(Changing l'mv Puzzle. Can you explain iff
' J. B. WiIiUAMS CO., 232 Clarence-st., Sydney.
Harry Morant and His sorry fate, told of
in “ Bushman and Buccaneer ” (now in its second
edition). The history of the Breaker and his
verses and letters, including photo, reproduction
of the Pietersburg gaol MS. Price one shilling.
Wholesale from Edwards, Dunlop and Co. Retail
from all booksellers and Bulletin office (post
free Is. Id.)
Apparently so proud are they of their
wealth of local information that in two consecu-
tive issues of their official “ Bulletin ” the N.S.W.
Labor Commissioners have announced “the pro-
posed extension of the Silverton Tramway into
Broken Hill.” As the poor old dead-and-gone
Duke of Manchester wickedly spilled some good
wine in declaring this extension open to Broken
Hill during a bad drought 15 years ago, there is
clearly something wrong somewhere.
A Bulletin correspondent :
There is a strong minority in this country (Maoriland)
who feel deeply grateful to Barton and Laurier for their
bold stand against Chamberlain, Seddon and co. in
defence of those rights of self-government which we
enjoy. Had the S’African holocaust gone on much fur-
ther we’d have seen Seddon demanding conscription.
His attempt to compel us to make regular payments
towards the up-keep of the Imperial military fabric was
different from conscription in degree only. How Seddon
could have the hardihood to launch such a proposal while
his own State is borrowing desperately to build its roads
and bridges, I don’t understand ; —why, our miserable
dole of old-age pensions would not be available if we
stopped visiting Uncle Cohen of London. “ The spending
power of the people,” of which Seddon boasts in his
Budgets, is now largely due to the constant stream of
borrowed money. Yet, in face of all this, we were asked
to contribute towards the Imperial military expenses—to
find more billets for the Primrose sucklings who bungle
the bloody squabbles into which the British financiers’
Government chooses to drag this demoralised and
unwieldy Empire. Anyhow, here’s good luck to Barton
and Laurier 1
Writes a public servant: —
This happened a few years ago in N.S.W. A teacher in
the Education Dept, was ordered to a new school opened
in an out-of-the-way district. This move didn’t suit him
at all, so he interviewed the “ Office,” but in vain. To a
despairing request as to how long he was to expect to be
stationed in that “ God-forgotten hole,” the “Office”said
he would be relieved when it suited the Dept. The
teacher found that the school was a temporary one, to
provide education for the children of the workmen build-
ing a big bridge. In a few months the bridge was finished
and the temporary township melted away. Somehow the
“Office” forgot all about its school, and the teacher,
nothing loth to enjoy an extra holiday, stayed on. He
put in a joyous time with gun and fishing-rod for a couple
of weeks until a district school inspector came looking
for the public school. Explanations were followed by an
assurance from the inspector that he was sure it would
“suit the Dept.” if the teacher would report himself to
the “Office” immediately. The laugh was on the
“ Office ” when he turned up.
Sims, in his “Living London,” has a
chapter on the Salvation Army Sit Up. There is
also a picture showing what it is like —about 100
men sitting up all night, in a sort of chapel. The
charge for the Sit Up is one penny. Twopence
buys a bunk, without any bedclothes. Three-
pence for a bed, perhaps on the threepenny-rope
principle. A poor fellow, say, has only 3d. in the
world. He goes in for a Penny Sit Up, with the
bunk tempting. Bang goes twopence, and yet the
bedclothes whisper in his ears, and all he has in
the world is gone. Ah Shylock ! Shylock ! Of
course, pious officers go round with sticks, to prod
the Sit Ups, if they attempt to lie down. Oh,
what a Christlike institution is the Sit Up ! The
foxes have holes, and the humble believer has
a Sit Up!
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Agents for N. S. Wales: Sayers,
Allport and Potter, Sydney. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
George R. Sims, who doesn’t seem to have
strengthened his judgment by marrying a “ young
and beautiful wife,” made an awful “ bloomer,. in
London Refebee, two days before the Coronation
postponement came to pass. Ridiculing the idea
that His Gracious Maj. had been suffering from
anything worse than a touch of lumbago, G.R.S.
wrote : —“ To represent the King as seriously ill
at this period of the Coronation preparations is
really wicked. The bare idea of such a disaster is
sufficient to fill a Mark Tapley with nervous dread.
It opens up a vista of possibilities that can only be
contemplated with a shudder.” It is an awful
thing for a representative journalistic groveller to
shudder at the bare thought of a monarchial
indiscretion which is just about to happen.
“Will my people ever forgive me?” groaned
King Ned. Evidently G. R. Sims didn’t forgive
him.
SHARPS HOOTING
Sf\ > " For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARKI
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nett. ;
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W. W. CREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES)
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Greener’s Representative).
•pOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is. OTtfLY
-D ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY..
That is “Ellis’ Kins Street Coffee Palace,” "*i
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. ' Proprietor—GEO. W. ELLIS.
;. ' ,
. J
‘E*
Dunlop
Rubber
Goods
are the finest that money and
brains can produce.
We have the finest Rubber
plant in the Southern Hemis-
phere and will be pleased to
quote for and supply Rubber
Goods of every description, no
order being too small and none
too large.
Should you
be requiring any Rubber Goods, we
humbly suggest that you give our manu-
facture a trial. Our Goods will do
tlie rest, for none better are
obtainable in Australasia.
Specify
Dunlop Rubber Goods
when purchasing any Rubber article and we guarantee to give you
satisfaction as to Quality and Price.
Samples and Prices upon application to
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. OF AUS., LTD.,
108 Flinders Street, Melbourne; and at
150 Clarence Street, Sydney. 59 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
28 Adelaide Street, Brisbane. 54 Barrack Street, Perth.
128 Lichfield Street, Christchurch, N.Z.


r
c
90
I
9
9
01
P
r
p>
i
s
p
8
w
v
R
5 '
«« / ~
/
ctfuMV.
PGla&sl
tt
/ "
7=Ts
?i-i
tl
7k
G
9
J£
i
s
li
fX
✓-
/
<>
• //
A/
?y/
W A
Bananaland is a land of paradoxes. Rock-
hampton, a coast town, is in desperate straits for
want of vegetables, and has to make up its
deficiencies by sending for cabbage, cauliflower
and turnips to the heart of the drought-stricken
backblox. Fact ! The Alice River settlement
(out Barcaldine way) is at present supplying Rock-
hampton with vegetables at fancy prices. Secret
—bore water.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
Bafest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. every where.
A couple of Melbourne burglars have a
real grievance against a suburban council. They
went prospecting the other evening, and, having
annexed a horse and cart from an unguarded
stable, proceeded to a store, where they stocked
the vehicle with tobacco, wines, spirits, groceries,
brooms, and general ironmongery. When the
cart would hold no more the outfit moved off,
but, in passing through Collingwood, it got bogged
in a neglected back street and nothing would
shift it. In no way disconcerted, the resourceful
tradesmen fossicked around till they came to a
carter’s premises, where they commandeered an
upstanding bay mare. Her they put in the
shafts, but the harness was too light, and the first
pull broke the traces. Then Jack Sheppard and
co. went back to the carter’s and hunted up some
stout harness, but by the time they got this fixed
it was just breaking day, and two useful horses, a
cart, and a choice stock of groceries had to be
abandoned. At next Collingwood municipal
election there will be at least two burglars whose
votes will be cast for municipal reform and better
streets.
At a backblocks court, lately, a lordly
hyphenated squatter, who had been doing some
grog-dealing with the licensee of the Eternal Rest,
which is just beyond the Dead Finish, was prose-
cuted for selling liquor without a license. The
P.M. found the case fully proved, and said so;
and while he was totting up the costs, the squatter,
bubbling with rage and indignation to be
numbered with the sly-grog sellers, referred to
the local policeman as a vindictive scoundrel,
remarked that he was the froth and scum of the
gutter, and altogether showed quite a pretty turn
in the compliments of the push. The meek P.M.
didn’t send him to the logs for seven days for
contempt; in fact, having fined him £3O, he went
outside and had a yarn with him, so there was
nothing left for the constable but to sue for libel
or slander, which he did. But then, such an
amazing ass is the law, it was ruled that, though
the verdict had been given, the fine had not been
announced, so the case was still open, wherefore
a party to the case was entitled to say what he
darn-well pleased !
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussan’s advt. on page
23 of this issue *
RAMEY'S MEDIC A TOR
For the Treatment of Catarrh. Hay Fever,
Bronchitis, Influenza, Catarrhal
Deafness, etc.
Medicator, with complete treat-
ment, only 101-, post free.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY
229,231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Publications.
NCW SONS
4
V
(jSP
7
Author or
"Am* the Ballr
7 ’HiMtu Com a rmt 'ImAH the Nun to Mother!
Price 2Jot/
Allan & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Melbourne
Read the Words
If You Please, Miss, Give Me Heaven.
“ Papa, I’m so sad and lonely,”
Sobbed a tearful little child ;
“ Since dear mamma’s gone to Heaven,
Papa, darling, you’ve not smiled.
I will speak to her and tell her
That we want her to come home;
Just you listen, and I’ll call her
Through the telephone :
Chorus—
“ If you please, Miss, give me Heaven —for my Mamma’s
there ;
You can find her with the angels on the golden stair.
She’ll be glad it’s me who’s speaking—call her, won't you,
please,
For I want to surely tell her we’re so lonely here.”
When the girl received this message,
’ Coming o’er the telephone,
How her heart thrilled in that moment,
And the wires seemed to moan ;
“ I will answer, just to please her :
‘ Yes, dear heart, I’ll soon come home.’ ”
“ Kiss me, Mamma, kiss your darling,
Through the telephone.”
Chorus —“ If you please, Miss,” etc.
276-278 COLLINSST.,
PROP., Ltd,
MELBOURNE.
LADIES.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address —L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Melboc <fne
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED
BUNTER’S
INSTANTLY BY
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Nights
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head aches & all Nerve
Pains removed by BUNTER'S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
“As a specific for Tooth-ache it has no equal. I have
used it successfully for years.”—Prof. W. Wilson, M.D,
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORSDEIL’S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, &c.
Of all Stores.
65 YEARS PROVEN EFFICACY.
Ta*b
unseedi
% 4*
inS ee
/MtH
OF ALL QIEMISTS
w<
/ (THMucHOuruREATBRIWINiTHtCOLONItS
lHO« CATHARIICUM Pu.ls Pul.-U-V.-jfloM*
““ COACULINE •
TRANSPARENT CEMENT FOR ALL BROKEN ARTICLES
CAN’T YOU BREATHE
! freely ? Have you to sit up in bed gasping for
■breath ? If so, you are only one of a countless
number whose lives are made a burden to them by
ASTHMA.
If you wish to rest again at night, and breathe
•with head erect by day, send ss. to NEWHAM
WATERWORTH, Edward-st., Brisbane,
-who will forward post free a sample bottle of a
?"New Remedy for Asthma, a few doses of which
kiwill prove to you that life is still worth living.
I GORE
VARICOCELE,
PREVENT PARALYSIS,
And Restore the
NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Every man who has Varicocele recognises,
by evidences which are unmistakable, that
he is physically and mentally below par. It
is impossible that the self-generated toxins,
formed in the sluggish blood currents of
neglected Varicocele, should be absorbed
into nerve matter without producing morbid
conditions that affect the entire organism.
Varicocele is unquestionably the cause
of thousands of business and social failures,
because it strikes at the very seat and centre
of physical and mental power —the nervous
system. * .
My treatment not only cures the Vari-
cocele, but gives back strength of body
and brain. It gives to a man the reserve
power that is the prerequisite of all success.
I seek cases where all else has failed.
Young, middle=aged, and old men can
recover the same degree of health,
strength, and energy experienced in
former years by consulting
PROFESSOR READ,
who has restored thousands of sufferers to
vigorous health.
DO ANY OF THE FOLLOWING
SYMPTOMS OR CLASS OF SYMP-
TOMS MEET YOUR CONDITION:—
Do you feel nervous debilitated, fretful, timid,
and lack the power of will and action? Are you
subject to loss of memory, feel listless, moping, unfit
for business or pleasure, and subject to fits ot
melancholy? Are your kidneys, stomach, urinary
organs, liver or blood in a disordered condition?
Have you lost confidence in yourself and energy tor
business pursuits ? Are you subject to restless
nights, broktn sleep, dreams, palpitation oi tna
heart, confusion of ideas, aversion to society, dim-
ness of sight, pimples on the face and back, and otner
disponding symptoms? . .
If you are afflicted, why further neglect
your health when by a single consultation
(which costs nothing) you can be placed on
the way to health, strength, and vigor?
All correspondence held sacred. A speedy
and perfect life cure is guaranteed, in all
cases I undertake, where doubt exists the
sufferer is frankly informed.
I CANNOT TELL YOU ALL
I desire in this announcement, therefore I
invite every man who is interested to write
me fully and freely, describing his case, and
I will advise him the best course to pursue.
My new book, which I send free
(six stamps to cover postage should be en-
closed), describes in detail my special
methods of curing the diseases to
which 1 limit my practice.
No premises made that age, integrity, and
long experience do not justify.
Address : Prof. H. READ,
165 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE


AMSIHM
NMOHO HOOj
<59
“ Vul. V.” writes :
Re the bridge v. tunnel (North Shore, Sydney) contro-
versy. Quite unaccountably, the bridge scheme has had
popular and Ministerial favor right through, while the
alternative scheme of a tunnel seems to have been hardly
considered at all. Yet the tunnel would cost no more-
even if as much —as the bridge; it would have greater
permanency, would cost much less to keep in repair, and
its unsightliness wouldn’t obtrude itself on the aching
eye. Brooklyn (U.S.A.) bridge, although only about 20
years old, is in a shaky and unsafe condition. The Forth
bridge (U.K.) gives an example of the lavish expenditure
necessary to keep iron bridges in repair. Thirty-five
painters were put on at one end from the first and started
to work on to the other. This job took them three years
to complete, and the present, and past, system is that as
soon as the men have reached one end after three years’
continuous work, they are sent back and begin to paint
it all over again. If any bridge belonging to one of the
six Australian chronic-deadbroke Govts, depended on
such a system for its proper upkeep, there would he no
saying how soon it would fall down. By the way, when
New York and Brooklyn badly wanted their bridge, they
didn’t go whining to the State or Federal Governments
for the money, but paid for it themselves, like the inde-
pendent cities they are. Brooklyn, wanting the bridge
most, paid most of the cost —two-thirds of the total
£3,500,000. That’s an example to follow !
A Rochester (Vic.) schoolboy holds the
Education Dept.’s certificate for attending the
local State school, without one day’s absence, for
over six years. This lad milks several cows before
and after school hours, delivers the milk to Sun-
day customers throughout the town —and yet the
schoolmaster avers that his scholar has never been
five minutes’ late during all his school-days !
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. 6d.
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor, W. Martin, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England.*
Concerning the Chinese-grown vegetable
question, Jenkins, a staunch White Australian,
patronises a Caucasian fruit-dealer, on principle.
Passing aforesaid Caucasian’s shop early one
morning he finds this tradesman bargaining with
a Chow dealer, from whom, it turns out, he gets
his supplies. On the other hand, Johnson (who
has no anti-alien convictions) patronises certain
Brisbane Chinese vegetable vendors who, it turns
out, buy all their stuff from white growers who find
that John can sell stuff when they can’t. Hence
Johnson argues lie’s a better White Australian
than Jenkins, and Jenkins is driven to patronise
a Chinee shop for the sake of getting “ Eulopean
cabbagee.”
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
Diseases of
Children
Results that follow the most
satisfactory treatment
Some children have so many ailments
that how they continue to exist seems a
mystery. A little girl had measles, bron-
chitis, congestion of the lungs and whooping
cough, one after the other, until her system
was reduced almost to a skeleton. The
mother tells the story in the following
letter:—
“ 31, Charteris Road,
“ Finsbury Park, London, England,
“ November 13th, 1900.
“ Dear Sirs, —Last December my little
girl had measles very badly, followed by
bronchitis, which left her very weak and
delicate. In July she had congestion of
the lungs and afterwards whooping cough,
which so reduced her that she became
almost a skeleton. She could not seem
to recover her strength, and I was advised
to give her Scott’s Emulsion. After a few
doses her cough was much better and easier
and she was able to retain her food, which
she could not do previous to taking the
BEATRICE EDITH STOREY.
(From a photograph.)
Emulsion. In a month after commencing
the treatment she began to look like her
old self, and gained in strength every day,
which was wonderful, considering what a
low state she was in when I first gave her
Scott’s Emuision. I found that the pre-
paration not only strengthened, but put
on flesh and built up her constitution, and
I am convinced that it is owing to the use
of Scott’s Emulsion that my little girl is
now the strong and healthy child she is.
“ Yours very truly,
“(Signed) (Mrs.) M. S'iorey.”
The reason Scott’s Emul-ion is so poler t
in bringing back strength and vitality to a
weakened system, is because it enriches
the blood with the nourishing properties
of cod-liver oil without taxing digestion.
Ordinary food takes a certain amount of
strength in the digestive process, and
where digestion is weak, as is usually the
case in illness, this is a burden. Scott’s
Emulsion, on the other hand, requires no
digestive effort, and consequently it can
give the system vitality and enrich the
blood with the nourishing properties of food
without any waste of energy
You cannot expect to derive the benefits
which other people are deriving from Scott’s
Emulsion, unless you purchase the genuine
preparation. This may be distinguished
by our trade marx of a m.\n holding a big
fish over his shoulder, which is on the
wrapper of every genuine bottle.
You can obtain a sample of Scott’s Emulsion
by sending fourpenee to Scott & Bowno, Ltd.,
483 Kent-street, Sydney, and mentioning this
paper. All chemists sell Scott’s Emulsion,
Cheapest House in / u tralia for EDISON
Phonographs Records
“BIJOU,” with 6 Records £1 10 0
EDISON “STANDARD,” with 12 Records .. 510 0
EDISON “HOME,” with 24 Records .. .. 810 0
COMBINATION A 1 “GRAND,” taking both
Large and Small Records, with 12 Records, 6
Concert (sin.) Records and Large Horn .. TO 10 0
EDISON RECORDS, English and American,
per dozen ••
CONCERT (sin.) RECORDS, per dozen.. .. 3 0 0
Send for Splendid New Illustrated Catalogue containing
5000 Selections to choose from. Electric Fans, with
Battery, £5 ; Electric Bike Lamps, 21s ; Flash Lights,
Scarf Pin Lights, 10s 6d ; Vapour Bath Cabinets, 20s; &c.,
Free.
Records can be posted to any address. Machines care-
fully packed and forwarded to any part of Australasia.
REEVES & CO.,
KING WILLIAM STREET, ADELAIDE.
I I do not ask you to spend
money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’
Dance, etc. All I ask of you
is to SEND for a FREE
Bottle and to try it. I abide
by the result. A safe remedy—
approved by the Medical
, Profession.
H. G. ROOT, 2S,Endsleigh
Gardens, London, N.W.
3
FRINGES
Maao of the Best Natural Curly Hair,
fro® .3a, (>d.» ss, 6d., 7s. Gd., Bs. 6d.
to 10s. Gd.each,
W. H. WIGZELL
JIO WILLIAM STREET,
SYDNEY,
PLAITS
TAILS
iSOiid. long, 63. 641. ; 20in., extra thick,
7s. 6d.
22in., 10$. 6d.; 22in:, exfra tliick t l2s. 6d.
24in., 15s. 6d.; 21in., extra thick, 18s, gd,
26in., 205.; 26in.,extra thick, 25?,
28in.,305.; 30in_.,355.; 30in., extra t&fck,4os.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as thick as
those sold elsewhere for the same money.
WIGS MADE TO ORDER.
TUIRWORK BUTT FR~RF, TO OTTTF.R S'l'A/Wv
BUSHMAN WATCH
'//// // '
■ / OUR FAITHFUL
■/Z/6 timekeeper ■
/
P Charles Read l C? 1
420 CEORCE 5T SYDN£Y.|
Jl
r
E¥Jt!EY MAN
SUFFERINC from DEBILITY and WEAKNESS should
send for a valuable Pamphlet explaining 1 how all
Nervous and Organic Derangements may be success-
fully treated without stomach medication. The method
is easy and pleasant, and will effect a perfect and per-
manent cure. Sent in a plain sealed envelope free of
charge. E. NORTON, 59 &60 Chancery Lane, London,
gi Eng. Over 30 years’ continuous success. g
Free for Asking.
WRITE to us and we will forward you our scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
stre> gth and ambition once more. -Posted free. Write
to Proprietor, Box 135, G.P.0., Adelaide, S.A.
'CURES
I COUGH
h W eyou*c oUC o h
*?Uhcoldy
..«D PBO»Pf- Y
STOPS
COLD
STOPS
COLD
*.u-
AND C° R
, Me Jfl Nursery-
/OVB S 9W.,^- 216 -
r.A. s h?t« e8 ’ 9
CURES'
COUGH
%
Those
suffering
from weak
and sore eyes,
and blight, should
SINGLETON’S OINTMENT
-Nlver Fails. Restores Eyelashes.
ALL CHEMISTS.
BALSAM OF
BALSAM
BALSAM
OLD’S BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
A RNOLD’S BALSAM
In
BALSAM
AJRNOLD’S BALSA
HOREHOUND
For Coughs and Colds.
Every Dose Effective.
Will Cure when Others Fail.
For Pain in the Side.
Best for Influenza.
Bronchitis and Loss of Voice.
Whooping Cough and Croup.
For Children, Safe and Sure.
Sailor Bill Blues His Cheque.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I was making back to Sydney—to the ocean an’
the ships,
With the savings in me pockets that had cost me
many trips,
When I strikes a pub. one morning—’twas a dirty
shop, an’rough—
An’ has a drink, an’, like a fool, I flashed me
blanky stuff.
The missus pitched a cryin’ yarn—“ This place
don’t make us fat.”.
Sez I, “ But don’t you lamb ’em down, an’ make
a bit like that ? ”
“ Oh,” she sez, “ we’ve Buckley’s show;
Lambing-down went long ago.”
But, before I’d done with her, I found she got
there just the same—
Same —just the same—though she’d dropped the
good, ole name ;
Yet she knew the ancient dodges of the bleed-the-
bushie game,
Though you didn’t pass your gonce all across the
bar at once,
An’ you only parted as you drank —it got there
just the same.
Now, she had a freckly daughter—rather free, an’
full of style,
Who came to anchor by me, with a pretty, coax-
ing smile:
“ An’ you reely are a sailor! O, they are so brave
an’ true,
An’ I think we’ll like each other an’ be friendly—
me an’ you.
I think a man that’s travelled an’ is tender, wise,
an’ kind,
Always makes the most impression on a woman’s
simple mind.
Yes ; I know you’re growin’old,
But you’ve got a heart of gold,
An’ I wish you meant it when you squeezed my
fingers, Mr. Brown.”
Brown—Mr. Brown; an’ I sucked her smooging
down,
For I bought her lots of trinkets an’ a flash an’
gaudy gown.
O, she made my feelin’s rise, with her greeny-
yaller eyes,
An’ she jhad me on her bit of toast an’ did me
fairly brown,
I felt pleased as Punch in beer, an’ rorty, too —
you bet!
Thinks I: “Count one to Sailor Bill—he ain’t
back-numbered yet.”
An’ when I made a move she sez, in such a plead-
ing way:
“O, surely you ain’t goin’ yet—you’ll stop with
us to-day.”
There was four or five stool-pigeons there—a dry
an’ bumming crowd,
I shouted for the lot of them ; I shouted very
loud.
An’ the cook an’ groom, d’ye see ?
Said they’d stop one, too, with me.
And the ladies—bless their little hearts !—in-
dulged in something soft.
Soft—something soft—an’ they sipped their wine
an’ coughed,
An’ I slung ’em each a fiver as the whisky went
aloft.
Then they’d laugh and squeal, “ Oplease,” when
I pulled ’em on me knees.
An’ I fancy when they found me that they did
have something soft.
When a mug plays up his money; then the
bummers make their hay ;
They can smell free drinks an’ pickin’s if it’s
twenty miles away;
They listened while I skited of the things I learnt
at sea;
Like crows upon a sheep that’s bogged, they
settled down on me.
I boozed the toffy agent up, the swaggie an’ the
sot;
For poor ole Bill, the sailor-man, was bullock for
the lot.
An’ they’d hardly drunk one, when
O, ’twas “Fill ’em up again ! ”
An’ Mrs. Public-house would take the orders with
a grin.
Grin—yes, she’d grin as she brought the liquors
in—
(The beauty—she was broken-mouthed an’ ugly t
as a gin).
Ev’ry man was in me shout; then he’d wait till I
went out,
An’ he’d have his Jimmy Woodser, on the quiet,
with a grin.
I had a month’s hard drinkin’ then —a month of
swinish joys;
With days of beery babblin’s an’ nights of
drunken noise;
With sleep, at first, a stupor—then with evil
fancies crammed;
And with wakin’s, in the mornin’s, to the tortures
of the damned.
As I watched the creepin’ daylight, where I, sick
an’ shakin’, lay;
I would always “go to-morrow —I must have
another day.”
So I played the giddy goat,
Till I cashed me cobbler note;
Then I saddled up me noddies an’ I mounted for
a jump.
Jump—at a jump, I cleared the bar an’ pump ;
But I rode for landlord’s winnings—like many
another chump.
An’ I sold ’em cheap—my oath ! For a fiver
bought ’em both.
So they slung me off for ever when I mounted for
that jump.
Another day’s delirium ; then I slackened in me
spree,
An’ I doled the counted shillin’s that I used to
fling so free;
Until I crawled, one mornin’, for a drink to set
me straight;
An’ I had to tell the missus—“ Better put it on
the slate.” '»
Then I had a dozen, maybe, till the morning after
that;
When she sez—“No; not another, till you ante
up the sprat."
“ But,” I sez, “I’m stony-broke.”
“Well,” she sez, “it’s past a joke ;
An’, as you’ve spent your money—why, I think
you’d better go—
Go ! —off you go. Now, you’ve had a tidy show,
An’ I’ve got to buy me liquor, an’ you can’t stop
here, you know.
Well, I’ll let you have a flask, if it’s reely all
you’ll ask,
Then you’d better get a move on you, an’ hump
your drum an’ go.”
I sees the girl a-standin’ there; “Good-bye,” I
sez, “Miss Lil.”
“Good-bye,” she sez, an’ cocks her nose; “ Good-
bye, ole Boozy Bill.”
With that I swings me bluey up—it wasn’t all me
load—
And I heard the loafers laughin’ as I stepped into
the road.
I left a hell behind me ; I’d another one inside,
An’ a big one brooded on the plains—so blazin’,
bare an’ wide.
Yes, I felt the devil’s pains
As I choked across the plains ; '
An’, as the past bit into me, I thought I should
have died—
Died, fairly died. By the Lord, I could have
cried:
I’d blued a hundred hoarded notes an’ the nags I
used to ride.
If there’d been a handy tree, ’twoukl have seen
the end of me :
I’d have stripped Matilda of her straps an’ swung
. meself an’ died 1
N.S.W.
CECIL POOLE.


amusements.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mb. Harry Richards.
Miss Dorothy Vane.
PAUL CINQUEVALLI.
MR. and MRS. SIDNEY DREW.
3 HARVEY BOYS, A. G. SI RY, WALKER & MAY,
DIAMOND DUO, LES. WARTON, FORD WILLIS,
ALICE 0. ORR, BIOSCOPE.
Prices as Usual. Plan at Paling’s.
MATINEES SATURDAY and WEDNESDAY.
RICKARDS’ NEW OPERA HOUSE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30 p.tn.
First Appearance of EUGEN SANDOW.
7 THE FLORENZS 7
FLORRIE GALLIMORE. ADA DELROY.
Professor FRED. HARCOURT. RAY JONES.
SAM HOLDSWORTH.
Prices—3s., 2s. 6d., 25., Is. Early Doors and Booked
Seats 6d. Extra. Plan at Allan’s.
HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee.. .. .. Mr. Bland Holt.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
Bus. Manager, James Hendv. Treas., Julius Grant.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION, headed bv Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN.
FRIDAY, SEPT. 5, LAST NIGHT of
THE LADDER OF LIFE • TO THE FRONT
SAT., SEPT. 6, for the First Time in Australasia, the
Successful Play, A WOMAN OF PLEASURE.
Prices —3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Director, Mr. George Musgrovo.
Manager .. Mr. T. P. Hudson.
LAST NIGHTS of Mr. GEO. MUSGROVE’S NEW
ENGLISH DRAMATIC CO. in
Sweet Hell of Old PrCiry*
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Wednesday Matinees.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tait.
EVERY EVENING. The Delight of Melbourne,
RODIM HOOP,
THE FINEST REPRESENTATION OF COMIC OPERA
SINCE “DOROTHY.”
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan's.
IJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE. “
Lessee and Manager .. William F. Hawtrey.
Business Manager .. Lonard Davis.
Reappearance of THE HAWTREY COMEDY CO. in
Sir F. 0. Burnand’s Great Farcical Comedy,
Tlie Lacdy of Ostend,
Preceded by the Charming One-Act Plaj',
COUNSEL’S OPINION, by Frederick Bingham.
Stage Manager, Mr. T. E. Foster. Musical Director, Mr.
David Cope. Popular Prices —35., 25., Is. 6d., and Is.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
THEAI/EUM HALL, COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
SHOW WEEK. SHOW WEEK.
SEPTEMBER 4th, sth, 6th,
McADOO’S Original
FISK JUBILEE SINGERS
Richmond, Malvern, Essenden, Footscray, Newmarket
and Brighton to follow.
POPULAR PRICES—3s, 25., Is.
R. H. COLLINS, Manager.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Under the Sole Direction of Mr. George Musgrove.
Manager .. .. Mr. T. P. Hudson.
UNQUESTIONABLE & EMPHATIC SUCCESS of
Mr. CEO. WiUSQROVE’S NEW COMIC OPERA CO. in
A CHINESE HONEYMOON,
Produced on a scale of Magnificence Unsurpassed by any
other Management in the world.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Nicholson’s.
MATINEES EVERY WEDNESDAY 2 p.m.
YC EUM T H EAT RE, SYQ ME y 7
Lessee Mr. Wm. Anderson.
Sub Lessee .. .. Bland Holt.
LAST 2 NIGHTS of BLAND HOLT’S Latest Melodramatic
Spectacle,
WITH FLYIN6 COLORS.
BRIGHT 1 BRISK ! BREEZY 1
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, RIDING TO WIN.
POPULAR PRICES—3s,, 2s:, Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CHRISTIE SI.MONBENS, Bus. Manager.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
SOLE LESSEE .. .. Mr. JOHN F. SHERIDAN.
Manager Frank Weathersby.
THE SHERIDAN SEASON.
FIFTH WEEK and CONTINUED SUCCESS
of
THE OPERATICAL COMEDY,
THE LADY SLAVEY.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY at 2.30.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is. 6d., and Is. Box Plan at
Nicholson’s. Day Sale, Early Doors Only (6d. Extra to
All Parts), at White Rose Confectionery, corner of Royal
Arcade and Pitt Streets ; also Box Plan after 5 o’clock
week days and 1 o’clock Saturdays.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessees .. .. Messrs. LEE and RIAL.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 7.45. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2,
FOURTH WEEK and CONTINUED SUCCESS of
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S
MUSICAL COMEDY COMPANY
in the Charming Comic Opera,
SAINT TO Y.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Nicholson and Co;-
The Chillagoe boomsters are having anything
but an enviable time. Rumored that Greenaway already
expresses a wish to retire from the management of the
Chillagoe co.’s properties. Mungana directors told a
doleful tale at last week’s meeting. They could do
nothing until Chillagoe co. resumed smelting. What
more definite admission of utter worthlessness than
hat could be made? A copper-mine which can
be made to pay by sending ore to another co.’s
smelters must be an uncommonly good one, and
if so good the sale of the ore is simply equivalent to
robbery of the shareholders. Holders of Mungana shares
bought at high prices will probably write themselves
down—Muggiana. Mt. Garnet is on the verge of closing
down. Higgins is on his way there with a mission, that
is, if possible, to avert such a catastrophe. Three years
ago Chillagoe district was to regulate the copper market.
There were mountains of red metal waiting for the con-
venience of a railway to be transported to the seaboard,
and the owners were to ship 1000 tons or 10,009 tons, just
as they wished, to put the market up or down. The
mountains are still there, but the pick has shown that
they are mostly mullock.
• • • •
The value of “experts’ reports” on tin-shows,
and especially N.Q. tin-shows, is illustrated again by
some queer figures as to the Coolgarra. One manager
reported the tin-stuff raised from No. 1 shaft as worth 14
per cent.; his successor put it as 16‘2 per cent. ; a third
examiner named 10 per cent, and 4 per cent. ; and now,
in a slashing report condemning the whole concern, a
fourth (Mr. Treweek) says it is worthless 1 per cent, stuff.
More in hope than in faith, the Adelaide shareholders
have recommended the directors to give it a little more
trial.
• • • *
The extraordinary desire of certain Q. poli-
ticians to give away hunks of the country to any syndi-
cate happening along is exemplified by the Scottish
Gympie Mining Bill now passing Q. Assembly. This co.
is to get 200 acres provided it sinks a 4Cooft. shaft at
Gympie (the average Gympie lease is 21 acres). Various
practical members pointed out that a big bonus of, say,
£lO,OOO for gold found at 4000 ft. would be a fairer deal,
but the Philpites were solid, and the co. gets its hunk.
• • • *
New Mining Bill now before Q. Assembly will,
if passed, be a deathblow to “ kerbstone ” operators.
Clause 6 provides that anyone dealing in stocks, unless
licensed by the local Exchange (which must also be regis-
tered) and the warden, is liable to £lOO fine and to
further penalties if he persists. The fee for an Exchange
registration is 50 guineas, and the annual license for a
broker £5. This will answer as regards Gympie, Towers
and Croydon, but it will paralyse speculation on the
small fields.
* • • •
Brilliant Deep Levels, C.T. No time has been
lost in resuming work on this property. A start is to be
made at once to sink the diagonal winze at the point set
out in Mr. White’s report. In addition to the application
money the co. has realised £BOO on surplus machinery.
It is expected that the winze will be sunk at least 60ft. a
month, so that within eight months it should reach the
distance at which Mr. White calculates that the Extended
shute of stone will be intersected. The winze will be in
quartz all the way, and it is quite within the bounds of
probability that something payable will be found while it
is going down.
* • # •
Certain Melbourne mining celebrities who,
until quite lately were “as thick as thieves,” now pass
one another in scornful contempt. Cause— not a Woman,
but something equally uncertain—a mine, the Great
Central Mt. Hope. Development results not Within
cooey of prospectus promises. The prospectus which
was issued “ for private information only, all the shares
having been allotted ” was something to marvel at. One
usually over-cautious examiner went nap on the show.
There is no doubt that had there been a public flotation
on such a prospectus there would have been a mad rush
of applicants for shares. But the majority of the crowd,
assuming that they had something which was good enough
to keep to themselves, deeided on a binding policy of
not taking in the vulgar mob. The “ crowd” thus missed
a mighty fortune, hence the ructions. The Mt. Hope
disappointment is not the only source of trouble. Some
of the “crowd” complain that while they are forced to
eat their share of that bitter fruit they are being deprived
of their rightful share of a luscious pium— the Sliuttleton
mine. The air is full of threats of legal proceedings,
which, if started, will be sensational, but, doubtless,
wiser counsels will prevail—a pot-and-kettle conflict
might be equally unpleasant to both sides.
* • « *
Two substantial records. Long Tunnel (Vic.),
549,186 tons, 694,2690z5. ; £2,434.346 value ; £1,229,400
divs. Tasmania, Beaconsfield, 463,905 tons, 549,8600z5.;
£2,016,000 value ; £769,071 divs. Should Long Tunnel
co. resume operations on the new plan proposed, it will
be at least four years before it can pay further divs., and
meanwhile the Tasmanian mine will nearly overtake it.
» * * *
Spring Gully, Fryer’s Creek (Vic.), owned by
Bendigo men, shows a creditable record. Capital called
up, £6300 ; spent on machinery, £9OOO ; crushed, 55,139
tons for 26,1590z5. ; value, about £101,000; dividends
paid, £53,400. Mine originally owned by a party of
Chinese, who did not care about working below the day-
light zone.
* * • •
Mt. Lyell returns for last month show a heavy
falling off compared with the previous month, the
respective figures being : Copper, July 565 tons, August
485 tons ; silver, July 53,8300 z., August 48,0110 z. ;
gold, July 17910 z., August 17620 z. The difference
in value is over £4OOO. The decline is attribut-
able to the fact that the co. had to rely on open
cut material while the subsidiary- shaft was being
repaired. The result indicates what will happen to Lyell
when the sweeteners are worked out.
• * * *
Hampton Plains Estates (W.A.) reports fur-
ther dismal failures. Merry Hampton : 1530 tons, 2860 z.,
or 3‘7dwts. per ton ; worth 13s. lid. Costs, 255. 3d.
dead loss, 11s. 4d. Queen : 2511 tons, 1450 z., or I‘ldwt.
per ton, valued at 4s. Id. Costs, 10s. 3d. ; loss, 6s. 2d.
per ton. King :63 tons, lOJoz., or 3‘4dwts.; 12s. 9d. per
ton. Directors cabled Manager Lidgey—“ We are at a
loss to understand how you will make it pay."
* * * •
Brown Hill-Orova amalgamation meetings seem
to have been very tame affairs, the shareholders being led
like lambs to the slaughter by the astute directors. The
gentlemen who lose their billets on the boards voted
themselves £5OO apiece as compensation, and those who
retained them carried a motion that they should get 5
percent, on all divs. declared in excess of 20 per cent,
per annum. Chairman told one inquisitive holder, who
wanted to know the ore reserves of Brown Hill, that it
was out of the question to make any estimate in the case
of a mine situated on Kalgoorlie field. Thus easily was
the poverty of the Brown Hill ore reserves concealed.
* • • •
Horatio Bottomley, on behalf of his Associated
Financial Corp., has been circularising shareholders re
the alleged rich find made two months ago in the Tra-
falgar, Kalgoorlie. At 200 ft. level, lode said to be worth
1J to 2£o’z. for a width cf 18in. to 2ft. Seeing that co. has
been in existence, in one form or another, for five years,
it doesn’t say much for the energy or intelligence of the
management that the 200 ft. level is only now being ex-
plored/ In any case, of what use is a narrow patch of
rich ore to a co. of 180,009 shares with no capital and no
plant ?
• * * *
First crushing from Merton’s Reward (W.A.)
since it was acquired by Kaufmann, 9940 z. from. 990 tons.
This is most disappointing, and shows that the excitable
Merton was no fool in accepting £llO,OOO in cash for his
interest. Lower levels very poor as compared with the
surface, as has almost invariably proved to be the case
with W.A. shows. None of the adjoining mines has
shown any results in spite of shaft-sinking and diamond-
drilling, and the outlook is anything but rosy,
* • * *
Golden Horseshoe still heads the list of W.A.
mines, both in number of men killed and in number of
ounces produced. Hardly a week passes without a fatal
accident. There is no question as to the Horseshoe lodes
being the richest on the fields. The return for July
reads 16,1150 z. from 10,822 tons, which is a splendid
result, but one cannot help thinking that the mill is
capable of better things than 3'6 tons per stamp daily.
Included in the return are 107 tons of 17 Joz. telluride ore,
which is significant.
The Associated (W.A.) report for year ending
March 31st last shows an alleged profit of £13,631, but as
no provision has ever been made for depreciation, or
development, this amount has been written off the latter
account. As alleged assets, the co. holds amounts ex-
pended in fruitless diamond drilling, as well as in patch-
ing up and altering the botched treatment plant. The
idea of classifying as assets diamond driil bore-holes, and
patches on boilers and cyanide vats is sublimely ridi-
culous.
* * * •
Annual meeting of Hannan’s Star (W.A.) can
hardly have been a hilarious gathering, judging from the
fare served up. At 500 ft. level no finds of pay ore had
been made. At 175 ft. and 300 ft. the lode had proved
wide and strong, but of poor value, and operations had
been suspended for want of funds. Incidentally a light
was shed on the adjoining Great Boulder South, one of
Frank Gardner’s cats, in which it was stated that similar
conditions prevailed. Chairman told meeting that vigor-
ous development at depth was essential, but until capital
was available, this could not be contemplated. Board
appears to be in a helpless condition, as no scheme for
stopping the policy of drift was suggested, and the £7OOO
cash in hand had to be retained to guarantee directors’
fees and official expenses.
* * • •
Cumberland-Niagara, Kookynie (WA.), con-
tinues to open out well, and the monthly returns are
gradually improving. Last result, 14600 z. from 1457 tons,
which is the best so far. On the adjoining Cosmopolitan
the water has increased to 500,000 gals. daily, and the
pumps can barely cope with it, and a likelihood of a
further reduction in the returns is imminent. Luckily
for the Cumberland, the Cosmopolitan’s workings are
deeper and drain the mine.
f * • $
Boulder Hamilton has acquired theGoodenough,
at Menzies, on behalf of Boulder No. 1. Property has
been successfully worked by prospectors for six years. ■
Last three months 367 tons treated 12120 z., an average of
3'3oz. This looks very well on paper, but Menzies’ lodes
are proverbially patchy, as instance Queensland Menzies
and Lady Shenton, and costs consequently abnormally
high. With its 225,000 shares Boulder No. 1 wants a lot
of profit to pay decent divs. Shares should be good
gamble, as six weeks’ testing was done before the show
was taken on six months’ option, and Hamilton can’t risk
any mistakes.
• • • •
Chairman C. E. Hogg, at recent meeting in
London, told shareholders of the much-reconstructed
Golden Arrow (W.A.) that divs. were at length in sight,
owing to recent good developments. Last return of
4140 z. from 1109 tons, or 7.sdwt. average, does not look
much like divs. This alleged gold mine has been worked
for seven years at a cost of over £lOO,OOO and returned
nothing.
* * m •
Last year was a dull one at the British Mint,
vet 20 tons of gold, 92 tons of silver, and 291 tons of
bronze were turned into lucre. Our parent lets us in
Australia coin as much gold as we like ; then, not to put
too great a strain upon us, she insists on doing all the
silver minting herself. It is, of course, the merest coinci-
dence that we lose on the gold, while last year, though
business was bad, she managed to squeeze a profit of half
a million out of the silver—the metal she bought (from us)
for £518,900 she sold (some of it to us) for £1,156,916. On
the average, the Mint handles 60 tons of gold a year ; the
silver and bronze vary exceedingly. A great deal of the
actual minting is not done at the Mint at all; it is given
out to Brummagem contractors.
• • • •
Westralia’s export of railway sleepers runs now
to about half-a-million a year, and her total output of
hardwood is worth half-a-million pounds. Karri threatened
to take first place from jarrah a few years ago, but ha 3
dropped back again. Last year’s figures were—for jarrah,
101,636 lq&ds, worth £406,545 ; and, for karri, 41,375 loads,
worth £165,502.
• » * *
Myalls United lias been one of the disappointing
N.S.W. Bull mines, but it has fared somewhat better than
many others in that it has produced enough gold to pay
its way and provide for development. Writer has an idea
that it paid one div. in six years. It was floated as a
15dwt. mine (which it probably was when original owners
gouged out the richer veins in quantity only sufficient to
keep five stamps going), but when the 40-stamp mill began
to talk it soon knocked 60 per cent, off the estimate. AH
through it has been nothing better than a sdwt. show,
and had it not been the most economically-managed mine
in N.S.W. it would have been shut down long ago.
It is an open secret that the owners had very
little hope of the mine becoming successful, but
they allowed it to be worked on the off chance
that some new development might be made which would
brighten prospects. This is what has happened and the
outlook now is cheerful in the extreme. The shaft was
lately deepened to 600 ft. The greater part of the last sink
was in quartz and this body has just been crosscutted.
The width is 60ft. and the average value Sdwts. per ton.
The manager, Mr. Hocking (one of the new school of
Cornish mine engineers—a school which does not boast
that it “ never had no lamin’ ”) estimates that the bulk
recovery will be 7dwts. The present crushing power
is 60 stamps, equal to about 3000 tons per month. It
is understood that arrangements are about to be
made to add 40 stamps which (will raise the capacity
to 5000 tons per month. As the total charges for
mining, milling and cyaniding amount to less than 15s.
per ton, it will be seen that, should an average of any-
thing like 7dwt. be maintained, it will not belong ere the
patience of the shareholders is rewarded. The co. is
' fortunate in having an unlimited supply of fresh water,
which gravitates to the works.
• • • *
Sunshine (except of the liquid variety) is such a
phenomenon on the West Coast of M.L. that a local scribe
may be pardoned for the following : “ Miners are all more
or less superstitious, and if there is anything in signs and
portents, the Greymouth Lagoons dredge started undfcr
the most favorable of auspices. At the moment of start-
ing the sun burst forth in a flood of light, and fashioned
a brilliant rainbow, whose arch enveloped the dredge and
claim.” It will soon be known whether this dredge
(mostly owned by Sydneyites) is as lucky as the bride
upon whom the sun smiles.
• * • •
Hays Hammond, the big U.S. mining engineer,
reckons the probable duration of profitable operations on
a large scale on the Rand at less than 25 years. Esti-
mated that for every mile in length along the course of
the Witwatersrand reefs, down to a vertical depth of
1000 ft. for the dip of the reefs, gold to the value of about
£10,000,000 will be extracted. Assuming these conditions
to obtain to a depth of 6000 ft. vertical, there is the
enormous sum of £60,090,000 for each mile. It is sup-
posed that these conditions will be maintained along
most of the central section for a distance of 10 miles, in
which case there will be an auriferous area within prac-
ticable mining depths containing upwards of £600,000,000
worth of gold. From the east and west sections it is
computed that the available gold is £200,000,000 worth.
Hammond thinks that it will be quite feasible to work to
a vertical depth of 6000 ft. The difficulty will be to over-
come the great heat at that point. Salamanders will
have to be imported from Sheol to do the work.
* * * *
Apropos recent cables on the subject. It is not
true that the discovery of the enormous extent of the
Rand lodes has followed the war. The knowledge (as may
be seen somewhere or other in far-back copies of Tub
Bulletin) preceded the war—and precipitated it. Cohen
long ago had a most excellent detailed idea of what hi 3
tools were to fight for.
Fitzgerald Brothers propose putting up similar build-
ings in Brisbane, Sydney and Adelaide to their Melbourne
one. Business Manager Hal George has just left for
America with a view to getting artists in rotation from
the big Yankee and European shows.
The Broughs have really gone for good this time. So
they themselves say. But . One admirer who has
often wrought his feelings up over a Brough “ last
night ” is quite satisfied with the title of their farewelling
piece, “ The Liars."
Jack Graham, ex-champion wrestler, who has just
been appointed instructor (for athletics, not Scripture) at
the O. of E. Grammar School, Melb., is a man for whom
lions and tigers, &c., have absolutely no terrors. Graham
was travelling with Fitzgeralds’ circus, giving sparring
and wrestling exhibitions through Maoriland, when the
•man who handled the big animals fell ill, and, to pull the
show out of a hole, Jack cheerfully offered to take on the
lion-tamer’s business. A short exhibition convinced the
Fitzes that Jack was a lord of creation, and during the
rest of the tour he bounced the lions and the tigers round
as they had never been bounced before. “Pooh ! they’re
nothing but big cats 1 ” said the pug when complimented
on his courage.
At Poverty Point.
Ada Reeve’s new marriage name is Cotton—a highly
inflammable-sounding name. Her previous husband,
Bert Gilbert, took unto himself a second wife soon after
Ada had achieved her divorce from him. You can’t beat
the “ profesh ” for marrying, and unmarrying, and the
same as marrying.
Harold Ashton’s mission to S'Africa marks him as the
De Wet of J. C. Williamson’s field staff. Ashton has done
a lot of long journeyings since he became identified with
the J.C.W. enterprises, and undoubtedly he was the
right man to select for opening the S’African market to
Australian theatrical goods.
The late Mr. Dick Stewart made his last appearances on
the stage in Melb. Royal panto, of 1893-’94, if present
scribe remembers aright. The veteran, who was then 66,
took the part of the Emperor of some pantomimic region
where Maggie Moore, as Sinbad, was shipwrecked. Pro-
bably not one person in 100 of the audience knew him for
the original Stewart who had been one of the lessees of
the theatre in former days.
“ Peter the Pedlar ” : Re the need of a new theatre in
Hobart. A year ago a co. was mooted to build a theatre
on a splendid site in Collins-st., £lO,OOO being needed.
A canvass of the town was made and while there were
hundreds of “sympathisers” only £3OOO was subscribed.
The attempt had one good effect, however, for the Davies
Bros, (who own the old slum-surrounded house) woke up
sufficiently to make some improvements, and since then
the place has been electrically lighted and a few cobwebs
have been missing.
Alice Crawford, writing chattily to her old friend, Mrs.
Doubleday, reported a high financial lime for that deter-
mined battler, Wilson Barrett, in S’Africa. The cost of
food and lodging was awfully dear in Durban, for in-
stance, but the co. received extra salary, and “ we played
there a fortnight to packed houses, so full that our
orchestra had to play under the stage,” wrote bonnie
Alice. Her views about colored labor are frankly femi-
nine : “ I like the black servants much better than white
—they are so servile, and you can order them about as
you please, and if you give them a ticker (3d.) occasion-
ally they are delighted, and will do anything for you. I
love riding in a rickshaw. The Kaffir boys who draw
them are most fantastically got up, and ornamented with
colored feathers, bulls’ horns, anklets, bracelets, nose-
rings, ear-rings, and all sorts of beads. I always
chose the most gorgeously-arrayed one, and I called
him Solomon on account of all his glory.” Miss Alice
had something to say about the difference between the
Boer of Jingo fable and the man as a matter of fact: —
“•At Elandsfontein we amused ourselves watching the
trains come in laden with Boers returning to their farms,
most of which have been burnt to the ground. The
Boers are ordinary-looking men with long beards, and
very harmless-looking. I had imagined them as ferocious-
looking brutes. They are very glad the war is over.
Mr. Barrett treated a lot of them to drinks, and they said
if Joubert had lived the war would have been over 18
months ago.” The letter made no allusion to the
theatrical work of the Barrett Co. or the parts the writer
had been playing, or was going to play. If all young
Australian actresses had as little self-conceit as Alice
Crawford more of them would be likely to make a mark
in the world.
The Melbourne dailies, without exception, overlooked
the fact that H. O. Willard, a very well-known actor, did
not play the part he was programmed for on the first
night of “The Ladder of Life” revival at Melb. Royal.
Willard being sick, his place was taken by A. L. Lawrence,
who got through so acceptably that the absentee re-
covered his health with great promptitude, after the
manner of actors when an understudy proves efficient.
Two of the three Melbourne dailies gave Willard credit
for the other man’s performance, and the Argus even said
that “ Mr. H. O. Willard completely disguised himself as
Ferguson Gordon, the envious cousin.” Fancy that pale,
reposeful villain of melodrama completely disguising
himself in a bell-topper 1
The eyes of many mummers have been watching the
test case in which plaintiff, a bill-poster, sued J. A.
Wilson, proprietor of Melbourne “ Bijou,” for money due
from somebody or other on account of the billing of the
recent “ Cyrano de Bergerac ” production. Plaintiff
alleges that, whilst Lee and Riall figured as managers,
their responsible financier was the landlord of the theatre.
It is admitted that a first account for bill-posting was
presented and paid at Wilson s office in the Palace Hotel
adjoining the Bijou. Also Charles Rodney, a member of
the “Cyrano” co., stated that Wilson made him an
advance on his salary, after two other members of the co.
had drawn cheques from the same source. These
payments, contends the plaintiff, establish Mr.
Wilson’s identity as the principal in the business,
but defendant’s counsel denied that he was anything
more than an advancer of moneys, under terms of an
agreement which exempted him from the responsibilities
of a straight-out partnership with his tenants, Lee and
Rial. Alex. Middleton, who acted as business manager,
testified that he paid the gross receipts of the
“ Bergerac ” season to Wilson, but as the receipts didn’t
quite cover the amount which Wilson had agreed to
advance, it is doubtful whether his control of the
treasury up to the abrupt termination of the season com-
mitted him to any responsibility for the outstanding
debts. The Bench at Melb. District Court declined to
adjudicate on the case, so it may possibly be taken to a
higher court. But higher courts are not often approached
by bill-posters or impecunious actors.
Three Saturday night “ recitals how weighty is that
word! —have been given successfully at Glen’s Concert
Hall, Melb., by Mdme. Albertine Gay, dramatic soprano,
and Mdme. Charbonnet-Kellermann, the well-known
pianist. Musical artists whose advt. is not calculated to
draw the mob do well to. run their concerts in a cosy
little hall, quite big enough to hold a profitable audience,
instead of engaging the Town Hall, in the vain hope that
the general public will roll up in sufficient numbers to
pay the rent. Glen’s is, perhaps, outside the “beat” of
ordinary public patronage. It is a place for sub-
scription or invitation concerts. But the Athenaeum
strikes one as being a hall where a good market
for musical entertainments might be maintained all
the year round, and especially in winter time. Al-
though of late years the Athenaeum has dropped
out of fashion, it could be made toney if a number of resi-
dent Melb. musicians and vocalists kept that end in view.
Melba’s farewell concert in Melbourne long ago happened
at the Athenaeum, and there was some £6O or more in the
hall. A good many concerts have been given at the Town
Hall this winter to audiences worth less than £6O, and if
the first concert of a series was poorly attended, the
public stopped away from the others because they heard
that the thinly-populated interior of the big barn was a
depressing sight. The same concerts would have drawn
larger attendances to the Athenaeum Hall because there
would have been no fear of the building being three-parts
empty and painfully cold.
“ T.D.” : Will someone please stop the rush of Yankee
comic-opera people to Australia. The latest is Lyding,
the tenor, who plays Robin Hood in Williamson’s show.
Tuneful enough, and far beyond the average comic opera
man as an actor ; but it is a bit of an anachronism to find
the rightful heir to the Earldom of Huntingdon in the
time of King John with a mellifluous ’Frisco burr on his
tongue. Why don’t some of the hard-up Australian
tenors turn their voices to comic opera ? There.should
be big chances for good men ; but the trouble is that you
can’t get the Australian actor-singer to work. He seems
to imagine that all he has to do is to walk on, sling off a
few bars of uncultivated voice, and straddle about the
stage ungracefully at odd intervals. Not one of the
Australian-grown men who have gone in for light opera
in recent years have risen beyond stopgapping for im-
ported artists, simply because they have been too lazy to
study singing, elocution, acting, or dancing.
“C.L.A.”: Went to have 12d. of “Sweet Nell of Old
Drury,” a week or two back, but couldn’t get near the
door for women. It looked like a draper’s bargain sale.
Most of the fair were “ on their own,” in twos and threes.
Tried again, next night—the early door, this time. Got
a good seat, and watched the shillings coming in. Just
the same thing, nearly all women, claiming their political
right to pay for themselves, bles3 their hearts ! Down
in the stalls, where the price is 3s. and 55., none
on their own; mere man had a chance there.
Went again next night, and watched how the
girls tried to head their escorts first into the reserved
stalls. If that didn’t come, when they got to the 3s. door
there was no doubt as to where they intended to go. One
couple I noticed particularly, hurrying along Spring-st.
The damsel swerved towards the ss. door. No go.
Another swerve in the direction of plain “Stalls,” but
Gussy kept right on, going strong for the gallery entrance
round the corner. The girl stopped. “ Are you going to
the gallery ?” she asked. 1-Ie was. “Then go by your-
self,” said she, and turned round and left her intended
victim. Gus looked at the girl walking away, scratched
his head, and went in for a drink—out of the shilling he
saved, I suppose. Then he sauntered round to the
gallery, refreshed and alone.
Miss Amy Castles doesn’t improve her standing by long-
extended country tours and such letters as this to the
Melbourne papers : “ It is, I believe, one of the penalties
of success to have a few enemies who say unkind things
of one, and I fear I have not escapid.” The young lady
begins to take herself too seriously.
Not many people who lately enjoyed the “ Dorothy "
revival were aware that Alfred Cellier, composer of the
opera, came out to Australia as musical conductor for
Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove in 1886. It was not
until his return to England in ’B7 that “ Dorothy” was
first produced, but during his stay with the Firm an
operetta of Cellier’s, named “ Charity Begins at Home,”
was played under his conductorship/
In “ Robin Hood,” comedian Hugh Ward once again
shows himself a master of facial “ make-up.” He is the
very model of a youthful oaf trying to cultivate a lord-
ling’s swaggah, and his receding chin and forehead, long
proboscis and protruding upper lip are all gratifying
reminders of various sprigs of British nobility seen in
Australia. That upper lip is a thing of art, and a
puzzle to most of Ward’s fellow-mummers. The
clever actor always contrives to look lifelike, and
his make-up for successive characters has been a
lesson to other comedians, who have to place reliance
upon extraordinary facial daubs and a clownish expres-
sion. Many people who saw Ward as Cyrus Gilfain in
“ Florodora,” and Coodle in “ The Runaway Girl,” posi-
tively refuse to divest themselves of the idea that he is a
real old man, whereas he is, off the stage, one of the
youngest-looking actors in Australia.


A Grand Medical System
WONDERFUL CURES. WONDERFUL TESTIMONIES
When men are weak and practically disabled in life, they should avoid disaster which may end in Death. New Vigor, new Life, new
Strength, and unlimited Physical Power can be given by adopting for a short period the Eiectro-Medical Treatment or the judicious
uses of E!ectn 'city and Medicine. People are cured daily by this system who were otherwise classed as “INCURABLE.”
REMAKES.
-—WE have from time to time demonstrated, as leading physiologists and pathologists in the scientific world,
the fact that the permanent healing of grievous health-destroying diseases lies in the possession of a perfect know-
ledge of the causation and phenomena concerning them, and the accurate methods of treating them. Any practi-
practitioner rannnf wi „ tlon °£ Can P res i cribe for a complaint and treat it with that professional care embodied in set formula. But every
little benefit Millions of the7 en deavour, and unsuccessfully fail. Everywhere men and women try their doctors, receiving
the righrLr™ WhlnC “ h . ro “ c nerve disorders, and never become cured of them, because they do not appeal to
SPECIALS w thhiTnel dL nd®'r 3dl t C e 1 T “ CANNOT CURE WITH HIS SET FORMULAS and obsolete forms of treatment, the
j iew ideas and modes of treatment, assisted by special knowledge, can. This is proven
BY THOUSANDS OF UNIMPEACHABLE TESTIMONIALS
and WALLACE INSTITUTE, in cases undertaken (and which they guarantee to cure) of nerve
W Patients ® m P lo yp( en£ »/ Electro-Therapeutic agents, is a new system, qualified.by
cures * t HIGLILSI I OSITIONS m the world of Art and Letters, Sport and Commerce "ladlv testify to ore at
HYSTERIA TNSOMwfI tjU piT-S?H?. a .?^t d b y meansof an ELECTRIC “INVIGORATOR” with reconstructive remedies and such diseases as
PALHTAriON, SCIATICA, EPILEPSY, BRAIN-FAG, EXHAUSTED VITAL FUNCTIONS RHEUMATISM
anTpltane„t,y cu “d AL WEAKNESS ' PILES - ®l’* VITAS' DANCE, or CHRONIC or FUNCTIONAL NERVE
A DISTINGUISHED
PATRON.
THE SPECIALISTS have adapted
their Electro-Medical treatment in
numerous instances where syg-
terns had been run down and enfeebled
almost to the VERGE OF PREMA-
TURE DECAY. In cases of climatic
change and heavy study debilitating the
system, an infusion into the jaded sys-
tem of AN ELECTRIC MEDICATED
CURRENT, as used by three physicians
to the late Queen, gives that NECES-
SARY VITAL FORCE which, when
lacking, proves often the necleus and
genesis of grave nerve disorders.
Amongst numerous attestants to this
grand system is SIGNOR CARLO
HANI, the famous and distinguished
tenor of the ROYAL ITALIAN OPERA
COMPANY, lately visiting Sydney, and
who wore an Electric “ INVIGORA-
TOR,” by which he was greatly benefited.
This instrument was modelled after those ]
used by European Scientists, and of I
which Mr. JOSEPH MEGSON, Cham-
pi° n Cyclist of N.S. Wales, speaks in
unstinted praise. Signor Carlo Dani, I
whose testimony is irreproachable, suf- j
fered much from lassitude, or nerve [
exhaustion. Sufferers from this nerve [
disorder will read the distinguished !j
singer s declaration with more than usual f
interest. l
SIGNOR CARLO DANI, the Distinguished Tenor.
Extracts from
Patients’ Letters.
THE SPECIALISTS here publish a
a few extracts from the letters of
distinguished patients who have
been cured by this effective treatment.
Mr. JOSEPH MEG-SON, Champion Cyclist
of New South Wales
I was on the point of a constitutional break-
£h an ©nee. The quality of the
IN VTGORATOR’supplied to me is beyond
question.”
B3BOWN, Professional Pianist:—
I suffered from BRAIN PAG, and was
cured by your Electro-Medical Treatment.”
A PROMINENT SYDNEY POST-
OFFICE OFFICIAL
“lam, completely eured of RHEUMATISM
and INDIGESTION, from which I suffered
.Your Electric ‘ INVIGORA-
-L UK is. magical in its effects.”
Mr. G. JOHNS, Champion Light-weight
Pugilist of Australia
“I wore your ‘IN VIGORATOR ’ in train-
mg and actual contests. It did me undoubted
good.”
Mr. E - H - AMES, exponent in Australia of
says SLOAN ” style of riding,
I have obtained marvellous benefits from
tT*. ,T utjueiics irom
your Electro-Medical Treatment. I regained
aerve-power by use of your ‘ INVlGOR-
“y,nerve- r UJL yuuL . XVi vxuurt-
AlUft, and won two great racing events in
one day.”
These are but a few from many thousands. The
reader ,s asked to glance at the testimony of Signor
Carlo Danl. Such declarations should cause serious
reflection
nervous and muscular systems.” metric Invigorators, from which I have obtained great benefit to my
Yours cordially,
(TRANSLATION FROM ORIGINAL COPY TO BE SEEN AT THE
INSTITUTE).
you s “ g&z^:r;:„ w wiLLSv®s z sr T,T * tt? ti v< v emmt fa ■** “ d ' srt “-
iStMotlnDeTthS K bT 8 i he m ™° • d - Bt T"- f‘V" f#““s3 “Ss7,? e "™’ -‘rfring the Meeonta
It»the finest medi.min REGAINS ALL HIS LOST STR WHr^Xd”no°ph“i^a
PRICES.
The Prices of these wonderful curative “IN VIOLATORS ” are as follow:
Copper Plats, £1 j Silver Plate, £1 10s s Solid Silver ■ Qniirf Pniri /„
The Specialists hold Certificates of Efficacy unpossessed bv others ®’ £3 +S ° " Cold > £l ° ( 2 ° Zt 180 t. Cold).
The Specialists’ Fees : Professional Advice and Medicine, £f.
CREDENTIALS.
sr te - LMe h
PhyiokS-SSS 0 £“£, B ,‘ "*' P J|y»ician to tile late Queen, speaking of the
professional qhaiSeaSsJ en *" taU * h ’ sh °‘ >,mon of Dt - m regard to his
“ CLINICAL EXPERIENCES,”
the application of electricity to the human frame An n i OOl J- ' e £ en ? ra l laws governing
employed in the doctrine of Electro Med ica ti™ 1 « exl jaustive exposition of the systems
from a judicious use of the Electric Bath Bath pT h B’ th ®, benefits to be derived
individually explained. This medicS B °h f The uses of these are
receipt of ONE SHILLING- IN STAMPS v " P os t e( l free to any address on
FREEMAN $ WALLACE
ELECTRO -iYIEDIOAI
AND SURGICAL INSTITUTE
ELIZABETH and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D.,
Electro-Medical Department.
L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E., L.M., Physician-in-Chief.
=MS=ar=;3 :s:fiS;l .


Those revelations of the M.L. contingenter
re drunkenness in the British army in S’Africa
leads one to wonder where was the mighty
organising skill of Kitchener that he did not
remorselessly prohibit any liquor whatever going
to the front, except for hospital use. The Yankees
know better than to sodden their fighting men
with alcohol. British visitors to the warship
Brooklyn, at the Commonwealth celebrations,
were astounded to find that there was no canteen
on board. And of all the sailors in Sydney and
Melbourne, at that time, there were no more
sober men ashore than those from the land of the
wooden ham.
The Bulletin Reciter:
By Eighty (80) Bulletin Bards. With Illustrations by
A. J. Fischer, F. Leist, D. H. Souter, and H. McCrae.
decorated. Price, 55.; postage, 4d.
“Hop,” N. Lindsay,
In handsome cloth,
The July issue of the Bankers’ Magazine
OP Australasia alludes to Pierpont Morgan’s
wholesale purchase of English shipping as a fore-
shadowing of what “ may become possible in the
Commonwealth under the Protective tariff.’ As
there is no Protective tariff on the ocean, the
B.M. probably means that, under a Protective
tariff, we may get some big industries to combine
and the money to combine them. Yet, in the
same issue, it tells that 300 English cotton and
woollen firms have been swallowed up in the last
five years in Yorkshire and Lancashire alone by
English combines. Which looks like a bad
instance of the Freetrade combine.
Core.
THE l? 1 A.MOTTS REMEDY IfQIFt.
-.1 " B—m T+ m jp ■ |V■ m. »» J JVJCI JUV-Mm ■ m m ——
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OP ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any it* Sets a mos*com
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject toAtolds on the Cheßfcrt chrollic ’ nor Consumption to develop. Consumption ha
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Astlima to be beginning, a dose is generally sufficient
never been known to exist where “ Coughs » have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taKen ac uie ue guuui g, & j
and a Complete Cure is certain. , , rrc t
BEIWARES OP COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF lIEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OEE THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
"Mr. Hearne.—
“Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
»f London, England, from which you will glean that
pour medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
tolds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
and. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully,
Extract from letter alluded to above :
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
\rrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
inich interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
iff the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
'iniii a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
• implied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS' TORTURE.
IELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF lIEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
“Dear Sir,—l wish to add my testimony to the won.
( er ful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
nonths, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
! was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
’dviue, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
fours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
Irst dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
U n a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
nay depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
’onderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
learne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
ectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
indoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
he .Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
Ifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
"I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
•‘Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only cave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
•• Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.-A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
•
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both.— R. BASsLUi, Strath Greek, via Bioadfot ,
Victoria.”
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAUILLY, Glemnaggie, Victoria.”
®
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine. —JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.’
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.— J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundali, N.S.W.
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
“I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous. —F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly’. —C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
e
“Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, V\ arragul, Victoria.”
©
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
G. SKYTEIi, Bourke, New South Wales.” 9
“Your medicine for asthma is worth JEI a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
©
“I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.—S,
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” ©
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
but I can truly say that, I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial.—JOHN G.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
@
“Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.—ll. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
cured
Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.
« Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
•
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch's
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation
lIUNDRED3 CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“Dear Mr. Hearne,—The silent workers are frequent!
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Vi.jt.orii
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne's Bronchiti
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recoin
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ao
countant, Oollins-street, and the effect that it had was si
marked that he has ever since been continually recoin
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value o
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has easet
the sufferings (I hundreds and hundreds of people evc-i
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.*
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE AVHOLESALE CHEMISTS
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear sir,—Please send us ill
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose oui
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of
A gentleman told us to day'thathe had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quit!
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
‘ THOMASON, CHAT Hit & 00.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.’'
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NIOWSPAi ..
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchi til
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“ I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“It. QUARRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertiser.’
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot office i No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
The SMELTING & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
1901, Limited..
t~i a lliawarra (56 MILES FROM SYDNEY)
Wr>"KS :
SMELTERS
AND
REFINERS
SILVER
LEAD
BULLION
MAKERS 07
S. Go. of Australia
AND
( ILLAW ABRA”
BRANDS OF
SOFT LEAD-
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay.
W. L. HOYT, Manager.
Assay Offices, Genera! Offices, Store and Sulphuric Chamber,
Highest Price paid for GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, and JEWELLERS SWEEP, &c.
For all information regarding Rates, apply to HEAD OFFICE, DAPTO. 1
A.. 3E3- Rudder & Co., 4=3 Street;, Sydney, General
Agents.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
Food’
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged. Delicious, Htirittw. and l igeslihle.
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
t > find. My wife sounds
the praise of * Benger’s
Food ’ everywhere.”
“ If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


There is a Continental movement afoot to
reverse the present method of addressing enve-
lopes, which places the town first, street next,
and name of receiver last. The system would
certainly possess advantages for mail-sorters. Our
bush bucolics may presently expect to get their
bilious-pill pamphlets labelled thus :
COW FLAT,
Bogemblind Road,
Michael Murphy, Esq.
Mr. Herbert Nicholls, M.P., has intro-
duced a Bill to Tas. Parliament to reform the
Hobart Corporation. Hobart, which is an alleged
health-resort, allows its surface-drainage to fester
on the cobblestones, and has higher typhoid
figures than any other considerable Australian
town—thanks mainly to its inept corporation.
Municipal reform is needed there more than in
any other Australian capital, and that is saying a
good deal.
Among the matters which distract the
attention of a N.S.W. Premier from grave
problems of State is the constant rising of Neilsen,
M.L. A., to ask silly little questions like this :
(1.) Is he aware of the fact that a man named Edward
Leonard died at Binalong, leaving property valued at
£2OO or thereabouts ?
(2.) Is it a fact that this property has come into the
hands of the Government through the Curator of Intestate
Estates ?
(3.) Will he see that a suitable monument or headstone
is erected over the man’s grave at Binalong at a cost not
exceeding £2O ?
Until a Premier arises who is strong enough to
tell Neilsen, M.L. A, that he doesn’t care whether
E. Leonard is dead or not, and that he is sorry
Neilsen isn’t dead also, the present inability to
find time for passing a Local Government Bill will
continue. No Premier can pass a Local Govern-
ment Bill .when half his time is occupied by
Neilsen getting up to ask if he is aware that E.
Leonard has been buried at Binalong.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion i If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
B . e A^« ubmit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CUKE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured,
bend at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
ousemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
AittPoS? I Britain, 1/ljd. per box. Prepared by
ALBLRI, 73, Farnngdon-street, London, England.
Agents ; ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers snould
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
DRUNK ENNEBS
CURED
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
IJiTSee my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, 1901, wherein I agree to
accept 100 Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free.
W- LANGSTON, M.R.C.S.. Eng..
68 Russell St., Melbourne.
30 Days’ Trial.
** We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTEIO
BEETS and
appliances
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is •'Aj?
explained in our “ ELEO-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), gmng
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
TOILET
SOAP
BEST FOR THE SKIN and
COMPLEXION.
Antiseptic, Emollient, Refreshing.
Sold by Chemists, Stores, &c.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
SPOONER'S
SPOONER’S
V
*
*
IfATtNT LEATHER BOOTS
CU2ED KIOS &?
£>*•'<*«,***
!Ulll]
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
LOVELY COLORS
BRILLIANT
GLOSS.
REJECT
IMITATIONS.
—u
SPINALLS
pi QXJDISED
tNAMEL. a
jljiiiiiiiiiiiit.ii.iu nut it nut lutuiiiiiiu
m
ERFECT
iii .iiiiimii -
jgyypoH use 3jjiijiiijj]|iiiM
:
N€ .V
..CROSS. LONDON. SuE
i - -i
m*
- §
Am
m . =
See that Aspinall’s name
and Medals are stamped
on every Tin.
MANUFACTURED BY
ASPINALL’S ENAMEL, Ltd, NEW CROSS,
LONDON, ENG.
30 1*. Clarksou’a Electric Belt,
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other bodj' appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s irte-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is truly wonderful.
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC.
\ Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
owi, r ° a u t t e DKTTG STORE,
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS. SYDNEY.
V
• *
iari s x> o Mi
SAVE YOUR
MONEY.
►JIB WHERE TO
ff fr
CO,
%
SAVE YOUR
TIME.
PROSPERITY
CAN’T LAST FOR EVER WITHOUT THE
PUBLIC’S CONFIDENCE AND APPRECIATION,
V ....
? me
■r.
%
■
w.
* jMH
" -<1 . / AILJSA'**.
BMhUmI
EVIDENCE OF WHICH IS DAILY RE*
CEIVED IN THE FORM OF TESTI-
MONIALS AND GRATEFUL LETTERS
BY
Herr RASSMUSSEW
THE WORLD-FAMED DANISH
HERBALIST & BOTANISI,
PROPRIETOR OF THE
ALFALIfJE HERBAL REMEDIES
REGISTERED.
A FEW WORDS TO THE UNINITIATED.
PERSONAL AND PERTINENT. —Those who have not met Herr Rassmussen, and
who have not given his Alfaline Herbal Remedies a trial, may find it beneficial to become
acquainted with the good work which he has done in the interest of suffering humanity for
the last twenty years.
ALONG BACK IN THE BEGINNING OF THE EIGHTIES
Ilerr Rassmussen introduced his now world-famed Alfaline Herbal Remedies to the Australian public at 547 George
Street, Sydney. Australia was then flooded with American importations and proprietary remedies, manufactured
by doubtful persons with assumed names and fictitious addresses, who took the people’s money without
responsibility, and very often without giving them fair value for same.
HERR RASSMUSSEN BROUGHT ABOUT A REVOLUTION
by straightforward and fair dealings with the public, offering to stake his reputation and future if his remedies
were not as efficacious as he claimed them to be, accepting all responsibility, and willing to abide by the people’s
verdict.
THE HAPPY RESULT IS KNOWN TO EVERYONE.
Over twenty years have passed away, hundreds of remedies have come and gone—many of them were forced on
the public in numerous designing ways—thousands of pounds spent on advertising same with the assistance of the
world’s greatest experts in laying traps for the unwary; but the public would have none of them, and they have
disappeared as suddenly as a flash of lightning.
“THE ALFALINE REMEDIES EXCELL ALL OTHERS,”
and are well known to be more popular to-day than they have ever been. They have not only obtained, but
have retained the goodwill and confidence of the Australian public, and have become famous throughout the
civilized world. The first Sydney Office not only yet exists, but offices have been opened up for their sale at
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Wellington, N.Z., and in West Australia at Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie and
Boulder City, with Agencies throughout the world.
LET THE PUBLIC JUDGE FROM THE FOLLOWING
The Alfaline Remedies have held their own for over twenty years in Australia, and Herr Rassmussen has
been awarded the Parisian Acadamies’ Gold Medal and Diploma of Honour; Gold Medal, Sydney, and several Silver
Medals; honourably mentioned in almost every newspaper in Australia; received many thousands of unsolicited
testimonials—every one of the originals open for inspection at his Offices. The Alfaline Remedies have never been
known to fail to cure in a single instance.
ARE THEY NOT WORTH A TRIAL?
if they are, why not try them to-day ? why leave it till to-morrow and, perhaps, lose your chance and time ? No
order so small that it is not welcome ; no order so large that it cannot bo executed at once. If you first wish
evidence of the efficacy of the Alfaline Remedies,
SEND FOR HIS FREE BOOK,
and read what the experienced have to say, and what the Australian newspapers have to say—the double distilled
extracts from the Press speak for themselves.
A FEW OF THE ALFALINE REMEDIES:
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS never fail to cure Nervous Diseases, Weak Spine,
Troubled Brain, Fatigued Nerves, Despondency, Poor Memory, Debility, Want of Confidence,
restore Vital Strength, and preserve the system against being affected by age more than any
known remedy. Boxes, 6/- and 12/- ; course, 23/6 posted.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS are a permanent cure for all Chronic, Blood and Skin.
Diseases, no matter how caused, or of how long standing—Blotches, Blood Disorders, Gravel,
Diseases of the Urinary Organs, etc., etc. Boxes, 6/- and 12/- ; courses, 23/6 posted.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS completely cure Wasting Diseases in Women
—Antemia, Whites, Poverty of Blood, Sallow Complexion, Dull Eyes, and act as a perfect
Blood and Nerve Tonic. Boxes, 6/- and 12/- ; courses, 23/6.
ALFA LI N E RH EU M ATIG PI LLS cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica, Lumbago, Ravages
from Rheumatic Fever, Chalky Formation in the Joints. Boxes, 3/-, 6/-, and 12/-; courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS remove all Stomach Troubles, Costive-
ness, Indigestion, Flatulence, Heartburn, Wind, Biliousness and Headache. Boxes, 1/-.
GENERAL ALFALINE REMEDIES.
Alfaline Pile Powders cure internal and external Piles, boxes 3/- and 6/- ; Varicocele
Powders, boxes 6/-; Blood Capsules or Globulus, 6/-; Fat Reducing Powders, which remove
Corpulency, 6/-; Hair Restorer, 6/-; Corn Cure, 1/-; Ointment, 1/-; Eucalyptus Oil and
Jujubes, boxes 1/- ; Flesh-Producing Powders, 6/- ; Complexion Beautifiers remove Pimples
and Freckles, 3/- and 6/-; Alfaline Embrocation removes all sorts of Muscular Pains, Stiff
Joints—good for Footballers, bottles 1/6 posted; Worm Tablets, 1/-; Headache Tablets,
Instant Cure, 1/- ; Soluble Quinine Pessaries, 5/- ; Electric Belts, Suspenders, Bandages,
Enemas, Glass Syringes, etc. Circulars with all particulars sent Free.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALITY.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has made special arrangements for attending
personally to his Clients living in the Country, and letters will receive
most careful personal attention. Advice or information sent free and
unobserved. Patrons may rely on skilful, honest and confidential treatment.
His Remedies will be forwarded to sufferers, packed in plain cover and
unobserved, together with Advice and Directions. Letters should be addressed
to Herr Rassmussen’s full name—HANS PETER RASSMUSSEN—and
Registered if containing Money, and may be sent to any of
Herr Rassmussen’s Addresses:
Head Office: 547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
ALSO AT
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke Street
BRISBANE—3O9 Queen Street
ADELAIDE—IS Pulteney Street
N.S.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington
W.A.— PERTH-131 Hay Street
KALGOORLIE—Hannan Street
BOULDER ClTY—Piesse Street
FREMANTLE—II7 High Street
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of Alfaline RemedieSi


presents that mill Please
fOU cannot possibly be disappointed by visit-
ing us, so come here whether you have
a definite idea of what you want or not.
We offer you the biggest variety and the most
reasonable prices it is possible to offer.
If you have not seen our new Catalogue,
ask us for one. If you live out of town
send us your name and address on a post-
card and you will get one by return mail.
No. F 4703.
Silver-plated
and Pearl
Bread Fctk
U a 6d.
No. F3462.—Fine Leather, and PHver-
Mounted Pocket Book, lCs 6d.
m
No. F3939.—Gent.’s Silver Hair
Brush, 21s.
No. 374 A. —6 Silver-plated Tea Spoons
and Tongs, 10s 6d.
No. 363.—A1 Silver-plated Sugar Tongs,
3s 6d.
IBS!
No. 253.—501 id Silver Match Box, 10s 6d.
No. E 9356.
Silver
Glove
Buttoner,
Is 6d.
4/2 GEORGeJTjTd^T.
No. 20.—Gent.’s Opal
King, 18ct. gold,
£4 10s.
No. E 8031.— Tasteful 9ct. Gold Bangle, £ll7s. 6d.
No. B4B9o.—Dia-
mond Ruby and
18ct. Gold Ring,
£3 10s
No. M.—lsct. Gold and Opal Fly Brooch, £l lss.
No. 120.—15 ct. Gold, Diamond and Ruby
Brooch, £2 7s 6d.
No. 121 A. —15ct. Gold Anchor Brooch,
£ll2s Gd.
No. E62sl.—9cfc. Gold Bird and Heart
Brooch, 12s Gd.
15ct. Gold Heavy Band Bracelet, £4 4s. Smaller, £3
No. E6659.—9ct. Gold Engraved Bracelet, £ll7s 6d.
No. 193.—Links, 9ct.
Gold, 15s 6d. 15c.
Gold, £llos. Silver,
4s 6d.
No. 197.—Links, 9ct. Gold,
£1 ss. 15ct. Gold, £2 ss.
Silver, 6s 6d.
No. E7707.—9ct. Gold,
Pearl and Turquoise
Lace Brooch, £1 Is.
Pine Diamond Marquise
Bing, £4O.
No. 241.
Diamond-set
Scarf Pin,
No. 240.
15ct. Gold
and Pearl
Pin, £1 ss.
No. F 6128. —Silver-plated Toast
Hack, 12s 6d.
No. F3s62.—Silver Cabinet Photo.
Frame, 16s 6d.
No. E 6444. Engraved
A 1 Silver-plated Napkin
Ring, 5s 6d.
■til
A'l -
1 HI
No. EB499.—Purse and Card Case,
4 Silver Corners and Lock, £1 Is.
No. 359.—Silver-plated Breakfast
Cruet, 13s 6d.
No. E 7072.— Silver
and Ivory Rattle,
13s 6d.
Fine Opal and 15et.
Gold Heart, £5 5s
Smaller, 755,
Silver-plated
Spectacle
Case, 14s 6d.
mm.
BEFORE USE.
EXTRAORDINARY RESULTS ARISING FROM THE USE OE
HOLLAND’S
Preparations for the Treatment
and Improvement ■ ■ > IM
of the HAIR,
A,
AFTER USE.
Beautify! Hair
has claimed the
attention and
secured the admiration of men and women through all
ages. No picture having for its central figure the human
form could approach the ideal in loveliness without its
being crowned with a luxuriant head of hair. It has been
the theme of bards and the song of poets. So great was
my admiration fora beautiful head of hair that twenty
years ago I determined to give my whole life to its study.
During all that time its preservation and growth have
had my most assiduous attention. Twenty years’ of
study of “The Hair and Its Treatment” have caused my
services to be sought after by people living in nearly
every part of the world, and mv preparations are now
being used by doctors and the elite of society everywhere.,
Ranigeview, 60 Mary-street, Kew.
I have much pleasure in testifying to your very success-
ful treatment of my daughter’s hair. I began to despair
of her getting rid of the bald spots which she had for
many years. I spent over £lOO on it before I placed her
under your treatment. Thanking you for the kind in-
terest you have taken in her case, Mrs. SIMPSON.
FARASENE.
Mr. E. HOLLAND.
Dear Sir,—My daughter, aged twelve, lost her hair and
eyelashes some years ago. We had her under the treat-
ment of tw@ doctors for over two years, and their treat-
ment was wholly ineffective. I communicated with you,
and .you wrote telling me it was a parasitical disease that
was the cause of the trouble. We carried out your in-
structions and used your preparations, and the result has
been most satisfactory. Her hair and eyelashes have
grown splendidly. I am pleased to write you this for
your own sake, and thankful for my little girl’s sake, too.
—Yours very truly, ‘ w. J. JACKA.-
Jacka’s Coffee Palace, North-terrace, Adelaide, S.A.
NATUEAIEFB.
Dimboola, Victoria. 1
Dear Sir,—Please send me another bottle of Naturalene ;
have never had such wonderful stuff before. My hair is 1
its proper colour again. Will recommend it to my friends.
—Yours truly, MRS. F. S.
MARVELLOUS HAIR RESTORER.
This is a Splendid Preparation for Removing Scurf,
Promoting the Growth, and Giving Lustre to the Hair.
Every person desirous of preventing their hair from
falling off, and securing a luxuriant head of hair, should
use RESTORER.
Ladies should use it on their children, as it is perfectly
harmless, and will positively secure to them a good head
0 r
PR CE, 35., 45., 55., 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d. PER BOTTLE.
With 9d. extra on Small and Is. 2d. on Large Bottles
for Postage.
■
-r.r
wr- :i
PARASENE.
. Kenmore West, via Nanango, Q.
Dear Sir, —I am writing these few lines as a testimonial
for your Parasene, and also to show you my appreciation
of your successful treatment for falling hair. I had tried
several other remedies for falling hair, but they had failed
to make it grow, but after using a few bottles of Parasene,
it commenced to grow from round the edges of the bald
patch. I have recommended it to a gentleman over here
by the name of Baker, who promised to try it. His hair
T VaS -n < l m * ou k vel T much the same way as mine was.
I will try do encourage and recommend your treatment to
a “ possibly can. Hoping you will have much success in
your business, —I remain, yours thankfully,
E. N. ROBARTS.
Mr. E. HOLLAND. Chicago, U.S.A.
Dear Sir, —Your treatment of my own hair was so suc-
cessful that I have recommended it to Mr. Davies, of the
Bank of Nova Scotia, Chicago, 111., U.S.A. Kindly send
him two bottles of Baldene.—Yours faithfully,
A. W. KIRKWOOD.
PARASENE.
Mr. E. HOLLAND. ° lUneS ’ ™ LiSm ° re ’ N ‘ S - W *
l) f i ar Sir,—l am sending you postal note for 65., for
another bottle of your Parasene for my son’s head. The
hair came off in patches, and I have tried many cures
"•thout avail; but the bottle I got from you has taken
effect, and already the hair is beginning to grow.—l
remain, yours faithfully,
J. H. N.
PARASENE
is a Preparation specially prepared for destroying all Para-
sites, and for making Hair Grow on Bald Patches that are
the result of Parasitical Disease. For RESTORING EYE-
BROWS, BEARD, and MOUSTACHE.
PRICE, ss. PER BOTTLE, with Is. 2d. extra for postage.
NATURALENE
Best Pre P a ration yet discovered for '
RESTORING GREY HAIR TO ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It acts naturally, quickly, and effectively. It contains
no lead, sulphur, or other injurious chemicals.
One lady says : —“ My hair looks to-day—after applying
your Naturalene a few times—as it did seventeen years
ago.” J
PRICE, PER BOTTLE, ss. 6d. With Is. 2d. extra for
postage.
Don’t go bald or use Hair-Destroying Nostrums manu-
factured by BALD-HEADED QUACKS, but treat your
hair with one or more of these splendid preparations.
Consult me on all
Diseases of the
Hair and Scalp.
E. HOLLAND, Hair Speciali st,
193 Collins-st.,
Melbourne, Vic.
Consult me on all
Diseases of the
Hair and Scalp.


Nature’s Pleasant Laxative,
California Syrup of Figs
The Best Family Medicine.
m
Acts
Gently
on
Kidneys,
Liver
and
Bowels,
overcoming
Habitual
Constipation
WHY ITS FAME IS WORLD-WIDE.
The excellence of California Syrup of Figs is due to its pleasant
form and perfect freedom from every objectionable quality or substance,
and to the fact that it acts gently and truly as a laxative without in any
way disturbing the natural functions. The requisite knowledge of what
a laxative should be and of the best means for its production enable
the California Fig Syrup Co. to supply the general demand for a
laxative, simple and wholesome in its nature and truly beneficial in its
effects; a laxative which acts pleasantly and leaves the internal organs
in a naturally healthy condition and which does not weaken them.
The Good it Does is Permanent.
Ask for California Syrup of Figs, and look for the Name and Trade Mark of the California
Fig Syrup Co, Of all Chemists, is. ijd. and is. gd.
LONDON; 32 SNOW Hill, SYDNEY: 7 BARRACK STREET.
TRADE MARK
n
m
m
1
m
mm®
mmm
mm
m
m
Throwing a Six.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Five! four! three!” “ Leave the Five ? ” “Six
—one.” “Damn it! cock’s eye again—twelve
altogether! ” and the circle of white-faced, eager,
hungry-eyed men breathe easily. A rattle again.
Two sixes, and the lungs of the crowd suspend
duty. “Save with you, Darkey ! half the pool! ”
says a wizened Scotch-Australian. Rattle again.
“ Cock’s eye again ? That blessed die has nothing
on it but one, ” and again the crowd breathes in
unison. “Thirteen still‘the main. How many
to shake ? Six yet ? Who’ll save ? ” and a trembling
hand rattles the numbered bones nervously. It’s
a nerve-shaking game this —half-a-crown a pop—
every man of the thirteen a day-laborer with
ruin leering" at him from the mouth of the
leather cylinder.
Twelve of us are married, with families of vary-
ing sizes. Thirteen is a youngster of 20 years,
boyish for his age at that, with the confidence of
recklessness and the knowledge that it is only his
own funeral that Fate may be preparing.
The Trembler finished. Thirteen still the main.
The youth takes the box. 4 4 Bli-me, but you
chaps never means to let that measly throw win
over a quid of stuff ! ” Out they roll—there is
faith behind that leading die. “ Six—l thought
so [’’calls the thrower. “One at a time’s good
fishin’. Come along my beauties; two blanky
Chinamen (fives). ’Struth, but that beats cock-
fightin’. Here you are again Eighteen / ” And
with a bang that makes the dice leap and circle,
he triumphantly deposits the box, bottom-down,
on the table. “ Beat that—if you can ! ”
They cannot. The envied winner scoops—the
one man in the thirteen who cared little about
losing. And so they play away, these good com-
rades of mine—too good to do each other a dirty
turn, proud of the genuineness of their mateship,
yet lured by the rattle of the dice-box and the
lust of the eye for a “ six ” to attempt each other’s
financial lives. A tie is called. The Trembler
and the Youngster are 17 each. Buy-in ! Laws
are different in different schools. Mathemati-
cally half the value if two tie, one-third if three
tie, and so on, should be the respective values of
buy-ins ; but here a single stake buys-in first tie,
double for second, quadruple for third, &c.
The Trembler leads with 17. One man to
throw.
He throws 17. Buy-in again.
Last buy-in shakes 18.
Trembler ties. Buy-in. Trembler wants to
divide with that buyer-in, but crowd “rouses” so
effectively that he sinks into silence.
Sixteen’s the main. The Youth to throw.
He throws 16, and throws down the box dis-
gustedly. He isn’t the true breed of gambler.
That sort never even looks “Damn !”
Buy-in ! Excitement reaches white heat. Only
the chink of regretfully-dropped coins of buyers-in
breaks the silence. “Whew ! £l6 55.,” says the
Trembler, after counting the pool. Eive bought-
in. Two ties. Seven to throw. The remaining
six wait, tense with excitement, to envy the
winner. Last buyer-in opens.
Rattle-rattle! He can almost fancy it is the
death-rattle in the throat of his little girl at home.
She may go hungry for this! His head feels
strange, and he hesitates. There is an ugly mist
in front of his eyes, and he can see the worn, white
face of his little wife floating through it. It half
clears, and he stares, stupidly at the straining
circle. He sees not his mates, but six heartless,
grasping demons, that await, wild-eyed in ravenous
expectancy, ’ the devouring of his dead soul.
“ Shake !” says one. Rattle —roll. He sees three
sixes loom through the mist, and falls, breathless,
in his chair.- “Eight-een!” says the Youth.
“ Red-blanky-hot! ”
The next three minutes are dull with pain. He
dares not watch his opponents’ throws. He hears
them called: 4 ‘ 6-5-4—15 ”; “ 6-3-I—lo “ 5-2-5
—12”; 6-6-1—13”; “6-6-5 —17,” and now he rises
and leans to the last thrower. “ For God’s sake”
—he begins—but the latent manliness in him
checks further utterance. “Two sixes, first
throw.” It is the confident Youth. “Two pops
for a tie,” and the box rattles emptily. Out it
conies. As it rolls he watches it. It seems to have
nothing but sixes on it. “Eive—God ! That was
near it.”
In it goes again. Again that empty rattle. He
heard it from a hearse on the red metal road near
his old home once—or
Rattle
Again—five
“ Have—a— drink, mates,” he gasps.
The Youth counts the coin over to him slowly.
He’s not tallying. £l6 ss. ! It seems like an echo
from a forgotten age. .
He doesn’t stop. Stakes are lowered to admit
those of straitened finance. This goes on all
night, and the cold grey light of the morning
shows any casual passer-by a line of weary-eyed,
sleepless humans straggling away singly or in
pairs from the pub.—out to toil, to earn money
learn it, mind you ; for pick-and-shovel work’s no
May game). When they have earned enough,
they will return—no wiser—to the little den of a
parlor, and spend it—their nerve-force and heart’s-
blood—in rattling the undecayed portion of a dead
steer, and striving (as if striving made any
difference) to ruin each other by throwing a six.
MATCHBOX.
A Maoriland bullock, auctioned at Home-
hush (Sydney) the other day, brought £39 ss.
Richard Seddon’s price at Smithfield hasn’t been
disclosed yet.
“Nym,” to The Bulletin :
So Freeteciionist Reid expects his minion, Max Hirsch,
to oust Jimmy M‘Coll at next Federal elections ! Never!
The methods of the two men, at last tussle, show that.
The courteous M‘Coll canvassed the voters clad in sombre
grey, with a billycock hat to match. He let them assume
that they knew their own wants, and confined his speeches
to their immediate affairs, generally concluding with :
“ If you are of opinion, my friends, that the customs
barriers should be swept away as a revenue-producing
source, what other method of raising revenue would you
have ? I can see nothing for it but to tax your land.”
Then the cookies would wince. Max Hirsch, on the other
hand, turned up in a prim city-cut, heaps of “front”
(shirt and otherwise), vestless, his trouser-baud finished
off with a gaudy cummerbund, while an “ I’ve-eateu-the-
canary” sort of smile finished his personal outfit. Th;
farmers, he said, were his friends ; he came as their fiscal
saviour. If a dog growled during his discourse it must be
a Protectionist. Did a voter cough—no wonder colds
were rampant throughout the district when patent cougli
mixtures were so heavily taxed. Did the lamps glimmer
—no wonder they could not burn brightly under the tax
kerosene had to carry. * Did a bucolic ask a question, he
got a saucy answer, and then the bank-clerk crowd would
cheer to the echo. No, the foreign-trade crowd will have
to cultivate more horse-sense ere they can expect to
capture a rural electorate, and M'Coll’s in particular.
Metamorphosis.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Round the camp-fire the talk had drifted on to
theosophy, transmigration of souls, evolution (of
what will the Australian bushman not talk ?).
“Do yer know wot?” said Cuttabri, in a tone
that insinuated we didn’t; “I b’lieve at the
Creation th’wur on’y one sort of anyinul, an’ all
the rest grew out on him. The anymul mighter
bin a flea or an elephant. Th’ other anymuls
mighter grew back an’ got smaller. We don’t
know, yer see.”
“ I b’lieve yer,” assented Bob. “ When an ole
sheep dies in summer, look at all the things he
turns inter.”
“ Now, chaps, I tell yer somethin’ I know fer a
fact. It’s the solemn truth.” Cuttabri emptied
his pipe slowly. “If yer leave the overland tele-
graph-line at Alice Springs, an’ go doo east, you’ll
strike a lovely little plain, between some moun-
tains. Well, me an’ a feller called Dipper settled
on that plain twenty years ago, an’ we did fairly
well. This Dipper had Theosophy ideas, an’ I
uster laugh at him. 1 Why don’t yer grow some-
thin’ vallable, an elyphant er somethin’ ? ’ sez I.
4 By Jove, I will,’ sez he. Yer see, Dipper was a
bit of a chemist, an’ he had a lot uv books ’bout
anymuls which hetvas allers readin’. So one day
he gets a lot uv chemycals up from Adelaide, an’-
takes ’em out ter a cave in the mountains. Dipper
was up ter this caper fer over a year, an’ he seemed
depressed an’ gloomy over it gen’rally; allers
readin’ books an’ one thing an’ another. But one
evenin’ I was sittin’ in the hut, smokin’, when in
rushed Dipper orful excited. ‘I done it at last,’
he yelled. ‘ I’ve got anymuls ter reincarnate. I’ll
be the greatest man in the world ! ’ He’d put a
’possum in the cave, an’ be givin’ him chemycals
an’ things, he’d got him ter die an’ turn inter
a wallaby. After that Dipper changed the
anymuls ’bout onst a fortnight. He changed a
lizard inter a black snake, an’ a rosella inter a wood-
duck. Yer see he kept on at it to perfect his system
before goin’ down ter Adelaide. One day, though,
the fool goes an’ turns a platypus inter an ally-
gator, which got me flamin’ wild with him. lie
mighter made somethin’ that’d come an’ chew us
up. He prom sad he wouldn’t do it no more.
But he was a mere id jut, was Dipper. It wasn’t
a month before he went an’ messed up things
altergether. One day he went ter the cave an’
fixed up an ole horse we had, an’didn’t go ter look
at him fer a week after, fer we wus very busy with
the cattle. It was a cold, quiet night when he
went ter the cave ter see wot the horse had
changed inter. When he rushed out his face wus
all white as a ghost’s. He spoke in a gaspin’ sort
of way. ‘ That ole horse, ’he sez, * has turned inter
an extinct anymul, a sorter sea-serpint. It’s
horrible to look at.’ •*
“Suddenly an orful moanin’ roar like thunder
came down from the hills : theserpint wus wakin’
up. Yer see the anymuls Dipper made grew-up
fearful quick, hut they didn’t wake-up fer awhile
sometimes. Well, that roarin’ went on all night
while we watched in the dark. At daybreak it
started gittin’ close ; the serpint wus movin’.
“Talkabout fright ! Dipper’s hair turned grev
that night. At last we saw the thing cornin’. It
was about 50 yards long an’ 10 feet high, covered
with shinin’scales. It’s eyes were blood-colored, an’
big as pianners. But it never noticed us ;it went
straight across the plain towards the risin’ sun.
It didn’t frighten me exactly ; it sorter maddened
me, with it’s mouth workin’, an’ it’s scales shinin
in the sun. It left a fearful gassy smell behind
that sickened me. The smell an’ weariness made
me lie down. I was real bad. Suddenly Dipper
went mad. He threw down his gun an’ started
crawlin’ away after the serpint. I yelled-out ter
him, but it was no use. He crawled over a little
ridge, an’ I never saw him after. I got better
next day, an’ I tracked them out inter the desert
fer a day, but I had ter give it up, or I’d have died
wi’ thirst. I couldn’t stand the place any longer.
I sold out an’ cleared.”
“ Didn’t yer never tell anyone ’bcsut it before ?’’
asked Bob.
“Yes ; I tole a scientist man in Sydney ’bout
it, but he on’y laughed an’ sez : ‘ Y’d better go an’
give the Premier a hand with the public accounts
—he’s tryin’ ter git a surplus.’ ‘ Well, I dunno
wot yer mean by that,’ sez I; ‘hut if yer think
I’m a liar, say so, an’ I’ll give yer a jab on the
mouth.’ ”
“ Well,” said Fisho, who had intended to ques-
tion the authenticity of some of Cuttabri’s state-
ments, but had suddenly changed his mind, “it’s
about time we cut some more burrs. ”
A. P. ROGER.
S. Australia easily beats Victoria now in
wine-making ; N.S.W. is left standing still. Vic.’s
27,550 acres gave 933,282 gallons in the last season
for which the returns are complete; S. Aus-
tralia’s 19,438 acres gave 1,558,285ga1. N.S.W-
has only 8278 acres in vine, but the yield reached
739,668ga1. In five years S.A. lias shipped
1,961,769ga1.; Vic., 1,602,322ga1. The principal
extension of grape-growing in S.A. has been in
the rich black soil hills that run down to the
outer suburbs of Adelaide on the south and east.
It having been discovered that fertilisers
sold in N.S.W. are, in many cases, so largely
adulterated that they don’t fertilise much, or so
wholly bogus that they don’t fertilise at all, a
special Bill is being passed to put down this heart-
less swindle. But if there existed a proper
Adulteration Act, which fell on the person who
adulterated anything, or sold anything under the
false pretence that it was what it wasn't, no
special Act would be needed. The Adulteiation
and False Pretences Act should extend from the
draper who advertises that he is selling below cost
when he isn’t, to ti e individual who trades off old
cow-hoofs for guano ; and en route it should take
in the person who says he is reluctantly offering
his valuable but unprofitable business for sale
“owing to his compulsory departure for Europe ”
when in reality he is only going to Bur wood to
hide from his creditors.
“ Swinger ’ to The Bulletin :
What can Banjo Paterson possibly know of the New
Hebrides after so short a stay there? All very well for
him to promise fortunes to those who care to risk a 10
years’ sojourn in such a God-forsaken hole as Santo, blit
what of the innumerable obstacles to success about which
he scarcely speaks? Take, for instance, the(in)security of
life ! In 1887 and 1889 the traders had to he very watch-
ful. One in particular (who was subsequently killed) had
quite a formidable bodyguard of di sky amazons, most of
whom (unlike Banjo’s native) were capable of hand ing a
shooting-iron. Then elephantiasis is very common, and
I learned from the surgeon of our ship that a great pro-
portion of the population of Santo was afflicted with
venereal disease. I might state that my experience was
gained on a warship during two trips (each of about six
months’ duration) in the New Hebrides group. Of course
all that may be changed ere this, but before accepting
the few' days’ impressions of any man —be he ever so
honest and observant —and notwithstanding all the infor-
mation he might have obtained from residents—it will
behove all who propose trying their luck outside Aus-
tralia to think twice before settling in Espiritu Santo.
“Chasselas”: “ Arthur Glint ” (Bulletin
2/8/’O2) re Marnoo Estate purchase for closer
settlement contemplated by Vic. Government,
is too pessimistic. In ordinary years farmers can
malte a crust there, and a good many settlers who
selected land around in the early days are now
independent. A part of the estate has been let
8y $!“ in yea ? j? ast t 0 adjoin iV g
locality have
St compulsory-resumption
good". Admitting the probability e of n a X good e, deal
of collusion, that is an evil inwoven in the frame
of the body politic, and would bob up serenely
were the Resumption Clause added to the Land
Act.
Latest claimant for a share in the Tyson
cash is a Scotch crank, who has written to the
y; C- Crown Law authorities proving, on Biblical
test j monv - that the Tyson millions were predes-
. , , ; , , .t „ nf
tined to be applied to the rebuilding of Solomon 3
temple at Jerusalem.
The Anglican Bishop of North Queensland,
just returned from Yum-Yum land, records that--
e ™f a
If Australian clergymen in general get to share
that fe <j lm h' tjmre will be at once a marked clerical
sympathy with the prohibition of ahen irnmi-
£[ atlon : the gentle shepherds won t tolerate any
cheap competition in their business.


Do You Get Up
With a Lame Back?
J =s§ps?* ss '
r
m
s.
o
<
&
£
Of
//
J 1 —“*>
«sU
J
Kidney Trouble makes you Miserable.
oan’s Backache Kidney pills
ARE THE GREAT REMEDY FOR
KIDNEY, BLADDER, AND URIC ACID TROUBLES.
You are in no danger of being sick if you keep your kidneys
well.
They filter your blood and keep it pure and free from disease-
breeding germs.
Your other organs may need care, but your kidneys most,
because they do most.
If you are sick, begin with your kidneys, because as soon as
they are well they will help all the other organs to health.
The treatment of some diseases may be delayed without
danger; not so with kidney disease.
The testimony of friends and neighbors cheerfully given by
them, and told here in their own words, is the positive evidence
of merit that backs every box of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
Read this, a Case in Point.
'• • 2 . .\r .• . •
Mr. Jas. Rees, 6 East-street, Surry Hills, this city, says :—■
“More than twelve months ago I tried Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills to see whether they would cure me of lumbago-like pains in
the back, from which I had been a great sufferer. The nature
of my trade came against me. lam a painter, and am sure that
the painting induced my complaint. Six weeks previous to using
the pills I had been much worse than usual, the pains being very
bad, with a worn-out feeling which caused me to have an inclina-
tion to be sitting down all the time. The first dose of Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills gave me immediate relief, and a course of
the pills cured me. I have never had a pain in nay back since,
and as it is so long ago the most sceptical person can’t doubt it
to be a thorough cure. For backache this remedy is simply
grand.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all Chemists
and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes, 15s. 3d.), or
will be posted on receipt of price by Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
BUT BE SURE YOU GET DOAN’S.
The Horseman.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A horseman, quick with kiss and blow,
Came wooing me in days of old,
When ridges blossomed ti-tree snow,
And rivers mirrored Kowhai-gold.
The riro riro sang of Spring,
The tuis fluted olden psalms,
While little breezes on the wing,
With ripples shook the scented calms.
What wonder, with the world at rest,
’Neath the great vault of blue above,
There should come to a woman’s breast
The sun-drawn ocean-tide of Love !
His'faee was bronzed, his eyes were brown,
The night lay ebon o’er his brow ;
He spurred from out the Wide-world Town—
Ah ! Whither, whither rides he now ?
Ho kissed me till my lips were red,
Hi- viasjped me till my breasts o’erflowed ;
An-' u the evening glow, he said,
" v’ou are my Love ! ” and took the road.
They say the child he left me, lies
Unshriven in the cold Brown earth ;
That, in the night, they hear the cries
He uttered at the hour of birth.
But Christ knows, more than others know,
The earthly love He made divine—
The secret of the ti-tree snow,
And—that wild horseman who was mine.
Maybe the desert holds him fast,
Or the wild river wraps his corse ;
But he’ll return to me at last,
Gallant and gay upon his horse.
Still, day by day t beside the gate,
My heart sings to a mournful tune :
“ What can a woman do but wait
The setting of the sun and moon ? ”
Within my breast the pulses beat
At dream-clasps, holding me full tight ;
Yet, ac the tramp of horses’ feet,
My heart falls silent in the night.
And terror wakens me from bliss
To a grey-dawning misery—■
Bereft of him, who, with a kiss,
Rode off with all the soul of me.
MAORILAND.
D.M.R.
A Bush Type.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He hated “scabs,” did the man I met in the
mulga, and everything pertaining thereto. To
hear him talk of ’94, and the way in which, he
“dealt it out” to Afghans was at once awe-inspir-
ing and terrible. “Me an’ Mick O’Brien,” he
said, “ ’ud a-done for the whole lot if the traps
’ud a-let us ‘open out.’” The airy, graphic'
manner in which he spoke of “ kickin’ their
ribs ” and “ crackin’ ’em over ther ’ed with a cork,
with a bottle on the end ter balance it,” and the
dark hints he dropped about knives and toma-
hawks convinced me that I had stumbled upon a
bloodthirsty desperado. Apparently I evinced in
my looks a strong desire to take my departure,
for he hastened to assure me that, providing ho
was not “stirred up,” he was the mildest chap on
the island.
“But love me.’Uie continued, growing suddenly
ferocious again, “I can’t stand smoogers ! If a
boss says two words to me, I tells ’im ter get ter
’ell quick and lively, an’ ”
But at this stage I timidly interrupted him, and
inquired if he knew a short cut to Fernlee.
His demeanor changed instantly, and from one
of great anger it became most confiding. “Why,
yes,” he said, with a string of loving profanity.
“Of course I can, been over it whips o’ times.
Look ! I’ll drore yer a little plan.” He positively
beamed as he picked up a small stick, and drawing
a line in the dust, said, “See that line! Well,
we’ll say that’s the road there, runnin’ east an”
west ” (the line was due north and south). “ Foller
that till yer comes ter two tracks. One runnin’
ter ther right an’ one ter ther left—like this ’
(drawing two more lines). “See? Well, if yer
foller the left-’and track for about six miles yer’ill
come to a cattle-pad., which yer follers till yer
comes ter a tank near ther nettin’-fence.”
“Is there any water in the immediate vicinity ? ”
I asked.
He scratched his head, and murmured, “Is
that a machine-shed ? ”
“No; I mean is there any water about the
place. ”
“Well, I dunno,” shaking his head, slowly,
doubtfully. “There might be some, but they
shifted all the stock outter the paddock on account
o’ there bein’ no water in it, barrin’ this drop on the
frontage, two months ago. If there’s none in ther
tank, yer get none for 20 mile or so. But as I
was sayin’, yer comes ter the tank an’ ”
But as I was endeavoring to follow the move-
ments of the stick, and pay great attention to
the map (which was assuming alarming proportions)
he broke off suddenly, and, after thinking a-
moment, continued : “ But, ’ang it all, yer don’t
want ter foller the left-’and track at all. Why,
yer ’ud perish, for a moral. It’s ther right-’smd
track that’ll be ther best for you ter take. Yer
foller it, you know, from where it leaves the road
’ere ” (indicating the spot on the map) “ fer about
five mile till yer comes ter the ole pony fence.
Foller the fence for about five mile, when yer
comes ter a big ole blazed mulga. Get yer back
fair against this ’ere mulga an’ look dead West,
an’ foller yer nose through ther scrub till yer hits
the edge of ther plain, an’ cut straight acrost it
an’ yer at Fernlee.”
“At that rate, the plain is only a'small one,
eh?” *
“Lord no—eighteen mile, every inch of it.”
“Great heavens ! how far is it to Fernlee from,
where we are ? ”
“ Twenty mile or so by road. But if yer’ goin’’
ter take ther short cut yer want ter be careful, for'
if yer miss ther track, s’elp yer, yer settled. My
poor cobber, Barney Doonan, threw his marble in,
just through missin’ the track by three foot. E’d
been over it often, too, an ’e was a rattlin’ bush-
man an’ a real white man. Me and Barney was
cobbers in ’9l on ther Barcoo. Didn’t we give the i
damn scabs ’ell, no smoogin’ about us. We uster
Gr ”^ er ra P s as as fcfi er crawlers.
Just then we were interrupted by a voice (the
owner of which seemed to have just been awakened
from a noonday siesta) roaring to my terrible
friend and requesting him, in “language both
painful and free,” to get himself on to the end of
the axe and do a little more pruning and less
bragging, and thereby earn his blanky tucker.
Visions of fractured skulls, of carriers weltering
in their own gore, instantly arose ; but they were
merely visions, as my sanguinary friend instantly
acquiesced, and as he meandered off, axe in hand,
towards where the bullocks were devouring half-
inch mulga boughs, he looked back over his shoulder
and said with a smile—“Yer’ad best go by ther
coach road, as it’s ther only one I know of.”
N.M.R.
On ’Change.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Trim ankles, a gleam of color, a whiff of white
rose — and the blasi loungers on the Stock Ex-
change steps straightened themselves and looked
after the vision.
“ Pretty little filly.”
“ Costly,” added another.
“Worth it!” continued a third, and then they
relapsed into a lounge again.
The man on the second step observed to the
man on the first: “Queer! Never thought that
little beggar would turn up in Melbourne. I had
a wild time with her in Sydney,” he added.
“ Heavens, what a devil she was to go ! ”
“ Indeed,” murmured the man on the first step
indifferently; and, thereby encouraged, the second-
step man reminisced :
“Met her in Melbourne first. Husband left
her—she left husband —or something. Anyhow,
she was on her own, and deuced fetching she
looked. Husband must have been a brute, I
fancy. Took her to Sydney, and didn’t she make
the money fly ! I’ve met some, but never her
equal; and she’d smile prettily and purr like a
kitten when she got the cash, and the cunning
of the little beggar was that she didn’t scratch
when refused. She had dozens of soft tricks that
brought the money all right in the end. Con-
sequently she got me into the habit of ruining
myself as fast as I could —and still she purred.
Got scared at last—wasn’t tired of her, but
couldn’t run it. Sold out of Boulders on a rise
too. Then I bolted ! But she was a fascinating
little devil,” he added. “Say, you’ve got heaps
of boodle, old chap ; would you like an introduc-
tion ? I can manage it.”
“ Thanks, but I already know the lady.”
“The deuce you do! Oh, of course, you quiet
beggars—— ”
“ The lady is my wife.”
“ Good God ! Oh, I say, old man, I’m awfully
sorry ! —didn’t dream ”
“Don’t apologise,” murmured the man on the
first step ; “it’s really quite unnecessary. Glad
you had such a good time, I assure you.” Then,
tired with his long speech, he lounged back against
the pillar. The second-step man went on, con-
fusedly, apologising—then angrily kicked: a dog
on the first step out of his way, and walked-off.
But the first-step man strode after him, flouted
him, struck him across the face.
* ‘ Damn you ! how dare you kick my dog ! ”
STRAY.
A Seizure.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HAVE an idea,” said the Imaginative man, as
he slowly wiped his mouth with a serviette,
“that many accidental deaths are the result of
spirit vengeance.”
“ Explain,” said the Coffin Ship man.
“Well, it’s this way,” said the Dreamer. “A
certain man loses his life through the carelessness,
indifference or greed of another, leaving, perhaps,
a struggling family. The spirit of that man, I
should think, if possessed of an ounce of pluck
and getting reasonable chances, should endeavor
to settle the score.”
“ Then you think,” said the Coffin Ship man
uneasily glancing behind him, “that if we knew
all, many so-called accidental deaths could be
traced to spiritual interference.”
“Certainly,” said the Dreamer looking through
theCoffinShip man. “I have just been reading of
a man falling from a precipice and being smashed
to atoms. I know the man—he didn’t fall, he was
pushed ; his steps were dogged by an invisible
foe who was waiting a chance—then we call it
accidental.”
The Coffin Ship man opened his mouth to speak,
but immediately grasped his throat, tearing his
collar open, while his face worked in horrid
convulsions.
“ Apoplexy ? ” said the Dreamer to himself as he
walked home slowly: “No; I saw them close-in
and strangle him.”
JAMES F. DWYER.
“ Wealsman ” : Heard several Coronation
sermons, and all the parsons trotted out the
“divine right of kings.” Surely the most parson-
ridden could hardly listen to such rot without
disgust. Kings stand too close to us for reverence;
we can’t regard kingship as sacred when the
monarch smells of last night’s whisky and cigars.
It can’t be elevated into a god which is seen
carrying an umbrella or bearing marks of food on
its waistcoat.
The Mb. Kembla disaster helps to show
the benefits of the much-abused “ Socialistic
legislation.” With the impulsive good-hearted-
ness of the Australians private movements to
assist the destitute have sprung up everywhere.
Yet when the shock of the horror has worn off,
Mt. Kembla and its victims will be forgotten by
the impulsively generous, and private liberality
would be hardly equal, anyhow, to the payment
of steady incomes to 50 families. But the State
Miners’ Accident Relief Fund comes to the
rescue. Mr. Fegan (who was largely responsible
for the creation of the fund by an Act of Parlia-
ment) tells of the glad surprise of some of the
women on learning of this legal provision. When
the money was offered a widow would say “Oh,
no, sir, Jim wasn’t in that. He never would join,”
thinking the Government officer was the mistaken
agent from the Royal Gardeners or the Bull-Run
Benefit Society. When it was made clear to her that
her husband had joined, in spite of himself, her
glad relief at the removal of one part of her big
i burden of grief was a sight for every Tory to see
and learn from.
ITCHINESS OF THE SKIN.
Ever have any irritation of the skin ? There
nre manv forms of it, any of them bad enough to
tnv vouiMiatience Hemorrhoid, a plague of the
night; o, no rest for the sufferer from that com-
plaint Eczema, too. Hives don’t sound danger-
Zv cause much misery to those
unfortunate enough to be troubled with them,
Doan ° Ointment 8 is “a wonder” for any such
this now
° f Mrs n M A (Srter, Waratah, Orange-st., Rand-
tlds city writes a most enthusiastic letter
n In’ how hervoumr daughter, aged 10 years, was
agto how her youngoaiignter £ > M
JSSL'“kSX her ““traded the
dfseSe at Xol -It affected her scalp, which
torruhlv inflamed and all broken out, and
irritated her terribly. She obtained some of
Doan’s Ointment at Newman’s Pharmacy, King-
street> an< j, after thoroughly washing the child s
scalp, applied it. The result was that the scalp
entirely healed in a few days, and left no scar,
much to their joy.
“I have also used the Ointment myself for
irritation of the skin—a sort of Eczema—and it
has done me equally a.s much good as it did my
daughter. You are at liberty to publish these facts
at any time, and I will only be too pleased o
verifyriie statements should I be called upon to
Ointment is splendid in .11 Diseases of
the Skin, Eczema, Piles, Hives, Insect Bites, Sores,
Chilblains, &c. It is perfectly safe and very
effective. Very frequently two or three boxes
have made a complete cure of chronic cases that
have not yielded to other remedies for years.
Sold at 2s.’9d. per yon cannot obtam d
locally from your chemist or
will be posted on receipt of price by *— -
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.


A Weak Stomach
Indigestion, No Appetite, Exhaustion, General Weakness,—All Due
to a Sluggish Liver and Impure Blood.
ass
Mr. G. A. Boxall, of Praliran, Vic-
toria, sends us his photograph and says:
“I wish to tell every one the great
help I received from Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla. I suffered terribly from weak-
ness of the stomach, indigestion, and
biliousness, and I had no appetite. I
felt tired all the time. Sometimes it
seemed almost impossible for me to
keep about. But after using Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla for a short time for my
blood and as a general tonic to my
nervous system, and with an occasional
use of the Pills to keep my bowels in
good condition, I rapidly improved, and
am now enjoying better health than I
have in a long time. I now keep these
medicines near at hand and take just a
little whenever I begin to feel badly,
for, you know, ‘ a stitch in time saves
nine.’ ”
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Of course you cannot enjoy good health if your stomach gives out. You
must have an appetite, must digest your food, and must keep your liver
active. Muscular strength, nervous strength, desire to he active, and a feeling
of general good health may he yours by keeping your liver active and your
blood pure. It takes just two medicines for this: Ayer’s Pills for the liver,
and Ayer’s Sarsaparilla for the blood.
It’s Ayer’s Sarsaparilla you want. Insist upon getting “Ayer’s,” for it’s
stronger, contains more ingredients, and cures quicker than any other kind.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Strengthens the Stomach and Aids Digestion
Ayer’s Pills keep the liver in a healthy condition.
Prepared by DB. J. C. AYEB & CO., Lowell. Maes., TJ. S. A.
27
YEARS’ SUCCESS
AS
the UNIVERSAL REMEDY fob
Coughs, Colds.
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Hoarseness, &c.
HAS MADE
Ontondge
" £ung TonJc
AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY TO EVERYBODY.
S
Important Notice :
SUBSTITUTION. There are so many imitations
of this successful, and therefore popular, remedy that
it is of the utmost importance you should use the
word “ OWBRIDGE ’' when buying Lung Tonic,
and TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
Prepared bn
W. T. OWBRIDGE, ‘i.P.S ~ Chemist, Hull,
Sold everywhere in bottles, at la. lid.
28. 9cL, 4s. 6d., & 11s., by all
Colonial Medicine Yendois.
ssa
ism
COPYRIGHT.
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East.
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
IF YOU
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX
SLEEP WELL,
and WORK WELL,
TAKE
PEECHAM’S piLLS
You Will Eat Well
BECAUSE by their specific action on the digestive organs BEECHAM’S
PILLS remove the sensation of fulness and oppression commonly experienced,
give the appetite 11 edge,” and restore the stomach to healthy and natural function.
You Will Sleep Well
BECAUSE BEECHAM’S FILLS gently calm irritation of the Nervous
system, while by their stimulative and cleansing action upon the Liver and Kidneys,
Digestion proceeds with normal regularity, so that at night the tranquilised mind and
body are prepared for “Nature’s sweet restorer”—peaceful slumber. Should one feel
restless after an exciting or convivial evening, a dose of BEECHAM’S PILLS
will quickly induce refreshing sleep.
You Will Work Well
BECAUSE BEECHAM’S PILLS bring about the proper assimilation of
the food taken, give tone to the Stomach,
purify the Blood, invigorate the Nervous
system, add force to the Muscles, and thus
endue the worker—mental or physical—with
renewed energy and power.
THE WORLD’S MEDICINE
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
aur Eructations. Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DMNEFORDSI
MAGNESIAi
A
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300 pages
price, 4s. 6cL ; postage, 6d.
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane,
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL —COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST—SUPPER.
DON’T MISS THIS
OPPORTUNITY, if you are suffering with WEAKENING,
NERVOUS, and DEBILITATING Diseases. Our CON-
CENTRATED BOTANIC REMEDIES will CURE YOU.
So CONFIDENT are we of this that we will send to any
sufferer a TRIAL COURSE (Free of Charge) and abide
by the RESULT. Send NOW and your ultimate CURE
is CERTAIN. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
I
'gD
0
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.-
ill
881.5?
m
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING*
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.


FOR.
II
WATERPROOF Ci
RUBBER BOOTS
*» GOLOSHES
PERDRIAU and COMPANY,
(mmw*hASs?-378 Gefirgo Straefi %<tasjr
TEARS DTEIEFG
3TOB THE LADIES.
W. q. & CO ,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 XSOEE STREET, SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
wo
INGTOH
TRADE MARK*
i
& 34 Clarenoe Street,
SYDNEY.
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send, for Catalogue.
Large
Stocks
CARRIED BY
BENNIE,
TEARE,
&CO.
GENUINE
BALATA
BELTING
AT
Sydney,
Melbourne,
Perth,
Coolgardie,
■ ■ ■
Sole Australian
Representatives
TANCYES
LIMITED.
KEMP S PATE
QUID
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT ’WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED FOR IT.
It will stay on the sheep’s back as long as required. It will NOT injure the wool. It will dissolve out under
the ordinary scounrtg process.
Mantjeacttjeers and Sole Agents
FEITOR, CMMHE * CO., OIECiOO
m
Portable Drills, Radial Drills, Drill Presses, Lathes, Planing
Machines, Slotting Machines, Punch and Shears, Steam
Hammers, Pipe Screwing Machines, Metal Saws, etc., etc.
WOOD WORKING MACHINERY.
Ingersoll-Sergeant Rock Drills and Air Compressors, Knowles Pumps, Gates
Rockbreakers, Roger Rolls, Vertical and Horizontal Engines and Boilers of
all kinds, Engineers’ Fittings and Mine and Mill Supplies.
WRITE FOR PRICES AND PARTICULARS.
60 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Melbourne.
Fremont Street
San Francisco.
Rescued
From Drink
by a new discovery, odorless and tasteles , w ich any lady can
give in tea, coffee or food. It does its work so silent] y and surf ly
that while the devoted wife, sister or daughter looks on, the
drunkard is reclaimed even against h's will and without his
knowledge or co-operation. Send name and address to THE
EUCRASY CO., 62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W., and
they will send you booklet and particulars free,
H. P. GREGORS S CO.
Machinery Merchants,
Melbourne & Sydney.
HAVE IN STOGK-
Blake’s Steam Pumps.
Fay’s Woodworking Machinery.
Mundy’s Hoisting Engines-
Empire 00/s Laundry Machinery-
American “All Steel” Pulleys-
Harris Champion ” Lubricating Oils.
Mason Reducing Valves-
Ludlow Sluice Valves-
Korting’s Injectors and Ejectors-
Tanite Emery Wheels.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
CLOTH, 300 PAGES.. ■
BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRITERS. PRICE, 4s. 6a. j POSTAGE 6a.
Sole Distributing Agents—
ltdivards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.,
71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Solo Agents for—
Solarine Metal Polish
Billett’s Patent Tuyere
“Vitaphone” Talking Machine
Dodge Standard Wood Split
Pulley
Atlas Pipe Wrench
“Abbott” Germ Proof Filter
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 1013.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCINQ FLOORS
of various sizes suppled.
US Hi
crflfj
til
**</'>*,
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotei
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
