

ALE.
GAELIC
LAMB’S RUVL
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity-”
The Lancet.
R. G. WATKINS «§& CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR —
Mining and Contractors’ Kant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
$
MEDALS
AND
GRAND
PRIZE
PRIX
PARIS
Is-!
~~r?r r J
T "■ ’
■■ w.^-''~'Jk
•'S 'S;
/ itfjgfc* \
~l
000 Steam Engines Sold.
AMUSEMENT for QLO and YOUNG. X
Wonder'u] Value a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
co n.>r sing Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried in vest
po'ket and blown out to life-size (causes roars of
laughter), Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Gasket, Book of
Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin and Card
Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character), The Mafeking Grub (or
nerve-strengbhener), and, last of all, that side-splitting
Look and Laugh Glass, Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
H. L. HUTCHINSON,
XNEW YORK NOVELTV CO.,
710 George-street, SYDNBY.
GIBSON. BATTLE & C°
85 Pitt Street
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Proctor & Co.,
HAVE IN STOCK Aim TO ARRIVE—PGRTABLE,
VERTICAL, FIXED and SEMI-FIXED
STEAM AND
Eccentric Motion
OIL ENGINES, BOILERS and PUMPS.
Tlira.3h.illg 3VC£»,Csll.il3.©S s SSSt/VCT jJ©HCII©S. &ZCS.
&c.
Send for Prices and Particulars.
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
HOBART.
—zm —
fjadley’s Orient fiotel.
DUN&nm, n.z.
CITY HOTEL
(First Grade);
(I. A. TURNER - - Proprietor.
PENFOLD’S WINES.
Grand Champion Prize of Australia at Melbourne, August 22, 1902.
.
'
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTINGI
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 2J 3 3£ 4 5 6 8 10 12 inch.
~/7 -/0 -/10§ 1/- 1/2 1/6 IAI 2/8 3/4 4/-
1/2 1/4 1/7" 1/10 2/2 2/11 3/5 4/5 5/7 6/0
Agents in every State.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SOM, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
IN’ order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever seen in the
jewellery trade—- viz., the above handsome Brooch
(any name or three initials) made of extra quality
9ct. gold-filled wire, with heart pendant ; guaran-
teed the same quality as the brooch advertised,
complete.. Sent post-free on receipt of P. 0.0. or
M.O. for ss. in round wire or sq. twisted wire, 15ct
gold, filled, Ss. Gd. Illustrated catalogues sent free.
SIMS and ELRICK, Manufacturing Jewellers.
Our only address—
COLE'S BOOK ARCAEE, MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA
_ .
ining and Dredging Plants.
Fowler Traction En
TheCiyde Engineering C?y.Ltp
Dessicating Plants.
Hopper Waggons, &c.
m
PROOF
Head Office:
10 BLICH ST., SYDN
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300 pages ;
price, 4s. 6c1.; postage, 6d,
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
fli
V-
A NICE PRESENT.
The New Combination PIN-
CUSHION, THIMBLE & REEL
HOLDER, nickel plated, plush
top. Clamps on to any table
by means of a spring. Price,
only 2s. ; post free.
Star Novelty Company,
229-231 Collins-st.,
Melbourne.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
Mrs. Toems-
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
T H rv,V argeSt ' Best-Appointed Boardirfg-house in the
Remh 1 nvf S ‘ 100 ro °™ s ' Magnificent situation, facing
Hot ffiCd'rote" ““““ d hM ‘- at3 ‘
WO—IM OAS STOVE insist
on getting a noiseless
JUPITER
The Very Latest
Invention.
Burns Noiselessly,
Without Smell
or Smoke,
Perfectly Safe.
Obtained First Prize
wherever exhibited.
Stocked by all Leading- Hardware Merchants and
Storekeepers.
Sole Agents for Australasia —
Nelson and Robertson,
M LOFTUS ST., SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
VoL 23. No. 1179. j
[Saturday, September 20, 1002.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Geo.
THE LATEST BOOKS BY THIS WEEK’S MAIL.
Robertson & Co. Prop
Milford, Word of the Sorceress, is 6d & 3s (id, postage 6d.
Wiggin (Kate Douglas), Diary of a Goose Girl, 2s 6d &
3s 6d, p. 6d.
Kelly, With Hoops of Steel, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Algiers, Paris, 1789-1794, 12s 6d,,p, 9d.
Mordaunt, Garden of Contention, 2s 6d, p. 4d.
Wright and Smith, Parliament, Vol. 1., 9s, p. Is.
Prichard, Tammer’s Duel, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Merejlfowski, The Forerunner, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Pett-ltidge, Lost Property, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Schofield, Force of Mind, 6s, p. 6d.
Brooks, Law of Growth, 6s, p. 6d.
Van Wormal, On Commando, 3s 6d, p 6d.
Keary, High Policy, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
71 bASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne. Adelaide, Brisbane & London
BUSHHAN AND
BUCCANEER.
The Life and Writings of Harry Morant.
Gives the true facts as to the Bushveldt Carbineers
and certain Australian scapegoats.
Wholesale from EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO., Ltd.,
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE.
Retail from all Booksellers, and Post-Free from
“The Bulletin” Office ts. Id.
The Australian Sailorman’s Book—
E. J. BRADY’S
“Clk Ulays of many Wafers."
A rattling collection of Sea Chanties. Price,
ss. 3d. post free from The Bulletin office.
AUSTRALIA'S -
SWEET SIN6ER.
Victor J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,”
handsomely bound, makes a fine presentation
volume to friends abroad. Post free from Bul-
letin office, ss. 4d.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
For
OUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
(REGISTERED).
11
m
m
&~
so^.
3N TSMS, Is. 6d
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
Cr. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN'S PLACE ; and FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., MELBOURNE, AGENTS.
They ease a Tired Throat, and are heipful in Indigestion and Oyspepsia.
THE RED PA GE.
The Bridle-Track,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The bridle-track goes up and down—
A winding scar across the peak
The twilight gray has turned to brown;
Below I mark the darkening town —
The old, old town beside the creek
Breaks out in lights. Upon my cheek
The evening wind leans cool and weak.
Dusk silence swoons from starry heights,
In sackcloth dies the golden day.
Far up I hear the feathered flights—•
That loitered late amid the lights
Of bursting spring, and snowy spray—
Rush, streaming homeward thwart the gray
That looms about ine every way.
Up here amid the dying fern
I lie beside the bridle-track,
With all the olden days that turn
Back from the past, and thoughts that burn,
To blind me till the stars are black.
What though the heartstrings thrum and rack ?
“Come back, O, sweet days dead, come back I ”
Come back, that face, those eyes, that hair,
Wlicre love was hid in safety deep,
Those curls that floated like a vow
Above her soul’s enchanting brow,
Her snowy shoulders soft as sleep.
Ah ! Thou hadst heard my vow to keep,
Who stilled the warm heart’s latest leap.
He gives His gifts, and even so,
He takes again. A shadow-hand
Of silent mystery stoops, and 10,
The beauty falls and flies ; and woe,
Looms down dark wings across the land.
Beneath the wind the shiftless sand
Knows not the way its lord hath planned.
Around me crowd those daring days
Of life and love and tender things;
Dear heart beyond the mystic ways,
I dream of nights and moonlit haze,
We rode the bridle-track that clings
About the hill. The clatter rings—-
Still in my soul its eehoings.
The stars were red ; the peeping moon
Broke gloriously to drown the night.
The clamor of the long lagoon—
I heard it not above the tune
Of passion pure and infinite,
That time we rode the swimming height,
Up, up into the eastern light.
Clang, clang, the hoof-beats hit the road.
The night-wind kissed us as we fled;
As side by side the horses strode,
Unloosed, the hoof-sparks sharply glowed
And flashed, and fell, a sudden red
That leaped to live,; and 10, were dead.
And she and I raced on ahead.
Come back, oh night of long ago !
Dear heart that knows the great surcease.
I watched the wind uprushing flow
About your cheeks until a glow
Crept like the dawn behind the trees ;
Your eyes looked back, alight with peace,
Soft sown with golden witcheries.
A checking hand. Her upturned face
Shone lustrously with tender eyes,
Beneath the moony boughs that trace
Frail shadows thro’ our hiding place,
She leant her head in shy surprise,
And Love swooned down; and stars and skies,
And midnight earth were Paradise !
Since God is fate, and fate is God,
The gold days die, the roses fade;
So life was death ; her soul a clod.
Beneath the feet that on it trod,
Below the Hand, below its blade,
Bravely she smiled, all unafraid,
And kissed the oaths I hotly made.
Up here the evening wind is cold,
Beside the bridle-track I lie ;
My eyes are weak, my heart is old.
In youthful days was hope o’er bold,
Flashed like a leaping star to die !
So, so ! I turn my frail hands high,
To her, in her eternity !
VIC.
C. L. RIVERS.
Some Curious Rock-Paintings.
WHEN Lieutenant Grey made his first
impetuous and ill-considered rush into
the unknown wilderness of north-
western Australia, although he made
no important geographical discovery, he at least
found something that has puzzled ethnological
students ever since. This was the pourtrayal on
the sides of a rocky cave, by an aboriginal artist,
of human figures clothed in garments (unknown
to the Australian natives), and embellished by
haloes. Since 1838 these cave paintings, situated
in the most secluded and inaccessible nook of
Australia, were unvisited, until last year by F. S.
Brookman. But they have the while been dis-
cussed, with some curiosity.. They have been held
to show—(l) The visit of Paulmier de Gonneville
to Australia; (2) that the forefathers of the abo-
rigines landed on the north-west coast, and were
a superior race to their degenerate ancestors ; (3)
the advent of the Chinese and other Eastern
people long before the coming of the whites.
Although these theories may be considered to
have been confounded by Brookman’s visit last
year, the explanation of the origin of the paintings
is by no means reached. Brookman found the
figure seen by Grey repeated on the rocks in seve-
ral places, and over a comparatively large area.
After sketches by George Grey, 1828.
All other drawings were of the ordinary aboriginal
kind. This one robed presence, with its encircling
halo, stood out as an exception. One sketch, by
Grey, shows the halo developed into an aureole,
and figures with this peculiarity were also photo-
graphed by Brookman. The figures are drawn in
colours—red, yellow, black and white —in shel-
tered positions under overhanging rocks, and,
although tlie figure is used by more than one
tribe, it is strictly limited to one district. Where
Hid the naked aborigines obtain their notion of a
garment with sleeves, and of a halo with rays of
glory issuing from it ? The idea must have come
from outside this continent, and naturally one
looks to it as having been brought to these shores by
some mariner, whose first drawing lias been since
rudely reproduced by the natives.
De Gonneville says that on the land where he
sojourned for a while and made friends with King
Arosca, lie planted a gigantiq cross 35ft. high and
instructed the natives to treat it with reverence,
but the details of his narrative do not suggest that
After photo, by F. S.
Brookman, 1901.
Arosca’s land was Aus-
tralia. Pelsart marooned
two mutineers at the
Abrolhos only a few
hundred miles north of
Perth, but it is not
credible that these men
could have covered the
distance between there
and the locality of these
cave drawings. Yet the
resemblance in this
figure to a rude portrait
of the Madonna must
strike many people, and
the solution of the
mystery of its origin
seems to rest in the fact
that the first drawing
was made by a cast-
away-sailor. A ship-
wrecked mariner of Spanish or Portuguese
nationality might have been the sole survivor of
some old catastrophe, and lived and died amongst
the natives, as other white men have since done.
As an act of gratitude for his escape, or a votive
offering for his final deliverance, he might have
drawn a representation of the Madonna with such
rude skill as
he had, and
impressed up-
on the natives
its sacred
character. In
time, those
amongst them
who possessed
the artistic
nature which
expends itself
on drawings
and paintings
After photo, by F. S.
Brookman, 1901.
on rocks and stones, might have taken to copying
it, in a still ruder mode, carefully preserving the
distinctive details which had taken their fancy,
those of the dress and halo. This theory is borne
out by the often repeated figure and the apparent
care taken in its preservation. If this theory is true
the original, or the remains of the original, may
still exist in some cavern on the Glenelg River, and
the settlement of this portion of Australia may
soon lead to its discovery, and some further
memorials.
Grey saw other strange things, a head with
Caucasian profile carved in bas-relief on a rock,
and, w 1 at appeared to be two graves covered with
stones and placed east and west.
No Dutchman would hav.e drawn either a
Madonna or a saint, so that it must have been
before the coming of the Dutch that this haloed
picture was introduced to Australia. Always it
must be borne in mind that what have as yet been
brought to light are merely imperfect reproduc-
tions of the original; if once the original rock-
painting could be found, the mystery might be
solved and much strange knowledge added to our
too brief Australian history.
ERNEST FAVENG.
The Literary Woman.
OPENING a discussion (which threatens to be
interesting if confined to women writers,
and confined to truthful opinions by
them —not extended to embrace opinions
which they think will be attractive), Maggie
Sullivan writes anent “ The Literary Woman ”
(B. 6/8/’O2) :
“Constance Clyde” remarks, en passant, that the
literary man and the literary woman don’t generally
attract each other. Well, since almost every literary-
person believes that he or she is the particularly-destined
child of Fame, it isn’t surprising that the man doesn’t care
to have a rival for the favors of the same goddess in his
wife. The matrimonial co-venture of the literary man spid
woman is not likely to be happy, except in those cases
where the woman comes under the class defined by
Laura Marholm, in “ Modern Women,” as the
grande amoureuse. The average literary woman
may yield a fine and delicate stimulus, but the
average literary man cares little for stimulus ; he
wants, for the most part, from the woman, comfort, con-
solation, satisfaction, repose. The literary woman living
in her sensations, craving a constant emotional interest,
does she not take more than she gives ? Again there
arise, very frequently, from the continued stimulation
of the female brain, hysteria, inversion and aberrations of
sex, and other phenomena of sex-pathology, with which
Havelock Ellis, Charcot, Kraffd-Ebing, and kindred
writers deal.
The grande amaureuse is, perhaps, the only woman
genius, perfect in body and mind, that exists. Hers is a
love without the haughtiness or satiety Of possession ; a
love without repletion, a love of unlimited surrender,
and Anally a love of long duration.
Literary people dependent on their brains for their
bread and butter live out of harmony with natural
schemes of life ; the brain is in continual excitement, and
heart-failure and nerve-disease are common. The literary
woman in time verges towards masculinity under the
pressure of her surroundings, the restraint of her natural
impulses, the lack of romantic emotion.
I cannot agree with Constance Clyde that a literary
woman’s invented love-affair is more real and brilliant
than fact, though I am much in accord with her remarks
as to the benison, from a “copy” point of view, of a
disreputable husband. The woman writer with such an
asse makes many'discoveries in emotions, which are
for ever hidden mysteries to women not so cursed (or
dowered). A bad “ live ” husband makes so, much more
interesting “copy” than Ihe ghost of any woman’s
imagination. The authoress who has to depend on her
imagination for the limning of a man’s character is
usually the product of repressed sex, and rarely compre-
hends the true basis of the relation between man and
woman.
I differentiate between the literary and the “ intellec-
tual ” woman. The latter is usually the cool, clever,
irreproachable wife, with an atmosphere of distinction
and fresh clean linen about her ; the woman who, outside
of her intellectual pursuits,, is completely engrossed with
the education of her children, and who considers her
husband chiefly as their father and the holder of a
position.
Life and its End.
INDESTRUCTIBLE matter and energy cease-
less, from finite elements build infinite
forms; these compose systems, life, and the
universe.
Quickened by energy, matter changes in form ;
breathed through by life, matter grows, many
parts making one whole. Wonderful growth,
from symmetrical crystals to sentient beings!
Death links with life, combining through forms
distinct, but allied.
Amorphous masses by magical power attach arid
cohere in minerals, crystals, having shape, grow-
ing ; these, brpkeh to dust bv strange metamor-
phosis live in the plant. The crystal and plant
destroyed and reformed, feel in the beast; these
three broken, remodelled, think in the man. And
God ? Is in and through all,
There seems to exist a paradox here : the lower
the life the longer it bears its image on earth.
The crystal for ages lies bright and symmetrical;
the tree may for centuries weatlier the seasons ;
the beast may endure half a score generations ;
but the higher the organism, the sooner its form
returns to its dust. Then is God non-apparent
(so deemed non-existent) through being eternal
and highly developed ?
Water and heat in all living tissue create or
destroy ; that which has life grows as it lives ; that
which has lost life turns to its dust, rising again
in strange resurrection : plant becomes beast ;
beast becomes plant; unto the ancients groping
for knowledge, this foretold dimly soul-transmi-
gration. Water and heat created the gods.
Turned to their dust, all living forms become
interchangeable. Thus in the ages, ever ascend-
ing, plant turns to beast, beast to man, man to
God—moulded by life,
’Tis life that makes plastic all things inorganic ;
’tis life that uplifts a crystal of earth to a crystal
of thought; from a shape, nothing more, to a
shape that both lives and produces its kind till
time have an end.
What is life? We see its results, we feel its
effects ; a power exists that governs all growth ;
itself we know not, though we know its existence.
' Indestructible is matter, never extinct; chang-
ing for ever, moulded by life to wonderful
beauties. And which is greater—the cause or
result? No matter perishes ; life is eternal, but
is not present only iu matter. Meteors exist, but
are only revealed when a medium resists, retard-
ing their progress. The body retards the course
of the spirit and manifests life ; we see life exists
when matter opposes its course and grows
animate.
Life is eternal, ever revolving: we are resistants
to its swift current, 1 heated to brightness, heated
to life. Life and death are the poles between
which the current of life vivifies matter.
Energy, ceaseless, moving in waves, moves on for
aeons: sets up in matter kindred vibrations ;
these to the senses represent motion. Motion
increases ; and seeming quiescent, merges in sound.
Sound as it rises, piercing in pitch, suddenly
ceases : rather the senses fail to discern it. Soon
it is heat, seen not nor heard, but sensibly felt.
When the vibrations, shorter and swifter in
recurring waves, agitate matter, light on us dawns :
that which we heard, again we can see : sounds
have their counterpart, sound has its counterpoint,
beating in light. Shorter and swifter move the
vibrations ; light from the eye passes away, but
matter reveals it on sensitised film. And after?
Thoughts are vibrations : can it then be that the
communion of spirits is but the movement of
palpitant ether? Color, warmth, music—the senses
of the flesh know and admire. Through them the
grossness lifts from its lowness, perceiving their
beauties. Then s/Wri? senses, feeling an impulse
flesh comprehends not, feel an existence flesh can
explain not. Seeing and hearing (senses of sub-
stance) show an existence replete with marvels —
what of the splendor still lying hidden ? Sounds
too keen, and so lost to the ear; colors too delicate,
lost to the eye : and 'spirit too subtle for feeling
to fathom or thought to imagine ; but which still
exist.
Mind, at the apex of living Creation, has latent
vast powers that come but in flashes. The seer,
the poet, live in a region where others dream,
sleeping. A few words, a song, from the , lips of
a man (from vivified dust) can move a world’s
heart to laughter or tears : this is the voice of the
mind universal. The star-gazer, reading the signs
of the heavens, can foretell the advent of planets
and comets, and more; can make matter, to
certain shapes moulded, reveal in the sky what
the eye cannot see ; can make it disclose vast
systems a-building. Thus the seer and poet
reveal, half unconsciously, fragmemt* •£ marvel*
that pass comprehension; and even ia man caa
the glimpses be seen of what may be God.
But what can an atom tell of a world ? or what
can a mortal reveal of a God ? Studied, an atom
gives a vague feeling of millions in kind : two
atoms blended bewilder the thought; three, and
their potency baffles conception. Studied, a Being
may give suggestions potently vast; but, as from
atoms, the ablest of fancy could not induct palpi-
tant worlds, nor from tlie elements predicate
suns, so from a Being, or from humanity, no
thought can faintly predicate God.
We who know worlds, subtly reduce them and
come to the ultimate atom and molecule. Taking
as unit man at his highest, who can with surety
predicate God ?
M.b.
AHAU.
Russian writer Maxim Gorki’s real name «
Maximovitch Peshkoff. Gorki is Russian for
“bitter.” He has worked as a baker (at 6s. a
mouth !), as a sawyer, a lawyer’s clerk, a lighter-
man, but never stayed long at anything, and was
more likely to be assisting a ship’s cook on the
Volga, or doing straight-out tramping. Now, at
33, lie is writing about the workers, from his own
experience, and his name is already mentioned
all round the world. “Bitter ”is a good enough
name. He is a dreary pessimist, apparently too
tired to preach the gospel of revolt, except by
occasional snatches. “The .Orloff Couple” is an
infinitely petty and sordid tale of a cobbler and
his wife living in a cellar. She “nags” at him,
and lie beats her, simply from want of other
interest or variety in life. Presently they get a
change for the better—to a cholera-hospital, of all
places. But it means good pay, and work which
interests them; they are together, and are still
young, and fond of each other. The man goes to
the devil none the less. Probably his final
apologia is about half Gorki’s own self" talking:
My wife ? Oh, she is nothing to me now. Let her go
to the devil ! What does a man like me want with a
wife ? How can Ibe tied to a wife when I feel as if I
were constantly being attracted towards the four quarters
of the earth? I was horn with the spirit of unrest in my
heart, and fate marked me out for a tramp, for a wan-
derer over the face of the earth. It’s the best life there
is, after all. It’s free, though it’s not without its dis-
comforts. I have tramped all over the place, and never
yet have found comfort for my soul. I drink, you say.
Well, I suppose that’s true ; but what else is there to do?
That is just Kipling’s :
For to admire and for to see,
For to behold this world so wide —
It never done no good to me,
But I can’t drop it if I tried !
At present Gorki seems to be under the influ-
ence of Zola. He does not go out of his way to
find the unpleasant, but neither does he shirk
it. The Orloffs discuss the question why
they have no children, and she makes it quite
clear that it is his fault for kicking her in a
careless and unscientific manner. People “eat.
without talking, sucking the fish-bones, noisily,
and spitting them onto the sand . . . great sun-
burnt jaws chewing, cheeks distending, thick,
moist lips moving.” It is not pleasant reading
by any means, but it is the work of a man who
has something new to say, and is not afraid of
saying it. To how many millions of human
beings does the cobbler’s querulous complaint
apply to-day ?
Why do we need daily bread ? In order to be able to
work : And why do we work, but to obtain daily bread ?
What's the sense of that ?
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
N.J.R. : Cryptogram “ proof” that Shakespeare’s plays
were written in Tue Bulletin office amusing. Of course,
in dealing with a great mass of writing such as Shake-
speare’s works, with a little ingenuity in fashioning
cryptogram schemes, you could “ prove ” anything.
Carl ton ian writes : Your correspondent was wrong (B.
C/9/U2) in stating that Alex. Sutherland, when head-master
of Carlton College, had to take his boarders to the Scots’
Church. In my day, the boys were shepherded on the
Sabbath by “Daddy” Dales, the home-master to St.
John’s Church of England. Sutherland did pot live at
the school, but took up his quarters somewhere near his
well-beloved University. It was during my time at Carl-
ton. that Alexander and George Sutherland published
their History of Australia. The hook was brought into
use at the school with the characteristic modesty of the
Sutherlands. That the work was an achievement is evi-
denced by the enconiunl of Blair. But, for anything the
boys were told, it might have been written by a combina-
tion of brothers miles away. In those days, Sutherland
was one of the quietest and most undemonstrative of
men. Yet his popularity was undoubted, and this
although the school sports might have starved for .the
want of his patronage. He was not an athlete, and
simply did not care. His temper was that of a recluse
and a scholar.


WOOL
IVTDOUCALL’S SHEEP DIP
THE ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUS DIP.
M‘DOUGrA.LL BROS., S Spring Street, Sydney.
AGENTS:
t. L. & M. A. Co., Ltd., Australia and Hew Zealand : Strachan, Cheedle & Co., Adelaide; J. B. Curran, Hobart,
Kangaroo,
Wallaby,
Rabbit,
Opossum.
SEND ALL SKINS TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
_ S-STIDUXTEY,
The Leading Salesmen. Fall Values and Quick Ketuvns.
The Go-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
Solo Charge : 3 For Cent, to the Growers
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Buyers.
WONDERFUL VALUE IN PIPES.
Sales—
-150,000 Weekly
"Cant B Beat
Briar Root Pipb/
Gua^ TEED /
NOT TO /
CRACK /
BURN/
* /
■
LATEST-' MOST
UP TO DATE SHAPES
pmce If.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
Quality not better in a O-xa.i3o.eja, Pipe.
<£(iarai)tet.
Should any of our Celebrated C. 8.8. Pipes crack or burn a new one will be
exchanged for it immediately on application.
Price Lists on application. MKK SIMMONS, Nayrparket, Sydney.
Direct Importer of Tobaccos, Cigars, Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods, Hairdressers’Requisites, Leather
U-oods, Cutlery, Rolled Gold Jewellery, Haberdashery, Stationery, Fishing Tackle, Sporting
Goods, Guns, Ammunition, etc., etc. TOP QUALITY BOTTOM PRICES.
CANT-B-BEAT
SAFETY RAZOR.
Particularly Useful
at Sea.
Shaving
with ordinary
razors is nob
easy for anybody. Ib
takes monbhs, yes, years of
practice, and few during
the period escape many
and serious cuts. Even
with experience, despite
care, cuts may be inflicted.
Use the
CAN’T-B-BEAT
SAFETY RAZOR
Shave every morning with
absolute ease, comfort,
and security . . .
PRICE COMPLETE, in Case .. .. ss. 9d.
In Leather Case, with Extra Blade .. Bs. 9d.
EXTRA BLADES 2s. 3d.
Every Razor Guaranteed and Set ready for use.
TOILET REQUISITES—Lowest Price at . . .
CAN’T-B-BEAT RAZOR
QIN
T-B
§Sa
//OLJLOfV
GROUND
Can’t-B-Beat
Razors are manufactured
from the very finest English
Razor Steel, and warranted ground by the
most expert workmen in the world, who excel
in this branch of skilled labor.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, in case, £-inch .. 4s. 9d.
Oan’t-B-Beat Razor, in case, f-inch .. ss. 3d.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, in case, f-inch .. 6s. 9d.
Oan’t-B-Beat Razor, in case, |-inch .. 6s. 3d.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, with ivory handle .. 10s. 6d.
Presentation Case—containing Two
Oan’t-B-Beat Razors, ivory handles .. 218.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY
FOR THE SEASON. 50 per cent, under Shopkeepers’ Prices.
PURE WOOL SERGES, MELANGES, the
VICUNAS, CHEVIOTS, SCOTCH AND Most Beautiful
WEST OF ENGLAND TWEEDS . . . Shades & Designs.
425. SUIT TO MEASURE
Cut, Made and Finished to please the most fastidious.
To every Purchaser of our celebrated 425. Serge Suits we present
an extra, Pair of Trousers. We do this to advertise our goods,
feeling sure one trial will make permanent customers.
New Season’s Patterns, Post Free, with easy Self-Measurement
Forms. Gentlemen can be measured between the hours of 9 a.m. and
6 p.m., Saturdays till 9 o’clock.
LONPON TAILORING PEPOT,
ONLY ADDRESS—
Opp. C.P.0., BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE, VIG.
F. S. MEYERS, Manager.
ROB ROY PENS.
Hinks, Wells & Co. beg to draw attention to this new series of
turned up pointed and other pens, made of the same material, by the
same tools by the same process and at the same works, as the well
known series of Waverley Pens, which Hinks, Wells & Co. have for
30 years and upwards (prior to September 1901), manufactured for
and supplied to the proprietors thereof.
0*
Sold by all
Stationers in 18
varieties in
6d«, Is* <Sc gro33 bosdSi
HINKSj W££iliS & COij Birmingham, Encflandi
Month After Month. |
Year After Year.
IB'Z’ ;
WE PUBLISH EVIDENCE LIKE THIS* I
The Case of Mr. A. LYES.
(fob the “standard.”)
The requirements of the Australian popu-
lace can only be arrived at by reference to
the statistics which are compiled at various
periods, and as evidence is necessary for the
purpose of gauging popular opinion, it may
here be interesting to listen to Mr. Albert
Lyes, of No. 7 Frazer-street, Leichhardt.
“ When living in the North Coast dis-
trict,” said Mr. Lyes, “ I experienced a
vast amount of trouble with my liver and
kidneys, the consequence being that I was
put to a lot of inconvenience owing to the
acute pains across the small of my back.
As I had heavy work to do at the time, my
afflictions came as a great hardship, more so
if there was any lifting to be done, when my
back pains were intensified to a degree that
I could scarcely endure.”
Reporter: “ Were you much affected in
any other part ? ”
Mr. Lyes : “It would be quicker for me
to tell you where I was not affected, for I
had aches and pains all over me. There
was a cold, painful sensation in the spine
which felt as if somebody had shot a ball of
ice along my back, and that horrible shoot-
ing pain extended right to my eyes, which
also gave me the impression of being
swollen. I was sluggish, drowsy, and had
no energy whatever, the only thing I felt
fit for being to lie down—it did not matter
where. It is a serious matter for a married
man to get into that condition, but I held
out as long as I could, and then I had
to give in, for all the grit was taken out
of me. Being without any appetite, which
had been on the wane for a long time, the
chances of stopping a further leakage of my
vitality were very remote, and as I could not
sleep at all well at nights, there was no
doubt that I was in a very grave state. With
my tongue covered with a nasty substance
and a vile taste in my mouth, there is
nothing remarkable in the fact that I could
not enjoy any food, and in the natural
course of events I got a long way thinner
than I ought to have done. I was tor-
mented with very severe headaches which
made me feel so glooipy and wretched that
there seemed to be nothing in the world
worth living for, and with my weakness
daily increasing, my limbs ached so persis-
tently that I could not even take a walk in
comfort. Palpitation of the heart and dizzi-
ness always followed any exertion, my
heart being particularly bad. It used to
make a thumping sound like the noise from
a horse’s hoof heard in the distance, and
many an anxious hour have I passed in
thinking what might be wrong with that
organ. Like most people who suffer like
this for the first time, I consulted a ,
doctor, who said that my liver and kidneys '
were diseased. He-wrote a prescription,
which I had made up, and said I would
have to keep as quiet as possible, and not
exert myself any more than was absolutely
necessary.”
Reporter: “How did you-feel after
taking his medicine? ”
Mr. Lyes : “Just about the same as
before, and when I saw it was only so much
waste to take any more I dropped it off.
The oppression in my chest and the flatu-
lence in my stomach were still there, and
the urine remained of a cloudy and scanty
nature, so what was the use of throwing
any more money away I thought ? Besides,
my nervous system was completely out of
order, as any kind of noise had a startling
effect which kept my nerves at extreme
tension, as if they had been suddenly un-
hinged, and then, again, I felt agitated and
irritable at the slightest provocation. The
long-continuance of these sufferings had
made me very morose and low-spirited, for
there others to think of besides my-
self ; but, thank goodness! that trying
ordeal is all over now,-and it is not likely
to bo repeated, because I discovered a
remedy which cured my ailments then, and
I am sure it could do so again if ever I
needed it.”
Reporter: “ May I learn what the remedy
was ? ”
Mr. Lyes : “ I have no desire to keep the
matter secret, because I might do other
poor sufferers a good turn by letting you
know. It was Clements Tonic—a medicine
that I had been reading about—that made
a new man of me, and I always regard it as
my only friend amongst all medicines. I
had only taken a couple of bottles of
Clements Tonic when I felt ever so much
better. In fact, the change was so great
that I could scarcely believe it myself,
especially as I had lost confidence in
physics generally. . But Clements Tonic
asserted itself as something uncommonly
good by rapidly giving me a desire for food,
and in the matter of making me sleep well
I thought it a most marvellous medicine.
The health-giving properties of Clements
Tonic were not confined to those improve-
ments, as it amended the defects in my
internal organs which had gone against the
digestion of my food, and by those means
the pains in my chest and shoulder’s were
relieved. The fermentation of my food
was done away with in like manner, so that
I was getting the full benefit of my meals,
and how well I knew it! for the return of
my strength was quite noticeable. I no
longer desired to lie about in a state of
careless languor, for Clements Tonic gave
me the eiiergy and ambition to do some
work, which was becoming easier to per-
form each day, because the pains iii my
back were less troublesome as time moved
on. My heart gave me no occasion to
worry myself, as it was beating with a
regular pulsation, and with the departure
of my headaches my sight became so clear
that I could sit down and read for hours
without the least inconvenience. l I was
greatly pleased with Clements Tonic for
the effect it had on my nervous system,
for it invigorated my nerves so thoroughly
that they became perfectly steady, while
such a thing as becoming excited or annoyed
over trifling incidents did not happen. A
good indication to go by as to the efficacy of
Clements Tonic was the entire removal of
my deranged kidney symptoms, and it was
then that I was altogether free from pain.”
Reporter : “ Did you stop taking your
medicine immediately that happened ? ”
Mr. Lyes: “Not exactly, for I wanted
to be quite sure that all disease was effaced,
so I took another couple of bottles of
Clements Tonic, and when they were
finished it was not necessary to take any
more, as I was as strong and thoroughly
restored as I could wish to be. It is several
years ago since Clements Tonic put an end
to my sufferings, yet my work has never
since interfered with my health—a fact
which shows that Clements Tonic made me
as sound as a bell; and if these statements
are likely to le perused by others, you may
publish them as you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Amskrt Lyks, of 7 Frazer street, Leichhardt,
Sydney, in the State of New South Wales,
Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly and
sincerely declare that I have carefully
read the annexed document, consisting o)
five folios and consecutively numbered from
one to five, and that it contains and is a true and
faithful-account of my illness and cure by Clements
Tonic, and also contains iny full permission tp pub-
lish in any way my statements - which I give
voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and
I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believ-
ing the same to be true, aiid by virtue of the pro-
visions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Leichhardt, tnia
fifteenth day of Maroh, one thousand nine hundred
and two, before me, "
H. R. STEWARD, J.P.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,006.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
defy competition,
WINES The Best Brands Only 0/ SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, Sea,
Keut Brewery, SYDNEY.


TATTERSALL’S
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT
NOW OPEN.
NOTICE.
NOW OPEN.
Demonstration H. Oct. 6.
50,000 Subscribers at 5. r -
To Tattersall,
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name
Address . '
£
Oct. 18.
Caulfield 0.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To Tattersall,
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name
Address
• •
• •
£
Melbourne
To Tattersall,
Please allot me—
Nov. 4.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
shares in the above.
Name -
Address
[Melbourne C. Nov. 4.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To Tattersall,
.. Please allot me
shares in the above.
v ' i
•. Name L
Address—
Melbourne C. Special.
Drawn Morning of the Race
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To Tattersall,
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name
Address
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ARAMS (“ TATTERSALL ”) STILL CONTINUES his business in HOBART,
under LICENSE from the .TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and securing the despatch of tickets and
results direct to clients. '•
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania,
Hobart. Clients when so doing fvill please request Bank to advise GEO. ADAMS, of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to >me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL DELIVERY CO. doing business with
Tasmania.


Cheapest House In A u stralia for EDISON
Phonographs Records
“BIJOU,” with 6 Records £1 10 0
EDISON “STANDARD,” with 12Records .. 510 0
EDISON “ HOME,” with 24 Records .. .. 810 0
COMBINATION A.l “ GRAND,” taking both
Large and Small Records, with 12 Records, 6
Concert (pin;) Records and Large Horn ~ 10 10 0
EDISON RECORDS, English and American,
per dozen 100
CONCERT(6in.)RECORDS, per dozen.. .. 8 0 0
Send for Splendid New Illustrated Catalogue containing
6000 Selections to choose from. Electric Fans, with
Battery, £5; Electric Bike Lamps, 21s ; Flash Lights,
Scarf Pin Lights, 10s 6d ; Vapour Bath Cabinets, 20s; &c.,
Free.
Records can be posted to any address. Machines care-
fully packed and forwarded to any part of Australasia.
fIEIBVES & CO.,
KINO WILLIAM STREET, ADELAIDE.
w-
I'll Try It."
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
1 to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 108. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
\
The Result.
CRAIG & AITKEN, N.s •W. Barber’s Supply
House, 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A GIFT for the LADIES.
Graceful and
becoming for Young
or Old.
Ostrich
Tips.
5/-
The Bunch,
Worth 10/6.
TWO VERY SUPERIOR TIPS, with
, OSPREYS, in Black, White or Cream.
Post Free. Send Postal Notes.
Miller’s Feather Shop,
Corner Bourke & Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Mention The Riji.i.ettn.
That hard
cough ol
yours—,
what are
you doing
for it? Look
out, or it
will bind
you with
all the
■a*
K
K
43
a*'.
strength of a powerful chain,
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
cures coughs and colds, even hard
coughs and old colds.
Mrs. A. White, of Fitzroy, Victoria,
says “I had a very hard cough night
and day. I tried many remedies, but
without relief. I thought my lungs
were nearly gone. I then tried Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral. I began to improve
at once, and only one and one-half bot-
tles completely cured me.”
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of them ! Be sure
you get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Two sizes. Large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
!?kins Soft&White.
I BY USING
Complexions Preserved.
cures'
COUCH
hMEXOUKCOUCH
H orW* tHCOL0 '
used pß° mpTuY
'stops
L cou* ,
bmsma
STOPS
COLD
witu «« uEV6
"and cone.
, a hie Jo Nursery-
r.«UPriceB, *» a "
cures’
COUCH i
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. p or ute Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Debentures It, |nspi-ih^i m «+ ie k > Pas * oral and Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand,
n „ . • A r t: Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our ne Y . or^^a^e -^ contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per cent,
of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine. © r r
Directors-THCMABLm'LBJOKN, Esq., Chairman ; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M:I.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq. , Senator J: T. : Walker ; J. Abbott, Esq. ; The Hpn. R. J. Black, MIL.C ; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq., M.pl
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A FS A •
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ‘ ' ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary. .
vwvutfV.
Commercial,
Bugrgy,
£l4 109,
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
BST Send for a
Catalogue.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest,
H. HH.LIJSR, 130 Sussex-street.
W MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by returp post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Sendfor Catalogue. Agents wanted.
’S
M
mmm
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
WORLD
FAMED
WHOLESALE
Distributing Agents
New South Wales —
M. RUTTY & CO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrence & 00.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Western Australia —
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland—
ThoB. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Philp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros,,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand—
D. Benjamin & Co.
Dunedin, Wellington
and Chrlstohuroo.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL, you enjoy your lunch
George and Market Sts.*
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAT.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAT.
Single Room, with Full Board, Bs. per
day, or £2 2s. per week.
TERMS. The convenient
system of paying for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
When you come to Roberta’ Hotel
Dining Rooms; and you not ohly
enjoy it, but it does you good as
well.- There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, apd on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp—from Is.—and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea;from 6.30 to 7*3o—from Is.
upwards. Silver grill at works
WINCHESTER
ft
ii
SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
New Rival” and “Repeater
.■f«■ f^r^rrrvinrrrrrywvrwrwwri
F you are looking for reliable shotgun am-
munition, the kind that shoots when you
pull the trigger and where you point your
gun, buy Winchester Cartridges: “New Rival,”
loaded with Black powder; and “ Repeater ”
loaded with Smokeless. * Insist upon having
Winchester Cartridges, and accept no others.
ALL DEALERS KEEP THEM.
0
.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company
193 to 195 Cloveland-street, Redfern. UXOUt&it
When In town, pay ns a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY' If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, 15; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, 17 16s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not bs
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for iejj
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 Pa<
cent more for your requirements.
OUK SPECIAL No. 9
£8 18/6
Delifered at any Wharf or
N.B.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Price 6s.
Post Free.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
BY
Steele Rudd.'
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Love is Not Happy.
Love is not happy through and through,
Without a smart, without a rue,
Or thought, with fret and plaintiveness,
“It might have been more sweet than this,
Knew we that sweetness —how to woo.”
Do as the spirit bids us do;
Then naught that comes shall come amiss;
And yet, though skies,are,cloudless blue,
Love is not happy.
Joys are too many, woes too few,
To make the bliss a perfect' bliss ;
When naught but sweet is every kiss
Is it the sweetness palls at last ?—yet who
Would change therefore?—so through and through
Love is not happy.
MAQRILAND.
AHAU.
Honeyeaters.
Honeyeaters—hear them calling
, As the red rose, Morning,' blooms,
And the pearls of night are falling
From the.leaves. .0 hear them calling—
Flitting from the soft green glooms !
Honeyeaters in the heather—
Oh, the darlings, it is Spring !
Flashing eye and burnished feather,
And a crimson sea of heather,
And a fluttering of wing.
Honeyeaters—ah, the sadness
When no winter hears them sing !
Honeyeaters—O the gladness,
And the sweetness, and the madness
Of their singing in the Spring !
TAS.
BARKIS.
Fort Desire!
Oh ! Port Desire’s a haven
Down in the Argentine,
Washed and swept and laven
By seas of star-salt brine !
And out! Souls out!—let’s thunder
Round by the cold Cape Horn !
Laying the seas asunder
For it in the early morn !
Down by the dark Hanovers,
Past by the Isle of Fire,
Swing out, ye true-built lovers.
For sweet old Port Desire !
Crash / Hear the screws a-jumpin'!
Boom ! How the shafting sings !
On ! with the red blood pumpin’,
On to the sport of Kings !
Round by the Desolation —
On with the coal! —On—On !
Ho ! for the soul’s vibration—
That’s how the hearts are won ;
See, thro’ the mist a-gleamin’,
Love’s sweet old temple-spire !
Steer for it, all ye seamen,
Steer out for Port Desire !
Down thro’ the gray Atlantic-
Past, by the square, grim Cape !
Hear how the swingin’, frantic
Old bunker-shovels scrape !
Down by the lonely Tristan
With crosshead-gui les a-clang !
Hark ! how the heart’s hot piston
Bids all the seas go hang !
“lam,” it says, “a-drivm’
Unto the lips of fire !
Get off my track ! —l’m strivin’
For Love and Port Desire ! ”
Oh, Port Desire’s a haven
Down in tfie Argentine !
No soul-ship weak or craven
Sees its sweet glories shine !
None save the hearts a-roarin’
With blood drive safely thro’,
And see great stars go soarin’
From lips of those they woo !—■
Heave on the coal, you Lovers,
Set all the screws a-choir ;
Full steam ! —fire up ! you rovers.
An you’d reach Port Desire !
GRANT HERVEY.
The Alderman.
My door he passes every day
Twice to his work, and twice returns ;
And in between, I cannot say
How many pounds he earns.
At times the happy lot is mine
To walk with him a furlong’s span;
He is my public Social Sign—
My friend the Alderman.
He is of proud and portly mien,
Austere but smooth, and full in girth ;
His sober face has never been
Awry with howling mirth.
The motion of his lordly hand,
His creaseless cloth, his brow unlined,
His very gait—reflect a grand
Serenity of mind.
He never swayed from This to That;
He never yearned to touch a star;
He is as solid and as fat
As his own ledgers are.
I love to note his placid chin
Toward the Sabbath pulpit raised,
Hear threats rolled out to thriftless sin,
And “ civic virtue ” praised ;
Till lazily I seem to see
A vision of the Heavenly town,
Where burgesses of high degree
Stalk slowly up and down.
And my imagination paints,
Throned in the very inmost hall
Of that great Borough of the Saints.
The plumpest of them all.
We scourge ourselves with many rods,
And different blessings claim our kin ;
I bow the knee to heathen gods;
But his —are Aldermen.
PAGAN.


ORNAMCNTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern ol Hair and
write 'for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want .
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Eoyal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
fW* Every Requisite for Saloon Usb in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia.
OR.A.IG & A.ITKBN,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Byd ney.
EVERY MAN IS
More or less interested in the curative powers of
MEDIOAI, GALVANISM and the proper method of
applying this wonderful agent. Before purchasing
Electric. Belts or Batteries send for our valuable FREE
BOOK entitled “THE MODERN TREATMENT OF
DISEASE BY ELECTRICITY.’' It will tell you what
you ought to know, and may save you time, money
and disappointment. Address—
ARTHUR HALE & SON,
44 Ca.stlerea.gfh Street, Sydney.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored In
Four Weeks by the use of
£)S RX CORO’S
*ssfcfl c£ o? u f fc -
The-only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 128. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope
Agents for Australasia —PERRY & CO., 47 Queen Bt.,
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
F. H. Paulding 1 & Co., 16 O’Connell St.. Sydney.
£333
DEAF
w
1 The New Patent
ISOUND DISCS
■Completely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
■how long standing. Are the same
■to the ears as glasses are to the
' eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. £
Address—A. M. NAST/145 Collins St., Melbourne.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
Safe*
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyna.
Every bottle of this well-known,
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BKOHOHITIS,
DIAKRHGEA, &G -> beam on
the' Government Stamp the nantt
«of the Inventor—
Pr.J. COLLIS BROWN€.
TTTF. ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWB <4
' Sept 28, 1895, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.”
FINSEN’S——
NAEMATIN - ALBUMIN
TABLETS
A Certain Cure for POVERTY OF BLOOD,
AN/EMIA and WEAKNESS, from whatever cause
urisiiie- The latest wonderful discovery by the great
Danish Scientist,
PROFESSOR NIELS. R. FINSEN.
GIVE THEM A TRIAL!
Extract from The Baptist of August 1,1902:— “We
can speak from personal experience and testify that these
Tablets are an invaluable remedy for weakness occasioned
by Poverty of Blood, Anaemia, and other similar diseases.
All Chemists, at 3s. 6d. per Box.
From Life, for Lovers of Art, Beauty, and Chic ;
Carefully, Assortments, Cabinets, or
Stereos, with Illustrated Catalogues and Minia-
tures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s. Money Order or Cheque
- on London.
English, French, a nd German Rare Books
Explain wishes and requirements, and full satisfaction
will be obtained.
R. GENNERT,
890 Faubourg St., Martin, Parts, France.
»' . . -London -Bankers :
L. and SOUTH WESTERN BANK LTD., Head Office.
WOOL PRODUCE. CRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
ACT as SELLING BIFtOIKIIEJnS
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of t is omp
COMMISSION FOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (f) PER CENT.
/'(lncluding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
will be „ ••• ••• „ "•
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and' over Four-
pence per lb „ : ••• •;
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
under
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
WAREHOUSING
Perfect System of Weighing.
Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT. _ „ v
Every inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by t e
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Cir
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
AGENTS FOB. McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
J. BARTRAM & SON,
34 & 36 Market Street, Sydney
(Corner of
Clarence Street)
19, 21, 23 King Street, Melbourne.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES
The ENGLISH DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
Makers of Steam Turbines, Turbine Dynamos, Turbine Pumps, Turbine Fans.
(Over 80,00 p Horse-power in use.) _
Messrs. GREENWOOD & BATLEY LTD., Albion Works, Leeds.
Machine Tool Manufacturers and Electrical Engineers, Dynamos, Motors, Pumps,_£_jL-
Messrs. CONNOLLY BROS. LTD,, Manchester.
Insulated Cables, Wires, Tapes, etc.
ARE YOU WEAK?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
And consult Old Surgeon Langston, who will Cure
•you. Forty years’ practice as a Specialist is sufficient
Guarantee of the doctor’s ability.
AVOID unskilled pretenders, flaming advertisements and specious
' cure-alls.
Vigor and Strength
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Slember Royal College of Surgeons, England, located in Melbourne
since 1886, has so perfected his method of treatment that it can
almost be said there are no Hopeless or incurable cases.
Be the equal of your fellow man.
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested In the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old" doctor diagnose your case. « •
Seek, tbie Truth, it costa Uothing!
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, cor. Russell & Collins Sts., Melbourne.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR ‘‘PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By. Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. ;36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows jup Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds,of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Speeches* and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestlino, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d. I
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camille, Is da. i
Secret History of the Court of England, 1/6 post free.
Art of Boxing,- by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted, j
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. Tiie Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post. •
Ciiiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-To-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play.,Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. Sappho, Is.
Every Man His Own Carpenter', Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s‘6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and It’s Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance. Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send fpr my Illustrated Big Book
Catalogue - post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
Dr. J. W. GIBBS’
. . Electric Massage Rollers . .
For use on Face and Body.
For NERVOUS HEADACHES,
NEURALGIA and RHEUMATISM
—a specific. Removes Wrinkles.
Gold, 21/- Silver, 16/- --r
. Post Free. , Pamphlets Free.
AMERICAN ACENCY COMPANY,
Box 440, G.P.0.,5 *
Melbourne.
m
Those
suffering
from weak
and sore eyes,
and blight, should
use.
SJKfiLETON’S OINTMENT
'Never Fails. Restores Eyelashes.
_ ALL CHEMISTS.
BLAIR’S
GOUT $ RHEUMATIC
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in a
'aw davs bv this celebrated Medicine.
6 These Phis, which are perfectly harmless, require
a 0 restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part
in England by Prout & Co., 229,
per a boU or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
Shroutrhout the Australian Colony
“Don’t shout
"'I hear. you. I can hear now
, as well as anybody.
■■■How?’ Oh some-
thingnew— The Wilson.
Common-sense Kar-\ V
Drum. I’ve a pair in my v
ears now, you can t see them
they’re invisible. I wouldn t
\ know I bad them in myself,
only that I bear all right.
The Wilson Ear-Drum is
really a substitute for the
working parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable Totally
different from any other de
vice . Descriptive pamphlet sgnt upon request
;cit At MFCS, 229-231 Colilna- MelP
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL limbs.
With Patent RUBBER tEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order .
Silk 'Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &o.
Semi for Catalogues, Par *
9
DENVER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
DEAF
Sufferers from Deafness or Head Noises
desiring a complete and permanent cure
sKouleDwrite to The L. R. VERNON CO.
60 HJJNTER «T., SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet , desc ibing an entirely new self-,
applied method which we will send post
free on mentioning this paper.
Reader, why not be able tense the
most mysterious and poyeerful
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, With
out leaving your home.
form all the many marvellous n»w
that are possible to the ease
Through Hypnotism you can cure disea e
[conquer pain; win reluctant affectum
I your ambitious* and P, ...
amusement by the hour tcosteyou
Hypnotism, - which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
|of the Art. It contains
: hundreds of beautiful- and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborat
and expensive thing of the Kind
ever published. For a short
time I will send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn,
to Hypnotize. It is a chance of
a life-time. Address—
3
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ASTHMA CURE
RRIMAIIITS INDIAN CIGARETTES
For Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
GRXMAULT & Co., Paris. Sold by all Chemists^
NOTICE <
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism, Sciatica, <
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or • |
’ Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy- |
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS. .
Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman, of i
71 Old Kent Road, London. I
Renowned for over a century for quick j
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from au ,
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies. 1
TRUMAN’S NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of .Head or Body.* v '
■ sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B. —Insist upon having TRUMAN-S.
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman,-
71 .Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies. (


**>
•© 9 m
mmm
foils Crown
Whisky
'
f* S'
’f
’st*& f M/l
A Mi'j '
x
ENOS
COOLING, ‘FRUIT
HEALTH GIVING,
REFRESHING,
AND INVIGORATING.
A NEW BROWNIE KODAK
For Pictures 2£ x 3} Inches.
KODAK limited,
And of all Photographic Dealers.
The No. 2
KODAK. .
Piriee IQ/. ■■ only.
LOADED AND UNLOADED IN DAYLICHT.
Send for Illustrated and Descriptive
Leaflet and mention this paper:
284 COLLINS STREET,
... MELBOURNE.
THE
‘PLUM’
.. .
THE
* PLUM’
ENTLEMEN. —This razor is superior to any other. It Is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 78. 6(L
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price
/Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d; Fair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, ifST
\ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30a.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney,
I DURE
VARICOCELE,
PREVENT PARALYSIS,
And Restore the
NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Every man who has Varicocele recognises,
by evidences which are unmistakable, that
he is physically and mentally below par. It
is impossible that the self-generated toxins,
- formed in the sluggish blood currents Of
neglected Varicocele, should be absorbed
into nerve matter without producing morbid
conditions that affect the entire organism.
Varicocele is unquestionably the cause
of thousands of business and social failures,
because it strikes at the very seat and centre
of physical and mental power—the nervous
system.
My treatment not only cures the Vari-
cocele, but gives back strength of body
and brain. It gives to a man the reserve
power that is the prerequisite of all success.
I seek cases where all else has failed.
Young, middle-aged, and old men can
recover the same degree of health,
strength, and energy experienced in
former years by consulting
PROFFSSOR READ,
who has restored thousands of sufferers to
vigorous health.
DO ANY OF THE FOLLOWING
SYMPTOMS OR CLASS OF SYMP-
TOMS MEET YOUR CONDITION:—
Do you feel nervous debilitated, fretful, timid,
and lack the power of will and action? Are you
subject to loss of memory, feel listless, moping, unfit
for business or pleasure, and subject to fits of
melancholy? Are your kidneys, stomach, urinary
organs, liver or blood in a disordered condition?
Have you lost confidence in yourself and energy for
business pursuits ? Are you subject to restless
nights, brokfn sleep, dreams, palpitation of the
heart, confusion of ideas aversion to society, dim-
ness of sight, pimples on the face and back, and other
desponding symptoms?
If you are afflicted, why further, neglect
your health when by a single consultation
(which costs nothing) you can be placed on
the way to health, strength, and vigor?
All correspondence held sacred. A speedy
and perfect life cure is guaranteed in all
cases I undertake, where doubt exists the
sufferer is frankly informed.
I CANNOT TELL YOU ALL
I desire in this announcement, therefore T
invite every man who is interested to write
me fully and freely, describing his case, and
I will advise him the best course to pursue.
My new book, which I send free
(six stamps to cover postage should be en-
closed), describes in detail my special
methods of curing the diseases to
which 1 limit my practice.
No promises made that age, integrity, and
long experience do not justify.
Address: Prof. H. READ,
*65 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
WE SHIP ON APPROVAL
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles. Fully warranted.
ivkJcfl fs £2,10 t0£5.5.0
1 Dunlop Tyres, Steel or Wood Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards and Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID
(To any Port in Australasia.
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sewing
| Machines Half Usual Prices.
Write for Catalogue and Special Offer
Using Stamp. Address Dept 345 D
Mead Cycle Co.
Chicago.
U.S.A.
HAIR
TONIC
The Wonder of the Age
ALL CHEMISTS
THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA.
A Distinct Advance in Infant Feeding.
THE
•ftjgggli’
N? 2
iSwSSSifil*
F ®ftTN( FIRST 3 MFl* r, *f
' >- s »>«srw 1
lc *l TFilirnDßß’DirflflßTJ
fit Hanbart
liri
Mien & Ha
The Allenburys Foods provide nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers
of the Infant, and constitute an altogether distinct advance on the mischievous expedient of trying
J t 0 make the child’s stomach accomodate itself to a food essentially unsuited to its digestive powers.
Farinaceous foods of all kinds are totally unfit for infants under five or six months of age, such foods
being a potent cause of digestive troubles, rickets, and many disorders arising from mal-nutrition.
The “Allenburys” Foods are especially valuable in hot
climates. They are in the form of powder and keep perfectly.
Pamphlet on
I INFANT FEEDING” (48 pages) free, from
495, Bourke Street, Melbourne.
ALLEN & HANBURYS, Ltd., London, Eng.
MILK FOOD No. 1.
From birth to three months.
MILK FOOD No. 2.
From three to six months.
MALTED FOOD No. 3.
From six months and upwards.
NX
wo
jSk l
A
4/
VI
n
mu
WRITE TO US OR CALL.
LIFE AND VIGOR!
Every man knows how false have been the claims of QUACKS, who promised tO'cure
him with DRUGS. DRUGS never Cure Weakness, never stop the drain of Vitality, never
Cure a Weak Stomach (they cause a good many). Drugs excite, but they have no lasting
effect, no substantial strength in them ; hence they never cure.
There is only one certain way to Restore Vigor, to Renew Strength, to Cure LAME
BACK, NERVOUSNESS, VARICOCELE, DEBILITY, RHEUMATISM, WEAK
KIDNEYS, and in fact all Chronic Ailments. That way is to Strengthen the Parts with a
Steady, Soothing, Invigorating Current of Electricity, given to you while you sleep.
dr. McLaughlin s electric belt
Gives Strength Direct from Nature. It develops all the Vital Organs and renews the
vigor. It will permanently cure the Worst Case of Weakness in three months after every
other Remedy has failed. Stop Drugging, and try it. You will thank me for thus urging
you. It will lay the foundation for your future happiness.
Other so-called Electric Belts had
tailed me entirely; but your Electric
Belt cured me of my Lame Back,
which had troubled me for years. One
week’s wear seemed sufficient, as I have
have had no further pain.—A. -J.
GREENLAND, J.P., “ Launchley,”
Uralla, N.S.W.
Kalgoorlie, W.A.
Dr. MCLAUGHLIN CO.
Replying to your inquiry after my
health, I am just debating leaving the
Belt Off. There has been a wonderful
improvement in my condition ; in fact,
I hardly know I was ever queer. If I
can help your cause, vou have my sup-
port.- JAMES HUGHES.
Dear Sirs, —Your Belt restored my
vitality and cured me, as you said It
it would. I used to be very nervous
and weak.—JNO. KING, Edward-st.,
Brisbane.
In a few weeks your Electric Belt
cured my back and drove out my
sciatica. I had been a sufferer for
years.—Writes Mr. DAVID MURRAY,
Dooen, near Horsham, Vic.
For the benefit .of all persons interested in this Grand Remedy, we publish a Beautifully Illustrated Book, giving cuts,
and showing how we apply Electricity in all CHRONIC AILMENTS. It gives also many names of people cured. Write
for it. You may find the names of some of your friends in it.
Cal] and have a Free Test. See the Ease and Comfort with which Our Belt can be used.
It s full of good things a sick man likes to see. Hours—9 a.m. to 8 p.m.
Don’t delay, but call to-day and get a Book.
Frg€ Book.
... - - - • ■ -
Dr. McLaughlin Co.
85 King-street, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office—l67E Swanston Street.
Special
Notice.
If you have an old style Belt that disappointed you, send it in, and we will allow you
for it in exchange. We do this not because the old belt is of any use, for it is not.
But we wish to show people candidly that there is only one real electric Belt to be
had, and that we have nothing in common with concerns selling a cheap, worthless
article. (No consulting fees to be paid).
OUR BELTS ARE NOT SOLD BY AGENTS OR CHEMISTS.


A BEAXJTJFXJL FABRIC.
THE
louis* Velveteen.
NOTE WELL!—Each Yard of Genuine “ LOUIS ” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L"0“U"l“S and * n no other
way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
jmv
HOJ HIVH
CEO 0-0
$
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and mmg Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price —35., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
no- For EOZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
PLEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul, & 00.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT
HOLLAND FOR ALL'DISEASES OF THE HAIR*
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
HENNESST’S
THREE STAR
BRANDT
$ t
Hennessy’s
hold the
Largest
Stock
on
Earth of
Genuine
Bottled
Cognac
Brandy.
. •- r, - Tr - - j
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
c
&
%
Va
w
a
/"v
O
c/'-
L-
' r
CIGARETTES
The Bulletin Story Book.
A Handsome Cloth-bound Volume of over 300 pages. The best
collection of Short Stories and Literary Sketches yet produced in
Australia. Price, 4s. 6d. Wholesale : Edwards, Dunlop and Co.
THE BULLETIN RECITER
BY EIGHTY (80)
BULLETIN BARDS.
With Illustrations by “ Hop,” N. Lindsay, A. J. Fisher, F. Leisb
D. H. Souter, and H. McCrae. In handsome Cloth, decorated.
Sole Distributing Agents — PRICE 55.; POSTAGE 4d.
Edwards, Dunlop & Co,, Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane .
“It’s use has been approved by the Building Department and the Board of
Fire Underwriters of New York.” “It can now be Insured at the same
rate as Metal and Composition Roofs.”
n n
D
D
D
Goodyear’s India Rubber Geove Manufac-
turing Co., on Feb. n, 1902, wrote as follows:—“In
reply to your request for our opinion on Ruberoid
Roofing: Would say that we think it is the best
roofing of this class we have ever used. We have
had some in for several years, and it is apparently
as good and serviceable as when put on.”
Wiixiam Constantine, Upper Sandusky, Q., wrote on
Jan. 15, 1902 :—“lf I were twenty years younger I’d build a
dozen Fowl-houses and cover aud liue them with Ruberoid, and
make a fortune selling eggs. I have one house covered and
lined with Ruberoid, 60 chickens in it, and get 40 eggs a day.
Have another house, not lined, 80 chickens in it, and get
10 eggs a day.” * • ' '
D
E nsa a
It is put up in portable Rolls
(.ready for use), 3 feet wide, 24 r yards long. Cement for seams, also nails
and washers, are supplied with each, Roll of Ruberoid FREE OF COST.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 23.—N0. 1179.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1002.
Price 6d.
THE DAVID OF VICTORIAN POLITICS (YET TO APPEAR),
WANTED—A MAN. IS THERE ONE IN THE CROWD?


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TEEMS TO SUESOE TBVR)
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Tlfaoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
tcripiion outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
11, with 2s. 21. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland-
Owing to the imposition of lid. postage, the subscription
to Tub Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tiib Bcjllbtin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
yon can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, SOOO words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But ive
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Jilaclc and Whyte.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and a'daptedfor direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for salve on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Buli. t r:x can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown ;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, 22 llout St., Capetown ; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon.— Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
R.C.
Hong Kon q.— Brewer and Co., 22 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
China. — Brewer and Co., SI Wanking Road, Shanghai.
7%uTsxxlldfo}i.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1902.
The Irvine Government’s Treachery.
The Victorian Government of Irvine, Bent
and Shiels —the iceberg, the bear, and the
old woman—has justified the worst opinions
entertained concerning it. It has gone back
on its democratic professions and protesta-
tions, and it has done this with a clumsiness
which robs the performance even of the
interest which attaches to well managed
hypocrisy. It has always been difficult to
suppose that a Government led by the cold,
bloodless Irvine could be democratic, or
that a Government to which Bent belonged
could be anything but Tory, ignorant,
foolish, and objectionable. On the other
hand, a Government to which Shiels
belonged could be anything that was good
or anything that was bad, Shiels being
a colorless kind of picture which could
go into any sort of frame, and which
was so used to standing neglected in a
corner that it was glad to be framed on
any terms. The other members of the
Ministry are practically nonentities, frozen
by Irvine, trodden on by the hind feet of
the plantigrade Bent, and overwhelmed by
the purple patches of eloquence in Shiels’s
immensely verbose orations. Shiels is the
kind of man who can hold forth brilliantly
for six hours about the reasons why the large
end of an egg isn’t the small end, and about
how it doesn’t matter which end it is.
* » * *
The Irvine Government came into office
just as the Victorian Factories Act, which
also includes the famous Minimum Wage
clauses, was on the point of expiring. How
theTuRNER Government succeeded in driving
that exceedingly wise, liberal and progressive
measure— about the most progressive thing of
its kind on earth—through the bigoted House
of 48 Rich Landlords, will always remain a
mystery. Turner, the patient, unobtrusive,
beaming little man with the spectacles and
the brown suit, certainly looked like the last
man who would coerce 48 of the worst bigots
in Australasia, but there was great force at
the back of his unobtrusive exterior, and
seemingly impossible things happened while
Turner was shoving behind. But, even
with all his success, he only succeeded in
getting the Minimum Wage law passed for a
certain number of years and applied to cer-
tain districts. When it came up for renewal
the case called for a strong, earnest man to
engineer the renewal measure through the
hostile House of Landlords, and the irony of
fate left the job to Irvine. Peacock, who
was associated with Turner in passing
the original measure, and who, with all his
follies and mistakes, and his ungainly laugh,
and his tendency to trim on other matters,
was in deadly earnest over this one, had
just gone out of office. So had Trenwith.
Turner and Isaacs had gone into the Federal
Legislature. In the backwash of State politics
strange, cheap things began to come to the
surface, and the name of one of them was
Irvine, while another was Bent.
* * * *
Irvine came into office pledged to three
things—the renewal of the Factories Act,
Parliamentary reform, and the restoration of
the sorelv-disorganised finances. He was
pledged to all three as solemnly as he and
Bent could be, yet no one felt even reason-
ably sure of his sincerity on any one of them.
His Tory following loathed the splendidly
democratic Factories Act. Parliamentary
reform was hateful to his friends in the
Legislative Council; in that weird body the
property qualification for membership is so
high that only from 1200 to 1900 men in all
Victoria can sit in it, and when those who
are absent, or too old, or who don’t care for
politics, or who are too busy, or are in the
Assembly or the Federal Parliament, are
deducted, the number of available qualified
men sinks so low that it is impossible to even
raise a contest at a Council election. And if
the restoration of the finances involved a
general land-tax, the whole party which kept
Irvine in office was against it—to say
nothing of the fact that Treasurer Shiels is
a miserable kind of man who wouldn’t be
happy without a financial disaster to weep
over. As the law stood, the Factories
Act would expire at the close of the
session, unless previously renewed, and
if anything or anybody happened to close
the session before the renewal Act was
passed, the whole law, with its Wages
Boards, its Minimum Wage clauses, its anti-
sweating provisions, and all the rest, passed
away as utterly as if it had never been.
Irvine propounded his scheme for Parlia-
mentary reform with an air of reasonable
probability. He passed the extension of
the Factories Act through the Assembly,
and assured the country, with his unreliable
hand on the whited sepulchre of his shirt-
front, that he was in solemn earnest about
it. But the House of Landlords adjourned
it from week to week, neither accepting
nor rejecting it, but acting as men who
were waiting for something to happen,
and who had been privately informed, by a
person who called round surreptitiously
after dark, that it would happen. And
last week the Ministry of whited sepul-
chres justified the worst expectations.
It closed Parliament with a bang, and with
the end of the session the democratic Fac-
tories Act passed away, and the sweater
came back to sweat as before.
* * * *
For weeks the Irvine Government had
been clumsily and obtrusively riding for a
fall, and the fall not coming, it deliberately
got off its horse and lay down. It almost
-brought about the desired quarrel over the
threatened railway strike, and the choicest
flowers of Bent’s vocabulary were not
wanting to turn the disagreement into in-
dustrial war. The men yielded, in great
measure, it is commonly reported, because
ex-Premier Peacock pointed out to them
that an upheaval of some kind, and an excuse
for the dissolution of Parliament, was exactly
what the Irvine Cabinet was in search of.
Failing this the Ministry had to satisfy itself
with about the thinnest pretence that ever
served a thin politician’s purpose. Its Re-
trenchment Bill provided that all civil service
salaries exceeding £125 should be subjected
to a per-centage reduction. A member pro-
posed that the reduction should begin at
salaries of £175, to which the Government
demurred, on the ground that it would
thereby lose some £40,000 of its anticipated
savings. The matter was not pressed. But
by a small majority, in a comparatively thin
House, the £125 limit was struck out, and a
blank was left in the clause so that the
matter might be further discussed. The
Irvine Ministry made no serious attempt to
rally up its followers in order to prevent this
episode. It didn’t warn the Assembly in ad-
vance that it would regard the vote, if passed,
as a serious matter. It didn’t wait for the
further discussion of the clause, and demand
the reinstatement of the original figures, or
wait to see if the House would reinstate
them voluntarily, or call on its party to roll
up strongly to force the restoration of the
clause, or tell the Assembly that it must
either reverse its vote or take the conse-
quences. Having managed to secure the
smallest semblance of a defeat, it adjourned
on the instant, and fled off the premises,
and that was the last sitting of the
session. No Government was ever in
greater haste to prevent Parliament thinking
better of its action.
* • • •
The Tory press hails Irvine as the Strong
Man of politics who refuses to allow his
policy to be cub and hacked and altered by
Parliament. In reality, the Irvine Ministry
can only be regarded in one of two lights.
The better and less probable alternative is
that it is a paltry, peevish, unstable com-
bination which let its new Factories Act be
destroyed, and dropped its Parliamentary
Reform scheme, and its financial proposals,
and left the 1)600,000 deficit, which Treasurer
Shiels foresees, to go on accumulating in-
definitely, all on a miserable point of personal
dignity—the dignity of a Thomas Bent
Ministry ! The other alternative is that it
deliberately left the finances to go to wreck,
and hung up the urgent Parliamentary Re-
form matter indefinitely, for the sake of
snatching at the chance to destroy secretly
the Factories Act which it dared not destroy
openly —the Act which, above all others, it
was pledged to support. It doesn’t even
save its alleged dignity by the course
it has taken. George Turner, a greater
Parliamentarian than the present scrag-end
Premier will ever be, when he struck an
exactly similar difficulty, took a more manly
and dignified course. He informed the
Assembly that the vote which had just been
carried would seriously disarrange his
finances, and hinted that the Government
would resign if it was not rescinded. It was
rescinded. Turner dominated the House
instead of bolting from it at the first sign of
trouble. It is a theory of Party Govern-
ment that the Assembly must accept the
Ministry’s policy or find a new Ministry, and
Turner made it accept his policy. Irvine
didn’t want to fight, but dropped his policy
and ran. He said that the renewal of the
Factories Act was the essential feature of his
policy, and seeing that the Factories Act is
now, by his action, extinct, then he lost his
policy in his flight. If the Irvine Govern-
ment wanted to secure the perpetuation of the
Factories Act its sudden retreat stamps it as
a coward and a failure. If it didn’t, then it
appears as a coward and a liar. There isn’t
much to choose between the alternatives,
after all.
• • • *
Two duties now lie conspicuously before
the Victorian people. One is to insist that
the control of Labor legislation shall be
handed over to the Federal Parliament, and
to ally themselves with the democratic
elements in the other States, with that end
in view. The other, and the more immediate
duty, is to wipe the Irvine-Bent-Shiels
Ministry off the face of the earth. It goes
to the country, on the most charitable esti-
mate, as the Ministry which didn’t pass its
new Factories Act, which didn’t pass its Par-
liamentary Reform Bill, which did nothing
to square the finances, which nearly brought
about a huge railway strike, which hadn’t the
sense to keep its party together for a division
on what it now declares was an essential
item of its policy, which hadn’t the courage
to face the Assembly after a very small
defeat and command it to reverse its decision,
which ran away at the first time of asking
and dropped its baggage as it ran. If it
comes back from the country, finding that it
can only hold its billet by offering a demo-
cratic programme, there is little doubt 'that
it will come back with a democratic pro-
gramme ; it would probably come back with
almost anything rather than lose its billet.
But, judged by all the evidence, it doesn’t
want to come back with a democratic pro-
gramme ; and, if it is driven to do so, it will
almost certainly miss no reasonably safe
chance of dropping the burden a second
time. And it is vastly safer for Victoria to
take the initiative and drop Irvine. As for
Bent and Shiels, no community can possibly
make a mistake in dropping them.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Bushveldt Carbineers.
J. 0. L. Fitzpatrick, M.L A., had the courage to
bring the Bushveldt Carbineers scandal before
N.S.W. Parliament last week. With the news
brought by every batch of returned troopers, and
with every mail from Pretoria, there has come
clearer proof that the Australians, shot and other-
wise punished by the British army authorities in
the Transvaal, were scapegoats for the sins of
many others. But the daily press has been
studiously anxious that no knowledge of the cor-
rect facts in regard to the ill-fated corps should
get to the public, and efforts at ventilation
in Parliament have been frequently smothered
by the N.S.W. Government. One member,
who was anxious to have the facts discussed,
was besought to remember his young political
career and not to blast his fair prospects by taking
action-“ which might turn the guns of the world
on to the British Empire.” Despite these fren-
zied efforts to hush the scandal up, Mr. Fitz-
patrick, on Sept. 9th, moved the adjournment
of N.S.W. Assembly to call attention to the
matter. The keen desire of those in authority
to smother the discussion was shown by the state
of the House. There was a marked absence of
Government supporters in the Chamber, though
there were understood to be great masses of them
in various retiring rooms, or under the billiard-
tables, or in other places to which the sound of the
quorum bell did not penetrate. .Then frequent
attention was called to “ the state of the House ’
by a lonesome Govt, supporter, who appeared
to have remained for that purpose only. If the
discussion could have ended with a ‘ count-out
that would have been construed into a contemptu-
ous shelving of the matter. But all efforts at a
count-out failed. Members from all sides of the
House spoke in favor of a full inquiry, and finally,
after Holman, M.P., had spoken, and the growing
feeling had been made clear, the Premier promised
to lav all the papers regarding the Bushveldt
Carbineers on the table and to urge the federal
Government to institute a full inquiry. Mi. 1 itz-
P.vtrick and most of the other speakers wisely put
forward as the main point of the scandal the treat-
ment of Major Lenehan, the officer commanding
the Bushveldt Carbineers, who, though he
had no complicity at. all with any outrages,
was arbitrarily imprisoned, both before and
after trial, apparently with the sole object of
preventing him communicating with the Aus-
tralian Government in regard to the other Aus-
tralians. But if an inquiry is instituted by the
Federal Government —and it is difficult to see how
the request of N.S.W. in this regard can be
refused—it should be made to cover the whole
ground of the operations of the Bushveldt Car-
bineers. The allegations made as to serious in-
justice to Australian citizens are supported by a
great mass of testimony—much of it given on
oath and coming from good sources. A full
investigation will either clear away suspicions
which are now causing the gravest discontent, or
establish the right of Australia, to ask for sub-
stantial redress from Great Britain.
The Non-Existent Tea Duty.
The abolition of the duty on tea is one of the
achievements on which the Federal Labor party
is disposed to pride itself. Yet it was the cham-
pion folly of the tariff amendments. What man
m all Australia can now truthfully say that he
gets his favorite mixture at 3d. a lb. less, or that
his Is. 6d. a pound blend has jumped up in quality
since the abolition of the duty ? The money lost
to the revenue has been diverted, not to
the consumer, but to the importer and the
middleman. And there will be this addi-
tional public loss that, whilst with a tea-duty
the Customs House takes care to inspect all
tea-imports, when tea is duty-free there is a ten
dency to let it enter without inspection. What-
ever the reason for it, the fact is undoubted that
tea is a most immoral and dissipated grocery,
about the preparation and sale of which there
gathers a tremendous amount of fraud, and of
chicanery which comes close to fraud. A com-
munity which lets shipments of tea in without
inspection is bound to get with its “choice
blends ” and its “ Souchong buds ” a very big pro-
portion of dung, willow-leaves, mud, metal-
filings, chopped straw colored brown, ex-
hausted leaves gathered from the rubbish
heaps and given an attractive color and curl by
soaking in tannery juice and frying in a pan. All
these things come to a nation which does not
watch with a keen detective eye its tea imports.
And when there is no customs duty the tendency
is to let tea go without examination; the
Customs Department makes no money out of
it, and can’t be bothered inspecting it. So
far, there seems to be an exception to this ten-
dency in Australia, for C. C. Kingston, to
the great grief of S’Malkum M'Eacharn and the
Cobdenites, has been keeping an eye on Aus-
tralia’s tea, though it is an unrernunerative job,
and has stopped a certain amount of Chinese
mud and other nauseating stuff on its way to the
family teapot. But KinGstons are rare, and the
chances are that, without a tea-duty, customs
inspection of tea imports will become in time
quite perfunctory. Then the ordure, &c., will not
be stopped, and can be retailed at Is. 6d. a lb., to
the great glory of the free breakfast table and to
the satisfaction of the Labor party. It won’t even
fall to Is. 3d. a lb. Tea is a disreputable
incident of the grocery trade which defies all the
ordinary conventions of shop-keeping—an item of
consumption which sinks to the depth of being
retailed at the kitchen door by a shabby and
hungry-looking man, who pleads to you to buy a
pound at 25., partly because it is the best tea
in the world, partly because he is brutally
hard-up and it would be a charity to him.
The retail tea-canvasser gets sixpence out of every
shilling that he gathers in ; out of the balance the
tea merchant finds the tea, the package, the cost
of advertising, and runs the risk of his woe-begone
canvasser not coming back with the cash. Figuring
it out, it is easily to be calculated that the article
for which 2s is paid costs not more than 4|d.
wholesale ; and tea is about the only article of
common consumption which can put on 433 per
cent, in the process of getting from the warehouse
to the consumer. Of course, all tea is not quite
so gorgeous a swindle as that; but the fact that
some tea firms will dump down a big parcel of tea
in a cottage whose tenant they don’t know from
Adam, on the distinct understanding that it is not
to be paid for for three months, throws much light
on tea profits. It would have been the middle-
men only whom the tea duty would have affected
—the consumer wouldn’t have paid more than 2s.
for the pound of tea bought for charity, and the
vendor couldn't have given a more worthless
quality for the money. The tea middlemen are
the class for whom the Labor party struck away
from the Commonwealth revenue the big tea-duty
item, and thus put in extra jeopardy the minimum
wage and the old age pensions. It wasn’t good
politics.
Giving the Flag Away!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
«• During our Great Remnant Sale of this week we give
away to every customer the National Flag.” —(Drapery
advt. in West Australian, Perth, of a recent date.)
Though the curtain be dropped and the cable tells
of a dreary war no more;
Though the nation dreams of permanent peace on
a burned and desolate shore ;
The loyal and true on Australian soil seem loth to
forget the fray,
And still, though in novel and limited form, are
Giving the Flag Away !
They gave it away on a wholesale plan when our
swaddies used to write:
“I enclose two teeth that I took from the mouth
of a slaughtered Boer last night,
And some dead men’s whiskers, and curious things
that were robbed in the open day; ”
Each one of these notes was another success at
Giving the Flag Away.
They gave it away in lavish style when a blood-
drunk Jingo press
Published its sneers at the “cowardly” foe, and
gibed at their wives and dress.
At Nicholson’s Nek, too, and other fields, after
the hard-fought fray,
Some muddled commander laid down his arms,
and the Flag was Given Away.
We would fain forget these sorry tales; they are
things of a doleful past.
But the draper man must needs stir the bones that
we thought were buried at last;
And the spectres rise from their dismal tombs, and
the ghosts from their bed of clay
When the news is published that once again we
are Giving the Flag Away.
W. E. C.


The Tariff.
The weary old tariff is through at last. It isn’t
an ideal Protective tariff, but it is an approach
thereto, and it will be improved in years to come.
Such as it is, it was pushed through in the face of
the savage opposition, mendacity, corruption and
misrepresentation of all manner of vested interests.
It had to face M'Millan, the Calico Jimmy, who
must needs oppose the establishment of Australian
industries that will do damage to M ‘Arthur’s
imported softgoods—though when he was a Free-
trade Treasurer in N.S.W. he showed his practical
faith in Protection by protecting almost every
industry which didn’t clash with the interests of
M ‘Arthur’s imported sof tgoods. It was bitterly
opposed by Bruce Smith, likewise, at one time,
an ardent Freetrade Treasurer in N.S.W., who
protected many things, and denied that he
did it; also by the other Smith, who
was in the same Ministry and was B. Smith’s
accomplice and fellow-renegade. It was
denounced by that ardent Freetrader Reid, who
protected sugar, beer, newspapers, tobacco, cigars,
biscuits, confectionery, and other things, and
who assures the public that he never did anything
of the kind; likewise, by his accomplice and
assistant backslider Joe Cook ; and Gould, the
Freetrader who aided and abetted the large Pro-
tective tariff of M'Millan and Bruce Smith, and
the smaller one of Reid and Joe Cook, and denied
both of them. It was anathematised for eight
solid hours of ineffable dreariness by the unflinch-
ing and uncompromising Freetrader PuLSFORD,
who helped Reid and Joe Cook to protect all the
industries above mentioned, and whose objurga-
tions have in them the drouth of a crushed
mummy blowing through the land of Egypt. It
fell under the strong disapproval of old Freetrader
Braddon, who ran a 25 per cent. Protectionist
tariff, in Tasmania, and would probably be doing so
yet, if his friend Miles hadn’t been found out —
Braddon, who apparently sold his alleged
fiscal principles for office, and got very little
office in exchange for not much principle. The
S.M. Herald and Sydney Telegraph and Laun-
ceston Examiner and Perth Morning Herald all
loathed it as a slab of iniquity and a truckling to
the demon of Protection, and demanded at the
same time that they should receive 50 per cent.
Protection through the postage rates as before.
It was fought, inch by inch, by a strong Freetrade
conting-ent from Westralia, the State which would
only join the Commonwealth on condition that it
was allowed, forfive years, to levy Protective duties
against the other States as well as against the out-
side world. It collided with a very massive Cob-
denite phalanx which said it was Freetrade to the
backbone, and which was unanimously in favor of
heavy Protection for Beer. It was declared accursed
by nigger-labor parties in Queensland because it
imposed duties on fodder—duties which Queens-
land always imposed itself in its capacity as a
separate State. It ran the gauntlet of frauds,
backsliders, stonewallers, slanderers, people with
axes to grind, people with parochial animosities
to gratify, people who were enraged because they
were found out passing fraudulent Customs entries
or importing tea adulterated with mud, people
who were hired to oppose Australian industries
in the interests of foreign importing firms and
wealthy absentees, and other people. And having
got through in spite of all, Australia has a restful
feeling as if something had been done at last.
4 .
The Parson and the Sweater.
It is a curious circumstance that the parson is
practically always on the side of cheap labor,
sweating, and the importation of servile races
whom he can patronise as “my pore, deluded
brown brother.” Witness this latest outbreak :
At St. Matthew’s Church of England, Prahran, the
Key. Mr. Storrs delivered a sermon on the drought,
which he attributed to the wickedness of the people.
The slighting of the Bible and the selfishness of the
legislation that barred people out of the Commonwealth
were alone sufficient to bring down the hand of the
Creator on the land.
A question that is worth putting to Parson Storrs,
and many other parsons, is this: If he, as a person
who knows all about the Creator, is positive that
the selfishness of keeping, say, the Hindu out of
this country is so dire a sin, how about the much
greater iniquity of Britain in taking the Hindu’s
own country, and there depriving him of all
rights of self-government, maintaining a despotism
over him, and refusing him the alleged privileges
of a British citizen ? If the Hindu has such a
darned lot of rights here, why hasn’t he some
rights in his own country ? Also, why doesn’t some
solid body of parsons denounce the iniquity which
deprives him of them. Presumably because the
stealing of India pans out mainly for the benefit
of a small section of aristocratic officials, and
was mainly the work of aristocrats, and the
average parson s abasement before the aristocracy
exceeds that of Jeames Yellowplush, the other
flunkey. On the other hand, the keeping of the
Hindu out of this country is largely the work
of the Labor-party, and the alleged follower of
th© Carpenter’s Son (who loves to follow in a
carriage) as a rule goes on the short and
simple principle that everything that party
does wrong. The Labor element certainly
doesn’t go to church much, which helps to account
for the parsonical animosity. Why should it ?
It meets the sweater and the usurer and
the Pharisee in the way of business, proba-
bly six days a week. It doesn’t want to meet
their apologist - and hired whitewasher on the
seventh. The mass of the people “slight the
Bible ’ because it is associated in their minds with
the average parson—the representative of a class
which hangs round rich men’s doors, and has such
a weird knack of finding out that the Deity dis-
approves of whatever interferes with the rich
man’s unjust profits, and which howls for blood-
shed when the wealthy classes are for the shedding
of blood. If the average parson would only keep
away from the Bible that splendidly democratic
Book might have a chance.
4
More About Preferential Trade.
Premier Barton in Canada :
It was only possible to come to a general understanding
at the Colonial-Imperial Conference which had re ently
met in London, each Premier to p opose certain measures
dealing with preferential treatment, either lowering the
duties against British goods or leaving them untouched
but raising the duties against foreign goods.
Premier Barton may be quite sure that any
proposals for preferential treatment of British
goods submitted to the Australian Parliament will
be rejected, unless Britain gives us a preference
m return. The situation is something like this :
. Britain buys nearly £170,000,000 worth yearly more
than it sells, and it buys all that immense surplus from
foreign countries.
When the British colonies in general buy £1 worth of
goods from Britain, it buys £1 worth in return. When
its foreign enemies buy £] worth, it buys £1 12s. worth
in return. There are some foreign countries like Ger-
manv, which buy more from Britain than they sell to it,
but the above is the result.
The Commonwealth, during the last year covered by
Coghlan’s statistics, sold about £lOO,OOO worth less
to Britain than it bought from Britain.
The Commonwealth, on the other hand, sold £5,000,000
worth more to foreign countries than it bought from
foreign countries, and the £5,000,000 it got in coin to
make up the difference was the only thing that enabled it
to face its British creditors.
And when Britain asks us to declare war against our
profitable customers for the special benefit of our unprofit-
able customer, and holds that it is our duty to buy
everything from Britain while Britain buys almost
everything from foreigners, and professes that we owe a
special duty to the Empire, while it owes no duty
to the Empire, its conduct comes under the head-
ing of Unspeakable Cheek. The Commonwealth already
buys 66 per cent, of its imports inside the Empire ;
Britain only buys 21 per cent. The people of the Com-
monwealth spend about £6 10s. per head annually in
buying goods from other parts of the British Empire
(mostly from England), while Britain only spends £2 10s.
per head in the same way. It is time Britain did
something in the way of giving us a preference to level up
these irregularities.
4 ■
Victorian Prisoners and Lunatics.
Consider the state of Victorian legislation at
present. A permanent Factories Act is an urgent
necessity; an Arbitration Act is loudly de-
manded ; a Usury Act, a Miners’ Relief Fund,
a State Bank, an all-round land-tax to square
the finances, are all wanted. Tons of other
legislation have been demanded till the people
are weary of asking, and there is in view
no hope of its appearance. Recent happenings
in Melbourne show the urgent necessity of laying
down anew the principles—on scientific lines —of
the Penal and Lunacy systems. To consider and
thoroughly thrash out these two questions alone
would takeat least a session. Yet there islittlehope
of this being done for years yet. And, meanwhile,
callous, shiftless neglect, and niggardly, procrasti-
nating ‘‘thrift” are making the State a by-word
among civilised peoples for its treatment of crim-
inals and lunatics. The Chief Secretary’s depart-
ment has been engaged in a sort of polyangular
duel with certain doctors and the Secretary, and
in discussing the question whether the Acting-
Inspector-General shall resign, or whether his
subordinate (an alleged habitual drug-user) shall
be dismissed, while all thought of the unfortunate
patients under their care seems to have vanished.
Yet the figures given in the statistical returns are
startling enough to have shaken up a Chief-
Secretary with the welfare of the insane at heart.
Here are a few items : —Of women sent to Vic.
asylums in 1882, 61 per cent, recovered their
reason ;in 1901 but 35 per cent. Victoria has 37
lunatics in each 10,000 inhabitants, Queensland
30, N.S.W. 29, S. Australia 26, England 29. And
the Victorian ratio is increasing ! Taking the
figures for the last 10 years, the proportion dis-
charged cured is :
South Australia .. .. 43-09 per cent
West Australia .. .. 42-02
N.S.W 3399 M
Queensland 32-88 „
Victoria 29-80 ~
The Cabbage-Garden saves barely 30 per cent.,
while South Australia, with certainly no greater
resources, manages to send back half as many
again to life and hope. S.A. profits by doing so,
as lunacy is not, as yet, a self-supporting industry,
and the marvel is that the neighboring Victorians
haven’t perceived this long ago. Doubtless the
Victorian figures are swelled by the inclusion
as lunatics of many unfortunates who ought
properly to be in receiving-houses for obser-
vation and temporary treatment, but this
increase is _ balanced by the omission of
many now in the gaols who ought properly
to be in lunatic asylums. As for these
gaols, the whole penal, even the judicial, system is
utterly rotten. The anomalies in sentences are so
marked that even the stolid dailies begin to
reprobate them. The amount of punishment
a culprit may receive seems to be mostly
a matter of luck—and it isn’t healthy for
a country to gamble with justice. And
when the criminal is gaoled the obsolete
Victorian system makes no attempt at mental
treatment, no endeavor at reform, no effort to
make him maintain himself and his keepers; in
short, no anything. He is just shoved out of
sight, and the thrifty Victorians haven’t sense
enough to see that this folly costs them more than
the two Houses of Parliament put together, and
the Governor thrown in. These are some of
the things that need comprehensive treat-
ment by the Vic. Parliament, but there is little
hope of that while the present cumbersome,
costly, bicameral system obtains. The House
that has at times shown some small capacity for
work grafts under the soul-depressing knowledge
that most of its results will be condemned as “not
wanted ” or “ premature ” by the privileged nomi-
nees of some 1900 large landowners.
4
Australian Unity.
There are not wanting signs, that the State
Parliaments are to atone for errors and negligence,
past and present, by being crushed at an earlier
date than was inpre-Federal days thought possible,
between the millstones of the Commonwealth and
the municipalities. On .the one hand the splendid
franchise of the two Federal Houses, and the
spaciousness of the vista which the absence of
mere localism promises in Commonwealth affairs
are winning all Australians to a faith in the
competence of the Parliament to enact equitable
and uniform laws on matters not yet included in
the 39 articles of the Federal Constitution. On the
other hand, the civic enthusiasm of municipal
England and Scotland, which has taught Britons
how to glean all the harvest of Socialism with-
out waving a red flag, reading Karl Marx,
or calling oneself a Socialist, is awakening
Australia to the desire of imitation. The
revolt against the chronic chaos in municipal
matteis is forcing the question of democratising
the municipalities and enlarging their powers and
extending their areas, into the field of practical
politics. Ihe attitude of State Parliaments
towards those who urge the reference of suitable
matters, such as factory problems, to the Com-
monwealth for uniform legislation, is so chilling
tha-t advocates of progress begin to see that the
ciause winch prevents the Federal Parliament
moving in such matters, except by permission of.
the State Legislatures, will be the first
obsolete one in our brand-new Constitution. Such
an attitude will only, of course, hasten the time
when all subjects of common iuterest will be found
embedded, without waiting for the formality of a
reference, in the legislative jurisdiction of the
Commonwealth. A new organisation, called the
Young Australian Society, aiming at the
further unity of Australia, held a meeting
during August, in Melbourne, for the purpose
of insisting on the matter of factory legis-
lation being referred to the Federal Parliament.
■ he meeting, from which State politicians were
conspicuously absent, indignantly pretested against
the cavalier treatment accorded by the State
Premiers to Barton’s letter inviting the States to
hand over labor questions to the Federal authority.
Moreover, this society revealed the existence of a
very strong current of feeling in favor of uniform
Australian laws as regards strikes, railways, land
tenure, wills, old _ age pensions, adulteration,
criminal law, municipal government, and other
subjects not included in, or only imperfectly dealt
with under, the 39 articles. Such a society is only
one outward sign of growing inward dissatisfac-
tion with State Parliaments, handicapped to the
point of impotency by anomalous, reactionary,
and unreformable “Upper” Houses, and also of
the flaming into a fire of the embers of unity
hidden in the Federal Constitution. The debt-
burden of the States is helping the cause of further
unity by forcing to the front the question of loan-
consolidation and what seems its necessary con-
sequence, the Australianising of the railways and
public works constructed out of loan money.
Again, the municipal reform agitation, pointing
as it does to the creation of large county councils
on a democratic franchise, will, when it has borne
fruit, leave so little of local moment to the State
Parliaments that even the satisfaction of the am-
bitions of local hustlers will hardly seem a sufficient
reason for their continuance.
The Vindication of Fropputty.
The sacred rights of Propputty were lately vin-
dicated at White Cliffs opal-fields. There are
2000 or more people there, and lately it
became evident that any day it might become
impossible for teams to get through with
stores for them; already the rate from Broken
Hill, 160 miles away, had gone up to £lB a ton.
The diggers held a meeting to consider the matter,
and Frank Hartley, a member of the Progress
Committee, and one of the best-known of Western
N.S.W. Labor men, was urged to speak. “If,”
he said, “ the worst comes to the worst, rather
than see our wives and children starve, we must
communise all the stores in the place.” It would
really be the sensible, civilised thing to do—it
simply meant that, if things should get desperate,
all should share and share alike: just the thing that
men in a boat cast away from a wreck would
do quite as a matter of course ; and being cast
away on a sea of sand is quite as bad as being cast
away on a sea of salt water. But Hartley, most
peaceful of men, reckoned without the. Law. He
didn’t reflect that it is the inalienable right of
Propputy to charge you Is. for a threepenny loaf if
you are hungry, 2s. 6d. if you are very hungry,
and £1 if you must get the loaf or starve. He
didn’t remember that, if there is but one loaf
between Solomon Jerusalem, the opal-buyer, and
Bill Brown, the opal-gouger, Solomon J. has the
sacred right to “ scoff ” the lot if he can outbid
Bill, and even though thereby William dies.
Hartley was, therefore, charged on a formidable
indictment with “inciting to crime,” for which the
punishment runs to 10 years on top of a £5OO fine ;
but. in view of his remarkably good record, the
P.M. reduced the charge so that he might deal
with it there and then, which he did by binding
Hartley over to “keep the peace.” Prop-
putty is happy again—but not nearly so happy
as if the accused had got ten years. And, as’
before, it proceeded to cnarge the digger up to
Is. Od. a lb. for cartage, although even £2O a ton
really means only about 2d. a lb.
4 .
Second-Class Legislation.
Not only have we in Australia a legal system
which provides, according to one’s purse, first-
class justice in the Supreme Courts, second-class
justice in the County, District and local courts,
and third-class justice in the J.P.’s court, but in
Parliament, also, legislation tends latterly to
divide itself into permanent legislation for some
classes and temporary, second-class legislation for
others. In Victoria, for instance, the reactionary
Legislative Council, when, almost at the point of
riot’s pikes, it yields to persistent demands for
remedial legislation for the poorer classes, has got
quite into a habit of making all such Acts of
Parliament temporary ones thus exposing
them to all the dangers incidental to changes
of Government and official forgetfulness,
and making it necessary to fight the battle all
over again every few years. The Employers’
Liability Act, relieving some workmen from the
cruel effects of a piece of Judge-made law, was
originally passed as a temporary Act in 1886, and
was only made permanent, after proving itself to
be a conspicuously harmless measure, last year.
The Factories Act (Wages Board clauses) was
built on the temporary plan, and it has disap-
peared. A third Act, framed to relieve the very
poor from the undue pressure of grasping credi-
tors, especially of the money-lender variety—
namely, the Wages Attachment Act—was also
temporary, and is also to expire. Yet this Act is
a permanent one in England, and if the Victorian
Legislative Council’s reverence for that country
was a little more real and a little less gassy, the
same Act might be a permanent institution in
Victoria also.
♦
The knottiest question of the year came before
the newest of N.S.W. Supreme Court Judges last
week. Lawyers revel in the difficulties raised ;
laymen, as is their stolid wont, pass the arguments
and go to the pub. opposite for a drink. The case
was Hannah v. Drake —a cabman versus the
Commonwealth Postmaster-General, for damages
sustained by the falling of an electric wire.
Against whom was cabby to go? Drake said
“me,” as Postmaster-General of the Common-
wealth, but not “me” as Drake personally.
Attorney-General Wise proved conclusively
that his Honor had jurisdiction. The way
he labored from the left to the right,
constructing and demolishing, edified old
lawyers. _ Justice Pring said it was the most
extraordinary state of affairs he ever knew.
But it ended up in a non-suit. Drake, as Post-
master-General, is amenable only to the High
Court, and as the High Court doesn’t exist yet,
Drake, as far as State jurisdiction goes, doesn’t
legally exist, and he can knock out a cabman, or
a cabman’s horse, or any other man or horse, with
impunity. That was the upshot of Hannah v.
Drake ; but now that the fun of the lawyers is
over, the fair-minded members of the Common-
wealth Parliament should take a turn at the sub-
ject. Political exigencies may delay the forma-
tion of a High Court, but no exigencies condone a
defeat of justice. If the cabman has an equitable
claim the Federal Government should promptly
honor it —law or no law.
♦
The shearing strike in N.S.W. has ended with
the capitulation of the A.W.U., which was ob-
viously fighting a hopeless battle from the outset.
There still remain as legacies of the trouble
various law actions in the Arbitration and Equity
Courts, and the A.W.U. is still under the neces-
sity of acting on the defensive. It must also, in
the interests of the bush-workers, prosecute with
vigor its legal campaign against the bogus
Machine Shearers’ Union, and so bring the con-
ditions in the pastoral industry to a stage at which
a fair and free decision as to wage-rates may be
made by the Arbitration Court. Officials of the
A.W.U. are rather inclined to blame the Indus-
trial Arbitration Act for some of their troubles ;
they would with more justice blame themselves.
The plain fact of the matter was that they were
out-manoeuvred. Superior tactics secured for the
Pastoralists’ Union what it desired—viz., the
blocking of any decision on the wages question.
- •*
The Westralian Arbitration Court has decided
that it cannot award “preference to unionists,” as
the Maoriland and N.S.W. courts can and do.
Provision for it was in the Bill, but the Council
knocked it out. It was put to the court that that
was not to be taken as proving that Parliament
wouldn’t have it—-it might simply mean that Par-
liament thought it was surplusage, wherefore the
court was not barred from making the award.
But the court knew the Leg. Council better than
that and decided that it couldn’t. On the other
hand a local court has given a verdict with heavy
costs against a union member who had let his con-
tributions get into arrears and wouldn’t pay up.
4 .
The most grievous plaint at the Fruit-growers’
Conference, held in Melbourne during show-week,
was against the iniquitous Factories Act, which,
the country person said, had increased the price of
his fruit-cases by Id.—a whole penny—apiece. Of
course, the said Act isn’t entirely responsible for
the increase—even if there is one, which is by no
means certain—but even supposing it was, what
then ? A fruit-grower has to be in a pretty large
way before he needs 200 or 300 cases, and these
last for years; so the fruit grower objects to a
Minimum Wage law because, he says, it
costs him about half-a-crown a year. He
hasn’t the sense to see that higher wages
for his principal customers (the Melbourne
workers) mean better prices for his own produce,
and that a larger industrial community means still
better prices and a larger demand. If the time he
wastes declaiming against anti-sweating legis-
lation were devoted to organising co-operative
distributing-agencies and jam-factories, he would
save a lot more than 2s. 6d. Low wages in the
Melbourne factories simply mean starvation prices
for the countryman’s fruit—and the sooner he
learns that truth the better for himself,
4 .
N.S.W. Premier See has written “ a strong
letter” objecting to Victoria using any of the
Murray waters for irrigation purposes. N.S.W.
isn’t using the waters itself, and as far down the
river as the site of the proposed Victorian irriga-
tion works the Murray is almost wholly supplied
by Victorian streams ; but though the Victorian
mallee is perishing from drought and the unused
Murray is running to waste past its front door,
See says it must just go to waste. For 50 years
N.S.W. has claimed practically the sole control of
Australia’s one big river, and has let its waters be
lost while the land perished from thirst, and John
See holds that the dignity of his State requires
that this policy shall be continued till further
notice.
4
Melbourne Argus lately printed a hypocritical
“ Appeal to the Cities,” on behalf of its pet toiler
in the “ natural industries,” which would have
had more force if it had come from the actual
toiler, instead of from the landowning class. The
Argus is invited to consider the fact that, accord-
ing to Coghlan’s latest issue of “The Seven
Colonies,” the whole agricultural industries put
together were only worth £6,435,000 to Victoria;
whereas the manufacturing industries produced
£10,052,000 ; and mining returned £3,579,000 and
gave work to 31,039 men at eight hours a day and
decent wages. These latter classes have been
taxed in the past and are being taxed
Our Prophets.
That wise and pious legislator, Mr. Affleck, has
introduced a Bill into the N.S.W. Legislative
Assembly to amend the present laws in reference
to the observance of Sunday. The Bill provides
for the _ imposition of fines on anyone found en-
gaging in any of the following games on the Sab-
bath :—Baseball, bowls, coursing, cricket, cycle-
racing, football, foot-racing, golf, horse-racing,
hurling, lacrosse, or tennis. Pitch-and-toss and
ping-pong seem to have been overlooked :
When Israel fell to wickedness,
A prophet always rose
To promise drayloads of distress,
And divers kinds of woes.
Alas, that in our sunny land
This thing should also be,
In spite of all the beauty bland
Of earth, and sky, and sea.
We lived right pleasantly and well,
And did not Faith deny,
Yet gave but little thought to Hell,
And Worms that Never Die.
We thought the life God gave us here
Might be a thing of joy—
That thought was a delusion drear,
Intended to destroy.
The world might still as pleasant seem
But that, with tongue of flame,
To rouse us from our foolish dream
The prophet Affleck came.
He showed us, in the nick of time,
What made us wicked be
Was not our surplusage of crime,
But lack of Piety.
Not swindling, in a business way,
Will bring us future woe,
But breaking of the Sabbath Day
Will turn our cake to dough.
The Sabbath is a Day of Gloom
(So Affleck seems to mean)
For meditations on the Tomb,
And searchings of the spleen.
You cannot laugh in Affleck’s teeth,
Throw dust in Nobbs’s eyes—
They know Apollyon, underneath
The cunningest disguise.
You dance with some young damsel sweet,
Bright-eyed, with honeyed breath—
They see her feet are cloven feet,
That galop down to Death.
They know that when the dance is o’er
Your silly waltzing souls
Will hop and skip for evermore
On gridirons o’er the coals.
Foot-racing shall be turned to pain
When sounds the last dread Drum ;
And you shall sprint—and sprint in vain—
To flee the wrath to come.
The sons of Belial may sneer
To show their worldly wit
With prophets Nobbs and Affleck here
We yet shall clear the Pit.
CREEVE ROE.


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
of the United States.
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOR YEAR ENDING 31st DECEMBER, 19Jl.
assets
INCREASE IN ASSETS
£68.966.608
£6,508,678
SURPLUS ■■
INCREASE IN SURPLUS
£14,797.717
£1,039,973
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE ..
£245,682,651
£13,000,350
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1900 by ...
£8,088,718
LOCAL I)IRECTORS:
Sir WM. M‘MILLAN, K.C.M.G., Chairman; Hon. C. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.;
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S.,
F. 0. COWLEY, Secretary. Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
“N.” : Just consider how far the saintly
Worthington, even if everything alleged against
him is true, merely represents an extension of the
humbug underlying the general practices of the
clergy. The rising of the Nile and the rising of
the Deluge don’t differ so very much after all.
They are both a raising of the wind.
SAWMILL MACHINERY.
BAND or CIRCULAR MILLS, very heavy for
hardwood timber. Complete Outfits of any capa-
city. BAND RESAWS. ENGINES. BOILERS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
PULP MACHINERY. GRIP PULLEYS.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
to this day to bolster up the alleged
natural ” industries of the roan on the land, and
the Tory paper has the consummate cheek to
appeal to the cities for help in working more irri-
gation swindles, the while the same farmer-person
—the employer portion of him, anyway—is doing
his best to prevent the city toilers from getting
decent wages, under decent conditions, as set forth
in the Factories Act. If as many Victorian
workers were employed in manufacturing their
own requirements, instead of importing them, as
there should be, that would be the best possible
assistance to the man on the land, seeing that it
would give him a better market at his own door.
Also, if the big estates in Southern Victoria were
broken up there would be no need for the farmer
to go out yet awhile to the back of beyond, and
then plead for unpayable railways and other
assistance.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal "A Chinese Honeymoon."
Lyceum “ Riding to Win."
Tivoli Rickards’Co.
Palace “ Belle of New York."
Criterion “ Mrs. Goldstein.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Town Hall Melba (Sept. 24).
Princess “ Mice and Men.”
Her Majesty’s “Sherlock Holmes.”
Bijou “The Lady of Ostend.”
Theatre Royal. “A Womaji of Pleasure.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co. —Sandow.
♦
“The Belle of New York ” is so essen-
tially an American effort that it would be difficult
to imagine a wholly satisfactory representation
by any but an American co. The humor is
American, the curious orchestration is fitted to
American styles of comic singing, the whole spirit
is American, and it needs to be played through
the company’s joint and several nose or its flavor
is apt to be lost. When it is said of Williamson’s
Comedy Co., which is not American, that it gave,
on the whole, a very good and amusing represen-
tation of the extravaganza at Sydney Palace last
Saturday, that is very high praise. There is no need
to institute comparisons with the previous stage-
ingin Sydney when “The Belle” was played by
people of her own tribe and tongue. Nevertheless,
there are many points which suggest criticism.
Mr. Graham, who, as lehabod Bronson, bears
the chief burden and heat of the night, is not old
enough in his make-up, is not dry enough in his
speech, is not clear enough in his sing. Thereby
some very good points are lost. The present
lehabod, for example, didn’t make it at all clear
to the audience that “if he fell out of a fourth-
storey window, he was fast enough to reach the
ground as soon as anyone else ” ; and that’s an
essential point of this curiously attractive absur-
dity—this jumble of Wagnerian music, Gregorian
chant, Chinese opera, Bowery uproar and
American mental cocktail. The song, “Of course
you can never be like us, but be as like us as you
are able to be ” (which has almost a diplomatic im-
portance since it was inflicted by a cheeky Aus-
tralian contingent band on a visiting English
general or something in China) was rather spoiled
on Saturday by “gagging.” “Perhaps,” how-
ever, was well sung, and, in the second act gener-
ally, the new lehabod Bronson was better than in
the first.
• • • •
Miss Rose Musgrove was unexpectedly
successful as the Belle. She has not before been
suspected of so much voice or of so much cuteness
in using it to the best advantage. Miss Digges was
fairly good as Ei-Fi; her pretty, pert ways atone
for some vocal weakness. Cora, the Queen of
Comic Opera (“kammic appera ” the last co.
called it), found a sympathetic interpreter in Miss
Blanche Wallace, whose robust acting was, per-
haps, the best performance of the evening. Arthur
Crane lacked the bravura air necessary for Harry
Bronson ; he was altogether too meek and curate-
like. In an unwisely-interpolated song, his voice
absolutely failed on Saturday to meet the demands
made upon it. Fred Leslie was very good as the
strangely unaccountable Blinky Bill, and other
notably effective performers in the long cast were
Dudley, as the Polite Lunatic ; F. Morton, as a
Chinaman ; and Miss Madge Bennett, as a Pell-
street girl. R. Needham sang the patriotic song,
which seems to be dragged in by its broken feet,
with some brightness and vigor ; and the chorus
and orchestra deserve congratulation.
** * *
The fat emperor still runs his empire with
a certain measure of dignity and a good deal of
pomp at Sydney Royal, and his large round face
beams on 300,000,000 subjects, all liable to be
boiled alive at the shortest notice. Once or twice
lately The Bulletin has imagined that it detected
the flavor of a new joke in the “Chinese Honey-
moon,” but the tail of the fleeting impression dis-
appeared round the corner of this paper’s mind
before it could be properly identified. Herr
Slapoffski, whirling his mane and his stick of
office in the seat of the scornful—the seat where
the conductor sits and tries to conceal his scorn of
the company and the play—continues to drive the
melody of the alleged comedy for all it is
worth, but the lean and sombre musical
animal gets up no special pace for all his
efforts. The “ Honeymoon *’ hasn’t been on for
many weeks, but the last nights are already
announced, and the rather dejected joke is already
packing up its trunk. Like the hairs of our head,
as mentioned in Scripture, its days are numbered.
How few they are the advertisement doesn’t say
vet, but they are probably not numerous. If the
play could be taken away and the scenery left
there might be a show for a longer season, for the
scenery deserves to be found in better company.
When the “ Honeymoon ” is gone, a dramatic
censor should be appointed with power to block
all future productions with the mother-in-law joke
in them. It never was much of a joke, and now,
in its decayed old age, it suggests some disorderly
female of long standing making her 200th appear-
ance before the magistrate.
*# * *
At Sydney criterion “The Lady Slavey ”
has entered on her seventh and last week. On
Saturday the co., reinforced by Charles Kenning-
bam, will appear in a new production, called
“ Mrs. Goldstein.” The programme sets forth
that Rachael Mendoza pretends to be Mrs. Gold-
stein, and, as Johnny Sheridan will pretend to be
both of them and a woman at the same time, the
case looks complicated as well as Hebrew.
** * *
“Riding to Win,” or the Drama of the
Dog, is now in its second week at Sydney Lyceum,
and the sagacious animal who only rescues moral
characters from drowning, and who chases the
well-dressed villain off a Melbourne park seat,
holds the play up as much as formerly. In these
days when a dress-circle lady whispers, “Isn’t he
lovely ? ” she doesn’t mean Baker, as she used to
do. She means the dog. The canine’s animosity
towards sinful but well-dressed persons is more
untrue to nature than anything else in the drama.
The real dog is generally a snobbish animal, who
nips the ragged but honorable dustman, and
judges the Base Betrayer mostly by the kind of
belltopper he wears.
** * *
Cinquevalli closes his Sydney season at
the Tivoli to-morrow (Friday), and as The
Bulletin went to press the appearance of
Wallace Brownlow at this variety theatre was
announced. The Sidney Drews have replaced
“ When Two Hearts are Won ” with “Diana on
the Chase,” a rather poor copy of “Niobe,” which
does not give such hilarious opportunities as the
first piece. It is chiefly remarkable for the fine
make-up and posing of Mrs. Drew as the Statue
of Diana. The two principles are well assisted in
the production by Miss Noni Rickards. The
Harvey Boys have changed their act for one with
more fight and less talk; and the change is much
favored by the gallery.
** # #
“Sherlock Holmes,’’from Adelaide and the
West, arrived at Her Majesty’s (Melb.) on Satur-
day, with Cuyler Hastings in the name-part and a
strong company at the back of the new man.
The drama, by Conan Doyle and Gillette, is
unique in its realistic impossibilities. An exciting
nightmare without a moral, a panorama of crime
and counter-plot, very absurd, very theatrical,
decidedly clever. The story is a string of inci-
dents pertaining to certain mysterious papers and
a wildly unaccountable girl—the daughter of a
crazy mother who pops in casually, takes one brief
stare at the drama, and pops out again. Seems
that the bundle of papers came into the possession
of a sister, now deceased, through a love affair
with some exalted personage unknown, and the
unaccountable girl means to spring them upon
the personage in a revengeful spirit. Tracey*
Sherlock Hawkshaw Holmes, the detective,
is commissioned to recover those papers, but the
vengeful damsel has allowed herself (and her mad
mother) to become captives in the hands of two
gilt-edged criminals namsd Larrabee —Jim and
Mrs. The Larrabees also want the hidden docu-
ments for blackmail purposes, and can’t get them.
They burgle the young woman’s safe in their own
drawing-room, and find it empty. They are
starting to torture the sweetly ridiculous spinster
when Sherlock arrives. Sherlock has the eye of
a hypnotist and the temperament of a butter*
freezer. He knows nearly everything that was,
is, or ever will be, as regards men, women and
Eapers. His cold cheek appals the Larrabees. He
olds all the clues in the hollow of his cocained
brain. Consequently the baffled burglars appeal
to one Professor Moriarty in their dilemma, and
that grand old gentleman decides that Sherlock
must either drop the clues or perish. Sherlock, it
appears, has lately been getting on the Professor’s
nerves.
• * * *
Moriarty is a greater man than Sherlock,
for he has built up an enormous criminal business
without the assistance of drugs. His private office
is a stone vault in the bowels of the earth, where
he sits at a desk and talks through a tube to his
myrmidons. It is terrible to hear the Prof,
breathing instructions for murder down the tube,
like a waiter ordering chops and spinach for three.
The imperial ancient arranges for the “ removal ”
of an ex-forger who acts as spy to Sherlock. Also
Sherlock’s boy-in-buttons is marked for burial if
necessary. Somehow the Professor’s faithful
assassins contrive to bungle the job. The spy
escapes with a pink, puffy protuberance on the
head, and the rorty boy-in-buttons flees from
his livery whilst the human bloodhounds are
hanging on to it. After this the Prof, perceives
that death is the only remedy for Sherlock, so he
signs the warrant for the detective’s execution,
and leaves word that he will meet him in H—l
later. But Sherlock, otherwise Tracey the Hawk-
shaw, walks into the Professor’s trap and breaks
up the scheme. Subsequently he puts all the
criminals under arrest, and secures the papers, as
the result of capturing the affections of the extra-
ordinary girl. The last seen of Sherlock is his
limelit head associated with the head of his
beloved. The rest of them is utter darkness.
They look like the illuminated remains of a
ghost-story, and their impending marriage pro-
mises to be a brilliant failure. Sherlock is a
drug-maniac, and his future mother-in-law is
madder than the bride-elect.
* * * *
The drama, as produced at Her Majesty’s,
deserves to get on. Its sudden plunges into dark-
ness at the end of every act, and the generally
slick management of its horrors and alarms dis-
tinguish it from ordinary spectacular melodrama.
Mr. Cuyler Hastings, the new arrival, scores a
full success as Sherlock. He plays the part with
power, or he gets inside the part and lets it play
itself, which is the same _ thing. Miss May
Chevalier, as Sherlock’s girl, has little to do
except talk as though she meant it, and she does
that little quite thrillingly. Miss Mabel Lane is
a strong picturesque adventuress. Hamilton
Stewart supplies an imposing Jim; the wickedness
of Athohvood, as Prof. Moriarty, has much to
recommend it; the boy in buttons is good; and
Edmund Gwenn, as safe _ burglar, shines
noticeably among a number of minor lights.
** * #
At the Princess’s, the pretty, sentimental
story of the philosopher who trained up a ward in
the way he didn’t want her to grow, is a story that
appeals to all women, other than the richly-
upholstered female from Toorak. It is rather too
mild and gentle for the d.c. If Mrs. Goodlake s
designs on the captain were not doomed to
failure, Toorak would probably take more interest
in “ Mice and Men.” From the standpoint of
advanced society, Mrs. Goodlake looks rather a per-
son to be pitied. Her husband is,a doting idiot of
uncertain age, whose bucolic chuckle and full-moon
countenance would drive any smart young Joanna
to indiscretion, and it’s hard lines for his lawful
wife to be robbed of her indiscretion by a damsel
who borrowed her second best yellow satin to
wear at a masquerade ball. Miss Nellie Stewart
displays the yellow satin to great advantage, but
looks even nicer in her work-a-day dress, the one
in which she takes her dancing lesson from
Kit. The dancing lesson is a sweet morsel
of comedy, and another item that only a
Nellie Stewart can make the most of is
the scene where she turns her back to /the
philosopher (and the audience) and puts her
stockings on, singing the while. The Thornton
Co. returns to the Princess’s next week, and Little
Britain—that’s Nellie—will complete lower
portion of her toilet for the last time on Friday,
the 26th. By the way, the management might as
well explain the meaning of “Little Britain ” in a
footnote to the programme. A mostly Australian
audience shouldn’t be expected to understand the
wherefore of the odd London names given to those
foundling girls. For that matter there are a good
many people from Great Britain, and a lot more
from Ireland, who never heard of Little Britain.
** * *
“ A Woman of Pleasure ” supplies the
weekly want at Melb. Royal, and the balloon that
bears her from Pretoria will descend upon the
West Coast of Africa till further notice. Also,
the tramp who parts Bert Bailey from his trousers
will repeat the same insulting behaviour with
enormous success. This is understood to be the
first production in Australia of the Anderson
drama aforesaid, and inasmuch as it permits
Inman to kill Willard like a dawg, and results in
the triumph of moderate immorality, it deserves
its luck. On the many occasions when Inman
was a truly noble character, he never got the
satisfaction of wiping his enemy out with his own
revolver, neither has Miss Duggan been previously
allowed to strike the happy medium between
distressful virtue and crimson vice. “ A Woman
of Pleasure ” doesn’t run to extremes. The narra-
tive proceeds on eccentric lines of reasonable sin,
under the patronage of a rector named Luke.
** * *
At the Bijou, the Hawtrey Co. is pulling
“ The Lady of Ostend ” through her third week.
Burnand’s farcical comedy would bear being pulled
by a stronger co. The weakness of the three
young ladies whose voices need oiling, and whose
art is primitive, makes it a very lop-sided pull,
but the result of everybody’s combined effort is
satisfactory all the same. Moreover the little
curtain-raiser, “ Counsel’s Opinion,” is applauded
for the sake of the very small boy in the fore-
ground. An occasional touch of nature in the
performance of a well-trained infant seems to pro-
duce an easy tear in the public eye, and the public
delights to be impressed that way. It makes it
feel good.
« * ifc *
At Melbourne Opera House the cry is
Sandow. Melbourne talked of Sandow before he
came to hand, and is now taking him very seri-
ously, both as a man able to pick up another man
with his left hand and drop him down on a horse’s
back like a bag of lollies, and as a professor who
urges his fellow-creatures to lay up such muscle
on earth as is healthful and necessary as well for
the body as the soul. Professor Miller, the very
large and worthy citizen who used to come down
whop upon Mons. Victor in former days, was
desirous of luring Sandow into a series of athletic
exercise competitions, but the Physical Culturist
was not taking any fencing, boxing, etc. All
things considered, a wrestling match between
Sandow and Miller would probably be a deplorable
thing, on account of one of them getting broken.
** * *
Madame Melba, a vocalist whose name
carries a larger Australian advt. than any other
name The Bulletin can think of, will make her
re-appearance at Melb. Town Hall next Wednes-
day evening for the first time in many years.
During her period of absence the market price of
Melba’s famous voice has risen to a high pitch,
and all the seats for Madame’s forthcoming five
concerts are practically disposed of already at not
less than 10s. 6d. for the extreme back-row. Per-
sons who are “dying to hear Melba” had better
save their lives immediately by sending a guinea
to the box-office.
** * *
At Adelaide Royal the fine co. that played
Gillette’s “Sherlock Holmes” (in which*every-
body was just going to get shot, and didn’t) and
his “ Secret Service ” (in which people got shot a
great deal) has faded away and made room for
“Robin Hood,” who has to rely on a property
bow and arrow when he wants to do any shooting.
The hosts of up-country people in town for Show
Week have been much pleased with the mediaeval
revels of Lauri and Hugh Ward, and Florence
Young and the early English outlaw with the
American accent. At the Tivoli, Charles Hollo-
way has been doing good business with a very
large guillotine that could hardly be got into the
house, but which worked with great deadliuess
when it once arrived.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
State revenue returns, so far as the same are
available (S.A. publishes once a quarter, and Maoriland
seems to issue its figures at no definite date) :
Increase as
Revenue for compared with
August, 1902. August, 1901.
New South Wales .. £787,158 .. £54,063
Queensland .. .. 260,788 .. 30,785
Victoria .. .. 624,020 .. 23,229
Westralia .. .. 309,747 .. 18,083
Tasmania .. .. 66,083 .. 13,153
These figures are, especially as regards Queensland, baiter
than was expected. In Queensland there is an increase
in land revenue, railways, taxation, and miscellaneous
receipts—in other words it is an all-round increase. In
N.S.W., on the other hand, there is a drop in the revenue
from stamps, income-tax, licenses, land, railways and
tramways, &c., —in fact, if it wasn’t for the increased
revenue received under the Federal tariff there would be
a slump of nearly £50,000, and N.S.W. would be going to
the bad at the rate of nearly £600,000 a year. Appa-
rently Federation is going to be the financial salvation of
N.S.W. in a very bad time. The increase of £102,512 in
customs revenue last month by reason of the Kingston
tariff would have been badly missed.
So far as the present financial year has gone in
the various States (except S.A., for which no returns are
yet available), affairs are as follows :
Increase over
Revenue to corresponding
August, 1902. period
last year.
N.S.W. (2 months) ..£1,642,258 .. £190,428
Westralia (2 „ ) .. 623,810 .. 108,809
Queensland (2 „ l .. 546,133 .. 24,321
Victoria (2 ~ ) .. 1,076,979 .. 9,309
Decrease.
Tasmania (8 „ ) .. 462,395 .. 65,676
Queensland and Victoria both had a heavy decline for the
first month of the new financial year (July), and they
have both more than made it good. For the moment, at
least, Tasmania is the only State which keeps persistently
on the down grade.
Only three States issue monthly expenditure
accounts. Their figures are as follows :
Revenue Expenditure
July-August, July-August,
1902. 1902. Surplus.
Queensland £546,133 £347,428 £198,705
Westralia 623,810 632,433 91,377
Deficit.
N.S. Wales 1,642,258 1,661,774 19,516
Queensland pays its interest bill in two half-yearly in-
stalments (June and December), whereas N.S.W. pays at
various dates, and Westralia charges each month with its
share of the year’s interest. Therefore Queensland’s
surplus doesn’t mean so much as another State’s might.
Queensland requires to accumulate about £750,000 by the
end of June, and a corresponding amount by the end of
December, to meet its liability. If it can keep up the
progress made during August it will just about do this,
and there need be no visible deficit —that is to say, no
deficit that can’t be disguised and faked out of sight in
the usual way by charging unproductive public works to
loans.
The surpluses and deficits compare with those
of the corresponding date last year as follows :
August, 1901. August, 1902. Improve-
Deficit. Deficit. ment.
N.S. Wales .. £338,253 £19,516 £318,737
Surplus. Surplus.
Queensland .. 110,317 198,705 88,388
Westralia .. 25,043 91,377 66,334
It is generally suspected, however, that the improvement
in N.S.W. was largely owing to the carrying forward of
many liabilities this August. The dr.on of nearly £200,000
in the expenditure that month looks too sudden. As
regards Westralia, one-fifth of that State’s border Customs
duties will be taken off in October, which will probably
begin to put a new complexion on its affairs.
* * * »
N.S.W. has spent £714,717 of loan money in the
first two months of the financial year, as compared with
£508,776 during July and August, 1901, an increase of
£205,941. This is at the rate of over £4,200,000 a year.
The increase is more than accounted for by payments on
account of the Sydney land resumptions.
• • * •
Queensland spent £139,467 of loan money during
July-August, 1902, being £37,521 less than during July-
August, 1901. Queensland is spending at the rate of
£836,000 a year—roughly, £1 13s. per inhabitant per
annum, as against N.S.W.’s £3 per inhabitant per annum.
* * * *
The Commercial Bank of Tasmania (Hobart,
Tas.)
Dividends and Written
Profits. Dividend-tax. off. Reserves
Dec., 1895 £3701 5 per cent. = £3712 £190,320
June, 1896 4199 5 „ ~ 3766 190,753
Dec., 1896 3833 5 „ „ 3714 190,872
Aug., 1897 4969 6 „ ~ 4952 190,889
Feb., 1898 4463 6 ~ ~ 3714 £lOOO 190,638
Aug., 1898 4823 5 „ „ 3714 1000 190,747
Feb., 1899 4885 6 „ „ 3714 1000 190,918
Aug., 1899 5519 6 ~ „ 4457 91,000 100,980
Feb., 1900 6611 6 „ „ 4457 1500 101,634
Aug., 1900 6828 7 „ ~ 5200 1500 101,762
Feb., 1901 7502 7 ~ ~ 5200 1500 102,564
Aug., 190113,497 8 „ „ 5943 6000 105,118
Feb., 1902 8640 8 „ „ 6943 107,815
Aug., 1902 8906 8 ~ „ 6943 110,778
Tasmania’s solid old Commercial Bank is doing well again,
especially since Federation began to give business a sub-
stantial lift on the Island. The reserves are once more
growing rapidly, and the earnings represent the very
substantial figure of £7 2s. lid. per cent, per annum on
the shareholders’ funds as at the commencement of the
half-year (capital, £141,493, and reserves, £107,815). The
business has remained about the same during the half-
year. The most noticeable feature is the reserve of cash
and liquid securities which stands at £665,343, represent-
ing over 42 percent, on all liabilities to the public—which
is conspicuously above the average. The Commercial
Bank of Tasmania holds £180,922 (considerably more than
its entire,capital) in State securities. If other institutions
did their duty equally well in the way of propping up the
State credit, this country wouldn’t owe nearly so much to
the foreign Cohen as it does. If we must have a Cohen,
let us be our own Cohen 1
» * * *
Melbourne City Council discovered recently
that it had paid £7281 as fire insurance premiums during
the last 14 years, and received back £lO5B as fire losses.
This means that the Council is £6223 to the bad, together
with the interest, which, at 3£ per cent., would make the
loss about £BOOO. That is to say, if the Council had
established its own insurance fund 14 years ago, that fund
might now be £BOOO in credit, and constantly increasing.
A proposal to transfer the business to a municipal fund
was regarded coldly by a council which, possibly, holds
shares in a number of fire offices, and gets part of its divi-
dends out of the above loss.
* * * *
Queensland’s railways for the year just ended
yielded a net revenue of £389,428 —an increase of £130,473
on last year. The gross revenue (£1,382,179) was the
largest, save that of 1900, which Queensland ever collected.
As the public income is looking up all round, Plunket,
M.L.A., who proposes that Queensland should secede
from the Commonwealth to avert “ national insolvency,”
is rather mistimed. The £520,000 deficit with which
Queensland closed its career as a separate State rather
suggests that it only just federated in time to avert
national insolvency.


tramways.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Proprietary, Ltd.,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material
I* - Locomotive*from 10 to S3O h.p.
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel
Sleapeis, Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical
advice gratuitously rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated
Catalogues and Photographic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different
..arts of the World, upon application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager,
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties oltered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “ Option,"
Melbourne.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.3.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* » * •
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-street, Melbourne,
having returned from his visit to England, is now pre-
pared to purchase approved Mines and Mining Properties
situated in any part of Australasia requiring Capital for
Development and Machinery. Only genuine and
legitimate ventures, capable of bearing the strictest
examinations, will be entertained.*
* * * *
lany doubtful claims have been advanced on
behalf of duplex pumps. Some makers state that their
duplex pumps are “ double the capacity of single pumps
of same diameter and stroke/’ An A. S. Cameron single-
acting pump can be run safely and comfortably at a speed
that would knock a duplex pump to pieces. But even at
a low speed, duplex pumps seldom attain even their
theoretical capacities, and the reason for this can be
readily explained. Apply to the Agents, Messrs. W. and
J. Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, for
further particulars. The A. S. Cameron pumps are noted
for their simplicity, durability, and absence of outside
valve gear.*
* * * *
A revolution in smelting furnaces seems pro-
bable. The aid of gasoline has not been recognised.
Ernest de Beer, 439 Bourke-street, Melbourne, supplies
forms to suit assayers, which are marvellous in their
efficiency.*
* * * *
The Government of New South; Wales have
entered into a contract for the manufacture, supply, and
delivery of 13 miles of Mephan Ferguson’s patent Loek-
ingbar or Rivetless steel pipes. These are to be 32 inches
diameter, in 25 feet lengths, and will be used for convey-
ing water from Nepean River to Prospect Reservoir. This
type of pipe has been used by the Government of South
Australia for water-supply purposes for some time past,
and has given great satisfaction ; also by the Govern-
ment of Western Australia for the Coolgardie water
scheme, for which about 320 miles of Lockingbar pipes
have been delivered.*
* * * *
A Sure Fortune.—The best investment in
Australia is buying land at Esperance, W.A., the natural
port of the Kalgoorlie goldfields. With a railway,
Esperance will become one of our busiest ports, as the
trade of the goldfields will pass through it. A permanent
survey is now being made ; the railway is a certainty.
Get in early and make a fortune by purchasing a few
blocks before the great rush sets in. Price, £2O a block.
Terms, £1 a month. Write for plans and particulars to
The Esperance Land Company, Nicholson Chambers,
Swanston-st., Melbourne.*
* * « •
Assure, August, 1901: “At the end of last year
The Colonial Mutual had attained the age of 26$ years
and it can point to a wonderful career of development
and expansion. During that period the company has
issued no less than 85,372 politics, assuring £26,085,346.”
* * * *
The Finest Rubber Mills in the Southern
Hemisphere have been erected in Melbourne by the
Dunlop Tyre co., who are now prepared to execute orders
(in any quantity) for Suction, Drill or Air Hose, Packing,
Valves, etc. Mine Managers can place orders with the
Dunlop company with the greatest confidence as to
quality, price and workmanship. Correspondence
invited.*
* •*., * * *
The great success of the Wilfley patent Con-
centrator since its merits became known to the mining
community of Australia, has led to imitations and
piracies under various names being placed upon the
market. The Wilfley Ore Concentrator Syndicate of
London, which .owns the Australian patents has decided to
prosecute all users and vendors of concentrating machines
infringing its patents, and action has been commenced
in TiCtoria. Similar action to protect its rights had to
be taken in America, where the Supreme Court has upheld
Wilfley patents, granting an injunction and damages
against the users and vendors of the infringing machine.
The sole manufacturers in Australia of Wilfley patent
concentrator are the Austral Otis Engineering Conlpany
of South Melbourne, which supplies customers direct
or. through any of its accredited agents, in the various
mining-centres.*
* * * *
A. E. Moore, Temple Court, Melbourne, offers
for cash : Complete sluicing plant; MB. boiler, 18x 6,
Humble, Geelong ; 50 h.p. engine, Pollock McNab, Man-
chester ; Simpson’s pump ; sluice boxes ; Venetians ;
perforated plates ; cradle ; every requisite. Purchasers
interested should write for full particulars.*
* * * *
Ovens Valley (Vic.) Dredging Co.’s returns for
half-year show some interesting results. 109,512 cubic
yards of wash treated at a total cost of £1205 (including
over £2OO for repairs, and other items), or 2.82 d. per yard ;
gold won, 5090 z., or 2.23 grains per yard ; profit for the
term, £728. This is the nearest approach to prospectus
calculation yet recorded. Manager reports 15 years’ work
in sight.
SWEET SLICED MANGO
“ SUN BRAND ” CHUTNEY,
Prepared by Merwanjee Poonjiajee & Sons. Mody Bay,
Bombay. Insist on getting “ SUN BRAND.”' All
Grocers and Storekeepers.
HY. MARKWALU
174 William-st., Melbourne:
11 Pitt-st., Sydney.
and at Briabane, Adelaide, Perth, Auckland, Wellington,
Dunedin and Christchurch.
The Maoriland Government Accident Insur-
ance Co. (Wellington, M.L.) issues its first balance-sheet.
It is nominally an annual balance-sheet, but it really
covers a period of only about seven months, from the in-
ception of the office in June, 1901, to December, 1901.
Results are as follows
Income. Claims ’ Ex P ense9 ’ oSSo. ReserveB ’
1901.. £11,597 £2428 £5373 £7BOl £4090
The expenses are always heavy in the first year of a new
office, but in this case all the preliminary charges have
been paid without the exes, running to quite 45J per
cent. The reserves consist of reserve for unexpired risks
£3780, and surplus profit £316, and the fact that,
after making full allowance for unexpired risks,
and paying all preliminary charges out of only
seven months’ income, it is possible to show a
profit of £316 speaks well for the prospects. A loan of
£lOOO from the Government is the only thing in the way
of capital, so the profits represent over 31 per cent. If
this success is maintained, it, together with the remark-
able prosperity of the Maoriland Government’s ordinary
life department, should encourage Maoriland to make a
renewed attempt at the long-postponed State fire insur-
ance idea.
Maoriland has now two accident insurance
offices. Australia hasn’t one office solely devoted to this
business, though a certain amount of accident business
is done by one or two fire offices. The bulk of the Aus-
tralian business, however, goes to one Maoriland office
and an English one.
• * * *
The Farmers’ Co-operative Fire and Marine
Insurance Association of Canterbury (Maoriland) com-
?leted a very respectable year on 30th June, 1902 :
reliminary Expenses £404
Profits. Dividends. Re-
serves
Dec., 1891 £2509 Shareholders, 5 p.c. £1320 £785
„ 1892 3751 {policyholders, 10 ” } 2743 1793
„ 1893 1341 Shareholders, 4,, 1280 1854
„ 1894 4188 {Policyholders, ,0 ” } 3118 2874
„ 1895 4385 {“fe lS " } «» 3805
« “» *« taßKiiS;; } 3* ,341
1897 6072 {?Xm5,lO ” } 3392 602.
June, 1899 5707 {ISS, l 5 ;; } 4901 382,
„ .900 4943 {“i&,,0 6 ;; } 3399 837.
„ 1901 6932 ;; } 3441 9962
„ 1902 5065 ;; } 35(0 .1,527
The amount of the dividend and bonus, and consequently
the amount of the reserves at June, 1902, is only a close
approximation—the exact figure is never known till next
year’s balance-sheet is issued. The discrepancy, at the
most, won’t exceed £5O. The Farmers’ Co-operative is
certainly a prosperous institution, and though it does
business in a very limited circle, it is accumulating
reserves at a respectable rate. The paid-up capital is
£49,568—an enormous amount considering that the gross
premium income is only £11,548. It is very rarely that a
fire and marine office starts on such a solid basis.
* * » *
Sydney Morning Herald (16th Sept.) sticking
up for the old regulation sham: “We also know that
while the (N.S.W.) railways gave Mr. Waddell the
acceptable surplus of £llO,OOO for 1900-1 for which he was
duly grateful,” etc. And the Auditor-General’s accounts
show that the N.S.W. railway deficit for 1901 was £55,793.
What is gained by keeping up the silly falsehood about
the N.S. W. railway profit, when the A.-G.’s report knocks
it out every year ?
• * *
The Theatre Royal Proprietary Co. Limited
(Melbourne) made 11210 profit for the half-year ended
30th June, 1902, which is at the rate of only £5 os. lOd.
per cent, per annum on the paid-up capital of £48,000.
And even this was only done by charging 1372 spent on
decorations (which are necessary repairs) to capital, and
carrying it forward as an asset, instead of paying it out
of earnings, as should have been done. The shareholders
get a dividend at the rate of 21 per cent, per annum,
which is a good return on the present market-value of
the shares (6s. or 6s. 6d.), but mighty little on the £1
paid up. The £6OO would have been better devoted
towards abolishing the earthy, musty smell noticeable in
the reserved stalls section of the ground floor, but George
Coppin and family, who represent the bulk of the pro-
prietary, prefer to take the threepenny div. regularly.
* * * *
The Provident and Industrial Insurance Co.
(life insurance) of Maoriland completed its 13th year on
30th June, 1902. The results are, perhaps, not quite so
cheerless as they have been at some previous dates, but
.they are sorrowful enough :
Expenses Carried to
Total and Divi- Total Assurance
Income. Claims, dends. Outgo. Fund. Deficit.
'1897 £509
1898 £8,673 £2530 £7837 £10,367 2203
1899 9,177 2835 6462 9,297 2323
?1900 9,797 2936 6195 9,131 £666 1657
£6O capital forfeited carried to deficit 1597
1901 10,738 3332 6205 9,537 1201 396
Assurance
Fund.
31902 12,237 3907 7231 11,138 1099 703
£2O forfeited capital apparently carried to Fund 723
The Provident and Industrial Insurance Co., however,
professes to have an assurance fund of £6262 made up as
follows :
. Assurance Fund as above £723
Added to paper value of property 3 240
fExpenses not charged but carried forward as an
Asset.. .. .. .. .. .. .. 2,299
Total (alleged Assurance Fund) .. .. £6,262
’There is room for a good many remarks about the
concern which makes up a (largely imaginary) assur-
ance fund in this fashion. It is common enough for a
new office in the lamentable industrial business to carry
forward part of the expenses of the first few years as an
asset, but in a 13 years old institution the proceeding is
disgraceful. As to the device of putting up the value of
the co.’s office property, on paper, from £1268 to £4508,
when the co. was in a tight place, any co. can do that
sort of thing if it feels so inclined, and if the law allows
it. But when a large proportion of the alleged funds,
Which serve as a guarantee that the policy-holders’ claims
Will be paid, consists of preliminary expenses and alleged
sudden increase in the value of the co.’s office, it is a very
foolish kind of policy-holder who is satisfied with the
security.
The expense rate of the Provident and Indus-
trial Insurance Co. has lately been as follows :
Expenses in Proportion to Total Income.
1898.. £9O 7 3 per cent. 1901.. £57 15 8 per cent
1899.. 70 8 3 „ 1902.. 59 110
1900.. 63 4 8 ~
The enormously heavy expense rate of 1898 and 1899
came down a little, hut is now going-up again, and though
the income is £1499 more than it was last year, the
amount saved and added to the funds is a good deal’less
What the present value of the liabilities (i.e., the amount
that the co. should have in genuine assets, to be solvent
in an actuarial sense) may be, this writer has no idea hut
for a co. which is pledged by its policies to pay somethin"-
like £140,000, an accumulation of £723 in 13 years seems
a Very miserable and desolate outlook. “ Office furniture
and stationery, £592,” is an asset which nearly accounts
for the whole fund. It is high time Maoriland' had a law
providing for a State audit and valuation of assets and a
legal actuarial standard of solvency, with, of course a
compulsory shutting up of institutions which don’t keep
up to the standard. The Provident and Industrial is an
institution which calls aloud for some such statute.
The Victorian Railway Dept., after a few
months trial, has decided to discontinue the concession of
one week’s grace for return tickets on Melbourne subur-
ban lines. The old system of issuing tickets for one day
only seems eminently calculated to suit the rival Tram-
way Co. The first class fare from several suburbs where
the trams compete against the railway is less than 6d. —
the price of two tram journeys. Therefore, the new
rule which made the ‘return’ half of a railway ticket
available for a week from date of issue tempted many
people to travel by train who would otherwise have taken
the tram. Even if they were not likely to want to use
the return ticket on the same day they would probably
be able to turn it to good account within a week, and get
j °" rne J * or EA or which would have cost them 3d.
or 2jd. by the other route. The only concession that the
tramway Co. makes is a parcel of 12 tickets for 2s. 9d.,
available for any time—a very small concession as com-
pared with, say, two 3d. railway journeys for 4 id. when
the return ticket was good for seven days, but a quite
considerable inducement as compared with the ticket
that expires in orie day, and becomes a dead loss if not
used before midnight. The Tramway Co., at all events,
is pleased to hear that the railways are going back to the
old groove. A general desire to please any and every
private monopoly characterises the present Government.
* * * *
..^Y AI ' KER,S * Limited (engineers, ironfoundei’s,
shipbuilders, &c., Maryborough, Queensland): —
Dividends and Written
Profits. Dividend Tax. off. Reserves.
1893 .. £3,393 Nil £3735 £2298
1894 .. 2,828 Nil _ 5126
. 1895 .. 4,670 Nil _ 9796
" 1896 .. 10,368 lOp.c. =£6371 7500 6293
(£3620 forfeited capital written off assets)
1897 .. £922 Nil ,^5
(£4O forfeited capital written off assets)
1898 .. £4,702 5 p.c. = £3344 2500 6073
1899 .. 2,003 5 ~ 3344 4732
1900 .. 4,126 5 „ „ 3344 5514
1901 .. 6,113 5 ~ ~ 3363 8264
1902 .. 1,629 Nil 2000 7893
Walker’s (which pays no dividend this time), Mort’s
Dock, Sydney (which also omitted its dividend), the
Parramatta Woollen Co. (which pays 6 per cent.), N.S.W.
Presh Food and Ice 00. (no dividend), Oastlemaine
Brewery Co., Brisbane (no dividend), Denton Hat Co.,
Melbourne (10 per cent.), Australian Brewery, Sydney (3
per cent.), Swallow and Ariell, Melbourne (3§ per cent.),
constitute the latest batch of manufacturing concerns
reviewed in this column. They represent what the
freetrader always calls the Bloated Manufacturing
Monopolist exacting Enormous Profits from an
Oppressed People. These concerns employ an
immense amount of Australian labor, mostly at good
wages, ana the Bloated Manufacturing Monopolist’s
share of the profits (profits mostly spent in Australia)
is as shown above. And Farmer and Co., importers,
exact 13J per cent, out of the people of Australia,
and spend the profits in England, while the rest of the
I , mp i or i inf ' r al,sentees average a pretty good 10 per cent.
And they represent a crowd whose grief over the doings
of the Bloated Manufacturer is too deep for words.
* * * *
A man with a fine perception of the fitness
things thus advertised in Sydney Telegraph (20/8/’O2): —
TAX-SALVATION Army Officers and other pushing
Men wanted for best life assurance work, lib.
advance against commission.
* * * *
CoAL Lining Co. (Newcastle,
(N.S.W.):
. . Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves,
i-’ec., 1899 £7,263 10 per cent. =£5,000 £15,209
June, 1900 6,809 10 „ „ 5,000 £1654 15,364
Dec., 1900 11,764 17 „ „ 8,500 18,628
June, 1901 19,440 30 ~ „ 15,000 23,068
Dec., 1901 17,021 30 „ „ 15,000 7503 17,586
June, 1902 14,174 25 „ „ 12,500 4834 14,426
This may at least be described as reasonable prosperity.
“ M‘Gr.”: Smith’s Creek promises to turn out
even .more sound than most of its original barrackers
conscientiously, or otherwise, anticipated, • and, for the
sake of a district half-throttled, by some ugly proceed-
ings, this is good news. Writer anticipates when sluicing
operations begin that several chutes, such as the one
manager Potter lately reported finding off main body,
will be discovered adjacent to lode. But, speakinw as
one who has prospected the vicinity, the great balance of
shows shot on to the gullible on the strength of an
honest parent, are a disgrace to any mining district
Newspaper talk of lode being discovered in other leases
is often brought about by jovial, winey treatment of in-
terested visitors. There are some smart mining
men on Garnet. If Surprise Gully even possessed
sufficient tin to reward a small and economically
run co., it has not the necessary fall for
sluicing operations; its composition is mostly of a
cement-like nature, so much so as to debar even puddlino-
—and yet some talk about dredging. (Given birth a few
years earner, before bottom of market fell in, and it
would have been dredged—on paper, anyhow.) Drift
formation in old creek bed—there is little possessing pay-
able dirt—has long since been washed up by original tin-
getters. Best of this would not go what boomsters’
journals now bible-oath to the public the gully—mostly a
blind gully—will average. Great Mt. Garnet—catchy,
high-sounding title, only, as I said before, they have some
good “mining ” men on Garnet—is going strong on paper.
One of prospectors and self were talked into having a go
at this promising monster on strength of “ rich speci-
mens ” and a 15ft. tin lode running parallel. After a look
at old workings we threw our hand in. At that time (last
Feb.) this 15ft. of good tin was porphyry formation, with
odd—awfully odd—little patches of tin, and 10 or 12 inches
of copper which was dog poor.
• •
Experts’ figures and battery facts ! A study in
violent contrasts ! Three estimates, made by mining ex-
perts, of the ore raised at Ooolgarra Federal tin mine
(N.Q.), and the battery returns from same:
Tons
No. 1 Shaft. No. 2 Shaft. Tin.
Expert H .. 150 tons @ 14% - 750 tons @4% =5l-0
„ V ..400 tons @7% 700 tons @5% = 63’0
~ P .. 150 tons @ 16'2% 750 tons @ 5’75% = 67-4
Battery Returns 230 tons @ 1’52% 500 tons @ 0 - 4% = 5-5
Of course, the “ beastly battery” is largely to blame, and
further, of course, 500 tons sent to the mill was not a fair
sample of the bulk.
• * * •
Chillagoe: “ The board, anticipating that
smelting will be commenced in a month, has decided to
make a call of 6d. per share.” The unconscious humor
of it 1 A call because smelting is to be resumed 1 It may
be a grim fact, though, that the money will be required
to cover losses on smelting.
■* * * 9
A fearful and wonderful Bill is that which
Premier Philp has introduced in Queensland Parliament
to amend the mining companies law. It provides, among
other things, for the registration of stock exchanges and
the licensing of brokers and agents who deal in mining
shares. The object is said to be to promote brotherly
love and affection in the mining zoo and aquarium ; the
bear is to play in the same yard as the bull without con-
templating a skin-full of blood and beef ; the dingo is to
occupy the same fold as the lamb, and is not to have
visions of succulent savor augmented by mint sauce ;
the wild oat is to fondle brer rabbit; all is to be animal
amity. As possible would it be to so transform animal
nature as it would be to put common-sense into the
crania of some alleged politicians. In what way is the
registration of exchanges and the licensing of brokers to
promote honesty in share dealing or to instil confidence
in the minds of speculators? Will th’6 fact -that
Fitzsmith holds a broker’s license in which the
Warden certifies that he is a “ man of good fame
and character” make him seem more honest than he is,
or induce his average client to forego the common idea
that he buys in the highest market and sells in the
lowest ? The Bill also provides—or rather assumes to do
—for the limitation of liability on mining shares. It is a
Yes-No liability proposal. The limited liability principle
(which cannot be said to have been a failure in Queens-
land as far as legitimate mining is concerned) is to be
retained in a form which will lead to rampant dumniyism
and other rascally devices to shirk responsibility while
keeping the advantage within grasp. Dodger Smith,
well-known as a man of substance, will transfer his shares
to Dummy Brown, and the liability will be nominally
Brown’s while there is nothing to gain, but actually
Smith’s when any profit is likely to be made. Many
attempts have been made in Australian and American
legislatures to get over this difficulty, and all have failed,
but Philp’s attempt'is the most feeble ever suggested.
Further, a man may’ surrender his shares to the co., and
for three months afterwards he will be liable for calls
without having the right to re-take his shares. Then the
no-liability principle (which has been a positive curse in
Victoria) is to be allowed, but the author of the Bill is so
ashamed of this proposal that it is introduced only as a
side-wind—a No-Liability Co. cannot be formed without
having been first registered as a Special Limited Co. It
is said that the provisions of the Bill as to liability have
been devised with a view to induce Southern speculators
to dabble more freely in Queensland stocks. Then, why
not have, gone bald-headed for the no-liability system
with all its viciousness, with its violation of every com-
mercial idea and of every element of honor '?' Queensland
mining has not fared so badly that it wants the stimulus
of a system which enables the wary to grow fat and jolly
at the expense of the unwary. Taken altogether, the
Bill is a shocking sample of impracticability—it has not
even the saving grace of being well drafted. It would
require no lawyer to drive a coach-and-four through it—
any ordinary fool can see loop-holes for escape in every
line.
* * *
North Queensland anthracite coa, prospecting
syndicates are in the seventh heaven of delight; they
have visions of multi-millionairism. Recently 50 tons of
coal from the Dawson River were sent to Sydney to be
tested by the naval authorities. The report of the
Admiral is more than encouraging: “I am of opinion
that the coal from this district will be found more suit-
able for the requirements of His Majesty’s ships than any
Australian coal yet tried.”
• * • *
A N.Q. paper credits the manager of Mt.
Garnet with the statement that he is now making a profit
of £4OOO per month, but, it is added, “ all construction
works are stopped, and reproductive work only is being
carried on, and there is much grumbling on all sides at
the co. dispensing with so many men.” If the statement
as to profit be true, why is it that the half-yearly meeting
has been deferred indefinitely? Are the directors waiting
for three or four months’ returns from “ reproductive
work only,” so as to have some semblance of show for
the repetition of the promise of divs. 11 at an early date? ’
• » * ►
“Galvo” gives an opinion: A par. in 8.,
16,6/02, says, re the Mount Kembla disaster, that
a fortune awaits the man who invents an electric
ramp that can be carried in a miner’s hat to re-
place the dim and unholy safety. But why wait
for such an expensive and unsatisfactory contri-
vance when dynamos, cables, and incandescent lamps
are to be had, ana when nothing but the criminal parsi-
mony of the companies which control the mines prevents
their being properly lighted ? Present writer has had
experience of electrical work in mines, and can see no
difficulty whatever in the matter, and yet very few mines
are equipped with electric light. The dynamo could be
fixed in the engine-house, and cables (which need not be
expensively insulated except in wet places) run into the
mine on insulators fixed at intervals to the timbering,
distributing lights in the various drives and tunnels as
they go In mines such as are most of the Southern
collieries, very few lights would be required, as the drives
go straight into the sides of the hills, and a lamp every
100 yards or so, as a beacon, would be enough. Where
the miners are actually at work on the faces, portable
clusters of lights, fed with current by flexible cables,
could be used, and removed when shots were to be fired.
The main cables could easily be extended as the drive
went forward by a mechanic with even a slight electrical
knowledge. Such an electrical plant would not, as a
rule, run into more than hundreds in cost, and the money
saved in lamp-oil would pretty well pay interest on the
outlay. Electric lighting of coal mines should, in any
case, be made compulsory. It is a monstrous thing
that hundreds of lives should be sacrificed to the
greed of shareholders who grudge every penny that
is spent towards anything but the actual “ getting” of
the coal.
• * * *
W. J. Barnett, the dapper Cornish engineer,
who has been commissioned to examine the Great
Cobar mine on behalf of the proposed purchasers,
has arrived in Sydney. “Little Billy,” as he is
known to his familiars, has been in N.S.W. before,
representing the Consolidated Mines Selection Co.,
which has been dubbed the Rejection Co., by reason of its
consistent policy of never exercising an option, but he is
no longer associated with it. During a former visit, Mr.
Barnett made a thorough examination of the Cobar field.
His appearance, combined with the intimation that other
mining and financial experts will soon be here, ought to
silence the know-alls, who assume that the purchase-pro-
posal is a fake. It is rumored that the big mine never
looked better than it does at present, more particularly
in the bottom levels, where high-grade sulphide is said
to be showing for a width of nearly 100 ft. Also, lately,
crosscuts have been put. out at different levels to inter-
sect the eastern lode, which was never properly prospected
by the original owners, and in every instance a large body
of good smelting ore of fair quality has been found. This
means practically a new mine. If the sale be effected,
doubtless it will be regretted by the syndicate—lucky
dogs to have occasion to growl at such a transaction.
* * « *
A wonderful discovery of copper is reported to
have been made at Cumnock, near Molong (N.S.W.) The
newspaper yarn is that the ore is worth 80 per cent, for a
width of 3£ft. What sort of copper ore is it that bulks 80
per cent. ? Asinite I
• * »
The prophets have been all astray as to im-
provement in the value of copper. Correspondents in
England and America (men who are assumed to be good
authorities on the subject) proclaimed that long ere this
the £6O mark would be reached. There has been a dis-
tinctly upward tendency within the past few days, but
the movement is erratic, a 10s. rise one day being
followed by a ss. fall the next day. Perhaps it is better
that £6O should be reached by easy progression rather
than by a sudden jump—the former might suggest the
probability of steadiness when the pay-limit is touched.
« * • «
The latest thing in gold recovery methods is a
vaporising amalgamation process which, on inventor’s
showing, gives better returns than fire assays in treating
sulphide ore. The transmutation of silver to gold is not
in the same category as this process by which 10s. woi th
of gold, in the various forms in which it is found in
nature, when put into the machine, will be turned out
14s. worth. It is an American idea— verb. sap. !
* * • *
All that’s black is not tin ! Greenbushes (W. A.),
tin ore is very variable in quality—from 40 to 73 per cent.
“ metallic.” In external characteristics the samples look
clean. The explanation lies in the fact that there are
several at present valueless minerals of the same specific
gravity as tinstone, such as tantalite, stibio-tantalite,
ferro-ilmenite, rutile, zircon. Tantalite and stibio-tanta-
lite are the worst impurities, as they introduce a con-
siderable amount of iron and antimony into the metallic
tin and cause loss of that metal in the refining process.
What nice cuss-words these will be for disappointed ore-
sellers 1
* * * *
The development of the Westralian coal-beds at
Collie proceeds steadily. Under Zeb Lane’s control the
Collie Prop, and the Wallsend workings are now con-
nected, and the doubt whether the two mines had the
same seam has been settled. Electric pumps and other
modern plant are being put in, and the briquetting works
at Bunbury are nearly ready. Elsewhere on the field the
Mechanical Coal-cutting Co. has sub-leased a number of
claims, and is working under the advice of ex-Govt.
Geologist Woodward.
• * * •
Associated (W.A.) : The £500,000 plant is a
failure in proportion to its cost. Directors state that, in
spite of milling, roasting, grinding, agitating, cyaniding,
and filter-pressing, at least Sdwts. remain in the residues
out of the 26dwt. in ore treated ; saving, only 70 per cent.
Lowering crowns of furnaces has reduced fuel consump-
tion by 25., but increased gold loss by 4s. per ton.
Timbering in 4th and sth levels was so defective that it
had to be replaced at considerable cost. Directors also
express surprise that a firewood tramway was not long
ago installed, as “ carting with horses uphill is a very ex-
pensive operation in W.A.” Adelaide expenses last year
were cut down from £1735 to £675, but an endeavor to
curtail London expenses by sub-letting present £7OO-a-
-year offices was frustrated, owing to there being no
demand for "such palatial premises.” Only redeeming
features in report are that co.’s ore reserves are estimated
at 100,000 tons, worth 26dwt., which is satisfactory, if
true, and that co. holds 10,000 Northern Blocks and
£150,000 in British Consols. Directors complain that
secrets leak out, and that recent 10s. jump in shares,
caused by alleged discoveries, took place before news
reached them. Discoveries at 800 ft. and 1050 ft. referred to
are of very little account so far.
* ♦ * *
Princess ivoyal, Norseman (W.A.), is opening
up better than ever at 300 ft., the reef being 14ft. to 15ft.
wideband worth 17dwts. Filter presses have been ordered.
Plant should easily maintain an output of 2000 oz.
monthly. Co. declared 16th div. of Is. Princess Royal
North and South are both suffering from “ that tired
feeling” experienced by most Adelaide-bossed mines.
• * * *
Lake View Consols (W.A.) seems to be in a very
bad way. Ore reserves will be exhausted in less than
three months unless new discoveries of pay-ore be made.
According to Hartman, the bore located payable ore to
the north at 1000 ft., and strenuous efforts are being made
to reach it. Chairman Govett is determined to exploit to
2500 ft. before throwing up the sponge, hence the recent
issue of 100,000 shares. An ore body, 3Jft. wide, worth
30dwts., has been located at the 700 ft. level north, and is
supposed to be the continuation of the Perseverance lo<te.
The main shaft is down 1225 ft., and is to be sunk to
1400 ft.
, * * •
Capt. Parkes retired from management of
Hannan’s Oroya (W.A.) on August 31, after being in
charge for nearly six years. His ever cheery face and
hearty welcome will be greatly missed by visitors to the
mine. Unfortunately, he did'not have the satisfaction of
locating the rich chute at No. 8 level. The mine is now
controlled by Bewick, Moreing and co., who strongly
object to visitors. The Brown Hill Oroya Co. should
soon be in a position to pay regular divs. Rumored that
Brown Hill Extended will join the combine.
* • * m
Bayley’s (Coolgardie, W.A.) has struck good
ore in driving north at 1000 ft. The reef is Bft. wide, of
which 3ft. is worth 36dwt., the balance being low grade ;
370 ft. of driving on the course of the reef were done*
before payable ore was reached, a great part of the dis-
tance carrying no quartz at all. Of course, Coolgardie is
elated at, and making the most of, the find, but a lode
formation in which the ore occurs in patches, and in
most of these patches is unpayable, is hardly worth
getting excited about.


DAVID JONES & CO.
HIGH-CLASS HATTERS
Prices upon Application
Genuine
Pine-Grade
Hand Selected
PANAMAS
George & Barrack Sts., Sydney
HARRINGTON
* CO. Ltd.
66 KINO ST., SYDNEY, and
93 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
1902
BY THE WORLD’S
HAND
CAMERAS
STAND
CAM ERAS
m
vr THIS IS
OUR
TRADE MARK
EFFICIENCY AND
GOOD VALUE.
■
Mi MW
: ; m -
From ss. up to £5O.
Photographic
Materials
of Every
Conceivable Kind.
CAMERAS
BEST MAKERS
POCKET
CAMERAS
KODAK
CAMERAS
OUR
ADDRESSES
Agents in all the Principal
Centres.
SOCIETY
Speainl Ligue[?]
"P&O"
SCOTCH WHISKY
[?]
OLASCOM.
Mrs. de la Juveney, the Melbourne lady
who is prosecuting Parson Worthington, alleges
that he deceived her by making her a bogus Rosi-
prucian, and giving her a metal pyramid, or some
such marine stores. Also, she alleges that the
following letter was received from him, and that
it confirmed her wavering faith when she was dis-
inclined to lend any more money to the unprofit-
able prophet:—
Isis, mother, Empress. The master waits, the Nile
rises, go at once. Fly swifter than the light, be still as
night, do not excite him. Be calm. The building waits,
the mosque waits, the lodge waits. Before the moon
comes to the disc, now, to-day, offer at once, compel
Osiris to accept. Take to him, or the Nile swallows for
another 1500 years. Alpha, Mooc, The Two Halls, Omega,
Delta.
The good old useful Nile, what a lot of money has
been borrowed on the strength of it ! In such a
case distance lends mystery to the document.
Even the most unaccountable prophet couldn’t
rouse any mystic excitement or abracadabra by
stating that the Yarra was a good deal deeper
than usual, but a statement that the Nile, which
looks much the same as the Yarra, only there is
more of it, isn’t so dry as it was yesterday, has an
element of awe about it, and seems to have a cash
value at times. And Isis, mainly because the
letter “ s ” appears in it twice and gives it a curious
sibillation, has an effect which something equally
ancient, but named Job, could never possess.
If Mrs. de la Juveney was made, as she alleges,
abogusßosicrucian by the Pastor, itshould interest
her to know that she isn’t alone in that misfortune.
A gloomy fact, which has troubled the world for
ages, is that nobody is really quite sure that there
A GAMBLE.
SHE: “ A girl takes great chances on her first
proposal of marriage."
HER: “ Ho you mean if she accepts?
SHE: “ Oh, either way.”
were ever any Rosicrucians. There were certainly
plenty of persons at different times who thought
they were Rosicrucians, being created members
of the order by bogus parties who persuaded
them in return to part with money or beer.
Lunatics, poets, astrologers, long-haired people,
frauds, old women, dreamers, cranks, thieves and
opium-eaters have professed to be, and in many
cases have believed themselves to be, genuine and
original members of the order. But its centre,
business address and duties were never known.
Its office hours seem to have been quite unfixed. The
most probable theory is that it was a tremendous
joke or hoax, like the line of ancient Scotch kings,
and the Tichborne Claimant, and the mahatmas of
Thibet, and Prester John, and El Dorado, and the
hand of the Devil which used to appear above the
Atlantic and haul down ships, and the bogus
Shakespearian plays of Samuel William Henry
Ireland. Another theory is that it was a simple
society of old doctors, astrologers and wizards —a
lot of ancient dreamers who formed themselves into
a sort of Ancient Disorder of Buffaloes to swap
dreams, elixirs of life, philosopher’s stones, corn
cures, spells, magic, empty imaginings, hair
restorers, false teeth, and such rudimentary science
as there was in those days. The Brotherhood is
said to have been founded, if it was ever founded
at all, by a German about 400 years ago, but as
it wasn’t heard of till a century or more after its
alleged formation, and then couldn’t be found and
has never been found since, it is about the most
elusive joke in history. The Germans of olden
times joked laboriously and at great length, and
the Rosicrucians appear to have been one of their
lighter efforts at humor.
Tasmania has its Margaret Catchpole. A
girl of attractive appearance and previous good re-
pute, and who had been masquerading in male
attire, was arrested in Launceston on sth inst., on
a charge of horse-stealing. She had previously
been apprehended at Chu Heigh, but bolted with
the first horse she could lay her hands on, rode
into the city and put up at a big hotel, where,
apparently, she called for her refreshment in a
way that disarmed suspicion.
♦ * * •
The war having ended, the occupation of
many of the Jingo parsons has, to a considerable
extent, departed. Some of the parsons have de-
parted, also, to a considerable extent. But the
Watchman remains.
* * * *
The most Jingo city in all Jingoistic Maori-
land is Auckland, which is always crying out
about making itself an impregnable
naval base—if the Imperial "Govt,
will put up the money. So, when
it was rumored that some of the
Auckland employers had stopped the
wages of their employees for Corona-
tion Holiday, “Paterfamilias,” also
“ Head of a Family ” and “ A Loyal
British Subject,” and other strange
creatures broke out in the public
press, and demanded that these pro-
Boers and public enemies be boy-
cotted out of the place. One of
them retorted that he only followed
the example of the local Harbor
Board, which had stopped the wages
of its men for that very occasion.
The Harbor Board explained that, if
it fell into the practice of paying for
holidays, the extra outlay might lead
to an increase in the rates. And
then the question droppedsosuddenly
and completely that one might have
imagined someone had drawn the
bolt, and it had fallen through the
trap and been hanged. There was
such a great peace that the noise of
a fly’s footfall was distinctly audible.
There are many silences in this world
—a memorable one is said to have
occurred at an Indian railway station,
when a tiger put his head in at the
pigeon-hole and breathed hard on the
tickets, and the Hindu in charge got
under the table andsaid nothing.
But for a real dead silence there is
nothing to equal the Jingo when he
hears that the course he is pursuing
may lead to an increase of the
rates.
The most crawlsome function held in
Brisbane for many a long day was the recent
annual banquet of railway employees. Groveller
after groveller (from a service honeycombed with
justifiable discontent) kissed the boots of the
Minister for Railways and the Philp Cabinet
generally. There was, however, one sturdy fellow
present, an engine-driver, who told the Railway
Boss it wasn’t a square thing to make engine-
drivers work 18 hours at a stretch; that men
sometimes fell asleep at their engines owing to
long hours ; that he himself had fallen asleep on
duty; and that some day a terrible accident would
occur. There was only one skull at this Egyptian
banquet—but it was a big one, and it smelt
horribly.
* • • •
Before Judge Moles worth, recently, at
Melbourne, an old offender with a list of 21 con-
victions (six being for assault) was sentenced to
one month's imprisonment for violently assaulting a
boy, whose leg he broke. One month ! And he
might easily have got three times that for stealing
2d.
A. Theos: Be the
par in Bulletin (6/9/’O2),
advocating the rating of
churches as well as pres-
byteries. It is only neces-
sary to look at the two
cathedrals in Sydney to
see the justice of the claim
that religious buildings
should not go scot free for
the glory of God. St.
Andrew’s, dumped in the
centre of the busiest street
of the city, lessens the
value of all the adjacent
properties for business
purposes, and thus causes
quite sufficient loss of
rates to the City Council
without being allowed to
enjoy all the privileges of
city improvement for no-
thing. Then St. Mary’s
with its school buildings,
which are also free from
rates, occupies the whole
of a triangular block round
which the Council main-
tain three streets and
footpaths, with street
lamps, and the addi-
tional luxury of water-
carts in dusty weather
for the benefit of its
worshippers, school
children, and clergy. The majority of the people
do not go to church, so it seems unfair that those
who don’t use the buildings should have to pay
more rates to allow those who are church-goers to
escape their fair share of taxation.
m * * m
“ Buzz ” writes on a delicate subject:—
Apropos of “ Rude Man’s ” query as to what lovely
woman now does with her surplus abdominal adiposity.
A certain London “figure specialist” has invented a
somewhat terrifying armor-plated contrivance, to be worn
by the over-adiposed female, with a view to dispersing
the objectionable flesh (he calls it “ dispersing,” just as
if the corporation was a North Queensland aboriginal)
“ and distributing it more evenly over the form.”
Another professional figure-maker has patented a corrup-
tion of the Sandow pulley arrangement, consisting of
strong elastic ropes attached to the bedroom walls, at
which the patient (encased in a specially-constructed
metal belt) is supposed to pull 200 times morn-
ing and evening, till the surplus flesh has dis-
appeared, and, to quote the directions sold with
the invention, “ the female form has returned to its
divine grace and beauty.” However, it was reserved
for a Sydney matron to solve the difficulty and discover
the most novel and probably the most certain cure of all.
She is the wife of a hard-headed, middle-aged man of
business, and her surplus adiposity never troubled him in
the least. He received the scare of his life one night,
when waking suddenly he found the partner of his bed
absent and mysterious sounds coming from the hall.
Rising quickly, with visions of robbers clouding his
brain, he struck a light, and then very cautiously glanced
over the bannisters on to a scene he will never forget if
he lives to be a hundred. There was his respectable,
highly virtuous, middle-aged wife, in her night-dress,
deliberately rolling up and down the hall balanced on a
barrel, just as he remembered doing when a youngster.
His first idea was that she was rolling in her sleep ; his
second that she was out of her mind. “My God!
Emily,” he said, “ have you gonemad? My poor old girl,
come up to bed, and we’ll send for Dr. Jones in the
morning.” But the lady only laughed and rolled
furiously; “ Dr. Jones, indeed, much good he is. I
found this out for myself. I’m not mad, Henry, I’m only
trying to reduce my great tendency to heaviness below
the waist-line.” Then she rolled harder than ever.
• * • •
An ungracious Government ! Premier
See, announcing a grant of £25 to the mother of
Heaps, slain by a constable at Ginninderra,
sulkily added: “A sum greater, probably, than
she would have received had Heaps lived.” How
does See know what the poor old woman would
have received if her son had lived ? On this same
basis, the State would pay no compensation at all
for the killing of the son of a millionaire, because
a millionaire’s son, as a rule, doesn’t give the old
man even £25.
Brisbane hasn’t found its highwayman yet.
This was the man who, mounted on a gray horse,
intercepted the pay-clerk of the Gasworks on his
way to pay the men their weekly dole, and
after holding four men magnetised by the
end of his revolver, rode off with a bag contain-
ing £22s—this within the populous area in broad
daylight. Every rider of a gray horse is now
looked on with considerable suspicion by the
pessing citizen, and horses of that tint are going
cheap. It is understood that the police will
leave no stone unturned in the hopes of finding
the robber underneath, and if he is underneath
they will drop the stone down on him hard.
Apropos of highwaymen and such—wasn’t a police-
man named Guilfoyle murdered in Sydney some
time or other, and didn’t something happen to a
gentleman named Tart ?
BEEN THERE.
“ What’s your experience with men?”
“Oh, I find that they often want to he sat upon"
According to a decision of three Malvern
(Vic.) justices, devilish cruelty to dumb animals
may be condoned if the perpetrator is a person
who has been at the Boer war. On a recent
Monday a returned brave, attired in kliarki and
cock’s feathers, appeared in front of said Bench,
charged with cruelly using a horse on 4th March,
1901. The prosecuting constable, who had “saved
it up ” for offender, could not catch him till he
returned from the war, hence the delay. He
described the animal’s pitiable plight after accused
had finished operating on it. It was raked along
both sides by continued use of a pair of flash
“hooks,” had a large bleeding wound on the
hook, withers and back raw and bleeding, mouth
chafed, bruised, and full of clotted blood, and
saddle-cloth soaked with blood. One of the
justices, who saw the occurrence, said “ the horse
had been treated in a terrible manner, and no
man in his sober senses could have knocked a
poor dumb animal about in such a way. But,
under the circumstances, as accused had been
serving his country, and had put in testimonials
of good character, he would be fined 205.” If the
benefit of the doubt was to come in anywhere it
would have been more logical to make the fine £5
extra, on the off-chance that defendant might have
been equally brutal to some other horse in S’Africa
while he was away.
• * * *
The Anglican flock in Tasmania is very
much disturbed and can’t sleep of nights, partly
because of the excitement consequent upon the
arrival of the new bishop from ’Ome, but mostly
because of some nasty remarks made in England
on the bishop’s embarkation. The words com-
plained of were used by Prebendary Bevan in a
farewell sermon to a batch of departing shepherds.
Referring to the fact that Tasmania was not an
easy field to labor in, he said :
Sixty years ago, when Dr. Nixon went out as first
Bishop of Tasmania, and the whole island was cursed by
the consequences of a convict penal system then main-
tained by our English Government, it was a common
saying that there was no God in Van Diemen’s Land, nor
ever would be.
This is indignantly impeached as “extremely in-
sulting,” and Tasmania’s “first families” are
shaking a threatening fist at the British Pre-
bendary, and there is a considerable rattling of
tea-cups and things.
• * * •
Decided by the Supreme Court of S.A.
(following an English precedent) that a man who
wrote across his will a revocation of it, properly
signed and attested, did not revoke it at all.
Because he remarked at the time “ That makes
my old will good,” and the old one had been
revoked by the execution of the new one, and
could not be thus revived again. So he appeared
to have died intestate ; but the Court was quite
sure that that was not his intention, and as it
would not hear of admitting the old will (which
clearly was his intention) it astonished all parties
by pronouncing for the new one.
* * * »
The old members of the committee of
Melbourne Women’s Hospital, thrown out at the
recent election, ascribe their defeat to the rival
faction’s action in making votes by stuffing the
subscribers’ roll with dummy names. If so,
this is a just retribution on those old members
who were so thrown out. The practice of
“Bought Votes” is much resorted to at elec-
tions of honorary doctors. The doctors have
always deprecated this custom —that is to say,
many doctors got in by means of dummy votes,
and then were deeply shocked when other doc-
tors tried to do likewise, and wanted the com-
mittee to alter the mode of election. But the
old committee found the practice an easy way
of raising the wind, and, besides, it was easier
to let things slide. Now it has slid itself.
SPRING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A whiff of rose ; of gold, a gleam,
A bunch of violets and a dream
Of silver through some green—a stream.
A glint of sunlight, scrap of blue,
A song-bird’s throat, a thrill or two—
A burst of song the bright world through.
Some spreading wings thro’ blue skies clear,
A joyous echo far and near
Which says : The Spring, the Spring is here !
HELEN JEROME.


“Travels in West Australia,” by May Vivienne
(from George Robertson and Co., Sydney), is the fruit of
an evidently most industrious and a distinctly intelligent
observation of life in the great Western colony. The lady
has collected her material with great diligence, has
enriched it with some very interesting photographs, and
the publishers have done their part well, with clear print
good paper, and admirable etching. The net result is a
“ chatty ” impression of the goldfields and coastal settle-
ments of W. A. There is now and again a useful hint —
for instance, that the boronia flower should be utilised
for perfume-making. What is said of that might also be
said of the pittosporum of the East Coast and many of
the wattles. But Australia learns very slowly how to
utilise her resources.*
REFORM WITHOUT REVOLUTION.-The
great and particular merit of Hunyadi Janos is
that it relieves without discomfort, in other words,
it effects reform without revolution. This is
because it is the best and safest natural aperient.
' Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address. —
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George-street
or King street, Sydney.*
WORLD
EST
IN
THE
HE
,a£ ,o uSNES f.w t' VER
anP Troubles.
A Roman father of the most cast-iron type
has transpired at the coaly town of Newcastle
(N.S.YV.). There were bailiffs in the father’s
house, and the 21 year-old daughter borrowed £2
to pay them out. In negotiating the loan she
stated that her parent wanted the money, which,
considering the bailiffs, seems strictly true. All
the same, when the Roman father heard of the
unauthorised use of his name, he was so shocked
that he offered, even out of his poverty, to pay
half the cost of prosecuting his daughter and
getting her put in gaol. Trie court looked un-
kindly on the stern old man, but it convicted the
girl, in a technical sort of way, of getting money
by false pretences, and imprisoned her till the
rising of the court. As the court rose immediately,
she ceased to languish in her dungeon after a con-
finement of ten seconds.
* * * *
By way of throwing a side-light on the
value of some identifications—especially some
women’s identifications—a divorce case, heard last
week in Sydney, is worth noting. The story was,
btiefly, that Ann Green had lost the run of her
husband, Bill, for 14 years. At the end of that
Eeriod she seems to have come across a well-known
ydney butcher, also bearing the plain but useful
name of Bill Green, and concluded that he was
her husband. She went further and positively
identified him as such, and started divorce pro-
ceedings against him. Butcher Green had to get
into the witness-box and tell about his whole
career, and his father, and his three sisters,
Du’cibella, Caroline and Augusta Amelia, and
call witnesses to testify to his long and unblemished
career among the chops and sausages, before the
lady decided that she was harassing the wrong
Green. In his case the name helped to bring him
into trouble, but even if a man is named Demitrius
Poliorcetes he isn’t really safe from identification.
* * * *
Jacob Garrard, boss of Sydney Water and
Sewerage Board, reported himself as being too
indignant for words over some recent statements
about the scarcity of water. But Jacob’s indigna-
tion makes no difference in the fact that the
cutting off of Sydney's morning plunge bath is
nowin sight, and if Jacob habitually plunges (this
paper doesn’t profess to know whether Jacob
plunges or not) he ought to realise that the case
has now got so bad that the public is past caring
even if Jacob bursts with indignation. There
comes a time in the affairs of man, especially
when man has nothing on and is standing with a
towel in his hand looking at a dry bath, when he
doesn’t care if he puts both feet on Jacob’s
feelings.
m * m *
Extract from Melb. Age society depart-
ment :
A popular catch now is, “ Whom would you rather be,
a Queen or the most beautiful woman in the world ? ” Of
course, the answer is, “Queen Alexandra, for she is
both.”
What a brilliant joke !
Ihe Sydney Town Hall committee of the
Mount Kembla Fund threw a little cold water on
a proposal to levy on the children in the public
schools, with the result that Education Minister
Perry rushes out with a statement of the £3OOO
odd the children subscribed for the Patriotic
Fund. Instead of allowing such subscriptions to
be a precedent, Parliament should, by a definite
expression of opinion, warn other Ministers from
“getting at” what are really wards of the State
while they are on the school premises. No re-
putable head of a drapery firm or factory would
circularise his staff for subscriptions. He would,
if he felt strongly, show a fine example himself,
and leave his hands to follow if the example in-
flamed them. A Minister for Education might
show such an example to his teachers, but to
employ “suasion ” of any kind upon the children
(who are not his children, and who may be chil-
dren of parents who condemn his opinions root
and branch, or who may be poor children) is an
offence against the spirit and letter of the
Public Schools Act.
/Vpzi "' 1 " J I^’
IFS- f,LI /;Vf to^
ft" 4,
at ll " A^' i,it '^
kit.
weU 0
/\|» ft s J.
“ GawJ ! // / only ’yet c/ear „
o ttio , I'll lever tout!) tx-nott/er drop
is <i 7 T\oYal in thi}, •jo»i |? » , 7 £T v
As a record of doing things in a hurry
the case in Sydney Divorce Court t’other week,
wherein one Mary Johnson asked for the un-
tying of the knot with Thomas Johnson, on the
ground of desertion, brought out something that
would be hard to beat. The wedding took place
in Sydney in 1898, and from the evidence of the
petitioner, the whole business of courtship,
marriage and desertion seems to have been put
through in half-a-day. A little bit from the
published reports :
The proposal came to her (petitioner) between 1 and
2 o’clock in the afternoon, arrangements were made at
3.30, and at 7.30 she was his wife.
His Honor: No engagement before?
Petitioner : No, your Honor.
His Honor : Well, that’s about the quickest I’ve heard
of yet. How old were you at the time ?
Petitioner: Twent.y-four.
His Honor : Old enough to know better. People marry
in this sort of way, and I have to unmarry them.
Petitioner then said that the day after the marriage
her husband told her that he was going to Goodooga,
there to prepare a home for her, but she never lived with
him as his wife. They separated at the church-gates after
the ceremony.
* » * , •
Melb. University Council kicks at con-
ducting the proposed exams, for commissions in
the “Royal Australian Artillery,” remarking
“that the proposed curriculum is of a much
lower standard than its own matriculation exam.”
This means, in effect, that the proposed test is of
so elementary a character that the University
does not want to be mixed up with it. There is,
by the way, a fine financial opening for an Aus-
tralian lad in professional soldiering. With the
idea of making it a close corporation, those already
in it have been, for years, circulating the yarn
that nobody could attempt it without private
means. But, as a matter of fact, a boy of 18 or
19 is asked to pass a competitive exam, the
standard of which is lower than the matric.
There are seldom more than one or two candi-
dates, and the successful one is straightway
appointed (on certain easily carried out condi-
tions) to a billet worth about £3 10s. a week. His
parents have certainly to provide him with an
outfit at a cost of about .£100; but there the
expense ends, and the young man gets yearly in-
crements until, at 25 or 26, he receives about £250
to £3OO. It looks like a fairly easy career for
young, men with not.much brains.
* * • *
There is a muddle over health matters in
Brisbane. The Govt, recently took over plague
matters without abolishing the Epidemic Board—
so the Board lives to levy on local government
authorities, take care of “other” infectious
diseases, and hamper the Health Commissioner
generally. Plague re-appearing found everybody
unprepared. Three fatal cases this season out of
three ! (Last season’s fatal cases were 13 per
cent.) The Home Secretary, Foxton, pulls one
way; the Health Commissioner pulls another
way, and the Epidemic Board pulls any way that
will make them both wild.
* m * *
A close shave. William Henry Chard
married Annie Henderson a quarter of a century
ago, knowing at the time that Annie had been
divorced. But at the close of the quarter of a
century he faced N.S.W. Divorce Court, and
begged Judge Simpson to annul the contract.
The marriage took place August 28, 1876. Annie
was divorced August 25, 1876. That, though a
close shave, looks right enough. But at the time
of his marriage a law called 36 Victoria No. 9 was
in force, and under that law an appeal against the
decision of a Judge sitting in divorce is valid
within 14 days of the pronouncement of the
divorce. Mr. Chard put Aug. 25 under Aug. 28,
placed 14 opposite, and there was his case. His
union with Annie was, he contended, not legal.
The Judge agreed with him and annulled the
marriage.
■» * *
S. Australian up-country police picked a
man up at the foot of the railway steps, and smelt
his breath, and asked him to say “metamorphosis,”
and, when he couldn’t, they locked him up for
drunkenness, and had him “ dealt with.” After-
wards, as his voice was still thick and he couldn’t
walk straight, they shut him up again ; and this
is what the doctor said at the inquest:
He had both eyes blackened, an abrasion on the left
side of the chest in front, a bruise on the left hip, and an
abrasion on the lower jaw, the vessels and membranes of
the brain much engorged and at one point bruised ; in
front of the brain, clots of blood ; the brain on right side
lacerated ; the skull on either side fractured ; at the base
of the skull, a fracture 4in. in length,
and much more.
That frail Reid, the Vic. Minister of
Education, with a view to making savings in his
department, purposes calling upon the inhabitants
of sparsely populated districts to provide the
board and lodging of an underpaid teacher among
themselves. The teacher will receive from £4O to
£5O per annum from the Government, and bed
and pumpkin from the parents of his pupils. He
will be allowed to be a sort of intruder, or un-
bidden guest, or spectre at the feast, wandering
from one house to another till lie works round the
circle of his pupils’ homes and gets back to the
first one again. Ho won’t be able to quit the
unendurable establishment till his time is up, for
he will be a fixture there, eating out an agreement,
and doomed for a certain space to consume
such hash, as comes his way. He will take his
turn in good houses, bad houses, leaky houses,
fowl-houses (or places only fit to be such), and
dirty houses. He will sit successively at table
with all the kids he has justly whacked. Who
would be a teacher ?
The Lost Book, alleged to contain par-
ticulars of some £17,000 worth of Jookoyork cele-
bration expenditure, was referred to in Tas.
Assembly recently. The book, explained Minister
Mulcahy, was last seen alive just before the Duke
left the State. “Put not your trust in Princes,”
casually interjected Urquhart, M.H.A. The
interjection passed, evidently unnoticed, for nary
member smiled, but when next day it appeared in
the papers, M.’sH.A. looked inexpressibly shocked
at their fellow-member’s irreverence, and more
than one in the lobbies regretfully referred to
Urquhart’s “ atheistic tendencies.”
* * * •
“Cash”: Happened into the Supreme
Court at Adelaide one day during the late divorce-
case. Downer was holding forth about some other
case in which a man had kissed a married woman.
“It was in the presence of others. The lady
was in great grief. He merely offered the con-
solation which any man might offer to a woman.”
There was a general laugh. Boucaut sat, chin
on hand and the broadest possible grin on a
mouth that was tight shut, while he looked clean
through Downer. But his expression might have
meant anything, from “What an innocent you
are!” right round to “Well, you ought to
know.” It was inscrutable.
* ♦ • *
The death-list of the Drayton Grange was
eclipsed by that of the Britannic, which recently
arrived from South Africa witli Maoriland troops
on board. Up to date the packing on the Britannic
has been accountable for the loss of 23 lives. A
Royal Commission is now sitting to inquire into
this horror, but the press is not allowed to publish
evidence.
* * • *
The Argus has been industriously collect-
ing evidence to prove there is nothing in the
alleged Newcastle (S’Africa) fracas. Captain
Coutts, “ a recipient of the Queen’s scarf ” (this is
corroborative detail), assured the paper that the
affair was a disturbance between a few Munster
Fusileers and three “totally unarmed” Maori-
landers, who were peacefully buying furs when
attacked. Then Captain Dalrymple supplied
further proof positive: “No lives were lost, and
the Maorilanders were armed with nothing more
deadly than mallets for driving tent-pegs.’ Three
totally unarmed men peacefully shopping with
large mauls!
“Melb.” : In a pawnbroker’s
window to day I saw eleven sets of
second-hand false teeth in a saucer,
Wow-ow ! These must be out of
dead mouths. Nobody grows sets
of loose teeth. Are tombs prised
open to get these teeth or are they
pawned by the broken-hearted rela-
tives of the departed? _ Consider
that as much as eleven guineas—and
how much more ? —may be paid for
a set of false teeth. They are
more valuable than all the rest of
the clay tenement. What’s a poor
woman to do who wants teeth and
sees eleven second-hand sets in the
pawnbrokery ? Prejudice may suc-
cumb. Why should the teeth be
thrown away ? They came out of
some mouth before they went into
the other. They chewed strange
food, and smiled with a pallid
gleam on people that you might
not like your own teeth to smile
on. and they gnashed at strange
creditors. It isn t nice to think of.
Yet everything is secondhand—even
your best girl. Someone else’s best
girl died, and became dust, then
grass, then cow, or wheat, and your
best girl was sustained by that cow
or wheat, and she is really the
previous girl dished up again.
Rumored that George Adams
intends to invite the Australian
Council of the W.C.T.U. to after-
noon tea at the Marble Bar, when
a “ mission” for the benefit of
clergymen and old women will be
opened by a Man. Subjects for dis-
cussion: “ Abstinence and its effects
on the morals,” “ Sunday-schools
and embezzlement,” “Smoke here
or Hereafter,” with a concluding
rally on “ Sour Grapes.”
“ Gumieaf ” writes about certain obnoxious
and over-rated animals :
To what extent are house cats, dogs, and other pets,
responsible for the spread of filth diseases ? It is admitted
by medical men that, many of these animals are subject
to the same diseases as mankind, but that phase of the
question is of comparatively small importance. No one
denies that they are capable of conveying diseases of all
kinds from one place to another and from one person to
another. That is the serious feature of the subject.
The germs of tuberculosis, fever, plague, and a -hun-
dred other diseases, may be carried about in the hair of
cats or dogs. It is utterly impossible to limit the wander-
ings of these dissipated hangers-on. The cat that this
morning lies purring on her ladyship’s lap, and the dog
around whose neck baby has thrown his arms, may have
been flirting in the dirtiest corners of the city during the
night.
Dogs, and even cats, have been useful to man. In a
barbarous age they took the place of the municipal rub-
bish-man and desiccator. Dogs and cats are still useful
to man in the country. Especially is this the case with
the dog. Ho helps man to manage his sheep and cattle.
In big cities, however, cats and dogs are not only
useless, but they are a positive danger. Unfortunately,
they are not only a danger to the dirty people who keep
them, but to their cleaner and more civilised, neighbors,
who do not. Modern science has shown the importance
of cleanliness ; particularly where human beings live in
great masses. Modern health authorities, therefore
insist upon people keeping their drains and back-yards
clean and wholesome —and it ought to insist on their cat
and dog being clean also. It is apparent from the num-
ber of fiith diseases still recorded in the big cities each
year that the clean-living portion of the community
must, in the interests of public health, take far more
drastic measures with their dirty fellow citizens than
hitherto.
Medical men declare that the fleas harbored by cats and
dogs also transmit diseases from one human being to
another. The feasibility of this view is plain. It cannot
be healthy for one to have his cat or dog bring along to
the house the fleas that have been on a plague-stricken
person or a leper. The beeping of cats and dogs is noth-
ing more than a custom. If it were only a silly one like
the church custom or the belltopper custom it would not
matter.
THE POCKET MONEY.
“ Give us something io spend, ilad.”
“ All right, my hoy, here you are—the usual
percentage, you know!”
NATIVE ROSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s another native rose,
Flirting in September
(Wise indeed the flower that knows
There’s another native rose !)
Ere the early summer goes,
Kiss, and I’ll remember,
There’s another native, Rose,
Flirting in September 1
T.
J.D.


Dress Fabrics
Are Stocked bv the
.4 Leading Drapers.
tradimAkTHE varnished board
SET OF TEETH ONE GUINEA
Absolutely Painless
Beautiful and Lifelike in Appearance and Guaranteed Perfect Fiti
Extractions and Stopping's Guaranteed.
Special Attention Given to Regulating Children’s Teeth.
Mr. J. SPENCER NOLAN, R.D.S., Surgeon Deitiit, 43 Qxfo d-sL Sydney.
Sold by all Drapers and Hosiers.
KNEIPP LINEN
UNDERWEAR
Cool. Clean. Unshrinkable.
J. McBRATNEY
Melbourne: 321 Flinders Lane
Sydney: 380 Ceorgre-street.
T -° Wine & Spirit flerchants
And the Trade Generally.
We have pleasure in announcing that we have
secured the services of
Mr. JAMES RAYMOND
in connection with the management of our
Wine and Spirit Department.
SWIFT and COY.,
Indent
and
Commission
Merchants
7 Spring St.,
SYDNEY.
FACILE PR INC EPS.
SEMPER IDEM.
WHISKY.
A WOMANS LETTER.
Sydney, September 16, 1902.
My Dear Arinx—
A wet garden-party at Govt. House in a bril-
liant raoe-week is reminiscent of a bird of paradise
after a hose has been turned upon it. The rain
that spoilt the Rawsons’ party last week started
to fall at the time —ten minutes to three—when
the majority of the invitees, dressed all for the
blue unclouded weather and dry lawns, were on
their way to Cranbrook. The harbor steamers
were full of pretty, perishable gowns and dis-
appointed faces afraid to leave the shelter of the
cabins. For between the steamers’gangways and
the cabs out on the road there is time for rain to
ruin a frock, a hat and a sunshade. As for those
persons who were in trams when the rain started
—well, between the tram terminus and the shelter
of Govt. House many expensive dresses and sun-
shades were ruined, and became draggled shocks
and wrecks. At four o’clock the sky was again
but not the faces of the persons principally
concerned.
Not a patent-leather pressed the lawn, but
drawing-room, billiard-room and hall were packed,
for about 700 of the 1500 or so invitees turned up.
No peacocking of your beautiful new train was pos-
sible ; you just folded it round your feet and pon-
dered on the awful mismanagement of Persons
Unknown in sanctioning rain on a Govt. House
garden-party day. Most of the 700 got to the
refreshment tables and did a vigorous cake walk.
Those who got cards for the G.P., yet whose
nanies did not appear in the newspaper lists, are
paid out this time for their discourtesy in not
replying in proper time to the vice-regal invita-
tions. Some persons didn’t reply till 48 hours
before the G.P. occurred, so their acceptances
were not handed to the “ gentlemen of the press.”
I visited a somewhat literary household the day
before the wet party, and found the daughter of
the house trying to fish up a pen out of a full
quart bottle of ink, so that she could write an
acceptance of the vice-regal card. “ I hadn’t any
decent paper to write on before now,” she said, as
she fished with a slip-knot of string and finally
‘ got a bite ” with the glove-stretcher. There
were five other pens down in the bottle. When
she had dried her recovered handle and inserted
the one good nib she possessed, and taken a dip
into the quarter of a yard of ink, the nib broke
against one of the remaining snags. By the time
her note reached Govt. House, the party that
didn’t garden was one with the Transvaal war, and
Xerxes, and other back numbers.
The Tennysons occurred at the party, and Sir
Harry presented Her Ex. with a basket of prim-
roses. In any little attention like this the crowd
always looks for the illustrious father sig-
nificance, and some were asking “ was it His
favorite flower?” One woman, who had rushed
through (the index of) her Tennyson before
starting, asked the son of his father : “Isn’t this
gathering a Dream of Fair Women?” Pity he
didn’t reply with the name of another of his
father s poems, “ My life is full of weary days.”
Probably the rain of Garden Party Day was
precipitated by cannonading in celebration of
Admiral Beaumont’s rise in the Viking peerage.
His Ex. is now a Vice-Admiral. He and his
calm-faced American wife (who, the members of
the Sydney Women’s Club say, talks like a bar-
rister) will go hence, probably in January, and will
be replaced, also probably, by Rear-Admiral
Atkinson-Wdies, whose ships disturbed our fish
and our maidens some years ago. He married
Miss Alice Mort. Her late pa, T. S. Mort, stands
in stony effigy in Macquarie-place, Sydney, round
where the cheap ’bus drives it® three skeletons to
Circular Quay.
Farewell of the A.J.C. Spring Meeting last
Saturday. The Governors’ families and suites left
very early. A race crowd soon spots and nick-
names anything remarkable in the way of dressing
on the lawn. “Rhoda under the Pagoda” was a
lady with a tucked chiffon sunshade, perfectpagoda
shaped. Another woman soon beoame known
variously as Lady Gold (from Aubrey Beardsley’s
picture), “The Yellow Gohanner” and “The
Golden Butterfly.” The dress hailed from New-
castle, and it did Newcastle proud, for its wearer
has a very fine figure, and her frock—long, trailing,
golden—was beautifully made, trimmed length-
wise with black lace; and the train stood out
with a proper air of hauteur. That golden climax
simply dominated Randwick. One pretty, unob-
trusive dress was trimmed cape-fashion round the
shoulders with acorns of pink silk in gold cups and
oak leaves of gold thread.
Outside theatres and racing it has been a
phenomenally dull Spring meeting. A few
society hostesses entertained “a few friends,” so
the society columns say, at a dance, or a launch
party, or a picnic to National Park. Otherwise,
things were flat and sepia-toned. JVIr. Hennessey
(wish Mr. Dooley and his Mr. Hennessey would
come along), of Three Star Brandy fame, who
arrived by the China on his first visit to Australia,
has been watching our racing, and has expressed
himself as surprised and delighted. He had an
idea that we raced on bush tracks, with shearers for
jockeys, and horses bridled with strips of stringy
bark. Mr. Hennessey is a young man, ratlier
foreign-looking and very well-dressed, and he is
more at home talking horse than phylloxera.
A London paper of standing It is evi-
dent that art and literature will be honored in
the reign of Edward VII. Miss Marie Corelli
will be present at the Coronation as the King’s
guest, and so will Madame Bernhardt.” Marie
then, represents English literature; what an
injustice to Guy Boothby! Talking of Miss
Corelli, a literary Australian woman, now struggl-
ing in London, got a letter from her and sent it to
Australia to be read and admired by her dearest
woman friend, adjuring her to return it by next
post as she valued it enormously. The friend duly
read, admired, and returned it —after she had cut
off the signature for her autog? aph book.
Will Sydney women please follow Mrs. Presi-
dent Roosevelt’s lead and adopt the sunbonnet for
out-of-door morning wear. They couldn’t copy a
more becoming fashion. Made of fine muslin
and trimmed with lace, the usual objection of
weight cannot be urged against it. By the way, I
see that the cable joker’s statement that the
.rresidentess had left her home rather than meet
and entertain a frisky Grand-Duke has been taken
quite seriously—in Sydney, at least. Already a
tew editorial comments have been made, extolling
the ladys courage; and in private there is a
universal uplifting of the voice of praise. “If
only such a stand were taken here,” say the com-
mentators, “we wouldn’t see men of social
standing—married men, some of them—parading
the lawns at Randwick with bold, beautifully-
dressed ballet-girls.” Personally, I don’t for a
moment believe that Mrs. Roosevelt left her
h °Tkr j tJie reason misstated. If she did, and
PP ,: x , H le fact, there might be an interruption
or diplomatic relations. Besides, suppose our own
visited New York, would she let the dead
past bury its dead, or remind the world of his
frisks of younger days ? This story is on a par
with the £6O per year dress-money fiction.
Almost daily I used to see A. B. Worthington
crossing m the N.S. ferry steamers. A tall,
erect, gracefully-built man, no superfluous flesh ;
lean, clear-cut, clean-shaven face, quite unlined,
and free of any suggestion of grossness; and
square, prominent chin; the mouth with close-
shut bps. Face and figure might be those of a man
ot 00. His hair was quite white, and of the usual
manly cut._ There was nothing of the church or
stage in nis dress or (steamboat) demeanor, but
he always attracted attention, and the under-
toned guesses at his identity were interesting.
1 m sure he’s something at a university,” was
one, and the general opinion vaguely left him
at a scholar.” Pie had a man-of-the-study air
until one met his eyes—grey or blue, I think.
• °i-u an f lc l ul fy behind them, no steadfastness
m pee gaze, they were bright without being clear,
quick-moving without suggesting strenuous
thought, bn allow, unmeditative eyes, and want-
ing m sincerity; very alert as to glance. Still,
there was no mark of the Beast on Worthington.
He was often accompanied by a damsel of about
, °. r always the same damsel, a simple-
looking simply-dressed one, who used to gaze
adoringly at “the Master.” He must have had
what, for want of a better name, we call “mes-
meric power ” over his followers.
One woman I know, a woman with a strong
mind and an educated brain, telegraphed to me to
come to afternoon tea, that she might tell me of a
beautiful phrase the Yankee Chrysostom had
used m a sermon : “There was the Door to which
J- round no Key” (with the remainder of the
verse). ‘That’s a crib from Omar,” said some-
one, and got a book to prove it. The Master’s
new disciple was so infatuated that she said we
were jealous, and that Omar had stolen it from
A.PS. Vv. and she left me to pay for the tea.
Mr. J. 0. Williamson has bought the Holds-
woi th property at the top of Ithaca-road, over-
looking Lhzabeth Bay, and will move in there
next month. It is a big red mansion, with good
conservatories and grounds. “Ithaca,” his pre-
sent bydney abiding-place, which he bought some
years ago from Mrs. MacQuade, will be auctioned
to-day (Thursday). Architect Pitt, who designed
the Princess Theatre in Melbourne, has been in
bydney planning the re-building of Her Majesty’s
for Mr. Williamson.
Those who were at the Sydney University
commemoration last year, when degrees were
conferred by the Duke of York, may remember
Mr. J. J. Walsh, an elderlv man amongst all
those young ones, who received his degree of B.A.
His courage was admired, and great applause fol-
lowed him. He did not live long to enjoy his late-
acquired Arts honor, for his death occurred last
week at the age of 64. Mr. Walsh had been
teaching since 1862, and for 10 years, up to ’99
was headmaster of the Redfern Public School. It
was when he retired four years ago, at the age of
bO, that he took up Art studies.
Whom the King delights to honor! Melba,
who arrives to-day, has the vice-regal cars at her
disposal all over the Australian railways. A
London correspondent of a Melbourne paper says
that among the presents handed to Melba at the
moment of leaving London were eleven gold
pencil-cases set with jewels, several rings, and a
diamond and turquoise necklet, besides fruit,
flowers, and wine. There is a happy land every-
where for the great singer. Melba was born in
1865, it seems, so she is coming to us in the prime
of her voice. Well, I have no gold horseshoe
handy, but I’ll contrive one of golden daffodils to
the repatriated Australienne. Welcome, Melba !
Miss Vida Goldstein, who passed through
Sydney the other day on her way back from
Washington, gave an interviewer some interesting
information about the happy lot of the American
woman. As thus : “It is an absolute fact that
the American men treat the women splendidly.
Ihe home life is most beautiful. The women are
comrades in every sense to their husbands.” Then
further along : “It is extraordinary to see the
way the American men work. They are off to
their offices by eight o’clock in the morning at the
latest. Again: “They (the men) devote their
lives to making money. . . . Having made their
money they are more ready to turn their attention
to j üblic affairs. I hut accounts for the freedom
of women. The men make the money and the
women spend it.” Three queries arise out of
this yarn : How does the American man accumu-
late money if his wife spends it ? What kind of
beautiful home is it where the man is at his daily
grind by 8 a.m. and hardly sees his home in his
haste to get dollars ? And what kind of woman is
it who finds such happiness in being married to a
mere dollar-shark ?
. The Orphan’s Fair, which holds the Town Hall,
is a huge bazaar, and a Tivoli Theatre, and a
concert, and a race-course, all under one roof. Go
and see the show, for it is a worthy charity, and
unsectarian. The loveliest lace, fine as a mist,
may be seen at Mrs. Phillipson’s stall. It is
made at St. Martha’s Home at Leichhardt, where
are fashioned nearly all the swell trousseauxordered
by Sydney brides. St. Martha’s Home is, as well,
a servants’ training school.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ The baritone of the Melba co. lias arrived.
He has a presence—is swagger, with fiercely
brushed-up moustaches, dark-hued and rather
handsome. His tongue lisps no English, and the
night he arrived, messengers were despatched for
Ernest Collins —Musgrove’s right-hand man—to
say a ‘How d’ do?’ and play the polite in the
gentleman’s vernacular.
“ Pa Mitchell (Melba’s dad) grins hugely at the
moths that swarm about the family-welcome
candles. ‘ None of these people wanted to know
me, or bother about me before, and I’m dashed if
I want them now.’ And so the swarm of syco-
phants are scorned by the grim old gentleman.
Mrs. lorn Patterson the best-known of the
Melba relatives —went to Sydney on Saturday to
meet the star, and was seen off by a host of gush-
ing friends. The Pattersons, like the Mitchells,
and all the rest of the clan, are simply overwhelmed
by the claims of friendship put forward since the
first Gabriel trumpet-tootle of Melba’s coming.
“Miss Secretary Fraser, of the Presbyterian
Ladies’ College, is another one fretting at the
claims made upon her by mythical school-chums
of ‘ dear old Nellie Melba.’ The lists of subscribers
to that superfine clasp souvenir, and the list of the
old she-collegians to ‘receive’ the diva, have
closed down on many bogus claimants.
“ Hibernian faces in all parts of the Town Hall
at that Hospital concert given by Miss Castles
and co. last Wednesday. The faithful clan turned
out in force to support the waning Amy, and the
Melb. Hospital fraternity helped to pack the
place. Nurses, in clean-looking prints and with
white satin bows astride their nobs, dis-
pensed the greenest of Erin-go-bragh programmes,
at sixpence apiece, and raked in the shekels.
The audience was not smart, save in patches, and
mostly used its brolly and its welted sole to
emphasise approval. Judge Williams’ family
provided one of the smart patches. The bride-
elect of the family was as gorgeous as dove-grey
silk and chiffon and a towering Sarah Marlborough
head-dress could make her. Clerics loomed up
like cypress trees in a balcony-scene of floral
mountings.
‘ The pilgrimage of Castles and co. through the
backblocks wrought certain changes. Miss Amy
herself substitutes a quick, lively tread on the
platform for her former graceful if apathetic
saunter. She takes her vegetable trophies, too,
more readily—perhaps because they are harder to
get than of yore. The clever and pretty Maud
Dairymple grows smarter and sweeter vocally.
Una Bourne vanishes to a shadow.
“Woolly Scherek’s little girl—Paula—proved a
rather clever and very confident debuting fiddler
at the Castles’ sing-song, though she was a poor
substitute for Nora M'Kay. Paula is in her
teens, and just passed into the long-frock stage.
Pa Scherek’s excitement this night showed in the
extra flushed cheeks, the spasmodic brow-
wrinklings, and the extra dressiness of the white
mane.
“ There was much neglect about the V.R.
arrangements that Castles night. In the first
place, the visitors from Guv’ment House walked
in without any National Anthem. No Governor
should have to walk in without that music, or how
are people to know that he is a great man ? Then,
as the musical Clarkes courteously and patiently
waited till the concert’s very last tootle, they had
to defend themselves from a pushing, boisterous, ,
rough-handed throng. Their exit in this way was
undignified, and all the lean Capt. Vallange’s
scornful looks fell on the scrambling crowd heed-
lessly. His long hands swam out from time to
time to break the tide that foamed around his
V.R. charges, but the side strokes were futile, and
the Clarkes were hustled.
“Part of the affectation of the tea-room business
is that the ‘ attendant ’ doesn’t choose to be
regarded as a waitress, but as a professional lady
of the same grade as an actress and liable with her
to ‘stage-fright.’ One relates how, at her first
‘ appearance, ’ a panic seized her, and fear rendered
memory a blank, and limbs inert. When she
managed to control her perambulating parts, and
walk to the table where some people had just
taken their seats, she found her tongue glued to
the roof of her mouth. It must be a very nervous
young person indeed who is thus stricken dumb at
the dreadful responsibility of carrying around tea
and cake.
“ Mr. and Mrs. Sandow, despite their six years
of wedded life, are loving as a honeymoon couple.
Each possesses, deservedly, the undisguised ad-
miration of the other, and they are ‘ dear ’ and
‘ darling ’ to one another till one thinks of the
other strong men of history and remembers how
Samson, Hercules, Theseus and the rest were all
slaves, drawn by the single hair of beauty. Mrs.
S. watches Eugene leave Menzies’ with the scrupu-
lousness of a valet, and fixes his tie straight, and
removes the last speck of dust from his beautiful
clothes before she permits him to appear before
the world. And Eugene himself is a man who
knows the value of appearances. ‘ What do you
smoke?’ asked an admirer at his private display.
‘I prefer a pipe,’ replied Sandow ; ‘ but you can-
not smoke a pipe in the street, so I generally use
cigars. ’
“ The Oaklands Hunt Club had a big crowd at
its Moonee Valley races on Saturday, but smart-
ness took no part in the dress show. Even the
contingent of hunting women couldn’t boast a
first-rate frocker amongst them. A theatrical
charmer took the cake with a clerical grey hairy
garb, cut according to the broad Yank fashion,
and having a Vandyck tracery in black on the
skirt, and some pink velvet pipings in the vicinity
of the neck and shoulders. With it went a big
French hat of coral felt, banked up with clumps
of coral chiffon.
“The first Melb. audience to see ‘Sherlock
Holmes ’ was the least fashionable that Her
Majesty’s has seated for many an opening night.
The dry, detective name did not appeal to the
chiffon duchesses. Only one girl-matron, gorgeous
as a bit of Japanese tapestry, shone with any
lustre. Her golden thatch showed up in the in-
terval illumination like jocund day on a misty
mountain-top. Miss Janet Waldorf sat in the
circle, her hat on her knees, and a woebegone look
m her intelligent eyes.
The imported Yank., Cuyler Hastings, is
something new in stage heroes. He has strange
ways, and a habit of avoiding direct talk or pose
to the audience. He says his best things with
closed eyes and a masked face. He is dark,
melancholy, pallid, and not so good-looking as
the camera makes him. His ease is marvellous.
So are the bass and baritone tones of his voice.
He fits the part so well that the wonderful science
of discoveries, with eyelash quiverings and nail-
specks for ground-work, seems in no way absurd.
“.Loose garb is to reign in the coming hot
season. The er—er —stout part of the human
frame disappears, and a waist belt is drawn down
over the obliterated region. Sac coats in grass-
lawn and holland are to the fore, and big bell
sleeves, Russian blouses, and transparent yokes,
collars and neck bands, all combine to give com-
fort. The most approved head gear inclines to
bread-platter shapes, the sauces and soup straws
having declined in favor. Trimmings are flat;
the towering mast sails are off.
“Harcourt Beatty, whose reserved, rather
frigid role as the philosopher of the ‘Men and
Mice’ bill, fails to get home with any but the
studious and the dignified, reminds one all through
the performance of Joseph Carne, one of the finest
actors ever associated with the Broughs. In
manner, in gait, in gesture very oft, Carne appears
in Beatty ; but the latter lacks the other’s charm
of voice and the sweetness that his face ever
caught in love-passages. But Harcourt is con-
vincing in intense passages, and at his best in
moments of dramatic force.
“ The sentimental sigh for more tender nestling
in ‘ Men and Mice.’ It provoked the multitude
to see the giddy Nell and the dissolute Charles
part (in the last play) after winning their hard-
earned solitude, without any hugging. That sort
of thing annoys one. It isn’t a likely thing, and
it isn]t fair. In ‘ Men and Mice ’ there are only
two instances of what golfers would term ap-
proach. In one case, the Professor adjusts a cloak
on the sobbing Peg’s pretty shoulders, and he
distantly, reverently, fearfully twines his arms
about them, looking over her head the while, as
he stands at her back and leans timidly towards
her. But Peg gets alarmed at this touching atti-
tude, and the hugging is switched-off just as it
promised thrillfulness. The second occasion is a
real hug and one brief kiss which Peg gives her
young lover. There is one faint attempt at a
nestle on the Professor’s part in the last act, but
as it takes a purely platonic hue the sentimental
Miss is not interested.
“The Rupertswood Bracelet stakes for the
Findon Harriers’ swagger races are on show in
Collins-street, and are most glittersome gew-gaws.
Madame Rupert remains longer abroad, having
booked herself and young sister for the Delhi
Coronation spree, for which all fashionable India
will put on a clean pinny of cloth of gold and
rubies. The rest of India will tighten the string
of its pinny, as usual.
“Two of the most chic frockers and formerly
fashionable girls in this Parliament city, have
started a petticoat and blouse business, which
Sassiety promises to patronise. A petticoat
shop ! It was destined to come. Never in the
variable dress chronicles of past centuries has such
great prominence been given to the petticoat. Nor
does this scribe remember seeing in any old world
(that is, the skirt-world) picture the slightest
inkling of under-frills, let alone a bare-faced strip
of petticoat. No matter how the beauties bared
their shoulders, they observed a certain propriety
(in pictures) over their petticoats. The next step
after a bare neck was absolute nudity. Now,
dozens of photos, to-day favor the dress-sacrifice
and the under skirt display. The train is gathered
up and the petticoat exhibited.
“This week saw the end of the Geelong golf
contest, and Mrs. Harry De Littlb (the smartest
squatteress in the district), who outpaced all the
local and visiting players in the handicap struggle,
capped her contest with the championship in the
special crack match. Mrs. De Little’s play broke
the record, and all suburban club glories fade
beside her Geelong achievement.
“ Since artist Longstaff has been deputed to
transfer the features of Royalty to canvas some
Melbourne people find new cunning in the Vic-
torian's skill. Down at Brighton, where Merchant
Butler resides in state, a life-size painting of Mrs.
Butler by Longstaff gains of late much notice.
Visitors find new cleverness in it, since the
painter’s accession to Balmoral Castle honors.
(Continued on page SI.)
The public is informed that Mr. W. A.
Burton has no authority to act as a representative
of The Bulletin.
The latest recruit over whom Yic. teetotal
goodies are rejoicing is little “Alf” Bailes,
M.L.A., who seems to have joined them out of
his enmity to the “tied” houses evil. Bailes, a
genial soul, formerly a Bendigo pub-keeper, and
before that a local pressman, was about the last
man in Yic. politics suspected of the cold tea and
groans disease.
A graceful form and well moulded bust
are essential to perfect beauty. Lacte, the
wonderful “ Skin Food ” is nature’s remedy for
giving back those essentials when lost through
sickness or action of time, and for supplying them
when constitutionally deficient. It fills all hollows,
develops and gives a charming roundness to neok
and arms. Price 7s. 6d. per jar, post Bs. 3d.
Westall Guest, Toilet Specialist to the Gov.-
General, 229 Bourke-street, Melbourne.


Hotel
Australia
RATES:
12s. 6d. per Day,
and upwards.
“ THE AUSTRALIA ”is loftily situated; from
its dome, the Pacific Ocean can be seen, and the
whole of Sydney.
To its favorable and airy position, “THE
AUSTRALIA ” adds every comfort and appoint-
ment. It is fireproof from tower to basement;
and an efficient staff patrols the building day and
night. It possesses the most elegant of drawing-
rooms, handsomely appointed dining-rooms, cosy
bar lounges and winter gardens. The system
and attendance of the hotel are unsurpassable.
J.. URE SMITH (Late of Menzies’), Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Under Doctor’s Treatment.
When you take Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills you are practically under the personal
care of the great Scotch surgeon. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are tne favorite prescription
of the famous Edinburgh University doctor.
They actually make new blood—and good blood is the only cure for skin com-
plaints, indigestion, palpitation, nervousness, headaches, and backaches.
These are all diseases of the blood —and they have all been cured by Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills.
When you take Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills it is just the same as if the doctor visited
you and prescribed —only it’s not so expensive.
Mr. G. Griffith, March, near Orange, says: “Liver troubles affected me seriously for five years. I grew weak
and nervous. Sometimes I couldn’t stand through strange attacks of h 'art palpitation and dizziness. I suffered so
much from indigestion that I couldn’t eat meat. At night f couldn’t sleep, and I became thinner and weaker. Doctors’
treatment and medicines didn’t cure me. One box of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills helped to enrich my blood —four boxes
cured me. Now I have a good appetite, sleep well, and am brighter and stronger than I have been for six years.”
From chemists and storekeepers and the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney, 2s. 9d. per box, six boxes 15s. 3d.
%
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Obit.: Mrs. Mary Macdonald, alleged to
have been the first female white child born in
Maoriland (in 1830, at Hokianga).
A Melbourne politician declares in writing
that it is “an outrage to pay a mere clerk in the
Civil Service £4OO per annum.” And how do you
think he spells “ annum ? ”
“ Coghlan, the Quetelet of Australia ” ;
“Parkes, the Gladstone of Australia”; “Gordon,
the Swinburne of Australia”; “Lawson, the
Kipling of Australia”; and so on. Even Lombroso
falls into the banal habit.
Mercer, Tasmania’s new Anglican bishop,
is a brief round person, with a self-satisfied expres-
sion and the air of having just finished a good
dinner. He presents a fleeting resemblance to a
low comedian of the George Lauri type.
Not often in Australia or anywhere else
does a boss get such a certificate as was awarde 1
this month to the late William Rome, mine
manager of the Broken Hill Central, when a fine
monument was bought by nearly 400 former
employees and built over his grave.
There was very great hesitation and some
delayonthe part of the S.M. Herald in chronicling
the bankruptcy of the man whose downfall was
due to lending money to Congregational Pastor
Tremayne Dunstan. The S.M.H. proprietors
“ sit under ” a Congregational pulpit.
At Sunbury (Vic.) cemetery, the other
Sunday, death came to a local identity named
Parkin just as he had finished shovelling earth
into the grave of an old friend. Stepping away
from the grave-side he fell down dead, the result,
seemingly, of his getting mentally and bodily
distressed before he had digested a “hearty”
Sunday dinner. How many people have shortened
their lives by the hearty dinner habit. And the
hearty supper !
Worthingtoh, the apostle of “Trewth,”
now up to his neck in worry, bears a striking
resemblance to Joseph Carne, the grave, grey pro.
whom Brough brought to Australia. Carne once
complained wofully that he had been forced to
keep under cover in Maoriland, especially in
Christchurch, because every time he ventured on
the street he was rushed and forcibly embraced by
some plump, middle-aged dame or another who
insisted on calling him “the Master.”
A CURE FOR JIBBERS.
MOTHER: “ You little wretch, come along at
once ”
THREE-SHEETS-IN-THE-WIND-BUSHMAN: “If he
won’t — hie — lead, missus, just you light a bit
o’ fire under ’ im, that ‘ull — hic—liven ’im up .”
Melbourne pressmen describe the manner
of Premier Irvine when asked for news : “ Was
there a meeting of the Cabinet to-day ? Er—let
me see. Yes —no; that is to say, there was a
meeting of the Cabinet.” “Is there anything to
communicate? “Well, I think—no, on the whole,
I’d better not.” Well, yes, I might. Er—let me
see. No, I don’t think I will. You see, there’s
an important constitutional point involved.”
Recently cabled that Premier Seddon sent
a farewell message to the people of Great Britain
through the newspapers. He said that lie
thanked the people of the Motherland for their
hospitality, which Maoriland considered as a
compliment to herself. What a monumental
instance of ‘ ‘ swelled head ” is Seddon’s !
Over in Arkansas passed out lately Oapt.
John Hallahan, who had roamed a good many
Australian mining fields, and in the end got to the
White Feather (Westralia) with the first of them.
He could not settle long at anything, and at last a
spell of soldiering in Cuba sent him home an in-
valid to crawl out the rest of his days at health
resorts.
The N.S.W. “naval” forces take them-
selves very seriously. A Gazette just published
sets forth that two Sydney doctors retire on the
rank of “fleet surgeons,” another person on the
rank of “ fleet engineer,” and a fourth individual
gets back into humble civilian life as “chief
gunner.” Problem: Find the guns and the
engines and the fleet.
A story of hard luck. An olden-time pros-
Eector in Stawell (Vic.) district got it into his
ead that a group of little hills, regarded locally
as barren and hopeless, contained good gold He
fossicked round for two years, during which time
his wife and three youngsters just about starved.
At last, he came home with specimens worth, at
least, 20oz. to the ton, but would not divulge the
locality of the find until he had put his pegs in.
His wife, on waking next morning, found him
dead. He had taken his secret with him, and his
lode, if it was one, is still missing. This sort of
thing is Nature’s idea of humor.
Not often a layman gets thanks from a
judge for advocate’s work, but 16 years ago some
came the way of A. E. Sawtell, a S. A. chronometer
maker. With remarkable pertinacity and some
skill Sawtell championed the side of the “con-
tribs.” in the Commercial Bank of S. A. wind-up ;
and Judge Hay not only gave him a little out of
his vast store of grease but ordered the estate to
bear the layman’s expenses. The incident is
revived by Sawtell’s death the other day in Ade-
laide. The principal in said bank-smash, by
the way,'isn’t nearly so far outside Australia as
most people have supposed, and his position is
very modest indeed.
Judge Boucaut, who tried the interesting
Adelaide divorce case, of which all Australia has
been talking, on the verge of 72 remains virile,
alert, and incisive. Many think him a hard man ;
but be really isn’t,
though he is absolutely
unemotional, matter-of-
fact, and a detester of
shams. Though fairly
well-to-do (he breeds
high-class horses as a
paying recreation), he
has always kept right
out of “society.” Of
all things he hates
“ side ” most. When
not at work he has been
happiest on his yacht;
and his bronzed sons
follow him in devotion
to the sea and aquatics.
Once he was suspected
of inclining to a repub-
lican Commonwealth of
Australia; and his re-
ligion was set down as
“reverent agnosticism.”
He became a lawyer 48
years ago, and has been
a Judge for 34 years,
which latter beats the
record of Yic. Judge
Williams by three years,
and N.S. W. Acting-
C. J. Stephen’s by nine.
Ho w jokes travel
and change. Late Judge
Cope, of Victoria, told
present writer about 20
years ago a story of his
experience as a barrister.
He had helped a man—
a butcher by trade—out
of some trouble at a
county court, and was
being driven by him
back to hotel. Client
was grateful, and, as
Cope declined a gift-offering, said: “Well, then,
take this tip —never eat sausages in summer.”
This joke, varied but not improved, appeared
recently in an English snip paper as having come
off “at Tynemouth the other day,” and was
transferred to the Saturday comic column of the
Sydney D.T. Where did Judge Cope get it?
Probably from the Talmud !
Dr. Backhaus, a R.C. priest of Bendigo
(Vie.), who died in 1882, left large properties in
Bendigo to accumulate for 20 years. The time
has now expired, and £BO,OOO becomes available.
The money doesn’t go for roads, irrigation, or
suchlike plain, useful purposes; the Church
swallows it.
N.S.W. ex-Judge Wilkinson, whose de-
cisions when on the bench were pretty often dis-
puted, once professed to have doubts about the
existence of a material hell, and on a trip to Eng-
land consulted the late Cardinal Newman on the
point, but got no answer except “to pray for
guidance.” Returning to Sydney, he had a
talk with the late W. B. Dailey, hoping to
raise a theological disputation with him.
But Dailey refused to be “drawn.” “You
may not believe in a material hell now,”
said the monkish-looking little man with a
twinkle in his eye, “but, believe me, in
the next world you will, when you are con-
fronted with the shades of the many liti-
gnats who were the victims of your extra-
ordinary decisions.”
“ Hermes ” has a reflection :
One of the best assets of a dynasty is a long list
of dead princes, slain in battle at the head of
their country’s troops. Imagine the moral effect
had that deadly search-light that suddenly
flashed over Magersfontein glared on the figure
of a British prince shouting to his men not to
run, but to lie down and shoot, or charge the
rifle-pits; and later on that prince had been
found dead in those same rifle-pits I It might have pro-
longed the life of English monarchy another century. But
no British princes do these things. They figure as Field-
Marshals, Generals, Colonels, Admirals and Commanders ;
they wear bushels of medals and orders galore, but they
do not wear the V.C. nor do they carry scars. Truly
one distant, poor relation did die of fever on the West
Coast of Africa, but he was so far removed as not to
count. The Princes are found everywhere but at the
Mauser point.
The founder of Margarey’s mills,
whose flour did much to make the reputation
of South Australian wheat, died in Adelaide
at the end of August, after many years of
retirement. For a time Mr. Margarey was
associated in the milling business with John
Ridley, the man who claimed to have made
the first reaping or stripping machine.
Like most of them, he found the handling of
wheat a very risky business.
Tasmania’s new Bishop, Right Rev. Dr.
Mercer, who was enthroned at Hobart, the other
day, with considerable pomp and ceremony, hails
from Gorton (England). He is accompanied by
his wife and three adopted daughters. Tas-
maniennes were getting ready to give the dear
bishop a hearty welcome till the announcement of
the “three daughters” item modified the enthu-
siasm considerably. Bringing three more un-
married girls to Hobart is a superfluous proceed-
ing.
The deceased David Cohen comes under
stamp-duty in N.S.W. to the extent of £52,840.
Altogether he left behind nearly a quarter-of-a-
million. All the N.S.W. Cohens did well at
storekeeping—their Maitland, Tamworth, New-
castle, and Morpeth businesses served as a solid
stepping-stone to' larger ventures in England.
David, Abraham, Louis, Samuel and the rest
counted money in five figures. Even Mr. Justice
Cohen did a share of lucrative work behind the
country-store counter.
“ Zasa ” : Re Ernest Weaver, mentioned
in B. (19/7/’O2) as the murderer of the captain of
the schooner Colonist:
He is still in gaol, at Suva. About a year after his
incarceration, a small one-roomed house was built in the
gaol-yard, and then a high wall was erected around it.
In this prison within a prison Weaver was immured—in
solitary confinement. The official reason for this has
never ieaked out. Things don’t leak out much under
Crown colony government. The leading Suva newspaper,
at Coronation time, published a letter suggesting that
Weaver be set at liberty, but nothing has so far been
done in the matter.
A Hobart policeman, on wharfside duty,
the other night, stumbled against something in the
darkness. Suspecting a drunk, and observing
that the prostrate one was dangerously close to
the water’s edge, the bobby laid hold with the
object of dragging the weary snoozer out of danger.
But it felt wet, globular and shiny; moreover, it
barked at him ; so he let go and ran for reinforce-
ments. A lantern revealed a monster seal, which
was cold-bloodedly slain. It is supposed that the
damp one was on his way to Parliament House,
looking for Fysh.
The Melbourne widow who parted with
£1096 to Prophet Worthington states that his first
appeal for temporary assistance was quite modest.
He wanted only £2B, because he was “behind
with the rent ” of the rooms where he babbled his
Mahatmatio religion. One would have thought
that even a widow would find it hard to develop
a mystic faith in a man who borrowed money to
pay the rent and offered her a mundane bill of sale
over the furniture, but the lady went on supply-
ing coin until she believed herself to be‘ a high-
priestess of Isis or something.
“ Wreford of Moorara,” who died on the
track going home from the abortive Broken Hill
conference over the shearing row, was one of
the half-dozen best-known men west of the Dar-
ling. A fine judge of horses, he imported a few
good ones, and bred more. Though he had few
rows with his workmen (one of the oldest of
them dropped dead on hearing of his old boss’s
decease), it was at Moorara that about the most
daring and sensational stroke in an Australian
strike was aimed—the burning of the river-steamer
Rodney, laden with non-union wool.
A FAMILY AFFAIR.
MONEY BAGS : “ You shouldn't come to your
father-in-law like this and ask him to put
you on your feet."
IMPEOGNE : “ Why not? It was your daughter
who put me on my uppers."
A hard old pioneer passed out, the other
day, at Omeo (Vic.). “Yankee Bob” Fordyce
was on all the rushes of the early days, spent
money as fast as he made it, was a hard drinker,
and the best poker-player in the district. Lat-
terly he had been out of luck, and when he broke
his right arm t’other day he refused to see a
doctor, because he was unable to pay for his
services and would not accept charity. After a
fortnight of suffering the tough old man (he was
69) tried to blow himself up with dynamite, but
only suoceeded in burning himself badly. Taken
to the hospital, “Yankee Bob” seized the first
opportunity to get out of bed, and sprang head
first through the window. The broken glass cut
his throat, and the valiant old poker-player died
in 20 minutes.
•Frank Moore, who was sentenced to five
years’ imprisonment for threatening to murder
M.L. actmg-Premier Ward, but who subsequently
was pardoned on condition that he forthwith left
the State, has come to Australia. When the M.L.
Judge, after a jury had brought in a verdict of
guilty, gave accused five years, he doubtless
believed that it was merited. When the M.L.
Cabinet afterwards pardoned Moore, it apparently
did so on the ground that he wasn’t fully respon-
sible for hisactions. But after coming to the conclu-
sion that the prisoner was too irresponsible to be
held accountable for his doings, Maoriland made
his release conditional on his clearing out to some-
body else’s premises, to be dangerously irrespon •
sible there, and so threw the burden of its
generosity on a foreign State which hadn’t the
slightest say in the matter. And it didn’t even
give Australia warning by putting him on the
ship’s manifest as “ one irresponsible character,”
along with the potatoes and things.
John M‘llwraith (brother of Andrew and
the late Thomas), who dropped dead at Ayr
(Scotland) railway station last week, was one of
the first Australian manufacturers to discover how
far the Yanks had improved on the old-fashioned
British machinery. The machinery for lead-
rolling, etc., which he introduced into Melbourne
in ’76 was mainly copied from ’Murkan models,
though, like a loyal Scotsman, he had it made for
him at his native town of Ayr. M‘llwraith
served the land of his adoption by getting his
raw material from the lead mines of Westralia,
and running his local manufacture successfully
against the imported article. The Melbourne
Lead Works of to-day (established in 1855) are a
respectable monument to his memory. In his
middle-age, Mac. took a hand in Melbourne
municipal affairs—mayor for 1873-4 —but from the
time when he became partner with his brothers
and Malcolm M‘Eachern in the MTlwraith-
M'Eachern firm, he didn’t figure much outside
the commercial circle. In every circle that he
entered he was the same old, hard-headed Tory.


QUALITY AND FLAVOUR UNSURPASSED.
MACON OCHIE’S
DELICIOUS TINNED FISH.
Swift & Company, 7 Spring Street, Sydney, Australian Agents.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager
DAVID STOHER & SONS’ ln Three Colors - BLACK ’ BEP and BLUE
Registered
Trade
Mark.
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE
Wool-
Marking or
The Perfect Sheep-Marker, SHEEP BRANDING OIL.
Kept by ALU MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors.— ln the case of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
“Oktis”: The phenomenon of springs
re-filling in drought-stricken districts has repeated
itself in the Young (N.S.W.) district, where the
waterholes along certain creeks—in granite country
—have filled up without rain. The waterholes,
for months, have contained more water than in
many previous years.
SHE DIDN'T UNDERSTAND.
SHE (to owner of prize rams) : “ Oh, Mr. Smith, I suppose you will yet a good
price for those sheep this year with meat so high?”.
Some reminiscences of the cow and the
wilderness :
Dear Bulletin,—" Quartpot ” (8., 21/6/’O2) is quite right
about D’Arcy Uhr bringing the first mob of cattle through
from Queensland, but he mixes things up. Uhr brought
the cattle through for Dillon Cox, about May, 1872. W’e
bought some cattle from him then on the Roper. His
brother brought another draft through in 1873, when I
was on the Roper re-poling the overland telegraph line.
Phil Saunder and Adam Johns came through by them-
selves —they had no mates.
JLatour, Elvey, Nation and a boy, I forget his name,
left Queensland in the beginning of ’74. Nation, an old
man of about 63, and Elvey, only went to help Latour
with the cattle—Bo head. They had a row at a place
since called Settlement Creek, and from there Nation and
Elvey started to strike my camp on the Roper. They
had two saddle-horses and two pack-horses. They got
bushed in the Coast Ranges, where they had to kill the
two pack-horses and live on their flesh. Then they killed
one of the saddle-horses, and dried his flesh. Elvey left
half with Nation, who could not travel any further, took
the remaining horse, and rode until he struck my line,
and, luckily for him, some bullock teams under the charge
of Mr. James Aldridge.
I went out again and found Nation’s body, and I buried
him in some ranges, which I named the Nation Ranges,
about half-way between the Limen Bight and the Mac-
Arthur River. On that trip I named the Rosy, Aldridge
and D’Auvergne streams—can’t call them rivers.
There was no black killed wantonly, or otherwise, on
the Roper in my time. “ Quartpot ” writes from hearsay.
Bill Batten, not “ Ballon,” was killed on his way back,
but to settle all these confused stories about the N.T.
would take too much space.—R. R. Knuckey, formerly
officer in charge O.L. Telegraph Construction.
“ Oktis ” : lie “T.N.’s” complaint (B.
16/8/’O2), the present drought is not as severe as
many shorter droughts of recent years. There is
enough fodder grown in N.S. \V. in a good season
to feed (if it were saved) all the cattle and sheep
in Australia for years. Australians will never
store up for a bad year. They let their grass dry
up and blow away, or be swept off by bush fire,
when it should be in stacks. They let their straw
rot in the paddocks with the autumn rains. They
sell their wheat and hay for rioxt to not hing when
it is plentiful, and buy it back at treble the price
when the dry time comes. They are constantly
doing it, and all the years of heartbreaking ex-
perience has never taught them the necessity for
saving fodder.
* * * *
“ 6xB ” : Just now the West is a fine field
for vegetarian apostles. To one western town
frozen mutton is imported from Maoriland. In
Bourke meat is 7d. a lb., and only one butcher
open now ! Tinned dog is too dear to be even
thought of by the workless and penniless popu-
lation, while kangaroos, emus, wallabies, rats
and “gohannas” have long ago given up the ghost
round here. Yet we read in the dailies that
Australian mutton is firm on London markets and
in good demand at 4Jd. a pound !
* * * *
“ E.S.S.” : Be aboriginal twins (B. 6/9/’2).
They occur often enough, but are seldom reared.
I knew a gin at Yalpunga, north-west N.S.W.,
who, some years ago, gave birth to twins, and
killed one of them immediately afterwards. An
inquiry followed. The gin pleaded inability to
rear and transport two at once. This system of
regulating the family according to circumstance is
common all over Australia.
* • • *
According to the tracker’s account of the
Kenniffs’ capture, the Queensland police fired a
dozen or fifteen shots, and yet the K.’s surren-
dered without a scar on them. Also at Capella
(Q.) poisoning case, the poisoned water caused the
death of dozens of horses, cattle, sheep, and goats,
but did not kill the policemen, although they drank
it. After all, it takes a lot of things to kill a Queens-
land policeman, and a lot of policemen to kill any-
thing.
* * * *
“ Taniwha ” (M.L.), re recent “ B.” refer-
ence to young Maori party :
Culture among
the Maoris is no
more a success
than it is among
other aboriginal
races. An edu-
cated Maori who
sits in the M.L.
Legislature dis-
appeared for a
whole session re-
cently, and was
found to be
spending his
time in primi-
tive fashion in
the far northern
bush. Even Mr.
Ngatu, with his
University de-
gree, was among
the foremost
painted warriors
who performed
and yelled at
Papawai on the
occasion of Gory
Dick’s bellicose
speech there.
As regards the
survival of the
race by inter-
mingling of
blood, the situa-
tion was aptly
illustrated at a
meeting of Euro-
peans that was
addressed by
“young Maori”
leading lights.
One speaker en-
larged upon the
great advantage
that would flow
from an admix-
ture of blood.
“ Why,” he ex-
claimed,
“ should not the
European set-
tlers choose
wives from the
Maori race and
rear splendid
families of half-
castes?” (Tre-
mendous ap-
plause.) “ And
why,” he continned, “should not the young Maoris
go forth and choose brides from among the families
of pakeha settlers ? ” The dull thud of silence with which
the latter question was received quite damped the orator’s
ardor, and the remainder of his speech was lost on un-
sympathetic listeners. The love of the white man for the
brown woman is 0.K., but when it comes t o vice-versa
the ugly word “nigger” creeps into the discussion, and
blood-blending is “ off.”
• • * *
More matrimony. “ Taiki ” writes from
N. Queensland: —
He had been dying for weeks, and each night she
brought the children to the bedside to say “ good-bye,”
in case he should be dead in the morning. Once she even
sought her neighbours to rejoice with her, for he had
passed away. The joy was short-lived, for on entering
the death chamber the supposed corpse sat up and
yawned. They fled precipitately. One woman had not
joined the happy throng, but, gathering fair white
flowers, had formed a wreath ; armed with this, she also
went to view the corpse. The sorrowing wife took the
wreath, and, in answer to the donor’s flattering words of
sympathy, said : “ He isn’t dead yet, but soon must be.
I’ll put the wreath in the cellar, and water it for a day or
two.” On the seventh day the corpse, refusing to die
any longer, got up and walked. Finally, the woman who
made the wreath died. The wife, being a frugal person,
had kept the foundation of the wreath, so she in her turn
culled fair white flowers, trimmed it afresh, and, casting
a reproachful glance at her husband, placed the symbol
at the feet of the maker. N.B. —This story has haunted
me since I have been here. They showed me the man
who should have died, his wife, also his cellar. Probably
they would have shown me the woman, but she had left
no address behind.
MORE UNEMPLOYED.
“Owing to the high price of feed and the depleted condition
of funds it is proposed to get rid of some of the animals at the
Zoo.”— Daily Paper.
ROMEO (breaking down): “ Alas I Juliet , there's
nothing left for us but the street barrel-organ;
and already I can smell the greasy Italian
grinder .”.
“D.H.R.”: The other day a good old
joke happened again. If the boss had been a
regular reader of The Bulletin lie would have
recognised the joke, but he didn’t. A man,
mounted on a broomstick, and dragging after him
an old box limb, tied to a piece of string, -accosted
a squatter on the station verandah and requested
permission to put his two horses in the squatter’s
paddock for the night. “Poor fellow,’’said the
.storekeeper, who was standing by. “Demented ;
bad case.” “Yes, my man, you may put your
horses in any paddock you like, ” said the squatter.
The crank beamed on them both, then uttered
several short yells and jogged along on his broom-
stick. Next morning an irate boundary-rider
demanded from a traveller, camped in the bend,
who gave him permission to put his horses in the
paddock. “The boss did,” said the man ; “ask
him.” “Yes,” said the squatter, an hour later.
“I did give him permission to put his horses in
the paddock. Poor fellow; he is a sad case.”
And the boundary-rider went away and hit him-
self hard against a tree to find out if he was
awake.
“ Werrimee ” : The “ marvellous
power” which Mr. M'Cooey attributes
to the aborigine (23/8/’O2) may be ac-
quired with little training by the
average white man, and is possessed
by nearly all pugilists. They don’t
watch the movements of the
other’s hands —they watch each
other’s eyes. The eye’s glance
anticipates the hand’s action;
and it is this, not the pencil,
that guides the aborigine.
“Form” in cricket is also de-
pendent on the eyes; one doesn’t
I'org ;t how to hit during a long
spell, but the eye “goes out,”
and practice is necessary to
“get it in” again. I’ve played
cricket, and I’ve fought in a
roped ring; and if M‘Cooey will
meet me in The Bulletin’s back-
yard, I’ll convince him that I can
tell where he’s going to hit every
time. [The Bulletin ain’t got no
backyard.—Ed. B.]
“Gouger” writes from White Cliffs
(N.S.W.): —
Just a fact or two. Our much-talked-of famine was
mostly talk. About the only article we were ever short
of was bread, and this only for a week at most. We have
been too much dependent on stores and bakers for our
supplies, delivered daily at the door, and so were caught
napping, but if we had just kept a week’s supply of flour
the necessity of threatening to eommunise would never
have occurred. An abundance of all other requisites was
always procurable—spuds, onions, and vegetables of all
kinds being plentiful. Chaff was certainly high ; only
one store had it, and it made good use of the opportunity
to pile it on. Saturday (Aug. 30) brought a few showers
and gave us about a month’s or five weeks’ supply of
water, so water-carting from Ford’s Tank, 10 miles dis-
tant, is done away with. The yarn of all our young men
having cleared is all bunkum. Opal is still coming in,
and I do not think the amount unearthed lately is any-
thing behind the usual thing. Of course, a good rain
would largely increase our population, and this, of neces-
sity, would mean that a wider field would be prospected,
no doubt just as good as the few miles now known. In
my opinion, there is a great future before the field.
Dear Bulletin. —A frequent cor-
respondent of yours (“ Yarrowee ”) says,
in a recent issue of a Sydney weekly, that
though thoroughly conversant with
mattei's aboriginal, he never heard a
native use the “coo-e-e” call, nor has he
known of any white man who has so
heard it. Well, his experience doesn’t go
for much, seeing that the call is con-
stantly used by the blacks of the Mus-
grave Ranges (S. A.), and of Petermann
and Rawlinson (W.A.). Have heard it
myself repeatedly used by Rawlinson
blacks who knew no word of English. I
was also four months in the Barron
Ranges in ’97, and the natives who were
friendly invariably “cooe’d” when ap-
proaching the camp. Clean across tne
desert westwards, at all the rock-holes
and “soaks,” we heard this cry—
“ Coo-o,” and “Coo-e-e,” being probably
the same in origin, with the termination
accidentally altered. By the way, re the
bell-bird, which has been unmercifully
treated by aboriginaliars in your columns.
I can’t declare whether the male or
female bird performs the bell-imitation,
but I know I’ve been “ had ” frequently
when hunting for camels. The Westralian
bird may be different from the Eastern
variety, but I feel riled to read the sneers
of one of your contributors at “a duffer
who could be misled by the notes.” At
a distance the “clonk,” “clonk” is
exactly like a bell sound, but when near
the bird seems to say, “ Won, won, bur-
illo,” the “bur-illo ” being rather low and
throaty.— S.
* • * *
“E.S.S.” : Be eel and snake
par. (23/8/’O2). All Australian snakes
are swimmers, and any of the various
species may be seen swimming idly
about in rivers or creeks on a hot day. An eel,
which eats almost anything, could easily capture
one. On the other hand, eels frequently leave the
water, particularly at night, and crawl about in
the soft mud on the bank. They have also been
dug out of mud, alive, long after the water lias
dried up. As they are slippery customers for a
snake to deal with, however, I presume it was a
dead one that “Boko’s” snake was in the act of
swallowing. Eels float when they have been dead
a while —wild cats don’t.
* * • *
On the tame hawk question two correspon-
dents write :
“ S.F.” : In your issue of 6th, a correspondent asks “ if
any reader can say whether hawks kept in gardens will
keep other birds out.” I know of two cases where these
birds were kept, but as soon as the other birds got used
to the hawks, they came in droves just the same.
“E.M.P.”: Re hawks versus parrots. A neighbor
(Western District, Vic.) kept an eaglehawk chained in his
garden, and its performances, on the whole, appeared to
be fairly satisfactory. I obtained smaller hawk about
size of cockatoo whose performances on the whole were
fairly imsatisfactory. Didn’t seem to frighten the pests
worth a cent. Didn’t chain him. He was tame—too
tame—idiotically tame. He moped round the garden for
about a week, and then becoming despondent at his ill-
success, suicided in a tub half full of water.
WHAT HAPPENED TO THE MAN WHO
TRIED TO COMBINE AGRICULTURE
AND POULTRY-FARMING.
Lake George (N.S.W.) has gone dry for
the first time in 52 years. It was dry from 1845
till 1850. It reached its greatest known extent in
1874, and has been fading steadily away ever since.
Therefore it would seem that the present drought
isn’t really responsible, but that Lake George was
a perishing institution in any case. Possibly the
destruction of timber by settlers had reduced the
rainfall just sufficiently to let evaporation beat it
by a short head. Lake George is one of the pro-
posed sites of the Federal capital, but its name,
technically speaking, is now Mud. The Federal
city wants to be located beside permanent water,
and this year’s experience has shown that the
Snowy is almost the only permanent water in
N.S.W.
“THE COOMA SINK.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was a grand
Old smooging hand,
A whaler from a foreign strand ;
Along the Murrumbidgee’s flow
He’d humped his blue an age or so.
The city youths were ’mazed to see his beer’s incessant
come and go.
“ You fellers think
That I can drink—
You should have seen ‘ The Oooma Sink.*
His name was Joe, a whaler gay,
What whaled from Gunderoo to Hay.
That man would drain a brewery dry, an’ think he'd had
a droughty day I
"Up somewheres near
To Yass last year,
A train let slip a cask o’ beer ;
The barrel cantered down a bank,
And never started bung or plank.
’Twas eight-foot round the bust, an’ held just half as much
as Hooley’s tank.
‘ ‘ The devil’s luck
Was Joe’s ; he struck
That keg. They chased it on a truck,
And found him hoisting it to drain,
In answer to their words profane,
He dumped it on the fence and said: ‘Hie! mishus, fill
’em up again I ’ ”
SILAS SNELL.
AN AGRICULTURAL VILLANELLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Stir yourselves about
When the season’s good—
Always comes the drought!
When the heavens spout
Every month a flood,
Stir yourselves about 1
Best of seasons out
Fool you never should—
Always comes the drought 1
Sow, when past all doubt
Nature’s in fit mood—
Stir yourselves about, —
Reap and store, to rout
Times that drain your blood—
Always comes the drought l
Almost could you flout
Dry times, if you would
Stir yourselves about! —
Always comes the drought!
ULOOLA.


A Drink!
A Tonic! A Medicine!
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Call for WOLFE’S Schnapps and make sure that
you take nothing else.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
A BUYER’S
EXPERIENCE.
“I am pleased to inform you that the watch
has given me entire satisfaction.
“ I served for a period of 15 months with the
N.S.W. 2nd Mounted Rifles in South Africa, and
used the watch during the whole of that time;
and although it had a lot of hard usasre, and was
wet several times, once through my having to
swim the Yaal River, it has kept splesndid time,
and I have not had to have it regulated.
“ I can thoroughly recommend these watches
to anyone requiring a strong and accurate time-
keeper.”
The Watch referred to was one of the celebrated
“ Fx. & R.” Watches, 15 Jewels, 30/-, steel cases.
The same movement in Silver Open-face Case,
42/-. In Silver Double Case, 50/-.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
2 3 HUNTER STREET.
London
Prices.
Plain
Figures.
Strictly
Cash.
Gent’s Silver Lever, Hunting Cases, 15 Jewels - 50/-
Gent's Silver Lever, Open-face, 15 Jewels - - - 42/-
Gent’s Oxidised Lever, Open-face 15 Jewels - - so/-
They kicked up a beautiful row at Mil-
parinka (N.S.W.) the other day; but because they
don’t keep any lawyers within 200 miles they
dropped it after the first round. (Milparinka is
alongside Tibooburra, which is not so far from
Wompah, which you go through to get to Boulia ;
and if you don’t know where that is you are Lost.)
This was the point: Who owns a meteor ? Accord-
ing to the account one fell near Milparinka lately,
and, it being the only fresh arrival in two years,
the population took a few days off and rode across.
Then they got down on their heels, and after they
had each drawn a sketch-plan in the dust and put
in the pegs the trouble began. Finally the court
decided that it belonged to Billjohn—or Jimbill;
it really doesn’t matter.
* • * »
“The Bogan": Re drought-straits. I
recently saw a man in Peak Hill (Q.), bringing in
a load of belar leaves, if you can call them leaves
now, to try and keep his horses alive; they feed
belar out of a nose-bag so as not to waste it. But
even belar is getting scarce in this locality. All
the squatters and cookies hereabouts have started
shearing their paddocks. All they want to take
the wool off is a bag and a shearer who knows the
dead sheep odour at long range. There are no
strikes in this part. The smellers-out of dead
sheep have no union. They are not skilled arti-
sans. Any man who has had experience of
snatching cockroaohes off the butter knows all
about the game.
A PICTURE FROM THE WEST.
Dad fells the last bi' of scrub for the last horse.
“ Werrimee ” : Re shearing tallies (8.,
28/12/’01). At Barenya Station (Q.), on 19th
Sept., ’95, eight men averaged 236 each; on the
20th, 26 men averaged 175 each; and next day
J. Power shore 315 mixed sheep in less than eight
hours. The previous best record was Jaeky
Howe’s 321 in Bhr. 40min. He afterwards sur-
passed this at Alice Downs, on the Barcoo, shear-
ing 327 full-fleeced sheep in 7hr. 20min. At
Relalie, Warrego River, 1884, Sid. Ross shore
nine lambs in 9min.; and at Evesham, in 1886,
Jimmy Fisher shore 50 lambs in one run before
breakfast (lhr. 15min.). At Charlotte Plains,
Warrego, in 1885, Alex. Miller shore 4362 sheep
in three weeks three days—an average of 203 per
day throughout the shed. “Long” Maloney
shore 22,000 in one season in S. A., Victoria, and
N.S.W., making a little cheque of £2OO. In 1876
Angus MTnnes shore against Jack Gunn at Par-
ratoo (S.A.) for £5O, when the former shore 180
sandback wethers in one day, and nearly killed
two boundary-riders because they had no more
sheep in. At Fowler’s Bay, in 1874, “Long”'
Maloney shore 11 big wethers in llmin., using a
pair of Ward and Payne’s 38’s. At a shed on the
Paroo, in 1884, seven—namely, Allan M'Callam,
Bamphil (“ The Warbler ”), jack Lynch, Jimmy
Donaldson, “Warrigal Jack” M‘Donald (the
“Barrier Ringer”), “Long Bob” Hobbs, and
Jack Reid—shore 1540 sheep in one day—an
average of 220 per man. At Parelli, on the Lower
Warrego, in 1885, Jack M‘Donald (the “Splinter”),
weighing 6st. 91b., shore 187 full-fleeced wethers
in 7hr. 30min. The above records were mostly
made in Warrego River sheds. If particulars
were forthcoming, we should find that equally
big tallies have been made in the old sheds of
N.S.W.
*»**•
“ Mao B," > The Faruborough sugar plan-
tation (Yeppeon, Q.) and the surrounding cane-
growing farmers are making a good thing this
year, They are feeding thousands of sheep from
the drought country, Sugar-eane is worth 10s. a
ton delivered at the mill, whereas, cut up into
chaff for fodder, it is worth 30s. a ton, There is
no waste, as the tops are cut up as well as the
eane. There is to be no crushing this year.
2* * * *
“ Kea ” (M.L,) : The two brothers M‘Par-
ritch, after scraping in the one gully for 32 years,
found they had eaeh hoarded just enough to pre-
vent their receiving the old-age pension, Sandy
get his wits to work and formally handed over his
wealth to Jamie; and three months afterwards
Sandy eelleeted the first Govt, siller and divided
it with his brother. For five months, on the first
of each month, did Alexander MTarriteh regu-
larly present himself at the little local post-office,
hut on the sixth occasion he was missing. Jamie
came instead, and showing his brother’s papers
pleaded the latter’s illness. He got the siller,
pocketed it, and then got the local bobby to go
out to their hut. They found Sandy a corpse ; he
had been dead for at least three days. James
admitted that he had a tough job to keep Sandy
alive till the 28th. “He was aye a selfish man,”
said J amie.
According to a Maori correspondent in a
Maori paper, there is quite a track worn by the
ieet of the spirits of departed natives making for
Te Reinga. The way is marked for them by
knotted flax, which never comes unravelled, and
never decays; and they go down into the tumbling
waves over a precipice of rock, swinging them-
selves by a rata vine that grows in a place the like
of which no other rata ever grew in. The nearest
Maori settlement is 15 miles away, and sometimes,
impelled by an awful curiosity, the bolder spirits
have watched and seen the shades go by.
* * * *
“ C.P.” : If managers in the Gulf country
get £l5O a year (“ Trotter” 20/7/’2) they’re lucky.
Man with stations out from Townsville tells mo
that local (Bank’s) station-managers get £6O and
a black boy; cook for themselves, and loaf on
their neighbors at mustering-time.
* * * ♦
“D.H.R.”: Has any Bulletin reader
ever found pelicans’ eggs ? I have lived for years
where the birds abounded, and have seen plenty
of young ones, but have never found an egg nor
heard of anyone who had.
* * * »
Of 283,777 miles of country held under
lease in the N. Territory at the beginning of last
year 133,344 miles has since been thrown up.
Most of this was never used ; southern speculators
simply got their claws on it in the
hope of an indefinite something
turning up, and, as usual, nothing
did. Even now, of 168,549 miles
leased, only 28,820 miles (or
l-18th of the Territory’s total)
is stocked. Cattle prospects
up there are a lot better than
they were, though ; and if
the stock could be got, there
would be a good deal of
spreading-out. As it is, the
big prices are drawing all the
surplus southward over
36,000 head passed the border
in the year, and there are
buyers hovering round wher-
ever there are fats awaiting
first news of rain on the stock
routes. There are probably
in the Territory now 185,000
cattle and 7500 horses. The
sheep number only 300; the
goats 8000.
In all 491,376 rabbits were despatched
from five stations on the Western line to Sydney
during the last four months —the figures being:
Perth, 260,876 ; Locksley, 52,300 ; Brewongle,
8000 ; Raglan, 5000 ; Tarana, 165,200. Trapping
and despatching of “bunny” is quite an industry
inN.S.W. now. A future heading, “The Great
Australian Rabbit Industry.”
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted , whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un -
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
E.R.L.: A man taking a contract to build a
fence is a contractor, not a laborer, in the eyes of the law,
even though he does all the work himself. He loses any
common law rights which he may have as a laborer
T.R. N. : Sunset rather hackneyed ; takes a big-gun poet
to say anything new of a sunset A.0.M.: If you let
the people in and they behave themselves decently, it’s
not fair to refuse them naturalisation. The best thing is
to keep them 0ut.... Y.C.M. W. : Poem about the modern
Mrs. Potiphar, who died from heart disease in the moment
of temptation, not suitable for B. ; try a religious paper.
“Verb. Sap” : Well, if a word is sufficient to a wise
man you must be a fool, for you take 207 to express your
opinion A.B.P. : Files have a value and you probably
could sell them by advertising ; if you wish to give them,
there are lots of people ready to take them. Or
what about sending them to one of the Benevolent
asylums? Duby: Not fair to throw a brick
vaguely at all country hospitals because of one
A.G.S.: you tell us, in all seriousness, that “the multi-
plicity of literary competitors has proved a veritable gold-
mine to judges of voice production.” How much a year
could a man make by being constantly employed in that
gold-mine?.. ..Ada L. : Not well enough done Bam-
boo : Good idea, badly worked out M. Trigan : Style
too stiff and prosy... .R.A.K. : Mechanical humor only.
Merrirnae: You maybe “ Mac,” but you’re far from
“ merry.” I.K.D. : Large vague whoop about nothing
in particular Oily B. : Too long and lumbering
J.D.A.: Couldn’t print that on your mere say-so Ajax":
You contradict yourself with great success Lucinda :
Faint and far-off little thing,,,. H. C. Clive : Good enough
material, but no force or spirit in the treatment Sap-
ling : Not enough in it Reflex : Returned accordingly.
Style too heavy and formal L. Carroll: Electioneering
has the bones of a good yarn, but the flesh isn’t there.
Needs re-writing... .Man and the Horse: Will print
story. Can’t address you by name, as signature looks like
thesonof a pothook by its mesalliance with a centipede. .
W. Thomson: “Bulletin or basket.” Basket it was
accordingly.. ~B. de V.H. : Nothing to apologise for ir!
keeping on trying, Not up to mark yet, though
Alene : “Metamorphosis” is below your usual mark.
......John Turner: Bather laborious humor....
Dux : Very wishy-washy... .Feeme : Syntax sloppy and
execution indifferent Nullica : Effect strained and
handling clumsy... .D.H.R. : Par. good, story bad, verse
worse. .Artemis : Only mildly funny W.G. : Ingeni-
ous, but quite out of our line Shadow : Some grace
and pathos, but not enough story Mabel H. :
“Slashes” rather feeble and pointless.. ..A. Car-B. :
Style too formal and stilted. Don’t remember the verses
you mention... ,W. J. Donald : Not quite up fo Bulletin
standard G. B. Lancaster : One returned, others held
for Consideration Laura D. : Rather conventional in
subject and crude' in treatment Jabez B. : “Tracks”
too fragmentary....A. Dyke: Not up to the metrical
mark.. .Agnes M‘K. : Hardly rises above doggerel level...
E.A.R. : Not bad for a “prentice hand.” Will be con-
sidered G.G. : For Heaven’s sake get off the kiss
NOT ON THE MAP.
FOND AUNT : “ You had better stay a few days, Willie."
BILL: “ Can’t —got to go back to yakker to-morrow.”
FOND AUNT: “Good gracious, where is that place? I never heard of it before.”
subject.... Darul :It was possibly interesting enough in
1863. But that’s 40 years ago, nearly N. : Yes....
Box : Hardly so funny as it might be W.G.P. : Not
strong enough. Make good hymn Percy Milne : Many
good lines, but too carelessly and roughly strung to-
gether D.K.I. : Try again—something hot quite so
fragmentary as “Balcony.” W. J. : Will print
“Cockie”—the one who said, “Wot’s the use?”
Marion Barr : Mixed-up kind of thing. Practise
coherence and consecutiveness W.K. : Interest nob
robust enough Lord Bob : Some humor, but grievous
lack of skill... .E.H.B. : Latter part rather good ; the
rest is strained and superfluous Mac (M.L.) : Neither
quite suits us ; but they are not ill-written, and should
have a chance elsewhere W.S. : None of them usable.
You lack the literary gift Jas. McM. : Can't make
head or tail of it C.C.H. : Not enough body in it
Jonah: Lacks soul Indra : Unequal, and, on the
whole, not up... .E. Mac. : A mere piece of foolishness...
Maude : Some imagination, but the pathos is thin and
conventional... .Chas. O.G. : Thanks. A mistake, as you
supposed.. ..Brieco : Too awkward and shapeless
E. : Idea not bad, but you don’t make enough
of it Edgar O. : Your prose is slightly better
than your verse—though that’s not saying much.
....Geo. VV. : No literary value H. : Thanks
Pioneer: Point rather obscure. Also, dialect should be
very distinctly written West-Coaster : Matter already
dealt with Boland N. : Thanks; but fear it is im-
practicable... .Angus N. : Too vague and sloppy....
F. : Has some erratic merit. You would do better
with more self-restraint of style H.W. : Dull and
spiritless.. ..Darby J. : But, instead of starting at the
root of the matter, you begin way up amongst the
branches... .Bob the Banter : We’ll try dynamite on it..
..Sigma: Fire away. We can stand abuse—though we
can’t, stand your verse Matchbox : “ Lightning Train”
is g00d.... Nada : Will print “ My Home ” in a few weeks
Fair Play : Why send us the condescending assurance
that “Shearers are not ail bad?” Send along some evi-
dence that the Pastoralists’ Union isn’t quite so disreput-
able as it looks, and you will be more interesting
Pippa : Shows some promise, but you have a long way to
travel yet Miss H.: Not suitable.... Thos. K. (S’Africa) :
Thanks, very much .. .Unsuitable : Maggie K., J.E.A.F.,
E. J., J.K.S.. ..D.M.: “ Cheek ” hardly cheeky enough....
A.8.M.: “ Sheep in the Thicket ” would leave the public
in a thicket as to its meaning A.A.K.: On a good tack,
but not enough finish ; and the revealing prattle of the
daughter strains probability too much Nymsie : Why
send long extracts from Bit-Bits as pars ? Waif : Good
facts, but dribbled out to inordinate length.. ..Stray:
Considering “Mark” with a vaguely favorable feeling
Burrabogie: A question which cannot be definitely
answered, because there’s no chance of experts agreeing
on the point. Melba may, however, be considered the
world’s present best dramatic soprano.;. .0.H.L.: “ Olig-
archy” means, literally, “government by a few.”
Thomas Wrot: One may do—though it’s a bit conven-
tionally erotic G.H. (Vie.) : Not nearly good enough.
Adamastor: Drags along like a funeral M.M.S.:
Broken-winded kind of yarn Lucie : Very precise—cor-
rect—formal; but totally empty of human interest F.
Mac.: Bulletin has repeatedly dealt with that matter
M.M. : Metre joggles along under difficulties Philip
H. : Torn up.... J.E.P.: Feeble... .Seton : Are you quite
sure of the facts ? T.J.G. : The lifting of that boiling
billy with the bare hand is now off. Can anyone lift a
mortgage by the horns for a change Parney Bill: The
thought wouldn’t be worth wading through the dialect
to get at; it’s a common idea in uncommon spelling. We
prefer uncommon ideas in common spelling C.M.H. :
Pretty-pretty, sweety-sweety J.S.R.: No strong idea...
E.F.A. (M.L.) : But that statement about mound-nests is
substantially correct Eva J. D. : Too thin and flat ...
General : The hell-burlesque has been so often done that
it requires specially brilliant handling 0.E.8. : Has
points about it, but is too long and prosy J.V.S. :
Returned accordingly. Quite unsuitable Wanderer:
Some spirit, but too many weak spots Thyros : Begins
and ends fairly well, but “ sags” terribly in the .middle..
D.A.F. : Mere empty jingle Maudie : Bad copy of
“ Ouida’s” style.... Double-B. : No such thing inexist-
ence. Somebody’s been “ pulling your leg.*’
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Charles W. (P.H.) : An unpromising kot.. ..Alf. Wilson :
Might use idea, drawing not up to mark.,. .Will 0.: Yes,
that drawing-paper will do A.C.M. : One may do as
suggestion A.E.F. : Some humor, but too crude as
yet. M.N. : Three not up, two handed to artist to be
re-drawn Mack: But your girl of 18 has the face of our
maiden aunt whose age is>a family secret, and the singing
lady, though humorous, is not human.... John Hennessy:
Dreary chestnut crudely drawn A.C.M. : Don’t care
for suggestion—joke far-fetched.. ..V.E.H. : A “Towns-
ville Pastime” too smellful, and drawing too common-
P^ ce Y :-E. V. Harrison: That Australian buck-jumper,
photo’d from life, won’t r produce, and to draw it would
cast a doubt on its genuineness.. .Unavailable : “16 Years
Older”; F.R. ; F.B.
The N.S.W. Art Society Exhibition.
SECOND NOTICE.
A “corrected impression” of the pictures at the
Sydney Art Society’s 1902 Exhibition does not
call for any particular modification of the first
judgment. Sid. Long’s big canvas appeals more
at a second and third glance; some of Lister’s and
Collingridge’s landscapes show a little better ; and
that is all. There are, however, a few pictures
not noticed before in the oil and water-color sec-
tions worthy of mention. A J. Daplyn has some
very meritorious work, the best of which is
“ Where Bracken Grows,” a canvas that is some-
what badly hung. Thea Proctor’s decorative
work is not, on the whole, strikingly good.
“ The Dance ”is probably the best. This artist,
whilst very successful in some black and white
and book-cover studies, spoils her pictures by
strivingafter Pre-Raphaelitism of which sheattains
the form without the spirit. Some promising
work is to be credited to Gertrude Williams, W.
A. Moir, Albert J. Hanson, Arthur J. W. Bur-
gess, J. H. Young and John W. Tristram. “A
Winter Storm,’’ by R,. Sydney Cocks, is a good
landscape showing a rich color scheme in a gloomv
key. C. H. Hunt’s work is of dainty quality, his
paintings on ivory being particularly notable.
**m * •
Two specimens of sculpture are shown. “The
Ruling Powers,” by Nelson Illingworth, is an
example of careful modelling of a plump,
maternal lady in the nude, but hasn’t a spark of
inspiration. “ Bust of Rose Scott ” is, at any rate,
something like the subject, but gives no particular
reason for existence.
* * * «
The Black and White work is, on the whole,
excellent, but shows to a marked degree a lack of
interest on the part of the exhibitors. Most of
them seem to have taken up the duty of “showing
something ” in a perfunctory manner, sending in
anything they had handy, but not troubling about
special effort. The drawings rather show what
the artists are capable of than the best that they
can do. That is a pity, for, in this department of
art at least, Australians have gone a long way,
and a Commonwealth exhibition of black and
white could with confidence challenge comparison
with work in older art centres. Possibly this
is due to the fact that there is a fairly steady
demand for Australian black-and-white work—
locally and abroad. Money is a great stimulus to
art effort. At present the only artistic occupa-
tions on _ this continent which are steadily
remunerative are those of the scene-painter, the
black and white artist, and the teacher in oil and
water colors, though there is no reason why land-
scape painters, if they devote themselves to dis-
tinctively Australian subjects, should not find a
fairly reliable market for their wares with the pro-
motion of an export trade.
* * • *
Of the black and white work Norman Lindsay’s
Bacchic study is about the best, showing fine
technique, and a Rembrandtesque realism of
coarse fleshiness; it is not “pretty,” but it is
strong. “Tim Pageant of the "Flesh,” by
the same artist, is of very much inferior
quality; the technique is still good, but
the idea is poor. A. Dattillo Rubbo’s work in this
section is good—especially a “Sketch in two
crayons.” H. G. Garlick has some very good
studies in animal life. Thea Proctor’s book-plates
are good, and Ethel Roberts has some commend-
able work in the Same line. Other successful
exhibitors are Fred Leist, Clara Speare, G. \Y. L.
Hurst, (Miss) C. Davis, and Edith M. Loudon.
But, as before remarked, the whole section gives
evidence of a perfunctory spirit, as though the
exhibitors were rather too tired to do much. Yet
it might be easily the strongest and most interest-
ing of all. A'suggestion to the Art Society com-
mittee Why not organise an exhibition of
black-and-white work only?


STILL BOSS.
THE MAN: “I HAVE AT LEAST LEFT TO ME THIS CONSOLATION; ‘THE HAND THAT ROCKS THE CRADLE RULES THE WORLD.’”


f?€ Co*?s«e*fi<> a S
•® °"
pnnc«J>»e
rfW of fief 1 - fatf'Scott-
Lot off Ivf sut)M-f
Won sns«?n« Sr ufl **i
gf^r;
J.'lur’tied
iw&LJw j
During the discussion o{ the Estimates, the
| House of Representatives was astonished to lean)
'that the Postal department in Victoria ''does ,
not supply letter-carriers with trousers ” I The
disclosure created a deep impression, and a
deputation will this week urge upon Mr. Drake
'the desirability of selecting a “complete" uni- i
form for letter-carriers, mail-cart drivers,
graph messengers, &c.
If sh f s
ew , w Vy
?'
»-y\
attitude of labor party.)
We opposed tl^
f£l2s minimum because we . oppose the
I "whole'civil service retrenchment scheme as V
an undesirable class tax. If the Govern-
jnent desires to effect economy and to raise \
•money, why not tax the whole community. „ \
y^W%
Mb -«J<« *
Art '*>'■
Af &
M*/nl
fas am
L-Jr Xv* <l° A mi-p
m% AS***js \fiiBl
BpiK\ \
i L \ pH
»s v&U /
\ fyrf"" .//
\^/
S. -4® ■& v% V?/
~<?V N«* ®V\^
v O . v? Xfl * • •'
j*v*y*/s*
Tr^P* x?
W
o**l^:-"IUM/1 \V
— j
:<*
JfVee H® "TO Cone*''*-
\\x
V*
% k M«y
C\' 5
Quite
'''fVoud
ot' ff" 5
/K 'ftejfT "K/e de*s\
51 ice.
fastS
\ Vls banner
J **A»*7 •
i"
U 33'^’ — * «»*7« Ky^W^rty!:
SOME POLITICS OF THE MOMENT.


A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN AND MINERS.
ROTHERHAM SPECIAL MADE ENGLISH
LEVERS, Eull Cap, Hand Finishedj Extra
Jewelled Works, Perfect Timekeeper, with Pure
Silver Oases, Dust and Water Tight, £3 10s.
Extra Quality, with Chronometer Balance,
£4 10s, £5, £5 10s, £6, £7, £8;
Solid Gold, £lO, £l5, £2O.
A written certilicate for 8,4, and 5 years.
Try one ; you will not regret it.
Key,
£3loa,
Keyless,
Free-
trade 1
Prices.
No
Advance
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong, Reliable WATERBURY WATCHES.
Long Wind, 8b 6d ;
New Short Wind, 10s ;
New Model, (1., 18s 6d ;
Extra Quality, J-plate, 18s 6d and £l.
Silver, 85s ;
Gold, £2 15s.
The reputation of these Watches is a sufficient
guarantee of the reliahilitv.
20s.
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Unrivalled non-magnet LEVER.
Perfect Timekeeper, Screw Cases,
dust and water tight, 20s.
Solid Silver, 35s j Double Case, £2.
A written Guarantee given with
each Watch.
Black or
Nickel,
30s.
Silver,
£5.
%
m-
-i M
&
'"'L/
“ FLY-BACK CHRONOMETERS.”
Fly-back only. In Solid Nickel or Black, 80s ;
Extra Quality, £2, £2 10s j Split Seconds, £3 10s.
Pure Solid Silver, 4s above, £5, £6, £7, £B, and £lO j
Solid Gold, £l5, £2O, £25, and £BO.
A written certificate for 2, 3, 4,5, and 8 years.
TRY ONE.
Solid
Silver,
£2 10s.
Gold
Cased,
M 4s.
WALTHAM LEVERS.
We are Direct Buyers.
Pure Solid Silver Hunting Cases, Extra
Quality Movements,
£2los, £3, £3 10s, £4, and £5 ;
Gold Patent Cases, Walthams, £4 4s, £5 5s
Solid Gold, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O, and £25.
3,4, 5, and 6 Years’ Guarantee.
Solid Gold CHAUN (Single or Double), £si 10s, £3,
£3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5. 15et. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £O,
£6 10s, £7, £B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Send for Price Illustrated Book.
A. SAUNDERS.
Diamond BRACELET, 15ct. Gold, three Pure Double Cut
Diamonds, with Safety Chain, £5.
mm
A. oAUNDERS.
Gold Sword and Pearl Spray BKOOCH, with Diamond
Heart, 25s ; 15ct. Gold, £2 ss.
Gold Bar Amethyst BROOCH, 12s 6d.
English Hall Marked.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Style 2-Bar Gold BROOCH,
Diamond and two Red Stones, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15et. 2-Bar Pure Diamond, Double Cut,
£2 ; with Ruby, 355.
A. SAUNDEI R
Latest Style, loot. Gold Pearl Sot Buckle 2-Bar
BROOCH, 32s 6d. English Hall Marked.
Illlillllllllll
A. SAUNDERS.
New Style, Gold BROOCH, Hall-marked,
Diamond and 2 Red Stones, 22s 6d.
Gold BROOCH, 2-Bar Diamond, with Four Red
or Blue Stones, 20s.
Ladies’ Curb Gold
Chain, Snap Padlock,
255, 80s, 85s, £2 ss,
£3; 15ct., £2 10s, £B,
£4, £4 10s, £5, £6,
£7 10s, £B, £9, £lO.
10s extra for Key
Padlock.
All with Safety Chain.
A, SAUNDERS.
New Gold Forget-Me-Not BROOCH,
English Hall-marked, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Our 2 Bird Gold BROOCH, 10s. Very neat.
A. SAUNDERS (Registered).
Good-wish Gold BROOCH, 12s 6d ;
loot. Gold, 255.
No. 1.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Long MUFF CHAINS,
Hand Made, Extra Strong, £3, £3los, £4 ;
15ct. Gold, £4los, £5, £6, £7 10s.
Price According to Strength.
A. SAUNDEKS.
New Peace Offering Gold Bird and Pearl Set
Leaf, 253 ;
A. SAUNDERS.
New Motto Registered Gold “ Diruia Forget
BROOCH and Amethysts, 9et. Gold, 17s 6d;
15ct. Gold, 30s ; 18ct. Gold, 355.
A,
No. 2.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Long- MUFF CHAINS,
Hand Made. Extra Strong, £3, £3 10s, £4
15et. Gold £4 10s, £5, £6, £7 10s.
Price According to Strength.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bamboo Hold BRACELET, all the style, price according
to width, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s ;
loct. Gold, £3, £4. £5, £6.
Very Pretty Gold BRACELET Diamond, Red, or Blue
Stones, £2 10s; 15ct. Gold, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Newest Solid Gold Name BROOCH, 7s 6d;
with Raised Blowers each side (Any Name),
15ct. Gold, 15s. Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Ivy and Knob BROOCH, 25s ;
9ct. Gold, smaller, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold 2-Heart Amethyst and Love Knot
BROOCH, 20s.
1 1 I
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2-Bar Diamond Double Cut
BROOCH, £2.
vstmsS&BlSSEgggg£&ggSEB&
No. 3.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Long MU FF CHAINS,
Hand Made, Extra Strong, £3, £3 10s, £4;
15ct. Gold, £4los, £5, £6, £7 10s.
Brice According to Strength.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Peace Offering Twin Dove BROOCH,
with Enamelled Leaf, 17s 6d ;
15ct. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. 3-Bar Gold BROOCH, Pure Diamond,
Double Cut, £8 ss. Very strong.
wau
, L
A. SAUNDERS.
2-Bar English Hall-Marked Gold BROOCH,
Diamond-eut Amethyst, 20s ;
loot. Gold, £2.
A. SAuNDERS.
Solid Gold, Hall-Marked, Eorget-me-Not
BROOCH, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Very Neat loot. Gold, Pearl, and Turquoise
BROOCH, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
High Grade Ladies’ Solid Silver LEVERS,
Eull Jewelled, f-plate,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, and £4 10s.
In Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s, £8 10s, 10 guineas,
£l2 10s, £l5, and £2O.
Guaranteed 3,4, 5, and 6 years.
A. SAUNDEES.
15ct. Solid Gold Pure
Pearl STAE, £3.
Other styles, £4, £5,
£6, £9, £lO.
Sr
A. SAUNDERS.
Any Name.
Secret N ame G old
LOCKET. £1 ;
Pearl and lied
Stone Set,
15ct. Gold, 30.“.
MIZPAH
CHARM,
A.,SAUNDERS.
Beautifully Chased, 9et. Gold,
large size LINKS, 22s 6d.
Plain, 21s, or with Initials,
nicely Chased, 22s (id.
15ct. Gold, £2 ; Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
(Registered). .
Gold LINKS, 20s
loot. Gold, 3‘2s 6d
Silver and Gold, 10s;
all Silver, ss.
®gg“ CALL AND SEE OUR
JEWELLERY EXHIBITION.
A SPLENDID DISPLAY.
OR SEND EOR OUR
1902 COMPLETE ILLUSTRATED BOOK,
POST FREE ANYWHERE.
Photo Locket i
A. SAUNDERS.
New Photo. Gold
LOCKET and CHAIN,
255, 30s, £2 ;
screw top, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
OUR PEACE BING.
18ct. Solid Gold,
Diamond and 2 Rubies
or Sappliires, £2.
Extra Heavy, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Sold Gold Opal Band,
17s (id ;
3 Opals, 22s 6d ;
15ct. Gold, 30s ;
3 Opals, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
ALL ARTICLES POST EREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 255, 30s, £2,
£2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £5 ;
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
ALL GUARANTEED.
A. SAT'NDERS.
9ct. Soli l Gold Opal
Llj'- KS, 30s ;
15et. Gold, £JI Cs. Extra strong
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold LINKS, very pretty, 12s 6d,
Large size, 15s and 20s.
Silver, 3s tid and 4s 6d.
18ot. Gold,
pure five Double-cut
Diamonds, £5 ;
3 Rubies or Sapphires
and 2 Diamonds,
£3los and £4 10s.
Larger Diamonds,
£6, £7los, £lO, to £5O.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, 5 Opals,
1-Hoop,
£2, £2 10s, £3,
£3 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold,
Extra Strong and
Heavy, one or three
Diamonds,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4, £5-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, 2 Hearts,
Diamond,
and Ruby, 35s ;
2 Diamonds, £2 ss.
With Name,
Band RINGS.
9ct. Solid Gold, 12s 6d,
15s ; 15ct. Gold, 20s,
255,; 18ut. Gold, 255,
30s, 355, £2.
For Size, cut hole in Cardboard.
A. SAUNDERS. . »
Hand-made Wedding Rings and Keepers.—9ct. Solid Gold, 5s pa,
7s 6d, 10s each; 15ct. Gold, 15s; extra heavy, 255; 18ct. Gold, 20s;
extra heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Quality of Gold and Finish First-class.
A. SAUNDERS,
SAVE 25 to 50
PER CENT.
LEADING ART JEWELLER,
SAVE 25 to 50
PER CENT.
815 & 817 GEORGE-STREET,
Nearly Opposite
Railway Station,
SYDNEY


Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Agents for N. S. Wales: Sayers,
Allport and Potter, Sydney. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
In view of the depressed state of the
Treasury, if for no other motive, there should be
a prompt veto on the latest Owe’Sullivan sug-
gestion to “reclaim” the beach at the Spit,
Middle Harbor (Sydney), and make a park of it.
At present the beach is a stretch of clean, firm
sand, picturesque and useful. The proposal is to
turn it into a horror of the type of “ Lyne Park,’
Rose Bay, a stone-wall-bounded desert —flat,
angular, mechanical, and accursed.
An aged and weary individual, hung around
with rags, presented himself before the Benevo-
lent Trustees in Dunedin (M.L.) recently, and
told a mournful tale of wifely treachery. Years
ago, he said, he was possessed of much property.
He was also possessed of creditors, and in order
to provide for his old age and establish a reputa-
tion for thrift he carefully made over the whole
of his properties in some occult way to his wife,
and the creditors got nothing. His wife, he said,’
had never been the same since, and he had had a
hard life. Finally, in his old age, she had locked
up all the food in the house, and told him to
hustle for himself as regards victuals, though her
affection would not allow her to turn him out.
He explained to the trustees that if they
would arrange for his tucker, his affluent
wife would still let him sleep in the stable. When
last mail left the trustees were doing a big think.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London. *
KARTELL
“A genuine
old Brandy
made from
Wine.”
Medical Press.
THREE STAR
"Particularly suitable
for Medicinal
Purposes.”
The Lancet.
A Vic. country jeweller has fixed up over a
hundred kharki uniform buttons, large and small,
as souvenir hat pins for lady friends of returned
oontingenters. Many of these buttons came from
the kits of men whose bones lie under the veldt.
Ping-pong is said to be on the wane, just as
hostesses felt they had a settled form of enter-
tainment inane enough for most people. Games
are substituted in many houses ; they have the
doubtful advantage of showing-up the guests’ edu-
cation—or the other thing. A popular thing is
to make words out of one word. 1 ‘ Resolution ”
was lately given. At the end of the allotted time,
a guest, who proudly announced that he had 50
words, was crushed to hear that he could have
totalled 375.
Two American girls in London write to that
refuge of the girl-writer, the Daily Mail, of their
shopping experiences. They had intended to
dress “so English ” in tailor-dresses, which they
had been told were “intensely English”; com-
fortable shoes, with nice broad heels ; shirt waists
and high collars. And they knew that the correct
English girl didn’t wear the audacious transparent
yokes. Well, in a whole week of watching they
didn’t see one “tailor” gown, and every second
woman wore French heels. Tnere were no high
collars, but many yokes, of such a transparently-
transparent type as they had never expected to
see even in Paris. English people at their hotel
were shocked that the two girls dined in town
without a chaperone ; and the girls reciprocated
by being shocked to see English women wearing
AT THE COSTUMIERS.
MRS. FITTED: "Isn’t it a trifle low ?”
MADAME FITTER: "Ah, madame, ze friend would say so nevaire. Ze true friend could
nevaire see too much of madame .”
decollete dresses in restaurants, and in hansoms,
going out to dinner or to the theatre in broad day-
light. Americans call shop-girls “clerks,” and
these two got frightfully mixed at the difference
in the shop language of London and New York
We spent half a day buying a tape-needle because we
didn’t ask for a bodkin. We asked for shirt-waists, and
the clerk said she was sorry but they didn’t keep them,
and when Catherine saw some she begged her pardon and
said, “You mean blouses, I see ! ” We went to a shoe store
and asked for “ Oxford hes.” They are known the length
and breadth of the American continent as the reigning
English style, but in London they are “ the great Ameri-
can shoe.” Then shoes were not shoes unless they were
slippers ; when they were high they were boots. When
we needed a spool of thread we asked in four different
places and they said, “We don’t keep it, thank you!”
We said, “ Thank you,” and they said, “ Thank yoii,” and
I told Catherine it was evidently the clerk’s right to say
it last, and it was no use trying to dispute the point.
My Melbourne correspondent continues :
“ One of the Catuiittee of the Women’s Hospital
thoroughly enjoys her position and is always
spoiling for a fight. She declares she has never
been happier in her life than during the late pro-
longed row. She has a scrap-book into which she
pastes paragraphs from all papers re the misdeeds
of the Catmittee, and is as fond of it and of the
many sneers and jeers it contains as a prima-donna
of her ‘ favorable notices ’ collection. But wait
until some paragraphist blunders on to her bonnet
and says something unpleasant about that; one
par will then be kept out of the collection.
“News comes from Bananaland that Mrs. Tom
Price is booming in Brisbane. She didn’t boom
in Melbourne, but that’s because her soldier spouse
is the sort that kicks over the footstools of
Sassiety and uses swear words as military full
stops. Evidently Mrs. .Price has got in first with
the Brisbaneites, and made headway in her naice,
bland, pleasant, womanish way before her gruff
old Colonel had time to spoil the good impression,
“The professional women of Melb., whose brass
plates show their polished names in Collins-street,
are not of the type whose ‘peevish proud vir-
ginity’ the Bard of Avon complains of. Two
vigilant teeth-extractors of the petticoat fraternity
are flourishing engagement rings this week.
Strange that the two chums, who degreed and
dented side by side, should be f: >ught in marriage
by two medicoes in a sort of sin: iltaneous mission
act.
“If Melb. beauty aspirants get the craze for
Sandow as the Adelaide girls did, face massage
will be dropped and the muscle fad will start.
Nearly all tne vain flutterers of smart circles are
beholden to oils, steams, vapors, and scents,
and the rubbings of the massage siren for their
nice, smooth, fragrant skins. The cultivated com-
plexion is a thing of beauty, and a joy for many
years if properly preserved. But massage has not
been long enough in use to test its real value.
What effect some years of pottering among
the flesh oils, and much play of swift, soft
hands on the face may have, cannot be said
at this stage. All is serene so far. The
advanced advocates of massage have now the
steam and vapor apparatus fixed up in their
boudoirs and self-treatment is cheap and some-
times effective. Toorak boasts an instance of a,
good-looking and loving couple who treat each
other to regular sittings at the massage machine.
What a bond this common complexion cream
must be ! •
“The latest drawing-room toys are scent-birds,
that hang from the curtains and chandeliers,
filling the room with sweet odours. The rose
sachet and the flower urn are abandoned for these
perfume birds of gorgeous plumage.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
N.Y. Herald records 11,000 cases of
cholera, and 8000 deaths therefrom, in the
Philippines. The likelihood of the United States
being attacked by cholera as a result of the return
of troops is discounted by the excellent health
regulations in force in U.S. ports. But the East
coast of Australia, which is much nearer than
Europe to the Philippines, is seriously threatened.
Brisbane and Sydney are ideal harbors for cholera.
At Poverty Point.
Knight Aston, onetime baritone of the Firm’s Opera
'Co., and of Bracy’s Opera Co., went back to England
•t’other week. Aston sang tenor, not baritone, when he
first came to Australia, 20 years ago. Two or three years
previously, whilst he was cutting a considerable dash as
Grenicheux in the first London production of “ Cloches
de Corneville,” the tenor caught the fancy of the
notorious Mrs. “Gordon Baillie.” She wrote to him (or
got somebody else to pen the billets-doux for her) and
having* duly impressed her mash with her evidences of
wealth—carriage and pair, sealskin jacket, jewels, &c.,
.none of which had been paid for -led him to the altar.
Possibly she had several previous husbands living at the
time. Anyway Aston got out of the predicament and
■cleared to Australia, and was much perturbed when a
few years later, his fair friend came along with a bogus
mission on behalf of the Skye Crofters. What a deli«ht-
ful fraud was Mrs. Gordon Baillie ! She worked the
“ Crofters ’’ ticket as a card of introduction to Melbourne
sassiety for a time. Gov. Loch took her quite seriously
or pretended to, and on one occasion at Melb. Town Hail,'
he nursed her pretty children on his vice-regal knees.’
The origin of those children is a disputed point seemingly!
A later report—by the police—stated that she had
■procured them from an English workhouse, picking them
for their good looks and adopting them as tokens of
respectability for business purposes.
• ® e »r Bolpehn.—'Went to a magic-lantern lecture given
■in Sydney by a New Guinea missionary, the other ni'dit
He was talking about the good work done by the mission-
aries in New Guinea. After showing pictures of niggers
houses, &c., he threw a withered old woman’s counten-
:ance on the canvas, and pointing to it with his stick said
• This is a woman we call Mother Alligator xjvhy we call
her that I shall tell you. When she was a girl she went
■down to the river one day to have a wash, and while
bending over with her hands in the water a large alli-
gator swam softly up, swallowed one of her arms and
pulled her into the water to devour her. The poor girl
screamed for help, but there was no one near, and it
looked as if her day had come ; but with great presence
of mind she turned her arm in the creature’s mouth and
tickled the back of its throat, causing the alligator to
vomit the arm." He looked injured when people snig-
gered.—W. s
At Thursday Island a merry-go-round man is reported
to have lately taken £l5OO in a short season. There
was never any difficulty about getting colored patrons on
the affair—the trouble was in getting them off • and the
proprietor struck only one deadbeat who didn’t want to
pay. At least, he didn’t strike him, for he was a Malay
gentleman with a long knife. So the Asiatic was allowed
to ride free as a press representative.
The Shah of Persia, who has just concluded a visit to
London, has placed it on record that the Empire Music-
Hall ballet is the finest thing in the British dominions A
previous Shah—Nasr-ed-Din, or words to that effect—
when in the Big Smoke, was mainly impressed with
Madame Tussaud’s wax works. It was Nasr-ed-Din who
told the Duchess of Westminster that the fame of her
beauty had penetrated even to the Persian Empire
“ Good gracious ! ” said she to a friend, “ he takes me for
Westminster Abbey ! ’’
George Rignold tells of a comedian, not unknown in
Australia : “ I loaned him a tenner once and played for
his benefit. Missing him after the performance I dropped
him a line, hinting that as the benefit had been a good
one it would be a fair opportunity to square matters ”
The reply I thought good :
‘ Dear Rignold,—Sorry I missed you, as I wished to
touch you for another tenner.—Yours regretfully,
Jingle.’ ’’
Miss Susie Vaughan is much impressed with the singing
of the Australian girls. “The singing of the chorus
girls,” she says, “is simply beautiful. If I wanted good
singers for a chorus I’d send to Australia for every one of
them.”
Just as bad as stage-fright is a sudden blankness of
memory. Nance O’Neil, when playing Fedora, in Mel-
bourne, had her mind become a blank in the middle of a
speech. O’Neil is a plucky woman. When “Lady
Inger” failed in Melbourne she fought a hostile audience
for two-hours-and-a-half—fought herself to a standstill, so
that when the curtain fell, O’Neil fell, too, and had to be
carried off the stage to her dressing-room. But when her
memory left her in “Fedora,” Nance lost all her faculties
temporarily. She couldn't even hear the prompter but
sat looking before her, with eyes growing - bigger and
bigger, with hysterical terror. Harry Plimmer, who was
on with her, saved the situation by coming quite close to
her, grasping her wrist, and telling her the lines She
repeated them after him, and as she repeated them her
mind returned, and she finished them splendidly' The
moment the curtain was down she seized Plimmer’s’ hands
in hers : “ God bless you, God bless you ! If I live to be a
hundred I shall always be grateful.”
A civil engineer in Melbourne recollects, in a thought-
ful, dispassionate, grandfatherly way, a little incident in
the early career of a popular and handsome actress. The
O.E. was engaged on a Maoriland railway-line, and visited
the nearest township so often that the best bedroom in
the best pub. was practically his own. Arriving at about
seven one evening, and leaving his horse to the stable-
hand he bounded upstairs, plunged into his room, and—
then dived out, and precipitated himself downstairs
again. There the landlord met him and explained how
sorry he was, but the company having arrived he
had been practically compelled to put Miss and the
two Misses into room 5. He hoped nothing alarming
had occurred. The O.E. said it was evidently quite a
work of skill getting a plump pink actress into a pair of
very tight tights, but still nothing alarming had hap-
pened.
The most tireless theatre-goer in one Austral
metropolis is a local artist who sings for his
bare life very occasionally. He has the run of
one theatre, and haunts the place as regu-
larly as the doorkeeper, turning up
night after night, and always occupying
a front-row circle seat as near the stage
as possible. On a recent night much
commotion was occasioned “behind"
when it was found that the old-estab-.
lished deadhead w'as not in the house.
During the first interval several mem-
bers of the co. knocked at the door of
the manager’s office, and, without entering,
made a formal demonstration of sympathy
in a little speech, in which the deputation
hoped that the manager would not allow
Mr. Blank’s absence to depress him or to
lead him to conclude that he was losing his
hold on the theatre-going public. “ There, there ;
that’s all right, boys,” said the manager ; “ Blank’s in
my office here, having a glass of wine ! ” Then the
deputation caught sight of Blank’s blank face and left.
Thus a travelling show proprietor outback expatiating
recently in a Vic. township upon the merits of a phono-
graph with all the latest records : ‘ * Ladies and gentle-
men, you see here before you i phonygraft of the highest
status, which will shortly be ) ■ t into full modus operandi.
The mechanism is solely take.; from the ’ed of Professor
Edison, who spent about 20 years in perfecting this won-
derful ram avis. Perhaps you would like to learn
whence we got the name ‘ phonygraft’—well I’ll tell you
ultra vires. In the first place we find the word ‘phony’
and in the second ‘ graft,’ and their derivations is as
follows: ‘Phony,” Latin, ‘phono,’ to speak; ‘graft,’
Latin, ‘grafto,’ to work; therefore you will perceive
phonygraft means ‘ to speak without working.’”
As showing the difference in national tastes re tremolo
singing, there is a story told of a French baritone who
applied for an operatic engagement in London. “But
have you a vibrato ?" asked the manager. “ oh, yees ”
said the Frenchman, “ I have made special study of it for
ze last two year.” He thought that the art of “ shaking
on every note” was appreciated everywhere. Many
French teachers insist upon the vibrato; others like
Marchesi, try to check the habit, and certainly don’t
te a chifc. But; it seems to be more or leas characteristic
of all French singers.
Jack Thompson, son of Joe Thompson, the Australian
leviathan bookmaker, who shifted to England, has done
fairly well as a professional singer of the smoke-night
and sporting banquet order. Years ago it was said that
one of Joe Thompson’s daughters had a fine voice, but
she presumably abandoned voice-culture for matrimony.
George Rignold has definitely taken his ticket and
packed Ins kit. The veteran says he is taking no bag of
tricks with him, but is open to work if offered anythin'-
in the States or London. “ Handsome George and his
beautiful but all too inadequate moustache,” as the
Yankee papers used to say, will probably only be but
a dim memory in these parts. Yet even now he could
keep his end up with the best of them as Macari, Joe
characters 111 ' Part,,e,, «” atld a whole lot of other
Waif ” makes some amazing remarks to The Bulletin
on the dramatist who had the misfortune to be born
Jones “I first met Henry Arthur Jones in 1877. Ha
was a draper's bagman, inoffensive, but that he talked
talked Jones. It is the knell of our generation
that that man has been one of our chief dramatists this
years. I saw his first piece played at the Court
Theatre, London— ‘ Uncle Dick’s Darling - .’ Steady, honest,
roast-beef sort of stuff without a touch to lift it above
the level of third-class fluff. He was the son of a Bucks
farmer, a yokel by nature, a commercial by force of
gravity, and a writer of plays by license of Bedlam. . . .
successful ho was, for I have heard him say he would
never part with a play for less than five figures, and never
W c <4 ni<^ Q than one a year. That was within six years
or The Silver King.’ Henry Herman, the joint author of
that nug-hty melodrama, did the world the wrong of
] l iy i e,1 t I,| g both Jones and Wilson Barrett. But for
The Silver King’ probably neither of them
would have been heard of. Jones tried to repeat
the triumph on his own with ‘A Noble. Vagabond’
but it fell fiat. But he was a true commercial and he hit
on the industrial problem play in ‘The Ironmaster,’ and
from that forward, for fifteen years, he has played on the
second-class problem string in divers tones and with vary-
ing-fortune.” The first objection to “ Waif’s ” scornful
estimate of Jones is that he doesn’t remember him start-
"s hfe as a dramatic author with “ Uncle Dick’s
Darling ”at the Court Theatre. That harmless play—the
pioneer of “dream ” drama in England—was produced at
the Gaiety, and Jones didn’t write it. The late H. J.
Byron wrote it for J. L. Toole. Also Jones didn’t invent
Wilson Barrett, for previous to “ The Silver King ” the
said W.B. had made a fortune out of Sims’ “Lights o’
London.” Moreover Jones didn’t write “The Iron-
master,” which is a translation of a fine French play by
Ohnet. But Jones did hit the industrial problem with
“ The Middleman,” and his story of Cyrus Blenkarn has
probably done something towards causing patient guile-
less inventors to buck up against the capitalist who
fattens on their genius. For the rest, Jones has written
at least one brilliant play in addition to the interesting
“ Bauble Shop," “ Case of Rebellious Susan,” &c. The
author of “The Liars” is a lot in front of the average
little-minded literary person not born a yokel.
\ Paradis ” : Met the ballet-girl of forty to-daj. An
estimable lady, well-known on the stages of Melbourne
and Sydney 20 years ago and less. She says life is not
worth living after 25. Balzac’s supremely fascinating
woman of 30 cannot dodge on the Musgrove or William-
son boards. Managers are not cruel; it’s the public. The
stalls have “ a heye like a heagle.” They have an eye that
divines to bone and marrow, and the back row has to be
turned inside-out every minute-and-a-half. The ballet
must be four-square, like the palace in the “ Book of
Revelation,” and with four fronts. Flesh must be flung
as fresh as strawberries and cream. The girl of forty
would pay a guinea a night to go on, if she were able.
“Melb.:” Have been looking at a great collection
of Australian Thespian photos and other pourtrayals.
What memories ! G. V. Brooke in conversation with R.
Heir and Fanny r Cathcart. Also Brooke in lithos, as
Othello, Corsican Brothers, Richelieu, Virginius, lago,
Shylock, Sir Giles Overreach, Richard 111, Hamlet. Here
are portraits that come atari up, fresh as paint : Barry
Sullivan, Coppin as Mould, t varies Young, Dick Stewart
as Dundreary, Jefferson as Asa Treuchard with Rose
Edwin as Mary, Emelie Melville” (“See How it
Sparkles!”;, Geo. Fawcett, Julia Mathews, Conductor
Lavenu, John Drew (father of Sydney Drew) as Handy
Andy and the Irish Emigrant, Lambert as Sir A. Absolute,
Daddy Rogers—Eheu ! (N.B. —That is the proper
exclamation to make, but acting always remains much
about as good).
“ Vox ”: A late contributor to a Melb. daily insists that
the higher education and long scientific training are
essential to the vocalist who would be a successful public
performer. Yet one very famous Italian tenor of the
50’s and 60’s, could not read or write. Nicolini, Patti’s
second husband, was of peasant birth, and so ignorant
that when he died he bequeathed the castle of Craig-y-nos
to his relations, thinking that his wife’s property belonged
to him, as it would have done under Italian law.
Catherine Hayes, the sweet warbler who visited Australia
in ’56, was a boat-rowing girl on the lakes of Kiilarney,
picked up by a passing musician attracted by her native
wood-notes wild. And did not Carrie Swain, who, when
wholly ignorant of the science of sounds, charmed by
trilling like a bird on the bough from the fullness of her
heart, disappoint everybody after she had passed through
the teacher’s mill ? The artificially-produced, machine-
made singer has not got all the points. There is over-
training in vocalism as in athletics.
EVIDENTLY—A FACT.
“ Busker”; Any Thespian pro. remember Charley
Miran ? When I first came in touch with the profession
in Australia he was not there, but was referred to on
every point of independence and etiquette. He be-
came a legendary character, like Lambescasse on the
Parisian stage, the ideal of one who was not a manager's
man. If he didn’t like anything, he would walk
straight out of the stage door. He was the cham-
pion swallower of parts. If an actor witli a part of
forty sides got indisposed, Charley would “wing” the
same, even if he had never seen it. I have heard a stiff
Poverty Point argument between a pro. who said Charley
was always generous with the wine, and another who
maintained he was a teetotaller. I think I saw him act
once. Certainly he is on old bills of the Sydney, Melb.
Geelong, and Ballarat playhouses.
Rumored in London that “ Monna Vanna,” Maeter-
linck’s great and essentially pure play, was banned by the
Censor of Plays in response to a hint from the Queen—
the Queen who went to see “ Sapho ” and “ Zaza ” !
“ Haresfoot” : An honest little book, just issued in Mel-
bourne, is on Ventriloquism, by R. Hughes. Cheap and
rough, but with a large amount of matter. The author,
speaking from practical experience, declares that
ventriloquism is a purely artificial product, the tricks
being, more or less, within the reach of any tractable
voice. Many anecdotes, are told. G'anthony was giving
an open-air entertainment at Raglan Castle, and sent up
a query, “What are you doing up there?” To his
amazement, a boy replied, With au apology, and the audi-
ence applauded this vociferously. Another time he got
the credit for a boy who shouted through the window,
“ What a rotten show 1 ” Hughes demonstrates how the
Egyptian, Persian, and Greek priests used to gull the
people with ventriloquism.


A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
A most useful Veterinary Book is attached
to every bottle of Condy’s Fluid. This Book
contains instructions for curing most of the
ailments and accidents affecting Horses,
Dogs, Sheep, Cattle and Poultry.
In this Book eminent Veterinary Sur-
geons recommend Condy’s Fluid as a
certain cure for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
Broken Knees, Grease, Thrush and
Cracked Heels in Horses.—Scab, Foot
Rot, Fly, etc., in Sheep.—Hoove, Foul in
the Foot, Wounds and Sores in Cattle.
Condy’s Fluid is made by Condy &
Mitchell, Ltd., of 65, Goswell Road,
London, England, and is sold by all
Chemists and Stores. Beware of Colonial
Substitutes. Insist on having Condy’s Fluid.
m
WEAK-SIGHTED READERS^
Who are unable to read small printed matter, or to see fine
stitching or writing with comfort, whose distant vision is dull
and who suffer from persistent headaches or pains after close
application—you may rest assured that you are suffering from
Ageing or Impaired Vision, and Need Glasses. You
should visit us, and have your sight scientifically tested, and
be supplied with Glasses adapted to your individual case.
Ttf COUNTRY READERS who cannot visit us personally, we send, Post Free to any addresj, with full instruc-
tions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT. By its use
you can Test your own sight and determine for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you may need.
Write for it to—
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Consulting Optician
371 George St., Sydney,
next door to the A. J.S. Bank.
King and George Streets.
And at 232 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, opposite Age Office.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripk
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts,
are highly recommended.
331- per Saif-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
AUSTRALIAN ST AM PS
Bought, Sold & Exchanged
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratis-
J. H. SMYTH & CO., 88 King-st^.
SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Inmates of the State Benevolent Asylums
of N.S.W. are now petitioning for the franchise.
Why is it that Sydney D.T. suddenly finds
out now that N.S.W. railways are being badly
mismanaged ?
Labor unions should take a lesson from the
fact that it is the anti-Labor papers which * ‘ rub
it in ” when the workings of the Arbitration Act
seem to be against the interests of Labor, and
strive to promote discontent with that valuable
piece of legislation.
The wisest and shortest speech ever made
by Premier See was when he was asked in N.S.W.
Assembly by Nielsen if he would join in a move-
ment to secede from the Commonwealth, and
replied flatly “No.” That was all he said, but
he looked several things.
A deputation of woman's franchisers inter-
viewed Premier Philp lately, and put their views
very clearly before him. “ Look at the finances of
the country, Mr. Philp,” said one indignant
dame, “and tell us if half-a-dozen old women
couldn't manage things better.”
The House of Reps, has decided, in an
abstract way, that the Commonwealth should take
over the Northern Territory. It is to be hoped
that it will make all possible haste and take it
over—assets, liabilities, and all. Even the estab-
lishment of a Federal capital isn’t half so urgent,
now that Jenkins Iscariot is seeking to job the
Territory away to his friend Cohen.
Victorian Premier Irvine, when this issue
went to press, was still assuring the country that
if he comes back politically alive from the election
his first move will be to re-enact the Factories
Act. Well, the country had Irvine’s word of
honor a very short time ago that he wouldn’t let
the Act lapse, and he let it lapse. What is his
new promise worth —one straw or two ?
The wholly patriotic aims and motives of
the secessionist “ party ” in N.S.W. are well illus-
trated by a D.T. correspondent of Sept. 10th,
who complains that he lost one day’s services of
his carter through a Customs-house block, and signs
himself “a Separationist now.” It would be a
unique revolution that started over ten shillings’
worth of a vanman’s time lost by the leading
patriot.
“ Veteran’s” theory :
That row at Newcastle (Natal), of which so many vary-
ing and hopelessly inconsistent accounts have been given,
perhaps shows how it came about that the authorities
over there got into such a frantic hurry to clear all the
Australian and M.L. contingents out of the country. The
men, in fact, had got quite beyond control, and their
officers, who had never had them well in hand, dropped
all pretence of management, and went to live in hotels
when the fighting ended.
The absentee South Australian Company,
which has large vested interests at Port Adelaide,
including much wharfage property, is doing its
best to block the construction, authorised by Par-
liament, of another harbor for deep sea ships at
the entrance of the Port stream. Opposition
leader Darling, who is more interested in Port
Pirie than in the harbor of Adelaide, is helping
the absentee corporation.
Some Brisbane importers are fearfully
wroth because Kingston puts the law in motion
against Customs dodgers. Hitherto when a
“mistake” came to light there was always back-
stairs influence, and now that the Federal Minister
has locked up the little back-door, and taken away
the steps, and used the key as a tonic, the gentle-
man who undervalued his imports has to come in
with the crowd at the front entrance.
The Philp Govt., in order to collect its
poll tax, will have eventually to appoint an army
of deputy tax-gatherers, to pad the hoof along the
Western tracks from waterhole to waterhole in
order to levy the annual 10s. from every Western
dead-beat. Said tax-gatherers must be empowered
to impound pannikins, billies, swags and similar
sundries in the great hope of thereby extinguish-
ing Bob Philp’s last half-million deficit.
To the crusted Q. Tory it must be gall and
wormwood to realise that his earthly god, the
Boodlewraith, has lately been kept in power by
the despised Labor Party. The two last divisions
(moved by disappointed one-time supporters)
against Philp and Co. were defeated owing to the
Laborites refusing to be the catspaw. Times have
changed since the haughty Q. politician refused
to hang his hat on the same rack with “honest
Tom ” Glassey’s soft felt.
“Veteran” writes :
Must have made Australia’s amateur naval men squirm
when Long Lyne’s “ Board ” condemned, as antiquated
and useless, the rattletrap steam-launches they have been
used to call “ torpedo-boats.” Lyne, however, had not
the courage to go the whole hog and get real experts’
opinions about the value of the entire land and sea-
defence plant. If he had, he would probably have been
mightily astonished to learn that the whole of the big
guns at Port Philip, Port Jackson and elsewhere are quite
obsolete, and only fit for the scrap-heap. In fact, they
were already obsolescent when first mounted, and some
of them —instance the 25-ton guns on St. George’s
Heights, Sydney—are of a 40-year-old pattern ! The time
spent in drilling men at these antiques is simply wasted,
as it is very doubtful if even the biggest of them could
pierce a Krupp armor-plate at 2000yds. Then there are
on hand large numbers of obsolete rifles, which are not
worth storage ; and, in fact, when all the obsolete and
defective plant of the Commonwealth Defence Depart-
ment has been gob rid of, there won’t be much left; but
there will be a capital excuse for getting rid of the equally
useless staff, and, with it, the pernicious Barracks Push.
Reported that Captain Miles, of Strahan
Marine Board fame, is preparing to run for the
Queenstown (Tas.) seat at next general election.
Miles will have the support of most mine-mana-
gers and owners on the West Coast, and even if
opposed by a Labor man, will probably win.
The miners thereabouts are not too solid politi-
cally yet, and, anyhow, Miles can talk Labor
legislation with the best of them. The return of
Miles to Parliament would be a public calamity,
but the general feeling in Tassy is that a calamity
more or less doesn’t matter much.
N.S.W. Works Minister Owe’Sullivan
wandered out to Alexandria, a rather dingy
Sydney suburb, the other day, and was promptly
seized upon by an alderman, who demanded that
the State should attend to the improvement of
O’Riordan-street, it being in a “disgraceful condi-
tion.” And, instead of replying that only a dis-
graceful set of aldermen could possibly leave it in
that condition, and promising to introduce a Bill
under which these aldermen would be fined £lO
if they didn’t wake up, the man with the Owe
promised to seriously consider the matter.
By reading the Freetrade daily papers on
the Federal tariff result one gleans two facts:
(1). That owing to the patriotic efforts of the Free-
traders in the Federal Parliament the tariff emerges from
debate an absolutely new instrument of taxation. Its
originators do not recognise it, and the Protectionists
now regard it as a betrayal of their cause.
_ (2). That the tariff is now a gross instrument of Protec-
tionist tyranny, and will, at the first appeal to the people,
be decisively flouted, and that it is going to lead to the
secession of N.S.W. at an early date.
The Freetrade party has been so well trained in
the school of Yes-No that it finds no difficulty in
believing both these “facts.”
The cry of the Cobdenites, that N.S.W.
is made the victim of the other States through the
neglect or malignance of the Federal Parliament,
gets a humorous touch from the fact that it is the
N.S.W. Cobdenites who are the champion absen-
tees from the House of Representatives. Only
three members of that body have been absent from
more than 100 sittings this session—Bruce Smith
(133 absences), F. E. M ‘Lean (128 absences) and
G. H. Reid (126 absences) —all N.S.W. Free-
traders. The next in order of absenteeism are
Sawers, Ewing, Cruickshank and Spence (all of
N.S.W.), with absences ranging in number from
85 down to 80. The best record for attendance by
a N.S.W. man (excepting Mr. Chanter, who holds
an official post) is that of J. C. Watson, the Labor
Party leader. All these N.S.W. Freetraders seem
quite assured that they can safely leave N.S.W.
interests in the hands of the members from other
States.
TEACHING HIS GRANDMOTHER TO SUCK EGGS.
"These Australians have a decided weakness for teaching their grandmother ‘ to extract pabulum from
the product of the domestic hen.’”—LONDON WEEKLY.
Victoria has paid £5,765,063 in pensions
and gratuities since 1851 ; and, though its fatuous
civil service pension law has long since been
repealed, as far as new members of the service are
concerned, the pension bill last year reached
£344,701. No wonder Treasurer Shiels lies awake
at nights and says things. That one piece of mis-
directed foolishness, done by. the old Tory party
many years ago, costs Victoria nearly four times
as much per inhabitant as Germany pays for it 3
navy.
Brisbane Courier item :
In connection with the proposal to construct a tram-
line to Toowong, which has been applied for by the Tram-
ways Company, an engineer of the Railway Department
has made an inspection of the locality to see what
practicable routes exist. The first proposal was a line
parallel with the railway line.
Consider the hidden magnificence of that item.
The State railway runs to Toowong, and the
privately-owned Tramway Co. wants to build a
line there and take the business. So the State
railway department lends an officer to assist its
business rivals the private co., in finding out the
easiest route.
Postmaster-General Drake has been greatly
agitated of late. It seems that the Department s
obligations towards its employees have not ex-
tended to trousers, and strenuous efforts have
been made to induce Government to throw
breeches in. The Age says that the disclosure
of the discrepancy in the postal uniforms
made a deep impression on the House, and the
P.M.G. has as good as promised to see that the
employees do not go without their pants for the
future. Why thus destroy the mirth of nations .
In a current Melbourne melodrama all the laughter
arises out of a man having lost his pants.
An exceedingly foolish human specimen
(Hall, of Waratah)'has proposed, in Tas. Parlia-
ment, that the Flyspeck island should withdraw
from the Commonwealth “to avoid crushing
taxation.” And the Federal Parliament, by
abolishing inter-State duties, and imposing a
more rational tariff, has really _ reduced las-
mania’s taxation. Even before its taxes were
reduced its people paid less than the English
rate of taxation—though they whined about it a
great deal more. Hall, of Waratah, by the way,
wants Tasmania to leave the Commonwealth,
yet wants the Commonwealth to promise that it
won’t tax Tasmanian goods—which is a hopeful
outlook.
Premier Irvine goes to the people of
Victoria as the man who has destroyed the Fac-
tories Act, and who isn’t going to impose a
general Land-Tax. His agricultural and cow-
spanking constituents have always been opposed
to Minimum Wage and Land-Tax, therefore,
his chance looks good in the purely cow-
spanking districts. But unless _ Irvine a.nd
his financial streak-of-misery, Shiels, develop
more brilliant ideas about how to make good
the shortage, the general land-tax will come
by sheer force of circumstances. Irvine has,
doubtless, all the bad intentions that his party is
so glad to hear about, but many a man is full of
bad intentions, and doesn’t know how to carry
them out.
There are some people in Maoriland who
are far from satisfied with the borrowing policy of
the smug and oily Ward, and they are endeavoring
to induce Robert Stout to resign the Chief Justice-
ship and lead a new self-reliant party, that is
determined to make some effort to prevent Maori-
land from mortgaging away the results of 12 years
Socialistic legislation. There is not much chance
of Stout resigning his lucrative billet for the pre-
carious honors and remuneration of a reform
leader, but the need for that leader is very real.
AND IT IS LUCKY THEY ARE.
HE: “ What would your mother say if she saw
you now?”
SHE: “ Oh, she’d say, 'Girls are very different
from what they were in my young days.’”
David Syme’s democratic principles—con-
stitutional reform, factory legislation and such—
don’t amount to much compared with his regard for
his fad of the moment—retrenchment. There is
no hope of any progressive measures from the Tory
crowd, yet already the Age is barracking for
Irvine, Shiels and Bent. Victoria, which is al-
ready a very cheaply-governed country, wants a
general land-tax much more than it wants re-
trenchment, and Syme, as a big landlord of great
tonnage probably knows that, and that is very
likely why his paper is howling in the same riot
along with Kyabram and co.
Maoriland House of Representatives has
again killed the Elective Executive Bill, on the-
ground that it would destroy Parliament’s control
over the actions of the Government, and lead to
the abolition of party government. The latter,
at all events, is a thing that is badly required.
Members are continually forced to choose be-
tween serving the party and serving what they
believe to be the best interests of the country, and,
so far, the country always seems to lose the toss.
The Bulletin has often pictured a candid member
“ skying a copper ” all by himself just before a
division, and explaining, when sternly called to
order by the Speaker, that he was deciding
whether to sell his country or his party, and the
blessed coin had come down tails.
The gilded R.A.A. lias had its pay fixed
at —for 2nd lieutenants and lieutenants, from £2OO
to £3OO a year ; and for captains, £325 to £4OO.
Now, what is the Commonwealth to get for these
salaries? A cadet draftsman in N.S.W. Lands
Department has to pass a severe mathematical
examination, be able to solve any triangle, and
draw both neatly and correctly—and he begins at
£75 a year. An English artillery subaltern has to
pass a still harder examination before he enters as
a cadet at Woolwich, and to stay there cramming
for two years. Then if he passes the final exam,
and is high enough on the list to win a commis-
sion, he gets ss. 7d. a day. Yet the £2OO-a-year
R. A. A. subaltern has only to pass an exam, that
should be easy for a 3rd-elass public-school boy.
“ T.D.” in reply :
“ Demos ” (Bulletin, Aug. 30th) labors under a pretty
general delusion when he says that a return of the sums
of money paid in Melbourne State schools for school
requisites would open the eyes of many who “ cherish de-
lusions about the freeness of the system of free educa-
tion.” It may astonish “ Demos,” but the money paid
for books and stationery to the Education Department
by parents throughout Victoria last year did not average
£5O. Surely Govt, is not expected to supply all State
school children with books and such articles merely
because less than one per cent, of their number can’t
actually buy them. Every teacher has an allowance
made by the Department for the supply of slate pencils,
and similar materials. Free and compulsory education is
a noble institution, but there is too much whining because
the Govt, stops spoon-feeding at a certain point, and too
little readiness to make up for the spoon-feeding by sub-
mitting to legitimate taxation instead of cutting into the
salaries of men earning 50s. a week.
The Irvine crowd, taunted with doing
nothing to save the Factories Act at the critical
juncture, feebly retorts that the chief opponent of
the continuation was Peacock’s whilom colleague,
Agar Wynne. But, after all, Wynne only played
the habitual game of the whole Rich Landlord
crowd, and is no more bitter against the Factories
Act than J. M. Davies, Robert Reid, and Sachse
were up to the very day they became Ministers
along with Irvine, and will be again the very day
they cease to be paid by a suffering community
for temporarily pretending to be Democrats. The
same remarks apply to those sturdy opponents of
all democratic legislation, Premier Irvine and
Lands Minister M'Kenzie, who never lost an
opportunity of denouncing the Factories Act
until the chance of getting good billets as Minis-
ters suddenly converted them into hypocritical
supporters of the measure.
Critchett Walker, at the Sydney Newspaper
Train Enquiry, was like another Witch of Endor,.
and Mr. Sam. Cook jumped worse than Saul.
“ We didn’t expect that ” is the beginning and end 1 ,
of “interested” comment on the matter. For
Critchett Walker evoked from the grave railway-
manager Goodchap and Honest John Sutherland
and Henry Parkes, and, seemingly, the whole
affair stands : Goodchap was willing to carry the
newspapers by special train for a small subsidy
from the post-office; Sutherland, the Minister,
eager; Parkes would let it go to the Cabinet. But
it never did go to the Cabinet. And so the Syd-
ney morning papers obtained, _ in an accidental
way, railway services which their brothers of Mel-
bourne would gladly purchase for much money.
How much money would the Akgus and Age pay
for a service to land their daily issues in Ballarat
and Bendigo at 6 in the morning ?


HAVE YOU ORDERED A PAIR YET ?
IF NOT,
POST FREE
AND
DUTY FREE
ORDER
TO-DAY!
i'v.
.
H V
m
m
You
may
depend
upon
a perfect
fit,
perfect
comfort,
and
LONG
WEAR.
23/6
The CALLAGHAN Tan
WILLOW CALF Lace
BOOT, with made-to-order
appearance, whole goloshed,
fast color eyelets, in pointed
or medium toes,
A pair sent post and dnty'j
free to any address in the |
Commonwealth upon receipt [
of J
24/6
The same style of Boot, in Black
Calf, for
23/6
With these Boots you will have better appearing
and more comfortable feet, exceptionally long wear,
and Save Money. If you live at a distance our
thoroughly systematised Mail Order Department will fit
you to your perfect satisfaction, or return your money. We
want distant customers to be as pleased as those in town.
State size of boot worn, and shape of toes desired.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce st„ Sydney.
Doctors Differed Again
BUT
VITADATIO
.CTTJRIEID.;
Read what Mr. Davis writes.
_ Perth, Jane 5, 1900.
Mr. S. A. PALMER.
Dear Sir, —I have been invalided for about 2 years and
3 months. The doctors treated me for Inflammation of the
Lungs, Bronchitis, and Pneumonia, but failed to cure me.
I nsed to suffer with very severe pains through my back
and chest, and had a very nasty cough. I was in the
Perth Hospital three weeks, but the doctor told me he
could do no more for me, and that I was as well as he
could make me, I was laid aside for 12 weeks at Fremantle.
The landlady of the Club Hotel advised me to try
VITADATIO, which I have done, and after taking four
bottles lam now in splendid health. I will be pleased to
answer any inquiries that any sufferer may require in the
hope that my humble testimony may be the means of
leading others to health.
Yours respectfully,
(Signed) FREDERICK DAVIS, Bayswater.
Witness: W. J. Fist, Perth.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The Price of Medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
W. H.Wigzell.
FRINGES : Best Natural Curly
Hair, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. long
5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6:
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Only one address : 110 WILLIAM-
ST., cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
T, 11 Bt ° P at door - All work guaranteed.
Illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention o-iven
to country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. 0 All
arnvork sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations, entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
Newman’s
Antiseptic Pastilles.
The Best for all Affections of the Throat.
TRY THEM. PRICE—ONE SHILLING.
S. HARRIS, M.P. S. t Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Telephone 2288. 82 KING-ST., SYDNEY.
The Philp Govt. is now known as the Poll-tax
Govt, it has succeeded in passing a measure
almost unparalleled m Australian legislative
records. Every male adult in Queensland (with
under £100) has now to pay an income-tax
or 10s. In the Q. backblocks at present you can
meet gaunt, hungry men in scores who haven’t
earned £2O in the last 12 months—and these un-
fortunate devils are all expected to pay income-
tax. in -N.Q. there are mining townships where
you pay 17s. 6d. for 501 b. of flour; where butter
(when procurable) costs you about 3s. a lb.; where
tresh meat is unobtainable—even in the form of
goat-flesh, and where hardly a man averages £BO
per annum, and the income-tax man will be there
also, if he doesn’t die of thirst getting there. The
of £52 6m re^use< l even to make an exemption
Died at Wangaratta (Vic.), some weeks
ago, an old identity named Jimmy Snelling a
watchmaker since the sixties, who had a great
local reputation as an amateur fiddler and critic,
bnazelle struck Wangaratta in days of yore, tour-
ing with his show, “ Music, Song and Storv ”
Snazzy was having a bad time. He and his
daughter (who accompanied her dad in the songs)
were just recovering from influenza, the limelight
apparatus went wrong and was omitted from the
night s programme, and only that there was a
good house to disappoint, Snazzy would have gone
to bed in disgust. Under these adverse circum-
stances he put his fruity basso into the show like
a man, and told his yarns, and got through the
trouble successfully. Next morning someone
notified Snazzy, as he was doing the local block
m his white canvas shoes, that Snelling, the oracle
was desirous of saying what he thought about the
show. You wanted to see me, sir?” queried
Snazzy, twirling a walking-stick menacingly.
Yes, sir. said Snelling, rising from his bench,
eyeglass m eye; “you call yourself an artist, do
ob l d ° ! „ ro^ ed , Snaz 'i “ w hy do you
ask l Because,” said the imperturbable critic
your tremolo has cracked half the walls in Wan-
garatta ! ’ Friends interfered before any blood
was spilt, and the episode ended in whiskies,
bnazelle s indignation usually ended in whisky.
Harry Morant and his sorry fate, told of
in Bushman and Buccaneer” (now in its second
edition). The history of the Breaker and his
verses and letters, including photo, reproduction
o f T . th ® Petersburg gaol MS. Price one shilling.
Wholesale from Edwards, Dunlop and Co. Retail
from all booksellers and Bulletin office (post
free Is. Id.)
New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd., reports for week ended Sept. 13th that the wool
market has been particularly quiet. Local sales will be
resumed on the lBth, but quantity offering is painfully
small, and few parcels of the new clip are expected
London sales open on the 16th with 192,000 bales offering.'
Sheepskin supplies limited and not improved in quality.
Prices ruled firm, with occasional advances for choice
lines. Kangaroo and swamp wallabies sold at last week’s
rates Scrub wallabies not much asked for. Bears and
rabbits very firm. Superior grey and red ’possums
decidedly stronger, and prices kept up to last week’s
level. Hides are still very inferior in quality, although
good butchered ones show an upward tendency. Tallow
maintained last week’s prices with difficulty, although
supplies were more limited. Hide pieces, sinews and
horns in good demand. Cowhair just firm and horsehair
decidedly weaker. The optimistic ideas of last month
with regard to coming crops of breadstuffs have been
somewhat dispelled by continued dry weather and
quotations, which are purely nominal, may be given as
4s. lid. per bushel for milling purposes.*
Ml
i y
StFl
r t ,d
Th<?
c 055
p.p
CORSETS
The Recognised Standard
High-Class Corsets
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦<
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
NOUVELLE FORM
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
eaeh pair bears the Manufacturer’s “Trade
.Mark on banc| inside, as above.
. -A new find has been made on the Great Over-
,Bulon" (W.A.), and a test parcel of 30 tons has
yielded 210 oz. This brings the total gold won up to
11,7850 z. from 1408 tons. All this has gone to the
working man, as Government refused to grant leases and
cut up the ground into small areas. For a long time this
was looked upon as a lode, but it is now admitted to be a
lead.
* * * *
Ops- working round about Great Fingall Consols
(w.A.) seem to be in a bad way. South Fingall bored to
2000 ft. without encountering anything of value. West
Fingall got three reefs, but, besides being small, the
grade is low, so that outlook is not too rosy. At recent
London meeting the usual gaudy cable was reeled off to
shareholders to tide directors over another year. Since
then co. has gone in for exemption to recover breath for
fresh efforts.
* * * *
The ill luck of Hannan’s Proprietary Develop-
ment Go. (W.A.) is unbounded ! The Golden Pike and
Lake View East have just taken a spell of exemption after
spending thousands on chasing a will-o’-the-wisp lode.
The Queen of the West is in hot pursuit of the Ironsides
North lode at 500 ft., but why, nobody can say, as the lode
has produced no gold so far. Another of its progeny,
the Oroya East, is on its wav down to 700 ft. to try and
find the Brown Hill Extended lode, which seems to an
unprejudiced observer the height of folly as the lode has
been a duffer so far.
• * * »
The Davyhurst district (W.A.) is looking up
again. The Westralia Waihi and the Golden Pole have
installed rock drills and are busy sinking for water. The
latter is held by a Kalgoorlie syndicate, and shares,
which recently changed hands at £3, are now held for £5.
The Eileen, the rejected of Boulder Hamilton, is also
showing well.
* » • *
Associated Northern (W.A.) continues shipping
rich sulpho-telluride ore to Dapto, and it is probable that
when the returns come in a div. will be declared. A
diamond-drill bore from the 550 ft. level has been put
down 650 ft., but results have not been reported. “No
news is good news,” but in this case, probably, the
reverse holds good.
* • • •
Tom Hewitson, the old Bendigo and Clunes
(Vic.) mining manager who had the Ivanhoe and now the
Associated (Kal.), is to be relieved of the duties, at his
own request, in October. He’s quite tired of trying to
please John Bull and his crowd in London. Gleisberg,
the new man, has arrived on the mine ; he is of the high-
collar and patent-leather-boots brigade.
• * • *
Hercules silver-lead-copper-zinc mine (Tas.),
shipped £14,671 worth of ore during past half-year, and
made a profit on working account of £3116. The profit
and loss account to date shows a credit of £13,873, which,
on a called-up capital of £3750, is a good record. The
gossan ore averages about lldwts. of gold, 19oz. of silver,
and from 4 to 13 per cent, of lead, while the sulphide
returns Bdwts. of gold, 20oz, of silver, and 7 per cent, of
lead. The coppery ore is not shipped. Reports show
that there are immense bodies of ore available, and the
question arises—why is the co. content to continue in its
present tinpot way, making larger profits for smelting cos.
than it does for itself? Why not call up some more
capital to make provision for treatment of ore on a large
scale on the mine ?
• * • •
Editor Bulletin.— Re Briseis mine (Tas.): In
your issue 30/8/’O2 it is stated that the Ringarooma race
delivers to Briseis 810,000 gallons water daily, and a big
output shortly is “confidently anticipated.” In reply,
the race is delivering over 900,000 gallons “ hourly ” in-
stead of daily. In your same issue reference is made
to the race estimate. The original estimate was for a
race barely half the dimensions of the constructed one
and exclusive of the large syphons and the 10-mile exten-
sion to Mt. Maurice, hence the difference in estimation.
During the last three years I have championed the cause
of this much-abused mine against many inaccurate and
misleading statements, a few of which are : That the tin
drifts were considerably over-rated by the various
engineer’s reports ; that there was not one-third of the
water available in the Ringarooma as guaranteed the
company by its experts ; that the Ringarooma silting up
would prove to be the fly in the ointment; that no dumping-
ground was available for overburden, etc., etc. Beyond
a shadow of doubt all these asserted difficulties are
skeletons of the past. One small elevator (6in.) working
on intermediate drifts for July raised about 32 tons tin ;
for August, 41j tons ; and estimated output for present
month is from 45 to 50 tons. If one face will yield this
output monthly it is fair to assume that several faces
operating on similar or better drifts will yield a big out-
put, and fully bear out the reports of various engineers.
The Ringarooma water supply is somewhat in excess of
the report of the co.’s experts. There is more dumping-
ground available than will be required. The Ringarooma
River, as the main water channel, is in excellent con-
dition, the Briseis mine not delivering a particle of over-
burden (or, for that matter, underburden either) into it.
The co. is practically independent of the river except as a
drainage race. I, as a practical miner and mine owner,
living over 25 years in its immediate vicinity have had the
best possible opportunity of judging the surroundings and
possibilities of the Briseis mine. The policy of the present
management is to carry the stripping sufficiently forward
to permit tin-producing operations on a large scale to be
carried on without cessation. It is roughly estimated
this will occupy another four to six months. The two
nozzles operating on Briseis Hill overburden are doing
wonderful execution. Derby and Cascade stripping faces
are also being well advanced. In the meantime, the 6in.
elevator will be responsible for the output of tin, which I
estimate will be between 40 and 50 tons monthly.—J H
Bryant.
The Great Australian Central Transvaal Co.
has received advice from its South African agent that
two of the reefs inspected have proved unpayable.”
This is an injustice to local industry. No occasion to
send men to Africa to find unpai'able reefs. Better
squander the money here. Circulation of it locally might
do some good.
* * * »
The condition of things in London is reported
to be deplorable from a mining point of view. The S.
African slump continues, and there has been no mining
promotion during the last six months, although some
hundreds of S’African mining schemes were all in readi-
ness to come out as soon as the war was over. Bitter and
great has been the disappointment. Shares, at latest
advices, were 50 per cent, lower than they were
in the height of the boom, and considerably lower
than they were when the outlook seemed very blue
for the British army. There are no prospects of a
boom now in sight. One of the big managers ex-
plains the real cause of the present state of things.
The mines are not what they have been cracked up
to be. In most cases the market price was more
than the gold in the mine, making a fair allowance
for working expenses. The average is very low grade,
and cheap working by black labor has been‘the secret of
regular and big divs., but the position has changed.
Only about one-tenth of the required number of niggers
have so far expressed their willingness to resume work.
More than that, it is not possible to dump new niggers
into the mines to work as miners; they have to be trained
like everybody else. As a rule, after working several
years as miners, they got enough money to buy wives and
to live by their work, but others were then being trained,
first on the surface, then below carrying tools, timber,
shovelling and trucking, &c., and then in the stopes until
they became first-class miners who worked for 18s. a
week. For the last three years this training has stopped
entirely, and the number of miners wanted are not avail-
able—especially at the 6s. a week which the co’s. are now
trying to fix as the nigger-wage. It is necessary to have
miners to train new niggers. White labor is offered ss. a
day and rations. What sort of white mining labor could
be got on the Rand at ss. a day ? And if they paid good
miners 10s. a day divs. would drop heavily.
(Continued on page 23.)
Recent arrivals from South Africa state
that no Australian ha*> any idea of the terrible
condition of that country at the present time.
The thousands of irregulars employed in the war
have been thrown out of employment, and, as a
large proportion are local men, they are simply
cast on their own resources, without work and—
when they have gambled away their lump of pay
—without cash. The result is that every large
town is a hotbed of crime. Men who, for three
years, have been accustomed to take life and any-
thing else. they, can get, are not likely to
change their habits merely through the signing
of a. declaration of peace and, generally
speaking, nothing is safe in South Africa
that isn’t nailed down. Dozens of serious
robberies occur daily in all the big cities;
mysterious deaths by violence are happening
everywhere, and every main road is patrolled by
footpads. The police, never very effective under
the comparatively easy conditions that prevailed
before the war, are completely paralysed, and the
special police, manufactured out of Imperial
soldiers, spend their time drinking and brawling
with the colonials or partaking in the proceeds of
robberies. The discipline that was enforced dur-
ing the war has gone, and officers are gleefully
maltreated by discharged and unidentifiable
privates. The position of women in South Africa
to-day is best unthought of. The place is a
veritable hell.
Dear Bulletin. —Advice is only useful
when practicable. The friendly critic in your
last issue (13/9/’O2) overlooks two facts : (1) That
no lawyer lives who can tell what the law is in
regard to trades unions in Australia; (2) That
the trades union movement has grown and
advantageously developed in contravention of
law, and, consequently, had they acted on legal
advice, we would have had no progress or forward
movement. The A.W.U. has for years retained a
solicitor, and his .ad vice has, in minor matters,
saved members in many cases from entering
into legal proceedings, but, on more important
issues, no one knows what the law is until judg-
ment is given in higher courts. If such decisions
are ever given and law is against the essential
advancement of the Trades Union movement the
law will have to be altered. A. pushing progres-
sive movement is always ahead of law and cannot
stop because of legal quibbles, even if it suffers
martyrdom, but democratic, self-governing com-
munities can make the cumbrous law-making
machine keep within coo-e-e, although behind all
the time.—W. G. Spence, President A.W.U.
Sydney, 13/9/’O2. [Yes, but just now “ the cum-
brous law-making machine” is ahead of the
A.W.U. in the Arbitration Act, which provides
a much better way than a strike for settling labor
difficulties ; and Union members may fairly expect
that their officials shall study that Act (which is
plain enough and to be easily understood). Any
counsel of standing would have told the A W U
the inevitable result of the first Arbitration
Court proceedings.]


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
XJpon - all - Classes - of
Security.——
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.^
WE
&
<5 0*
BILLS
discounted.
3VT.S.-W.
(Qnnt deplete I. Co.,[td.
(Opposite‘Tivoli Theatre)
174. CASTLEEEAGH ST., 74
* SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THE
Colonial Mutual Life
assurance society limited,
FOR
Mutual I.ife Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street. Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; ITon. C. J. Robhrts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Brock Smith, Esq.
Besident Secretary : A. Boss Miljl.kr.
Accumulated Funds, £2,595,870.
Policies issued 88,299—nssuMng £26,820,380.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,767,115.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses— eouitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PAUK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
The Bank of Perth Queensland
MAI I TED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
ilanacer- Local Director-JAMES BURNS, Esq.
j j> Oannv. (Messrs. Burns, Philp& Co. Ltd.)
VUTITORISED CAPITAL ... ••• *700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
teserve Liability of Share- _
holders 250 100 ... £350,000
rhe
Royal Bank of Queensland
J JjIMITKD.
TjIMITKD.
1 apttaTj PAID-UP .. .. •• •• •• £451,307
iu,SERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS. 181,859
RESERVE FUND (Invested m Government Stock) 50,000
£689,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Hen Manager, Enwn. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
THE
flmi muTiiar. life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
Established. 1879.
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection HUNTER, BLIGH and CASTLEREAGH
STREETS, SYDNEY.
The CITY MUTUAL LIFE is generally
recognised as the most liberal and pro-
gressive institution of its kind in Austra-
lasia. It retains on its books a larger
proportion of business than any other
Life Office doing business in these States.
CEO. CROWLEY,
General Manager.
Queensland Smelting Compy.
** (LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
DUYRRS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
D 6(11 ' J
Dormer Ores. Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S DUNN Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
—u r SAVINGS BANK IN VICTORIA
T HAS MONEY TO LEND
a,t FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £15,000, on Oit.V,
Town and Suburban Properties,
and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. TAd. of Tjondoyi
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney : Hon. A. VV. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessof, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Ci.ynk ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Earquhar. ~, . . ...
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders
2,000,000
600,000
Total Capital .. .. £2,500,000
GENTS.
WRITE FOE VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES,
Ai)Dam-L.0.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
Shipping.
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONO
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Saturday, Sept. 20, 2 p.m.
Konoowarra, Tues., Sept. 23, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Sept. 27,2 p.m.
Gabo, Tuesday, Sept. 30, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tuesday, Sept. 30, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Gabo, Tuesday, Sept. 30, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Burrumbeet, Sat., Sept. 20,2 p.m.
Gabo, Tuesday, Sept. 23, 5 p.m.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Burrnmbeet, Sat., Sept. 20, 2 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Sept. 27, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Lass o’ Govvrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest. Current Fares and Freights to all Port 9.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves —Foot of Iving-street.
TN€ RB€RD€€N UN€.
Natal, Capetown , Plymouth, and
London.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
DAMASCUS
NINEVEH ..
MORAVIAN
R. McKilliam
N. Allan
A. Simpson
Noon, Oct. 3
Noon, Oct. 24.
Noon, Nov. 14.
FARES:
Tondon .. .. Sf""’ .. SfIJS Os.
Cape and Natal .. £3l 10s .. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £l2O.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalf/ety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Huddart, parker & C®’® Cine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
O.STI3
LINE
San Francisco
California.
NEW
SERIES
OF
EXCURSIONS
TO THE
RIVIERA
OP
AMERICA.
FIRST-CLASS THROUGHOUT.
COSTS £OO.
Covering Return Passages, Steamer and Rail, Hotel
Expenses in San Francisco, and Hotel Del Monte,
Southern California, about Ten Days’ stay in America,
with liberty to remain longer. Steamers leave as
follows:
THE GREAT
f OVERSEA \
\ OVEREAND /
HIGHWAY
TO THE UNITED KINGDOM,
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, and AMERICA.
The NEWEST, LARGEST (6000 Tons each), FASTEST,
and ONLY TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS engaged in
the TRANS-PACIFIC PASSENGER SERVICE from
Australia and New Zealand.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMS nil* CO., ITT).
BURNS, PIIILP & CO., LTD., Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) ... ... ... £9576 13 4
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
0. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager
av ctf s<,s
to ©Vies.
,4^'
,’S
p^ Rot 0
rß^°
vus Oft
£ tt CaW tn *ro-
. n MaW a "rt c'.vr eS
is* _ a"4 fo ids-
ca«>"’ a»4 co
Co^ S
\x&
FIRST PRIZE
IN THE
8 -HOUR
ART UNION
Who Wants It?
£5OO for Is.
SECOND PRIZE, value £lOO
THIRD „ „ -£5O
FOURTH „ „ £25
FIFTH „ ~ £2O
and 150 other Valuable Prizes.
Someone’s Sure to Win.
Buy your Tickets Early.
TICKETS may be had from Agents in all
Country Towns, or direct from
ALLAN McDOUGALL, Secretary,
Eight-Hour Committee,
Trades Hall, Sydney.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK :
By Sixty Bulletin writers- Cloth, 300 pages ;
price, 4s. 6d. ; postage, 6d.
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane
]\r. d. l.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
Interstate First Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. TANGLIIM, 15th OCTOBER,
And Regularly Thereafter.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
THE GREAT COMBINATION.
Australia, Canada, Great Britain.
Canadian-Australian Line,
Canadian-Pacific R.
British Atlantic Lines.
CHEAPEST ROUTE TO LONDON.
STEAMERS SAIL:
Oct. 6, Nov. 3, Dec. 1.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
RUPTURE cubed
Throw away
your Truss.
without
operation or pain,
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. xo. Address:
I SURGEON LANGSTON,
M , R C.S., ENG.,
Cob Russell 4. Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
Mr, Robert E.
„ , PARKHURST
of Pitt St., Sydn y, says if any sufferer lrom DEBILITY,
KIDNEY or BLADDER DIf'EASR will write him he will inform
them of the perfect home cure that did the work in his case.
Shipping. .
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(fiIMITRI)).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
POET PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Adelaide,
Friday, September 19.
S.S. Wollowra,
Saturday, September 27.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
Townsville
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Warrego, Sat., Sept. 20.
S.S. Adelaide, Sat., Sept.
S.S. Allinga, Friday, Oct. 3.
Jtest and Cheapest Itonte to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairn 3 with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and Howard Smith Co.,
Ld. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter*
changeable with the A.U.S.N. 00. only. Subject to con*
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Maokay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Twice weekly, via Bris-
bane, Maryborough, and Bundaberg.
SYDNEY and *>URKETOWN— Every 3 Weeks, via Bril
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
a'hd Norman ton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
via MELBOURNE—Fortnightly.
Cassent/ ei' A ceo intnodutloil, A t.teintdnee <i)K I
Cuisine Unrivalled*
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after thJ
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamer!
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. 11. Smith and Son 3,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and VV. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co; only.
BURNS, PBILP anil CO, Ltd., Agents, 10 Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
P. AND o
COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £BB to £<7
Ditto Ditto Return,£66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific,
Messageries Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
Superintendent in Australiav
63 Pitt-street.
Messageries Maritime^
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS:
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract withtha 1
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE,. A'DE-
LA IDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and' PORT!'
FASSEINUEKS DOOKeu W Dvuiimy,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,.
including table wines.
RETURN TICKET’S AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH!
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing andpassing their luggage throughrthe Customs,
etc and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS'(First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE TIIUY, Principal Agent.
“E. BNP a.” LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, GNINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer.
AUSTRALIAN
GUTHRIE
EASTERN
AIRLIE
,Tns Commander.
Leave Sydney.
3000 P. T. Helms .. September 27
25001 A. E. Dabelle .. October 18
360 C Winthrop Ellis ..November 15
250(dSt. John George.. December 6
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-*
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Through bookings to points in Canada, United States
of America and Europe at special rates.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
Lowest Fares and Freights.
For further information apply to
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents.
. 37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
. . SMOKE
T-ixi
&
INSIST
on having this Brand
and no other,
Largest Depot:
231 CLRRCNCC STR€€T
SYDNEY.


Cough-Curing
‘‘The Cough was eased almost
inOttediately—is now completely
cured ”
Goughs are as common in this sort of
weather as roses in June; all kinds of
coughs from all kinds of reasons, yet all tha
coughs and all the reasons give way to one
thing:
“ 109, Nursery Road, Lozells,
“ Birmingham, England,
“ April 9th, 1901.
“ Dear Sirs, —My child suffered from
measles, which left behind a most distressing
cough. I tried several remedies for him,
including an emulsion made by another firm,
but it had not the least effect and did not
relieve the cough one atom. I was then
recommended to try Scott’s Emulsion and
to this end procured a bottle, and from that
time my child commenced to steadily im-
prove. The cough was eased almost imme-
diately, appetite greatly improved,* and
vitality and strength increased. I beg to
say my child is now completely cured,
and to Scott’s Emulsion only can I in
HARRY SHARRATT.
(From a photograph.)
justice give the credit of this satisfactory
result. I consider Scott’s Emulsion im-
measurably superior to the other Emulsion
I tried, and its pleasant taste and palata-
bility is a great point in its favour, the child
taking it readily from the first, but it was
only with the greatest difficulty he would
take the other preparation. To show you
how noticeable the improvement must be in
my boy’s condition, I may state our friends
frequently remark upon the change in him
and say how healthy he now looks.—Yours
truly, (Signed) E. Shabbatt.”
“To Scott’s Emulsion only can I in
justice give the credit for this satisfactory
result.” The result Mr. Sharratt alludes to
was the cure of “ a most distressing cough.”
For cough-curing is easy if you know just
what to do. All the coughs of these bitter
winter days will yield to Scott’s Emulsion,
and we have no hesitation in promising
you prompt, almost immediate relief,
with ultimate cure. Is it not the part of
wisdom and comfort to cure the cough you
have?
We are bound to point out to you, not
more in our interest than in your own, that
while curing coughs is easy enough if you
take Scott’s Emulsion, it by no means
follows that you will cure your cough if you
accept anything said to be “just as good.”
There never can be*, an imitation just as
good as the original. As for “ substitutes,”
no substitute for the good done by cod-liver
oil has yet been found.
Then, too, after cod-liver oil has refreshed
and reinforced the blood, two other ingre-
dients—blended in Scott’s Emulsion—come
into play, those perfect bone and tissue
builders, hypophosphites of lime and soda.
The three—as combined by our process—
form the perfect treatment for all coughs
from whatever cause arising.
Scott’s Emulsion, too, is pleasant to taste,
easy to digest, and has—according to an
eminent physician—three times the value
the same quantity of common cod-liver oil.
Itemember, therefore, to see that it is Scott’s
Emulsion, on the wrapper of every bottle of
w rich you will find a picture of a man
carrying a big fish.
You can obtain a sample of Scott’s Emulsion
by sending fourpence to Scott & Bowne, Ltd.,
483 Kent stree*, Sydney, and mentioning this
paper. All chemists sell Scott’s Emulsion.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
33 of this issue *
GENERAL
ELECTRIC
COUP ANY.
Capital - - - £5,250,000.
Manufactures the Highest Grade of
Electrical Machinery.
THEIR NAME IS A GUARANTEE.
Dynamos, Engines and Motors up to 250 H.P. in Stock.
Lighting and Power Plants for Immediate Delivery.
Arc and Incandescent Lamps and Supplies of all kinds.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC GO.,
Electrical Engineers and Contractors,
SOLE REPRESENTATIVES.
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, Melbourne and Sydney.
SHAVING.
The chief danger in cutting yourself
when shaving arises from the germs
in the inferior, bad-smelling fats
used in making the Shaving Soaps.
The kind of fats we mean is such as
one smells in the vicinity of an
ordinary Soap Factory. The Vinolia Fat
yard smells as sweet as any kitchen
in England, and Vinolia Shaving Soap
is purest, safest, best—so that the
danger, if you should cut your face,
is nil.
Hotelkeepers, Make Your Own
/M//////M
£ RATED WATERS.
THE “AUSTRAL” DERATED WATER MACHINE
■ occupies only Four Feet square, will produce 160 dozen
BOTTLES per day of Finest Waters (Lemonade, Ginger
Ale, Sodawater, &e.) at a COST BELOW FOURPENCE
PER DOZEN. These machines are now working in all the
Australian States, New Zealand, and South Africa.
May be PuroHased on the Hire System.
Write -for Prices and Particulars
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers—
ECKERSLEY AMP SONS
214-216 Queen Streets Me! bourn. e
“OnOur Selection,” By “Steele Rudd.”
De Babby.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Kissin’, kissin’, kissin’,
Lordy ! ain’t he sweet,
Rosy roun’ de mouf,
Rosy roun’ de feet.
Jes’ tuk out de water:
Fresher dan de rose;
Kiss him little fis’s.
Kiss him little toes.
Ain’t no babby like him,
Couldn’t nebber be,—■
Him dat all is mine,
Him dat’s kissin’ me !
M.J.C.
The Strongest Hope.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Kate Baylis sat on one side of the hearth nursing
her story, and wondering whether she should use
it further. Todd Frost sat on the other side and
came near to wishing that her own story was far
enough advanced to be held thus, in retro-
spection.
The fire arrived at that glowing stage which
gets at the quick of a woman, and, probing there,
draws blood. Kate Baylis made a little, half-
nervous gesture, strange in her, and took measure
of that younger face hard set against the fire-
ight.
“Iknow I’m treading on dangerous ground,”
she began, “and you’re no chicken, but —here
goes. The yarns I’ve heard about you lately have
been more or less lively, and I haven’t gone
through that phase myself for nothing. I know
that rumor sometimes falls short, and instinct tells
me it hasn’t done you justice. You needn’t culti-
vate that look. Keep it till I’m finished. We’ll
suppose you love this man, and he you. I know
only one thing against him, the trifling matter of
his being another woman’s husband.”
“ That makes the thing more worth while, of
course,. but puts it in the list of prohibited goods.
He’s kissed you, I suppose. If he hasn’t yet, he
intends to. Then you’ll do a little bit of plain
talking, and find it rather agreeable. He’ll kiss
you again, and there’ll be further unmasking.
Presently it will occur to you that the growth of
Love is very pleasant, and you’ll think you’ve
more right than even his wife to be the mother of
his children, because you have the laws of affinity
on your side. Quite right, I agree with you. The
only trouble is, the world doesn’t go round to
laws of love and affinity. The world’s laws hap-
pen to be of another kind.
“ Then you’ll think of your mother and your
friends. It’s rather late in the day for that, but
it’s a sort of auxiliary that usually comes in some-
where, and it gives you the idea that you really
are bestowing some careful consideration on the
problem. Well, some evening the man lets go.
You don’t, the first time ; and it pleases you when
he recovers and swears that he is a beast and you
are a wonderful woman. This little experience
lays bare the thoughts that once were veiled. You
call it perfect friendship. It may be ; we’ll let
that pass. Say you are labelled strong. So are
the Forces, and some time they plump on you
without warning preliminaries and down you go.
“Let this be said for the man, he continues to
want you, and you argue that you’ve done the
thing, and yqu’ll live by it. And away you both
go. It’s a bit dramatic at first, and things are
even better than you expected. That is, your
friends stand by you, and the man gets a billet,
and your meals come regularly. You had calcu-
lated on ostracism, physical discomforts, and pro-
bably the transient passion of the man. You
overlooked the most important factor in the whole
show— your own personality. That’s where the
bleaching begins.”
Kate Baylis leaned down and put another log
of wood at the back of those potent coals. At
that moment it struck Todd Frost that her hair
was 20 years older than her face.
“Then,” went on the other, very slowly, “the
man doesn’t always show tip well, and he deserves
preparatory consideration.”
Todd Frost forgot her own probable story for '
the moment. i
“ Did the man leave you ? ” she asked, abruptly.
“ No ; rather worse than that —he stuck to me,
till he died.”
“ And the child ? ”
“ Didn’t happen to be any.”
There was a forcible pause.
“I’ve never heard a whisper of this,” said the
girl, in amazement.
“Probably not. It must be 15 years ago now,
and I have generous friends. That was one of my
hardest knocks.”
Todd Frost made a convulsive motion forward.
“ Thanks for this, ” she said, jerkily. “It may be
too late, but that’s not your fault.”
Kate Baylis drew out her cigarette-case. “Well,
if you do try that gulf,” she said, puffing, “ I’ll
reach you the strongest rope.”
• * • *
A year later, the story worked to its end, and
Kate Baylis cast about for a rope.
“ The child’s dead,” the doctor said to her when
the climax came.
“ So much the better,” said Kate.
The mother tossed, raving, for a week, while
Kate kept watch, and carefully neglected the
doctor’s orders. He couldn’t understand why the
patient didn’t improve ; neither, in conversation,
could Kate. Being an accredited nurse, her little
extras were undreamt of. When the skilfully-
contrived end came, she surveyed her work with
quiet satisfaction. 1
“ Murder is not a musical word,” she said,
thoughtfully, “but I’ve kept my promise.”
M.L.
M.J.M.
Lately, in Maoriland House of Represen-
tatives, John Hutcheson desired to know if the
Government would take steps to protect the chil-
dren of the Taranaki dairying district from the
rapacity and callousness of their parents. Hun-
dreds of children in that wet, bush-clad, mud-
cursed district, who should be fast asleep in their
beds, are roused out at 3 and 4 a.m. to milk cows,
and thereby save their stingy parents the cost of
hired labor. The practice, Hutcheson said, was
resulting in stunted intellects and dwarfed bodies,
and its abolition was necessary for the good of the
community. Then Minister Thomas Duncan
arose in his wrath and cursed, not the callous
parents responsible for the evil, but the man who
had brought it to light. He said that such a
statement was injurious to the fair fame of Maori-
land. Then, as an afterthought, he denied the
existence of any such sweating. Immediately
afterwards he contradicted himself by declaring
that in Hutcheson’s own electorate little children
went round delivering milk at 5 o’clock every
morning. He seemed to imply that in some mys-
terious way John Hutcheson, and not the adminis-
tration, was responsible for all the evil, sweating,
and lawlessness in Hutcheson’s electorate. Any-
how, when Minister Duncan denied that child-
sweating exists in the dairying districts of Maori-
land he and the truth parted company. Almost
every pound of butter from the Taranaki district
is tainted with the crushed soul of some child or
other. But the dairy farmers have votes and the
tiny children who are being sweated into imbe-
cility and premature decay have none, and the
Farmers’ Union is an institution to which few
Maoriland politicians dare to speak crossly nowa-
days.


ROAD RACING
is not a sport that everyone cares to indulge in. Gentlemen, and ladies
too, often very much prefer a country ride or a little touring. But, in
choosing a mount for theconntry ride or occasional tour, all the pleasure
is marred unless there is perfect confidence in the wheel.
THE RED BIRD BICYCLE
Branches in every State.
is often quoted as “ the Best Bicycle built.” At any rate, it is worthy
of note that nearly all the hardest road riders ride RED BIRDS.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King-street, City,
GrO TO TTKT-T ■-
I(H()IjAN1» for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
Hardy’s
Absolutely Pure;
Tintara Wines
Fully Matured; 700 Medals, etc.
Adelaide:
CURRIE STREET
Melbourne:
COLLINS STREET
Sydney:
GROSVENOR STREET
SPORTING NOTIONS.
A.J.C. Spring meet scraps. Attendances on
each of the four days exceeded all previous records for
the same fixture, and gate-monev was, roughly, £6OO
better than last year’s. R. Wootton topped prize list
with £2865, O. Carlisle (£1616) came next, and Wakeful’s
owner, Macdonald (£1223), third. Altogether £14,539 was
paid away. Most successful jock, turned up in Victorian F,
Uunn with three wins, all Wakeful’s mounts Cross-
country rider, Chevally, and W. H. Smith, C. M. Godby,
N. Godby and A. McCrimmon gathered two races each.
List of winning sires was headed by Trenton through
Wakeful, who appropriated the three w.f.a. races.
Lochiel (Redeemed and Great Scot), and Invader (Lord
Monmouth and Bulli), were each the sires of two winners.
Mares succeeded in seven events, including the two
richest handicaps and three principal w.f.a. races.
Geldings won nine, and entires (Patronage, Abundance,
Homeward Bound, Strata Florida, Ibex, Great Scot, Lord
Monmouth and Postillion) annexed eight.
* * * *
Ease with which Wakeful gathered in all w.f.a.
races at recent A.J.C. meeting has made her a pro-
nounced favorite for Melbourne Cup (still close on two
months off), and the best price available at moment of
writing is B’s, with indications that that will shorten ere
long, as Mo isn’t over-anxious to lay. Everything going
right meanwhile, it’s a safe tip that Wakefui will start as
scorchingly hot as did Revenue from the same stable last
year. Patronage, The Persian and Abundance have been
liberally supported, too, at thousands to 50 and 60. Caul-
field Cup betting was also brisk on settling days last
week. Simile has been backed to win some thousands,
ditto Patronage and The Idler, about whom perhaps the
biggest parcel has been secured. The bejewelled one’s
heart is further gladdened by the amount of “ double ”
wagering indulged in. All manner of fancy combinations
have already been booked.
* * • *
Noticeable that the Melbourne dailies have
started to make encouraging allusions to the work of
Kinglike on the training track. This looks bad for King-
like’s chance of taking one or other of the Cups. Likely
winners in the Macdonald stable don’t get glowing ad-
vance notices from Mac.’s sporting-press courtiers. Not
much. Last year they never said anything calculated to
spoil the stable’s market for Revenue'and Wakeful.
* * * *
Last year Sequence did exactly what Air Motor
did this— viz., won the Epsom and ran third in the
Metrop. It is remembered now that N.S.W. let Air
Motor’s dam, Windmill, in foal to Gossoon (Ibex’s sire), go
to Maoriland for lOOgs. only.
* * » *
Metropolitan winner, Queen of Sheba, succeeded
four times in 21 starts last season, she annexing Sydney
Tattersall’s Mile Welter, April last, humping 7.7 to the
front in 1.40 J-. This feat should have suggested Epsom
possibilities, and probably did, for a lot of money was
taken about her, but, ’tis now told, she never got any-
thing like a clean run in the big mile, and was blocked
twice.
* * • •
Sainora-Midnight nag Railway, from Riverina
district, won second Steeple, last Saturday, of A.J.C.
meeting, in fine style, and looks a more than likely better
future performer. Half a dozen saddled. Tas. sport
“S. M. Wilson” sent both his—Bay Eagle (12.12) and
Rising Fund (10.10)—and on their merits. Chevally, who
had the mount on Bay Eagle in every recent previous
success, rode Rising Fund this time, and that nag started
first choice, his stable-chum being bracketed with Railway
a point longer. Vic. rep., Drummer, shaping a heap
better than in the first ’chase, previous Saturday, made
the pace from the jump, and the initial round of the
course saw him 20 lengths to the good. Rising Fund
came a cropper over second set of the treble, as most
Randwick touts predicted he would, but Chevally was up
again instanter, and followed the others at a great clip.
After being in front till nearing the last lep, Drummer
turned turtle, and, half-mile from home, the race looked
good for Bay Eagle. But Railway, having 3st. the better
of the weights, came with great dash, and, jumping the
logs on terms with Bay Eagle, finished a dozen lengths
best. Railway’s display of foot at the end was eye-open-
ing. P. Regan rode him.
» » * *
Duff Memorial (1 mile) Stakes Wednesday saw
Great Scot (9.1) easily account for the Derby winner
Abundance (9.10) who lined-up odds on. Five to 1 was
available and 10’s and 20’s had been taken about the
winner, who got home eight lengths best in the speedy
time of 1.40. Only Abundance’s failure to begin well
Went against him, and, as this shortcoming is common
property, it seemed surprising that he should have gone
out such a hot pot. Great Scot was bred by his trainer,
iTom Payten, and is by Lochiel from Scotch Mary, by
Clan Stuart from Ave Maria, by the Hermit (imp.), and
has engagements in all the big things ahead.
* * * *
Why Ikey waxes fat and can put heaps of coin
into bricks and mortar : Cyanide, humping 7.13 and
heavily backed, never threatened danger once in the
Metrop. ljm. covered in 2.36, but next racing day, with
9st. up, she won Sydney Handicap over same distance in
2.36! and finished the meeting carrying 9.12 into second
place for Waverley Handicap (lfm.) which winner
Regalia, appropriated in the speedy time of 3.4!.
» * * •
Transpires that Epsom winner, Air Motor, was
backed, mostly in patches, to land a big sum ; one lucky
supporter secured £5OO, and would have made the scoop
bigger but for cautiousness of the nag’s trainer (Burton)
through fear of bumping and other possibilities, though
he wouldn’t have it that any nag could beat his. Same
man prepared Dare Devil, who won same race 10 years
ago, and took joy and considerable shekels Bathurst way.
• * » 9
Instances of how little clocking can be relied
Upon in connection with horse-racing are usually plenti-
ful at every big meeting. Ibex’s is the latest. With 8.12,
and heavily backed, he couldn't get near a place in
the Epsom Mile, Saturday week, when the winner’s
figures were 1.41, but third day saw him easily close on
Suburban Handicap, over same distance, in exactly same
time as Epsom winner, and carrying 211 b. more, in this
connection, Ibex’s second, by a head, to Q. crack, Lord
Monmouth, in Highweight Handicap (6fur.), Saturday,
Was something degrees above the ordinary ; he humped
12.8, and only went under in the last couple of strides,
after leading till then. Ibex gave Lord Monmouth 421 b.
* * * •
Wakeful held such a mortgage over Randwick
Plate that the odds at last got to 10 to 1 on. At least
one conscienceless Mo asked 50 to 1 on. There were
three horses in the race, and the best Mo. would lay that
you could not place the three was 6 to 4.
* * * *
Imported nag, Simile, whose Metrop. running
impressed watchers, has since been freely backed for
coming Caulfield Cup, wherein he carries 7.7. Up to now
Simile hasn’t won a race. Prior to leaving England he
competed four times unsuccessfully, and since arriving in
this country his best performance is third in A.J.C.
Spring Maiden Stakes.
* * » *
It is stated on what looks like respectable
authority that, so far from suffering from the postal em-
bargo, “ Tattersall ” is now doing as good a business as
ever. This means that, in its endeavor to pander to
Pecksniff and co., the Commonwealth, instead of wiping
out “ Tattersall,” has only wiped out a lot of its own valu-
able postal revenue. Still the statement looks highly
improbable.
* * • *
The Stud Bill, which provided for taxing
stallions, and the consequent weeding-out : of the useless,
rubbishy entires that at present abound in Maoriland,
has been withdrawn from M.L. Parliament on the recom-
mendation of the Stock Committee. One clause of the
measure was very clumsily worded, prohibiting, as it did,
the use of horses suffering from physical defects. Now,
colonial thoroughbred stock has been built up from
renowned sires suffering from physical defects, caused by
accidents. A committee has been formed to draft a more
presentable measure for next session.
VICTOR TRUMPER, CHAMPION AUSTRALIAN
BATSMAN.
Photo, by Stump & Co., Adelaide.
The pleasant - faced, Sunday - school - looking
young man whose portrait appears in this issue is Victor
Trumper, who has proved himself to be the boss batsman
of these parts and of all the Australians who have ever
visited England. He is a quiet, unassuming individual
and his prosaic manner acts as a foil to his clean, crisp,
graceful cricket. He was always popular, but since he
knocked up 11 centuries the welcome he will receive on
his return home will probably far outshine that accorded
to his Nibs of Cornwall and York. It is an achievement
which totally eclipses that of any other Australian bats-
man, and is only excelled by that of Englishman O. B.
Fry, who made 13 centuries last year in first-class
English cricket. Fry scored his record in a remarkably
dry season, while Trumper piled his up in a season that
was unusually wet, and it is harder to build a tottering
score on wet slippery wickets than on good dry ground.
The internal significance of Trumper’s feat is that he has
scored nearly 1000 runs more than any of the other bats-
men during the present tour. He has never failed to
score, nor has he had a not-out innings out of a total of
52 journeys to the wicket, which is proba! 'another
record. He has played in every match but two, and but
for his timely century on many occasions the vanquished
Kangaroo had been dragged by his tail three times round
the crowded grandstands. His highest score in a single
innings was 128, and in a single match 109 and 119, a total
of 228.
• * • *
Though Mo.’s gains in W.A. and Q. together
are trifling compared with what he scoops in Vic. or
N.S.W., first-named States make infinitely more out of
him, and yet he remains aggressively affluent. He paid
£7O for betting privileges at Kalgoorlie R. O.’s recent four
days’ fixture. Now Q. turf authorities have decided the
diamond-bespattered one shall henceforth disgorge 4gs.
for each day’s betting, and his clerk 1 guinea a day, as
well as a yearly licensing fee of a similar sum. Great is
his lamentation in consequence, but he’d pay thrice
the sum were it wrung from him, and then remain sleek,
large-fronted, and affluent. Australia is a land of milk
and honey for the backer of the “ feeuld.”
» * » •
A petition in favor of the totalisator, lately-
presented to N.S.W. Assembly, starts with this immortal
truth: “ People do and will to the end of time speculate,
either in mining, buildings, stocks or racing.” Also they
gamble in many other things, including wheat and hymn-
books. The sludge of dogma and axiom may be heaped
on top, and all the sects and creeds may stand on the
sludge to stamp it down, but the fire burns underneath
just the same.
* * * *
“ L.” : Sunbury (Vic.) Race Club’s last balance-
sheet has one or two rather funny items. It shows a
substantial credit, of which £32 Bs. lOd. is described as
“ moneys paid into the bank unaccounted for.” It seems
the finances of the last meeting got so mixed up that the
two secretaries and the committee nearly qualified for the
adjacent asylum trying to find out where all their
“ splosh ” came from. They finally gave up. One of the
secs, naively promised that there would be no such
trouble next time.
* * * *
Match last week-end, Australia v. another
South of England XI. (at Bournemouth this time)
was brief and brisk. Visitors notched 123 and 91, and
English side 87 and 66. Trumble very much out-trundled
himself, completely squelching all his previous remark-
able achievements with 15 for 68. Nine wickets went
down to his credit in the first effort—a performance
which he hadn’t reached before, though on four occasions
his bag for a single innings totalled 8.
* * * •
Match against the Players, being decided as
The Bulletin goes to press, is the last of present Aus-
tralian team’s engagements in England, and is second
only to the tests in importance. Players have mustered
exceptionally strong, so there’ll be a big fight. If Aus-
tralians succeed they’ll finish up with a better record
than any of their predecessors.
• « * ,
South of England’s 403 (innings declared closed)
in its first effort at Hastings last week was the highest
total, and Hayward’s 106 the fifth century', accumulated
against Australia this tour. The Home side’s score in-
cluded 37 sundries, which would make it appear as if the
wicket-keeping had fallen off, for they couldn’t all have
been wides, no-balls and leg-byes. Australians were not
in it from go to stop, and but for Trumper’s eleventh
century (120) wonld have been wiped out in one innings.
With 95 runs to get to v/in the Britishers lost 5 for 87.
Feature of the match was ’Ome bowler Vine’s second
innings effort—7 for 31— on a pitch favoring the bat.
This feat ranges alongside the best of its kind during- the
tour.
* • * *
Apropos drawn (very much in favor of ’Ome
side) match Australia versus England last week. Same
teams have met eight times. First season was ’B4, when
Australia won both matches, each in a single innings ;
’B6 saw the two meetings drawn. In ’BB Australia had 9
wickets to the good ; but two years later t’others were
successful both times—once by 97 runs and next by 10
wickets. Prior match this tour went Australiawards,
visitors hitting up a majority of 131. Veteran W.G.
skippered the Souths six times, and probably' filled that
position on latest occasion. Lord Harris was captain in
’B4, and W. H. Patterson in ’B6. Previous to this time
12 years had elapsed since South of England and Aus-
tralia met, and then the crack bowlers of the day—
Englishman Lohmann and Australian Ferris (both dead
now) figured—the former in each contest and the latter
in one. Team got together last week was made up of
first-class players to a man. Braund, Abel, and Hayward
shaped for England, and others were pretty near these in
quality.
• * * m
Victorian football progresses. The Association
(the junior league) recently disqualified for life a Rich-
mond player, for offering a couple of opponents a small
inducement to play stiff. As the attempt at squaring
took place at half-time on the open field—the squarees
promptly handed over their half-quids to their committee
—the simple gentleman probably deserved all he got.
But how low has football fallen when “the honor of the
game ” in the individual performer is priced at ten bob.
“Marinero”: Re the unsuccessful attempt of
Holbein to emulate the Channel swim of Webb. Holbein
may be a stronger swimmer and better stayer, but he
evidently lacks something possessed by the successful
Webb. Captain Webb sailed for many years in the mer-
cantile marine, and, when third mate of the National
liner Russia, jumped overboard in the middle of the
Atlantic to rescue a seaman who had fallen from the fore
topgallant yard (the Western ocean boats carried square
canvas in those days). Every sailor knows the amount of
wind and sea there is on when a topgallant sail has to
be furled, and as it happened at nine at night, in pitchy
darkness, the daring feat of Webb can he better under-
stood. A boat was lowered, and the third officer picked
up with the sailor’s sou’wester in his grasp, but the man
he had risked his life to save was no more. Is there
another swimmer who would jump, at night, to almost
certain death, in the teeth of a mid-Atlantic gale, from
the deck of a steamer going 14 knots, as Webb did ? The
courage that sustained him as he leaped from the Russia’s
taffrail sustained him in his long battle with the waters
of the English Channel. The pity is that such a man
should perish miserably in undertaking a feat entirely
beyond human power and endurance.
• * * •
In reply to “R.F.8.” (Tas). Cavill pere did not
swim the English Channel, but went very near it. The
world’s record for 100 yards with turns is Fred Lane’s
recently put up (in England) 60sec. Best straightway
100yds. is “Mud” Bishop’s 1.1 3-5 at Fitzroy Dock
(Sydney) 3 years ago.
* * * *
Apropos cabled news that English swimmer
Billington beat Australian Read over a quarter mile in
5.55, and, a day or two later, that Dick Cavill had
accounted for both Read and Billington at a like distance,
but in ssec. slower time. Probably the Billington-Read
race was swum in a smaller bath than the Cavill-Read-
Billington struggle, and the greater number of turns
necessary to complete the journey would help the time,
particularly with such adepts at that business as the three
concerned. Cavill swam the 440 faster (5.37 2-5) at Wan-
ganui (M.L.), last February, and then created a fresh
world’s amateur record. World’s champion pro., “Joey”
Nuttall, has the speediest figures (5.35 1-5) to his credit.
* » » •
The latest sensation at the London Aquarium
is “ looping the loop,” in which a cyclist, by flying down
an incline at an angle of 45 degrees, gets up a speed,of 50
miles an hour (estimated), and so is able to climb up and
round the inside of a big upright loop in the track. He
is, of course, head downward when at the top of the loop,
40ft. from the ground, but at the pace centrifugal force
makes it impossible to fall downwards. The real risk
(and a big one) is that his steering on the narrow track
may go astray, in which case he rides off it sideways into
space. And when a man is riding with his bike above his
head his steering is apt to be erratic.
• * * »
Prior to his big Goulburn-to-Sydney win Little-
child held the 100 mile road record for Tasmania; but
failed to get full credit for the performance owing to some
unfortunate rumors concerning a steep hill, some en-
thusiastic supporters, and a tow-rope.
* * • *
“Bunkum”: A Melbourne paper remarked:
“ The average man who can expand his chest sin. does very
well, indeed. Sandow, at the Opera House, expanded his
14in.” A well-known Sydney medico told the writer
once that the man who could legitimately expand 4in.
would do something wonderful—3in. was recognised as
exceptional. Reported 7in. expansions are put down by
medical men as absolute rot. Now we hear of Sandow
swelling out 14in. Probably he does the trick (which
it must certainly be) as Lucifer did it in Sydney a few
years ago. (Lucifer told that he was a pupil of Sandow’s
and travelled with him some time in America.) He would
inflate fully 15in. by inhaling successive great gulps of
air, holding one as he brought the other on top of it till
his chest, back, and shoulder muscles were expanded to
distortion almost, while the veins stood out on his face,
threatening to burst. The pain of the effort was plainly
discernible, and Lucifer always wanted a minute or two
to recover himself afterwards. This is probably Sandow’s
way of expanding, but is it the right thing ?
* • * •
The old story of Samson’s strength being in his
hair is discredited by Sandow, whose torso is inno-
cent of hair as that of a newly-born baby. There are very
few men whose chests are not bushy, yet Sandow’s frame
is clean as the palm of his hands. Possibly he follows the
custom of the ladies of ancient Greece and Rome in allow-
ing only the hair of the head to grow, but that doesn t
alter the fact that he is a living contradiction of the Sam-
sonian legend.
• • • •
Veteran Prof. Miller is out with a challenge to
Sandow, daring him to contest “such exercises as the
gladiators of Greece and Rome excelled in,” and mention-
ing dumb-bell lifting, wrestling, boxing, and sword and
foil combats. The Prof, is a trifle weak in his classical
history when he enumerates the foil as an ancient
weapon ; but, as he is himself a crack fencer, and the son
of probably, the best foilsman in Australia, the slip is
perhaps pardonable. If Sandow should yet accept, the con-
test looks a good thing for the Australian, for he would
certainly be all over the strong man in boxing and
fencing, and almost certainly with the broadsword.
The younger man would score with the weight-
lifting, and possibly with the wrestling, though
this is by no means certain. Sandow himself
summed up the position when he said that physical cul-
ture was not athletics, and that development does not
make a man a boxer, an oarsman, or a footballer, but
simply provides a foundation. Strong men generally
imagine themselves to be fighters and frequently discover
their error of judgment in an uncomfortable way.
“ Why,” remarked a brawny Melb. barrister at a recent
light-weight glove-fight, to a sporting pressman, “ why
do you want to set up these mannikins against one
another? Surely you can get some heavy-weights. Ha\e
a look around the navvies’ camps and you’ll find some
fighters among the big fellows.” The pressman smiled.
“ Bring out your biggest navvy, and I’ll bet a fiver that
little Micko Walsh sends him to join the Seven Sleepers
inside five minutes.” The merely big men and their sup-
porters base their opinion on the assumption that the
other man will be hit. The other man, if he is a skilled
boxer, isn’t hit.
* * * •
Sandow’s notions, if genuinely expressed, are
diametrically opposed to generally-accepted ideas, and
henceforth there need be no more self-denial in the
successful athlete’s make-up. “ Sleep as long as you
can,” says the visiting mass of muscle, “ eat and drink
anything fancied. . . . Alcohol does good, not .harm.
Personally I don’t care whether I drink champagne,
whisky and soda, or beer. ... I smoke my pipe at home
and my cigar in the street. Cigarettes are not harmful
if the smoke is not inhaled. . . . Plunge into the coldest
possible water while you are very hot. ... Do not towel
yourself violently, but merely dab the body to take off
some of the water. There is no need to be particular
about being too dry.”
* * m m
Tennis Tussle, Victoria against N.S.W., ceased
in Sydney, Saturday, with former victors —13 rubs, to 8.
Bright particular performer of the whole lot was
Victorian Dr. Eaves, who gathered up every rub. he
figured in and only lost two sets of 12, playing safe
mostly, but his partner, Dunlop, showed brilliant work
and got in some dazzling smashes. Eaves’ screw service
told effectively frequently, and he certainly demonstrated
indisputably that Australian lawn tennis hasn’t known a
better player. Same player easily won N.S.W. premier-
ship 11 years ago ; since then he has played in the best
English company and came-Australiawards again with a
greatly enhanced reputation, which he sustains to the
smallest detail. Friday Dr. Eaves beat Gaden and Rice
(N.S.W.’s two best men) 6—2, 6 —2, and 7—5, 6 —3 respec-
tively. Most successful of N.S.W. players in the singles
was old Sydney Grammar School boy Sharp, and he
proved the only one on the side to win both his matches.
• * * «
Is Australia developing a new generation of
bird-murderers. Atop of young (“Parvo”) Fraser’s
slaughter comes news of another juvenile deadly shot in
the person of Charlie Petting.il, a young St. Helens
schoolboy, aged 14. His maiden effort at the traps was
at Yambuck Gun Club’s meet, t’other day, and resulted
in a bag of 13 out of 15. This is surely a record under
the circumstances ?
Melbourne “Micko” Walsh and Sydney “Abe
Willis allegedly fought for Australian “ feather ” supre-
macy at Sydney Gaiety A. C. t’other day, but as no re-
sponsible person saw them weighed, ’tis hardly likely the
winner’s claim will be recognised. Besides, Bob Turner,
now in M.L., but shortly to return, has a say in the
matter, as he beat “ Micko ” Walsh, the winner, some few
months ago. Walsh-Willis affair was a proof of the
foolishness of digging out old-timers and expecting them
to shape well. The thing was over inside two rounds,
aud would have ended in the first but for Walsh’s
leniency. Willis, who, 10 years ago, was considered good
enough to match against negro George Dixon for the
world’s top-notchership, showed little of his old brilliancy
or stamina, but still (just verging on 36) he’s not quite
ancient yet. Match already made with Newcastle’s
armour-plated pug, Paddy King, will supply an oppor-
tunity for Walsh to show the best that is in him.
• * • *
N.S.W. amateur boxing supremacies are an-
nounced for decision under N.S.W. Sports Club manage-
ment next month. Usual weeding-out of ineligibles left
ii qualified to shape up—a record number. Last year,
when the Sports Club tackled the trouble, the Cornstalk
State owned only one hall-marked amateur champion,
excepting, perhaps, lightweight Jimmy M'Ginley, heavy
Harry Beckett, and one or two others. Most of the old-
days’ so-called amateurs almost invariably got away with
a whack of the gate, or something considerable in the
shape of coin, after fighting on Saturday nights, against
admitted professionals before huge crowds drawn by
flaming poster advts. and surrounded generally by very
professional atmosphere.
» * • »
Bruisers Jim Lenton and Fred James supplied
a nice warm scrap at Sydney Gaiety A. 0. Monday night.
James, tall, with well-developed shoulders and chest, and
game as a black Spanish rooster, stood inches over
blocky-built Benton, a pug in shape and appearance and
strong as a donkey. Bast time writer saw Benton in the
ring (opposed to Bob Turner) he had been overworked in
training and looked it; previous to then he shaped any
time his friends or the boxing hall people wanted him,
without boots or socks or the semblance of condition and
fought like a bull dog all the time. Bast Monday it was
a different Benton, trained to the moment, and he fought
as never before, and from early in the fourth till late in
the fifth round, when the fight ended, he gave James a
sorry time of it. James took the stoush and dealt out a
heap himself, but Lenton was too rocky. Once James was
rushed past the ropes out on to the floor, 3ft. below the
ring stage, where his head bumped hard, but he clambered
up and through to fight again and lose more gore. Benton
has come on a heap and will give any in his class trouble
every time he shapes equal to Monday night’s form.
* * » »
Double Bay (Sydney) sculler Pearce came home
t’other day after one and a-half years’ sojourn in England.
He tells that world's champion Towns has come on in
speed and stamina since last seen here, and has always
finished with something up his sleeve. Gaudaur is a
“born gentleman.” Maoriland Tom Sullivan has deve-
loped huge proportions, but can row some yet-—he won a
fair sum of money over Pearce’s match with Hackett in
Canada. Australian Kelly, who annexed last Henley
Diamond Sculls, fitted up his own boat and rowed his
own way. With a,bit more knowledge he’ll prove the
best amateur ever seen at Henley, or elsewhere. Aus-
tralia’s little champ., Daley, could have gathered in this
year’s Henley laurels easily. A good English combination
could beat all Australia at oar-rowing. Pearce is already
looking for a match, and wants them all to come as soon
as possible.
Acting-Premier Ward’s latest on the
Maorilancl Arbitration Act : —“The Act has done
more good to the State than any other legislation
that has ever been passed.” N.S.W. should grip
this testimony all the time.
A railway strike seems just possible in
North Queensland, as one of the results of Phi Ip’s
retrenchment schemes. The N.Q. railway worker
is a man who.takes his life in his hand arid drives
a bad engine over a decayed road, stretching
across a blighted land, for very moderate wages,
and that in a country where victuals are dear, and
every kind of victual has its dead and bloated
cockroach in it.
Even the S.M. Herald prints this :
Johannesburg to-day is probably the most unsettled
city in the universe. During the past few weeks some
25,000 irregular troops have been disbanded in the close
neighorhood of the Rand. Even with economy it is hard
to live under 15s. per day. The capitalists, realising that
now is the time to institute new orders, are endeavoring
to reduce the scale of wages, with a fine disregard to the
fact that living expenses are daily becoming higher.
And it was for these— the Lord forgive us ! —we
helped to smash the Boer and snuffled that we did
it in the cause of Liberty !
A Boy’s Great Work.
, A learned philosopher was one day walking
along an ocean beach when he became interested
in the peculiar action of a small boy. _ The child
had dug a hole in the sand, and, with his little toy
bucket, was busily running down to the water and
carrying some to the hole into whioh he poU red it.
. , r , s ,, , - ,> 1
At last the old gentleman asked him the purpose
of his . labor, and the child said: — Oh, Im
emptying dat dere into dis here.” It required no
hard thinking for the student of the whyfor and
tbe wherefore to tell the infant that he would
anpoeeri in transferring the ocean into that,
nev ®F succeed in transteiring tfte ocean into that
small hole. It is also impossible for us tell how
many have been cured of disease by Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills, any more than We know the
number of grains of sand in Sahara. Now and
again we get letters of gratitude, and of these we
have a few thousands. Many remain unpublished,
-,,1 ,
Many we give to the world. lor the past
twelve months I have been a sufferer from piles,”
states Mr. Charles Morrison, who resides at 72
Webb-street, Eitzroy, Vic. “I was under several
doctors during that period, but received no
permanent cure. A friend of mine one day, in
*• T'V of ’.VT", m - e , to P’f
your Dr. Morse s Indian Root Pills a trial, which
I did, and I am very happy to be able to say they
have made a thorough cure of me. I might state
that I had only taken three bottles in all. The
first two or three doses gave me relief. You are
at 1,b l ert ?L to make TW MS6
™ay be the means of helping other sufferers. Dr
Morse S Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood
purifier, and a positive cure for biliousness, indiges-
tion, constipation, headaches, sallow complexion,
liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boilsand
blotches and for female a il men ts. Sold by
i • . ’ , , ■, 1 x J
chemists and storekeepers, Is Ud per bottle, or
six bottles 6s. od. Sole proprietors, lhe W. H.
Comstock Co., Limited. (Australasian Depot),
58 Pitt-street, Sydney. Packed in amber bottles
anc ] tbe f u jj name blown thereon,


Frozen Fish
Has the same FRESH*
N ESS and DELICACY
of FLAVOR as when
newly caught, <f 1?
©
It can be sent with safety during the winter
months to almost any far distant railway
-- station in the State.--
SMOICED FISH (pur own curing) forwarded
by Parcels Post to back-country districts
Please send for Catalogue of
the different Kinds and prices
®6c N.S. Wo FresH Food (Si Ice Co, Ltd. -
Head Office and Refrigerating Worßs, Harbour St., Sydney §
WISDOM
Open all day Saturdays.
is generally the result of experience and observation. When you notice that nearly all Cyclists, whose
ambition is to shine on the Racing Path, choose
MASSEY-HARRIS
MASSEY-H ARRIS
BICYCLES
BICYCLES
you should have no difficulty in choosing your mount; ana when, in addition to this, you find the
heaviest cyclists racing and record-breaking on light, 221 b. “ Masseys,” you should learn that
“ Masseys ” must be Strong:, as well as Speedy. BE WlSE—it is a sign of Wisdom to ride
MASSEY-HARRIS CYCLES.
THE CANADA CYCLE & fIOTOR CO., Ltd.,
Branches in Every state. 357 GEORGE STREET (next David Jones’)
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY WHEN YOU
BUY A
REMINGTON
Double-Barrel . .
Hammerless Gun.
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept in stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
Remington Arms Company,
Head Office: 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, TT.S.A.
REMINGTON GUNS, £5 10s. to £l5
REMINGTON RIFLES, 23/6 post free
McLEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
A NIB,
A BOTTLE OP INK,
A SHEET OF PAPER and
A PEN CARBON BOOK
makes a complete outfit with
which any
MAN,
WOMAN OR
CHILD
can write a letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy without
leaving the slightest sign of copy-
ing on the original.
X
y/
It keeps a duplicate of bills you send out, of orders, receipts, bank checks. It leaves no vae-ue
uncertain mark, but a tracing that is often clearer than the original.
indisputable' record m ° ny th6re D ° appea '' Ifc wiU save any house or famil y much money by its
There is no man or woman, professional or not, who would not at some time or other find
THE PEN CARBON LETTER BOOK
For fullest particulars, price, etc., write to the sole A TrUe and Valued F « e nd.
Agents for Australasia s E. RICH & CO. LTD., SYDNEY BRIBBANE
The VOLCANIC
DERATING
MACHINE
W. JAMES, Proprietor,
A Great
Saying
.. ..TO
HOTELKEEPERS,
CAFE PROPRIETORS, ETC ,
AERATED WATERS of" the Highest Quality
produced with the utmost rapidity
WITHOUT SKILLED LABOR.
Absolutely the best and simplest
Machine in the market. Price £3O
TUBES CONTAIN 57lbs. GAS. '
CYLINDERS CONTAIN lOGals. WATER.
VALVE ACTS AUTOMATICALLY.
Write for Descriptive Pamphlets with Testimonials
from people who have used the Machine for years.
Office: 101 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
Depot : 130 CECIL ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE.
By Special
Appointment.
(x. H. SMITH and SOM,
TROPICAL HELMET
with special air-space,
in while drill , Jec. and
in all colors in felt.
10/6 and 12/6
Hat and Cap Manufacturers
and Importers,
302 George-st. Sydney
Sombrero Soft Felt Hats,
All Shades and Sizes.
Soft Felt Hombergs.
In all Sizes and Colors.
Straw Hats. Stetson Hats.
Polo Caps, Military and Naval
Caps, Livery Hats, Clerical Silk
Hats, Etc., Made to Order
SNAPSHOOTING
For Sport and War.
' By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/. nett. •
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W. W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Greener’s Representative).
Findon Harriers’ Hunt Club
RACES
JIOONEY VALLEY,
Saturday, 20th Sept., 1902.
In the presence of their Excellencies,
the Acting Governor-General and Lady
Tennyson, and the State Governor and
Lady Clarke.
Pindon Grand Amateur Cup,
225 Sovs.
Rupertswcod Bracelet Stakes,
100 Soys.
Other Interesting Events.
GREAT
SOCIAL
GATHERING.
FIRST
RACE
1.50
R. M. CLTHBERTSON,
Secretary.
Ml
rfi
lie
EL
m
T7OR the person who is not a millionaire, thereis ONLY
L ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY
That is “Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,”
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor — GEO. W. ELLIS.
Missing Friends.
knowing the whereabouts of
MRS. AGNES CARTER,
who was last heard of in Perth, West Australia,
is requested to communicate with A.T.P.,
P.O. MacKinlay, Queensland.
N.S.W. Fisheries Board, which has for
some time been trying to acclimatise Tasmanian
crayfish in N.S.W., recently discovered that the
much-desired crustacean had been thriving on the
South Coast all along, disguised to suit the climate
and to elude Jack Want and Frank Farnell. Mr.
E. J. Paton, a keen ex-Tas. fish enthusiast, now
in N.S.W., recognised his retiring and back-
sliding fellow-islanders, and got Commissioner
Farnell to investigate. With a little judicious
protection and careful transplanting along the
coast, the new and unexpected find should grow
nto a valuable asset for JST.S. W.
Labor representation in the Vic. Parliament
will probably be stronger after the present elec-
tions than at any previous time. Over 300,000
persons will, directly or indirectly, suffer through
the lapse of the Wages Boards, and the Labor
crowd should stand on velvet with the people who
have been so miserably tricked by Irvine and
Shiels. Also, it has been estimated that the
public servant influences one vote in every
eight, and, as the majority of these are in Mel-
bourne, Ballarat, and the other cities, they can
give a very solid vote. Bromley and Prendergast
and the rest, who persistently denounced any
cutting down of salaries, will probably secure the
votes of practically the whole service, including
judges, departmental secretaries, and many other
people who never before entered into even their
most sanguine dreams. One of the big fights of
the election will probably be against the Syme-
hated Trenwith, at Richmond, but the great
David’s pet candidates have not shown to much
advantage of recent years; witness “Jimmy”
Munro, who opposed poor old Gillies ; and Kemp,
who fought Frank Madden at last election.
ms
0 I do not ask you to spend
money to test whether my
remedy doeß or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, Bt. Vitus’
Dance, etc. All I ask of you
is to SEND for a FREE
Bottle and to try it. I abide
by the result. A sale remedy-
approved by the Medical
Profession.
I H. G. ROOT, 28,Endslelgh
Gardens, London, N.W.
SOAPS dubbed Shaving
are rarely
Shaving Soaps.
In a Class by Themselves
The World’s Standard Shaving Soaps
Williams’ Barber’s Bar
and
Williams’ Shaving Stick
“BARBER’S BAR”
While the natural Ally
Of the Deft Artist
And his Trusty Blade
Is also the Ideal Soap
For Home Use
Fits your Birthday Mug
Once tried, never changed
“Won’t Dry on the Face.”
Send a Penny Stamp and we will post you Williams’
Changing Pace Puzzle. Can vou explain it?
J. B. WILLIAMS CO., 232 Olarence-st., Sydney.
BLOW FLIES.^-^
The ONLY destroyer— The “Buzz"
Window Trap, with Faulding’s
insect Powder. All Stores.
THE NEW 6
VULCANISED
DUNLPP
TYRE a
This Tyre
is manufactured under a Hydraulic
Pressure of 1200 lbs. to the sq. inch,
thus rendering parting of Rubber
and Fabric casing an impossibility.
Will prevent fully 5o per cent,
of the troubles associated with
Pneumatic Tyres
Ask your Agent to show you a Cover.
It will do the rest. __
None genuine without Trade
Mark and the embossed word
“ Vulcanisid.”
m r M%
linn
vtaP***
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
150 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY;
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane aud Christchurch.


m
W%mmM4\T-ZW3W3J7ttydT\
39 1 ' i■ ■ i •: -! 1 !
m
/a\ V p
\ ‘\
I
|l!I I I I
•< \n?f!
!)»
MOOp 3MIT!AW
/M
%
1/
i
«!
X
%
§
if
■
I
I
7*
I
vy/ji
w* t
l
g
L £
i !
n
v
■
Sr§oi^§!£Ssas&
¥/.
I
SS
VAAAA'MfUILIAI
Porter IA Co atZoooed heSi&! ~
Gent, “J beg your pardon! y Tiotice says ‘Smoke. Ogct&TVS
QuLnea ’Sold CigaJiettes\ and thats just whcdb 3 am doing ! v
We present Gratis and Postage Paid a Handsome Cloth-bound ALBUM, made specially to contain Photographs, as packed with our GUINEA
GOLD CIGARETTES, to anyone sending us 100 of these pictures. We issue now the most extraordinary and unique range or I hotos. ever given
to the have been collected with great difficulty, and represent a Gallery of extreme interest and of great educational value.
The Free Presentation will only last for a short period, but now and after the closing of the Gratis Distribution these Albums can be obtained
from any Tobacconist, or from us direct (Post Free) for Is. 6d. OGDEN’S. LIMITED, SYDNEY.
The Manufacture of Spurious Public
Opinion.
Civio apathy, besides being responsible for the
selection of improper persons for the discharge of
functions actually allotted to them, is also a cause
of the usurpation by such persons of powers not
allotted to them. Such usurpations of power,
acquiesced in by the weary citizen, and used by
small classes of the people to further objects un-
attainable by them in the ordinary process of
polities, and to grind axes otherwise inaccessible,
give small and cheeky minorities an undue share m
the legislation and administration of the country.
Civic apathy is the cause of the evil. In Victoria,
for instance, glaring usurpations of powers not
allotted to them are common with Municipal
Councils, Justices of the Peace, and School Boards
of advice. Municipal Councils are composed of
persons with a rating qualification of £2O annually.
Their functions are to make roads and to pass by-
laws for certain limited purposes, and to pay
the cost by rating the lands in their districts.
They are chosen solely for these purposes, and are
not at all chosen, even by their restricted con-
stituencies, to represent the views of the electors
on any questions whatever ou'.sideof road-making
and other such local matters. Yet, civic apathy
allows these councils regularly, in season and
out of season, to voice their views on all sorts of
political, industrial, and social questions. They
profess to do so officially—just as the inspector
of nuisances might lend the weight of his official
authority for the removal of bad smells and dead
goats, in support of the abolition of the monarchy
or the annexation of Polynesia. Among subjects
that have been unduly engineered in Victoria, m
these ways, may be mentioned the bitter anti-
Labor programme of the PATTERSON government,
opposition to the extension of the I actories Act,
to inspection of boilers in country districts, and to
the improvement, by legislation, of wages, hours
of labor, or conditions of labor in country districts.
Also, country local bodies, elected to look after
road-metal, have meddled with the working of the
Factories Act, even in Melbourne ; have opposed
old age pension legislation supported
the unconstitutional action of the Peacock
Government in the Tocsin episode ; and have
meddled officially with questions of railway con-
struction, woman suffrage, proportional represen-
tation, reduction of members of Parliament, the
constitutional relations of the two Houses, re-
trenchment of the public servants, and so on. The
complaint is, not that the individuals composing
the councils influence public opinion and legisla-
tion in these matters, for as individuals their
voices would be those of a few lone ones crying in
the wilderness for more thistles, but that they use
the organised municipal machinery and taxes of the
country, for the purpose of attaining non-munici-
pal ends. Justices of the Peace, chosen, in a kiss-
ing-goes-by-fayor fashion, by a Legislative Council
Minister with many members to placate, for the
purpose of administering the local police-court
and Small Debts Acts, similarly usurp functions
not given to them, and by their assumption, un-
ctieeked by public opinion or Ministerial reproof,
have actually repealed many wholesome Acts of
Parliament. Their mode of operation is to deliver
ta-ades against the laws they are sworn to ad-
minister, and to punctuate their contempt for
them by imposing penalties of one shilling, with-
out costs, on the fraudulent, unscrupulous, or at
an y rate deliberate breakers of these laws. The
Milk Adulteration Act was long a nullity because
of this tendency, and so was the Short-Weight
Bread Act. Manifestos of open rebellion against
the Factories Act are the order of the day in
many suburban courts, and tend greatly to sup-
port the employers’ clamor that the Act is a
failure, and competent paid magistrates are
hustled from certain courts by usurping Dog-
berries, who swarm on the bench to refuse, in
face of the clearest evidence, to punish the breakers
of certain laws that tend for the benefit of the
workers, and to coarsely revile the laws themselves.
In like manner School Boards of advice are elected
by certain ratepayers, for the purpose of advising
the Education Department on repairs to schools,
and a few other matters such as holidays, conduct
of teachers and the prosecution of negligent
parents. But instead of confining themselves to
these functions, or even doing them well before
they meddle with outside matters, the members
continually use their positions as elected persons,
to pass resolutions on extraneous subjects, ranging
from the inculcation of drivel about “loyalty”
and the Empire, to the abolition of the compulsory
education clause in the interests of cockatoo slave-
drivers. This tendency to leave their own work un-
done while attending to every other kind of work,
sin, foolishness and bosh arises through popular
apathy. The people allow these things, so these
things happen. Almost anything of a nefarious
nature will happen if it is permitted to do so.
Two more returned swaddies, who before
they left for S’Africa were of good reputation,
have been sent to gaol for brutal and cowardly
assaults on a constable at Burra (S.A.). The,
cohentingenting was going to be “ a valuable
training for our police force.” It is certainly
giving the police force plenty of exercise, and a
good deal of training.
RAMEY'S MEOiCA TOR
For the Treatment of Catarrh. Hay Fever,
Bronchitis, Influenza, Catarrhal
Deafness, etc.
Medicator, with complete treat-
ment, only 101-, post free.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY
229,231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
RNOLD’S BALSAM OF lIOREIIOUND
A
ARNOLD’S
RNOLD’S
j^RN OLD’S
A'RNOLD’S
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSA
For Coughs and Colds.
Every Dose Effective.
Will Cure when Others Fail.
For Pain in the Side.
Best for Influenza.
In Bronchitis and Loss of Voice.
Whooping Cough and Croup.
For Children, Safe and Sure.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when
every other remedy had failed. Price 4/6 and 11 /•
Thousands of testimonials.
OF Aljl* CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
WHoLKSAEK AGENTS' „
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. NICHOLL. Pharmaceutical Chemist,
25 HIGH STHEET, BELEAST, HTELAND.
Publications.
9NOS M3M
fH
* ■
7h£M£ u Cone a Tmlßrlah the Nuts to Mother.
PriCC 2jne.
Allan & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Melbourne
Read the Words
UYou Please, Miss, Give Me Heaven.
“ Papa, I’m so sad and lonely,”
Sobbed a tearful little child ;
“ Since dear mamma’s gone to Heaven,
Papa, darling, you’ve not smiled.
I will speak to her and tell her
That we want her to come home;
Just you listen, and I’ll call her
Through the telephone :
Chorus —
u If you please, Miss, give me Heaven —for my Mamma’s
there ;
You can find her with the angels on the golden stair.
She’ll he glad it’s me who’s speaking—call her, won’t you,
please,
For I want to surely tell her we’re so lonely here.
When the girl received this message,
Coming o’er the telephone,
How her heart thrilled in that moment,
And the wires seemed to moan ;
“ I will answer, just to please her :
‘ Yes, dear heart, I’ll soon come home.’ ”
“ Kiss me, Mamma, kiss your darling,
Through the telephone.”
Chorus —“ If you please, Miss,” etc.
*
44
n
99
276-278 COLLINS=ST.
PROP., Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
LADIES.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
TOOTH-ACHE
jfIED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Nights
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head • aches & all Nerve
Pains removed by BUNTER’S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
'As a. specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I have
used it successfully for years.’--Prof. W, Wilson, M.D.
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORS DELL’S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, &c.
Of all Stores.
35 YEARS PROVEN EFFICACY.
\v=--
aNSEEPI
o''
/^s^ OF ALL (H EXISTS
/ (THfioucHOurGREATBRIMIN & rut COLONIES
HIHUM CaTHARIiCUM Pu.ls Kii.-k'tiwlnMt
jse COACULINB •
Transparent Cement for all Broken Articles
GAN T YOU BREATHE
freely ? Have you to sit up in bed gasping for
breath? If so, you are only one of a countless
number whose lives are made a burden to them by
ASTHMA.
If you wish to rest again at night, and breathe
with head erect by day, send ss. to NEWHAM
WATERWORTH, Edward-st., Brisbane,
who will forward post free a sample bottle of a
New Remedy for Asthma, a few doses of which
will prove to you that life is still worth living.


THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearl,? and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send tl-eir parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, wbieb..will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited^
London Times’ pompous talk about the
“ vice-regal magnificence” of the Commonwealth’s
Governor-General does not spring wholly from
British ignorance; part of it comes from taking
toady Australians, social and political, as voicing
the national sentiment. The short way to kill
sucli toady misrepresentation is for the Common-
wealth Parliament to state distinctly what kind
of a man it wants. Where is the member who
will move to some such effect as this :
Australia desires its Governor-General to be a man of
ordinary information and decent cmduct; more informa-
tion will not be objected to, but he must have the dis-
cretion to keep it to himself when its expression would
conflict with the Constitution Act; occasional or free
drinking will not he criticised, but he must not be a sofe;
the £lO,OOO he draws as salary will be considered wholly
his ; he can dine, if he likes, with the hangman, the arch-
bishops, or the-l’remiers of the States, but if he does he
must pay the score and notcome begging to the Treasury
afterwards ; he can do what he likes (within the limits of
decency) with his overtime—fish, or raise fowls, or collect
stamps, but his work is to do what his Ministers tell him,
within the Constitution, and the £lO,OOO is the pay (and
very go >d pay indeed) for that service.
CHRONIC
CONSTIPATION
can be cured by
Ghanjberlain’s
Stonjacfj atjd
cCiver Jablets
Price, 1/6 JUST WHAT YOU NEED.
Chronic Constipation results from a lack of
moisture in the residual matter of the food.
It becomes so dry and hard that the muscular
coating of the int 'stines is unable to expel
it. Two of Chamberlain’s Stomach and
Liver Tablets should be taken to begin
with and after that one each day. When
taken just after supper they will insure an
operation of the bowels on the following
morning. In most cases this lack of moisture
in the faecal matter is caused by an insuffi-
ciency of water being taken into the system
and cannot be cured unless more water is
taken with the food or drink. If taken
with the food, unless in shape of fruits
(apples and bananas), it is apt to interfere
with the processes of digestion; but if a regu-
lar habit is established of taking a full glass
of water as soon as you get up in the morning,
about two hours after each meal, and just be-
fore going to bed, it will in most cases correct
the disorder—not at once, but in time.
Chamberlain’s Stomach and Liver Tab=
lets are not intended for habitual use out
to give temporary relief until a cure can be
effected by taxing more water into the system
and establishing a regular habit by having
the bowels move every morning immediately
after breakfast whether there is an inclination
or not.
NOTE.—If not able to obtain Chamber-
lain’s Stomach and Liver Tablets locally,
a package will be sent, post paid, upon
receipt of 1/6, or six packets for 8/-, by
addressing Chamberlain Medicine Co., 64
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. 121
Unfulfilled Desires.
The men who die regretting that so much of
the work they purposed to do is left undone are
generally those who have achieved the most.
Charles Dickens was a marvel of industry, always
working or planning future work ; but he died at
58, almost with the pen in his hand, an unfinished
novel on his desk, and with the earnest wish to
see Australia—the country where one of his sons
made his home—unfulfilled. Cecil Rhodes, the
man of millions (using the phrase in a double
sense, for among the millions of Britain’s sons
we look in vain for the like of him), dies at 49,
regretting that he has accomplished so small a
portion of the task he set himself to perform. It
n tragic when Death stops the worker. When
Sickness postpones the work it is sad enough,
th jugh in that case Hope is always near by. Mr.
August Jansan, of Karabury Station, near Hay,
N.S.W., wrote, on January 20th, 1902:—“My
occupation (that of station carpenter) compelled
me to spend part of my time exposed to the heat
of the sun during the extremely hot summer of
1399, which caused me much subsequent suffer-
ing It began with sickness at the stomach and
a, distaste for food. Then 1 was alarmed by acute
pains in the region of the heart. The bowels,
too, were irregular, co3tiveness alternating with
purging. Each week marked a change for the
worse. Sick headaches and pain at the chest,
with want of appetite, added to my other troubles,
made me nervous, depressed, and irritable. From
patent medicines, and a doctor whom I consulted,
i derived no benefit whatever. Mine was a case-
t>i acute indigestion, and a friend, who had used
Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup with much benefit,
persuaded me to try it. I agreed, and found
relief from almost the first dose. By the time I
had taken two bottles I knew that I was fairly
on the road to health. My strength returned
much quicker than it had departed. Befoie the
sixth bottle was emptied I was restored to a
thoroughly healthy and robust condition. 1
could eat, sleep, and work without distress or
e/en discomfort. It is now six months since my
care was completed, when I gave up taking the
Syrup regularly; but, as a precaution, 1 still
take a couple of doses every week. Many oth i
persons in this district have taken it on my
recommendation, and in no case has it failed.”*
Tlie Townsville Mudbanks.
“ Sirhap ” writes about some tilings up North :
Premier Philp, of Queensland, is one of the member?
for Townsville, and he is very good to it. It is an arti-
ficial seaport, lying at the moutti of a small creek which
runs into a broad, open basin very shallow at its edge.
Money will make anything, and i& has made a harbor foi
Townsville. Of course, the h trbor is always crank, and
needs constant pouring in of State money to keep it
decently going. It is the port for the Charters Towers
and Ravenswood goldfields, and for the great western
pastoral industry. It has a railway running to Winton
(350 miles), the chief north-western pastoral town. This
line cannot now do justice to the production of its tapped
country, and after the drought has ended —assuming that
its railway from Hughendon to Townsville lives through
the big flood which follows every big drought up there—
it will need a duplicate set of rails ; practically another
line. Now Bowen is probably the best harbor in Queens-
land, except Gladstone, and there is but one gap of 55
miles between the end of its toy railway at Wangarattn
Creek and Ravenswood. The last has a branch railway
of 24 miles functioning with the Townsville main line, so,
were this gap filled up, the west would have the best
northern port to operate on ; and a duplicate set of rails
from the Ravenswood junction to Hughendon or Winton
would be the means of opening up for g’eneral develop-
ment (mining, agriculture and pastoral) 70,000 square
miles of good country. A better way is to pull up the
Ravenswood branch—it’s about done and connect
Ravenswood directly with Charters Towers, 45 miles dis-
tant, passing through mining country all the way. This
country is the mining hereafter of Charters Towers and
Ravenswood goldfields, having now six gold camps. But
this is all a dream as far as Piiilp is concerned. Of course
he cannot last much longer, and he has to thank the
drought for its mercies as regards his political position.
But when the floods come, and no railway line to speak
of between Hughendon and Townsville, and that port
blocked by silt, and the low-lying part of the town hasten-
ing out to the Barrier Reef, another king will arise and
fresh departures will take place. Queensland has lost one
million in two years through excess of expenditure, yet
far more than that worth of assets is lying idle near Bowen
through the want of this gap being railwayed. District
teems with city and country crown lands, and, given a
direct communication through Ravenswood to Charters
Towers, either by Ravenswood Junction line or a new
direct line through the Kirk and five other gold camps,
the million would come to hand in a few months, and
many thousands annual revenue to follow. But then Philp
is member for the shallow harbor of Townsville, and its
mudbanks return him to Parliament regularly.
The “Triumph of the New TestamenV
When the Boer war was in progress one fatuous
English Bishop said that the issue was really
between the Old and New Testament—between
the Boers, on the one side, with Israelitish ideas of
enslaving the men of the native races and seizing
the women for their harems, and the English on
the other with modern Christian ideas of freedom,
morality and enlightenment. That sort of fudge
was talked pretty commonly, too —not quite in
that absurd degree, perhaps, but still to the extent
of representing England as fighting for the good of
the native races and for the moral improvement
of the country. It will surely then come with
something of a shock to the pious people who were
such warm supporters of this war of Cohen
against the little farmer Republics, to learn from
recent cables that the conquering British power
in the Transvaal has imposed a head tax upon the
Kaffirs to force them to work in the Rand mines
(i.e., to enslave them), and that polygamy has
been established as a State institution, provided
that for every wife (except the first, who is exempt)
the black husband pays a yearly license of
£2 ! What will Exeter Hall say to these first fruits
of the triumph of the New Testament ?
♦
How to Abolish Titles.
LABOUCHERE writes that during the reign of the
late Queen Victoria, Birthday Honors were dis-
tributed as follows Each department furnished
a list. The Prime Minister cut it down. The
Queen cut it down again. The men selected were,
in the main, those who had subscribed largely to
the party funds. He goes on :
No one in her day could be certain that he would gst
his title for his money. ... I see no reason why titles
should not be sold. For instance, I would obtain all the
money that the Coronation may cost by selling titles to
those willing to buy them. The number would be so
large that after all the expenses of the Coronation had
been paid, there would remain enough over to enable us
to meet the military expenditure that is now to be pro-
vided for by taxing the bread of the poor. It would be
far better that there should be a few hundred more
wealthy plutocrats with a prefix to their names than that
poor women and children should have their starvation
allowance of bread reduced. A good deal of money, too,
might be raised bj' giving existing peers a higher title
than they at present bear. To us humble individuals a
lord is a lord, but to lords it would seem that the differ-
ence between a marquis, and an earl, and a baron is a
matter of supreme importance. Another promising mode
of raising the wind would be to sell titles to wealthy
widows and spinsters.
Now, as the object to be achieved is not to raise
money by the sale of titles, but to abolish them, it
is worth while recalling the old scheme of a
Bulletin correspondent, “Ignotus,” namely, that
every good republican should at once assume a
title and use it. There is nothing illegal about
this, and if there were you couldn’t prosecute
thousands of offenders. “ I feel sure,” wrote
“Ignotus,” “that if I were always addressed as
Lord Wellington (the town where I live) and
you were Viscount Sydney, and so on, the tabula;
would soon be solvuntur risu.”
«
“Alderman’' writes :
It is to be hoped that the N.S.W. Amending Municipal
Act will speedily come into force and bring our municipal
law more up-to-date. In some country municipalities
queer things are done. Know of one alderman, elected
for three years, during which time he filled the office of
Mayor, and who was actually not a ratepayer during the
last two years of his term. A clause might be added that
when an alderman is six months in arrears with his rates
his position should be forfeited—that the mere fact of
being in arrears should make his seat vacant. The
accumulation of back rates is very often the result of
aldermen themselves being on the defaulters’ list, and not
pressing for the recovery of rates for fear of exposing
themselves. Another vexed question which ought to be
settled by the new Act is : Whether church proper.y
otherwise than churches should be rated ?
Maoriland’s recurrent leper turned up
again recently in an Otago gold mining district.
All his fingers had disappeared and some of his
feet also ; yet he contrived to carry on gold-mining
and earn enough to go drinking and gambling.
He doesn’t seen to have had a special pewter
kept for himself at any of the pubs either, and the
ghastly fact is causing a slump in the bar trade in
the district. Most of thecustomers take it homed
a bottle at present... The Chinese missionary and
several European doctors have certified that it is
leprosy, but there are a number of people in thedis
trict who declare that the man is only sufh ring from
frostbite, and when the Govt, medical officei
ordered the Waihemo Council t.> isolate the Chow
the Council decided that he was not a leper but a
frostbiter. However, the medical authorities
threatened to set the law in motion, and the
opposition in the Council pointed out that if the
medical officer said the disease was leprosy, it ws
leprosy, and that ended it, and leper or frostbiter,
he must be captured and isolated. The Council,
it recent advices, was diligently searching for a
itrong man, a man of nerve, who would do tin;
capturing. They have a great dread of leprosy
i.i Muorilaud.
! “ Hermes " hears the fag-end of a tragedy :
The little supper room with its white-and-gold-papered
walls. Outside the roar of King-st. at 11 p.m. ; inside
the low hum of conversation and the buzz of the electric
fan. The stolid, fair man talked earnestly to the man
who sat beside me, and latter nodded his head wearily
in approbation while he ate his oysters. The tall,
dark man who talked so vehemently bad boiled fowl and
oyster sauce on his plate, but he wasn’t eating it. In-
stead, he held the drum-stick between his finger and
chumb, and emphasised his points by tapping the other
;nd of it on his plate and sending little spurts of oyster
muce over his dress-suit. But as it was his own dress-
iuit no one said anything. Suddenly he ground his teeth
—he was dreadfully excited, and leaning across the table,
shook the drum-stick at his friend, while his voice rose like
the wind, a:id the room stared with well-bred astonishment,
:orit was a dress circle crowd. The man who was eating
oysters said never a word, but regarded him with a fixed,
iphinx-like expression, and went on eating oysters, while
the drum-stick waved about and the oyster-sauce dripped
lown on to the starched cuff and the diamond links. The
rising voice had reached a roar, and become audible over
the gen .ral conversation : “ I tell you I don’t blame him
tor taking advantage of her being stony-broke ; it’s the
game ; I’d have done it meself, so I forgive him that.
But, damn him, what I hate him for is that the cow made
her love him, and forget me. Yes, by G , actually
dislike me, d’ye hear me, made her fairly hate the sight
of me, him!" and in his excitement he banged his
stolid friend on the head with the greasy bit of fowl.
“Lookout, you fool, that hurts,” snorted the injured
listener. “ I know it does, I intended it to, but I wish to
the Loard it had been him. Let’s get out of this ! I want
to break something large or upset a tram-car.” So they
went.
Robb. Brothers on Grass Tree Nob (where
Sydney Art Gallery Columns are to come from):
Grass Tree Nob is 20 miles from Kempsey on the
Macleay River. It is five miles beyond Timagog, which
is a place where about two farmers live--beyond that is
desolation. It is a large hill of solid marble, from which
21 columns are to be cut for Sydney Art Gallery. The
stone extends in a belt that is a mile long and half-a-mile
wide and heaven only knows how' deep. There are miles
and miles of marble. The lime-burners have got lime
from it for the past 30 years or more. You could build
the Pyramids with Grass Tree Nob marble if so minded,
all of it first-class stone. It obtains its rich chocolate and
occasional sea-green tint from the oxide of iron lode
which w'alls it in on one side. You see perfect fossil
shells in it, and wide streaks of kalsite, as crystalline in
some place as diamonds. The seams nearest to the lode
are deeper and richer in colors and each seam is lighter
in shading as it is further removed from the iron, till it
becomes a crystal white streaked w'ith pale reddish brown.
Experts say th it this marble takes the polish better, is
easier to work (cutting as easily as freestone) and is more
durable than any other stone they have come across. The
fossil shells are most unmistakably marked. You see
those fan-shaped shells that are so plentiful on Takapuna
beach in Auckland harbor, and cockle shells of a very
large size. The Nob is chambered with large caves ; the
entrances like wombat holes. One cave is 60 feet
deep and is walled in on all sides with marble ; it has not
been thoroughly explored yet. There are a few splendid
stalactites in it, one like a large head of Medusa, a hun-
dred tentacles hanging downward. The quarrymen are
expecting to open up caves that may equal Jenolan or at
least come up to Naracoorte.
E
A
FOR
THE
THE GREAT
HAIR PRODUCER
and RESTORER.
The Very Finest Dressing, Specially
Prepared and Delicately Perfumed
for the Toilet.
“HARLENE”
Produces Luxuriant Hair, Prevents Its Falling
Off or Turning Grey.
UNEQUALLED FOE PROMOTING THE GROWTH OF
THE BEARD AND MOUSTACHE.
THE RENOWNED
REMEDY FOR BALDNESS.
For Preserving, Strengthening, and Rendering the Hair Beautifully Soft; for Removing Scurf, DandrufT, &c. also for
Restoring grey hair to its original colour.
“.HARLENE” PRESERVES, STRENGTHENS, AND INVIGORATES CHILDREN’S HAIR.
Full description and directions for use in 20 languages supplied with every bottle.
•g/., 2/6 anl (iriple 2/6 size; 4-/6 per Bottle from Druggists &c., all over the World.
"HARLENE” Co., Hsgh Holborn, LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE WORLD’S BEST.
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS’
CD
CD
g
m
CD
CD
LU
Q£
LU
LU
'Q.
is an oil dressing which so softens the leather that
smaller sized shoes can be worn with perfect comfort.
“ Peerless Gloss ’ ’ is the great dressing triumph of the
world, as it imparts a brilliant and permanent polish to
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
shoes that outrivals all other dressings, and yet it does not
contain anything injurious to the leather. Beware of
imitations. Demand Hauthaway’s “Peerless Gloss,” and
take no substitute. For sale nearly everywhere. Made
only by C. D. Hauthaway & Sons, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
S. FREEMAN * SONS L!^
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAP OFFICE : WTNTAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
Tlie Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
liheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the'
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIAj
u


Sandow, the apostle of muscle, tells his
disciples it doesn’t matter what they eat and drink.
But quality matters. And when the strength
cultivators desire to stimulate or increase force
with a little old Scotch they should remember
D.C.L. is the best for encouraging either muscle
or brain, wit, art or business talent to their best
efforts. D.C.L., the Whusky of the Wise. If
Sandow be truly Wise he will drink no other.*
|0 THE POPULACE OF THE COMMON-
WEALTH.
“Melbourne, 3-9-02.
“To GEORGE WILLOUGHBY DOWSE, Esq.
“I, William Cosgrove, of the Gaiety Theatre, Mel-
bourne, acknowledge that my advertising and production
at the above theatre of the comedy ‘ The Wrong Mrs.
Wright” is an infringement upon your sole rights of
representation in Australasia and New Zealand of the
comedy ‘ The Wrong Mr. Wright,’ and I undertake not to
advertise or produce any play called ‘ The Wrong Mrs.
Wright,’ or to use any colourable imitation of the title of
your play. « (Signed) WILLIAM COSGROVE.”
Witness—John A. Ward.
Solicitors for Messrs. Willoughby and Geach, Messrs.
Fink, Best, and Hall, Melbourne.
For Sale.
MARIONETTE PLANT FOR SALE,
About 50 3ft. figures (Italian), splendid make;
elaborate scener}' and accessories. Must Sell *, best
offer ; leaving State. Box 1210, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
amusements.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harr? Rickards.
First Appearance of THE MONTROSE Group of Acrobats
Mr. & Mrs. TOM NAWN & CO. WILTON BROS.
Re-appearance of Mr. TOD CALLAWAY.
Continued Success of MR. & MRS. SIDNEY DREW,
A. G. SPRY, WALKER & MAY, LES. WARTON,
THE BIOSCOPE.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
1C K ARDS’ NEW OPERA HOUSE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—-Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30 p.m.
First Appearance of EUGEN SANDOW.
7 THE FLORENZS 7
FLORRIE CALLIMORE. ADA DELROY.
Professor FRED. HARCOURT. RAY JONES.
SAM HOLDSWORTH.
Prices—3s., 2s. 6d., 25., Is. Early Doors and Booked
Seats 6d. Extra. Plan at Allan’s.
HEAT RE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee Mr. Bland Holt.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
Bus. Manager, James Hendv. Treas., Julius Grant.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION, headed bv Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN.
IMMENSE SUCCESS of
A WOMAN OF PLEASURE.
The Greatest Dramatic Production ever seen in the
Southern Hemisphere.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Director, Mr. George' Musgrove.
Manager .. .. Mr. T. P. Hudson.
CONTINUED SENSATIONAL SUCCESS of
Mr. GEO. MUSGROVE’S NEW ENGLISH COMEDY 00.,
including Miss NELLIE STEWART, in
M ICE MEN -
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Wednesday Matinees.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE?
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tait.
IMMENSE DRAMATIC TRIUMPH of
William Gillett’s Intensely Interesting Realisation of
Sir A. Conan Doyle’s famous creation,
SHERLOCK HOLMES.
Presented by Mr. J. 0. Williamson’s Specially-Selected
Combination of English and American Artistes.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
IJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. William F. Hawtrey.
Business Manager .. Leonard Davis. j
THE HAWTREY COMEDY CO. has scored another
Magnificent Success in the production of the Funniest
Farcical Comedy yet seen in Melbourne.
THE LADY OF OSTEND u
Received Nightly with roars of uncontrollable laughter.
Preceded at 8 o’clock every evening by the pretty and
popular playlet COUNSEL’S OPINION.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is. Matinee every Wednesday.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’ and The Grand.
R. BENTLEY YOUNG, Representative.
H E A T R E ROYAL, SYDNEY'
Lessee Mr. J. O- Williamson. . -
Under the Sole Direction of Mr. George Musgrove.
Manager .. .. Mr. T. P. Hudson.
LAST NIGHTS of .
Mr. CEO. MUSCROVE’S NEW COMIC OPERA CO. in
A CHINESE HONEYMOON,
Produced on a scale of Magnificence Unsurpassed by any
other Management in the world.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Nicholson’s.
MATINEES EVERY WEDNESDAY 2 p.im
YCEUMTHEATR E, S Y D N E Y.
Lessee Mr. Wm. Anderson.
Sub Lessee .. .. Bland Holt.
SPLENDID SUCCESS of BLAND HOLT’S Australian
Melodrama,
RIDING TO WIH,
Interpreted by the Favorite Dramatic Combination.
POPULAR PRICES—3s,, 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
qriterion theatre, sy dn ey.
SOLE LESSEE .. .. Mr. JOHN F. SHERIDAN.
Manager Mr. Frank Weathersby.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, and EACH EVENING.
The First Time in Sydney, the Up-to-date Racial Musical
Comedy,
MRS. GOLDSTEIN.
RACHEL MENDOZA
Masquerading' as
MRS. GOLDSTEIN,
✓
Mr. JOHN F. SHERIDAN.
Special Engagement of Mr. Charles Kenningham,
Tenor, from Savoy Theatre, London.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY at 2.30.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES—3s., 25., Is. 6d.,
and Is. Day Sale (Early Doors 6d. Extra), White Rose
Confectionery, corner of Royal Arcade and Pitt Street.
Early door 7, ordinary 7.30, commence 8, carriages 10.45.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessees .. .. Messrs. LEE and RIAL.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 7.45. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
THE COMEDY SEASON.
Tbe Belle of New York,
AS GREAT A SUCCESS AS EVER,
i Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Nicholson and Co.
At Poverty Point.
The first night of “ Robin Hood,” at the Adelaide
Royal, Langdon Bonython’s Advertiser, for reasons un-
known, jumped on Lauri and Hugh Ward by ignoring
them altogether. Lyding and Thorley got their good
word, then Florence Young, and Maud Ohetwynd ; also
Leslie and Bantock ; after which, “ The minor parts in
the cast were all satisfactorily represented.”
The dangers of the unfamiliar metaphor. S.A. Register
has got itself much disliked by calling the star performers
in a literary societies’ tournament “ the culls of all the
societies.” And it was trying hard to be complimentary 1
“Bole Armenia”: Re par. in B. 6/9/’O2 dealing with
comedian Hugh Ward’s lip make-up in “ Robin Hood,”
and his performance of the old “ Blobs ” in Floradora, the
lip-building idea, and all other face graftings, are as old
as the grandfather of Roscius. Ask any experienced
actor. As to Ward’s being judged an old man in private
life by his stage senility in “ Floradora,” who ever saw,
off the stage, such a sparkling-eyed, nimble-footed, elas-
tically trim-figured old man with such a bright-toothed
smile as Ward’s Cyrus Gilfain ? Of Ward’s many excel-
lences, delusive make-up is a long way from being on top
of the bundle. Some actors can lose themselves in make-
up beyond the recognition of press, public, and even
fellow mummers “in front.” But to achieve this, and
bob up differently in every role, means never becoming
familiar to audiences. If you would live on the stage
beware not to triumph that way, but thump your own
fiersonality into the public heart. Even Brough’s popu-
arity in character parts was partly due to the fact that he
played them all exactly alike. [Did he?—Ed. B.]. Versatility
is art’s own pet offspring ; but every actor on top of the
heap has his own home-made individuality as pronounced
and unchangeable as North Head, Sydney. [North Head
is steadily crumbiing.—Ed. B.].
It seems to be probable that Henry Irving is coming to
Australia under Musgrove’s management, for it is
reported that Musgrove is providing a new London theatre
for the actor, and is taking him, generally speaking,
under his wing.
The funniest experience of Donald Macdonald as a
lecturer occurred when he went up to a town in Western
Victoria and told a few of his war yarns. Donald had been
received in great style by the municipal magnates, and
the Mayor rose to the occasion with many drinks. As
soon as he had started his lecture at night, Macdonald
caught sight of the Mayor gesticulating wildly to him in
the wings. Thinking there was a fire or something else
amiss, he went quickly across, only to be met with a
whispered request that he should come and have anothei 1
drink. Mac. refused, but hadn’t gone on for two minutes
before His Worship again entreated him in a loud voice to
have another drink. He took no notice, but the Mayor
was not to be baulked, and sallied on to the stage to urge
Donald to have another drink. Mac. had to postpone his
narrative for five minutes while he humored the chief
townsman by having another drink. He finished his lec-
ture with one foot resting on the prostrate form of a
Mayor who had fallen headlong on to the stage in a final
endeavor to get him to leave the post of duty and have
several more drinks.
“M.M.” writes from Townsville “ Maggie Moore,
with a ‘ complete ’ cast, ‘ new ’ scenery, and ‘ gorgeous ’
dresses (the latter chiefly red shirts, guns, and top-boots),
has just finished her Townsville season to moderately
fair business. I saw her last in ‘ Struck Oil,’ at
the Melb. Royal, in eighteen-seventy-something. She
was a slim charmer then. Now a walk twice
round Maggie Moore’s waist is all the exercise I
want in a day. In spite of advancing years and
embonpoint , Maggie still holds her own. I saw her in
‘The Eureka Camp,’ which, for unadulterated trash, I
have never seen equalled ; and she knelt down without
capsizing.”
“ S.S.” : It makes one sad to sit in the theatre and
notice the things the people laugh at. In Melbourne, for
the time being, shrieks of Gargantuan merriment are
being evoked by the old, old dodge of robbing a man of
his pants, and leaving him in a public place
dressed in the tail portion of an abbreviated shirt.
Every time the skirts of that shirt bob into
view from behind Bailey’s log, the women in the
Royal audience emit one unanimous, roof-raising yell,
and rock themselves in convulsions of merriment. At
the Princess, the only hearty laugh “ Mice and Men ” can
raise is provoked by the hero’s reply, “Go in none,”
when Peggy asks what dress she must go to the ball in.
There are smartnesses in “ Mice and Men,” but they are
wasted on the audiences, a little subtlety rendering a joke
absolutely useless for stage purposes. The drama is not
going to the dogs; it has been there and has left the
dogs again, and is now speeding towards the next animal.
Women in particular haughtily refuse to recognise new
jokes, and only appreciate the nude in comic art.
“ Melb.” : According to the bills, the incidents of the
play, “ A Woman of Pleasure,” occur in the year 1900.
Yet in the Transvaal scenes the gush is all about the
King! Victoria is not in it. “ God Save the King ” is
sung by the soldiers as they go to the bottom in the
foundered steamer.
“ Ami.” : Newspapers at large have copied the mistake
that the late Richard Stewart made his first Melbourne
appearance under Barry Sullivan’s management.
Stewart’s first appearance at Melb. Royal, under Edwards
and Fawcett, was in a drama called “Second Love,” and
the farce of “ Binks, the Bagsman.” This was two years
before Sullivan began as manager.
“ Melb.” : Not to contradict the scribe who says that
Miss Bishop acted Juliet here, to Oates’ Romeo. May be
she did, after the production I saw', when Miss Reid w'as
Juliet to the Romeo of Oates, at the Opera House. The
scenery was Irvine’s, well worn with travel. M'Mahon
was manager. Talking of worthy, long-lost Oates is a
reminder of the notorious “ Romeo ” Coates. He was a
rich fool, who amused London by acting the part.
When Bert Bailey is masquerading as a girl in “A
Woman of Pleasure” he remarks that he is not Jane
Oakebread, which allusion falls flat. In the London pro-
duction it always raises a laugh. Jane Oakebread is the
champion drunk and disorganised of Fogtown, and has
been arrested by every policeman thereabouts, save the
very newest. Policemen who have run in all the very
old-established and historical lady drunks of London say
Jane is a difficult lady to capture, owing to a dead and
helpless wav she has of collapsing sideways and becoming
like the Leaning Tower of Pisa while on her way to the
lock-up.
“Melb.”: Re “Mice and Men.” The youth of Miss
Stewart is astounding and unaccountable. I now under-
stand Moliere’s actress, Mdlle. de Brie. The public
insisted that, w'hen she was 60, nobody could act a girl of
16 w'ith such reality. When Miss Stewart will cease to be
a girl cannot be prognosticated. Of course, the whole
may be made up of stage tricks, but, if so, they' are
hidden to perfection. Look at all her movements. How
intensely girlish. But her lucky fane is her fortune. It
is the same I beheld for the first time in the dress-circle
of the old matchbox Princess’s, when Bandmann and his
wife—Milly Palmer—were also visitors there. A critic
seeing Miss Stewart for the first time in “ Mice and Men ”
might well say, “ Ah, here is the unsophisticated genius,
with no knowledge of the stage.” All is so delightfully
natural—that is to say, deceptively artificial.
During a “ turn” at the Princess Theatre, Bendigo, one
of the Florenz family of acrobats had a narrow escape.
He was somersaulting from the shoulders of one comrade
to another, then to the floor. After a revolution In the
air he landed at the right wing, when the flooring collapsed
and only the carpet saved him from going through to the
basement. Sandow appeared at Bendigo only a few days
before : it would be as well, perhaps, if an inspector of
stage-flooring followed up the Strong Man’s tracks, as his
weights are dumped about a good deal during his per-
formance.
“T.D.” : The extraordinary is getting to be much too
ordinary in stage variety business. A few years ago the
sensation act given by the family at Rickaids
would have- stirred a furore by its combination of
strength, dexteritv, and courage, and everybody would
have talked Florenz for nine days. As it was, they passed
away almost unnoticed. With such a blas& multitude to
cater for, the sensation artists a few years hence will have
to outdo the feats of the whole heathen mythology.
Typical of ill-luck—the going out of J. H. Guenett,
musical critic and teacher, just as his most famous pupil,
Melba, is approaching these shores. He probably held a
better record in the way of bike accidents than an.v other
Austral an of his years. Once he was busily infringing some
traffic bylaw or other, when the constable on duty at
Princes Bridge called on him to stop. But the musical
one had the pace on and attempted to ride through or
over the Law, with the result that Chaos supervened.
Picking himself up, the bobby, all dust and swears,
wrathfullv inquired why the etc. the cyclist didn’t stop
when told to. ‘ ‘ Does a locomotive stop for a rabbit ?
said the fallen musician.
A Melbourne pressman:
The Conservative Irvine Government has played, tb
Victorian democracy the dog’s trick the electors migh»
have expected, if they were not too well satisfied with th«.
pennyworth of opinions they buy daily from the big fac-
tories run by Syme and M ‘ Kin non to bother about fabri-
cating an idea of their own. The greediness of that little
tin Sphinx, Irvine, for a dissolution, is a most suspicious
thing. There was absolutely no call for a dissolution,
unless there was a desire on the part of a Tory Premier
with a Tory following to bow to extremely Tory agitation
and wreck the Factories Act. Irvine says he had pro-
mised the country to carry his retrenchment scheme, but
he also promised, on his most sacred honor, to save the
Factories Act. Only a trifling detail of his retrenchment
policy was threatened by the M‘ Donald amendment ; all
the Vic. factories legislation since 1896 is wrecked by the
dissolution, and Fatrnan, Esq., is abundantly glorified.
As an example of straining at the midge and swallowing
the dromedary, Irvine’s action is a record.
The Mighty Muscie Maker.
jt. alking with Eugene Sandow in his after-luncheon
mood, at Menzies’ Hotel, one learns many things
about physical culture that were not discussed by
the Strong Man when ne bared his muscles to a
crowd of invites at Melbourne Opera House. The
“ private demonstration” was just a Sandow show,
with the heavy weignts omitted, and a few ques-
tions and answers thrown in. People went away
feeling content to be ordinarily unmuscular and
out of condition. They saw in Sandow an
abnormal human fact, and they wondered how
long he was likely to live, anyhow. The light
was bad. He had the look of an overwrought
professor. “A man to be respected, but not
imitated,” was the general verdict of that rather
elderly gathering of select citizens from Collins-
street.
* »
Off the stage, Sandow is calculated Co convert
any fat infidel to the new religion of Physical
Culture in about five minutes. He looks years
younger than Sandow who posed at. that matinee
demonstration. The lines across his forehead are
incidental to his type of countenance, and would
have been deeper had he taken to the Law or
become ordained to subdue the flesh in clerical
broadcloth. Sandow’s clothes are built to dis-
guise, as far as possible, the fact that he measures
48 inches round the chest in muscular repose, and
62 inches when he chooses to expand. “If the
tailor didn’t fix me up carefully, I would look
about as broad as I am long,” says the mighty
German.
* * *
His length is The tailor’s triumphs are
of thin material, but the close fit makes them
warm to the wearer. He indulges in a little
muscle play and his coat sleeve is like a woollen
arm-skin, or his thigh seems all the same as a bar
of iron in an elastic wrapper. Sandow is always
tightening muscles, unconsciously, or with cul-
tural intent. The bracing-up of oneself here and
there in a casual way is a part of the system that
soon becomes second nature to a Sandowian man.
“ You find that many old athletes preserve their
condition wonderfully after they have ceased to
work. The habit of setting their muscles keeps
them firm,” remarks Sandow.
• • *
The question has been asked, “ Where are the
samples of the splendid results of the Sandow
teaching?” They are popping up everywhere,
and Australia may expect to produce its own
Sandows anon. “lam only five years old,” ex-
plains the Professor; “ that is to say, my classes
are only five years old, and you must wait a while
longer for extraordinary specimens ; but already
there are many very successful followers of the
system.. I get letters—hundreds of letters —from
people I have never seen, calling themselves my
grateful pupils, and so forth. Very funny letters,
also some very interesting letters, and some of
them awfully stupid. Nearly two-and-a-half
million copies of the book, ‘ Strength, and How
to Obtain It,’ have been sold. I have
appeared in many countries. England (which I
call my home) America, Italy, Holland. Physical
culture is practised as it never was practised
before. Yes, the book has been a good thing for
the London publishers and for me. I get Id. on
each copy. I ought to get 2£d. perhaps.” Thus-
far Sandow has not paid a professional visit to his
native Germany, the land of gymnasiums.
m * * , *
“ Many of the famous singers and musicians are
friends of mine,” says Sandow—“ Padetewski,
the De Reszkes, Gerardy. Ben Davies was a
pupil of mine. If he sees me sitting among the
audience at a concert he expands his chest. They
all expand their chests when they see me. It
is a greeting.” The sight of Sandow is a, signal
for chest expansion with the staff—especially the
small boy section of it—at Menzies’ Hotel. The
lift-boy makes the most of himself when the God
of Strength enters the cage. Sandow, “ the chap
what grabbed a lion and made it owl,” is a walk-
ing exhortation to brace up.
* * * *
Talking of muscular matters, Sandow admits,
under pressure, that some people have told him
he ought to have been a good singer, getting 62in.
notes off his chest. But he has not cultivated his
voice to any extent. It is very big, a basso or
heavy baritone, but still in the rough. He has
given more time to music. Like Cinque-
valli, he writes the incidental music for
his performances and lifts . heavy metal
to his own tunes. He has composed marches.
His “Marche des Athletes” is a well-known
thing. Among his very few friends in the “show”
business, Cinquevalli is the one for whom Sandow
feels a brotherly regard. They are kindred
inventors. Paul Cinquevalli will always be known
as the founder of the new school of jugglery,
wherein he has dozens of clever imitators, but still
no equal for all-round ability. Eugene Sandow
asks only to be recognised as the Father of modern
Physical Culture.
* * *
Mightier men than Sandow will arise, but
none of them will be the first to demonstrate
the greatness of little exercises in the per-
fecting of the human frame. All the credit
for introducing muscle-culture into the every-
day life of commonplace people must rest
with this genial gentleman, this thoughtful,
sprightly athlete who eats “ anything that comes
along,” but doesn’t eat too heartily of it ; drinks
whatever pleases him, and smokes rather more
freely than the average citizen. He takes a glass
of chartreuse and a cigar as he chats about the
benefits that all men and women may derive from
the “System”—which is firstly and mostly
“grip” dumb-bells of, say, 21bs. weight. The
Sandow “developer” is subservient to the dumb-
bells in its usefulness. Intelligent brain work—
concentrated thought—is essential to the best
results. Turkish baths, vapor baths—he does not
believe in them. The women who attend his
schools are noted for clear skins. If they
are not all as beautiful as Mrs. Sandow it is
because the System doesn’t originate complexions
and figures, but only improves them. “ Does Mrs.
Sandow use the dumb-bells every day ? She takes
15 minutes exercise every morning as a matter of
SANDOW (OFF THE CHAIN).
duty to herself. My maid servants attend the
school. The charwoman who washes the floor, she
objected at first to take the exercise unless she was
paid extra for it, but after a while she said,
‘Why ! Mr. Sand-how, I’d pay a bit for it meself,
rether than miss it, if yer’ll believe me.’ She is a
real cockney lady, that charwoman.”
* * *
The Strong Man, it seems, doesn’t put all his
strength into his feats. He limits his card-tearing
feat to three packs, though he can actually tear
four packs with those wonderful hands of his—BJ
size in gloves. He can tear one pack at a time
into sixteenths, if required. In the Tomb of
Hercules feat, the six men and several bar-bells
that rest upon his body are not half the weight he
is capable of supporting ; he has borne 53001b5. in
the same way. And the strength to do all this,
or a good deal of all this, may be acquired,
Sandow says, “by steady application in little
exercises that make one feel much better !” _ A
Warrnambool man who sent along a portrait of
his beauteous naked back is only one of many who
write to Sandow in the spirit of converted Sal varmy
sinners, rendering thanks to a physical General
Booth. Upstairs, in his sitting-room, Mrs.
Sandow, the tall, divinely fair personification of
all the virtues of the System, spends much time
in answering some letters and not answering
others.
* * * »
One youth writes from Melbourne city: “ About
eight months ago I read of you in a boys’paper,
and was so interested I bought one of your
developers. lam only 16 years of age, but since
using the developer my measurements have in-
creased rapidly. I can lift a bag of oats weighing
2001 b. from floor to shoulder.” A grateful disciple
writes from Port Melbourne: “Four years ago,
at the age of 27, I had the pleasure of reading one
of your books on strength,- and then I started the
exercises you advocate. At the time I started I
was just the usual scrag." The particulars given
by the writer of this letter were sufficiently
remarkable to get him an introduction to Sandow.
He has developed from the “ usual scrag” into
a local champion at weight lifting. “ The letters
look like puffs for patent pills, ” says Sandow, ‘ ‘ but
they are interesting to me —some of them.
The gentleman who writes for _ advice as to
eye gymnastics and nasal drill is not so in-
teresting. I don’t understand drilling noses.”
Having lodged this mild complaint, the patient
Sandow parts from his interviewer with a splen-
didly-developed air of friendliness, and prepares
to take his wife for a drive in a barouche. It is
quite a soft thing to be a Strong Man. Sandow
doesn’t even need to worry about walking exer-
cise. Lolls back in the carriage, sets the muscles
of his legs now and again, by accident as it were,
and continues to measure fully 18in. round his
calf. What could be easier ?
EDUMND FISHER.
At Launceston (Tas.) Criminal Court, the
other week, a farmer was charged with indecently
assaulting his 18-year-old step-daughter. The
damsel admitted, under cross-examination, that
she trumped up the charge out of spite
against the prisoner, who wanted her to go out
into service. Case dismissed. Nothing hap-
pened to girl, as per usual.
Spring 1 Time Cleaning.
Spring has arrived, and now the careful housewife
goes through the annual Spring-house cleaning.
The Summer will soon be upon us, and at this
time of the year we should take care to cleanse the
whole human system, and fortify it to withstand
the enervating effects of the Australian Summer.
The increasing hot weather of this period has an
extremely debilitating effect on the system if it is
not in perfect working order all through. It will
be thus seen that a medicine which will regulate
and cleanse the interior mechanism of man
is especially valuable at this time of the year.
Such a medicine is Bile Beans, and no better
preparation can be found for toning up the
digestive organs, cleansing the blood, and invigo-
rating the liver. Spring generally brings with it
am assortment of ailments, such as spring fever,
tired feeling, loss of appetite, etc. For these take
Bile Beans, which are also a specific for bilious-
ness, indigestion, constipation and debility, which
are also prevalent at this season. As a purgative
Bile Beans are acknowledged without an equal in
Australia. Their price places them within the
reach of everyone, and no one should run the risk
of being in ill-health through the summer, when a
short course of Bile Beans would effectually purify
the body and keep it in thorough working order.


WONDERFUL CURES. WONDERFUL TESTIMONIES
When men are weak and practically disabled in life, they should avoid disaster which may end in Death. New Vigor, new Life, new
Strength, and unlimited Physical Power can be given by adopting for a short period the Electro-Medioa Treatmentorthejud.cious
uses of Electricity and Medicine. People are oured daily by this system who were otherwise classed as ‘‘INCURABLE.
WE have from time to time demonstrated, as leading physiologists and pathologists m the scientific world,
the fact that the permanent healing of grievous health-destroying diseases lies in the possession of a perfect know-
ledge of the causation and phenomena concerning them, and the accurate methods-of treating-them Any practi-
tioner can prescribe for a complaint an'd treat it with that professional'care embodied in set formula. But every
practitioner cannot heal or cure a disease. Honestly they endeavour, and unsuccessfully fail. Everywhere men and women try their doctors, receiving
SPECIALIST, with his new ideas and modes of treatment, assisted by special knowledge, can. I his is proven
BY THOUSANDS OF UNIMPEACHABLE TESTIMONIALS
Received by THE SPECIALISTS of the FREEMAN and WALLACE INSTITUTE, in cases undertaken (and which they guarantee to cure) of nerve
and muscular disorders, stomach affections, etc: ' . A ™ n nnan t- a a new extern nullified bv
Their new methods of nerve and physical strength restoration, by the employment of Electro-Therapeutic agents, is a new system, qualiliedjiy
singular success. Patients 00 WPYINU POHTl^Vtl^^^^LW^^C^^^^^eat
LUMBAGO, ABDOMINAL WEAKNESS, PILES, ST. VITAS'DANCE, or CHRONIC or FUNCTIONAL NERVE DISORDERS, are surely
and permanently cured. - - _-■»
A DISTINGUISHED
PATRON.
r|THE SPECIALISTS have adapted
I their Electro-Medical treatment in
numerous instances where sys-
tems had been run down and enfeebled
almost to the VERGE OF PREMA-
TURE DECAY. In cases of climatic
change and heavy study debilitating the
system, an infusion into the jaded sys-
tem of AN ELECTRIC MEDICATED
CURRENT, as .used by .three physicians
to the late Queen, gives that NECES-
SARY VITA L FORCE which, when
lacking, proves often the htecleus and
genesis of grave nerve disorders.
Amongst numerous attestants to this
grand system is SIGNOR CARLO
DANI, the famous and distinguished
tenor of the ROYAL ITALIAN OPERA
COMPANY, lately visiting,Sydney, and
who wore an Electric “ INVIGORA-
TOR,” by whiclvhe was greatly benefited.
This instrument was modelled after those
used .by European Scientists, and of
which Mr. JOSEPH MEGSON, Cham-
pion Cyclist of N.S. Wales, speaks in
unstinted praise. Signor Carlo Dani,
whose testimony is irreproachable, suf-
fered much from lassitude, or nerve
exhaustion. Sufferers from this nerve
disorder will re t ad the distinguished
singer’s declaration with more than usual
interest. . .
m
.
• • M
mm
WmmKm' liitlli
hL.-
■ _ - ■ ■ j
■
■SiM
gKSgI
mm
m
■ i
Hi
■
■
SIGNOR CARLO DANI, the Distinguished Tenor.
Extracts from
Patients’ Letters.
❖ -
THE SPECIALISTS here publish a
a few extracts from the letters of
distinguished patients who have
been cured by this effective treatment.
Mr. JOSEPH MEGSON, Champion Cyclist
of New South Wales :
“ I was on the point of a constitutional break-
up more than once. The quality of the
‘IN VlGORATOR’supplied to me is beyond
question.”
Mr. J. H. BROWN, Professional Pianist :
“I suffered from BRAIN FAG, and was
cured by your Electro Medical Treatment.”
A PROMINENT SYDNEY POST-
OFFICE OFFICIAL -
“I am completely cured of RHEUMATISM
and INDIGESTION, from which I suffered
for 'years. Your EIectric.‘INVIGORA-
TOR ’is magical in its effects.”
Mr. G. JOHNS, Champion Light-weight
Pugilist of Australia: —
■ “I wore your ‘INVIGORATOR’ in train-
ing and actual contests. It did me undoubted
good.”
Mr. E. H. AMES, exponent in Australia of
the “TOD SLOAN” style of riding,
* says :
“I-have obtained marvellous benefits from
your Electro-Medical Treatment. I regained
my nerve-power by use of your ‘ INVIGOR-
ATOR,’ and won two great racing events in
one day.”
These are but a few from many thpusands. The
reader is asked to glance at the testimony of Signor
Carlo Danl. Such declarations should cause serious
reflection
« r have much pleasure in informing you that owing to the great lassitude I have experienced here, due, no doubt, to sudden
climatic changes, I have been induced to try one of your Electric ‘ Invigorators,' from which I have obtained great benefit to my
nervous: and muscular systems.” . Tours cordially,
j - * " ‘'" ' " > ' ..... : • ? 4
(TRANSLATION FROM ORIGINAL COPY TO BE SEEN AT THE INSTITUTE).
All ntWnnKmav he interviewed The SPECIALISTS’ treatment is sure and effective. Improvement is rapid and certain. . . . ~ . ~ .
MSWILL RECOVER i,you
system, equalising the circulation, improving the blood-stream. It dears the brain, g t?EGATNS ALL HIS LOST STRENGTH, and finds no physical trial that he cannot
NATURE INTENDED THEM TO BE. A man is no longer feeble under this treatment ; he RLUAUNb Aliii
conquer. It is the finest medium in the world to physical peace and domestic harmony. '*
PRICES.
The Prices of these wonderful curative “ INVIORATORS ” are as follow: „ ~ __ '
Copper Plate, £1 ; Silver Plate, £1 10s; Solid Silver, £3 ; Solid Cold, £lO (2oz. 18ct. Cold).
The Specialists hold Certificates of Efficacy unpossessed by others, and give private tests to anyone who cares to call. Two leading Sydney electricians
itie specialists noiu ™ mnt naous as used for medical purposes,”
These
assert they are “electrically perfect, and their currents are continuous as used for medical purposes,
I INVIGORATORS ” have passed through the Customs for the last five years as genuine Electric Appliances.
The Specialists’ Fees : Professional Advice a nd Medicine, «£1
CREDENTIALS.
NINE Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration of the Physician-in-
Cliief by the Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia,
- England and America, open for public inspection at the Institute. Late Homoeopathic
Hospital, Melbourne, and British Imperial Army Medical Staff. ,
Sir DOMINIC CORRIGAN', Bart., Physician to the late Queen, speaking of the
Physician in-Chief, says:—-“I entertain a high opinion of Dr. Wallace in regard to nis
professional qualifications.”
“ CLINIC AH. EXPERIENCES.”
CONTAINING 550 pages of medical literature, 150 full and half-page medical illustra-
tions fully explains, in the chapter devoted to Electricity, the general laws governing
the application of electricity to the human frame. An exhaustive exposition of the .systems
employed in the doctrine of Electro-Medication is given, showing the benefits to be derived
from a judicious use of the .Electric Bath, Battery, or Belt. -I he uses of these -.are
individually explained. This valuable medical work is posted free to any address on
receipt of ONE SHILLING IN STAMPS. ■ . . , . ’
"‘FREEMAN * WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDIGAI—
and SURGICAL INSTITUTE
ELIZABETH and BATHURST
STREETS, SYDNEY.
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director Electro-Medical Department.
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E., L.M., Physician-in-ChieF.
Medicines packed Free from Observation and sent to all parts of Australia.
Letters treated with Professional SeCrecy and promptly replied to.


Writes Hagranr:— ' - ' -
Re the“poor shepherd” (8., 19/4/’O2). An Australian
parson of my acquaintance, at my suggestion, started
reading, from the pulpit, names and amounts paid by
members of the flock towards his stipend. Also, he read
—in a particularly loud voice—the names of those who
failed to contribute. After about three years in the
parish, he had quite as much money as he needed, and I
was good for a tenner from him at’any time. If Brown
gives £5, Jones—as good a man, anyday—will give more
than two-and-six, or break something; and the parson
scores every time. The dodge has been practised on
O’Brien, Moran, and 00. for generations, and has never
been known to fail. Call their names, by all means!
Appeal tb their passions, or their sense of dacency, or
whatever, you like to call it, and gel the money l
The Bulletin Reciter:
By Eighty (80) Bulletin Bards. With Illustrations by “ Hop,” N. Lindsay,
A. J. Fischer, F. Leist, D. H. Souter, and H. McCrae. In handsome cloth,
decorated. Price, 55.; postage, 4d.
... A P°P u iar Collirigwood (Melb.) publican
allvt inserting in Saturday’s Age this
QURRY’S Beer Cures Chilblains, Corns, &c. Curry’s
, , e f, l !> Curry’s Hotel, Hotham and Wellington
sts., Uolhngwood.
T other day he received from a backblock town-
shrp a letter stating that writer had “corns mighty
bad, enclosing a P. 0.0. for 2s. 6d., and asking
that the beer-cure be forwarded at once. Now was
he merely a stolid man who joked with difficulty,
or had he a large, stolid, teetotal wife who would
only allow him to drink the corn-curing variety of
beer?
Hearne’s Bronchitis
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing Hoarseness Pain o
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com
fortihg inallaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumntion ha
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient
.and a Complete Cure is certain. 6 *
..... . BBWARE OP COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT. AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO CORDS AND BRONCHIAL
l ■* ' ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
\ ,BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE
. M "Orange, N.S.W.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter recejved from my mother, Mrs. ,
tf London, England, from which, you will glean that
pour medicine has been a perfect God send to a martyr to
folds and bronchial asthma. I.da not.wish any names to
be men'ttdned; but you are- at fifeerty-'to make use of any
port ion of this,letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
and. You can see for yourself what an immense success
..it waa-MYoyra faithfully,
Extract from letter alluded to above : •
“ You will be in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
irrivfed, ‘and I imhiertiately flew to it. . That was last
friday, and.-it has quite cuped me. Dr. : is very
michi interested in it. lie came yesterday, and carried
>ff the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
■ Yoni a chemist.who is in a la'rge.’way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
itipplied privately when desired.
Agonising cough.
NINE MONTHS* TORTURE
3 I'Ll EVE D BY ON' E DOSE OF TIEARNE’S
UUONOHIJ'IS LURE, AND CURED BY
TWO lIOTTLES.
" t-. “Dergholm, Victoria.
“Dear Sir,—l wish to add my testimony to the won-
lerful effect of yOuV fh onehitiAGure. . I suffered for nine
nonths, and tie cough was so distressingly bad at nights
i ’ was obliged, to get upahd sit by the fire. ' I had medical
1 .dvicej arid tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
roiirs, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
irst dose, and though I have had,hut two bott les.l feel I
«n a different man, and the cough has vanished.' You
nay.,depend upop my making known the efficacy of your
ronderfiilYfemedv to .anyone I see afflicted.
“Yours faithfully;
“JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
learne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
eetly and rapid!' successful uir|ier.circuinstances w hich
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
he Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
Uty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS
**l used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M’DONALD, Trinkey, via
the medicine yet; but lam sending for
Quirindi, N.S.VV."
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
•
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.’ ’
•
, " I , h * ve usefl one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.-(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
1 have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skiplon, Victoria.”
" I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
CUlty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
$
“ My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.-O. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne. ’
*
‘‘l lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—E. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.-C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria."
©
"Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.-(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.” -
•
„ ,'’ er y Phased with your Bronchi!is Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once
t*. SEYIER, Bourke, New South Wales. ©
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
triod lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody —S
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” © •
“I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine
n’m-r im W l ' am “ftomshed at my present freedom, as a direct result oPn.v brief trial.—JOHN o’
IRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.” ■ *
•
“ Last ye f. r , T e«d severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good , but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well —II HOOD
Brooklands, Avooa-street South Yarra, Melbourne."
•
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria ”
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. 1 am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.-IJENRY WUItLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria ” PUd
•
P o inW e aDall t ingK r v"ci h o i rt.’ ?Ure I ** iromyoU was ma S ical in its effects.-CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch's
Gratitude and Appreciation
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
** The Scientific Australian Office,
TT ‘‘l69 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequenti
tne most effective, and it there is anybody in Victor!;
who during; the last few years has been repeatedly work
ing for and singing: the praises of Hearne’s Bronohiti
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
This gentleman, some three years ago, was recoin
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham ao
countant, Oolhns-street, and the effect that it had was sc
marked that he has ever since been continually reoom
mending it to others.
‘We are glad to add this our testimony ,to the value o
Hearne s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has easec
the sufferings cf hundreds and hundreds of people evei
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.’
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS
u 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Hear Sir,—Please sen I us 3t
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. YVe enclose oui
cheque to cover amount of order.
“We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quiU
cured by three doses.
“ We are, huthfully yours,
1 THOMASON, CTIATRB & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemist*”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE.OLDEST NKWSPAPEh
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GUATEEUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me toexpreij
my grateful appreciation of the value of your BroncliitH
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack ol
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is takp-
wilh immediate curative effect.
“I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUAKRILL,
“ Editor Geelongi'Advertise* *
“ Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
m eiitiiwjs y.r?.
• i; : PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Office: No - 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel 3562
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large. 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. giW ’aJL
1901, Limited.
v >• = ;.V t
& REFINING CO. of AUSTRALI A
WORKS!
Xja ' l5;o IHawarra (56 MILES FROM SYDNEY)
BMELTEKB
AND
REFINERS
w
sfosib %onh y<i
LEAD
i'-.: «:
1 iais sf- |,; j
BULLION
. V.
In
«- - - - - w Assay Offices, General Offices, Store and Sulphuric Chamber
-Highest Brice paid ior GrOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, and JEWELLERS SWEEP, & c .
For all information regarding Rates, apply to HEAD OFFICE, DAPTO.
h.:-in,-: .A. Rndder & Go., 40 FILL Street, Sydney, General
Agents.
MAKERS Of
S. Co. of Australia
AND :
‘ ILUTABS&"
BRANDS OP
SOFT LEAD.
'Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay.
W. L. HOYT, Manager.
H Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
“ ‘BeugerV Food
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
For In fonts, InvoJids, ond tho Atj&d. Delicious, Nutritive, end Ligsslihie.
' ' . Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
t > find.. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘Benger’s
Food ’ everywhere.”
“If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


“A Weary Politician ” :
The practically forced levy upon a N.S. Wales for
subscriptions to his-electorate’s associations and organisa-
tions is had enough but it is nothing like such a burden
as the time-tax levied by the people who solicit high for
billets. -As things are, with'the Public Service Board.in
the ascendancy, M’s.P. can seldom obtain positions for
electors, but constituents will not believe that, and insist
on his trying all the same. “I know if .you’ll <put in a
word for me with O’Sullivan it will be all right,” is the
formula; “You‘know I’ve always supported you—and
always hope to.” Members must submit or go out of
public life.
The Fiery Cross, the Edinburgh publica-
tion of our old friend Theodore Napier, is a
“Scottish Nationalist” paper, believes in Home
Rule for Scotland and .objects to the present
dynasty. It prints without a smile this sugges-
tion from a correspondent :
The ruling family in Great Britain was chosen simply as
a matter of expediency. The only conditions of succes-
sion were “ the royal line and Protestant religion,” and
the choice was merely Parliamentary. Being such, it can
with as much ease be set aside as made. A fresh choice
would bring to a happy end many of the dangers that
threaten the Empire. The chief arise from the
discontent of Ireland, the fresh Ireland erected
in South Africa, and the just indignation of the
Scots against the false and obnoxious “ Seventh.” Now
when the Boer war broke out it was pointed out and
explained that President Kruger was ■ descended from
Rob Roy, the famous Highland chief ; but when we come
to inquire into the ancestry of Rob Roy, we find that
through his mother he was descended from the Campbells
—his great-grandfather being Sir Duncan Campbell of
Glenorehy, known as “ Duncan with the Cowl.” This
Duncan was eighth in descent from Edward 111., of
England, through Joan Beaufort, and also seventh in
descent from Robert 11. of Scotland—the first of the
Stuart kings—so that President Kruger.js of the blood-
royal of both England and Scotland. He was of the royal
line and Protestant religion. Let Parliament make him
King. Ireland will be pleased, the Boers will rejoice in
union with the Empire, and Scotland will be happy in a
foul stain removed; nay, America, lost to us by the
bungling Hanoverians, may in the best sense again’offer
“ hands across the'sea.”
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEE
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you.. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be decoloured, or there may :be wounds the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk.; You may have attended various hospitals and had
medial advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Se nd at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Manus, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper.on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
DRUNKTured
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
IjtsTSee my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, 1901, /wherein I - agree to
accept 1 00 Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free.
W. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S.. Bn?..
68 Russell St., Melbourne.
WMMjmmw##.
BUSHMAN WATCH
/ OUR FASTHFUL
/yyn TIMEKEEPER
■ ■ V CunMetal-'Case'^
Charles Read l C?
4-EO GEORGE 5T SYDNEY.
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
jsLiscrnic
MILTS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TltlC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remeihber, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently, cure you. If it does not, we w|U
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
ftlso Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC
TOOTH
POWDER
IS THE BEST DENTAL
PRESERVATIVE.
Has the Largest Sale of any Dentifrice.
Sold by Chemists, Stores, &c.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
EVERY MAN
lit
SUFFERING from DEBILITY and WEAKNESS should
send for a valuable Pamphlet explaining how all
Nervous and Organic Derangements may be success-
fully treated without stomach medication. The method
is easy and pleasant, and will effect a perfect and per-
manent cure. Sent in a plain sealed envelope free of
charge. E. NORTON, 59 &60 Chancery Lane, London,
gj Eng. O.ver 30 years’ continuous success. KK
Free for Asking:.
WRITE to us and we will forward you our scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong- and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to Proprietor, Box 135, G.P.0., Adelaide, S.A.
LOVELY COLORS.
’ v ' i ‘ '
BRILLIANT
GLOSS.
REJECT '
IMITATIONS.
<0 -
istij
ill
" = = = LU
<l2
: = = : O
<
HI. 2
CL
liiw
it'
m
tgp
PS*®
See that Aspihall’s name
and Medals are stamped
on every Tin.
MANUFACTURED BY
ASPINALL’S ENAMEL, Ltd., NEW CROSS,
LONDON, END.
i
33r. Clarkson’s Electric Belt
Will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other bod 3' appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It Charges the Nerves with
renewed energy and causes your heart to beat stronger with thegladness of youthful
vigour. •' '
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general'Collapse of all vital
parts, the coinbinedtfeatment of Electricity with Dr. OLAitJCSON'SRE-IN VIGORATOR
will bring happiness and health. : The influence of these two agents on.the Nerves arid Organs is truly wonderful.
. -- - - - THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC.
Price—ELECTRIC IJELT, 10s. ; RE-IN VIGORATOR, fid. per bottle,, or Three Bottles for £l.
OALI.MWRITE- OWT. «2*~ DEXJG «TORE
r - " CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY. “ -
SAVE YOUR
MONEY.
SAVE YOUR
TIME,
&
WHERE To
V
PROSPERITY
CAN’T LAST FOR EVER WITHOUT THE
PUBLIC’S CONFIDENCE AND APPRECIATION
T
EVIDENCE OF WHICH IS DAILY RE-
CEIVED IN THE FORM OF TESTI-
MONIALS AND GRATEFUL LETTERS
BY
Herr RASSMUSSEW
THE WORLD-FAMED DANISH
HERBALIST & BOTANIST,
PROPRIETOR OF THE
ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
REGISTERED.
A FEW WORDS TO THE UNINITIATED.
PERSONAL AND PERTINENT. —Those who have Dot met Herr Rassmussen, and
who have not given his Alfaline Herbal Remedies a trial, may find it beneficial to become
acquainted with the good work which he has done in the interest of suffering humanity for
the last twenty years.
ALONG BACK IN THE BEGINNING OF THE EIGHTIES
Herr Rassmussen introduced his now world-famed Alfaline Herbal Remedies to the Australian public at 547 George
Street, Sydney. Australia was then flooded with American importations and proprietary remedies, manufactured
by doubtful persons with assumed names and fictitious addresses, who took the people’s money without
responsibility, and very often without giving them fair value for same.
HERR RASSMUSSEN BROUGHT ABOUT A REVOLUTION
by straightforward and fair dealings with the public, offering to stake his reputation and future if his remedies
were not as efficacious as he claimed them to be, accepting all responsibility, and willing to abide by the people’s
verdict. •
THE HAPPY RESULT IS KNOWN TO EVERYONE.
Over twenty years have passed away, hundreds of remedies have come and gone—many of them were forced pn
the public in numerous designing ways—thousands of pounds spent on advertising same with the assistance of the
world's greatest experts in laying traps for the unwary; but the public would have none of them, and they have
disappeared as suddenly as a flash of lightning.
“THE ALFALINE REMEDIES EXCELL ALL OTHERS,”
and are well known to be more popular to-day than they have ever been. They have not only obtained, but
have retained the goodwill and confidence of the Australian public, and have become famous throughout the
civilized world. The first Sydney Office not only yet exists, but offices have been opened up for their sale at
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Wellington, N.Z., and in West Australia at Perth, Fremantle,.. Kalgoorlie and
Boulder City, with Agencies throughout the world.
LET THE PUBLIC JUDGE FROM THE FOLLOWING:— .
The Alfaline Remedies have held their own for over twenty years in Australia, and Herr Rassmussen has
been awarded the Parisian Aeadatnies’ Gobi Medal and Diploma of Honour; Gold Medal, Sydney, and several Silver’
Medals; honourably mentioned in almost every newspaper in Australia; received many thousands of unsolicited
testimonials—every one of the originals open for inspection at his Offices. The Alfaline Remedies have never been
known to fail to cure in a single instance. ■
ARE THEY NOT WORTH A TRIAL?
if they are, why not try them today? why leave it till to-morrow and, perhaps, lose your chanceand time? Mb'
order so small that, it is not welcome ; no order so large that it cannot be executed at once. If you first wish
evidence of the efficacy of the Alfaline Remedies.
SEND FOR HIS FREE BOOK,
and read what the experienced have to say, and what the Australian newspapers have to say —the double distilled
extracts from the Press speak for themselves.
A FEW OF THE ALFALINE REMEDIES:
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS never fail to cure Nervous Diseases, Weak Spine,
Troubled Brain. Fatigued Nerves, Despondency, Poor Memory, Debility, Want of Confidence,
restore Vital Strength, and preserve the system against being affected by age more than any
known remedy. Boxes, 6/- and 12/- ; course, 23/0 posted.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS are a permanent cure for.all Chronic, Blood and Skin
Diseases, no matter how caused, or of how long standing —Blotches, Blood Disorders, Gravel,
Diseases of the Urinary Organs, etc., etc. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-; courses, 23/6 posted.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS completely cure Wasting Diseases in Women
—Ansemia, Whites, Poverty of Blood, Sallow Complexion, Dull Eyes, and act as a perfect
Blood and Nerve Tonic. Boxes, 6/-and 12/-; courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE RHEUMATIC PILLS cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica,.Lumbago, Ravages
from Rheumatic Fever, Chalky Formation in the Joints. Boxes, 3/-, 6/-, and 12/-; courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS remove all Stomach Troubles, Costive-
ness, Indigestion, Flatulence, Heartburn, Wiud, Biliousness and Headache. Boxes, 1/-.
GENERAL ALFALINE REMEDIES.
Alfaline Pile Powders cure internal and external Piles, boxes 3/- and 6/- ; Varicocele
Powders, boxes 6/-; Blood Capsules or Globulus, 6/- ; Fat Reducing Powders, which remove
Corpulency, 6/-; Hair Restorer, 6/-; Corn Cure, 1/-; Ointment, 1/-; Eucalyptus Oil and
Jujubes, boxes 1/- ; Flesh-Producing Powders, 6/- ; Complexion Beautifiers remove Pimples
and Freckles, 3/- and 6/-; Alfaline Embrocation removes all sorts of Muscular Pains, Stiff
Joints—good tor Footballers, bottles 1/6 posted; Worm Tablets, 1/-; Headache Tablets,
Instant Cure, 1/- ; Soluble Quinine Pessaries, ;">/- ; Electric Belts, Suspenders, Bandages,
Enemas, Glass Syringes, etc. Circulars with all particulars sent Free.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALITY.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has made special arrangements for attending
personally to his Clients living in the Country, and letters will receive
most careful personal attention. Advice or information sent free 5 ; and
unobserved. Patrons may rely on skilful, honest and confidential treatment.
His Remedies will he forwarded to sufferers, packed in plain cover and
unobserved, together with Advice and Directions. Letters should he addressed
to Herr Rassmussen’s full name—HAN S PETER RASSMUSSEN—and
Registered if containing Money, and may be sent to any of
Herr Rassmussen’s Addresses:
Head Office: 547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
ALSO AT
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke Street
BRISBANE-309 Queen Street
ADELAIDE—IS Pulteney Street
N. 2.—91 Lambton Quay, Wellington
W.A.—PEETH—4BI .Hay Street
KALGOOELIE—Hannan Street
BOULDEE ClTY—Piesse Street
FEEMANTLE—II7 High Street:.
SENT ON •«
A : FREE BOOK , ■■■ u
with Advice, Testimonials, and,,List of Alfolroe Remwiiga-


presents that mill please
fOU cannot possibly be disappointed by visit-
ing us, so come here whether you have
a definite idea of what you want or not.
We offer you the biggest variety and the most
reasonable prices it is possible to offer.
If you have not seen our new Catalogue,
ask us for one. If you live out of town
send us your name and address on a post-
card and you will get one by return mail.
No. F47OS.
Silver-plated
and Pearl
Bread Fork
lls 6d. ’
No, FS462.—Fine Leather, and Silver*
Mounted Pocket Book, 10s 6d.
No. F3939. —Gent.’s Silver Hair
Brush, 21s.
No. 374 A.—6 Silver-plated Tea Spoons
and Tongs, 10s 6d.
No. *63.—Al Silver-plated Sugar Tongs,
3s 6d.
No. 253. —Solid Silver Match Box, 10s 6d.
No. E 9350.
Silver
Glove
Buttoner,
Is 6d.
0.
z
4/2
GEORGE
SYDnf
No. 20. —Gent.'a Opal
Ring, 18ct. gold,
£4 10s.
No. E 8031.— Tasteful 9ct. Gold Bangle, £ll7s. 6d.
No. B4B9o.—Dia-
mond Ruby and
18ct. Gold Ring,
£3 10a
No. M.— 15ct. Gold and Opal Fly Brooch, £llss.
No. 120. —15 ct. Gold, Diamond and Ruby
Brooch, £2 7s 6d.
No. 121A.—!5cfc. Gold Anchor Brooch,
■ £l l2s 6d.
' No. E6251.—90t. Gold Bird and Hearb
Brooch, 12s 6d.
15cfc. Gold Heavy Band Bracelet, £4 4s. Smaller, £3.
No. E6659.—9ct. Gold Engraved Bracelet, £ll7s 6d.
No. E7To7.—9ct. Gold,
Pearl and Turquoise
Lace Brooch, £1 Is.
No. 193. —Links, 9ct.
Gold, 15s (id. 15c.
Gold, £llos. Silver,
. 4s 6d.
No. 197.—Links, 9cfc. Gold,
£1 ss. 15cb. Gold, £2 ss.
Silver, 6s 6d.
Fine Diamond Marquise
Bing:, £4O.
No. 241.
Diamond - set
Scarf Pin,
£3 17s 6d.
No. 240.
15ct. Gold
and Pearl
Pin, £1 ss.
No. F6l2B.—Silver-plated Toast
Rack, 12s 6d.
No. F3s62.—Silver Cabinet Photo.
Frame, 16s 6d.
ai
No. E 6444. Engraved
Al Silver-plated Napkin
Z Ring, 5s Gd.
No. EB499..—Purse and Oard Case,
4 Silver Corners and Lock, £1 Is.
No. 359.— Silver-plated Breakfast
Cruet, 13s 6d.
No. E 7072.— Silver
and Ivory Battle,
13s 6d.
Fii e Opal and 15ct.
Go d Heart, £5 5a
Smaller, 768.
Silver-plated
Spectacle
Case, 14s 6d.
Out of a column of “ Country News,” the
other day, no less than eight paragraphs published
this sort of thing : “ Councillor Dash is in a critical
state of health;” “Presentation of Bible to Miss
Sunday School,” “Ditto of purse to Rev. Mr.
Balderdash,” “ Mailthan broke his leg;” “Coun-
cillor’s son fractured his arm,” and so forth. One
has perforce to wade through a column of common
or oaten chaff to get at one small grain of wheat.
Beyond occasional tragedies, the only country
news of general interest refers to the weather and
the crops; the public has absolutely no interest
in the appearance of a pimple on Councillor
Smith’s nose, or the breaking of a Mayor’s wooden
leg through falling off a clothes-horse.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
“ Solomon Smith ” to The Bulletin :
If there is one person more than another who ought to
arise and bless Richard Seddon it is the Maoriland
publican. Not content with granting them every con-
cession asked for during his reign, Richard, ere leaving
for the Coronation, proposed to abolish licensing-com-
mittees and leave it all to the S.M., but his idea perished
for want of support. The S.M. in country districts is
often a person without home or habitation beyond the
pub, and is obviously of no more judicial use than a swag-
man, who naturally enough “ lays up” to the publican
who gives him a shakedown. It will soon be impossible
to convict a publican of anything less than wilful murder,
and the police, knowing this, don’t try. In cases of
breaches of the Licensing Act, such as Sunday trading,
supplying drink to children, &c., the beak usually speaks
strongly on the matter, commends the action of the
police, and reserves his decision. Next court day the
case is dismissed—very often with an apology from the
bench. The licensing ballot at the general election, con-
taining three issues—license, reduction, or no license—is
the nearest approach to the three-card trick so far —
the chances all in favor of the publican, and hedged round
with so many conditions that if every one voted no license
it would probably turii out illegal. When the downfall
of Richard comes to pass, the publican will most likely be
the first to desert him ; and the cold-tea and anti-
monopolist parties will treasure up these things against
him.
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. 6d.
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor, W. Martin, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England.*
“ Veteran ’’ ..writes :
“Koorawattia” (B. 30/8/’O2) is quite right about Roberts
in S’Africa. Roberts did begin the farm-burning business,
and it was all the more inexcusable because, in his two
books, “ The Rise of Wellington ” and “Forty-one Years
in India,” he has incidentally shown the folly of such
measures. In Afghanistan, he'always carefully protected
the villages, and. had he not done so, he and his division
would have perished with cold and hunger at Cabul.
Roberts gained nothing, and lost a great deal, by changing
his earlierand saner opinion. Heneitherstopped’“ sniping”
nor train-wrecking—he didn’t even check them—bv
burning and blowing up farms. He lost the supplies o'f
odds and ends of produce they would have furnished had
they been let alone, and his army suffered in health
accordingly. He also lost the little scraps of information
about the commandoes that would have been picked up
from the people at the farms. Farm-burning employed a
great many men and horses, who were thus diverted
from the prosecution of the main business in hand—
catching and beating the commandoes. Kitchener
stopped train-wrecking by placing blockhouse-lines along
the railways. They made it too dangerous to tamper
with the lines, and could, and did, transmit warning
signals to trains. But Roberts is emotional, and there-
fore has a tendency to be cruel from passion, whereas
Kitchener’s cruelty is that of a machine which crushes
what comes in its way. He would probably not have
bothered with farm-burning and concentration camps if
Roberts had not bequeathed the ideas to him.
SPRING
SUITINGS
Just Landed ex “ Oruba. ”
choice selection of Patterns in
TWEEDS, and WEST OF
ENG-LAND WOOLLENS. Also a Large and
of fancy flannel
SUITINGS, in Greys, Blues and Shades.
We cordially invite a visit of inspection from
old and new customers.
WE GUARANTEE A PERFECTLY
FITTING SUIT.
David Braham & Go.
TAILORS AND MERCERS,
73 & 75 King-st., Sydney.
No. 56 ACETYLENE CAS Catalogue
B
is the MOST COMPLETE
and COMPREHENSIVE
ever issued.
Tells all about the Best
ACETYLENE CAS GENER-
ATORS, LAMPS, and
everything in connection
with ACETYLENE.
Nearly 400 of our
Reliable Automatic
Acetylene Cas
Generators
in daily use.
Large Slocks of the
>•» Best
Carbide
°fCalciurrc
Quotations on application.
James MARTIN & CO.,
161 Clarence Street
Nr. King-st., Sydney
Cinematographe Films
Coronation Subjects ■
Now
Arriving.
TV. WATSON <€r SONS ,
Sole Agents for Paul* Noted Fitmsi
78 Swanston-St., MELBOURNE.
Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
Stories:
By Albert Dorri-ngton (“ Alba Dorion”).
A handsome volume of 350 pages, hound in
cloth, decorated; price 4s. 6d. ; postage, 7d.
2h.p. to lOOh.p.
KING. MARINE OIL ENGINES
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
:i AUiilHr : Mi'-
WITH THE KING ENGINE— ONE LEVER CONTROLS THE WHOLE.
Noiseless Uuderwafcer • >
Exhaust-
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electrie Ignition
with Dynamo.
J*. F.
Telephone 2671.
McDermott & ooMPAmrY,
37 MARKET STREET, SYDUETT.
Will Not Affect the Nerves.
ft
'i'lae Higliest Class
SMOKING MIXTURE.
THREE STRENGTHS:
MILD. MEDIXJJYI. •jTTTT-T-
IN }lb. AND £lb. AIR-TIGHT TINS.
Obtainable from, ....
M. RUTTY & CO., 68 Margaret Street, Sydney, and all their Agents.
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO., 44 Worship Street, London, England.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS
Catalogue
Fr««
French’s Acting Edition.
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
Boohs Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL; ANDRADE
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne


There is Only One
CALIFORNIA
Of all Chemists,
Australian B
California
Sprup of Fifls,
i
But there are bad imitations and
cheap substitutes in plenty, •
The Original and Genuine, now
known throughout the English-
speaking world as
“Hature’sPleasantLaxatlve"
f
Is the one perfect
l| STRENGTHENING laxative.
[CLEANSING THE SYSTEM EFFECTUALLY,
! DISPELLING GOLDS AND HEADACHES,
PREVENTING FEVERS,
OVERCOMING HABITUAL CONSTIPATION
PERMANENTLY.
. Its freedom from every objec-
tionable substance, and acting on
the kidneys, liver and bowels,
gently yet promptly, without weak-
ening or irritating them, make
it the ideal laxative. In order to
get its beneficial effects, ask for
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF
FIGS, and look for the name
printed on the front of the package.
FIG SYRUP COMPANY
Depot, 32 SNOW HILL, LONDON, E.C.
7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
SOMm
TV I
SA3NOW
■Mil
imiMW
MUMIIINO3
!
n®vi dioov
II
5
Si
JO
A. ®> F.
PEAKS,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Notice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7,ißourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
Along the Castlereagh.
THE FIGHT UNDER THE SCAFFOLD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The road from Conroy’s Flat to the saw-mills is
steep and red ; the bush that hangs over spur and
cutting is tarnished with the powdered earth,
bruised up by the hot hoofs of innumerable cattle.
In wet seasons the flat becomes navigable, and
the drover, who jests according to the language at
his disposal, cries aloud for Government transports
to float his cattle off the land. His curse is clear
and bell-like when the moving slime climbs to the
bellies of his mob, and grips him stirrup and
girth.
There is a cutting on the Castlereagh known as
“ Murphy’s Leap.” In the early ’so’s, one Phidias
Murphy lived alone on the flat. All his life,
Murphy had been accustomed to the nerveful
clamor of Limerick town, and life on the Castle-
reagh, with its alarming silences and scarcity of
traffic, tapped his nerves by day and poisoned his
mind by night. Also, the strange resemblance that
Thursday bore to Friday began to prey upon him.
It was the dreadful procession of Sundays which
hurt most. He could discover a slight difference
between the Mondays and Saturdays, but the thin
grey line of Sabbaths became maddening fixtures
in his life. Each Sabbath heralded the same far-
away church-bell, the drone of the far-away ser-
mon, the dreamful rhythm of the far-away dog-
fight in Doughboy Hollow.
One morning, when Tuesday was sliding into
Thursday. afternoon, Murphy took a long rope,
fastened it to a tree overhanging the cutting,
slipped the _ other end round his neck, and
moistened his lips. Away on the flat was his
homestead—the distance lending it the quaint
blueness which tinged its mortgage-papers.
Murphy* drew a long breath, and gently launched
himself into Space. At that moment Space was
recovering from an attack of indigestion, and it
did not feel equal to swallowing a selector
named Phidias; Space closed its mouth, and
the Irishman’s knot holding the rope to the bough
slithered and gave way. The cutting was 30ft.
deep as a stone falls, but Murphy managed to fall
in circles .which, according to, measurements of cir-
cumference and diameter, gave him a drop of
100 ft. or thereabouts. For three hours he re-
mained voiceless, immovable, a blot on the land-
scape, until Brannigan came along with a dray and
removed him to the hospital at Conroy’s. The
attendant medico diagnosed his case as one of acute
dropsy and stated that Murphy would be unfit
for any kind of intelligent work thereafter. Six
months later Murphy joined the police.
«*• • '
Black-tracker Harry Weeks rode beside the
coach a.s it pulled up outside the “Swag and
Pannikin.” Publican Primrose hurried from the
bar as the two policemen jumped from the coach
holding between them a man with blood-shot eyes
and a hanging jaw, the handcuffs on his wrists
jangling like harness. They shoved him forward,
stiffly pressing him to a sitting position on the
verandah. “ Give him a drink, Primrose.” One
of the police beat the flies from his own hot face
and sidled into the shade.
The man with the hanging jaw humped his back
like a hurt beast. “Be crise, if me arrums ,wus
free now, if me arrums wus free I’d brake both
yer crawlin’ spines ! ” Hot sweat swam on his
brow. A crowd of loafers came up from Branni-
gan’s Hole.
“Give him a drink,” said the trooper again.
“ Beer, rum, anything he wants—any thing to shut
his mouth.”
The prisoner accepted a pannikin of beer—took
it in gulps with his eyes fixed on his captors.
Publican Primrose stood near the police staring
hard at the empty pannikin in his hand. “ Cattle
duffin’ ? ” he asked, politely.
“No;” thepolicemanintheshadeturnedsharply,
the sun seemed to be burning his eyes. “ Murder,”
he said, and looked at the ground. “ Got him in
the gully back of the sawmills. He bit like a
dog.”
“Ye got me asleep.” The prisoner with the
hanging jaw writhed. “Bare-futted ye came
upon me, orl three of ye . . . stuffin’ three re-
volvers in me face. If I had me arrums free
neow—if I had me arrums free. ...” Froth
dripped over his black beard in his rage.
“Let’s have a room and a couple of chains."
The trooper in the shade half-turned as he ad-
dressed the publican. “We start again at day-
break. Ready, Frank ? ”
The two police seized the prisoner, neck and
heel, and bore him to a room at the rear of the
hotel. ‘
Towards night the hotel front had the appear-
ance of a race-meeting. Buggies and saddle-hacks
lined the road, for the news had spread along the
Castlereagh that Black Donnelly, the murderer, ■
lay chained to a four-post bed at the Swag and
Pannikin. Publican Primrose served out the beer
with a beaming eye, his two wet hands working '
like a conjuror’s as he gathered up the inrushing
sixpences. “A good murder,” he said toone of
his customers, “ improves me business ; a circus
takes it away. A little murder now an’ again
doesn’t do heny harm ; besides, Black Donnelly
on’y killed a p’liceman.”
Constable Murphy strolled up and down between
the lines of buggies, stopping at times to pass a
word with the women seated alone in the carts.
Talk of murder ran from tongue to tongue ;
half-drunken cockies nursing some single hatred
in their breasts—hatred against a squatter, an
inspector of stock, a storekeeper—drew aside in
groups and discussed the best means of killing an
enemy without being found out. They harangued,
gesticulated, cursed at the sky. Yet in sober
moments they were shy, peaceful men, who said
“Good day” to their enemy somewhat timor-
ously, and looked upon a mounted trooper with
reverence and admiration. Several of these men
brought out drinks to Constable Murphy, who
accepted them at first somewhat stiffly ; later he
unloosened his belt and placed his helmet on the
verandah. Someone hinted that Murphy’s ex-
{>erience in the way of murders would be worth
tearing. The constable accepted a proffered beer,
eyed the froth somewhat kindly, and then divided
it into three gulps.
It was a hot night. Constable Murphy looked
around at the group of respectful figures before
him and wiped his mouth. “ ’Twould not be news
to many of ye to hear that I was a warder wanst
in a gaol that shall not be mentioned by me. Any-
how, I dhropped into the billet. ’Twas about a
week afther me appointment that a murderer
fiamed Bailey was sintenced to be hanged. A
pure divil he was, with the head of a gorilla an’
the stoop av wan, who passed the day jeering at
the warders an’pretendin’ he was mad. Passin’
his cell wan day I put me head in at the dure an’
gave a look at him. ‘Bailey,’sez I, ‘there’s a
poultice for your neck somewhere in the hemp-
room.’
“ ’Twas against the rules speakin’ to the con-
demned, but he had the tusks av a wild baste an’
the mouth av a cat. ‘Go away, Fenian,’ sez he,
‘ there’ll be somethin’ wrong wid your own wind-
pipe before long. I’m a plumber an’ can see by
the shape av it that it’ll be choked some day. Go
away, Fenian,’ he sez.
“I walked from the cell in a cowld sweat. A
few days afther, the deputy-came to me an’, sez
he, ‘ Murphy, go under the gallows an’ clear out
the thruck an’ rubbish that has been allowed to
accumulate. Bailey will be hanged to-morrow,
an’ ’twould be a pity if the mahn didn’t have a
clear dhrop. Clane it out at wanst,’ sez he.
“Well, wid me moind on wan thing an’ me
hands on another, I forgot his instructions en-
tirely. I was new to the thrade, an’ the frequent
throubles wut prisoners was disthractin’ to me.
“Next mornin’ I was up early to relieve warder
Finnerty whin, divil take it, I remimbered the
deputy’s instructions about the thruck an’ rub-
bish under the scaffold. By the clock it was a
quarter to eight. * Begob, ’ sez I, ‘ Bailey will not
have a clear dhrop afther all.’ I tuk a shovel an’
fairly jumped into the ‘separate’ depot yard,
triangular in shape, an’ given over to the hang-
man an’ reporters.
“Itwasdarruk under the scaffold an’ full av
odd things that Connolly an’ the rest had thrown
in from time to time—ciment barrels, a load av
bricks an’ a cookin’ sthove, right beneath the
thrap dive an’ fair in Bailey’s way. ’Tis a wonder
that such misconductions are allowed !
“ ‘ The curse of Crummle on the thruk,’ sez I,
hurling the sthove into the yard. ’Twas a warm
day, and the sweat stood on me as I threw out the
bricks. ‘ But there’s time enough, ’ sez I,
‘before the hangman takes Bailey’s measure,’
an’ I heaved the cement cask fair at a re-
porter’s shins. He was shtandin’ wut wan eye
fixed on the hook under the beam, bitin’ a bit av
a pencil. Three more reporters came past the
soup-lift an’ stood under the wall. I worked
harrud at the bricks, an’ devil a wan seemed to
notice me. Then I heard footsteps above me.
‘ ’Tis the governor,’ sez I, seein’ that the way is
clear. ‘ Plenty av time,’ sez I, an’ threw out
another ton av bricks. A mimber av Parly-
ment wint past, an’ the smell av his
whisky breath put new loife into me. Wut me
back bint so, I troo out orl the bricks. I was
spittin’ on me hands, thinkin’ av Mary Casey,
away in Bungaree, when the thrap-dure av the
scaffold opened, and Bailey shot down, strikin’ me
fair betune the shoulders. ‘ Good mornin,’
Bailey,’sez I, spittin’on the flure, ‘you’re down
early.’ I stipped away to get clear av him, but
his two feet kicked me sthrait in the back. ‘ Bad
luck to ye,’ sez I, ‘is that fwhat you’re after ? ’
an’ I gave him wan on the chest wit me shovel.
But, quick as loife, he swung at me his
two thick knees, doubled. ‘Howld, Bailey,’
sez I, duckin’, *ye have me in the corner;
but, howly saints, I could see that he was grinnin’
under his cap, grinnin’ he was as his two heels
took me full in the face. I crawled to the flure an’
was around the other side av him before he could
swing back an’ I gave it him wut the shovel on the
chest." ‘Be still now, Bailey,’ sez I, ‘ an’ die aisy.’
An’ because he hung still for the part av a
second I wint close, foolish loike, an’ believe me,
men, he kicked wut the strength of a stallion ;
’twas on the bricks in the middle av the yarrud I
found messilf all bruised and cut.
“The deputy came an’found me so. ‘You’re
dhrunk, Murphy,’ sez he wut hell in his eye. ‘ I
will recommend your dismissal.’ ‘Pardon me,
deputy, ’ sez I, ‘ ’tis sthrugglin’ wut Bailey I have
been, fightin’a hangin’man under the gallows.’
‘ Rubbish, fiddlesticks, ’ sez he, ‘ there’s too much
whisky at our executions of late. Go to your
quarters. I will recommend your dismissal. And
dismissed I was because I towld the thruth in a
gaol that was a Babel of misconductions.”
Constable Murphy wiped his hot brow and
drank deeply from a glass of beer, with his face to
the sky. “Warders an’ drovers are alike by
thrade—the wan drives men, the other cattle.”
“I’d sooner take me chance with the cattle,”
said a Monaro man, from the verandah.
“Thrue.” Constable Murphy put on his belt
slowly. “Nothin’but hate can live betune the
walls ov a gaol—hate and damnation.”
The crowd watched him as he strode down the
dark bush road, helmet in hand, swathed in an
atmosphere of beer and officialdom.
Away at the back of the pub. was a small group
of cockies peeping through a crack in the weather-
board at the prisoner with the hanging jaw, tossing
on a mattress.
ALBERT DORRINGTON.
A Burnt Sacrifice.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A fluttering of golden wings, a wild burst of
trilling, and the bird paused, nonplussed at its
master’s preoccupation. But upon his young life
had come a new idea, a great cloud that swamped
all the reason of his years. He had just dis-
covered that he was, as yet, Unsaved.
His aunt, under whose guardianship he had just
come, knew all about the movements of God and
the devil, and only last night she had told him the
story of Abraham being commanded to sacrifice
Isaac, and of the Flood. It was all new matter to
him. She told him the story of Jacob, and his
eager, rapt race filled her heart with affection.
“ I like more fair-ee tales,” piped the little boy.
“Tell me ’nother.”
In her shock, aunt’s spectacles shattered them-
selves on the floor. She explained that she had
not been telling fairy-tales, but truths from the
Bible, but his young mind scorned belief; and
therefore she set out to explain to him the mystery
of God, and the penalties attendant on the preser-
vation of the soul, according to her ideas.
It fell like a cloud on his life. It terrified him
to imagine that he was damned for ever on account
of the apple Adam had taken, and the peaches he
himself had taken and of which he had not re-
pented. He had been brought up before without
any knowledge of these things, and only now he
knew he was Unsaved.
What did the Bible say ? Adam and Eve had
stolen apples, and he had stolen peaches. Evi-
dently stealing fruit was a terrible crime and had
a heavy punishment. And now to find redemp-
tion. Joseph had been saved by being his father’s
favorite son. Jacob had been saved by running
away and having a dream. None of them showed
him a way. Abraham, however, did something
to earn salvation. He sacrificed, or would have
sacrificed, for that purpose what he loved best. It
seemed hard on Isaac, but the method was prob-
ably the right one. The boy wrestled with him-
self.
*•* ‘ *
His aunt awoke from her nap to the realisation
of a peculiar smell of burning. In the garden she
found her nephew, on his knees, beside a, curling
string of smoke.. He was weeping bitterly.
“ 1 loved it ve’y much, please Dod, but I don’t
want to go to Hell,” he was sobbing.
The smell was of burned feathers. His pet bird
had been made a burnt offering.
And the little boy wept over his salvation.
FAVEN.
“ Malle ” offers a social theory which has
at least novelty to recommend it:
There has been much printed grief over the decline of
the authorised birth-rate and the infrequency of mar-
riage, and it is proposed to legislatively lift the stigma,
&c., and thereby hall-mark an increasing proportion of
the population who would otherwise be social Brumma-
gem. No practical remedy has been suggested, except a
tax on bachelors, which, except financially, would be a
failure. Women are continually entering fresh indus-
tries, decreasing the demand for males, and making
matrimony an impossibility for them. Numbers of
women in good billets can, however, afford to support a
husband and provide his daily beef, and a large section of
tired Australian men regard the gospel of Mantalini with
approval. Something should be done to bring these
factors together, and I humbly suggest a revision of the
marriage laws, and the introduction of a system under
which a woman can hire a husband if she yearns that
way, it being understood that in country engagements
fare shall be paid one way if the elusive party in question
stays six months. Govt, might encourage the innovation
by starting a bureau for unemployed husbands. The
great trouble will be fixing the remuneration, therefore
both parties must form unions and come under the juris-
diction of the Arbitration Court. The blushing temporary
bride of 20 will have a big pull over the yellow, sun-dried
ancient. As there’s not enough husband to go round,
and polygamy is looked on with disfavor, this seems the
only way out of a very big difficulty.


LIKE A
KNIFE THRUST
.'i. > *
c<3
iwaasflMHKPVi i
$>
es*
O
fCS
©»
v>
3L«,
«a»
v5-^
=339
Sharp, piercing pains in the back—Unable to move without
torture —As tired in the morning as at night.
No rest night or day. ,
Kidney trouble, of course —a bad case.
’Twould have been better if it had been attended to long
before it was.
Didn’t matter, though, in the end—DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS fixed it up in a jiffy.
And, by the way, did you ever hear of a case of kidney
trouble that
Doan’s Backache Kidney pills
wouldn’t cure ?
Bead what this Sydney resident says about it. You can
easilv verify the statement:
Mrs. W. Gow, 31 John-street, Leichhardt, this city, says :—“For a number
pf years my husband has been bad with the kidneys. He had been trying many
remedies to get relief, but the only remedy that succeeded-in this way-was
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. For two years previous to using, these pills he
did little or no work. He is a wood-turner, and this labor is very severe upon
him. The first dose of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills did him so much good that
he said he could have started work next day. I do not suppose that any medi-
cine could absolutely cure him, but Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills relieve him at
all times. When the cold weather comes on he gets the pains back, and then a
dose or two of these pills send them all away again. They act splendidly upon him,
and enable him to do his work. My son-in-law had pains in the back, brought
on by a fever, and the pills cured him. Some of the neighbors I know swear by
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. I might state that it is over 12 months ago when
my husband firstjtook the pills, and he procured them at Newman’s Pharmacy,
King-street.”
For sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box
(six boxes 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of price, by
Eoster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
BUT BE SURE THEY ARE DOAN’S.
SERIOUS CHANCES
AftE TAKEN IN NEGLECTING- A SIM-
PLE CASE OF PILES.
Any person takes serious chances in neglecting
an attack of piles. This ailment has a tendency
to become chronic, and there is also a further ten-
dency of ulceration and forming fistula, which we
know are most difficult to cure.
The safest remedy for any form of Piles,
whether itching or protruding, is Doan’s Oint-
ment. In using it there is no detention from
your daily occupation, and the many cures it has
made have made it famous in every corner of the
world. Any chemist will tell you that it enjoys a
greater demand and more enthusiastic popularity
than any Pile Ointment ever placed on the
market.
Mr. J. J. Gannon, 108 Denison-street Newtown,
this city, statesl have been bad with itch-
ing piles for a good many years. It was only
itching piles at first, but after a time an irrita-
tion of the skin seemed to come from it, and I
had an itchiness to bear in more parts than one.
Between the two, toy torture was terrible at
times. I had the greatest difficulty to get rid of
it, having been treated by chemists, doctors, and
trying everything obtainable which was recom-
mended for itching skin troubles. Some time aga
I resolved to try the remedy which cured Mr.
Gulliver. I knew Mr. Gulliver, and knew that
he was not the man to make a false statement,
and if he recommended a thing it must be good,
so I got the remedy which cured him —Doan’s
Ointment. This remedy did me good soon after I
started using it, and by the time I had used two
pots I was quite cured. It is now three months
since I used the Ointment, and I’ve not had any
sign of the piles or the skin troubled since. It is
my opinion that Doan’s Ointment will cure any-
body of itching piles.”
It cannot be repeated too often that Doan’s
Ointment will cure Itching Piles. IT WILL
CURE THEM ABSOLUTELY. But don’t
take our word for it; ask Mr. Gannon. He
knows. It is for sale by all Chemists and Store-
keepers at 2s. 9d. per pot (six pots, 15s. 3d.), or
will be posted on receipt of the price by Foster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
But be sure it is DOAN’S.
The Great Conversion.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The young apostle came
Before the Elders grey—■
His eyes they were aflame—
But smiling-sour were they.
His eyes they were afire,
His heart a burning coal
“ And what is your desire ? ”
“ To die—and save a soul.”
“We hear the Heathen call,
We hear the Pagan groan,
Your mission is—to All,”
Said Elder MacElhone.
The young priest shook his head—
“ Your views should larger be;
I wish, dear sirs,” he said,
“ You had some charity.”
The Elders’ smiles were sad,
On cold, blue, bloodless lips—
The irony they had
Would plate five battleships.
“ Your work.is in the East—
There is your field,” they said.
The pale, young mission, priest
He shook again his head.
t ... ...... . „
“ I have a larger plan—
I have a finer scheme :
You aave the soul of man—
And what is it ?—A Dream.
“The heathen fills his place ;- -
God knows, but doesn’t care.
HE strolls around through space
With comets in His hair.
“ Eight "hundred million men
Are pagans. What says He ?
‘l’m busy now ’ ‘ And when ? ’—
‘Say next Eternity.’. .
“ Your missions bear their fruit •
The ends of earth you’ve trod ;
I go tp strike the root,
And make a saint of God.”
The chairman, with a sob,
Said—“ Brother, you can die :
You have a bigger job
Than ever we would try.”
CREEVE ROE.
The Barmaid on Trial.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is the plea of the Barmaid, called to show
cause why she should not be deprived of her
livelihood* and struck off the rolls of those doing
decent and honorable work. It is not the plea of
one, but of a dozen; not of an individual, but of
a class ; and it is not set forth quite as it is given
—much luxuriance of straying reflections, by and
large, being trimmed off. The barmaid is but
human (though not worse than human), and
minded to give scratch for scratch, and hiss for
hiss, which is excusable enough, in truth, but of
no interest to the Court of Public Opinion. As
counsel for the defence, then, having collected
diligently what the Barmaid has to say for her-
self, this scribe omits all that is not pertinent to
the issue, and even ventures here and there to put
a thought in briefer, if less graceful, language
than that in which it was expressed :
“ It is said that we are a moral danger to men ;
that our calling endangers our own morality; that
we induce men to drink more than they should ;
that we might, with advantagb-to ourselves and to
the community at large, give up the bars and take
to dpmestic service-. To all this we say ‘ No,’
and with but one reservation —that you under-
stand a Barmaid to be a legitimate Barmaid, the
woman employed to serve out drinks at the
average decent hotel. There are others who call
themselves Barmaids so as to be conveniently
something else—just as there are nurses, actresses,
waitresses, church-workers, whose nominal occu-
pation is only a blind over the window of their
real one. The Barmaid at some of the waterside
hotels you might name is not an argument for the
abolition of the Barmaid, but for the abolition of
those hotels. It is well at the outset to define
terms.
“ The suspicion that there is definite danger to
men’s morals in a Batmaid’s calling is a quite suffi-
cient explanation of the anxiety of other women for
their abolition. Every married woman is a self-
constituted guardian of the virtue of all married
men—except the married man, or men, she is
interested in herself. Marriage is an institution
designed for the protection of women; and women
are combined to guard its integrity ; only a strong
degree of self-interest will relax their sense of duty
in this respect. Even the average unmarried
woman (whose views as to the future generally
embrace a marriage) has a prospective interest in
keeping men ‘good.’ Generally speaking, then,
women are united in preserving what we will call
monogamy. This is partly woman’s instinctive
goodness, partly her desire to see that no one else
gets what she is not getting.
‘ ‘ But is the Barmaid’s calling immoral ? We
come on duty at (say) 10 a.m., and work until 11
p.ni., with arrangements for a weekly half-holiday
among ourselves, when (as is usually the case)
there is more than one at an hotel. All that time
we are under public observation, so to speak.
There is hardly a moment when we can rely on
being alone with anybody. We are, as a rule,
too busy even for a chat—a public chat—of any
length with a man whom we might feel inclined
to make a victim to our wiles. - Ask those ladies
who cry out for our abolition if they have ever
tried to Seduce a man from his duty in a public
place liable to constant interruption. Some of
them, you can reckon, have had some experience
in the matter, but they wouldn’t try their wiles
under those circumstances. A man has no temp-
tation that he cannot escape thrown at him in a
respectable bar. Can the same be said of every
conservatory and drawing-room ’
“On the other point—the supposed facility
given for tempting us ? Well, the same argument,
in a way, applies. The man who wants to lay his
snares before a Barmaid has to put up with a deal
of inconvenient interruption-; he would find much
better opportunity with the average society
woman. A young woman can go through her
day’s work at the bar with as much freedom from
insult or suggestion as she could go through a ball
at Government House. Coarse language ? Well,
occasionally, just about as often as one hears it
from passers-by in the street. Now and again a
cad will bellow, his oath or obscenity so that all
who have ears may hear. But it is not more often
heard in a respectable bar than in the street; and
the hearing doesn’t kill a woman’s virtue; else
there would be none, however cloistered, pure.
“ Compare our occupation with other callings—
the stage, the shops, or domestic service. Take
the last, by choice, for comparison, because it is the
suggested alternative of employment for us when
we no longer serve at the bar. The great dif-
ference between the Barmaid and the chamber-
maid is that the former can ‘lose her virtue ’ if she
chooses to; the latter often does so without choosing
to. If the citadel in the one case is carried the
garrison capitulates with the honors of war and on
set terms. It is a matter of affection or of nego-
tiation. In the oth&r case it is too often
because of mean advantage taken, of dastardly
surprise. The chambermaid, especially if em-
ployed in a Temperance Coffee-Palace, has, in
many cases, to face what it would be euphemism
to call an attempt at ‘ seduction ’ as part of every
week’s work.
“This too (let it be here explained that the
witnesses didn’t say this in so many words, but it
was clear from their hints they had it in their
liearts)-r-the Barmaid doesn’t learn to hold herself
cheaply. She is well-paid, and well-housed, and
sees enough of men to get to a fairly accurate
judgment of them. She is not foolish enough to
throw herself away.
“ They say wo induce men to drink. Well, some
of us reokon we get men to take more drinks than
they would otherwise: some of us don’t. There’s
a conflict of opinion on the point. But we are all
agreed that we.don’t encourage men to get more
nearly drunk. We claim that the most drinky
bars in Sydney aro those run by men only.
Clearly, if men who come to our bars have any
friendly feelings towards us, or any respect for
womankind generally, they won’t want to make
beasts of themselves in our presence. Men may
pay up for small lagers, or small shandies, which
they don’t want, and on which they will get ‘no
forrader,’ for the sake of a nod from a smart girl
(we are smart girls, and we know it, and the other
ones know it, and that’s the real trouble); on that
point we Barmaids differ, but we don’t encourage
drunkenness ; in fact, it is otherwise.
“ It is said we can easily find more honorable
employment as domestic servants. Now—though
this may cast a shadow of doubt over our whole
evidence, still it is honest truth—the keen demand
for good domestic servants is a lie. The woes of
unimpeachable mistresses who ‘ can’t get their
work done for love or money’ are bogus. If a
woman treats her servants decently she can’t drive
them away from her. There’s not a post in any
house where the woman in charge is ‘ all right, ’ is
a human creature with human sympathies, but
would have scores of applicants if it were vacant
to-morrow. The trouble is that the average
woman hasn’t got very much human sympathy.
Her main object in keeping a servant is ‘to keep
the creature in her place,’ just as one of the great
joys of being a Barmaid is that it riles the other
cats so much. They can’t invade our domain, but
have to trust their precious men out of their sight
in oUr bars.' "If we went out to seek work as servants,
most, of us could only get it, however willing,
however skilful, by drinking to the dregs the cup
of humiliation from the hands of another woman.
I don’t think they mean it, mind you. But
woman doesn’t know how to treat a subject
woman as a rule. There’s a class of men who
come into our bars whom we don’t know to be
married men (because they don’t look to be either
scheming a fib or dreading a nag when they call
in for a whisky before going home) until we over-
hear them say one day: ‘ Oh, my wife never has
any trouble with servants.’ Then we understand;
the wife is a good ’un. As Barmaids we are free
—in service only to men, and that’s natural ser-
vice and not slavery. We can put on a good hat
when we go out without fearing that a mistress
will see it and subject us to some special humilia-
tion for our impudence.
“We are not angels. But we don’t make men
drunkards. We don’t seduce men from their
allegiance to other women to any special extent
because, for one reason, we don’t get the leisure
or the opportunity. We aren’t seduced by men to
any marked extent, because we know thoroughly
well how to take care of ourselves, and our occu-
pation teaches us how to resist, rather than leads
us into, temptation.”
Such is the case for the Barmaid.
F.R
A Post-and-rail Fence.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A post-and-rail fence ! White, withered tree
skeletons, holding out gaunt arms to clasp hands
in the moonlight. My private shrine, wrapped in
the incense of tobacco-smoke, is that old post-and-
rail. I can shut my eyes and see it as it looked
that night, when, under the old bull-oak, I made
a discovery. Do you remember how obedient you
became ? From queen to slave —that is a descent
only a woman in love can make.
How vividly I recall it all ! The weariness of
the wait at the sliprails; the hundred possibilities
of your not coming ; the fear of some break in the
chain of circumstance. You were late. There
was a shade of annoyance in my greeting of you
on that account. I lied to myself—said you were
flirting, amusing yourself at a country lad’s ex-
pense. I questioned : Had you kissed, or been
kissed ! I gave the lover’s verdict, with a lover’s
bias, when I looked into those good, true eyes as
you said good-night.
We walked slowly to the old bull-oak and you
talked. I thought—not of what you said, but of
what I wanted to say, and your choice of subjects
never gave me a chance to connect. Then you
told me you were going away. The dead barren-
ness of.life without you spread out like the plain
before me, and the old bull-oak sighed my senti-
ment. I clasped you. “ Kiss me !” I said. Did
you ever obey a rough command so quickly ? I
“ crushed your lips till you almost cried. Oh, lass,
the memory of that first rush of passion brings the
mist to my eyes, and the vision of the post-and-
rail fence shimmers like a mirage.
We were hours going home, my arm around
your waist. Every few panels we stopped and
kissed. I laughed as you sneaked round the house
for fear of rousing the dogs. The echo of that
laugh is in my heart still.
Then—Creed and Greed took a hand, and Love
was over-matched. My love-story !If my wife
knew ! Bah—perhaps she, too, has a shrine in
some post-and-rail fence.
L.M.D.


w
Mr. H. Feder, of Prospect, SoutL
Australia, sends us liis photograph
and says:
“About two months ago I began to
feel badly all over. I was easily made
tired. I lost my appetite and was very
nervous. In a few days my arms and
neck were all broken out with large
boils. For weeks my suffering was
terrible. I tried remedy after remedy,
but without relief. A friend told me it
was not my skin but my blood that
needed help, and urged me to try Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. He said he knew many
people who had been cured by it. I
bought a bottle, and I began to feel
better at once. My appetite returned,
my food digested better, and I felt
greatly encouraged. Before the bottle
was all used my blood was pure and
the boils had entirely disappeared.”
“The World’s Greatest Family SVled Seine.”
Boils, rashes, pimples, eruptions, eczema, etc., are but evidences of trouble
down deep in the blood. Don’t treat the skin. Treat the blood. Take Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla, the medicine that has been curing impure blood for 60 years.
When your blood is pure the skin will be smooth and healthy. And you will
feel brighter, better in every way.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla isn’t like other Sarsaparillas. It is made differently, con-
tains stronger medicines. Don’t experiment with imitations.
AYIR’S
Makes the Blood Pure and Rich
Keep your bowels in good condition by taking Ayer’s Pills.
anna
27
YEARS’ SUCCESS
AS
the UNIVERSAL REMEDY
Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Hoarseness, & c.
HAS MADE
£ungTon 1C
AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY TO EVERYBODY.
srj- Important Notice:
V fA SUBSTITUTION. -There are so many r tm%tat%ons
°f success f an d therefore popular, remedy that
it is of the utmost importance you should use the
word “ OWBRIDGE ’ * when buying Lung Tonic, "* '
iJHk' and TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
W.
Prepared by
T. OWBRIDGE, M.P.S, Chemist, Hull.
Sold everywhere in bottles, at Is. 1 id.
2s. 9 d., 4s. 6d., £ 11s., by all
Colonial Medicine Vendors.
COPYRIGHT.
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the Bast.
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
IF YOU 1
GUINEA A BOX
To EAT WELL,
SLEEP WELL,
and WORK WELL,
ILLS
You Will Eat Well
BECAUSE by their specific action on the digestive organs BEECHAM’S
FILES remove the sensation of fulness and oppression commonly experienced,
give the appetite “ edge,” and restore the stomach to healthy and natural function.
You Will Sleep Well
BECAUSE BEECHAM'ii FILLS gently calm irritation of the Nervous
system, while by their stimulative and cleansing action upon the Liver and Kidneys,
Digestion proceeds with normal regularity, so that at night the tranquilised mind and
body are prepared for “Nature’s sweet restorer”—peaceful slumber. Should one feel
restless after an exciting or convivial evening, a dose of BSECHAM’S FILLS
will quickly induce refreshing sleep.
You Will Work Well
BECAUSE BEECHAM’S PILES bring about the proper assimilation of
THE WORLD’S
the food taken, give tone to the Stomach,
purify the Blood, invigorate the Nervous
system, add force to the Muscles, and thus
endue the worker—mental or physical—with
renewed energy and power.
£asfro’s Cast Sacrament
jM Other Stories,
BY ALBERT DORRINGTON.
“ The Most Brilliant Short Stories Produced in
Australia .”
A CONSENSUS OF CRITICAL OPINION.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
“ He has been everywhere and seen every-
thing, and he has to’ no ordinary extent the
power of presenting things as they seemed to
him —the gift of vivid and powerful narration.
.... Contains dramatic pictures which the
best of our artists in words might well envy.”—
Sydney Mo> ning Herald.
‘‘The stories are often filled with incidents
that startle the reader, and emotions whose very
strength makes him shiver. . . . Mr. Dorring-
ton’s warrant as a writer of short stories is that
of absolute genius.” —Sydney Daily Telegraph.
The Bulletin Newspaper Go., Ltd.,
214 George Street, Sydney, Australia.
6(
BUSHMAN '*■>
BUCCANEER”
ILLUSTRATED
HARRY MORANT :
HIS VCHTURCS
AND V€RS€S
By FRANK RBNAR.
(OF THE
Bushveldt
CaßSiseers)
The History, Verses and Correspondence of
“The Breaker.”
PRICE ONE SHILLING
POSTAGE ONE PENNY.
All Booksellers.
Wholesale: Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney.
Retail: “Bulletin” Newspaper Co. Ltd., Sydney.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL —COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
DON’T MISS THIS
OPPORTUNITY, if you arc suffering with WEAK E NINO
NERVOUS, and DEBILITATING Diseases. Our CON-
CENTBATEO BOTANIC REMEDIES will CURE YOU.
So CONFIDENT are we of this that we will send to any
sufferer a TRIAL COURSE (Free of Charge) and abide
by the RESULT. Send NOW and your ultimate CURE
is CERTAIN. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
OS
FOR
-The besl - remedy-
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
Ask for Bonn mg ton's
and seethatyou get it.
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA,


Asbestos Boiler Cowering
... Saves 25 Pee Cent, in Fuel ...
PACKED WET.. Ready for Use, in 3cwt. Casks, 7/-, 8/-, 9/- cwi.
PACKED DRY, in Bags, each lcwt.,' 12/-, 14/-. 18/- cwt.
Estimates given for Cohering Bsiiers and
Steam Pipes.
OUR ASBESTOS BOILER COVER
Saves 25 per cent, in Fuel.
PERPRIAUancTcOIVIPANY,
Telephone.— 288-270 George Street, Sydney
DU
YEARS DYEING
FOR. THE LADIES.
*W*. G. ELDBIDGrE & CO.
<4O YOKE fa'iH:*.*.*, ;=YD2>JEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post front all the colonies promptly
' to.
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTH JNiSjTOH
TRADE MARK*
32 & 34 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
For al! Services kept in Stock.
Send, for Catalogue.
Large
Stocks
CARRIED BY
BENNIE,
TEARE,
& GO.
GENUINE
BALATA
BELTING
AT
Sydney,
Melbourne,
Perth,
Cool^ardie,
■ ■ ■
Sole Australian
Representatives
TAMCYES
LIMITED.
KEMP’S PATENT SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
It will stay on the sheep’s back as long as required. It will NOT Injure the wool. It will dissolve cut unaer
y K the ordinary scouring process.
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
GRIIQIUIDE * CO.
BLACK, BED,
PRICE IN MELBOURNE
„ SYDNEY <E. Rich & Co., Ltd.)
„ BRISBANE (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.)
„ HOBART (Wm. Crosby & Co.)
ion
~ : ;
per Gallon
*3b/“ »
*=l:/“ Jt
■‘ak/ »i
@1
r*r
60 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY,
Mining Machinery, Steam Engines & Boilers
Sole Agents for
MORRIS MACHINE WORKS.
NEW SPECIAL HYDRAULIC DREDGING PUMPS.
WRITE FOR PRICES AND PARTICULARS.
From Drink
by a new discovery, odorless and tastoles-, w ich any lady can
give in tea, coffee or food, it does its work so silently and sun Iy
that while the devoted wife, sister or daughter looks on, the
drunkard is reclaimed even against his will and without his
knowledge or co-operation. Send name and address to THE
EUCRABY CO., 62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY, N,S.W, and
they will send you booklet and particulars free,
I.P.
Machinery Merchants,
Melbourne & Sydney.
HAVE IN STOCK-
Blake's Steam Pumps.
Fay’s Woodworking Machinery.
Mundy’s Hoisting Engines-
Empire Go.’s Laundry Machinery-
American “All Steel” Pulleys-
Harris ‘‘Ghammon” Lubricating Oils.
Mason Reducing Valves-
Ludlow Sluice Valves-
Korting’s Injectors and Ejectors-
Tanite Emery Wheels.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
CLOTH, 300 PAGES. 1
BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRITERS. PRICE, 4s. 6d.; POSTAGE 6d.
Sole Distributing Agents—
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
N. GUTHRiDGE, Ltd.,
71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Solo Agents for-
Solarine Metal Polish
Billett’s Patent Tuyere
“Vitaphone” Talking Machine
Dodge Standard Wood Split
Pulley
Atlas Pipe Wrench
“Abbott” Germ Proof Filter
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-Bt., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 101$.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public
and
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
; :V r ;
OTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
/ ' -
WIMPOIfjE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotei
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarder| gg. pe r Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
