

ALE.
.■
V ,
LAMB’S
Absolutely
Pure,
Best.
Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
R. <3r. WATKINS «SC- CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
m.
INStUE BEARINGS.
Fittiag.Jto.itQ6icirLi ; astWheels.-
gs
MEDICAL CERTIFICATE.
“ Ararat (Victoria), 25th Aug., 1902.
“ During the past few years Eczema has become of very
frequent occurrence, especially in children. In the treat-
ment of this troublesome affection the usual medicinal
remedies failed in many cases to give relief, and I was very
pleased to have a new preparation, named ‘ Oleac,’ put into
my hands for trial. I can recall to my mind three cases of
children in which the usual remedies had no beneficial
effect, and the application of ‘Oleac’ according to the
printed directions removed all the irritation of the skin.
I have also heard of many adults using the ‘ Oleac ’ with
great benefit.— JAMES SMEAL, Surgeon, &c., Ararat ”
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK : ~
By Sixty Bulletin writers. Cloth, 300 pages ;
price, 4s. 6d. ; postage, 6d.
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS !
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & Co., Ltd., Sydney anti Brisbane.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° 85 Mtt street, SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for Samuel Osborn & Co., Sheffield, makers of Mushet’s Titanic Borer Steel for Miners’ Drills, Bessemer Steel, Cast Steel, Mushet’s
Self-Hardening Tool Steel, Mining, Well-Boring, Spring, and Tyre Steel, Steel Castings of all Descriptions, Steel Truck Wheels and Axles.
INDENTS EXECUTED, SPECIFICATIONS SUPPLIED FOR ALL KINDS OF MACHINERY.
CASTINGS, HAMMERS, EIRES.^^
“ HERVEY’S RACKAROCK ”
17 Years’ Unbroken Record as a Standard Australian Exp'osive. Cor. CLfIRENCE^&jnNC^STS^YDNE^
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
HOBAHT.
Ijadleg’s Orient fiotel.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.
CITY HOTEL
(First Grade).
J. A. TURNER
Proprietor.
CO
DIGESTION
u
PENFOLD’S WINES.
Grand Champion Prize of Australia at Melbourne, August 22, 1902.
gf
life
PiONEJER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 2£ 3 3£ 4 5 6 8 10 12 inch.
-/7 -/9 -/10J 1/- 1/2 1/6 IAI 2/8 3/4 4/-
1/2 1/4 1/7 1/10 2/2 2/11 3/5 4/5 6/7 6/9
Agents in every State.
Made by ,
J. G. LUDOWIGI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
g
IN order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever seen in the
jewellery trade—w'z., the above handsome Brooch
(any name or three initials) made of extra quality
9ct. gold-filled wire, with heart pendant; guaran-
teed, the same quality as the brooch advertised,
complete. Sent post-free on receipt of P. 0.0. or
M.O. for ss. in round wire or sq. twisted wire, 15ct
gold, filled, Bs. 6d. Illustrated catalogues sent free.
SIMS and ELRICK, Manufacturing Jewellers.
Our only address —
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE, MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA
Mining and Dredging Plants. Engines, Boilers, &c.
Fowler Traction Engines.
fdg
The Clyde Engineering C?y, Lip
fd
Desiccating Plants. Hopper Waggons, &c.
to
PROOF
USE
Head Office:
10 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Mantif. Company,
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY ? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will 'forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannotdo so, and you pay 15 per
cent, more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
OUB SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
g
Oelirered at any Wharf « r
S.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
1
fg
A NICE PRESENT.
The New Combination PIN-
CUSHION, THIMBLE & REEL
HOLDER, nickel plated, plush
top. Clamps on to any table
by means of a spring’. Price,
only 25.; post free.
Star Novelty Company,
229-231 CollinB-St.,
Melbourne.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
npHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
J-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
WHEN buying-a KEROSENE GAS STOVE insist
1 ' on getting a noiseless
df
JUPITER
The Very Latest
Invention.
Bams Noiselessly,
Without Smell
or Smoke,
Perfectly Safe.
Obtained First Prize
wherever exhibited.
Stocked by all Leading Hardware Merchants and
Storekeepers.
Sole Agents for Australasia —
Nelson and Robertson,
17 LOFTUS ST., SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Yol 23.—N0. 1187. j
[Saturday, November 15, 1902.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


* “ The Rubaiyatof Omar, Jr.,” by Wallace Irwin (from
Geo. Robertson and Go., Sydney).
THE LATEST BOOKS BY THIS WEEK'S MAIL.
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Kennard, The Golf Lunatic, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Coleridge, Jan Van Elselo, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Gerard, Hoiy Matrimony, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Garland, Captain Grey, Horse Trooper, 2s tid & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Carling, Shadow of the Czar, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Gordon, Mrs. Clyde, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Kennedy, The Black Police of Queensland, 8s 6d, p. 9d.
Creighton, Historical Essays, 6s, postage 6d.
Parkinson, Light Railway Construction, 12s 6d, p, 9d.
Breadey and Ibbotson, Steal Analysis, 17s, p. Is.
Bottone, Galvanic Batteries, ss, p. 6d.
Golding, Manufacture of Boots and Shoes, 9s, p. 9d.
Hurst, Painters’ Laboratory Guide, ss, p. 6d.
Oliphant, Stories of the Seen and Unseen, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London
A HANDY MANUAL OF POLITICS.
** A Policy for the Commonwealth/*
By James Edmond.
Should be read by every Australian voter.
Enfranchised Women should study it.
Price, Sixpence. Post free from Thb Bulletin
office, Sevenpence.
BUSHHAN AND
BUCCANEER.
The Life and Writings of Harry Morant.
Gives the true facts as to the Bush veldt Carbineers-
and certain Australian scapegoats.
Wholesale from EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO., Ltd:,.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE.
Retail from all Booksellers, and Post-Free from
“The Bulletin” Office Is. Id.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
(REGISTERED). 4
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
LO£
O'**
~'.m
IN TINS, Is. 6d.
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST
FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
Gr. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE ; and FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., MELBOURNE, AGENTS
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia.
THE BED PAGE.
Trial by Newspaper.
THAT the flagrant interference on the part
of newspapers in the administration of jus-
tice is allowed in Australia can only be ex-
plained when it is understood with what
curious persistence the tradition of the “patriotic
motives of the press” survives the passing away of
all the justification it ever had. In the early
days of the struggle of human Liberty “the
press ” was the refuge of the reformer, and
on printed sheets were circulated the protests of
the people’s champions against tyranny. From
these pamphlets of reform sprang newspapers,
which have since gradually developed to
their present state of absolutely com-
mercial enterprises, selling news or opinions,
facts or lies, comments more or less just,
reports, generally of the evil, occasionally of
the good in life, but always holding steadily
in view the aim of other merchants —to sell at a
profit.
* * * *
The present-day organisation of a newspaper
allows no more room for patriotism than the
business of selling drapery ; for principle than the
occupation of selling groceries. A newspaper
proprietor is often patriotic, often of high
principle, and his newspaper will then reflect the
opinions he holds ; just as when any other sort of
business man is conspicuously high-minded, he
proves it in the conduct of his affairs. But as a
business, and it is purely a business, newspaper-
running has no more to do with “elevating the
people,” “inculcating a high moral tone,” “edu-
cating and enlightening the ignorant ” than has
selling tea or land, or sensational novels. As
often as not, a newspaper is owned by a joiiit-stock
company, made up of persons of vastly different
social, political and religious views, and necessarily
aliuciys run in direct conflict with some of the most
cherished principles of some of its proprietors;
but so long as good dividends are paid all are
satisfied. Nor would there be reason for anyone
to question this state of things but for the fact
that most of these newspapers, on behalf of their
proprietors, claim to be in the business, not for the
sake of the pennies it will bring, but from some
lofty motives of patriotism.
* • * •
Such cant is self-evidently false if looked
into, and is to the last degree nauseating.
Nevertheless it pays because it is believed ; and is
persisted in because it pays. Why it is believed
is an inscrutable problem of human folly. It
would seem to reasonable minds impossible
to believe in the lofty motives, etc., of a
strenuous freetrade newspaper which is owned
by 10,0 gentlemen,- .00 of whom believe that
Freetrade is a curse to the country, and 40 of
whom believe that it is the only means of salva-
tion, and all of whom are amicably united in draw-
ing dividends from the concern. A very moderate
amount of intelligent thought applied to the
subject would surely convince every reasoning
man that the average newspaper proprietary is in
business for what it can make, and for no other
motive whatsoever, and has often precious little
scruple as to the means of making. Yet the com-
munity is pretty generally gulled, from the ribbon-
seller at one end of the intellectual scale to the
Supreme Court Judge at the other. Legislatures
are ready to give special privileges for the free
carriage of the newspaper-merchant’s wares, to
exempt his raw material from duty and his em-
ployees from anti-sweating regulations, to give him
a license to abuse and slander which the ordinary
citizen has not, and finally to allow him, in the
pursuit of his gains, to interfere with the course
of justice in a way which, if attempted by a grocer,
would earn him 10 years’ gaol.
• * * *
The public, with a taste which is possibly per-
verted, possibly not, regards with keen favor news
about crimes, criminals, or alleged criminals. Pan-
dering to this taste, the press—well, most of the
press—devotes its chief energies to a sensational
and attractive display of criminal items. They
form its bargain counter, so to speak. To
tickle the palate of the public, lies, exagge-
rations, gross, injustices, are often indulged
in by the newspapers; and generally with com-
plete immunity from punishment. A suspected
criminal is frequently tried, found guilty, and
condemned by the newspapers long before he has
faced a jury of his equals. His appearance before
a jury is a farce ; he has been already tried by the
newspapers, and the jury can only register their
verdict. And the newspaper, in coming to its
decisions, is restrained by no laws of evidence. In
the case of the wretched Mrs. Sangal, for in-
stance, the daily newspaper sentence of hanging
was come to after a long, bloodshot gloat over the
details of the long-ago Boot-trunk Tragedy in
which Mrs. Sangal’s sister happened to be in-
terested. Possibly an impartial jury, with the
facts of Mrs. Sangal’s crime, and with medical
evidence as to the frequency of sudden mania in
women during pregnancy, before it, would‘have
sent the unhappy wretch to some secure
asylum for the rest of her days. But the
newspapers had decided otherwise on the strength
of the absolutely immaterial fact that Selina
Sangal had a notorious sister. To give another
case within the same month, Worthington
was tried and condemned by certain news-
papers after his arrest and before his legal
trial. If the facts in regard to Madame
Juvent had not been strong enough to fairly con-
vict him, he would nevertheless have gone to
gaol; the newspapers had tried and sentenced
him on his alleged American record.
* * * *
A prisoner under arrest cannot cross-examine the
newspaper which is trying and condemning him ;
he cannot call evidence in rebuttal; he cannot
even make a speech from the dock; he is tried
and sentenced unheard, and the sentence of
the newspaper is almost certainly endorsed by
the jury. This infamous injustice is tolerated
because jurymen, legislators, judges, are, even in
this 20th century, under the delusion that the
newspaper is a patriotic, educative, public-weal-
seeking institution. The cant still succeeds, and
even the newspaper which, with indecent and
savage cruelty, hurries to the gallows a hunted
criminal, howling and pelting at his steps, for the
sake of increasing its profits, can pose, with the
blood-money still defiling its hands, as a “guardian
of the public good,” a “ moral influence ” and “an
educative power.” Disgusting is the cant ; more
disgusting the folly which allows it to deceive.
The Philosophy of History.
BUCKLE’S great work, “The History of
Civilisation,” has at length appeared in a
cheap edition. The price of the old im-
pression (245.) put it out of the reach of
many readers; it is now published at less than
half that price. The book —which is not a his-
tory so much as a series of philosophical conten-
tions, illustrated with facts from history—has
excited much discussion and evoked much
hostility. Criticism and hostility are challenged
by no means timidly in its introductory chapter,
for therein Mr. Buckle claims that hitherto there
has been no history in the true sense of the word,
and that it has been left to him to do for historical
research what Darwin did for biology—bring it to
the basis of exact science. This somewhat flam-
boyant promise was not fulfilled. At the conclu-
sion of Buckle’s history there is left the impression
of profound research, of ingenious and subtle
reasoning, but certainly not. of scientific scru-
pulousness as to fact and argument. In fact,
though apparently an inductive philosopher, seek-
ing the causes of things, as did Bacon, by tracing
back from actual phenomena, Buckle often falls un-
consciously into themethodsofthedeductiveschool.
He creates a “first principle” in his own mind,
and, seeking industriously for phenomena to justify
its conclusions, triumphantly produces some small
shreds of fact from which he claims to argue in-
ductively to the premise on which he has already
decided. For instance, having a theory that the
Aspect of Nature has a vast influence on the pro-
gress of civilisation and of intellectual thought,
Buckle commits himself to the statement that the
difference between the civilisations of India and of
ancient Greece can be traced to that. But it is
hard to follow him in such a daring leap. If it
were obvious that in other countries (such
as Spain), possessing almost the same natural
features as Greece, there had been a similar growth
of civilisation before the Christian era, as
in the land of Plato, the argument would have some
better basis. But that is not so. It is evident in
this, asin manyotherthings, thatßuckle’scontempt
for people with “a perverse hatred of generalisa-
tion ” leads him to extremes of generalisation
which cannot be regarded as scientific.
Nevertheless, Buckle has done splendid work,
though it is incomplete work, and though it is
marred by some errors and some rashness of
speculation. The idea of making the study of the
philosophy of history the main task, and not
merely the subsidiary amusement, of the historian
may not have exactly originated with the author
of “ The History of Civilisation ”; but he cer-
tainly was the first to give that idea practical
life. His effort is not to record facts, but to get at
the reasons for the facts. In so vast a field of re-
search, it would be hardly possible that the first
explorer should come back with a perfect map.
The credit belongs to Buckle that he has shown,
with a distinctness which challenges contradic-
tion, some of the great “ natural features ” of his-
tory : has set down, as it were, landmarks which
have made the task of all future explorers infin-
itely more easy.
Civilisation progresses, Buckle claims, with the
progress of intellect, not of morals. In moral
thought, the world has been stationary for very
many centuries. Nothing that Christ taught in
ethics was unknown to philosophers and to re-
ligions before Him. So clearly, since there
has been no advance in moral thought, and
there has been an advance in civilisation,
morals have nothing to do with civilisation.
A_ daring argument, which seems to neglect
this fact: that if there has been no advance
in moral thought there has been great advance in
moral practice. The philosopher of to-day may
not know more of ethics than the philosopher of
the year 1, but certainly there is a much greater
proportion of people who know better of the dis-
tinction between right and wrong. And is not
that moral progress ? In his very first conclusion
of importance, Buckle, to my mind, must be held
to have rashly and incorrectly generalised. There
are other instances of the same too-great
daring of conclusion on his part. He, for
example, stated that “the war spirit in Eng-
land was becoming utterly extinct ” owing to the
growth of the intellectual, not of the moral force in
the nation. But there has just been concluded a
bitter war of aggression—a practical proof of the
incorrectness of this conclusion. Even without
that, it would seem reasonable to argue that, pos-
tulating a very high intellectual development; a
nation might very well be a most martial one,
undertaking wars of aggression and conquest for
the sake of the material benefit to be gained
thereby; and that the growth of a high moral
spirit, a better and more general recognition of
ethics, would be a greater safeguard against war
than intellectual progress.
But in some of his conclusions—those affecting
matters which he made the subject of patient and
minute inquiry rather than of rash generalisation—
Buckle is a safe guide. His demonstration of the
blighting influence of superstition on civilisation
is complete: his contention that wherever or
whenever a religious organisation has acquired
temporal power the result has been persecution
and retrogression, is established by overwhelming
proof; and his examination into the effects of
militarism on progress is full and enlightening.
It is clear that he attempted too much, that
having clearly traced to their sources some of the
springs of human conduct, he was tempted to
guess at other sources, which he had not made the
subject of such careful inquiry, and to state his
rash generalisations with the same positiveness as
his scientific inductions. In spite of that, his
History stands as one of the notable monuments
of human thought. What he has done far out-
balances what he has failed to do. (From George
Robertson and Co., Sydney.)
F.R.
A Tobacchanalian.
WALLACE IRWIN shows as a humorist
of some grace in his new “ New
Rubaiyat.” Parodies, or any ap-
proaches to parodies, are usually ana-
thema ; but this is hardly a parody, rather an
ingenious imitation of the Fitzgerald translation
of “Omar,” with tobacco, not wine, glorified as
the surnmum bonum of existence. Professing to
be a “translation from Bornese verse,” the
quatrains are seldom merely silly, are very often
humorous, and occasionally are strongly flavored
with epigrammatic salt. When, in addition, the
printing and illustrations are excellent, and there
is a laughable mock-heroic introduction; the
merits are summed up of a book which should be
welcomed in the smoking-room.
Some of the quatrains as samples:—
IV.
Mark how Havana’s sensuous-philtred mead
Dispels the cackling Hag of Night at Need,
And foggy-aureoled the Smoke reveals
The Poppy Flowers that blossom from the Weed,
xx.
Svelte Zamperina’s Dips incarnadine,
And languored lifting, fasten unto mine
Their rubric Message giving Hint and Clew
How frequently a Kiss in Time Saves Nine.
XXXIII.
The Thunderbolts of Heaven’s potent sway
Gather and break, but never can dismay.
When Indestructible Resistless meet,
The “ Please Remit” confronts “ the Oannot Pay.”
xcvi.
Indeed, indeed, Repentance oft before
I swore, but was I smoking when I swore ?
And ever and anon I made Resolve
And sealed the holy Pledge—with one Puff More.
XCVIII.
Then let the balmed Tobacco be my Sheath,
The ardent weed above me and beneath ;
And let me like a Living Incense rise,
A Fifty-Gent Cigar between my Teeth.
Between Ourselves.
MAX O’RELL’S latest, “Between Our-
selves,” is terse and epigrammatic.
Some extracts:
When I take my ladies to a theatre in Paris, there is
nothing- we 1 ke so much as to walk along the boulevard
at midnight, and sit for half-an-hour in one of the cafes.
In New York, after the play, we walked along Broadway
or Fifth Avenue back to our hotel. In neither case did I
once regret it. In London (Che English must forgive me
for saying so, but they know it is the truth), I have to
see the carriage brought right opposite the door, so that
I may push my ladies inside and take them home like
criminals, to spare them a minuce’s sight of the London
West End sights.
He states that he is tired of hearing of “ the gay
Paris ” in English and American halls.
I once went to one of these gay places, and found it
fearfully dreary. It was low, but not even wicked in an
artistic sense. The deepest impression I received was
the enormous amount of English I heard, and I inter-
viewed the manager. “ Why, my dear sir,” he said, “if
it was not for the English who come here, we should have
to put up our shutters.
He accounts for the happiness of the French, as
a nation, to the absence of the money-grubbing
instinct, and states that when a Frenchman (in
• the country) amasses a small fortune, of a couple
of hundred a year, he retires, and gives someone
else a chance. Also, that of a population of
39,000,000, there are 7,000,000 landowners, and,
outside the cities, 72 per cent, of the people own
the houses they live in. In England, he states,
“ practically all the land belongs to about thirty
aristocrats, who have never done anything, except
take the trouble of being born, and who, for the
privileges they enjoy, return nothing to the com-
munity.”
Chap, xxiv., on the Americanisation of the
world:
I say that, before twenty years, Europe will be at the
mercy of America in every respect, its stock exchanges,
its commerce, its industries, just as its customs, will be
American. When shall we see an American woman on a
European throne ? I rather like the idea of it; the
sovereigns of Europe practically belong to one family, and
royalty is sadly deteriorating. The healthy daughter of
some rich Kansas farmer might produce princes and
princesses, robust in body and mind, and in these demo-
cratic times I fail to see why kings and emperors should
not follow the example of their aristocracies. Maybe
they would obtain such dowries from America that our
taxes could be reduced.
Chap, xxv., on Millionaires.
No man can possibly become a millionaire who does
not pay thousands of workers less than they are entitled
to receive for the work and wealth which the}' produce.
The two greatest, truest, and best governed demo-
cracies in the world are New Zealand and the little, island
of Jersey. Apparently the ideal of the democratic
leaders of New South Wales and Victoria is that the
working-man should,' at the expense of the country’s
interests, do a minimum of work for a maximum of pay
within easy reach of city dissipations. But in New
Zealand the Govt, opposes centralisation, and its aim is
to encourage a class of peasant proprietors.
In chap, xviii Max O’Rell tells the familiar
truth that —
Novelists, poets and authors should not marry “ for
the sake of their wives.” There is a worse wife for an
author than a woman who does not appreciate him.
There is the terrible one who thinks she can write as well
as he, and who constantly irritates him by her criticisms.
Some Oupidiana:—
It requires an ounce of courage to get married, and a
ton of it to remain married. Love is a romance, matri-
mony is a dry essay. Novels are more entertaining than
essays.
If a man truly loves a woman, he avoids temptations;
if he loves one a little, he succumbs to them ; if he does
not love one at all, he looks for them.
We blame women when we are the victims of their
inconstancy ; we find them charming when we profit by
it.
A secret, they say, torments a woman like a pam
inside, but she is not ill very long.
Matrimony is sometimes such a heavy burden that it
takes more than two people to carry it.
The book (56 chapters) is well worth reading.
In compiling the Commonwealth Annual this
year the publishers have followed the safe plan of
palling on practically all the best-known Austra-
ban writers and artists to contribute. Henry
Lawson, Victor Daley, “Banjo” Paterson, Ed-
ward Dyson, Ethel Turner, Walter Jeffery, Albert
Dorrington, “ Steele Rudd ” and Roderic Quinn
have all given, if not of their best, at any rate of
good matter with their signatures attached. The
illustrations by Fred Leist, Arthur Collingridge,
H. Garlick, D. H. Souter, A. J. Fischer and
others are generally very well done. The make-
up is closely modelled on English mag. style ; it
is a very attractive shilling’s-worth.
Maude Wheeler on the Literary Woman :
Of course writing women make copy out of their affairs
—of the heart and otherwise. Examples are infinite in
number. What’s the good of having vivid and startling
times if they are never to be turned into copy ? Women
who write are abnormal, and generally quite useless in
other directions. Men prefer a woman who can cook;
cooking is an artistic necessity, literature is a luxury.
Some literary women attract writing men—witness the
Brownings, and George Eliot and Lewes. Certainly a
man who writes understands literary women better than
the ordinary crowd, but that doesn’t always make him
hanker after a lettered chum. There are worse things in
the world than making copy out of one’s husband ; it’s
better than making it out of another woman’s husband.
je
On the marriage of literary folk, Ada
Kidgell writes ;
Those who declare the marriages of literary people to
be failures lose sight of the fact that most marriages are
failures, because most human beings are failures. But
the affairs of literary incompatibles are, as a rule, public
property, either from their own or other people’s adver-
tising, whereas average folk keep their troubles, matri-
monial or otherwise, to themselves. Past and present
records prove a higher rate of successes in writers’ mating
ventures than in those of other classes, especially where
both partners have the scribbling habit (always excepting
the Carlyles). Authors who consider a wife handy as a
cook and sock-mender, and choose for auditors of their
verse ladies in laburnum gowns, would probably simi-
larly carry interesting points of the tea trade or the stock
exchange to leisured listeners. They don’t seek ex-
traneous consolation because they are poets, but because
they are men. Dickens would have broken his wife’s
heart, and Thackeray sent his mad, and Heine demanded
the adoration of “ Die mouche,” if they had been in, the
ink-making trade instead of the ink-spilling and married
to the wrong woman. Few women writers make the mis-
take of wedding a man of dissimilar tastes. When they
do, as in the cases of Caroline Norton and Felicia
Hemans, there is tragedy. George Eliot, Elizabeth
Browning, and Charlotte Bronte took as partuers men of
like interests and were entirely happy. Unfortunately,
these instances seem to show that it is only the woman
of very mature years who is equal to this wise choice.
The moral apparently is : Look out for fnental equality ;
if you are intelligent, take an intelligent mate ; if you
are a fool, wed with folly.
J*
Writes “ G. 8.”: The discussion in your columns
over errors in the pronunciation of classical names
reminds me that I read somewhere, in my childish
days, a rhymed protest addressed by a professor
of Greek to his pastor. It was somewhat after
this fashion :
You said last Sunday—it did pain us—
“ You know the household of Stephanus,”
“ Sfephanus ” is the man we know ;
And let us hope you’ll call him so.
RECEIVED.
“Fred. Walker,” by Clementina Black, a con-
tinuation of Duckworth and Co.’s “Popular
Library of Art.” . This series maintains its high
standard of interest; the illustrations are excel-
lent and the letterpress bright. Mr. Walker is
represented in Australia by a picture in the Mel-
bourne Art Gallery, “ The Right of Way.”
“Public Service Retrenchment in N.5.W.,” by
G. Lynn Little. This is an account of the Reid
massacre of the Civil Service in 1896, told by one
of the victims. Mr. Little does not tell his story
well, but prints a confused jumble of accounts
and papers.
J*
TO CORRESPONDENTS;
E.W.D. : The personification of “ Dives” as the typical
rich man is only an instance of one of the commonest ten-
dencies of language; no need to argue that “ dives ” is
a Latin adjective ; that is admitted.
Ethel Turner continues on the pleasant, rose-
bordered path she has chosen, in her latest book,
“Little Mother Meg” (Ward,- Lock and Co.),
which shows no lessening of charm and interest
compared with previous works. The Australian
child is happy in having so skilful and so sympa-
thetic a painter, and Ethel Turner is wise in
keeping to her metier; for she has established by
doing so a first place among Australian writers in
the affections of the reading public. The reward
is deserved ; she has the art of telling simple
things is an interesting way ; a graceful style ; and
a sweet wholesomeness.
Louis Becke’s latest book has the unwieldly
title of “The Strange Adventures of James
Sherwinton and other Stories.” The scene is again
the South Seas, and suggests that Mr. Becke is
gathering up with some effort the crumbs of his
experiences. Never a writer of imagination, but
rather one of vivid sight and brilliant sketching
ability, Becke’s first work was so charming because
it gave with an air of bright reality scenes and
incidents of a savage life. Now he goes back on
old tracks of memory, and is not able to conjure
up such vivid pictures as of old. He should go
forth and get fresh experiences. Our copy is
from Greo. Robertson and Co , Sydney.


WOOL
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AIND PRODUCE SALESMEN
SYDKTE -ST.
M c DOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP
t THE original non-poisonous dip.
M ■DOUG-ALL BROS., O Spring Street, Sydney.
y L St, M a n« ~, . AGENTS:
M co » Australia and New Zealand : Strachan, Cheedle & Co., Adelaide; J. B. Curran, Hobart.
SKINS
SEND ALL SKINS TO
Kangaroo,
Wallaby,
Rabbit,
Opossum.
WINGHGOMBE, CARSON & GO., im.
hytuntey.
The Leading Salesmen.
FuU Values and Quick Returns.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY, Stores: PYRMONT*
SOLE Oommiaaion 3 Per Cent.
• E>er Found Delivery Charge.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL *900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO deey competition.
WINES
The Best Brands 9nly of
Sc -
manufacturers of MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o,
SPIRITS.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Price 6s.
Post Free.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
BY
“Steels Rudd.’
Briar Root Pip
Guab^ teed
NOT TO
CRACK
B
LATEST Aftf MOST
k UP TO DATE SHAPES
Price
By Post
Quality not
better in
a Guinea Jr'i'p©.
<s6arai)tce.
Should any of our Celebrated C.B.
be exchanged for it immediately o:
>. Pipes crack or burn a new one wil
application.
When Ordering-, Please Mention Shape of Pipe Required.
C. 8.8.
C. 8.8.
0.8.8. Pipe, Sterling Silver Mount, 2/6
each.
C. 8.8. Pipe, hand-finished, with Ster-
ling Silver Mount, polished Vulcanite
Mouthpiece, in Morocco Leather
Case, 4/- each.
0.8.8. Meerchaum Pipe, guaranteed
genuine, Sterling Silver Screw, Best
Quality Mouthpiece, Morocco Gold-
lined Case, 21/- each.
C. 8.8. Pipe, hand-finished, Sterling
Sliver Mounted Rim and Band, in
Morocco Gold-lined Leather Case,
8/6 each.
(M 5.8. Presentation Companion, con-
taining two Silver Mounted, hand-
finished Pipes, Superior Qualitv
Mouthpieces, Red Morocco Gold-
lined Case, 15/6'each.
C.B;£>
c-bjb:
or
/7?OATof£LAD£\
SffOhl/VG Gl/AJtD \
Use the
Can't-B-Beat
Safety Razor
Shave every morning with
absolute ease, comfort,
and security . . .
Shavill? with ordinary
———*s razors is not
easy for anybody. It
takes months, yes, years of
practice, and few during
the period escape many
and serious cuts. Even
with experience, despite
Particularly Useful at Sea. care > cuts may be inflicted.
PRIOR COMPLETE, in Case .. .. ss. 9d.
In Leather Case, with Extra Blade .. Bs. 9d.
EXTRA BLADES.. .. .. 2s. 3d.
Every Razor Guaranteed and Set ready for use.
TOILET REQUISITES —Lowest Price at . . .
fid#?!
MOLLW
GROUND
Can’t-B-Beat Razors are manufactured from
■" , the very finest English Razor
.Steel, and warranted ground by the most expert
workmen in the world.
Oan’t-B-Beat Razor, in ease, i-ineh . . 4s. 9d.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, in case, f-inch . . ss. 3d.
Oan’t-B-Beat Razor, in case, :{-inch .. ss. 9d.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, in case, |-inch .. 6s. 3d"
Can'c-B-Beat Razor, with ivory handle .. 10s. 6d.
Presentation Case —containing Two
Can’t-B-Beat Razors, ivory handles .. 21s.
C. Brown & Sons’ Hair-Clippers, 5s each. Victorv
Cream Shaving Soap, 3d tablet. Shaving Brushes,
6d, 9d, Is, 1s 6d, 2s, 2s 6d, Bs, 8s 6d each.
Strops. The Victory.” 2s each. Cant-3-Teat
..... ‘ Razor Strop, recommended by all the
wading hairdressers, 3s 6d each. Satisfaction
guaranteed or money returned.
haymarket; Sydney
MEN! WOMEN !
We can make you
Strong and Vigorous.
Force, New ° U °“ yOUr VigoUr; 7 ° U
New Nerve
each ^ 9 ** is that force.
AILMENT 6 we n can ? H t UMATISM ’ SC £ A u IOA ’ LUMBAGO, NERVE EXHAUSTION, or any CHRONIC
regaining strength lies in using ' Gongago y° u P asse d the stage where DRUGS were of any value, and now your only chance of
If
Or* (l)c[aighlin’s Electric Belt.
The grandest invention of the age for weak men ; the surest and easiest cure for all nervous and chronic
diseases Its wonderful power is directed to the seat of the nervous system, through which its vitalising
treng-n penetrates to all'parts of the body, carrying new life to every organ which has been weakened
y dissipation, restoring energy to the brain, and power to the vital organs. No weak man, no sickly
Nratue’s restorer of vitaiitv rt W ° man ’ wll J ever regret a fair trial of the Dr, McLaughlin Electric Belt, which is
p s the organs, expands the tissues, corrects the circulation, and renews the entire nervous system.
30 Underwood-sfc., PADDINGTON.
Sit'd, —After thirty years’ suffering from in-
jury to my back and kidneys, the result of a
fall from my horse, your Electric Belt has
done for me what the best medical skill had
failed to do.
I can now recommend the Belt to every
sufferer. lam 60 years of age.—Yours very
truly, ELIZABETH ROSE.
DOOEN, Vic.
For years I have suffered from Sciatica and
Weak Back, but a few weeks of your Electric
Belt cured me, and put me right again. It
gives me great pleasure to recommend your
Belt to both friends and strangers.
Yours truly, D. MURRAY.
KALGOORLIE, W.A.
Dr. McLaughlin Co.
Replying to your inquiry after my health,
I am just debating leaving the Belt off.
There has been a wonderful improvement in
my condition ; in fact, I hardly know I was
ever queer. If I can help your cause, you
have my support.
JAMES HUGHES.
w-
<l
& 6lcCt
1
%
or Inv?<r a oL a (-nr
Diagnosis cost u » eless - .Ours is the only one having a Regular Attachment. ADVICE and Written
uiagnosis L»y post ArsauijU 1 EL Y IKbE. Come and convince yourself. CONSULTATION FREE.
Frge Book.
SSnSwf persona interested in thfa Grand-Remedy, we publish a Beautifully Illustrated Book, giving cuts.
. if v lDg W Electricity in all CHRONIC AILMENTS. It gives also many names of people cured. Write
technical terms leaving fVie " .i^ 10 nam ® B ®° nio your friends in it. In printing our book we have been able to steer clear of all
teetmical terms, leaving the subject plain andfcomprehent&blp totany person — even a child. HOURS— 9 a.m. to 8.30 p.m.
—• Dr. McLaughlin Co.
85 King-street, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office—l67E Swanston Street.
g
X
k
ke
*
o
«/>
MORRIS'S
IMPERIAL
£y £s
<s*
fd
fs
) fd
gfd
Free for Asking.
to us and we will forward you our scientific
W book, which will show you how to cure disease and
foii° nie " ea 'thy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
enow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
tii the , y you wrote for it- Follow the advice it con-
“'.I 1 " 1 ) dl-health and weakness of mind and body will
sh-Vu ma - lc > a,ld - vou will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to Proprietor, Box 135, G.P.0., Adelaide. S.A.
TWO POINTS OF MUCH IMPORTANCE.
len burgs
The great success attending the use of the "Allenburys” Milk Foods is in a great measure
due to the two following important facts • 6
<0 Their •*• <« H» r«din,„ „i,h which ,hey on. ee di g e«ed and a„i„,il„ed by
Mixed with water according ,o the directions a humanized milk is provided. and much' more mldffid “Slnfed
The “ Allenburys” Foods are especially valuable in hot climates. They are in the
form of powder and keep perfectly. Pamphlet on “ infant feeding » (48 pages) free
——,. — rn..-i .-in, Bourke Street, Melbourne. ~ J
Allen & Hanburys, Ltd., 9>loug6 <3ourt, Lombard St, London
MILK FOOD No. 1.
From birth to three months.
MILK FOOD No. 2. f
From three to six months.
MALTED FOOD No. 3.
six months and upwards.


Mt
*.»■
•o • •
v -i T->
&
frJ.
tM)
i ./■'
f
a
f \
Morbid Months of Misery.
“A DESPAIRING WRECK OF HUMANITY.* 1
A Great Friend in Time of Need.
% Case of tyr. H. BARNETT.
(fiT A SPECIAL REPORTER.)
It is worthy of note that the interviews
which have from time to time appeared in
these columns are singularly free from mere
theorising about the subjects dealt with,
and are entirely confined to practical, though
none the less interesting, details, an addition
to which is made by Henry Barnett, of No.
212 James-street, Leichhardt.
“ To show what important events some-
times arise from trivial causes,’* said the
gentleman mentioned, “Imust inform you
that one day I scratched my elbow with a
piece of zinc, which was hanging loosely in-
side a waggon. It was nothing to grow
alarmed about, I thought, and I took no
notice of it until the next day, when my
arm appeared to be slightly inflamed,, but I
did not take any precaution to stop it get-
ting anv worse. Not till a week afterwards
did I bother myself, and by that time my
arm was so much swollen, and the pain was
so intense, that I could not go any longer
without seeking some advice.”
“Where did you go for itJ” the repor-
ter enquired.
“ To the hospital, and on three successive
visits my arm was operated upon. It was
then that I realised the great disaster which
had overtaken me, as the doctor said I had
just come in time to save losing my life from
blood poisoning, so by that you will know
that I was in a dreadful state.”
“Were you able to attend to your busi-
ness ? ”
“Work of any description was tieyond
my powers for nearly four months, for my
constitution was fairly broken up and I was
almost helpless. This being the first illness
I ever had, you may depend that I felt my
misfortune very keenly, and the thought
that I would never be able to use my arm
again nearly drove me frantic. I sat and
brooded over my troubles till my mind
lapsed into a chronic state of despondency,
and although the doctor said I had come
‘ just in time,’ I did not feel so sure about
it, as I felt so generally weak and wretched
, that I doubted if I could survive the terrible
calamity which had occurred. For five
days and nights I did not eat a morsel of
food, although I tried hard enough to take
a little nourishment, but I could not swal-
low what I put to my mouth, and this, to-
gether with the agonising pains I was
suffering, made a thorough wreck of me.
My cruel tortures would not allow me to
sleep, neither did I know which way to lie
for ease, so that when daylight came I was
glad to get up in spite of having scarcely
sufficient strength to walk about, for if I
tii.il an attempt my head turned so
giddy that I st*t>n had to sit down again.
My wife was kept going tdght and day bath-
ing and bandaging my arm, but even the
great care I received and the doctor’s medi-
cines combined could not succeed in elimi-
nating the poison which prevented the
wound from healing I was completely at
the mercy of my original complaint, which in
time made my recovery more improbable,
because of the ruin it wrought on my in-
ternal organs, and as ailment after ailment
was piled up I saw that my prospects were
more gloomy than ever. My nerves were
always on the quiver, which showed that
the strain on my system was too great for
them, and I felt particularly nervous on
hearing any noises, which also grated on my
ears and made me extremely irritable. I
oould see that it was no good taking any
more doctor’s medicines, as I was getting no
benefit from them and they made me feel
sick; besides, they did not help me in re-
gard to my appetite, so I decided on pur-
chasing some Clements Tonic.”
a 11 How did that idea originate ? ”
r H Well, I had taken Clements Tonic to
give me,an appetite once before when I was
feeling a bit jaded, and it made me eat like
a horse ; and now that I was so feeble, and
run down as low as I could be, I thought
Clements Tonic might do the same again.
And, upon my word, it did ; but for a while
I was sorry that Clements Tonic made me
eat so heartily, as my digestive organs were
in such a shockingly bad state that all food
disagreed with me. My stomach always
got filled with wind, and my chest pains
were so weighty that I could scarcely get
my breath, while the awful pains I had
hitherto been maddened with were added
to by something going wrong between my
shoulders. The taste in my mouth and the
furred condition of my tongue testified to
the disordered state of my liver, but the
aches in my limbs and across my loins told
the direful tale that my vitality was per-
fectly exhausted. When I come to look
back upon those weeks of abject torture and
misery, when I could not even read for the
swollen feeling in my eyes, with no anima-
tion in my body, and with no hope left, I
consider it a merciful of
Providence which influenced me to perse-
vere with Clements Tonic, by the aid of
which came a delightful experience that
broke the morbid monotony of all those
months. When the first bottle of Clements
Tonic was finished I was sleeping more
soundly than I had done for some time past,
the reason being that there was a decrease
in the pains which had kept me awake so
consistently, and how thankful I was for
the rest, too ! To find that X could obtain
relief from Clements Tonic gave me a fresh
interest in life, although I did not antici-
pate throwing off my afflictions altogether,
as they had held out so obstinately against
other medicines ; but I was grateful for all
mercies, and when the discomforts following
my meals were lessened you can imagine
my great surprise. Little by little my
strength returned, and the vitalizing pro-
perties of Clements Tonic came in evidence
by the gradual healing of the wound in my
arm, and now there is nothing but a scar to
show where it was opened. I had lost a
considerable amount of flesh during my
illness, but in a few weeks it was all re-
stored, so it is needless to say that Clements
Tonic put my digestive organs in thorough
order, besides infusing so much power to my
nervous system that you could not have got
a tremble out of my nerves no matter how
vou might have tried. Before long I had
shaken off every pain that had tormented me,
and with the full complement of strength
which Clements Tonic restored to my sys-
tem, I went 1 ack to work none the worse
for the terrible trials I had undergone.” „
“ Are you sure, you were quite cured ?”
“I ha\e not had the least thing wrong
with me since, and I feel as hearty as though
my constitution were made of iron, so
Clements Tonic did its work well. I was
a despairing wreck of humanity when it
was called into requisition, and for saving
me as it did I owe my life-long thanks to
Clements Tonic—an admission which you
can publish in any way that may do good.
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
true,
1900.
Subscribed and declared at h hardt, this second
thousand nine hundred and two,
H. R. STEWARD, J.P.
day of April, one
before me,
roe BABY’S SHIN
SCJU> M UK
Something for Mothers to Think About
EVERY CHILD bom into the world with an inherited
or early developed tendency to distressing, disfiguring
humours of the skin, scalp, and blood, becomes an object
of the most tender solicitude, not only because of its suf-
fering but because of the dreadful fear that the disfigura-
tion is to be lifelong and mar its future happiness and
prosperity* Hence it becomes the duty of mothers of
such afflicted children to acquaint themselves with the
best the purest, and most effective treatment available,
viz*,'THE CUTICURA TREATMENT.
Warm hatha with Cuticura Soap, to cleanse the skin of crusts and scales
and soften the thickened cuticle, gentle anointings with Cuticura Oint-
ment, to instantly allay itching, irritation, and mflammati
hpni he followed in the severer cases by mild doses of Cuticura kesol-
VENT PILLS (seebelow), to cool and cleanse the blood, are all that can be
desired for the alleviation of the suffering of skin-tortured infants and
children and the comfort of worn-out, worried mothers. A single set is
often sufficient to cure when the best physicians fail.
Millions of Women Use Cuticura Soap
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment, for SKWg hah-’, for
cleansing the scalp of and sore hands, ?or baby rashef, Rollings,
mothers, and for all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery.
CUTICURA resolvent Pills (Chocolate Coated) are P«;Pf ed to meet the wantaof
purifiera Secures yet compounded.
Cone., Sole Trope., Boston, U. S. A. "All about the Skin, free.
n
AERTEX CELLULAR
SHIRTS
•V* <S
Cellular Dress Shirt.
Fitted best Belfast Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 0.8. or 0.F., one stud.
Cellular Cotton Body—
-6s 6d to 8s 6d
Cellular Lisle Body—
-9s 6d and 10s 6d
Cellular Short-Front Shirt
for every-day wear.
Open behind. 2in. linen wrists—
-5s 6d, 6s 6d.
Open front or behind, square
cuffs— 6s 6d, 7s 6d
rail
Cellular Tennis Shirt.
With Collar and Pocket. The most
comfortable for all out-door sports
of all kinds. A great variety of
patterns stocked.
Plain Colors, 4s. 6d. to 7s. 6d.
Fancy Designs, 7s. 6d. to 11s. 6d.
w
Cellular Day Shirts.
Silk neckbands and soft wrists.
White and Self Colors, 4s to 7s 6d
Fancy Designs, 7s 6d to 9s 6d.
Cellular Neglige Shirts.
Soft fronts of plain or pleated
Cellular Cloth; wrists, French
Print, Linen, or Cellular. Recom-
mended for Golf, Cycling, &c.
White body, 7s 6d ; colored, 8s 9d
Aertex Cellular Fabric is the ideal form of body covering, possessing all the necessary
hygienic qualities, and being also most comfortable and of attractive appearance, and for those
hygienic nuisma** reco & mended by the Med ical Faculty wherever introduced.
Illustrated Catalogues, Samples, etc,, post free on application.
DAVID BRAH AM & CO.,
73 and 75 KINO STREET,
Sole Agents in N.S.W. SYDNEY.
DRUNK
ENNESS
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
SIT See my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, 1901, wherein I agree to
accept 100 Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions, n,o
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free.
W. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
68 Russell St., Melbourne.
3
EVERY MAN L
SUFFERING from DEBILITY and WEAKNESS should
send for a valuable Pamphlet explaining how all
Nervous and Organic Derangements may be success-
fully treated without stomach medication. The method
is easy and pleasant, and will effect a perfect and per-
manent cure. Sent in a plain sealed envelope free of
charge. E. NORTON, 59 &60 Chancery Lane, London,
jm Eng. Over 30 years’ continuous success.
BLOW FLIES.
The ONLY destroyer —The “Bum"
Window Trap, with Faulding’s
Insect Powder. Allctores.


“A friend
in need is a
friend in-
deed.” This
is an old
proverb,
but as true
as it is old.
Here is just
such a friend.
Never be
without it. Keep it
close at hand all the
time.
#
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
It will prove a good friend when you
have a fresh cold, bringing immediate
relief. You will find it equally true
in old colds, bronchitis, whooping-
cough, asthma.
And you will declare it “the best
friend in the world” if you will use
it for an irritable throat or weak lungs.
It acts as a strong tonic, clearing up
the throat, giving tone to the relaxed
tissues, and greatly strengthening the
lungs.
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of them! Be sure you
get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Two sizes. Large and small bottles.
g
FLUID
OIL
CRUDE FLUID
POWDER
EMBROCATION
SOAPB
DISINFECTORS
INHALERS
FUMICATORS
m.
town
WSIMFECTtNfi
FLUID.
II-
COLORLESS
FRAGRANT
NON-
POISONOUS
DOES NOT
STAIN
KILLS ALL
DISEASE
GERMS
OXYCENATES
THE AIR.
Sulphur Candles - \ KINGZETT’S
Formic Fumigators / PATENTS.
"HOW TO DISINFECT ” Book Free.
The “SANITAS ” CO., Ltd.,
Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.
fd
gfd
g
W. H.Wigzeil.
FRINGES : Best Natural Curly
Hair, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. long-,
5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Only one address : 110 WILLIAM-
ST., cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
fd
Cable trams will stop at door. All work guaranteed.
Illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
Hairwork sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations, entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
I’ll Try It.'
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austral
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 108. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Remit.
CRAIG &. AITKEN, N.s .W. Barber’s Supply
House. 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
/?///■
Write To-Day.
Send
Postal Note.
G
IVEN
AWAY
...t0...
Advertise our
Ostrich
Tips.
2/6
The Bunch
Post Free.
3 Black Tips with Ospreys. A Marvel of Cheapness.
Miller’s Feather Shop,
Corner Bourke and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.
Mention The Bulletin.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/-per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE
Australian Mutual Provident Society
SPECIAL NOTICE
Next Distribution of the Profits at
31st December, 1902.
Policies issued before the close of this year will share in the Bonus to be then allotted.
The Cash Bonus divided among the participating policy holders for the single year 1901 was £538,725,
being the largest amount ever allotted by the Society in one year. (All bonuses vest immediately
on policies attaining a duration of two years.
Persons desirous of effecting assurances with the A.M.P. Society should note the above carefully, and
send in their applications early, either direct or through any of the Society’s Agents, so as to reap
the benefit of this year’s bonus.
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.,Chairman; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker; J. Abbott, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; F. E. Winciicombe, Esq., M.P.
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON’, Secretary.
g
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10»,
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
BST Send for a
Catalogue.
d
Bent Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles.
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies, £8 10s.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES
\\V,
WHOLESALE
Distributing Agents
New South Wales—
M. RUTTY & CO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria—
•l. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia—
Hart, Lawrence % Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaida
Western Australia — ®
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland —
Thoe. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Philp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie i Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand—
D. Benjamin & Co.
Dunedin, Wellington
and Christohuron.
“New Rival ” and “Repeater ”
WINCHESTER
Shotgun Cartridges
Rival” loaded with Black powder, and “ Repeater”
loaded with Smokeless powders. When buying, always
insist upon having them, take no others, and you will get
the best Cartridges for the price that money can buy.
NO TROUBLE TO GET, AtL DEALERS KEEP THEM.
WE STOCK ALL WINCHF.STRP GOODS.
M'LEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd.
ELIZABETH ST., JTELBOURNE ; GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
The Australian Commission Agency Go
IS IN CONSTANT COMMUNICATION WITH
“TATTERSALL,” care of GEO. ADAMS, HOBART
Write or call. When writing; enclose
Addressed Envelope and Stamp.
Offices: 101 Swanston St„ Helbourne.
Will Not Affect the Nerves.
■DClx® E3Ci.S ltxes ' fc Cla3B
SMOKING MIXTURE.
“N . ’ •
THREE STRENGTHS:
IWTT.n MEDIUM. FULL.
IN Jlb. AND £lb. AIR-TIGHT TINS.
S. HOFFNUNQ & CO., Merchants, Pitt-st., Sydney.
Sole Manufacturers : ARDATH TOBACCO CO., 44 Worship Street, London, England.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Greasin’.
I can hear the stokers singin’
As they give the boilers coal,
And the big swells set her swingin’
With a lazy, heavy roll.
There’s a crazy steam-pump moanin’,
There’s a tail-rod just a-squeal,
And a shaftin’-bearin’ groanin’
’Way down aft beside her heel.
Every damned eccentric’s winkin’,
And the cranks are makin’ eyes ;
All a-shiver when they’re sinkin’
And a-rattlin’ when they rise.
There is shoutin’ down the tunnel,
Where the mad propellers toil,
And from packin’ to her funnel
Every darn’ thing’s callin’ “ Oil!”
And I’m oilin’, oilin’, oilin’
In a temp’rature like hell,
With the heated oil a-smokin’
Till you feel’s if you’re a-chokin’,
And the knockin’ guide-bars tell
That I’ve got to be a-toilin’
Till God rings His knock-off bell.
There’s a cool wind on the water
(Or there was an hour ago),
And the moonlight made me sorter
Want to take Life pretty slow ;
And the funnel was a-swayin’
’Thwart the twinklin’ stars aloft,
And I hear the water playin’
Round her transom, white and soft.
It has made me think, and wonder
Why I’ve got to graft below
With this ceaseless, rollin’ thunder
Thumpin’, thumpin’ blow on blow.
If ’twere only for a season—
On and off—l wouldn’t mind,
’Stead of everlastin’ greasin’
To this everlastin' grind.
But I’m oilin', oilin’, oilin’,
And I’ll do so till the last,
For a man can’t change his labor—
P’raps his job won’t fit his neighbor —
And he cannot change his past,
So I'll go on toilin’, moilin’,
Till the Final Bugle-Blast.
Oh ! the skipper looks a daisy
In his tropic uniform,
And the officers are lazy
When the atmosphere is warm;
And the trimmer’s work is tryin’,
And the stokers curse the glare,
But they ain’t exactly fryin’,
They do get a bit of air—
The salooners they seem happy
With their music and their girls
That have eyes so bright and snappy
And a smile like deep-sea pearls ;
But I guess no one’s no bloomin’
Better off than me below,
With the great cranks boomin’, boomin’
Thunderous and very slow.
Tho' Fm greasin’, greasin’, greasin’,
There’s some hearts above I know
That’s as bitter and as burnin’
And as full of hopeless yearnin’
As the hearts that beat below ;
And they know not rest nor easin’,
Like them rods a-swinging so.
Oh ! I hear the firemen damnin’,
Glarin’ fires and singin’ steam,
And the heavy doors are slammin’,
And I have no time to dream,
When the cranks laugh loud in sinkin’
And look solemn when they rise.
And each queer eccentric’s winkin’
At the light, and makin’ eyes.
Oli ! the toll the owners levy
Is a heavy one indeed,
And the hand of God is heavy
When you’ve drifted from your creed.
Yet, through all the engine’s moanin’,
Seems to me I hear a cry:
“Life would know less grief and groanin’
If the oil-cups wasn’t dry.”
And I ponder as I’m greasin’
On the friction that there is —
Glad to-days and sad to-morrows.
Oh l the grief of one man’s sorrows,
And the joy of one man’s bliss —
Life’s machin’ry wants some easin’
Such as laughter and a kiss.
QUILP N.
An absurd ukase of Sydney Water Board
is that one cutting off the plunge-bath. To many,
the plunge is more than a luxury ; it is an abso-
lute necessity. And, anyhow, the saving is not
more than a million gallons a day. Meters should
be attached to every house-supply, and a maximum
allowance at usual rates allowed, everyone using
more to “ pay through the nose.” The educa-
tional value of meters is enormous. Broken Hill
people waste no water. They all have meters.
Melbourne Argus :
The all-important points on which definite information
is wanted at the earliest moment are—What does the
deficit threaten to be, and what are the Government’s
complete retrenchment and taxation proposals ? The
answers to these questions will he the main substance of
the Budget. When Parliament has them it will know
both what it must do and why. The Federal Treasurer
has announced that the probable return of customs
revenue to Victoria will be less by a substantial sum than
had been hoped for.
This is unblushingly printed by the paper whose
sheet-anchor argument in its barracking for Free-
trade during the tariff debate was that the
customs revenue was going up by such leaps and
bounds that there was no necessity to further tax
for revenue.


HEALTH GIVING,
ENO’S
COOLING, ‘FRUIT
AND INVIGORATING. SALT.
refreshing,
THE
‘PLUM’
gf
THE
‘PLUM’
ri FNTLEMEN —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow
IJT i; ke a bell ‘and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the
edtre that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years,
thffr merits WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 78. 8(L
ground, rings
exact kind ol
can testify to
Price
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6(1 cake.
f Simrle Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6(1 ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21*.
{ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s: Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to ant part op tub World.
please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney
Sole Agents
THREE STAR
Safeguard
Your
Health
See
that your
Brandy
is
Bottled
in
Cognac-
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
m
a
iinilK
CAME
CIGARETTES
&
Those
suffering
from weah
and sore eyes,
and blight, should
use. i
SINGLETON’S OINTMENT
Never Fails. Restores Eyelashes.
Al.li CHEMISTS.
CAPILLA
HAIR
TONIC
The Wonder of the Age
ALL CHEMISTS
THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA.
5 did vwtcjM' \
j 9 Owi
|
y#W
>
As
/*
Ac
-*§'
<4
<u-
K
*2
«Sc4f
U**+
tt=7
w
/
V,
#o
*s**•**^l
iL
•s
&
PS
i
y/
7'
WE WISH TO IMPRESS
_ ■. j tiriii “ir>nlr well ” “ wear well ” and give excellent satisfaction for many
upon your mind the fact that every roll of Genuine RUBEROID ROOFWC, properly nsed & (Grey), and shall be glad to supply you with fullest
years in this or any other climate. We make four thicknesses, but only one quality (the Best) and one coior y h
information at any time. . . , TITVJF?
CAUTION l Be sure you get the QElNUirNfci.
If in doubt,
write direct to
E. RICH & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
jf
Vol. 23.—N0. 1187.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1902.
Price 6d
DESIGN FOE, STATUE OF JUSTICE.
(TO BE SET UP, SAY, ON PINCHGUT, OR THE SOW AND PIGS, OR OTHER SUITABLE PLACE IN N.S.W.).
Among the list of magistrates who were gazetted last week appear the names of two clergymen.


the Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
« Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Maoleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin,
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
'PERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS AFTER
Ist NOVEMBER, 1902
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... fi
Half-yearly ... n v n
Quarterly ... ••*
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty -
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maolkod, managing director.
Literary communications to be a,ddressed to 3 I'.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this payer are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or transtateany
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration or
any other part of the contents of this number, is heteby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short 1 ales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed
inn two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications mil be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Made and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any-picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS. -
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, 92 Hout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban ; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon. —Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 22 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Wanking Road, Shanghai.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1902.
The Syndicate Railway Crase.
Australia has constructed public works and spent upon
them about 230 millions sterling ; but it has adopted a
policy which, in its general effect, limits their usefulness
and renders them a source of other than profit and pros-
perity. Settlement is obstructed, immigration is dis-
couraged, and the increase of population grows
more and more unsatisfactory. Since the year 1880 the
railway mileage of Victoria has increased by 176 per
Cent., but the population has improved by only 40 per
cent. Even allowing that the extension of the iron road
has been excessive, it is hard to believe that the slow
advance of population has justified reasonable expecta-
tions. In America private'management of railways has
led to the encouragement of settlement in a manner quite
impracticable in Australia under State direction, and
the associated systems of restriction of commerce and
industry. “ (Jockspur ” lines, of which the Pinnaroo
Railway, if constructed, would be a glaring example,
cross-country connections, and other non-paying lines in
Victoria, are responsible for a yearly interest shortage of
£300,000 ; while more than half-a-million sterling has
been added to the capital account for useless surveys and
dismantled and closed railways. Such facts constitute an
eloquent testimony to a rampant rural parochialism, the
obverse side of the medal of Little Australianism. —
Adelaide Observer.
Look at what private railways have done for land settle-
ment in Canada and the United States. — Jenkins
Iscariot, of S.A. (abbreviated from his speech in favor of
the proposed Northern Territory 90,000,000-acre steal).
I feel convinced, after seeing the method of manage-
ment of railways in America, which are all privately
owned, that there would be little difficulty in getting a
syndicate of capitalists to lease our railways and pay
three per cent, of interest on their cost. — David Elder,
in Melbourne Age.
The above are quoted at random as a few
samples of a kind of literature which is just
now flooding the Australian press. When-
ever things are a little worse than usual in
Australia—when the great dead weight of
unprofitable debt, incurred because the
politicians have persistently declined for 40
years to levy enough taxes to meet the cost
of government, weighs more heavily than
usual; and the land sales fall off because the
best part of the public estate has been used
up to pay current expenses ; and mining is
depressed; and drought is bad ; and it is
difficult to keep on buying more imported
luxuries in proportion to our population
than any other country on earth—literature
of this kind always becomes common. Then
the comforting Tory press and the
Jenkinses and the Elders and the other
mental remnants assure themselves that
the 40 years of waste, of unproductive
borrowing, and refusal to pay sufficient taxes,
have nothing at all to do with the case. And
the Jenkinses and the rest discover that
privately-owned railways, because of what
they have done in promoting land-settlement
in Canada and the United States, are the
remedy for all our troubles.
* * * *
In this matter, Jenkins and co. assume
off-hand that land - grant railways would
enable people to settle down and prosper in
regions where even the crow is giving up the
struggle as a bad job. They assume that
land-grant railways will make it rain
where it doesn’t rain now; will make a
range of Rocky Mountains down the
centre of Australia to condense the clouds ;
will supply us with a Mississippi and a
Missouri, and a hundred other big rivers,
and will make irrigation possible where there
is no water to irrigate with. Also, that
because private railways have done much
or little for settlement in Texas and
Colorado and Wyoming and Dakota,
which are striped like a zebra 'with
ever-flowing Streams, or in Manitoba with
its thirty or forty splendid lakes and its
two or three hundred rivers, that they can
easily do the same on the countless leagues
of dust, with a mudhole about every 100
miles, which make up most of Australia.
Their theories that syndicates will make the
grass grow, and companies will make the
dead sheep live again, and private enterprise
will lay the dust, are interesting examples
of how man is always finding out that there
is some way of getting rid of his debts with-
out paying them, and that it wasn’t the
whisky which made him drunk, but the fish.
• * • •
In such a matter it is always better to
leave off promiscuous whirling and get down
to facts. The only part of the United
States which even dimly resembles Australia
is the part which lies east of the Rocky
Mountains, and west of Nebraska. Even
that portion is vastly better than most of
Australia—more fertile and better watered.
It is a region with from 10 to 25 inches of
rain, and with occasional excursions up to
50 inches. The average is probably about
22 inches—the same as Russia; whereas
nearly half of Australia receives about five
inches, and two-thirds of it doesn’t average
10 inches. Texas is in a comparatively
fertile belt of the U.S. It is mentioned with
grief that in one year in its history the
driest part of Texas only had a 10-inch
rainfall. Texas has been settled for over
200 years. It was so far advanced 70 years
ago as to set up as an independent republic,
and conduct a long war on its own re-
sources, and utterly defeat the Napoleon of
Mexico at San Jacinto. It dates back to
times before Australia was thought of. It
commenced early the gorgeous system of
private land-grant railways which is to “pro-
mote settlement ” in Australia, and 20 years
ago it had 5800 miles of private railway—
more than was possessed then by all Aus-
tralia. It has greatly increased its mileage since
then. And it has persons to the square
mile—a great deal less than Victoria. Yet
Texas is fortunate beyond the average.
* * * •
Nevada has South Australia’s rainfall, and
mineral resources such as S.A. never pos-
sessed,and it is private-railwayed to a great
extent, and it has two people to five square
miles—less than half as many as S.A., with
the further difference that S.A.’s population
is increasing ; Nevada’s is dying away. Put
into tabular form these are the results :
Popula-
tion
per 100
square
miles.
N.W. Territories, Canada (private railways) .. 11
Westralia (private railways, now partly taken
over by State, and State lines) 19
Nevada, U.S. (private railways) 40
S. Australia and N. Territory (State railways). 40
British Columbia, Canada (private railways) .. 60
Queensland (State railways) 75
Wyoming-, U.S. (private railways) 90
S. Australia, apart from N. Territory (State rail-
ways) 97
Arizona, U.S. (private railways) .. .. 110
New Mexico, U.S. ( „ „ ) .. .. 160
Montana, U.S. ( „ „ ) ... .. 170
Idaho, U.S. ( „ „ ) .. ..190
Utah, U.S. ( „ „ ) .. .. 340
Manitoba, Canada ( ~ ~ ) .. .. 385
New South Wales (State railways) 438
Oregon, U.S. (private railways) .. .. 440
Quebec, Canada ( „ „ ) .. .. 485
Colorado, U.S. ( ~ ~ ) .. .. 520
Tasmania (mostly State railways) 657
Washington, U.S. (private railways) .. .. 770
California, U.S. ( ~ ~ ) .. .. 950
Texas, U.S. ( „ „ ) .. .. 1160
Victoria (State railways) 1367
As a matter of strict accuracy, California,
Washington and Oregon should not be in-
cluded in this list. They are well-watered
coastal States, which don’t in the least
resemble any but the most extremely
favored parts of Australia. But when they
are included we strike the fact that Califor-
nia, which has been building up for over 200
years, with good soil and good rainfall over
most of its area, with its immense gold
deposits, with more railway than any Aus-
tralian State possesses, and with all the
blessed benefits of private railway owner-
ship to “ promote settlement,” isn’t so
well settled as Victoria. Colorado, with
richer gold mines than Victoria, and a great
area of fertile country, and streaked all over
with rivers and private enterprise railways,
can’t even compare with Tasmania for close
settlement. And Canada has had over 350
years in which to produce its results, Quebec
being one of its longest-settled provinces.
* • • *
There is nothing in the actual facts to
show that land-grant railway syndicates
know any better how to settle a new
country than a State railway department
does—or even that they know so well. The
United States is thickly peopled in places—
the places where are the great manufactur-
ing industries that were created by its Pro-
fcectionisfc policy, and the great mines. When
the land-grant railway builders struck out
into the wilderness to “ promote settle-
ment ” they succeeded just as badly as the
State did—or worse ; and what success they
realised cost an appalling price. Along the
great Southern Pacific line (which received
a decent-sized principalityin land subsidy), or
the Atlantic and Pacific line (which received
a 42,000,000-acre grant), or the Central
Pacific (which received a grant of 12,000,000
acres) or the Northern Pacific (which received
47,000,000 acres), or the Union Pacific
(which received 12,000,000 acres), things are
mostly very like the dreary road to Bourke,
except that the weather and the grass are
quite different. Over huge stretches there is
a Kne-repairer’s house every 20 miles, and
every 100 miles a “ town ” which is made up
of a few railway employees, and the woman
who washes their clothes, and some sundries.
The United States lives on its mines
and manufactures—manufactures alone re-
present about twice as much income
as the agricultural and pastoral industries
put together. The opening up of the agri-
cultural country by land-grant railways is a
very small item in the wealth of the Union.
As to trying to make wealth by similarly
opening up the waterless Australian interior
where the rabbit and the crow are alike
giving up the fight, there is just about as
good a prospect for a land-grant railway to
Sheol.
• • • . •
Certainly the United States has got over
some difficulties which Australia has not yet
surmounted, but Australia can surmount
them in exactly the same way if it is so in-
clined. Almost every railway in the States
has been bankrupt—some of them two or
three times over. In the 12 years 1880-1891
some £390,000,000 of alleged railway capital
disappeared by insolvency, through over
36,000 miles of railway being sold by
the bailiff, and these are only 12 years
taken at random out of 50 or 60. If
Australia likes to repudiate a correspond-
ing proportion of its public debt, which
is its railway capital, it can also reduce the
burdens on its lines, reduce its charges, and
get the money to buy the new and much
more economical rolling-stock it so much
requires. And if, in addition, it likes to
endow its State railways with land on the
same scale in point of area and value, as the
United States, and if it had the land to do it
with, it could, in N.S.W. at all events, re-
duce its charges to about a third of the pre-
sent figure. The success of the United
States’ private railways isn’t anything like
what is commonly supposed. The dead-
head trouble is even worse than on the
Australian State lines—it is reckoned that
one-tenth of the passengers travel on the
nod. The closed and abandoned railway is
just as conspicuous a feature there as here.
The dividends earned are just about on the
Australian level. The land-grant system
has, in many cases, blocked settlement
in a most shameful fashion in 1882
five companies had 22,000,000 acres
locked up, and refused to either sell or
lease an acre, because when they took
out their formal title, which would
enable them to deal with the property,
the land would become liable to taxes, and
they considered it cheaper, pending an in-
crease in values, to pay no taxes and block
all progress. The rolling stock on the show
lines is magnificent, while on many lines
that lie away from the principal centres and
are little seen by the average visitor, it is old,
worn, neglected and damnable. The great
secret of the low rates charged on Ameri-
can lines lies in the fact that the
country pays a large proportion of the
charges in the shape of grants and subsidies,
that an immense amount of the capital has
been repudiated, thus reducing the interest-
burden, and that the American manager has
a rich and fertile country to trade upon.
Also the American isn’t an Australian, and
isn’t wedded to English ideas ; consequently,
he uses larger and lighter trucks and heavier
engines, and other economies. A good part
of the money to buy these was obtained by
repudiating liabilities. The money for such
episodes as the war between the Santa F 5
Co. and the Denver and Rio Grande Co.,
when they maintained small armies, tore up
each other’s lines, and fought small battles
with artillery, offered rewards for the cap-
ture of each other’s managers, and burned
Colorado generally, was often obtained in the
same way.
* * * *
Private railways won’t make Australia
fertile. All the good land Australia possesses
wouldn’t supply land grants on the American
scale, and it is bad policy to give away all
your victuals merely to pay for having them
cooked. Australia can’t afford to pay
£60,000,000 in land and cash to a trans-
continental syndicate, as Canada did —it
hasn’t £60,000,000. And, after all,
what land-grant railways have, or have
not, done in America, under totally
different conditions, doesn’t concern us.
Anyone who wants to know what they can
do here under our own conditions has only
to look at the Westralian Midland concern,
which received nearly 3,000,000 acres, and
undertook to settle 5000 immigrants on the
land, and borrowed £500,000 from the State,
and then went insolvent, and never settled
anybody on the land at all. The Tasmanian
Main Line and the Deloraine Railway, and
the Emu Bay concern, and the abortive
Great Western are other cases in point—in
fact Australia has had some dozens of private
railways, and has been sorry for them all.
No amount of lying about what private rail-
way management has done at the other side
of the world can counterbalance the fact that
we have experimented with it here for fifty
years, and have regularly fallen in.
Australia’s trouble is that it won’t pay
enough taxes to cover its outgoings, but
borrows, and puts off the evil day, and
hopes that something will turn up. When
the evil day becomes uncomfortably pressing
someone suggests private railways as a
remedy, and someone suggests prayer, and
someone suggests Freetrade, and someone
suggests more loans to “ develop the great
natural resources of the country,” and some-
one else proposes faith in Pkovidence. And
all these things are vanity. The one plain,
brutal remedy is to stop borrowing, to pay
more taxes, to buy less and manufacture
more, to cut up the big estates in the rare
patches of good country and settle the
people on them, to build our public works
out of our own money—and possibly to export
Owe’Sullivan.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Defunct Kyabram Programme.
The great Kyabramapootra ‘ ‘ Reform ” fraud i 3
dying so very young that it was hardly worth
while for the cheerless fowl to be born at all. If
there was anything on which the Kyabram pro-
gramme was solid it was the putting of the Vic-
torian State finances on an absolutely sound
basis. It wasn’t specially democratic ;it wasn’t
brilliant; it wasn’t even wildly intelligible ; but
in the matter of its financial honesty it was teak-
built with a concrete flooring. Its avowed object
was to extinguish the deficit, to make ends meet,
to stop the financial drift, to put an end to the
wretched Peacock policy of charging unproductive
works to loans, to check borrowing—in fact, it
was a financial reform party first, last, and all
the time. Irvine and Shiels and Bent held
office on the Kyabram policy exclusively. And
now the Irvine Government loan proposals for its
first financial year are out, and it proposes to
spend £578,500 on repairs to railways (though
repairs are an item that, above all others, should
be paid out of revenue), and about £200,000 on
other equally unproductive works. Among other
things it proposes to charge £40,000 of municipal
subsidy to loans, also £15,000 for repairs to roads,
and there are many other equally awful items.
So the first step of the Government which was to
stop the spending of loan money on repairs and
unproductive jobs, is to propose the spending of
more loan money on unproductive works than any
Vic. Govt, has done for very many years ! As for
stopping the deficit, Premier Peacock, last year,
had a shortage of about £450,000, and that lugu-
brious and miserable “reformer,” Shiels, says he
foresees a shortage of over £1,000,000 this year,
and the economies so far proposed don’t really
cover one-third of this. When the great Financial
Reform Party sees its way already to steal far
more loan money for revenue purposes than
Peacock ever did, and at the same time to have
a far larger deficit than Peacock had, and when
its chief expedients for meeting the shortage con-
sist in misappropriating the sinking fund and in
postponing the payment of certain debts, the
Kyabram programme, regarded as one of financial
reform, has fallen through in a pitiable fashion.
The Age, in a recent issue, solemnly warned the
Victorian Labor members that in opposing the
Irvine Government they are running counter to
the will of the people as expressed at last general
election. It would be much more truthful to say
that the Labor members are the only ones who
are attending to the will of the people. If the
people declared solidly for anything it was for
economy. A Government that proposes to steal
nearly £BOO,OOO of loan money to cover its ordinary
expenditure, and expects a huge deficit in addi-
tion, wasn’t what the people bargained for.
• ♦
Resurrecting the Flyspeck's Gridiron.
Van Dobson’s Land seems in a somewhat alarmed
state at the prospect of losing its beloved Great
Western Railway Syndicate. Although conces-
sions and time-extensions innumerable have been
granted to the promoters at various dates, which
concessions have for years been hawked around
among the money markets of the world without
the hawkers having been able to find a buyer at
the price asked, there area very few weeks to run
before the latest G. W. Railway Act becomes
void. So, unless the promoters can accomplish in
six weeks that which they have failed to bring off
in six years, the chances are that the famous grid-
iron won’t grid after all. The Act gives the Co.
to Dec. 15 next to prove its bona Jides by
commencing the construction of the line, and to
satisfy the Government that at least £250,000
is available to continue such construction. And
as present indications hardly justify a hope for the
successful flotation, Guesdon, M.H.R. (hitherto a
fervid barracker for the syndicate), has ap-
proached the Lewis Government with a proposi-
tion to this effect:
If the present promoters fail to carry out the provi-
sions of the Act, it should not be allowed to lapse, but
should be vested in the Government of the day, as a
negotiable instrument, whereby arrangements can be
entered into with any contractors, or financiers, who
will undertake the construction of the railway, the
concessions under the Act to be transferred to them as
consideration for such construction, &c.
This proposition has been seriously discussed at a
conference of Tasmanian Ministers and railway
officials. Guesdon, M.H.R., accentuates the
painful fact that Tas. legislators are as slow to
learn as ever, and indicates that the distressful
island of Dodery is still as hopelessly and unac-
countably enamored of the useless syndicate which
never does anything, as of old. No State in these
latitudes has suffered more ignominy and disaster
at the hands of syndicates than has Tasmania.
Its early railways were mostly built by syndicates,
and very badly built at that. Then they were so
badly managed by syndicates, that popular clamor
drove the Government to buy them up at a high
price, in order to give the people a decent service
that didn’t require passengers to get out and
shove behind. The Emu Bay line still remains
to show Tasmania how private management can
charge the public 4d. a mile for the privilege of
riding in the worst carriages in Tasmania, and
yet fail to make dividends out of it. And still
Tasmania has a small, bedraggled sort of idea
that syndicate railways are the one sure remedy
for all its troubles.
The New Queensland Land Bill.
The new Land Bill just now before Q. Assembly
might be tersely described as a measure to capi-
talise the drought in the interests of financial
institutions. It provides for the extension of
pastoral tenures to an extent hitherto undreamt of
—inasmuch as first-class Western country is given


an extension of 21 years after the end of the pre-
sent unexpired term of lease—which will make,
in many cases, a total term of between 30 and 40
years from present date. Lands in the Darling
Downs and Burnett districts, hitherto held
exempt from extension, because, as the
pastoralists themselves last year confessed,
“the rainfall was comparatively regular and
much of the land suitable for agricultural
purposes” are also to receive an extension (in the
case of first-class lands) of ten years in addition to
present unexpired term and much larger extensions
(making in all a maximum of 42 years) in the case
of lands other than first-class. The general
provisions for resumption in West Q. are phenom-
enally small, while re-assessment of rent can only
take place twice in the whole term of the extended
lease —so that, in many cases of first-class Western
country, re-assessment will only be possible once in
twenty years. . . . This measure is, avowedly, an
“imitation of the Western Lands Act of N.5.W.,”
but whereas the Western Lands of N.S.W. are,
roughly speaking, bounded by a line about 230
miles from the coast, the lands dealt with by the
Q. Bill come, in some cases, within eight miles of
the seaboard, and comprise areas of first class pas-
toral land—superior in normal seasons, to any-
thing else in Australia. The idea of applying the
principle underlying the N.S.W. Western Lands
extensions to country like the Flinders, the
Mitchell, the Burnett, and the Darling Downs
is a wildly humorous one, and could only
be seriously entertained in a country sick to
death with drought, deficit and mis-government.
Resumptions under the new Bill can only take
place to the extent of seven-sixteenths of the hold-
ing during the whole term of the extended lease.
Inasmuch as the aggregation of grazing areas has
been a crying evil in times past, the Philp Govt,
has set to work to remedy this by abolishing the
provisions against dummying, thereby allow-
ing the big lessee to aggregate as much
as he likes himself and thereby counteract
his rival the aggregating selector. This
is reform with a vengeance ! In order, probably,
to counterbalance the huge concessions granted to
the big pastoral lessees, Minister O’Connell has
handled the grazing farmer very gingerly. Grazing
selectors all over Queensland are in an uproar
over the Bill, which apparently makes mock of
their misfortunes by allowing them to buy their
selections outright at 10s. an acre—2s. fid. cash
down, and the rest to be paid over a term of
20 years. Fancy allowing a selector, in the
claws of some financial institution—a man who'
cannot even pay up his ordinary rental —the
privilege of buying out his land at 10s. an acre !
He can only do it one way—by borrowing the
money from some bank, and accepting the bank
in place of the State as a landlord. Why not
classify his land (as the big holdings are classified)
and extend his tenure accordingly ? The most
scandalous feature, however, of the Bill is the
removal of all restrictions on the alienation of
Crown lands. The Philp Govt, is desperate
for want of cash, and is determined to break
or burst something. The recent experiments
in railway syndicate legislation were nothing
in comparison with this Bill, which will simply
paralyse West Queensland in the course of the
next few years. A measure of relief for the
pastoral industry was undoubtedly necessary; but
a measure for the practical locking-up and sacrifice
of the best part of a province can scarcely be called
a necessity—even after a five years’ drought. But
the average Queenslander is so broken-hearted
with deficit and disaster that he’ll stand almost
anything.
4
Bent’s Luck.
Minister for Railways Tommy Bent has practi-
cally brushed aside the nominal head of Vic.
Railway Department, and re-established political
control, and under his management the Vic. rail-
ways have become the joke of the continent.
Thomas is a man of tremendous energy, and he
casts his of substance headlong into every-
thing he undertakes, but he casts it recklessly and
without discrimination, and everything goes
wrong. Two days’ record of the Vic. lines under
Bent’s management lately ran somewhat as
follows:
Theatrical company couldn’t perform because its
scenery and clothes were wandering up and down Tommy
Bent’s railways somewhere. Co. angry and the loser by
a night’s takings.
Melbourne-Beechworth train two hours late.
Breakdown of the “ tablet ” system at Benalla, signal-
man being unable to get tablet out of box. Train two
hours late, and piloted by a man with a bike. Great
language. Signalman at Benalla still struggling to get
tablet out of box.
Number of special trains put on for Tatura show. All
about two hours late. Great execration among people
who had come to see the bloated heifer.
Great row at Wycheproof on the ground that the Mel-
bourne train has given up all attempt to keep time, and
is always an hour behind.
Engine left Drouin quite forgetting to take its passen-
gers with it. Passengers filled Drouin with language for
some hours. Engine gradually became aware something
was wrong, and came back. Train reached its destina-
tion some time.
Engine on Gippsland mail collapsed. Goods engine
hauled the train along gradually for a while and then
collapsed also. Train stood and admired the scenery till
another engine could be sent for.
Complaint from eastern districts that the crippled
engine takes 18 hours to haul the train 107) miles, and
that the district is going to walk in future.
Complaint that goods train broke down and stood at
Morwell for 1) days, and that Morwell didn’t like the
smell of the perishable part of the cargo.
Pour more engines break down. Great language in
various parts of State.
Complaint that passengers to Birchip didn’t think it
fair that their train should stand for 5) hours or some
such period at Donald. Said they got tired of looking at
Donald.
Minister Bent meanwhile issues orders at the
top of his voice in Melbourne, and sits up most of
the night telegraphing, directing that everything
shall be done instantly, even if there is nothing to
do it with, delivering ukases, threatening to sack
everybody, and leaping 4ft. in the air with
exeitement and superfluous energy and a burst
collar. But things grow worse instead of better,
and out in the country districts they have to tie
the Victorian train together with string and grass
nowadays. The same sort of thing happened
when Bent shouted and perspired in the same
billet twenty years ago. Thomas has enormous
energy but no luck.
The Liverpool Tubercle Farm.
As a consequence of an exposure by Dr. J. B.
Nash, M.L.C., of the revolting conditions under
which the consumptive poor were killed off in
Liverpool Asylum, a resolution was carried in
N.S.W. Leg. Council last year:
That, in the opinion of this House, the housing of con-
sumptives by the State is not in a satisfactory condition,
and that it is desirable, in the interests of the public
health, and for the benefit of the sufferers, that some
more adequate provision be made for their accommo-
dation and treatment.
Later the whole question of the hospital treatment
of consumptives was discussed at a meeting con-
vened by the medical profession in Sydney, and a
deputation to Premier See secured a promise that
a hospital for phthisis patients should be at once
built. Then the matter dropped. N.S.W. in the
financial year ended July, 1902, spent out of re-
venue, out of authorised loans, out of various
more or less regular appropriations from trust
funds, something like £18,000,000. But, when
last week, Dr. Nash ventured to remind the
Government of its promise in regard to the treat-
ment of destitute phthisis patients, Mr. Suttor
replied:—
There had been no change in the system of dealing
with consumptives, consequent on the resolution, and
they were still sent to the Liverpool Asylum. Nothing
more could be done until funds were available for the
erection of a new building.
So there being no funds, out of all the millions, to
wipe out this hideous brutality, the tubercle farm
remains. Sending consumptives to Liverpool
Asylum is simply murdering them. The
place is not an asylum; it is a hot-house
for the cultivation in human soil of the
tubercle bacillus, which kills its hosts in
from two to five years under the exceptionally
favorable circumstances provided for its ravages.
And with time the bacillus is becoming more
expert. The Liverpool tubercle-farm had an
average, to the end of 1900, of 67 deaths a year
out of an average of 165 inmates ! But in 1901
the bacillus scored 76 victims, 60 of whom were
under 50 years of age. For 1902, so far (to the
end of September), the deaths have been 53, and,
with the usual high rate in the summer months of
November and December, will probably reach
last year’s level. This callously brutal “ hospital”
kills its patients with absolute certainty; it
never has a cure. Though there is practically no
such thing as an incurable phthisis case, to the
modern medical mind, Liverpool Asylum regards
all its inmates as incurable, and kills them off at
the rate of forty per cent, per annum with mathe-
matical. precision. With this institution on its
hands, it is a surprising thing that the N.S.W.
Government should trouble to keep a hangman.
Capital offenders might, with as much certainty
of death, be condemned to a bed in “ The Liver-
pool Hospital for Indigent Consumptives.”
Within a year they would certainly be infected,
within five, or less, dead.
4
The Judge Parker Scandal. 4
The collapse of the Parker scandal, in Westralia,
is an interesting item in the history of yellow and
shrieky journalism. Mr. Parker had just been
appointed to the bench when a large, indefinable
scandal and reproach gathered round him. The
Spectator, a print of the loud and blithering
order, put the reproach into print—the substance
of it being that an article containing an exposure
of Judge Parker’s past career had been set up
for insertion in a Westralian Sunday paper, but
had been suppressed because the conscience-
stricken judge paid £lOO or £2OO hush-money to
keep his evil deeds out of print. After that, the
Parker scandal broke loose in Parliament, in the
press, in the streets, in public-houses, and raged
like a wild beast up and down Groperland. The
Spectator man was twice prosecuted, but, as is
generally the case, the jury disagreed; if a paper
is only sufficiently violent it almost invariably has
one friend at least on the jury, who, out of admir-
ation for its adjectives, won’t convict it under any
circumstances, or on any evidence. Then Judge
Parker secured a commission of inquiry, with
curious results. George, M.L.A., who first
brought the matter before Parliament, said he
knew nothing of the case himself, but Dr.
Taaffe had shown him a copy of the suppressed
article, and that one Charles had assured him,
in the doctor’s presence, that evidence in support
of Judge Parker’s misdeeds, and the evils and
dissipations of his past life, would be abundantly
forthcoming when wanted. George said he had
made no inquiry himself, and knew nothing
agamst Judge Parker. Dr. Taaffe said he
knew nothing, but that he had got a copy of the
suppressed article from Charles and had passed
it on. Charles denied that he had promised to
supply evidence against Judge Parker; he
had no evidence beyond common rumor.
Neither he nor Taaffe nor George, M.L.A.,
knew anything personally about Mr. Parker
having paid for the suppression of the
damaging article, or about the truth of any
damaging remarks in the article. The first
definite person that the commission got hold of
was Thomas Walker, of the Sunday paper, who
said the suppressed article had been written on
the strength of documents supplied by Charles,
and it was suppressed because of a dark suspicion
that the contents were one vast lie, and that the
whole business was being worked up in the
interests of a legal gentleman who had expected
to receive the judicial appointment which fell to
Mr. Parker. Also, Walker accused Charles of
having started the false rumor to the effect that
Judge Parker paid for the suppression of the
article in order to save his own small, brief
dignity. Charles, he said, had an interest in the
paper, and had become unduly inflated over it,
and had told people about the article “he”
was going to publish, and the way “he”
was going to blight Parker ; and rather
than admit that, after all, he had no
control over the paper, and that his article had
been thrown out by a higher authority, he pre-
ferred to represent that the paper in which he was
interested had taken a bribe from the Judge. Then
the man who took up the case in the Spectator
couldn’t remember where he got his information,
except that it was “ common report.” They were
a very indifferent set of witnesses, all except
Thomas Walker, who was definite enough fora
dozen, and who obviously regarded the whole affair
as a lie and a conspiracy, and an attempt to foist
imaginary information on his paper. The Com-
mission decided that Judge Parker was acquitted
without a stain on his character—in fact, it
couldn’t possibly decide any other way, consider-
ing the anxiety of everybody concerned to state
that he knew nothing personally, but had only
repeated something that was said by somebody,
who denied ever having said it at all.
♦
Mr. Balaam Alison.
And Balak said unto Balaam, I called thee to curse
mine enemies, and, behold, thou hast altogether blessed
them these three times.—-Numbers xxiv.
The N.S.W. congress of employers'unions, etc.,
convened to curse Socialism, the Labor party, and
Labor legislation, was unpleasantly shocked last
week when Mr. W. Alison, secretary of the Tax-
payers’ Union, of N.S.W., rose to speak. No
Balak could ever have had more faith in a
Balaam than the assembled Tories had, that from
Mr. Alison’s lips would come curses rich and rare
with regard to the Arbitration Act, which was the
chosen subject of his speech. And Mr. Alison
seems to have tried to do his best and to damn
the Arbitration Acts in N.S.W. and Maoriland •
but finally a spirit of fair-play moved him and
Balaam spake:
Employers in the future would have rules laid down for
the conduct of their business and must abide by them
One alternative left to them was to shut up their business’
Of course, this was not the only view to take of the
position. Employers had the satisfaction of knowing that
once the conditions were fixed they would remain ner-
manent for a time long enough to make their business
arrangements for an extension of work or in taking con-
tracts. The Court had shown every desire to be perfectly
fair between the two parties. No complaints had arisen
that unjust rates of wages or absolutely ridiculous hours
of work had been awarded. It might be that an employer
would find in the more settled conditions and the absence
of the constant and harassing fear of strikes and changes,
some compensation for the great interference made by
the legal restrictions and regulations affecting his enter-
prise and industry. On the other hand, an employee
freed from the constant study of the best means of
compelling an employer to give him higher wages and
better conditions, might concentrate his energies in
giving the best care and attention to his employer’s
business.
Therein are stated the two great arguments in
favor of compulsory arbitration, the two chief
reasons Why The Bulletin urges the Federal
Parliament, if it can persuade the jealous
State Governments to hand over Labor questions
to its care, to undertake the responsibility of
establishing it as a system over all the Common-
wealth : (1) That it tends to fair and permanent
industrial relations ; (2) that it frees the employee
from the harassing necessity of constantly safe-
guarding his wages and hours from aggression,
and thus gives him the chance to do better work.
Mr. Alison seems to be much too honest a prophet
for a Kyabramapootric concern like the Taxpayers’
Union.
♦
The Pampered Parmer.
The Freetraders’ fetish, as it bobs up again in
Launceston (Tas.) Examiner :
But the fanner in Victoria has been steadily sacrificed
for the city worker.’ The policy of the country has been
dictated by the Trades Hall, and those who sit at its
council board know little, and care less, about the require-
ments of the man upon the land. Yet when his harvest
fails the city man is the first to feel the pinch.
It would be interesting to know how much more
the Victorian farmer wants. He has had Protec-
tion, just as the town worker has. He got cheap
land, and in many cases he never paid for it. He
got irrigation works made for him, and refused to
pay for them, so the burden was thrown on the
general revenue, of which the town worker has to
provide half. He had unprofitable railways made
for him in all directions, and freights were cut
below cost, and the town worker helps to pay for
them. The town worker is taxed to help to make the
farmer’s roads and bridges. Then the farmer gets
cheap money through the State Land Bank. Hegets
the cheapest labor in the market, being exempted
from the Factories Act and the anti-sweating laws.
His starving stock is carried almost free, and fod-
der for his starving stock is carried at a great re-
duction. He gets rabbit-proof fencing on specially
low terms. He pays local rates of from 6d. to Is.
in the £, and the town worker, whose own rates
run up to 3s. 6d. in the £, is also taxed to make up
the municipal subsidy paid to the pampered
farmer because the latter hasn’t the courage
and the honesty to pay his way. He gets
an absurdly large share of political power;
the Vic. country districts have many more
members than they are entitled to on a
population basis, and the cow-and-butter-and-
wheat party runs politics. The Ministry consists
almost wholly of country members. And with all
this Victoria’s manufactures are worth nearly
£4,000,000 a year more to the country than the
pampered agricultural industry, and are worth a
great deal more than the agricultural and dairying
industry put together, and are worth almost as
much as the agricultural and pastoral business
combined. This enormous subsidising of the
farmer has loaded Victoria with debt (and other
States as well) and it will have to end soon
through the public credit giving out.
4
The Sacredness of the Jury-Verdict.
A few weeks ago the Sydney daily papers were
almost unanimous in howling for the fall of the
See Ministry because, in a criminal trial, the jury
having said “guilty” and the Judge “not guilty,”
the Attorney-General granted a petition for the
release of the man convicted. The extreme sacred-
ness of a jury’s verdict was strongly impressed by
the Daily Telegraph, the Sydney Morning
Herald and the Evening News, and it was
almost argued that, even if the verdict were
wrong and inflicting punishment on an inno-
cent man, it should be respected. Those who
were not so blinded by party prejudice as to
fail to see that it is in defiance of all British law
traditions to keep a man in gaol against the con-
science of the Judge who tried him, did not join
with the daily papers in this extreme view; but
they have since been waiting patiently, though so
far without avail, for these journals to say some-
thing decisive in regard to the case of Mrs.
Sangal. That woman was found guilty by the
jury trying her, “with a recommendation to
mercy”—that is to say, the jury concluded that
she was a party to a murder, that she should be
punished, but that she should not be hanged.
The Victorian Executive proposes to set aside
part of the jury’s verdict —an essential part—and
hang the (now-pregnant) woman under circum-
stances of unspeakable brutality. Yet there has
been no whisper of protest from the papers which
became most excited over the “ insult to the jury ”
in the Friedman case. There are no party politics
to be served in this case ; and if Mrs. Sangal is
hanged, there will be a rich harvest of pence from
retailing again the story of her crime.
♦
Lewis’ Legirons.
Some Tasmanian legislators, evidently smarting
under newspaper criticism, have expressed dis-
satisfaction with the Newspaper Act of the Island
as it relates to damages for libel, and Premier Lewis
promises to consider the advisability of placing an
altogether new Newspaper Act on the Statute
Book of Van Dobson Land—though he may have
forgotten all about it by now. The old Statute,
in true Van Dobson style, starts out by treating
the proprietor of a newspaper as a criminal who
must be closely watched and put down in the
interests of law and order, immediately he
offends the Sacred Cow of Authority. Any
other person may print and circulate libellous
matter without rendering himself amenable to
anything but the Common Law, but the
man who arouses the just suspicion of the Van
Dobson party by owning a newspaper is com-
pelled to find £l6OO worth of securities before he
can print his paper at all. The £l6OO bond is os-
tensibly a guarantee that the paper will not
publish blasphemous or seditious matter, but is
really a sort of guarantee that a libelled personage
shall be able to collect his verdict if successful in a
libel suit. Just why a man who obtains a verdict
against a newspaper should be placed in a more
advantageous position as regards damages than a
man who gets a verdict against a printer of books
and pamphlets, or a tradesman, is a mystery.
Also, why a man who prints a newspaper should
be compelled to enter into a money-bond that he
won t libel anyone, when a man who lays bricks,
or a Dobson who drives about in a gilded chariot,
finds no security that he won’t drop bricks on any-
body or drive over anybody, is as big, if not a
bigger, mystery. But it is the law, as it survives
in the land of Dobson, and as it, till recently,
survived in some other States that were un.
afflicted with Dobson. But, despite its age,
origin and breeding, and notwithstanding its
severity, the finding of bondsmen to the tune of
£l6OO does not work as well as persons in
authority in Tasmania could wish. The bonds-
men may be financially good enough for £l6OO on
the day of registration, but in six months or less
they may be stone-broke. If a successful
litigant in a libel-suit comes in at this juncture,
and the printing-press and the editorial paste-
pot fail to satisfy the verdict, the successful
litigant may be grievously disappointed to find
that the bond of £l6OO isn’t worth tuppence.
Naturally enough the successful litigant doesn’t,
under these circumstancs, consider himself
so successful as he ought to be, and howls
accordingly. It is the echo of that howl that now
prompts Lewis, Premier and Attorney-General
of Tasmania, to think about making the law more
stringently effective as a leg-iron for the criminal
who runs a newspaper and criticises “Us” ad-
versely. So it has been seriously suggested in
Dobson’s isle to make it compulsory for every
newspaper proprietor to deposit with the
Government something like £lOOO in hard
cash, and to empower the authorities to
hand the money to any aggrieved person
who may get a verdict for damages against the
newspaper. As the locking up of £lOOO, where it
cannot be used as business capital, would practi-
cally mean the closing up of all but the wealthiest
newspapers, the “Freedom of the Press” looks
like being considerably curtailed in Tasmania.
♦
“ Kiwi” on trades-union law :
I fully endorse all you say (8., 4/10/’O2) as to the far-
reaching consequences of the decision in the Taff Yale
case to trades-unionism in Biitain. But it does not seem
generally known that the soundness of the decision is
strongly questioned by some of the greatest lawyers, in-
cluding Sir F. Pollock. The Taff Vale decision is based
on the principle that anyone “seducing”—that is the
term generally used—one of the parties to a contract to
break his bargain commits an actionable wrong. The
first case in point occurred in London a few years back,
when the owner of a theatre induced a lady singer, who
had contracted to sing at a rival theatre, to break her
contract. The injured party sued the “seducer” and
recovered damages. This was the celebrated case
Lu.mley v. Gye, and it took the lawyer world by surprise.
But it was upheld, nevertheless, by the House of
Lords, and it has since become a settled principle
with all the leading law writers (save Pollock) that
while a contract primarily affects only the legal status of
the parties thereto, still there is an obligation on every-
one to refrain from interfering therewith. One pungent
critic pointed out in an English paper some time ago
that, since a promise of marriage is a contract in law,
the kind friend who advises a giddy girl to jilt an unsuit-
able lover is liable to damages, and such is certainly one
of the consequences of this remarkable decision. The
learned Judges in the Taff Yale case looked on the rich
company and the grimy laborers as contractors, and the
trades-unionists who tried to persuade the miners to stand
up for their rights by a strike, as “seducers,” who can be
restrained by injunction, and landed in damages. It is a
scandalous stretch of judicial whimsicality to call workmen
who have, perforoe of circumstances, to take the first job
that presents itself “contractors,” for one of the first
essentials to a valid contract is that the parties thereto
should be free agents. But such a judicial one-eyedness
is not new. You could not find anywhere a more
atrocious doctrine than that of “common employment”;
which meant that a workman couldn’t recover compen-
sation for injuries received through the negligence of a
fellow-worker, because it was a risk which he had “in
contemplation” when he agreed to work along with
mates. This shameful principle has been practically
killed by statutory provision, and the Taff Yale decision
may be remedied by an Act of Parliament.
♦
Federal Treasurer Turner, recently address-
ing a Brighton (Vic.) audience on a sociable
occasion, urged the public not to be down-hearted
—“ there had been a heavier deficit before; in
fact, he had seen a deficit of over a million, and
yet they had pulled through, and they would pull
through again.” Exactly the same remark has
been heard from all the States, and in most cases
the remark is bosh. Victoria didn’t pull through;
it owes that old deficit yet, and now another big
one has come on top of it. N.S.W. didn’t pull
through; since 1886 nine successive Treasurers
have saved the country, and the deficit is a vast
amount larger now than it was in 1886. Queens-
land and S.A. pulled through by adding the
shortage to the public debt, and then starting new
shortages. As a rule, an Australian State has six
deficits, running to anything from £500,000 to
£3,000,000; then it has one surplus of £lB and,
with all the old liability still owing, everybody
shakes hands and says the country has “pulled
through.”
+
S.M. Herald— maundering about Chamberlain’s
projected S’African trip :
It is not likely that the verdict of the war would be
anyway changed .... but it is quite apparent that any-
thing of the sort could hardly fail to increase the
difficulties of Government and administration, and delay
the satisfactory adjustment of the problem left by the
war.
What is the verdict of the war ? It would puzzle
the Herald to say. As yet it is by no means
certain how the case will finally be settled.
Granny goes on :
The Imperial policy in S’Africa is so to administer
affairs there as not to encourage the formation of another
Imperial sore. That is the problem in a nutshell.
It is—and Chamberlain thinks he can crack that
nut by making a sort of royal progress through
S’Africa, with Milner as buttoner, or barracker.
How the scheme will work will depend on the
chapter of accidents. It is quite on the cards that
an inveterate schemer like Chamberlain may
take it into his head to upset the “ verdict of the
war,” and pose as a “Pro-Boer.” There are
difficulties to be faced by the S’African Govern-
ment, the responsibility for which Milner is
doubtless very ready to shift on to Chamberlain’s
shoulders. There is little credit to be got in
administration, with such a jumble of contending
factions, and he is a lucky man who can escape
responsibility for it. That seems to ‘be Milner’s
idea, and Chamberlain comes in handy. But
whether Joseph will upset the “verdict of the
war ” or lose what character he has left in trying
to maintain it, is a question which only time will
answer.
*
It would almost melt the heart of a stone—the
“Protest against the attempt to establish a new
dynamite monopoly in S’Africa,” which reached
Australia by a recent mail. The protest is by cer-
tain British manufacturers against “the wealthy
and powerful influences at present directed in an
inimical spirit against English trade.” It sets
forth that “ the old dynamite monopoly in the
Transvaal, if not directly the cause of the war,
was one of the chief grievances which led up to
it,” and now—
It is not difficult to arrive at the conclusion that an
attempt is being made to secure protection for a new ring
of S’African manufacturers of explosives, to be composed
of the proprietors of the Modderfontein factory, other-
wise the Nobel Dynamite Trust, and the De Beers Com-
pany.
In view of this, the Protest sobs :
One is tempted to ask whether the British manufac-
turer patiently and cheerfully bore the taxation necessary
to meet the heavy expenses of the war, simply to find
himself excluded from the trade of the new colonies in
the interests of a ring of foreign and South African
capitalists ?
Of course, “one is tempted to ask ” ; and then one
will ask; and that will be all the satisfaction! one


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
of the United States.
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
„ „ LOCAL DIRECTORS :
Sir WM. MMILLAN, K.0.M.G., Chairman; Hon. C. K. MAOKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.0.;
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
F. C. COWLEY, Secretary.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S.,
Manager lor N.S.W. and Queensland.
SAWMILL MACHINERY.
Single and Double Cutting BAND MILLS for
hardwood logs, CIRCULAR SAW MILLS, Com-
plete Outfits of any capacity. Band Resaws,
Engines and Boilers.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
At the Blue Mountains,
CARRINGTON
HOTEL PRPTY.
KATOOMBA.
A. L. PEACOCK.
C. T. H. WAKE.
M. EMIL CHIBOUST.
An Ideal Holiday Resort,
will get. As a plain matter of fact, the English
people were “ had ” over the war. They were
sold a pup. They thought they were fighting for
their own hand. But they were fighting for
Cohen’s. Now they are finding it out. If The
Bulletin were an I-told-you-so sort of paper it
could make some truthful (though not comforting)
remarks on the subject.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Lyceum “ The Derby Winner."
Royal “ Sherlock Holmes.”
Palace “ Worst Woman in London.”
Criterion “Little Christopher Columbus.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Prince ss “ Sorrows of Satan. ”
Her Majesty's “ The Toreador.”
Theatre Royal “ Saturday Night in London.”
Bijou Hawtrey Comedy Co.
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
New Olympia Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus.
Town Hall. Dolores Recitals.
*
“ The Derby Winner,” staged on Saturday
at Sydney Lyceum, is a bright, ridiculous drama
of high life and low conduct, with a considerable
amount of dancing and divorce in it, not to
mention ah erratic duchess. The dialogue and
humor are above the average, so that one forgives
Mary, the housemaid, for coming into the gilded
drawing room of Brackenhurst Hall in order to
Say good-bye to all the earls and countesses therein
assembled. Douglas, Earl of Desborough, has a
little chat with Mary before the assembly, and
Mary’s homely father, front-named Joe, tells the
countesses that his daughter is as good as any
society lady in the land, which, as Duchess Mrs.
Bland Holt remarks, is not saying much. Baker,
as the blue-blooded Douglas, is more than usually
imbecile, with something of the prig thrown
in. He discharges from his employ the suspected
cause of Mary’s blighted character, and later on
is himself suspected of the blight. He attempts
to hustle away Harrie Ireland, an adventuress
whose presence is an “insult to the Countess,” for
reasons connected with his own Past. And
therewith he becomes suspected of more Past.
On the authority of a doctored letter and the
word of the wicked Major, Countess Muriel de-
nounces her husband and the adventuress in an
unnecessarily public manner, then rushes off in
her ball-dress with Major Mostyn, who is to be a
brother to her. The cold world, not understand-
ing brothers who are thus hurriedly adopted in
evening-dress, divorces Muriel; and her little son,
a large-small boy, played by Miss Ada Ingersole,
is taken away from her, and there is generally
much anguish. Having lost his wife, Baker
nearly loses his horses, and is about re-
duced to bankruptcy, when, as usual, he
wins the Derby, this end being attained by
Mary’s jockey sweetheart riding Baker’s horse at
the last moment through hearing that it was the
Major, not the Earl, who blighted Mary. That
arrant damsel is then called forward among the
assembled peers and sundries, and has her lost
character mentioned publicly, but this she does
not seem to mind.
* * • *
Regarding the acting, Mr. Baker and Miss
Ross are sufficiently unlike genuine specimens of
the aristocracy to make a favorable impression on
the public. Miss Ross is particularly successful.
Mrs. Bland Holt is also in her element as an up-to-
date duchess, who says “What price bed!” as a hint
for her illustrious company to retire; while Bland
does well as a retired army surgeon, whom three
or four nice women, for no particular reason, want
to marry. Villain Albert Norman is mainly
occupied in getting innocent people into the
Divorce Court, and in playing into the hands of
Harrie Ireland, a rather rowdier adventuress than
usual.
** * *
“ Cyrano de Bergerac” withdrew his nose
from public view at Sydney Palace last week.
The poetic gentleman was a victim to various cir-
cumstances, including the fact that Sydney, from
a long course of alleged musical comedy such as
“The Chinese Honeymoon” and “The Messen-
ger Boy ” and of gory yellow-drama, has lost its
taste for any play with a literary flavor (the
Broughs found this out, too). On the opening
night many were present who knew Henry Lee
only as part of a variety company, and expected
him to cake-walk; and who knew Manager
Anderson only as providing extra-lurid murder
and wicked - woman plays; and who felt
as happy on seeing “Cyrano” as a coal-
lumper straying for a good feed into a French
eating-house. They became restless on the first
night. Then a battle scene with 15 varied death-
contortions come along, and whetted their appe-
tite for gore, and raised their expectations. When
the last act opened in a convent close, the gallery
waited eagerly for a great fire scene, or for a
steam-roller to come on the stage. And when
nothing of that sort happened, they “guyed,”
and “Cyrano,” doomed ever to a futile career, was
done for so far as Sydney was concerned.
* * * *
Last Saturday the gallery was gratified to
find the Palace stage given up to something
understandable. “The Worst Woman in London ”
is not quite so weirdly improbable as the title
suggests, and is relieved by one absolutely real bit
of life—the drunken old father of the worst woman,
capitally acted by George Carey. The cast is
strong throughout. Miss Duggan plays the
name part with a laudable restraint, Mr. Diver
is an entirely natural and artistic scoun-
drel, and Mr. Frank Crossley and Miss
Leighford do good work. If a people’s plays
reflect a people’s character, ‘ ‘ The Worst Woman
in London ” shows a marked falling off in the
chivalry of the patrons of melodrama. At one
time the most popular “gag” of such a piece was
to the effect that “ the ir,an who laid his hand on
a woman except by way of kindness didn’t deserve
the name of Englishman.” The “W.W.” relies
for some of its comedy on a couple of policemen
arresting a woman vagrant by lifting her off her
feet and carrying her violently about the stage ;
and the W.W. herself is subjected to frequent
violence and finally murdered by a madman to
loud applause, and then gets a condemnatory
obituary from the “hero” to more applause.
*# * *
For a very few nights more Sherlock
Holmes will smash the lamp in the Professor’s
den of infamy, and depart while the myrmidons
rush headlong at the hot end of his cigar on the
mantelpiece. The next production at Sydney
Royal will be “ If I were King”—the striking
title of which should, in itself, command atten-
tion. The author, when he invented that head-
line, certainly opened up a large subject. Almost
every man has wondered what he would do if he
were king. Many have also wondered what they
would do if they were dead. Nobody that this
paper knows has wondered what he would do if
he were the devil, though that opens up about
the largest and weirdest problem of all. The
writer’s conviction is that if he were the devil he
would irrigate his territory and open the window
at the top to let in fresh air.
** * *
Sheridan’s “ Christopher Columbus ” goes
off Sydney Criterion stage this week, and until
his pantomime is ready, Sheridan intends to
afflict the country with a musical version of
“Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” for which he may possibly
be forgiven in the great Hereafter.
** * *
Sydney Tivoli greeted the holiday audience
with a very much improved programme—the ever-
freen Nawns (the best sketch people this theatre
as seen), Sandow, the Harbecks with their grace-
ful juggling, Mark Anthony, back with a better
budget of songs than before, and many other old
favorites. In addition, there was “Professor
Maccann, the Concertina King,” a stout monarch
who makes that generally despised instrument
vocal with all kinds of music.
** * *
There was a suspicion of wearisomeness
about the first series of Melba concerts as soon as
the excitement of novelty had subsided, but the
fact that the Star shone brightest (in the Mad
Scene from “Hamlet”) on the third and fifth occa-
sions prevented the suspicion from deepening into
certainty. The Cup-week concert was a little bit
wearisome, without a doubt. People arrived not
later than a quarter to eight o’clock, most of them,
and they were all desired by the management to
stay in their seats until the vice-regal personages
had left the hall. Well, the vice-regality didn’t
drop into its extra-special, highly-upholstered
chairs until 8.30 or so, consequently the common
or guinea variety of audience had to roost upon
crowded cane furniture for three hours, or longer,
in some cases. Apart from the contribu-
tions of Madame Melba, the programme
was not interesting. The orchestra, under
Slapoffski—a satisfactory “scratch” orchestra —
played the overture to “ Mignon ” in an unviva-
cious spirit, also a rather indigestible prelude by
Humperdinck, and Corven’s “Language of
Flowers,” which latter was so slight and fragile
that it nearly got an encore. Signor Bensaude
gave a feeble rendering of the same old “Pagliacci ”
prologue—any one of half-a-dozen local baritones
could have done it quite as effectively. The little
harpist played a “solo” with orchestra, and was
overwhelmed by accompaniment. Louis Arens
had one air to sing. When he had sung it as
pleasingly as his voice permitted, Arens made
himself ridiculous by giving as an encore Lohen-
grin’s “Farewell to the Swan,” entirely on his
own. Walked up to the piano, struck his key-
note, piped the first half of his Wagnerian
excerpt, struck another note to reassure himself,
and completed his exhibition of vanity. Melba
sang, in her second-best voice, a hymn-like
aria by Mozart, the gay “Sevillana” of
Massenet, and Elsa’s Dream from “Lohengrin.”
She was charming, of course, but the orchestra
didn’t increase the effect. Melba last week was
comparatively disappointing. One would rather
have heard her repeat her favorite opera airs and
Handel’s “ Sweet Bird ” to the same light accom-
paniments as before. And one wants a quicker
and slicker entertainment anyhow. These wire-
drawn concerts have been a great advertisement
for Dolores, whose recitals, assisted by pianist
Newell, are all prizes and no blanks.
** * *
“The Sorrows of Satan,” alleviated by
40 minutes of interval between the acts, appears
to bo doing not too badly at Melbourne Princess’s.
It is an absurd drama, but it gets some serious
applause from persons whose sense of humor has
been sadly neglected, and who accept the preten-
tious twaddle of Marie Corelli’s hero as food for
their immortal souls. The programme doesn’t
mention the name of the fiend responsible for
this theatrical structure, but it credits the founda-
tion theory to Sala’s story of “ Margaret Forster,”
and “Marie Corelli’s famous novel.” Margaret
Forster, whatever she may have been
in the long - forgotten story, is an impossible
spinster in the play. She abides with her
unsober she-male mother and her artless illegi-
timate offspring in a dirty place of residence,
where the attic is the best room in the house.
Mother (played by Alfred Tapping) bemoans her
luck, like the ordinary pantomime man in petti-
coats. She has no visible means of subsistence,
save the lodger who rents the attic, and he, being
a journalist, doesn’t pay his weekly three-and-
sixpence. Daughter Margaret has added to the
family troubles for the past five years by assisting
the insolvent lodger. She was a sinner aforetime,
but is living with mother now. Mother “sold
her” to a pompous worldling named Grafton
Lyle, to whom she, the gentle Margaret, is
indebted for a child of uncertain age, and the
child has, by the mysterious agency of Satan,
become heiress to a fortune of £BO,OOO, which
will fall due when she is 21. Satan seems to
have tied up the mysterious estate in a mystic
manner. If the infant daughter .of Shame dies
before she is 21 her wicked illegitimate father is
to get the money. The parental Grafton has
business instinct strongly developed. In the
third or fourth act he connives with old Mother
Tapping to drown the poor little ragged heiress
in the river, but when the deed is done Satan
prompts Mother Tapping to turn King’s evidence.
This by the way.
* * * *
The attic journalist doesn’t at first love
Margaret as he should. A penitent spinster with
a daughter of her own and a deplorable mother to
nag at her ought to have matrimonial attractions
for any hungry member of the press, yet Paul
Carruthers loses his heart to a Lady Delila. Lady
D. and her mama, the Countess, preceded by the
evil Grafton who bought Margaret, come toiling
up the stairs to the attic in order to give the
journalist a job. They commission him to write
a novel for £l5, and send it to Lady Delila’s
publishers. She wishes to shine as an authoress,
so she orders the young man to make the book
brilliant, but she doesn’t leave him any of the £l5
on account. Then he decides to take poison for
love of Delila, and this is the cue for a sudden
appearance of Satan. Satan presents Paul, the
journalist, with' two million pounds sterling,
and—but why dilate on what at present is
merely nonsense without a tableau ? Nor are
the Musgrove co. the right people to make a
drama of this sort look less foolish than it is.
None of the parts are played with any picturesque
force and passion to speak of. Harcourt Beatty,
as Satan, is the principal figure, but by no means
the principal failure. The names of the principal
failures are withheld from publication.
** * *
Melbourne has recovered from the horse-
fever, and the topical charm of “ The Favorite ” is
become a bitter memory of a bygone period. “ The
Favorite ” will limp from the Royal programme
on Friday. Thus far there has not been a scientific
inquiry into Dr. Willard’s lozenges. Dr. Carey
nibbles a lozenge, and declares in a dignified tone
mat it contains sufficient aconite to hang his
learned brother without the option of a fine, but
the statement needs confirmation. “Saturday
Night in London” is the drama selected by
manager Anderson for next Saturday (15th), and
full particulars of the staggering narrative may be
obtained from the advt.
#* * *
At Her Majesty’s (Melb.) the last nights
of “The Toreador” are growing old in the
announcement, but the date of that gaudy bull-
fighter’s final appearance is nob yet published to
the world.
** * *
The Bijou advt., which threatened a sud-
den cessation of “In the Soup” some time ago,
was merely a misprint and a delusion. Hawtrey
and Co. have carried their Soup comedy into a
third week, and a tired populace approves of the
effort.
at * at at
Pagel, the Strong Man from up-country,
came to town at Fitzgeralds’ Circus last Saturday.
Pagel is a fair-haired young fellow with whom no
self-respecting pressman would care to work up a
heated discussion. A blow from Panel’s arm is
guaranteed to change the political views of the
wisest legislator as soon as he recovers conscious-
ness, and a kick from either of Pagel’s supporting
pillars would cure every known disease if applied
to the patient’s stummick. The younger Hercules
differs from Sandow in all his muscular
proportions, probably. He strikes one as
having grown strong from his feet upwards.
His shoulders are only beginning to be worthy of
his thighs. In fact, Pagel is a comparatively
infant prodigy. At present his most remarkable
feats are walking up a ladder—or, rather, two
ladders—with a full-sized horse dangling from his
waist, carrying a pony and child-rider around the
arena, and lifting a youthful, %>ut substantial, lion
high above his head, even as a father raiseth his
offspring on processional occasions. _ These are
the little things that make Pagel an interesting
figure just now. Saturday’s audience saw no
reason to question his claim to the title of “Un-
rivalled,” but if Professor Miller or gigantic Jim
Kelly would care to dispute it, they can come
along and toy with the lion any evening until
further notice.
** * *
The Drews departed from the Opera House
the other night, and Wallace Brownlow is now
warbling sweetly in that part of the show which
the Drews formerly adorned. Cinquevalli con-
tinues to select new tricks from his large assort-
ment, and the other people proceed as above.
** * #
Next Saturday the delightful Dolores will
begin a farewell series of song recitals at Melb.
Town Hall, and all previous admirers of that
accomplished artist are rejoicing in the news.
Also it appears from the recent Dolores furore in
Sydney that Mdlle.’s admirers have been sound-
ing her praises with a new enthusiasm. People
who never troubled to hear her of yore are deter-
mined to hear her this trip, and the name of
Dolores looms larger than ever.
** * *
Melba's looked-for appearances in grand
opera will happen at Melbourne Princess’s some-
what earlier than was expected. Saturdays
Nov. 22nd and 29th, and the intervening
Wednesday, 26th, are the dates fixed, and mana-
ger Musgrove commits himself to the “positive
statement ” that those three dates are all he has
to offer. Three different operas or “ mixed
bills ” (the advt. gives no names) are being pre-
pared for the three nights. The price for first
choice of reserved seats is 3 guineas, second choice
costs 2 guineas, after which the humble candidate
with 1 guinea aspirations will get his chance to be
present. The person who doesn’t yearn to be
present when Melba sings in opera is socially non-
existent. He or she may be regarded as quite
dead, and of no importance.
** * #
The Adelaide Royal and Tivoli have both
been unoccupied ; the first time that such a thing
has happened to both together since F. H. Pollock
had control of the one and Rickards of the other.
This was the wily amateur’s opportunity, and one
co. of him played Gilbert’s “Broken Hearts,”
having the nerve to rechristen it ‘ ‘ The Island of
Love,” and suppress the author’s name ! Another
crowd, greatly daring, took on “Much Ado about
Nothing ” at the Ro> al on the Birthday holiday,
which also saw a farcical effusion, very fittingly
named “ Mixed,” tried at the Tivoli.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
State revenues for October, 1902, with the usual
reservation as regards Westralia, whose telegraphed
figures are just about as unintelligible as usual, the
telegram claiming that the revenue of £302,370 is £42,056
more than the £287,746 collected in October, 1901 :
Revenue Increase as compared
October, with October,
1902. 1901.
Westralia .. £302,370 .. £14,624
Tasmania .. 83,090 .. 6,373
Decrease
N.S. Wales .. 914,898 .. 18,715
Queensland .. 218,805 .. 64,185
Victoria .. 535,946 .. 73,766
This can’t be described as an extra-cheerful set of
figures. In most cases the trouble arises through the
steady reduction in the customs receipts. This is a
matter which could have been easily foreseen, and
which will grow worse instead of better. When the
supply of foreign loans falls off, Australia will need to cut
about another £7,000,000 off its imports in order that
exports may so far exceed imports that the difference
will cover interest on the foreign debt. This in itself
will greatly reduce the customs revenue. Then the loss
of border customs and the abolition of the tea and kero-
sene duties are all so much less taxes contributed by the
people, and the loss of these items, and the refusal of
most of the State Parliaments to impose sufficient new
taxes to make up the shortage, are making great havoc
of the finances.
So far as the year has gone results are about as
follows:
Increase com-
, Revenue to pared with
October, revenue to
1902. October,
1901.
N.S.W. (4 months) ..£3,431,125 .. £313,697
Westralia ( „ ) .. 1,279,085 .. 174,526
Decrease.
S.A. (3 months to 30/9/’02).. 512,784 .. 16,939
Tasmania (10 months) .. 606,882 .. 45,143
Victoria ( 4 „ ) .. 2,220,677 .. 45,212
Queensland ( ~ ) 1,009,833 .. 291,182
Only in one or two cases are the expenditure
figures available and reasonably up to date. Those for
S.A. are to 30th September only
Expen-
Revenue. diture. Surplus.
1902. 1902.
Queensland (to Oct. 31).. £1,009,833 £746,657 £263,176
Westralia ( „ ).. 1,279,085 1,134,774 144,311
Deficit.
S.A. (to Sept. 30).. 512,784 596,798 84 014
N.S.W. (to Oct. 31).. 3,431,125 4,138,129 707,004
If all the States would publish complete monthly accounts
of revenue, expenditure, and loan expenditure, and
would do it with the same promptness that N.S.W. and
Queensland show, it would be a blessing in a statistical
sense. When a huge, straggling State like Queensland
can get out its complete figures under all these headings
two days after the month closes, it is absurd to suppose
that other States can’t do likewise. The policy of Vic-
toria and Tasmania in refusing any information, and the
straggling, belated quarterly accounts of SA., which often
aren’t complete till weeks after date, are archaic devices.
The Treasurer was smarter than that in Babylon.
The surpluses and deficits compare with those
of a year ago as follows :
1901 1902 Improve-
Surplus. Surplus. ment.
Westralia (to 31st Oct.).. £81,884 £144,311 £62,427
Deficit. Deficit.
S.A. (to 30th Sept.).. 115,915 84,014 31,901
Deterio-
Surplus. Surplus, ration.
Queensland (to 31st Oct.).. 443,346 263,176 180,170
Deficit. Deficit.
N.S.W. (to 31st Oct.) .. 291,593 707,004 415,411
How N.S.W. and Queensland are likely to pan out at the
end of the financial year, next June, is a matter for much
speculation. They both closed last year with a deficit ;
and Queensland is £180,170 worse off, and N.S.W.
£415,411 worse off at the end of the first four months of
the new financial year than they were in 1901, Also,
they have both more interest to pay than they had last
year. N.S.W., with £707,004 more expenditure than
revenue in the short space of four months, presents a
wonderful prospect.
Loan expenditure is known only as regards two
States: v . •
Loan Expenditure.
4 months to 4 months to
31st October, 31st October, Increase.
1901. 1902.
N.S. Wales .. £1,054,945 £1,670,022 £615,077
Decrease.
Queensland .. 382,534 332,493 50,041
Again New South Wales shows up badly.
Treasurer Shiels, of Victoria, has issued another
lugubrious forecast re the next deficit—his fifth or sixth
forecast, and each of them more lugubrious than its pre-
decessor. Shiels how talks of a possible shortage of
£1,032,000. Seeing that the revenue has, so far, fallen by
only £45,212, and Shiels talks of nearly £600,000 more
deficit than there was last year, that long and miserable
person must intend to spend a heap of money in the
course of his retrenchment.
* • * *
The Colonial Finance, Mortgage, Invest-
ment and Guarantee Corporation (Sydney) to August,
1902 l
Liabilities, other
Loss on Depreciation Accumu- than to
Business, written off. lated loss, shareholders.
1897 .. £124,318
1898.. £4124 £2756 131,198 £67,565
1899.. 3180 4356 138,734 61,191
1900 .. 3539 1351 143,624 55,719
1901 .. 2573 2665 148,862 54,049
1902 .. 2326 6013 157,201 52,695
This unlucky finance co. is making reasonable progress at
winding up its affairs, but it isn’t paying its debts out of
earnings, which, nowadays, aren’t half sufficient to pay


TRAMWAYS. TRAMWAYS.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Proprietary, Ltd.,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material
So£~ Locomotives from 10 to 250 h.p. “a®
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel
Sleepers, Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical
advice gratuitously rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated
Catalogues and Photographic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different
parts of the World, upon application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
g
INSURE
WITH
THE
PHGEIMIX
Assurance
Company
Limited.
Annual Premium Income exceeds £1,500,000. Losses
Paid, £26,000,000. The PHOENIX covers (£102,000,000)
one-tenth of London’s Fire Insurances. The PHOENIX
is the largest purely Fire Company in the world. The
PHOENIX Policy for £3,474,030, on which premium of
£33,821 is annually paid, is the largest Policy ever issued
by any Company. Cash Bonus of 10 per cent, allowed off
all Premiums. Applications for Agencies invited.
WILLIAM N. FARMER, Manager, 17 Bond St., Sydney.
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big- prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * * •
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * •
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-street, Melbourne,
having returned from his visit to England, is now pre-
pared to purchase approved Mines and Mining Properties
situated in any part of Australasia requiring Capital for
Development and Machinery. Only genuine and
legitimate ventures, capable of bearing the strictest
examinations, will be entertained.*
* • * *
A revolution in smelting furnaces seems pro-
bable. The aid of gasoline has not been recognised.
Ernest de Beer, 439 Bourke-street, Melbourne, supplies
forms to suit assayers, which are marvellous in their
efficiency.*
* * * •
There is not a headache in a case of Invercauld
(Scotch) or Brigadier (Irish) whisky. They are mild
mellow, and matured. Bennell and Bennell, Creek St.,
Brisbane. Ina, Ooope and Co. celebrated English Pale
Ales.*
• • • •
Complaints of stagnation in the engineering
trade are as rife as ever, but, judging by the large stock
of Refrigerating and Ice-making machinery now at the
engineering works of Mephan Ferguson, Melbourne, he
must expect to do a large business in these machines
during the coming summer season. The prices for all
sizes have been greatly reduced, and purchasers are
invited to inspect and test these Refrigerators before
purchasing. This firm has also introduced up-to-date
machinery for manufacturing bolts and nuts, rivett,. Jog
spikes and every discription of ironwork.*
• * « *
The best investment in Australia is buying land
at Esperance, Western Australia, the natural port of the
Kalgoorlie goldfields. With a railway, Esperance will
become one of our busiest ports, as the trade with the
goldfields will pass through it. A permanent survey is
now being made. The railway is a certainty. Get in
early and make a fortune by purchasing a few blocks
before the great rush sets in. Price, £2O block; terms,
£1 a month. Write for plans and particulars to The
Perth Land Company, 101 Swanston-sbreet, Melbourne.*
• • * *
Many doubtful claims have been advanced on
behalf of duplex pumps. Some makers state that their
duplex pumps are “ double the capacity of single pumps
of same diameter and stroke.” An A. S. Cameron single-
acting pump can be run safely and comfortably at a speed
that would knock a duplex pump to pieces. But even at
a low speed, duplex pumps seldom attain even their
theoretical capacities, and the reason for this can be
readily explained. Apply to the Agents, Messrs. W. and
J. Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, for
further particulars. The A. S. Cameron pumps are noted
for their simplicity, durability, and absence of outside
valve gear.*
* » • *
New patents of great importance have lately
been granted to the Wilfley Ore Concentrator Syndicate
Limited, and all Wilfley tables after this date will embody
same. The Austral Otis Company of South Melbourne,
who are the sole Australasian manufacturers, are now
building the new pattern, which are considerably
stronger than the old pattern. Improvements have
been made in the head motion, which is stronger and
simpler, the working table is now mounted on an
intermediate frame, with wedge adjustments at either
side so arranged that the movement of the adjusting
lever raises one side and lowers the other at the same
time. The table top can now either be laid quite flat or
inclined at a very considerable angle. Futher improve-
ments have been made in the feed distributing box and
wash water launder, and also in the middlings launder
and elevator wheel; these improvements increase the
capacity of the table, and the concentrating work is
more efficient.*
* • • •
To Mine Managers who use Suction, Drill or
Air Hose, Packing, Valves, etc. The Dunlop Rubber
Mills, Melbourne, want your business. In return they
offer you the finest rubber goods in Australasia, at
prices unequalled by any other house. Depots all States.
Samples and Prices an application. One trial solicited.*
* » * •
The Stock Exchange, London, writes of the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society’s latest report:—
“ The Colonial Mutual is too well known to be in need of
any recommendation either from, the point of financial
stability or the attractiveness of its policies which
embody every clause of importance and value to their
holders.*
• * * m
From Yodda Valley, B.N. Guinea, Sept. 26:
Interesting record for Yodda goldfield for the last eight
days—one natural death, two suicides, and 12 departures.
Population now dwindled to 45 or 46. Outside natives
(“ Bishop’s lambs ”) looting miners’ camps daily. Must
be a burst-up shortly among natives or miners—which ?
Govt, still sitting tight in its “ masterly inactivity.”
Why doesn’t the Commonwealth put the retrenchment
idea into force in this benighted land ? Something would
be done for the country then. The place is used at
present merely as a dumping-ground for favored indivi-
duals whose only qualification is influence.
» » *
Apropos Labor-member Griffith’s Bill in N.S.W.
Assembly to authorise the Savings Bank trustees to lend
on first mortgage. Of £3,942,032 at the disposal of the
S.A. Savings Bank at the end of its last year, £1,359,350
was out on mortgage. The bank started to lend in ’4B ;
for several years it got 10 per cent., but now the rate is
down to 4. The bank, which has a reserve fund of
£121,000, is remarkably popular; it has no less than
111,537 depositors in a total population of 364,000, as
against N.S. Wales’ 306,311 in a total of 1,379,700. Its
record, in the teeth of S. Australia’s gloomy history, is
all in favor of Griffith’s bill.
The decadence of the port of London is
marked. The P. and O. Co. will shortly abandon
London as a home port. At present the co. is
having four vessels built on the Clyde, and two at
Belfast, which will be unable to enter the Royal
Albert dock. This will mean a loss to London
of the despatch of 100 vessels a year. Twenty
years ago the P. and O. Co. left Southampton in
favor of London, owing to inadequacy of wharfage
facilities, but since then Southampton has pro-
gressed and London has stood still. Now, the co.
will go back to Southampton, where the docking
facilities are unequalled, and the dues 50 per cent,
less. The Thames will lose other steamship ter-
minal advantages as soon as existing contracts
expire.
INSIST ON GETTING;
f
SuFCBRABP
K
g
GreenMamgo.Cajhmere,
_ -* MADRASI . M
AH Grocery arid^roreKWEEveryuil]eVe.
office expenses (net earnings, £509; office expenses,
£1062). Its resource lies in the possession of a very solid
and honest body of shareholders, whose manful paying of
calls just about keeps the paid-up capital ahead of the
deficit. The record for the last five years reads thus :
Accumulated Paid-up Deficit.
Loss. Capital.
1898 .. £131,198 £127,859 £3,339
1899 .. 138,734 137,334 1,400
Surplus.
1900 „ 143.624 146,806 3,182
1901 .. 148,862 153,676 4,814
1902 .. 157,201 159,315 2,114
With this co., like many other ruins of the boom, as the
concern grows smaller, and the assets less, and the
deposits are paid off, the business becomes too diminu-
tive to justify office expenses, and the gas bill and taxes
and sundries eat up the income. If a dozen or two of
the liquidating concerns in either Sydney or Melbourne
could agree to share an office and a manager and a gas
bill among them, it would be a great economy. When
things get down so far that it costs £1062 in office charges
to earn £509 net income, liquidation is a costly business.
*'* * »
During the last seven years Australasia has
carried its load of debt with comparative ease—by bor-
rowing and spending on public works almost sufficient
money to pay the interest. It is always easy to pay the
interest when the money to pay it with is borrowed.
There are degrees in profligacy, however, and the follow-
ing table shows, as nearly as possible, to what extent the
various States met their obligations, or didn’t meet them,
out of their own resources :
Seven Years— lB96 to 1902 Inclusive.
Interest, &c.,
Interest and Loan paid out
Sinking Fund Expendi- of State’s
paid. ture. own
Victoria .. £13,426,624 £4,596,931 £8,829,693
S.A 6,925,408 3,387,287 3,538,121
Queensland.. 9,436,191 7,288,729 2,147,462
Maoriland .. 12,220,074 10,948,792 1,271,282
Tasmania .. 2,247,467 1,316,590 930,877
N.S. Wales.. 17,049,213 16,293,876 755,337
Influx of Loans
in excess of
Interest going
out.
Westralia .. 2,719,237 10,108,655 7,389,418
£64,024,214 £53,940,860 £10,083,354
These figures (compiled from Ooghlan’s “ Statistics of the
Six States of Australia and Maoriland ”) show that only
£10,083,354, out of £64,024,214 due on interest and sinking
fund during the last seven years, was paid out of the
country’s own resources. When the borrowing boom
collapses, the seven States must find nearly £8,000,000
more per annum than they have been doing of late —
must export £8,000,000 worth more, which means an
immense amount more work ; or must import £8,000,000
worth less, which means a great deal less luxury.
Victoria paid more of its liabilities out of its
own earnings than all the other States put together ;
while, among the six States which paid anything at all,
N.S.W. paid the least. Of course, Victoria has had a
rather hard time—the small State which pays £8,829,693
can’t be reasonably expected to feel so affluent as the
big one, which pays only £755,337 and owes the rest.
Any semblance of prosperity which has been created in
N.S.W. is almost wholly through postponing payment of
the interest-bill (for borrowing the money to pay it with is
postponing it), though it is cheerfully set down by the
Reids and M'Millans, and Joe Cooks and Smiths (Bruce
and Pumpkin), to the beneficent effects left behind by
the State’s alleged Freetrade policy. The course of Aus-
tralia’s alleged prosperity can almost be traced in these
figures. The greatest increase of population is in the
States which borrowed most money with which to supply
temporary artificial employment for their people, and
prevent them going elsewhere ; the smallest increase was
where there was least artificial employment. The biggest
boom and the biggest borrowing went together—the boom
was where the people paid least of their liabilities by hard
work. When the supply of loans gives out, two, at least,
of the States—Westralia and N.S.W.—have an awfnl
distance to fall, and a pretty hard place to fall on.
• * • *
Premier Barton explains that while in England
he engaged an actuary to report on the question of
federalising the State debts. His report isn’t expected
for some months. It is a pity Mr. Barton doesn’t explain
what use an English actuary can be in such a case. The
only thing that he can report on is the possible conver-
sion of the debts—conversion being, as a rule, a process
by which the amount of the debt is increased in order to
secure a reduction of interest, and that means that,
indirectly, a certain portion of the interest is added to
the total of the debt. It is, in almost every case, another
version of the swindle of passing the bill on to posterity.
The simple, honest process requires no elaborate
actuarial report. That is:
To take over the State debts as they fall due.
To convert them, as they become due, into 3 per cent.
Federal stock fixed for, say, 25 years, and repayable
thereafter at the option of the Commonwealth.
To establish a substantial sinking fund for the repay-
ment of the Federal debt thus created, this being made
part of the bargain with the stock holders.
To make it a further condition that, except in case of
war, the Federal Government will incur no new debt
until the liability created by the taking over of the State
debts is paid off. That would make them a perpetual
first charge on the Federal revenue, and on that basis
they could be converted as they fall due at a, very cheap
rate.
Australia doc ;’*• require just now any expensive
actuary to devise a new financial fake. All it needs is a
fixed resolve to be honest, courageous and energetic, and
to pay its way for the future out of its own earnings.
* * 41 *
The Wickham and Bullock Island Coal Co.
(Newcastle district, N.S.W.) has had another unprofitable
half-year, though it is a distinct improvement on its still
more unprofitable predecessor :
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
£ £ £
March, 1900.. 1,511
~ . lono o l2Jp.c. = 1,250\ ~,
Sept., 1900..3,5l7| Ordinaryj ,,3,323) *55
Deficit.
March,1901..2,-yg} 883
Reserves.
D . IQnl „ /Preference, 12Jp.c. = 1,250\ t 88R
Sept., 1901..6,5U| ordinary> 6 a „ 2,492) hSSG
Loss.
March, 1902.. 1,661 Nil 225
Sept., 1902.. 25 Nil 200
The value of coal produced was nearly £4OOO in excess of
the figure for. previous half-year, and as new seams are
being opened up, it is hoped that things will be better by
next March. The want of a reserve fund (unless there is
one concealed somewhere) is a great defect of this co.
Every mining co. is liable to strike periods of dead work,
when a reserve, invested in liquid securities, is most
valuable.
• * * *
The long-continued drought has hit the Sydney
softgoods houses badly. But the prevailing stagnation is
ascribed to Federation and the tariff, for your calico man
tries his hardest to believe that things are all right in the
country ; neither he nor his principals in England want to
believe anything else. At this time last year the ware-
houses were inordinately busy disposing of goods that
had been housed prior to the tariff, and in a great num-
ber of cases these “free lines” were sold with the duty
added—sometimes with the duty added two or three
times over. Big turnovers at that time, and the continued
drought since, have enormously curtailed the volume of
this year’s trade, and now retrenchment is the order of
the day. One warehouse has recalled two travellers (each
traveller with his railway-fares, expenses, freights, salary
and commission costs his firm £lOOO a year) and dismissed
several indoor hands. Another house has made a big cut
on all the high salaries, while from a third a departmental
head has been despatched post haste to Maoriland to try
and dispose of heavy surplus stock.
The City op Brisbane Building Society (Bris-
bane), completed its fourth year on 30th September, 1902:
Carried
Dividend and to Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves. Deficit.
Preliminary
Expenses £42
Sept., 1899 £6O 5 per cent. =£36 £24 18
„ 1900 123 5 „ „ 108 15 3
Reserves.
„ 1901 188 6 „ „ 167 21 18
„ 1902 206 5 „ „ 199 7 25
This can’t be described as very rapid progress—still, in a
small, unobtrusive sort of way, something is being done.
The worst feature is that the surplus, after paying the 5
per cent, dividend, was smaller last year than on any
previous occasion. The paid-up capital is £4967 while the
deposits are only £BO9, so the institution can face a run
on the part of its depositors with equanimity.
• * • •
Broken Hill: B.H. Prop., straining to keep up
its half-yearly div., is sending record quantities of stuff
to the smelters, and its pay-sheet was never heavier.
The South has started its new shaft at last. By a strange
coincidence, a decline in the value of ore sent to the mill
is announced at the same time—a gentle hint to the eon-
tribs., perhaps, that the directors still look to them to pay
the bill. But, in spite of the poorness of its ore for
silver, the South is a great mine. Two years
ago lead was £l7 15s. ; now it is anything between
£lO 12s. 6d. and £lO 17s. 6d. But spelter, which
was £lB 17s. two years ago, is steady at £l9 6s. 3d.
now. This, the lowering of freights, and a fair amount of
success in experimenting with magnetic concentration at
the German zinc works, have led to the shipping of
another plant to Australia, and a start may be made again
at zinc-saving about April next. For the present the
mining cos. themselves are doing nothing with their
“ zincs,” though it is said the Sulphide Corporation has
plans for the future. These German metallurgists, by
the way, deserve success. Apart from continuous ex-
periments in Europe they have kept their works and a
staff going on the spot for nearly three years.— —
Miners’ member Estell has a Bill before N.S.W. Parliament,
probably suggested by a recent incident, and calculated
to make the mine-manager who “ hasn’t had no book-
learning” squirm. Under the Coal Mines Regulation
Act, a manager or an under-manager must have either a
service or an examination certificate. Estell proposes
that within three years the man with the service paper
shall be required to also have one of the other sort.
A little, rare black opal was got at White Cliffs (N.S.W.)
lately. Good specimens are worth from 10 to 15 times
their weight in gold.
• * * »
Work has been suspended at the Sydney Harbor
Collieries, Balmain, pending the raising of additional
capital. £115,000 has been spent, and it is estimated
that £85,000 more will be required. It is assumed that
there will be no difficulty on this score. Co. will have
to be reconstructed, so that the men who now stand on
velvet may be made to pay their fair proportion of the
cost, or debentures will have to be issued, in which case
the men who have already subscribed over £lOO,OOO may
be “jockeyed” out of the concern. Co. is in 50,000
shares of £lO each, 34,000 of which are “ preference,”
which evidently means that they were issued as paid-up
and preferential in the matter of profits. No considera-
tion for these privileges is disclosed ; it was probably
merely the transfer of the right to mine for coal under
the harbor. The holders of these shares are the men who
should now be made put up some cash or retire.
* * * *
All Cobar mines, except the copper mine, are
again at a standstill for want of water. Occidental
managed to run its mill for 21 days for 380 oz. gold, not
including cyanide return. Some day the politicians will
realise that Oobar is a place of sufficient importance to
warrant provision being made for a permanent supply of
water from one of the rivers, or from artesian bores. The
present calamity evokes no interest in political circles,
but if a question as to the slag-wheelers’ pay were raised
there would be no end of fuss. All the sympathy is for
the few men who are in work, and not for the hundreds
for whom work would be available were the field provided
with an adequate water supply.
• * * *
“Subscriber”: The highest recorded sales of
W.A. stocks named from 1899 to date are : Associated,
£l3 16s. ; Horseshoe, £l7 17s. 6d. ; Boulder, £2 Is. 3d.;
Perseverance, £l6; Fingall, £l4 ss. ; Ivanhoe, £lB 11s.;
L.Y. Consols, £2B 7s. 6d. ; Kalgurli, £l3 10s. ; S. Kalgurli,
£7 10s. ; Brownhill, £l4 ss. ; Oroya, £4 12s. 6d. With the
exception of Fingall, all these sales were made in 1899.
» • • *
Island Eureka (W.A.) return for Oct., 420 tons
for 5510 z., is up to the usual average. There has been a
big slump in the value of shares, for which no satisfactory
reason has been assigned. On official reports this looked
like a show which was good for at least a three years’
purchase at the current rate of div. Stock exchanges
have been trying for official information as to the con-
dition of the mine, but so far have failed to get any satis-
faction ; there seems to be more circumlocution in con-
nection with co.’s business than there is in any Govern-
ment department.
* • * »
Some W. A. returns for Oct.: Perseverance,
11,381 tons, 16,5790 z.; Ivanhoe, 11,159 tons, 12,4100 z. ;
Fingall, 7643 tons, 12,2380 z.; Lake View, 6604 t0n5,67200z.;
Sons of Gwalia, 7893 tons, 55710 z.; Associated, 4826 tons,
55410 z.; Kalgurli, 3765 tons, 37860 z.; Princess Royal,
1750 tons, 23920 z.; Bellevue, 1800 tons, 15170 z.; Ida H.,
1120 tons, 12470 z.; White Feather, 1650 tons, 12070 z. ;
Horseshoe, 11,286 tons, 16,0560 z.; Boulder, 9220 tons,
14,5170 z.; Associated Northern, 2346 tons, 10,3180 z.
» * * *
Lady Shenton, Menzies (W. A.), for year ended
March 31, treated 14,516 tons for 22,5780 z. of gold, worth
£75,301; working expenses, £67,201, or £4 12s. Bd. per
ton. Value of a ton of ore was £5 3s. 10d., so net profit
was £BlOO, or Us. 2d. per ton. By taking £5OOO from re-
serve and adding £ll,BOO brought forward, the credit
balance was increased to £24,900, out of which two divs.,
totalling £12,000, were paid. Had it not been for accu-
mulated tailings, the year would have ended with a loss
on operations of £5700, as 13,600 tons of old tail-
ings yielded 46000 z., worth £13,800. After treating
this lot, another 13,000 tons remained for current year.
Amount written off for depreciation was quite inadequate,
as the plant, besides being obsolete, is now only fit for
the scrap heap. This is self-evident from the fact that
the 33-head mill treated but 1210 tons monthly, or a daily
duty per stamp of 1.3 tons only, probably the poorest
showing of any battery in the State. A London journal
suggests the firing out of the three colonial directors, on
the plea that “ although admittedly, in many respects,
estimable gentlemen, they seem deficient in technical
knowledge of mining.” Has any one of the London
Board ever seen a gold-mine in his life, or does any of
them possess any knowledge whatever of mining ? 00.
has declared its 16th div. of Is. per share, or £BOOO, pay-
able on Nov. sth, also ,the result of treating old tailings
now practically exhausted. 00. is on the verge of bank-
ruptcy, as its assets are grossly over-valued, consisting as
they do of worn-out machinery, depleted stopes, and
various holes in the ground. Without the old tailings,
the monthly yield will only reach 12000 z., or barely loz.,
or £3 7s. 6d. per ton, while the costs will be nearly £1
more, judging from past figures.
W » * •
r Golden Link Consols, Kalgoorlie(W.A.), having
failed in its attempt to issue debentures, is to reconstruct
once more. New co. will have 500,000 shares of £1 each,
paid up to 18s. The assessment of 25., if fully met, will
realise £50,000, which directors “ confidently anticipate
will lead to divs.”—not liquidation divs. When the issue
of debentures was decided upon, a short time ago, a new
reef was conveniently found on the Eclipse lease, and the
May plant was installed to treat the ore. Since then,
little has been heard of the reef, and the May plant has
proved a white elephant. To assist the reconstruction
scheme similar tactics are now being pursued, and rumors
of a nice find in the Golden Link lease are being circu-
lated. Already over £250,000 has been spent by the co.
without practical result, except to prove the property
a “ cat.” Co. has been in existence in various forms
since Sept., 1894, and, on an average, over £30,000 a year
has been spent since then. Golden Sink would be an ap-
propriate name for the mine.
Great efforts are being made to keep Horatio
Bottomley’s Associated Financial Co. above ground.
During the last 12 months £126,000 out of the authorised
issue of £160,000 debentures have been placed, and
attempts are being made to place the remaining £24,000.
As an inducement, the £lOO scrip is offered at £7O, to-
gether with 50 fully-paid £1 shares in the Associated Mt.
Jackson, W.A. D. D. Rosew f arne, the consulting
engineer of the co., some three months ago reported:
“ Mill trial satisfactory ; three shifts to be run in future.”
Since then no returns have been published, but Rose-
warne now says “that co. intend erecting a cyanide
plant, and removing and renovating the battery.” The
Trafalgar, Kalgoorlie, W.A., the other prop of the co.,
during year developed 579 ft., at a cost of £7605, equiva-
lent to J’ 13 a foot. Ore at grass was estimated at 65 tons,
worth 25dwt. per ton. This has since been treated at
Boulder No. 1 battery, but result not published. Rose-
warne left for London on Nov. 3rd, to appease wrathful
shareholders with sweet words, in which he will be ably
backed by the great Bottomley.
• * » •
Boulder Perseverance, after a secret existence
of over seven years, has at last been thrown open to a
pressman. As six levels, extending to about 1J miles,
were negotiated inside a couple of hours, and the infor-
mation published was supplied en bloc by the mine
officials, the report, as an expression of outside opinion,
is absolutely valueless. So far as can be ascertained, bj r
leakage, the mine is looking as well as, or even better
than, ever, and the recent big drop in scrip must be
attributed to London manipulation.
* • • •
Long Reef, Lennonville (W.A.), controlled by-
Bewick, Moreing and Co., has again come to the end of
its tether. The mill was closed down in March after
depletion of reserves, but was re-started in June on ore
from the Galtee More, acquired from Kearney for £3400
cash and 16,600 shares, after 8., M. and Co. had abandoned
an option on the lease at a much lower figure. Since its
acquisition about 8000 tons have been treated for 4000 oz.
B.M. and Co. are now said to be negotiating with Kearney
for his Wheel of Fortune North lease in same district. As
crushings from this property have ranged from 7oz. to
lOoz. per ton for large parcels, it will need a fortune to
buy it. At the 300 ft. level the ore is so rich that the face
has been boarded up till Kearney’s return from his honey-
moon trip to Ireland.
* • » *
Lake View manager states that the mine is only
about to begin its career as a gold-producer. He bases
this opinion on development in several sections of the
mine. But this is a somewhat familiar story. It is not
so long since Lake View was to produce at least half-
a-ton of gold per month and to continue to do so for
several years. The performance did not equal the
promise for as many months.
« * * •
Great Boulder cut the lode at 1500 ft., 9ft. wide,
assaying 35dwts. At 1600 ft. the diamond drill proved
over lift, of ore, worth about 25dwts. per ton. The lode
is nearer the shaft at 1600 ft. than it is at 1500 ft. This is
an important feature, as it removes the fear that the
lode would dip out of the Boulder into the Horseshoe.
It is not intended to crosscut for the lode at 1600 ft. at
present. There could be no more solid proof than this
that the co. must have very extensive ore bodies in
reserve in the levels above.
« • • *
Latest cable from London reports sales of Briseis
at 11s. as against local sales at 14s. Evident that London
knows more than has been told to Australian share-
holders. Local report is that cost of removing over-
burden is nearly double original estimate, and now it is
semi-officially stated that the tin drift is not as easily dis-
integrated as was anticipated. All that is needed now to
knock timid holders out of Briseis is a decline in the value
of tin, and then the smart men will have their chance to
scoop the pool.
• • • •
Victoria Caledonia is responsible for a little
scandal which has shocked all Charters Towers pro-
prieties. Directors admit that gold was kept back from
Aug. and Sept, crushings to average later returns, some
of which, instead of being lfoz. per ton, as reported, were
less than ljoz. There is nothing very objectionable in
this system of averaging returns, provided shareholders
are made aware of the fact. V.C. directors would have
escaped much bitter criticism had they not observed a
policy of secrecy. A few weeks ago shares were worth
345. ; now they stand at about 11s.
* * • •
Queensland returns for October: Charters
Towers—33,9osoz., divs. £26,238, calls £11,829 ; Gympie—
-17,0390z5., divs. £25,800, calls £6195; Mt. Morgan—
-13,8160z5., divs. £12,500; Ravenswood—s3Bsozs. ; Croy-
don —53650z5.
* • * *
Mr. Trent, ex-manager of N. Lyell, forwards to
Tub Bulletin from Salt Lake, U.S.A., copy of a lengthy
“ final report ” which he has addressed to the London
shareholders. It is a lively epistle which tends to convey
the impression that there was only one honest, capable
man ever associated with the show, and if he had been
allowed to exercise his judgment it would now be a
big profit-earner instead of being practically bankrupt.
The report bristles with references to “ rascals,”
“thieves,” “lunatics,” “vampires,” “vultures,” “sharks,”
“drunkards,” “lazy, worthless, religious partisans,” and
altogether is an aggregation of serious allegations the like
of which, probably, were never made against any other
co. “I charged crime and malfeasance enough in my
reports to have filled Newgate with scoundrels.” If one
third of the charges recited could be proved in a court of
law this assertion would be fully warranted. “An im-
partial investigation of the affairs of the co. will reveal
a condition of management that would startle and
amaze the most expert mine and market-rigger.”
With such a sensational document before them, it is
hardly conceivable that London shareholders will remain
inactive, more particularly as Mr. Trent challenges
inquiry—“ lam quite prepared to appear before the most
capable metallurgists and engineers of Great Britain and
defend my position, and I have no fear of their verdict.”
Trent describes the mine as a “splendid one, without
peer in Australasia, and if the works designed by me were
restored to their original and intended condition, and
operated by experienced men, and the mine economically
managed, it could produce copper as cheaply as any mine
in the world; the entire cost should not exceed £37105. per
ton of copper sold in London. Nothing but the unusual and
overwhelmingly bad management has prevented the
mine from yielding liberal divs. in spite of the disastrous
railway, ship, and port expenditures, and the continual
bleeding by the vampires and sharks.”
• * * *
On the strength of statements made at the Star
of the East meeting on 30th September last, Bulletin
congratulated Ballarat on the prospect of having a per-
manent productive mine different from the usual will-o-
the-wisp concern—divs. to-day and calls to-morrow.
It now seems that the congratulation was pre-
mature. It was stated that there were 70,000
tons of ore of satisfactory grade in sight, but
successive crushings since have shown a diminution in
quality down to the point which is only payable, and
further, the inevitable cross-course is introduced to
account for falling off in quantity of ore available. Shares
have had a big fall, and scrip holders who voted a hand-
some premium to the chairman in contemplation of the
alleged excellent prospects must feel rather sick. Never
be grateful before the div.
• • * •
Electric Dredging Co., Otago (M.L.), won
£63,010 worth of gold in 3 years, and paid £44,000 in divs.
Last year Nelson Greek dredge, Grey River, yielded
35570 z., and £BOOO was paid in divs. Sept, returns
from 126 M.L. dredges, 16,3690 z. ; average per dredge,
130 oz. ; divs., £19,349. A local writer thinks that “it is
not an exaggerated estimate to say th t, in the not
remote future, the gold dredges of M.L. will add
£1,000,000 in value to the annual gold returns.”
• • * •
The great tobacco fight in England is over— the
American Tobacco Go. has been absorbed by the Imperial
Tobacco Go. The agreements were signed on 30th Sept.,
and by them the whole of the British interests of the
American co. (including Ogdens, Ltd.) have been bought
by the English co. The two co’s. have entered into a
compact re the tobacco trade of the rest of the world,
and the export business of both will be amalgamated
under the name of the British-American Tobacco Co.,
Ltd., with a capital of £6,000,000.
V * • •
“One striking feature of the gold-dredging
industry of California is the fact that stock in a gold-
dredging company has never been offered to the general
public before or after operations were begun. All com-
panies are close corporations, all have been intelligently
and efficiently managed, and all appear to have been
financially successful so far.” So says an American paper.
No Australian or Maoriland paper could truthfully make
similar statements.


111 1 m
i|g|§g
BiiWSii
David Jones & Co.
“ORIENT” BOOTS/
Special Purchase of American =
made Boots, Black or Brown
Vici Kid,
Price
21/
By Post
22 /-
George Sts.
0 *
“ Is it all right, Edith 1 ”
“Yes, mamma. Don’t move—it’s just splendid ! ”
Such an expression of satisfaction and pleasure is universal with all who
use any of Harrington’s Photographic Outfits. Our Cameras represent the
world’s best makers, and comprise the latest and best styles, ranging at
almost any price from 5/- up to £5O. Every conceivable Photo.-requisite.
Harrington & Co., Ltd.
66 King-street, Sydney ; and
93 Queen-street, Brisbane.
Society
The ethics of the jury-room have been
under hot discussion at Broken Hill. In a big
and sensational case 11 were for acquittal and
one wasn’t, so, the jury disagreeing, accused was
bound over for another trial, and another trial out
there means at least £2OO, even though the man
should be found not guilty. The 11 therefore
debated whether they ought not to send the facts
to the Attorney-General before he decided on a
second trial, or whether they should “ respect the
secrecy of the jury-room,” and let ordinary pro-
cesses go on. And, of course, when they started
to debate it the public soon knew all about the
division, including the odd man’s name ; where-
upon everybody in the district with a name any-
thing like that advertised that he wasn’t the
person referred to, and the person himself replied
that it wasn’t at all likely these others would be
mistaken for him. So one crowd is declaring that
it’s an awful thing wlien jury-room confidences are
broken and conscientious jurors are intimidated ;
and another crowd is declaring just as vehemently
that it’s another awful thing when a man is
refused his liberty and fined £2OO because of the
obstinacy of one man in 12.
* • • *
The idea of the dour Mr. Affleck, M.P.,
that the cutting off of refreshments from outsiders
on Sundays will drive them into church is as old
as the Government of N.S.W. Pious Governors
frequently did it in the days of the “Settlement.”
Soon after the first chaplain abortively opened
business Gov. Phillip issued the order that con-
victs who did "«t go to be saved were to be docked
A HELPING HAND.
HE : “ When I hold your little hand I could
almost ”
SH E: “ Well, if I gave you the other one, too, do
you, think you could quite, George, dear?”
of their allowance of flour. Even then a third of
them preferred secular relaxation. On the other
hand, a proposal was made that a gill of rum
should be dispensed to every devout attendant,
but the Rev. Johnson scouted that as a Satanic
suggestion, and so the fight has gone on right
down to the days of Wully Affleck and John See.
* * * •
Congested court business is a periodic
trouble in N.S.W., and has been so since the
earliest times. The generation of judges just
passed away used to know few holidays in the
twelvemonth. Some of them sat all the year round.
Still earlier the congestion was greater. Judge-
Advocate Collins taking his seat on the bench
used almost daily to complain of the quantity
of business, and in desperation finally struck out a
new method of work. When the cases were listed
he ran through them with his pen, setting down
convicts and ex-convicts to be tried by magistrates
and reserving for his own court charges against
freemen, or as he termed them “ respectable per-
sons.” Even charges of murder were thus tried
by magistrates in Judge Collins’ days.
Haines, the man shot dead in Centennial
Park, Sydney, t’other night, seems to have de-
served his fate. Evidence given at the inquest
showed that he was one of a band of alleged men
who prowled round the park of nights ‘ ‘ foxing ”
amorous couples. Though only a carter (getting,
probably, about £2 a week), Mr. Haines seems to
have been able to maintain a good deal of style : he
kept a cavalry charger and was in the fashion-
able Lancers’ regiment (which now, by the way,
threatens to more or less disband if it is robbed of
its gaudy trappings by a retrenching Govern-
ment). There’s no suggestion to give Haines a
military funeral; though he died bravely—crawl-
ing towards a Centennial Park kopje to recon-
noitre and listen for the voice of Love.
This “ foxing ” was quite a business. Strangely
enough some of the beings engaged in it came for-
ward to give evidence at the inquest. One said
that there were eight or nine of them in one band;
they watched the couples for amusement and made
no money out of it (a likely yarn, that!); they
averaged three nights a week at the business.
Several of them owned up to having been fired at
now and again ; they seemed to look upon that as
part of the legitimate risk.
One of the “ foxing” witnesses at the Centennial
Park inquest evoked a neat retort from a juryman :
Witness : He had been touting about 12 months, and
never thought his life was in danger. He Hsed to crawl
on his hands and knees to a couple, and then he would
crawl away again.
A juryman : Like a reptile.
The reptiles, by the way, were known as “The
Social Purity Society of the Centennial Park.”
* * *■> * •
“ L.W.” on the “ foxer ” :
The sudden death (per bullet) of Lancer Haines in
Sydney Centennial Park has aroused a widespread public
interest in the business of “foxing.” Most people have
a fixed impression that the foxer is always a blackmailer.
That isn’t true, though, unfortunately for the posthumous
reputation of Mr. Haines, there seems much reason to
surmise that he belonged to the smaller section of
the great order of foxers which makes money out
of the pastime. But there is another class of foxers
created by the insatiable greed to look upon the
hidden thing's of life which is so common a trait. ’Twas
that which made Zola a “great” novelist, and makes
John Norton a power in the land. It fills to overflowing
the six-women-in-tights-and-a-lewd-joke theatre whilst
the artistic comedy co. goes empty away. It sells the
crude and indecent transparency for a guinea a dozen
while a whole book of beautiful and clean artistic studies
brings only a miserable half-crown. Few people are
really free from the morbid craving, and many of these
are free only with the freedom of satiety. TheSdifference
between the man who sneaks along on his Reptilian
waistcoat to watch the amorous couple under the fig tree
and the other disreputable citizen who gloats over the
detailed descriptions of sin in a police-oourt-and-legs
organ is only one of courage. The man in the park risks
his own life ; the other fellow, in the deck chair on the
balcony, risks those of newspaper employees. Stroll
around the dark places of Sydney Domain (which are full of
iniquity every night) between 8 and 9.30, there will be dis-
covered a number of portly citizens, smoking choice cigars,
wearing slouch hats and armed with night-glasses. The
copper on the beat touches his hat to them, and never
interferes with the couples in their vicinity. They smoke
silently, the night-glasses sweep the shaded spots beneath
the trees, and the atmosphere is full of suppressed
chucklings and the smacking of old, thick lips. Those
portly citizens are gentlemen of wealth and influence.
Yes, foxing is a most disreputable practice, but if the
names of all the people who practise it were published,
many would declare that there must be something laud-
able about a pastime that is under such distinguished
patronage.
* • * *
A sample of Minister Bent’s alleged
Vic. railway reforms is shown on the Ararat
to Portland line. Although wool and chaff
■were fairly pouring in to the various stations
and “ starvers ” were being unloaded in thousands,
the binjied blusterer stopped two ordinary daily
trains. Results —first, blocked-up stations, then
a stream of “ specials ” to get the line clear.
With the cancellation of the ordinaries the station-
master’s assistants were also withdrawn and now
weary-eyed S. M’s—the night-duty is incessant —
stumble blindly about scarcely comprehending
whether they are pulling the right lever or not.
This line, which a ganger avers is the rottenest he
ever worked on, is already notorious for minor
accidents.
• • » *
A Victorian railway employee writes to
the Abgus :
I have the honor to be employed in the Railway De-
partment, and my hours of labor are as follows : —Early
shift—don’t forget, early shift—half-past 5 a.m. till a
quarter to 12 a.m., and 4 p.m. till 7 p.m., first week;
second week, late shift, half-past 1 p.m. till the finish,
which might be 11 p.m., half-past 11 p.m., or 1 a.m. ;
third week, half-past 5 a.m. to half-past 12 p.m. I never
get away till a quarter-past 1 p.m. on this shift. Then
back again from 4 p.m. till 6 p.m. Fourth week, half-
past 1 p.m. till finish. While I am working these small
hours I am followed about by a stationmaster, head
porter, and platform inspector. We receive 6s. per day,
five days a week. I have a wife and four children ; pay 10s.
a week rent, Is. 3d. lodge ; I am compelled to pay £2 12s.
per year compulsory insurances, and Bs. a month fares. I
ask any fair-minded man if he thinks we are over-paid or
under-worked at this station.
And this is the class that Thomas of the Stomach
is retrenching ?
» » • •
The Australian prison system of identifi-
cation. The Victorian detective dept, holds half-
a-dozen descriptions of one noted criminal. The
Ehotos are fairly good, but one document describes
im as being sft. 9in. high; a second, sft. Bin.;
and a third, sft. 6|in. A good-conduct prisoner
often takes the measurements, and amuses himself
by mixing up his friend’s identifications.
AT THE CUP.
“ Why did yer lift yer hat, Casey, when the favorite passed?”
“ I always pay rispiek to the dead.”
An interesting feature of the recent
* ‘ Selina Sangal ” meeting in Sydney Town Hall
was Dr. M‘Carthy’s advancement of the hypothesis
that Selina Sangal suffered from nymphomania,
supported by quotations from Taylor’s Medioal
Jurisprudence. Taylor is not the latest —perhaps
not the best —writer on legal medicine; but he,
like all the rest, maintains that criminals are all
more or less insane. When that lesson shall have
been learned, we shall have the whole science of
penology in a nutshell. There is not another
word to be said about it.
• • • •
Melbourne Herald, which practically
engineered a local movement for Selina Sangal's re-
prieve, was shocked by the fact that while most of
its male correspondents favored the course of
mercy, nine women out of ten badly wanted Selina
hanged. Many yearned to give the rope an extra
jerk themselves, while a few favored an antici-
patory course of torture. Some ministering angels
wanted the new-born babe chloroformed or
strangled also!
• * • s *
Wise’s N.S.W. State Children Bill com-
promises on what is known as Section XVI. This
clause in the 1900 Act, allows the
S.O. Board to pay allowances to
“ deserted wives, and deserving
widows ” for their children.
Under this provision consider-
able imposition has been prac-
tised, and it is difficult, more
especially in the cases of the
deserted wives, to check it. A
man earning 255. a week, with
five children to keep, knows
that if he clears out the State
will pay, say, 12s. 6d. a week
to his deserted spouse, and
that fact very often invites
him to go. So in the new Bill,
all these cases come before a
special and private court (estab-
lished by the Bill) when evi-
dence is given on oath. An
attempt was made in the
Leg. Council to exempt
widows from this court busi-
ness, but unsuccessfully.
Some very queer cases come
under this clause. Recently a
woman with a large family applied
for aid. She had been married
twice, the second time believing
her first husband dead. After some time he re-
appeared and, Enoch Arden-like, disappeared again
at the sight of hubby No. 2. The woman has now
conscientious objections to returning to the second
one, and he objects to supporting a house and
home where admittance on the footing, of a hus-
band is refused. Query: Is the applicant a
“deserted wife”?
« * • •
The bewitching variableness of woman
again. At Broken Hill she hadn’t been all she
should be, and her lord, who sells ice-cream,
picked up a horribly blunt tomahawk and broke
in the side of her face—a ghastly disfigurement.
Yet when, five weeks later, they lifted her out of
the hospital into the court, she said, quietly,
“I have forgiven him,” and would go no further.
The man in the dock fell in a helpless heap.
South Australia’s latest horror supplies another
case. They had decided to break up the un-
happy home, and were dividing the furniture.
There was a deadlock, an angry interchange, and
the man reached for a gun. ‘ ‘The wretch would
shoot me,” she said; and he did. “Jessie,” he
was saying inside a few seconds—“ Jessie, give
me one kiss more before you go ! And forgive
me.” And the dying woman kissed and forgave.
N.S.W. Railway Commis-
sioners hope to have the zig-zag on
the Western line cut out next year.
The zig-zag is a source of grave
danger; the fact that a big accident
has not occurred as yet is to be attri-
buted to good luck and almost super-
human care. The Commissioners
have taken all kinds of precau-
tionary measures; the whole of the
track is sprinkled with “sprags” to
block the wheels of carriages and
trucks in the event of a break-away.
In addition a ganger precedes every
passenger-train that goes over the
zig-zag. But the Commissioners
cannot eliminate the element of
“human fallibility,” and a zig-zag
catastrophe is certain one day if the
line remains. On several occasions
recently trucks have slipped over
the embankment, and only recently
a goods train, which had got beyond
control, smashed into the dead-end
of the line, and, going beyond it,
the engine stopped with one portion
hanging over a precipice; happily
for driver and fireman the bulk of
the weight was on the side of safety.
On a recent holiday a great boulder
fell against the rear of a passenger-
train on the zig-zag. This caused
no more harm than delay to traffic,
but a few seconds difference in the
time of fall and the passengers
aboard would have had little leisure
to say their prayers. Only a few
weeks ago the engine of the mail
train, in shunting from front to
rear of the train, missed the points,
and instead of going on the other
line, bumped heavily against its
own train. Fortunately it was going slowly, and
the train was standing on an up-grade, and little
damage was done, though some of the travellers
felt cold and sick. These are but a few zig-zag
happenings. The suggested deviation should
certainly be hurried up.
• * • •
A curious—and very hard— case is that of
a man who, at Carlton, Melbourne, was lately
hauled up for ‘ ‘ neglecting to contribute towards
the support of his ohild in the Neglected Children’s
Department.” The youngster, it turned out, was
only technically defendant’s offspring, the actual
father being the former husband of a divorcee
whom defendant had married. The lady had gone
back to her divorced husband, leaving her child
behind, and the second husband thus, instead of
the wife he did own, had the child lie didn’t.
There are several fine large morals sticking out
just about here.
• • * *
Melba fell in over her appeal for subscrip-
tions in aid of this country’s distressed agricultur-
ists and others. The money is wanted badly
enough ; but then every Australian State is think-
ing of floating another loan, and it is necessary to
A REASONABLE QUERY.
“ I say, fader, what religion vas God?”
persuade Bull-Cohen, the lender, that Australia is
gloriously rich and prosperous, or he may fear the
shecurity isn’t good enough, considering all we owe
already. So it was cabled that there was no need
of aid, and that the grass was green at Milparinka,
and the Mississippi flowing in great volume past
Hungerford ; and the first subscription of £l5OO,
which would have been a godsend to some poor
wretches, was sent back.


Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address.—
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George-street
or King-street, Sydney.*
The founder (William of Luneburg) of the
British Royal Family died both blind and
insane. Only a few of his descendants have been
quite blind.
SILVER
STAR
* THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
BILE BEANS
ti
f d
hi:g.ui:»=y
“Theta ” sends an eye-opener on an un-
savory but sausageous subject. Ptomaine poison-
ing, by the way, is just now a very current theme,
and * ‘ slink ” veal is an essential ingredient m
common “ pork ’’-sausages:—
“ F.H.” (8., 30/10/’O2) is such a cocksure contradictor
that it seems a pity to disturb his equanamity. “The
country forwarding-agent who sent 700 slinks to Mel-
bourne. . . did the impossible.” Did he? Writer is
sitting within a stone’s throw of the railway' station
where it was done. At said station calves are trucked by
dairymen, who supply four butter factories with, at
present, about 30,000ga1. of milk daily. This means
about 11,000 cows, most of which had calves this season.
Out of these calves, at the very outside only 2000
were reared. The vast majority were sent to Melbourne,
during the months of July, Aug. and Sept, chiefly at
ages varying from one hour to one week, with an incon-
siderable fraction of “ vealers,” i.e., calves a few weeks
older. This station is one of several along the line from
Geelong to Warrnambool, and though it sends, perhaps,
the most slinks to Melbourne, it has two very honor-
able rivals. The slinks are sent away in loads by
(“ F.H.” notwithstanding) forwarding agents, who see
to their dispatch and delivery, while the money
is sent direct to the dairymen. “ F.H.” again:
“ The statement that many of them are not a
week old is pure rubbish.” The phrase should have
been “ most of them are not a week old.” During the
calving season, in the months named, the dairyman takes
his slinks to the station once a week, as a rule ; and, on
the day he goes in he slaughters all born since his last
trip, right up to those calved that morning, unless the
latter are particularly small. A dairyman who read
F.H’s remarks nearly choked himself laughing. “ Why,”
he said, “ many’s the calf I’ve killed with ‘ the yellow
on (i.e., before its mother had cleaned it) and sent to
Melbourne.” Finally, regarding weight, F.H. apparently
doesn’t know the big, well-fed, western district cows—or
their calves. It is a poor W.D. calf that won’t draw the
■lOl b. when a week old, and any number of them are born
that weight. By the way, a few days ago a bull that was
so diseased that it was impossible to put him in a sale-
yard, brought the owner £8 ss. as dead meat in Mel
bourne. Yes, it’s a beautiful industry, and F.H. is a
fitting defender of it.
* * « *
Recent cases of ptomaine poisoning in
Australia recall that the Buenos Ayres health-
authorities absolutely prohibit the sale of any
form of pig-meat during the summer months.
Yeal is, also, classed as out of season.
A CITY LUXURY. .
“Tram Victims.— A return has
been laid on the table of N.S.W.
Leg. Assembly giving the number
of people who have been killed and
wounded by Sydney trams from
Ist Jan., 1900, to 30th Sept. last.
During that period no less than 83
people have been killed, 28 being
passengers, and 55 other than
passengers. The roll of the
wounded amounts to the almost
incredible total of 564.”
After last week’s revelation the victims of
Wesleyan Sunday-school picnics will deserve no
pity. If they run the risk they must take the
internal consequences. It seems that the Wes-
leyan tucker provided for a Cup Day picnic at
Werribee (Vic.), was principally sandwiches, lined
with ham mince-meat. The ham was minced on
the sultry Monday night, and the sandwiches
were then packed together in damp cloths to keep
the bread nice and moist. Thus the cured flesh of
the late lamented pig was—in the words of
medical science—“exposed to the vera causa
of putrefaction or kindred agents,” and subsequent
exposure to directsun-heatcompleted the ideal con-
ditions for the development of poisonous organisms.
Useless for any gentle shepherd to ask the Lord’s
blessing on sandwiches prepared in reckless
defiance of Biblical teaching. What is the good
of believing in Moses and the Prophets if you are
going to chop the forbidden ham into mincemeat
and invite the flies of the air to settle thereon
before making it up into damped sandwiches ?
Down at Flemington, the ungodly bought what
they could get at Skinner’s bars, and the Lord
mercifully said that it was good enough ; whereas
the Werribee picnickers took what was offered
them in a meek and lowly spirit, and it gave them
Sheol.
* * * •
This year’s Cup crowd at Flemington was
remarkable for the large proportion of women who
stood around on the slopes in front of the grand-
stand and mingled with the men on the outskirts
of the betting paddock. Take them altogether,
they were a most tired and disconsolate-looking
lot. Some had seemingly come “on their own,”
and were sorry for it.” Others, as the day
advanced, were engaged as a rule in waiting at
sundry places for their truant Jims, who had
dropped their money and gone to look for some-
body who might “know something good ” for the
next race. Wonderful how the girls—of the rural
variety, as a rule—rush into discomfort for the sake
of “seeing the Cup,” and then don’t see it because
they are not tall enough, and go away disgusted
with their outing—to return in larger numbers than
ever the following year. It is an awful thing to
be a woman who can’t find a seat in either of the
Stands. Perhaps it is more awful to be a male
escort on whom the distressed female depends for
companionship and refreshment.
A distinct percentage of well-dressed Chinamen
—pure, or half-bred—was another Cup feature.
One party of Chows came armed with cameras and
started to take photos from the Lawn before the
racing began. Presumably these alien camera
fiends send views of the Melbourne Carnival to
their relatives in the Flowery Land, together
with a graphic description of how the Clistian
multitude pays tribute to the Hebrew spoilers.
* * * *
Be the condonation by Sydney Unitarian
Church of its ex-pastor Worthington’s American
and Maoriland villainies, it’s the old story over
again—“ More joy over one sinner,” &c. Had
Worthington not been a sinner, there would have
been no need for reformation, and he would have
had no special interest. Also, there were his
“earnestness of purpose” and “brilliancy as a
platform speaker.” He was (or rather, might
have been) a very good investment for the church,
and, after all, was really no worse than scores of
other clerical bad eggs who have perfumed the
Sydney air. And the nonsense he talked about
Isis and Osiris was a good deal pleasanter, and
had just about as much fact behind it, as the
ordinary parson’s talk about the G-olden Shore
and the Jasper Sea and Sheol and the Devil—to
say nothing of Job’s boils and Jonah’s whale.
• • • *
Tendency in Australia now is to treat the
returned cohentingenter as something much less
than a citizen. One brought back £5O from
S’Africa and put it in a bank. Cheque followed
cheque at his hotel until he signed one cheque too
many. Then the police grabbed him, and,
although he pleaded that he thought he had some-
thing behind or coming to him, the bench
sentenced him to a month’s hard. Many times a
week politician’s cheques come back. Many times
a day business men’s cheques are temporised in
Sydney banks. This Boer-killer really had an
account current; he seems to have been gaoled on
general principles because he was a “ returned
empty.” ....
A stout Sydneyite, at La Perouse
recently, met an affable colored person
who offered him a fine bunch of Christmas
bells, and after a long chat told him he
could get plenty in the paddock, pointing
towards the hospital fence. “ But,” said
the visitor, “that’s the lazarette—l
couldn’t go in there.” “What ? are you
afraid of lepers?” asked the darkie.
‘Why, I’m one; I’ve just come out of
there.” Then the flowers were dropped
hurriedly, and a scared fat person made a bee-
line for the nearest water.
» * • *
Parson Dill Macky has fallen into a shock-
ing orifice. For months past he has been raging
with extraordinary muscular vigour about how
the Roman Catholics monopolise the N.S.W.
Civil Service; and in a rash moment he seems to
have incited a member to ask for an official return
of the religions of the civil service by way of
demonstration. The return shows, apparently,
that there is a conspiracy among Anglicans, Pres-
byterians, and Unitarians to monopolise public
offices; at least these sects, especially the Pres-
byterians, who are a far-reaching race and very
swift after the bawbee, have more than their fair
share of the public billets, while R.C’s. have far
less than they should have if jobs went on
a population basis. But Parson Dill doesn’t
admit that he has fallen in. He says that he
refuses to accept the figures, which is an illogical
way that parsons and women have. Parson Dill,
by the way, adds this (D.T. report):
The Roman Catholics only occupied the positions not
requiring brains. Although the education system was
condemned by Catholics it was significant that 60 per
cent, of the teachers were Catholics.
Dill evidently holds that it doesn’t require brains
to be a teacher ! And perhaps he is right. It
might also be right to say that it doesn’t require
brains to be a bigoted “ religious” incendiary.
* » * *
Of the 300 odd resurrected Chinese skele-
tons just sunk in the Pacific in the foundered
s.s. Ventnor, all but one were accommodated
in the hold with their heads towards the
bow of the ship. The odd corpse who
achieved the distinction of setting out for
home in a sort of holy state of decomposition
was one Sew Hoy, a wealthy Chow who, in this
life, wore a silk hat and fine linen, and was in one of
the upper circles of Scotchbyterian Dunedin. He
had a separate sanctuary rigged up on the deck of
the ship. His son saw personally to the nailing-
down of his parent’s debris, and despatched
the old man in great style. The son, by rhe way,
is an ex-student of Otago University. But young
Sew Hoy (his full name is Mr. Kuin Boy Sew
Hoy, which sounds like weighing the anchor) is
a member of the Chong Shin Tong Society, which
shows that it takes more than an ordinary Uni-
versity to knock the Tong tenets and the joss and
Confucius and general Rumtifoo out of the Celes-
tial mind, and that a course of Shakespeare has no
effect on the Chow pigtail, any more than the
regimen of the Dunedin Medical School changes
the sanitary notions of Kum Boy and Ah Fat.
• * • *
John Norton, in the course*of a twaddly
speech on the Sunday Trading Bill, in N.S.W.
Parliament:
What is this infernal tintinnabulation of bells on
Sunday morning that we hear, breaking the rest of the
over-worked citizen who comes from his labors late on
Saturday night, and only gets to bed in the early hours of
Sunday morning ? What is this blasted brazen babel of
bells, ringing on Sunday morning? Does it not disturb
the sick? I wonder it is permitted in a Christian com-
munity—this banging and clanging of bells.
Considering how the Sabbath morning calm is
wrecked by the demoniacal yells of the malefactors
who hawk John’s paper, his suddenly-aroused
consideration for the sick and the weary is most
refreshing.
THE
PRICELESS
PANAMA.
1ST HIGHWAY
ROBBER : “ See, Bill,
I got ’is ticker all right.”
2ND. DITTO : “ Yes, you fool, but you
didn’t take ’is ’at off.”
The irony of it ! The See Govt, has
erected, at the Parramatta asylums for the old and
infirm, workshops, included in which is a depart-
ment to be known as an “undertaker’s shop” !
Henceforth, a poor old man, ready to become no
longer a burden to an uncharitable Govt., may
learn to make his own coffin.
• • * *
Daring the trial of the Kenniff case in
Brisbane one of the jury, weary of being locked up,
asked the Judge for leave to employ a barber to
give him a shave —as he had neither shave nor
bath since the trial began. The Judge consented *
enjoining the juryman on no account to talk with
the barber. But how about silencing the barber ?
• • • •
A member of the Sydney Unitarian Church
writes to the daily press to explain to the public
how
such a depraved scoundrel as Worthington should have
been selected as a channel for spiritual life by a number
of truth-seeking and straight-going people.
The “explanation” is very unconvincing, and
would have been better left unpublished. Writer
admits
members of the church committee, together with num-
bers of the regular Sunday frequenters, heard all about
his American villainies, together with his Maoriland
roguery, but his apparent earnestness of purpose and
brilliancy as a platform speaker disarmed all suspicion
with most of us, and, in fact, induced his many hearers
to believe he had really reformed.
In short, they trusted the shepherd—even though
he hadn’t quite picked his teeth of his last lamb—
because of his sweet smile. A church, especially
a church that puts on airs as being a logical, scien-
tific, rational, non-superstitious, non-credulous
church, needs to be run with a little more horse-
sense than that.
* * • »
Despite the fact that the present is the
most prosperous season Tasmanian producers
have experienced in modern times the mainland
drought and inter-State freetrade having pro-
vided a good market for the exceptionally heavy
crops—the poverty in the towns gets no less.
Week before last Hobart Benevolent Society
relieved 230 families, totalling 670 persons. In
addition, the “ Invalids’Home,” at New Town,
is crowded with indigent aged of both sexes. The
Tasmanian Govt, carefully keeps the sexes apart
in their workhouse, giddy youngsters of 70 being
separated from their wives in the interests of
morality !
A cornstalk landed in Geelong (Vic.)
t’other day in quest of treasure trove.
He was after the proceeds of a gold
escort robbery “committed in the
Black Forest near Ballarat early in
the 50’s.” A mate of his, an old man
who lately died at Wagga, had con-
fessed to having had a hand in the
robbery, and the gold, he said,
was planted in a cellar under
the old British dining-rooms
in Corio-st., Geelong, the
gang never having been
able to recover it. The
police of Sleepy Hol-
low have been con-
fided in, and they
find that the
cellar in question
has been filled in
for years. A pros-
pecting party is be-
ing formed to fossick
for the loot. The con-
fession of the Wagga
veteran is quite a likely
story excepting for a
few details. The only
escort robbery on a large
sgale was the Mclvor
robbery. That was done
in the Black Forest in ’54.
It is well known that the
men divided their booty,
but an individual share in
the takings would be a fat
parcel. The British dining-
rooms was then a popular
resort with immigrants and
miners. The Black Forest
was not near Ballarat, but on
the road from Melbourne, be-
ginning just about where
Flemington course now is.
Portion of the Mclvor loot is
'***' popularly supposed to be
buried near Sandringham, and has often been
dug for.
The programme for the opening ceremony
of Melbourne’s “ Australian Federal Interna-
tional Exhibition ” was printed on a single sheet
of paper, with advts. top and bottom. A boot
advt. had the place of honor.
* • * •
Campbell, the gentleman who wanted
immense damages for being allegedly dropped out
of a Queensland train, received a sentence of seven
years, at Brisbane. He took it lying on his
stretcher, professedly paralysed as the result of
professedly falling on to the permanent way, and
the judge, who was evidently in a staggered state
of mind, expressed a hope that the gaol authorities
would make sure whether his affliction was real
before setting him to hard labor. If Campbell
isn’t really paralysed, then he is an ingenious and
most persevering fraud; if he is, and if he didn’t
fall out of the train to cause the injury, then what
did he fall out of ? Anyhow, the alleged patient
spoiled a dramatic finish by his persistence.
When sentence was passed he should have arisen,
and kicked the stretcher half-way across the court,
arid remarked that the game was up and he was
ready for some healthy stone-breaking exercise if
his Honor had a hammer about him.
* • * •
The growth of the Scotchbyterian con-
science in Melbourne is luridly illustrated by the
fact that the local Commercial Travellers’ club
has just had a terrible “rastle” with itself over
the question of playing ping-pong on Sundays !
Commercials, who used to make the continent
reek with the blue stories sent out from the
London offices of their firms (specially manufac-
tured there by well-paid pressmen) ! After a
stormy meeting of two hours, the Sabbatarians
were defeated, but only after all the opposition
had protested that their respect for the blessed
Sawbath was equal to anybody’s.
• * * •
Mr. Wise’s new State Children’s Bill
attempts to provide ways and means for making
well-to-do relatives support, or assist to support,
their family connections dependent on the State.
Exactly where to stop is a puzzling question, and
the Leg. Council got somewhat muddled in
discussing the proper definitions of a “near
relative.” F. B. Suttor pathetically said, for
instance :
There were cases—he had known of them himself—
where a woman had several illegitimate children, and
when they were grown up, perhaps 20 years afterwards,
she married again. Was it not hard that a person marry-
ing such a woman, perhaps in ignorance of the existence
of these children, should be called upon to support them?
It would be hard indeed to be called upon to rear
and educate the “indiscretions ” of one’s blushing
bride, born to her some score of years before one’s
wedding. Some bridegrooms might even expect
the “ indisoretions ” to support them.
OULPA MEA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Hush thee ! O hush ! It comes a Rain.”
“ What comes, O heart 1 my heart?
It was the wind upon the pane.
That waked thee with a start.”
“ Nay, but I know ’twas not the wind ;
No wind could shake me thus.”
“ It was but the trembling of the blind
What could there come to us ? ”
“ What could there come ? O Life entwined 1
Something that cries within—
Something that moaned, and turned, and whined.
And mocked me with my sin."
MARIQUITA.
SPRING IN THE SUBURBS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The little urchins wrangle
With spirit in their squalls,
And there’s music in the mangle,
While the tinware seems to spangle
In its jangle on the walls.
There’s sweetness in the snapping
Of the father at the kids,
And there’s softness in the flapping
Of the mother’s hand a-slapping
For faults that she forbids.
The jam-tins gleam and glisten
As they linger in the lane ;
And it’s beautiful to listen
To the gab of that or this ’un
As he tells his ache or pain.
There’s gladness in the shutter
As it dances in the sun,
And the onion in the gutter
Seems to say “ let’s have a flutter ! ”
To the cheerful scrap of bun.
Oh, everything’s attractive,
And oh, everything’s a-cheer ;
The fleas are getting active—
And I know the Spring is here !
NARRANGIII BOORI.
DE PROFUNDIS CLAMAVI.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Gaunt Earth’s dry breast with ashes strewed,
The mother in her foiled,
No suckling grass to show,
As though she were a wanton lewd.
In rage to God I cried, and saw
The sky quick cleft apart
And straightway understood—
God sat in tears beneath the Law.
F.R.
(In the year of drought, 1902.)


fd
Dress faßßies
Are Stocked bv the
, Leading Drapers.
t* AOEM aVkTHE varnished board
SET OF TEETH ONE GUINEA
Beautiful and Lifelike in Appearance and Guaranteed Perfect Fit. Absolutely Painless
Extractions and Stopping's Guaranteed.
Special Attention Given to Regulating Children’s Teeth.
Mr. J. SPENCER NOLAN, R.D.S., Surgeon Dentist, 43 Oxforcf-st. Sydney
Sold by all Drapers and Hosiers.
KNEIPP LINEN
UNDERWEAR
Porous. Cool. Clean. Unshrinkable
Recommended by Medical Profession.
Prevents Prickly Heat, Eczema,
Allows the Body to Breathe.
Dalby (Q.) Herald, 5/11/’O2 :
Our foreman printer recently measured up the space
occupied by obituary notices in the Herald during the
last couple of months or so, and found it made 3§ yards.
This is so much dead loss to the paper, and, if a fatal
epidemic struck the town, ruin would stare us in the
face. We have, therefore, decided in future to charge for
such notices. So, when people feel like dying and want
something pleasant said concerning themselves, we hope
they will give directions to their next of kin in respect of
paying for the same. Plain obituary, £1 Is. : ditto with
biography £1 11s. 6d ; ditto, ditto, highly ornate and
eulogistic, £3 3s. Latin quotations extra.
A graceful form and well-moulded bust
are essential to perfect beauty. Lacti, the
wonderful “Skin Food” is nature’s remedy for
giving back those essentials when lost through
sickness or action of time, and for supplying them
when constitutionally deficient. It fills all hollows,
develops and gives a charming roundness to neck
and arms. Price 7s. 6d. per jar; post Bs. 3d.
Westall Guest, Toilet Specialist, 229 Bourke-st.
Melbourne. Wholesale, Elliott Bros., Sydney.*
A
GOOD TIP.
CHIMES HEIOSIECH
CHAMPAGNE.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, November 11, 1902.
My Dear Arini.—
The ladies of “the wealthy lower orders ’’indig-
nantly refuse to record their votes, and their ser-
vant-maids giggle at the poor police who are
compiling the roll. There are earnest appeals in
the daily press for all women, even though
they loathe the franchise, to suspend their white-
violet modesty and register their names, other-
wise the balance of voting power will fall to the
McTaggarts and the Muldoons. As a matter of
fact, most women do not understand the meaning
of tbe franchise. Even to a number of those who
are taking the vote as they would a new bangle,
politics is a word of no meaning. Women will
have to learn to use their new power intelligently,
and study the interests of their class. At the first
election the female vote will be merely a duplica-
tion of that of their husbands and fathers; but by
the time the second election comes round the
woman voter will possibly know where she stands,
and stand at the door of the polling booth telling
the voters that her husband is the best husband
in the world, but, poor dear man, knows nothing
of the real needs of the country.
When I see women, travelling on trams and
steamboats, buy newspapers and open them at
last night’s discussion on the Estimates, I’ll
have hope for practical results of womanhood
suffrage. As for the suffrage despisers, those
ladies “who go to Govt. House and are
sarcastic or indignant” with the collectors, as
soon as they learn that Lady and Miss Rawson
and Lady Beaumont (the last has always been an
earnest advocate of the franchise) have recorded
their votes they will do the same. One anti-
suffragist harebell writes to the press about
“pushing her way to the polling-booth.” Well,
it is unlikely that the struggle near the polling-
booth will be as notable as that which occurs
around the refreshment tables at a State Govt, or
Admiralty House “At Home.” Fear of changing
the old order, non-progressiveness, is stronger in
woman than in men, and as the late laureate has
it: “ All the past of Time reveals a bridal dawn
of thunder-peals wherever Thought has wedded
Fact.”
No wonder the working woman classes are
rushing the franchise, knowing what it has done
in Maoriland. Previous to the granting of female
franchise, domestic servants were carefully ex-
empted from all factory or labor legislation. Then
the vote came along and the domestic servants,
who were most numerous in aristocratic city
electorates, found that they often held at their
mercy the candidate who had beaten organised
Labor over and over again. The climb-down was
marvellous. Now the servant-girl must get a
half-holiday, her hours of labor are limited, she
has a minimum wage, and she cannot be dismissed
without proper notice or compensation, and her
wages are a first charge on the estate in case the
social star for whom she works suddenly collapses.
Ditto in re other forms of female work. The
voting-power of the factory-girl made her worth
the consideration of the haughtiest legislator in
the land, and when she discovered the art of
giving a block-vote, she bounded into a position
of importance and respectability, and became one
of the joints in the backbone of the country.
London Daily Express on Edmund Barton:
“ He would regard in a favorable light the offer
of some official position in this country. In this
he is known to be seconded by Lady and Miss
Barton.” As obvious as that the salmon loves a
clear lake better than being canned; or that a
bird prefers an open sky to a oage. Have any
Australians ever had such a time as was given
those who visited London as “guests of the
nation” during Coronation time? Instead of
exchanging reminiscences of the “ general ” and
h. and p. maid with mayoresses, alderman-
esses and squatteresses, our Prime Minister’s
wife and daughter purred with duchesses,
countesses and royal princesses. If a foreigner
called it would not be John, the vegetable
man, but a Count von Hochderkaiser; the
person half fawning, half peremptory, not
a man with a gas-bill, but a be-diamonded
exquisite from the Colonial Office. Nobody
dunned them for a billet or for any-
thing but the pleasure of their company. The
great ones of the earth, and the pride
and brains thereof, and the “ Emperor Butter-
fly ” railway specials and the royal carriages
were at their disposal. The world went very well
then, and Australia is now as ashes in the
mouth. Small wonder that Mr. Barton is
“ seconded ” by his family. But, whoever becomes
the figure-head of the Commonwealth, as Mr.
Copeland calls the High Commissioner, he and
his family will find their mistake if, when they go
back to London, they think to pick up the rose-
chain at the link at which it is dropped and con-
tinue to weave it with exotics. They will have to
start afresh with plain marigolds and jonquils.
Mrs. Curlewis, who so excellently organised the
Sydney meeting of protest against the Selina
Sangal execution, is of such a retiring disposition
that she had never attended a meeting in her life
before last week, and, indeed, had never been
previously inside the Town Hall! Her humanity,
however, was so worked upon by the contempla-
tion of the horror in question that she left no
stone unturned until she had brought about a con-
certed protest of Sydney citizens. One of Mrs.
Curlewis’s sons is the husband of that admirable
writer and charming woman, Ethel Turner.
On Monday afternoon, last week, on the stage
of the Sydney Lyceum, the members of the
orchestra presented Mr. Bland Holt with a hand-
some American roll-top office desk, bearing a
silver shield suitably inscribed. Conductor Percy
Kehoe made the presentation, and spoke of the
hearty esteem felt by the orchestra for Mr.
Holt. Bland was, of course, surprised at the
gift. Who ever before heard of the band—the
frozen-hearted, mercenary band-exuding the
milk of human sympathy and a roll-top desk ?
Dolores has always drawn good houses in
Sydney, but the city never cast its silk hat at
her feet and worshipped her till the “Queen of
Song ” came here, with very indifferent backing,
and charged a guinea for four songs. Then Sydney
began to realise what a great artist was Dolores,
who. gave anything between 15 and 18 songs
for five shillings. So when she returned, hot on
Melba’s heels, Sydney’s municipal building held
great crowds, who had suddenly awakened to
the worth of the guest who came among us so
unobtrusively and without any fanfaronade
of midnight booking advt. The audiences heaped
the flowers around Dolores, filled her carriage
with them, bore away fragments of her floral
tributes as souvenirs, and she walked down to her
carriage between lines of cheering people. For
an Australian city, it was a most extraordinary
outburst. And how it must delight Melba!
A section of Sydney society is very altruistic—
with other persons’ earnings. Mdlle. Dolores,
who went hence last week trailing clouds of glory
and with a fattened bank account (her farewell
matinee was a record-breaker), has been called a
“screw” by many worthy persons because her
concerts were practically all Dolores. She should,
they say, have engaged some local musical
twinklers to travel within her orbit. The brilliant
Dolores used to sing us 18 songs in a night when
she might, by getting little Miss Muffit to pad
the programme, have put us off with four. But
she would not have had crowded halls.
Admirers of the Dolores are grieved to see her
growing more and more puff-pastry like. They
fear that some of her chubbiness may get into her
singing organ and spoil it. The pretty French-
woman doesn’t seem to have enough personal
vanity. She wants to train down a stone, display
some taste in dress, and do her hair in a style
other than the most trying to a full, round face.
What quiverfuls most of the old N.S.W. identi-
ties had. Contrast the scantily-filled fashionable
homes of to-day. Late squatter P. Osborne and
the late Capt. O’Sullivan, for instance, had some-
where about twelve children each.
How weary one grows in one’s petty travelling
about the city of the stupidity of the other person.
The stupidity of the woman who comes to a
sudden stop on the gangway of a ferry steamer,
perhaps on a pouring wet day, blocking dozens
of people in her rear, while with ber eyes sbe
searches the upper deck for a friend. Then of tbe
woman who blocks the turnstile while sbe fishes a
penny from the bottom of her Dorothy bag.
Then there’s the man—l always put him down as
a remittance man—who crawls on to tbe tram just
about to start, blocking a lot of flurried women,
as if he were a snail going up his own particular
cabbage, without fear of ducks or gardeners.
Rejected-picture exhibitors have abated none of
their ardor to see their bantlings hung. The
difficulty so far has been to secure rooms, but now
comes the news that the Art Soc. is going to
vacate its chamber and take the gallery in
Vickery’s Chambers where late Soo. of Artists
used to show. So the Rejected, wbo are presided
over by the president of the A.N.A., will pro-
bably secure the eyrie.
Some Tenterfield (N.S.W.) girl enthusiasts got
a lien on Melba with a big buneb of roses when
the star’s train paused at their station en route
from Brisbane to Sydney. She came on to tbe
platform, took the flowers, the stammering com-
Eliments, and the adoration with frank pleasure ;
ut when they attempted questions such as
“What Australian city do you like best?”
“Shall we hear you in opera?” her answers had a
touch of the snub. Also, when one of the party
suggested : “ Everyone who goes to England likes
Australia best! ” Madame replied : “If they say
so they don’t mean it.” Then, glancing around
her, the World’s Voice asked: “What place is
this ? ” The enthusing gushers, who really believe
that the earth’s axis sticks out at Tenterfield, are
laid up with severe wounds —to their vanity.
Men must have “well-defined waists ” in future;
that is decreed by the tailors in London. To
secure the appearance of a slender meridian “ the
hips will be padded,” as were those of the early
Victorian dandies. This applies more particularly
when evening dress and overcoats are worn.
“ Really fashionable men” have already visited
corse tiers. “Waisters”—the advertisements of
national degeneracy!
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“The Governor-General’s dance on Monday
night was a hot engagement, and, despite an
official whisper that the ballroom had been re-
frigerated and kept in funereal gloom all day, the
800 guests soon made matters steam. The Acting
G.-G., in the early stage of a Royal complaint,
rested on one intact limb as the guests entered.
He was in pain, and wore a more impassive face
than heretofore. So his amiable consort smiled
for two.
“Melba was there in exuberant spirits and a
silk-and-lace creation, over which some orchids
sprawled and many gems sat winking. Tbe
diamond shoulder - straps, the medley of
precious stones circling the neck, and the
diamonds, fore and aft the brownish head, rep-
resented a fortune. Lord Dick was the first to
tick off a dance. Mr. Albert Miller hooked
Melba’s disengaged arm for the first square dance,
but on once letting go he was left high and dry in
the ranks, while others rushed to her side. “ But
where is my young man ? ” protested Melba with
a sweet seventeen pout, and the elderly Albert
paddled towards her. “Hurry up !” she en-
joined him, moving ahead.
“Looking sadly on at Melba’s lamb friskings
(with caper sauce) stood Signor Bensaude and
that small ebony-cane of a figure—the Welsh
flautist. They knew no one, and they looked
even glad at last to see Mr. Arens, who shook
them noisily by the hand and asked in convales-
cent English, ‘ What do I ? Is it to greet my
lady ? Do I shake the hand ? ’
“The surprise of the first Lancers was the re-
vival of Attorney-General ] )eakin. All the nerve
trouble had disappeared. He was gay, with" a
tendency to friskiness. Gov. Rawson suggested a
trophy-stand—a show-figure for decorations.
Medals ran along his coat side, depended from his
pockets, shone on his vest and his starched hoard-
ing, while a brilliant red order-sash struck across
his horizon. He danced most solemnly.
“ John Forrest’s * dancing ’ was a most
impressive bit of biz. His partner was Lady
Turner, and round and round her the big man
jog-trotted tirelessly, clumsily, but true to time, in
gait and deportment the very image of a circus
elephant waltzing ponderously round his trainer.
Bigjohn is said to have come back from ’Ome a
soda-water and cold-tea drinker, and is a shade
less fat and flushed for his hygienic diet.
“Lady Forrest, whose Coronation fun was
damped by hubby’s indifferent health, also looked
slighter than formerly in a rather bob-tailed gown
of guipure over silk and chiffon, the gentle color
of milky cold-tea. She had a quiet partner in
Treasurer Turner. Later on, that financier took
his stand near Melba with quite an excited
gleam in his round eyes as he drank in the
smiles, shrugs, nods and pouts of the vivacious
diva. Plain Bill Lyne sampled the same ambrosia.
Sydney’s Lyne would turn in his grave, they
say, if an attractive deceased lady settled down in
the lot next door. One rarely sees him when he
isn’t squiring some delicate dame or damsel. At
the Derby, he drew near to catch a spark or two
from Carrie Moore’s brown eyes. At Govt.
House, he basked in Melba’s diamond blaze, and
talked ‘ dear old Sydney ’ with a dashing press-
woman from the Harbor City.
“ Host Tennyson was too ill to dance. State-
Governoress Clarke (Vic.) was the most stately
dancer in the set. Her silver hair crowned a
midnight minuet, expressed sartorially in oyster-
satin, Limerick-lace and pearls, and her partner,
Gov. Rawson (N.S.W.), seemed quite proud of
piloting so well-found a ship. Lady Tennyson, in
blue moire, shared the solemnity with State-Gov.
Clarke (Vic.), who had the air of incessantly try-
ing to toss an invisible ping-pong ball on his nose.
It’s the way we do in the army, when we want to
look tall.
“Gov’nor Havelock is constantly on the trail
of a joke. His mouth purses up and his monocle
drops down with a simultaneous spring jerk.
Lady Havelock is of another species—spare of
words, smiles, and figure. She was a not unsuitable
Lancers’ partner for stiff little Sammy Way,
who always seems to have just come from the
Equity Court; his specs, have an official air ; his
little cross face an air of disapproval of all
frivolity.
“ Reporters labelled the Cup of 1902 the ‘Melba
Cup,’ but Melba was not present. ‘The Hot
Cup ’is the name that would suit it best. The
heat drove people off the lawns into the stand,
where they overcrowded one another miserably,
ate crumby lunches, and accused their neighbors
sotto voce of having used cocoanut-oil on their hair.
“ Melbourne Cup was mostly a vapor bath and
a dust-storm, certainly not half the show it should
have been. The weather made rags of chiffon.
Most wore linens, muslins, crashes, silks that
were light, cool, durable. A fine dress was worn
by a tall, willowy dress-designer, who got tremen-
dous effect out of all-cream —the skirt escaping in
frothy ebullitions, the bodice built-down heavily
with massive embroidery and handsome applique,
the sleeves distending into sudden chiffon gushing;
the hat crowning the effect with cherry-ripe
ribbons.
“ Premier Barton’s dame set an example in the
absenceof gew-gaw ornament. Her ungloved h ands,
at the Cup, showed only a long-service wedding-
ring and worn keeper on the most important of
all digits. One other lady, in contrast, wore
several turquoise and diamond rings, a long chain
with myriad charms, a diamond flight of swallows,
a coral necklet, and trinketed bangles of every
description. She jingled like a host of baby coral-
bells with every breath, and set up a heavy chime
when she moved. In the Barton and M'Eacharn
families the men put on the chief frill. Malcolm
and his son and Toby and his son were a highly-
glazed, highly-groomed quartette.
“Sydney’s Mayoress (Mrs. T. Hughes) wore
some smart clothes at the week's junkets, likewise
another Sydneyite—Mrs. H. M‘Neil. From the
other States Lady Way represented Adelaide
well; and Miss May Braddon, Hobart.
“Lady Tennyson looked cool, if sparse, in
biscuit, touched with black. Ladies Rawson
(N.S.W.), Clarke (Vic.), and Way (S.A.) rang the
changes on white, veiled with gauzy black. The
girls of the group wore simple muslin. A de-
lightfully cool-looking hat was worn by S.A.
Judge Way’s stepdaughter, a broad-brimmed
scroll of softest snowy crinoline, with big, white
bow and touch of black. Mrs. Stewart Brunton,
formerly Miss Florrie Strong, of Melb., re-appeared
after her brief honeymoon trip, in cream voile,
hat to match, and touch of turquoise blue.
Another bride in evidence was Mrs. Littlewood
Dawson, formerly Miss Louie Morrell, who went
’Ome to get her voice trained, arid got a husband
to train instead. The tall, dashing, returned
wanderer did the Cup in an exquisite blend of
ivory silk, insertion, and lace, made with long,
narrow train.
“Cup-day saw a bold sight in the refreshment
room, where men and women fought their way to
the B. and S. bar, and smart girls quaffed their
spirits without a spasm of conscience. The
smart girl of the day declares ‘ she won’t scorch
her innards ’ with boiling tea or bad coffee and
openly seeks a ‘reviver.’
“Chiffons had spreading room Oaks day.
Melba’s arrival was a fussier affair than on Derby
day, when the crowd was not found in the least
troublesome to the Diva’s bashfulness. Her jolly
figure was espied perched on the box-seat of the
Miller drag, males on all sides of her, only Miss
Shylie Blue’s millinery peeping from the back-
ground of silk beavers. Twenty hands rushed to
assist the Woman of Much Importance from her
lofty foothold, but she cleared the lot and brought
her 14 stone to the ground lightly. The Clarke
trio stretched necks from their stand stall to for-
ward their welcome smiles, and take her tenderly
into the fold. Miss Clarke wore the smartest
turn-out she has yet sported in these parts—a
golden syrup-colored silk crepe with lace railing.
“ Again a Collins-st. dressmaker carried off the
Oaks cake. She did it in a rig-out of cream silk,
with a bas-relief of pleated chiffons, and auriferous
streaks down the skirt of rose and gold-flowered
silk, the top-storey being raised to equal richness
by a matchless collar or shoulder cape of ivory and
cigarette-colored applique. Rose-and-gold tones
were reproduced in the top tier. There was some
talk as to the unfairness of dressmakers reserving
their best ideas for their own turn-outs, and
portioning out second-rate ones for the clients who
left everything in their hands. The race gathering
showed the ‘ shop ’ queens reigning supreme on
the terrace while their wealthy and fashionable
customers wilted in more commonplace dresses.
Fitting-room storms are brewing.
“At the Stonington Oaks party in the evening
Melba wore her opaline scale garb, with its patches
of purple-toned orchids and its diamond interrup-
tions. The florid Song Queen has made a pet of
little Miss Clarke, and this night, as at Tenny-
son’s hop, left all her male adorers to hook her
innocent arm and take her off for a ramble. A
bombastic swaggerer was a military gentleman
who made a profound fuss over every pretty girl
in the room, to the intense amusement of his
charming wife.
- “The average Yictorienne is none the more
attractive for her love of gambling. Worrying
over mining shares or wrangling about bets and
sweeps is bad for feminine looks, manners and
tempers. Woman, as yet, has not learned to
‘ play the game and play it fair.’ It’s money she
wants, not sport! There are fair fashionables
pencilling their dainty betting books at Fleming-
ton, who, so their intimates say, turn a dishonest
penny at the expense of any Society pigeon polite
or silly enough to submit to plucking. Lower in
the social scale, the she-sport, in losing moments, is
apt to stand revealed a shrew as well as a sharper.
When the Cup was won, a well-dressed woman in
the stand scolded Hubby, ten minutes on end,
because he had advised her against Victory.
“At the Bowes-Kelly’s afternoon crush last
Monday, little sister Dolly Castles warbled
‘ Good-Bye ’ with a fresh voice, stacks of confi-
dence, and an artful touch of tenderness. The
fair Dolly has twice the individuality and assur-
ance of her sister. Asked by a patronising adult
if she would like to follow in Amy’s footsteps, she
replied, with superior emphasis : ‘ Yes; I mean to
come out as a singer.’ It is not difficult to come
out. The trouble is to stop out.
“The first couple to take their appointed places
in the crescent shaped front space arranged for
vice-royalty, at the Melba concert, on Wednesday,
were Bigjohn and Dame Forrest. They played at
being hosts, and greeted the elect who came there.
The Huttons brought their two girl visitors in
tow. Lady Hutton was as beautiful as a picture,
very decollete, and in a charming mauve turn-out.
But Mrs. Waxellency beat all in the matronly
beauty line. She wore a picturesque blue.
“As Melba warbled with intoxicating charm
that famous Spanish dance-song, “Sevillana,” to
the throbbing of ’cellos and the quivering of
violins, Gov. Havelock was an appreciative study.
He sat with his arms resting on his chair’s sides,
his finger-tips keeping time, his monocle out of
dock, his merry eyes twinkling, his lips moving,
delight in his animated face.
“The State Governor’s garden party was spoilt
by showers. Busses, arriving with late-comers,
were rushed by returning guests, anxious to save
their flounces from the rain. The inmates pleaded
hard to be let out first, but only that there hap-
pened to be some muscular men among the
besieged, who repelled the furbelowed Huns, the
weaker vessels on board would have been taken
back to town without being allowed to dismount.
All rubbish about clothes and civilisation going
hand in hand ! A woman in fear for her finery
has more of the savage in her than her black sister
mid nodings on. The most impressive toilette
worn at the garden party was Mrs. Albert Miller’s
costly blend of black and white. Mrs. Edwin
Millar trailed over the wet grass in pale-blue
magnificence, inserted with medallions and similar
lace motifs characteristic of present modes, and
punctuated with clasps of gold and blue enamel.
Judge Williams’ wife had much twine-colored
lace mingled with her ivory silk, and a dash of
green in ber black hat.
“Melba never shrinks from taking or giving
knocks. In Sydney, they were counting the
takings of the first concert. , An enthusiastic
pressman bustled in, and addressing the personage
of the group, said, ‘ Madame wants you to come
back to lunch.’ ‘Tell Madame to go to —Rock-
hampton ! ’ replied the invited. ‘ She’ll never ask
you again!’ ‘Can’t help that.’ ‘I can’t take
such a message.’ * Butter it over as thick as you
like, that’s the gist of it.’ The true story ends
here, but intimates of Melba say that, had the
message been delivered in the rough, she would
simply have replied, ‘ Tell him to go to—Rock-
hampton, himself.’
“ ‘ Bicycle face’ isn’t in it with the appearance
of the Melb. lady golfer. You can tell her a mile
off, even without the implements. She wears a
hard expression, tries to talk like a man, and culti-
vates a stride like a camel’s. She is occasionally
pretty, but never ‘prepossessing.’ The same
trouble seems to apply to all followers of sports
which have not got down to common level. In
the earlier cycling days the feminine devotee of
the wheel was generally hard-faced, angular, and
unthrilling, but she has given place to the nice
round girl with an alluring smile and her hair care-
fully arranged on the latest kind of ‘ wad.’ When
the nice, round girl with the other recom-
mendations is to be seen a little more frequently
on the links, presumably the pioneers of feminine
sport will find someother leisure-filling occupation.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Loekyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. 6d.
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor, W. Martin, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England.*
THE WOES OF WOMEN.
Many women suffer in silence rather than complain.
They alone know the backaches and headaches—the weakness and pains that regularly come to
afflict them.
Thousands of weak and weary women have found a sure relief from their special ills in Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills.
They change poor blood into rich blood—they increase its supply—they brace up the nerves—they
stimulate every organ to perform its functions properly and regularly.
They bring full development to the growing girl—much-needed strength to the mother—relief and
ease to the matron of forty-five.
They are women’s ideal medicine.
Cured in i Hay.- “My age is 45,” says Mrs. E. Jacobs, Oarrathool, near Hay, “I enjoyed good health until
I w “ e J l . ® u “ eret '. terribly from troubles peculiar to women. I had to travel 40 miles,to consulfca doctor, who said
* had internal inflammation, and that a cure was almost impossible. Another doctor said I had internal laceration,
and that I must be operated upon. Afterwards two operations were performed on me, but I never seemed the same
woman. A th»d doctor told me I had change of life troubles. Reading of the cures effected by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
I purchased a supply. A few boxes made me feel better. My appetite slowly returned, and before long I had complete
relief and ease. Dr. Williams Pink Pills are worth more than a sovereign a box to women."
Sold by retailers and by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney—2s. 9d. per box, six boxes 15s. 3d. post free.
n
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mr. Flannery, private secretary to Minis-
ter R. E. O’Connor, is in hospital, seriously ill
from an operation for appendicitis.
Said that Iceberg Irvine hopes to stick to
office until he moves on to the Supreme Court
Bench ; the retirement of Mr. Justice Williams is
expected at an early date.
Senator ’Siah Symon, who sat in the chair
while Drink-cure Caulfield gave alcohol a bad time
in Adelaide, owns about the biggest wine-making
vineyard in the State. But, then, he is also a
lawyer.
Vice-Admiral Rawson, Governorof N.S. W.,
and President Lancelot Stirling, of S.A. Legisla-
tive Council, were both born on Guy Fawkes
Day, 1843, so that each completed his 59th year
this month.
If State Agents-General are to be continued
the next representative of N.S.W. will be Dr.
MacLaurin. A little push would have put the
canny Scotsman ahead of Yorkshire Copeland at
Hst picking,
Sydney University’s new Professor of
Mathematics, Mr. H. S. Carslaw, is, of course, a
Scotchman, but it is understood that he already
speaks several words of English. At latest dates
be could say “Porritch ” quite plainly.
Died recently in Queensland, John John-
son—-known as “Woolshed Johnson”—an old
mining pioneer, about whom was told (incorrectly)
the story that he once shod his horse with gold.
He was a sturdy democrat and a typical digger.
Speaker Holder, Trade-Minister Kingston
and Deputy-Opposition leader M‘Millan all date
from 1850. The last named will be 52 on Nov. 14.
Members of the Kingston Ministry in S.A. were
nearly all the same age for (in addition to Holder)
Coekburn, Gordon and Butler first saw the light
in 1850.
Reported from London that Mr. Toby
Barton is to be Federal High Commissioner, and
that the appointment would be “ very satisfactory
to Mr. Chamberlain.” Doubtless. Mr. Barton is
a big, soft man with an appetite ; Mr. Chamber-
lain is a small, hard, angular man with no hunger
except for getting his own way.
“ P.” : Is Australia undergoing a cycle of
“mediocrity in office ” ? Look at the present-day
State Premiers: Irvine (Vic.), See (N.S.W.),
Philp(Q.), Jenkins (S.A.), James (W.A.), Lewis
(Tas.). Who are they ? Ask the average citizen
in one State to name the Premier of another—or
even his own—and you will see.
While N.S.W. has for years past had
monosyllabic Premiers, in the persons of See,
Lyne, Reid, Dibbs, and Parkes, Victoria has had
a long succession of dissyllabic men heading its
Governments. The last Vic. Premier with a one-
syllable surname was Shiels, and even his name
seems as undetermined as his politics.
HE WAS SOFT.
“See you in town to-night, old boy?”
“Not till half-past eleven. The doctor won’t let
me out at night till then.”
“What an extraordinary thing! But why half-
past eleven? ”
“ Because that’s when the pubs, are all closed .”
Kow that Capt. Wallington has a billet as
rubber-down to the Dukelet, the cosy corner that
was made for him in the Australian Civil Service
is open to somebody else. Rumor says that the
somebody else will be Mr. Steward, the Tas-
manian, now chief clerk in the External Affairs
Dept., and certainly the most energetic goer in
the Federal service.
N.S.W. Auditor-General Rennie is to be
succeeded by Treasury accountant Vernon, who,
Treasurer Waddell says, “ understands the Audit
Act thoroughly.” The great point about the
Audit Act is that it practically prohibits criticism
of the Treasurer’s account. The barometer seems
to be “ set fair ” for N.S.W. Treasurers now, until
the Great Crash comes.
Minister John Forrest has made a bad
beginning in letting Colonel Tom Price escape
the operation of Gen. Hutton’s cast-iron “age
regulation.” Regulations are made to be en-
forced ; and, if one man is to be exempt from
their operation for no better reason than that
some person (unnamed) has thought fit to “under-
stand ” that he “ was to remain for two years,” dis-
cipline is at an end.
That colossal fraud, Pastor Worthington,
mployed a maid each for his three small infants,
averring that “every tender human flower”
requires individual cultivation. He would have
no “ crude personality ” about the children, and
made it his own care to select fitting attendants.
He ought to have been a fairly good judge of a
woman, crude or polished. In revenge for her
questioning as to the truth of the Maoriland stories
about him, Worthington showed a lady of his con-
gregation an anonymous and peculiarly vile letter,
which he said had been sent to him about her.
The lady immediately suspected that her revered
pastor had written it, and kept the letter, though
he assured her that “ the only place for such filth
is the fire.” Two or three days before his arrest
Worthington wrote asking her to return it; bub
she refused his request, not knowing what hanky-
panky he might have in contemplation.
Clement Wragge has just arranged fora
lecturing tour of Australia and Maoriland. If
Wragge gets some level-headed person to edit his
discourses there should be money in it, for
thousands would like to see the quaint, wild-
whiskered personage who holds communion with
the clouds and sends along prose poems about the
cyclonic disturbance called Torrey and the gentle
rain from Heaven that goes by the name of
Melba.
Kyrle Bellew is flourishing his interesting
personality in print again, and tells naively of the
rough time he had in an Australian township
when he and a mate were saved from starvation
by the timely arrival of a fever epidemic.
“Curly” started a private graveyard, and he
and his mate made a pile by burying the dead
and reading the service over them. Kyrle
always Bellew his own trumpet, and he has a good
advertiser’s contempt for fact.
Late Rev. James Benvie, Presbyterian
minister of West Maitland, was canny, ye ken.
His estate was valued at close on £lO,OOO, and in
his will he counselled his wife to claim the
annuity due to her from the Presbyterian Widows’
Fund, “ like any other'minister’s widow.” The
document further instructed his wife and daugh-
ters, the two beneficiaries, to settle by friendly
arbitration any differences of opinion: either of
them going to law was to forfeit £3OO out of the
estate.
Although the Anglican dioceses of Mel-
bourne and Adelaide were both established in
1847 (Newcastle, N.S.W., bishopric was founded
on the same day), and each has had three bishops,
only one child (Dr. Harmer’s) has been born to
the six prelates. Dr. Perry, Dr. Moorhouse and
Dr. Coe (Melbourne), and Dr. Short and Dr.
Kennion (Adelaide) were all childless, with the
exception of Dr. Short, and his family came into
the world ere he was raised to the episcopal bench.
Dr. Clarke has several children.
“Adelaide” : If Villeneuve Smith, ex-
Premier of Tasmania, is only 83 (as stated in 8.,
25/10/’O2), he surely cannot be, as also stated
there, father of the fine old lawyer lately killed in
Adelaide. The age of the S.A. Villeneuve was a
frequent subject of discussion, for he had a won-
derfully “well-preserved” look; but common
consent put him at something over 70. [lt is all
very well to say that Smith, of Tasmania, can’t be
father of the late Smith, of S.A., but it’s wonder-
ful what a grand old man like Smith can be when
he tries.—Ed. B.]
The numerous (apparently female) com-
mentators upon Pastor Worthington’s facial
beauty have in all cases failed to notice the size
of that slim sensualist’s ears. They are prodigious
appendages, extremely long and narrow, and
perched more on a level with the mouth than the
eyes. Rightly or wrongly, some criminologists
assume that ears of this sort are characteristic of
depravity. Also, Worthington hasn’t an im-
pressive forehead, and shorn by the prison barber,
is _ said to make one of the most pronounced
’riminal types to be found in Pentridge.
An elderly Sydneyite of Great Importance
recently had a deplorable experience in a suburban
barber’s shop. Wandering in late one night he
flopped into the chair, grunted “shave,” closed
his eyes, and fell into a troubled snooze from which
he soon awoke with a smothered yell—to behold a
wild-eyed barber who clutched him firmly by the
nose with one hand and brandished a razor in
the other. The elderly gentleman hastily spat
out a mouthful of soap, struggled, choked and
gasped, “ Leggo, dammit! leggo ! ” The barber’s
grip on his distinguished ancient’s nose tightened
as he stared scornfully at his snorting victim
“ You fool !” he gurgled, “ carn’t y’see—if I leggo
—l'll fall!”
Up to now, Tom Mann has not been
appreciated in Australia at half his true worth.
Ben Tillett had twice the audiences everywhere ;
yet there seems to be much more solid stuff in
Mann; he is more accurate, and personally
seems more lovable. Little Ben Tillett laid
down the law; Mann is modest and deferen-
tial, and asks _ questions, and when he ex-
presses an opinion about things this end,
asks you not to think him “saucy”—a
favorite word of his. So far Australia’s failure
to conserve its water strikes him as about the
most conspicuous thing on this continent. In his
speeches there is good arrangement; but he
hasn t Tillett’s word-painting power. From the
popular view point, the best of them is his por-
traiture of t’other-end Labor leaders.
Mrs. Elizabeth Scott, the first woman
hanged in Victoria (in the ’6o’s), was convicted of
murdering her husband with the assistance of two
paramours. As one of these was a negro, she
could scarcely be expected to be a woman of
superfine sensibilities; yet what bothered her
most, after her sentence at Beechworth, was that
the step of the conveyance, ready to take her from
the courthouse, was so high as to expose her ankles
to the gaze of the crowd. She jibbed stubbornly
against entering the vehicle in the fashion pro-
vided, and, fearing a, “scene” if an attempt were
made to bustle her in forcibly, the police had to
borrow a box from a neighboring shop to allow her
to start for the condemned cell with her skirts un-
disturbed.
CAPTAIN VALLANGE,
Vic. Governor Clarke’s private secretary.
Ex-N.S.W. M.L.C. Cornrie, who died the
other day, was a very good philanthropist of the
Y.M.C. A. order, but not the judge of books many
people suppose. For a bushinan—and his way of
living at Kurrajong was bushmanlike—his tastes
might be called bookish ; but whether in pur-
chasing or donating, he looked more to quantity
and binding than to quality of contents. Although
60 years in Sydney or thereabouts, his idea of
literature was of the Scotch-catechism order, and
if he patronised fiction it was that of the numerous
females sweated by the English tract societies.
His politics were also arid, though well-meaning.
“Boheme ” : Be the Fergus Hume “ Old
Man of the Sea ” story. I knew Hume well.
He, his brother Jim, and Phil. Beck lived in
East Melbourne, and Mary Hume, who was a
singer, kept house for the lot. One night, at a
supper, Hume announced to a band of friends
that he was writing a book. The announcement
was received with good-natured derision, but
Fergus, nothing abashed, proceeded to give a
brief outline of the plot of the “ Hansom Gab ”
yarn. “ And,” he wound up, with his character-
istic lisp, “I’m going to put on the local color
with a spade.” He did, too.
“ Saw one-time Sydney pressman Donald
Murray’s typewriting telegraph,” writes The
Bulletin’s London correspondent, “working
perfectly to Edinburgh. G-.P.0. officials say it
has been a great success and will be universally
used. It means sacking of operators, for a mere
typewritist can run it, and one skilled man in a
room of 50 instruments will be all the trained
assistance needed. Murray is on the road to for-
tune. He has wisely taken no partners, the
United States have bought the local rights, and
England, Austria, Germany and France are in
treaty. Another score for the Kangaroo.”
George Higinbotham impressed the public
imagination of Victoria as none other of its
statesmen has ever done. His name is never
mentioned now but with a respect bordering on
reverence. Victoria cherishes towards Higin-
botham at least some of the feeling which
Americans entertain towards George Washington.
He was a lawyer by accident rather than by bent
of natural character. As Aegus editor he lacked
adaptability, and was hopelessly unpractical. As
a Judge, he was not a great Judge, but he eom-
manded'the affection and reverence of all about
him. Of his memory little remains now but
splendid obscurity.
Curious N. Queensland advertisement : —<
NOTICE.
'LI ROM this date I resume practice at the Bar.
Seven years ago I relinquished my practice in
Court chiefly because I was tempted to exaggerate
my client’s side of the case, and to suppress a favor-
able point on the side of my opponent. From the
light I had I am convinced that I then and since
acted wisely. Believing now, however, that by
Divine aid 1 can overcome those defects of character,
and that cases arise where truth and justice demand
all the advocacy they can get, I now see it to
be my duty to return to active practice just as I
then saw it to be my duty to relinquish it. I pub-
lish this explanation in justice to myself, and for the
information of my friends and the public.
ALEXANDER COSTELLO.
Charters Towers,
16th October, 1902.
The many friends of B. E. Minns will be
sorry to hear that he writes from England that
the last operation performed on him was not a
success, and that he will have to undergo yet
another—the third in a year.
The Booth-Clibborns (daughter and son-
in-law of Prophet Booth) who lately abjured the
church and the red jersey of the parental humbug,
and sought refuge with Dowie, have found the
new fraud no more satisfying than the old one.
They have quitted Zion, and are now going round
in search of a creed that can stand inspection.
Rev. Matthew Walker, the Lucknow
(N.S.W.) clergyman who was some nonths ago
sentenced to six months’ imprisonment for per-
jury in connection with a libel case, was last week
sent up for two months extra by Acting-Judge
Hamilton for contempt of court in refusing to
give evidence in a case connected with his own.
Walker had had enough of swearing.
What a long, slow animal is tne Law!
One Brown had an action for slander against
a N.S.W. Life Assurance Co. At first trial a ver-
dict for plaintiff with damages. Appeal, then a
new trial, at which plaintiff again got verdiot
with increased damages. Appeal again, and new
trial at which plaintiff again succeeded, with again
increased damages (£650). Appeal for new trial
refused. Plaintiff therefore (barring the prospect
of a Privy Council appeal which, however, is
threatened) gets the fruits of his verdict, pro-
vided they haven’t all gone in expenses.
Price, M.L.A. for Gloucester, and hono-
rary Minister Bennett, of the adjoining elec-
torate of Durham, are rival N.S.W. forestry ex-
perts. A short time ago Mr. Price wrote a series
of articles on forests in the Evening News, and
Mr. Bennett politely acknowledged their merit in
Parliament:—
S >ine very valuable articles have recently appeared in
America on forestry matters. By a singular coincidence
the writers of these .articles appear to have pirated the
practical ideas and scientific knowledge of the hon.
member for Gloucester. When he saw Mr. Price’s articles
in the News he felt sorry to think that the hon. member
had been anticipated by those American pirates.
N.S. W. Works Committee is a more or less
effective safeguard against things being done as
the local politician wants, and not as the officers
advise; but in connection with works under
£20,000 there is no such check upon the Minister,
as small works don’t go before the Committee. It
would be interesting to know how many times the
Owe’Sullivan has rejected the advice of his
officers and acted •according to the whisperings of
the local politician. As the smallest possible pre-
caution, every public work which does not come
under the scrutiny of the Public Works Com-
mittee should be paid for solely out of revenue.
This item appears in the report of the
Queensland Agricultural Department for the year
just closed :
Though Queensland nas agricultural capabilities supe-
rior to those of any other State of the Commonwealth,
the superiority seems insufficient to countervail the effects
of her greater distance from the London market and the
greater difficulty her producer has in reaching the most
profitable customers.
The Courier heads this “a Confession of Failure.”
It is rather a damning indictment of the Free-
trade doctrine that the Courier professes.
Queensland requires to send its produce to London
mostly to pay for the boots, clothes, etc., it buys
there—-and it seems that it can’t do this profitably
owing to the distance. Therefore, let it make the
boots, clothes, etc., in its own towns, and send
its produce to supply operatives there instead ol
in London—and the problem of distance vanishes,
and the enormous cost of sea freight is saved, and
the difficulty which wrecks Queensland’s agri-
culture is solved. If Queensland can’t grow grain
and send it profitably to the weaver and boot-
maker in England, then the natural course is tc
fetch the weaver and bootmaker to Queensland.


A MOST APPETISING RELISH.
MACONOCHIE’S
WORCESTER SAUCE,
Swjft & Company, 7 Spring: Street, Sydney, Australian Agents.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
KARTELLS
“A genuine
old Brandy
made from
Wine.”
Medical Press.
THREE STAR
“Particularly suitable
for Medicinal
Purposes.”
Tit 3 Lancet.
RANDY.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. — In the case o/ ethnological and
natural history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience ; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific
value.
Australia’s champion buckjumper is un-
doubtedly “Dargin’s Grey,” an outlaw bred at
Capertee, N.S.W., who, last month, at Brisbane,
easily hoisted both contestants in a match for
championship honors. For years past he has
thrown every self-styled champion who tried to
ride him. One who did sit him was the late
Harry Morant (“ The Breaker ”) at Hawkesbury
Show ; but Dargin had already unseated 16 alleged
champions, and was about knocked up.
*
Out-back many good stockmen believe the
Australian drought is producing a sort of drought-
resistant sheep Anyhow, they say they can take
risks now which, a few years ago, they dared not.
Mounted on bikes, Tapio (far west N.S.W.) men
lately, in hot weather, drove 4000 sheep a hard
four days without water. And on Birdsville (Q.)
track, coming down to Adelaide, S. Field got 8000
wethers over a hundred-mile dry stage in 93 hours.
Sid. Kidman, to whom the stock belonged, and
who gives the figures, believes this latter a record
—an i there are not many men who know more
than he about what has been done on the dry
stock-roads.
» * * »
“ Rypo ” : How long can a sheep live
without food or water ? Last summer, in Western
Vic., I saw a sheep which had been blinded and
half-roasted by a bushfire, lying in a hole for
about 10 days before it died. I passed it daily in
the train, miles from any station, so could not put
a merciful end to the miserable creature.
» * * •
To Menindie, on the lower Darling, where
ten years ago or so a company built preserving
and boiling-down works to get rid of the surplus
stock, they are positively now carrying meat by
parcels-post. The works ran for only two years,
and then at but half-pressure.
•' * • *
The Barrier silverfield, having got within
sight of its 20th birthday, gathered up, the other
day, the remnants of its still-resident old-timers.
It wasn’t a particularly “influential gathering,”
and when, the talk over, the chairman suggested
a shilling in and a shout, it took a good many of
RIGHT ON THE NAIL .
MAGISTRATE: “Do you want to ask witness any Questions? ” ACOUSED: “Yes. He's a liar.”
them some prospecting to find even that modest
slug of silver. All those who made anything out
of their hard pioneering, and had the luck to keep
it, have also sense enough to live somewhere else ;
those who didn’t are mostly either dead-beat now
or keep a pub. Of those at the meeting—abso-
lutely the oldest hand —he has had over 19 years
of it —now earns a precarious two-drinks-and-a-
sandwich by bell-ringing at auction sales.
» * * *
A drought item :—“ Last season four sheds
in Trangie (N.S.W.) district shore 290,000 sheep ;
but this season they only put through 87,000,
showing a loss of 203,000. One shed alone lost
92,000, and another shed had no shearing at all.”
» * * *
Drought-losses (since 1900) on Gregory
(Q.) district stations, as set out in Charleville
Times : Mt. Margaret, 7500 cattle, 86 000 sheep,
319 horses. Congie, 1857 cattle, 117 horses.
Kihee, 8944 cattle, 174 horses. Kynbra, 4500
cattle, 35,633 sheep, 310 horses. Thylungra,
13,847 cattle, 473 horses. Keerongoohoo, 6380
cattle, 22,250 sheep, 200 horses. Galway Downs,
6226 cattle, 146 horses. Mt. Hewitt, 14,500 cattle.
Nickatunga, 27,987 cattle. On Currawella sta-
tion, beyond Windorah, there were 3.35 in. of rain
in 15 months, and cattle died like flies, and their
bodies lay round the bog holes as close together
as the keys of a piano. In one waterhole there
were counted over 100 beasts in a similar number
of yards, and down tlie Cooper, in one nf the long
waterholes, upwards of 1000 beasts lay dead within
the mile ; there was practically a total extinction
of the herds.
* * * *
Be that alleged shooting of aborigines some
weeks ago in Cape York Peninsula, Attorney-
General Rutledge minutes that he is “perfectly
satisfied that the deaths of at least two (and
probably four) aborigines, whose remains were
found, were caused by the native troopers who
accompanied the constable.” The Home Secretary
has since minuted that the constable be discharged
and the troopers not allowed to return North.
Murdering niggers is a cheap pastime.
• * * *
The administration of the Q. Aborigines’
Protection Act, under Home Secretary Foxton
and Dr. Roth, went through the ordeal of a Par-
liamentary attack during the passage of the Esti-
mates. Rumors of a practical break-down in the
administration of the Act had been flying round,
and it was said that Dr. Roth was in for a bad
time. Asa matter of fact the Northern Pro-
tector came out of the ordeal with flying colors.
The Opposition supported him almost unani-
mously; theGovernmentmembers(with oneexcep-
tion) applauded his administration ; and the House
applauded vociferously the statement that Home
Secretary Foxton, whatever his faults might be,
had battled strenuously and honestly on behalf of
the aborigines generally, and the poor nigger
slaves of the beche-de-mer men in particular. It
was high time somebody interfered on bshalf of
the Northern aborigine, for, as a rule, he is fed
like a brute, kicked like a dog, worked like a
horse, and left to die at last by the roadside.
• * * •
“Boko”: When a poor devil of a fruit-
hawker works a horse that’s got a bit of a sore
back the Animals Protection people drop on him
sharp. But when are they going to prosecute the
station-owner whose over-stocking causes the most
horrible miseries to thousands of sheep ? In one
case at Orange, recently, of 2000 sheep left in
yard overnight, 1300 were dead in the morning.
They were freshly shorn, and had been trucked
from the warm Western lands to bitter cold
Orange. What about looking up the people con-
cerned in that horror for a start ?
• • • •
Alleged that the so-called “bunyip” has
been seen several times recently in the Murrum-
bidgee River, N.S.W. The description given of
the creature accords pretty well with various
previous accounts, which seems to indicate the
existence in Australia of a hitherto unclassified
aquatic mammal, of moderate dimensions, and of
a character generally unsuited to the prevalent
notions of the mysterious monster of aboriginal
tradition.
* * * *
A young man named Attrill had a re-
markably close call t’other day on Deep
Creek-Casino (N.S.W.) road. _ He was riding
leisurely along, smoking his pipo, when a dead
tree, without warning, fell across the horse’s neck
and killed it instantly. A branch struck the
pipe in Attrill’s mouth, breaking it off, besides
fracturing his left arm. The rebound threw the
dead horse across the tree and pinned the man
under its carcase. His coo-ees brought a neigh-
bour to the rescue, and mounting another horse,
he rode on to Casino.
• • • •
Said a man of (bare) acres, recently : “In
’95 I had seven stacks of straw, which would to-
day be worth over £I6OO. Couldn’t see ahead
worth a cent, and didn’t save them. Easy to keep
straw wholesome and clean for a lifetime, but I
didn’t bother, and rain got in and rotted them.
Farmers for miles around lost theirs in same way.
Straw not in demand then at our distance from
market, and we weren’t pressed for feed. Never
once thought of putting the wheat-leavings by.
Burnt mountains. Couldn’t see gold in anything
bar bags of corn.” Then the train for Gippsland,
with his “ starvers ” aboard, moved out.
* • • *
“ A.P.R.” : Recently saw what is appar-
ently a cross of cat and rabbit. Body, head, and
fur of a cat, but hindlegs exactly those of a bunny.
Tail about £in. long ; gait and reclining posture
those of a rabbit. Forelegs pointed in middle,
lower part resting on ground and turning inwards,
The claws could grasp like a cat’s, but could not
retain their grip. Color jet-black. The animal
is carnivorous, and mews like the ordinary feline.
[The Australian Museum people would no doubt
like to see this alleged hybrid. Hitherto no in-
stance is on record of hybridisation between a
carnivorous and a non-carnivorous animal. Present
scribe has often heard of a cat-’possum cross, but
has great doubts of the possibility ; and, in any
case,* the ’possum is multivorous.]
* • » *
Cattle-duffing is very prevalent in Central
Queensland just now. The C.Q. cattle-duffers are
a calm, cool, collected race, who will tell you
brazenly how many cattle they have “duffed ” in
the last 12 months, at the very moment that they
give you your own beef to eat while the billy is
boiling. Every man of them is a splendid bushman
with a fine contempt for the police and trackers.
“O.”: Undoubted indications of volcanic
activity exist within some hitherto little known
caves near Mandurama (N.S.\V.). inese
caves contain both hot and cold springs,
and in some of the lower compartments
the air is quite hot, in others warm,
in others cold. These caves are not
far distant from the Canobl isMoun-
tain, a formerly active volcano.
DOWN FROM THE MALLEE.
SMALL BOY (watching the street-sprinkler in
Collins-street): “Holy smoke! what’s that
there fool wastin’ his water for? You couldn’t
grow burrs in land like that!”
At Geelong, the other day, two Syrians were
charged with having eight live sparrows attached
to two sticks, to prove the adhesive qualities of
the “real Turkish bird-lime” they were selling.
It was urged, in their defence, that sparrows were
vermin, for the capture of which bonuses were
officially offered, and it would, therefore, be ridi-
culous to penalise defendants. One of the Syrians
informed the Bench, as the case was dismissed,
that in 19 days lie had caught 12,000 sparrows for
the Maffra Shire, Gippsland. How about sparrow-
pie?
• • * *
“Glenara” : Yefc another addition to the
shearing-shed subscription-curse. A Victorian
squatter’s wife, in a letter to the Argus, suggests,
as a “happy idea,” that shearers and shed-hands
be invited to subscribe to the “Distressed Mallee
Farmers’ Fund.” Seeing how many calls the
shearer has to meet —hospitals, crippled mates,
orphaned children, shearers’ races, station cricket-
club, etc. —the squatteress in question would be
better employed trying to get the southern land-
holders to reduce the exorbitant rents they are
asking from these same “distressed Mallee far-
mers ” for horse and cattle pastures.
• • * *
“F.H.P.S." : Be red snow on Mt. Buller
Vie. (B. 18/10/’O2). I think rain brought down
the red dust and discolored the snow, instead of
the snow bringing down the dust with it. I
was at Mts. Feathertop and Hotham (Baldy)
within the past fortnight, and snow which
had fallen during the winter, and was
still lying on the south side of the
mountains was also discolored with red
dust, blown from the Riverina and
brought down by rain. Whilst cycling
along the road past Mt. Buffalo, I
noticed a peculiar mist which almost
obscured the ranges, and was told by
residents that this was N.S.W. dust
that had been hanging about for
weeks.
Hailstorms are the latest curse of the
N.S.W. agriculturist. T’other day, for the third
successive year, a hailstorm devastated portion of
Junee district, and in an hour all that remained
of £IO,OOO worth of crops and orchards was a little
chaff and numerous tree-stumps. Corrugated*
iron-roofs were riddled, gum-trees completely
stripped, sheep, horses and cattle maimed and
killed, whilst dead birds of every variety strewed
the ground for miles. Now, here is a chance for
Wragge and his vaunted Stiger-Vortex guns 1
* * • •
A man named James Clark was found
dead on the Queensland portion of Brenda
Station, on 16th Oct. He was lying “quite
comfortably” by the roadside, with » pipe,
half-smoked, still in his mouth. Gone to his long
calm smoke.
* * * •
H. Stockdalc, re sheep-slaying horses :
Many otherwise quiet horses, if well-fed and “ above
themselves,” will chase and attack sheep, calves, dogs,
etc., biting, kicking, and striking-down with the fore-
feet. This, however, is due less to vice than to friskiness
from high-feeding and short work. Some of the quietest
horses—especially those reared as pets-will “stick-up”
(by dint of kicking and striking with their forefeet) a
person carrying them their feed, and thus compel it to
be given up to them, unless the bearer has a whip.
“ Maiuoose” : 7?e persistency of suicides.
I knew a man up Croydon (Q.) way whose first
attempt was throwing himself off a hotel
balcony—result a simple shaking. His
second essay was down an 80ft. shaft
(in which I was backing him), but
a few months’ hospital patched
him up. His next effort was
to blow the top of his head
off with dynamite, and this
being the “lucky ” third time,
his success was complete.
» * •
The experiment of travel-
ling sheep across from S. Aus-
tralia to the Westralian gold-
fields has lately been tried
with only fair results. The
sheep, 1820 of them, were sent
from A. G. Downer’s Nan-
warra station, with five whites,
helped by four blacks, in
charge. In the sandy desert
country on the S.A. side of
Eucla 700 were dropped; after
that few troubles were struck
and only another 30 or 40 fell
out. But when the fields were
reached the trouble was to find
“free” buyers, and in the end
the lot had to go for 7s. Id. a
head. The trip covered just five
months.
About nine miles from
Mandurama (N.S.W.), on
the Blayney-Harden line,
there is a stream known as
Up-Hill Creek. Limestone
Creek, a mile-and-a-half
distant, and crossed by the
Canowindra - Mandurama -
road, runs almost due
North, whilst Up - Hill
Creek, crossed by the same
road, runs due South. The Canowindra-Man-
durama mail-driver wins many a wager made
with passengers, upon approaching the creek, as
to the direction in which the stream runs.
» * ♦ *
At Tibooburra (N.S.W.), recently, died
Fat Tommy, probably the “heftiest” nigger in
Australia. Tommy weighed between 18 and 20st.
—2O per cent, of which was an old mother
hydatid, and Heaven only knows how many thou-
sand daughters. Tommy was famed for his appe-
tite ; he could eat 61b. of sheep at a sitting.
* • * *
Marsupial hunting in Bananaland is a
profitable pursuit just now. Young Hupeden, a
well-known local shot, has accounted for 22,150
this year between Rodd’s Bay and Turkey, making
upwards of £5 per week. The shooters have no
fixed camp, but travel straight on from early
morning, often covering 30 miles before night.
Bears form the biggest part of the bag, wallabies
and ’roos being met with only at intervals.
* + * *
Royalty breaks out in unsuspected places.
Country newspaper report:
One of the most fashionable and interesting weddings that
has taken place in Lismore (N.S.W.). ... A royal visitor
was present, too, in the person of Benghi, the aboriginal
king of Wyrallah, and he had the honor of being photo-
graphed with the wedding group, being a specially old
friend of the family.
PRECAUTION.
WAYFARER (to Ryan’s Gap mailman): “’Sped
to reach th ’ Gap ter-night, son?”
MAILMAN : “ Yairs. Wh-y-y? ”
WAYFARER: “Oh, nuthink ! Only I was thinkin'
if yer don’t gallop all th’ way the ’orse might
knock up ’fore yer git there.”
One bushman, who knows the country
back from Kimberley and in the Territory, esti-
mates the number of cattle of doubtful ownership
east of the Victoria at from 50,000 to 60,000.


A Drink I
A Tonic! A Medicine!
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Call for WOLFE’S Schnapps and nuke sure that
you take nothing else.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drhes away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
A YOUNG
NATION
Is always laying
Foundation Stones.
In Electro-plate, Ebony Handle, plain Trowel from 20s.
We help by making; the PRESENTATION TROWELS for the various ceremonies.
In Soh7snvet r0 fro!» 32s totlOToT BaSe3 ’ W " them at 2 ° S each « and u P wards to
Then we also make SOLID SILVER SPIRIT LEVELS for laying of Stones MALLETS we
also make, with Silver Shields. Engraving Inscriptions, also, we do on the premises. ’
We supply all these at less than London Prices.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS-
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney.
23 HUNTER STREET.
“F.S.S.": “Banjo,” dis-
coursing of dogs, doesn’t em-
phasise the distinction
between the “yard” sheep-
dog and the “track” sheep-
dog. The chief qualification
of the former is his bark,
whereas it is a grievous mis-
demeanor for the latter to
open his mouth. A first-class
drover’s dog, indeed, works in
absolute silence. I once in-
tentionally exasperated a
drover (who had been lauding
his dog sky-high), by asking
“Does he bark well?”
Bark ?” he exclaimed. ‘‘ If
he whimpered once I’d hang
him to the first tree.’’
“ Banjo’s” final warning not-
withstanding, how is this for
a “faithfulness” record:
Near Mortlake, (Vic.), three
years ago, a drover was caught
by a bush-fire, and had to leave
his sheep. But his dog stayed
with them, and, after the fire
had passed, the brave little
bitch limped home, driving
the remnant of the flock,
with her feet blistered and
most of her hair burnt off.
Her owner tended her like a
sick child, and in a few weeks
set her on her feet again.
* * *
‘ ‘ Banco ” : Re Murray-
cod nesting. The nest
mounds described by your
correspondent are made by
the jew or catfish of the inland
waters. Jew spawn from Dec.
to Feb. They guard tl icir
nests, swimming around them
day and night. Any foreign
substance thrown on the nest
is removed—a small bulk by
the mouth, and a largo bulk
by means of the nose. A
jew’s nest contains coarse
gravel in centre and fine
sand on the edge.
The cod spawns in deep
sheltered water, generally on
a mud bottom.
Letter from a back-blocks greybeard, whose
wife had been left a fortune in England, to a
young Sydney lady :
Miss-dear maddam if you should Bee liven in Sydney
Aney Weere conven We Will come see you Betor Mrl
and me go to england if you like to go you cann
you Will Never Want for enething you cann see averay
thing in london and englan and see the royl teater in
and then com back Again, you Will Never Want
the Propty and mony iMVill b£Worth’
giv yoo the offer of som housis and mony if you Will go
and keep Mrs comney wile she livs We will show
you Wear the mak sider and Beer so you Will see mor
then som other Purson ever seene. . . . dear miss
h. w wswa vsk
shedie.onth.vore the othe, mu« t»k her p]«a«
ther will Bee plenty mony for them the wil Never want,
if wee dont stay in englan Wee shall By som housis Near
parmatoo out of Sydney andliv theare it is Not so Hat. i
U “I 8 , - 7" w* 1 diegoen hom and you Will com
flxd r it up BLE 0 r hand Wor wee U shan hav SentylimeTo
right and praps to See each other i can Not tell you to
much mor so good By deeris uutill Nex time, lov and
hus god bless you.
• * * ,
cSS*; 1 ' The last annual report
Boardfor the Prpteetmn of Aborigines
reimffiin?^hfire^a 338 S? ngl^ eS ' and half -castes
nTTitIT oK’,! *!. h ? h®® ll ?. dnrmg the year—as
against 25 deaths—only six births J
“ OSIRIS” WORTHINGTON , THE CONVICTED
BEAUTY-PASTOR.
Photo. by Johnstone, O'Shannessy & Co., Melbourne.
From an educated ” Chinaman’s letter to
his landlord—now in Melbourne county court
I am the lessee for your paddock of 13 acres, house and
implements. Further details of arrangement will prevail
on coming Monday. lam inquiring workers to communi-
cate such work to me. I acknowledge your transit will
supervise the same. Your prime of health, I appreciate
you. As to the detouration of the season, it will
prophesize the thirstiness of the consecuting months
MADAME MELBA.
[This, which Melba considers her best portrait, is by Mr. H.
Walter Barnett, late of Sydney, now of Hyde Park Corner,
London, known to Australians by his picture of Henry Parlies—
a specimen of the curt of photography which has, perhaps, ne ver
been excelled anywhere .]
A horse that died recently at Karyrik,
Vic., was found to have in the “second stomach ”
801 b. of sand; presumed to have been gradually
taken-in with the grass-roots for which the animal
had been burrowing. Other horses in the district
are similarly affected.
* * * *
In the grounds of Bishopscourt (Melb.),
which it is proposed to remove from its present
site, stands a venerable gum tree which, on the
authority of the late Baron Von Mueller, was a
sapling when King Edward VI. put forth the
prayers of the Church in the vernacular in the
year 1549, and local members of the Anglican
Church regard it as almost sacrilege to lay the axe
to its roots in the Coronation year of King
Edward VII.
* * * *
“ Malle ” : Re strong men. Writer had a
man in his employ, up Tumberumba way, who
upended a bridge corbel (13ft. long, Gift, of it 12
x 12 -and the rest 14 x 12), got it on his shoulder
single-handed, and carried it some 50yds. This
was green urabbi, which is heavier than ironbark
and was reckoned little short of half a ton. This
man stood 6ft. lin., and was the smallest of five
brothers. His mother died soon after his birth
and as he was brought up on artificial food, he
used to excuse his midget proportions by telling
people that “he was reared a poddy.”
Many Vic. dairy-farmers, who
installed milking-machines at consider-
able expense, are proving them costly
failures,” writes a Bulletin correspon-
dent. “It is found that after a short
time the cows take a dislike to the
machines and refuse to give down more
milk than they can help. Hand-trials
alongside the machines have given 33
per cent, better results.”
* * * *
It is time that these large sums
of money which the public-house man
says he lent to the drunken prospector
or shearer were made irrecoverable at
law. As a case in point, a Kalgoorlie
miner, after a decent little crushing, had
a four days’ celebration, and, by his
own account, saw snakes for a week
after. Then the snakes were scared
away by a summons for £32 for board,
lodging, and money lent. Why pub.-
lieepers should lend money, without
acknowledgment and without witnesses,
to men who are too drunk to remember
that they got it, is a problem. But, by
them own account, they are always doing
foolish things like that.
* • t ■
Estimated that one Queensland
district alone —the Peak Downs—con-
sumes over £2OOO worth of opium per
annum. Official report dwells upon the
way m which the opium habit is spread-
ing among the whites in W.Q. This is
attributed to the “ total absence of all
cheerful social conditions, and the
dreary, deadly monotony of the environ-
ment.”
* « • *
There is lying in the hands of
Queensland Government (according to
the last report on Pacific Island Immi-
gration) a sum of £36,773 Bs. 6d., de-
rived from the estates of deceased Islanders.
There is also much distress just now in the Isis
district among the unemployed “free” Poly-
nesians. Would it (asks a correspondent) be un-
reasonable to suggest that the fund above men-
tioned might be made a means of relief for these
unfortunates ?
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
Ao notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on M 5.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
J,H.: The Bulletin prefers to give to its
writers, whilst they are alive, no other appreciation than
printing their work, and paying for it as well as may be ;
laudatory articles have a savor of personal puff E.J. :
We certainly don’t want to know how you kissed your
girl on the Thames (Eng.); can’t find space for all the
bright kisses on the Hawkesbury and the Yarra
Selono : But Oarruthers’ statement, that Pollock’s filling
the office of new N.S. W. Solicitor-General without a seat in
the Cabinet is without a parallel since Responsible Govern-
ment began, is “a bad forget," seeing that he (Mr. O.)
was member of the Administration that gazetted 0. G
Wade Solicitor-General a few years ago. When, indeed,
Responsible Government began, the S.-G., as well as the
A.-G. sat m Cabinet, and were supposedly indispensable,
ihat supposition ran through the Oowper, Parkes and
t oister Administrations, but began then to be questioned,
and was finally abandoned The Shadow : “Dream"
shows promise ; but there’s lots of polish needed yet.
One of your sentences: “ I caught my breath as I looked
at her. The magic and mystery of this sweet hour had
got into my blood Without hesitation, I strolled
to where she was." Under the circumstances, rush,
fly, leap, bound, sprint, gallop, get, but don’t 5tr011....
D. Caulfield (London): As you say you are “totally
ignorant of politics,” why not keep clear of them till you
learn something? The petition, story of which you so
cheerfully take for granted, is mostly lies, and it was got
up by outside parties whose interests are purely financial.
The Kanaka came here under an agreement which pro-
vided for his return. Australia proposes to keep
him to his agreement. The statement that Aus-
tralian courage has been “nobly shewn” in burning
Boer farms in Africa has nothing to do with the case
Kai Purapura: Good, but unprintable. Too good','in
fact J.K.D.Z. : Some of the jokes are old, and some of
them ought to be dead... .Block 13: There are very few
Kanaka women in Queensland, about 690, or one
to 14 male Kanakas. The Kanaka marries a white
woman—or rather, as a rule, he doesn’t marry her
.... Bobadil : Note the fact that you fell asleep at a
Mormon meeting.... Adonis : Heaven only knows-what
they are about, though they have an insane gleam of brilli-
ance here and there, like the eye of a dangerous lunatic
seen fora moment through a keyhole J.L.O • Sorry
to decline. The “Paradise Lost” kind of poem isn’t
suited for everyday journalism. Space is short, and
Paradise must lose itself in half a column, or give it up
....Gerald B. : After all, the civil-service routine you
complain of is very like that of most offices. Secretary
Teece, of the A.M.P., for instance, doesn’t open and
answer all letters himself J. (Sydney): No
Ourro : And yet, you know, there has ‘not been a fatal
case of lynching in all Australian history, whereas there
have been thousands in the U.S. Why ? (2) How can
you make such an assertion, in view‘of the fact that
there were five successful prosecutions in one day at a
Sydney police-court for evasions of customs-duties?
0.W., “System” would this time be only worth a par
to B Nomlas: Mary Gilmore’s yarn was a thoughtful
expression of a theory ; if you wish to discuss it don’t try
to do so with humor. ... .Bonamy :No brightness
Mous.: Don’t like “The B." Sarquem : “DSo’"'ia
unpleasant and not exciting... .Vulcan : Too obstetrical.
... .E.A.R. : A good deal of promise ; but slum-life tales
have been done so well (and often) before that one needs
much brightness to succeed in that line Ben S • Like
the track, rather jolty... J.O. : Sent on t0—W.P.8.....
Cosmos : Very tame narrative ; you’ve far to travel yet ’*
G.E.P.: A good yarn, but metre all out... .F.M. (Cairns):
Duly noted and passed around to the wicked staff ; but
it’s probably an outside contributor who is in fault
S.H. : Too thin an idea; no flesh clothing... Bonamy j
A trifle with no spirit in it F.F.L. : Not enough
interest M.C. :In “A Dream” you have one really
poetic idea ; but copy so crude that it doesn’t look as it
you’d ever put it into poetry... Lola : Much better, but no
use in re-submitting unless specially asked... E. : Some
simple merit, but not good enough L.B.E. :On fami-
liar lines where only absolute excellence scores Eric
Ferguson: One possibly... .M.R. : Good capacity for
versifying, but we’re rather tired of hug subjects Un-
suitable : Beta, Alan, A.E.8., The Broker, Ul. Paper-
boy, Mira, J.P.C., U.N.A., Kodah, Win. C., Wool
L.B. : Your stuff is generally too didactic and cocksure.
Alroy: Just album verse Wood-elf: Only one
thought in it—" That it’s better to have loved and lost
than not to have loved at all ”; and that’s been said
before R. de :No room for tombstone verse of the
conventional order Yendys : Yes, too slight Irven :
That sort of verse has been so strongly done before .*
Mary V. H. : Can’t say without seeing your matter ”
A. : “Tig” 2000 years 01d....C.L.L. : Never heard
of any other Mauger, except the historic headsman
depicted by Cruikshank in the act of grinding his
axe.. ..A.H.F. : The irony is spoiled by unreality of the
situation Eric J. : Answer is not always given within
the first week F.G. : Will print “ Hawley’s Part.”
Yellamo: Unreal in spots James Young: (l) No‘-
(2) year 1870... .More Anon : For Heaven’s sake spare us’
any more like that Sphinx: To hand; will be con-
sidered as soon as possible... .S.H.P. : Highly unmeri-
torious verse....P.L.E. : Not badly versed, but nothing
in ’em otherwise Smith H. :ho literary skill. Alice
G. R. : Graceful little fancy, but too trifling Bunnie :
Yes ; You have a somewhat original turn, but you lack skill
and experience.... Kangaroo : Not much in it Colin
B. : Very wooden verse.. M.C.: Too flat and mechanical
Awakino : Will print H. of 8... .Esmi : Will find a corner
for “Innocence.”.. ..F.S.S. : Marble B. yarn rather slow.
... .The Waster : Old yarn in new guise.. .Manx: Fac-
tor? Con. an unattractive item A.E.K. : All very obvi-
ous and very flat Barbara : Will print “ Aim. and S ”
Hard-up : Sorry ; but those of your items which have any
point are too unsavory Beulah : Very dull jokes
M.O.R. : Funny, but too unfinished Aramac : Founded
on a chestnut about putting green spectacles on cattle to
make them eat wood - shavings W.F.E. : Verses poor.
....Nicobar: Too roughly knocked together.... Oktis'
“Grass-seeds” over-flimsy.... Bar won : Will just about
pass.... Wild Wanderer: Have an article on land-grant
railways already in type C.M.B. : Received one scheme
of Parliamentary reform, written in painfully dim ink..
C. : “ Red Letter Day” has streaks of humor, but of
rather a hackneyed kind... .Bill O. : Will use. Bruiser
Neither good enough... .Pants : Did you hope to pass
that old steal off as an original item ? Crayfish : Cup
dreams are out of date now.. . .Quartpot: The items
quoted appeared in the Owl. . . .L.B.C. : “Dabbler” dab-
bles in a very plain sort of way The Bluey : Ode “To
a Sausage” no good to man'or beast G.H.M. : Un-
wofkabte L.B.C. : Does a man necessarily yell at the
top of his voice for a long period while killing a snake ?
Anton H. : Query, why didn’t your Chow shoot?
Tests, running over four years, show that
at Broken Hill waterworks sun and wind suck
up an annual 7ft. l|in. The loss in smaller station
tanks and dams is much greater. At theß.H.
works a loss of half-an-inc*h a day is common in
summer; the consumption never reaches one-
seventh of that.
ENCORE! ENCORE!!
A REFINED DIVERSION.
“Mr. Irvine and his colleagues can be trusted to decide
upon their duty, in the Sangal case, without either help
or hindrance from Premier See. The less guilty has
perished on the scaffold and the more guilty still sur-
vives.”—ARGUS.
Re a par. (8., l/11/’O2) as to Mr. W.
Clarke, a N.S.W. ex-Minister for Justice, The
Bulletin is informed by his brother in Sydney
that Mr. Clarke is a confirmed invalid, and,
though in S’Africa, is not “ running a boarding-
house ” there.
“ J.8.M.” writes :
/ have read the Witton petition which has been posted
to some of us ; also your remarks thereon (B. Oct. 18).
Have also talked to dozens of returned contingenters on
matter, and I find this curious state of things. In S’Africa
it was difficult to find anyone who did not applaud the
numerous Boer-murdering stories which were current,
and the man who suggested that the Boers were deserving
of ordinary humane treatment was looked upon as a
freak. But now, in talking to returned soldiers in Aus-
tralia, I have not come across one who does not admit that
the Bushveldt crowd, Witton included, deserved ail they
got. The only comment oil their sentence I have heard
is that they should have all been hanged instead of being
shot or imprisoned for life. The Bushveldters, they say,
“ went too far.” All honor to Mr. Witton for his efforts
to release his unfortunate brother. But we who know
what went on in S’Africa are also entitled to form a judg-
ment. We know that hundreds of Boers have been mur-
dered in cold blood. One of the worst gangs of murderers
was brought to justice. Dozens of other gangs have
escaped scot free, and the highly-placed officers who
encouraged these proceedings, which will be an eternal
blot on the British name, are being honored. Is this any
reason for sympathy with those who have been laid by the
heels, or shall we forgive them for committing some of
the most atrocious and debased crimes of the day because
they thought they would not get into trouble over them ?
I do not propose to traverse the petition (to my mind a
string of fallacies and sDecious arguments). I would only
say that the plea that Witton was directly responsible for
the killing of one Boer climaxes the matter. A row of
surrendered Boers are about to be murdered—by soldiers,
forsooth, to whose honor they trusted—in cold blood.’
One of the unfortunate victims, absolutely unarmed,
knowing what is about to happen, rushes out to get in a
last blow before he is killed. The “amiable young giant”
draws his revolver and shoots the Boer. Enough 1 If we
are to turn loose any of the Bushveldt murderers, then
let us at once revise our standards of right and wrong,
and let us release all our murderers.
The Answer to the North.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Relief committees have been organised amongst the
farmers in various parts of Gippsland, agd steps are
being taken to grass, free of charge, the \TOrking stock
of the Northern settlers till the drought breaks up."
They heard, though the blue heaven shut
Her far dull ear,
And languid-eyed the sick earth reel’d
Round the tired year.
They heard, these common toiling men,
Listened and heard,
Diviner than the heavens, helped
With deed and word.
They heard, who from the forest smoothed
A smiling land,
Where the sleek gracious flocks
Knee-covered stand.
They heard, for oh ! the human heart
Is more divine
Than the cold heavens set
In fixed star-shine.
They heard, for in a kindred toil
Kinship is born,
Sympathy is the heart’s sweat
And they that mourn—
They hear more quickly sobs
From other throats,
And, like .Eolian harps,
Thrill at the notes.
They heard, though the strange heaven shut
Her cold, dull ear;
They are the gods in truth
Who help and hear.
M.E.F.


O j>
b-e*** w <3
CowlJ
4llo! c^f-
SfVTw.-r.
Ho \\t%oA ifet"
fUc^
fot^onit^
'7
-"ISS
U'k
&W
C.*n>«r^.
bd,o<
'f ie w °\
(oswjc
J(of
Co\> 1
P'f-j 'te
Wi«s
lie
A'^ c ~
fgds
/A
C\>«f °J
Ol*
b'oc K
jWe
& St pit-
ot OUI' QoV
Gen jVom ■
4 oj- rneehn^
y— ~ noTlhC
'vWfltj
AcJuj^
\ (jOVeKnot /
\°('Tl«mi^
loVe
Itvi"
g-j Kon n°° re •
OU
Vlsiedr
'these 2\ r «
of- *? she leaned Gov^r^o/s
o«v 2*o^' s Couldn't" hefo voTivQ.,
He S^w»e
lr7<A i Vi
|ei/n>no i*>
did tjot
'to tt)e Cup.
, Mt-
fa
°*e of
. ol<)
One 4«y
° u/
/\vTis't'-s -\S ”^ e -
y inft, ")Z Cowrie
U 5 OA I fa 7*5.
liKc *K*i«fe K^q
or>« we d'ld'tff ‘ 'on On
H&T
trjbfa K*?o*V
Onto Vs c^ 5
unfo tfe °f
Iy^eK
A CUP WEEK MELEE.


THAT PTOMAINE PICNIC.
—Drawn by “ Hop. 's ” Understudy.
These here are 6ome Mel-
bourne people who thought
the Cup was wicked ; so they went to a Sunday-school
picnic instead, and made themselves sick by eatin’ too
much ptomaine. The surviving parsons ought to get a
subject for a sermon out of it, anyhow.
" At a meeting of the Australian Protestant Defence
Association last week a reverend orator said that there
was need of organisation so as to resist the methods of
Rome. . . The women’s franchise had placed a
power of good in the hands of every woman should she
choose to use it ... a weapon wherewith they could
purify Parliament and make it impossible for undesir-
able characters to enter. The divorce laws needed
amendment." etc
“ The Murrumbidgee
b unyip is much in
evidence juat now.
This carious amphibi-
ous quadruped was
first reported to have
been seen near Gun-
dagai last week by a
young man, who des-
cribed it as being about
the size of a calf, with a
head like a rhinoceros, with
two tusks in forehead, and its
J=r nfeck and forequarters spotted.
- • • Since then, a highly-respect-
a^*e res ‘dent of Currawarna, 20 miles
° e^ow Wa gga, is reported to have seen the
monster issue from the river when he went to
attend his fishing-lines at daylight.”
THE PARSONS’ IDEA OF THE •• WEAPON *
ANOTHER. SANDOW ITEM. ,
Pbggy Pymble ; “ Are you goin’ to jine that Sandow
! class for girls that our teacher is getting up 1” ’
Thymblb : “No fear ! I 'don’t want to get
lumps over my body like him! ”
DOESN'T WANT ’EM AFTER ALL' *
Bobb? " Well, here they are. What name, please V**
Average Woman "Ugh' take the horrid things
away , I don t want ’em 1
CARTOONLETS.


A 3 SAUNDERS
FOR WEDDING PRESENTS, USEFUL AND ACCEPTABLE.
Showrooms:
815 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
A. SAUNDERS.
fwo SERVIETTE RINGS, in Silk-lined Owe,
Pore Silver-plated on Hard Nickel Silver,
in three similar patterns of ferns, 12s 6d, 16s fid (
Pure Solid Silver, 80s, 83s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
ENTREE DISH, makes Two Dishes,
Pore Silver-plated on White Niokel Silver,
Other styles, £2 10s to £B.
A. SAUNDERS.
0102 —HOT WATER KETTLE and STAND,
Silver-plated on White Metal, Extra Chased, £2los.
Similar Designs, £2, £3, £3 10s.
TEA POT, Extra Heavy Silver-plated, 27s 6d.
Similar styles, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 80s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Silver-plated CRUET,
as above, 21a.
EGG CRUET, Pure SOw-pkM,
with Spoons, 2fie.
Other stgrtes, 80s, £2, «S 10a
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, White or Coloured
Ornamented Glass, Pure Silver electro-
plated on Hard Niokel Silver, 10s 6d.
A. BATJNDEBS.
Beautiful (Mfcqr, utoiking boon and half-hours, Marblette CLOCK, £3 9s
Reliable Timekeepers.
▲ MOST ACCEPTABLE PRESENT.
Pout True Anywhere.
JAM or BUTTER KNIFE,
Pure Silver-plated on Hard
White Metal, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s 6d,
4s Bd. Special Value.
CANDLESTICK,
Pure Bilver-plated, 12s (id.
Leaf Pattern, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oak DINNER GONG, Silver-plated Mounted, £2 10s.
Other styles, 17s 6d,~2Cs, 255, 80s.
A NICE PRESENT.
WE GUARANTEE YOU THE UTMOST
SATISFACTION.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST FREE,
A. SAUNDERS.
Silver-plated
FLORAE STAND.
Ruby Glass, 12s 6d
a pair.
Very Cheap.
SALTS,
Silver-plated Stands,
656d,756d,856d.
/5
m:
.mi
Owed, llnt-i
A. SAUNDEBS.
ola«L A 1 TEA and OOEFEE SET, £8 10s. B Quality, £6 10s. TEA SET only, 4810 a and 44 4a.
Own styles, £6 Be, £0 6s to £2O. Send for Illustrated Book.
JL BiinrDEß&
fCTGAB BOUTTLB,
Silver Electro-plated, Handsomely
Chased, XOB Cd and 20s;
extra quality, 255, 90s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver BOOK MARK, ktt.
A 1
A. SAUNDERS.
Qualify 4 o’clook OA K Hi PORKS, Pure Silver-plated on
Hard White Metal, 10s 6d and 12s 6d half-dozen.
Our Silrerplate Is England’
Highest Quality.
W!
A. HATTNDKRS.
BlM.— Oak BISCUIT, BQwplated
Mounted, 20s; Shield only, 16s:
Fluted Rims, 255; Floral China
Mounted, 16a Bd, 20s, 255, 80s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE, Pure Sil c er-plated on Hard
Nickel Silver. Beautifully Chased and Ornamented, 35s ;
can be used as Cake Dish or Salver. Similar styles, 21s, 255,
80s, £2, £2 10s. A USEFUL PRESENT.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET, Beautifully Chased,
85s, £2, £2 10s, £3. Cheaper styles, 20s, 255, 30s.
IK
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class 4-Bottle CRUET,
Silver-plated, 355. Similar, 255, 30s.
A. SACJNDERS.
Oak INKSTAND, Highest Quality, £2 10s.
Other styles, Silver-plated, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Beautifully Chased and Carved JEWED CASE.
Pure Silver-plated, Silk-Hned, 15s 6d.
POCKET SPIRIT FLASKS.
All Barts, Prices, and Styles, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s,
20s, 255, 80s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Doable JAMS, Floral Ornamented China, 255, 80s.
In single, 15s 6d, Pnre Silver-plated Rims.
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER AND SILVERSMITH,
815 AND 817 GEORGE-ST.,
NEARLY OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY.


Owing to the Australian and S’African
demand for live cattle, the canning and chilling
works projected by Smalcolm M'Eacharn and
friends in north Westralia are not being pushed
just now. It is said that no less than 3600 heifers
have lately been shipped from that district to
Durban, with a loss of only 200, mainly through
the use of a double keel; and other lots follow.
Price, from £ll to £lB.
Indigestion from
Birth
“My little girl can now digest
anything ”
One of the most difficult of home prob-
lems is how to get food to suit the baby—it
is twice as difficult if the child has weak-
ness of the digestive organs. Here is the
solution in both oases :
“ Nelson Street, Whittington Moor,
“ Chesterfield, England, March 28th, 1901.
“ Dear Sirs, —My daughter, Olive, aged
two and a half years, had suffered from
acute indigestion from birth and caused us
great trouble and anxiety. She has cost
me pounds for various remedies that have
been tried, but all proved of no avail, for
nothing suited her or made her thrive. Her
food was rejected almost as soon as taken,
and the poor little thing suffered great
distress. We almost gave up all hope of
rearing her, and knowing how she suffered,
her release would almost have been a
OLIVE SMITH.
(From a photograph.)
blessing. I decided to try Scott’s Emulsion.
I was much surprised and greatly delighted
to notice a radical change for the better in
my child’s condition shortly after giving
her your preparation. She was able to
take and retain her food, and what is more,
it certainly appeared to do her good, for
she soon gained in both flesh and strength.
I have now given Scott’s Emulsion a fair
trial, and am thankful to say my little
girl has been completely cured and can
now eat and digest anything, and I must
give Scott’s Emulsion the credit. I feel
it is not too much to say that we owe her
life to your splendid remedy.—Yours very
sincerely,
“ (Signed) Chas. Smith.”
You know enough of the ebb and flow of
health in children to be aware that the child
is going on well when it “ can eat and digest
anything.” You will have noticed from the
day the child was born that it was to the
question of food the doctor paid the most
attention. It is in just such cases as these
—impaired digestion—that Scott’s Emul-
sion is of the first importance.
It acts always as it did in the case of
Olive Smith : as a medicine in removing the
cause of the indigestion, as a food in adding
flesh and strength. This double action of
Scott’s Emulsion, unique among remedies,
is just what all substitutes and imitations
fail to secure. "You can therefore realise
the difference between Scott’s Emulsion
which cures and “ other things ” which
always produce “ other results.” There is
nothing “ just as good ” as Scott’s Emulsion.
Scott’s Emulsion has none of the ob-
jectionable features of common cod-liver
oil, is taken by children with eagerness.
Comparing common cod-liver oil with
Scott’s Emulsion a distinguished physician
writes us : “ Your Emulsion i area times
as efficacious as a similar quantity of
common cod-liver oil.”
•On the wrapper of every bottle of Scott’s
Emulsion is a picture of a man carrying a
big fish—if he and the fish are absent it jo
not Scott’s Emul= !^r>
You can obtain a sample of Scott’s Emulsion
by sending fourpenee to Scott & Bowne, Ltd.
483 Kent street, Sydney, and mentioning this
paper. All chemists sell Scott’s Emulsion.
CURES
COUCH
uMnoncoMH
USED PROMPTS
STOPS
COLD
bm&ma
hkyhaw^
r STOPS
COLD
W ,U. relieve
W and cure.
r.a sU?n ce8 ’ 9W ’
CURES'
COUGH
The Fitzgibbon, as boss of Vic. Metropolitan
Board of Works, has made £13,000 in two years
out of the sheep bred and fed on the Board’s farm
at Werribee. He formerly dabbled in pastoralism
on his own account.
The most lovely concern in Bananaland
just now is the tank-engine scandal. Something
like £100,000 has been spent on strengthening
lines and bridges to bear these white elephants ;
platforms have had to be altered, and, in spite of
all the expense, these miraculous machines can
only run on a small section of the Southern lines,
and can’t run off on most sidings at all.
Writes “ Medi-cus ” from the Far West:
Who is going to pay the newspaper postage—the paper
people or the subscriber? I have received notice from
the proprietary of my daily paper that the price is to be
raised 4s. a year, owing to the imposition of postage. I
fail to see where that paper’s contribution to the revenue
comes in. Just take notice that I do not intend to pay
any postage on The Bulletin. I’ll stop the paper first
and then, let me ask you, what would you do ?
Well, the paper people will try to pass it on ; an ,
if their paper is good enough, they’ll succeed.
The daily papers howled against newspaper pc st-
age probably because they were uneasy on the
point. The Bulletin didn’t howl —why every-
one is at liberty to guess.
Old friend John Alexander Dowie is pro-
viding further matter for humorous reflection.
J.A.D., in his character of the New Elijah,
instructed a private disciple to pass over all his
worldly goods to the Zion Church. The original
Elijah, of yore, was at liberty to make converts
on the same terms, because he lived in an age of
Faith, when prophets were secure from news
paper exposures. But Elijah Dowie has to suffe-
tribulation that his historical namesake never
dreamed of. In this case the disciple’s next-ofr
kin applied to the Supreme Court of Chicago for
restoration of their deceased relative’s property,
and the court ordered Elijah to disgorge £10,000.
Re that monkey and weight (B. 25/10/’02) :
“ Lychnobite ” : This problem, according to Oolling-
wood’s “Life of Lewis Carroll,” was invented by the
author of “ Alice in Wonderland.’’ In Carroll’s diary
appears—“Got Prof. Clifton’s answer to the monkey anil
weight problem. It is very curious, the different views
taken by good mathematicians. Price says the weight
goes up, with increasing velocity ; Clifton (and Harcourt)
that it goes up at the same rate as the monkey ; while
Sampson says that it goes down.”
“P.T.”: To “J.S.W.’s” question (B., 25/10/’02) about
the rope and the monkey. Some hold that the weight
goes up at the same rate as the monkey ; others contend
that it goes down ; and others again maintain that the
weight rises or falls in inverse ratio to the speed with
which the monkey jerks the rope. My own opinion is
that the balance between the monkey and the weight
being very sensitive, the monkey, in climbing, will, by
his pulls, represent additional weight, causing the rope
to slide over the pulley-wheel, and thus increasing the
weight on the monkey's side till the whole of the rope
runs over to that side.
“Alex. M.” : lie the monkey-rope-weight question.
The result, in my opinion, would depend upon the
monkey’s style of climbing. If he should mount with
jerks, the rope would certainly “ overhaul ” with him,
causing the weight proportionately to ascend ; but if he I
should climb with gentle continuity, even the small
resistance of the block-sheave to revolution upon its pin
might allow the weight to remain stationary.
“ Titus Salt” : The matter will never be settled except
by actual experiment. I have a very good monkey which
I will lend for £1 a week, the experimenter to feed the
animal and keep it in repair, and leave a £5 deposit. I
will also supply the rope and other fixings for £2 10s., less
6 per cent, discount for cash. If the experiments take
place at my house, I will expect £3 for rent and wear and
tear of premises ; if at the experimenter’s own house,
freight on monkey will be an extra.
John Mitchell, leader of the 150,000
American hard-coal miners recently on strike
for about four months, and who has managed
things so. well that he has got most of the
public opinion on his side, is a smooth-faced,
black-coated man of little more than 30, courteous,
and filled with the idea that honor, and especially
a punctilious regard for contracts, is a union’s
most valuable asset. “ You can win strikes on a
big balance,” he says, “ but you can’t fix up agree-
ments and prevent strikes, which is a long way
better, unless they trust you.” In most respects
his methods don’t differ from those of other young
Americans who have organised big industrial con-
cerns. He is little of a talker, and was not able
to persuade the men, as he wanted to, that they
were not ready for a strike ; but, having settled
that much for themselves, they left the rest to
their president. “ This is just a matter of busi-
ness,” he says, and sits hard on any orator who
starts to play on the strikers’ passions. Already
he has won for the soft-coal miners what he is
asking for the “ hard-coalers.”
“ Galvo ” to The Bulletin :—
According to Bulletin (ll/10/’02), Brisbane Tramways
Oo. asserts that there is not sufficient current in any
single conductor to kill a human, and the par then in-
stances a ’cuted bullock, and the narrow escape of a ’bus-
driver “with his foot on the metal brake-lever,” who was
about to brush aside a dangling live-wire “ with his bare
hand,” the inference being that, had he done so, he would
have been killed.
The Tram Co.’s statement is dangerously misleading,
but the ’busman, for all that, wasn’t in much danger. The
risk is neither lessened nor increased by the conducting-
wire being single, double, or treble; neither does it
matter whether the wire is thin or thick. The danger
depends upon the amount of current which can be driven
through the body, and this again depends upon area of
contact and efficiency of connection between the con-
ductor and the body. About two years ago a workman
was killed in England by a pressure of 250 volts (until
then considered absolutely safe), and it was shown at the
inquest that he made particularly good contact across
the wires. On the other hand, I myself have had two
shocks from a 600-volt circuit (the voltage of Brisbane
tramways), and didn’t suffer any great inconvenience,
though the experience is not recommended as an amuse-
ment. The sensation was that of much heat and a violent
blow over the heart, followed by profuse perspiration.
In the case of the bullock mentioned, the animal pro-
bably stood on the negative conductor (the tram-rail),
and put his moist nose against the positive conductor
(the broken trolley-wire), thus receiving enough current
to kill him. With the ’bus-driver, however, it was dif-
ferent, because, although his foot was on the metal
brake lever, the circuit to earth was broken by the brake
“ shoe ” of wood, leather, or rubber—all efficient non-
conductors when dry. I have often seen line-repairers,
standing on a dry, wood-blocked road, handle a “ live ”
wire with bare hands, and when perched on their repair-
waggon, repairers always do so handle them.
By-the-way, why is there never any prosecution of the
managers of electrical concerns which have had many
deaths from electrocution ? It is customary to employ al-
most utterly unskilled men on underground-cable work,
because experienced men won’t work for the 7s. to 9s. a
day! The actual work is generally simple and easy
enough—merely the soldering or splicing together of a
coupie of wires"; but the skill lies in knowing which two
wires to join, and too many of the dividend-hunting co.’s
would rather let a man be killed in finding out than pay
one whose knowledge would keep him safe.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited.
3M
GE
General Electric
Incandescent Lamps.
THE EDISON LAMP
•Absolutely
THE BEST!
Annual Sales, 18,000,000.
After Competitive Tests, 63,750
were purchased by the Melb.
City Council.
LONG LIFE. HIGH EFFICIENCY.
Large Stock always on hand.
AUSTRALIAN
GEnERHL ELECTRIC CO.
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS,
Melbourne and Sydney.
Motors, Dynamos, Steam Dynamo Sets, etc.,
also in Stock.
©
@
©
©
©
©
©
@
©
©
©
©
©
m
m
g
An abrasion, a cut or a scratch is
an opening in the horny skin-wall that
protects the tissues within from the
germs without. \ r I KOLIA contains no
germs, and is specially prepared for
shaving, and for the complexion, and
the nursery.
2h.p. to lOOh.p.
KING- MARINE OIL ENGINES.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
life
lVv!
1 <*»>»/;/// Hutu cfflTJfJ//A (f/A I life
Noiseless Uuderwater . . .
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
WITH THE KING ENGINE-ONE LEVER CONTROLS THE WHOLE.
J. f. m:cderm:ott & co m:pan y,
Telephone 2671. 37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
On Our Selection,” By “ Steele Rudd.”


Hotel
Australia
RATES:
12s. 6d. per Day,
and upwards.
This beautiful hotel is fireproof from tower to
basement.
For cuisine, comfort, style, appointments, and
perfection of attendance, The Australia is the
first hotel of the Southern Hemisphere.
It is Sydney’s great summer hotel, being
1 situated on a lofty site, and catching every
breeze. Visitors to The Australia sleep in a cool,
pure atmosphere.
J. URE SMITH (Late of Menziea’), Manager,
O&stlereagh-st., Sydney.
HOW TO KEEP COOI.
We strongly recommend all who suffer
from the heat to add a few drops of Condy’s
Fluid to the Daily Bath or Foot Bath.
A Condy’s Fluid Bath imparts a most
delightful sensation of coolness, freshness
and purity, it invigorates the body and
braces the nerves. The strengthening and
cooling effects are Simply Magical. Tired
or Tender feet are instantly relieved. Book
on bottle contains full directions.
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists
throughout the British Empire. Beware
of substitutes. Insist on having “Condy’s
Fluid.’’ Condy & Mitchell, of London,
England, are the only Makers and their
name and address is at foot of label.
, '
<3-0 TO HET .1.-
IGOLA NI > for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney,
Australian Stamps Bought. Prion-Lists gratis,
“Don’t shout”
I hear you. I can hear now
as well as anybody.
"• How ?’ Oh some
thingnew— The Wilson
Common-sense Ear-
Drum. I've a pair in my v
ears now. you can't see them
■» —they're invisible. I wouldn't
\ know I bad them in myself.
\ only that I hear all right.”
The Wilson Ear-Drum is
really a substitute for the
fdg
df
vvorking parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire- Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable Totally
different from any other de-
vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
■I. CHAIHtBS. 229-231 Collins. »t M Help.
w
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette & Sailing List, with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
260 Collins-st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st, Sydney,
SPECTACLES
g
—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, ™
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, ourmarvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SICHT-MEASURINC PATENT,
By its use you can Test your own sight and de-
termine for yourself the style and quality of the
glasses you may need. Write for it to—
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
371 George-st., Sydney, next A.J.S. Bank^
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
fd
Bought, Sold & Exchanged.
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements, Price lists gratis.
J. H. SMYTH & CO., 88 King-Bt. ( .
STDiTBY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Westralia being gay and cheerful with big
loans just now, the Assembly has accepted,
almost unanimously, a motion in favor of old-age
pensions.
Australia is*gefcfcing on so very well without
a Governor-General (there is said to be an acting
Gov.-Gen. somewhere, however) that really the
offioe might be abolished, and each of the State
Governors asked, in turn, to be acting G.-G. for a
year.
The most convincing fact to the average
man in the day labor v. contract controversy in
N.S.W. is that the Railway Commissioners, from
choice, get very much of their construction and
deviation work carried out by day labor, and save
money thereby.
Under three Loan Application Bills which
the Irvine-Shiels Govt, has introduced Vic.
Leg. Assembly it is proposed to spend £1,073,850.
Most of this money is going to placate the Kya-
bram country interests that have been calling so
loudly for retrenchment.
Melbourneites already see the fall of the
Frozen Ministry ahead. Who will be the next
Premier? Peacock is discredited ; Trenwith still
somewhat unpopular; Duggan and Morrissey
not liked. Those who think they know, say
Andrews or Donald Mackinnon.
Agent-General Copeland says that the
High Commissionership is bound to be “some-
thing of a sinecure.” Federal members must see
that it is not. No man should be accredited and
salaried by Australia to play kneebreeches,
swallowtails and pumps in England.
“Maitlander” writes to Sydney D.T.
(wonder whether the letter came by posit ?) a sort
of a don’t-nail-his-ears-to-the-pump complaint
that, because Premier Barton was not howled
down when he last spoke at Maitland, “it was
interpreted as enthusiastic approval.” Mr.
Barton is going to speak there again shortly, and
“ Maitlander ” hopes there will be no chance given
of another such interpretation. But, of course,
he doesn’t suggest howling down. Oh, dear no ;
in fact, he specifically deprecates it. Still, the
seed has been sown in good ground.
SWEET SARCASM.
“ You must have a great memory for faces if you recognised the lady after having only met her
once —and that two years ago.”
“ Oh, I didn’t recollect her face a hit, hut I recognised her hat.”
Mr. Cruickshank, the exceedingly rich
member for the Gwydir, has offered a 30gs.-trophy
for his electorate’s cricket club ; and there is justi-
fiable objection to this by-some of his constituents.
Mr. Cruidkshank’s motive is, doubtless, absolutely
honest and pure, but such gifts should be treated
by the law as bribes.
The British Secretary of State for India,
by way, apparently, of a hint re anti-cheap-
colored-labor legislation, says it is necessary to
remember the -great distinction between natives
of .India, “ with a civilisation older than our own,”
ai*d other colored races. This looks reasonable,
anyhow, and, just as soon as Britain recognises
that fine old Indian civilisation, bf giving the
Hindu person the same self-governing rights
as the Englishman enjoys, Australia will doubt-
lees re-consider the matter.
The news leaks out that the British
Government sent in to Bill Lyne a bill for £5OO for
alleged riot and damage done by Australian troops
in S’Africa. Oom Bill refused to pay or acknow-
ledge the facts of the case; in fact he seems to
hint, in his long slow way, that the British
Government isn’t telling the truth.
A Melb. man who knows (or ought to) :
Melb. Freetraders have had about enough of George
Dry Dog. His kowtow to the “ Pious and Immortal
Memory ” has lost him lots of votes in Yic. General
opinion is that it’s about time the people of Australia
gave Reid leisure to devote to providing for his family.
At any rate, the one-man leadership in Federal matters
seems to be dead ; the system of co-equal Houses has
killed it. Events point to the dual-leadership of the
Freetraders going to Symon and M'Millan.
Captain—haw—Macarthah Onslow, and
Mistah Wegg-Horne (doncherknow) have gone to
Victoria “ to represent the People of N.S.W.” at
some Kyabramapootra pow-wow. The People of
N.S.W. represented by the gilded Captain
Macarthur Onslow and Mr.—ah—Wegg-Horne.
Was there ever such a joke ! Apropos, where is
Mr. Critchley Parkah—and whom is he represent-
ing just now?
Tommy Bent’s Vic. railway “ reforms "
are bearing fruit. At Alberton, a good-sized
station, where the revenue collected is over £6OOO
a year, Thomas cut down the staff from four to
one. The one man collapsed from overwork, and,
while Bent was considering whether he should be
boiled for insubordination or only beheaded,
Alberton station was left quite unattended and
took care of itself.
The Victorian House of Rich Landlords,
though its members are remunerated for their
“ services ” at their real value—nothing per annum
—nevertheless pays its officers a lordly wage.
Last session the President of the Leg. Council
pocketed £34 17s. Bd., and the Council Chairman
of Committees £lB ss. Id. per working day of 8
hours. Same session, Speaker Mason drew £7los.
per 8-hours working day.
“Rev. James Woolnough, J.P. ; Rev.
George Lane, J.P.” The See Government should
sit down in a cool place and think where it is
going. But if See and Co. are willing to stupidly
sell themselves for a trifle of sectarian advantage,
the churches should make a fixed stand against
any such union of clericalism and lay law. The
anathema of the thing is all over early Austra-
lian history. Botany Bay was accursed with parson
magistracy.
Strange reports of a huge influx of
Russian and Polish Jews and other old-clothes
dealers, come from S’Africa, and one local paper
lately alleged that up to that date 90 per cent, of
the names on permits to return to the Rand were
Hebraic. Cohen is coming into his own again.
The Carthaginians were Semites, and the race
made its great bid for the ownership of the world
when the noses followed Hannibal on his march
to Rome. Now the folk who lost North Africa
are going to the South for their mislaid pro-
perty.
The (S.A.) Labor Herald (Nov. 11) heads
an attack on the local Deutscher weekly with
these lines : —“A dirty, lying, German Tory rag,
the S.A. Zeitung, vilifies and misrepresents Aus-
tralia.” Strange to say, although in the Father-
land the Socialists are politically very strong,
nearly all the German settlers of S.A. —and there
are thousands on the rolls—are completely under
the thumb of the National Ass. They suck their
inspiration from the Zeitung, which has always
been aggressively Conservative, and which tells
them that the Labor party desires to confiscate
their farms.
Coghlan reports that, during 1901,
Westralia gained 11,541 people by immigration,
and that Queensland gained 3974 ; whilst S. A. lost
1596 ; Tasmania 1875; Victoria 3784 ; and N.S. W.
6744. This means that the total gain for the
Commonwealth was only 1516 people ; while little
Maoriland, where socialistic legislation has been
carried further than in any other country on earth,
gained 4123. Yet every Fat Man paper explains,
with the superior and greasy air of one who con-
descends to enlighten the ignorant, that it is
socialistic legislation which causes the falling off
in immigration.
“ GOING AHEAD."
Mr. KEAST: The cause of the present financial stress was that
Victoria had gone ahead too rapidly. The national debt of the
State was £52,000,000, with external borrowings amounting to
£87,000,000, and the interest already paid on this in London averaged
£72 per head for every man, woman and child in the community.
Joe Cook and Jawbone Neild do not run
together, though Reid does all he can to keep
them in step. They are valuable for his purposes
if they would obey the whip, but personalities
differ. Both are egotists, and each treats the
other’s egotism as an offensive encroachment. All
round, Reid’s is a fractious team.
Jenkins Iscariot’s Transcontinental Rail-
way Bill, for granting 90,000,000 acres, with all
minerals, and 10 years’ exemption from taxation,
to a syndicate, which is to build and retain a
cheap, shoddy, narrow-gauge line to Port Darwin
and supply one slow train a week, has passed
S.A. Parliament. But as Jenkins has quite for-
gotten to get the Federal Parliament to guarantee
that it won’t tax his syndicate, and as the Pederal
graduated land-tax will probably arrive before
long and strike the syndicate’s big steal to the
extent of 3d. or 4d. in the £, Jenkins isn’t nearly
so far ahead as he imagines.
Sydney D.T. missed the ’bus over the
appointment of Senate President Baker as official
Kow-Tow-er to the pow-wow at Delhi. The D.T.,
in its anxiety to prove itself behind the scenes, has
developed a passion for tipping Federal appoint-
ments. It has appointed half the legislature, and
all the Cabinet, at various times, to lucrative
positions—notably the High Commissionership
and the Federal Judiciary. It plumped on B. R.
Wise, of all people, for the Delhi trip, with
Malcolm M'Eacharn as a saver. And, when
Baker’s selection was announced, the paper came
out, unabashed, with a string of internal and ex-
ternal motives which decided the appointment,
just as if it had known them all along.
Jenkins Iscariot, of S.A., by way of de-
fending the proposed Ninety Million Acres land
grant and the proposed privately-owned trans-
continental railway, asked if private railway
ownership hadn’t been a success in Canada. May
the Lord preserve Australia from any such
success ! ! Canada gave to the Canadian Pacific
Railway Co. alone 25,000,000 acres of good land,
a finished railway 713 miles long, that had cost
the State £7,000,000, also £5,000,000 in cash,
and other pauper aids—about £60,000,000 in all.
And Canada’s private railways, with all this
and other assistance, and a far better country
than Australia to operate in, don’t earn over
per cent. Australia’s State-owned lines, drought
and all, do better than that.
The Victorian House of 48 Rich Landlords
has nominally agreed to the renewal of the Fac-
tories Act, but it made so many “amendments”
that it might almost as well have rejected
the Act altogether. The Landlords enacted
that the Act should expire on 30th Sept, next, so
it is really only renewed for ten months. No new
Wages Boards are to be appointed without the
assent of the House of Landlords, which assuredly
won’t assent—the old law was that they could be
created by either House. All recent decisions of
the Wages Boards are abolished; the decisions
that affect the fellmongery trade are abolished,
and the new Act doesn’t extend to certain dis-
tricts covered by the old one. And it was only
by one vote that the House of Landlords didn’t
decide to abolish everything that has been done
under the Act up to now. At time of writing
the only news about the Irvine Government’s atti-
tude was that it was considering the matter.
The farmers of Maoriland are a curious
lot. It was the Ballance-Seddon administration
which created them, by finding them the land to
settle on. It further assisted them with cheap
money under the Advances to Settlers Act.
Valuable stud animals were imported by the
State, and the farmers obtained their use at a
lower price than they had formerly paid for the
less valuable ones supplied by good old private
enterprise. Railway freights on agricultural pro-
ducts were cut down to a minimum, and
much more assistance given indirectly; but
because the trend of the Government legislation
was to make the now well-to-do farmers pay their
employees decent wages and give over sweating
their own children, these ingrates have turned
round and howled that the Seddon Government
did everything for the “lower orders” (the
workers for wages), and neglected the “backbone
of the country.” And the backbone is at present
a very indignant spine indeed.
A Westralian paper raises this
question : When any district is sup-
plied with a railway 400 miles long,
to drag its stuff to a remote port,
merely because some influential axe-
grinding, or some parochial pre-
iudice, demanded that the stuff
should go there instead of to an
equally suitable port only 200 miles
away, will the Inter-State Commis-
sion have power to order that the
railway freight shall be charged as
for 200 miles only ? In other words,
will it have power to declare that
the country producer shall nor be
made to pay for the grinding of city
axes ? If the Commission has such
a power and uses it, some old-
established swindles will fall
through badly.
A few weeks ago two Irish
M’s.P. were sent to gaol for want-
ing a local P .irliament such as we
have ; and l or objecting to great
absentee landlords and the accumu-
lation of property, in big estates.
In Ireland, Higinbotham and
Graham Berry, of Victoria, Balia-
nee, Seddon and John M‘Kenzie,
of Maoriland, Kingston, of South
Australia—in fact, every great reforming poli-
tician that Australia ever possessed, would nave
been gaoled with hard labor. It is exactly the
things these men did, and the things for doing
which the British Government offered them titles
and other trash, that politicians are gaoled for in
Ireland under the Balfour Government.
“E.M.P.'’ : Victoria just now consists of
about one-third of lean territory and two-thirds of
fat. In the lean part the people are howling for
Govt, assistance, and getting it. In the fat part
things generally are booming ; the big estates are
being subdivided, and the owners and occupiers of
the little ones, having made their piles selling
produce to the lean farmers up North, are investing
in pieces of the big estates, and are paying as high
as £2O an acre for some of the land that was origi-
nally dummied for the big proprietors at £1 an
acre—-deferred payment. Meanwhile the lean part
of the State is held up as a scarecrow to frighten
off the land-taxers, and the “ poor farmer ” is even
more than usually in evidence.
“H.H.” (Vic.): Recent investigations
show that a man who left Melbourne as a penni-
less village-settler in ’94 is now the owner of one
of the biggest farms in South Gippsland, and last
year paid income tax on £l2OO. The poor farmer
again ! Anybody who feels inclined to weep over
the troubles of the average agriculturist in decent
seasons should read the published wills and
bequests every day for a month. The farmers
average by far the highest of all callings. Never
men of immense wealth, they die in dozens,
leaving from £l5OO to £5OOO. How many city
workers of the same rank of intelligence and in-
dustry leave one quarter as much ? [Of course,
this is in regard to Vic., which has highly protected
its agricultural industry for years.— Ed. B.]
Tasmania’s Leg. Council has cast out
pretty well everything sent upstairs by the
rickety Lewis Ministry this session, but the most
violently cast-out proposal of all was the Succes-
sion Duties Bill. The ancient member Dodery
(lovely name!) upended himself, and expressed
the opinion that succession duties were of the
devil, and was horrified that the Govt, should
show so little respect for the dea,d as to levy
taxation on corpses! “Tax a man while he is
alive, not when he is dead and can’t defend him-
self,” said Dodery in effect. That settled the
question at once. The Bill was rejected almost
before the indignant Dodery tottered to his
seat. Any slight offered to the dead is taken as
a personal affront by members of Tasmania’s
House of Dry Bones.
S.A. Assembly made only one important
alteration in the Transoontinental 90,000,000-acres
steal Land Grant Railway Bill. That alteration
was put in to make it clear that the Government
may buy the railway at its full value any time after
construction, but the syndicate is to retain the whole
90,000,000 acres grant. Consider the beauty of
that! The co. is to build a railway costing
£4,000,000 or £5,000,000. It is to receive £4,000,000
or £5,000,000 worth of land, obviously on the plea
that the line will be worked at a loss in its early
days. It is proposed that the co. may sell the
line to the State at its full cost, and leave the
State to bear the loss, and keep the £4,000,000
or £5,000,000 worth of land. If the line is built
on the terms proposed it will pay the co. to buy
up three-fourths of S.A. Parliament at £lO,OOO a
member in order to engineer that sale It isn’t a
large Parliament.
A Bulletin correspondent suggests a plan
for diminishing sectarianism :
(1) When taking next census ignore religions com-
pletely. Why should the State go to great expense in
compiling religious returns ?
(2) In our State schools (they are supposedly secular)
altogether ignore religion. Why should teachers be com-
pelled to furnish returns as to the religion of each child ?
The only purpose it serves is to provide statistics for
bigots to fling at one another.
(3) When a person is entering the public service religion
not to be asked nor stated.
(4) When a man is put in gaol religion not to be taken
down ; it does not serve any purpose for future identifi-
cation.
The trouble is that when there were no reliable
religious statistics to fall back upon Dill-Macky
would shortly persuade his gang of howlers that
four-fifths of the people were Catholics, and then
in their frenzy about the approaching domination
of Rome they would set Sydney on fire.


CALLAGHAN BOOT
/ '\v,
.
■
'
ft
m
In French Calf, sent direct,
DUTY and POST FREE,
FOR
24/6
All the Style, Pit,
Elegance, and Durability
that seems possible to be put into
a Boot
IS PUT INTO THE CALLAGHAN BOOT.
Please Read Extracts
below from a letter written to us by a recent purchaser of the Callaghan Boot. We
are sure we can give you just a 3 much satisfaction. We should like to try, at any
rate —this week :
“ I am exceedingly pleased with the Boots.”
“ They are a perfect fit.”
“ A very easy walking Boot.”
“Pleased with your prompt business-like style.”
“ My future orders I shall be pleased to trust to your care.”
“ H.C.E., Goondi Plantation.”
In giving the sire No. just say whether you want the fullest fitting of your size or otherwise.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorge st., Sydney.
A GRATEFUL PARENT BEARS TESTIMONY
TO HIS DAUGHTER’S
Cure of Lung Disease
BY
VITADATIO
——■
Singleton, N.S.W., May 30, 1901.
To Mr. S. A. PALMER—
Dear Sir, —My daughter has suffered with Lung Disease
since she was five years of age. She is now eleven and
in good health, thanks to your valuable medicine. After
trying a great many patent medicines, with varying
effect, I was persuaded to give VITADATIO. a trial, and
the improvement to her condition was at once noticed by
Mrs. Porter and myself. My daughter has been a great
sufferer, and was given up by the doctors after breaking
a blood vessel, about three years ago, the medical man
remarking that she could not live through the winter,
but VITADATIO willed otherwise, as she is now well.
Three years ago she had a bad attack, when she
frequently spat up blood, so I immediately purchased a
bottle of your medicine, with the result that it completely
cured her. You can make any use of this testimonial, as
I would like to see other sufferers benefit by your
appropriately named medicine—VITADATIO.
Yours trulv,
WILLIAM PORTER,
Bootmaker.
, Johnston-street, Singleton, N.S.W.
For further ] a - Hculars,
■S'. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The Price of Medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
Do You
Wear a
Truss?
If So,
TRY
gf
Denyer's Elastic Truss,
IT IS THE VERY BEST.
No Discomfort to Wearer. Suits any Rupture,
°nces "17/6 Single ; 25/" Double.
Send Measure and P.O. Order.
DENYER BROS.
281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
. Opp. Hunter St.
AND AT MELBOURNE;.
Newman’s
Antiseptic Pastilles.
The Best for all Affections of the Throat.
TRY THEM. PRICE—ONE SHILLING.
S. HARRIS, M.P. S., Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Telephone 2288. 82 KING-ST., SYDNEY.
At Dawn and Dusk:
By V. J. Daley. In handsome cloth,
with portrait. Price 55.; postage, 4d.
Adelaide still has no abattoirs and no
effective meat-inspection. The city officer, who is
supposed to look after these things, went through
the t’otherside public slaughterhouses lately and
saw:—
A tubercular pig, with the “ condemned ” cross on it;
the carcase was slit all over. To the eye this pig
carried good condition; and I could not help being
struck with the idea that if it had been killed in a private
slaughter-yard, with the present price of meat, the
butcher who would totally destroy the carcase would
want to be very honest.
And yet, on the strength of having moderately
sweet gutters—they could hardly be anything else
in the climate Adelaide thinks herself the
cleanest city in Australia !
Federal-member Brown (N.S.W.) demands
that the N.S.W. Government shall abolish agri-
cultural and pastoral rents, supply seed wheat,
carry stock free, and furnish the drought-stricken
farmers with work or rations. No doubt the case
is urgent, but the lesson is urgent also. And that
lesson is as follows : An industry which wants so
much assistance shouldn’t pose as the backbone of
N.S. Wales. An industry which suffers from
such pitiable periodical collapse shouldn’t put on
such airs about being a “natural industry. J> A
drought-cursed country should aim rather at pro-
moting manufactures ; they are to a great extent
drought-proof, and the natural industries of a
country with little rain are those which can do
with little rain. Also, there should be less
hustling of the young man on to the land when
the land treats him like this.
The Veterinarian.
dg
ORC
%
f
SLWftfS
(Gives xp&i
The
Standard
Preparations
of ... .
SALVITIS
RESTORING AND CONSERVING
THE HEALTH OP
Horses Pigs
Cattle Poultry
Sheep Dogs
SHOULD
BE TRIED !
Used by Leading Stockowners.
SALVITIS INDEX of DISEASES
To be had of Storekeepers, etc.
Direct Agents for New South Wales—
E. RICH & COfIPANY, Ltd., SYDNEY
The VOLCANIC
DERATING
MACHINE
cat
Importantto Hotelkeepers
MAKE YOUR OWN
SODAWATER, LEMONADE, GINGER ALE, and
all other /Erated Drinks, with
The “||olcanic”
grated (jjater machine
The Waters are Pure, Bright and Sparkling, and
the cost of making them a mere trifle.
NO SKILLED LABOR REQUIRED.
A few reasons why the “ Volcanic ” Machine is superior to all others.
1. The Valve works automatically ; no other aerating machine of this class has an Automatic Valve.
2. The Water Cylinder holds lOgals., and has two perforated partitions inside, causing the sparkle so much
appreciated. Weight, 801 bs. Copper, thoroughly tinned inside and outside.
3. The gas tube holds 571bs. pure gas, being much larger than the tubes supplied with other plants.
4. The Turn-over Bottling Back is made of the best metal. Thirty dozen per hour can be bottled with it.
5 The “ VOLCANIC ” Machine is the only one of its kind erected in the leading houses in Meloourne,
including—The Grand Hotel, Parer’s Crystal Caf6, Parer’s The Duke Cafe, Young and Jackson s, J.
Richardson’s Hotel, Bourke-st., Evans’ Covent Garden Caf6, Lucas Oaf 6, Town Hall Hotel, Sheehan s
New Treasury Hotel, Rubira’s Caf6, Victoria Coffee Palace, Hotel Metropole, Imperial, Lucas Bros.
(Confectioners), Bath’s Hotel, Union Club, Britannia, Australian, A.N.A., City Arms, etc., etc. Also
many others in the suburbs and the leading houses in the country.
Price, £3O, with all accessories.
SPECIAL NOTICE.— The “ VOLCANIC ” Machine was the first of its kind introduced into Australasia.
It received the Gold Medal against all competitors at the Ballarat Exhibition. Any other machine of a similar
design is an inefficient imitation.
Write for Pamphlets, containing Testimonials from people who have used the machines for years.
W. JAMES, Proprietor,
Office :101 QUEEN ST., IV3ILBOURNE.
Depot : 130 CECIL ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE.
FREE I FREE!
Buy a..
KODAK
and enter for the
KODAK AMATEUR
PHOTOGRAPHIC COMPETITION.
OVEH £lO IPi PRIZES.
\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\>
Full Particulars on application to . .
KODAK Limited,
284 COIvIfIIVS STREET, Melbourne
. . . Please mention this Paper.
Second
Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER:
Harry Morant
His ’Ventures,
and Verses.
Price 1/1
Post
Free.
By FRANK RBNAR.
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney
im'l:
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine foi
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
g
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA,
mk
s, At*
m
Ji4
aled
rcUKilly-
The
P.D
CORSETS
!♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦<
The Recognised Standard
High-Class Corsets
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦«
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
NOUVELLE FORM
Obtainable front Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
•ach pair bears the Manufacturer’s “Trade
Mark ” on band inside, as above.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
a#
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
Kr.s.w.
IQont deplete D.»sl. Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
174. CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
1 SYDNEY
BUST ACE BENNETT, General Manager.
'—TUB—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
for
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
, Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. : Brucb Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,595,870.
Policies issued 88,299—assuring £26,826,380.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,767,115.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
*l9 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
fhefankof Horth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... ... *700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250 000 ... *350,000
15.* Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £151,307
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 181,859
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 56,000
£689,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Queensland Smelting Qompg.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
T3UYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
J 3 Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, ap.Jy to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street. Melbourne.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
»t FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £15,000, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties,
and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.O. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessof, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Cl'yne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Fari.ane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australia,
l3l Pitt St., SYDNEY.
BanfeTof New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government
Amoun t of Capital payable by Shareholders
2,000,000
600,000
Total Capital .. •• £2,600.000
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £9576 13 4
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.O.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDIi. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
MARY’S
LINIMENT
AN OLD-ESTABLISHED CURE
FOR All Chest Troubles, Lumbago,
Rheumatism, Sore Throat,
Sprains, Stiff Neck, Backache
and Kindred Complaints.
WHOLESALE AGENTS—
ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Limited,
0 Conn 311-street, Sydney,
AND TO BE HAD OF
or- ALL CHEMISTS.
Shipping.
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Saturday, Nov. 15, 2 p.
"Gabo, Tuesday, Nov. 18, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Burrumbeet, Tues., Nov. 25, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Burrumbeet, Tues., Nov. 25,5 p.m.
(No Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Peregrine, Saturday, Nov. 15, 2 p.m.
- Buninyong, Tues., Nov. 18, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Nov. 22, 2 p.m.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Peregrine, Saturday, Nov. 15, 2 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Nov. 22, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Qowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves —Foot of King-street.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
MORAVIAN
AUSTRALASIAN
SOPHOCLES
A. Simpson
T. F. Spalding .
H. A. Schleman
Noon, Nov. 14.
Noon, Dec. 5
Noon, Dec. 20.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. £55 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. £3l 10s .. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £l2O.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Huddart, Parker £ Co's [ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOIIA lII’,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND POUTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
A. 3NTI3
LIKTB
via
San Francisco,
California.
NEW
SERIES
OP
EXCURSIONS
TO THE
RIVIERA
OP
AMERICA.
FIRST-CLASS THROUGHOUT.
COSTS £6O.
Covering Return Passages, Steamer and Rail, Hotel
Expenses in San Francisco, and Hotel Del Monte,
Southern California, about Ten Days’ stay in America,
with liberty to remain longer. Steamers leave as
follows:
THE GREAT { OVERLAND } HIGHWAY
TO THE UNITED KINGDOM,
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, and AMERICA.
The NEWEST, LARGEST (6000 Tong each), FASTEST,
and ONLY TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS engaged in
the TRANS-PACIFIC PASSENGER SERVICE from
Australia and New Zealand.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCISA NIC STEAMSHIP CO., TjTD.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Managing Agents,
Pitt and BitiDaß Sts. SYDNEY.
riIHE Directors of the PERPETUAL
J- TRUSTEE COMPANY, Limited,
Sydney, have TRUST FUNDS to LEND
in sums from £3OO to £50,000 on security of
revenue-producing City and Suburban Properties
or Country Broad Acres, at from 4 per cent.
Special facilities given for payments in reduction
without fine or notice.
*L r No. 56 ACETYLENE GAS Catalogue
m m
is the MOST COMPLETE
and COMPREHENSIVE
ever issued.
Tells all about the Best
ACETYLENE CAS CENER-
ATORS, LAMPS, and
everything in connection
with ACETYLENE.
Nearly 400 of our
Reliable Automatio
Acetylene Cas
Generators
in daily use.
Large Stocks of the
Best
Carbide
of Calcium
Quotations on application.
James martin & GO.,
161 Clarence Street,
Nr. King-st., Sydney.
EVERY WOMAN
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new Vaginal Syringe.
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly.
i
Ml
b&r
si
M
m
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. Endorsed by Physicians.
MARVEL CO., Times Building, N.Y.
Sole Australasian Agents—
The Marvel Co. of Australia,
tßjx 023 G.P.0.) CAHDEN BUILDINGS,
418 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Medical.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED
Eye Lotion
THE ONLY Effectual Remedy for Swelling,
Blight—caused from bites of Flies,
Insects, &c.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
Always use at Bedtime
to prevent Mosquito bites,
CALVERTS
20 per cent.
Carbolic Soap.
A delightful soap for toilet purposes.
Most useful to prevent or cure insect bites
or stings, itch, piles, ringworm, etc.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
3NT. 33. L.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
•Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Wednesday after Sidney.
Interstate First Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
Via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. STETTIN, 26th NOVEMBER,
And Regularly Thereafter.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
GANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
MOANA SAILS, PEC. I.
The Most Popular Steamer on the
Pacific. Connecting at Vancouver
with Canadian=Pacific Railway.
Affording an Excellence of Service
not Obtainable Elsewhere .
CHEAPEST ROUTE TO AMERICA AND
ENGLAND.
Following Sailings, Dec. 29, Jan. 26
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
V/M. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
VEGETABLE
Charcoal
THE ROAD
TO HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
GOOD
DIGESTION.
Speedily cures Acidity. Flatulence, Heartburn,
Impure Breath, Indigestion, Diarrhoea, &c. It
destroys all disease germs, and,ab3orbingall impuri-
ties in the stomach and bowe's.gives a healthy tone
to the whole system Wards off all attacks of Typhoid
and other Fevers. Prevents many an illness.
BRAGG’S PURE CHARCOAL POWDER in
Bottles; LOZENGES and BISCUITS in Tins
(pleasant to take). Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Having had complaints of the injury done by other
preparations,please see that each Bottle or Tin bears
the Trade Mark ‘J.L.B., in monogram,’ on the wrapper.
Shipping. .
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO,
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian!
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
V
S.S. Rockton,
Friday, November 14.
S.S. Wollowra,
Saturday, November 22.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairna
S.S. Rockton, Sat., Nov. 22.
S.S. Friday, Nov. 28.
S.S. Innamineka, Saturday,
December 6.
Jtest and Cheapest lioute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LIN E.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE— Weekly,
via S3'dney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackny,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Twice weekly, via Bris-
bane, Maryborough, and Bundaberg.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 8 Weeks, via Brls
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
via MELBOURNE—Fortnightly.
Vaaaenuer A cvommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are Interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, 10 Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
P. AND o
COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B to £77
Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific,
Messageries Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
03 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 0500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices.
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
“E. ANP A.” LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching- at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer. jTns i Commander. Leave Sydney
EASTERN j36oo,Winthrop Ellis .. November 15
AIRLIE .. 2500 I St. John George..'December 6
AUSTRALIAN . .3000 P. T. Helms ..'January 3
EMPIRE .. 4200JW. G. McArthur.. ’January *
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON«
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Through bookings to points in Canada, United States
of America and Europe at special rates.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
Lowest Fares and Freights.
For further information apply to
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
SMOKE
fdg
fd
GBD
g
fd
INSIST
on having this Brand
and no other.
Largest Depot:
231 CLAR€NC€ STR€€T,
SYDKTEY.


~r T * = TT n *
SPOONER’S
tiT-~
SPOONERS
V
*
fATINT LEATHEH BOOTS
CUZED NOS to
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
&
MEN
If
you
are
suff eri ng from Varico-
cele, Atrophy, Weak-
ness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and packing), and
I will send
MEDICINE
by
post
FREE
FOR YOUR INDIVIDUAL CASE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which give back
strength of body and brain —not a free prescription
dodge, but a trial of my wonderful remedy free for
the asking.
Professor H. READ,
165 Collins fct'eet, Melbourne.
ornamental hair.
Naturally Guriy Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and cr.reful attention.
Hairdressers a. Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
JfW“ Everv Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia..
CRAIG & AITKEN,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
EVERY MAN IS
More or less interested in the curative powers of
MEDICAL GALVANISM and the proper method of
applying this wonderful agent. Before purchasing
Electric Belts or Batteries send for our valuable FREE
BOOK entitled “THE MODERN TREATMENT OF
DISEASE BY ELECTRICITY.” It will tell you what
you ought to know, and may save you time, money
and disappointment. Address—
ARTHUR HALE & SON,
44 Ca.stlerea.grh Street, Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
("NLORODYNE.
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—■
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ot
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
V
Mention
this
Weals.
v lVtoxx
AND
WOMEN
Can obtain strength and vigor
by the use of DR. PIERCE'S
ELECTRIC BELT." A Won-
derful Restorative. The most
Scientific Elecirical Appliance
ever made. Drugs do not cure.
I This Belt does. Send stamp (any sort)
for “Booklet No. 2.” Write to-day.
« „ TT _ p lerce Electric Co., 206 Poet St.
San Francisco, U.S. a. , W. H. Soul & Co-’ Agts. Sydney
RNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND
ARNOLD’S
RNOLD’S
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
For Coughs and Colds.
Every Dose Effective.
Will Cure when Others Fail.
For Pain in the Side.
Best for Influenza.
In Bronchitis and Loss of Voice.
Whooping Cough and Croup.
For Children, Safe and Sure.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address. —L.D.1., 300 Collins Si<) Melbourne
WOOL PRODUCE. CRAIN
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
ACT jB LS SELLIMGr BROKERS 03NTLY.
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (f) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
r (lncluding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
• will be 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb • 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
, under Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing. Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT.
Every inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by the Company
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent when
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
AGENTS FOB McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIF.
J. BARTRAM & SON,
34 & 36 Market Street, Sydney
(Corner of
Clarence Street)
19, 21, 23 King Street, Melbourne.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES . . .
The ENGLISH DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
g
fdg
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
And consult Old Surgeon Langston, who will Cure
you. Forty years’ practice as a Specialist is sufficient
Guarantee of the doctor’s ability.
AVOID unskilled pretenders, flaming advertisements and specious
cure-alls.
Vigor and Strength
for all who
desire it.
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, located in Melbourne
since 1886, has so perfected his method of treatment that it can
almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable cases.
Be the equal of your fellow man,
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
Seek the Truth, it coats KTothing!
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, cor. Russell & Collins Sts., Melbourne.
fd
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
übbaoihci
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged
cioth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; is 6d post
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards illus
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk ls9d
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is. ’
The Art op Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book op Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camille, Is 3d
Secret History of the Court of England, 1, 6 post free
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., is 6d posted!
Lovers Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), is 3d post free.
How TO Read Heads (Jas. Ooates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs
Is 3d post free. How to Plav Billiards, Is 3d. ’
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. Sappho, Is.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use Pt, Is 6d post;
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 ill us. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid'
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance. Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), *ls 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big: Book
Catalogue—post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney,
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lost. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
OF INTEREST to MEN
T) E ffi. —I have been cured of weakness and De-
Dihty by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
oe pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURSI,
v ps ** street, Sydney.
Fiuid
MwityA
£ Rzcwm»v>
fimCAl A\en
F iNOlOE;Tio^
crvous
iki
nEADACHE
Rl a iD’Q
GOUT k RHEUMATIC
PILLS.
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured In a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. ljd. and 2s. 9d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
ASTHMA CURE
ERIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
For Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault's Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short tire paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
GIUMAULT & Co., Pa-riß. Sold by all Chemists.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman, ,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all <
Chemists in the Australian Colonies. .
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
RXCOJROs
tSS£X* cE of U | f £••
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 128. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope
Agents for Australasia— PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales —
F. H. Fauldingr & Co., 16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
aim
DEAF
SEP
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. $
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.


FACILE PR I NCE PS.
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
Can We Prove our Claims? Our Friends do it for us;
Bill Martin, who won last year’s “ Austral ” on a Red Birdj was tempted, whilst in America recently,
to try a few of the local machines. He says : “ I tried three or four, and broke them all up , and then I
thought I would go hack to the old Red Bird I took over with me to train on. I never had a
trouble afterwards, and nothing would induce me to try any more experiments. I shall ride my Red Bird
again this season.” , . . . . .
There are a few who think Bill knows a good bike when he sees one. Perhaps his experience may help
you to choose. ‘ .
Branches i. every state. GOOLP BICYCLE CO„ 64 King-st., Sydney.
The handicaps for the greatest cycling event in
Australasia—the Austral wheel race, were published up
to time on Monday morning last, and naturally Mr. G.
R Broadbent’s allotments of starts are this week the
subject of much discussion. The mark of honor is held
by last year’s winner, W.-Martin, with Beauchamp and
Morgan on ten yds. It is interesting to note that M.
Chappell, winner of the big Dunlop road race from
Warrnambool to Melbourne last August, receives 190 yds.
start. Racing men should note that acceptances close at
the Melbourne Bicycle Club rooms on the 15th inst.*
A pair of Sydney solicitors, ordered by
N.S.W. Full Court during the week to pay
over £169 14s. sd. to former clients within 48
hours, requested. their Honors to issue an order
suppressing their (the solicitors’) names. Their
Honors declined to make any such Order, Mr.
Justice Pring pointing out that if they did, the
order for the payment of the money within 48
hours might be taken to apply to any legal firm
in the city. Gents two evidently anticipated
kindlier treatment, and not without having many
precedents of judicial consideration to rely upon.
A person signing himself “J. Roberts' ”
writes to Sydney Telegraph to point out that if
the enfranchised women don’t put their names on
the roll “it will cause N.S.W. to fall her
proper share of representation in the Federal
Parliament, the number of our representatives
being based on the number of electors enrolled.
It is truly wonderful how little the average man
knows about the constitution of his own country,
and how gladly he rushes into print with his
ignorance. The simple, ordinary fact that rep-
resentation goes by population, and that if nobody
was on the roll at all the State would have just as
many Federal members as it has now, and if
every man, woman, child, parson and dog were
on, it would have no more, appears to be beyond
the ordinary man’s comprehension.
Maoriland reckons, on an average, to have,
on its jagged coast, about one bad wreck every
two years. Huddart Parker and Co.’s s.s. Elin-
gamite is the latest. She charged into that group
of rocks called the Three Kings, the far northern
point of Maoriland, on Monday. Vessels, as a rule,
crawl between the Three Kings a,nd the ma nland,
guided by the light on Cape Maria Van Diemen.
The currents are strong and unreliable thereabouts,
and the Elingamite seems to have failed to pick
up the light in the fog. There are few coasts of
equally small extent that can offer so many
chances of disaster as those of Maoriland. Ihe
present wreck, though the number of the drowned
is not yet known, is a small disaster for that
region. Compared to such wholesale tragedies as
those of the Tararua and Wairarapa it is hardly
worth mentioning.
Constipation.
Constipation Kills more people than all other
diseases put together. It is the cause of nine-
tenths of the ills to which the human family is heir.
When your bowels don’t move regularly you are
sick, and you need a mild and searching remedy.
There has never been a remedy produced that has
so thoroughly stood the test of time as Dr. Morse s
Indian Root Pills. They are a guaranteed cure
for all bowel troubles, biliousness, bad breath, bad
blood, wind in the stomach, headache, indigestion,
liver and kidney troubles, and for female
ailmeuts. Put up in amber bottles with full
name blown thereon.*
If Ikey Mo got something of a bump on
Melb. Derby-day he countered with The Victory
on Cup-day—also with interest. There is, how-
ever, always consolation for the unfortunate m
D.C.L. Whisky ; also that cheerful self-confidence
which enables the loser on one race to be a winner
on the next. And in the race of Life the wise
quaffer of D.C.L. on scientific principles is always
sure of a front place and good winning.*
The medical man, as a rule, has nothing
but disapproval to throw at any and every pro-
prietary medicine. When he breaks this rule, a,s
in the case of the testimonial given by Dr. Smeal,
of Vic., to Prof. Chris. Mudd’s “Oleac,” and
published on The Bulletin’s front cover, it is
because merit has been too convincing even for
scientific prejudices. Dr. Smeal’s testimonial
was not given until the “Oleac” cure had stood
a two years’ test in a case within his own
experience.*
Piles and their Cure. —The pamphlet by
Albert Sharp, “Piles and How to Cure Them,”
without operation, by the latest Cannalin treat-
ment, sent free on application to 257 George-st.,
Sydney, or F. Buckhurst, Chemist, Melbourne,
or W. Wastell, Chemist, Adelaide.*
The Australian Commission Agency Company,
101 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE,
Communicates with
“TATTERSALL,” HOBART.
A LL THE First and Second Prizes for Port Wines
■ r at Adelaide Wine Show, October, 1902,
Were Taken by
Hardy’s Adelaide Wines
Cellars : 15 CROSVENOR ST., SYDNEY, and at ADELAIDE and MELBOURNE.
K uppers Elberfeld Lager
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Backers of “form ” have three inglorious uncer-
tainties to consider, apart from the “ glorious uncer-
tainty ”of racing under the happiest conditions. Firstly,
the doubt as to whether the horse is “alive ” or “dead”—
a doubt that begins to sicken the public of meddling with
little races. Secondly, the chance of calculations being
upset by foul or reckless riding. Thirdly, the fear of the
race being thrown away through bad judgment on the
part of the jockey who ought to have pulled it off. Will
it “go” ? Will it get a “ fair go,” free from interference ?
And will it be wisely ridden ? The standard of ability in
Australian jockeyship is undoubtedly much lower than
it was 15 years ago, when men like Tom Hales, Mick
O’Brien and a few others brought a knowledge of pace
into the business, and served, in a measure, to enlighten
their duller rivals as to tactics. Nowadays we
find even the best and most experienced of the
jockeys getting beaten by circumstances over which they
might have had full control. The Oaks race this year looked
a “good thing” for the favorite, Eleanor, on the assump-
tion that Bob Lewis would give the filly a chance to tire
her only dangerous opponent, Fishery—a notorious non-
stayer. There were only four of them altogether, and
neither of the other two fillies had any pretentions to
make the running in a fast race, yet Lewis allowed a
third-rater named Fungus to show Eleanor the way for
about a mile. Then he brought his mount along for a
4-furlong sprint, and the speedy Fishery chased the
favorite and won by a head. Time, 2.45. Lewis lost the
race in allowing it to be fully ssec. slower than Eleanor
could have made it had he put her along from the start.
But then a run-away victory would not have been
“ clever,” in the orthodox sense of the term. Jockeys
like to get paragraphed for a clever finish.
• • * *
The boy who rode Abundance for Melb. Cup
had the appearance of being half-dazed by his sense of
responsibility when he left the paddock on the Derby
winner. Seemingly he was too nervous to know what
was happening in the race. An interviewer could get
nothing from him save the information that he was
“ fairly done.” The boy was not even alive to the fact
that Abundance had been considerably buffeted and
galloped on during the race. The colt lost a lot of
■ground through the mishap, but the boy was blind to his
misfortune.
* * * •
“ Patronus ! ’’ was the first name shouted by the
hopeful bookies when the Melbourne Cup horses made
the final turn for home. If Patronus was in front where
should The Persian have been ? Fielder’s “ certainty ”
beat the Patron horse handsomely over llfur. at Moonee
Valley a week earlier, and was now meeting him on 301 b.
better terms, but something happened to The Persian
before he had covered 11 furlongs on this occasion. The
horse that couldn’t lose was retiring to the rear on three
legs and'a dotty one.
Patronus, the long-time despised failure, put up
a record in his second win last week. He took the
Veteran Stakes (LJ miles) in 2.35, the fastest time ever
registered for 12 furlongs at Flemington. At Rand wick
it has been equalled, but not beaten, by Survivor, Fairy
Prince and San Fran. Only a day or two previously the
Melbourne dailies had classed Patronus as “ a plodder,”
but it is now evident he wanted only the “heart” to
justify his trainer’s belief that he would outstay stable-
companion The Victory in Melb. Cup.
William Day, in his “Reminiscences of the
Turf,” tells a story about an eccentric banker, named
Zachariah Simpson, who owned racehorses, but rarely had
a wager. As a principal partner in a private banking
business, he couldn’t afford to get a reputation for
gambling. So it happened, says William Day, that when
the cautious Zachariah took 8 to 1 about Macaroni for the
Derby, “ he never put the bet down in his pocket-book,
and, when he found Macaroni had won, wrote to ask if I
could tell him whom it washe had betted with. But I could
not; and he would have lost the money had not Mr. I ( .
Fisher, who heard the bet made, given him the name of
the layer, and he recovered his £800.” The Mr. F. Fisher
aforesaid (father of Edmund Fisher, an old contributor to
The Bulletin) was the first owner of Plebeian, a horse
that sired Beanfeast, the dam of Abundance. Winch
brings the 40-year-old story of Zachariah’s wager right
up to date.
r « * ****..** •
The Victory is essentially a battler —one of the
“ cut-and-come-again ” sort. His ribs bore the dried
furrow-marks of many spurrings before he went out for
the Cup, and when he returned to the bird-cage he
showed a fresh lot of honorable scars. At Maribyrnong,
a week earlier, Bob Lewis allowed Fairy States to get
about 25 lengths ahead of The Victory, before starting to
make up the gap between them, and the gaihe little mare
couldn’t get nearer than six lengths from the winner.
Then came the vain struggle to beat Wakeful in the
Melbourne Stakes. These two gruellings benefited The
Victory. They would have broken the heart of a weaker
animal.
* * • *
It doesn’t take a Sherlock Holmes to tell that
a Sydney D.T. syndicate backed a N.S.W. horse for the
Oup—and lost heavily. The D.T.’s Cup article was
mainly invective against Victoria and gloomy predictions
of the speedy decay of -the Cup as a “ racial institution.”
For the social charm has gone out of the Cup, writes the
reporter. It is hot the old Cup |it is not the Cup to
which scores of thousmds poured from every part of
Australia. ... It will become more and more an exclu-
sively Victorian institution, and no one will visit it
because it is the custom to come to Melbourne at Cup
time in preference to any other part of the year.
The Victory’s win was very popular in Adelaide,
where the “ place totes” only averaged about 10s. 6d. for
a 2s. 6d. investment. His owners have for some time been
on Adelaide Stock Exchange ; and his win in the S.A. St.
Leger and Birthday Cup, and second in Adelaide Cup,
made him a strong tip locally.
* » * *
It is more than time that the V.R.C. stewards
took practical steps to prevent “sport” at Flemington
from degenerating into a rough-and-tumble game of
chicanery and chance. On Derby Day a field of 20 horses
went jostling round the course for Coburg Stakes and
four came to grief, two horses being killed outright.
Again, in the Cup race (24 starters) one among the mob
of .cattle was buffeted so violently that its jockey fell
clean over the inner rail out of harm’s way, fortunately.
Another got into difficulties and broke a leg. The two
unfortunates were rank outsiders, but their disasters
might have happened just as easily to The Victory and
Vanity Fair. In fact the ultimate winner narrowly
escaped a knock-down when he collided with Sojourner.
Abundance met with at least one big bump, and The
Persian was twice interfered with. If the nervous gelding
ever had a chance of winning, the second interference
settled it. But, to writer’s way of thinking, Fielder,
junr., after reducing himself 181 b. in weight, was too
anxious and weak to have made the best of his mount in
any case. He looked doomed to defeat as he left the
paddock. * » •
Old Australian sports were glad to see the “ old
Australian ” blood assert itself in the Cup race in compe-
tition with two offspring of the imported sire, Pilgrim’s
Progress. The Victory, by The Admiral—The Charmer,
is the son of a V.R.C*. Derby winner whose sire, Rich-
mond, ran second for both Derby and Cup in 1875. Also
his dam, The Charmer, ran second for Caulfield Cup in
1889. On both sides of his pedigree the big-barrelled
little nag is raCy of the soil, whereas the previous five
Cup winners were either sired or grand-sired by new-
chums. The Endeavor, an own brother to The Victory,
won the 2-year-old Colt Stakes on Cup day, with little or
no public money on him. Not one punter in 600 heeded
the youngster’s breeding.
• • * •
Said the trainer of Victory to the V.R.C.
handicapper 30mins. before the race: “ I want another
fortnight, but if they don’t make it too fast he may have
a chance.” And he had.
* * * •
Nine of the 22 Melb. Cup starters hailed from
Sydney, but the nearest to winning was Abundance,
third.' Of 42 Cups 16 have come to Sydney, two to S.A.,
and the balance to Victoria. Of the winners 18 were
Cornstalk, three Tasmanian, two Maoriland, three S.A.,
and 16 Victorian nags.
♦ • • •
H. Bradfield, who trained The Victory, owned
Portsea when winner of the Australian Cup, Champion
Stakes, &c., also Patron, when he won the Melb. Cup in
’94, starting at 33 to 1, with elder brother Ruenalf favorite.
* • • •
It would be interesting to know exactly how
many bookmakers’ horses are running nowadays, under
the disguise of somebody else’s name.
* * * *
Owing to having lost so much on Caulfield Cup,
Sydney stood off Melbourne Cup considerably. Pat-
ronage, Abundance, and The Persian, Sydney nags, were
the choice picks at stol, or thereabouts. A few isolated
instances of from 25 to 50 to 1 about The Victory are
known, but 33 to 1 was available right up to the “death.”
Some Sydney sports in Melbourne wired The Victory as
an eleventh-hour tip, and a few managed to get on to
some purpose. When weights were first published, The
Victory was much fancied, but his subsequent failures
dropped him out, and he was a good horse for the Sydney
bookies, despite the fact that there were a few cases in
which he was laid to the full extent of the book.
* « * •
Owner of Merton Steel, who broke a leg in
Melb. Cup and was shot, magniloquently wired his Melb.
rep. morning of race : “To death or glory.” Death it
was!
• » * •
Some of the Sydney shops were struck for the
full amount of their Caulfield and Melbourne Cup
doubles. One in Red fern (Syd.) laid £5OO to £1 against
the winning pair, and the man who got it also took £lOO
to 2s. in several city shops. Notwithstanding, ’bis doubt-
ful if Mo has had to pay out more than £15,000 through
Victory’s win. The owners live in England, and are re-
ported to have made £5OOO. A large number of tars from
the warships laid a bit on The Victory when they heard
he was by The Admiral; and one Mo on the “ Hill ” paid
out £llO to sailors who backed the winner for small sums.
* • * *
The men caught in the recently-raided Sydney
betting shops were fined a fiver each, in default two
months “ hard.” Are the gentlemen who administer the
anti-betting laws only fools, or are they rogues ? It’s
certainly a case of one or the other : The man who puts
the boodle on in stacks can do so with impunity at either
of the two Tattersall’s Clubs, or a couple of proprietary
concerns which operate openly, and without fear or
hindrance. N.S.W. gaming laws are only for the punish-
ment of the humble individuals who speculate shillings
and half-crowns in “ shops.” If they speculate their small
coin in the big clubs they are not interfered with, and it
would appear that the police force of Sydney exists
largely to secure for the Moseses and Kohens of the big
Tatt.’s clubs a close monopoly of the gambling business
of the city. Night before the Melbourne Cup hordes of
big and little Sydney Tatt.’s fielders did a roaring busi-
ness on the open footpath in front of their headquarters.
Clients were there by the hundred, and the welshers
gathered in a splendid harvest. Somehow the police all
had urgent business elsewhere, and there were no prose-
cutions. Once more : Who is making the good thing out
of this disgraceful partizanship, and what is the good
thing worth ?
• * • •
At V.R.C. meet Sydney jock. Barden won six
races, including the Derby. Bob Lewis won four, in-
cluding the Cup; W. H. Smith, of Merloolas fame,
three; M. Mooney, F. Dunn and A. Richardson two
each. Concerning sires : The Admiral led with four ;
Pilgrim’s Progress and Haut Brion three each ; Patron,
Grafton, Trenton and Lochiel two each. Sweet Nell was
highest scoring nag with wins on Ist, 2nd and 3rd days.
Of 28 races Victoria won 20, N.S.W. 7, S.A. 1, Stake
money amounted to £18,605, of which Clark and Robin-
son (The Victory) took £5075 ; R. Phillips (Abundance)
£1561 ;F. Musgrave (Vanity Fair) £llOO. Anticipated
there will be nearly £4OOO decrease in profits as compared
with last year.
* * • *
S.A. Assembly has passed through all its
stages a Bill for the suppression of tote-shops,
and practically restricting betting to the racecourse.
Its supporters were partly racing men who want
to encourage the licensed machine, and partly
anti-gamblers who hope eventually to crush the
machine, too. The debate took place on the afternoon
of Cup-day, and it was freely stated that various sup-
porters of the measure had taken part in sweeps during
the morning. Two of them even admitted having visited
the tote-shops themselves.
* . » * *
Thirteen lined up for Williamstown Cup, now
£lOOO, Monday, and last year’s winner, Flagship, started
favorite, 7. to 4, with Vanity Fair and Progredior next,
and Cluster and Eleanor well up. Vanity Fair dead-
heated with Eleanor on the post. For the run-off sto 2
went on Vanity Fair. V.F. led for a mile, and then
Eleanor streaked down the straight and won easily. On
her showing Eleanor would have gathered in the Oaks
had the pace been strong ; as it was, Fishery only just
managed to squeeze home.
* * * *
Kiota, the handsome brother to Daimio, fulfilled
this scribe’s early prediction by winning the big 3 miles
Steeplechase on Saturday, after running third for the 2
miles ditto on Cup Day. Many people grumbled at the
running of top-weight Error, who dropped out of the
front rank a mile from home and come with a too-late
rush. In present writer’s opinion, Kiota had the race in
hand all the time, and it was only because the Ballarat
nag was winning easily that Error, hard ridden, appeared
to be going stronger at the finish. Kiota, anyhow, has
made every pound of the anticipated improvement since
he rah nowhere in Grand Nat. Steeple last July. On that
occasion Bay Eagle (Ist) and Error (2nd) were giving him
111 b. and 371 b. respectively. Last week they were trying
to give him 31b. and 241 b., and they failed.
* * * »
Game Chick, the 6 to 4 favorite for the Aidful
Stakes last Saturday, was a highly unsatisfactory per-
former. The youngster ran a good race on Cup Day,
when the flying Sweet Nell beat him by only half-a-length
or so. On Saturday, with young Richardson up, he took
a zig-zag course, to the disgust of his backers. Bookmaker
Sol Green is understood to be the owner of Game Chick.
* * * •
After Brakpan, with Barden up, had won the
Spring Handicap, finishing as gamely as one could wish,
the V.R.C. stewards held an inquiry into the colt’s
running for the Derby and Cup when Frank Kuhn rode
him. Result, Kuhn was disqualified for two years for
“ suspicious practices.”
* * * *
Heavy casualty list in Rosehill Steeple, Monday.
Of six starters three fell, Trumper somersaulting on to
his jockey, A. Gorman. Result: bad case of brain con-
cussion. Field was simply wretched, and favorite Saltoun
won after narrow escape from a cropper at last leap.
Writes an Australian recently returned from
England Was in England during the last three test
matches, and saw part of final test at the: Ovall. unsDortB .
my leading impressions is‘of the thorougy P
manlike nlture of the English people, Canitundeimd
how the tradition to the opposite effect got.a holdl of us.
The behavior of English crowds is.thorough yunsporte-
manlike, whether their side is winning or losing,
naners are a reflex of this. Did not see one article w men
admitted that England was fairly beaten. The Auchan
“ barracker ” is not a model, I admit, but, taken all
round, I think Australian sentiment is much more sports-
manlike than ,
There would have been some lovely divs. in a
tote on the doings of English cricketere against Australia
this year. Batsmen: 1. M‘Gahey(!); 2. Kdhck(both
of these averaged over 50); 3. Iremonger , 4- ieldam
Hayward not in the first 10. Maclaren, Ranp, and
Braund not in the first 20. Bowlers: 1. Grace (!) 2.
Lockwood (both average 11) ; 3. Bestwick ; 4. T J?°inpso .
Rhodes and Jackson close up; Braund and Barnes
nowhere. ,
* * • *
Brisbane didn’t enthuse much over N.S.W.-
Queensland cricket match, being played there as Tilb
Bulletin goes to press. Opening day saw SOO, ana liinfr
Birthday about 2000 present. N.S.W. made 191 first and
110 second, At close of Monday’s play Queensland, with
131 first and 1 for 33 next, wanted 168 to win, and didn t
seem likely to get them.
» * * *
Major Wardill reckoned to a London inter-
viewer that the 1902 cricket team made £4277 less than
the last one by its English tour. The position may be
improved by the S’ African matches.
* * » *
Dan Creedon re-opened his Australian fighting
career auspiciously by outing ex-champion Bill Doherty
well inside of five rounds at Melbourne. Doherty was
certainly ahead on points by at least two to one, but
nevertheless the issue seemed certain from the middle of
the third round, so weak was the Westerner’s hitting ana
so confused were his tactics. Open-mouthed, staring,
and with the look of a man who has received heavy
body blows, he nevertheless scored in the exchanges,
sometimes landing Creedon about the head, but as often
missing him altogether. The blows that Creedon stopped
never disconcerted him for an instant. He seemed to
thrive on punishment, and opened the fifth round with a
light tap on Doherty’s face. 'I here were a couple of
seconds more spent in sparring, and then Doherty tell
prone, staggered up when counted out, and very nearly
took a header over the ropes. Nobody on one side of the
hall saw the blow that did the work at all. It was a
short, light hit and took Doherty between chin and neck.
Winner is matched against Yankee Scanlan.
* * * *
Sydney’s Golden Gate A.C. (wliat’s in a name, ye
gods 0 saw two gory, feature-flattening scraps on Satur-
day night. Coon Walcott and navvy Edwards, latter much
the heavier, spread themselves over each other in a wild-
beast fashion from the start. In the sixth round Edwards
chucked it, and the black got the verdict. That nigger
is the spunkiest of his hue seen here since the days Peter
Jackson sent fragments of humanity whirling through
the air. When the scraps had been removed, and
the floor nicely sanded (speaking metaphorically, of
course), Dovle' and “ Robbo” commenced a howling
Paddy's Market exhibition. “ Robbo,” the stronger and
heavier, did everything he could to his opponent bar
chewing his face and jumping on him with both feet.
The referee was apparently there only to pronounce
when life was extinct. Robbo tried somewhere about 17
different ways of killing his man, and apparently the
alleged referee reckoned every single one of them was
right. Doyle threw it up after eight rounds^
M.L. rat, Gray, bad a cyclonic scrap with Ted
Murphy at Sydney Gaiety A.C., Monday night. Favorite
Murphy made the pace, and the Maoriiander went faster
till an awful slug, suspiciously low, doubled Grey up in
the first round. Jack Conlon then faced artillery bands-
man Jack Thompson, and was sent to the floor repeatedly
till in the third round he decided to take the rest lying
down, and was counted out. Conlon should now take to
sausage-making, or some other harmless pursuit.
The strongest lawn-tennis club in Adelaide at
present is one composed simply of four brothers, Angel.
It has beaten the club previously holding the premier-
ship, the champion, Bowen, being also defeated in his
single. There is a fifth brother, nearly equal to the
four, as reserve-man.
• • • *
Australasian single-handed bowling supremacy,
contested under M.O.C.’s auspices, was won by South
Melb. orkek, G. H. Cooper, from 96 competitors. Albert
Park plaver, Slatter, opposed Cooper in the final, and for
21 heads'the v scored evenly. Figures were 18-17 in favor
of Slatter ; then he froze, and Cooper won by three.
Last season Cooper shaved a couple of big things very
closely, and was runner-up in the champion of champions,
and champion of Victoria contests.
• » • *
The Don Walker boom continued at N.S.W.
bike League Carnival on Saturday in the presence of 6000
people. In the seventh heat of Britannia Handicap (jm.)
Don caught Victorian Connell (20yds.) before latter got
fairly going, and one after the other he passed the rest
with abound and won in 58sec. In the final of the same
event Walker and Morgan were on scratch, with Walne
(10yds.) nearest, and the flower of 100 original starters
spread out to 55 yards in front. Morgan and Walne led for
a time, and then Walker got his head down and his heels
up, and a mighty roar went up as he seemed to
shoot forward with a vast shoot that landed
him. at the winning post two lengths in front of
everybody. Time, 57sec. Biggest things of the day
were five remaining preliminary heats of the Sydney Mile
Wheel Race, the £l5O handicap. Walker finished the
sixth heat with a tremendous rush that landed him inside
the previous Australasian best, in 2.0 3-5, after riding
round nine. Linton Plate (10m.), with 16 starters, saw
Walker go down for the first time in a sequence of eight
races, mainly through Randrup and Burton (M.L.), Pye
(Vic.), and Mutton (N.S.W.) getting away with a break
and keeping in front by well-judged and sustained pacing.
Pye just won, with Randrup second, and Burton third.
Mutton fell in the final sprint. Previous competition
record for the distance was broken, Pye doing it in 22.25,
which, in the heavy and blinding rain, was remarkably
good. Walker and several others withdrew when they
saw the case was hopeless.
• ¥ * •
Don Walker is 28 years old, a native of Victoria,
sft. llin. high, broad-shouldered and chested, with huge,
well-proportioned limbs. The big thigh, long foreleg,
and deep chest of the specially-created sprinter are all
there in a most aggravated form. And his sprint is a
fearful thing to behold from behind, on the track.
* m * *
Concerning Austral Wheel Race handicaps:
Plugger Bill Martin, winner last year, is on scratch, solus.
Victorian Morgan and Tassy F. S. Beauchamp get 10yds.;
Soustraliau Wilksch, 20yds.; Walker and Bananalander
Walne, 30yd8. ; and “ Newhaven ” Jackson and O. E.
Burton are 40yds. ahead. Back-markers (scratch up to
120vds.) are the best array of Australians ever seen in the
Austral. Number brought back from marks which
seemed their own has caused considerable surprise, and
blasphemy. Seventv-yarders include such cracks as
Randrup, Chalmers, Cameron and Pye. Pye won N.S.W.
League Linton Plate, Saturday. Yankee Hopper, Bill
Martin’s chick, has only 80yds., which indicates that the
handtaapper thinks the ’Melican may have something up
his stocking. There’s a hot quartette on the 100 in Hunt,
Levey, Farley and A. C. Middleton. Last and his
brother, A. A. Middleton, at the 110, ought to shake
things up if they ride their best, although old-hand
Seharp, at 180, isn’t to be despised. Also, there are
three or four further on who carry possibilities about
their hind legs.
* * * *
Those Yankee cycling brothers M‘Lean, who
reached Sydney bv the Sierra, t’other day, will dip deeply
into the Australian prize-bag'if they can plug up to repu-
tation. G. M'Lean, the younger one, is understood to be
specially swift behind the motor, and begs the best in
Australia to come along and get squelched. Said that
he has registered a vow to drink no more cocktails till he
has Bilmartin’s scalp on his handle-bar. In America Mac
has been successful 18 times in 23 starts.


ICE! ICE! ICE!
The hot, stifling Summer days are approaching.
Have a Refrigerator, and keep Ice. It is a solid comfort, and doesn’t cost much.
Our Ice is manufactured from Distilled Water. ABSOLUTELY PURE; CLEAR and
as HARD AS CRYSTAL.
We despatch it freight paid to ANY RAILWAY STATION IN THE STATE, packed
in specially constructed cases. Waste during transit is very slight. Write for a quotation,
and full catalogue of our products.
Deliveries regular by special carts in Sydney and Suburbs.
THE N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO., Ltd., SYDNEY.
“What’s in a Name?”
Open
Saturday
Afternoons.
A good deal. A name on a note may make it worth 20s. in the £, or just the
reverse. The name on a bicycle shows the quality and speed value of the mount,
and carries the reputation of the firm with it.
“ MASSEY ” means Speed and Strength, when it is found on the name-
plate of a wheel. Here’s a curious corroboration : In Ottawa, last August, Major
Taylor could not get his wheel through the Customs in time for the race with
Kramer. He chose a Massey, and although the wheel was strange, he won easily.
At the next meeting Taylor discarded the Massey and lost the race.
What about the coming Racing Season ? Are you riding a Massey, or have you
no ambition to win ?
CANADA CYCLE & HOTOR CO., Ltd.,
OEORQE STREET (next David Jones').
Branches in Every State.
Drirck
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY WHEN YOU
BUY A
REMINGTON
Double-Barrel .
Hammerless Gun
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept n stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
Remington Arms Company,
Head Office: 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
REMINGTON GUNS, £5 ios. to £is
REMINGTON RIFLES, 23/6 post free
McLEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
A NIB,
A BOTTLE OP INK,
A SHEET OF PAPER and
A PEN CARBON BOOK
makes a complete outfit with
which any
MAN,
WOMAN OR
CHILD
can write a letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy without
leaving the slightest sign of copy-
ing on the original.
y>ya
*
Ml
It keeps a duplicate of bills you send out, of orders, receipts, bank checks. It leaves no vague
uncertain mark, but a tracing that is often clearer than the original.
From its testimony there can be no appeal. It will save any house or family much money by its
indisputable record.
There is no man or woman, professional or not, who would not at some time or other find
THE PEN CARBON LETTER BOOK
A True and Valued Friend.
For fullest particulars, price, etc., write to the sole
Agents for Australasia s E. RICH & CO. LTD
BYDNEY BRIBBANE
SOAPS dubbed Shaving
are rarely
Shaving Soaps.
In a Class by Themselves
The World’s Standard Shaving Soap 3
Williams’ Barber’s Bar
and
Williams’ Shaving Stick
“BARBER’S BAR”
While the natural Ally
Of the Deft Artist
And his Trusty Blade
Is also the Ideal Soap
Eor Home Use
Fits your Birthday Mug
Once tried, never changed
“Won’t Dry on the Face.”
Send a Penny Stamp and we will post you Williams’
Changing Face Puzzle. Can you explain it?
J. B. WILLIAMS CO., Glastonbury, Conn., U.S.A.;
and at 232 Clarence-st., Sydney.
SHARPS HOOTING
For Sport and War.
gdf
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nett. ;
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
IP you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W.W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C, W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Greener’s Representative).
By Special
g
Appointment.
G. H. SMITH and SON
TROPICAL HELMET
Hat and Cap Manufacturers
and Importers,
302 Ceorge-st. Sydney
Sombrero Soft Felt Hats,
All Shades and Sizes.
Boft Felt Hombergs.
In all Sizes and Colors.
with special air-space,
in white drill , &c. and
in all colors in felt.
10/6 and 12/6
Straw Hats. Stetson Hats.
Polo Caps, Military and Naval
Caps, Livery Hats, Clerical Silk
Hats, Etc., Made to Order
"CIOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
-C ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,”
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor—GEO. W. ELLIS.
“ A canine earthquake ” was the heading
S.A. Register gave to a recent incident at
Woodside (S.A.) Presbyterian Church. During
service the congregation heard the rattling of a
door at the rear of the building. Excited cries
and gasps of “earthquake!” were heard on all
sides ; and a general stampede was about to begin,
when the preacher explained that it was only a
dog scratching himself against the door. Astonish-
ing how nervous of their lives are holy people
assembled to contemplate the bliss of Heaven.
A Victorian girl had to appeal to Judge
Hodges recently for a legal decision that she
might go and see her mother. The case, as laid
before his Honor, was to the effect that her
embittered male parent, now in Paradise, had
left her £lOO a year, contingent on her not residing
with her mother. The court was asked to decide
that visiting the mother was not residing with
her as the term was used by the parent who had
gone to a better land, and it decided accordingly.
Then the old man turned audibly in his grave.
Pigott, the new Messiah in London, is
probably a fairly powerful hypnotist. Anyhow,
a reporter who had nerve enough to get an inter-
view (refused to all others) on the plea of being a
truth-seeker come over from the R.C. Church,
admitted to turning limp when the “Son of
Man ” laid hands on his head ; and he actually
got away without the conversation he had come
for.
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Agents for N. S. Wales: Sayers,
Allport and Potter, Sydney. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.
A lady writes :
Interesting to note that, while married women and
unmarried men are keen for leniency towards Selina
Sangal, the average married man is extremely virulent
against the proposed commutation, while the spinster
lady generally joins with him. The only visible explana-
tion is that the married man reckons that the sort of
thing which befell Sangal may happen any day to him-
self, considering how glad his wife would naturally be to
get rid of him ; while the spinster looks on the crime as
a sinful waste of Sangal, who might otherwise have
married her when Selina was dead. Hordes of wild-
eyed married men thronged the outskirts of the
Sangal meeting in Sydney Town Hall t’other night,
and breathed “Shame!” at intervals, while spinster
ladies, who were strangers to them, murmured gently
that they were quite right. “ Hundreds of women will
start doing it if she’s let off,” cried one male personage,
and a married lady, under an exalted bonnet, remarked
that it would merely prove that hundreds of husbands
required to be passed out. Whereat the married man
nearly foamed at the mouth. Then a speaker
on the side of “mercy” beseeched the audience
to remember their mothers, and the married
man, with his eyes nearly out of his head,
clambered up the steps to get on the stage to do some-
thing desperate. At the other end of the platform a man
who looked married was waving a stick above the head-
of the people who wanted Selina let off. Much o
the audience aired its views of married life in a public and
ostentatious manner. “ Husbands should be killed pain
lessly,” said one of the ladies present. So they ought.
Nothing tends more to depreciate property in a residen
tial district than for the inhabitants to be kept awake b.
the howls of a husband who isn’t being killed painlessly.
A SCIENTIFIC PICK-ME-UP.—“No better
tonic and restorative for the victims of social fes-
tivities exists than a morning draft of Hunyad
Janos. Sure, swift, searching, yet safe, and ii
every respect salutary. The best and safes
natural aperient.*
i
V
Plumbing,
Heating,
Ventilating,
Are now important
items in the build-
ing of every home. A young man thorough-
ly equipped for this work always in demand.
These three subjects combined in one course
and taught at home by correspondence;
also Steam, Mechanical and Electrical
Engineering, Mechanical Drawing, etc.
The advanced subjects are taught by regular
teachers in Boston’s famous technical schools.
Write for information and Handbook “ B."
American School of Correspondence, at
Armour Institute of Technology.
Sydney Address, Box 629, G.P.O.
<4
t
1
'• v;
: :»v
't*
C
m
Vi-
i.-l
£
•-•‘v
r •*
«v
IS
KJhat a Difference!”
is the usual remark made by anyone who drives
for the first time in a vehicle fitted with ouf
resilient DUNLOP-KELLY
Solid
Rubber
0
mw/j
Tyres
f here is none of the Rattling
and Vibration associated with
iron-shod vehicles. You simply glide
along.
These
Tyres will last for years on a
private conveyance. They
don’t chip, as do inferior
quality tyres. T hey are
wired on fay a process that
absolutely prevents them
coming off or creeping.
Artistic
Catalogue and price list
on application.
Section of Duniop-Kelly Tyre
The Dunlop Pneumatlo Tyre Co. of
Australasia, Ltd.,
150 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY;
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane and Christchurch (N.Z.).
fd
"A friend Told Me.”
A great deal has been written on the subject of
Advice—who are the people best qualified to give
it, and when and how it should be asked, offered,
accepted, rejected, etc. “ Pray, give a poor man a
few coppers,” whined a seedy-looking individual
into the ear of a fat dean, as both stood in St.
Paul’s Churchyard, London, watching the erection
of seats for viewing the ceremony of Queen
Victoria’s Diamond Jubilee. “ There is a notice,”
said the dean, rapping a placard with a scroll of
papers which he carried in his hand, “that
labourers are wanted. Work, my man, work;
don’t beg from people in the streets.” “I asked
you for money,” said the beggar contemptuously,
“not advice.” ’Twas'ever thus. Proffered advice
is seldom well received, those best qualified to
give it being generally the last to offer it. And
yet there are occasions when it is the plain duty
of anybody to volunteer the most positive advice —
as, s for instance, in the case of one who has a
suffering friend, and knows of some means to
effect his cure. The experience of Mr. C. A.
Bonnett, of 53, Currie-street, Adelaide, S.A., well
illustrates this. “For two years,” writes Mr.
Bonnett, “I suffered continuously from acute
indigestion and constipation. Before meal times
I would feel as hungry as a hunter, but no sooner
would I sit down to table and attempt to swallow
a few mouthfuls than my appetite vanished and I
loathed the very sight or smell of food. Nothing
could be more tantalising; I was always hungry,
yet unable to eat. Then there was the ever-present,
uncomfortable sensation of distension of the stom-
ach. As I became weaker from want of nourish-
ment, my symptoms increased in severity. I tried
many remedies, but got no good from any of them.
Several, indeed, seemed to aggravate my
complaint. I had almost decided to have nothing
more to do with them when, a little over a year
ago, a friend brought me half a bottle of Mother
Seigel’s Curative Syrup. He told me that he
himself had been cured by it, and strongly advised
me to let it do as much for me. In the end he
persuaded me to take it, and I derived so much
benefit from the half-bottle that it induced me to
take a course of it. It rapidly broke up the
constipation, restored my appetite, and built up
my strength. Within six weeks of the date on
which I took the first dose, Mother Seigel’s
Curative Syrup had completed my recovery. I
always keep a bottle in the house, for I find an
occasional dose regulates the bowels without pain
or inconvenience, and keeps the organs of digestion
generally in good working order/’


3
i{\v&ys there
when Suited"
*
•jq»
Pi!
pr-
Beware of Imitations
British made
British Irthn
}Abfys vented
when there"
100 Photographs = A Pretty Photo. Album.
You know the cards which are packed with Guinea Gold Cigarettes ! Send or bring 100 to OGDEN’S, LTD., 45 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY, and you will have given to you (quite free) a Pretty Cloth-bound Photo Album.
It is made to hold Guinea Gold pictures.
A curious inconsistency in the Yic.
Licensing Act is that, though it is legal for a
publican to serve a bona-fide traveller on Sunday,
it is illegal for him to open his bar on that day.
“ Then, how is the traveller to be served ? ” re-
cently asked a Hawthorn (Melb.) magistrate.
And with the prosecuting police-inspector it was
a bad case of “ Dunno ! ”
With the advent of Irvine and Co., the
Victorian J. P. once more starts his thriftless
system of gaoling the old poor for not possessing a
competence. T'other day, at South Melbourne, a
bench of unspeakables actually sent back to gaol
for 12 months an ancient (just released from gaol)
whose only crime was that he had no home, money
or friends, and then insulted him by telling him
“ it was the best place for him.'’ It ought to be
the best, seeing that it will cost far more to main-
tain him there than in the Benevolent Home, but
it doesn’t follow that it is.
“Of all the fads I ever heard of finding
favor with the ‘ idle rich ’ the most extraordinary
is that attributed in one of the London dailies to-
day to Mr. Charles Rothschild, of Tring Park,”
writes Sydney D.T’s. London correspondent.
“It is the collection of fleas ! He has a whole
section of a museum occupied by cabinets contain-
ing fleas of all forms and sizes, from nearly every
corner of the world. Altogether he has 10,000
specimens. He has a flea from the Kerguelen
Islands in Antarctica, and has just commissioned
the captain of an Arctic trawler to bring back a
collection of fleas from the blue-fox, the white
bear, the Esquimaux dog, and other animals of
the Polar regions. What useful purpose it serves
beyond that of a hobby—and a ridiculous one at
that—is not explained. ”
Dr. Bertillon, head of the Statistical
Service in Paris, told a recent interviewer that
“before 20 years are over France will simply have
ceased to exist,” if the excess of death-rate over
birth-rate continues to follow the present average.
And the chances seem to be that the excess will
increase rather than diminish.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees arc swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is liopelfss, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. 1 don’t say perhaps ; but 1 WILD. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and FILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, 1/ljd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents •• ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on tach box. (Regd. copyright).
Makes Men Strong.
A
Do not let physical weakness mar your life. Men, young
in years, but aged in appearance, aged in vitality, wan-
featured, dull-eyed, slow-minded young men, who have in a
few short years thrown away the precious Vigor of Youth ;
middle-aged men and old men, who fear that they have not
the force of vitality which should be theirs ; men of any age
who are lacking vitality, can be made new by using Dr.
Austin’s ELECTRIC BELT. It will not fail. It cannot
fail, as it infuses into the weakened organs the force of life
and strength, the force which is the original of all Vital
Power—Electricity. I will guarantee to CURE any case I
will accept. Any man or woman who will secure me can
have my Belt, and
Pay When Cured.
NOTICE. —Unlike most other belts now sold in Australasia, my improved No. 8 Belt is not a
vinegar belt — i.e., a belt that must be put to soak in vinegar each time before using, which corrodes
the metal and rots the cloth, rendering all vinegar belts unclean and unhealthy. My improved
No. 8 Belt has been constructed with a view of overcoming these difficulties, and is, therefore, the
most complete, perfect and practical, non-burning, non-vinegar belt ever invented. TRY IT.
FREEV
BOOK./
My New Illustrated Book tells about my Belt, and how it cures the weakness of men and
women. It is worth reading. I will send it FREE upon request. Write To-day.
The Dr. J. M. Austin Co.,
39 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
ft
HERR RASSMUSSEN
will guarantee to cure Nervous Weak-
ness, Blood Diseases, Piles, Rheuma-
tism, Corpulency, Liver and Kidney
Troubles. He will send his Book Free.
AH correspondence will be held
confidential.
BRISBANE: 309 Queen St.
MELBOURNE: 150 Bourke St.
WEAK, NERVOUS MEN, WHY SUFFER
WHTCX von pan be ouicklv and permanently cured by taking Herr Rassmussen’s Alfaline Vitality Pills which have cured so many
thousand sufferers from DEBILITY, POOR MEMORY, WEAK SPINE, DESPONDENCY, and all which robs Manhood of that which
is dearest to it—Vital Strength. Herr Rassinussen will guarantee this remedy to cure every case, no matter of how long standing, and he will
give his skilled advice personally to all patrons of his remedies FREE OF CHARGE, either in his offices or by post. So don’t despair, but
communicate with him without delay, no matter where-you live.
Boxes 6s. • Courses, 235. 6d., posted. Treatment by Post a Speciality. Pamphlet sent Free.
Blood and Skin Diseases.
Blood Dis6rders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, Stone in the Bladder, and Blood
Impurities guaranteed to be removed and permanently cured by
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d. posted.
Anaemic Women
suffering from Wasting Diseases, Pale, Lifeless, and otherwise affected, should at once communicate with HERR
R AySMUSSEN. His lifelong experience is at their service, and his
ALF ALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS will cure them. Boxes, 6s; Courses, 235. 6d.
LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES cured at once by the ALFALINE LIVER and KIDNEY PILLS, Boxes IS.
LIVER and KiUNfcY Hjs rheUMATIC PILLS are World-famed, and his PILE POWDERS never fail ; 6s. per box each.
The ALF ALINE REMEDIES can only be obtained from . . .
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office— 547 George St., Sydney,
AND HIS BRANCHES AS FOLLOW-
ADELAIDE: 15 Pulteney St.
N Z.: 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A., PERTH: 481 Hay St.
EALGOORLIE: 111 Hannan St.
FKEMANTLE: 117 High St-
BOULDEE CITY: Piesse St.


N.S.W. newspaper proprietors have had
28 years of free postage for their wares. Postage
was imposed in 1864, but the prints of the day
worked up an agitation against it, and in three or
four years Parliament was appealed to. A motion
for the repeal of the postal charge was counted out
in 1869. Later a private member carried a mo-
tion urging Government to bring in a repealing
bill. Parkes did this, and passed it through both
Houses in’74. Should Reid get into power there
is probability that a similar agitation for repeal
will be again worked up.
The people of Morocco, who seem to be
bitten with Boxerism, complain that the Sultan
is getting altogether too European in his ideas of
civilisation. The Moorish potentate got his
private secretary (Verdon) from Melbourne, the
place where also his last lot of boots came from.
And it’s pretty certain that most of his other
foreign belongings are American. The trade in
civilisation is slipping away from Europe’s
wrinkled fingers.
Hints about Panama Hats.
TT will interest our readers to know that Chas. Gilbert,
A the leading Gent.’s Outfitter, Queen-street, Brisbane,
has just returned from visiting the centres of manufacture
for these scarce lines, and can supply the genuine article,
in either Alpine or folding shape, at 18s. 6d., 225. 6d.,
255. to 455. (for cash with order) securely packed, and
carriage paid to any address in the Commonwealth. 30
per cent, better value than any in the Southern States.
FITS CURED
From tb9 first dose of Ozerlne fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when
every other remedy had failed. Price 4/6 and 11/«
Thousands of testimonials.
OF ALE CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
WHOLESALE agents:
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared bv I. W. NICHOLL, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
25 HIGH STREET, BELFAST, IRELAND.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
XXJCI JC-jeaLiMLW 1-1 a XVJUJJKLAIJb# -fc
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain o*
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete ur • ,
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to.dove p. F„ffipi fl nt
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is genera y . »
mid a Complete Cure is certain. ____ ___ __ _
BKWARE or* COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION 13 NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OP HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OPP THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
‘Mr. Hearne. —
“ Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of Lo ndon, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
iementioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above: —
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS’ TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OP HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
“Dear Sir, —I wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other 1 remedies,’without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY."
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS
«• i used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
uding for another botlle in case I should want it.—D. M'DONALD, Trinkey, via
the medicine .vet; but lam sending
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine. —A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine. —JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
" I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Biugegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two aoses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.
“Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” •
“ Your medicine for asthma is worth £ 1 a bottle. —W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria."
“ I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.—S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” •
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I4rie<l your medicine,
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial. —JOHN C.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
“Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven*guineas, did not do
me any good; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well. —H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I gob from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
“ The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical ip its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria."
Gratitude and Appreciation
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
"The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Oollins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others,
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable - result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
* THOMASON, CIIATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertiser."
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.” —ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR, Vv
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong:, Victoria.
branch d.pot office; No 5 First Floor) (j reer ’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
The SMELTING & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
works: OiLPXO, Ualse illawarra <56 miles from SYDNEY!
1901, Xiimited.
SMELTERS
AND
REFINERS
SILVER
LEAD
BULLION
- ,'■ '* -* - .
f
aiAKßas o*
S. Co. of Australia
AND
“ ILLAWARRA”
BRANDS OF
SOFT LEAD.
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay.
W. L. HOYT, Manager.
Assay Offices, General Offices, Store and Sulphuric Chamber.
Highest Price paid for GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, and JEWELLERS’ SWEEP, &c„
For all information regarding Rates, apply to HEAD OFFICE, DAPTO.
XluddLer &
Co -» 40 Pitt Street, Sydney, Forw>urd.ing; JP. k.g:® 33 -'*' 3 *
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
“‘Benger*s Food*
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged. Delicious, Nutritive, and Digestible* ?
Eenger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere-
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
t > find. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘ Benger’s
Food’ everywhere.”
“ If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


A Hint.
Summer sickness may be prevented by Spring
renovation, but any haphazard attempt at the
latter may only the more surely prepare the
system for the former. If “ a stitch in time saves
nine ” when applied to our garments, it may apply
with equal truth and felicity to the body the
garments envelop. Bile Beans for Biliousness
prepare the system for the Summer, and they are
an ideal spring medicine. The Summer will* soon
be upon us, and at this time of year we should
take care to cleanse the whole human system and
fortify it to withstand the enervating effects of the
Australian Summer. The increasing hot weather
of this period has an extremely debilitating
effect on the system if it is not in perfect order all
through. It will thus be seen that a medicine
which will regulate and cleanse the interior
mechanism of man is especially valuable at this
time of the year. Such a medicine is Bile Beans,
and no better precaution can be found for toning
up the digestive organs, cleansing the blood, and
invigorating the liver. #
Missing Friends.
XJDWARD EGAN, son of James and Sarah
Egan (nee McVay), once settled in Volet
Town, and Kyneton, Vic., please communicate
with J. T. FIDLER GOORAM, Gong, Victoria.
Money awaiting you.
THE mother of PHILIP HERSEE will be
grateful to any person able to give her news
of her son, last heard of in Sydney. Address :
MRS. HERSEE,
Hythe, Kent (England).
THE HOTELKEEPERS’ FRIEND.
Soda Water, id. per doz.
Lemonade and Ginger Ale, 3d. per doz.
Hotelkeepers make their own supplies of
Aerated Waters.
No skilled labor required. Anyone can learn to
operate the inachine in ten minutes.
TESTIMONIALS.
“ To the Daylesford Mineral Water Co.
“ Dear Sirs,—The machine purchased from you is per-
fection. The Stuff turned out is Splendid. It is the best
speculation I have entered into since I joined the Licensed
Victuallers.—Geo. Niciiolls, Royal Hotel, Swan Hill.
Mr. P. Kennedy, Coolgardie, says :—“Profits saved by
making my own supplies of Aerated Waters with the
Machine pay the rent of my hotel.”
Mr. Lewis, Heidelberg, Victoria, says “I have made
thousands OF DOZENS of the best Aerated Waters with the
Machine, and it has not required sixpence worth of
repairs. No Hotelkeeper should be without one of
them.”
Mr. W. Atkinson, Hotelkeeper, Wentworth, N.S.W.,
says:—“lt is the greatest money maker yet discovered
for hotelkeepers.”
Mr. Burk, Yalgo, W.A., says:—“Since getting one of
your Machines, and making our own soft stuff, I have
saved its price ten times over.”
W. H. Jones, Peak Hill, W.A., says Machine great
success.” °
E Davis, Peak Hill, W.A., says Cannot speak too
highly of effectiveness and simplicity.”
G. N. Murdoch, Abbotts, W.A., says:—“Value of
Machine indisputable ; quality and cheapness of stuff
unquestionable.”
T. H. Williams, Mossman, Queensland, says :—“Highly
successful, and recommend to all hotelkeepers.”
J. S. Davidson, Bundaberg, Queensland, says :—“ Great
saving compared to previous cost of stock.”
A profitable business awaits pushing men in many small
centres of population, where a deeply-felt want exists for
a good quality of Aerated Waters. Observe the Profits.
Call and see these machines, or write for circular describ-
ng them, also Pride List. Prices Reduced.
Daylesford Hepburn Mineral Water Co-
-407 COLLINS-STREET, MELBOURNE.
CHRONIC
CONSTIPATION
can be cured by
Chanjber/ctin’s
StonjacJj aqd
oCiver tablets
Price, 1/6
JUST WHAT YOU NEED.
Chronic Constipation results from a lack of
moisture in the residual matter of the food.
It becomes so dry and hard that the muscular
coating of the intestines is unable to expel
it. Two of Chamberlain’s Stomach and
Liver Tablets should be taken to begin
with and after that one each day. When
taken just after supper they will insure an
operation of the bowels on the following
morning. In most cases this lack of moisture
in the faecal matter is caused by an insuffi-
ciency of water being taken into the system
and cannot be cured unless more water is
taken with the food or drink. If taken
with the food, unless in shape of fruits
(apples and bananas), it is apt to interfere
with the processes of digestion; but if a regu-
lar habit is established Of taking a full glass
of water as soon as you get up in the morning,
about two hours after each meal, and just be-
fore going to bed, it will in most cases correct
the disorder—not at once, but in time.
Chamberlain’s Stomach and Liver Tab=
lets are not intended for habitual use but
to give temporary relief until a cure can be
effected by tailing more water into the system
and establishing a regular habit by having
the bowels move every morning immediately
after breakfast whether there is an inclination
or not.
NOTE.—If not able to obtain Chamber-
lain’s Stomach and Liver Tablets locally,
a package will be sent, post paid, upon
receipt of 1/6, or six packets for 8/-, by
addressing Chamberlain Medicine Co., 64
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. 121
amusements.
FITZGERALD BROS.’
HUGE CIRCUS & MENAGERIE,
IN THEIR OWN PERMANENT BUILDING,
JUST ACROSS PRINCE’S BRIDGE, ST. HILDA RD., MELB.
THERE IS NO BETTER CIRCUS BUILDING
TO-DAY IN THE WORLD.
THE MARVEL—
XX EFt R. F» Gr E X.,
Lifts a Lion, a Horse and a Jockey, and a Genuine Set
of Heavy Weights.
AND WE WANT EVERYONE TO TEST THEM.
PRICES —45., 35., 25., and One Shilling. Children half-
price to all parts (except the pit).
FRANK JONESj. Representative.
THE GREAT
BENDIGO
EXHIBITION
ART UNION
To be drawn at Bendigo on
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 24.
TOTAL PRIZES, £2 400
£lOOO for Is.
£lOOO for Is.
PRIZES TO THE DO/lAA
VALUE
Ist Prize, £lOOO
2nd „ 600
3rd „ 400
4th „ 150
sth „ r 100
6th „ 75
DISTRIBUTED.
7th Prize, £25
Bth
9th
10th
11th
12th
15
10
10
10
5
The committee undertakes to provide: a purchaser for
the full value of the first prize, less 10 per cent. ; for £250
worth of the second prize, and for £l5O of the third prize
pictures. The winners of the fourth to the twelfth prizes
will have the option of selecting their own pictures.
LAST WEEKS OF SALE.
f Secure your Tickets Early from all Stores, Newsagents,
and Stationers'throughout Australia.
(3EO. V. ALLEN,
Genieral Secretary,
17 Garraway’s Chambers,*o/ieen’s Walk,
Collins Street, MELBOURNE, opp.' Town HalL
Amusements.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Lessee Mr. Wm. Anderson.
Sub Lessee .. .. Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT’S
Drury Lane Social and Sporting Spectacle,
THE DERBY WINNER.
POPULAR PRICES—3s., 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
/CRITERION THEATRE, SYDN EY.
SOLE LESSEE .. .. Mr. JOHN F. SHERIDAN.
Manager .' Mr. Frank Weathersby.
2 LAST NIGHTS 2
LITTLE CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS.
JOHN F. SHERIDAN
as
O’HOOLIGAN AND SAND-HOW.
SATURDAY, NOV. 15, the Musical and Dramatic Play,
UNCLE TOM’S CABIN.
John P. Sheridan as Marks the Lawyer.
JUBILEE HYMNS, CAKE WALKS,
SONGS, DANCES, &c.
REAL BLOOD HOUNDS.
FIRST MATINEE, WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES—3s., 25., Is. 6d., & Is.
DALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Lessees .. .. Henry Lee and J. G. Rial.
SUB-LESSEE and MANAGER,’ WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING at 8 Sharp,
The Latest London Dramatic Novelty,
THE WORST WOMAN IN LONDON.
Complete and Instantaneous Success,
MISS EUGENIE DUGGAN as FRANCES VERE.
Supported by William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Co.
Popular Prices—3s, 2s, Is 6d, & Is. Plan at Elvy’s. Early
Door Tickets, White Rose Confectionery Shop, Pitt-street.
A. Middleton, Bus. Mangr. ; Michael Joseph, Treas.
THEATRE R O Y A L, SYDNEY.
* Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2,
LAST NIGHTS of
SHERLOCK HOLMES.
Mr. CUYLER HASTINGS as SHERLOCK HOLMES,
Supported by Mr. Williamson’s
SPECIALLY ORGANISED DRAMATIC COMPANY.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Prices as Usual.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
Great Success of the CONCERTINA KING,
Prof. J. H. MACCANN.
The Clever Comedian and Mimic, MARK ANTHONY.
J. W. WINTON, the Popular Entertainer.
THE GREAT HARBECKS, THE NAWNS, WILTON
BROS., NEVA OARR-GLYNN, ELSIE M’LACHLAN,
CLARENCE. SISTERS, MONTROSE TROUPE, FLORRIE
GALLIMORE, ERNEST SULLIVAN, EILEEN BOYD.
Rickards’ new opera house,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30 p.m.
PAUL CINQUEVALLI.
WALLACE BROWNLOW.
Willie SCHENCK BROTHERS Charlie
SAM HOLDSWORTH. FRED. POPLAR. KITTY WAGER.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan at Allan’s:
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
EVERY EVENING,
Mr. Ceo. Musgrove’s New English Comedy Company.
FIRST PRODUCTION in Melbourne of the
Fascinating, Fantastical drama,
The Sorrows of Satan.
founded on G. A. Sala’s story of “ Margaret Foster,” and
Marie Corelli’s Famous Novel, The “ Sorrows of Satan.”
USUAL PRICES. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee Mr. Bland Holt.
Sub-Le3see and Manager .. William Anderson.
Bus. Manager, James Hendy. Treas., Julius Grant.
FRIDAY, NOV. 14, LAST NIGHT of
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S Famous Dramatic Organisation
in the Successful Adelphi Drama,
THE FAVORITE.
SAT., NOV. 15, First Production in Australasia of the
Latest London Success, SATURDAY NICHT IN LONDON.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan's.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tait.
LAST NIGHTS. LAST NIGHTS.
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE TOREADOR,
The Most Sumptuously Beautiful Production yet seen at
this Theatre, and a Superb Attraction for the
Racing Carnival.
Prices as Usual. “SSI Box Plan at Allan's.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. William F. Hawtrey.
Business Manager .. Leonard Davis.
LAST NIGHTS of the THE HAWTREY COMEDY CO.
in the Uproariouslv Funny Farcical Comedy,
IN THE SOUP.
’ ipular Prices —35., 25., Is. Matinee every Wednesday.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’ and The Grand.
R. BENTLEY YOUNG, Representative.
|“0 W N HALL, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of F. YERT.
COMMENCING,
SATURDAY EVENING, 15th NOV.
MDLLE.
ANTONIA DOLORES,
Assisted by
MR. CLARENCE NEWELL.
PLAN AT ALLAN’S. “SS S3T PRIJES.-Ss., 35., 2s.
J. NT.YIN TAIT, Manager.
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage
g
And by
Special Appointment
Mrs* William Green and Miss Green
Professors of Ballroom Dancin z, Deportment, Craceful
Carriagre, Etiquette and Calesthanic Exercises.
The Latest Society Skirt Dances. Classes arranged for at
private residences. Colleges and Convents attended.
Classes in all suburbs. Prospectus—
“ Ellerelie,” 100 Nicholson-st., Fitatroy.
At Poverty Point.
Melb. theatrical managers, who held on in the hope of
making up at Oup time for the sparseness of recent
audiences, were doomed to bitter disappointment. Even
night itself, not one of the theatres was more
than decently full, and the whole racing season was the
leanest ever experienced in Melb. One reason was the
noticeable absence of the usual contingent of visitors from
the Riverina, western N.S.W., and Queensland squattages,
where dying sheep and cattle and the expectant holder
of the mortgage claim far more interest now-a-days than
Cup winners and the bejewelled ring-men.
Ik Writing to a relative in Australia some six months ago,
Melba stated positively that she would not sing during Cup
week, but would gratify the dearest wish of her heart by
going to the Oup along with “ the boys and girls ” All
the same, she did give a concert last week, and she didn't
go to the Cup.
Charles Bright writes :—Re par in Bulletin (30/10/’O2)
about Kyrle Bellew and the trial of his dramatic pieces
before a committee of pressmen. The event occurred
about 30 years ago and the scene was a room in Melbourne
Pubhc Library to which Marcus Clarke, then assistant
librarian, had access. There were present F. W. Haddon,
editor of Argus, James Smith, Drs. Neild, Clarke, George
Walstab and several others besides myself. I think
Henry Gullett, present editor of Sydney I).T. was there,
but won’t be certain. Any old journalist will understand
the ordeal a young fellow had to go through in standing
up to recite things before such a jury of blasb theatre-
goers. Of course Bellew was advised to shun the stage,
as probably Edmund Kean would have been under like
circumstances. Not long after Bellew came to my office
to bid me good-bye, dressed up in the becoming uniform
of third officer of one of the crack line of clippers. Very
handsome he looked too. That was the last I saw of him
till I met him as “ David Garrick ” and recognised that
he could act, spite of the opinion to the contrary of his
earliest critics.
Au actor man made a row In the office of a metropolitan
weekly t’other day. In noticing a show, the paper mixed
up Brown, the brilliant comedian, with Jones, the other
brilliant comedian, and said that Brown was middling
bad on the whole. Whereupon Brown wrote in a state of
restrained fury to say that the performance mentioned
was Jones’s and not his (Brown’s), and demanding profuse
apologies. The paper blandly acknowledged receipt of
the letter, admitted that it had mistaken Jones for
Brown, and that an apology was called for, and it
straightway humbly apologised—to Jones 1 It was at
this point that Brown called to eat the editor.
A certain actress, concerning whose artistic merits
there was hot disputation in Australia not long ago, was
an enormous eater, and took but little exercise off the
stage, where she was wont to let herself go all the time.
Revelations as to her dining achievements—she and her
manager ordinarily partook of 12 courses at a sitting—
explain her opulent proportions and account for her
histrionic effect on her admirers. A commercial said of
her, in Melbourne : “ I have often seen her when she
was travelling round, years ago, and I got very tired of
her. But she used to be quite thin—a Maypole' of a girl.
The flesh she has put on has improved her a lot.” The
storming of the 15st. lady was fully sst. more impressive
than it had been before she filled out.
Melba still takes periodical trips to Marchesi and gets
that experienced lady to overhaul her voice. Yet there
are hundreds of singers in Australia who settle down to
professional singing and teaching after a year’s tuition,
convinced that they have no more to learn.
Some facts from London about theatrical people known
in Australia :—The new Henry Arthur Jones play,
“ Chance, the Idol,” is not a great success. It is a thin,
weak play, with a wildly improbable plot, saved by the
charm of the writer and the acting of Lena Ashwell as
Ellen Farndon. Titheradge plays' a thankless “heavy
father” pirt, and seems out of his element. Mrs.
Maesmore Morris gets no chance save to look sweet and
wear lovely frocks—l saw Mabel Love in “ Sweet and
Twenty ; ” pretty and charming she certainly is, but not
at home in comedy. She ought never to have left bur-
lesque—Joseph Carne is playing the old clergyman in
“ Sweet and Twenty ” in the suburban theatres—Julius
Knight does nothing much ; the critics don’t like him—
Dot Boucicault is one of the few we know in Australia
who has'any position ; he has almost entirely given up
acting, and is in demand for producing all the new
Pinero plays ; he is at present in America seeing “ Iris ”
through its first night—Florence Schmidt, although not
a great star, is generally at work, and doing well ; she
sings at popular promenade-concerts in the big Queen’s
Hall, where you can pay a shilling and hear the most
wonderful orchestra play Wagner. The men in the
audience smoke and walk about, and it is all very free
and Bohemian—Alice Hollander made a good impression
at her concert-recital. Critics spoke well of her, and she
wisely whisked off to Paris to study some more and
acquire a Parisian accent.
London papers comment upon one of Nance O’Neil’s
mannerisms which passed unnoticed during her Austra-
lian tour. No matter what the play was, the bulky
tragedienne was wont to extend her semaphore arm and
prefix her lines with the word “So 1 ” Bucklaw, the
melodramatic actor who was in Australia a few years
back, was similarly in the habit of crying “ My God ! ” at
frequent intervals in every one of his parts ; and there is
a stage tradition that he, as Hamlet, began the great
soliloquy :“Tobe or not to be—My God !—that is the
question.”
Juliet Wray, the almost forgotten lady who had a
meteoric career in Williamson’s comic opera co. a few
years back, lately revisited her native Ballarat. The thin
and angular J uliet, now wife of a medico in Maoriland,
has filled out to such a degree that she found it hard to
convince her old acquaintances that she was not some-
body else. In the old comic opera days, with memories
of Nellie Stewart and others still at their freshest, the
painfully slim and thin voiced girl from Ballarat was
regarded in many quarters as somewhat of a grim
managerial joke. In these days of musical comedy minus
either music or comedy, she would probably have out-
distanced Carrie Moore and all other competitors.
John Fuller’s “ Polite Entertainers ” have recorded six
months constant going at Hobart Temperance Hall and
Launceston Empire. This constitutes the record for Tas-
mania in show business. Denis Carney, Maud Faning,
Fred. Bluett, the coon brothers Jones) Bob Bell, Harry
Hart, Juggler Arnoldi, and the Mowbray trio are the
latest successes. The Fuller family spreads itself over the
performance in various attitudes and disguises, and gets
up a wedding occasionally by way of variety. Walter
Fuller took the clever Dolly Lamont for better or worse
last month, brother John having set example a while
earlier by marrying another of pa Fuller’s artistes.
Barton on the Naval Tribute.
Premier Barton, who seems to have been hope-
lessly hoodwinked and nobbled by Joseph of
Birmingham, has explained at Melbourne that
the idea of an Australian fleet for defence pur-
poses is quite absurd, and is based on a palpable
fallacy. To quote from the telegraphed report of.
the Premier’s speech:
The theory that a fleet could be kept selfishly at home
was also wrong, so that the only policy we could pursue
was the very policy with which this Empire had been
made one, and to the maintenance of which the Empire
was indebted for the holding of Australia. If, then, we
had an Australian navy it must be maintained in common
with the Empire. If such a squadron as was proposed
had to be maintained by Australia alone and kept sel-
fishly in one place, the cost to us would be £520,000 a
year.
A curious feature of the case is that Britain itself
pursues the allegedly wrong and selfish policy
which Mr. Barton thus denounces. No matter how
great the necessity for attacking the enemy in his
own waters, and no matter how large the fleets
that have been sent away, a squadron has always
been selfishly kept in reserve for the defence
of Britain itself, and in addition to the fact that some
of Britain’s first-class vessels are always retained for
local defence there is a “Coast Defence Squadron”
in reserve. It is simply proposed that Australia,
by establishing a fleet which will always stay in
Australian waters to form a last line of defence
for our coastal cities, shall follow Britain’s bad
and selfish example, and if Britain’s bad example
isn’t good enough for us to follow it is
time to ask what the empire is coming
to. If the British Government is prepared to
swear that, should a big enough enemy turn up, it
will send its last ship to attack him in his own
waters, and leave Liverpool and London liable
to bombardment should "any casual cruiser of the
enemy slip through, then it will be a fair gamble
for Australia to do the same. But the British
proposal is that Australia should pay for a
special defensive squadron, and when Britain
makes a war, in which we have no voice whatever,
that squadron shall sail away to hunt up the
enemy and leave Sydney and Melbourne liable to
destruction, partly, at least, in order that a
squadron may be reserved to save London
and Liverpool from any such risks. The offer
isn’t good enough. Sydney and Melbourne are
just as much to us as London and Liverpool are
to England. Let us have our own defensive
squadron—and pay for it.
Black tracker Sam Johnson, in cross-
examination at the Kenniff trial, stated that when
he saw James Kenniff racing towards him at
Lethbridge’s Pocket, he abandoned his pack-horse
and galloped away up the mountain. “ How far
did they follow you ? ” asked barrister M'Grath.
“ I didn’t see them,” said Sam ; “I never looked
back.” Further on M'Grath asked, “ What time
of day was it when bullets fly about—sun go up,
go down, or him on other side ? ” Sam (quietly):
“ About eight o’clock.”
The conviction and death-sentence of the
Kenniffs ends the latest attempt at Australian
bushranging, if their feeble proceedings could be
called bushranging. The Kenniffs were obscure
cow-stealers, and shot a policeman and a station-
owner who came after them to inquire about the
cows. Then they burned the bodies, put
the bones in a bag, and put the bag
on a horse—presumably to remove it for
burial. The horse somehow got loose, and
was found wandering around with the evidence
on its back —which was the worst kind of mis-
management. Then the Kenniffs bushranged in a
passive sort of way, dodging the police and steal-
ing mutton or cow flesh when they could get it,
but they never ranged in the aggressive Kelly
fashion. They were rather fugitives hiding
in the bush than active enemies of society, a id
the robbery of banks and sticking-up of towns was
a branch of the art that was quite beyond them.
The youthful Premier of Westralia pro-
poses to fix an age of consent for males, too. Any
woman or girl who “by signs, gestures, or other-
wise ” invites any male that looks less than 16 to
stray is to be liable to six months. Any male
who looks older than that may be invited for £lO.
An unpromising Victorian youth of 11
lately stole a horse and sold it to a cabman’s wife
for a pound—Bs. cash and 12s. credit. There is no
future ahead of that boy. A youth who doesn’t
know the folly of giving 12s. credit on a twenty-
shilling horse lacks the commercial instinct which
is the basis of all true greatness.
Be the waste of public money in Queens-
land. A wretched little row took place recently
in the Bacteriological Institute, and two enquiries
were held into the matter, costing altogether
£350. The enquiring tribunal recommended
that the expenses of defendant be paid, and as
it is generally understood that over £3OO was that
unfortunate man’s little bill, the total cost of this
lovely busines will be something like £7OO
Adelaide is dreadfully disappointed be-
cause a prominent gentleman who was to have
come forward as a co-re. has managed to get his
name struck out of the suit. Leave has been
given to the husband to proceed without specify-
ing the partner of his wife’s alleged infidelity.


A Grand Medical System
WONDERFUL CURES. WONDERFUL TESTIMONIES
When men are weak and practically disabled in life, they should avoid disaster which may end in Death. New Vigor, new Life, new
Strength, and unlimited Physical Power can be given by adopting for a short period the Electro-Medical Treatment or the judicious
uses of Electricity and Medicine. People are cured daily by this system who were otherwise classed as “INCURABLE.”
REMARKS.
WE have from time to time demonstrated, as leading physiologists and pathologists 1* the scientific world,
the fact that the permanent healing of grievous health-destroying diseases lies in the possession of a perfect know-
ledge of the causation and phenomena concerning them, and the accurate methods of treating them. Any practi-
tioner can prescribe for a complaint and treat it with that professional care embodied in set formula. But every
practitioner cannot heal or cure a disease. Honestly they endeavour, and unsuccessfully fail Everywhere men and women try their doctors, receiving
little benefit. Millions of people suffer from chronic nerve and vital functional disorders, and ve r become cured of them because they do not a PP eal «
the right sources. What the average medical man CANNOT CURE WITH HIS SET FORMULAS and obsolete forms of treatment, the
SPECIALIST, with his new ideas and modes of treatment, assisted by special knowledge, can. This is proven
BY THOUSANDS OF UNIM PEACH ABLE TESTIMONIALS
received by THE SPECIALISTS of the FREEMAN and WALLACE INSTITUTE, in cases undertaken (and which they guarantee to cure) of nerve
and muscular disorders, stomach affections, etc. . . u„
Their new methods of nerve and physical strength restoration, by the employment of Electro-Therapeutic agents, is a new system qu , y
singular success. Patients OCCUPYING THE HIGHEST POSITIONS in the world of Art and Letters, Sport and Commerce,
cures. Electricity is Life, if judiciously applied by means of an ELECTRIC “ INVIGORATOR ” withL reconstructive and such peases as
HYSTERIA, INSOMNIA, PALPITATION, SCIATICA, EPILEPSY, BRAIN-FAGEXHAUSTED
LUMBAGO, ABDOMINAL WEAKNESS, PILES, ST. VITAS’ DANCE, or CHRONIC or FUNCTIONAL NERVE DISORDERS, are surely
and permanently cured.
A DISTINGUISHED
PATRON.
THE SPECIALISTS have adapted
their Electro-Medical treatment in
numerous instances where sys-
tems had been run down and enfeebled
almost to the VERGE OF PREMA-
TURE DECAY. In cases of climatic
change and heavy study debilitating the
system, an infusion into the jaded sys-
tem of AN ELECTRIC MEDICATED
CURRENT, as used by three physicians
to the late Queen, gives that NECES-
SARY VITAL FORCE which, when
lacking, proves often the necleus and
genesis of grave nerve disorders.
Amongst numerous attestants to this
grand system is SIGNOR CARLO
DANI, the famous and distinguished
tenor of the ROYAL ITALIAN OPERA
COMPANY, lately visiting Sydney, and
who wore an Electric “ INVIGORA-
TOR,” by which he was greatly benefited.
This instrument was modelled after those
used by European Scientists, and of
which Me. JOSEPH MEGSON, Cham-
pion Cyclist of N.S. Wales, speaks in
unstinted praise. Signor Carlo Dam.
whose testimony is irreproachable, suf-
fered much from lassitude, or nerve
exhaustion. Sufferers from this nerve
disorder will read the distinguished
singer’s declaration with more than usual
interest.
IM
I
S:
MMH
■warn
SIQNOR CARLO DANI, the Distinguished Tenor.
Extracts from
Patients’ Letters.
4
THE SPECIALISTS here publish a
a few extracts from the letters of
distinguished patients who have
been cured by this effective treatment.
Mr. JOSEPH MEGSON, Champion Cyclist
of New South Wales:—
“ I was on the point of a constitutional break-
up more than once. The quality of the
‘INVIGORATOR’ supplied to me is beyond
question.”
Mr. J. H. BROWN, Professional Pianist:—
“I suffered from BRAIN PAG, and was
cured by your Electro-Medical Treatment.”
A PROMINENT SYDNEY POST-
OFFICE OFFICIAL
“I am completely cured of RHEUMATISM
and INDIGESTION, from which I suffered
for years. Your Electric ‘ INVIGORA-
TOR ’ is magical in its effects.”
Mr. G. JOHNS, Champion Light-weight
Pugilist of Australia: —
“I wore your ‘INVIGORATOR’ in train-
ing and actual contests. It did me undoubted
good.”
Mr. E. H. AMES, exponent in Australia of
the “ TOD SLOAN ” style of riding,
says :
“I have obtained marvellous benefits from
your Electro-Medical Treatment. I regained
my nerve-power by use of your ‘ INVIGOR-
ATOR, ’ and won two great racing events in
one day.”
+ :
These are but a few from many thousands. The
reader is asked to glance at the testimony of Signor
Carlo Danl. Such declarations should cause serious
reflection
I have much pleasure in informing von that, owing to the great lassitude I have experienced here, due,
changes, I have been induced to try one of your Electric ‘ Invigor ators,’ from which I have obtained
climatic
nervous and muscular systems
(TRANSLATION FROM ORIGINAL COPY TO BE SEEN AT THE INSTITUTE).
due, no doubt, to sudden
great benefit to my
Yours cordially,
All attestants may be interviewed. The SPEClALlSTS’ treatment is sure and effective. Improvement is rapid and certain. . .
Yon need not fear but that vou WILL RECOVER if you try a course of Electro-Medication. It acts at once on the nervous centres, animating the nerves, re-strengtheningthe muscular
svstem coualisine- the circulation improving the blood-stream. It clears the brain, strengthens and regulates the beating of the heart, and makes a man or woman healthy and strong, AS
NATURE INTENDED THEM TO BE. A man is no longer feeble under this treatment; he REGAINS ALL HIS LOST STRENGTH, and finds no physical trial that he cannot
conquer. It is the finest medium in the world to physical peace and domestic harmony.
PRICES.
The Prices of these wonderful curative “IN VIOR ATORS ” are as follow :
Copper Plate, £1 ; Silver Plate, £1 10s; Solid Silver, £3 ; Solid Gold, £lO (2oz. 18ct. Cold).
The Specialists hold Certificates of Efficacy unpossessed by others, and give private tests to anyone who cares to call. Two leading Sydney electricians
assert they are “electrically perfect, and their currents are continuous as used for medical purposes.”
These “ INVIGORATORS ” have passed through the Customs for the last five years as genuine Electric Appliances.
The Specialists’ Fees : Professional Advice and Medicine, £l.
CREDENTIALS.
NINE Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration of the Physician-in-
Chief by the Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia,
England and America, open for public inspection at the Institute. Late Homoeopathic
Hospital, Melbourne, and British Imperial Army Medical Staff.
Sir DOMINIC CORRIGAN, Bart., Physician to the late Queen, speaking of the
Physician-in-Chief, says:—“l entertain a high opinion of Dr. Wallace in regard to his
professional qualifications.”
“ CLINICAL EXPERIENCES.”
CONTAINING 550 pages of medical literature, 150 full and half-page medical illustra-
tions, fully explains, in the chapter devoted to Electricity, the general laws governing
the application of electricity to the human frame. An exhaustive exposition of the systems
employed in the doctrine of Electro-Medication is given, showing the benefits to be derived
from a judicious use of the Electric Bath, Battery, or Belt. The uses of these are
individually explained. This valuable medical work is posted free to any address on
receipt of ONE SHILLING IN STAMPS.
FREEMAN * WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAI —,
and SURGICAL INSTITUTE
ELIZABETH and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director Electro-Medical Department.
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.8., E. f L.M., Physician-in-ChleF.
Medicines packed Free from Observation and sent to all parts of Australia.
Letters treated with Professional Secrecy and promptly replied to.


fdg
412 GEORGE 5: SYDne
b| 2 Jewellery Store was never so superior, never so splendid.
11l Every beautiful thing from England, America and the Continent is
here, and favourably priced for you. So quickly come and go the new
things that we could not enumerate them, but come in and see for
yourself what we have. We never press anyone to buy. We will gladly
show you the latest even if you come only out of curiosity. Our New
Catalogue is free to all.
No. E44s9—The " Oupid " Card Oase,
Solid Silver, Lady’s Size, £2 10s.
Silver-Plated on Nickel Silver
Base, Tankard. J-pt., 12s; 1 pt.,
168.
OS
No. F6127—A1 Qualitj' Silver-Plated
Toast Rack, £1 15s.
No. F9s64—Heavy 9ct Gold Twist Bracelet, £2 10s.
No. E3oS2—9ct Gold Bracelet, set Pearls and Sapphire
Doublets, £2 2s.
No. P'9ss7—9ct Gold and Real Pearl
Bracelet, £2.
srse
No. F9569—9ab Gold and Real Pearl
Bracelet, £1 7s. 6d.
Oct Gold & Tortoiseshell
Hairpin or Ornament,
£1 7s 6d.
No. F2lsB—Solid Silver Prize Bowl,
£8 10s.—8£in. x sJin.
No. F9672—Strong Oct Gold Twist Tube
Brooch, £llos.
'ism ■
No. F247B—Silver Plated Butter Knife and Jam
Spoon, in a Case, 14s. 6d.
No. F999l—Silver Plated Satin Lined
Jewel Case, £1 ss.
No. F 558 —A 1 Quality
Silver Plated Butter Dish,
£1 12s. 6d.
No 163—18 ct Gold
Diamond and Ruby Ring,
£3 10s.
4®
No. F 6483 —Solid Silver
Pepper Pot, 18s. 6a.
I ' *»-'
No. E7B49—Silver - Plated
Egg Boiler, £1 7s. 6d.
m in
m
m
No. Fl342—Cut Glass and
Silver P.ated Claret Jug,
£1 Is.
No. F47lo—Silver Plated Knife, Fork and Spoon,
in a Case, 14s. 6d.
cuvson
fd
GOOD KA.IR FOR ALL!
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY' IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
m- For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
RST For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT
HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
S. FREEMAN „• SONS I
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
PRIZE
POWDER.
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAR BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY,
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS
Catalogue
Fr*o
French’s Acting Edition.
g
Bare Books
French Novels
Books
for
the
Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
lioohs Free .
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
compr sing Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried in vest
po ket and blown out to life-size (causes roars of
laughter), Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket, Book of
Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin and Card
Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character), The Mafeking Grub (or
nerve-strengthener), and, last of all, that side-splitting
Look and Laugh Glass, Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
Box 3, P. 0., Hay market.
IT. L. HUTCHINSON,
X
YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-street, SYDNEY.
RUPTURE»
Throw »w»y
greur Iron.
without
operation or pain,
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. io. Address:
SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S., ENG„-
Cor Russell & Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
LEARN TO HYPNOTIZE
fd
Reader, do you desire to become a Hypnotist? Do you want to know how to utilize the most
powerful and mysterious force of nature? Do you value control over others ? Do you value the
means of securing friendship, love and personal influence? Do you value the power to conquer
pain and banish sickness, to reform a misguided friend, to gain business success, to win wealth,
position and happiness? If you do, you must learn to Hypnotize. Why not? No other accom-
plishment is so easily acquired. It can be mastered in a few hours time, without leaving your
home. It costs nothing to find out all about it. The greatest Hypnotist of the century has just
issued in book form a large and exhaustive TREATISE, OR INSTRUCTOR IN HYPNOTISM,
covering the whole ground of his Science, and he will send it while the edition lasts, absolutely
FREE TO ALL who apply. The book is profusely illustrated, containing beautiful and artistic
engravings, and shows as never was done before the principles, features, wonders
and uses of this mysterious Science, all in a popular and pleasing style. It tells
you just what Hypnotism is and hat you may accomplish with it. It shows you
how you may sway the minds of others, per orm astounding feats,
and produce amusement by the hour. New and instantaneous
methods. Success absolutely guaranteed. Remember this grand
work costs you nothing. It benefits everybody who reads it. It
places you in touch with the wonder-science of the age. Read
it anyhow. It is absolutely FREE. Apply at once to—
PROF* R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
g
fdg
Dr. Clarkson’s Electric Belt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s Be-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatmentof Electricity with Dr.OLARKSON’SRE-INVIGORATOR
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is trnlv wondprfnl
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC. y
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £L
df
gdf
CALI, OR WRITE—
o'vsnL,
CUT
RATE
DRUG STORE
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
30 Days’ Trial.
g
We grant every purchaser
of our
m.ncTitic
JiKLTS and
A I’VJjIA NCEB
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
TOOTH-AGHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Nights
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head aches & all Nerve
Pains removed by BUNTER’S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
“As a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I have
used it successfully for years.”—Prof, W. Wilson, M.D,
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORSDELL’S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, &c.
Of all Stores.
LADIES.^-
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
avDEESs-L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
g NSTEAD OF BETTING on fast horses, bet
on the fast Indigo Blue Serges, at Charles Gilbert’s,
the leading tailor. Latest Summer Start-
ing Prices, viz., from 50s. Suit to measure,
carriage paid to any address in the Commonwealth.
A Soft thing. No Write for
Catalogue, Patterns and Self-measurement Forms,
Queen-street, Brisbane, and compare his values with any
in the Southern States. You will be backing a sure
thing.


There is Only One
s
OF
«M twuwtHT mmcot
itosr aoo€*»taol« Po»a
llllllliliwiiir toaotivt »«iwo*»tMAp
M.AJMO MM* to *OV MOOT
it. ?• MMM tMO OtOfOM MOM****
tVI T 9 NMMINH* OVtOOOMO
MABUUAL CONITIPATKMI
MOMOHf W fMO
(UO«SYS. UVCI AMO 0
Poft OMAf OtOtOMl OMO 090.
13 O*.'©- Mit 'Off** «• 0
PAICK I^*
■<%£>-
California
CALIFORNIA
Of all Chemists,
Australian I
Sprupoffias,
But there are bad imitations and
cheap substitutes in plenty.
The Original and Genuine, now
known throughout the English-
speaking world as
“Natare’sPleasantLaxatlve"
Is the one perfect
I STRENGTHENING laxative.
CLEANSING THE SYSTEM EFFECTUALLY,
DISPELLING COLDS AND HEADACHES,
PREVENTING FEVERS,
OVERCOMING HABITUAL CONSTIPATION
PERMANENTLY.
Its freedom from every objec-
tionable substance, and acting on
the kidneys, liver and bowels,
gently yet promptly, without weak-
ening or irritating them, make
it the ideal laxative. In order to
get its beneficial effects, ask for
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF
FIGS, and look for the name
printed on the front of the package.
FIG SYRUP COMPANY
Depot, 32 SNOW HILL, LONDuN, E.C.
ranch: 7 Barrack Strf.et, Sydney.
5,000
IN USE
TODAY
fd
The
Oldsmobile
LOWEST
PRICE
OF ALL
A practical runabout for business or pleasure and sold for less money than
any automobile in the world.
It will run over any passable road ; climbs steep hills; is almost noiseless,
attains a speed of 25 miles an hour; will run 30 miles on one gallon o
gasoline ; starts with ease from the seat and is always ready for instant use ,
is accident proof; has no fire ; no boiler to burn out.
Construction is so simple it cannot get out of order and requires no
experience to run it. There’s nothing to watch but the road ahead.
Can be shipped to this country at small expense, quick delivery.
The Oldsmobile is sold in America or $650 (£130).
Write for free handsome illustrated book. We will quote you a price
delivered at your nearest port.
Agents Wanted in Unoccupied Foreign Territaty.
Olds Motor Works,
Detroit 9 Michigan 9 UmSmA•
EDWARDS’
p
g
fdg
THE CHEAT
HAIR PRODUCER & RESTORER
The Very Finest Dressing. Specially Prepared and Delicately Perfumed.
A liUXURY AND A NECESSITY TO EYERY MODERN TOILET.
fd
Restores the Hair
Promotes the Growth
Arrests the Fall
Strengthens the Roots
Preserves the Hair
Removes Dandruff
Allays all Irritation
'HARLENE’
Preserves,
Strengthens and
Invigorates
Children's Hair.
y/fffin
Full description and directions for use in 20 languages supplied with every bottle •
1/-, 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle of Druggists &c., all over the World.
EDWARDS’ “HARLENE” Co., 95 & 96, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
ROB ROY pens.
Hinks, Wells & Co. beg to draw attention to this new series of
turned up pointed and other pens, made of the same material, by the
same tools by the same process and at the same works, as the well
known series of Waverley Pens, which Hinks, Wells & Co. have for
30 years and upwards (prior to September 1901), manufactured for
and supplied to the proprietors thereof.
as
Sold by all
Stationers in 18
varieties in
6d., Is. & gross boxas.
HINKS, WELLS & CO., Birmingham, England
Four Letters.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHAT HE WROTE.
To-day, when looking through some papers, I
found the little volume of Philip Bourke Marston
which you lent me, and which I thought I had
lost.
Do you remember the day you lent it to me ?
At the sight of the dull green cover, my brain
went beating back to that morning on the beach,
the morning I first guessed you cared. You wore
a white frock, and a hat with a big green bow that
matched your clear grey eyes. I remember as I
walked along to meet you, my eyes were caught
by the green on your hat and the green book in
your hand. So shyly you told me you wanted to
lend it to me, because I knew nothing of the blind
poet, and because you were proud of knowing well
a book of which I knew nothing.
“Read me something,” I begged, as we sat on
the sand ; but you shook your head with the little
shake I know so well, and said the gulls were
making too much noise, and I could not hear.
You would not talk at all that day, but sat watch-
ing the waves as they broke from blue to green ;
and I sat watching you in your dainty frock and
pretty hat, thinking how true a match the bow
was to your eyes, and the old rhyme came ringing
to my mind, and I found myself chanting
“Yellow’s forsaken, green’s foresworn.”
But why do I write this ? Are you thinking
me stupid, I wonder? Little girl, in all God’s
world there is nowhere such a fool as I. Did I
not have your love ? Were you not mine, mine,
mine? And yet, though knowing that God, in
His goodness, had given me the love of an angel
woman, I doubted you, and worse—forsook you !
How does the old rhyme go now? “Green’s
forsaken, yellow’s foresworn.” Oh, dear heart,
in the days gone by, you used to say you had a
genius for forgiving. Have you no forgiveness
for your lover ? You know I did not believe the
vile things I said, even while saying them. I
know you to be faithful and pure, and yet, in my
wicked jealousy—what things I said ! I can see
you now as you stood with your white face and
blazing grey eyes, listening silently while I, foul
brute, struck you with cruel words. Little girl
—my little girl, can you forgive me?
I opened your book at these words : “ Love has
turned his face away.” Was that an omen ? No ;
I do not believe that you are gone from my life
for ever. You small, presumptuous person, you
dare not try to live without me, for you are mine,
heart and soul. God made you for me from the
beginning, and I cannot lose you now. Write
and tel} me I may come. Three months and not
a sign of you —or is it three years ? I cannot wait
for your letter, dearest; I shall be there before
you have finished reading this, and I shall
hold you in my arms, and read my answer in your
dear grey eyes.
Your lover, Phil.
WHAT HE SENT.
Dear Miss Norton, —Looking through some
papers to-day I discovered the enclosed book,
which you lent me some time ago. I must apolo-
gise for the delay in returning it, but, being small,
it was hidden beneath some manuscript. I trust
you have not needed it.
Yours sincerely, Philip S. Birch.
WHAT SHE WROTE.
Why did you send me back that book after all
this time? As the days went by and did not
bring it, I began to hope that you would keep it,
and perhaps read it, and I knew that, reading,
you must remember me. Fool that I was !
I did not expect you to keep the others, but
that little volume was different. I always meant
to give it to you, although you only took it for a
loan. I wonder if you remember the day I lent it
to you ? It was one of those perfect days of which
we counted so many, but the most perfect of all to
me, for it was that day I first knew what you were
to me. I remember it all so well. 1 woke-up in
the morning with a pleasurable feeling of “ some-
thing going to happen.” I put on my prettiest
white frock, and the hat I had trimmed with green
the night before. Green, you had said, was your
favorite color, and yet you didn’t notice it that
day. But I was too happy to be disappointed.
I wonder if you remember asking me to read
you something from the little book. _ Did you
think me sulky because I made a stupid excuse,
and would not ? I never told you before why I
refused. Shall I tell you now ? There was only
one line in that book that I could say that morn-
ing. It flashed into my heart as I saw you walking
along the beach to meet me. So strong ac. 3 proud
you looked with your broad shoulders and head
held high ; and, as you came near, suddenly my
heart cried out, “ Philip, my king ! ” and I knew
why the day was perfect.
Now, do you understand why, of all books in
the world, I would rather you had kept that little
volume of the poor blind poet ? But you have
sent it back. Why did you send it now ? Why
not before? I was beginning to believe I could
forget, but I know now there is no forgetting in
this life. I shut my eyes and say, “ I will forget,”
and then I find myself dreaming of that evening
we climbed up the cliff to see the best of the
sunset. Do you remember how we stood leaning
on the old fence, side by side, with no words
spoken, till I began to fear the silence, and for
something to say, asked you which of Marston’s
poems you liked best ? You turned then, and took
my hands in yours. I could feel you trembling,
though I was calm with the wonder of a great
approaching happiness, and you leaned to look
into my eyes, and said, so low I could, hardly hear
you—
Sometimes I say in an hour supreme,
Bride, my bride !
I shall hold you fast, and not in a dream,
O my Bride!
I closed my eyes as you began to speak, fearing
to wake and find I had been dreaming. But again
I heard your voice, “Bride, my Bride,” and I
opened my eyes, and saw you standing there. Out
at sea the eastern sky was rosy with reflected
light, and the waves were a wonderful blue; in
the west the golden sunshine blazed over the hills,
turning the lagoon to a sheet of burning copper ;
but all the glory of the sunset, east or west,
gleamed in your eyes as you stood and looked at
me. Oh, Philip, my king, whatever else the years
may dim, that picture will be with me always.
But you have sent back my little book !
Perhaps I should not write like this. I should
be dignified, and bear my sorrow in silence ; or
pretend the indifference that is demanded by the
un-caring world from all poor wounded women.
But I must speak this once. I never answered
you that day you were so cruel. I could not. My
heart was crying out, “ I love you—how can you
hurt me so? Let me prove my love for you.” But
my pride kept me silent, and you went away,
believing me untrue, unfaithful, because of my
silence. Oh, my pride, what devil sent you to my
heart, the heart which God had filled with love ?
Philip, I must tell you now. Listen to me, dear.
I love you, and have always loved you. I have
always been true to you in every, thought and
deed. You must believe me, for this is truth. Is
your love for me dead ? I fear it, and yet I take
pride in showing you my heart. Oh, my dear, my
dear, come back to me. You used to laugh at me
because I could forgive so easily. Dear love, God
gave me that power in the beginning that I might
write this letter, and thwart the devilish pride
that tried to ruin our lives.
Come to-morrow, and we will walk along the
beach to see the sunset. “ Along the beach,” did
Isay? Through Paradise it will be, for—Your
Meg.
WHAT SHE SENT.
Sir, —I duly received the volume of Marston
this morning. I had quite forgotten to whom I
had lent it.— Margaret M. Norton.
FAYRE.
The Deaf-’un,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bill and I were lurching along the road from
Germanton to Culcairn, bluey up. The figure of
a man loomed ahead. “Swaggie coinin’,” said
Bill. “Whaler, too; I’ll bet. I know by the
swing of him.”
“Good-day,” said I, when the man came up.
He cocked his head one side and put one hand to
his ear; then, as if he had made up his mind
about something, dropped his swag. “Deaf,” he
said, in a loud voice. “Awkward, ain’t it?” he
continued. “ You’ll ’ave to sing-out a bit louder.”
“ Good-day,” I shouted.
“Which way? Wagga Wagga? Strike me!
ain’t it a perisher, too ? You going there ? ”
“Yes,” I said, seeing that he misunderstood
me.
“ What for ? Starve ? Bli-me ! if a deaf man
can’t live, how do you think you can ? Look-a-
’ere, mate, see that ’ere dog? Well, he can do
anything but talk ; an’ e’ couldn’t get me a bit o’
meat ’tween Wagga an’ ’ere. That’ll tell yer.”
“Did you call at ?” I asked.
“ Call into Mingy Station ! What for? Listen,
mate. I asked the woman about a billy of water,
an’ she says : ‘ Would you like some milk ? ’
‘Course I would, mum,’ says I. Then I arsks
’er for some chuck, an’ she gives me some flour, a
piece of meat and duff. Strike me!—l don’t
believe in this ’ere baking of johnny-cakes. Why
don’t they give a bloke bread ’stead of flour ?
There’s ther pub. now. Don’t you go to it,” he
said to me. “Too young and ’ealthy-looking,
you are. Send yer cobber —he looks just ther
t k“'oh,” I said aside to Bill, “ this fellow is a
pure bummer, and ”
“ What yer say ? ” chipped in Deafy ; “ Strike
me, I ain’t so deaf as yer thinks. Look-a-’ere—
p’raps I am a bummer. But I tell yer times is
gettin’ so hard that I has ter crack deaf and write
it on paper when I arsks for chuck; an’ sometimes
I forgets myself. That’s ’ow I ’eard what you
said. Don’t yous go along this track. What?
You’s will, will you? Well, yous won’t be the
fust what’s died on the road. Anyhow, so long ! ”
We soon forgot about the deaf chap, but when
Bill went to get supper ready at night he gave a
yell of dismay that startled the mopokes out of
the trees. The deaf man’s dog, that “could do
anything but talk,” had, while we were talking,
commandeered 21b. of steak from my billy-can
that was standing on the ground.
WANDERER.
S.M. Herald advt. :
r\ ENTLEMAN requires OOAOH to prepare him for
vJT conversion to R.C. religion, about two evenings
per week. State terms, &c., to CREDO, Herald
Office, King-street.
Interesting to know how many replies this inno-
cent received, and how genuine the advt. was in
the first place.
That was a quaint note found in the
handwriting of an Adelaide doctor: —
Not being addicted to the habit of taking morphia, it
seems to me a unique experience that I took with very
little discomfort 43 grains of sulphate of morphia in less
than 12 hours on Sept. 9. Only symptoms : Slight dizzi-
ness, drowsiness, and slightly bitter taste.
That was a month before he tried again, and suc-
ceeded. Probably he was immune to morphia-
poisoning (the ordinary dose is about a quarter of
a grain); or perhaps he was already unbalanced.
But how characteristic it is of the fine habit of
noting experiences and phenomena on which
almost the whole progress of medicine is based.
Brisbane Worker recently criticised John
Lane and his Cosme propaganda somewhat
severely. An indignant reply to the Worker
followed, containing the following assertion
“The movement is as great a power for good in
Paraguay as in Queensland; and not until
the proletariat are educated to the Oneness of
Labor all the world over will any material
progress be made.” The amusing part of the
matter is that the Cosme communist is himself
anything but cosmopolitan. He won’t allow the
Paraguayan (who gave him the land he lives on)
to enter his sacred colony at all. The Cosme
apostle proves the “Oneness of Labor” by re-
fusing to adopt into the sacred brotherhood the
very man who has been his best friend.
A cable :
The French Government has stopped the salary of
Cardinal Perraud, Bishop of Autun, for having in a
speech referred to the “Government’s depraving in-
fluence.”
Napoleon 1., greater as a statesmen, perhaps, than
as a soldier, adopted the expedient, to
power of French clerics, of paying them. The
clergy receiving State subventions, the congrega-
tions got out of the way, to a large extent, of
making voluntary offerings; and now, when the
church tries to create trouble, it is threatened
with a stoppage of its screw, and soon comes to
heel. State aid to religion is, in theory, wrong ;
in practice, when there is but one powerful church
in a State, it may be a good means of discipline.
“S.S.” : Struck an energetic collector for
the hospital funds on Hospital Saturday in Mel-
bourne. The collector was a lassie, one of two
(they usually hunt in couples). She was chasing
small change on the sands, and when a man who
looked something of a sport chanced along her
companion would say seductively : “ Oh, do give
something,” adding “ Mary will turn a handspring
for sixpence.” If the sixpence was dropped m
the box, Mary turned her handspring, and turned
it well. It was not at all an unseemly display,
which probably accounts for the fact that it only
earned three sixpences in the course of half-an-
hour.


RHEUMATISM
Is a form of Blood Poisoning. You will never have Rheu-
matism if your Kidneys are well. Por Healthy Kidneys
filter from the Blood all the Rheumatic and other
Poisons that cause Disease. Keep the Kidneys well,
and they will keep you well.
Rheumatism is not a
disease in itself; it is but
the symptom of a disease.
It is caused by an acid in
the blood, called uric acid,
of which there is enough
formed every twenty-four
hours to cause certain death
if not removed.
Nature has provided the
kidneys to take this acid
out of the system, and they
are the only means by which
it can be removed. As the
blood passes through the
kidneys it is filtered, and
the acids and poisons are
passed out of the system
along with the surplus
water.
But when the kidneys
get sick they do not do
this work properly, and
some of this acid stops in
the system, causing endless
pain and suffering. It will
crystallise somewhere, and
when it crystallises in the
muscles, the little, sharp,
jagged crystals cut and tear
the flesh, causing great pain.
*
**•
an
1
s>>
\
&
y
V
That is muscular rheumatism.
They may crystallise in the joints, and that is the cause of gout; or in
the kidneys or bladder, causing stone in bladder or kidney, gravel, sedi-
ment, &c.
The acid will penetrate every nerve and fibre of the body, causing
nervousness, headache, sleeplessness, and interfering with the valves of the
heart; it will affect the eyes, and will cause a general weakness and fagged
feeling, bloating of limbs, &c.
The whole health of your body therefore depends on keeping your kidneys
well. There can be no rheumatism with healthy kidneys, no nervousness, no
headaches, no bad blood. Keep the kidneys well, so they may filter all
impurities from the system, and they will keep you well.
Doan’s Backache Kidney pills
are the great medicine for this purpose, because they give just the aid the
kidneys require to properly filter the blood. They heal the kidneys’ delicate
membranes, and, best of all, they are for the kidneys alone.
They do not act on the bowels, as so many medicines do.
SYDNEY PROOF.
Mr. Jas. I otheringham, Watson’s Kay, late 6th Imperial Bushmen, writes :
“Whilst in South Africa with the 6th Imperial Bushmen, through constant ex-
posure to all sorts of weather, sleeping in wet clothes, etc., I got a very severe
attack of lumbago. I was so bad that I could not get up off the ground-let alone
mount my horse. Two military doctors had ago at me. One blistered my back
until all the skin was off; and the other gave me medicine, but neither of them
did me any good. Fortunately, a comrade came along with a box of Doan’s Back-
ciche Kidney Pills, <ind before X hud finished the box I wus &s right as ever X wrs
in my life. Since then I always keep a box of the pills handy in case of the
lumbago returning, but, so far, I am glad to say, I have had no necessity to take
them. You may make whatever use you like of this, as I consider Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills a boon to humanity.”
Doan, s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers
at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes, 15s. 3d.), or will be posted, on receipt of
price, by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
BUT BE SURE YOU GET DOAN S.
Itchiness of the Skin.
Ever have any irritation of the skin ? There
are many forms of it, any of them bad enough
to tax your patience. Hemorrhoid, a plague
of the night,—no rest for the sufferer from
that complaint. Eczema, too. Hives don’t
sound dangerous, but they cause much misery
to those who are unfortunate enough to be
troubled with them. Doan’s Ointment is “a
wonder” for any such trouble. No trouble-
some irritation of the skin can resist its heal-
ing, soothing influence. Lots of Sydney people
know this now.
Mrs. M. A. Carter, “ Waratah,” Orange-st.,
Randwick, this city, writes a most enthusiastic
letter as to how her young daughter was cured
of Eczema by Doan’s Ointment. Mrs. Carter
thought her daughter contracted the disease
at school. It affected her scalp, which was
very much inflamed, and all broken out, and
irritated her terribly. She got some of Doan’s
Ointment, and, after thoroughly washing the
child’s scalp, applied it. The result was the
scalp was entirrly healed in a few days, and
left no scar.
“ I have also us' d the Ointment myself for
irritation of the skin—a sort of Eczema:—and
it has done me equally as much good as it did
my daughter. You are at liberty to publish
these facts at any time, and I will only be too
pleased to verify the statements should I be
called upon so do so.”
Doan s Ointment is splendid in all diseases
of the skin, Eczema, piles, hives, insect bites,
sores, chilblains, etc. It is perfectly safe and
very effective. Very often two or three pots
have cured chronic cases where other remedies
have failed for years.
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all chemists and
storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per pot, or will be
posted on receipt of price by Foster M'Clellan
Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember the name—DOAN’S.
Genius.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"The late Prince Consort has been awarded statues
in hundreds. Cromwell has, at last, atter hundreds
of years, been granted one.”
Why do ye patter of Genius with infinite ardor
and zest,
And say ye would raise her a statue and place it
on high with the best ?
Genius is calm and immortal, and ye who but live
for a day
Would render her duty and homage by raising a
carving of clay!
Lift up your statues, O people, to those who of
statues have need,
Lift them to men who were never of note in the
doing of deed ;
Did ye not raise them their marble and carve it
and place it on high,
Would not their names in a moment for lack of a
monument die ?
Genius hath scorn of your carvings, your tombs
and your tablets of brass ;
Is not her labor immortal, and do not your monu-
ments pass ?
Built by herself is her temple—right in the dawn-
ing of day :
What does she want with your marble ? Go—
burden your clods with your clay !
Have ye not nidd’rings who love such ? Have ye
not princes and clowns ?
Have ye not grovellers gilded and creatures who
creep under crowns ?
Have ye not louts who are lavish—have ye not
lords who are proud 1
Give them your bronzes and mouldings—O ye
of the mutable crowd.
Genius is native of Heaven —she sprang from the
brain of a god ;
Shall she get ultimate glory because ye have
shapen a clod ?
Shall she be proud and uplifted—she who is
radiant of soul —
Because ye have sorted your baubles and found
her a pitiful dole.
Yet there is use for your marble ; yes—load it as
lead unto lead,
Over the heads that ye cherished —over your com-
monplace dead;
See that ye place it there only—so shall the after-
world know
Never a Sage or a Hero was laid in a sepulchre so !
Q.
P.L.
Explorations in Civilisation-
BEING THE LETTERS OF AN AUSTRALIAN IN
EXILE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
November 14th. —To-day, walking to the Strand
>by way of Charing Cross, I found the fog not so
'dense as usual, but there was a freezing east wind,
and the chilblained faces of the working people
showed the winter the more. And, standing at a
hoarding, I saw the Genius of Famine—the seven
stars of Misery.
The man stood in his rags exhaling the odor of
poverty, even in that biting wind ; but my interest
was greater than my objections to bad smells, and
I went close to him. He was intently regarding
a poster, a fine pictorial advertisement of a
steamer line to the West Indies, with very blue
seas and very golden palm-trees and translucent
white beaches. And the poster exhorted the
starving man thus :
Avoid the
Inclemency of
the North by Wintering
in THE
WEST INDIES.
West Indian Navigation
Co.’s Steamers
Leave Fortnightly.
Return
Passage, 35 guineas.
He read it again, and looked at me, and into his
hunger-bright eyes, and chalk-white face, there
came a brave gleam. I grinned also, and we
stood there looking at each other for a minute,
grinning foolishly in one another’s faces.
Then I: “Two bob any good to you ?”
He : “ Gord bless yer; it’s a fortchin’.”
I: “ Here you are then.”
He : “ May you never want it yerself, sir ! ”
I: “ And good luck to you.”
He : “ Same to you—an’ many of ’em.”
I: “If you have two rums, you can fancy you’re
in the West Indies.”
He : “I’ll ’ave a shillin’s worth, mister.”
And so we parted with a big respect for each
other. It seemed to me a good man who could find
a grin in that wind and those circumstances. And
I suppose thousands of good men are trampled out
of existence every year in this great muddy
shambles.
November 15th.— London is big, but it is the
bigness of squalor mostly. A great collection of
endless Bourke streets, with Saturday night
crowds in them always —that is London. Have
been exploring more in the fog. Newgate and
the publishers’ quarter. Paternoster Row, Amen
Corner, Ave Maria Lane, and through Creed
Lane to a little stable yard grandiloquently named
Printing House Square, where the solemn and
stodgy Times produces daily its barren wastes of
ink. The Times office is built on a portion of the
Black Friars monastery, where Catherine of
Arragon was tried, and where sat also the Parlia-
ment that condemned Wolsey. Almost opposite,
and on the Surrey side of the river, is Bankside,
where stood the Globe Theatre of Shakespeare.
Beaumont and Fletcher and Massinger belong to
that quarter, too, and there also were situated the
Rose Theatre, the Paris Garden, and the Bear
Garden. I would the Bear Garden were open
now, that I might see what manner of men they
really were who were fit to carry offal to the bears.
I have always been curious in this matter.
In the Borough on the Surrey side, and near
London Bridge, is the Tabard Inn of Chaucer’s
Pilgrims. These frauds were going to Canter-
bury, which any man on a good horse would do in
a day and a half at most, but they lied better’ than
they travelled in those days.
, -thlbngsffate is another delusion. After seeing
all these things I am moved to wonder that a few
men writing of these trivialities of London were
able to so cover them with romance that they
appeared of real magnitude. Or did we who read
of . them provide the romance from our own
spinning ?
The Monument on Fish-street Hill is 202 ft.
mi?"’ that is the best that can be said of it.
Ihe reliefs on the base are ridiculous in design,
and bad in execution. Fish-street has no hill, by
the way—-only a gentle rise. We would call it,
in Australia, “ rolling country.”
Ratcliff Highway is gone, and has become St.
George s-street, but the East End Jews still have
the Petticoat Lane fairs on Sundays. The Jew is
everywhere, by the way—selling red and yellow
handkerchiefs in the East End, running his own
theatres to exclusively Jewish audiences, who
witness Jewish dramas played by Jew companies;
owning the Stock Exchange in Throgmorton-
street, and bossing the South African market, and
singing
Rule Brittanyas—Brittanyas roolse der waifs,
Bntonse nefer, nefer, nefer shall be slaifs.
while the “true born Englishman” marches off
to fight Stock Exchange battles at a shilling a
day ; entertaining society at the West End ; and
cheek by jowl—or rather nose by nose—with the
King, in the palace and at the racecourse.
Going back through the Minories to Aldgate, I
wandered on to Great Tower-street, and into
Seething Lane. Good old Sam Pepys was living
there on the night the Great Fire broke out. His
diary, states that Sam “got up at three in the
morning and observed the fire from his maid’s
window.” Ah Samuel! Samuel! why from the
maid’s window ?
The church near this place is named “All Hal-
lows Barking.” This doesn’t mean any more than
a Jew lizard, but it looks fearsome and mysterious,
and at that time the church that failed to make
the hair of its parishioners stand on end was a
failure.
November 17th. —I heard an affecting story
to-day of an author who had done excellent work
in a squalid room, and on a table made of the
boards of gin-cases. Success came to him, and he
burned his faithful gin-case table, and bought a
roll-top desk with about 100 drawers in it. The
magnificence of the desk sterilised his imagina-
tion, and he never wrote another line that was
not incoherent bosh. And people said that he
really had never written the good work; that it
had been done by his brother-in-law ; and the
story was believed; although everybody knows
that a mere brother-in-law is incapable of any-
thing. This sort of fate will never happen to me,
because I will never be able to buy a gorgeous desk,
from my literary earnings, anyway. My novel
has been read by two publishers, and one of them
has strangulated hernia, and the other an
aneurism, as the result. However, a very strong
publisher (physically) has got it now, and I
believe that if he survives the first 30 chapters
without permanent injury to his health the book
may win a binding this year.
They wouldn’t mind my being unconventional
if I were Imperialistic, but, as a publisher’s reader
said to me the other day: “To be Unconven-
tional and Conservative, all right; to be Conven-
tional and Republican, good ; but to be Uncon-
ventional and Republican—it’s too much.”
November 18th. —Went along to Regent-st. this
morning to discover the ways of the women by
their shops. Saw a disconsolate widow looking at
some perfectly lovely mourning, and breaking her
heart—with her stay busks. She was otfer-laced
quite three inches.
The street, dotted with frock-coated, tall-hatted
Englishmen, pink and white, and all evidently
of the same mother, with the unmeaning re-
semblance of waxworks.
Also saw a straight-up-and-down fat lady
breathing stertorously in front of an advertise-
ment of the “ Rejane Corset.” The poster said
“ Stout figures can easily obtain a straight figure
below the waist line.” Haste thee ! Good straight
up-and-down fat lady 1 Flee this shop of Ananias
and Sapphira, Ltd.
This afternoon, I go out to see an “ Australian ”
Colony at St. John’s Wood. The people I am to
see are real Australians, although they live at St.
John’s Wood. It is in that quarter that people
live who have been a month in Australia, having
struck Melbourne or Sydney as the Great Ameri-
can Actress or the Great Canadian Lecturer, and
on the strength of the 30 days asylum describe
themselves for ever after as “the Great Australian
Tragedienne,”or the “Australian Bret Harte.”
I pray you request the Federal Government to
appoint an “Approver of Australians in London ”
so that the self-advertiser may no longer drag our
nation in the dirt.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Dr. J. M. Creed, who holds the high-
sounding, though honorary, office of “ Advisory-
Chairman-of-the-Board-under-the-Inebriates-Act-
of-1900,” has persuaded N.S.W. Government to
allow him to convert Shaftesbury Reformatory,
at South Head, now used as a house of correction
for girls committed from the police courts, to a
home for the treatment of inebriates. Dr. Creed
has had a long battle on behalf of the sane medical
treatment of “alcoholics,” and is at last begin-
ning to see some benefit from his efforts.
In the dear, dead war-days the prepos-
terous Seddon managed to bluster Maoriland
Labor party into more or less surly acquiescence
in Imperialism and cohentingenting. Workers’
hearts were never in the sorry business, but ap-
prehension of “unpatriotic” odium exercised a
malign effect. Little lawyer Barclay, Labor
M.H.R. for Dunedin, stood almost alone in boldly
denouncing the war —accusing Richard the Ri-
diculous of wantonly hitching Maoriland to
Chamberlain’s chariot—what time his two Labor
colleagues were spouting Maffickism in company
with “His Lordship the Bishop” and “His Honor
the Judge. ” Local ‘ ‘ patriotic ” press foamed at
Barclay, and counselled the Labor party to drop
him. Barclay is still politically alive, however.
The elections are coming on; the once familiar
word “patriotism” is never spoken; the gilt is
finally off that particularly fraudulent ginger-
bread ; and the Labor party, free from the spell of
gory Seddonism, has decided to stick to Barclay.
His opponent is one Chisholm, who was mayor of
Dunedin during the first war year. His pet
formula in those days was “ Three hearty cheers! ”
and on the strength of a choice commandeering of
patriotic adjectives, foolish friends persuaded him
that he was a born orator. When the news of the
relief of Ladysmith was expected, Chisholm was
afraid to go to bed o’ nights, lest the wire should
come at such an hour as he knew not; and he is
said to have rushed down to the Town Hall in
breezy pyjamas, on one occasion, to set the bells
ringing for a false alarm of “Pretoria entered.


A Weak Stomach
Indigestion, No Appetite, Exhaustion, General Weakness,—Ail Due
to a Sluggish Liver and Impure Blood.
S 5
Mr. G. A. Boxall, of Prahran, Vic-
toria, sends us liis photograph and says:
“I wish to tell every one the great
help I received from Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla. I suffered terribly from weak-
ness of the stomach, indigestion, and
biliousness, and I had no appetite. I
felt tired all the time. Sometimes it
seemed almost impossible for me to
keep about. But after using Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla for a short time for my
blood and as a general tonic to my
nervous system, and with an occasional
use of the Pills to keep my bowels in
good condition, I rapidly improved, and
am now enjoying better health than I
have in a long time. I now keep these
medicines near at hand and take just a
little whenever I begin to feel badly,
for, you know, ‘ a stitch in time saves
nine.”’
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Of course you cannot enjoy good health, if your stomach gives out. You
must have an appetite, must digest your food, and must keep your liver
active. Muscular strength, nervous strength, desire to he active, and a feeling
of general good health may be yours by keeping your liver active and your
blood pure. It takes just two medicines for this: Ayer’s Pills for the liver,
and Ayer’s Sarsaparilla for the blood.
It’s Ayer’s Sarsaparilla you want. Insist upon getting “Ayer’s,” for it’s
stronger, contains more ingredients, and cures quicker than any other kind.
AYER’S i arsaparilla
Strengthens the Stomach and Aids Digestion
Ayer’s Pills keep the liver in a healthy condition.
Prepared by DB. J. C. AYEB & CO., I,owell, Mass., tr. S. A.
<;-7 v, ;
WORLD'S
BEST
C. L.
PEERLESS GLOSS
is an oil dressing which so softens the leather that
smaller sized shoes can be worn with perfect comfort.
“ Peerless Gloss ’ ’ is the great dressing triumph of the
world, as it imparts a brilliant and permanent polish to
AIND
shoes that outrivals all other dressings, and yet it does not
contain anything injurious to the leather. Beware of
imitations. Demand Hauthaway’s “Peerless Gloss,” and
take no substitute. For sale nearly everywhere. Made
only by C. L. Hauthaway & Sons, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
g
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
There’s SECURITY In
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
They TOUCH the LIVER
Be Sure they are
Small Pill, Small Dose. Small Price.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
DON’T MISS THIS
OPPORTUNITY, if you are suffering with WEAKENING.
NERVOUS, and DEBILITATING Diseases. Our CON-
CENTRATED BOTANIC REMEDIES will CURE YOU.
So CONFIDENT are we of this that we will send to am-
sufferer a TRIAL COURSE (Free of Charge) and abid ■
by the RESULT. Send NOW and your ultimate CUlt;-:
is CERTAIN. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
REECHAMS
PILLS.
You will not have far to go before finding a friend, acquaintance, or neighbor
who can tell you from personal experience that BEECHAM’S PILLS are
the most efficacious medicine yet known for the cure of all forms of
Indigestion, Bilious Disorders,
Sick Headache, Poorness of Blood,
Nervous Debilitv & General Want of Tone
Such unquestionable testimony can be obtained by almost any-
one anywhere. Those who have taken BEECHAiTS PILLS
have realised the immense benefits derived from their use,
and have recommended them to their friends.
But notwithstanding the gigantic sale of over SIX MILLION
BOXES PER ANNUfI, there are still thousands of sufferers
who are spoiling their lives, and possibly ruining their health,
with experiments, while the old-establish remedy, BEECHAM’S
PILLS, remains still untried.
Sold Everywhere in Boxes, price 1/1 \ (56 Pills) and 2/9 (168 Pills).
v '-‘Sy
YOU ENJOY YOUR LUNCH
George and Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAY.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY.
Single Room, with Full Board, Bs. per
day, or JB2 2s. per week.
TERMS. — The convenient
system of paying for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
When you come to Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Rooms; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp—from Is.—and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7.3 o—from Is.
upwards. Silver grill at work.
If
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
fd
g
IRISH MOSS
FOR
-The best remedy-
INFLUENZA, "
COUGHS,
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS.
ASTHMA
Ask for Banning ton’s
[and seetkatvou net it


STDNE7
Rubber Works
MANUFACTURERS OF
Sheet Rubber,
Washers,
Valves,
Gas Tubing,
Rubber Rings,
Rollers,
Buffers,
and Every Description of
Meohanioal Rubber Qoods.
Works:
CAREY STREET, off Birkenhead Road.
City Ofßce:
PERDRIAU & CO.
270 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
fdg
WE SHIP ON APPROVAL
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles. Fully warranted.
Latest
Models'
£2.10,.£5. 5.0
Dunlop tyres, Steel or Wood Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards and Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID
To any Port in Australasia,
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sewing
Machines Half Usual Prices.
Write for Catalogue and Special Offer
Using aid. Stamp. Address Dept 3451*
Mead Cycle Co.
CMc
s 4 -
60
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
w_ c. ieilidiriidg-ih: & go.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOU.K bTJ&jeijuX, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK*
m
ole Australasian Kepresentat
Street,
dgd
ms
For all Services kept in Stock-
Send, for Catalogue
Large
Stocks
CARRIED BY
BENNIE,
TEARE,
&CO.
GENUINE
fdg
BELTING
AT
Sydney, '
Melbourne,
Perth,
Coolgardie,
■ ■ ■
Sole Australian
Representatives
TANGYES
LIMITED.
KEMP S PATENT SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters m Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED FOR IT.
It will stay on the sheep's back as long as required. It will NOT injure the wool. It will dissolve out under
the ordinary scouring process. o
MaNTTP ACTUREItS AND SOLE AGENTS :
NEIUKK.
CO.
GRMDE
BLACK , BED, and BLUE (in 8-gallon
PRICE IN MELBOURNE ~ -i
„ SYDNEY'(E. Rich & Co., Ltd.) - »
„ BRISBANE (E. Rich &CO-, Ltd.) - -
„ HOBART (Wm. Crosby & Co.) -
4s/ per Gallon
4/-
4/-
4-
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
as wen as Mining Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers,
H
HAVE IKT STOCK!
indsof Engineers
Wood Pulleys
Shafting
Collars
Drills
Valves Valves Valves Valves
Oster Stocks and Dies and Taps, Crane Hinged Pipe Vyces, Emery
Wheels and Grinders, all kinds of Lubricators, Starrett Fine
Mechanical Tools, etc., etc., etc.
write for Prices to ©0 Clarence-st., Sydney. N.S.W.
dfg
HSU
DEAF
Sufferers from Deafness or Head Noises
desiring a complete and permanent core
should write to The L. R. VERNON CO.
60 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet describing an entirely new oelf-
applied method which we will send post
free on mentioning this paper.
H. P. GRE6OK9I CO.
Machinery Merchants,
Melbourne & Sydney.
HAVE IN STOCK-
Blake’s Steam Pumps.
Fay’s Woodworking Machinery.
Mundy’s Hoisting Engines-
Empire Co.’s Laundry Machinery-
American “All Steel” Pulleys-
Harris ‘‘Champion” Lubricating Oils.
Mason Reducing Valves-
Ludlow Sluice Valves-
Korting’s Injectors and Ejectors-
Tanite Emery Wheels.
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY,
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of HELP
CURB, trill forward the same, free of
Charge, to anyone interested.
Address: A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
RARE
BOOKS
FRENCH,
ENGLISH,
GERMAN,
2 /-
Largest Catalogue, with
Specimen Photo. Apply
Box 116 Paris.
RAND DRILL CO.,
NEW YORK.
Manufacturers of
AIR COMPRESSORS
of New and Improved Design.
LITTLE GIANT & SLUGGER ROCK DRILLS
Stocks kept by
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.,
Sole Agents. 71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10kS. ■^CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terras.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotei
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
