

McE WAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
PIG STOUT.
-
~ ■ ■
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cocosl
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
R. Gr. WATKINS & GO.,
107 Kent SLreeE, Syaney,
—FOB— _ .
Mining and Contractor s’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDEIiS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
d
INSIDE BEARINGS.
g.No. to 6 for Fast Wheels.
Axle part round and
at ends, rivette.
fdg
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG, X
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried in vest
pocket and blown out to life-size (causes roars of
laughter), Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Oasket, Book of
Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin and Card
Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard Pish (gives
the definition of your character), The Mafeking Grub (or
nerve-strengthener), and, last of all, that side-splitting
Look and Laugh Glass, Instructions enclosed. _
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
Box 3, G.P.0., Haymarket.
H. L. HUTCHINSON,
XNEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-street, SYDNEY.
rSore Eyes! Blight I
USED 300 YEARS.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
Neuer fails. Restores Eyelashes.
HAD FROM ALU CHEMISTS.
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT.”
Ask your Chemist for this little book.
GIBSON. BATTLE & C°
'9
85 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY
Sole Agents for Samuel Osborn & Co., Sheffield, makers of Mushet’s Titanic Borer Steel for Miners’ Drills, Bessemer Steel, Cast Steel, Mushet’s
Self-Hardening Tool Steel, Mining, Well-Boring, Spring, and Tyre Steel, Steel Castings of all Descriptions, Steel Truck Wheels and Axles.
INDENTS EXECUTED,
SPECIFICATIONS SUPPLIED FOR ALL KINDS OF MACHINERY.
. Mi
CASTINGS, HAMMERS,
THORNES
Estbd. 1831.
WHISKY.
HELIDON SPA.
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd., Agents, Sydney.
df
■BSi
gdf
HOBART.
— zm — “
[jadley’s Orient jjotel.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.
CITY HOTEL
(First Grade).
J. A. TURNER - - Proprietor.
g
Dr. J. W. GIBBS’
. .Electric Massage Rollers .
For use on Face and Body.
For NERVOUS HEADACHES,
NEURALGIA and RHEUMATISM
—a specific. Removes Wrinkles.
Gold, 21/- Silver, 16/-
Post Free. Pamphlets Free.
AMERICAN ACENCY COMPANY,
Box 440, G.P.0.,
Melbourne.
S.A.
of the
World
PIONEER
LEATHER
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts. ,of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
o 2J S 34 4 5 6 8 10 12 inch.
-n -/9 -/104 II- 1/2 1/6 1/11 2 8 3/4 4/~
1/2 1/4 1/7 1/10 2/2 211 3/5 4/5 5/7 6/9
Agents in every State.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SOM, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
E diswan - Lamp.
df
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
m imil mi
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-st
W yNVARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
ci'.dtiiril D*p«t—Oantnd BoiWiags, Bdward-st., Brisbane
V.
FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM.
W.'V
m
VI II lull 1
“ . ■
gdf
“MENTHOLINE”
THE ONLY SURE CURE FOR (Registered)
ALL THROAT AND CHEST DISEASES (Coughs, Colds,
Influenza, Quinsy, Asthma and Catarrh).
Small Bottles, 1/-; Large Bottles, 2/6 each ; posted to any part of Australia.
Sample Bottles sent Free all over the Commonwealth on receipt of one penny stamp to
wV-EfiKERSLEY & SONS, 214 Queen Street, Melbourne.
PROOF
Qn f.y
USE
Head Office:
10 BLICH ST., SYDNEY
;-:r .
The Finest
in the
Highest Grade Aromatic
Obtainable in Plugs and Pocket Tins.
TOBACCO.
fl
M
A NICE PRESENT.
The New Combination PIN-
CUSHION, THIMBLE & REEL
HOLDER, nickel plated, plush
top. Clamps on to any table
by means of a spring. Price,
only 25.; post free.
Star Novelty Company,
229-231 Collins-st.,
Melbourne.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—•
MRS. TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaeonsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
T'HE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
i-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
WHEN buying- a KEROSENE GAS STOVE insist
*' on getting a noiseless
g
JUPITER
The Very latest
Invention.
Bums Noiselessly,
Without Smell
or Smoke,
Perfectly Safe.
Obtained First Prize
wherever exhibited.
Stocked by. all Leading Hardware Merchants and
Storekeepers.
Sole Agents for Australasia —
Nelson and Robertson,
17 LOFTUS ST., SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Vol 23. -No. 1166
[Saturday, June 21, 1902.
Kegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE LATEST BOOKS AT.
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Boothby, Childerbridge Mystery, 2s 6d & 3s Gd, postage 6cL
Hales, The Viking Strain, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Satchell, The Land of the Lost, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Findlater, Story of a Mother, 2s Gd & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Barr, Shacklett, 2s 6d & 3s Gd, p. Gd.
O’Rell (Max), Between Ourselves, 3s Gd, p. 6d.
Animal Life (Library of Useful Stories), Is, p. 3d.
•T-i /N a CTI rnejt/iu Of /« r\ «
Street, Boob of Stories, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Glanville, The Beautiful Rebel, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Vachell, Shadowy Third, 2s 6d & 3s»6d, p. 6d.
Sabatinis, The Lovers of Yvonne, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Jowett, Brooks by the Travellers’ \Vay, 3s 6d* p. 4d.
Pain (Barry), The One Before, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Spencer (Herbert), Facts and Comment,'6s, p. 6d.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDN EY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London
“Clk BrwK«r’s” Uerses.
A Complete Collection, with his Correspondence
and a Memoir of his Life
Bt Frank Renas.
Every Australian should have this Book.
PRICE ONE SHILLING.
Wholesale from EDWARDS, dunlop & CO., Ltd.,
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE.
Retail from all Booksellers, and Post-Free from
“ The Bulletin ” Office Is. Id.
The Bulletin publications.
Forwarded to any address in return for postal
notes, stamps, or P. 0.0. for priced stated.
Send id. stamp for The Bulletin Book Circulab,
JVo. V.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages; price, 4s. 6d. ; postage, 6d.
The Bulletin Reciter:
By Eighty Bulletin Bards. With illus-
trations by “Hop.” N. Lindsay, A. J.
Fischer,F. Leist, D. H. Souter, and H.
McCrae. In handsome cloth, decorated ;
price, ss. ; postage, 4d.
Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
Stories:
By Albert Dorrington (“ Alba Dorion ”).
A handsome volume of 350 pages, bound in
cloth, decorated ; prioe 4s. Cd. ; postage, 7d.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd”). New
Issue. With about eighty illustrations by
Mah'ony, Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher
and Fullwood ; 6s. ; postage, Bd. *** “The
jolliest book yet printed in Australia.”
Fair Girls and Gray Horses, with Other
Verses:
By Will 11. Ogilvie. New Issue. Blue
cloth, blue edges, with portrait; price, ss. ;
postage, sd. *** A charming presentation
volume.
The Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J. Brady. Buckram, gilt top; price,
ss. ; postage, 3d. *** Australia’s best book
of sea and sailor verse.
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, gilt
top ; price, ss. ; postage, 3d. *-* The best
book of Maoriland verse yet published.
The Last of Six:
Tales of the Austral Tropics. By Ernest
Faveno. Paper covers, 141 pp.; price, 6d, ;
postage, 2d.
A Rose of Regret:
Verses by James H ebb lethwaits ; being
No. II of The Bulletin Booklets.
Enveloped, Is. 6d. ; postage, Id.
The Circling Hearths:
By Rodertc Quinn. No. 11l of The
Bulletin Booklets. Enveloped, Is. 6d. ;
postage. Id.
Dreams in Flower:
By Louise Maok. No. IV of The Bulle-
tin Booklets. Enveloped, 2s. 6d. ;
postage, 2d.
The West Wind:
By Hubert Church ; being No. V of
The Bulletin Booklets ; price 2s. 6d. ;
postage, 2d.
Works by Francis Adams:
(Pullishers' Remainders, offered as Second-Hand.)
Poetical Works, complete edition, printed
in Brisbane by Muir & Morcom. Paper
covers; 4to. Only a few copies remain.
Price, ss. ; postage, 4d.
Australian Essays, printed in Melbourne
by Wm. Inglis & Co. Paper covers, Bvo.
Only a few copies remain. Price, 2s. 6d. ;
postage, 3d. .
Songs of the Army of the Night, printed
in Sydney. Boards, Bvo. Only a few copies
remain. Price, 2s. 6d.; postage, 3d.
At Dawn and Dusk:
V. J. Daley. In handsome cloth,
with portrait. Price 55.; postage, 4d.
Also on Sale :
Feaoe or War in South Africa:
By A. M. S. Methuen ; price 6d. ; postage,
2d. *** The best short account of the origin
and development of the war in Afrioa.
THE BULLETIN BOOKS.
Sole Distributing Agents :
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane
Special Wholesale Agents :
New South Wabw .. Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd.
Queensland ~ .. Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd
Victoria Gborge Robertson Proprietary.
Tasmania /. George Robertson Proprietary.
South Australia .. E. S. Wigg & Son.
Westralia .. .. E. S. Wigg & So*.
Auckland and district Wild man, Lyell, & Arhy.
Others to be appointed.
Sold by All Leading Booksbllbrs.
The Bulletin Newspaper Go., Ltd.,
214 Gborgb-st., Sydney, Australia.
the XiUMG-S, the THROAT, the
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
o
A. The Laryex, or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lung&
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Eesriste
. . Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous drug . . "
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, in Tins, Is6tl; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON Chemist, Ipswich, Quee
free on receipt of. stamps. Sidney Depot; 5 and 7 PLACE, and FELTON, ORIMW
' Melbourne, Agents’’.
THE RED PAGE.
Primitive Arts and Crafts.
AWAY up in the north of Queensland, be-
yond where the sugar-cane and the
Kanaka goes, Dr. Roth, the Northern
Protector of Aborigines, carries on his
investigations into the habits and customs of the
Australian natives—a work which will be more
welcomed and better thought of by posterity than
by us. What he is doing now he has begun to
snow us in the issue of bulletins fpom his depart-
ment, issued under instructions from Home Secre-
tary Foxton.
Dr. Roth found much to interest him in the
manufacture by the blacks of string and other
forms of strand, and their concomitants, basketry,
woven bag, and net-work. Away back “in the
dim red dawn of man ” some ingenious paleolithic
individual discovered a use for a little piece of
string, or its equivalent. He found perhaps that
a wedge of stone tied on to a 2ft. handle was far
more efficacious in argument than a sharpened
flint in the hand, and maybe his wife wished to
ensure the presence in the cave of a plump young
ichthyosaurus when the time came to cook dinner.
When string was discovered it became indispens-
able, and soon fancy-goods’ manufacturers of
those days began to make a profit on decorated
dilly bags and other feminine fripperies. Up
on the Bloomfield and Batavia rivers—anywhere
north of Cooktown, in fact—Australian
aborigines are still engaged in primitive
string-making, and some of their methods, as
described by Dr. Roth, are instructive. The
blacks have various sources of supply. They draw
on animal products in the shape of human,
’possum and kangaroo hair, and kangaroo-tail,
emu-leg and snake-neck tendons. In weaving hair
into twine the womeir-folk are particularly adept,
and, according to Dr. Roth, spin out strand after
strand of it with no other help than a hooked
stick and their own perseverance. But the chief
source of raw material is the vegetable world.
Fibre twine is prepared by chewing, soaking and
drying, and the required lengths are split off
with a mussel-shell or a finger-nail. These fibre-
shreds are manufactured into twine by first of all
rollingthenifirmandflatintoaspiralform, and then,
after doubling, this spiral is again rolled, under
considerable pressure, between the palm and the
thigh of the operator. All fibre twines are thus
made of two plies, and some of them are of great
strength. The twine is used for all sorts of pur-
poses, such as plait-work (which is the amqsemenj
or the employment of the boys and tlie girls),
chain-work (with which the men and women put
themselves into mourning by wearing it on their
shoulders and arms), fringing-out waist T belts, and
so on. Dr. Roth has, in his examination of the
various netting-knots, found close analogy between
these efforts of primitive man and the stitches of
modern lace-work. A dilly-bag made by the un-
prepossessing gin developes a striking likeness in
its stitch to a specimen of Point-de-Bruxelles lace
or to Point-de-tulle. The black changes the
fashions of his nets and bags, and makes them
with simple loops, loops and twists, hour glass or
double loop, chain twist, and other intricate
devices, according to his necessities or his artistic
taste.
Tire Koko-Yirnidir language is the subject of
the second of Dr. Roth’s bulletins. With the
assistance of two German Lutheran missionaries,
Messrs. Schwartz and Poland, of the" Lake Bed-
ford station, Dr. Roth has elaborated a language, '
which to most, of us is a series of grunts and gut-
terals, into a highly inflected and grammatical
affair. This Koko-Yimidir language is, curiously
enough, the very one of which Captain Cook made
a vocabulary in 1770, and that fact makes the
present-day study all the more attractive. To
find that the aborigine is not content with simple
sentences, present tenses, and nominative cases,
but instead indulges in all sorts and conditions
of compound words and phrases, in verbs that
possess all the peculiarities of imperfect, irre-
gular, active, passive, transitive, and in-
transitive forms; of nouns that have several
derivatives attached to them, that boast
of gender, number and case ; of pronouns
which are personal and relative, and have all
three cases ; of adjectives, adverbs, conjunctions,
and the rest of the parts of speech—all this is suffi-
ciently startling. When one remembers that
these men are, in point of physical and intellectual
development, but little removed from those who
gambolled with the various 'strange beasts of the
first eras, and that through all the ages their lan-
guage has been retained purely orally, there is
much to give us pause. And the ingeniousness of
it all! Set aside the mere grammar, the different
forms of sentences necessary to express different
notions, the multiple inflections each denoting a
different idea, all the innumerable turns and twists
given to what was perforce a limited vocabulary
in order to obtain as much variety as possible— set
these aside as food for the philologist merely, and
much remains for the popular fancy to pick at.
Dr. Roth tramples out the theories about kanga-
roos by the assertion that the “natives whom
Cook interrogated on the subject still allude to
that animal as ‘ gangaru ’ ” Compare some of
the. Yimidirian substantives used to denote attri-
butes with our own. We call a man close-fisted ;
they stigmatise him as mangal-muru (short-fisted);
a generous man is open-handed with us, with
them he is mangal-daimbur (loose-handed).
Mangal-gulrrigul (heavy) signifies one clumsy, and
a deft man is called mangal-dallel (light). Those
who have seen a pelican waddle and flop will
easily understand why the ungainly bird was
termed belu-warra (hip-crooked). Again, the
currish dingo is told that he is ngamu-ngartchar
(that he had Fright for his mother). But perhaps
the most interesting of all is the association of
ideas evident in the naming of introduced articles.
It must have been a very ingenious gentle-
man who first thought out the connection between
a child carried by the gin and a horse and so
named it ngakw-ganggal (a shoulder child) or
between a letter and the national game and called
writing kakau (cat’s cradle). Tea is bor (dried'
grass); sugar, mwrla (honey); and tobacco, ngalkal
(smoke).
Magdalen Mwlttu is one of the girls at the Cape
Bedford mission station who, without any assist-
or help, writes Lamb-like little essays on various
things in her native language just as the fancy
takes her. She is a correspondent of the Doctor’s,
and has written him several most interesting letters.
Indeed, one hopes that her passion for the new
kind of “ cat’s cradle ” may long continue, for she
is likely to contribute to Australia some invaluable
accounts of native manners and customs. Here is
an instructive bit of her copy on marriage and
burial customs (the translation is a free one, but
close enough for any ordinary comparison):—
(I) will tell you about men taking a wife. When men
want a wife (the parents) do not give her to them willingly
or with kindly feelings. Both mother and father strike
the young man’s head first; when he is covered with
blood they give her to him. Once given to him the wife
builds the hut and lights the fire. But the girl does not
readily go to meet her husband ; her mother and father
have to send her before she will go ; then she meets him.
Furthermore, during the daj'time she will not sit along-
side him in the shade. She is always with her mother ■
So much for the bride. When once the wife is engaged
to her husband for uood and all, the mother does
not see her son-in-Taw nor his mother’s mother
nor his father’s younger sister; they might die (if she
did). Should her husband die, she does a cry, and wears
white clay on her head and puts many strings round her
throat, and (these) she winds round her armpits. And
alongside the corpse there they sit, both wife and mother,
that is, the young man’s mother. (There) they light a
fire ; with the smoke they will hunt the flies away, they
might make the body foul (if they didn’t). On the death
of her husband the wife has only one night’s rest before
she offers her head to be struck with a wommera by all
the old men roundabout. As soon as much blood is seen
they are no longer angry with her.
What a treasure that girl will be when she gets
older—always supposing she remains at the mis-
sion—and is better able to co-ordinate her ideas
and give expression to her thoughts ! And we
may confidently look to Dr. Roth to pump her
until her stock of folk lore is exhausted, by which
we shall be much benefitted —even if we merely
get at first hand what we knew generally before at
second.
T.D.
Renter.
WHEN George Warrington wished to fire
young Pen dennis’ imagination he took
him to visit Printing House Square, to
see the home of the Times, with its
ambassadors pricing potatoes in Covent Garden
and whispering to statesmen in the courts of
kings. But since the “ Thunderer ” allowed its
ordinary journalistic caution to be warped by
party leanings (tlie Parnell business, the South
Africa business, etc.) it has lost much of its pictur-
esque reputation for infallibility and omniscience.
There is much more interest, nowadays, surround-
in x “ Reuter.”
To-day there isn’t a newspaper printed in the
English language that doesn’t contain some news
gathered by Reuter—the great news machine of
Old Jewry that daily gathers in facts from all the
world, and distributes them all over the world as
“Reuter’s cables.” And it all arose through
Reuter pere’s fondness for keeping pigeons. In
the early part of last century, a young man named
Reuter was a bank clerk and kept pigeons. This
was somewhere on the continent. He went in for
“homing.” One day the local greengrocer asked
Reuter, who was going on a trip, to let him know
on his return what was the price of potatoes in
the next town. Reuter sent the ruling rates for
potatoes per pigeon. From the price of potatoes
to prices of stocks and shares between the share-
brokers of two continental cities was one step
forward, and handing the messages to the local
newspaper was another. A little more evolution
and there arose the organisation of to-day, which
told the British people of the relief of Mafeking
48 hours before the British Government got the
news ; which proclaimed to the world the mutiny
of the West Indian troops in Ashaiitee, before it
was known in Lagos ; and which called forth the
censure of the- Times for giving heW§, from South
Africa which was unknown to Kitchener, but
afterwards proved to be correct, and thus earned
a long leader in apology from the London Granny.
* * * *
Although now a limited liability company, one
man still guides Reuter—Baron Herbert de
Reuter. He sits in a many-windowed, low-
ceilinged room in a tumbled-down rabbit-warren
sort of a place in Old Jewry, hugging tb himself
the pleasing reflection that nothing happens that
is worth happening that he doesn’t hear about
straightaway. To ensure all this, much “news”
has to be provided for months before it happens.
For instance, eight months before Kruger said he
would stagger humanity, and did, the Baron knew
that there was going to be a considerably large
war, and, like Labouchere, was laughed at when
he told a big politician privately that it would
cost £300,000,000. But the Baron knew, and he
selected Barraclough (his Brisbane manager) as a
strong man, and whisked him off to the Cape to
make the necessary preparations for running 50
correspondents, including Jfl special war-corres-
pondents in the field. Barraclough broke down the
other day, but has recovered now. Six months
before “the stagger T humanity ” announcement
the Baron applied to the War Office for maps, but
the Intelligence Department hadn’t any, with the
result that throughout the war the department
was much indebted to the Baron for the use of his
maps.
* * * *
The Baron works very hard. He has three
secretaries, and they all have to speak five
languages. It’s necessary, because so does the
Baron, and he writes in all of them. Baron Her-
bert, like all German University men, is a perfect
store-house of information, and I wish I could
write about a lot of things he knows more of
than any man living. If I could only write a
tenth of what he told me of the secret history
of South Africa it would elucidate much, but how
I would like to have beard all he didn’t tell me
about the Jamieson Raid, and which he will never
tell to anyone. The greatest pleasure I. have ever
enjoyed was when, on one or two precious occa-
sions, I dined with him at the office. The dinner
consisted —it never varies—of a pot of tea brought
in by one of his messenger-boys (there are 95
kept on the premises all dressed like express
messengers with “Reuter” on their caps) from
an adjoining cafe, slices of currant cake, and
innumerable Egyptian cigarettes. The Baron
“ dines ” thus at 7.30, and if you can tell him any-
thing about any country, he may give you a treat
by talking until 9.30 on men and politics of many
countries.
• * * *
The Australian papers have no direct influence
on Reuter’s work. Lachlan Mackinnon, when
he formed the present cable syndicate, tried to
ignore Reuter totally, but half the cables we get
are Reuter’s, obtained by the combination.
Reuter, however, is only paid for the right
to use his service, and not to make a
special service for Australian readers. The gene-
ral system now with big London papers is that
they have their own special correspondent* in
various quarters, and supplement their matter
with Reuter’s cable. Reuter matter is sent out
in flimsy to the subscribing newspapers, who pay
only for what they use. At present, the most
direct Australian connection with this great
news-gathering agency is that Reuter has the
right of access to all the Australian Press syndi-
cate messages on their receipt at Melbourne,
and supplies some of the country press with a
summary therefrom. But, if a new daily paper
were to be started, with an independent cable ser-
vice, Reuter would be probably one of the com-
petitors for the supply of the news.
PAUL PET.
OUR BURNT VERSES.
I wonder if the world, like me,
Has realised the aching void
That bards of old have eaused to be
Through verses they themselves destroyed !
Starting from this, the heart discerns
Vast works that might have been —but weren’t!
First : there would be in Robbie Burns
A lot of things that Robbie Burnt!
Then, if the fearsome truth were known,
I dare say Southey and Lord Byron
Have used a few things of their own—
Poetic fire, in fact! —for firin’!
If fires, like statesmen’s mouths, could gape
And show those castaways revealed, ,
We’d have one great, long “ fire-escape”
Would reach from Sapho down to—Neild !
THE BAROLD[?].
“The Viking Strain,” by A. G. Hales (our
Australian friend “ Smiler ” Hales), up to its
middle page, is well enough—a vivid story of
the horse-racing and prize-fighting which Smiler
Hales knows so well and describes so pic-
turesquely : then its star of sequence sets
and disappears in a ruddy welter of wild
incidents, like those of a Drury Lane melo-
drama or a Marie Corelli romance. The
hero is made the victim of an adventuress,
and marries her, kills a man for the sake of her
good name, goes through hair-raising adventures
with police and other foes on the European Con-
tinent, escapes to South Africa and becomes a
Boer hunter of lions, is joined there finally by
the one true English' lass who has always
loved him, and—the curtain. There is a littlfe of
everything in the book—even some spicy details
of matrimonial intimacies. Perhaps that will
make it more popular than if it had kept coherently
to its central idea, and been a sporting romance
of a type somewhat superior to Nat Gould’s: a
book often sells on its faults. At the least the
work has the mjerit of reflecting the splendid
energy of Mr. Hales ; and England is such a
very tired place nowadays that energy, even when
it runs a bit wild, commands attention.
&
How closely our Australians are watched ! To
hand this, week two letters, one from the far North
of Queensland, another from N.S.W., pointing
out that in a story in Pearson’s mag. Louise
Mack makes the rain patter on a cast-iron roof in
Australia. As an Australian she is expected to
know better. A third letter from a Sydney
suburb brings a complaint as to the lady’s
“ lamentable ignorance of hydraulics ” in a Lon-
don published story :
The point of the yarn hinges on the bursting of a water
pipe which floods the house. The occurrence is very
vaguely described, but the idea seems to be that rain
having caused the tanks on the roof to become full, the
whole weight of water had thereby been concentrated on
the small pipe loading to the bathroom and had burst it.
Now, the pressure required to burst a (sa.v) one inch iron
waterpipe, with material one-eighth of an inch thick- is
about 2Qoolbs. per square inch, and this would represent
a head of water of about 500 feet. She carefully picks
out the strongest point in the whole water system, and
says the water burst the pipe because it was the smallest,
whereas the smallest is the strongest in proportion to ite
size, etc., etc.
The noble bourgeois, the bourgeois nobility, the
educated t>f the favored middles class understand
Republicanism quite well—it is a lesson for which
not much previous knowledge is required, and
they would publicly acknowledge it were it not
that they would thus come into conflict with
money. Every dollar is a sturdy opponent of
Republicanism, and every ducat an Achilles. A
republican has good reason to hate money. If he
catch this enemy, alas ! the victory is worse than
a defeat. The republican who has got money has
ceased to be a republican. He is then like that
Austrian soldier who called out, ‘ ‘ Corporal, I
have taken a prisoner; ” but when the Corporal
told him to bring the man along, the answer was,
“I can’t, for he won’tlet me go.” I observed to-day
how the sympathy which Republicanism arouses
is constantly kept down through money interests.
Conversing with a very distinguished banker, he
said to me, excitedly, “ Who disputes the advan-
tages of the republican constitution ? I myself
am often quite a republican. But observe : I put
my hand into the right trouser pocket, where my
money is, and the contact with the cold metal
makes me tremble. I am afraid for my podket,
and I feel myself monarchically inclined.” — Heine.
Heine on a "simultaneous mission” of hia time:
But will this last long ? Will not this religiosity which
has gained the rogue of fashion be subject to the swift
change of fashion ? Is this bloom a sign of health ?
** The good God receives many visits to-day,” I remarked
to a friend as I watched the crowds making their way to
the churches. ‘‘Yes, farewell visits” (P.P.O. visit*X
replied the cynic.


ITDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP
THE ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUSDIP.
M DOUGALL BROS., O Spring Street, Sydney.
AGENTS: „ u
K.Z. L. & M.A. Co., Ltd., Australia and New Zealand : Strachan, Cheedle &Co., Adelaide; J. B. Curran, Hoba t.
SKINS
Kangaroo,
Wallaby,
Rabbit,
Opossum.
Send to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY
and so obtain utmost possible prices.
KTOTICB.
GOLDSBROUCH, MORT & COMPANY Ltd.
SYDKTBY
Compare our Reduced Produce Charges
with those of
other Brokers*
Old Charges.
4- per cent.
4 per cent.
1\ per cent.
4 per cent.
5 per cent.
5 per cent.
5 per cent.
HIDES
SHEEPSKINS
TALLOW (£lOO and over)
TALLOW (under £100)
HAIR, HORNS, BONES, &C.
FURRED SKINS
BARK
Our Reduced Charges.
3 per cent.
3 per cent.
2 per cent.
3 per cent.
4 per cent.
3£ per cent.
4 per cent.
(Minimum 5s per ton)
(Minimum 4s per ton)
Whilp fhns selline- Produce at these unprecedently Low Rates, we desire to emphasise the fact that we are
fully maintaining the hig 1 efficiency of our Produce Department, and Consignors can therefore, when entrust-
in'- us, rely on securing results that will favorably compare with those obtained by sending
elsewhere. Special Terms offered to Agents influencing business,
absolutely safeguarded by our Trust Account system.
Correspondence invited. All Proceeds
GEORGE MAIDEN, Manager.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge : 3 Per Cent, to tlxe Growers.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Buyers.
DEAF
NESS CURED
Deafness is incurable till the
cause is removed. Therefore Ear
Drums and other artificial aids
never cure. Nobody need be
■ deaf where the ELECTRICON is obtainable. Write to-day
I mention vur this paper, and we will send valuable informa-
I tion FREE. Address —
IL. R Vernon Coy., 60-64 Hunter-st., Sydney
A
LCOHOLIC EXCESS.
DRINK AND DRUG HABITS CURED at
Patient’s own home. Can be given secretly.
Testimonials from prominent people. Write for pamphlet
or call on
THE EUCRASY CO.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
HAVE THE
BEST.
fd
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE
Is built by a light, handy maohine, easily operate I, which will weave
THREE CHAINS OF FENCE AN HOUR.
The Lateral Wires are two-ply VaMe of
securely interwoven at any
for catalogues and particulars
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIK»E PENCE CO.,
128 Franklin St., Melbourne ; 143 Sussex St., Sydney.
WONDERFUL VALUE IN CIGARS.
SINGLE BOX AT WHOLESALE PRICE.
GUARANTEE: EVERY CIGAR SOUND AND IN PERFECT CONDITION.
Goods Exchanged or Money Returned.
CIGARS
ROMA QUEENS ..
LA PAROL A, Reliable Smoke ..
HIGH LIFE MENDOZA 3
NIMROD REIN A VICTORIA ..
LA SPECIAL, from Choicest Leaf
SANTIAGO LA FLOR, Fine Quality
“LEOLA,” Borneo, Mild Smoking
“ EL RIVAL,” Borneo, Full Flavor
HEAVY WEIGHTS (P. De Mendoza)
“PERLA” BOUQUET ..
“ EL MUNDO ” (Rothschilds)
“MENDOZA” (Rothschilds)
“ PERLA ” (Rothschilds)
“MINERVA” No. 1 MANILA ..
“WINDSOR LADY” (Manila Regalia)
“PERLA MINERVA,” MANILA, Fine Quality
FLOR DE NAVES (Havana Reina) ..
HENRY CLAY (Havana Couchas, Extra)
DELIVERED FREE OF DUTY AND CHARGES*
Usual Retail
Price.
d.
6
6
0
0
0
0
0
0
SEND FOR
OUR
LIST
OF
C. 8.8?
BRIAR
PIPES
I
SNOIAIIAIIS MOIIAI
TOBACCO MERCHANT and IMPORTER,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
obtain Wholesale List on application.
Tobacconists and Storekeepers may
WOOL
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON and CO., Ltd.,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN,
s YDKTB Y.
Some Cures Effected by tor’s Safe Care.
The curative properties of Warner’s Safe Cure are so well known that it is only necessary for
anyoneto'niajielnquiry for them to heap from the lips of those whom they know many instances of
the WaSSfeCum »t?«»*« » specificaction upon the liver and. kidneys
warner soaie'vuio . . When the kidneys and liver are properly performing their
Ipmintfd task of extracting the urinary and biliary poisons all diseases arising from the presence of
these poisons in the aystem are overcome, and the cure effected is radical because it is natural.
id diseases caused by the presence of urinary and biliary poisons in the system are:
Rheumatism
Gout
Neural gia
Lumbago
Backache
Sciatica
Blood Disorders
Anaemia
Indigestion
Dyspepsia
Biliousness
Sick Headache
General Debility
Gravel and Stone
Bladder Diseases
Bright’s Disease
For the reason stated, Warner’s Safe Cure has complete mastery over all these diseases,
following typical letters are worth reading.
The
Kidney Disease Cured.
Post Office Hotel, Maryborough^Q.,^
Dear Sirs,—l have much pleasure indeed in forwarding
the following testimonial as to the naarvellous curative
properties of Warner’s Safe Cure, and you are at liberty
to use it in any way you think fit. .
I may state briefly that I was a sufferer from chronio
Kidney Disease, which made my life perfectly unbear-
able. It is needless to say that I tried the best available
doctors both in England and Australia, with but one
result-absolute failure. I also tried different proprietary
medicines, but with no beneficial results. During this
time you can well understand the pain and misery I
endured—to say nothing of the expense. I was staying
with a professional friend, and related my trouble to him.
He suggested Warner’s Safe Cure. I ridiculed the idea,
telling him I was heartily sick of both doctors and medi-
cine The symptoms gradually became worse, the pain
more intense, and, in a fit of desperation, I despatched
mv assistant for a bottle of your invaluable remedy,
olrhnncrh expecting no better results from it than from
other medic,hiesThad used. Thank God for that bottle
It was but the forerunner of my complete cure. I used
half a dozen bottles, and my cure was perfect as
well as marvellous. I have recommended the medicine to
a number of friends, and they are not slow to endorse
what I have written. Hoping, sirs, that your remedy
will be extensively used in similar cases to my own, and
wishing you every success and prosperity, I remain,
wismug i Yours sincerely>
L. O. Snowdon,
Surgeon Dentist.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Limited.
Indigestion Cured.
i 4 McCormick Street, Port Melbourne, Vic.,
* August 24, 1900.
q, - Having been a sufferer for a long time from
rnrtie-e’stion and Heartburn, I was advised to give War-
lor’ifsafe Cure a trial. I did so, and it has completely
cured me. I want to recommend it to fellow sufferers,
knowing that it would do them a vast amount of good.
You can make any use of this letter you may wish to, as
I am grateful for the cure.
I remain,
Patrick McGrath.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & 00., Limited.
Barcaldine, Queensland,
November 5,1900.
Dear Sirs,—l suffered severely from Indigestion, which
caused great pain in my chest and between the shoulders.
After passing several sleepless nights I determined to try
Warner’s Safe Cure, and am now pleased to say that the
pains have entirely left me.
Yours faithfully,
Reginald Parnell.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & 00., Limited.
Liver Disease Cured.
Manchester Street, Christchurch, N.Z.,
March 28, 1900.
Dear Sirs, —For many months I suffered from Liver
Complaint, which caused me the greatest agony. I tried
various remedies, but they did me no good. Finally, I
was persuaded to give your valuable Warner’s Safe Cure
a trial, and was surprised at the relief from pain and the
benefit I received.
Yours faithfully,
A. J. Standby,
Wool Classer,
To the Proprietors of Warner’s Safe Cure, Melbourne.
Bourke Street, Surry Hills, Sydney,
September 18,1899.
Dear Sirs,—
For years I was a martyr to Liver and Kidney Com-
plaint until I tried Warner’s Safe Cure, when I obtained
a most beneficial result. In fact, after taking a few
bottles I seemed a new woman.
(Mrs.) J. Hill.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Limited, Melbourne.
Biliousness Cured.
. 73 Queen Street, Auckland, N.Z.
April 20,1901.
Gentlemen,— ~ . .
I can certify with pleasure as to the merits of Warners
Safe Cure. I suffered a great deal from Biliousness and
pains in the back until, upon strong recommendation, I
used this medicine. The result was that after taking four
bottles of Warner’s Safe Cure and two vials of Safe Pills, I
became as well as ever I was in my life, and I have had no
return of the complaint since.
Yours truly,
W. Socthorn.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Limited.
Sciatica Cured.
Wood’s Siding, Railway Station,
South Brunswick, Vic.,
January 18, 1900.
Dear Sirs,—lt is now nearly nine years since I was sud-
denly attacked with Sciatica in the back and hips. I
Buffered excruciating pain, and was unable to dress my-
self or move about the house. I lost flesh until 1 was like
a skeleton. I was under the charge of a doctor for a long
while, but he could give me no relief. At last be gave
me up, saying mine was a hopeless case. I was in despair
when a friend advised me to take Warner’s Safe Cure and
Warner’s Safe Rheumatic Cure, alternately, as well as
Warner’s Safe Pills. I was sceptical, but being strongly
urged I gave the medicines a trial. At first 1 got no
relief, but my wife persuaded me to persevere. After the
second bottle, to my great joy, the pains disappeared like
magic. I improved rapidly. My strength and appetite
increased, and I was able to sleep soundly, which I had
not done for months. I was quite a new man. I took in
all six bottles of the medicines and two bottles of pills,
and was completely cured.
Yours truly,
F. Millkbl
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Limited, Melbourne.
Rhematism Cured.
Addington, Christchurch, N.Z.
Dear Sirs, —For many years I was suffering with Rheu-
matic pains all over my body, hands, and feet, and often-
times I was unable to walk across the room without the
aid of table or chair to lean on. My hands and arms were
very much swollen, as if with dropsy. I consulted a
physician, who said I would have to give up work and
take a long rest. He prescribed for me, and gave me
medicines, which gave me a little ease, but failed to cure
me. I was getting as bad as ever, when I was advised to
try Warner’s Safe Cure. lat once purchased a bottle of
the medicine and commenced its use. In a very short
time I began to improve, getting better and stronger,
and the pains less severe. I continued its use a while
longer, when the pains all left me, and all symptoms of
dropsy disappeared. For the last twelve months I have
been in splendid health. lam fully convinced that my
cure is permanent.
Ann Nbwcombe,
Caretaker Addington State School.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Limited, Melbourne, Vic.
Neuralgia Cured.
81 Brougham Street, Kew, Vic.,
December 27, 1900.
Dear Sirs, —I can safely recommend Warner’s Safe Cure
to anyone suffering from Neuralgic pains, as I have used
this medicine myself for Neuralgia. I took two bottles
with immediate good results.
Yours faithfully,
E. H. Thompmk.
Messrs. H. H. Warner A Co., Limited.
Qravel Cured.
Lilydale, Victoria,
February 23,1900.
Dear Sirs.—lt has long been my intention to send you
a few lines in. reference to my cure by the use of Warner’s
Safe Cure. I now do so, and trust that by this means
other sufferers will obtain relief. _ . .
Some eight years ago I was seized with severe pain in
my left side, which continued to get worse until I could
bear it no longer, and consulted a doctor. He said I was
suffering from Gravel, and prescribed for me. The
medicine he gave me did not ease the pain in the least.
Someone then advised me to try Warner’s Safe Cure, and
I did so. The first few doses gave me ease. I continued
to take the medicine, and have since had no return of the
complaint. . _ _
W. V. Daniels,
Butcher.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Go., Limited.
Stone in Bladder Cured.
8 Victoria Street, Paddington, N.S.W.,
July 28, 1900.
Some five years ago I was under medical treatment for
severe pains in the back ; in fact, I was completely done
up. The doctor who attended me wanted me to undergo
an operation by crushing a stone in my bladder, but I
did not like the idea, although the pain I was suffering
was severe. , . , . . ._
A friend who came to see me advised me to try Warner s
Safe Cure. I did, and after taking some three or four
bottles I began to feel better. I continued the course for
about five months, and, thanks to this medicine, I became
free from any trouble whatever.
T. J. Oastnbr.
To the Proprietors Warner’s Safe Cure.
Kidney and Bladder Disease Cured.
William Street, Darlinghurst, Sydney,
May 20, 1899.
Sirs,—This is to certify that I have suffered from a very
bad condition of my kidneys and bladder. I tried all
sorts of medicines, but got no relief until a friend told me
to take Warner’s Safe Cure. I did so, and after taking
five or six bottles was completely cured. I am now well
and strong, and able to go about my household duties.
1 am, yours truly,
Mrs. Rtan.
To Messrs. H. H. Warner & Go., Limited, Melbourne.
Hornsby Street, Maldon, Vic.,
December 9,1899.
It gives me very great pleasure to be able to testify as
to the excellence of Warner’s Safe Cure. I have found
nothing equal to it for Kidney and Bladder Complaint,
from which I suffered. I have never been better in my
life than I am now.
George Aust,
Storekeeper (late of Scarsdale).
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Go., Limited.
Headache and Loin Pains Cured
Doncaster Hotel, Harden, N.S.W.
June 15,1901.
Dear Sirs, —
For about three years I was a constant sufferer from
bad headaches and severe pains across the loins.
On the advice of a fellow-traveller I gave Warner’s Safe
Cure a trial, with the result that after taking three
bottles I was completely restored to health.
Yours truly,
M. J. Stl. Mallamet.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Go., Limited.


GENERAL
ELECTRIC
COHPAN7.
Capital - - - £5,250,000.
Manufactures the Highest Grade of
Electrical Machinery.
THEIR NAME IS A GUARANTEE.
Dynamos, Engines and Motors up to 250 H.P. in Stock.
Lighting and Power Plants for Immediate Delivery.
Arc and Incandescent Lamps and Supplies of all kinds.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC GO.,
Electrical Engineers and Contractors,
4 SOLE REPRESENTATIVES.
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, Melbourne and Sydney.
w
1%
o . \
VV'W
&
i"n
V
'ir'n\
%
•.*•?«» aSffi
!?/n
3^
,/ / 111
’WIN
iS
VW\
O
A,V X N'M.., lu \\yjA
►V)
The Largest Warehouse
Cameras from - - - 5/6 to £5O.
375 George-st., Sydney.
260 Collins St., 65 Rundle St.,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE,
90 Queen St,
BRISBANE
ENO’S
HEALTH GIVING
COOLING,
FRUIT
REFRESHING,
AND INVIGORATING.
gfd
THERE IS NO DOUBT THAT where it has been
taken in the earliest stages of a disease, it has, in
innumerable instances, PREVENTED what would other-
wise have been a SERIOUS ILLNESS.
CAUTION. —See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.' Without it you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, ENG.,
toy J. C. ENO’S Patent.
i A Doctor’s Present.
A Thrilling Story of Suffering.
I
A Silver Lining* to the Darkest Cloud.
The Case of Mrs. A. JOSEPHS.
(BY A SYDNEY REPORTER.)
There is no suburb that has changed its
status as completely during the past twenty
years as that of Woolloomooloo. Facing
the bay bearing that name, with its
picturesque walks along the foreshores, and
with Hyde Park, the Botanical Gardens,
and the extensive Domain recreation
grounds in close proximity, Woolloomooloo
is one of the most attractive localities
around Sydney, and in it, at No. 18 Wood’s
Lane, lives Mrs. Annie Josephs, whose in-
terview with our reporter is reproduced
below.
“ I have lived at this address,” said Mrs.
Josephs, “for the past eight years, and
when I had been here about half that time
I thought I was going to die. It was after
a confinement that I suffered from blood
poisoning, besides which I lost a great
quantity of blood, and became so weak
that I could not put a foot to the ground
for nearly twelve months. For almost a
year I was in bed, being nothing but a
helpless and hopeless invalid, for I must
tell you that all the treatment I had
received did not lead me to believe
that I would ever get better. There
seemed nothing for it but to lie and
wait patiently for death to relieve me of
my sufferings, as I kept on wasting and
wasting away, and I was almost paralysed
with agony.”
“ Where were the pains principally
located ? ” enquired the pressman.
“ They were in every part of my body,
and my head swelled till it was about twice
its natural size, besides aching so intensely
that I scarcely knew what was going on
around me. Sometimes I became quite
stupefied with pain, and as I never could
sleep at night it is not to be wondered at
that I got so worn out that I used to lie
like one in a trance. All my limbs were
swollen and terrible pains afflicted them as
well, and when the severity of my aches
became so intolerable that a change in my
position was necessary, I had to have a
hoop bound round with wadding put under
my legs, because I was too weak to keep
them bent for a second without having
something underneath to support them.
There was no doubt that the longer I lived
the worse I got, for my nervous system was
frightfully strained, as I could not keep my-
self from shaking, and my mind was always
in a state of fear and anxiety. By some
means that 1 cannot explain, because I was
not enlightened on the subject myself, my
vision became very dim, and I nearly lost
the sight of my right eye. As an operation
was indispensable, I went under it, and
although my sight was saved, yet the strain
on my feeble constitution was almost too
great for me to bear. I got more nervous
than ever, and could not be left alone in the
house. The shaking of a window or the
creaking of a door sent a thrill of terror
right through me, and the next sensation
that I usually experienced was giddiness,
as though things were moving about in the
room. And you would hardly credit how I
felt if I ate any food, although I should say
‘ drank ’ instead of ‘ ate,’ because I was
only allowed the lightest of diet, and it
was invariably liquid. All the same, my
stomach could not digest it, and the way I
used to swell out with wind was something
awful, my chest also being troublesome
with a feeling as if a weight was inside me.
My skin was as yellow as a guinea, owing
to my liver being diseased, the doctors said,
and my face was so thin and disfigured that
many of my friends did not know me.
Having previously been very stout, they
could not realise it was me when they saw
nothing but a shadow before them, and the
ominous shakes of their heads made me feel
very downhearted. It was evident they
thought I was dying, and some of them
have since told me they felt sure I could not
live.”
“ You mentioned something about doctors
just now. What did they say about your
prospects ? ”
“ For a long time they tried to cheer me
by uttering kind and encouraging words,
but they did not do me any practical good
with their medicines, so then I submitted
myself for treatment at hospitals.
The physic pn scribed at those institutions
took no effect, > o I sank down to the lowest
depths of despair, because I thought my
fate was sealed. Later on I thought I
would make a final effort, and I sent for one
of the doctors who had been attending me
before, but he said that he could not do
any more for me than what he had
previously done, excepting to advise me to
take a course of Clements Tonic. He said
it was an excellent medicine, and soon after-
wards he good-naturedly made me a present
of two bottles.”
“ How did you feel then, Mrs. Josephs ?”
“I felt as if my whole life depended
upon Clements Tonic, and in doing so I am
sure I did not exaggerate the seriousness
of the situation, as every other treatment
had failed. When those two bottles of
Clements Tonic were finished there was
more life in me than there had been for
twelve months. I could then take a little
food and enjoy it. Before taking Clements
Tonic everything I tasted was as if I had
put a penny in my mouth, which left a
coppery flavor behind ; but that unpleasant-
ness was soon rein died, and, besides, the
coating over my tongue was cleared away.
Constipation had troubled me, but Clements
Tonic soon remedied that, and all the time
I was getting more light-hearted than ever,
because my pains were decreasing. These
imt rovements gave me a renewal >.f hope,
and, as was prudent, I clung tenaciously to
Clements Tonic. The next thing to cheer
my drooping spirits was to observe the
swellings in my head and limbs were being
reduced, and the pains were much less
severe than they had been. It was a very
unusual thing for me to wake up in the
night, but if I did I soon went to sleep
again, and rested peacefully till morning;
and another great benefit that I derived
from the use of Clements Tonic was that
my nerves were toned to their normal con-
dition. Those of my friends who had daily
expected to hear of my cU'vlt could haidly
realise the fact that I was being carried
further away from the grave every day by
Clements Tonic, and although four years
have passed since then, yet we often have a
chat about the narrow escape i had, and
Clements Tonic is the household remedy of
us all. •! was trying to tell you how 1
progressed. Well, in a week or two more I
was able to eat solid food without the least
compunction, as my digestive organs were
as healthy as they could be, for there was
no flatulence or chest pains to inconvenience
me, and there was not an ache in any part
of my system. When my strength and
health were completely restored I devoutly
thanked God for my happy release, and as
there is no doubt that Clements Tonic saved
my life you are at liberty to publish my
story in any way that the public may hear
of it.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Annib Josephs, of 18 Wood’s-lane, Woolloo-
mooloo, in the State of New South Wales, Com-
monwealth of Australia, do solemnly and sin-
cerely declare that 1 have carefully read
the annexed document, consisting of four folios,
and consecutively numbered from one to four,
and that it contains and is a true and faithful
account of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic :
and also cont> ins my full permission to publish in
any way my statements—which I give voluntarily,
without receiving any payment; and 1 uia k e
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the
Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at East Sydney, this
nineteenth day of February, one thousand nine
hundred and two, before me,
EDWARD W. BUTLER, J.P.
2h.p. to lOOh.p.
KING. MARINE OIL ENGINES,
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
g
dfg
Noiseless Uuderwater . .
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Siriiple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
WITH THE KING ENGINE— ONE LEVER CONTROLS THE WHOLE.
J. F. M; c ID E 3Ft 3VI OTX &
a CD 3VE F -A. nxr y,
Telephone 2671.
37 MARKET STREET, SYDKTEY.
“ Bells at Sunset.”
This charming composition for the Piano by
W S. ROCKSTRO, is now in stock, and can >e
supplied by all Music Dealers.
W. PAXTON & CO., Publishers,
London, Melbourne.
The DAISY SERIES of Pianoforte Albums. The most
popular books for young players ever published.
Ask your music-seller for
FREDERIC H. COWEN’S
Beautiful Song,
The Mission of a Rose
Sung with the greatest success by
Miss AMY CASTLES.
The Illustrated London News says: “Itis a gem.”


Winter Colds
Doctor advised Scott’s Emulsion
rather than any other form of the
oil
We are living now in the trying days of
the year when a winter oold is almost every-
body’s portion. We do not treat winter
colds with sufficient care. If we thought
of them seriously we would get the remedy
for them, as this doctor advised.
“ 67, Cleveland St., Upperthorpe,
“ Sheffield, England,
“ February 15th, 1901.
“ Dear Sirs, —For some years past I have
been very susceptible to colds and bronchitis,
and this winter my doctor advised me to
take cod-liver oil, and suggested Scott’s
Emulsion in preference to any other form
of the oil. I took your preparation and
found great relief from its use in a very
short time. My cough quickly responded
to the treatment, my chest was greatly
strengthened and my general health im-
proved considerably. I continued the treat-
ment for a time and am gratified to say as a
result my health is now all that I could
111 11
HERBERT TURNER.
(From a photograph.)
wish, for and I have not had a cold since
taking Scott’s Emulsion. I think this is
wonderful, as I am a traveller and con-
sequently am exposed to all conditions of
weather. I consider Scott’s Emulsion a
very valuable and invigorating remedy and
worth its weight in gold to anyone suffering
from affections of the chest.—Yours truly,
“ (Signed) Herbert Turner.”
Mr. Turner emphasises two points for
those who fear wintry weather—two sign-
hoards that point the direct road to a cure
of winter colds. First, Mr. Turner says:
“ I have not had a cold since taking Scott’s
Emulsion the medicine not only cured
his cold but so strengthened his chest and
improved his general health as to prevent
any return of the trouble. This is what
Scott’s Emulsion always does —cures the
weakness and then keeps the health up to
normal standard.
The second point he quotes from his
doctor: “ Take cod-liver oil, Scott’s Emulsion
in preference to any other form of the oil.”
Mr. Turner’s doctor is one of hundreds of
physicians who have said the same thing.
For they know the purity of the oil we use
and how scientifically it is blended with the
reinforcing elements of hypophosphiies of
lime and soda 1 These last two are bone
and tissue builders, the oil purifies the blood
and gives it renewed vitality. That is why
Scott’s Emulsion is everywhere preferred
by physicians to “ any other form of the oil.”
Winter colds yield promptly to Scott’s
Emulsion. With it in the home no one
need fear the worst of winter weather; it
reinforces the human system so surely that
all colds, coughs, chest and throat ailments
quickly disappear. Scott’s Emulsion never
disappoints. In this is the difference
between Scott’s Emulsion and imitations
and substitutes.
On the wrapper of each bottle of Soott’s
Emulsion is a picture of a man with a big
codfish. See that the picture is there when
you buy.
You can obtain a sample of Scott’s Emulsion
by sending fourpence to Scott & Bowne, Ltd.,
483 Kent-street, Sydney, and mentioning this
paper. All chemists sell Scott’s Emulsion.
BUSHMAN WATCH
df
OUR FAITHFUL
TIMEKEEPER
GunMetal'Case
Charles Read
A2O GEORGE ST SYDNEY
c°
Ev]
gdf
g
"I'll Try It,"
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
gapillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand t
Price, 10s, 6d.
SOWS AOBNTB,
The Result,
CRAIG &, AIT KEIM, N.S.W. Barber's Supply
House, 680-682 GEORQB STREET, SYDNEY,
The Bulletin Story Book (price 4s. 6d.
post-free from The Bulletin office) has been
everywhere hailed as by far the best book of
Australian stories and sketches yet published.
All the boat-known Australian writers, for the
last ten years, are represented} and, both for
interest and literary value, the seleotion is un-
surpassed in this oountry,*
Australian Mutual Provident Society
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
Established 1849.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or “"KJES?
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zeala ,
At Lowest Current Rates of interest.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per cent,
of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
RICHARD TEECB, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
WOUESV,
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 109.
H. Sillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
SST Send for a
Catalogue.
dfg
Bent-Shaft Sultales
£lO 15«.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HIMiIER, 130 Sussex-street.
w : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers ol Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
bv return post. Carriages, &c.. Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for Catalogue. Agents wanted.
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
CIGARETTES
TOBACCO &
ass
an«-
WHOLESALE
Distributing: Agents
New South Wales —
M. RUTTY & CO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Western Australia —
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland—
ThoB. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Phllp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand —
D. Benjamin & Co.
Dunedin, Wellington
and Christchuron.
df
gdf
g
REPEATING RIFLES
repeat. They don’t jam, catch, or fail to extract.
In a word, they are the only reliable repeaters.
Winchester rifles are made in all desirable
calibers, weights and styles; and are plain, par-
tially or elaborately ornamented, suiting every
purpose, every pocket-book and every taste.
WINCHESTER AMMUNITION
made for all kinds of shooting in all kinds of guns.
Winchester guns and Winchester ammunition are $
FOR SALE BY ALL IRONMONGERS.
MARTELLS
“A genuine
old Brandy
made from
Wine.”
Medical Press.
THREE STAR
"Particularly suitable
for Medicinal
Purposes.”
Lancet
fdg
Just
Published.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER:
Harry Morant,
His ’Venturis
and Verses.
Price 1/1
Post
Free.
Y By FRANK RENAR. \f
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery IVlanuf. Company
When In town, pay ns a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY; If so, send for our Price List You
will save 20 per oent. by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, i. 6; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7\
8-Spring Sulkies, 4.7 15s. Our Speoial Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in - Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s, Ladies' Phaetons (single and double). Dog Oarts,
and every description of vehicles in Stools and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prloes. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE. ”=Do not be
misled by any firms who say they wiU deliver ter lea*
than we can. They eannet do so, and you pay 15 pa*
oent mere fer your requirements.
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfera, Slfow*if
OUR SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
T* i
Oollrered at any Wharf or
X.S.W, Railways, Station
£lO 10 /-
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Autumn Flashes.
Fair afternoon, tho’ short her stay,
A-flame, a-throb, a-flower,
Crowds Spring’s whole glory of a day
In this chance Autumn hour.
Peaks, through the azured nearer view,
To half-greens ghostly wane,
As if they’d burst their vials of blue
And spilled them o’er the plain.
In spite of sun, whose stagey glare
Would eyes’ applause usurp,
I tender furtive tribute where
His chorus cloud-birds chirp:
(As while some witch-soprano sings
The veil from Isis’ face,
We, trifling, notice in the wings
A flirting girl’s grimace.)
While fickle breezes browse or skip
Their shepherd, she-oaks croon—
E’en Sorrow seeks Joy’s beaker lip
This lovely afternoon.
Though dying, glows the berried hedge,
The wounded ground’s a-green,
And where was bush-fires’ sacrilege,
Faith’s pious shoots are seen.
No blot, save where, ’neath sky-wall’s base,
Pride’s hoarded acres spread
By landless Plebs’ insensate grace—
Till Gracchuses are bred:
Or where with glowing callousness
Young men and maids career
In pride of limb and steed and dress—
To kill a quivering deer.
So dreaming, rushing hoofs I hear
And —Autumn’s grandeurs fade
To heotios of a dying year
In the glory of a maid.
The passing glory of a maid,
A-bud, a-flash with love 1
How mean the browsing breeze, burnt glade,
Peak, verdure, clouds above !
The blots, too, seem, I fear, less black
As dims the April’s flame,
For from the cruel hunting paok
And squatter’s home she came.
MELB.
ALOHERINGA.
The Bushmen.
God, the day He fashioned them,
Toiled to make them true,
Hand and head and heart (d them,
Blood and bone and thmv ;
Set them in the foremost rank
Giants’ work to do.
God, the day He fashioned them,
Bred them to their siren,
Supple as their bullock--whipe,
Tough as twisted wires ;
Filled the strudy brains of them
With His battle-fires.
Then, when He had fashioned them,
Tried them for His pride ;
Sent His droughts and ohastened them,
Sent His flames to ohide 5
Sent His floods to harry them
Wasting far and wide.
But the strength He set in them
Braoed His fighting brood ;
Bravely, face to face with Him,
Shoulder-firm they stood—
Then the God who fashioned them
Knew His work was good l
So, when He has gathered them,
God will not forget;
High at the right hand of Him
He shall have them set;
Paying thus for pride of them
Seven-fold his debt!
WILL H. OGILVIE.
Winter.
Her breath is in the breeze at dawn,
These Autumn days fast vanishing;
And anxious men, who’ve braved and born,
Are wond’ring “ What will this one bring ? ”
Set faces just a shade relax
When up the West her gloom is cast;
And hopeful men who swing the axe
Say, “ ’Twill be better than the last.”
Teams on the hillsides bare appear
When mists are lifting, and the crows
Shout in the furrows at the rear:
The settlers’ “ hope God only knows.
The seed-machines hum round the plains
(Like hornets in the face of Fate) —
Though Heaven is sparing with the rains,
And feckless men won’t irrigate.
The skipping lambs at frosty dawn,
The flitting songsters in the pine,
Sweet flush of day, when night’s withdrawn,
And brilliant tiers of leaves a-shine—
These move the sluggard heart to fire
These Autumn days, fast vanishing:
But flood and deluge men desire
Who wonder “ What this one will bring.”
v.
WILL JARRATT.


THE LONDON BANK OF AUSTRALIA
LIMITED.
Subscribed Capital £1,645,020
Paid-up 915,915
Uncalled, including Reserve Liability... 729,105
THE LONDON BANK OF AUSTRALIA, Limited.
BALANCE BHBET) 31st December, 1901.
LIABILITIES.
Capital — & s. u. £ s. d.
49,103 Ordinary Shares of
£3O each 1,473,000 0 0
Less :—
Uncalled and
P o g p r v A
Liability .. 736,645 0 0
Calls in
arrear .. 760 0 0
737,296 0 0
735,795 0 0
Add :
Amount prepaid by Trus-
tees in respect of Un- \
called Capital and Re-
serve Liability .. .. 8,190 0 0
743,085 0 0
17,193 5}- % Cumulative Preference Shares
of £lO each fully paid (on which the
Dividend has been paid to 31st Decem-
ber, 1898) 171,930 0 0
915,915 0 0
Notes in Circulation.. 181,165 10 0
Transferable Deposits 1,691,091 18 9
Other Deposits and Current Accounts .. 2,649,071 10 0
Bills payable and other Liabilities (in-
cluding Reserves for Doubtful Debts) 651,276 2 4
Balance of Undivided Profit .. .. 34,158 2 2
£6,022,677 19 0
ASSETS.
£ a. d.
Coin, Bullion, Oash Balances, and Notes
of other Banks
Money at Gall and short notice in London
Investments, including those held against
Note Issue, and Bills Receivable
Bills Discounted, Advances, and other
Assets of the Bank „ „
Bank Premises u M ..
804.535 7 1
110,000 0 0
914.535 7 1
661,488 16 10
4,065,463 15 1
381,200 0 0
£6,022,677 19 0
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT, for the Year ended 31st December, 1901,
£ s. d.
To Salaries and General Expenses in Aus-
tralia —including Remuneration to
Colonial Directors, Rent, Rates, Re-
pairs, Stationery, Travelling-, &c.
„ Salaries and General Expenses in Lon-
don—including Directors’ and Audi-
tors’ Fees, Rent, Repairs, Stationery,
Telegrams, etc
„ Land Tax and Tax on Note Issue
„ Interest at 4£ per cent, on Transferable
Deposit Receipts for the year 1901 ..
„ Balance of Undivided Profit
60,713 9 4
9,176 3 6
3,351 13 7
71,610 17 6
34,158 2 2
£179,009 6 0
£ s. d. £ s. d.
By Balance as per last Report 24,988 18 0
Less Eighteen Months’
Dividend on Preference
Shares to 31st December,
1898 14,184 4 0
10,804 1 3 6
„ Profits in London and Australia after
providing for interest due and accrued
on current Deposits, deducting rebate
on Bills and making provision for Bad
and Doubtful Debts 168,204 12 6
£179,009 6 0
In accordance with the provisions of the Companies’
Act, 1900, we certify that all our requirements as Audi-
tors have been complied with, and we have to report to
the Shareholders that having examined the above
Balance Sheet with he books at the Head Office and the
returns from the Branches, we are of opinion that such
Balance Sheet is full and fair and properly drawn up so
as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the
Bank’s affairs as shown by the said books and returns.
PRICE, WATERHOUSE & Co., Auditors.
JAMES F. GARRICK,
ROBT. LAND ALE,
N. B. WATSON,
Directors.
F. J. CURTIS, Secretary.
Visitors to the old country
SOUTH
UNDER ROYAL PATRONAGE.
KENSINGTON
df
HOTEL
. CONSIDERABLY ENLARGED. NOTED
FOR ITS COMFORT & CONVENIENCE.
QUEEN’S gate terrace.
LONDON. S.W
ONE OF THE
BIOST FASHIONABLE
HOTELS IN LONDON.
gdf
Coronation Spoon
A Special Treasure to British
People in Far-off Lands.
Site
if Spoon*'
In Solid Silver or Gold. Price from 8/- t post free. Designed
and manufactured by Pearce and Sons, Silversmiths, Hud-
nersfieldj England, by whom it ia being sent to all parts of
g
olid
liver
historic 6ift for 1902.
If you have an 1837 Souvenir of Queen
Victoria’s Coronation you know its
value, and will be anxious to secure
early the choicest Historic Souvenir
of KING EDWARD VII. Thu
registered emblematic spoon is a
new departure in souvenirs: a rare combination of the
beautiful, valuable, historic, and useful. No marriage
presents will be complete without a set of these emblematic
spoons. A gift for every Child of the Empire born in
this Coronation Year. No Souvenir could be more highly
appreciated. Send for illustrations of Sizes and Prices.
fdg
The Historic Gift of 1902.
, Desoription_The Bust of the King, surmounted by His Crown
the reverse bearing the Rose, Thistle, and Shamrock—Great Britain and
Ireland : these support the Royal Monogram, E.R. VII., 190'.!, and are up-
held by Ins-like leaves, each representing one of our Great Possessions;
the leaves uniting form the Empire Stem. The Roots of this Empire
Plant run round the Royal Arms, the Emblem of our Constitution,
right into the Heart of the Peoples.
£pecial Attention and Care given to
Golonial and Foreign Orders.
H)®"“ Colonials and those Abroad will affect a real Saving of Money in
purchasing direct from Messrs. Pearce & Sons. Send for their
Pictorial Price List of Solid Silver Noveltieß and High-Class
Presents.
PEARCE & SONS, Silversmiths, Ac.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
383
MELLIN’S
FOR INFANTS FOOD AND INVALIDS.
Is adapted for use from birth.
Send for Pamphlet and Samples to GOLLIN & CO., 562-4, Bourke Street, Melbourne.
60, Clarence Street, Sydney; Grenfell Street, Adelaide ; and Wellington.
Mellln’s Food Company for Australia and New Zealand, Ltd., 66, Cannon Street, London, Eng.
GREATEST RECUPERATOR
Recent Testimony.
“ 3 Craighall Crescent, Trinity,
“ Edinburgh, May 16th, 1901.
“ Dear Sirs, —I had your bottle of Kutnow’s
Powder, enjoyed it, and bought another half-
crown one. For the past twelve months I have
been with our troops at the Front, as chaplain,
and, from constant hardship and exposure, have
been run down a bit, with bowels rather irregular,
&c. Let me say it—your Powder has done me
great good ; I am much better, and take my food
with relish.
“ Yours faithfully,
“(Rev.) LENNOX FRASER.*
“ The Military Hospital, Whittington
“ Barracks, Lichfield, May 24th, 190 L
“ Dear Sirs, — I have been very ill in bed three
weeks to-morrow, suffering from some kidney
disease which the doctors call ‘Nephritis.’ Kindly
send me your Powder, to see if it will cure me, or
towards that way.
“ Yours truly,
“W. H. WILTON (Opl),
“Army Servioe Corps.”
The same address, June 2nd, 1901.
** Dear Sirs, — I am extremely thankful to you
for sending the Powder. I have tried it and feel
sure it has worked a cure. After the third dose
the swellings (dropsical) vanished, and, on the
doctor examining me, he marvelled at the result.
Again thanking you,
“ Believe me, yours faithfully,
“W. H. WILTON (Cpl.).”
“ Marion-Sims College,
“April 3rd, 1901.
“Kutnow’s Powder stimulates the activities of
the bowels and kidneys. A dessert-spoonful in a
tumblerful of water immediately on arising in the
morning cleans out the bowels, dilutes the urine,
and flushes out the kidneys in a most satisfactory
way.
“Thorough elimination is salvation, and there
is no better eliminator than Kutnow’s Powder.
“I. N. LOVE, M.D.”
The SPA-TREATMENT
FIFTY POUNDS.
IT is highly probable that a trip to Europe for a course of waters at any of the famous Spas
would cost over Fifty Pounds, but many who could afford £5O cannot afford the necessary
time. It will therefore be welcome news to learn that all the benefits of the fifty-pound
a tn o P are contamed in a 1)04616 of KUTNOW’S POWDER. John Strange Winter (Mrs.
Arthur btannard), the popular authoress, after trying it, wrote, “ That it ought to be known all
over the world.” The late Sir Morell Mackenzie, M.D., wrote : “ I have tried Kutnow’s
Powder, and find it answers particularly well.” Professor Lawson Tait, M.D., wrote :
Lawson Tail heartily recommends Kutnow’s Powder.”
HEALTH
In thoughtless ease too little priz’d
This richer gift than wealth;
Of it bereft, too late we feel
Life is but life with health!
Procrastination in applying a safe and efficient remedy may mean incom-
prehensible mischief to those who suffer from derangement of the digestive or
excretory organs. Success in business or the professions, or in any walk in life,
depends very largely upon the state of health. Men who work with the brain
value health, and men who value health take KUTISTOW’S POWDER. Any
one of the ailments mentioned above may develop into serious disease unless
checked in time. A Sluggish Liver, for instance, produces mental depression,
clogs up the bile-ducts, brings on a bilious condition, and creates excessive uric
acid. Excessive uric acid contaminates the blood, and breeds Gout, Rheu-
matism, Sciatica, and congests the kidneys. Congested kidneys bring on Stone
in the Bladder, Diabetes, Bright’s Disease, and vesical irritations generally.
KUTNOW’S POWDER is simply invaluable in the treatment of these
derangements, and will restore the bloom of vigorous health to the most debili-
tated patient. It is an exact reproduction of the famous medicinal merits of
the waters of the European Spas, minus any of their drastic or lowering
properties.
Beware of Fraudulent Imitations.
KUTNOW’S POWDER may be obtained in capsuled bottles, of all Chemists and Medi-
cine Vendors. See that the Registered Trade Mark, “ Hirschensprung ” (or Deer Leap), and
the autograph facsimile signature, “S. KUTNOW and Co. (LD.),”areon the label and carton.
ONLY THESE ENSURE GENUINENESS. INSIST ON “KUTNOW’S,” AND
FIRMLY REFUSE ANY SUBSTITUTES; THEY ARE WORTHLESS AND OFTEN
INJURIOUS.
Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 FARRINGDON ROAD, LONDON, E.C.
Proprietors in U.S.A.: KUTNOW BROS., LTD., 853 BROADWAY, NEW YORK CITY, U.S.A.
A Striking Success
Unquestionably the necessity of vigorous health
is seriously personal to everyone, and fortunately
| science has triumphantly provided the means
whereby the debilitated may regain and retain a
re-vitalised energy. The curative and healing
virtues of the waters of the famous European
Spas are now embodied in Kutnow’s Powder,
which is presented in the form of a beautifully
white, dry effervescent. It is improved by the
deletion of the drastic and nauseous elements of
the medicinal springs. By removing the drastic
constituent and introducing a palatable ingre-
dient Kutnow’s Powder is decidedly preferable
to the original waters.
Its advantages are:—
Firstly—
The power to expel the excess of bile and
acids; also, the poisonous and putrefying
deposits in the bowels and kidneys.
Secondly—
The power to stimulate a sluggish liver and
to eliminate all the excessive Urio Acid.
Thirdly—
The virtue of not only cleansing the bowels
and diluting the urine, but at the same time
exercising a soothing influence on the system
generally.
Fourthly—
The freedom it induces in the flow of the
gastric juices, thereby removing all the terrors
of indigestion.
Fifthly—
The utility of combining curative properties
with strengthening and invigorating virtues:
it is cooling to the blood, refreshing to the
brain, and revitalising to the whole system.


Dr. Cherry, Victoria’s new dairy expert, j
is perfecting a system of tests whereby the much-
worried factory manager can tell whether milk
has been adulterated by the addition of water or
skim milk, or has had the cream removed. The
adding of skim milk has hitherto been very preva-
lent. There is a hard time ahead for the unfortu-
nate dairyman, who will soon be reduced to the
calamitous necessity of delivering his milk in the
state in which it comes from the cow—or with
merely some dirt and hairs added.
Robert Brothers writes :
On 3rd June, Narandera (N.S.W.) Land Board con-
sidered a case of living interest to selectors. Tubbo
Estate 00. sued six neighboring settlers for the half cost
of a rabbit-proof fence, and the board decided in favor
the station people. Tubbo Estate 00. is a squatting syn-
dicate of wealthy capitalists, mostly absentees. A year
or more ago a certain tract of country, leased by this
syndicate, was thrown open for homestead settlement,
and was taken up by seven men, who put all their savings
into the land, with the object of making a home.
Between the boundaries of these selections and the
station boundary runs a road. The selectors proceeded
to put up fences on their boundaries, and the station
people did likewise on the opposite side of the road, the
only difference being that the station boundary fence had
less wires run through, but was protected against bunny
by wire netting. The syndicate’s fence being completed,
the selectors were billed for half the cost of the. erection
of the fence. The selectors resisted, as the station fence
is no earthly use to them, since they have their own
fences, and, anyhow, the station fence is on the wrong
side of the road. Moreover, they are all more or less
crippled in finances owing to building their own fences
and otherwise improving the land, and the payment of
the half cost of the station fence will practically ruin
them. The cost of the fence is put down at £7O odd per
mile, a heavy expense for an • impoverished selector to
meet within the first year of occupancy. As a matter of
fact, the decision of the Land Board pushes them off the
land. According to this decision of Narandera Land
Board, what selector will be safe from paying half the
cost of erecting station fences and half the cost of repair-
ing them ? And what is to prevent all N.S.W. becoming
a sheepwalk ?
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all -pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstke & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
SOLD ix two sizes, 9d. <fc Is. 6d.
N.B. —Insist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdicstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
TRADE MARK .
FOX
Fox Bros. & Go., Ltd., warn
the Public that their Trade
Mark consists
ONLY
of the word
FOX
which is a guarantee of sound'
ness of material and Quality
of Dye of all
Worsted Coatings,
Serges I tweeds
on which it is stamped.
As the result of many years
of experience
fox’s Pure Mgo Dye
is recognised as the best in the
market. All FOX'S standard
cloths are stamped every two
yards on the back
FOX
PURE INDIGO
and without this stamp are
not genuine. These celebrated
serges can be obtained from the
leading Tailors and Drapers
throughout the Colonies.
FOX BROS. & Co., Ltd.,
Wellington, Somerset, Eng.
CORSETS
P.D.
CORSETS
»
The Recognised Standard of
HIGH-CLASS CORSETS
»
LATEST SPECIALTY
Straight Front
Erect Form.
Obtainable from Leading Drapers
Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that eaob
pair bears the Manufacturer’s “ Trade Mark ” on
band inside, as above.
I*
a?
r«E
THE
‘PLUM’
fd
THE
PLUM 1
ri ENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectlyhollow gs
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 78. 6d«
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
_ _ f Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d j Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 218.
P* ICB | single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful ease, 308.
Registered and sent Post Free to ant part of the World.
gw Please add 6d. exchange on Country and It. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney,
Montserrat
gdf
Sauce
The basis of which is “Montserrat” Lime-Fruit Juice .
Far Superior to
all other Sauces.
.
AGENTS- Elliott Bros. Ltd., J. Connell & Co., D. Mitchell & Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle,
gdf
FREE
FREE
Your choice of a Beautiful Ntakel Silver
Stem Wind & Stem Set Watch, with a Genuine
Swiss Movement, or a Handsome 22 Ct. Gold Cased Bangle
Bracelet, or a Solid Gold Coronation Brooch—FßEE.
-—NO MONKY WANTED.
Simply send us your name and address plainly written on a Post Card and we will
send you in a Box 30 Panel Engravings of the King in his Coronation Robes
- Free of all expense to you. You then sell the engravings among your friends and neighbours at
6d. each, and when Fold you remit us the money you have collected, and we will send you, absolutely
free for your trouble, the above described Watch, Bracelet, or Brooch all of which are warranted.
Remember you have no duty or charges of any kind to pay. Both the engravings and the premiums are
senr, absolutely Free of all charges. Our object in making this marvellous offer, and giving such valu-
able premiums, is to advertise our business. An event like the Crowning of the King of England occurs
but orvce in a life-time, and every individual in Australia will be anxious to secure a memento of King
Edward’s Coronation ; you will simply have to show the Engraving to sell it, and as the price (sixpence)
puts it within the reach of all, it will give you an opportunity of securing one of these magnificent
premiums without any trouble. You simply send us your name and full address plainly written—and
we will send the engravings—No money required, we take all risks Goods returnable if not sold.
Address Art Department— NATlONAL SUPPLY CO., S 8 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.B.W.
MOIR’S
BLOATER PASTE.
In Tins about 2 ozs. and 40ZS.
Manufacturers i
JOHN MOIR & SON, liIMITKD,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
avcK* 1 *
w»*“*
|’S
p^ o ',
, o a cu? eS
ro \ds-
c* tV °t a *> d c
1
SLATERS
DETECTIVES
1 BAS INCH ALL S'. E
ACKNOWLEDGED by both the Press and
the Public to be the Finest Organisation
of Male and Female Detective Talent in the
World for Private Inquiries. Representatives in
every town on earth. Consultations free.
HENRY SLATER, Manager,
1 Basinghall-street, London, England.
Cables, “Distance,” London.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In eoncontrated drop*.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
blingthe constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET. “A beautiful and interfiling
preparation.”
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-*'/! hat all
the good effect* of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,ana
it does not blachen thi teeth."
SOI.D BY CHEMISTS AM THI WOULD OVIK.
WHOLESALE: Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
HIS RUPTURE
CURED.
Engineer on the Midland Railway
Restored by the Wonderful Rice
Method.
One of the well-known engineers on the Midland
Railway, having been in their employ a long time,
relates some very interesting facts about how he
cured himself of a bad rupture by the Rice
Method. His name is George Jordan, and is in
good standing, so what he says for the benefit of
other railway men who are ruptured can be relied
npon as truthful and of valne.
w.T'.'W
27, Bishopstone Road, Gloucester,
Dr. W. S. Rice, , 21 > 1901 * , T orr
Dear Sir,-1 am very pleased to say that I am
cured of Rupture after using your treatment for
three months, having been ruptured for seventeen
"" I have already spent a lot of money on treatment, ;
having paid one doctor sixteen guineas without
getting much good, and I had lost all hope of being
cured until I read your advertisement in Lloyd *
I acted strictly on your advice, Mid i have not been
troubled with my Rupture since the first week 1 tried
your treatment, and although I get a lot of shaking
about (being a locomotive engine driver on the
Midland Railway), I have not worn a Truss forabon;
two months, and I do not feel the slightest weaknos-
now, and am enjoying better health than 1 have
had for seventeen years.
You can make what use you like of this letter, as
I am anxious for all sufferers to knowof your treat
ment; and I shall advise all my friends afflicted with
this complaint to use it, as I know It will cure per-
manently.--Yonr faithfully, Geobchb Jordan.
. The RICE Method of curing rupture is as near
perfect as anything could be, and a great many
remarkable cures have been _ effected. Every
runtn-" 1 railwayman should write Dr. W. S. Rice,
9 t Stonecutter Street, LONDON, E-C„ who
wffit send a FREE SAMPLE of_ his method, also
a complete and illustrated series of pamphlets
showing conclusively that his method cannot fail of
a eure. It is a home treatment at small cost, with-
out pain, danger, operation, or an hour’s detenti o i
from work. Do not fail to write for either yourself
or someone yon know to be ruptured.


MUj
1^)11
■Mil If
majj
ZZm
ill
m,
-
&
_ ....
mm
JUMJI
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Co.,
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only and
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
GORDON MARE, Secretary,
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
28 Years in the Establishment.
A SPECIAL
OFFER.
One of our Gent's Nickel Open-
Face Keyless
“INCOMPARABLE” WATCHES
and Double Silver Hall-Marked
Curb Albert Chain
J EWELLERS & OPTICIANS
go King ST, Sydney.
for
15/-
T
s
Value, Quality and Durability Guaranteed.
tST'Post Free. Send for Catalogue. - *!
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
From
a
Medicinal
Point
of
View
Hennessy’s
Brandy
Is
Unequalled.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
// *
r
CAME
g
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. ba. per day, or apartments may je
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica-
tion to The Manager.
1
==s
WIQH TMAN’S.
BEACONSFIELP HOTEL
Beaconsfleld Parade, St Kilda, Melbourne.
■ffIRST-OLASS ACCOMMODATION for Visitors and Per-
®T manent Boarders. Situated in the healthiest part of
St. Eilda, facing the sea. Hot and Cold Sea Baths. Fifteen
minutes from Melbourne—tram or train. Reasonable Tariff.
Special terms for families and permanent boarders.
Telephone 65 Windsor Exchange.
EDISON PHONOGRAPH RECORDS,
One Shillling Each.
One Dozen Assorted, carefully packed and postage
paid to any address on receipt of 15s. Blanks, 9d.
Edison Electric Company,
1 ROWE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin Reciter has been taken by
Bill and Jim straight to their warm hearts, and
already its contents have gladdened thousands of
audiences all over Australia. Most of the best
and most famous Bulletin recitation-pieces are
included in this fine collection—price ss. post-
free from Bulletin office.
MACHINERY
MERCHANTS,
WHOLESALE IRONMONGERS,
And Importers of
Engines, Boilers, Pumps, Wood-
working Machines, Engineers’
Supplies, Blacksmith and
Coaohbuilders’ Requisites, Pipes
and Fittings, Boiler Tubes, Cun
Metal and Brassware for Steam
and Water, Household and
Builders’ Ironmongery, Agri-
cultural Implements, Horse
Gears, Chaff Cutters, &o.
'A
t)CAD
FFJtEI
OR.ISBAN
ilnur-, -.rijn
Smelue&c
mi
ii
ss
Machinery Store .
Brisb^Kc>.
Bulk Stor*.,
\alleV
SMELLIE&CO
BRISBANE.
Jfawn OuCCHSLAKD BRANdi
Ja
ivortrf Queensland Warehouse:
Stanley & Sturt Sts-,
Townsville.
Also at
New Broad St. House, London, E.C.
AGENTS FOR
R)BEY & CO., Portable
, Steam Engines.
IW. B. HAIGH & CO., Saw-
-1 mill Machinery,
i GWYNNE’S Centrifugal Pumps
iPEARN’S Manchester Steam
1 Pumps.
■ DUPLEX Steam Pumps.
SCOTT’S Steel Mining Ropes.
FRANK VIAL & SON Leather
Belting.
WAUKEGAN Barb Wire.
PLANET JR. Implements.
AER MOTOR Windmills.
KEROSENE OIL ENGINES.
THE
aXTESITIT 33EXGHEX PLUGr
TOBACCO.
df
World
Renowned
"CAPSTAN
Is now supplied IN
PLUG
FORM in addition to Cut.
t
The Highest Grade Tobacco sold within the Commonwealth.
TRY IT!


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vo L. 23.—N0. 3166.
SATURDAY, JUNE 21, 1002.
Pbicb 6d.
Who wears the Star—
Who bore the Cross.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
** A nstralia fov the A iisti'toliims,* 9
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-'street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBER)
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £lO 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
■SI, with 3s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in ffneensland.
Owing to the imposition of\\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —l \d. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Th i/nne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
Uy sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Sh illings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J F.
A RCIIIBALD.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in JilaeTc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid .for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
inch artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
San Francisco. — L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
South Africa.—lt. A. Thompson and Co., S Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Capetown. Gwelo News Agency.
Rhodesia.
SATURDAY, JUNE 21, 1902.
An Irresponsible Federal Parliament.
It is now practically certain that every State
of the Commonwealth barring Westralia will
close the year with a ponderous deficit, and
Westralia is only saved by the fact that it
is still allowed to collect inter-State duties—
a privilege which no other State enjoys.
But for its inter-State duties, which are
only temporary, it would also have a deficit.
Meanwhile the Freetrade party in the Senate
has a bare majority, partly by reason of the
folly of Victoria in electing, at the request of
the Age, one or two personal friends of
David Syme whose fiscal politics were more
than doubtful; and it is gaily passing resolu-
tions for the further destruction of tariff
revenue. The present revenue isn’t sufficient
to keep the States really solvent, but by the
curious arrangement of things the Federal
Parliament, which raises the tariff revenue,
doesn’t require to concern itself as to
whether the States are solvent or not. And
the States themselves don’t care sufficiently
fur their own solvency to Inake anything like
the row they ought to raise over the Federal
proceedings ; a long course of deficits, loans,
and shufflings have made solvency a thing
little valued in State politics. Also the
Federal politicians are built very much on
the same lines as the State politicians ; they
are mostly either men like Symon, who know
nothing of finance, or men like M'Millan,
Joe Cook, and the two Smiths (B. and S.),
of W., who gained their knowledge in a
Government whose highest aim was to cook
the accounts, and misappropriate the loan
money, and tell astounding lies about the
shortage.
• • * *
So long as the principal source of revenue,
the customs and excise, belongs to the Com-
monwealth, and the principal cause of expen-
diture, the public debt, is left with the
States, there will be confusion, and the con-
fusion at present is very bad indeed. Just
now the situation stands something like
this :
(1) The Commonwealth is authorised under the
±SRADDON clause, either to reserve for its own use during
the next 10 years one-fourth of the customs and excise
revenue, returning the other three-fourths to the States,
can take over the State debts and use the othe^
m to pay the interest with.
<?) While the deb.ts are not taken over by the Common-
wealth the Commonwealth Parliament doesn’t require to
care a straw whether the State Parliaments get enough
to keep them solvent or not.
(3) If the Commonwealth paid all its expenditure out
l r 9 e -™'“ e WO ! l]d re( t u > re . probably, somewhere about
use. That means that, unless
pa nnn ?° dl r ect , taxation, it would require to raise
JifiVfin’nm oufc of whic h it must return
chnm-e o r o h o f H ta , teS ’ 0I ? whlch basis there would be a
stote of ddapidation nUght not dr ° P int ° a ver * v bad
f ederal Government, however, is already
vear tw a° rroW ’ ” 14 borrows, say, £750,000 in one
year, then it may only need to raise £1,500,000 for its
own use by taxation. Therefore a £6,000,000 tariff will
° f tbatlaw only requires that £4,500,000
probably burst States ’ ln which case the States will
Federa ! Parliament has the principal power of
™' a Z T ne> '’ wlthoufc being under any responsibility to
aS t m, fl,ld enou ftb money to meet’the
cheerfmiv ni - • T , heref ? re . can reduce taxation
fiiw • J 18 thereby principally reducing the other
fellows income, and Svmon and co. can throw around the
blessings of commercial freedom ” with a light heart
• • * «
If it were not for the Braddon Blot
clause, matters, of course, would be im-
measurably worse. The Blot is the only
thing which ensures to the States such tariff-
revenue as they have ; without it, the
Federal Parliament might return nothing at
aIL In the days when the Constitution was
being constructed, a strong party, mostly
from N.S.W., contrived to prevent the
debts being federalised on the ground that
it was a dark and baleful dodge on
the part of persons who were still at
large by which N.S.W.’s credit was to
be used to prop up “ the bankrupt States,”
and it postponed indefinitely the fede-
ration of the railway systems on the ground
that there was a murky conspiracy against
“our” assets. The union was left incomplete,
and the Braddon clause, as a kind of treaty
between the party which had the power
to raise money it didn’t want, and the party
which hadn't the power to raise money it did
want, was the natural outcome. But even
it is an insufficient remedy. The majority
in the Federal Parliament throws away cus-
toms revenue with a light heart, because the
States are responsible for the deficit that!
will follow, and the State Parliaments seem
inclined to let the deficit slide with a light-
heart on the ground that they aren't respon-
sible for the throwing away of revenue. And
the people of Australia have to stand the
loss either way.
* * * .
If the Federal Government were to take
over the public debts of the States the posi-
tion would be vastly improved. There
would then be little or no surplus to be
returned. The States would be left to find
the money for their own responsibilities
while the Commonwealth would do likewise.
If the Federal Parliament, in its joyous
pursuit of the blessings of commercial free-
dom, which is another name for destroying
local industries in order to increase the
demand for M'Millan’s imported calico,
chose to throw away revenue, it would at
least be its own revenue it was throwing
away and its own deficit it was creating.
Nominally, of course, if the Federal Parlia-
ment cut down its own revenue so low, by
the sacrifice of customs and excise duties
that it wouldn’t cover the interest on State
debts taken over, it could call on the
States to make good the difference.
But when there was no surplus in the
hands of the Federal Government out
of which it could stop the amount
due, the prospect of the States re-
sponding to the call is too small to be
worth alluding to. The Federal Govern-
ment would have to pay its own way out of
its own taxes, and the State Government
would do likewise, and the present compli-
cation would come to an end.
* • •
To do this effectively, however, it is
necessary that the Commonwealth should
take over all the State debts as they existed
on Ist January, 1901—until the Constitution
is amended it has no power to take over any
later liabilities. And these were a variable
lot, the respective liabilities at the date of
the beginning of the Commonwealth beino-
about as follows
Debt per Interest per
Inhabitant. inhabitant
, per annum.
Queensland .. £73 19 2 .. £2 16 10
South Australia .. 73 2 6 2 17 4
WestraUa .. .. 67 14 6 " 214 0
N-S.W 49 7 3 .. 118 4
Tasmania .. .. 47 17 8 1 16 0
Victoria .. .. 46 5 1 .. 112 8
Th e amounts have varied a good deal since
these figures were drawn up—that is to say,
the amount of debt which the Commonwealth
can take over .remains stationary at the
figure of Ist January, 1901, and that amount
now only represents about £59 per head on
Westralia’s increased population, while
smaller variations have happened in other
States. But still the discrepancies are very
large, and no State wants to strike an average
by which it will carry a copper of any
other State s burden. Yet if the Common-
wealth took over the Victorian debt of
£46 per head, and a corresponding propor-
tion of the debts of other States, it would be
a . very incomplete and half-hearted opera-
tion. A large proportion of the debts would
still be left in the hands of the States. There
would be no general consolidation, and there
would still be the necessity to return some
Federal revenue to Queensland and S.A.,
and the Federal Treasurer would still be
some kind of agent or bailee for the State
Treasurer, which is an uncomfortable posi-
tion for all parties, and puts all parties in
a bad temper.
* * * *
There are one or two apparently possible
ways out of the difficulty. The three States
with the largest debts are also the ones with
the largest area of unsold lands, and if the
Commonwealth took over the debts bodily
they might compensate it for relieving them
of an undue share of liabilities by handing
over sufficient of their public lands to
equalise things. That would make the Federal
Government a large landholder in a patchy
k ; nd of way; still there is no reason why
the experiment should not be successful.
Again, the Federal Government might take
over the whole heap of debt as it stands and
make it the common debt of Australia, the
States which are relieved of the largest share
of debt compensating those which are re-
lieved of the smallest share by giving them
their own State securities for an amount
sufficient to equalise things. A simpler way
would be for the Federal Government to take
over the whole mass of liabilities, and agree
to pay for a number of years a fixed subsidy,
not the present fleeting and unreliable “sur-
plus,” to the States whose burdens are unduly
increased by the arrangement. It could be
calculated exactly how much Australia in
general owed to the States which handed
over the smallest debt, and this amount,
principal and interest, could be paid off by
instalments. The simplest way of all would
be for the States, in a fine, large spirit of
brotherhood, to agree to lump the debts and
not haggle about details. The States with
the largest debts are also the ones with the
most room for increased population, and
their growth might, in a few years, make
the arrangement less uneven than it seems.
The Government which proposed this
arrangement would at least receive the
cordial support of Queensland and S.A.—
but neither Sydney nor Melbourne would
be a good city to be in when the pro-
posal was mooted. At all events, the
necessity for making the Federal Parlia-
ment responsible for something is very
evident Its Symons and M'Millans are
dropping into a habit of knocking off revenue,
and leaving the State Treasurers to wrestle
with the consequences, which promises
disaster.
A Groper Democrat.
Nanson, who was Lands Minister in the very
sudden Morgans Cabinet in Westralia, and who
now leads the old Forrest party, vice Forrest,
Throsskl and Morgans, all politically deceased,
has come out with a programme calculated to make
the hist hair of old Groperdom stand on end with
amazement. Many strange things have happened
to old Groperdom since it was first awakened
from its slumbers by the feet of the gold-seekers
trampling over its chest, but few have been more
sudden than Nanson’s programme. The Wes-
tralian Opposition leader favors the immediate
granting of Old Ago Pensions, redistribution of
constituencies according to population, a Factories
Act somewhat on the Victorian model, a State
Liquor Monopoly, and the reduction of the State
Governor’s salary by one-half, which will bring it
down to £2ooo—the amount paid by the Canadian
province of Ontario, which has 10 times Westralia’s
population. And he is half inclined to commit
himself to the abolition of the useless and not at
all ornamental Upper House, though just here he
is much less definite than he might be. The fol-
lowing is how Nanson hovers regarding this
subject:—
There was one reform to which they would have to give
earnest and close consideration, and' that was the Aboli-
tion of the Upper House. He mentioned that because
they could nob too soon take it into consideration.
(Cheers.) He was aware that there were many constitu-
tional authorities averse to only or.e Chamber. He knew
also that the doing away of the Upper House was sur-
rounded by dangers. (Hear, hear.) He looked at the
theory of constitutional authority, and also the fact that
the experiment had proved a success in Canada. He was
not absolutely pledged to support the abolition of the
Upper House, but if it could be shown that it had proved
a great success in Canada, that only the best results had
been attained, then the question would have to be taken
up and seriously considered in Australia. It might seem
a daring radical proposition. (A Voice : “Not at all, it
is very wise.”) He believed that it was his friend, Mr.
Wilson, who made that interjection. If so, he was glad to
note that Mr. Wilson’s views were broadening on the eve
of his re-entry into political life. So conservative a
paper as the London Times had recently alluded to
Canada’s experiment as an admirable one. If he had to
choose between two weak Chambers, reduced so that all
the interests of the country would not be properly looked
after, and one strong Chamber, he would certainly be in
favor of the one. It would give that Chamber a stronger
sense of its responsibility. He knew, with even his brief
experience of political life, that in the House, when a
difficult question was presented, members would say,
“ Oh, pass it on to the Council ; they’ll chuck it out.” It
was not a prominent item on his platform, the abolition
of the Upper House, because it was not one requiring
immediate attention.
» • • •
The Westralian Opposition Leader certainly
doesn’t commit himself violently as regards the
abolition of the Upper Gropers. Still he is
further advanced than any other Opposition
leader in Australia except Browne, of Queens-
land. He is further advanced than any Premier
in Australia, and he is miles ahead of the great
bulk of Groper politicians. Nanson is a
new man, and almost unknown, but a
politician with such a programme deserves
to have a trial. The Bulletin, at all
events, begins to grow weary in some respects of
the well-meaning and clean-shaven Premier
Leake, who gets very little “forrarder,” and so
long as Nanson sticks to the above policy, and
shows any reasonable sign of being qualified to
carry it out, this paper’s vote goes with him. No
other man who seems at all likely to secure an
Australian Premiership at an early date has even
begun to assimilate the fact that government by
one House of Parliament is a strictly British idea,
and is not by any means a rash experiment, but a
device which has been in full working order for
many years. Six out of the eight divisions of
Canada manage to live and prosper with only one
House (Ontario, with over 2,000,000 people, has a
single House of 94 members), and with a local
man, appointed by the Governor-General, as
State Governor; and that local man struggles
through with a wage of from £l4OO to £2OOO a
year. It is gratifying to find one prospective head
of an Australian Government who knows that
this bright example exists, and who can so far
.struggle out of the purely Australian rut as to
propose following it, even though his proposition
is less forcible than it should be.
• • * *
Nanson’s weak point is his pathetic faith in the
old Bigjohn borrowing policy. He has a cheery
belief that the boom will last for ever. His
simple logic is that because Westralia, while
on the top of a gold boom that can’t last because
gold is only temporary, and on the summit of a
loan boom of such dimensions that it has added
£4O per head to the debt in ten years, is able to
pay its way easily, therefore it can always pay its
way easily. Victoria thought the same in 1889,
when it was whooping on the topmost wave of its
loan boom—the year of the £750,000 surplus ; but
Nanson, like every other boomster, reckons that
Ins bubble is the exception—the one permanent,
non-burstable bubble of the earth. Still, the rest
of his programme entitles Nanson to respect.
And, after all, it is pretty evident that one of the
Australias will have to go insolvent as a warning
w ie F est before anv good will happen, and
Westralia may as well be the dreadful example as
any other State. For the sake of his State Liquor
Monopoly idea, and his Factories Act and Old
Age Pension schemes, and his half-idea—may it
shortly become a whole one—in favor of the
abolition of the Upper House, The Bulletin
inclines to vote that Nanson is a fit and proper
person to be Premier of Groper Land. If he gets
the Premiership and then falls away from grace in
the democratic sense it will only be what most other
Premiers have done before him. The quantity of
prace that has been fallen away from in Australia
is enormous, and most of the time this country
finds itself choosing between the politician who
will probably fall from grace and the one who
never had any to fall from.
Politics Which are Too Practical.
The debate in the Australian Senate on the tariff
proposals of the Barton Government has given
further proof that there is little educated national
sentiment as yet in our politics. There have been
many mildly fierce wrangles about twopence-half-
penny issues involved in the details of the
tariff, eloquent debates as to whether the
country would be a few odd pence to the good
or to the bad if a particular duty were
increased or decreased, wonderful statistical
calculations as to the relative advantages of
importing certain articles or manufacturing them
in the country, but no member has taken up, con-
sistently, a national attitude and dropped in on
the war of figures with the remark that if, as the
Freetraders said, the country was bound to lose a
little on the Protectionist deal, and the issue was
to keep a shop and gain twopence-halfpenny, or
be a self-contained nation and lose that amount,
he was for being a nation all the time. Yet that
is a phase of the issue which is worthy of
serious attention, quite apart from all the
economic controversy as regards Freetrade and
Protection. Australia, as a country which
exports raw material enormously and im-
ports manufactured goods enormously, practi-
cally stakes her very existence on the con-
tinuance of world-peace. Whilst the highways of
the sea are open, she can sell her raw materials
and secure those products which are necessary to
her comfort, if not to her actual existence. Soaps,
clothes, shoes, paper, machinery, war materials
are easily obtainable now on payment of the price.
But in case of a great war blocking the sea-ways,
and putting a stop to both exports and imports
for a while, what then ?
* * • *
Well, now, even in a partially-Protected Aus-
tralia, the blocking of the sea would involve this
continent in the gravest trouble. The people
would be able to feed themselves in a rough
fashion, but they would have but poor clothing if
the war raged for long, their journals would have
to stop publication for lack of paper, their
harvests would in time have to go unreaped, and
their mines undeveloped for lack of machinery,
and, in case of invasion, their soldiers would have
to go to battle with bill-hooks and scythes for
lack of ammunition. If the Freetrade idea were
carried out in full, and most of the existing indus-
tries wiped out by exposure to the cheap-labor
competition of the world, the lot of Australia in
war-time would be absolutely hopeless.
Yet it should be understood, as a first principle
of politics, that, quite apart from any issues of
Freetrade or Protection, Australia, being in an
insular position and liable at any time to be cut
off from communication with the outside world
by a naval war, should be able to feed herself,
clothe herself, and arm herself out of her own
resources, from her own factories. Even if the
pursuit of this end causes an economic loss (which,
of course, it would not), yet that should cause no
hesitation._ The home-made rifle may cost
£3 as against the imported rifle’s £2, yet even
apart from the fact that it is cheaper for a man to
pay himself £2 than to pay another man £3, it is
clear that Australia, as the only means to make
sure that she can get the rifle when she most
needs it, should pay the £3 without a murmur.
The same remark applies to the rifle’s
ammunition, and to agricultural and mining
machinery, and to railway engines and rails, and
to steel ships, and to a thousand other things.
Even if, by building a big reservoir, a citv
makes its water-supply more costly than
by relying on roof-tanks and wells, the
reservoir is generally built to give surety of
supply. And a nation, to ensure a continuance of
its existence as a nation, must make certain of its
supply of the first necessaries of civilised life.
That’s the National view of the fiscal issue.
* • • *
But extremely little was heard of it in eithei
House of the Federal Parliament. There was
much animated talk on tare and tret lines, much
fractious discussion as to whether the odd half-
penny leaned in the balance towards Freetrade or
Protection. But hardly a word to indicate
that, as Australian legislators, their first duty
was to see that Australia should be a self-
contained, self-supporting nation, able to live if
necessity arose, without any outside assistance
dependent on nobody’s tolerance, trusting to no
blind chance of Fortune for her national existence
A Freetrade Australia, besieged and beset with
enemies, would have to surrender at the first call
because there would be no powder for her guns’
and no hope for her people to live without foreign
imports. An Australia made self-reliant by Pro-
tection, supplying her population with all the
necessaries of life from within her own borders
could maintain her national existence as long as
the courage of her men remained, as did France
after the Revolution when she faced and beat back
a continent in arms. If France at that time had
had to import her arms from England and her
food from Germany the Republic would have been
smothered at its birth.
* * • •
In the recent “ White Australia ’’ debates there
was more of the national spirit shown bv the
Australian legislature. But even therein no
politican brought to the issue the true glow of n
passionate patriotism. There was certainly


some discussion of the racial degradation which
would follow the presence of a large Asiatio
population side by side with the white com-
munity, but no member flung at the flaccid
Tories, who droned of the thousands of pounds
sunk in this and that industry, alleged to depend
for success on black labor, the facts as to one ot
the revolting race-outrages so common in America
as the result of the friction of a black and white
population, with the challenge—“Tomy mind,
better to sacrifice millions of money than to stain
our nation’s hands with that! ” Yet how electric,
how unanswerable, such a defiant argument.
Who of the Bruce Smiths, wearing the livery ot
Mammon, would have dared to join issue on that
point, to plead for bringing a better sugar-dividend
with so many burnings-at-the stake, so many sex-
outrages, so many Kanakas* lives sacrificed .
• * • *
There is nothing more disgusting in politics
than “blather”—the frothy “iloquence of the
man who Orates rather than speaks, who calls
upon the stars in their courses and all the Pagan
myths in a cheap classical dictionary to furnish
tawdry ornamentation for his bombastic periods
and insincere arguments. _ Better anything than
that—better the most sordid and calculating half-
penny spirit. But there is room for a little more
idealism, a little more “ imagination ” of the right
sort in our Australian politics. Public men might,
with advantage, try to come to look upon their
country more as a fatherland and less as an em-
porium—a branch emporium of the great nr in of
John Bull and Co. —as a fatherland to be guarded
sacredly from wrongdoing as well as from disaster.
At present our politics are greatly lacking in
inspiration.
Notes on the Rise and Progress of Pearl-
Shelling.
Whites a man from the North:
In the beginning of the 70*8 seafaring men heard more
and more of the deposits at Cape York of the big bivalve
shells, from the nacre of which the substance known to
jewellers and fancy goods makers as “ mother o’ pearl ” is
taken. In those prehistoric days the brothers Jardine
and their father, the P.M. of Somerset, were, or had been,
kings. Somerset, be it known, is the country at the
extreme end of the York Peninsula. Seafaring men
found that the wild aborigines of the northern cape of
Australia and the islands between it and New Guinea were
able to plunge into those seas and by swimming down
reach certain shells at the bottom of eighteen and twenty
feet of water. These shells, as big as soup-plates, were
not hard to see at that depth in the clear water. Thus
began the pearl-shelling by the use of naked aborigines
plunging in and swimming down to the bottom, and thus
began the name of swimming divers. Many a native died
by diving too deep and getting all the wind squeezed
from his lungs by the pressure of water at those depths.
To assist the swimming divers, Malay crews were
imported. Soon the enterprising Sydney diver, with his
scientific diving dress and accompanying pipes and pumps,
heard of the fortunes falling into the hands of the lucky
captain adventurers who could get their swimming divers
on a “ patch of shell.” So arrived the white diver and
his apparatus. Then gradually there grew small settle-
ments upon different stands in the vicinity of the
‘ ‘ patches of shell.” Let it be said shell is just like land-
minerals : it exists in aggregations. These are called
patches. Other minerals exist in aggregations
and are called lodes, or seams, or reefs ; and shell, like
them, exists in aggregations called by a different name.
The oyster makes the shell by extracting the minerals
of which it is composed, from the water. Consequently
this diving industry has the advantage over other
mineral industries in that, while clearing away the lode
of other minerals means its permanent removal, clearing
away of a patch of shell means only its temporary
removal. This fact is well known to the syndicate of
shellers, hence their anxiety to remain “ kings of the
shell beds.” Well, then, now had arrived the master
European diver who was to revolutionise old methods. For
many years shelling operations were carried on from vari-
ous islands lying between New Guinea and the Australian
mainland, and it is hard to contemplate a pleasanter life
in happier or more beautiful surroundings. Here Nature
is superb, and her colorings are finer than those of the
Mediterranean. Man is avaricious—he is the same good
son of Satan that we find elsewhere. The first old sea-
dogs and Francis Oadell, discoverer of the River Murray,
came in small schooners of 100 or 120 tons. There was
no settlement of a permanent nature, and these schooners
carried stores and grog to supply the crews of their
diving boats. As the settlements on the islands grew
more civilised the schooners disappeared. The white
diver now owned his boat and worked for himself. He
built houses on the beach of some stand which he chose,
and married and reared children of the European race,
and packed his shells in sheds built on land. Thus the
industry appeared likely to become rooted to Australian
soil, and the wealth produced likely to give rise to per-
manent towns, just as the wealth of gold or copper, coal,
or silver has produced permanent and lasting towns on
Australian soil. Then came the syndicator. He viewed
with distaste the idea of the pearl-sheller wasting time by
living at home ashore. “ His place,” said he, “is at sea ;
he should never lose a moment; what is the good of him
living in this isolated place, owning his own boat?
* * * »
He proceeded with schooners and little paoks of ten or
twelve boats, manned by colored divers and colored crews,
to squeeze the white diver out. He packed his shell
upon his schooner. It was so easy to kill the white diver.
There were but few white divers rearing European
families; they had no powerful friends; why dared
they work the shelling beds at all ! Every European on a
patch of shell soon found himself surrounded by a dozen
Japs or Manilamen working at the order of the syndicate
and systematically eating up his patch of shell in order to
s arve him out. Soon the European found that his haul
2 less and less and his hitherto prosperous business was
b. -n up by men to whom the advancement of Australia
Wdo tno moment. Indeed oppositely ; the advancement
of the i dands by settlement upon them must be defeated
in every way possible. Hence came the Act to stop the
Japanese or Manilaman or other colored diver from work-
ing for himself. The profits of the fisheries the syndicate
could send to London and spend them there or in any other
place the syndicator chose, but the industry gave no per-
manent improvement to the district in which it was
carried on. Readers can judge of the consternation of the
syndicators at the appearance of a Commonwealth upon
the horizon. Then they said : “ We must bluff those Com-
monwealthites,” and they did. The men who have biffed
the European divers off the ground deserve scant sympathy
from Australian working men. The miners on the fields
of Australia should think where they would be if the
British syndicates could introduce Chinese or Jap miners
to work those claims, or goldfields, which are scattered
all over the Australian continent. The biffing process,
heartlessly enough applied to European divers, may with
equal heartlessness be applied to the syndicators whose
motto is not “ Advance Australia,” but “ Advance
Avarice and Down with the White Men.”
• * * •
Let us compare pearl-shelling with agriculture, since we
have compared. Do not the agriculturists of Australia
want to work on their own farms? Have not the big
estates on the Darling Downs, which were given to syndi-
cates, been bought back and sold to small farmers? But
the pearl-shell syndicates didn’t compensate the colored
divers who owned their own boats when they abolished
their licenses, and took their business from them. The
syndicates didn’t pay for their monopoly. They stole it-- 1
and, as they gave no compensation, they deserve none.
The'pearling beds worked by white divers for themselves
compare with the small farms worked, by farmers for
themselves. The big pearling syndicate is brother to the
big land syndicate, only more unscrupulous and more
avaricious. Finally, let it be said to men who talk of
turning Dutchmen: “Very good, gentlemen! Turn
Dutchmen, but remember, no use of our hospital for your
seamen, no landing on any of our islands (and we own
them all) for wood and water. Get your wood and water
where you get your nationality. You have declared war
upon us. You are the aggressors. Don’t complain if we
give you hard knocks. Don’t blame us if we kick you out
of our Commonwealth, bag and baggage. Don’t blame
us if we rid the Commonwealth of a set of men whose
avarice has been so excessive as to cause them to begrudge
their men going ashore for half a day lest they might ask
for some of their pay, and spend it in Thursday Island,
and help to maintain a place which, according to their
benevolent views, has no right to be in existence.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
An Inaccurate Pastor.
A careful perusal of the vast mass of sermons
preached on account of the declaration of Peace
isn’t calculated to increase the public’s previously
low opinion of the parsonical profession. The
parson is one speaking with authority. He claims
to be some kind of Chosen Vessel — an individual
specially selected to carry spiritual tidings, and
one more or less inspired. When he is found
making shocking mistakes re small ordinary
matters that any decently-educated person should
know something about, it naturally arouses a
suspicion that he may be a bogus Vessel, and that
if he was any kind of genuine messenger, the
authority which sent him would take more care
to prevent its representative making a fool of
himself and bringing the whole business into
discredit. For instance, that plump and well-
Eaid apostle, Pastor Bkvan, well-known in Sydney,
lathered in this fashion to a Brisbane audience ;
and lie was a fair sample of many dozen others :
No war in the history of the world has ever been so
severe, yet none had had so many mitigations. No war
had ever been closed where the conquered had been given
such fair and just terms. . . . There was no other nation
whose flag gathered with it the freedom and the privi-
leges which honored the British flag. Germany was a
great and civilised nation, but when Germans wished to
colonise they chose British colonies to dwell in. He was
thankful that the British flag was supreme in South
Africa, because he believed that under no other rule
would the uncivilised races of the country be treated with
such justice and humanity. He was aware that the Briton
had a good deal of complacent contempt for everybody
who was not a Briton, but in his dealings with the lower
races he was just, and on the whole he intended to lift
them up. There were some lessons for Australia to learn
in this. Why should the sons of Britain, speaking the
English speech and drawing their inspiration from
English law, deny the liberties they enjoyed to men of
different colour ? There were some men called statesmen
who had hardly the right to be called politicians, who
were placed in spheres where they might exercise mighty
power, but who did not seem to draw their inspiration
from the great founts of British story. Surely the young
men of Australia would not fall into the traps that were
set for them l>y r sixth or even less rate politicians, jour-
nalists, and publicists, but would see that this land of
Australia offered equal liberty and justice to all races.
The poor old Pastorhasevidently never heard of the
Thirty Years War, and a few trifles like that, and
to his narrow intelligence the Boer scramble just
ended is the greatest war of history. He evidently
doesn’t realise that Britain denies all political
liberty and political rights to about 350,000,000
colored men—and he wants Australia to give
“equal liberty and justice to all races,” and
talks of this as following a British precedent.
And it is evidently news to him that the German
immigrant doesn’t make for Greater Britain—that
in the main he avoids it as he would a pestilence.
The figures are available up to 1900 and in that
year, out of 22,309 Teutonic immigrants, about
400 went to British colonies ! Brazil alone re-
ceives about as many Germans as all Greater
together. The British colonies con-
stitute fifth of the globe, but they attract just
about one-fiftieth of German immigration nowa-
days. They attract rather more than the German
settlements—not much more. Moreover, even the
Britisher shows a marked aversion to his. own
colonies; out of 172,000 British and Irish immi-
grants in 1901 only about 60,000, or a little over
one-third, went to British colonies. When Pastor
Bevan, who is just about as inaccurate as the rest
of his tribe, is so miserably incorrect in small
things that can be easily verified, how does he
expect his word to be taken about large things
that can’t be verified —Gehenna, for instance ?
»
Pastor Bevan Again I
Sydney’s old friend, Preacher Bevan, has decided
that the Kanaka is good for Australia, though if
Dr. Bevan seemed to know a little more about
very ordinary current matters his opinion might
be more valuable than it is. In. a recent Jingo
deliverance at Brisbane he told his audience that
German immigrants almost all rushed to British
colonies to get under the blessed flag, and a man
who doesn’t know that only a fraction of either
German or British immigration goes to British
colonies now has something wrong with his educa-
tion. The chubby preacher went up to Cairns
to look at the Kanaka, and he was wildly
astonished to find it raining; he actually
didn’t know that there is a strip of very
wet country on that part of the coast. This again
shows a shocking state of ignorance. Dr. Bevan
was informed by the planters, and accepted the
information as fact, that though the death-rate
among the Kanakas was higher than among
whites, that was quite natural and reasonable ; he
evidently didn’t know that in a community like
that of the Kanakas in Queensland, where infant
mortality is almost wholly eliminated, the death-
rate, other things being equal, should be very
much lower instead of higher. He was told that
the Kanaka, Chinaman, and Jap were all
quiet, law - abiding citizens, and not having
sufficient brilliance to think of looking up the
criminal statistics of the Queensland Government
he passed the ridiculous lie along as solid fact.
Having been duly supplied with knowledge by
“Mr. DE Moleyns, brother of Lady Hopetoun,”
and not having heard any of the other side of the
question Preacher Bevan resolved that “ we need
some of these lower types of labor to build up a new
community like our own, ” though it is safe to bet
that Pastor Bevan couldn’t mention one new com-
munity that was successfully built up on the
use of low types of labor—not even if the informa-
tion would save his collection-plate from being
struck by lightning. Also, he resolved that it was
madness to enforce a White Australia law up
North, in latitude 20—the same latitude as Iquique,
Bulawayo, and the city of Mexico, and further
from the Equator than Lima, Callao, Guayaquil,
Pernambuco, Bahia, Caracas, and many other
places which the white man finds quite habitable.
The awful pastor says there is a “ great lack of
statesmanship” on the part “of the Government
and the parties that press the Government that
they try to compel the North Queenslander to
come under the action of laws similar to the
South.” He actually doesn’t know, or he dis-
honestly suppresses the fact, that North Queens-
land sent a strong anti-Kanaka majority to
the Federal Parliament, and that nobody
is compelling it to “ come under laws
similar to the South ”; it is doing so at
the urgent demand of its own Representatives.
Dr. Bevan admits that he didn’t go to any of the
mining districts —where the white man demon-
strates with his personal pick and shovel that the
White A ustralia d octrin e is practicabl e. And though
he says that the alleged ill-health of the colored
laborer is much exaggerated, it seems he didn’t
think of reading the awful nigger mortality statis-
tics of the Queensland Government; he just in-
quired off the planter, and was much impressed by
the figures “quoted to me” by that interested
party. The strength of the nigger-labor cause
lies in getting hold of fussy, pompous, amiable
old men like the silly Pastor Bevan, who only in-
quire into that side of the case where the wine and
cigars are, and who have spent a long life talking
feebly about Jeroboam till any power of inde-
pendent inquiry they ever possessed has left
them.
♦
More Reform Programme.
Premier Irvine of Victoria, like his predecessor
Peacock, is understood to favor a reform of the
House of 48 Rich Landlords by making every
person who has a vote for that dreadful body
qualified to sit therein. It isn’t very strongly
suspected that he will do anything, but he
is supposed to see that something should
be done. This is only logical. When
130,000 persons are qualified to vote at Leg.
Council elections and yet only 2000 persons in all
Victoria are qualified to sit in the Council,
when the creature is so much greater than the
creator that he disqualifies 64 out of every 65 of
him, or, in other words, when the creature is 65
times more select than the creator, and when the
haughty 48 Rich Landlords are allowed to declare
over 98 per cent, of their constituents to be too
degraded to associate with them —then there is
assuredly something wrong. Ex-Premier Peacock
realised this. So does Premier Irvine and they
both have some idea about putting it right.
Probably everybody in Victoria, barring the 48
Rich Landlords and Duncan Gillies, recog-
nises it. But there is a long, long way between
recognition and reform. The House of Land-
lords can’t be dissolved, can’t be swamped,
can’t be coerced in any way provided by
the Constitution. If Victoria had been an in-
dependent republic it would probably have long
since disposed of its House of Landlords
by revolution, but nobody ever cared much to
revolushe with a British fleet hanging off the coast
and British troops no further off than Singapore.
Apart from the fact that the Australian never
learned the art of revolution, there is always the
shadow of Imperial authority behind the dreadful
House of 48 Rich Landlords. A strong, fighting
democrat is required to put an end to the incubus
—merely being in favor of amendment counts for
no more in such a case than being in favor of rain
does in drought-time. Assuming that the House
of Landlords is in its usual frame of mind, and
declines to see, in the ordinary course of events,
that it requires removal, there are three possi-
bilities in view. One is plain revolution, as afore-
mentioned, but as there is nobody on hand who
understands the art that idea may be dropped.
Another is by the Assembly declaring its resolve
to go on strike till the Council climbs down —
to pass no estimates, to collect no taxes, to pay
neither the Civil Service, the police, the riiagis-
tracy, the public creditor, nor anybody else—to
close up the schools, the railways, the law courts
and civilisation generally—to let chaos come
again, and the fat man carry his life in his hand,
and the fat man’s tenant refuse to pay rent (for
want of anybody to enforce it), and his debtor
treat him with scorn (for lack of anybody before
whom he can be sued for non-payment), and
generally to shut things up, to turn off the gas,
and to go back to first principles. Probably two
days of the Great National Strike, if anybody
had the courage to strike, would bring the House
of Landlords to reason. A third way is to speak
gently to the 48 Obstructions and include in the
Bill for their abolition a life pension of £5OO or
£lOOO a year for each abolished M. L. C. in recog-
nition (ironically) of his great services. Probably
the Bill would pass then, and the loss could be
more than made good, when the 48 Landlords had
departed, by passing a new land tax law on the
N.S.W. model —a measure which would add,
probably, £lOO,OOO a year to_ the revenue. It
would be worth doing these things to secure the
total abolition of the House of 48 Landlords, and
it would even be worth it to secure an amendment
of that body—if the amendment was large
enough. But it requires a very strong man for
the work. Irvine certainly doesn’t look a strong
man. and Shiels is an amiable flickerer of no
account.
Another “ Solidarity " Party.
Now that N.S.W. has a Country Party in addi-
tion to the previous three, and the Country Party
has a solidarity pledge like that of the Labor
men, things are getting very badly mixed in State
politics. The “ solidarity ” idea is liable to pro-
duce curious results. Under it a party of 27 is
bound to give all its 27 votes in the way that 14
of its members approve, regardless of the opposi ■
tion of the other 13, and a party of 33 must give
its 33 votes as 17 members dictate, however much
the other 16 may boil inwardly. So these peculiar
results are just possible :
In favor Against Votes Vote
of Ministry. for Against
Ministry. Ministry. Ministry.
Country Paity 14 13 27
Labor Party 17 16 33
Cold Tea Prrty 8 5 11
Ministers 5 5
Oppositicn 49 49
42 83 70 49
Under the solidarity arrangement it is quite
possible for there to be only 42 members in the
Assembly who approve of the Government, while
83 disapprove, and yet for the Government to
have a majority of 27. And the defection of three
men might deprive it of 71 votes and place it in a
minority of 115, while the defection of one man
might change the majority of 27 into a shortage of
39. The situation is certainly a ridiculous one.
It might happen, no doubt, that 42 enlightened
patriots were keeping an enlightened Government
in office, against the wish of 83 degraded and
reactionary billet-hunters ; and 42 bridges and
culverts cost less than 63 bridges and culverts—
the number required to buy a majority in the
ordinary way. But on the other hand, a system
by which 42 opponents in a House of 125 can
throw an enlightened Ministry out, brings things
to a dangerous pass. If many more solidarity
parties arrive in politics the election of Ministers
for a fixed term, after the Swiss plan, will become
imperative. The solidarity arrangement, when
brought to perfection, would enable 32 members to
constitute a majority in a House of 125. and would
enable three or four men to turn a House of
almost unanimous supporters into one of almost
unanimous opponents. These things are too
sudden. When even one man could turn an
overwhelmingly big majority into a poor minority,
the present kind of Government—the kind which
can be ejected any day—would have to go home
by back lanes for fear of meeting that man and
being asked for £10,000,000 worth of public works.
A Ministry with a fixed billet for three years could
at least only be effectively squeezed once in three
years, which is something.
o
Symon’s Joke.
The Stmon party in the Federal Senate pegs
away steadily. On almost every item of the tariff
it proposes a reduction of the duty on the ground
that so much more will be imported under the low
duty, and so much less manufactured locally, and
the local Australian industry will be so far re-
tarded, and the Australian so far deprived of em-
ployment, that the low duty will yield as much as,
or more than, the high one. Its plea is that where
a 30 per cent, duty will yield £300,000 (iniports
£1,000,000) a 10 per cent, duty will yield quite as
much because the imports will rise to £3,000,000,
and £2,000,000 more will go out of the country
every year, and the work which the making of
that £2,000,000 worth of goods would afford to
Australians will be lost them. Then the country,
if it is to pay for these extra £2,000,000 of imports
in goods must do it in raw produce the
results of the most disgracefully sweated indus-
tries in Australia —the industries of the “man
on the land.” Symon and his Foreign-trade party
are the enemies of every decently-paid Australian
industry, and their pride when they carry a vote
for the reduction of a duty, and assure the Senate
that the reduction will so greatly depress the local
manufacture of the article, and increase the im-
portation, that the revenue will not suffer at all,
is suggestive of the joy of the gentleman who set
fire to his own capital and discoursed music over
the conflagration. The Symon party is pleasantly
frivolous about human suffering, and takes alight
and cheerful view of other people’s troubles.
Witness this extract from a last week’s debate :
Senator Styles thought that 10 per cent, would wipe
out all the woollen mills. What would happen if all the
mills were closed up ?
Senator Symon : Simply that they would be closed up.
(Laughter.)
The woollen factories of N.S.W. started a gradual
closing-up process as soon as the duty was taken
off, and by 1900 the output had diminished 25 per
cent, and the hands employed had dropped to 221.
A general closing up of the Victorian factories
would throw over 1000 employees out of work. The
N.S.W. policy of borrowing from three to seven
millions a year, in order to supply employment on
public works, can’t be adopted all round, or kept
up for ever, and going on the land yields a wage
of about 15s. a week on an average. Yet Symon
and his crowd laughed cheerfully at the prospect
of depriving all these people of employment. To
the followers of the affluent lawyer, who never
had to go on the land personally for his own crust,
it was rather a pleasant joke than otherwise.
The N.S.W. Censure Debate.
The hollow victory of Premier John See over
Opposition leader Solemn Lee in the recent cen-
sure debate shows nothing more clearly than that
the political power of the daily press of Sydney is
just now under a cloud. Mr. Lee has the unani-
mous support of the three Freetrade dailies, and he
obediently fashioned his programme in accordance
with the behests of the most militant and hysterical
of the three, declaring, for instance, in favor of
reduction of members at its suggestion. But all
in vain. The power that made George Reid
Premier cannot make Solemn Lee Premier. At
the last general election his forces were utterly
routed and no amount of press screaming has since
been able to reduce the two-to-one following of the
See Government. It is obvious, too, from the
result of the division, and from the speeches made
in debate, that the Tory movement for the reduc-
tion of the Assembly, while leaving the nominee
Chamber intact, has no strong popular support.
The Assembly showed itself emphatically opposed
to any reduction of its members, until such time,
at any rate, as a comprehensive Local Govern-
ment Act has been passed ; and this may be taken
as a fair reflection of the opinions of the constitu-
encies, for, despite any daily press representations
to the contrary, the average M.P. is not such a
fool as to fly in the face of the voters on any point
upon which they feel strongly. It may be accepted
as certain that, if the present state of public
opinion continues, the See Government will rot
only hold office throughout the life of this Parlia-
ment, but will carry the country at next general
elections—unless the Labor party, under a capable
leader and with a broadened platform, challenges
its position directly and appeals to the people
under the banner of Financial Reform. A Finan-
cial Reform Party must eventually supplant the
See Government—if not immediately, when there
is the opportunity of retiring voluntarily from an
untenable position of extravagance, then within a
very few years, when the inevitable crash eom/iels
economy. At present, the See Government
is favored by luck. The cessation of the
S’African war has relieved the pressure on the
London money market, and the next big
N.S.W. loan, which must be floated in a little
while, will probably go through successfully.
Probably, too, the big loan after that—a big loan
every six or 12 months is the logical and certain
consequence of an unbridled O’Sullivan —will go
through. But it is almost certain that the third
request for £3,000,000 or £4,000,000 will have a
cold reception—it possibly will be refused ; the
fourth is almost bound to be met with an indig-
nant “No”; and then somebody will have to face
the music. Has the Labor party enough states-
manship to take thought now and face the
situation ere the bailiff actually knocks at the
door ? We appeal to the Labor party because the
See party is hopeless in its extravagance, and the
press-bossed Lee party is hopeless in every way.
♦ .
All through the tariff debate there is one ques-
tion which crops up perpetually and which is
never answered. Reid, Gould, Bruce and
Pumpkin Smith, M'Millan, and Joe Cook were
all members of a Ministry which gave heavy Pro-
tection to N.S.W. newspapers, beer, sugar, and
various other industries. They sacrificed about
£50,000 a year revenue in protecting newspapers
by free postage. They sacrificed £50,000 a year
revenue or more by not making the excise on
local beer as high as the customs duty on imported
beer. They sacrificed about £70,000 a year by not
putting an excise on sugar to counterbalance the
import duty. Also, they sacrificed their alleged
Freetrade principles. Therefore, on the evidence
of their own acts, either these people were telling
a blank untruth when they said they firmly
believed Freetrade to be best for the country, or
else they were traitors deliberately trying to
injure N.S.W. by the partial adoption of a policy
which they knew would do it grievous harm. In
the former case they only call for contempt. In
the latter it is difficult to distinguish between
them and any other traitor.
Chief Justice of S.A. ruled lately that the
word “children” in a proven will does not
include illegitimate sons and daughters, recog-
nised as such by the testator, unless he or she
makes it quite clear that the word was not
restricted to its meaning within the law. The
blessed marriage law was not even made for
women, as is commonly argued. It was made for
“respectable” women only. The testator in the
Adelaide case was a man, but if he had been a
woman and a widow, instead of a widower, the
offspring born out of wedlock would have come
none the better off. A baby begotten through
adultery is a child before God and man, but not
before the Court of Probate. The direct descen-
dant of a spinster, or a widow, whose late husband
is more than nine months dead, cannot claim to
be a child under the mother’s will if she has been
parent to orthodox offspring of subsequent, or
previous, date. The law rises superior even
to the best dictionary authorities as re-
gards the meaning of the word “child.”


/ '
WHI SK V
*AW MILL MACHINERY. ——
BAXD or CIRCULAR MILLS, very heavy f or
hamvvAnn hm rmnnlniA J
hardwood timl.er Complete Outfits of anv’cam
• KBJA'VS .ENGINES. Bo'ILERS
city.
Bmn , WOODWORKING■■MACHINERY’
PLLP MACHINERY. GRIP PULLEYS
FLOUR MILLING MACHINERY.
the
' ALLIS ” ROLLER FLOUR MILLS on
UNIVERSAL BOLTER SYSTEM.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 24 Clarence-street, SYDNEY
If only this law were administered logically, it
would have the blessed effect that Mrs. Grundy
would be denied the satisfaction of proving that
weak, wicked, unmarried creatures of the female
gender are ever guilty of having “a child.” The
Law would dispose of Mrs. Grundy’s base
accusation for all time. The difference between
the married and unmarried patients at Melb.
Women s Hospital would be that Mrs. Smith
can and does have a child, whereas plain
Belinda Brown can’t and doesn’t. The omission
of the matrimonial title from the card hanging
over the back of Belinda’s bed would exone-
rate from all suspicion of being a mother. But,
unfortunately, the law doesn’t go so far, and an
illegitimate child can still be a child when that
fact is of prejudice to it or to its mother. It only
ceases to be a child when it would benefit by being
a child.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR OOMINO WEEK.
Royal “Sweet Nell of Old Drury."
Lyceum.. “In London Town.”
Tivoli Rickards’ 00.
Palace.. “ Facing’ the Music."
Criterion “ Barabbas.”
Centenary Ha 11...... Newbury-SpadaPops (Saturday).
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ The Thirty Thieves.”
Her Majesty’s “Florodora.”
Theatre Royal “ The King of Crime."
Bijou World’s Entertainers.
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Go.
♦
Sydney gave an enthusiastic reception to
Nellie Stewart and her stupendous hat—it looked
like the front wheel of the old velocipede with
feathers in it—when they returned to play “Sweet
Nell of Old Drury ”at the Royal. Trie drama is
partly historical, partly unhistorical, and partly
a proof that virtue is a very bad spec. It shows
how an honest orange-girl, with toed stockings
which don’t look at all like bare feet, by dint of
her beauty, courage, wit and kindness of heart,
fell upwards to be a king’s Flossie, and became rich,
benevolent, immoral, and universally admired. She
did much good with the money she acquired by
b“ing the king’s Flossie, and the influence that she
wouldn’t have possessed over that bad, blackish-
brown man if she had been a better woman
w.is used for good purposes. The uncertain heart
and the dazzling, toothy smile of the brownish-
blaokish king are striven for by three women—
two bad-bad women and one good-bad woman,
and the latter wins. She is the centre of a rather
well-constructed story, which is built up with a
vast disregard of facts, dates, and possibilities.
Long before the drama opens old Baronet Fairfax
walloped Jeffreys, afterwards Chief Justice.
Jeffreys darkly made a note of the fact, and took
the old baronet’s number for future reference.
Patiently and thoughtfully he executes the old
man, procures the exile of his son, who is
Nell G-wynno’s benefactor, drives his own ward
(who is Fairfax’s betrothed) to agree to a
marriage with the Earl of Rochester, runs
down the returned exile in Nell Gwynne’s
house and persuades the king that he is Nell’s
lover, gets Nell dropped with a thud from the
royal favor and the bright front tooth of Charles’s
smile diverted from her, sentences the young man
o'f-handedly to execution, takes possession of the
letters which would have proved to the king that
Fairfax really returned to see the other girl and
wasn’tstealing the royal Flossie, persuades the other
girl into an immediate marriage with the awful
Rochester by promising to release her lover ; and
then laughs a horrid, pock-marked, cross-eyed
laugh at the success of his scheme. And then,
while Jeffreys is out drinking, the Whole glittering
success falls through. Being an untidy Judge,
lie leaves the door and the box-lid both open
when he goes out. Nell Gwynne enters, disguises
herself in his clothes, and looks sufficiently like
him in the dusk to give orders for the release of
the imprisoned girl, to start her off with her tale
to the palace, to intercept Jeffreys’ correspon-
dence, and to collect evidence which bursts up the
show. It is a solemn thing to reflect upon, that
if Jeffreys had been sober and Nell Gwynne had
been respectable Roger Fairfax would have died,
and Rochester would have taken Roger’s best girl
to his den and there eaten her at leisure.
* • * *
Jeffreys, as a matter of fact, was only 35
when Charles 11. died, and he wasn’t a lord during
Charles’s lifetime. At the date of the present
play he was a splendidly handsome man of about
28 or 30, instead of the elderly and uncomely
ruffian of the drama, and unless Fairfax, senior,
spanked him in infancy the alleged assault was
practically impossible. Albert Gran probably
makes the Judge all that the author intended—
but he isn’t the real Jeffreys by miles. Harcourt
Beatty’s Charles 11. is a picturesque and regal-
looking character, with a tendency to staginess
here and there, but a very lovable king none the
less. This dramatic Charles is possessed of
beautiful front teeth and a desire to do good to his
country without knowing how. He is a mighty
loafer before the Lord—a kindly lier-down, and a
tired and reluctant sitter-up, and a well-intentioned
leaner against anything that will support him. He
is troubled inwardly by conflicting emotions and
dragged outwardly by three contending Flossies.
He wants to do justice, but can’t find it. He dis-
bkes bloodshed, and appeals gloomily to his dog
tor advice when his signature is wanted on death-
warrants. The real Charles was nothing like him,
but the stage Charles is a pleasant rake and an
honourable stealer of other men’s wives and
daughters, and Harcourt Beatty does respectable
justice to the character.
* * • •
As to Nell Gwynne, she ranks among
Nellie Stewart’s big successes. She is first a poor
and allegedly bare-footed orange-girl in toed stock-
ings who shakes the King in Drury Lane —why,
considering the undoubted attractions of Miss
Stewart’s bare feet, she should disguise them in
toed stockings is a mystery. Later she is a dash-
ing, beautiful and beautifully-dressed courtesan —
the weary King’s good angel, and the benefactor
of everybody. In an age when ladies seem to
have been unspeakably rude to each other in the
drawing-room she smothers the two other bad
women and sends them away broken up. Nellie
Stewart, with her wonderful vitality, plays the
character in a whirl of energy, beauty, jewels and
hair, and makes the play go with a rush all the
time. A few other persons who deserve a more
extended notice are held over till next week. It
is a gpod company, taken all round, and "Sweet
Nell’’ is a pleasant, though not very strong play.
Also, it is well-staged, and the management has
postumed it with a patient attention to the wigs
and coats of 240 years ago that is wholly com
mendable.
« .« * *
“ Facing the Music,” that quaint story of
the tempestuous house of Smith, has ««*Med down
to its stride at Sydney Palace, and all the members
of the company show a trifle better than on
opening night, The piece only goes, more slowly
because the players have to stop awhile occasion-
ally to allow the laughter to subside.
** * #
** In London Town ” is in its third week
at Sydney Lyceum. The gentleman whom it is
etiquette to refer to as the Genial Bland keeps the
play going as a b’uff sailor man who is supposed
t 0 a ff re at deal of affection for his mother,
and Ins regard for that aged relative is strongly
insisted on, though, as lie fails to hunt her up till
financial distress has landed her in the workhouse,
it isn t a very practical emotion. A pantomime
scene between Bland and the other man
w .hp also seeks the hand of the fair
pickle factory-girl wins loud approval from
the gods, but the dress circle, which doesn’t
propose in that fashion, looks dubious and
almost resentful. In general, however, it is the
Beenes from the slummy side of London life and
i? e P] ckle -f ac t°ry element, and the atmosphere of
the bloke and the back alley that give the drama
its chief claim to existence. Apart from them it
drags somewhat. One act is mainly filled by
people coming on in a motiveless manner, and
going off for the same reason, without advancing
the plot to any extent worth describing.
*# # *
The Woods- Williamson co. thought better,
or worse, of its intention to displace “ A Woman’s
Sin” after its first week with “Barabbas,” which
is an account of a man’s sin, with some feminine
shortcomings thrown in. Accordingly, Miss
Williamson’s version of “ The Manxman ” shows
up the foolishness of its heroine for one week
longer. The lady who respects her husband so
much that she feels it almost a sacred duty to
elope with someone else is convincingly enough
played by Miss Williamson, and the anguish
in her mind when she discovers that she cannot
love Pete, and that therefore it would be “ brazen ”
for her to live with him any longer, is a very good
style of anguish in its way. The old-fashioned
“ East Lynne ” type of eloping wife eloped from
straight and simple affection for the villain. The
modern wife goes astray because of the purity of
her soul. _ However, “Barabbas” begins its more
or less glittering career this Saturday, and a few
heathen dances are to enliven the early Christian
gloom of the drama.
* * *
Sydney Tivoli programme has been
materially strengthened by items from Miss Ray
Jones, a pleasant and bright singer, and the re-
appearance of the Lenton trio—acrobats and
comedians. Harris and Walters have departed,
which is a blessed circumstance; and no one
regrets the absence of the violent Irish comedians.
** * #
The Players Club was founded by Mrs.
Philip Lytton, once known in the profession as
Madge Hope ; and its threefold object is to bring
amateur theatricals in Sydney to a high standard
of excellence, to afford amusement at metropolitan
and suburban hospitals, and to assist any deserving
charity whatever. Judging by the recent per-
formance at the Theatre Royal the first object has
been achieved, for the principals in Pinero’s
delightful ‘ Weaker Sex ” gave a better perform-
ance than many that have held the boards in
Sydney theatres for weeks at big prices. It was
absolutely the best amateur performance this
writer has seen. Still, the Players Club is com-
posed largely of ex-professionals who have taken
t°_ juggling with business and finance and other
things for a living, but who can’t help breaking
out in dramatic outbursts occasionally, and these
professionals, being rested, give better perform-
ances than they used to do when they followed
the Hamlet’s ghost industry at full speed for a
hying. The Club’s Dramatic Studio is in the
Equitable Buildings, George street. Another
interesting feature about the production was that
the whole of the orchestral part of the show was
carried out by the Sydney Amateur Mandoline
Society under the conductorship of Mr. Robert
Francis Peel, and was very successful, there being
a total absence of the crash-bang horror that even
the best of Australian orchestras seem addicted
to.
#* * #
“ The King of Crime,” who was known as
“A King of Crime” when he first waved his
sceptre over this continent, is again throttling
Simon Iscariot at Melh. Royal with complete
success. Simon, whom the King calls Judas, sits
on the same old convenient seat where he sat
eight years ago in order that two vindictive hands
may steal forth from behind the curtains and
drag him to his ,doom when the clock strikes
twelve. The awful treachery for which Simon
comes to grief is connected with a dead miser in
the first act and a ditto blind lady in the third
act, the blind lady having perished casually
amidst a snow storm when the King, her husband,
was striking attitudes outside the Golden Pig hotel.
The clock and the King are the most striking
features of this festive horror. Next to them in
importance comes the blind lady, and an elderly
female of bad character who drops a packet of
snuff in her rabbit-pie, and consoles the consumer
with drugged brandy. Also, the innocent ward
of the miser and her brave lieutenant rescue one
another occasionally, whilst the hero of the snuffed
pie dodges around the Golden Pig, pursued by a
small' but virtuous soubrette from a rival pub.
Finally there is a ballet of many colors. The
ballet dances a can-can, and is invited to
drink at the expense of Judas, whereupon a
member of the brotherhood tears the mask
from the Betrayer’s face, and the girls repudiate
the refreshments with scorn. Shortly after which
the clock chimes midnight, and the hands of ven-
geance clutch their victim as aforesaid, and the
King, being shot down by gendarmes, dies happy
in the thought that his blind angel wife will
admire him for not allowing the wrong man to get
guillotined. Ihe spectacle of the King expiring in
the limelight to slow music, applauded by a
regretful gallery, is almost as impressive as the
incident of the Hands—but not quite.
** * *
Robert Inman has succeeded Albert Marsh
and Charles Holloway on the throne of Crime.
Inman wears a false forehead—something like the
brow of John Norton—and a lurid autocratic air
suited to his royal state. Willard is the opportune
lieutenant, and Bert Bailey eats the pie that gives
him a sneezing sensation in the stomach Miss
Duggan, Julia Merton, doleful Ada Guildford,
L>ucklev, J. Ij. liciwrcnct*, »T. H. fincl
other people help to sustain Anderson’s volatile
shriek, and the scenery, by Rege Robins and Co.,
is everything than can be asked for.
“Dorothy,” at Her Majesty’s, seemed to
resume business on Saturday night at the point
where it was interrupted six weeks before. A
restoration of anything after a lapse of only a few
weeks is apt to be one of the saddest experiences
in theatrical management, but “ Dorothy ”i 3 a
charming musical exception which proves the rule.
Melbourne was moderately enthusiastic over the
show that adorned the tail end of the previous
comic opera season, and now the people who
missed the revival in its early freshness are glad
to have it warmed up for them. Florence Young’s
performance, always the predominant part of the
proceedings, has gone from good to better, and if
theother voices hang out signals of distress, as some-
times happens, Florence sails in with her top note
spread to the wind and gets them off the rocks
every time. Also Lauri— the Lauri, whose other
name is George—supplies a public want by being
torn to tatters, or getting drunk and falling down-
stairs. And the chorus necessarily improves.
The “Dorothy ” chorus at the outset was so rough
and unready that the improvement sounds excep-
tional. Next Saturday (illst) “ Florodora ” will be
revived, with a new baritone, Harold Thorley, as
the noble lord who yearns for 0 his Dolores, and
Miss Palotta, for the last times, as the auntie of
that rash young man.
** * *
Talking of choruses, the background mem-
bers of the “Thirty Thieves” co. deserve a
special vote of thanks. Only a first-class force of
voices could have carried Musgrove’s show into
its fourth week, and if the singers, as a body, were
not almost equal to the splendor of their clothes
the music would not make them appear quite as
important as they are.
»* * *
At Melb. Opera House, the excellent
broad comedy sketch by Tom and Mrs. Nawn is
an effective contrast to the joke in one act which
Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Drew introduced to Aus-
tralia last week. The new arrivals play a smart
little up-to-date reminder of “The Taming of the
Shrew.” Mrs. D. is a buxom bride, who has
started her honeymoon with a toy terrier in her
lap and a ruminative husband at her elbow. He
desires to adore his Cassandra, but she dotes on
the dawg. She dotes on so furiously that her
other darling—the two-legged one—goes mad in
self-defence, and reduces Cassandra to subjection.
Mrs. Drew shines brightest as an actress when
she is bossing the situation, but the less-imposing
Drew is at his best before he waxes frantic.
* * *
The World’s Entertainers at Melb. Bijou
are pretty much as they were in Sydney what
time Salerno and Bunth and Rudd had front
places on the programme. Take it altogether, the
Bijou show, in its reconstructed form, is All Right,
though there are moments of depression, when one
wishes things were different.
** * *
The Broughs have ended their season at
Adelaide Royal in a tumult of popular apprecia-
tion. After putting up four new plays they ran
through all the old favorites, playing “Mrs.
Tanqueray,” “The Village Priest,’ and “Niohe,”
on consecutive nights, as a final effort of versa-
tility. With the last-mmed they said farewell to
the small city, which claims to have always sup-
ported them more heartily than either Melbourne
or Sydney. _ Cecil Ward is to leave them shortly,
and Lovell is on his way from London to replace
him. Willoughby and co. have opened at the
Tivoli in “The Wrong Mr. Wright” to big
houses.
The Wild Cat Column.
Federal Treasurer Turner, being more honest
and more anxious to do the right thihg.than any of this
country’s State Treasurers, announces that every Federal
loan issued under his supervision will have a 2 per cent,
sinking fund attached. This will be sufficient to pay the
loan off in about 30 years. Of course, there is no guaran-
tee that future Treasurers won’t cut down the sinking
fund on future loans to 1 per cent, as the Act allows.
And there is no guarantee that the works to be paid for
by loans will last anything like 20 years ; for instance,
part of the first loan is for anew telephone switchboard
at Sydney G.P.O. to replace one—also built with loan
money and not paid for—which has become obsolete in
about two years. Probably, partly through wear-and-
tear, and partly through the progress of science, everv-
thing that is built out of the first loan will be dead or out
of date a dozen years hence.
Treasurer Turner claims that he has fixed things
so rigidly by his Bill that the sinking funds can’t be
suspended or tampered with. But even if that were
so, the loan game doesn’t pay. Suppose the Common-
wealth borrows £500,000 a year regularly—it will probably
borrow much more by-and-bye, but £500,000 a year is
talked of at present, and that sum serves as well for pur-
poses of illustration as any other. Allowing for discount
on 3 per cent, loans, cost of management, accrued interest
thrown in, and sundries, the Commonwealth will do
amazingly well if it gets its money at a fair average rate
of 3| per cent. So this is the drain on the public revenue,
assuming (1) that the Commonwealth borrows £SOO 000
every year, and (2) that it pays the £500,000 a year out of
revenue and borrows nothing :
Charge on Revenue if
Commonwealth bor- Charge on Revenue
rows £500,000 per year; if public works are
2 per cent, sinking built wholly out of
fund ; 3J per cent, in- taxation,
terest and expenses.
Ist year .. .. £2(5.250 ... £500.000
10th „ .. .. 202.500 .. 600,000
2oth „ .. .. 625,000 .. 600,000
30th 787,500 .. 600,000
40th „ .. .. 787,500 .. 600,000
50th „ .. .. 787,500 .. 600,000
60th „ .. .. 787,500 .. 600,000
70th „ .. .. 787,000 .. 600,000
100th 757.500 .. 600.000
200th and all sub-
sequent years .. 787,500 .. 600,000
That i 3 to say, supposing the Commonwealth settles down
to borrow £500,000 a year on the proposed very low terms
it will save a good deal tor 10 years and a little up to 19
years. Then it begins to pay more than if it had never
borrowed at all, and the borrowing business becomes a
dead loss. The loss increases till it reaches £287,500
per annum, and it remains at that for ever
afterwards. The saving is very, very temporary and
the after loss is permanent. Of course, however, the
sinking fund business won’t last. The clause will be
repealed when the burden grows heavy, and new loans
issued with no sinking fund. Possibly'also, as in Maori-
land, it will be decided some day, not'onlv to issue future
1 >ans without a sinking fund, but also to'pay the sinking
funds attached to the old loans out of borrowed money.
Besides, a time always comes when the Treasurer begins
to remark that as he has paid £250,000 off the old loans
this year his deficit of £251,374 isn’t really a matter of
any importance and the sinking fund goes to wreck in-
dir 'ctly. The Federal Parliament has unlimited powers
of taxation, so it is no earthly use saving it can’t raise the
money. All it wants is ttie erit to face the si nation.
The country has six loan-floating Governments already ;
it doesn’t want seven loan-floating Governments—for less
than 4,000.000 people.
• • • *
The Queensland Government proposes to scrape
up some extra revenue by a big increase of railway fares.
Heavy direct .taxation would be a great deal more
reliable, especially as regards the Brisbane suburban
railways, where increased fares will only drive business to
the syndicate-owned trams. Queensland has had some
good years of late, and if in the good vears it had exerted
itself to pay off its old deficits and save the interest
charge they involve, the bad years wouldn’t be nearly so
bad. Unfortunately Australia borrows in bad years to
tide over the trouble, and borrows in good years because
its prosperity “ justifies it in increasing its liabilities.”
And after each depression it rises again—only every time
it rises with more difficulty and with a bigger dead lift,
like a waterlogged ship whose burden is getting heavier
every hour.
« * * »
The harassed and drought-stricken firm of
Goldsbrough Mort and Cos. (one of the many which
almost perished through sharing in the general belief
that the Australian interior is a much more habitable
country than it really is) shows material signs of im-
provement. A year or more ago £493,740 was written
off the co.’s B debentures, and about £200,000 of A
debentures were repurchased at a discount and ex-
tinguished. These two op rations reduced the liabilities
considerably, and with a large increase of earnings the
co. is n,o\v able, for the first time since 1596, to pay its
debenture interest in full and show a small surplus :
}-Year to Earn- Interest Paid on Written
ings. Debenture Stocks. off.
£ £ £
March, 1896 .. 67,854 j “ stock > | P- c - j 67,539 315
Year to 11 "
March, 1897.. 69,689 {“£” » •* \ 6 8,914 675
„ 1898.. 60,257 “A” ” 4!! J 59,656 601
„ 1899 .. 60,102 „ „ 4 59,656 446
•* 1900.. 65,338 „ „ 4 „ 59,505 5,773
Rest rve
Fund.
1901.. 69,810St™*, i „ \ 66,351 3,459
„ 1902.. 83,897 All stock 4 ” 82,398 4,958
Goldsbrough, Mort, and 00. show a great increase in net
earnings this year, which is remarkab e considering the
disastrous nature of the seasons. It is able to resume
payment of full interest on its debentures, and it begins
to possess a small reserve fund again. For the year just
closed the surplus, after paying the debenture-holders in
full, is £1499. This is only equal to a little over ss. per
cent, on the paid-up capital of £558,995, and it will re-
qiure nearly £27,00 > more earnings before a 5 per cent,
dividend will be possible, even on paper. Still the situa-
tion is greatly improved, and looks much more hopeful.
* * * *
G-oldsbrough, Mort and Cos. is now trading on
£558,995 of its own capital and nearly £2,000,000 borrowed
on debentures. It will never be really safe until, by the
gradual accumulation of profits, it has paid off a great
part of this debt and become a concern trading much
more extensively on its own fends. The top-heavy mass
of borrowed money is always a danger. As regards the
disasters which nearly destroyed the co., and which
swallowed up so enormous a proportion of its funds, it is
not likely that it, or any other big pastoral co., will invite
a repetition of them by making advances in the drought
country again. The unreliability of that dreadful land,
where the “great national industry” of Australia has
only been kept alive by defrauding banks and financial
institutions, is pretty well known now. The Freetrade
party may still describe sheep-rearing in the West as a
“ natural industry,” as distinguished from the artificial,
but honest job of making protected boots or steel rails in
a town, but so far it has required much more coddling,
bonuses and extraneous aid to keep the Western pastoral
industry going than would have been needed to start a 1
iron industry for the supply of all Australia. And tl e e
is little save bones, lunatics and broken banks to sl.o
for all the money that has been sunk.
* * ♦ .
The N.S.W. Government has circularised the
unpaid property-holders in the resumed area of Sydney
inviting them to leave their purchase money on deposit
at the Treasury for (hree or five years at 4 per cent,
interest. In other words, the Government wants to bor-
row the money from them at 4 per cent. This is a pretty
steep rate, but during May only £9475 was raised locally
by the sale of 3J per cent, stock, and it is impossible to
go on the London market for another loan just yet. The
last loan was almost all, if not all, spent iri advance. It
was just about suftkient to replace the borrowed trust
funds, and though, these having been replaced, the
process of borrowing them can begin again, still there is
a lot of money still wanted to pay for the resumed area.
It would have been better if the resumptions had
been compulsorily paid for in 3* per cent. Govern-
ment securities, but it is too late to think of that
now. If the present device brings in one or two
or three millions it will stave off most of th ■ trouble
for three or five years. Presumably the amount of
these deposit receipts will be included in the total of the
public debt, though there are a lot of sums owing—over-
drafts, deficits, suspense accounts, loans from trust funds
and the like—which are often not includ and when the
alleged total of the debt is stated. The rents collected
by the Government up to date having been dishonestly
used as revenue, the interest due up to date will, of
course, be added to the principal of the debt. And if the
resumed area yields more in rent than it costs in interest
on borrowed money—well, nobody but a fool would
suspect See and O’Sullivan of any intention of putting
the surplus to a sinking fund to repay the debt. See and
O’Sullivan are not built that way—and the spectacle of
N.S.W. trying to get “ deposits ” at 4 per cent, for three
years, when the banks only pay 3J per cent, is one of the
results of See and O’Sullivan.
* * * *
Just at present there seem to be three nations
and three only in the race for the shipping supremacy of
the globe. This was how they progressed last year :
Shipping owned by two empires and one republic.
In 1900 In 1901 Increase
* (tons). (tons).
United States .. 6,164,839 5,524,218 359,379
Germany .. .. 1,737,798 1,941,645 203,847
British Empire .. 10,596,396 10,748,932 152,536
This does not include any change that may have been
brought about by Pierpont Morgan’s purchases, but as
the vessels bought by that excited person are still to
remain nominally British and to sail under the British
flag, Morgan’s transactions will probably leave things, on
paper, very much where they were.
» • * *
It would be interesting to know how old a
railway has to be before it is expected to absolutely
maintain itself, and ceases to have any of its small
charges debited to capital and paid out of loan funds.
Even when a line has become ancient history charges
connected with it seem to be still debited to loa'ns, and it
is expected to earn interest upon an ever-increasing
capital. For instance, take the following N.S.W.
samples :
Railwav Capital Cost Capital Cost
„ . ... 1894. 1900.
Sydney-Kiama .. .. £2,130,294 £2,191,663
Junee-llay 1.043,270 1,008.370
Walletawang-Mudgee .. 1,042,810 1,044,146
Goulburn-Cooma.. .. 1.462.177 1,463,105
Armidale-Jennings .. 1.539,946 1,540,’535
Murrmnburrah-Blayney 1,141,945 1,143,888
Cuicairn-Corowa.. .. 228,227 '236.302
Black town-Richmond .. 196,168 198 180
Kiama-N owra .. .. 376,253 331’224
Cootamundra-Temora .. 188,030 194’167
Lismore-Murwillumbah.. 897,494 928^310
These are a few samples taken at random from the list of
non-paying railways—but all the railways, paving and
non-paying, are in the same situation. Even when a line
like the Blacktown-Riehmond one, has been in existence
for 36 years the expenditure of borrowed money upon it
still goes on. Some of these lines will have’an awful
amount of loan capital to earn interest upon in another
century. Surely there must be some date in a railway’s
history after which all further alterations, repairs and
charges should be paid out of earnings.
• • • •
The Wellington Deposit, Mortgage and Build
ing Association (Wellington, M.L.) is about the youngest
concern of its kind in Australasia. The balance-sheet to
31st March, 1902, co ers about two months’ work and
shows a loss of £l7B by reason of preliminary expenses
and other unavoidable troubles, but things promise well
for the future. Maoriland, being a State where the
securities don’t go bad in a wholesale wav throne),
drought, is a good place for this variety of business S


gdf
TRAMWAYS. TFtA.M:WA.YS.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop. Ltd.
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material.
gO~ Locomotives from 10 to 250 h.p.
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel Sleepers,
Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical advice gratuitously
rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated Catalogues and Photo*
graphic Albums showing Tramways constructed in diflerent parts of the World, upon
application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
Is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows” (either irolcl or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties oifered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,"
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Mr. Mephan 1<'erguson, Engineer, Tron founder,
&c.,of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that, ths
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footsoray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twentv
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-makin*
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, andallsortsofiron-work.*
* « * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Casllereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* • * *
Although the severe drought has detrimentally
affected mining, there are still many mines requiring
Ss of all descriptions, and to those we would recoria-
the A.S. Cameron Steam Pumps. Besides these, a
much-improved Gyratory Crusher is now on the market—
viz., the “Austin”- in style on the Gates’ system, but
greatly improved throughout, and having special features
which make them superior to all others. The agents for
the above are Messrs. VV. and J. Lempriere, 506 Little
Collins St., Melbourne. This enterprising firm is always
to the front with the best of every mining appliance,
which includes the unparalleled Luhrig Concentrating
Vanner.*
• * • •
Mine Managers, Engineers, &c will learn with
interest that the Dunlop Rubber Mills, Melbourne, are
now prepared to quote prices and submit samples of
Suction, Drill or Air Hose, Packing, Valves, etc., of the
highest quality at prices previously unobtainable in
Australasia. Depots in all States. Correspondence
invited.*
• • * *
City Leader, July, 1901: “We can only say
as before that for security and reliability the Colonial
Mutual, takes a high place in the insurance world.”*
* • * *
The Wilfley Concentrator, which was patented
and introduced to Australia some three years ago, has
met with the most phenomenal success, and is now to be
found in almost every up-to-date mill in all the States,
particularly Kalgoorlie and Broken Hill, where every
mine of importance is using them. Similar success has
been met with in every mining centre of the world, some
5000 of the tables having been sold. Its success has led
to numerous imitations and infringements of the Wilfley
patent. Lately the Company obtained an injunction and
damages against the Cammett machine and users thereof,
their patents being confirmed by the American Supreme
Court, and other of the imitations have since been taken
off the market. The Syndicate owning the patents in
Australia has decided to prosecute all infringements, and
action has now been taken in this direction in Victoria.
Users being equally liable with vendors of infringements,
they should exercise caution in dealing only with the
sole manufacturers, the Austral Otis Engineering
Company, South Melbourne, or their authorised agents.*
• * * *
Do not hesitate. Write first post for description
of new Gasoline furnaces—will melt anything, and so must
be invaluable to all assayers. Mr. de Beer, Bourke-street,
Melbourne, will afford particulars.*
• • • •
The Adelaide insurance co.’s are indignant with
the local Fire Brigade superintendent for asserting that
he has not enough men and appliances to cope with a big
conflagration. “ The stronger we make the brigade,”
they protest, “ the less people will he inclined to insure
and' the lower the premium rates will have to be.” They
complain that though they pay four-ninths of the cost of
the brigade they have only two men on the board of six
members.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Unaer license irom the A.G.O. of A. Ld.
SPOT or FORWARD. LOWEST PRICES.
Storage can be arranged.
HY. MARK WALD,
MBLBOURKH, iTDNKT, RtIBBANB, AdBUATDB, ACTCRIi AND
Denudin' and WstuNatwi.
“M.A.8.”: As already stated, the concern
seems to be improving:. It appears to have begun with too
little capital and too much borrowed money, and to have
paid too much for its business—a great deal too much.
But, unless its balance-sheets are a complete lie, it is
gradually coming round.
“ X.Y.Z.” : Reckon Commercial Bank of Aus-
tralia preference, Colonial Bank preference, Melbourne
Tramways and Australian Gas Light Cos. all good enough.
Don’t care so much for the other two.
• * • •
There is now a proposal, on behalf of a British
syndicate, to supply Christchurch (M.L.) with electric
trams, and there has been “ much discussion as to the
best system to adopt.” The system of casting out the
British syndicate and making the work a State or muni-
cipal affair undoubtedly 1 That essential provided for,
the adoption of polyphase or continuous-current methods
is only a detail.
* * * •
Meat of all kinds is rapidly getting to famine
prices in Queensland. The drought is blamed for it all,
but one big factor is that, for the past 30 months, huge
shipments at “sweet” prices have been sent to feed
T. Atkins and co. at the Cape. One big firm must have
cleared colossal profits, as their buyers bought six months
ahead at bedrock prices for cash, and in many cases the
result panned out cent, per cent.
For 37 years the Bank of Adelaide has kept its
directors’ fees at £loooa.vear; but now, with a London
office, a reserve equal to 50 per cent, on the capital, and
an increase of 100 per cent, in the business inside 10
years, the shareholders have sprung the allowance to
£ISOO. A suggestion to make the pay follow the divs.
was wisely jumped on, for in times of stress when profits
are down'to vanishing point, the average board has most
to do.
* * • •
Mr. Collins, a mining engineer, well known in
Bathurst district (N.S.W.) —not Frank Gardner’s Sydney
partner, the “Major”—has written an exhaustive paper
on Hill End goldfield, which was read at a recent meeting
of the Institute of Mining Engineers, London. Mr.
Collins works on extensive data recorded by his father,
who managed mines at Hill End. On the facts and plans
submitted and the conclusions drawn from them it would
seem that the late Duke of Manchester made a serious
mistake when he closed down a local mine which was
being worked by an English co. According to plans em-
bodied in Mr. Collins’ paper the co. had less than 150 ft. to
drive at the bottom level to intersect the belt of slates in
which the bonanzas were found in shallower ground.
This belt of slates was thrown out of its supposed course
by a slide, the existence of which had not been observed,
or, if observed, had been ignored, and thus the ex-
tensive exploratory work done by the English co. never
reached the crucial point. Mr. Collins’ paper is most cir-
cumstantial, and now that Govt, is talking about a pro-
ject to further test Hill End should command attention
and investigation. The best returns were got from
Hawkins’ Hill in 1873, when Krohmann crushed 436 tons
for 24,0790 z., and Beyers and Holtermann 415 tons for
16,2790 z. Poor, good-hearted Beyers ! Y\ riter met him
not long since in W.A. where he was eking out a miser-
able existence at dry-blowing. What a shocking contrast
to the dapper, frock-coated belltoppered man who used
to smile in N.S.W. Leg. Assembly! Beyers made only
one speech during a long Parliamentary career, and a
Sydney paper, which is always boasting of British fair-
play, in execrable taste reported the incoherent, almost
incomprehensibly-broken English, verbatim.
* * • •
Lobbs’Hole copperfield, Kiandra (N.S.W.), is
a remarkable one, and will be heard of to advantage
when Minister O’Sullivan can spare the money to make a
dray-track from the mountain heights to the valley. The
“ Hole ” is surrounded by precipitous cliffs from 2000 to
3000 ft. high. The Yarrangobiily River has cut a narrow
gorge, and mining operations are carried on right in the
bed of the stream, the working shafts being on the banks
just above high water mark. The overhanging cliffs are
composed of layers of conglomerate, limestone, and
breccia, and theriver has eroded thesedown to a bed of slate,
in which the copper lodes occur. The ore is theoretically
pure chalcopyrites, the general assay being about 33J per
cent, copper. Reeckmann and Forstrom have in a very
short time consigned about 500 tons of ore, which has
averaged 30 p.c. Last week they cut the lede 50ft. below
previous workings and found it 4ft. wide of solid mineral,
assaying nearlv 34 per cent. Despite the low price of
copper and many difficulties, the party are still consign-
ing ore at a big profit. There is only one other copper-
mine in N.S.W. of which this can be said. Other, parlies
are working on’parallel veins equally rich. The drawback
to the field is that ore has to be sent from the mines, and
supplies to them, on pack-horses for a distance of three
miles, and then for 10 miles the murmurings of the forest
are mingled with bullock-punchers’ prayers as they per-
suade their teams through a slough of snow and slush.
Once Tumut road is reached all is easy going. A route
for a road, with a fair grade to the mines, has been sur-
veyed, and The O’Sullivan has promised to have the work
done “as soon as funds are available.” Let him accom-
plish it, and he will, for a certainty, be immortalised in a
brass monument facing the Yarrangobiily cliffs. The
mine-owners will promise this.
* * * *
“Jackar”: Be “Cobarite” (8., 3/5/’02): I
know nothing as to his alleged facts, but can endorse his
general contention that some of the mines’ inspectors
make most unreasonable demands on mine-ovvners and
put them to needless expense and annoyance without en-
suring the slightest extra protection to workmen. Here
is a case. A syndicate composed of M’s.P. managed to
secure a promising “block” claim. They sunk a shaft
170 ft. without a stick of timber, and their hauling appli-
ance was a windlass, the handles of which tvere not pro-
perly centred in the barrel. Fancy it! Men working in
a shaft 170 ft. deep under a lopsided-windlass ! But never
a word of protest was therefrom any inspector. M’s.P.
tired of forking out “pay” instead of drawing it in, and
abandoned the claim. Another party took it up and
erected a steam-winder. When they got down the shaft
they found it so crooked (it’s only a coincidence that it
was a Parliamentary shaft) that it had veered round from
East and West to North and South. It cost them £3O
to square it—the shaft. They intended to sink 30 ft. or
so in the hope of cutting the lode, and had just started
when an inspector came along and peremptorily ordered
them to stop sinking and not dare to proceed again
until they had divided the shaft and put in skids to
guide the'bucket. This was done at a cost of over £IOO.
Shaft sunk 30 ft., lode not found, claim again
abandoned. Thus this inspector compelled the pros-
pectors to spend more on unnecessary work than it would
have cost them to do their test in a perfectly safe way.
Yet work carried on in the same shaft, under absolutely
unsafe conditions, when owned by M’s.P. was somehow or
other not noticed 1 X have heard many strong oaths
about this business. You may have as many Bible oaths
as you may want as to the truth of every syllable of the
statement. Another fact. When a certain inspector
approaches a set of workmen his first question is “ day'
work, or contract, bovs ?.” If the men reply “daywork ”
he says “allright, boys, spell-ho! ” and proceeds to
discuss things in general with them. More Bible oaths,
if necessary.
* * * *
At various times leases have been taken up on
the Barrier (N.S.W.) for silver, lead, zinc, copper, tin,
gold, antimony, asbestos, cinnabar, iron, manganese,
bismuth, wolfram, cobalt and platinum, and now applica-
tions have gone in for leases for phosphoric and tungstic
acid. An Adelaide syndicate is hunting up these possible
sources for the supply of artificial manures, in which
there must be a big trade if S.A., with her easily-
impoverished land, is to stick to agriculture. The B. H.
Junction board takes recent good advice and cuts ex-
penses to the hone. Directors’ fees have been reduced
by half, and office-expenses come down by still more.
The South still does first-rate work, as concen-
trating work goes. It puts through now over 3000
tons of ore a. week, besides about 500 tons of old
tailings. The ore averages 18'2 per cent, lead, B£oz.
silver, and 17'8 per cent, zinc ; the tailings 20'7 per
cent, lead, 3'2 oz. silver, and 23*2 per cent. zmc.
The concentrated product (say, 725 tons) averages 64;8
per cent., lead and 220 z. silver, and 9*6 per cent, zinc is
still left In. They go on developing very big bodies in the
deep levels. Silver sticks below 25., and, according to
the co.’s advisers, it oughtn’t. The only explanation
offering is that the collection of the China war indemnity
and the re-distribution of the millions of taels which that
represents, is, for the time being, keeping this big buyer
off the market. If this is so, this cause will probably not
last long, because mere re-distribution will not supply
the new coin for which a growing people that counts its
wealth in silver is always calling.
* * • *
As Adelaide is keen on tin shows it will most
likely be tried again with some amalgamated properties
at Euriowie and Poolamacca, on the outskirts of the
Barrier. Some of the early Broken Hill men dropped a
pot of money here 11 or 12 years ago, and to this day
most of them don’t know how they did it, as there is
plenty of good tin stone there, easily dressed. The
Tarrawingee railway, which goes out most of the way to
the fields, will give them a chance now that they did not
have before. But the people who are “ mashed on ”
tin had best find out something about their
charmer before they do the honest thing with her. Any-
how, to drop the girl-business, they must not figure on a
steady market at £l3O or more. In the last half-century
this is by far the top price ; between ’BB and ’9B, including
both, no year’s average was up to £IOO, and ’9B saw it as
low as £59Jk Certainly, while the price has been runningup
these last few years, “ visible ” stocks have been running
down; Sargaiit and Cos., the London tin-men, give the
figures for ’97 as 40,744 tons, with a regular fall to 20,703
tons last year. But the heathen Chinee holds most of the
strings of this market, and probably this is another of the
games he doesn’t understand. And the strings that the
Chinee don’t hold the Dutchmen hold, and they don’t
understand the game either.
• • • •
Amid all the depressing circumstances of
drought-time in N.S.W. the coal-mining industry shines
out as one of the few steadil.v-profitable of this State’s
undertakings. There are practically no unemployed coal-
miners or coal-mines in N.S.W. now, and fresh pits are
being opened up to meet the ever-increasing demand.
The impetus which the Federal tariff will give to manu-
factures promises a great local expansion of the coal
industry ; and to the colliery-owner the local is infinitely
more profitable than the foreign market.
* ♦ • •
Elliott Diamond Cos. (N.S.W.) : Reconstruction
scheme a gem of the first water—loo,ooo shares, 67,000
fully paid and 33,000 with a liability of 2s. per share.
Paid-up holders in old co. continue in that status; old
contributors still to find the cash with the prospective
solatium that they are to have preference in divs. to the
extent of 3d. per share. They are also told that “it is
confidently expected the continuance of operations for
three or four months at most will prove the mine and
poxsibly discover the rich run of wash opened up in the
adjoining leases.” The probability of anything payable,
for a co., being found in the district is very remote. But
assuming that the chances were otherwise why should not
the paid up holders in the old Elliott co. chip in now and
pay their share towards proving the mine ?
rJ « m • *
Sydney Harbor Collieries: Coal-seams struck in
shaft at nearly 3000 ft. now being driven on and gradually
increasing in size, with every indication of the shale band
which separates them forming into coal. The coal is
of excellent quality—about 17 per cent, of hydrocarbons,
72J per cent, of fixed carbons and 9 per cent. ash. This
is one of the pluckiest enterprises ever undertaken in
Australia.
i * * •
Hillgrove Proprietary: Winze now within 40tc.
of Baker’s Creek No. 33 level. Very rich stone still
showing. Reported that London directors have made
arrangements to finance the co. Also that negotiations
are pending for amalgamation with Baker’s Creek. This
would be a capital thing for the latter, but there’s not
much likelihood of its coming off.
* * • *
Probably the worst lizzie in W.A. was the
Venture Corporation’s Golden Cement show at White
Feather. One expert reported that there was £2,774,480
worth of gold in sight, and another fixed the amount at
£2,288,291. The deposit was practically worked out for a
gross result of £2290. Still, seeing that the dream and
the reality both began with a2, the expert was nearer
the mark than he sometimes is.
• * * •
Murchison Reliance, Yalgoo (W.A.) floated in
London by Issell Perrott (N.S.W.) and Bowler (Vic.) on
supposition of having Great Fingall Reef. Divs. promised
within six months. Capital £60,000, of which only
£16,000 is working capital. Property is situated very,
very far south of Great Fingall, while properties yards
south have failed to find the reef.
♦ * *
Justice Kekewich, in London Chancery Court,
decided that Whitaker Wright is liable to refund moneys
subscribed by public to the Standard Exploration Cos. on
the ground that prospectus issued under Wright’s
auspices “ was not only misleading but absolutely false.”
Asco. had capital of £1,500,000, and the case decided will
be taken as a precedent, Wright will have a disgorgeous
time. Four hundred other cases already “ listed.”
• * * *
Ivanhoe Cos. (W.A.), during last financial year,
made net profit (after writing off £77,011 for deprecia-
tion and £30,825 cost of new 40 stamps) of £154,020. Out
of this, 13s. a share, or £130,000, was distributed. Co.’s
position, financially and otherwise, very substantial.
* * * *
Golden Horseshoe’s last balance-sheet showed
net profit (including amount brought forward) of
£424,566. From this 235. per share, or £345,000, was dis-
tributed, £BOOO set aside to form a debenture-redemption
fund, and £70,000 carried forward. Cos. wrote off no less
than £94,566 for depreciation, &c. Total costs (including
depreciation) works out at 645. 6d. a ton. Mine looks
splendid, and new battery now running well. £50,000
debentures to pay for new battery are redeemable in
three years.
* * * *
Golconda (W.A.), run by the Pannga crowd, is
to be reconstructed for the third time, with an assess-
ment of 3s. per share. This, on its 100,000 shares, means
£15,000 to engineer another flutter. This mine was one
of the surface marvels of the early days.
* • * *
island Eureka (W.A.) return for May : 410 tons
for 5230 z. In 13 months co. paid £9OOO, or 2s. 3d. per
share. Not a bad showing, and a credit to the local
management, seeing that paid-up capital is only £1166 6s.
Bd.
a * * *
Queensland Menzies (W.A.) during May pro-
duced 781 oz. from 340 tons. As returns are produced by
picking out the eyes of the mine, the day of reckoning
cannot be far off.
a * • *
W.A. Govt, agreed to advance £1 for £1 up to
£SOO to Queen Margaret, Bulong, to bore 1000 ft. from end
of the 1320 ft. east crosscut at 600 ft. level. Govt, stipulates
that, should bore-hole strike pay ore, co. will refund
amount advanced out of proceeds of first gold won. Cos.
came across two very rich dabs recently, which will
materially increase returns for next month or two. Co’s,
new show, South Gippsland, will take time to prospect,
as shaft is badly timbered and reduced in size at shallow
depth. Manager seems sanguine of this new property.
* * * *
Westraha Mt. Morgans ended its financial year
with profits, including balance brought forward, of
£77,721. A final div. of 4s. made total distribution for
year 10s. To pay for extra 30 heads of 15001 b. stamps and
cyanide plant now arriving, 5500 reserve shares have been
issued pro rata at £6 a-piece. This brings up total issued
capital to £115,500, leaving 9500 shares still in reserve.
Shares strongly held.
* * • •
May-patented gold-recovery process now m
course of erection on Flagstaff (Coolgardie) and Eclipse
(Kalgoorlie). As neither mine is of any particular
account, the inventors are hardly likely to achieve much
success. The Flagstaff is a re-hash of the old Flagstaff
and Big Blow. It owns a 20-head battery, but can get
no gold by milling, so flies to new notions.
Amalgamation annomioed of SherlaVs (Gool-
gardie) and Webster’s find (Mt. Malcolm). As both mines
are ancient failures, and situated 160 miles apart, their
amalgamation seems absurd.
Golden Pole (W.A.) last crushing shows splen-
did return of 12390 z. from 420 tons. Capital will, of
course, be made of this to off-load shares in adjoining
Waihi on the unwary. As properties are on parallel belts
of country, reefs have no connection with each other.
Golden Pole’s reef averages 3ft. thick of solid quartz,
underlying east, while Waihi’s ground is intersected with
narrow leaders, underlying anyhow, and many a call will
be made before any return eventuates. Golden Pole,
after its successful clean-up, asked the Government to
grant it a subsidy to sink for water. Request politely
refused. It was altogether too modest. 00. ought to
have asked Government to erect 30-head battery for
it.
• • • •
All sorts of rumors are being freely circulated
of booming Bay ley’s (W.A.) scrip. Management, to its
credit, has officially notified that the rumors are baseless,
the only change in the mine being that the stone in the
deep level is of “ good-looking ” quality, but would be all
the better if it carried gold. Bayley’s is, or has been,
nothing but a bonanza mine. It may produce gold by
the ton one week, and not by the grain the next.
• • • •
Bears have been having a great innings with
Cosmopolitans (W.A.) lately, and banged the shares by
circulating all sorts of damaging reports of flooding,
petering out, and losing underlay to Cumberland. Free
access to mine is allowed to press reporters and bona-fide
inquirers. Main underlay shaft is down 660 ft., at angle
of 45deg., carrying reef all the way. Levels driven at
320, 450, and 500 ft., for distances of 630, 850, and 220 ft.
respectively. At 500 ft. level, reef averages_l4ft., half of
which is worth 30dwt. Cumberland, adjoining on North,
recently cut out the strike, not the underlay, of the reef,
which rather enhances position of both mines. Co.’s
400,000 shares are badly held and weakly supported, and,
owing to the unlikelihood of early divs., subject to be
hammered by bears on a weak market. In consequence,
shares subject to frequent fluctuations. In further
sinking, the volume of water tends to increase. Air
pumps are utilised, and there has been some difficulty in
supplying both pumps and rock-drills with sufficient air.
Another compressor is being installed, and an additional
pump has been ordered, so that the difficulty will shortly
be fully overcome The levels now being opened up are
looking extremely well.
• * • *
Cumberland-Niagara (W.A.), whose cutting of
the continuation of the Englishman lode has created such
a scare among holders of Cosmopolitan, has 84 acres on
north of latter property. Cos. owns 20-stamp mill, and
has been crushing since March, 1899, the ore averaging
13dwts. April’s return jumped up to 23dwt. per ton,
actual figures being 8390 z. from 718 tons, the result of
cutting the Englishman reef. Shares have hitherto been
practically unsaleable, but may appear in the active list
in future.
• • • •
Associated Northern continues to develop very
rich ore in various parts of the property, especially along
the Oroya boundary. Prof. Geerzel has been engaged to
classify the ores from eastern borehole. For some un-
known reason shipment of rich ore to smelters has been
suspended, although quantity continues to accumulate.
Work on the Iron Duke chute in Oroya (W.A.)
North block still being vigorously prosecuted, and chute
already penetrated for 40ft., and face still in rich ore.
All ore as broken is being bagged for shipment to smelters,
and a large parcel of 6 to 18oz. ore may be expected to be
forwarded for treatment shortly. From its outcrop on
llannan’s Brown Hill this rich chute has now been proved
to have continuous course of about 2600 ft., the longest
run of rich ore known on the fields. Cos. consists of
250,000 shares, of which 236,000 have been issued. On
present developments co. should reach strong financial
position ere long. , , *
After years of obsolete mining practice, instal-
ling of obsolete machinery, and sinking of obsolete
small shafts, chairman Govett, of Ivanhoe (W.A.) mine,
is going to take the lead and adopt modern Transvaal
methods. Two to three-ton self-tipping skips are to
replace the 10 to 15cwt. trucks and bracemen. Obsolete
60-head battery to be gradually replaced by up-to-date
plant. Melb. office to be closed. Perth mint to be
patronised instead of London. Reduction in price of
dynamite to be fought for. Bearer warrants to be issued
to save cost of transfer stamps and fees. Secrecy to be
totally abolished. New system of sloping to be intro-
duced. Electricity to be installed. Costs to be pub-
lished. Co-operation instead of hostility to be practised.
A good programme. m * m
Lord Rothschild has deputed Frenchman Weil
to protect his interests by giving an independent report
on Merton’s Reward (W.A.). Property has been more
examined and reported upon than any other mine in the
State, but experts have been extremely conservative in
their statements. No one has said definitely whether the
lode strikes or underlies north, south, east, or west, and
outside the Reward claim nothing has been conclusively
proved, though a lot has been stated at times.
• • • *
Adelaide, most fickle of markets, is keenest now
on tin—Smith’s Creeks and Stannaries, both N.Q. shows.
At the beginning of April Stannaries were 3s. lid. ; by
the first week in June 95., and the rise to that had been
steady. Herbert Phillips, little known hitherto in con-
nection with cats, but blessed with a solid business
reputation, built mainly as local managing partner in
G. and R. Wills and Cos., is at the head of the concern ;
and that accounts for some of the confidence in it. So
far, the co. has been busiest tramway-building, on which
£40,000 has been spent. At the end of last half-year
(March 31) the co. had a cash credit of £9781, and £18,955
was due on debentures stock (£54,000 has been
issued altogether); about £SOOO then remained to
be spent on the tramway. The co. does not
propose to smelt, but will battery its stone (10 or 12 per
cent stuff for a start). The line should be finished by
the end of this month. The capital available will proba-
bly just about see the co. through.
“ Jacko”: Stannary Hills Tin, an Adelaide-owned
concern, has a debenture debt of £54,000, and, according
to the chairman, cannot afford to erect such a plant as the
prospects warrant. What a pitiable plight for a co. with
an alleged capital of £650,000 to be in ! Only 40,000 con-
tributed shares issued, and the money subscribed long
since exhausted. Authority was given to borrow £200,000 on
debentures, but only £54,000 worth were issued, apparently
because public did not display the anticipated eagerness.
Still there is a merry market for the shares —but how
long’ will it last? Probably until the battery starts
pounding alleged 10 per cent, tin-stone. The intro-
duction of the debenture system into Australian mining
ventures is a curse which will do incalculable harm. It
can be justified only in the case of a proved producing
mine, for which money has to be raised for extra equip-
ment. In any other case, there must ever be the sus-
picion that it is a deep-laid scheme intended to work for
the benefit of debenture-holders (who are nearly always
the largest shareholders) as against the small share-
holders. How simple it is for a combine of big share-
holders to refuse to pay calls and force a mine into
debenture-holders’ hands, thus squeezing out the enter-
prising, honest small man. The speculative public ought
certainly to beware any debenture-burdened mine.
• * * *
The sec. ot Tartana (North Chillagoe) writes :
The writer in N.Q. Register who indulges in sarcasm at
the expense of the Tartana people must, if taken
seriously, be assumed to suffer from the general ’Towers
complaint “ we-have-nothing-to-learn-about-mining-or-
metallurgy,” Blane, McLaren, Clark, and other trained
men have'suggested that 33 per cent, can be saved in the
cost of treatment in ’Towers stone, but, as the ’Towers
men retort, “We can’t do it!” that ends the matter, and
experts in milling practices all over the world are not
•credited with knowing their business. Yet the evolution
towards modern methods is moving even ’Towers men,
although they either won't admit it, or the teachings of
Schoorof Mines director McLeod are being imbibed
unconsciously. The ’Towers men, however, do not
stand alone in this connection—the majority of
mining men throughout the Commonwealth are cursed
with the impotence of ignorance about the fine points of
the industry. But this curse is being removed by the
B.E. men from the Sydney University. When their
knowledge is properly applied, mining is reduced to
commercial or industrial enterprise, and “ fashionable
markets ” fizzle out. Leaching copper ore is a process
which, as The Bulletin recently remarked, was known
B.C. The Tartana people do not claim anything new about
It, but their methods of mechanical application are up to
date for the rapid handling of crushed ore. In expert-
menting upon stone broken to the size of a man’s fist they
merely wish to learn what length of time it requires,to
leach the copper from uncrushed stone. That all the
copper can be dissolved from the oxidised silicious gangue
Of Tartana Hill is now ascertained beyond doubt. The
way to do it was to do it. No question arose as to
whether it could be done, because it has been done and is
being done at Rio Tinto. A slab of information for un-
informed critics may not be amiss. For local treatment
at Rio Tinto 1,189,827 tons of ore were mined in 1900,
and 1,294,827 tons in 1901. Every pound of copper pro-
duced was by leaching, and not a ton of ore was crushed.
The broken ore is laid out in heaps, and the sulphur is
oxidised in the course of from four to five years. No
burning allowed nowadays—natural oxidisation the only
procedure permitted by Spanish Government. The
reserve heaps at the Rio Tinto mines were estimated, at
the close of the year 1901, to contain 136,457 tons metallic
copper. The tonnage of these heaps can be approxi-
mated from the assay values of the copper contents —
in 1900 average, 2’744 per cent.; in 1901 average,
2'267 per cent. In 1901, 21,120 tons of metallic
copper, and in 1901, 21,100 tons were produced.
What the Tartana people claim is that their ore is natur-
ally oxidised to the requisite degree for immediate leach-
ing, and they can forthwith follow the lead of Rio Tinto,
Tharsis, Arizona, and other big copper co’s; for what can
be done in one part of the world can be done in Queens-
land, provided that men “ who have nothing to learn ”
are kept at arm’s length. The scepticism re leaching
Tartana ores carries one’s memory back to the early
days of Mt. Morgan when chlorination was intro-
duced—“ Dissolve gold from stone, it can’t be done ! ’’
Yet to-day 20,000 tons of ore per month are
chemically treated at a less cost per ton than milling some
Towers stone. As for Tartana being boomed—well, if
imparting information re irrefutable facts can be charac-
terised as booming, then it is being boomed. Anyhow,
there is not an army of canvassers commissioned to sell
the unallotted shares ; the shares now being subscribed
for are purchased on the purchasers’ own volition. The
days of the Government-bursting boom of Tartana are
over ; and, despite all sorts and conditions of adverse
influences, Tartana merrily marches forward.
* » •
No/ 2 S. Great Eastern, Gvmpie, has the
restiectable showing of 28,767oz. from 24,563 tons, won
during the past 12 months.
• • • •
Another slump in Mount Garnet shares.
Rumored that results since smelting has been resumed are
not satisfactory. Official silence seems to confirm rumor.
What is wanted at Garnet appears to be—a mine 1
• * * *
Tasmania G.M. Co.—Latest crushing, 3236oz-
from 4378 tons ; average, 14dwt. 12grs. Worth £12,125.
Yield a shade light, but tonnage shows no diminu-
tion. Usual shilling (liv.
• • • •
Mt. Bischoff’s May output of tin, 106 tons.
And no statue has 3’et been raised to the memory of
" l'hilosopher” Smith.
• • « *
A novel record comes from Victoria. Manager
of Spring Hill and Central mine, Creswick, strongly in
favor of starting blocking-out operations, but directors
opposed proposal, as they did not think mine sufficiently
drained. The rule is the other way ahout;. Directors
generally wish to start producing work before mine-
manager is ready. In this case, manager must have felt
strongly that he’ was in the right, as he sent in his resig
nation.
• « • *
Copper Top, a S.A. show which was doubtful
enough for the knowing Adelaide copper men to leave
alone, but good enough for some Melbourne men to
handle, has come a cropper. Furnace will not smelt the
ore, and smelter states that the defects cannot be
remedied. This seems another way of saying that copper
is not there in sufficient quantity.
(Continued, on page SO.)


“ORIENT” Boots I Sl)ocs
• -T;.
•s* *I/h.
* /
Men’s Calf Boot, 23/6.
Best Workmanship
Highest Grade
Absolute Fit Guaranteed
PRICES
FROM
16/6
CO.
George and
Barrack Sts.,
v^SYDNEY
Eye comforti
df
Isjrours if you come here for
your glasses. We’ll test your
eyes FREE, and advise glasses
ONLY when absolutely neces-
sary. N.B.— Post Test sent
Free to any country address.
WOOD, THE
299
Ceorge-st.
gdf
Noth ONLY Address— 299 Gepror-st., Sydney 1
(Tor of Huntkr-st. in Georgk-st.)
Melbourne
SOCIETY
For the Duke of York’s visit Australia is
now grateful. Politicians dare not suggest any
huge Coronation expenditure to a people which
has seen Prince George. In England the great
mass of the people only views its royalties through
the medium of the extravagantly loyal illustrated
press—of papers like the Illustrated London
News, which gives in a current number a beauti-
ful and expensive two-page picture of a noble-
looking, tall, distinguished Prince of Wales
“delivering his great speech on the Colonies.”
His great speech ! But that can’t go down now
among Australians, who took the opportunity of
personal observation to size-up the melancholy
mannikin. Royalty is a busted ideal in these
States now. Why on earth, if only in the interests
of John See’s title, didn’t King Ned keep his
mournful-looking little son at home and allow us
still to be deluded by the English illustrated
papers ?
* • • •
When Sydney Mail reaches London with
its colored Coronation picture of the King’s legs,
now shown in Sydney shop-windows, “Mister
James” will surely be prosecuted for high treason,
sedition, or something. No Australian paper has
ever before doiie anything so damaging to Royalty
as the publication of those awful legs. The Bul-
letin invites the attention of the head of the
N.S.W. police, Mr. John See, a loyal subject and
knight-expectant, to the disgraceful outrage on
the Anatomy of the Throne.
* * » *
The 'Committee of the unfortunate fund
that was to provide a smart' statue of Queen
Victoria, to help in the decoration of Melbourne
and prove a touching momento of the well-beloved
and most noble and gracious, &c., &c., is in a bad
way. It has practically given its order for a
£lO,OOO statue, and it has only £6OOO to meet the
exes. Who’s to pay the rest? The committee
would like some large, round, devoted Jingo to
step up wi h £4030, but plump Jingoes don’t
sink capital in defunct monarchs —they only frivol
away their thousands on rulers who can give
honors where honors are due. Probably the
weary plate will circulate again, but the crowd is
getting rid of its small change shouting for King
Ned just now.
Prince of Wales’ Birthday being an un%
usually quiet holiday in Melbourne—a race-
meeting and four football matches summed up the
amusements —the Pentridge officials celebrated
the occasion by flogging a prisoner (a man whose
death-sentence had been commuted to 10 years'
penal servitude and 25 lashes). The press was
excluded, and as the flogger is also “doing time,”
the system had the entertainment all to itself and
doubtless enjoyed itself thoroughly.
Latest N.S.W. organisation is a “ Council
of the Bar,” to do for barristers what the Incor-
porated Law Institute does for solicitors. It is
safe to predict, however, that it will never have
to undertake anything analogous to the re Gent
One functions of the latter body. Whether it is
because of lack of opportunity (they don’t handle
clients’ money) or lack of wish, N.S.W. barristers
are an honest if impecunious set, who take to
sweeping out offices, or copying, or type-writing,
or tutoring, rather than to crookedness when the
wolf barks at the door.
* * * »
Several Australian papers complain that
in the Transvaal and Orange River Colony, under
British rule, the two legal professions (barrister’s
and solicitor’s) are to be kept distinct, and “amal-
gams’’from Victoria, Tasmania, or other States
where the professions are conjoined, will not be
admitted to practice.
English, Scotch and Irish advocates and solicitors, and
all practitioners before the former High Court of the
Transvaal, are admitted, but not persons who for seven
years continuously have not practised exclusively either
as advocates or attorneys in some British colony.
The injustice is more theoretical than real. Under
the treaty of peace, the Roman-Dutch law and
the Taal language are authorised in the courts of
the new colonies —the former absolutely, the
latter permissively. Australian barristers and
solicitors would have little chance of competing
in the law-courts with the many excellent
lawyers now in S’Africa who are familiar
with both. Roman-Dutch law would require
much study, and it would take at least
twelve months very hard work to acquire
sufficient knowledge of the Taal to be able to
examine Boer witnesses who choose to give evi-
dence in that tongue (and they will nearly all so
choose). Legal practitioners of the Common-
wealth will do well to keep away from S’Africa,
especially as there is just now a wild rush of Eng-
lish .lawyers to Pretoria and Johannesburg. A
gentleman who was on the Supreme Court Bench
of the Transvaal, writing by last mail, states that
/fl new barristers were admitted on one day.
Withal there is little legal work to do, and little
chance of a boom in litigation for a long while to
come.
• * * *
N.S.W. ex-Governor Jersey figured as a
witness in the English “Article Club” libel
action (Suffield v. London Tkuth). Two letters
which the gentle Hebrew (Cowen) who ran the
club wrote to a railway magnate were "put in
evidence. Both were alleged to have reference to
negotiations on the part of the magnate for a
title. One extract:
I am fully confident of success from more than one
quarter, but Lord Jersey will suffice, as, in his capacity of
Privy Councillor, he will either do the necessary work
himself or put me in the way of getting it done.
Lord Jersey denied, in answer to a direct ques-
tion, that he had authorised Cowen to say that he
(Jersey) would use his position as a Privy Coun-
cillor to secure honors for anyone. The Australian
Agents-General were all drawn into the vortex of
this precious club, which has secured about the
very worst possible sort of advt. from the libel
action.
It is a point for the considera-
tion of the pale and iflabby crowd
which is shocked about the effects of
the N.S.W. and Victorian divorce law,
that divorce in these places appears to be
distinctly on the decrease. N.S.W.
and Victoria are the two shocking ex-
amples, and when they made desertion
a ground for separation the number of
divorces increased enormously as a
matter of course. In 1894 the N.S.W.
courts granted 311 decrees nisi, and
the monkey-shave crowd hasn’t got over
the shock yet. But the number of
decrees granted has fallen off steadily
since then—in 1897 it was 245; in 1898,
244; in 1899, 230 ; and in 1900 only 216.
Victoria granted 117 divorces in*lB97,
and only 93 in 1900. The great original
rush of divorces was mostly in the
nature of a clearing-up of arrears ; the
women who had been deserted at all
manner of times during the previous 25
years poured into the courts for relief.
Even, now the business is largely a
cleaning up of arrears in the way of
granting relief to applicants whose
cause of complaint arose in very far
back years. When these arrears are
extinguished it seems quite probable
that the divorce courts of the two
States, whose lax and un-Christian
laws so badly shock the holy section
of the community, will have nothing
very remarkable about them. If the
N.S.W. and Victorian law is made
the law for the whole Commonwealth
there will, of course, be a great rush of
business for a time in Tasmania, S.A.,
Queensland, and Westralia, but it will
be only for a time. Things will simmer
down, and after 10 years or so it is
possible that the records won’t be serious enough
to shock even the mildest pastor in the Common-
wealth.
* * • *
The Melbourne R.C.’s are skirmishing
towards getting the three towers of St. Patrick’s
Cathedral crowned with spires, as per the de-
signer’s plan, with the aid of the Crotty bequest.
SUCCESS.
BEETHOVEN BROWN (pathetically): “Ah, they
are the great musicians—they can afford to
keep monkeys!"
The abolition of the barmaid in godly
Glasgow has not passed without hostile criticism
from some of the highly orthodox. Principal
Story, president of the Scottish Christian Social
Union, in a broadly liberal speech, declared that
to affirm that respectable girls in a respectable
employment should necessarily lose their respec-
tability and honor in the course of a year or two
was_ a scandalous statement, lacking in both
Christian charity and common-sense.
■ '* * * •
“ A Barmaid ” writing to Sydney D.T. on
the barmaid abolition question :
It is no argument to say that employment could be
secured in other directions, including’ domestic service {
that is a matter of personal inclination, and the latter
occupation is one that no young woman of refinement
and self-respect could possibly enter under any circum-
stances. If a barmaid has sometimes to hear language
not always correct. . . . The barmaid has never to sub-
mit to the insulting contempt and familiarity that is so
often experienced by the servant girl.
Which touches the spot exactly.
* * • •
A Bulletin correspondent:—
The W.C.T.U. (Sydney) and the holy, oily gentlemen
who hang about their skirts have had a long, long gloat
over the barmaid question. Only one ex-Hebe has rapped
out an answer. If all who once were there, but now are
exceedingly well-placed in Sassiety, should reply, there
would be consternation among the Elect. In one State
capital a lady once behind the bar is, and has been for
years, press mentor of the very Naicest; another made a
notably good wife to a journalist of the first flight, now a
doyen of the press. Yet another was the good wife of a
now-deceased Supreme Court Judge, and still another
presides with much grace and dignity in the hospitable
mansion of a leader of the Equity Bar. Scandal never
touched one of them since they were wed; nor before
that, so far as I ever heard, and I knew them all—they
are only a few amongst hundreds.
• » • *
Some of the Aurania troops tell weird
stories of Australian military discipline. For
instance, a number of N.S.W. troops who had
entered a S’African railway-platform, from which
all but officers were supposed to be excluded, were
remonstrated with by the Imperial officer in
charge, and told to clear out. Whereupon they
seized him and tossed him iri a tarpaulin till all
his teeth went loose. The Aurania men wink and
dig you in the ribs when you mention the plausible
apologies made for their little games in Capetown
and Albany, and remark that Colonel Lassetter is
a right good sort—one of the very best, in fact—
and that it must have cost him a ton of money
and trouble to see “ his boys ” through.
• • • *
Writes a Brisbane correspondent:
What’s come over the gallant Major-General Hutton,
and where are the displays of lurid oratory which we of
the Brisbane Defence Forces, were told to expect from
him ? Why, he’s as mild as milk ! Methinks the memory
of that fatal slip, “ God bless j ou” to the Commonwealth
Contingent, preys on his mind and fetters his martial
spirit, though rumor hath it that the Simultaneous
Missioners have gathered him in. Nary a “ damn ! ” fell
upon the ears of the expectant soldiery. Sons of
bullock-punchers, with appreciative lugs cocked to drink
in the honeyed language of their forefathers, hank-clerks
with knees aquake and swords suspiciously awobble
gazed open-mouthed as the gallant General rode
smilingly past. Another injustice to Queensland 1 Surely
our cup of Federal bitterness is full. Instead of
“ language ”we got retrenchment. The General exuded
it at every pore. When he addressed the massed troops
his theme was retrenchment, and if he only paused to
point out a fault in a private’s gear, he discoursed
retrenchment to him. The meeting of officers was
regaled with it, and in his final address to the troops
Major-General Hutton pathetically called upon us to bear
retrenchment “ with the same heroic spirit that animated
our brothers in arms to shed their blood for the Empire ”
Pur breasts beat high with the thought that future
generations would fondly speak of us as “ the Glorious
Itetrenchr' 1 ’’
• * * *
Alleged cable to Melb. Age:—
The courtesies which, since the peace agreement have
been exchanged between the Boer generals and Lord
Kitchener, and the many and striking evidences of
amicable feeling shown by the Boers generally, have
completely staggered the Continental press, which for
over a year has teemed with stories of “British brutali-
ties ’ and atrocities. The people of Europe are quite
unable to reconcile the growing friendliness between the
two races with the former misrepresentations made to
them by the newspapers of Germany, Holland, and
Austria.
Well, suppose Australians try now to reconcile
“the many and striking evidences of amicable
feeling” with the stories of “Boer brutalities”
and atrocities, with which the Age has teemed for
over two years!
♦ * • *
Remarked that Adelaide Mayor Cohen (a
Snow-grab advocate) couldn’t find "time, “owing
to pressure of business,” to address a meeting of
the unemployed, but he had plenty time to talk at
a Jingo glorification of the horse Bugler which was
stalking-nag for a cohentingent collection scheme.
* * « *
The present severe epidemic of measles in
Adelaide is loyally attributed to “infection com-
municated by returned contingenters to barmaids,
waitresses, and hotel and restaurant employees
generally.” There’s a moral somewhere about this 1
“ F.” : The text for a
long sermon “Relations
between the Sexes,” and all
that sort of thing, is sup
plied by a matron who wrote
to “Rita,” of Melbourne
Herald, concerning the
“ shameless exposure of
women’s underwear in
drapers’ shops.” The blush-
ing correspondent complains
that articles of orthodox
female clothing are placed
in shop-windows and upon
counters, where they may
be viewed with impunity by
men—therefore the exposure
is shameless. What is the
shame, where is the shame,
and why is the shame in this
ordinary business display of
respectable female linen ?
Surely there is nothing im-
proper about a woman’s un-
derwear until she gets inside
it. The average man makes
no pretence of shrinking from
a public contemplation of
his shirts and pants exposed
for sale in a hosier’s window ;
neither does he protest
against the conduct of those
women who buy shirts and
so on for their male-kind in
the ordinary way of shopping,
and without the least con-
sideration for the salesman’s
sex. Woman admits the
decency of his pants, socks,
and shirts by talking about
them with a casual counter-
jumper. And yet she per-
sists in olaiming indecency for her own linens and
flannels. She is such an indelicate creature that
even the clothes she is going to wear become by
anticipation indecent. There is no doubt about
woman being the unkindest critic of her own
character.
* * * •
An irate Brisbane father sought the
police last week and told how his 15 year-old
daughter, while out on an errand after tea, had
been seized and criminally assaulted by a
miscreant. The girl’s dress was torn, hair
dishevelled etc. etc. After some days’ investiga-
tion the damsel eventually confessed that she
hadn’t been outraged at all; but that she had
loitered on the road and then invented the yarn
to save herself a scolding. Luckily no man was
forthcoming so nobody was hanged this time.
The sweet maiden had torn her raiment most
artistically and suggestively.
• ' • • *
At Albany Creek (Q.) the usual girl has
just confessed that the man who “assaulted ” her
was an effort of the imagination—as lie generally
is. That man and that assault seem to be, to a
large section of. Australian girlhood, the one
subject of reflection, the one ambition, the one
romance, the one possibility of a break in the
grey stagnation of every day life. Like the
morbid girl-invalid who prayed that she might be
found worthy of operation she also prays, with a
difference, that she may be found worthy of
assault, so that she will be a heroine and an object
of interest to her unmolested acquaintances. At
least the results all point that way. Australia is
a country where no man should be out after dark
except in the presence of two reliable male
witnesses.
“ The Way back Carbineers,” a Sydney
crowd of ex-cohentin genters, who were anxious to
go back to the S’African war, on their own, from
“motives of patriotism” and because they couldn’t
get billets here, were baulked by a curious mis-
chance. Ketchener was willing to have them,
and provision was made for their passages, but
the cable messages to the chief of these paytriots
(a Mr. M'Millan) were wrongly delivered to poli-
tician M‘Millan, who referred them to the mili-
tary authorities, and they were lost in a maze of
red-tape, from which they emerged only when the
war had ended, and the “ Wayback Carbineers ”
had gone wayback again in despair.
MY SAGE AND I
flmiij <sage,who strives to walk m ways discreet,
IIMIII price proved to me by arguments complete
pat friendship is than jove more rare and sweet,
“j) ear demurely thenrmajde request,
“j would not dare to ask thee for thy best,
Q.ive me but jove and j’U jforeg»Jnerest!”
Alice [?]
THE KING DIVINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ London, June 2.— The driver of a hansom cab, evad-
ing the police, collided with the King’s coach, His
Majesty stepped from the coach on to the pavement, un-
discomposed, and calmly awaited the extrication of the
driver’s horse, which was struggling beneath the coach ”
—Cable.
Let every poet sing—
Who hopes to rise and
shine—
A paean to the King
Who rules by right divine.
When common men go
forth,
To city’s dangers meet,
They look to south and
north
And closely scan the street.
And should they get a
bump
From tram or Jehu’s wheel,
They straight erect a hump
And in their terror squeal.
But kings, the gods be
praised,
Are built of sterner stuff ;
They take, all unamazed,
Catastrophes like snuff.
Serene and strong they
stxnd,
Unmoved by fear or force,
Though all the riven land
Be full of kicking horse.
When common cab or cart
To State coach is opposed,
A King, God bless his ’art,
Is quite undiscomposed.
With Royal dignity
He calmly steps aside,
His fortiter in re
Replete with kingly pride.
He might have kicked and
cussed
And danced upon his crown,
Or sat down in the dust
Of dirty London town ;
Or yelled for the police
The Nihilists to grab ;
Or punched, for joy of
peace,
The driver of the cab.
But no such vulgar things
He did, for ’tis disclosed,
He stood the test of kings—
“ln danger quite com-
posed.”
So let us thank the gods
Our King can rise and shine,
And prove to common clods
His right to rule divine.
SIMON PHRASER.


- *Dis is wot
1 grov/d on
TRADE JIMkMARK
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Australia’s
Leading Tonic
Beverage.
The wrangle among old Sydney residents
about the spot at Sydney Cove on which Gov.
Phillip raised his first flagstaff practically illus-
trates the little value of most ancient history.
Unless some conclusive written matter so far
undiscovered comes to light, the spot on \vhich
Phillip raised his flagstaff will never be definitely
determined. The diversity of existing accounts
show the fallibility of much that is called history.
• * * *
Gov. Rawson’s allusion, repeated some-
what frequently, to the “ Beautiful Harbor ”
has started a few inquiries as to when that
battered compliment was originated. There is a
good deal of probability that it originated on
Pinchgut Island in Capt. Phillip’s first year and
that the father of the phrase was a convict with
a rope round his neck. But Capt. Hill of the
Second N.S.W. Corps writing from Sydney to
philanthropist Wilberforce in England, _ says,
“ We left the Cape on the 29th. of April and
entered in this beautiful harbour on 26th. June
1790.”
• ■* * *
Tas. ex-Governor Gormanston’s four-
wheeler, a conspicuous, bright-yellow concern,
with buff cushions, is now in the possession of a
wealthy Hobart alderman. The latter has loyally
refrained from painting-out the vice-regal color,
and whenever he takes drives abroad looms large
as the man who is keeping a Viscount’s memory
yellow in the hearts of an envious people. His
Ex’s, landau was bought by a Hobart cabby, who
promptly had the flaring yellow transformed to a
respectable black.
A TASTE FOR MUSIC.
FRIEND: “I suppose you are hard at work get-
tiny up that musical troupe of yours? ”
PROFESSOR: "Oh, no. What’s keeping me hard
at work now is getting up the audience."
The foolishness of the Law, which allows a
man to do as he likes with his own—or what he
considers his own—was shown in Melbourne lately
when the estate of James Healey was divided,
as per his last will, among a dozen Victorian
charities, leaving his wife and three children
in absolute want! If James, during his life,
had given his wages to a hospital, the
Law would have ordered him to maintain his
family or go to gaol; but the Law allows him, as
a corpse, privileges which the live man doesn’t
possess—to swindle his family. The Law, however,
takes care that all other just claims against a
deceased’s estate shall be duly met, excepting
only what should be absolutely the first claim.
An amendment of the Probate law to make main-
tenance of an infant family the first charge on all
estates, should be demanded by every reformer.
Meanwhile, the living should boycott any
“ charity ” which robs the widow and the orphan
by accepting bequests which should be devoted to
their maintenance, for such action is tantamount
to receiving stolen money—money stolen in very
mean fashion, too.
* • » »
A gay young Sydney dog sometime ago
sailed for L >ndon, and after his departure his
people were interviewed by various persons
alleging claims against him —amongst them being
a young woman with a baby which she credited to
the absent roysterer. His people, to avoid
trouble, agreed to give the damsel an allowance—
which was regularly paid to her until the wanderer
returned and was able to prove, not only that the
girl’s statement was absolutely false, but that the
infant put in evidence had been borrowed for the
purpose. Meantime she and. her mother had been
enjoying comparative affluence, and the impostor s
marriage with a young man who couldn’t afford
it had been celebrated with much splash.
* * * •
The other day Croydon (N.S.W.) had a
remarkable hailstorm, the scope whereof was
about a mile. Some of the stones were big as
eo-gs—and two lumps were picked up weighing
about 181bs. each, the result, most likely, of being
frozen when the hail reached ground. Hailstones
were to be picked up in the drifts on Saturday
four days after the storm. On Croydon railway
station the hailstones were about 9m. deep-
Concerning a phase of woman-nature.
Writes “F.C.” :
Tramming it down Plinders-st. (Melb.), t’other day, I
was interested to see a crowd of women outside the
Coupon Co.’s warehouse. Investigating, I discovered
that some practical jokers had spread the news that
coupons must be presented ere May expired. So on this,
the 30th, every “ thrifty ” housewife lined up to get what
she could for her stamps. It was dinner-time, and rain-
ing heavily, and on the office door was posted a newly-
written notice stating that coupon-redemption hours
were from 3 to 5, also that collectors had still ail June
wherein to redeem them, but nary a woman moved.
Passed again about 3, when the road was blocked with a
mob of sodden, dishevelled bargain-hunters, who had lost
more than the value of their coupons in damaare to their
clothes and their shop hair. Suddenly the doors opened,
and the porter fled before a rush like unto the scramble
of a million fallen angels through the gates of Paradise.
Woman’s faith in the man who offers to give something
for nothing is truly touching, and is only comparable to
the suspicion with which she regards the same man when
he asks her to take things easy and not rush him off his
feet. He offers her a fortune, and she believes him ; he
gives her sixpence, and she turns it over to see if it hasn t
a hole in it.
« • • *
Preacher Bevan, after spending a few days
in N. Queensland, says “it is the maddest thing
in the world ” to try to impose the same laws there
as in the south. Yet he doesn’t see anything
absurd in trying to have the same God there as
further south, and the same Ten Commandments.
Even the fact that polygamy is one of the habits
of tropical countries doesn’t incline him to allow
the man beyond a certain degree of latitude to
have two wives, and the man still further north to
have three.
Westralia is part of the Australian Corn-
monwealth which is supposed to be a
free country, yet there any common
policeman can stop a man in the street,
and, for no visible reason save that he
feels that way, ask him his name, where
he lives, and how he gains his livelihood.
The police can also board a steamer and pre-
vent a passenger leaving unless said passenger
goes to Fremantle police station“and gets a writ-
ten statement that there is nothing against him
and he therefore is not “ wanted.” They don’t
seem able to identify a man who is “ wanted”
unless he goes up to a constable and tells
him.
In Westralia, a man accused of
felony is charged before a magistrate,
and, if there is a case against him, he
maybe sent for trial. In the “higher”
court, he may find the v same magis-
trate presiding as a Mudge, who
may conduct the case so as to tell
against the prisoner, and instruct
the jury, in his charge, as he
likes. He can give as high a
sentence as 20 years. No legal
qualification is necessary foi these
“Judgeships.” As a matter of
fact, one holder of the office
graduated as a boundary-rider
and another as a tinsmith.
m * *
A Maorilander lately es-
cuped a breach-of-promise action
by settling it in a novel way. The
lady had served the writ, and
had engaged all the local legal
talent The hearing of the case
was eagerly awaited, but a truce
was declared, negotiations were
re-opened, and defendant speci-
fically performed the contract by marry-
ing plaintiff.
N.S.W. General Presbyterian Assembly,
in a report, states that, as the State looks after
orphan children fairly well, a special church
orphan society is unnecessary. This is the
unattached citizen’s view. If a couple of other
churches come into line with the Presbyterian the
time will be ripe for the assumption by the State
of the duty of looking after all orphans who are
left pecuniarily unprovided for.
» * * *
N.S.W. Presbyterian community has re-
ceived a donation of £5OO to pay the expense of
importing eight ministers “ from the old country.”
Being a Presbyterian minister seems to be about
the only avenue of employment in Australia in
which the supply of labor is less than the demand.
Yet surely it is not such a dreadful job;
the salary at first is low, but there are plums
at the top. Presbyterianism, too, in its later
Australian manifestations, is not such a gloomy
affair of Predestination and wholesale Damna-
tion as it was in the days of John Knox (and Dr.
Cairns). The “Higher Criticism” has changed
it wonderfully, and a Presbyterian of to-day
needn’t even believe in Old Nick. Well now—
music allowed, whisky more than tolerated,
“ broad ” views permitted, fair salaries given, and
many beautiful and gilded girls to choose wives
from, why don’t our young men who can’t go on the
land'go on the Presbyterian Church roster ?It
seems an insult to Australian enterprise that men
should have to be imported for what are, all
things considered, fairly decent billets. Of the
writer’s four sons, three are at once to be re-
christened Donald, Sandy, and Andrew, and
brought up as strict Presbyterians, on spec.
The Adelaide Water Inquiry Board has
for its members the Mayor of Adelaide, the
Engineer-in-Chief, and the Chairman of the
Central Board of Health. Yet the chief subject
of its investigation is whether the two latter
officials have done all that is necessary to secure
the purity of the city supply and to properly safe-
guard the health of the people. Defendants have
thus a majority in the Court and may rest satisfied
that the verdict will be all right from their point
of view. A suggestion has been made to call in
Dr. Gresswell, of Melbourne, or some other dis-
interested expert, to see fair play.
* • * *
Said now that there is a very remote
chance indeed of Sydney starting next summer
with a good supply of water in Prospect Reservoir,
and that scarcity is likely to continue until the
autumn of 1903.
* * * *
Fagin has new methods nowadays ; accord-
ing to the merciful Judge Bundey, of S.A., he
makes a lot of use of the First Offenders Act,
representing to the youngster that, even if the
latter does get caught, his escape under this Act
is a “dead cert.” So Fagin stands back in the
comparatively safe position of receiver.
DOING HER BEST.
“My dear, you will have to
economise and cut down your
dressmaker’s bills—this drought
is ruining me.”
“ Well, does my dress look as if it was designed
for wet weather f”
A Thursday Island message to Brisbane
Courier :
A curious development is reported to have taken place
in connection with the bread supply. The local garrison
contract had recently been given to a Chinese baker, but
the non-commissioned officers and men absolutely decline
to accept the bread, and are purchasing for themselves
direct from the late contractor.
Not at all “curious.” The men had probably
been reading “Stuffing,” and other Bulletin
stories, on the mysteries of Chinese cookery.
The Bulletin has never dared to reprint those
Chinese-cook yarns.
* * * *
Some of the rewards on Q. Govt.’s list of
mysterious horrors: Explosion of dyndmite,
Charters Towers, 1866, £500; horse-stabbing at
Charters Towers, 1897, £250 ; explosion of
gelignite, Charter s Towers, 1897, £lOOO ; Winton
murder, 1899, £lOOO ; horse-stealing at Ayr, 1899,
£5O; escaped prisoners, Townsville, 1900, £100;
Ithaca murder, 1902, £500; murder of Dahlke and
Doyle, 1902, £lOOO.
Said missioner Torrey at Ballarat : ‘‘lf a
girl only knew what the man thinks while he is
dancing with her she would never dance again.”
Evidently Pastor Torrey knows what the man
thinks, and knows it’s" something particularly
nasty. The parson’s process of mind-reading is
very simple—always think the worst. Logically
this lodges the bad mind in the reverend skull.
In point of fact the physical and mental activity
demanded by the dance is less conducive to evil-
thinking than the dreary process of sitting out a
dreary sermon at a close church in an atmosphere
of hymns and hers; and probably if the hlue-eyed
girl knew what the fellow next her in the pew on
Sunday was thinking she wouldn’t go to church
any more ; or, maybe, if the fellow next the blue-
eyed girl in the pew on Sunday knew what the
blue-eyed girl was thinking he’d never go to church
again—or he’d go every Sunday. It all depends.
“ TYING IT IN A KNOT.”
An insistent query arises about those
alleged Greeks stopped at Albury and sent back
to Wodonga pending investigations. Seeing that
both lots were alleged capitalists—the last crowd
had £783 concealed about their persons and a very
large bank draft following them —'are the
Wodonga publicans bloated millionaires that they
declined to accommodate them for a few nights,
or what was the matter, anyhow ? A man who
lets his wife be confined under a station platform
while he has command of considerable money is
either uncivilised or else—well there are several
“ elses.”
• * • *
At a recent big Melbourne public function
a gaily-caparisoned dame alarmed spectators by
calmly lifting her skirt and pulling a dainty lace
handkerchief from her garter. Is this the latest
from ’Ome? If so, there may soon be great
possibilities in jewelled girters and openwork
stockings, while the man who can make a
“corner” in pneumatic calves will find fortune
in it.
* * * *
Even the praying-wheel will have to go
now. Latest American invention is a lhckel-in-
the-slot parson. Forty persons drop in a coin
apiece, and the figure talks a Talmage or a
Beecher sermon for 20 minutes or so, accompany-
ing the delivery with suitable gestures. There
are so many points in favor of automatic parsons,
and their machinery is so simple, that it is a
marvel they have been done without so long.
The true bill of a
“ family’s ” matrimonial adven-
tures. John Brown (which he
wasn’t; but an alias here or
there doesn’t matter to
John Brown married in Eng-
land, but left his wife and
family to sample what there
was in Maoriland. Married
there, and in a few years left
with one child, a daughter,
for Australia. Married
some more; but,
through a hot row
with the daughter,
wife No. 3 communi-
cated with wives
Nos. 1 and 2. Wife
No. 1 turned up ;
and, being accom-
panied by a 6ft.
son, was taken on
again. Wife No. 2
wasn’t heard from ;
she had also married
again, it was stated. Wife
Ho. 3, who had already had a
career, tried another husband.
Three months of h.p ness; and
then he was arrested for wife
desertion—another wife (call
her Jones). He is re-
manded, and wife Jones is
arrested for bigamy and
the matter stands like that as
this number goes to press. And
all this was not in back-alley life; several of the
parties are good-sized commercial people.
* * • *
Representatives of the two Australian
maritime federations, Steamship-owners and Sea-
men, will meet in conference during the month to
discuss rates and conditions for the next half-year.
Ships’ officials have at present the most pressing
grievances; their conditions of service are at
times unbearable, and their shipboard accommo-
dation of the worst. On one favorite passenger
vessel the “glory-hole” can only be reached by
travelling over the boilers; and the bunks and
mess-room are walled with iron plates, separated
only by a few inches from steampipes and boiler-
plates, whilst the sides of the ship are unpro-
tected by any interior sheathing. The heat
consequently is insufferable, the ventilation
miserable, and the chance of escape in the event
of a steampipe bursting practically ml.^
Monday and Tuesday, after Peace-Sunday,
S.M. Herald published 10 col. of sermons.
Ninety per cent, of the ministers of the Prince of
Peace spread themselves to justify the war.
Curiously enough, there was not one Holy Homan
line in the lot.
Vaccination is practically ciying out in
Maoriland; in 1900 the births were 19,546 and
the vaccinations only 4525. When the inevitable
small-pox epidemic does happen along the result
should be worth watching.
* » • *
A Sydney tramway episode :
Near midnight ; in the silent, dimly-lighted ward of the
bi<' hospital the night-nurse hears the telephone-bell ;
runs noiselessly to it, and then, after a.short pause,
back to a vacant bed. She has just adjusted the
waterproof sheet when the tramp of feet is heard,
and the ambulance-stretcher cornea. The patient
is gently lifted to the bed. His right leg hangs
vertically from the splintered bone below the
ligature, while the left foot appears badly
smashed. The surgeons and wardsmen rapidly
cut away the blood-and-dirt-soiled clothing ;
the wounded man curses them. They wash
his body with antiseptics, and hurry away.
Lights flash out in the operating-theatre, and
the patient, now nearly unconscious, is again
placed on a stretcher and carried from the
ward. Half-an-hour passes. The patient,
still unconscious from ether, is brought back
to the bed. The stump of an amputated leg
is raised on a pillow ; the leg is in splints.
Hot-water cans are placed on each side of
him, and a nurse and a doctor sit, watch in
hand, holding the wrists. Presently the
doctor lets go the wrist, and, lighting a
match, slowly moves it to and from the un-
covered eye. Then he blows it out, and
departs. The nurse rises to place the screens
round the latest victim of the electric tram.
PLEA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You are my heart o’ the rose,
My soul o’ the haunting song—
But night bids the red rose close,
And sleep hushes echo long.
Why roses were made to close,
Songs to be hushed and cast by,
Night to end Daylight—who knows?
« Love me l ” —To-morrow we die i
D.M.
WHY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Miss Maud has objections to kisses —
Regards them as sinful and vain ;
But she’ll yield in a trice if you pay her her price—
And the price of her kisses—is Mrs.
Wherefore her admirers refrain.
H.M.


$
“CE/^ENETTES"
llSl\ Are Fabrics
RAINCOATS.
Do you like Coffee?'
Perfect, Pure,
Fragrant, Exhilarating Coffee
Then Try
K. SmiTH’S
Gold
Medal
Coffee Essence
THE VERY BEST
Australian Representatives:
SWIFT & COMPANY,
V 7 SPRING STREET, U
SYDNEY.
Corsets 1
/
Latest Specialty, Straight Front, Erect Form
{ P.D. Corsets
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Mr D*ah Am- Syd ” ey ' J ” os 17 ’ lm
State Excellency Rawson did his first brick-
laying and earned his first silver trowel last week
when the foundation stone of the new North Shore
xiospital was swung to its place. It was all very
funereal: the grey, rainy afternoon, the bared
heads, the silence, the vice-regal oration, then the
burial—of the bottle—with papers and coins,
instead of pickles, in its interior. His Ex. is
making great efforts to memorise names and
places and “the amount of the debt.” There is
always a debt mentioned to him when he lays a
bnck or attends a charitable meeting. “Mr.
Dibbs, echoed His Ex. meditatively when the
was P resent ed to him. “ Ah, Mr.
b 1 i ” /-r 16 funeral manager of the Commercial
Banking Company has a gravely-decorative old-
Koman face and presence, and if he had come
on the scene wearing a toga and a fillet, and
with twelve lictors marching by him, he would
have looked the part all the Appian Way. Mr.
.Dibbs recently received from the Govt, for his
f ° reshore P ro P ert y another cheque—for
_ Lady and Miss Rawson looked as usual Mid-
v ictorian, calm and affable. They went home
with Mrs. Dibbs, who lives adjacent, to have tea
and muffins. Mrs. Randal Carev, Mrs. Burton
Dibbs, Dr. and Mrs. Arthur and a lot of N.S.W.
medical men and clergy were on the platform.
Talking of Governors, a correspondent in British
New Guinea tells me that on the arrival and
departure of Governor Le Hunte at Port
Moresby 13 guns are fired, but as they have no
guns larger than the Snider, 13 kerosene-tins, each
with a fuse and a plug of dynamite, are used,
when the Governor steps out of his boat a native
policeman runs along and sets fi-e to the fuses.
Result: _ 13 loud bangs, 13 flying kerosene-tins,
and na-tives fleeing for their lives. His Ex.
thinks it great fun.
All official au revoirs to the Darleys were made
at the Hotel Australia, and the C.J. and Miss
Darley were on board the Moana an hour before
the steamers starting time. They drove down,
escorted by a few lancers, Miss Darley in a grey
travelling frock, carrying a huge pink posy and
obvious traces of tears. They remained on deck
waving farewells, until the liner was well off the
wharf.
Grace Palotta farewelled us last week, on last
night of the Royal Comic Opera eo. The pretty
Viennese is one of that class of artists who are
attractive by reason of artistic personality. She
can t smg, she can’t dance; her roles demand no
histrionic power, and yet there is a charm about
her slightest little juggle with her sunshade and
her train that magnetises both sexes and makes
her seem a genius. A large presence, which but
for innate refinement would be bouncing, a charm-
ing smile, exquisite tact in the management of
frills and feet and sunshade—that is Palotta !
The Scots College boys visited State Ex.
Rawson and had tea with him last week. They
had a good time, and the Admiral was quite the
great old commander of whom they had read in
their school-boy sea-stories, of the “From Powder
Monkey to Admiral ” type. Oneof the elder boys
had an elaborate speech written out, and was un-
loading the opening sentence with great effect
when his Ex. burst into a hearty laugh, slapped
him on the back and said : ** There, that’s enough,
tny boy; I know all about it. Shake hands and
say no more on the matter.” If his Ex. could
only interrupt the politicians’ platitudes in the
same manner!
The newly-formed Players Club made a good
start last week at Sydney Royal in Pinero’s
polished, cameo-like play, “The Weaker Sex.”
Ihe house was crowded, and even the gallery was
dotted over with evening dress. The staging and
scenery were excellent; in fact, for the simple
character of the play, the scenery could not have
been improved upon. It is a feature of Pinero’s
plaws to glide smoothly from comedy to tragedy,
and end in a maze of pathos, and send the people
away wondering what they would have done under
the same circumstances.
Between the acts Miss Wright’s pupils gave a
exposi tion of Spanish castanet dancing,
and flitted about like nice, round limbed fairies,
while a gent, (he was a “gent.,” not the other
thing) in evening dress snored sweetly to the time
of the mandolin orchestra.
A feature of the first performance by the
Players Club was the quantity of imitation
jewellery flaunted in the d.c. Had they been
genuine, there were at least two and a half millions
worth of pearls in that part of the house alone.
Une lady had a string worth, roughly, £lOO,OOO
Diamonds, mostly made in Paris or dug out of a
German factory, glittered in coronet-like orna-
ments* that many women wore on their heads.
Writer counted 32 magnificent gems in the hair of
one lady, just below, in front, the smallest being
thesize of a pea and the largest approximating to
a pigeon’s egg—face value, about a quarter million.
Also, there was a wealth of made-in-Paris rubies,
that gleamed blood-red against the goose-flesh
and drew attention to the extraordinary absence
of the recently popular turquoise.
Talking of jewels : Very few women wear the
stones that suit their complexions. If you have a
pale, spirituelle face, with blue eyes and a dreamy
expression, wear pearls and opals. They give an
atmosphere of purity that drags the soul right out
of the most case-hardened man. If you h ive dark
eyes and hair to correspond, wear all the rubies
you can beg, borrow, or steal, but let them have
their fire added to by a liberal use of diamond
sparks. It is a feature of the diamond that in
such eases it loses its own individuality and adds
its fire to the red glitter of the rubies, and at a
very little distance the effect is that of red flashes
of frozen flame. Opals, those crystallised minia-
ture sunsets, suit only fair complexions and clear
skins. The only person who really ought to wear
emeralds is the red-haired girl with the dark eyes.
Their beautiful green glow shows up the slightest
imperfection in the tint and texture of either face
or neck ; which is no doubt why Nature in mercy
has made them very rare and frightfully expen-
,A slender girl and a waistfully-proportioned
m other waited uponasilk-lined Sydney dressmaker.
“ Can you make us a dress this month ? ” inquired
the girl. Certainly ! ” said the modiste, eyeing
the slender one approvingly. “Oh, it’s not for
me, but for my mother,” said the girl. Modiste
threw back her mother’s fur-lined cloak, glanced
at what Mantalini would call the “ demned out-
line and murmured, “So sorry I can’t oblige
you, but I only make for good figures.”
i n N-S.W. Divorce Court, a snowy old dame of
80 has just applied for a divorce from her hubby,
aged 80. It seems the young scamp cleared out
recently; but what the lady wants a divorce for
doesn t transpire. The petitioner in a recent gilt-
edged case, who got a decree in his favor, is now
one t 0 bS * >lmng *° r re * marr iage to his wandering
There is talk in England of an organised revolt
of clergymen against the selfish matinee hat which
shuts out the curate and the preacher from the
view of worshippers who haven’t secured front
seats. Already a few protests have been hurled
from the pulpit. The vast circumferential hat,
with birds, fruit and flowers protruding above its
crown, prevents fellow Christians from seeing
what the vicar has to say, also the effect of his
beatific smile is lost to the large majority of his
flock Moreover, if the fair sinners in front
would kindly take off their hats during the First
.Lesson they would be able to employ their hat-
pins in the stern religious duty of pricking the old
man and the children to keep ’em awake. The
projected movement against the wearing of ob-
structive millinery in the tabernacle seems
calculated to supply some long-felt wants.
All flesh is not grass these days. Much of the
flesh I see in the butchers’ shops is stubble, salt-
bush, and bottle-brush, and it has a blue, lean, and
pathetic look. In Cobar district the distress
through drought is acute. Some families are
partially living on boiled saltbush ! When the
humans have to take to sheep-food, what hope
for the sheep?
An experience of the warfare of the wasps
up the North Shore line. I had watched
a company all spring and summer building
an addition to a last year’s nursery under the
eaves in the hot, unmitigated glare that glares
10 t wes^ern Bld ® the Akenehi humpy.
When the nursery was as big as your head I pur-
posed to gi ve myself a field day, so I tied saplings
together till I had a pole 15ft. long, on to the
end of which I fastened a rake handle : then I
started to rake down the wasps’ abode. I did not
think they could see me at that range, or that they
could register cause and effect. Every one of
them was a Christian de Wet in foresight. A fly-
column, half a million strong, cnased me a
mile into the bush, catching me all the time. For
a week I went about veiled, and the Veiled
Prophet, Mokanna himself, hadn’t greater reason
to keep his hideousness covered than I.
Pitt-street restaurants, A.B C. and Shadler’s,
hitherto face-to-face rivals, have merged into one.
Ihe A.B. C. has swallowed Shadler’s. I suppose
under the new management the aggressive band
that played rapid marches and whirling waltzes
whilst one ate a bun or cutlet in Shadler’s will
be silenced. Goodness knows, Australians eat
fast enough in silence, but to the strains of the
Coronet waltz or somebody’s Coronation March
they simply gobble, as involuntarily as they would
hurry to the music of a quick-step in the street.
1 lie only really digestive music is something slow
and dreamy.
To balance the fact that we have in Sydney a
woman barrister wanting to practise, there has
bobbed up a male barrister who aspires to do the
rm° man S , a £ e a certain very domestic weekly.
Ihe regular conductor of the milk-and-water
page went away to Coronate, and the youthful
lawyer desired her to instal him in her place, and
she had to use considerable argument to prove
that his jurisprudence did not cover the treatment
ot teething babes, the knitting of socks and hoods,
renovation of last year’s frocks, and how to make
a banquet out of the scraps from Sunday’s dinner.
The fifteenthsmoke concert of the Electrical
Association of N.S. W., held at Aaron’s Exchange
Motel last Thursday night, was, I am told,°a
great success. All smoke concerts are the same.
Ihe men smoke and sip, and listen to comic songs
reflecting on the tyranny and rapacity of the lady
whom, when they get home, they style “ my own
sweetest,” and the big assembly of electricians and
friends cheered uproariously when Mr. Wilkie
sang a song about taking the Old Dutch out and
losing It. But it was a fearsome parody on “ the
Moly City ’ that broke up the company.
Rev. E. C. Beck, who succeeds Bishop Pain as
Rector of Darlinghurst parish, is a wiry, athletic
parson who looks much younger than his years.
He is a great favorite with boys and young men,
and doesn t go about carrying a halo, begging all
and sundry to get one of that make, or dropping
the corners of his mouth. Mr.) Beck was an asso-
ciate of King Ned when the latter was under
tutors and learning to “ put up his props.” They
en -n" i . friendl y encounters with the gloves.
Mr. Beck is unmarried.
. Dancing was once a form of worship—it is yet
m some places. If it could be so proclaimed in
Sydney and all the balls that are coming off during
tins week be offered up as prayers-for-rain there
would be such a lot of worship that perhaps a
deluge would result for the drought-stricken
country. The Mosman matrons’ dance at Needs’
rooms would be a most attractive prayer;
the Fleet hall on 20th at Garden Island a
powerful orison ; and the N.S. Hospital ball a
dynamic supplication. People dancing out their
invocations would look so much more charming
than showing the turned-out soles of their boots
as in the present style of worship.
Adelaide society breathlessly awaits the details
of a big divorce case shortly to be tried, in which
a wealthv mining man and a clergyman are
somehow involved.
From Nicholson and Co. come a florid, melo-
diou.s; grand Coronation March, by E. Lebe°-ott
and Sydney Hoben’s setting of “Salve Maria”
(with violin obligato). The latter composition
was sung with great effect by Madame Sapio, to
whom it is dedicated.
In Brisbane a wordy newspaper war is raging
between Anglicans and “ fancy ” religions as to the
religious observances on Coronation Day. Con-
sequent upon the Anglicans’ “special claim on the
King (and presumably on his Maker) and their
disinclination to worship with “schismatics,” there
will be two services held at different hours, and
the Governor, “prominent men,” and—er—the
Creator can attend both.
Brisbane just now is on the qiii vive of anticipa-
tion for sensational allegations which, it is said,
will come out in the Law Courts as to the death
of Dr. Wray of plague.
The gilded Mr. Tom Laurie, for years a Sydney
beau, of Kirribilli Point, is engaged to Miss Ivy
Dangar, of Kempsey. The bride-elect is tall and
fair. The bridegroom-elect is tall, dark and big,
noted for his faultless dressing, absolutely perfect
moustache, beautiful gardens, love of art, and his
chef. He has barrels of money—which, of course,
is only a detail.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“The Hunt breakfast at ‘Rupertswood,’ in
connection with the Findon Harriers’ opening
meet, was a sparklesome affair. Rupert Clarke
had prepared for an extra number of appetites
this year, and the stage of the ball-room was
pressed into use, thereby giving 500 guests an ample
view (if they wanted it) of Gov. Clarke and the
other exalted personages wrestling with their tur-
key. The speeches were limited—fortunately. His
Lx. made several ‘bulls’ in his disjointed oration,
though he was aided by notes. Once he
talked in a reminiscent strain of the time,
long ago, ‘ when my wife was young.’ At
this the whole 500 let out a volley of laughter.
In a dissertation on the joys of hunting, he men-
tioned that ‘ the chase was not as destructive to
the morals as horse-racing.’ A groan went up,
and then there was another smileful explosion.
“Five drags and endless carts and phaetons
bore a chattering, rustling contingent over the
roads of Sunbury while the local cockies gaped
from fences and barn-doors in open-mouthed
amazement at the noisy crew. The Huttons,
Sydenham Clarkes, and Millers had a coach
to their elite selves. American Consul Bray
drove in a plain enough buggy with S’Rupert.
Miss Eva Robertson was in a cinnamon brown
frock,, tabbed, stitched, flared, tucked and
machined in the thousand lines prescribed by the
Paris chiffon creator ; a cinnamon mushroom toque
kept the smart frock company. The wife of the
mining magnate, L. Brandon, cut the cutest
figure of the horsewomen, and Mrs. Johnston,
wife of the warrior warehouseman, led in the
field. Aide Browning carried round a camera,
and had all the smart girls hopping about like cats
on a grill every time he turned the cannon-mouth
towards them. After the hunt, or the wild efforts to
trace the fox, which went on for two solid hours,
the drags turned back to Rupertswood, and here
the crowd raised the echoes of revelry again in the
baronial hall.
“ At the Oaklands Club race meeting on Satur-
day the Gov.-General rode out to the meeting,
telling his red-coat friends that he had no choice
but to ride, as all his carriage nags were being
treated with short rations, in preparation for their
sea trip. And he said it without a smile.
“The sudden re-appearance of Mrs. Corbet at
‘Dorothy’ on Saturday night set the whole of the
circle and stalls in a simmer of excitement. Every-
one hungered to know the reason for that popular
matron’s sudden and unexpected return from the
Countess’s side on R.M.B. China. She arrived
with ‘Gussie’ Dangar, and joined Mrs. George
Chirnside’s party in the box. The baby Corbet’s
health is said to have made the mother anxious,
and to have caused her return, but those who
understood the position of affairs when the China
left Melbourne say things contrary reached a
climax.
“The drought probably lessens the amount of
money available for fashionable gaieties. Any-
way, the smartest seem unanimous at present in
regarding Australia as a nice place to live out of.
Miss Leslie Madden, one hears, is off to Germany
to study music along with her cousin, a daughter
of Mrs. Andrew Rowan. Sister Ruby, too, says
local rumor, meditates a jaunt to India and Europe
in company with her married sister’s connections,
the Osborne girls. The Steve Fairbairns and
many more of the squatter set are, or have been,
roaming, waiting for Coronation fun to begin and
drought dullness to end.
“ The ‘ Naicest ’ bemoan a future of retrenched
Government House gaieties in this ‘crude
Commonwealth,’ and threaten to settle themselves
on foreign shores. But somehow our travelled
exquisites always come back from Abroad to the
place where somebody is somebody, and every-
body knows it. It’s not the loss of the Hopetouns
personally that worries the hall-marked goods.
His. Ex., in fact, is in their black books, because
ever since he came back as viceroy, he has only
junketed with them officially. In his plain
Governor days he took pot-luck in Western-
District wool-palaces and chummed up with the
Camperdown clique ; but now, say his some-time
puppets, ‘We’re nowhere/ Federal frumps, State
sawneys, municipal marms—all have the pull over
us. When the Prince was here it was simply
monstrous ! We, if you please, were out of it as
completely as so many washerwomen.’
“ Lady Clarke, S’Rupert’s wife—not his step-
mother in this case—is president of the Vic.
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children,
and she took the chair at the recent meeting of
the soc. which decided to help the good cause
along with a ball. Fashionable philanthropy
delights in assuming a low-cut bodice and a blaze
of jewellery for the sake of suffering humanity.
.The curate in the Thornton production, who
remarks nightly ‘This is a slippery world 1 ’
recalled a former Vic. potentate’s reference to his
own frequent tumbles-off as ‘ The ups-and-downs
of er—er—life.’ The chicksof said chronic faller-off
apparently inherit pa’s experience of the insecurity
of mortal things. One of them, a Countess, has
been legally wooing ‘hubby’ to return to his
deserted domestic perch. Truant hubby was
heard of in connection with those Hooley bothers
a while back, and has since been a bit hurt don’-
cherknow, by the remarriage of his Dowager-
Countess mother.
“ Victoria’s new Premier, Mr. William Hill
Irvine, is the younger son of the late Mr. Hill
Irvine, who owned a large flax-mill in the North
of Ireland. The Premier’s mother now lives at
Malvern with a son and four daughters, one of
whom is a very clever figure-painter. Mrs. W
H. Irvine was a Miss Mitchell, a daughter of a
Victorian clergyman in Newry. The late John
Mitchell and the late John Martin, celebrated
Irish patriots, were Mrs. Irvine’s brother and
brother-in-law respectively.
“The marriage of Miss Muriel Miller, the
second daughter of Mr. Albert Miller, of ‘ Whern-
side, Toorak, and Mr. H A. Currie, of squatting
fame, was alleged to be a quiet one, but sightseers
at St. John’s Church, Toorak, were satisfied that
no money or trouble had been spared to make a
goodly show. The dress was a triumph of art.
Its special point was its exquisite delicacy,
IfT'nming, layers of chiffon, and priceless lace.
White silk w.is worn by the leading bridesmaid,
Miss E. Miller, and the four children of the party.
Mr. W. Johnston helped the shy bridegroom
through the ordeal. A reception followed at
Whernside.’ The pair are going to travel.
“ Nofc generally known that some years ago,
before the Synod of Athens had sent out te Mel-
bourne a Greek priest, the Victorian oyster and
barrow Greeks,-of whom there were nearly a hun-
dred, used to go to the Rev. Hughes, C.E. Vicar
of St. Peter’s, for baptism, confession, absolution,
marriage, and burial. The Greek priest, Papa
Athanasioa Kantopoulos, decided, on reaching
Melbourne, that those ceremonies, performed by
the English church, were null and void, and re-
baptised the children. Mr. Hughes wrote a com-
plaint to the Patriarohs of Athens, Jerusalem,
Alexandria, and Syria, each of whom gave
judgment in his favor. So vital was the matter
considered that the Synod of Athens spent much
time in considering it, and sent a number of ques-
tions on the differences between the Greek and
English Churches to the Bishop of Salisbury,
which were published in pamphlet form, and re-
garded as of great theological importance. The
Anglican High Church party in Australia, includ-
ing the various sisterhoods, only recognises three
“ orthodox ” churches in the world—the English
Cat hoi io, the Roman Catholic, and the Greek
Catholic.
“Saturday night, when a comfortable crowd
welcomed back Williamson’s opera co., Florence
Young and Grace Palotta, as Dorothy and
Lydia respectively, showed up in their short
skirts and shepherdess bodices as a pair of well-
grown, well-nourished lasses. Florence, bulkier
of body, although more embonpointy and less
lissome than her colleague, boasts, nevertheless,
slimmer ankles and smaller feet. But Grace’s
muscular limbs and long, capable feet, though not
conducive to beauty in short skirts, have much
to do with the confident ease of her stage-carriage.
To be graceful, a large-sized beauty needs adequate
pedal support. Venus herself had big feet, one
supposes, judging from the tradition that she
made a noise when she walked.’ Grace looks
best in poudr4 white satin at the Castle ball;
cousin Florence makes her mark in the flowing
white lawns and laces of her dressing-gown. As
Squire Bantam, Howard Vernon is a perfect old
picture 1
. 1° the audience, Mrs. Geo. Chirnside and her
sister, both in black, let their escort do most of
the talking. A son of the Albert-Miller clan
came with the prettiest girl in the d.c., who wore
frilly fluffy white and a pale-blue lisse scarf flung
over her shoulders. Her sister sported
jacket of pale-blue brocade, softened by
ruffles of chiffon, pink and blue, respectively.
. Enlarged Sleeve ” is a prevalent sartorial con-
dition which is going to be worse before it’s better,
typical arm-wear for daylight Coronation func-
tions at Ome, and for our own coming Cup rai-
ment, is stitched in flat pleats at the top, widen-
ing into huge, baggy puffs, above the cuff. The
skirt to be is pleated all round, but sets into a
shaped piece, fitting flat on hips.
“ ‘ Rita,’ of the Hkrai.d, a while back, ‘ drew’
local society-leaders as to their domestic hobbies.
Lady A. wrote that she, herself, was good at ‘ con-
diments, apparently holding with the much-
married sage of ‘ the Book,’ that a husband soon
gets sick of love,’ and needs to be ‘stayed with
flagons (cordials) and comforted with apples
(pickles).’ A Melb. belle and her sisters wrote
their mama shone in * care of calves and foals.’
“There is now a correspondence as to
how to dress on next to nothing per
year. The only woman of my acquaintance,
who looks 1 the _ thing ’ on a compara-
tively small sum indulges in a really good
coat and two or three skirts of the best materials,
made at the best places. On this basis she rears
her sartorial reputation. At sale-time she goes
round the best shops, picking up bits of good lace,
silk, &c., to be made into blouses by herself. One
cant have too many blouses, say experts. When
washing shirt-blouses first came in, the then Mrs.
Rupert Clarke came out from ’Ome with 100.
A recent Melbourne bride wore in her dark
hair-mounting her diamond hoop engagement
ring the latest freak of fashion. The ring has to
be fastened in the veil or the hair loop on the day
of doom. J
(Continued on page 21.)
Ihis item has led for some time a peaceful
and retired existence on the notice-paper of
N.S.W. Assembly :
-M?/. J ; T °- h ■ Fitzpatrick to move : That, in the opinion
ot this House, the system at present in vogue of treating
as ordinary revenue moneys received from the sale, bv
i° r • other I wise . of the public estate, is one that
should be immediately discontinued ; and this House
urges that all future receipts from this source should be
set apart as the nucleus of a fund from which to meet the
s s orations in regard to interest on the National
oeot, and for the purpose of meeting, as far as possible,
tne cost of extending our railway system for the benefit
of the producers.
The writer would give 2d. to know exactly what
Mr. Fitzgerald thinks he is doing in this matter.
N.S. YV. s gross land revenue is now about
£2,100,000 a year ; the interest on the public debt
is over £2,500,000. Therefore all the land revenue
goes in interest now—and a good deal more. If
the £2,100,000 land revenue is specially set aside
to meet interest, what difference will it make, and
how much further advanced will the State be, and
now much will be left to build railways with? If
the land revenue were set aside to pay off the
principal of the debt there might be some sugges-
tion of progress about the matter.
A graceful form and well moulded bust
are essential to perfect beauty. Lacti, the
wonderful ‘ bkin Food ” is nature’s remedy for
givmg back those essentials when lost through
sickness or action of time, and for supplying them
when constitutionally deficient. It fills all hollows,
develops and gives a charming roundness to neck
and arms. Price 7s. fid. per jar, post Bs. 3d.
Westall Guest, Toilet Specialist to the Gov.-
General, 229 Bourke-street, Melbourne.


CITIZENS’ LIFE assurance co., Ltd.
Has Money to Lend
on security of Freehold City or Suburban
Properties, Good Dairy Farms, Agricultural
and Grazing Lands (Freehold or C.P. & C.L.)
or Government Stock of any of the Australian States or New Zealand,
At the Lowest Current Rates of Interest,
Loans may be arranged for a fixed term or repayable by Instalments, without notice or
payment of any fine.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager
'l'ln■ United Typewriter and Supplies Co.,
one of,the i largest concerns manufacturing type-
writers, seems to be getting more of its share of
the world’s business One of its machines, the
“Yost,” was favoured recently by the Indian
Government with an order for one hundred and
twenty machines. In addition to this their
Austrian representative now reports the sale of
five hundred “ New Century ” Typewriters for use
on the Government Railways. An important
fact is that these two are record orders for the
world, and, what is more important in the eyes of
the Company, were obtained in competition with
all the leading makes. Australian buyers can
obtain both of these riiachines from the Company 8
office in Sydney, Melbourne and Perth.*
Cecil
& Restaurant
Largest and most magnificent Hotel in Europe.
0 Overlooking’' the picturesque Embankment Gardens and river.
LONDON.
Moderate Charges
Bedrooms light and attendance included, from 6s. per day. Breakfast, from 25.;
lunch, 3s. 6d.; dinner, 6s. Suites, ensuring absolute privacy, from 245. per day.
Telegraphic Address: CECELIA, LONDON.
» ‘jaSeueiN ‘Hvanr "V
ines in Australia.
’OLLShItEST
Supplied to H.R.H. the Duke of York.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
R.O. Archbishop Murphy, of Hobart,
finished his 87th year on Wednesday of this week
(Waterloo Day). He was born on the very day of
the battle.
It was rather rough on ex - Premier
Peacock that he should have happened to cele-
brate his defeat by tripping over the dining-room
carpet, falling against a chair and fracturing two
ribs.
N.S.W. Chief Justice Darley is a cousin
of the brewer Guinnesses, the head of whom,
Lord Iveagh, is supposed to be the richest
Christian in the United Kingdom, and is reputedly
worth £14,000,000.
Lady Lettice Grosvenor, to be married to
ex-Governor Beauchamp, is said to be a cousin of
Lumley Hill, the ancient Queensland Parlia-
mentary campaigner. Lumley still entertains
hopes of being Premier of that State.
The new N.S.W. Governor, Admiral Raw-
son, and family are homoeopaths, and are at pre-
sent being attended by a Sydney physician who
practises homoeopathy. The story goes that H. E.
will help to establish a Homoeopathie Hospital in
Sydney.
The Age reports that a well-known business
man was knocked down and had his nose severely
bitten during the peace celebrations at Bendigo
(Vic.). The man who goes to an Australian Jingo
peace celebration unarmed must expect something
like that.
If Seddon scores an Imperial Governor-
ship—as is said to be his ambition —it will not
create a precedent. Frederick Weld, once Maori-
land’s Premier, was subsequently Governor of
W.A., then of Tasmania, and later of the Straits
Settlement.
The long, thin Shiels reappears in Vic.
politics as Irvine’s lieutenant. The Casterton
man’s presence in a Ministry is regarded as proof
positive that it will die young—Shiels being the
pale, medium sort of politician who is only possible
in anaemic governments.
A cable :
The dominant note of conversation among the sur-
rendered Boers is a eulogy of British fairness, as shown
by the execution of two British officers.
What a handy thing is a scapegoat ! It is an
animal no Ketchener should be without.
No one has yet publicly sympathised with
Gapt. Wallington over Hopetoun’s sudden depar-
ture. It did look as if Wallington had a good,
steady job this time. Now the next G.-G. may
not want him. He ought to, of course. But
G. -G’s. are not famous, as a rule, for horse-sense.
“ W.”, Adelaide, writes :
It will be 34 years on Tuesday since Adam Lindsay
Gordon shot himself at Brighton (Vic.) and we have not
yet had a really adequate edition of his poems. Pity he
didn’t live in the days when even such encouragement as is
now given to Australian literature was available, for he
would assuredly have done more and better work.
The new Vic. Premier Irvine is a nephew
of John Mitchell, who “did time” in Bermuda
and Tasmania half-a-century ago for seditious
journalism in Ireland. Yet Irvine loyally assisted
Peacock and Trenwith to eject “ Tocsin ” Findley.
It is a wise •■ebel that knows how his nephew will
grovel.
How Methuen must curse in his innermost
heart the vanity of old man Roberts which
prompted him to postpone the direct attack
on Gronje’s “surrounded” laager until the
anniversary of Majuba Day ! During
the time that Roberts was waiting
for his little theatrical coup fully a
oouple of thousand Boers broke out
from the tight place under cover of
darkness (and Generals De la Rey
and Olivier were among them).
Two years later De la Rey’s lot
captured Methuen. Roberts
plead in excuse for that costly
breakaway of the best men in
Cronje’B army the carelessness
of certain British generals, but
Buller soon afterwards made an
altogether inexcusable ass of
himself. The burly old battler
had a large body of Boers in
difficulties, and, thinking they
were hopelessly cornered and
the war was almost at an end,
he gave them three days in
which to make up their minds
to surrender. At the end of the
three days there were no Boers
in the neighlxirhood. Buller
had been bluffed into staying
his advance whilst the enemy
quietly got away.
Judged by the things lie
laughs at, ex-Premier Peacock
has the intellectual calibre of a
Bungaree policeman. Present
wrjter was at a variety show lately,
and Alex. Peacock was somewhere
in the theatre, getting his money’s
worth. A decent Cheshire oat would
lie ashamed to be caught smiling at
many of the jokelets that sent the
great Ha-Ha into convulsions. Peacock did
not laugh at the good wheezes, but the bad old
has-beens fetched nis mandrake yell every time.
In spite of his infamous laugh, Peacock has no
sense of humor worth mentioning, and throughout
the miles of matter standing to bis credit in Vic.
Hansard there is nowhere discoverable anything
approaching a joke. A speech by A. Peacock is
ao laughing-matter.
Irvine, the new Vic. Premier, is 44 years of
age, and is the youngest portfolio-holder in his own
Ministry. Murray and Taverner come next in
point of age, and Cameron is turned 60. While
studying for the Bar in Melbourne, Irvine, who
was a B.A. of Dublin University, earned his
living by teaching.
Chief Justice Griffith will be 57 to-day
(May 21); President Baker, of Federal Senate,
will be 60 to-morrow (Sunday) ; and King Richard
of Maoriland, who originally came “all the way
from Lancashire,” will be 57 on Monday. Also,
Lord Kitchener, of whom Seddon was good
enough to approve recently, will be 52 on Tuesday.
Hopetoun’s resignation is not the first in
Australia tendered by a Governor on the salary
question. When Vic. Parliament cut down Gov.
Barkly from £lO,OOO, plus £5OOO allowances, to
£7OOO without allowances, that potentate handed
in his official gun. A lot of haggling ensued.
Parliament sprang to £lO,OOO without allowances,
and Barkly stayed on.
It was “The Archbishop of Sydney at
a function. But R.C. Archbishop Kelly did
not let the title pass. “ The Senior Archbishop, ”
he corrected. The public only want a discrimi-
nating title, such as Bill and Big Bill. But the
pretension that his C E. nibs is the party recalls
The O’Byrne in Paris. The card returning the
call was superscribed*“ The Other O’Byrtie.”
Four old Parramatta King's School boys
have been killed in the Boer war. But General
Sir Baker Russell, of the Imperial service, is the
showiest feather in the old school’s military cap.
Several times of late years the school thought its
General would be taken into action, but he was
kept at other work. Baker Russell and Justices
Windeyer, Innes, and Simpson attended the
school at the same time.
N.S. W. Principal Under Secretary Critchett
Walker will be 62 to-morrow (Sunday). His
father (the Rev. James Walker, M.A.) was once
head master of King’s School, Parramatta, and
the son was born on board the Arabian, off the
coast of the Cape of Good Hope. He began
official life as sessional clerk of the Leg. Assembly
in 1856, so that he has nearly completed half-a-
century as a public servant .
Cabled :
The Edinburgh University has arranged to confer the
honorary degree of Doctor of Laws upon the visiting
colonial Premiers during the Coronation festivities.
It is known what sort of men now*nd tU-n rise
to be Premiers in Australia, and that any Univer-
sity of standing should take them in a lump on
any account and clothe them with its degrees, is
scholastic degradation. Foreign Universities
have been charged with selling their degrees;
what is this but a sale ? They may not be con-
ferred for money, but certainly they are not con-
ferred for merit.
Dear Bulletin.—Re your par. (June 7,
page 15, col. 4) concerning the Duke of Grafton.
The present holder of the title is father of the
Colonel H. J. Fitzroy who first went sheep-
farining and was then Chief Justice Way’s Asso-
ciate in Adelaide, and who, among other things,
had to pay (by order of the court) tailor G. P.
Doolette so much a week on an unsatisfied judg-
ment summons. “Fitz,” as he was affectionately
called 20 years ago, is still Earl of Euston and a
great masonic swell, but will be Duke some day if
he lives long enough. All the rest of the story is
correct. — Yours, W.
DAN
and
LARRY
A STUDY
IN
BLACK & WHITE
One of the victims of Philp’s retrench
ment” is F. M. Bailey, the competent and
enthusiastic Q. Botanist who draws at present the
huge s<dary of £250 a year. Bailey’s book, “The
Grasses and Flora of Queensland,” is nearing
completion, and would save tons of money to the
observant squatter and selector, but Philp and
Co. (who paid £170,000 for those historic dredges)
want Bailey’s mite, and they are going to get it.
“E.D.” concerning a certain Aus-
tralian Judge’s theology:—
Mr. Justice Williams, of .Melbourne, is an Aus-
tralian Japhet in search of a religion. Since
being delivered of his rather juvenile book on
rational religion, an uninspired re-hash of Tom
Paine’s “ Age of Reason,” His Honor has been
wallowing in the theological bog, but at last he
is satisfied that he has found firm land for the
soles of his feet in a sort of better-class spiri-
tualism. The Judge employed a recent
“ Pleasant Sunday Afternoon ” preaching to a
large audience on the folly of any belief in the
resurrection of the physical body. He
pointed out that a man who lives to be 70
has used up, perhaps, ten physical bodies.
“Which of these is to he resurrected?”
cried His Honor, with the air of a con-
queror. But Justice Williams believes in the
survival of the “spiritual body.” In the
future, he says, we will be the same indi-
viduals without the physical body, and possi-
bly “ after reaching a certain stage we may
be re-incarnated in a physical body.” How
desperately His Honor strains at the gnat, how
cheerfully he swallows the mosquito ! What
proofs are there that the destruction of the soul
is not at least as complete as the destruction of
the body ? Many phenomena are advanced to
establish the existence of some mysterious soul-
force outside of life. What then ? Your man
of 70 has had as many spiritual as physical
bodies, using the term spiritual as synony-
mows with mentality. Which of his spiri-
tual bodies survives ? The boy of seven
is spiritually as different from the man of
70 as he is phvsically. Provided there is
a spiritual force apart from the material
form, what proof is there that it is not
disintegrated with death, and-dissipated
as the decayed body is, and joins the
mass of force, the play of which has re-
strained even the most serious sceptical
minds from declaring physical death to
be Finality ? But from the belief that the
individual perishes utterly there is no
escape hut in the phantasies of faith. When
you have admitted that a certain some-
thing in man called spirituality is indestruc-
tible as are the atoms of his physical body, you
have done no more for religions and beliefs in
future lives on “spiritual planes” than you do
in agreeing that the dust of Egyptians who lived
10,000 years ago may still be blowing about the Sahara,
and may go to the making of other physical bodies
10,000 years hence. Man only worships th# world-forces
he cannot yet comprehend. Familiarity breeds contempt
and infidelity.
Died at Glasgow, April 4, Jas. Wyllie
(“the Herd Laddie”) draughts champion. During
his visits to Australia he beat all the local stars,
though some drawn games were scored against
him. The old man, who was very deaf, made his
living by playing draughts, for which he charged
opponents Is. per game. He left behind him a
few lrundred pounds, the result of his invariable
formula : “ Putt doon yer shullin’.”
Of the 75 Reps., 24 are teetotallers,
27 non-smokers, five vegetarians or almost
so, while six—Barton, Forrest, Knox, Mac
Paterson, M‘Eachern and Braddon—are reckoned
epicures. The Tas. fire-eater, Cameron, studies
his palate in the matter of smoking, as he imports
his own cigars; while Yes-No Reid carefully
avoids rice, tapioca and other starchy matters —
for obvious reasons. Crouch, of Corio, set. 33, is
the House’s baby ; Braddon, 73, its father.
Sachse, M.L.C., the last hair on the tail
of Irvine’s Ministry, got most of his experience in
North Borneo as consulting engineer to the Govt.,
and did some minor exploring work. His predi-
lection for the society of an ignorant people drew'
him into Vic. Leg. Council. Next to Agar
Wynne, who has eyes on the Premiership, Sachse
is the most ambitious man in the House of Rich
Landlords, but much bidding for office has only
secured him the position of boy-in-buttons to the
new Cabinet.
Baroness Burdett-Coutts has invited the
Australian XI. to gaze upon the Coronation pro-
cession from her house in Piccadilly, and if the
boys take any interest in human curios they will
accept this chance to be entertained by a unique
personage. Miss Burdett Coutts was a million-
airess of 24 when she attended Queen Victoria’s
coronation in 1838. She relinquished her spinster-
hood at the sufficiently ripe age of 67, and her
husband, who is about 40 years younger, has been
carrying out his contract ever since. There never
w:is such a potent argument in favor of late
marriages for maiden ladies, or such a beautiful
warning to the young men who consent to make
them happy.
Tasmania’s senior coroner and J.P., Cap-
tain Edward Dumaresq, celebrated his 100th
birthday on June 10. Mr. Dumaresq belongs to
an old military family. He and his elder brothers,
on account of their father’s services in America,
got a military education at Sandhurst at Govern-
ment expense, and were fitted into commissions in
the British Army. The eldest brother, Henry,
was made a colonel by the Duke of Wellington on
the field of Waterloo ; and the second son,
William, fought through the Peninsular war.
The centenarian enjoys good health, a slight deaf-
ness being his only trouble, and life on his splen-
did estate at Longford still seems to have attrac-
tions for him. Mr. R. H. Dumaresq, M.H.A., is
the captain’s dutiful son, and was born in 1839.
Primate Cowie, of Auckland, who retires
from duty at 71 years of age, was always a staunch
advocate of reciprocity between Australasian and
British clerics. If British clerics were admitted
to work on this side without examination, he held
that Australasian clerics should be similarly
admitted in Britain. He himself was educated
and ordained in England. He is a competent
musician, and has followed mechanics as a hobby
all through life. Repairing the settlers’ clocks wasa
regular habit with him when visiting through the
country. H has constructed a very useful and in-
expensive sewing-machine, and has made many gar-
ments as specimens. In religious matters he has
been always liberal, and has been a friend to the
Maoris since his arrival. He was preceded in
Auckland by the first Bishop Selwyn, who
returner! to England, and became afterwards
Bishop of Lichfield.
IT DIDN'T WORK.
HE: “ Ah , my darling, why did you tend me
away if you really loved me ?”
SHE: “ George, dear, I will tell you the whole
truth. I thought-I was told that fretting
would make me slim again.”
The new Victorian Ministry is not likely
to prove strong. Irvine is personally popu-
lar, and- has good points, but he is not heavy
metal enough for a leader. Shiels, as Treasurer,
will show himself too clever by half. He is a
financial theorist, who studied his subject at
Melb. University. The return to office of Bent,
the first of the busted laud-boomers to get on his
feet again, is not likely to be hailed with wild en-
thusiasm. Taverner, while a member of the
Turner Govt., made a reputation for inactivity
and general indifference. Davies and Reid,
M.’sL.C., the reps. of property, have both held
office before. The former is useful as a legal
critic ; the latter is the sort that passes in a crowd.
The three Ministers who hold a portfolio for the
first time are M‘Kenzie, Murray, and Cameron.
M‘Kenzie is a man of solid capacity, but is
handicapped by blindness; Murray is famed
for his pluck, unflinching Radicalism, and light
and airy speeches, but has yet to give evi-
dence of the possession of ballast; Cameron, who
was a game-keeper in the old country, has deve-
loped into a painstaking farmers’ representative.
The pale and blameless life of Dean
Cowper ticked out at midnight on Saturday, - 4th.
With the exception of eight years in England, the
Dean had seen 82 years of Sydney life—from
Bligh to Rawson, Admiral to Admiral—and
had done as much to mould it as the
conventional Church of England clergyman may,.
The old man dying in the meagre cathedral close
was not more apart from the Saturday night,, m
George-street, than his church from the seething
life of the great city all around, The Dean came
out as chaplain to the A. A. Co. a few years after
John Dunmore Lang arrived “on his own. It can
hardly be said the two worked side by side. The ope
belonged to that painfully severe place on the hill
overlooking the two quays and the Rocks, the,
other w hoi 1 v and exclusively to the Cathedral close.
•A painted saint in a church window would have
been as effective in direct warfare against Hell
and the Devil in Sydney as Dean Cowper,
next to the bishop chief patron of the Anglican
Church; and never a saint, painted or real,
gave less cause of offence. Still, his was nob
a futile life, if a great example is anything; and
to the thinking man it is much—perhaps more
than all the fierce efforts of the evangelicals. The
Cathedral bell and its message in Sarah Grand a
“Twins” book is suggested by the Deans life
and death. Regularly as the bell, undoubting as
the hell, he tolled out his message, and now the
requiem tolls. Still George-street roars along,
and to the same old tune.


gdf
WEAK-SIGHTED REAPERS
Who are unable to read small printed matter, or to see fine
stitching or writing with comfort, whose distant vision is dull
and who suffer from persistent headaches or pains after close
application—you may rest assured that vou are suffering f rom
Ageing or Impaired Vision, and Need Glasses. You
should visit us, and have your sight scientifically tested, and
be supplied with Glasses adapted to your individual case.
T 0 COUNTRY READERS who cannot visit us personally, we send, Post Free to any address, with full instruc-
tions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT. Bv its
y ° U \T-t f 'IT 0W " 8, ° “ defcermine for yoaraelf th * «tyle and of the glasses you may need
H. A. BARRACLOUQH, Consulting' Optician
371 George St., Sydney,
next door to the A.J.S.
King and George Streets.
And at 232 COLLINS ST.p MELBOURNE] opposite Age Office.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
DAVID STORES & SONS’
In Three Colors—BLACK, RED and BLUE
Rbsistkred
Trade
Mark.
TATTOO
Is the Only Absolutely
QACC Wool-
onrt Marking
The Perfect Sheep-Marker.
SHEEP BRANDING OIL.
Kopt by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. — ln the case of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience ; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
Animals in search of fodder in West
Queensland adopt strange devices. Horses have
been noticed of late pawing in stagnant pools and
then dipping down heads and bringing up a
mouthful of swamp weed. Others have actually
been seen diving, and appear to be acquiring some
proficiency in tiie art. A Dalby paper tells of
cattle confined in paddocks with river frontages
dying of starvation, while others, in prickly-pear
enclosures, without any water at all, are actually
fattening. Prickly-pear is being brought just
now into Brisbane by waggon from seaside resorts,
as the only salvation for suburban dairy cows.
Bananaland will have to protect the pear yet in
place of exterminating it.
DEFINED.
No. 1 : “ I don't like riding. I always feel I
should get on better if I got off.”
No. 2 : “ I feel lam better off if I stay on.”
Printed that the water-hyacinth, curse of
Queensland S.E. rivers, has been fed to hungry
cattle with admirable results. This and the
prickly pear, also used for feed, seem to be
Nature’s remorse in some parts of the State.
• * • •
A mob of 3000 sheep, moving up towards
Broken Hill from the lower Darling desert,
near Menindie on a patch of wild spinach, the
gift of a recent thunder-shower. One gorge of the
unaccustomed green stuff killed 700 on the spot.
* * • *
Several South Australian traders on the
lower Murray and Darling have not been able to
make a single trip since Jan. No trade has been
possible on the Darling during 20 of the last 30
months.
* * * *
On the Northern N.S.W. rivers, the Colo-
nial Sugar Cos. is giving 10s. per ton for maize-
cobs, delivery taken on the river bank. The cobs
are crushed, and, when mixed with molasses, form
an excellent fodder for stock, and large quantities
are being sent to the drought-stricken districts.
• * • *
“ Hensco ” : Re the use of saltbush as a
vegetable. On the Barwon and Darling, 40 years
ago, what we called the “cabbage saltbush” was
pretty generally so used. I have eaten it
boiled whole with beef, and chopped up and
mixed with sausage-meat.
A Narrabri pastoralist tells that “ in 1877
and 1878 he lost by drought over 2000 head of
cattle and about 12,000 sheep. The present
drought practically started in 1896. Out of 9000
sheep he purchased in that year, 7400 died. In
1898 he bought a run near Cassilis, and his losses
in sheep totalled 22,000, and, although he has only
stocked at the rate of a sheep to six acres, his
flock has been reduced to 10,000, half of which are
being fed in Narrabri and the remainder atßurren.
Probably not one of his 10,000 sheep would turn
the scale at 201 b. if dressed.”
• * » *
A bit of drought-stricken Western Queens-
land
Sixty miles a day on a large, heavy conveyance—a bad
cross between an Indian gharri and a hearse—drawn by
five fly-spotted equine skeletons. A stifling day. The
■ky a great, flaming oven. Grass withered ; water gone ;
famine-stricken, blear-eyed bullocks, staggering patheti-
cally. Grotesque oarioatures of sheep—mere bones
holding up the pelt. Plain after plain of parched wilder-
ness. Not a tree nor a shrub for miles; nothing but
dust and desolation. Skeletons and bones everywhere.
A foetid smell in the air. The hateful crow flickering
from carcase to carcase in fiendish exultation. Not a
soul to be seen for 60 miles. A station 1 No hearty
welcome here—only a depressed grunt. The mail—the
only thing to look forward to in this wilderness of desola-
tion—a lingering life of misery ! The sun goes down a
ball of fire ; then a shanty appears on the horizon. Two
looney fellows lounging on the verandah, stupefied with
liquor. A careworn, weary woman, prematurely aged,
nursing a sickly-looking baby. Four silly-looking chil-
dren—old-fashioned, sore-eyed, dirty. A heavy drink-
sodden host. A horrible decoction called whisky ; hard
salt junk, damper, and a black unnameable stewed sub-
stance. A sleepless night, battling with mosquitoes, and
other insect pests. Daylight, and a repetition of the
same thing. It was Sheol I —Trotter.
• • • *
“ M.” :Re droughts : Hay or chaff could
never be delivered for less than £4 a ton, and could
hardly be grown and reaped locally for less than
£2, and then not more than two tons of it to the
acre. Green ensilage can be put down for less
than ss. a ton, and a big crop of maize or sorghum
will cut between 10 and 20 tons per acre. Some
few sq. miles of the native growth would, in a
good season, cut nearly as much, and ensilage will
keep for years, and will not burn. Squatters of
the old sort assert that nothing of the kind ever
did or ever will pay. “Let’em die when they
must and stock up when the rain comes.” But
the fathers of these men were just as pig-headed
about fencing runs. Time alone and such fierce
experiences as those of this year burn conviction
into them.
* • • *
“ Tom Collins ” : Re strong men. A Vic-
torian threshing-machine owner wagered a bottle
of gin that one of his men would
carry a bag of wheat a mile at a
stretch. An exceptionally heavy bag
was conveyed to the next cross-road
in a cart, and, disregarding our advice
to take the load across his shoulders,
Dinny backed up to the cart, and
gripped the top lugs, while his boss,
as a further security, looped a swag-
strap round each wrist and sewed
the fall to the bag. The first quarter-
mile was covered without discomfort;
then the load began to sag, defying
Dinny’s attempts to buck it forward
into position But he pegged away,
stooping lower and lower, till his
back was horizontal, while the after-
part of the bag drooped over his
hips like the tai 1 of a platypus. Pre-
sently the lugs slipped through his
paralysed fingers, and the swag-
straps bit into his wrists till his hands
were the size of boxing-gloves and
the color of beet-root. His breathing
grew stertorous, his face turned from
brick-red, through purple, to black ;
but still he lurched along, game to
the last, only to go down 200 yards
from .his goal, with the bag on top of
him. Had he got the bag up properly
it would have been an easy win for
his boss.
• * «
“F.”: Poked iny head into a
house near Adelong once upon a time
to make some inquiries. In one
corner was a pig burrowing in the
flour-bag, and in another a girl
straining milk through a chemise.
My sudden intrusion failed to disturb
the equanimity of either pig or girl.
* * * *
Things are in such a state in West Queens-
land now, writes a Bulletin correspondent, that
the trees are actually dying, and birds are be-
coming quite tame. When camped they are a
nuisance—scores of butcher birds, magpies, and
swagmen’s chums surround you, and will take
food out of your hand.
« • * *
“ Bynna ” : The unexampled severity of
the present Australian drought is evidenced by
the fact that in various parts of the continent the
indigenous trees are dying off—a thing which, in
N.S.W. at all events, has never been known
before. Present writer’s father, though he often
questioned the blacks about the long-dead belts of
myall, box, &c., on the Bar won and Namoi, could
never get any reasonable explanation—a circum-
stance which seems to indicate that if the
phenomenon is due to such another fierce drought
as the present one, its occurrence must have been
in the remote past. In northern N.S.W., com-
mencing, say, at the Liverpool Range and reach-
ing northward to the “Snowies ” in New England,
considerable areas of timber, chiefly box, are
either just dead or dying; and the same state of
things extends far out to the westward.
• * • •
“ Don ” : Me Bowman’s bottle - tree
(“ Werrimee,” B. 31/5/’02). I have known it used
as fodder by German farmers in Dugandon dis-
tnct (Q.)» in the ’ZO’s. Horses fed on it were only
watered twice a week, and drank very little then.
Bottle-tree has also to my knowledge been used
on the Dawson for a year or more, and I know
several people who keep stock fat on it.
IT HAS EVEN REACHED OUT-THERE!
The Q. drought is having a dire effect on
the native animals. Not only have they died off
in tens of thousands from want of water, but the
Q. unemployed, for the sake of making a little
tucker-money, are shooting them off in thousands
wherever possible. The native bear and opossum
are the worst sufferers.
* • • •
A drover, travelling from Glen Innes to
Grafton for grass with a mob of dying cattle,
thus notified the Glen ■ Elgin squattage of his
approach: “A funeral procession will pass
through your run to-morrow.”
“ Bob *R.” : “Will J.’*(B. 22/3/02) is a
trifle out of date in his appreciation of a bag for
extinguishing bush-fires. With the fires we get
about Junee (N.S.W.) a bag would be of as much
use as a penny squirt on a city blaze. Bush fire-
fighting is now reduced to a science, in which the
water-cart-cum-pump is a leading feature. Hardly
a station in Riverina which has not at least half-
a-dozen of these “extinguishers” ready for
action at a moment’s notice. No skill required to
work them —“elbow-grease” is all; and one
water-cart is worth 50 beaters with bags. Note,
however, that I’m referring to Riverina stations —
not to 4-acre allotments.
• * * *
“Matchbox”: Dr. Ahearn’s theory re
vital loss in tropical climates still holds despite of
A. C. (3/5/’O2), who ad vances the exception as a
general instance. The average Australian is
developing the race-characteristics of the
aborigine. He’s spindle-shanked, large-footed,
narrow-chested, his nose is flattening, and his ears
(Lord preserve us !) —ask the pedagogues. The
area of ear is becoming alarming. Every kid is
provided with two flaps capable of voluntary move-
ment —a development to meet a demand ! This is
a great country for flies —and the future Australian
looms up as something that might fill the situation
without using his hands.
• • • •
“ W.J.S.” : He tall men (“ Riverina,” 8.,
22/3/’O2). Some years ago I was working on
Durham Downs Station (Cooper’s Creek, Q.),
whereon 48 men were employed as carriers,
shearers, shed-hands, etc., and of these 13 went
from 6ft. 2in. to 6ft. 6in. I have also been in
two strike-camps, in which the tallest men were
respectively 6ft. 7in. and 6ft. s|in. Dozens of
others went over 6ft. Some thousands of the
finest specimens of physical manhood on the con-
tinent were in the ’9l and ’94 camps.
• * * *
“ Thurla ” : Some effects of the drought
on bird-life in New England district
(N.S.W.). Found a kookaburra, t’other
day, at foot of tree, dead but still warm.
Some days later found another cadaver
alongside the first. Both jacks were mere
skeletons. Since then have found asoldier-
bird and a magpie dead under trees, both
evidently from starvation. Mags, jacks,
’keets, and other parrots crowd around
the only surface water for miles, and
furious battles take place for precedence.
The mags and jacks keep a sharp look-out
for any scraps of food from the camp. A
few months ago I rescued a butcher-bird
from the fate of the fly in the amber. He
had found a dish of strained honey, and,
probably mistaking it for water, had
plunged in for a bath, and got caught.
When found only his head was free, and
that was being gradually submerged as
more honey kept falling from the strain-
ing bag.
* * * *
“ Jim Pan ” : From a Big Scrub-
washing-bill :
The last time I done the shirts
was 8d
this time 8d
1/6
This method of calculation, by the way, is
becoming common with city and suburban
dealers — e.g., 51bs. of grapes @ 3d. a lb.=
15 pence=l/5 ; 7 melons, @ 4d. each =2B
pence=2/8. It often comes off, and when
it doesn’t, apologies are easy. The decimal
coinage is arriving.
“Zero”: His name was Medcraft. He
came to our office to pay his account, and handed
in a cheque which he had just received, and which
was payable to “Medcalf or order.” I told him
to endorse it “Medcalf, not Medcraft,” and
directed his attention to the script in the body.
“Well,” he said, “I can write my own name
all right, but ” (pointing to the script and holding
his head sideways) “ how can I make that long-
tailed ‘l’? Fact is, mister, I ain’t got no ‘ I.’ ”
Ultimately I pencilled the endorsement, and lie
traced it over with ink.
“F.” : Was with a droving-party on the
Murrumbidgee some years ago. Spent a very
merry evening at a wayside pub., and one
of our men brought a bottle back to camp
and thrust it into a Wellington boot.
Next morning a rush for revivers, but
to our dismay the bottle was found
broken and the stuff spilled in the
boot. Each one eyed it dubiously tdl
at length Greasy Bill, the owner of the
boot, remarked that it must be all
right, as ha washed his feet pretty
regular.
• • * •
It isn’t all beer and skittles employing v.
Chinese cook. The other day, at a station near
Cloncurry, the musterers observed their Chow
oulinary artist pouring out some 301bs. of flour, a
quantity of tea and other table necessaries on the
ground. When these preliminaries were com-
pleted John rolled himself on the mixture — and
died then. What fantastic notion had taken
possession of the poor devil’s brain? He was a
great opium-eater.
• * • *
“ Alone,” re a big breeze :
“ Alone ” : Just had a look along the track (near
Bacchus Marsh) of the last cyclone that swept across
Victoria. Have seen nothing like it in the Windstorm
line since the willy-willies of the West. Sound gums two
and three feet tnrough, that wouldn’t tear up by the
roots, are snapped off short. Others are blown right out
of the ground ; and some have every leaf and limb torn
off, whilst the bare trunk is standing. In one place a
dairy-farmer’s house was struck by it, and blown into
fragments. Unfortunately the owner, a very old man,
and a young fellow employed on the farm were caught in
the storm near the house. The young fellow declares it
blew him ten feet in the air—anyway, as a matter of fact,
it picked the old man up, hurled him over a fence, and
literally dashed his brains out on a post. When the
cyclone had passed the heavens started pelting lumps of
ice so large—well, so large that if I stated the size of some
of them it would only provoke the sco.is of unbelievers.
« * * *
“ W.N.” : Re recent Bulletin par about
the benefit of a volcano in Central Australia.
There is not much likelihood of one breaking out;
but since a large part of Centralia is said to be
below sea-level, why not cut a canal and let the
sea in ? We should then have a vast evaporating-
pan, instead of burning plains—nurse of hot
winds in the interior. The Barrier would then be
a coastal range and western N.S.W. and Q.j also
S.A. would probably have a regular rainfall. The
canal could be made navigable by small craft,
anyhow, and the inland sea would be dotted with
fertile islands. What we want is “Australia
Facing the Problem of the Interior.”
* • • •
Two residents of Yarram (Vic.) were
lately fined 2s. 6d. each with costs for keeping pet
kangaroos, and the decision of the Bench has
caused considerable feeling in the district. Many
residents are keeping ’roos for the purpose, so
they say, of preventing their extinction, and
object to give them up to the police as the law
demands. What is the matter with the pet ’roo,
anyhow ?
» * « *
At Fremantle (W.A.), t’other day, three
newly-arrived niggers, covered only by a blanket
apiece, were marched through the main street with
chains round their necks, the ends of the chains
being held by a policeman. They were being
taken to the lock-up, en route to the nigger prison
at Rottnest, for some trivial offence against their
“owners.” Westralia is proud of the fact
that, in proportion to its population, it spends
more on its aborigines than any other State. But
the money goes in salaries of white officials, in
chains flogging-gear, prisons, and arrangements
for enslaving the nigger, and he doesn’t seem to
appreciate all this care and attention.
WHEN THE BATTLE-FLAGS UNFURLED.
SERGRANT TIMMS (late of the Rand Swash-
bucklers. gloomily): “Peace is it! Then
gimme war.”
“ D.H.R.” : Recently found, in a hollow
stump, a bush-mouse’s nest, containing 33 young
ones ; probably all one family, too, as I only found
two old mice. Has any Bulletin writer seen as
large a mouse family ?
FLIPPY’S SUICIDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We found his broken boots, his hat and coat
Beside the river, ’neath the brooding trees,
And lying near, a touching little note
That told us all in such sad words as these :
“ Fair sick o’ this here blanky place I be.
In heaven there’s rest fer pore old blokes like me 1 ”
’Twas signed with Flippy’s name. We almost cried.
We’d known him long, and knew no good of Tim,
But sins are all absolved by suicide,
So each recalled the best he could of him.
“ I mind the time he drank six quarts o’ beer
Within the hour,” said Ned, and shed a tear.
We gathered up the things, and mooched along
To Quinn’s to drink Tim fortune in a peg.
The bar was filled with bellowings of song—
A cheerful crank was dancing on a keg.
Some kindly soul had filled him to the brim.
Well might we gape—the happy drunk was Tim !
“ Here, here, I say ! ” disgusted, Oody cried,
And flapped the letter under Flippy’s nose ;
“We thought you was a blessed suicide ! ”
“ Thatsh ri’,” sighed Tim, reminded of his woes,
*• I meant to drown myself, but Pete, I think,
He come an’ ast me could I do a drink.”
E. DYSON.


The HANSARD Fountain Pen (Authorised Staff)
Fine, Medium, or Broad Points. One Quality—The Best; One Price— The Lowest, 7/6 (Port Paid),
g
ina-rpi of errerr Pen branded “ The Hansard.” ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTE. Sen* to any address on receipt
Barrel oierery ™“£ TTER & 00- Ltd SYDNEY. HANSARD PEN 00., Box 08, Q.P.0., SYDNEY.
of price
Old
Jewellers
Are surprised at these
Marvels of Value and
Elegance.
All Pearls or Pe t arls
and Turquoise, 38/-
Large size, 78/-
They ere Australian throughout.
Pearls from our Waters.
Gold from our Mines.
Skill from our Workshops.
Exquisitely fine workmanship, the perfection of
fine gem work, beautiful lustrous Pearls, set in 15ct.
settings, they are calculated to wear a lifetime.
They are 20 per cent, below London Prices.
We stock many designs and all sizes.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney,
Plain Figure*.
Strictly Ceuh.
23 HUNTER STREET.
Writes “ Quartpot ” :
D’Arcy Uhr*s claim (B. 17/5/’O2) to have crossed orer-
land from Queensland to Port Darwin prior to Geo. de
Latour is quite incontrovertible. One Cox had also done
the journey, as had Phil Saunders, Adam Johns, and
mates, who had discovered the Union reef before I .atour
thought of the trip. The above-named were, in the N.T.
when I arrived there, late in ’72. Latour did not arrive
until ’74, and I well remember his coming. He and his
party had sp it up ere reaching the Roper, and two of
them, Elvey and Nation (I think this was the name), made
a bee-line for the Telegraph, which Elvey reached
somewhere about Daly Waters or Powell’s Creek, Nation
having died on the way. Latour related that the Roper
blacks, when he reached Leichhardt’s Bar, had brought
him food and done all they could for him, being glad to
see a white man again. The Telegraph Dep6t had been
deserted several years at the time, and they had no doubt
missed their flour and tobacco. We were much surprised,
therefore, some months after, when we found they had
murdered 0. H. Johnston and severely wounded his com-
panions, Rickards and Daer. These two managed to get
back to Daly Waters, but Daer died soon after from his
wounds. They had gone to the Roper, after lost, horses
and bullocks, and were attacked when they arrived at
Leichhardt’s Bar. This attack was supposed to be due to
Johnston’s resemblance to a man who had once wantonly
shot a black at the Depdb. Latour and Ballon at this
I ime were on the way to Queensland from Port Darv in.
Poor Ballon was killed by blacks on the journey, but
I atour got back to Queensland,
QUITE FRESH.
SKY-PILOT (hesitatingly): “ Er—meat seems a bit
queer, Mr. Riley!"
MR. RILEY: "Queer? Impossible! The dogs
only killed it lavs' night."
“ Gutiyah ” remarks :
J". D. Moore, who writes as an old-chum in 8., 24/5/’O2,
I take to belong to a class which is over-fond of blowing
about its “pioneering days.” Present writer knows a
good deal about the Fraser-trouble in Queensland, and to
a certain extent the raids made on hostile tribes at the
time were justifiable. But there was no excuse for the
atrocities perpetrated on some of the lubras who fell into
the hands of miscreants, who pretended to espouse the
cause of the Frasers merely for the purpose of gratifying
their passions. Also, the authenticity of “ Old Chum’s ”
experience is badly discounted by the latter part of his
article. He displays his ignorance effectually when he
asserts that in all his experience he never met a constable
who was worth a tinker’s anathema as a bushman. Has
he never heard of the constable who, unaided, captured
the Dora Dora murderers after they had made their way
from the Vic. border, right through N.S.W., into the
heaft of Queensland ?
* • • *
“ H.S.” : I hear of a man earning tucker
by catching harmless snakes, for which there is a
fair demand. Prices range from 6d. per foot.
“Chris.”: “Alone"
(8., 26/4/’O2) is a good pen-
name for a person who still
clings to the worn-out)
notion that a billy-can in
which the water ia boiling
will not burn the hand.
The reason that the heat is
not immediately felt is that
the blood in the oourse of
circulation from the heart
loses some of its heat before
arriving at the extremities.
If the hand, before the
can were placed on it, were
raised to the same tempera-
ture as the blood at the
heart, the sensation of
burning would be felt at
once. Let “Alone” put
two billies on the fire, and,
when both are boiling, pick
up one and put it on his
hand till he begins to feel
the heat, then put that one
down and replace it with
the other. If he keeps the
second one on his hand for
half the the time he could
keep the first, I think he
will find the picric acid
necessary. Ergo: it is not
from the boiling water that
the heat radiates slowly,
but from the body of the
person who is trying the
experiment.
“ Mac.’’: Re that mean
C.P. Inspector (“ Bob R.,”
8., 12/4/*O2). In ’74 an
Armidale (N.S.W.) con-
stable went forth with a
warrant to arrest a settler
for alleged cattle-stealing;
stopped all ; night at the
■man’s place, having supper
-and breakfast, and then
imade the arrest. Accused was acquitted, and
barrister John Dillon gave the copper a merciless
.roasting for' his conduct in the matter.^
“ Waif ” : Sydney’s mirage was hymned
'by Wealsman, but it’s not “generally known”
that Melbourne can show a good one on Mount
Medico, Collins-st. East. You have only to sit
‘down at noon in the middle of the road, a few
yards along Collins-st. from Spring-st., facing
west, your eye level with the road beyond the
•crown- The street ahead becomes a shimmering
silver stream. Cable ears are gondolas, and the
doctors’ broughams are fairy funeral barges. You
■ dreani you are in Yenice —till a car comes round
.the curve or the police intervene.
“Andy”: Found in this (Manilla, N.S.W.)
district, on May 24, 1902, a monster tuber, which
most people think is a yam. It weights bs.,
ia 4ft. in circumference lengthwise, and 2ft. Bm.
round the girth. Can any Bulletin reader state
whether this is a record yam for Australia ?
* * * •
On a Queensland station recently a black
boy was thrown from a horse and badly
broke his arm. Gangrene set in and the
only chance of saving the boy’s life was
to amputate the arm. But the station
possessed neither chloroform nor surgical instru-
ments. Finally the storekeeper on the station
tried the job with a sharp,knife. After lie had
cut off the arm Condy’s fluid and dressings of
carbolic oil were applied, and in time the wound
healed.
• * * *
A gentleman whose pen-name is practically
unreadable writes as follows :
That coinage business, in my opinion, is about the
only sensible thing Barton has put forward since he has
been in office. What is the matter with the dollar
system ? Isn’t it good enough or simple enough ? If the
(1 ,llar isn’t good enough, why “dimes” and “cents”?
If we are going to give the world another coinage to
learn—and these learned men on the coinage committee
seem to have so decided—why not give it something
entirely Australian, something unique ; and so as not to
leave out dear old Hingland, we might make it as com-
plicated as possible. I beg leave to offer this as a
suggestion :-r
'. COINAGE.
3 Rats=l Baddy melon
2 1-5 l\iddymelons = l Wallaby
6 7-8 Wallabies'=l Kangaroo = 245. l|d.
And so on.
* * * *
“W.W.”: Died here, recently, a collie
slut which, for the last six months, had suffered
from a running sore in the chest. Owner thought
she had been shot, and that the bullet wasstill in
her chest, but, when the body was opened, a piece
of wood, about sJin. long and fin. thick, was
found under the shoulder-blade —broken in two
pieces. The flesh had grown on to the stick at
one end.
• * • •
“ Alick ” : Black gins catch lobsters by
tying a white rag to big toe and putting the
toe into crevice. Lobster hooks on ; gin pulls up
foot and sticks it out behind, where gin No. 2 is
waiting with a bag and detaches the lobster.
Once saw a gin fishing in holes on a reef at low
tide, when a wobegong shark fastened on to her
hoof. Wob. is not a vicious fellow, so he didn’l
“chew,” but simply hung on. Meanwhile, the
gin squealed like a demon, and t’other gin
promptly dropped the bag and cleared. The
shark opened his mouth to take a bigger hunk,
and the gin whipped her foot up—not much the
worse after all. Nevertheless, she lay down and
howled for a while. Then she got a big waddy
and went in search of the other lady.
A photo, post-card from Ada Colley
notifies The Bulletin that she has been singing
at the Theatre des Westerns, Berlin, in a dream-
like, low-necked dress, cut billowy at the sleeves,
and emblazoned with jewels and precious beads.
Ada, on the back of the post-card, is styled “die
Australische Nachtigall,” which title sits easily on
the soprano, who of yore used to toss her head
after achieving a miraculous top-note, and remark
incidentally that she had “got it that time.”
Probably Miss Colley is not more of a nightingale
now than when she sang flute music to Riekards’s
public for a fraction of the salary she commands
m Germany. But her plumage is finer, and her
pretty face and pose have the charm that comes of
long experience in “ star ” successes. From a
showy Australian girl she has developed into a
dashing woman of the world. Rickards could
afford to make a tempting offer to Ada Colley.
ADA COLLEY, U.? TO DATE.
“ Myall ” to The Bulletin :
In my opinion the rupture ’twixt the present N.S.W.
Lands Minister and the Farmers’and Selectors’ Association
referred to by “ T.” (8., 7/6/’O2) is of grave concern to the
State. Chief cause of said rupture is the improvement-
lease policy of Minister Crick, by which large areas
suitable for residential settlement have fallen into the
hands of local and absentee financial co’s. for periods
ranging up to 28 years. Areas so disposed of, capable of
supporting several families in comfort, now find employ-
ment for a solitary boundary-rider. Also, said financial
co’s. have no trouble in securing the greater part of the
station expired leasehold under improvement-lease,
despite all opposition ; while in the case of a struggling
squatter an improvement-lease proposal is mostly referred
to the local land board, and invariably disallowed.
A VOICE FROM SYDNEY'S STRICKEN ZOO
THE OWL: “ Ughl Great O'Sullivan! Reckon
that rat I'ad fer breakfast was bubonic."
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insuficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
P.P.W.: Moral: never get your photo, taken
with anybody else. If you do, you are sure to regret it.
Also, for the matter of that, never get your photo, taken
under any circumstances Admirer: A generous offer,
but he would be affronted by the offer of money ; he
fought for his country only E.P.P. : Bulletin has
never claimed to be an “influential” paper in the sense
of taking care to be as far as possible always on the side
of immediate success. Its bias is rather to choose the
losing side if, in its opinion, that is the deserving side.
The Bulletin has sung few choruses but many discords,
and doesn’t regret the fact O.O.B: Can’t say, but a
scheme of commercial education has been intro-
duced at Adelaide University; the first lectures in
accountancy have just begun Hiibert D. :It has no
literary’ promise Imax : Hopelessly tangled up between
a personal sketch, a story, and an essay upon agricul-
ture E.A Y. : Conventionally sentimental Touch-
stone : The points would be more effective if couched in
less magniloquent language. Simplicity is the best
rhetoric Dan Mac.: Flies suddenly off the handle at
the fourth verse. Don’t monkey with “fixed-form”
poems until you have a decent command of rhyme and
rhythm J.J. (Vic.): More promise than performance.
J.L. : Please put a name to the alleged Melb. attorney
whose profits went into James Kingston’s pocket. Few
Melbourne solicitors do a large business these times
A. Exon: It all depends. John Stuart Mill said to
Gavan Duffy : “ Well, sir, with all my Freetrade
I might think a little Protection needful in the
first stages.” That was Duffy’s story, anyhow
Ponemah : We’ve an incurable objection to trifling
parodies... .Mulga : But we don’t want long yarns of old
days to corroborate in a column what we’ve already put
in a paragraph sth V.M.R. :We don’t so much want
to disparage the Australian Cohentingenter as to shame
him into ceasing to disparage himself. Like the
drunkard he is his own worst enemy Broadaxe : A
picturesque yarn, but to give so many details would get
us six months, and to omit the details would quite spoil
the story. We aren’t taking any six months just n0w....
Macao : Life is too short to argue in private letters quts-
tions as to the acceptance or rejection of contributions.
If we decline work, that only necessarily means that it
doesn’t suit us. ..A.0.8. : Will consider anything you
send, but we don’t appoint “correspondents.” Also,
nobody who says he “can write wittily” ever
does write for this paper C.K.K. : The State
should see that every necessitous man goes either
to work, to hospital, or to gaol A Tynne
Tacke : She wasn’t divorced, but secured a decree
against her husband-a very different matter
A.J.G.: The habit of sending children out as collectors
for charities inevitably leads to making a big percentage
of them into liars and thieves. The people who send
them, not the children, should be prosecuted Pelili:
Substance of your long letter (1) Bulletin has black-
guarded the rank and file of the Bush veldt Carbineers and
whitewashed their officers ; (2) Movant was a murdering
“ cur,” and Handcoek “ cold-blooded, callous.” Well, as
to the incorrectness of the first statement our files will
show ; as to the second, being a member of the corps you
ought to know, but there seems to be a general tendency
on the part of some of the Carbineers to accentuate their
own spotlessness by exaggerating the wickedness of
everybody else Alfred L.: We don’t care where you
were born ; what we meant was that copy hadn’t Aus-
tralian interest. A piquant poem from Pee-chee-lee is as
precious to us as one from the Paroo, if it is likely to
interest the Australian public G.C.W : That list of
democratic poets had a few names dropped out accident-
ally ; Shelley’s was one.. .M.O’M.: Our “aftermath of war ”
is the flood of peace-poetry which surges over our office;
73 peace poems to date. When is it our turn for peace ?...
The Splinter : You seem anew kind of poet, so here
goes :
O.M.A. : Too slim, sketchy and gappy.. ..Jonah : No
style, grace or flavor about it A.B.T. : Proposal to
suspend the seventh commandment for ten years not
appreciated. First, illegitimacy doesn’t necessarily mean
virility. Carinthia with 45 per cent, of its births illegiti-
mate, Guatemala with 50 per cent., Styria (26 percent.),
and Brazil (25 per cent.), don't produce races that have
done anything remarkable, mentally or physically.
Secondly, countries where illegitimacy is very prevalent
don’t show any particularly striking increase of popula-
tion Wanderer: Farewell. Best wishes Robert
Hap: Intend to get breathed upon by a street-corner
congregation at earliest opportunity and test your theory.
. . ..R.M.S. Ophir : 1; egret too lengthy and too—well,
various other things Dodo: A story with an un-
finished aspect—a sort of roofless tale with no d00r....
Pro-Right: War yarn arrives rather late in the day
J.G.D. : May touch-up the metre for print A. Harnon :
The darkie yam is a variant upon a very old gag, and the
other is spoilt by clumsy handling Syntax T. : Lament-
able doggerel Sauchie W. : Nothing in it G.: A
cranky fellow in a tenth-rate suburb stated that he had
come into a title and a fortune, and a few of the local
goats swallowed the story. ...6xß: That contingenter’s
yarn is valueless without name and place.... Oasa B. :
Verse well enough in itself, but theme threadbare
C.L. (Q.): “ Granny,” funny but unsuitable. Other, will
consider F.N. : The humorous incidents that happened
to Joseph Ward (of the Colonial Bank) at Napier duly re-
ceived J.B. :We are particularly struck by the date
of your letter: “ 25/5/Big Drought.”... • B.S. : (1) The
Kelly gang was captured 29th June, 1880. (2) Seddon is
supposed to have been offered a knighthood once, but the
exact date is not known at this office... . Formby : The
“ Things heard at Amy Castles’s concert ” are only
moderately funny E.L.A. : Judge Cohen’s decision
was that horses are not cattle within the meaning of
N.S..W. Impounding Act....Tasma : But you mustn’t
believe all that hysterical women write. That story
happens to be quite untrue and a first-class libel
Lucie : Pretty, but too rtminiscent of Shelley’s “Sky-
lark.” .... 8.8. F, : You say nothing with great skill 1....
Rurie : Terse and graphic. May be printed Jasper D.:
Has Some merit, but is irritatingly uneven. Go more on
your “ own ”as regards style... .T.D. (M.L.) : May be all
true, but hasn’t a tittle of public interest Jocko:
Better, but still not of print value.... Tired Tim : You
make us tired Trotter : Can do nothing with MS. on
such spongy paper J.C.G. : Fairly well done, but
Bulletin doesn’t care for allegories. “Summer and
Winter” illegible L.S.R. : Hardly enough in it
Britta : “ Getting Even ” lacks -pirit and vigor... .L.G. :
Thanks. Funny, but we can’t „o anything with them—
Weary : Pars, used are paid for. “ Making money ”at
the game is another matter. Items to hand are grandilo-
quently flat W. H. Mac. (M.L.): Thanks L. : No,
thanks; poem not in our line W Bren. : “ Mad Pas-
sion” just misses mark H.V.A. and Fan-Tan : Be-
lated... .Pioneer : Yarns not enough interest. . .F.F.S. :
Mere fact that Supreme Court proceedings have started
precludes comment A.C.H.: Clever, but incidei t
too familiar R.W.R., W.P. (and many others):
The war is over, quite over, now M.M. : But
it isn’t in ballad-form... . E.W.S. : Your friend’s
verses haven’t a gleam.. ..W. Br. : Will print “Land J.”
....Tom D. (M.L.) : Very wearisome humor E.S.S. :
Track-H. all right Volo: Bulletin hasn’t enough
space to let Scotty and the M’Cooey claw each other to
a finish in its columns Hamer : None quite up. Verses
run smoothly, but are quite mechanical in sentiment
Nymsie : Has already appeared in dailies... .Rata : Too
discursive. One branch of the subject at a time
Wallaby: Crude and flat B A.F. : Has a few good
touches, but general effect unsatisfactory Bucolic :
Not a bad idea, but needs terser and more dramatic
handling. When you’ve learnt what to leave out you will
do much better W.M.M. : Rather wooden verse.
Would have been better as a prose sketch George M.
(Q.) : Items sent have hardly point enough.... Lachesis :
Not story enough in it Wonga : Too crude.... Albo :
Too disquisitional for Bulletin Jimmy S. : Not amiss.
May print.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
H.G.L. : Unadulterated, unrelieved blasphemy
R.W.: “J. 8.” not suitable... .W.H. : War is a stale
subject now... .C.M'D. : May possibly use in some form
the metamorphosis idea Boggi : An acceptable sug-
gestion C.E.T. : That cricket item is too London
Punchy F.J.B. : One reproduced direct, t’other as a
suggestion K.E.O. (or something of the sort) : We can
neither reply to your letters nor trace your drawings
unless you write legibly’.... Aramac : May use 0ne....
Unavailable: J.H.H., R. Mac. (Vic.), H.W.C., Pendinnie,
R.deV.H., Violet J., A. Reimer, Frank J., Misery, R.D.L.
In the recent London libel action, Suffield
v. Labouchere (of Truth), Sir Edward Clarke’s
brief was marked 500 guineas, with refreshers of
50 guineas a day. It has been calculated that, as
the case collapsed early, this great gun’s time was
paid for at the rate of £43 6s. Bd. an hour !
Judging by letters from S’Africa, the
military censorship is an amusing thii g. All
books dealing with S’African history are taboo,
and even in Capetown public library the local
history department is locked up. Probably it
was discovered that the study of local history led
to sympathy with the Boers—anyhow, it was
evidently found advisable, in Imperial in-
terests, to cut off the supply of knowledge.
A wildly - ignorant censor stopped Banyan's
“ Holy War ” —he took it to be a work written in
defence of Kruger. He had never before heard
of the inspired tinker, and suspected him of being
Johannes Van Bunyan, or something to that
effect. All letters coining from disaffected locali-
ties are opened and read, and all books and
pamphlets are strongly suspected. Apparently,
Boers and pro-Boers are a reading crowd, for the
censor’s attitude of gloom towards books, and per-
sons who have books addressed to them, almost
amounts to a disease.
“ Inkoss ” writes :
Re “T’othersider” and his interview with returned
“ cohentingenters ” (B. 31/5/’O2), “ T’othersider ” is either
lying, or else his informants were, if they told him such a
bloodthirsty tale as that Boers W’ere regularly slaug-htered
when captured, because their captors had to feed them
out of four biscuits a day if they kept them alive. For
the 12 months I was in Afriea I always got “ five ”
biscuits a day—short rations were the exception, not the
rule, in the latter part of the recently-ended campaign—
and never did I have to forego a crumb for the sustenance
of the prisoners. VVe were with De Lisle’s Brigade
throughout the term mentioned, and saw as much
fighting and brought in as many prisoners as any
other column, yet not on a single occasion were
our rations affected by the prisoners captured. It
was the custom for the columns to carry “ reserve ”
supplies, and out of these the prisoners and women and
children were fed. During the whole of my service in
Africa I never saw, or heard of, a single act of brutality
on the part of a member of De Lisle’s brigade towards
either man, woman or child on the Dutch side ; though,
I am prepared to admit— and am certain, in fact—that
outrages disgraceful to men and dishonorable to the
British Army have taken place. The British are not all
saints, and the Boers are not all sinners, or vice versa,
but there is a mixture of good and bad on both sides, and
I even allow that there is more of the former amongst
the 250,00 . British than there was in the Boer army of
66,000 men.
BROKE!
There was a day when I was fat
And young, when the girls called me Bert
When I wore eyeglass and top hat
A collar and a stiff front shirt.
Then I could get drunk like a lord
On champagne, portwine or brandy—
Now it’s seldom I can afford
A few pence for a small shandy.
I had then horses and I wore spats
I had my house, I had my club
Now they say I got snakes and rats,
Hy only house is now the pub.
They say I was handsome and fair
In the old days when I was flush
Now somehow I don’t part my hair
I’ve lost my soap and my toothbrush.
I have no friends I have no hope
Not a shilling, not half a bob !
I want three yards of a good rope
To give it up as a bad job.


Ky&R"7•• -^k e i° ~
j T// • You doijf conja iq *•'
- 1 Z go oo'i' -y»« belted J*»|*
3j* *ll 1 «wt
THE HEW MINISTRY.
NO REDUCTION OF MINISTERS.
THE IRVINE- CABINET.
In forming the new Victorian Cabinet, Mr.
Irvine has, contrary to all expectations, de-
termined that for the present_there shall be.
[oral tjobeioorr l)*>
G*Ve*j £l°o 'k %
0 n« w >J»l°Y f or *■
bloW out' o*l
far****’ 1 10
D*y
TernW?-' Tf fc * Mto K f r °°* (’" ce ” r ,.
-pitkrfi'K,r ,J Vy *■ t«4«.-:v.ii. ik v . ?
fe- r^'
£y . >\Us- b oor
I rjow in s'tVce'f' I
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. ;
LOAN FOR PUBLIC WORKS.
What Mr. George Turner urged yesterday is
true enough, no doubt. But what a scathing
commentary is it on the false position in which
the States stand to the Commonwealth. Trans-
ferring, as they did, their greatest sources of
income to the Federation, they made no provi-
sion for any proportionate expenditure going
with it; and they are in the position of hangers-
on and waiters on Providence, saved only by
the legal need of the Federal Treasurer return-
ing three-fourths of his gross income.
Boiler»*,
" -for ‘tWfni **
win <k soirjeflrin^
1 *
Xa SUji^T'.
(breads down)
*4L>
\cr
fdg
%
6*.!
W a\ia »>■ v ote , bara aVi
tbo^e^ a6 Sc
tio»a {ra»cb*e-
{roto w 1 ...
VICTORIAN DEGRADATION.
TO THE EDITOR OF THE AGE.
Sir.—Surely Victoria will not submit to.,
be governed by pro-Boers! If the leaders
of the new Ministry are loyal to Crown and
State, let them rid themselves of tnis foul
blot. Failing this, let the people of the
State demand their expulsion from the Go?
vcrnment.—Yours, &c., J.A.F.
Malvern, 10th -Tune. j
Sa t u rd ®y 0n ' Spat ° hcd
ooy"fie»7<l (to ub fo
tis eyes m/»+} ■ * , .
All well {*>"7 fl'-pV'Torr -Sir,
i We* i .>
■for old
4 offeree*"
-ee* 5 ”
Vic (Sc*ji»t‘*»£ !»•> r'ftfc/cr/ces') '.'
\Jzri r\X v jou V Kc ?
MELBOURNIANA.


MORS A-BOUT u SUCH HOUSES,
of tr.in.og ’T”?i C< U„«e. L^LmwV-^ ft«y'
rrr--«-»
Col. Parkins (of the. Sydney Tiger., and head of
•• Now, Major Rumkins, serve this lady with a pound of cheese
and three pounds of boardinghouse-butter 1 ® off to fc “®
barracks-and, by-the-bye, before you go to the military’ ba'l>at
Government House to night see that everything « looked and
the shutters up. (Salute.)
Even the fiery chargers harnessed to the delivery-
vans of “ such houses ” are expected to curvet and
caracole with a view to future reviews and street
parades.
Grocer's Bookkeeper (back JYom the tear) . *• I tell
yer, sir, I learnt more of my duty in this ’ere
shop than I ever did on the tented field.'’
Cvnical Customer “You've learnt, to charge jolly
well in this 'ere shop, anyhow ' ”
“ London, Friday Afternoon.—Reuter’s Capetown correspondent
states that the commercial agent of the Victorian Government has
agreed to supply the Imperial Cold Storage Company with
20.000.0001 b of fresh Victorian pork annually
First Fat-'un (<7 leefidly) “ A.ha ! You see wo are already beguming
to reap the reward of our loyalty in sending troops to the
aid of the mother country 1 "
Sha.de OF Bonaparte :
“ Ha ! had the early
years of my callow
youth been spent in such
an establishment, say as a-
cash-boy, what price Waterloo
and Moscow ! ’’
, 2nd Fat (ruefully) : “ Well, from a porcine standpoint. I fail to see it
in a gleeful light."
First Fat-’on •■■ Pro-Boer f '
Lady Customer : “ Oh, pray, sir,, do be
careful ; it looks to dangerous!
Captain Todokrs (of the hosiery dept):
•• Fear not for me, gentle lady. it t
fall, I fall like a soldier. We “*
taught to despise dangers m this estaD-
tishment. What size did you say i
Mr. Seddon regrets (by cable) that the terms of
peace were not firmer, }
He would like to have seen something “humorous" done
old Kruger.
A WONDERFUL IMPROVEMENT.
“So also tbe discovery—though it came strangely
late—of the real character of the bulk of the Boers ia
the field—of their gallantry and sincerity (however'
tpistaken), was gratifying to all thoughtful onlookers."
— Melb. Alto us.
Ajtous :•“ What did I tell you ? We have shaken
everything else, how delightful to know that we
may now shake his hand I "
, Scene in the Sydney D.T. office when the editor
heard of the defeat of the motion of censure m
the N.S.W. State Parliament—*‘Confound
it!" he said, as he kicked the office cat-
' «> what’s come over the Power of the Preaat
Mono* OK THE Law : “Now THIN* MOVE on, ob OUL bon Vtt *»”
Sydney Municipal Council has taken steps to have Sydney Zoo
3 3 removed from its present site
CAETOOHLEIS.


A. SAUNDERS’
WATCHES, JEWELLERY, AND SILVERPLATE AT FREETRADE PRICES.
SAVE 25 TO 50 PER CENT. SHOWROOMS: 815 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
A. SAUNDERS.
LAIR BRUSH, Pure Silver, in Silk-lined Case, so*.
FREETRADE PRICES. NO ADVANCE,
A. SAUNDERS’ FREETRADE PRICES.
NUT CR ACKERS and PICKS in Silk-lined Case
Chased and Silver-plated, 15s 6d and 20s.
VERY USEFUL.
A. SAUNDERS.
SOAP BOX, Silver-plated, Nicely Chased and
Embossed, 12s (id.
EREETEADE PRICES.
df
A. SAUNDERS’ FREETRADE PRICES
LADIES’ FRIEND, P u re Si 1 ver-m oui ite d,
m Silk-lined Case, 18s 6d. Smaller, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
CLOTH BRUSH, Pure Solid Silver-
mounted, 15s 6d, 17s 6d.
COMBS, Pure Solid Silver-mounted, Real
Tortoiseshell, 20s ; Imitation Shell, 10s 6cl
Similar, 5s 6d and 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDEBS.
Manicure Set, Pure Solid Silver-mounted, 20s.
Smaller, 12s Bd.
NO ADVANCE IN PBICE.
Bure Solid Silver Chased PHOTO
FRAMES in every Style and Shape.
10s, 12s Bd, 15s, 20s, and 255.
A very acceptable present.
gdf
freetradk prices.
A. SAUNDERS.
MIRROR, Solid Silver-mounted,
Heart-shaped, Velvet-lined, 12s 6d.
Other Styles, 15s 6d, 20s, 30s, £2.
FREETRADE PRICES.
Pure Silver Hair BRUSH,
Best Bristle, 15s 6d.
You save money buying
from A. SAUNDERS.
m
A. SATJNDI ES.
Ladies’ Silver-mounted WaELET CAIM)
, CASE, 20s. Similar style, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Hair Brush, Pure Silver, Best
Bristles, 12s 6d. Splendid Value.
g
A. SAUNDERS.
CHILD’S CUPS,Pure Solid Silver,
n Silk Case, 30s, 355, £2, £2 10s ;
Silver Electro-plated, 12s 6d, 15s,
20s. Without Case, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s.
r M
7 2
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ PURSES, Pure Silver-mounted, Lizard
Skin. 20s, 255. Other styles, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s.
Our Stock of First Purses is large and Assorted.
df
A. SAUNDERS. ]
FREETRADE PRICES. SAVE 25 to 50 PER CENT
Solid Silver 4 o’clock TEA SPOONS, in Case, 15s, 20s: with
TONGS, 20s, 255, 30s, £2 ; Silver Electro-plated, with
TONGS, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Or Cake KNIVES or FORKS, 20s, 255, 80s. Most Useful
for Afternoon Cake. All in Silk-lined Cases. Post Free.
THE FEDERAL TARIFF.
—
THIS I HAVE ANTICIPATED.
MY CASH PURCHASES have been Enormous,
and I am in a position to sell at FREETRADE
PRICES. £32,000 worth of
WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELLERY, and
SILYERPLATE
to choose from. It will pay, and save you 25 to 60 per
cent. This is a consideration.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
A Sill mi] ore the well known jeweller
kIdUIIUCI S, and SILVERSMITH.
815 and 817 GEORGE-STREET,
Nearly Opposite Railway Station.
gfd
g
fdg
A. SAUNDERS.
-n n • t FttEETBADE PRICES. SAVE YOU 25 to 50 PER CENT.
Full s.zedTOILET SET, Beautifully (Phased, and Ornamented, in three patterns, “ Watteau ** as
tt a n? 1 ?v ll T» *l nc L U or i c \ e ’ Chased and Embossed Designs, Containing two Hair Brushes
Hat and Cloth Brush, Mirror, Shoe Hook and Lift, £l2 10s. A most acceptable ladies' present!
u
m
MS
i: 1
i
OfiW
v 'K
lc^23*3SS—"! _>; ■■<#y
A t SAVE y OTT 25 to 50 PER CENT.
A. SAUNDERS Newest Style m Pure Solid Silver Chased and Embossed,
i ° c , k Sugar Cream SPOON and TONGS, in Silk-lined Case. We
Stock three patterns similar to Illustration, M 10s. A useful present.
fd
■ A ' Pure Silver Pencils. We stock in every style, ss, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d
Gold, 15s, 20s, 255, 30s, £2. Shall be pleased to send post free anywhere.
EREETRADE PRICES. NO ADVANCE.
SEND YOUR ORDERS TO A. SAUNDERS.
I DO NOT INTEND TO ADVANCE MY PRICES.
FREETRADE PRICES—NO ADVANCE.
iiS
I
NOW IS THE TIME TO BUY ALL ARTICLES
AT FREETRADE PRP/E3.
su
m
v.
A. SAUNDERS.
RUFF BOX, Pure Solid Silver, Pretty and
Ornamental, 255.
Silver-plated on White Metal, 17s 6d.
Silver Tops, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s.
NO ADVANCE. FREE TRADE PRICES,
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, Pure Sflrer,
best Bristles, “Cherub” Design,
18s 6d. Other styles, 20s, 255,
80s, £2. Send for Pattern
EREETBADE BOOK.
A. SAUNDERS’ FREETRADE PRICES.
Dessert KNIVES and FORKS, Silver-plated, Nieelv
Chased, £2 15s. 12 Pairs, £4 10s, £5, £5 10s.
A Useful Present.
A. SAUNDERS’ EREETRADE PRICES.
Two Peppers, Mustard, Pure Solid Silver, Beautifully
Chased and Finished, in Case, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS. NO ADVANCE.
Jam SPOON and Butter KNIFE, Pure Solid
Silver, in Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d.
gfd
Pure Solid Silver Badger
Hair SHAVING
BRUSH, 12s 6d. Other
styles, 15s and 20s.
g
A. SAUNDERS. J
Smelling Salts BOTTLE, Pure Silver,
255. Other styles, Silver Top, 2s 6d,
fie, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s
G*nt.’s “ COMPANION,” or Letter Book,
Pure Silver Mounted, 12a 6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
fdg
A. SACJNDERS.
Pure Solid Silver-mounted PEPPERS and
SALTS, in 8 sizes, 4s 6d, 6s 6i, 7s '6d.
’ FREETRADE PRICES.
SAVE 25 to 50 PER CENT.
fd
gfd
g
Ladies’ TOILET TABLE, Pure Solid Silver Pin TEAT, Artistically Chased
and Ornamented, 10s 6d. We stock in large quantity *
Wmmmi
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted KNIFE RESTS, in
Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d.
A. SAU2STDEES.
EREETKADE PBICES.
fdg
A. SATJRDERS’
FREETRADE PRICES.
THIMBLES, Silver Steel-
lined, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 4s 6d.
Pure Silver-
mounted
■BLAIR PIN
HOLDER, sa.
df
A. SAUNDERS.
SALTS, Puie Silver-mounted, White Cut Glass
in Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d. '
A. SAUNDERS’ CAKE SERVER, Pure Solid Silver, Pearl Handle, in idiree styles, 7s 6d, 10s,
12s 6d. The very latest London style.
Call and See our Jewellery Exhibition—A Splendid Display;
or send for our 1901 Complete Illustrated Book, Post Free anywhere.
A. SAUNDERS.
SAVE 25 to 50
PER CENT.
LEADING ART JEWELLER,
SAVE 25 to 50
PEB CENT.
815 & 817
GEORGE-STREET,
Nearly Opposite
Railway Station,
SYDNEY.


THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send tL.eir parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
TABLE SALT
The Silent ....
Constitution Builder.
From Grocers and Stores.
Wholesale Agents -.—Harrison A Attwood, Sydney.
gfd
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., UMITED, SYDNEY.
g
“The Queen (April 2Gth) concludes its Paris
letter with an account of the golden wedding f§te
of ‘Madame Marchesi,’ otherwise the Marquise
de Castrone. The old lady ‘looked radiant attired
in white-satin damask draped with beautiful lace
and a white tulle and lace toque ’ —the Queen
being a truly feminine journal in its disregard for
commas. Of course there was a concert for
Madame’s pupils, a solo by Mdlle. Elise Parkin-
son getting special praise. Melbourne’s smartest
will be interested to hear that Lady Maud
Warrender (out here with . the Brasseys) sang a
couple of Massenet songs, and the Duke of Man-
chester’s bride was present bound in mauve cloth,
strapped with taffetas of the same color. Duchess
®f Marlborough, the Stuart Wortleys, and a
choice assortment of other guests are mentioned,
but never a word about the Marquis who married
Marchesi 50 golden years ago. That aged person-
age is seemingly a very minor item in his clever
wife’s belongings. He is said to do a little on the
Stock Exchange, but judging from the silence that
enshrouds M. de Marquis, he doesn t shine as a
speculator.
“ The two enterprising Melb. girls—Miss
Grantham and Miss Lucy Barton—who meditated
a musical descent upon Tasmania last summer
but were advised to abandon the idea, have now
definitely decided to go West and give some
‘ recitals ’ at Perth about the end of the month.
Miss Grantham, the sweet soprano whose
Marguerite performance was a particular success
at the last show of Marshall Hall’s Conservator-nun
pupils, will supply the vocal numbers, whilst Miss
Barton puts in piano solos and accompaniments.
With or without the. assistance of local talent
these adventurous artistic spirits ought to find a
welcome in Perth. Meantime they will give a
send-off recital in Melbourne.
“ A humorous chorus-charmer relates ttiat
always, before she trips on the stage, she runs her
hands carefully over her tights, etc., to see that
no pins are puncturing her pads, for, she says, it is a
common trick with the bona-fide plump girls, when
waiting in the wings, to make a cushion of the
padded unfortunates. This same jolly stripling
relates how puzzled the mistress of the ballet was
when her tall, lean figure was added to the ranks.
On finding she wasn’t an expert dancer, the mis-
tress nearly wept. She ran along to the manager
and, throwing her almost at him, exclaimed,
‘ Look at this bag of bones ! In Heaven s name,
what can I do with her ? ’ . ‘ Fill her out, and
make a boy of her; the height will do. At
any rate, do something, for I’m pledged to place
her in the ranks.’
“The next marriage of interest will be that of
Miss Muriel Miller and squatter Currie. After
that ‘Whernside,’ Toorak, will be bereft of any
daughters, and Mrs. Miller will find the big ball
and reception rooms filled only with the joyful
romping memories of the nice bright girls
she always chose for the companions of her well-
brought-up brood. Sons in a house never com-
mand the same joyful conditions. Their parents
friends are entertained, not their own, since it is
the prerogative of the boys to be chummy with all
sorts. If they are not, then they are prigs.
Another July knot-tying will join s P e i“s ei ;
Mason’s elder daughter—Marie—and Mr. J. Van
Cooth. The ceremony is to be a full dress and
grand one (the R.C. Archbishop the celebrant) at
St. Patrick’s Cathedral, and the reception at the
< Grand.’ Everything is to be on a very smart
“The sensation of the day at the recent Hunt
Club races was provided by a newly-engaged gad,
who had her dress hoisted above ordinary kilt-line,
so that onlookers ha I not only a full view ot
her fancy hose, but of her honi-soits as well.
Mrs. Lindsay Inglis (nee Pratt) scored a more
legitimate effect with a turquoise-blue Eton suit,
with white velvet fixings, and a nut-brown toque
with pheasant-wing decorations. Her blue silk
underskirt was a bright idea, Being of the same
tone as the frock, the eye was not rudely shocked
when the outer garb was hoisted.
“ The sauciest of the block promenaders is so
extraordinarily precocious, and so prodigal in the
display of her fatted calves that no one believes
she is only midway in her teens. This makes her
angry, so she secured a copy of her birth-certificate
from the Registrar of Titles recently, and carries
it abroad in her pocket. An unbeliever is im-
mediately confronted with the startling credential.
“ Conductor Slapoffski, in charge of Musgrove’s
‘Thieves’ picks up extra crumbs as a singing
teacher. Nellie Stewart puts her voice in his care
and May Beattie, ’tis said, follows suit. Madame
Slap, has been all the way to Rockhamption (Q.)
to sing to an ‘Orpheus Club’ concert. .It s a
wonder the Northerners have so much juice left
in them, considering that all their water-supply
lagoons have lately turned to mud.
“M. Paul Maistre, the French vice-consul in
Melbourne, has published a very readable and
useful yam about Australian life, human and
vegetable, under the title of Hans la Brousse
Australienne —a book that certainly ought to find
its way into all schools, hereabouts. Ihe local
color, and the up-to-dateness of the language
commend it to anyone who has sought knowledge
of French-as-she-is-spoke from old-fashioned class-
books. M. Maistre prattles, for instance, of that
Eurely Australian institution the bunyip—‘Le
unyip, dis-je, est un monstre legendaire erhe par
I’imagination et la superstitieuse terreur des noirs
indigenes du continent australien. _ Suivant ces
pauvres sauvages, le bunyip serait un animal
enorme, d’une force prodigeuse et d’une laideur
repoussante, bete apocalyptique dont on a donne
les descriptions les plus fantasques et les plus
fastastiques, differ ant toutes plus ou moms les
unes des autres &c. &c.’ As a lesson in French
tongue for Australian students, young or old, the
little work is seductive from cover to cover.
“Miss Eloise Juno’s rooms were crowded,
t’other night, when her pupils showed what they
could do. They spoke most distinctly, made
themselves heard without effort, and made no
attempt to be stagey. Edward Lauri holds that
Melbourne wants a dramatic school. I have
always thought so, because elocution-teachers, as
a rule not professional mummers themselves,
train the heads and hands of pupils, but leave walk
and general deportment to chance. Miss Juno is
one of the exceptions.
“ Suburban best parlors on palaver afternoons
shrill still with tales of the weird sayings of the
Yankee Missioners, but the heart-whole admiration
once bestowed on the astute sensation-mongers
has been turned off at the meter as suddenly as
the Gov.-General’s gas, and a deprecatory snigger
now accompanies the most telling yarns. The
story about the husbands and wives who had
never quarrelled being invited on the. platform
and there and then prayed for as ‘liars,’ you
probably recognise by its fine old chestnutty
flavor. But it is true that one of the missioners
read aloud to a meeting a letter from a woman
(suppressing her name), and then remarked cheer-
fully : ‘ Now, hasn’t that woman infernal cheek
to write and ask me to pray for her ? ’
“ All the smart little school-girls now play
cricket. Merton Hall (C. of E. Girls’ Grammar
School) sent a team lately to the Presbyterian
Ladies’ College. While the home team was
gallantly defending its wickets a tiny mouse
suddenly ran across the pitch. All play was
suspended, of course. The girls with one accord
ran after the mouse.
“ Mrs. Robert Harper, Treasurer George
Turner’s wife, and Mrs. Everard Browne were
among the favored few commanded to a private
leave-taking of the Countess at Govern-
ment House. One of the dames, who always
held an admiration for Lady Hopetoun and
no sign of fear in her heart, relates a moving
tale of that hour’s private audience. ‘ Australians
never understood the Countess, and she was
oonscious of this,’ is the statement of another
favorite, who found the Countess cordial and
communicative at the final hour. All say
she was almost sorry to go. The souvenirs sent
her were fully appreciated, and of the few floral
offerings the Countess wore some, carried some,
and sported besides on her hat-brim a big, up-
rearing hanger of silver and rubies that had been
presented by a sporting friend.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
“Alas! where are the yeomanry of England
to-day ? Swallowed up in the devouring maw of
the aristocracy, 500 of whom, calling themselves
peers or hereditary legislators, have possessed
themselves of from one sixth to one-fifth of the
entire national soil! Out of 509 peers 438 hold
14,250,000 acres. To these 438 untoiling lilies of
the field the cultivators, or rather the consumers
of agricultural produce, pay a yearly tribute called
rent, of £12,000,000 sterling!”— J. Mokiuson
Davidson.
Said Jonathan to John.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Said Jonathan to John “ My boy, the woes of age
are grieving you—
Your joints are not so supple as they were in days
of yore;
Your wits are not so keen to-day, and youthful
vigor’s leaving you ;
Your fist is not so heavy in the games of I eace
and War.”
Said Jonathan to John again, with air of gentle
breeziness:
“ I’ll always lend a helping hand when trouble
gets you down ;
I’ll run your steel and iron trade without the least
uneasiness,
And take a hand at shoddy when the trade is
looking down.”
Said Jonathan : “Moreover, John, your ships are
rather lumbersome
(Of course we know Britannia sweeps, the mistress
of the sea) —
But still, for one a bit infirm, your navy’s rather
cumbersome ;
And Ocean wants a Bouncing Boss —about the
build of Me ! ”
To Jonathan said John again : “ How truly good
and kind you are,
But ’tisn’t I that hold the reins— 'tis Money runs
the show t
And if to take our British trade and navy both
inclined you are,
And Money strikes the bargain, then of course
they’ve got to go.”
Said Jonathan to John again: “I listen, John,
delightedly—
I’ve just another bargain while the matter’s on
the brew :
We’ll take your Church and King and Queen—
and run the lot unitedly—
And, if you’ll name your figure, why—we’ll take
< your Island, too ! ”
PHILANDER FLAM.
The Inky Way.
“ A.D.” : Arriving in this great country
at the cocksure age of 16, I had the pleasure of
exchanging courtesies and a little borak with a
certain caustic Melb. editor (Sara. Winter, of the
Herald). Pushed for cash, I chose journalism
as a trade likely to bring in dollars suddenly,
and without outlay. Stepped into the above
newspaper-office, one cold, wet day, interviewed a
sub., and was shown into editorial where 1
discovered a long-armed, loudly-objurgating fury,
thrashing paper to right and left, and with
dripping uen delivering deadly upper cuts between
written lines. The editor-fury looked up as 1
entered, and the fever in his face was as malignant
as though his left hand were in the fire. ‘ Want
journalistic work?” he snapped. “What are
your qualifications?” He stood, up, .with his
back to the fire, rubbing his hips with
clenched hands. I told him that I had never
written a line for print, but, with the salt
of several oceans still in my hair, and
possessing a first-hand knowledge of four conti-
nents I had a confident desire to start on his
paper at once. Quoth the editor : Foreign
items will keep, and we’ve no room for the travel-
note journalist. Can you do something local and
simple ? Could you give us something interesting,
say, on sheep’s-head ?” I bowed mine and stated
meekly that I would look in with my copy next
day. A moment later he was back in the chair,
thrashing, tearing, cursing, waving his long arms
and stamping paper under his feet. Saw him
again following day. “Ah,” he. said, “ you re
the sheep’s-head man.” Then in a voice of
thunderblast that reached the outer offices and
was heard by the cold-fingered comps, above:
“Here’s the sheep’s-head copy, ahoy there !' 1
handed him the MS., which he grabbed with both
hands, while his protruding eye rushed over the
pages. “ Nothing here about, sheep’s-head, ” he said
sharply. Then, with a horrified gasp, I tore the
MS from him. “Excuse me, sir, I must have
handed you the pig’s-feet article I've written for
the Argus.” Then the editor-fury sat back and
laughed consumedly. That was my introduction
to Australia’s champion objurgator, bullock-ex-
perts not excepted.
. • • •
The great ambition of every daily paper is
to score a “scoop”—to give news of an event a
full day ahead of its rivals. The Herald recently
brought off a scoop in Sydney with the tidings of
the doings and execution of Morant and Hand-
cock. A “scoop” of the Daily Telegraph m
the same city was to record Judge Windeyer’s
famous break-down when the news of Dean s con-
fession of guilt came to hand. The Judge was
just starting on another helping of turkey at a
private Adelaide dinner when the news came, and
he was so affected by this belated vindication of
his first prejudice against the accused that he
wept into the gravy-bowl. A parson present
carried the glad tidings to Bonython of the
Advertiser, and thence it went to Melbourne
Age and Sydney D.T. Adelaide Register,
Melb. Argus, and Sydney Herald completely
missed the picturesque sob.
• • * •
Dr. Leyds is reprobated by Sydney D.T.
because he adopts the expedient of supplying to
European journals pro-Boer articles, and news,
attractively written-up, free. “The temptation
offered to economical proprietors or lazy editors is
irresistible.” That was just the trick of the anti-
Bill party in N.S.W. (of which D.T. was the soul)
during the Federal contest. Articles were sent,
gratis in proof, to the country papers against
Federation, and often inserted through sheer lazi-
ness on the part of rustic editors. Also it was an
old trick of the Foreign-trade party, which sup-
plied articles gratis damning Australian indus-
tries in the interests of M'Millan and the-other
agents of the German and British manufacturer.
* m * *
A Sydney newspaper editor said, proudly,
the other day: “This paper never lost an adver-
tisement through the intemperate advocacy ol
any cause.” Guess the paper in one !
* * * *
A N.S.W. country newspaper proprietor
sent out £260 worth of accounts for subscriptions,
and received £7 and several threatening letters to
stop the “ rag.” He hopes the winter will not be
too severe.
• * * *
Geoffrey Syme, youngest son of David
Syme, now takes a hand in the management of
the Age reporting staff. It is expected that staff-
leader Fox will shortly be devoted to leader-
writing while the control of the news is left to
voung Syme aforesaid, who for a year or so past
has been imbibing the latest English methods in
the offioe of London Chronicle.
* * * *
From a Jingo newspaper description of
Kitchener.
Hardly a figure that you would have remarked if it had
not been for the guilt upon his hat.
Of course, “gilt” was meant; Dut the comp,
blunders on some strange truths. Our Bulletin
comp., the other day, set up this Bartoe
Cabinet ” —and it was corrected from Bar-toe to
Barton with a sigh.
* * * *
“Pressman”: The success of The Bulletin
has noticeably ameliorated all the Australasian
dailies When present writer was dumped down
in Melbourne, in the early sixties, the style# the
Argus and Age was a slavish imitation ot the
nonderously-dull London Times, and was anathema
maranatha to all visiting Americans. On one
occasion, in those days, a junior Age reporter
ventured on a mild joke m a par. David byme
was furious, and wrathfully exclaimed : Do you
think my paper is in competition with Melbourne
Punch?” Now both Age and Argus copy the
Bulletin style in a considerable degree, and go
to the ill-advised length of printing comic pars,
about bank-shareholders’ meetings.
* • • •
Sydney Daily Telegraph has always
pursued the policy of giving its “staff” a
fairly free leg. Members are not troubled
much with rules and regulations, and the
go-as-you -please air of the office has been
found good for encouraging individuality. Pre-
sent most notable members Courtney, chief
leader-writer, a man who is always leading about
in leasii a brutal bull-dog of a fact, to let it loose
on any one guilty of imagination ; argumentative,
satirical; a fine article-writer in opposition ; con-
fesses to a profound hatred of journalistic life.
Nall, chief sub-editor, once a churchwarden m his
leisure moments, at which time he was a just,
severe ruler; now a grower of roses in his spare
time, and a just but gentle boss; his kindly
eye to the “young men,” and his accurate
judgment of news, does much for the paper. Peters,
chief descriptive reporter (represents the paper
in the Federal Parliament, and inflames the Cabinet
to very madness by his artistic caricatures of their
proceedings), a vivid writer with, at his best, more
than a touch of Kipling in his style ; deferential
to office-boys, crusty with magnates. Papered,
leader-writer, a passionate lover of his work, who
has climbed to his high position past every rung
of the ladder; an effective writer with a valuable
couch of imagination. Norman, night sub editor,
a quiet, golden-haired man with cameo features,
suitable more for a leader-writing billet, since a
passion for correct English is not to be best
gratified as “night-sub.” Ward, “leader of the
staff,” most pertinacious and careful of news-
getters, has been, as Government-office man, in the
secrets of as many Ministers as Critchett-Walker.
Piper, with more knowledge of the world than the
average pressman, has a sedate, Johnsonian style
and much savoirfaire. Furley, the admiral of
the shipping department, credited with running
the best “Shipping Column ” in daily journalism.
There are others; and John Farrell, who deserves
a whole article to himself.
• * • *
“ N.” : Every city reporter knows a class
that one of the craft has named Strulbugs, after
the purposeless literarians in “Gulliver’s
who had to keep ear-flappers as servants to remind
them when anyone was kissing their wives. lhe
Strulbugs form the nucleus of the audience at
pretty well every gratis concert or lecture, no
matter whether it is on politics, music, geology,
anthropology, gynaecology, any other ology,
mining, racing, religion, spiritualism, womens
rights, teetotal ism, licensed victuallers’ rights.
Atheism—whatever can be imagined so long as it
is on the nod. The Strulbug absorbs and absorbs,
like the fat weed, on Lethe’s wharf. He never
says anything. The reading-room Strulbug is
another variety. And there is the police-court-
audience Strulbug.
* * • *
A truly remarkable paper is La Prensa,
of Buenos Ayres. It is in a building which cost
£400,000.
On the ground floor, besides the usual business office',
are a luxurious consu ting room, where a doctor, with
live qualified assistan s, attends to over a hundred
patients a day free of charge; and a museum, where all
the products and manufactures of Argent na may be
inspected without charge. On the second floor is a well-
stocked library, particularly rich in legal, medical, and
engineering works, and open at all times to students
without payment. Adjoining it is a room where Spanish
is taught at the expense of the journal. On the same
floor is a hall that serves as a general rendezvous for the
people of Buenos Ayres. On the third floor a palatial
suite of apartments is set aside for the use of distinguished
visitors, who are pressed by the editor and proprietor,
Senor Paz, to make it their home during their stay in the
city. There is in addition a Salon des Fetes, copied
exactly from the drawing-room at Fontainebleau, where
literary, charitable, and scientific meetings are held on
the invitation of La Prbnsa. Elsewhere is a hall given up
to political gatherings, and also a laboratory where far-
mers may have samples of soil analysed free of cost All
this magnificence comes out of the profits.
* * «
When the late Justice Webb (Vic.) landed
in Melbourne as a young man in ’53, he went to
Edward Wilson, of the Argus, and asked for em-
ployment as a shorthander. Ihere were two
other similar applicants at the time, and Wilson
sent the trio to a public meeting, saying that he
would expect them to read their notes to him on
their return. On the test being applied, it was
found that Webb, who had been trained in Gur-
ney’s office in London, read his hieroglyphics as if
they were newspaper print, while the other two
could only decipher their records with great diffi-
culty. The appointment was, therefore, given to
Webb. His reputation in the office was that of a
first-class shorthand reporter, but, being utterly
destitute of imagination, he was never known to
write a decent paragraph. It used to be said of
him that had a fire destroyed half the city he
would have mentioned the fact in three plain sen-
tences. After a time, Webb became Govt, short-
hand writer, and eventually studied for the bar.
* • * *
Now that Melbourne Age and Argus are
on the same Tory platform, there is an excellent
opportunity for somebody to step in with a new
daily paper of democratic tendencies —an evening
paper for preference.


A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
A most useful Veterinary Book is attached
to every bottle of Condy’s Fluid. This Book
contains instructions for curing most of the
ailments and accidents affecting Horses,
Dogs, Sheep, Cattle and Poultry.
In this Book eminent Veterinary Sur-
geons recommend Condy’s Fluid as a
certain cure for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
Broken Knees, Grease, Thrush and
Cracked Heels in Horses.—Scab, Foot
Rot, Fly, etc., in Sheep.—Hoove, Foul in
the Foot, Wounds and Sores in Cattle.
Condy’s Fluid is made by Condy &
Mitchell, Ltd., of 65, Goswell Road,
London, England, and is sold by all
Chemists and Stores. Beware of Colonial
substitutes. Insist on having Condv's Fluid,
ss
df
&O TO HElLL-
]<i<>l,ANl> for Pretty Stamps, hut
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fr€d. Hager),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
HATS.
HATS.
HATS.
BRISBANE.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
Catalojue to B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY * CO.,
b'Hmiture and bine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 321 Georgs Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALS
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted >/
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent stall.
Solrs Held at the .taction !looms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved 9al«
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 321 George-st
SIMPSON’S JUMP-SEAT SULKIES.
Good Work.
Lowest Price.
Cash Only*
SIDNEY SIMPSON, Coachbuilder, 73 KING ST., NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Jingo topsyturvydom reveals Premier John
See leading the advance guard of Australian pro-
Boerism. The Anti-War League unanimously
embraces him.
Loud howls heard in N.S.W. Leg. As-
sembly, t’other night, appear to have arisen as a
result of Premier See’s refusal to guarantee a
certain member a “stiddy” billet in connection
with the proposed new Licensing Act.
Nothing short of a miracle was the con-
version of the Jingo-dingoes in Australia. They
went to bed at night with chops foaming for Boer
blood ; in the morning, peace having been secured,
their approval of the generous terms given to the
Boers was full and complete.
David Syme is surely losing his grip on
affairs and men. He helped to wreck the
Peacock Ministry because the Laughing Man
wouldn’t throw Trenwith overboard, and he now
has to play second fiddle to the Argus in piping
for the incurably-Tory Irvine.
Printed that Philp is going to reconstruct
his team, also that “Little Bethel ” Cribb, now
State Treasurer, is to be replaced by brother-in-
law Forsyth. The bre’r-in-law industry is a
flourishing institution up North and with careful
pruning and manuring is better than the fictional
rich uncle.
As in Victoria so in S.A., the bogus
“Reformers” have tripped themselves in their
hurry, and, by advocating the handing over of
the railways to a private co., have stupidly torn
the bait away and shown the hook. And yet
these wolves want to know, in an injured tone,
what makes the Laborite object to their scheme of
economy.
RUNG OFF.
It was recently announced that Lord Beauchamp was
presenting a portrait of the King to Sydney Art Gallery,
H.M. having consented to give sittings to Mr. Longs tail,
the Vic. artist. Mr. See communicated with the Agent-
General, requesting him to ascertain if the Queen would
also give sittings to that artist, so that a companion-
picture might be placed in the gallery. A cable was
received yesterday from Mr. Copeland, intimating that
H.M. had graciously agreed to the proposal. It has been
suggested that the ladies of Sydney should provide the
funds for the portrait of the Queen.
PREMIER SEE: “ Very glad to hear about the wife
agreeing to have her picture painted, Ned;
and — ei — ah—about that title, I"—(ting-
ting!)
The desperate effort of Sydney Daily
Telegraph to secure the remission of the fodder
duties fizzled out woefully. Fuller, M.H.R.
moved an amendment on a Supply Bill (practically
a vote of censure) dealing with the matter and a
miserable seven voted for it. Six of them were
N.S.W. men who vote against the Govt, always,
i n principle.
A suggestion which ought to be popular
with the daily papers, so anxious for “ economy ”
on the part of the State, is that all Govt, advts.
should be inserter! in the Gazette and Hansard
only. At least £5OOO a year could be saved in this
way. Contractors and other people interested in
Govt, advts. would buy the Gazette then, and
the advts. would have all the publicity required.
The programme of the new Country Party
in N.S.W. politics is mainly to the effect that it
wants liberal encouragement to settlement, liberal
assistance and cash votes to aid the mining in-
dustry, liberal aid to the pastoral and agricul-
tural industries by the State furnishing a water
supply, a liberal supply of railways with reduced
freights—in fact it appears to be a Begging Party,
pure and simple.
Sydney Telegraph ex-editor Brient writes
to his old paper from England to say that Dr.
Graham, the one-time Freetrade member for
South Sydney, is “coquetting with the reciprocity
heresy which is eating into the very heart of Cob-
denism in England.” And at this end of the log
the new D.T. editor is declaring that Cobdenism
in England is as sound as ever, and is founded on
the imperishable rock.
The thin and melancholy Kirton, given an
lion, position in the new Vic. Ministry to con-
ciliate Ballarat, is debited with intending to
retire from politics and devote himself to his other
business as soon as this Parliament lapses—with a
gold railway pass for life on his watch-chain. A
man may be the last joint in a Vic. Govt.’s tail
for half-an-hour, and it gives him the freedom of
the State railways for ever after !
Apropos Kanaka fitness for plantation
labor. During the last month 18 males died in
Bundaberg district and of these twelve were
Polynesians. And this in a district where the
adult male white population is several times
greater than the adult Kanakas. No wonder the
pro-slavery organs are able to brag that work on
the plantations improves the average Kanaka
physique. It does, indeed —by exterminating the
weeds.
R. T. Vale, M.L.A. for Ballarat, has tele-
graphed wildly to Vic. Premier Irvine that the
inclusion of John Murray in his Ministry is “an
insult to every loyal subject.” The Vale push
called the Boers cowards and mean, treacherous
ruffians, and so on, while the war lasted, whereas
it now describes them as brothers and desirable
fellow-subjects ; and Murray’s unpardonable sin
is that he spoke of them all along just as the Vale
crowd speaks of them now.
Vic. Premier Peacock was fired out
because he refused to carry reform to the point of
destruction demanded by Kyabram. Irvine
responds to the desire for small Cabinets by
creating a Govt, with 13 Ministers. Four are so-
called honoraries. but as soon as sworn in as
Executive Councillors they get railway free passes
for life—become pensioners on the Department
till death do us part. A boon that is as good as
£7O a year to each. This is Economy 1
No better compliment could be paid to a
public man than the complaint at the Australian
Chambers of Commerce Conference in re Minister
Kingston’s prosecutions of offenders against the
Customs law:—
The department was being run in a tyrannical manner.
It was absolutely impossible to get the' ear of the Minis-
ter, who refused to see anybody.
If there were only a few more Australian public
men who “ absolutely refused to see anybody” !
John Hurley, N.S.W. M.L.A., screams
that Griffith and Holman, JVX’s.L.A., “should be
hunted out of public life for their unpatriotic
utterances and anti-British attitude.” What for ?
Mr. Chamberlain has now given to the Boers
terms somewhat more liberal than those suggested
by Messrs. Griffith and Holman. Are these
gentlemen to be punished then for prescience ?
All the un-Britishness that they seem to have been
guilty of is knowing what was necessary a year or
so before Mr. Chamberlain.
The one clever bit of dialectics in the long
censure debate in N.S.W. Assembly was Minister
Crick’s challenge to the Opposition on their re-
iterated accusation of the domination of the
Labor party:
When hon. members talked about the domination of
the Labor party he would ask where it came in on the
statute book. What Acts did the Opposition want re-
pealed? Was it the Old Age Pensions Act, or what Act
was it?
Unless the Opposition is prepared to repeal, what
is the use of talking about domination ?
Melbourne Age, recognising that there are
but three out of the new Vic. ministers who are
not rank Conservatives, apologetically writes: —
Men live to learn ; and the spectacle has more than
once been afforded of a Conservative Cabinet marching to
a great success under a Liberal banner, just as "the
descendants of English settlers in Ireland are said to have
become “ more Irish than the Irish.”
If Conservatives are more liberal than the
Liberals, what is the use of a Liberal party ? The
Age is suspiciously silent in regard to its old
enemy Bent, the new Minister of Railways. The
gravel pit scandal must rankle still.
Melb. Argus having helped to oust
Peacock, has at last achieved its long-nursed
ambition to take a hand in the formation of a new
Vi c ,#ovt, a privilege reserved for many years
by David Syme. Yet the Argus isn’t happy,
for it has pledged itself to the Kyabram pro-
gramne, and Irvine’s crowd will keep further away
from that than Peacock did. Directly Irvine
announces his “reform” intentions, the old Torv
LABOR ONLY.
“N.S.W. Works Minister O’Sullivan’s day-labor system
is finding general favor, and every day finds its intro-
duction into a new sphere of industry.” —DAILY PAPER.
PATRON: “ What would you charge to paint me
a picture about, say, the same size as that?”
PAINTER: “Oh, a hundred and fifty guineas.”
PATRON: “ And if I supply the subject and the
material?”
organ will have either to drop him or drop
Kyabram, either of which alternatives is most
unpleasant for the paper that is now struggling
so hard to wrest political power from its hated
down-street rival.
“F.C.” offers a very probable prophecy :
Open to lay a shade of odds that Victoria’s new Tory
Ministry will come back from its constituents in a very
dilapidated state. With a programme whose promise of
Reform is hardly worth mentioning, and starting with
13 Ministers just when reduction was e ;pected, Irvine
himself will have to fight hard for his seat. Shiels and
M'Kenzie hold pocket boroughs, but, as for the rest, any-
thing may happen to them. Unless Jack Murray, of
Warrnambool, has taken up Toryism with Cold Tea-ism,
it is hard to see what he is doing in that crowd. Here
they fare : Irvine, Shiels, M’Kenzie, Ewen Cameron,
Murray,'Taverner, J. M. Davies, and-Robert Reid, the
lot fitly rounded off by Bent—the unspeakable Bent
and four honoraries. More suggestive even than the
names included are those left out—Syme’s friend, Out-
trim, and the intelligent man Fink.
Several murders have lately occurred in
the Solomon Islands, and the Government agent
of the labor schooner Rio Loge, which has just
returned to Mackay with recruits, says that the
cause of the natives’ unrest
is understood to be that they are angry at hearing that
they would shortly be stopped from going to Queensland.
The Government agent greatly feared that there would be
more murders committed on that account.
Alarming news indeed —but modified consider-
ably by the fact that the Govt, agent who tells the
story is the paid servant of the piebald Phhp
Government. At all events, if the Kanakas are
so easily roused to murder they are far too savage
to be let loose on Q. sugar plantations.
Sydney Telegraph asks “Are we Too
Generous to Politicians ? ” and points out that in
the U.S. the State politician is, on the average,
worse-paid than in Australia. But, unfortunately,
the U.S. politician, being badly paid in many
cases, often pays himself, and the corruption of
American politics has become a stench and a bye-
word. Every Australian State should abolish its
useless Upper House; reduce the Assembly; pay
the remaining members better ; and, above all
things, pay its Ministers better, and give up the
foolishness of expecting really able men to devote
their lives to politics for the chance of managing
for a few years the concerns of a large country, at
less than the salary a bank manager gets for a
steady life billet.
The wildest man in Vic. politics just now
is schemer Outtrim, whose cunning over-stepped
the mark to such an extent in connection with the
Irvine no-confidence motion that it was impos-
sible to give him a place in the new Govt.
Outtrim—“trim” is good, and so is “Out ’’—has
been a man to reckon with at all times during the
last 10 years, because he hasn’t a scruple about
changing sides if there is the slightest chance of
his getting on top. When Irvine’s motion was
on, Outtrim had a counter move on hand, but
missed his opportunity, and, while he was outside
relieving his feelings, the division was called for.
He is alleged to have carefully counted the
numbers before voting—on the winning side.
And, spite of numerous Age suggestions, Outtrim
found that he had trimmed himself out.
The fodder question is still doing duty as
a stalking horse for the importing gang, hut the
public yelp grows feeble nowadays. If N.S. W. or
Q’sland wants to import fodder duty-free, it is
only necessary .for tlm See or Philp Government
to explain that it will* pay the duty and the thing
is done. The State Government gives its cheque
to the Federal Government for the amount of the
duty, and gets the money back in the division of
the surplus at the end of the month, and the
pastoralist has got his hay or lucerne duty free,
and the State Government has paid nothing, and
the Federal Government has lost nothing. If it
was fodder that was wanted, instead of a chance
to heap mean slanders on the Government which
is against Kanaka labor and which refuses to
further subsidise certain daily papers with free
postage, this would have been done long ago.
All the high-falutin re the impossi-
bility of legislating against Japanese im-
migration in the face of the Anglo-
J&panese Alliance is utter foolishness
in face of the fact
that the Japs,
actually legislate
against us, and
have stringent
laws to prevent
the overrunning
of Chrysanthe-
mum Land by a
horde of white
shopkeepers.
None of the Aus-
tralian commer-
cial magnate!,
who demand the
free entry of Japs,
for the sake of
commerce, can go
to Japan and start
selling Australian
meat retail to the
Jap. housewife. Tt
must be sold through a.
little brown agent by little brown butchers
in a little brown shop owned by a little brown
subject. They don’t apply any language
test. They simply prohibit the white trash
competing, and, if it does compete, it is run-
in—and a Jap. prison, according to all accounts,
is a beast of a place. Also, without any such pre-
cedent, the idea is utterly absurd. The Alliance
was formed for a definite purpose —the protection
of joint interests in China, it no more affects
Australian immigration than the fact that Jones
and Smith are in partnership to sell potatoes in
George-street affects Jones’s right to the sole
control of his own wife, married to him for
housekeeping and other purposes, and living with
him at Potts Poiut.
Though there is much talk about retrench-
ment very little is being done. The only serious
attempt at anything was the abolition of Wragge
and even that has been repented of. The fact
hasn’t soaked in yet that the Commonwealth
barely musters 4,000,000 people, and 4,000,000
people can’t afford to maintain seven Upper
Houses, six Agents-General, six official weather-
prophets, five or six Govt, astronomers, six Chief
justices, seven Governors, nine Government
Houses, six Coronation shivoos, and a whole lot of
other like things. Not one sacrilegious hand has
been laid on the blessed ark of any one of these
frills. When real retrenchment is proposed
there immediately arises a clatter about the
necessity for doing things “in a way commen-
surate with the Dignity of this great country.”
A fair specimen of the reforming State
politician :
Mr. Meagher gave emphatic expression to the view
that the imperative duty of the present time above all
else was to exercise a thorough economy. ... He did
not object to getting money for reproductive and neces-
sary public works, but it was clear there would have to
be economy somewhere. (“Hear, hear.”)
Pretty nearly every politician said the same
thing. They all wanted to be drunken total
abstainers, seeing cold-tea snakes in strict moder-
ation, and to raise enough revenue to meet
expenses without increasing taxation, and to be
strictly economical without cutting down the
influx of loan money, and their haste to explain
that they didn’t want their strict economy to
reduce anybody’s pay, or throw anybody out of
work, or deprive anybody of his culvert was
pathetic.
Now that all three Melbourne daily papers
have taken one attitude re Parliamentary reform,
the well-managed Ballarat Courier boldly takes
the field in opposition and has scored well by
doing so. The Courier people have, since the
start of Federation, been making sturdy efforts to
demolish the power of the Age and Argus in-
land, and have by no means failed in their fight
against city monopoly. Their first big move was
in the disclosure of some of the important tariff
information so jealously guarded by Kingston,
and it turned out correct enough, too. By sup-
porting Peacock’s Govt, against the virulent met-
ropolitan attacks, the Ballarat daily has also made
itself pretty certain of getting as much of the poli-
tical news that’s going as any of the Melb. papers
—the policy of which for years has been first to
manufacture “situations” and afterwards to go
round and bullyrag the little local politicians into
carrying out their schemes.
The Barton Government’s proposal to
spend £3OO on religious services at Coronation
tune fell through most dismally. Nothing ever
deserved its fate more completely, and all the rest
of the proposed Coronation frill deserves to go
with it. If the people really want to rejoice at
that time there is no reason why they
shouldn’t, but all the artificial processes of being
glad on the Estimates, and being drunk by deputy,
and being loyal by sending some one else to the
war, and being enthusiastic by owing the money,
are objectionable. A lamentable tendency to fall
back on the Government, a leaning towards the
follies of State Socialism, and a dropping away
from the bracing principles of Private Enterprise
characterise the Fat Man of to-day. Illumina-
tions and the sending of contingents to aid in
non-Australian wars, should be all left to Private-
Enterprise. while the State hustles round ami,
attends to its railways.
They really have a vague idea in Maori-
bmd that Seddon stopped the war. Witness this
fr m a leading article in Canterbury Times :
His arrival in South Africa has been followed by what
are probably the most significant indications of an early
declaration of peace which have yet reached us. The
Premier will himself be the first man to smile cheerily at
this charming coincidence, and to suggest, jestingly, that
it is an obvious case of cause and effect; and no doubt the
incident will be a text for many cheap witticisms from
those whose professional jealousy bids them maintain at
all hazards that no good thing overcame out of Nazareth.
But this gently humorous side of the subject suggests
one of more practical significance. Mr. Seddon has, of
course, no official standing in South Africa, and he unit
take no formal part in any deliberations or negotiations
affecting the peace proposals. But we know him, and,
knowing him, we realise that a man of his pronounced
virility cannot fail to make his presence felt, if not
among the absolute leaders of the Boers, at any rate
among such lesser lights as he may be thrown in contact
with. The very personality of such a man is likely to
appeal to the peoples of South Africa, and it may be
taken for granted that Mr. Seddon will find out a way to
impress upon those whom he meets something of the
benefits of the free and enlightened constitution we
enjoy in this colony.
There is something very beautiful in the Maori-
land paper’s remark—evidently made to prevent:
people falling into an otherwise most natural
error—that Seddon wouldn’t personally conduct
the peace negotiations, but just beneficently buzz
round.


When
you
require
a PIANO—
Pemember
They carry the
Hall mark of
Public
Approval.
PALING’S
PIANOS
The
Prices
are
Eight.
Arc a&
<jOOP as
<SOLP.
Good Tone
Good Touch
Good 'Workmanship
Ahead of
ALL OTHERS
Call or
Write for
CATALOGUES.
Palings
Stock also
VIOLINS
CORNETS
BANJOS
GUITARS
MANDOLINS
AUTOHARPS
CONCERTINAS
ACCORDEONS
In
fact
EVERY KNOWN
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT.
BAND
INSTRUMENTS
OE ALL KINDS.
•
STRINGS and EITTINGS
If you do not see the instrument you
require enumerated above, Call
or Write to us; we will gladly
show you our immense stock, or
forward CATALOGUES EREE
W. N. PALING *C” L” 338
6EOR6E STREET,
SYDNEY
And at
Brisbane
Newcastle
Tuberculosis of the
Bowels
CUBED BT
VITADATIO
Canterbury Road, Mount Pleasant,
Tunstall, Victoria.
Mr. PALMER, June 1,1901.
Dear Sir,—Last November I felt very unwell and had
tO'kake to my bed. I called in a doctor, he examined me,
and said that I was suffering from Tuberculosis of the
Bowels. He prescribed for me, and, not feeling better, I
decided to call in another doctor who examined me also
and said the same thing. He also prescribed for me, and
still feeling no better I was strongly advised to take
VITADATIO, and after taking it for a short time I began
to improve, and eventually regained my long lost health.
I was three months in bed and suffered a great deal of
pain, and had it not been for VITADATIO I believe I
would have died ; but to-day, I am thankful to say, I am
in .good health, and have gained a stone in weight, and
can honestly recommend to any person suffering as I
did.—Yours faithfully,
ELIZABETH DENNY.
We certify that the above is correct.
Robert Dare, 233 High-street, Northcote.
Mary Ann Barker, Rellett-street, Northcote.
E. Baker, Derby Avenue, Northcote.
W. P. Boundy, Federal Dye Works, 22 Best-street,
North Fitzroy.
Alfred Jenkin, 29 Herbert-street, Northcote.
For further particulars,
S. A . PALMER 9
184 Pitt Street , Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
SENP US-
YOUR PHOTOGRAPH.
JF you send a Photograph of yourself (or friend) to
Mr. Mark Blow, Crown Studios, Sydney,
he will reproduce from it a very beautiful and
Artistically Finished
Permanent Enlargement
In Black and White, equalling a rich Steel Plate
Engraving, handsomely mounted on an Indian-tinted
Plate, sunk mount, and as good in every way as Enlarge
ments now being supplied at from 30/- to 50/- each, and
will carefully pack it and send it Carriage Paid to am
address in Australia, Tasmania, or New Zealand for 10 6
Your Photo. Returned with Order.
Neuralcia is responsible . . .
for a great number of the careworn
faces so frequently met with both
in the city and country. All
neuralgic pains and headaches can
be speedily removed by taking
Heyuman’S special neuralcia powder, 2/-
By post, 2/2.
NEWMAN, CHEMIST, 82 King-street, Sydney.
N.S.W. M.L.A. Dacey, in the recent vote-
of-censure debate, made some remarks about the
Sydney daily papers which were very carefully
suppressed in their columns. He pointed out
that the country paper proprietor at, say, Bourke,
had to pay 13s. a cwt. freight on his printing
paper, whilst the Sydney printed papers went up
free. The services done by the railways to the
great dailies he calculated as worth at least
£40,000 a year, and he demanded that the amount
should be charged to “ the corrupt oligarchy ”
running the morning papers. Mr. Dacey con-
cluded :
I impeach these papers with having received illegally a
subsidy out of the public coffers; I charge these men
with having received that subsidy indirectly in the shape
of having their merchandise carried free. I want to lay
emphasis upon the word illegal. The best proof I can
give hon. members that it was illegal is this: that if it
had been legal they would have gone to the law courts to
force the Postmaster-General to continue the free car-
riage of their papers.
And not a word of this in the daily press 1 Truly,
Hansard has its uses.
HYPNOTISM
Reader, do yon wish to know how to
make more money, obtain greater
happiness, have better health, and
achieve greater success in life? It is
our business to help others—we are
specialists in this line. Will you permit
us to help yout It costs you nothing
until we prove what we can do. We
will send you our elegantly illustrated
ONE HUNDRED PAGE BOOK FREE.
This remarkable work thoroughly in-
structs you in the underlying principles
of success in every business and calling ;
it tells you how to cure every known
disease and bad habit without the aid of
drugs, medicine, or the surgeon’s knife.
It fully reveals the hidden mysteries of
LEARN
AT
HOME
FREE
HYPNOTISM. PER-
SONAL MAGNETISM
MAGNETIC HEAL-
ING, etc. It tells you
how you can quickly
master these sciences
in a few days at your
own home and use this
mighty power on your
friends and associates
entirely without their
knowledge—new and instantaneous
methods which enable anyone to hypno-
tise quick as a flash. We guarantee
success or forfeit One Thousand Dollars
ingold. This wonderful book has proved
the turning point in the lives of hundreds
of persons who were ready to give up in
despair. Thousands owe their health,
happiness, and financial success to its
teachings. 11 is fu 11 of wonderful secrets
and startling surprises. It will be sent
to any address absolutely free. A ijd.
postal card will bring it. Address,
NEW YORK INSTITUTE of SCIENCE
Dept. 822, Rochester, N.Y., U.S.A.
DIRECT TO YOU
'i j
WS.
■
m
- :
»
■:
By
POST
FROM
CALLAGHAN
AND
SON.
Men’s French Calf, to
Eutton, Pointed or
Medium Toe, Fine
Made-to-Order Appear-
ance-
Price 23/6.
The same boot in TAN at the same price.
Delivered Post Free and Duty Free
to any address in the Common-
wealth upon receipt of 24/6 per pair.
We want to convince everybody that all the Style,
Fit, Elegance, and Durability that Beems
possible to be put into a Boot
IS PUT INTO THE CAUACHAN BOOT.
The trial of ONE PAIR will convince you this is true. IJ you are not convenient
to our premises, our perfectly systematised Mail Order Department can fit you to
your complete satisfaction, or your money refunded. State size of Boot Worn,
and whether Pointed or Medium Shape Toe is required.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce st., Sydney.


Banking. Publio Companies, Sc c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
svs>
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
:Kr.s,-v\r.
Qjontdepiete
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
•JA CASTLEREAGH ST., A
' SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
>—TIITC-n
Colonial Mutual lafe
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Rrn ns, Chairman ; lion. C. J. Roberts,
0.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. ltoss Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,491,989.
Policies issued 85,372 —assuring £26,085,346.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,576,850.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and- without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —equitably distributed.
Head Office: ......
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
file |ank of Qortfa Queensland
LI Ml TED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager - Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Lt_d.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... 250 000 ... £350,000
fhT Trustees, €*€cGtor£,
AND
Conjpaijy Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) ... ... £BB5B 7 S
Amounr. at Credit of Estates. Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1901 V 6,388,976 5 3
Directors : F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, 15sq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BOItROWMAN, Manager.
FItEDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Hoyal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED. 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £423,000
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 209,581
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 54,000
£686,581
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE : 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £2,500,000
A evident
an d
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. o/ London
t The Premier Accident and Guarantee f
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. \V. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Fari.ane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. \V.
Farqoiiar.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
T~he savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £15,000, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties,
and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
’<■ GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. .. 2,000,000 0 f
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. .. 1,270,000 0 (
Reserve Liability 2,000,000 0 0
Ocean
Total 5,270,000 0 0
Directors:
Hon. Chas. K. Mackellar, M.L.C., President.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
William Alfred Cotter, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Henry Normand MacLaurin, M.L.O.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L C.
Auditors:
A. G. Milson, Esq. J. S. Harrison, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
Tae Bank allows interest on fixed deposits; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts, all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Shipping.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
TO
West & South Australian
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
ADELAIDE
Peregrine, Saturday, June 21, 2 p.m.
■Konoowarra, Tues., June 24, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, June 28, 2 p.m.
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyong, Tues., July 8, 6 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyongr, Tues., July 8,5 p.m.
(No Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDAISERG
Tyrian, Saturday, June 21, 2 p.m.
Buninyong, Tues., June 24, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, June 28, 2 p.m.
GLADSTONE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian, Saturday, June 21, -2 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, June 28, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
i Lftss o' Gowrie, from Townsville
► weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colornal S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Building’s, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
RUNIC, to Sail on or about 20th JUNE.
MEDIC, AFRIC, SUEYIC, and PERSIC
to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l6 16 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 27 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 33 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGCAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dcilgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Huddart, Parker £ ga’s [ine
—TO—
MELIK)[J If NE, HOIJAKT,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
A:
cr jxcv
li ]\r e
gfd
via
San Francisco,
California.
SPLENDID NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS,
SIERRA
SONOMA
VENTURA
Over 6000 Tons each.
8000 H.P.
Length, 425 feet,
Passengers booked through to American, Canadian and
European centres at current rates.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMSIIIC CO., TjTD.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
time table.
THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
g
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSCiraoce Society.
(ESTABLISHED 1879.)
THE MOST LIBERAL AND PROGRESSIVE
LIFE OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA.
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and Castlereagli
Streets, Sydney.
VICTORIAN BRANCH :
Baring Chambers, Market Street, Melbourne.
Wm. Bennett, Manager.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH:
36 and 38 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
JAS. GLISSAN, Resident Secretary.
GEO. CROWLEY, General Manager.
Queensland Smelting Campy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
I -BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
*' Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and'Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GKO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street. Melbourne.
FOR ACETYLENE GAS
1
“WE ARE
THE PEOPLE.”
Over 300 of our Reliable
Acetylene Gas Genera-
tors in daily use, and all
giving satisfaction.
We also supply Table,
Portable, Street, and
other Lamps for Acety-
lene Gas and all accesso-
ries.
We carry large stocks of
Carbide of Calcium.
Send for our No. 56
Acetylene Gas Catalogue
Martin’s Advance Acetylene Table Lamp. Price £1 7s. 6d.
AMES
MARTIN & CO.
161 Clarence Street
Nr. King-st., Sydney
dfg
IN order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever seen in the
jewellery trade— viz., the above handsome Brooch
(any name or three initials) made of extra quality
9ct.. gold-filled wire, with heart pendant ; guaran-
teed the same quality as the brooch advertised,
complete. Sent post-free on receipt of P. 0.0, or
M.O. for ss. in round wire or sq. twisted wire, 15ct
gold, filled, Bs. 6d. Illustrated catalogues sent free*
SIMS and ELRICK, Manufacturing Jewellers.
Our only address —
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE, tv.ELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA.
OM. I>. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
fd
♦Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving- MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
Interstate First Class Return Tickets are now available
tor Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Oo.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. TANGLIN, 23rd JULY,
And Regularly Thereafter.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents.
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
Miowera, July 14.
Aorang-i, August 11.
GRAND EXCURSION TO ROCKY MOUNTAINS
OF AMERICA.
THE FINEST EVER OFFERED IN AUSTRALIA.
£6O FOR 63 DAYS,
Including: Steamer, Railway, and Hotel
Expenses.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
@2
•m
“PRIMUS’”
Kerosene
Room Warmer
with Asbestos Heat Radiator.
PRICES, WITHOUT STOVE :
Made of Sheet Steel, 15s. each
Made of Sheet Brass, 255. each.
If sent by Post 1/6 extra.
Brandt Bros.,
236 Pitt St., Sydney, a nd
422 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIPCOi
(LIMITED).
-EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
PREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Warrego,
Friday, June 20.
S.S. Marloo
(from Melbourne),
Tuesday, June 24.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairns
8.8. Innamincka,
Saturday, June 21.
S.S. Warrego, Sat., June 28.
Jiest and Cheapest Houte to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable a,fter the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A. U.S.N. Co. and Howard Smith Co.,
Ld. For Adelaide and VV.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd”
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE -Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Maekay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS - Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON-Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via .5rU
bane, Town die, Cooktown, Thursday IsUn.l,
and Normanio i.
SYDNEY, NEW UAi.KDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenger A ccomtnodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith art I Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO, Ltd., Agents, 111 Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
D AND COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
_ on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B to .£77
Ditto _ Ditto Return, £66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific,
Messageries Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY, !
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with bhs
French Government, calling at ME.LBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows : -
gfd
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet#
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter*
colonial Ports are available lor return by P. and 0.,
Orient and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Officer
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
“E. ANP A.” LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer.
AUSTRALIAN
GUTHRIE
EASTERN
AIRLIE
Tns. Commander.
3000
2500
3600
2500)
P. T. Helms
A. E. Dabelle
Winthrop Ellis
St. John George
iLeave Sydney..
June 21
July 12
August 9
August 30
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Through bookings to points in Canada, United States
of America and Europe at special rates.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
Lowest Fares and Freights.
For further information apply to
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents!
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
. . SMOKE
4?
THE
g
GBD
fdg
&
INSIST
on having this Brand
and no other.
231
Australian Depot:
CLARCNCC STR€€T,
sYoarBY.


i Francois D’Assise, the physically-incap
able consort of giddy ex-Queen Isabella of Spain,
died in Paris, the other day, aged 80. Isabella,
who is at last too old to be giddy, looked after her
venerable friend in his last illness, _ and his
daughters (by courtesy) also rallied to his bedside.
A humorous family gathering. The present King
of Spain is a grandson (by courtesy) of Francois,
though all the world knows that Isabella’s lawful
husband was in no way responsible for the birth
of his wife’s offspring. A harmless, pious old
fellow, he was foisted upon the young Queen by a
Court clique, in the hope that she would die
childless, and leave the Spanish Crown to pass
into the Orleans family, her sister being married
to the Due de Montpensier, son of Louis Philippe
of France, on the same day that Isabella took the
hopeless Francois to her arms. The opposition
clique defeated the Orleans intrigue by en-
couraging their Sovereign Lady in her natural
amorousness, and she provided, heirs to the
Throne at long intervals as time went on.
Francois was quite indifferent re the paternity of
his nominal descendants. He never quarrelled
with Isabella during her reign, and although they
formally separated in 1870 because the ex-Queen,
then fixed up comfortably at Paris, decided to be
giddier than ever, it was understood that Francois
took a pleasure in having the goodness to make
himself scarce. The friendship of an uneexed
husband for a merry wife has amounted to a,
gentle devotion in more cases than that of Francois
D’Assise and Isabella. Man, when free from
animal passion, has a clear view of his duty to
both sections of society; whereas, the average
man never quite understands what is fair to a
woman.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London. *
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. 6d.
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor, W. Martin, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England.*
Irrigationista on Australian rivers can
work up a sweat any time by starting a, discussion
on winter watering. After long talking over it
the Mildura people have just voted in its favor by
a big majority. The argument is that a watering
in winter allows the sub-soil to get a soaking—the
surface mops up the summer drinks. Apart from
this special one Mildura gives four soaks a year,
at an average cost of 6s. 7d. per soak per acre.
Patents fob Inventions. —Arthur Griffith
an 1 Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world.,
“A.C.H.”. Be South Australian educa-
tional sweating:—
In B. 31/5/’02 the writer doesn’t make enough of the
matter as regards the “ unpaid monitor ” and the
“ acting-assistant.” In the first place, young people who
display teaching ability—often with the hope of being
ultimately appointed—give their services for nothing. In
a great many cases the attendance at the school does not I
warrant their being placed on the staff, and as, of course, j
the head-master knows this, he should plainly tell these
young folk to seek a livelihood elsewhere. But it is ]
obviously to his advantage to retain the help he would
not otherwise have, and so he keeps them hanging
on by vague promises—I know of one girl who
has been teaching three years for nothing—wait-
ing patiently for an appointment, and it is quite
usual to wait a year or more. As to the second evil, there
are a great number of acting-assistants—mostly women—
who, having passed an examination (supposed to be about
equal to the test applied to a 12-year-old scholar) are
appointed at from £36 to about £60. But, be the teacher
genius or dullard, appointed thus, no increase ever
comes. Many persons have been working for years,
giving, in many cases, good, skilled _ labor — but,
because they have not been trained (i.e., crammed
at the University) their status remains the same.
It would be interesting to know to what extent the
department benefits yearly by this contemptible piece of
sweating. As for the discipline of the State schools, every
teacher would need the personal magnetism of a Napo-
leon, with the patience of Job, to conform with the regu-
lations —written and unwritten. For this and similar
reasons the flower of S.A. teachers have gone to the Far
West, where the education conditions offer able men
chances to rise; yet the bumble-headed department,
instead of taking warning thereby, actually last year cut
down the salaries of the newly-trained teachers. Now
S. Africa is asking for teachers, and many S’Australian
' instructors, disgusted with this parsimony, will gladly
go there.
No. 2
10/- BROWNIE 10/-
KODAK.
<s*
60
w.
Send for Illustrated Leaflet,
and mention this paper.
KODAK Ltd., & Reduced,
284 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
And of all Photographio Dealers.
“O LATER’S DETECTIVES.” Acknowledged by
O both the Press and the Public to be the finest
organisation of Male and Female Detective talent m the
World for private inquiries. Representatives in every
town on earth. Consultations Free. HENRY SLATER
Manager. No. 1 BASINGHALL STREET. LONDON
ENGLAND. Cables, “ Distance, London.
w
\
3
0
®li
IK®
n
D
Ml
A
A
' >'
t»w
nm
THE
Dr. McLaughlin
MAN
SHOUTS FOR JOY
Is the Only Electrio Belt in Australia that possesses a constant,
lasting Electric Current, and it was only after the most exhaus-
tive examination, and a practical demonstration, that the highest
official of H.M. Customs Department consented to permit Our
Belt being pa sed as an Electric Appliance. All others are
classed as simple Wearing Apparel. If you want a Flannel Girth
or Belt of this description, we would advise you to make it your-
self or buy it at the drapers. Will keep you from paying some-
one else’s fancy advertising Bills.
Worn while you sleep, it pumps a Constant, Soothing Current of Electricity into
vour body fot hours at a time. No burning or blistering of the skin, because the
metal discs are covered with the proper Electrodes, and the current is properly under
control by moans of the regulator attachment, which permits any d “tred strength of
current being used. It has cured thousands, and will cure you, of LAME bAtE,
RHEUMATISM, DYSPEPSIA, CONSTIPATION, SCIATICA, ANAEMIA, LAS-
SITUDE, and absolutely dispel that tired feeling you have when you get up in the
morning. Don’t Drug ! Electricity alone is the proper remedy for these and all
organic or functional weaknesses, arising from improper circulation and unnecessary
waste of energy. - Electricity absolutely restores your vigor.
£25 REWARD.
Owing to the fact that skeptical people have at different times hinted, and even said, “ Of course,
testimonials such as you publish have a price,” or words'to that effect we will pay £25 for proof
THAT ANY ONE OF OUR TESTIMONIALS WERE PURCHASED.
Other so-called Electric Belts had me
entirely ; but your Electric Belt Cured me of my
lame back, which had troubled me for years.
One week’s wear seemed sufficient, as 1 have
no further pain.—A. J. GREENLAND, J.F.,
“ Launchley,” Uralla, N.S.W.
Your Belt is worth its weight in gold. For
years I suffered a living death faom Sciatica,
but a few short months of your electric treat-
ment cured me, and put me right again It
gives me pleasure to recommend your Belt to
both my friends and strangers,—Yours gratefully,
WM OGLESBY, Kegworth-st., Leichhardt.
Our Electric Belts are made In seven dif-
ferent grades of strength, in order to treat
different ailments successfully.
It is as logical to say that the same
strength of current will suit every case, as
it is to say that the same size suit of clothes
will do for all men.
Remember.—The proper grade of current
cures, without the aid of drugs. You have
probably had all the drugs you want, any-
how.
I am 72 years old, and always arose tired and
languid in the mornings, and with a bad back.
After wearing your Belt for about four hours a
day for a few weeks, I feel a young man again,
and am hearty and well in every respect.—JNO.
DIXON, Bendemeer, N.S.W., 31/3/02.
Your Electric Belt cured me of lame back and
a general run-down condition. I have told all my
friends about it, and I consider it the best invest-
ment I ever made. —JNO. KING, Marine Depart-
ment, Edward-st., Brisbane.
A POSTAGE
STAMP
Brings your letter, and we will send you one of our Illustrated Free
Books, which will show you exactly what kind of an Appliance you
must secure to get a genuine Electric Reju venator. A Belt that carries
Health and Strength into your system ; that Cures all the Ailments we
claim it will cure ; and that don’t require a course of medicine, at
additional expense, to make you imagine you are being cured. We
won’t fill you up with strong, stimulating drugs, which, when the
immediate effect has worn off, leave you with a worse condition than
before you tried the remedy. If you will write to us, we will send a
book, sealed, and post paid. No expense.
THE
Or. IDctaughlin Co.
85 King St., Sydney.
HOURS 9 a.m. to 9 pm.
CALL FOR FREE BOOK.
If you can call we shall be glad to have you do so, for you can then have a free personal test, which will convince you of your own free will.
J Our prices are within reach of everybody. Call or write immediately. Delays are dangerous to your health.
df
gdf
fringes
Mado of the Best Natiif el Curly, fiair,
frosa .fct 6d., 6s. 6d., 7s, Cd., Bs. 6d.
tolos.6d.caoh.
W. H. WIGZELL
tier WILLIAM STREET,
PUirs ?ydney - nit*
raoa. «,*. 20ia*> extra thicx,
22in., 10«. 6d.; 22in., extra thick, 12s. 6d.
24in.. 15s. 6d.j 24in., extra thick, 18s. 6d.
26in., 2Qs.f 26in., extra thick, 25a.
28in., 305,; 30in., 36f14 3Qin., extra thick. 40s.
g
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as thick as
those sold elsewhere for the same money.
WIGS MADE TO ORDER.
fUJLRWORK. DUTY JT&BE TO OTaJRR STATES.
If
*
you
o«3
V^°
Of
Allan's
Australian Music Books
On
er
CO*' 1
*1
*4
£>f
•old by aB Music Sellers in Australasia.
Allah* Co. ar*.u*»,«J«-a7B oollins st.. Melbourne
SPOONER’S
fdg
df
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BIaACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shop g, Saddlers, etc.
RUPTURE
CURED
without
operation or pain.
gfd
Shrew away
your Traaa.
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
.Treatise No. io. Address:
SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.8., ENG.,
Cor* Russell a Collins Sts.*
MELBOURNE.
3 EVERY MAN u
SUFFERING from DEBILITY and WEAKNESS should
send for a valuable Pamphlet explaining how all
Nervous and Organic Derangements may be success-
fully treated without stomach medication. The method
is easy and pleasant, and will effect a perfect and per-
manent cure. Sent in a plain sealed envelope free of
charge. E. NORTON, 59 &60 Chancery Lane, London,
m Eno. Over 30 years’ continuous success. aj
LADIES ->•
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Ad L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
-pvEAR SIR, —I have been cured of Weakness and De
-L' bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. 1
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charg*
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBER'f
E. PARKHURST, Pitt-street, Sydney.


As
a Corrective
and Safeguard
of HEALTH.
THE BEST REMEDY TO-DAY IN THE MARKET IS
REUTER’S LITTLE PILLS
FOR THE LIVER.
A HOUSEHOLD NECESSITY.
Clean Bread
u
ISM
/»■ \
Cannot be made
with foul hands,
and clean, pure
blood cannot be
made by a foul sto-
mach. The blood
is made by the
stomach and the
organs of digestion
and nutrition. If
these are diseased
they contaminate
every drop of blood
made from the
food in the stom
ach, and this con-
tamination is car-
ried through the
whole body; it
may stop in the
liver, kidneys,
heart, or lungs,
but the root' of the
disease is in the sto-
mach. Cure the stomach, and you cure the disease.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills cure diseases of
the organs of digestion and nutrition perfectly
and positively. They purify the blood, and by
so doing cure the cause of the disease, curing
many cases of disease in organs remote from the
stomach. Mrs. Lillie Johnston, who resides at
142 Crown-street, Sydney, writes: —“My nerves
were entirely run down, and everything I wished
to do seemed a trouble. I could take no interest
in my home or surroundings. I first began to feel
unwell by being troubled with indigestion, loss of
appetite, and frequent sick headaches. - T ; The
slightest exertion left me entirely prostrated.
I was low spirited, and life became a burden. I
was frightened at the most harmless things. I
attended the hospital as an outdoor patient, but
without receiving any benefit. It was suggested
by a gentleman who had great faith in Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills that I should try them. I
began at once to improve, and continued taking
the pills, and was greatly benefited by them.
I have regained my usual spirits, and am able
to do my work with pleasure. I am glad to
furnish this testimonial as to the great benefit
I have derived in taking Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills.” Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are
put up in amber bottles, and the full name blown
thereon, and are sold by all dealers throughout
Australasia*
THE
CORONATION
WHEEL . . .
the all-red^
RED BIRD BICYCLE
Tbe , H ET I B !? D ’ & reason of ,fcB ‘» ua,it 7 and unique success on road and track, is ridden daily by thousands
of the Kind’s subjects in every part of the British Empire. and see the Red Bird for 1802.
Cash or Terms.
GQOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King St., Sydney,
Agents all Toions.
gfd
Absolutely Pure;
Adelaide:
CURRIE BTREET
A
Fully Matured;
Melbourne:
COLLINS STREET
700 Medals, etc.
Sydney;
_ QROSVENOR STREET
SPORTING NOTIONS.
„ .W- Hurdles and Chase burdens issued
on Monday indicated absence of “ class.” Fonner reveals
oim‘ o f°9iho f V otChk !? S L Uatt, l e Axe ’ at the to P- California
comes -lbs. less and has a chance, ditto Lowland Chief
Arcadia and Loch Fad with 11.7. Other M.L. rep’
Regalia 11., isn’t badly treated, nor can Wollogoran'?s
ciwnergrowl at 10.12. Nansen (10.6) is well in, and Shoddy
and Rickshaw (10.4 and 10.2 respectively) haven’t
been too highly estimated. Among lighter weighted lot
with good prospects are Examiner, Rawdon, Earl
Carnck and Seaman. Arcadia and M.L. crack
j ame , mark > head the Steeple
noms. The Guard only has 41bs. in excess of
what lie won Auckland G. N. ’Chase with, June 3, and
provided he materialises, should give the money a big
shaking. Brokerage (12.2) and Kaimate (12) look pro-
mising, as also De Sindhia and Bay Eagle (10.7 each)
particularly the latter after recent feats at Randwick
under crushers. Among lightly-treated candidates,
Bushie stands out, for he wasn’t near well when he made
. that bold bid at Randwick t’other day in the face of un-
accountably ill-judged riding.
* * * •
Antaeus gelding Antique dodged the cute
crowd at last and scored sensationally in Warwick Farm
Pace Welter, Saturday. Previous week at Canterbury an
apparent attempt to back him at the last moment scared
Mo., so that only a small portion of the “ commish ” went
on, but the public rushed and took anything offered down
to evens, and Antique finished a poor sixth or seventh.
At Warwick Farm, backed to win a big sum, he rushed
past the judge a 10-lengths winner. Antique is the most
promising sprinter seen out for some time. His dam is
Fuchsia, a daughter of Marvellous and Primrose, the
latter being by Reprieve, a son of Yattendon. Fuchsia
was the dam of Sunflower. Mr. H. O. White bred Antique
at Havilah. n
* * * •
Country performer Milos, who failed at Moore-
field, made amends in Warwick Farm Stakes, Saturday,
bv humping a heavy load of money, and getting home
easily. Quite recently he annexed a double at Tamworth.
Milos gives promise of proving a good wealth-accumulating
medium. He is a gelding that takes the eye well, and
can endure weight and travels fast. Present owner, Mr.
Inch, had that successful nag, Cast Iron, and did well
with him.
* * • •
Aged gelding Fairy Prince annexed Warwick
Farm Handicap (Im. 2jfur.) comfortably, Saturday, and,
i hough usually unreliable, acted so as to encourage
backing him again. It’s over two years since he won
before, and then on the same course, and in a similarly
named event, but distance was lm. 3fur. Fairy Prince is
by Staekdale out of a Stafford mare.
/• • •
Winner (Burraneer) of Newcastle Cup last week
seems to be a confirmed in-and-outer, for, though gallop-
i ig well on the track, he has disappointed his party very
often. At Canterbury Park a month or more ago, backed
heavily from tens down to a very short price, he ran like
a cart-horse. In Newcastle J.C. llcp., day prior to Cup
same prad lined up first pick, and finished among the
last of 16. Still his stable came again for the Cup, and
placed i g wealth down, too, to see him close on the
prize comfortably from weightily-supported first-favorite
Hazel Lad. Kuhn was up on Burraneer in both New-
castle engagements. The nag is by Gozo from Jenny
Wren, and consequently full-brother to Blue Nobby He
was bred at Tucka Tueka (N. S. W.).
* * * •
Four-year-olds predominate among entries for
I bis year’s A. J.C. Epsom and Metrop. Of 114 hooked in
the former event 40 are four, 28 five, 17 three, 15 six-
.vvar-olds, and 14 aged. Metrop. has 35 four, 34 five, 14
three, 7 six-year-olds, and 11 aged.
* * * m
Winning recent M.L. G.N.’Chase, The Guard
humped the biggest load (12.3) that important fixture
vis been won with. Macaroni got home under 12st. in
85, and Levanter with 12.1 in ’97. Apropos, Moifaa’s
S.l!).} (last year) is the fastest time ever done. The Guard
lo .ks anything but the fine lepper, good galloper, and
capital weight-carrier that he is.
* * • •
Sydney crack jockey Sixsmith fell fatally from
Darvin in Clifford Plate, at Toowoomba (Q.), through
stirrup-strap snapping. Since his apprenticeship with
loin Paytin, Sixstnith’s successes have been numerous
among them Doncaster Handicap on Parapet. Four years
ago he sustained a badly-fractured thigh on the training-
tracks, that stowed him away for months ; and at New-
castle, two years since, he had a fall which invalided him
six months.
* • • .
Crosscountry jock H. Underwood, after
several close shaves, met his death when riding Inkerman
in'Hanover Steeple, at Flemington. Nag, an unreliable
lepper, negotiated all jumps hut the last of the three post-
aud-rail fences, andjthen his full weight crashed on Under-
wood’s chest. Schooling T.O. recently Underwood had his
collar-bone broken, and suffered another nasty tumble off
Grafter on the first day of recent Randwick Prince of
Wales’ Birthday meet. He had few equals at the busi-
ness, and was grit to the core ; his handling of the pony
Reckless over big ieps will be long remembered. He
never scored in a G.N. event, but knocked at the door
when, on Zouroff, he ran second to Buzzi, with poor Jack
Laverty up. Ever since that jostle at Randwick, two
years ago, when Underwood struck 11. B. M‘Laughlin
with his whip, bringing about a year’s disqualification,
things went wrong, and one fall after another culminated
in the Flemington fatality.
• * * *
Of £3950 prize-money given away at recent
Adelaide R.C. meet Messrs. Clark and Robinson (owners
of The Victory) got £735 ; thence there was a big droD to
Mr. H. R. Dixon (£283) and Mr. A. Cherry (£275)?
• • * •
Adelaide Racing Club had £43,429 put through
the tote at its three days’ “ Birthday ’’ meeting. Com-
mission to the club, 71 per cent., comes to over £3250, or
over three-fourths the value of the stakes given. In the
10 days of S. A. autumn campaign, £163,000 went through
the machine. Over £12,000 provided by the public,
without knowing it; diverted from the pockets of the
clb W ‘ inking account of the racing
• • * *
The fine cricket display by Grace and erstwhile-
Australian “Billy” Murdoch at Crystal Palace, Eng-
land, recalls the match 22 years ago (the fourth test, Eng-
land v. Australia) at the Oval, when Grace made
152 runs out of England’s total of 420. Australia
responded with 149 ; and, being 271 runs to the bad, had
to follow-on. Murdoch carried his hat right through the
Australians' second innings for 153, and set England a
task which was wiped out with the loss of but five
wickets. Then they were antagonists ; now, grey-haired
and bigger round the waist, they occasionally play side
by side, and show the young ’uns that there is fire in the
embers yet.
* • • •
In Cambridge-Australian match, last week.
Varsity notched 108 in initial essav. Trumble secured
i°i ir , oL 33 and Trum P er P ve lor 19. Australians accumu-
fated 337, and ’Varsity, in its second attempt, compiled
° nt V 4 6- Hopkins bagged seven of these for 10 and Jones
thiee for 30. Australia thus won by an innings and 183
runs. Probably this will prove the poorest opposi-
tion of the tour. Only three or four of the Cantab per-
sonnel rank first-class. Hitherto Hopkins and Trumper
have not been highly thought'of as bowlers, yet they
played havoc. Trumper scored 128 for Australia; his
fourth century so far. Only another in any one of 24
matches still listed is necessary to bring him up with
Darlings five centuries, accomplished in ’99. Some-
what puzzling that Trumper, so much below Hill and
Gregory against Maelaren’s team in Australia, should now
rise so far above them, while they do little. Gregory’s 72
against Cambridge went close to doubling his prior' bast
(38), against London County. In ’7B Cambridge ’Vais ty
was among the strongest teams England owned, aid
never went under once that season. It accounted for
Australia by an innings and 72 runs. A. and E. Lytteiio i,
wereamongthem ’“ d IV ° BUgh (nOW Lord
MR. J. B. BELFIELD, Amateur Billiard,
Champion of N.S.W.
Photo, by Horla, Sydney.
Amateur billiard supremacy of 3NT.S.W. tourney
ended last week. J. B. Belfield" won the honor and
attendant pots ; his last win was from Condon 500 to 328.
Condon’s best efforts were 68 and 25 and Belfield’s 74 and
65. During this competition Belfield compiled two fine
breaks—one (156 unfinished) is the best amateur accumula-
tion on record under existing rules. The other was 116
also unfinished. In one heat Belfield had the fine
average of 17-82 which would do a front rank pro; credit
Bast heat was between “ Mai ” Spencer (brother of ex-
champion ‘ ■ Pyramids ”) and previous owner of the
premiership (H. Rumball)' to define the runner-up.
Spencer won, 500 to 330 ; his best breaks were 80 and iff
while Rumball, shaping in poor form, couldn’t rise higher
than 60 and 27.
• • • »
Victor Trumper will, if he continues his
successes much longer, put up a record for an Australian
cricketer in England. In 11 matches (in six of which the
Australians only batted once) he has scored 851 runs
more than twice the total of Darling, and almost as many
as Gregory, Noble, Hopkins and Duff comhined. He hi ■
four centuries, and without the assistance of a single not-
out innings, has an average of 53. Moreover, he has
proved himself a more than useful r-hange Iwt-ier.
• • • %
Out of the first dozen matcnes (a third of their
programme) the Australian cricketers in England only
once completed two innings. That was in the match
against Yorkshire, which they lost. Thrice they did not
finish one even ; once they did not as much as start, and
lour matches were won in one innings. Practically every
engagement has been interfered with by rain. The XI.
had scored, up to the end of the second test-match. 3335
runs for 127 wickets against 2877 for 166 by their
opponents. J
• • * »
‘‘Cash”: Maclaren has gone back to Lan-
cashire after all; has taken up the “ duties ” of assistant
secretary to the county club, after Hampshire had been
induced to prepare a similar billet for him there. Is
cricket to become agame of scheming, like so much of the
present-day boxing—a game of “ barney ”by men “on the
make ? j see that the English captain is stating again
m England, as he stated hfire, that his pro’s, were quite
satisfied with the £25 bonus given by the Melb. Club.
Now, writer know* that two at least of them were entirely
dissatisfied—said they had the promise of £5O in writing
Perhaps they so misread. Maclaren’s letter of invitation’
which seems to have said that they might get £6O if it
was a good season, £25 otherwise. But no such explanation
Musgrove’s recent written statement that all
the 96 team went on equal terms, and VVorrall’s that he
has it from two members of that team direct that they
thatfis'not ? f ' ShareS " Wh ° haS been Sayin = the thing
• • *
The selection of the so-called South of England
team to meet the Australians on Monday shows that the
M.UU. made no special arrangements to provide a good
gate-money contest in this case. Kent, Sussex and Essex
» W n TZT, epre3ented in l he XI > and the m en from Surrey
and Middlesex were nobodies. An attractive S. of E
would have been Hayward, Abel, Lockwood, Mason’
rS *n ry t’ Burn , u P> Bradley, Young, \V. G. Grace and
Board—not one of whom was included
* * * *
‘‘ Workington”: Amusing to read S.M. Herald
about the doings of the Australians in England When
in one of the Maclaren matches out here, Noble got 7 for
m’,o® ran K ui^ e " t ’,. lncontinenfcly into hysterics—“ marvel-
t-hp fw etc ’ Bufc ’ when Rhodes does ditto in
the first test, Granny scarce mentions the fact, though
the performance was much finer than Noble’s, inasmuch
as it was made against a stronger batting team than
rht -rY' X / aln , as regards the recent fiasco against
. T y^ es . the old lady smugly remarked : “ There is
nothing to be said about the match”! Nothing to be
?f' d ' 'T he " Jafhson got 4 wickets in 5 halls-when the
wpL« » m" N r* ukelB . put on three r ms, and there
mfip 6 b !™ )S , „ Admitting that the wicket was a rnud-
hole, the Tykes had all the worst of it in losing the
toss, and yet they won by 5 wickets. By the way Spof-
fn r >79 and Boy l e 8 ere . afc bowling feat against the M.CO
in 78, was performed in a “ mudhole,” and was made the
subject of a whole column screech in a recent Hfraid
Pougher and Hearne dismissed the’96 Australian XI. on
HoneH Ua Th vvl< r^ et \ f ? r . l8 > y et o,| e never hears this men-
tioned. The old girl is an adept, too, in the gentle art
of suppressing. In notes on the Oxford match, she takes
up her tale in 82: “ Massie, 202-46, electrified cricket-
world, etc. Then on go her pattens, up goes her brolly
and we find her suddenly at ’B6. Why not have men-
tioned that, in 84, the Oxford XI. defeated the Aus-
tralians by 4 wickets? Surely, i fter the brilliant manner
in which Australia has, of recent years, kept up her end
to “* r ; at ” -n XrS
Incapacitation of Darling, Howell, Noble, and
Saunders necessitated importing Dr. Roland Pope into.
Australian XI. against Cambridge. The doctor, who is on
a holiday trip, figured frequently for the ’9O Australian
against'NSW 080 ?! T" 0 ?’ ~d onned flanr 'el for Victoria
against N.S.W. Darling s illness reminds that Cambridge
match was the first missed by him in two tours. With
99 venture hejyas the only member of the combination
to come up for every match. a “ on
«« ■ * * * •
Jih P : “ H ave at last discovered one reason
for the decline of our athletes. Observe in the Aus-
tralian press the number of prominent pugs, sprinters
cyclists, and cricketers who have been under the*'” treat-
ment of advertising medical practitioners.
Second test began Thursday. ’Ome champions
were identical with those in the first All-England match.
rains drenched the . wicket. Englishmen started
badly, losing 2 wickets for nothing, but after a splendid
rally the score stood at 102 for two wickets, when
the match was abandoned through continued rain,
rjorth Sydney player Hopkins (son of late Comptroller
General of N.S. VV. Govt. Stores) got Fry’s and Hanji’s
wickets tor nought, the former caught and latter clean
bowled. At this stage Hopkins had 9 continuous wickets
tor 10 runs down to him, while his average stood at 11
for less than double figures, but Jackson changed all that,
oo far Fry, the best bat in England last year, hasn’t made
a run in either of the tests, though he put 51 together
tor London County and 36 and 21 for M.O.C. opposed to
-Australia. Six centuries in succession were made by him
during the ’Ol season. This test was the sixty-third, of
which England has won 27 and Australia 21. Since the
J7-S Australian season England appropriated only two
matches of 16 commenced, while Australia triumphed in 9.
ou e if i5 re now khree tests to be played, the first at
Sheffield on July 3.
• * * *
Inter-State ’Varsity three-mile 8-oar race on
Port River (S.A.) included Sydney, Melbourne, and S.A.
crews. Melbourne worked at a scorching pace, with
Sydney well up and Adelaide hopelessly out of the hunt
ear| y. Leaders ultimately succeeded by over three
lengths from Sydney and without putting on any extra
pressure. Time (16.44) is a record for ’Varsity 8-oar
events. This was the 16th tussle, Sydney having won
eight, Melbourne four, and Adelaide two. Sydney’s crew
this tune averaged 11.2 and Melbourne’s 11.5. First race
was rowed on the Yarra in ’BB, when Melbourne won.
Next .year Sydney couldn’t muster an eight, and Mel-
bourne s reps, went to Adelaide and were beaten. Sydney
succeeded on the Yarra in ’9O, and the Parramatta in ’9l.
Cup subscribed for by Oxford and Cambridge oarsmen
was contested the first time in ’93, Melbourne proving
best. Next and following years Sydney scored in Mel-
s 0 nf * Adelaide. Adelaide succeeded a second time
in 96, then Sydney won twice (successively), and Mel-
bourne once. Last year’s contest fell to Sydney.
• • • •
N.3.W. amateur golf premiership, decided in
connection with Hampden Cup competition, occupied
last and previous Saturdays—two rounds each on Botany
and Bondi links. Bogey was severe in both cases, but
play, on the whole, didn’t touch a high standard. Last
year’s winner, Mr. E. P. Simpson, finished first couple of
rounds 6 down, which was lucky, as he fell off much
next two—faulty putting lost holes and placed him below
Messrs. E. Macarthur, Oritton, and Dr. Frazer; first-
named was the only entrant to finish “ square ” in any
round. Mr. Simpson had a margin of 3at th» end.
• • • •
Sixth round of Sydney first-grade Rugby
matches ended on Saturday. Three of the four struggles
were hotly fought. Glebe squelched Newtown, 8 to 5 ;
Western Suburbs beat North Sydney, 11 to 9; South
Sydney accounted for Balmain, 6to 3; ’Varsity fairly
walked over Eastern Suburbs, finishing best by 19 to 8.
Glebe, Western Suburbs, and Uni’s are now on the same
mark—top of the list—with North Sydney next.
• * • •
Dwarfed Cape Malay pug. (misnamed “ the
Kaffir ”) met Broken Hill man, O'Neill, at Sydney Golden
Gate A. 0., Saturday night, and loaded him up with
stoush during seven rounds of gory fighting. O’Neill
owns pluck and power, but has little skill. So the colored
gent went on making sausage-meat of the white’s coun-
tenance till the latter’s seconds elevated the “ wipe.” A
sympathetic crowd showered silver into the ring for the
vanquished in recognition of his pluck. “The Kaffir” has
held off fighting for long mainly through ha\ ing to meet
men of much greater height, and thus competing at a
big disadvantage.
* • • «
Having walloped Scanlan at Newcastle, McColl
is now due to fight Bill Doherty for the Australian
championship. They’re both about the same weight, 12
stone, and are neither over clever, but real born scrappers.
If Doherty hasn’t deteriorated since he hashed up lathy
black dude Felix in Sydney a year or so ago he certainly
ought to defeat McColl who is very deficient in science.
Still, the fight would be well worth seeing; as the ex-pick
and shovel man can take lots of battery before his
digestion gives out. McColl swings right and left mostlv
and occasionally uppercuts for variety, but could never
hit a clever man of the Foley or Jackson school. Still he
hits like a steam hammer when he gets a chance, and is
full of vigor and courage. At Newcastle Scanlan’s show-
ing was deplorable compared to his first bout with
McColl. Mick Dunn taught him a lot of boxing science
but when Scanlan got into the ring with the hurricane
he forgot the new science and couldn’t remember his old.
Hence this slogging.
* • • •
Heavyweights Yankee Jim Scanlan and Billy
M‘Coll bruised before several hundreds at Newcastle
Theatre last Friday night, for N.S.YV. supremacy, £lOO
a-side, and 60 and 40 per cent, of a big gate. Each scaled
within a few lbs. of the other (about 12st.), and shaped
trained to the moment. Scanlan money was most plen-
tiful—his backers had to lay sto 4 and 3t02 to “ get on.”
Betting was brisk and big till M’Coll people stopped.
M’Coll, fighting furiously from “ Time,” soon had Scanlan
floundering. The Yankee was floored twice in the first
round, and looked sure to go out before “ corners,” but
great grit, superb condition and Mac’s ignorance of how
to get aclincherin saved him. Offers of 3 to 1 on were free
now where same section refused 5 to 4 against their choice
before hostilities opened. Second round was all M'Goll’s,
but beyond flooring his man he could not go. Scanlan
rose each time stupefied and slow, but managed to sprawl
through owing to utter absence of method in M’Coll’s
efforts to finish. Scanlan isn’t a good fighter at best, and
this was his worst showing in Australia. He poked
instead of hitting, stood in all sorts of “ green ” attitudes,
and never once stepped in with his punches. M'Coll sat
down after the second round, pumped and breathing
hard, while t’other, while looking badly mauled, was all
right otherwise. Third round also went M’Coll’s way,
but, having tired, there was little effect in his thumps.
Then Scanlan came on some, and, through rounds 4 and
6, held his own so much that offers of 6 to 4 “ on ” him
were free; stiil he couldn’t deal it out hard enough to
hurt. M'Goll, freshening up remarkably in the sixth,
attacked fiercely and soon stretched the ’Murkan and won.
House was the largest ever seen in Newcastle, hundreds
going up from Sydney to view the struggle.
* • m *
’Murkan ball puncher Brown-Parker, whose
ring-name is “Kid” Parker, had a bad time with
Bananaland middleweight Phillips at Adelaide. Parker
flopped down frequently to avoid what looked like sudden
death, and was loudly jeered by the crowd. The thing
dragged heavily, for Phillips failed to use his chances, till
in round 6 the ’Murkan make-believe ran fair into Phil-
lips’ swinging right and passed out. This Yankee has
fought four or five times in Australia, and on each
occasion has come near to ruining the sport in the taste
of the public.
• * - * «
The Ping-pong mania. Printed that recently
at Sydney Y.M.O.A. Hall were to be seen the Moderator
of the Presbyterian General Assembly, the President of
the Evangelical Council, the Superintendent of the
'Central Methodist Mission, and the Commissioner of the
Presbyterian Century Thanksgiving Fund, in their shirt-
■sleeves battling for their lives over the noble game.
• • • *
A huge (allegedly 2501 b.) black rock-cod was
ißhown at a Sydney fish-shop t’other day. Apart from its
weight, the most remarkable thing about it was the fact
that it wasn’t labelled as having been caught by a mem-
ber of the N.S.W. Amateur Fishermen’s Association on
>& No. 16 silk-twist.
Apropos the “law of averages.” An investor
In “ Tattersall ’’ tickets for the past 15 years (during
which he has spent over £-200) last month drew his first
prizes. He sent 10s. for two ss. tickets in different
sweeeps. Itesuit—both tickets the same number, and
each a cash prize—one value £l2, t’other £25 10s.
* * * *
The League of Victorian Wheelmen has allotted
the 6th September next to the Dunlop Tyre Co. for their
big road-race from IVarrnambool to Melbourne.
Some of the big English papers poke
caustic borak at “ frozen-rneat patriot ” Seddon.
A delicious quip, by Quiller Couch, in the Daily
News :
Said Mr. R. J. Seddon,
When he heard of Armageddon,
“ H’m 1 . . . Who supplies
The mutton pies
The combatants are fed on ? "
Perhaps the most interesting scrap to be
picked from the Sydney dailies’ obituary notices
of Dean Cowper was this bit from the D.T. man’s
interview with the Cathedral verger :
I knew the Dean’s father before him as archdeacon,
and I knew the Dean for 50 years, over 40 as Dean.
I came here when I was five years old. My daddy
was here before me—that is, here and at the tem-
porary wooden cathedral. The Deep was a plain, prac-
tical Gospel preacher. My word, clergymen have changed
since I can remember. There are clergjunen now—l hear
them say so sometimes who don’t believe in eternal
punishment—the real Hell that is ; but the Dean did it.
lie would never go with the times. He always stuck to
what he thought was right. You would never catch him
wavering this way or that, to please anybody.
It is indeed comforting to know, now that the
good old nonagenarian Dean is gone, that there
still remains someone about the Cathedral who
really believes in Hell —and no gammon.
Concerning a new Australian invention :
Hundreds of kinds of filters are sold, but as the pro-
tracted and exhaustive Dr. Sims Woodhead Inquiry (by
a conjoint Board of the Royal Colleges of Physicians,
London, and Surgeons, Eng.) showed, barring three or four
filters of the candle type, every filter vended not merely
was ineffective in excluding disease-germs, but water
absolutely pure before filtration, was found highly
charged with germs when drawn from the filter, thus
proving that the filters themselves were rapid
germ-breeders, and therefore actually increased
the danger they were supposed to prevent. Con-
sequence : Most of these filters have been discarded,
and the educated public has turned its attention to the
Pasteur-Chamberland and Berkfeld filters. These, how-
ever, have to be taken to pieces daily, otherwise, from the
accumulation of ddbris on the filtering medium, the
efficiency of the filter both in re quantity and quality of
filtered water will be reduced : a Pasteur-Chamberland
filter capable of filtering (while kept constantly clean)
sgals. daily can, by neglect of cleansing, be reduced lo less
than a pint of filtered water per day, and the can fie in
time becomes charged with disease-germs. As filter-
cleaning is troublesome (you never can trust the
servant who says she has cleaned the filter),
the manufacturers have raked the world, so far unsuccess-
fully, for an automatic cleaner. A Melbourne inventor,
A. I. Madden, claims to have filled the bill with his auto-
matic cleansing filter, the efficacy of which is certified to
by a host of Australian scientific authorities. The Madden
filter (now on view at 3 Wynyard-lane, Sydney) is
attached to the service-pipe in the kitchen,' and the
household or cooking tap is attached to the cylinder
which contains the water to be filtered ; every time this
household tap is turned on or off the filtering medium or
candle is automatically scraped, brushed, wiped, and
sluiced, and is thus constantly kept absolutely free from
germs and debris, and free to yield its maximum output
of pure water. The filtered water can either be stored in
the kitchen, or conveyed by pipes direct from the filter to
any other part of the building to which the pressure from
the main will reach. If the new filter will do what is
claimed for it, as would appear to be the case, it should
be a very big thing.


BUTTER BY POST-
A boon to residents of the back country, where butter is scarce °*
unobtainable. Parcels containing from 21bs. to lOlbs. of our CELEBRA
« GOLDEN STAR ” BUTTER despatched regularly, packed in special card-
board boxes, at SYDNEY RETAIL RATES, plus postage. Remittance should
accompany order. Ask for a catalogue of our other HOME .
THE N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO., Ltd , SYDNEY.
FIT FOR A KINO.
Australasia's Most Popular Wheel.
3»MASSEy-HARRIS Bicycles
There is no part of a MASSEY which has not been thoroughly tested before being einbodied in the machine.
Tlie mechanism of the Bearings is simple in construction audconsequently gives J; he ’
making the Bicycle run easy and keep running easy. §O~ We sell.lor Cash or on Easy Terms.
* . m we stock full lines of all the most up-to-date Requisites for Football,
>POrtll>g GOOdS. Baseball, Boxing, Golf ; Whiteley’s & Sandow’s Physical Exercises, etc.
Massey-Harris Depot : 357 Georye Street Sydne y;
Branches—Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth and Wellington.
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
g
HEBBLEWHITE’S
377 George-St., Sydney.
DIIIECT IMPORTERS—
Sgwipg Macbipes, Bicyck Stipdrigs,
Lcttsr-Filipg CabipgtS. . . ■
PRICE-LIST OF SEWING MACHINES
WILLCOX & GIBBS
NEW AUTOMATIC
Hand Machines .. £7 6 0
and £7 10s.
No. 1 Treadle .. 8 0 0
No. 2 Treadle and
Drawer .. ;. 8 6 0
No. 3 Drawer and
Cover (as print).. £9 9 0
No. 3i Cover, 3
Drawers and Flap 10 10 0
And upwards to .. 18 18 0
¥
NEW VICTORIA
Silent, Light-Running' Lockstitch.
Hand Machine and Cover £3 10 0
No. 32 Cover, Drawer and Treadle .. 4 6 0
No. 34 Cover, 3 Drawers and Drop-leaf 6 0 0
No. 35 Cover, 5 Drawers and Drop-leaf 616 0
NO TIME PAYMENT.
All above Prices
arc on a . . .
SPOT CASH BASIS.
Why pay Exorbitant Prices when you can Buy for Cash ?
More Land Grant Shindykitism.
Certain individuals, among whom that pro-Jap
enthusiast, J. Langdon Parsons, is conspicuous,
are renewing r the agitation for the completion of
the S. A. Transcontinental Railway by a syndicate
on the land-grant principle. It is difficult now to
pick up a S.A. newspaper without finding in it
the wail of Parsons or some of his followers on
behalf of that land-grant syndicate railway. The
return of this aged delusion to public life is an
evidence that popular superstitions take longer in
dying than even the oldest inhabitant or the
Waterloo veteran. The advocates of the land-
grant.railway swindle put it forward confidently
as a means by which railways can be constructed,
worked, and made to pay in the hands of a syndi-
cate when in the hands of the State they would be
impossible. And even the opponents of the idea
very often oppose it simply on grounds of
public policy, and apparently fail to see that,
even leaving public policy out of the question, the
whole proposition is a transparent fraud. A
private syndicate, with & grant of 1000 or 2000 or
more acres for every mile of line might, with the
rents of its land added to its other earnings, make
the transcontinental line pay when the S.A.
Railway Department without any such grant,
couldn’t do so. But it is certain that if a
private syndicate could make the line pay
with such a grant the S.A. Railway Department,
with a similar graut, would make it pay a great
deal better. The syndicate invariably builds most
of its line with debenture money raised at 5 or 6
or even more per cent., and it wants 5 or more per
cent, on any money of its own that it puts into
the business, and it usually has a Loudon office to
maintain, also a local office, and a large board of
directors, and other expenses. The State can find
the money ac 3;f per cent., with none of the other
charges, and in point of cheapness the State
in nagement comes out on top every time. If
there is any inducement in the shape of a land-
grant which will enable a private co. to pro-
fitably build the S.A. transcontinental rail-
way, then the State Railway Department can
build it with the same grant; and make it pay by
including the rents received from the land among
the takings, and pay the debt off the railway m
time by the sale of the land, and do all this a great
deal better than the syndicate can. The syndicate
business can only be the more economical of the
two if it is deliberately proposed to lure the
syndicate on to a speculation in which it will lose
its money. A land-grant syndicate can only
supply a transcontinental railway more cheaply
than a land grant Railway Department can by
losing the capital it puts in, and it can only
be assumed that it will do it more cheaply
by assuming that it is going to lose its
capital. If that is the idea the less Aus-
tralia has to do with it the better. I his
country doesn't want to deliberately rum any
company and send the poor foolish widow who is
always being beguiled into'such things to the
workhouse. It may curse a good deal, and lean up
against a post more than is advisable, but still
there are limits. Deliberate public fraud is on the
other side of these limits.
+
A bit of description ffom the far West : —
About a mile outside Perth (W. A.) is the Government
>oorhouse. It is not a “ house,” but a group of ram-
hackle one-storey wooden buildings, placed any and
verv how, as if they came down in a shower. At one end
•f f he dining-room the primitive sanitary arrangements
re placed, and at the other is the dead-house or morgue,
,, h ere the bodies of hard old-timers recline, generally two
r three times a week. The “ buildings” cover a out two
cres of groun T, and f00 men are “ in residence -sav 150
i trd cases to the acre. It is the only thickly-populated
pot in the Great Emptiness of Westrallft.
John Norton, in the N.S.W. censure
debate, interjected something about Sulla being a
“ bloody monster,” and Acting-Speaker Cann
promptly called wild Northumberland to order,
stigmatising his phrase as “ indecent ” and
“ dirty.” Thereupon such eminent literary autho-
rities as Minister Perry and Minister O’Sullivan
interfered to point out that the Nortouian remark
was a “ classical quotation ” and quite harmless.
But Cann, who is a strong man and a fair man
(securing, in spite of his lack of Mr. Perry’s exten-
sive knowledge of the classics and of philology,
far more respect for the Chair than any other of
its present temporary occupants) stuck to his guns
and got a withdrawal. He was quite right. It
can reasonably be required, of Mr. Norton at least,
that he should in Parliament say “bloodthirsty,”
or “blood-stained,” or “sanguinary,” to avoid
misconceptions.
Apropos of that double-meaning word “bloody,”
a M.L. town was once inexpressibly shocked when
(strolling journalist Dick Lee being in temporary
charge of the local paper) an article descriptive of
a hanging concluded —
The hangman took his bloody money and departed.
Australia, following the example of the English
Hooligan, has made so free use of the adjective
as a swear-word that its use, in a legitimate
sense always gives a shock, and it might as
well be banished from decent language—especially
as there are several workable synonyms.
“ SHARPSHOOTING
For Sport and War.
fd
By W. W. GREENER.
Hits the Mark!
1/- NETT.
If you wish to know how to guard the
Empire—if you are one of those who will
rally round the old flag—read this book.
It teaches all about Rifles and Rifle-
Shooting, how to aim and make allowance,
&c. , and it contains chapters on Ranges
and Rifle Clubs, with a history of the part
played by the Armed Civilian in the past.
The Best Shilling’s Worth Ever Published !
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, for 1/- nett.
Of all Booksellers, or C. W. Buckland, Agent
for \V. VV. Greener, 317 Collins St., IVtelb-
Lixnrm
LU-
E 3
%
3
11-1-. Mill
ITTni.l I I I ID
mimimj
IT'OR the person who is riot a millionaire, there is ONLY
■ ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is ‘'Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace," “SK3
situated at 60 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor—GEO. IF. ELLfS.
Under the S. Australian law the Parlia-
mentary candidate has to swear to his election
expenses. Those returns lately filed show, as
others have done before, that it isn’t the big
country district, but the compact city electorate,
that mops up the money. It cost the money-big
crowd £140 all round to win or lose the metropoli-
tan seats in the Council; the very heavily-gilded
Brookman spent a few pounds extra “on his
own.” In the Southern district, stretching from
the Victorian border to the suburbs of Adelaide,
Attorney-General Gordon spent only £10 3s.;
while even the beastly-wealthy J. L. Stirling
only managed to spend £52. It cost
Mayor Cohen and his colleague (Dixson)
£383 apiece to win their city seats, and
Premier Jenkins’ suburban win got away with
£292; while, on the other hand, Old-Man Bur-
Soyne won the vast Flinders district on £9 5s. Id.
>f course, Burgoyne cut it very fine; still, the
country average was well under £40 —Treasurer
Butler won his Barossa seat for £35. Even in
the city and suburbs, the Laborites had to
look hard at the ha’pence; so while Jenkins was
spending £292, and Opposition leader Darling
(verra Scotch, as he is) £178, Labor-leader Price,
in the same district, had to be satisfied with an
outlay of £16.
Apropos of the Federal Government’s re
markable conduct in testing immigrants as to
their knowledge of English only, whereby the
Hindu nigger generally gets in while the
white German, Italian, Spaniard or Portu-
guese is generally excluded. The Immigra-
tion Restriction Bill as originally drafted
made English the sole test language. Par-
liament, however, struck' out that proviso
and made the test a knowledge of “any
European language.” That was a suffi-
ciently plain intimation as to how the
statute was to be interpreted, and the
Barton Government is fooling with that
same statute in a very high-handed fashion
indeed.
A. S. Beavan, who died, in Sydney,
June 12, after toiling patiently through
many years of ill-health, long edited the
Town'and Country Journal. He was
appointed editor of the Echo (defunct)
and Sydney Mail, when F. W. Ward went
over from the Fairfaxes to Sydney D.T.
There was no doubt about Mr. Beavan’s fitness,
but he could not fit in with his surroundings, and,
after a brief and unsatisfactory time, resigned.
None of his after ventures were successful or
happy. He had a rough time in W.A,, and,
returning to Sydney, did not find many doors
open. One of the worthy, affable, hard-working
old school of pressmen, who asked but little of the
world and only got a small percentage of that.
Frederick F. Smith, to The Bulletin : —
Dear Bulletin.— Kindly give me space in your columns
to dr,i w public attention to the fact that Evangelist Geil
has failed to accept my challenge offering to'give £25 to
the Melbourne Children’s Hospital if he can prove his
statement “That during the American Civil War an
American officer, an infidel whose name he would not soil
his mouth with, on being confronted with the enemy,
ran away from his men and hid himself in a pigst.ve,” Mr.
Geil to give £25 to the same institution if he fails to sub-
stantiate his assertion. Although no name was given all
those present were aware that the reference was to the
late Col. Ingersoll, and as Evangelist Geil has not denied
the fact, he stands convicted of an infamous slander on
the memory of a dead man. In the absence of any reply
to the challenges of Mr. Ramsey and myself in Melb.
Herald, I can only come to the conclusion that Mr. Geil
is so much taken up with preparations for the safety of
his soul in the next world as to have neither time nor
inclination to speak the truth in this one.
“Jack” Murray, the large and cheery
Warrnambulliok, is the one redeeming feature in
the new Victorian Ministry, and his presence
should be a guarantee against the introduction of
stupid Tory measures. Mr. Murray, whose smile
is as well-known as Peacock’s laugh, _ and muoh
more pleasant, is the one
tnan who has been game
to defy the two big
Melbourne morning
papers throughout
his political career
of 20 years. He
bravely opposed
Peacock’s sacrifice
of Tocsin Find-
ley, and as Labor
Minister will be
given a chance
by the
Trades-
hall.
B
Ct M5ID £ kUS
I S' Vo O K
Reform
Reduction
R£fON5TIUcUa
THE VIC. POLITICAL SITUATION
TO DATE.
“ The day after Mr. Irvine became Premier, Mr
Peacock broke two ribs.”—News Item.
Alick (hilariously) : “ If I think of Irvine's job
much longer Til break the rest of my ribs.”
The faith-healing sect received a rather
curious set-back a few days ago at Bendigo (Vic.)
A coroner’s jury found a verdict of manslaughter
against a local farmer, who treated his ailing girl-
baby with prayer, instead of procuring medical
aid, the natural result being that she died. At
the trial which followed, however, prisoner’s
lawyer stated that the father had no idea at all
that the girl-baby was seriously ill. The trouble
was supposed to be some trifling matter of no
account. If accused had had the slightest idea
that the illness was serious he would immediately
have given up his reliance on the Lord and sent
for the doctor. So the jury acquitted him, as an
individual whose faith was limited, and who only
trusted in the Lord to cure the patient when the
patient was bound to get well in any case.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
33 of this issue.*
v>
■am
S
Ground Floor area, 60,000 sq. feet.
To Users of Rubber Goods.
£25,000 has just been expended by us in laying
down the most complete Rubber Mills in the
Southern Hemisphere; and we are now manu-
facturing Rubber Goods of every description,
Better in Quality and Price than obtainable
elsewhere in Australia, embracing
Hose (for all purposes)
Packing
Valves
Insertion
Rubber Bclti ig
Oyole Tyres
Prices and Samples on Application,
Sporting: Requisites
Tubing:
Mats
Bumpers
Antxitattlers
Vehlole Tyres
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. of AUS. Ltd,
108 Flinders Btreet, Melbourne; and at
150 Clarence Street, Sydney.
59 Franklin Street, Adelaide
154 Barrack Street, Perth.
28 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
128 Lichfield Street, Christchurch, N.Z.


The O’Seeullivan Government is credited
with a plan to ruin The Spit beach near Sydney
with a reclamation scheme. Attorney-Genera]
Wise has had some pleasant days in Middle
Harbor; surely he will persuade his colleagues to
Bpare the lovely spot.
He milk. Savory item from British
Medical Journal :—
The slightest acquaintance with the methods of the
farmer, the dairyman and the milkman shows that pure
milk is an unknown substance on our tables. Secreted,
perchance, in a healthy mammary gland, the fluid is
drawn through unwashed rustic hands into a pail placed
under the dung-spattered udder and belly of a cow who
spends at least half her time in a dark and noisome yard,
carpeted with a slush of decomposing urine and foeces,
and papered with the splashings of the same, while the
air is thick with the bacterial flora of the bovine alimen-
tary canal. What wonder that the bottom of a milk-can
nearly always exhibits a rich sludge, and thus serves the
purpose of cesspool or septic tank ? It has been cal-
culated that the inhabitants of Berlin consume in their
milk 3cwt. of excrement per day.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
Quaint epistle recently received from Bel-
gium by a N.S. W. country postmaster:—
Sir Postmaster,
I know not much english, but I dare hope, Sir Post-
master, that you shall understand me. I am collector of
used post stamps and arrive not, Sir Postmaster, me to
procure post stamps of New South Wales. The best
middle for to obtain of these post stamps is then me
address at elevated functionnar.v. Although the honor I
no have you to know personally I dare permit me, Sir
Postmaster, you to beg from so good, amiable and
generous to be me any post stamps of New South Wales
to will offer in exchange post stamps enclosed. You
would me do, Sir Postmaster, exeessively great pleasure
me to render the lucky possessor of some post stamps.
I beg you very very much me to will do, if you please,
Sir Postmaster, the very' great pleasure, if you are no you
self collector of post stamps, from to be enough amiable
and good me to will put in relation with one of yours
friends desirous to exchange post stamps of New South
Wales with post stamps of Belgium and other countrys.
Will to accept, Sir Postmaster, me anticipate thanks and
1000 excuses you derange to have.—I am, Sir Postmaster,
very respectfully, Hiiu'olyte Grisar.
“ A.O.H.” supplies a personal confession :
Recent Bulletin story, “The Saving of John Sandi-
lands,” reminds me of an incident. The best boy had so
far failed to make the necessary declaration, and it was
this time or never. We were spending his last holiday
together, and the morrow would see him Westward ho.
We put in the afternoon on the hills, had tea at the local
hotel, and then went upstairs to the drawing-room. The
Fates seemed kind, and a spell was in the air. We were
alone. Glances grew more and more tender; the very
words trembled on his lips, while visions of a five-stone
engagement ring that would make all the other cats die
of envy floated before me. All of a sudden weird noises
came from the balcony—shrill shrieks and deep gurgles.
The boy rushed out, and there, stuck in one of the half-
open balcony doors, was an 18-stone lady boarder of the
establishment. She had wanted to get inside, had tried
to squeeze through, and had proved too large. The spell
was broken, and just then we had to leave for our train.
It was “ never.” The fat lady died a week later. If she
had only died a week earlier what a difference it would
have made 1
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Agents for N. S. Wales : Sayers,
Allport and Potter, Sydney. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
A correspondent who knows :—
Your notions on good, hard, paying work in gaols like
me well, but is it not time somebody spoke out about the
farce or the horror of “ Solitary ? ” It is farcical if regarded
as a means of reforming or cowing any human being. Its
horror appears when its effects are followed out to their
last and worst results. We are going back in this way to
the fantasies and obscenities of the fourth and fifth cen-
turies. Men and women went out in thousands then to
holes in the rocks of the Nubian deserts. They believed
the Devil couldn’t get out there. But he did; and vexed
Origen and Anthony. We try to keep our undesirable
people away from the Devil by making their caves even
more secure than those of Nubia. We force them back
on their own reflections by means which they cannot
avoid. And what comes of it? A good many bodies are
left in a case scarce better than Origen’s, and in the fre-
quent St. Anthony phantom-fights humanity does not
often score. The real hard “ old hand ” gets as well used
to it as did the anchorite. “A man can put in 10 hours
anyhow,” he says, “ and for the rest can’t he sleep or
plot robbery ? ” The whole business wants a thorough
reform. Common sense and daylight need to be let into
it; and now seems the time for something of the sort to
be done. There is a spirit of humanity at work in the
way of gaol reform, and it was wanted, for old Darling-
hurst was as brutal as old Newgate, and foul as old
Sodom. But the willing spirit must get out of the
shackles of “system” and superstition, and put on a
working body, guided and controlled by plain common
sense, humanity and justice
A few days ago, a man, found guilty of
receiving a watch stolen from the person, got six
months’ hard, from Judge Real. Brisbane
Courier (June 3) report of trial contains some
lovely patches:
The prisoner had served with the fourth contingent in
S’Africa, and a sub-inspector of police testified that he
came of respectable farmer-folk, near Toowoomba, but
that, since his return, he consorted with thieves.
Judge Real remarked :
The patriotism of going to fight seems to have had a
very bad effect on men. The other man, sentenced for
receiving last week, was a contingenter, too.
A little further on, the Judge added :
If joining the army has had such a demoralising effect
on you that you intend to join, not only the army of de-
fenders, but the army of thieves, it will be my duty to
deprive you, etc., etc.
gdf
RAMEY'S MED IGA TOR
For the Treatment of Catarrh. Hay Fever,
Bronchitis, Influenza, Catarrhal
Deafness, etc.
Medicator, with complete treat-
ment, only 101-, post free.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY
229, 23! COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE. i
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
lu Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I'O DEFY OOMFEXIXIOKT.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
plays srr:
French’s Acting Edition.
gfd
Rare Rooks
French Novels
Books Se Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
Jioohs Free .
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
Cheapest House In Australia for EDISON
Phonographs #Records
“BIJOU,” with 6 Records £1 10 0
EDISON “ STANDARD,” with 12 Records .. 610 0
EDISON “ HOME,” with 24 Records .. .. 810 0
COMBINATION A 1 “GRAND,” taking both
Large and Small Records, with 12 Records, 0
Concert (sin.) Records and Large Horn .. 10 10 0
EDISON RECORDS, English and American,
per dozen ..100
CONCERT (sin.) RECORDS, per dozen.. ..800
Send for Splendid New
Illustrated Catalogue
containing 6000 Selec-
tions to choose from.
Electric Fans, with Bat-
tery, £5 ; Electric Bike
Lamps, 21s ; Flash
Lights, Scarf Pin Lights,
10s 6d; Vapour Bath
Cabinets, 20s; &c., Free.
Records can be posted
to any address.
Machines carefully
packed and forwarded
to any part of Austra-
lasia.
g
REEVES & CO.,
KING WILLIAM ST., ADELAIDE
Established 1846.
For V" 1 "
Good quality Fuse, in cases of 500 coils, 4sd. coil.
Roofing Felt, 75ft. x 32in., Bs. per roll.
600 tons Bolts and Nuts, up to 30in. long. _
Black Galvanised Steam Pipe, up to Bin. dia.
Octagon Steel, lin. dia., £2O per ton.
Bullock, Leading, Drag, Back Chains, 2d. lb.
Good Hand Pumps, 6s. ea.; Hames, Is. 6d. pair.
Grindstones, 12in. to 20in., 2s. each.
Harwood’s French Polish, 6s. gallon.
Mixed Paints, in tins, from 31b.
Damaged (slightly) Wire Nails, 9s. cwt.
Cooking Ranges, 36in. dia., 30s. each.
Black Paint, 20s. cwt.
Marine Paint and Priming, 20s. cwt.
One of the Largest Stocks of Ironmongery
in Australia.
John macintosh & Sons,
Wholesale & Retail
IRONMONGERS, IMPORTERS, BUILDERS,
ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS, BLACKSMITHS, CABINET
MAKERS, AND GENERAL IRONMONGERY,
307, 321, 323, 325 PITT STREET,
Sydney, N.S.W.
GEINTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., tVlelbourna
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful St ere -
scopics, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet size photos.
ss. P. 0.0, or stamps.
S. BECKNACEL NACHF, Munich, 1 Brieffach, Germany.
Missing Friends.
Huston wanted.
Relatives of ROBERT HUSTON,
born County Cavan, Ireland, 75 years ago, should
write immediately to James Broad, Placerville, El Dorado
County, California, for particulars as to inheriting
property.
Medical Batteries I
lilE Stock all the Best Makes,
■ ■ and owing to the enormously
increased demand that has arisen for
them during the last few years as a
dial Agent for Rheumatism, Sciatica, .Lumbago, etc., and all Nervous Complaints, we are able to announce
considerably reduced prices.
MAGNETO ELECTRIC MACHINES
12s. 6d.
WCNETO-EUCTRIC
12s. 6d.
These are simply worked by turning a handle and need no chemicals whatever.
a large stock and can quote specially low prices :
No. I.—A good instrument (usually sold at a Guinea), 12s. Os., post, lid.
No. 2.—Larger size (more powerful), 255., post, Is. 2d.
No. 3.—Very powerful indeed, 355., post, Is. Bd.
We have just landed
Dr. GAIFFE’S MEDICAL BATTERY.
Price, £1 Ids.
Post
Free.
fdg
This is the best and most popular instrument made, and the one most frequently recommended by
medical men. It is Small, Portable, Simple and Very Powerful and is fitted with a set
of instruments so that it may be applied to various parts of the body.
Dr. MACKENZIE’S MEDICAL BATTERY
#
Price,
S 3 58-
Complete
Post
Free-
s
fd
#
Price
*3s®.
Complete
Post
Free.
$
This is the best instrument made, and if convenience in working, simplicity and power are of greater
consideration than a few shillings in cost, we recommend it above all others. It can be so nicely
regulated that a child can bear it, or made so strong that no one can. It is started instantly
with no trouble, and costs very little to maintain. A full set of instruments is supplied so that
the current may be applied to any part of the'body and the chemicals necessary are provided and
also full instructions for working.
OSBORN & JERDAN
? j-f \ . ■ ' V. .. •
» MY OPTiCIANS.”
393 GEORGE STREET
(Opposite Y
ROYAL HOTELjj
SYDNEY.
and 211 Queen Street, Brisbane.


LUNG BOOK.
The Institute s
Medical Publications.
QfINGE the inception of the FREEMAN and
O WALLACE ELECTRO-MEDICAL and SUR-
GICAL INSTITUTE, Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.,
SYDNEY, in the year 1890, medical publications, num-
bering over 50 large editions, and comprising a total ot
500,000 medical volumes, have been aUhe ottiwvs
of their publishers, and distributed to the IN SI lIU lit o
patients and public generally over the various territories
of Australasia. The first of these works was published
under the title of “RESCUED AT LAST,” which,
after running into several large editions, was replaced by
“CLINICAL EXPERIENCES,” in the year 1898.
Each year has seen a revised and enlarged version of this
famous work, the public demand for it being of so con-
tinuous a character that constant publication was
resorted to to ensure a direct supply. This is but one ot
the many publishing items in the general cost of an
INSTITUTE which reaches a grand total of £lOO,OOO in
assuring its usefulness and scientific completeness.
The present volume of “CLINICAL EXPERI-
ENCES ” is as elegant in appearance as it is useful in
contents, and is especially valuable to anyone residing
out of touch with their family doctor. Where medical
aid is unobtainable, that is where this valuable work
finds a place. No home in New South Wales, no home-
stead in Australia, should be without a copy. The fact
that it is given post-free to the public for OJNlii
SHILLING IN STAMPS assures its entry into every
home. It is a whole Library of Facts, and worth a
POUND A- PAGE to persons living in the far por-
tions of the Australian Empire, where a knowledge of
how to act in cases of sickness is indispensable.
Everyone should have a knowledge of sickness, and to
some ex' ent be their own doctor. Then, in cases of ill-
ness, they would know how to act. I heir proper tutor
is a GOOD MEDICAL WORK, sound in its advices,
and reliable in its information. Its presence in a home,
when the loved one is stricken down suddenly, means
perhaps the saving of that loved one’s life. It
sible to guage the value of “CLINICAL EXPERI-
ENCES,” for it is a sterling authority upon all diseases,
and its advices upon hygiene make it indispensable to
everyone interested in a true standard of bodily health.
Ss\ .
'.''Ur': !
M&4
S-S-M*
- : 'c
II
a®.
kta
t®SS
er. ~ ‘
gfd
m&m
m
Contents of
Clinical Experiences.
IflOR the instruction of the readers of these lines, it
may be said “CLINICAL EXPERIENCES,
which was published in January, 1902, in a 20,000 edition,
comprises 550 pages of medical liferature, 150 full and
half-page medical illustrations, 24 full-page lithographs
of the interior and exterior of the Institute, 31 chapters
upon general diseases, full-page portraits of the
Specialists of the Institute, an Appendix, the literary
contents of which comprise 22 readable articles upon
various matters, a valuable list of 50 prescriptions for
household use, a collection of press notices from the most
notable journals of Australia, and a Medical Vocabulary
of 1000 words. This Appendix is also charmingly illus-
trated. Each chapter and article is represented in the
Index, so that readers can find any subject at a moment s
notice.
The first chapter, on ANATOMY, contains 44 de-
scriptive pages, profusely illustrated with 36 life-size
and lesser illustrations, instructive to anyone desirous of
knowing the complex character of their being; The
remaining chapters deal with diseases of the HEAR!,
LUNGS, BRAIN, SPINE, BLADDER, LIVER,
NERVES, THROAT, NOSE, EYES, and EARS;
also, on subjects such as ALCOHOLISM, VARICOSE
VEINS, GENERAL SKIN DISEASES, ELEC-
TRICITY and VITAL WEAKNESS, HERNIA, or
RUPTURE, LOVE and MARRIAGE, PLAGUE,
the uses of the MICROSCOPE in DISEASE, FRAC-
TURES, INFLUENCES of OLD AGE, FALSE
DELICACY, EXERCISE, BATHING BLOOD
DISEASES, QUACKERY, CANCER, CONSUMP-
TION, and GENERAL DISEASES. Each of these
chapters is illustrated according to the subject, lhe
Appendix contains valuable articles upon How to Act in
cases of DROWNING, SNAKEBITE, SUNSTROKE
FEVERS, BURNS and SCALDS, WOUNDS, SICK
ROOMS and INVALIDS, POISONS and ANTI-
DOTES, GUNSHOT WOUNDS, BROKEN LIMBS,
etc., etc. These articles again are graphically illus-
trated. The volume is really the finest of its class evev
offered to the public for the small sum asked.
the Treatment of Electricity and Medicine.
This Work Explains
ONE of the Chief Specialities of the INSTITUTE .is the tratmentof
described as “incurable” by the medical profession, hr the BATH*
the chapter dealing with Electricity this is fully explained and the use-,whichis
BATTERIES, and “ INVIGORATORS ” are fully described. This traatimmL wtncn is
adopted by three PHYSICIANS to the late < and aiiumber of |^^ s A^ n fgoSS of
ISTS, is unparalled in the restoration of WEAK MEN, ENFEEBLED S Y 1 iiilviS, ana uuoo o
ATATTTT? AT VITAL POWER. The Electric “ INVIGORATORS ” used by the SPECIALISTS
STAMPS n tolh"'lpE^ALlSTS rf wtr“ will to" n»“el by return post to my Australis,,
address. Remember, it may prove to be your very best friend.
FREEMAN & WALLACE
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director Electro-Medical Dept.
Dr. BICHARD WALLACE, Physician-ln-Chlef.
Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute,
Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
AN OPEN INVITATION.
ALTHOUGH our Stocks are the finest and best-selected, and displayed by us m the most handsome Stores
in Australasia, don’t for a moment think that our Stores are too grand for you, or that you
can get more for your money in a smaller place. If you do think so you make a big mistake,
and the sooner you give us the opportunity to prove that this is so the better wil 1 le or J 0 •
Does it not stand to reason that we, with our six popular Australasian stores (two more will be opened
in a couple of months, one in Brisbane and the other in Dunedin, N.Z.) can buy in larger quantities and sell at
lower prices than single shops ? Is not the possession of these six stores proof that our prices please the public?
Next time you want anything in our line, come in and see how well and how cheaply we can supply your
wants.' It will cost you nothing to look round and get all the information you want, and even if you don t buy
we won’t be offended. Let the purse be fat or lean, the same careful and courteous attention is given to all.
If you are out of town your name and address on a post card will bring our 1902 Catalogue, and you will see
that we can serve you just as carefully by post as if you were standing before the counter.
Watches
to depend on.
rrHAT is the only kind we stock, because we know
that a Watch that does not keep time is much
worse than no Watch at all. We quote a few prices
and our Watch Catalogue tells of the others. You
can have a Catalogue free if you ask for it.
s. d.
Gents.’ Shortwind Keyless Nickel Watch 14 6
18 6
Keeper Rings
1
In a wide variety of hand-
some, hand-chased designs.
We make them in 18ot. gold,
and at the prices quoted
you will find we give .excel-
lent value —-255, 30s, 355.
Engagement Rings
g
A Five-StO'ie Diamond Half-
Hoop Ring has always been
the favorite style, and we
have a splendid stock to
select from. We illustrate
our Five Guinea Ring—five
Sparkling Diamonds set in 18et. Gold. Better
ones at £6 10s, £8 10s, £lO 10s, and higher if you
want them.
Wedding Rings.
fdg
Of 18ct. Gold, ill different
thicknesses and widths ; all
sizes. We are sure you can’t
get better value anywhere,
and here you can rely on
our rings being full quality
18et. Gold.
Prices —21s, 255, 30s, 355,
40s, 50s, 60s.
Spoons
and Forks.
A 1 QUALITY.
pLATED on pure Nickel Silver
and warranted to give com-
plete satisfaction. Old English or
Fiddle Patterns.
Table Spoons .. 355. per doz.
Table Forks .. 355. „
Dessert Forks 255. „
Dessert Spoons 255. „
Tea Spoons .. 15s. „
See our Spoon and Fork List for
Lower Grades.
OE
1
FID
Tie Clips—
Tha handiest things imaginable. Keep the tie in
position. "Suitable*alike for ladies and gentlemen.
df
Prices—Silver, Is 6d a pair; 9ct. Gold, 6s 6d ; Heavy,
12s 6d ; Pearl or Turquoise Set, 14s 6d ; Sapphire or Ruby
Set, 16s 6d.
Gold Muff Chains.
gfd
There is a dressy gracefulness about these long Gold Chains
that ensures their being fashionable for some time to come.
We stock a big range in 9ct. Gold from 635, and in 15ct.
Gold from £5 ss. The one we illustrate is extra heavy and
costs, in 9ct. £4 15s, in 15ct. £8 10s.
gfd
412 GEORGE ST SYDurv.
ari nnODS SENT FREE AND SAFE BY POST ON RECEIPT OF REMIT -
ALt ° TANCB m Writefor oar ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
Cruets am
an immense stock of Cruets, Breakfast, Lunch or Dinner sizes, to choose from. Silver-
A plated Frames and Spoons. Plain, Fancy or best Out Glass Bottles. The prices for
Breakfast Cruets run Bs. 6d., 10s. 6d„ 12s. 6d., 16s. 6d„ 18s. od. ; Lunch size, 16s. 6d.,
18s. 6d., 215., 255., and Dinner Cruets 16s. 6d., 215., 275. 6d., all the way up to £5. The
last price buys a lovely Six Bottle Dinner Cruet, finest Full Cut Bottles and very best
Silver-plated Frame.
A CRUET FOR A LIFETIME.
Price 12s. 6d.
Gent’s Solid Gold Cuff Links
Of the very
best English manufacture, Hall-marked, with strong chain connections, thus ensuring long wear.
Dozens of good Designs to pick from.
No. F 126.
Oct. Gold, 16s 6d.
No. 201 A.
9ct. Gold, £1 Is.
No. 193 A.
9ct. Gold, 13s 6d.
No. 200.
Oct. Gold, £1 ss.
Pearl Crescent
Brooches.
A really pretty, well-made 15ct.
Gold Orescent Brooch, set with
Real Pearls. A marvel of value.
£1 15s each. Hundreds of nice
Designs in Gold Brooches to pick
from at prices starting as low as ss,
and 9ct. gold, too, at that price.
Maori
Lucky
Beans
Made of the real
New Zealand
Greenstone, so
highly prized by
the Maoris. We
have them in two
sizes, mounted with 9ct. Gold.
They are suitable for Gentlemen’s
Pendants, or to hang on a Lady’s
Bangle or Muff-Chain. Two sizes,
7s 6d and 9s 6d.
Curb Bangles.
The Ever - Fashionable Bangle.
Fitted with Padlock and Safety
Chain. Each in a Morocco Case.
9ct. Gold, three sizes—
£2, £2 15s, £3 10s
15ct. Gold, three sizes—
£3 15s, £5, £6 6s
Bamboo
Bangles
Still retain a
wide popular-
ity on account
of their novel
yet artistic
appearance. All our Bamboo Bangles are
well made and finished, and of good
weight. '
N
iiiiinil
fl
9ct. Gold as Sketch. .£l7 6
9ct. Gold, larger .. £1 17 6
9et. Gold, larger still £2 5 0
16ct. Gold £2 10
15ct. Gold £3 10
15ct. Gold £4 0
tiTTE have a fine selection of these Useful and Popular
VV Articles in stock. They make nice Wedding Cuts,
especially when cased in half-dozens, as these are. The
prices run—
Pearl Handles
Ivory Handles
Solid Silver Handles
Solid Silver
Carved Pearl
Cake Forks.


Missing Friends.
PJ OBE R T IVI ARTIN,
Late of UNION HOTEL, Specimen Hill,
BENDIGO.—Your mother is dead, and a sum of
money awaits you. Please address—
QUICK, HYETT, and RYMER,
Solicitors, Bendigo:
or J. F. HOGAN,
High-street, Bendigo.
THE GREAT EVENT
MATTE’S CORONATION FAIR
T HE ft ria:hfc ° f descent ;? ver Millions of Free born Britlchero, and Hatte, by virtue of
Good Value, exercises a gentle sway over the Ladies of New South Wales. Just now— * "
on
The Great Coronation Fair i 8
And the People of both High and Low Degree are Rejoicing.
There are £250,000 of Absolute FAIRING BARGAINS and 400 Highly Efficient
Assistants waiting to give a ROYAL WELCOME to the LOYAL LEIGES
of THE KING OF THE DRAPERY TRADE.
Ladies 1 come early to the Fair (it will console you for being absent from Westminster), and
send for a Fair Book—the Greatest Bargain List ever published.
C. G. HATTE, Newtown.
Amusements.
E A T R E ROYAL, SYDNEY
T H
Under the Direction of Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVE.
SENSATIONAL RECEPTION OF
CEORQE MUSGROVE’S
NEW ENGLISH DRAMATIC COMPANY
with
MISS NELLIE STEWART,
in the Mo9t Charming Comedy of the Century,
Every Evening at 8. Matinees, Wed., 2 p.m. »
TIIOS. P. HUDSON.
LYCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
L Lessee .. .. .. Mr. Win. Anderson.
Sub Lessee .. .. Bland Ilolt.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT’S
Latest Attractive Melodrama,
IN LONDON TOWN.
POPULAR PRICES—3s,, 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvv’s
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.'
CRITERION THEATRE, SYd7e7T~
Sole Lessee .. .. MAUD WILLIAMSON
7th WEEK of the Ever-Popular WOODS WILLIAMSON CO
INTERESTING ANNOUNCEMENT
On SATURDAY EVENING NEXT, JUNE 21, will .be
presented for tbe first time in this State, THE ONLY
DRAMATISATION that has ever been produced upon.any
stage, of one of the most REMARKABLE, PICTURESQUE
and ENTHRALLING ROMANCES of THIS or ANY
CENTURY, Marie Corelli’s World-Famed
jfY. T 3
OS’ POPULAR PRICES—3s., 25., and One Shilling.
EWB U R Y-S PAD A «pq^T,
Is. “Pops.” CENTENARY HALL, YORK ST
Is. “Pops.” NEXT SATURDAY EVENING, the Great
Is. “Pops." English Tenor, Mr. PHILIP NEW3URY
’ is creating a perfect furore.
The Popular Prima-Donna, Madame EMILY
SPADA, receiving storms of applause.
•-GRAND ARTISTIC COMBINATION.
J s - ( P°P B -„ Full Programme Saturday's Papers.
Is. “Pops.” ADMISSION, ONE SHILLING
Is. “Pops.” Reserved Seats 25., at Nicholson’s.
Telephone, 168 Waverley. ARCHIBALD NEWBURY.
D A LAOE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Lessees .. .. Messrs. LEE and RIAL.
Sub-Lessee .. Mr. FRANK THORNTON.
Representative, Mr. Mayne. Agent, Mr. 11. P. Lyons.
THIRD WEEK and UNABATED SUCCESS of
FRANK THORNTON and his Specially-Selected
LONDON COMEDY COMPANY,
including Messrs. Joseph Wilson, Alexander Bradley
Galwey Herbert, Frank Wilson, John Denton, Mesdames
Vera Fordyce, Phoebe Mercer, Leonie Norburv, Katie Lee
First Production in Australia of the Funniest Farce-
Comedy of the Day, written by J. H. Darnley, entitled
Is. “Pops.'
Is. “ Pops.'
Is. “ Pops.”
Is. “Pops.”
Mr.
FACIM6 TNE MUSIC.
As played at the Strand Theatre, London, with enormous
success, for over 300 nights.
Preceded at 8 o’clock by the Musical Faroe, A TEST MATCH
by Bower and Fitzgibbon. Music by Guy Jones.
PRICES—Ss., 35., and One Shilling. Box Plan on
view at Elvy’s.
T , « V , o p , - , i THEATRE, SYDNEY,
■ Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards
SAT., JUNE 21, at the Matinee, First Appearance in
Australia of the
(7) FLORENZ COMPANY (7)
BARNEY FAGAN and HENRIETTA BYRON Mr
p E u L ’r °ALLAHAN and MACK, RAY
JONES, Miss Ennly Lyndale, The Jackson Family, Prof.
Harcourt, Ivy Scott, Mr. E. Sullivan, Maggie Fraser.
Prices—2/6, 2/-, 1/6, 1/-, and 6d. Box Plan at Paling's.
Matinees Wednesdays and Saturdays.
DICKARDS’ NEW O PERA HOUSE
** MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30p.m.
MR. TOM NAWN & COMPANY. E
MR. and MRS. SIDNEY DREW.
HARRIS and WALTERS. THE LUNDCREENS.
MAUD HEWSON. DENIS CARNEY. JENNIE OPIE.
PROF. DAVY’S MARIONETTES.
Prices—2s. 6d„ 2s„ Is., and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
■THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE
* T Lesse s • • • • •, Mr. Bland Holt.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
Bus. Manager, James Hendy. Treas., Julius Grant.
nun V Il L TQ4^4 N , r>EI J S ? N ’ S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
°™ G o l?^ r l G ?’i leaded bv Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN.
For 8 NIGHTS ONLY, a Grand Revival of the Most
Thrilling Drama of the Day, .
THE KIN G O F CRIME.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. George
FOURTH WEEK FOURTH WEEK
Continuation of the Enormously Successful New
Comic Opera,
TNE TNIRTY THIEVES
interpreted by a Specially-Selected Combination of En
lish, American and Australian Comic Opera Artists.
Prices as Usual. Matinees Every Wednesda
Box Plan at Allan’s.
DIJOy THEATRE, MELBOURNE. “
Sole Lessees .. .. Henry Lee and J. G. Rh
EVERY EVENING,
THE WORLD’S ENTERTAINERS
Comprising the Most Attractive and Up-to-date
inn . .. V1 l! e Organisation ever seen in Australia.
100 Artists Present a Programme Replete with Fi
. ■. and Novelty.
B« !-■
Business Manager, A. MIDDLETON.
H E Kn!y ,A fv E B J. Y> ® , THEATRE, MELBOURNE
the D ‘ rec „ tlon of Mr. J. O. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, R. Stewart. Treas., E J Tait
every evening,
THE ROYAL COMIO OPERA CO. in a Brief R-vival <
D O ROT H Y. #
SAT., JUNE 21, Reproduction of the Most Successful c
all Musical Comedies.
p . FLORODORA,
Prices as Usual. Box pian afc Allan . ;
me
' A Wonderful power Is pieced at your
disposal In Hypnotism — the power to control
otherj—to relieve disease—to make friends
'—■to make money—and gratify your
ambition. You may become a commanding
master of humanity, I n fact, thee* is so much
tbAt wonderful to tell you about it that I ha v *
written a book for that purpose, it has ti
illustrations.
y van vv m uyp-nonsi It 1* HU
~ — a'rw All posses* ftpower—both mea and women.
persons nettise a light hypnotic influence unconsciously
[*• d ®"k* I'® 0 " ive m4t tuck people They are the kind who
Succeed In the world with no apparent effort.
hahiu. nervous diseases,
bad disposition:,, aleeptesaoesa. and other aflJictions may be
cured - often <n a wngle treatment Backward or ungovernable
cliildr/e show marvellous improvemeni under hypnotic
treatment at die bands ef their parents or ocher*.
timunis of hypnotists !a America. Hum-
’• Australis already I reach
{Jf *** T *« *y»tem is very rimple. There
- J
Send address is foil, together with three stamps. Tom
Morttsoit a. e. kaumhotoh,
*mrtur, «r>u« >nMt
f# re ter cattnrt en, »«Mr /
Greymouth Lagoons dredge (M.L.) likely to
stiict about thp end of the month. 00. owns 88 acres on
l iiiick water Creek, and 232 acres on Snowy Creek, tribu-
lanes of the Grey River. Reported that a large number
of bores were put down on the various claims, and the
poorest return was at the rate of sgr. gold per cubic yard,
and the best 19gr.; the average for the 320 acres being
111 1 g'r. To be hoped that this Snowy Creek proposition
will have a better fate than the Snowy River (N.S.W.)
The latter on boring-tests was represented to be worth
several dwts. per yard, but dredging results showed about
as many dwts. to the acre.
* * * •
At the end of its first year there were 17,300
miners on the N.S.W. (State) Miners’ Accident Fund ;
and during thes year the sufferers from 2558 accidents
were relieved, on the average, for about 3} weeks. Forty-
seven men, killed by other accidents, were decently
buried. The two facts show pretty well what sort of a
■ ailing the miner’s is ; yet this was a year, it is explained,
freer from acfcident than usual. Of the dead men 20
were married their widows, and where they had none,
their dependents, are now pensioned. Also their 80
■hildren are to be maintained, on the average, about six
.' ears. Altogether, £6478 was paid out; and, roughly,
£25;000 has been invested to keep the pensioners going.
It seems that the miner’s fortnightly 9d., subsidised
equally by the owners, and helped by the State, is ample ;
anyhow, there is a provision for varying the scale on an
actuarial examination. One unsatisfactory feature, and
almost the only one, is that the total number of members
is no more than 55 per cent, of those stated by latest
returns to be working N.S.W. mines.
* • • •
Victorian sharebrokers protest with much show
of righteous indignation against the system which pre-
vails of private information being sent from mines to
market operators in anticipation of official reports. The
protest must be made on the principle “ assume a virtue,
if you have it not.” There is probably not a broker in
Australia, worth his salt, who has not confidential advisers
working in the mines which are principally dealt in on
’Change.
Re low-grade iron ore and crippling freight
charges to coal. A two-million co. has been formed in
England, underwritten by ironmasters, to work Edison
patents in Norway. England imports over five million
tons of ore per year, but the handiest Norwegian ores are
not touched because they are worth only about 40 per
cent, and are heavy in phosphorus. Edison’s patents, the
result of experiments alleged to have cost over half-a-
million, cover a series of processes for grinding the ore,
magnetically concentrating it to a high grade (65 per
cent.), extracting most of the phosphorus, and briquetting
the iron dust. Cost of quarrying and everything else to
shipboard is put at Bs. per ton of ore. The English
Edison syndicate (which, by the way, includes Mt.
Morgan D’Arcy) takes 141,000 paid shares for the patent
righfe for Norway and Sweden.
Mr. Justice M. H. Stephen (a son of the
lata N.S.W.' Chief Justice Alfred Stephen) be-
comes Acting Chief Justice during Judge Dar-
ley’s absence on leave; at the end of that term
he will retire on pension. Meanwhile Mr. It. D.
Pring gets a permanent Justiceship at the reason-
able and useful age of 48. Mr. Pring, like Mr.
Stephen, is a most excellent lawyer, of the dry-
as-dust order.
“The Breaker’s” verses (including a
photographic reproduction of the last, written by
him in Pietersburg gaol) are included in “ Bush-
man and Buccaneer ” with a memoir of the life of
Harry Morant. Every bushman should have a
copy of these racy and characteristically Australian
verses. Wholesale of Edwards Dunlop and Cos.,
Sydney. Retail of all booksellers; post-free from
Bulletin office, Is. Id.*
From Adelaide :
J. Langdon Parsons, M.L. C., ex-Goverument Resident of
the Northern Territory and S.A. Vice-Consul for Japan, is
booming a land-grant railway scheme for connecting
Oodnad.itta with the Territory. Parsons is backed by all
the chief merchants of Adelaide, who fear that if the
Territory is handed over to the Commonwealth a trans-
continental line would not end at Adelaide but be
diverted from Daly Waters to the east, connecting with
the N.S. W. and Q. railway systems. The Jap. Consul is also
backed by Tories and syndicate-mongers, on general
princip es, and with the sneaking hope that the cheap-
nigger labor idea will get some kind of an indirect lift.
(Parsons himself once favored Jap. labor for the Terri-
tory, and probably still does.) The * ‘ Land Grant Trans-
continental Railway League,” of which most of the
S.A. Tory politicians are members, was formed the
other day, and hasenthusiasticsponsors in the consistently
Tory Register and-the Advertiser— once Radical, but
now, alas, an organ of the Stomach Party. ‘ ‘ The advant-
age of the land-grant system," says Bonython’s paper,
“is the creation of a direct incentive to occupation and
development. . . . Provided fair terms can be arranged,
the chance is one which S.A. should not miss.” Some
years ago Kingston jumped heavily on one Watt, who
came aljng with similar proposals, and the Advertiser,
then Kingston’s obedient servitor, made great fun of the
incident; but times have changed since they threw
S’Langdon Bonython his bauble.
A London paper’s Capetown cur.espondjnt
says things:—
For the past two or three days the people of Capetown
have had the opportunity of seeing what manner of men
the “ Empire saviours ’’ are who left Australasia for South
Africa, at ss. a day. Notwithstanding previous experi-
ences, which should have taught the military authori-
ties wisdom, some 1700 returning troopers were allowed
to spend two or three days in Capetown while waiting for
transports, and during that period they have done just a 3
they pleased. Their pleasure was to show that they were
in ..o way. amenable to discipline, and to gratify their de-
sires, irrespective of public order and decency, and
legarJtess of the rights of property. They paraded the
streets in gangs, frequently in a semi-drunken condition,
interfered with inoffensive passers-by, insulted officers
when the latter were accompanied by ladies). They
s.flashed several bars, and damaged two or three hotels,
Visited the Opera House, and wrecked the box-office,
and attempted to do the same at the circus, where the
performance had to be stopped. Some of these things
were done after dark, but others in the daytime, and the
authorities seemed helpless. In one of the principal
streets, a numerous gang of these “ gentlemen in
kharki ” stretched a rope across the thoroughfare,
an 1 indulged in a jumping competition, and
stopped the tratncar traffic until such time as
tlieir “ sport ” was concluded. Gab-drivers were dragged
from their seats, and their vehicles taken possession of,
the latter being driven “ all round the town,” singing,
shouting, and swearing. Passing carts and waggons, con-
taining fruit and mineral waters—anything eatable or
drinkable -were stopped, and their contents seized,
aid no one was safe from attack. Some of
tie hotelkeepers applied to the military authorities
fur protection, ana were told that none could be
given them, and a number of the military police were
chased by the Australians, and were dragged from their
horses. An officer who was present when the attack was
made upon the Opera House, ventured to remonstrate.
He was knocked down, as a result, and kicked when
lying upon the ground. On the third night all the bars
were closed at dusk to prevent a general riot
These men (who included a large number of Austra-
lian Bushmen, some ,pt the Victorian Contingent, and
also some New Zealanders) were supposed to have
completed 12 months’ service, but they displayed few
signs of it Their uniforms were but little stained or
torn, and they-xhemselves appeared in the pink of con-
dition. Sir. Brodrick recently declared that Lord
Kitchener would not keep useless men in South Africa.
One wonders what use these men have been? Certainly,
if they ivere not more amenable to discipline up country
than in Capetown, the.r room would be preferable to their
company. Soldiers of all sorts—regulars, militia and volun-
teers—have passed through Capetown, and we have seen
men from Canada, Malta, and Ceylon, and have had no
cause to complain of their behaviour ; it has been left for
these particular Australian troopers to show themselves
a rowdy, undisciplined mob. Needless to say, the local
papers have not said, a word. “ Keep it dark” is the
motto. The censorship is very strict. If a question is
asked in the House of Commons, Mr. Brodrick will, of
reply that “he has no information on the sub-
jeofc.*
At Poverty Point.
..ied Plumpton’s memory suffers some very disrespect-
ful treatment in the Orchestral Association Notes, pub-
lished In the May number of London Orchestral Times.
ine editors of the Times don’t hold themselves responsible
tor opinions expressed in these notes, but they yet there
“r the same. -‘Notes" says: “ Another death, which
closely concerned the orchestral profession, was that of
Alfred Plunipton, musical director at the Pa ace
theatre for some years. With orchestral players he was
extremely unpopular, and his unfortunate manner did
not improve as years went by, whilst his method of dis
missing’ his players at the slightest offence incensed a
great number of professional musicians who had the mis-
fortune at various times to play with him. Many dis-
agreeable incidents might be mentioned, but we desire to
iorget them under the circumstances, but would like
other conductors to read a lesson in our remarks. It is
sincerely to be desired that his successor may prove a
more considerate and honorable chief. . . . Why a musi-
cal director should develop into a tyrant we are at a loss
to understand, unless it is the want of a proper edu-
cation. This snort from the bandsmen is mildly cor-
‘"“other part of the paper by a paragraph stating
that The late Mr. Plunipton, for some years conductor
attiio Palace Theatre, was a musician of many accom-
plishments. In Australia he achieved a reputation as a
musical critic.”
“ S.S.” : Went to Amy Castles’ farewell, at Melb. Exhi-
bition, paid my Is., and battled in with the crowd. Never
bought trouble so cheaply in my life before. Seemed as
1 w * 1 6 *"‘ w * s fighting, and tearing, and cursing in its
effort to get in. The management had made excellent
arrangements for about half as many as turned up, the
other half just fought in the outskirts of the big building,
and struggled, and gouged, and swore. I saw five faint-
mg women carried out of the pack during the evening,
and hardly one woman who was not more or less damaged
and utterly disgusted. The most pathetic object of all
was the matron who was prowling round, wofully dang-
ling the mangled fragments of a hat, asking for the
manager, with a view to claiming compensation. Met
her when 1 first entered, and, after the concert, saw her
asking a policeman, and tearfully displaying the frag-
ments. * I’m sure Miss Castles would give me damages
for my hat if she knew I’d come all the way from Geelong
to hear her,” wailtd the victim.
Maggie Moore and her lesser half are returning to
Australia directly, under arrangement with Anderson.
They appear at Melb. Royal in October.
Charles Garry was to leave the Brough Co. at the con-
clusion of its Adelaide season last Saturday and get
back to England, Brough having kindly released him
from the short remaining term of his contract. Garry
did some good work as ihe bearish husband in “The
Liars,” the giddy old colonel in “ Tyranny of Tears,” the
convict in “ VUlage Priest,” and the kindly “toff” who
knew Mrs. Dane the Defenceless in her disrespectable
days. But he is best remembered for his little sketch*
of the Royal duke in “ The Second in Command,
which was a masterpiece of lordly condescending mannah
and stiffened graciousness. The ducal Garry hopes to be
back on the Australian stage anon, he says, and one feels
that in merely suggesting the probability of his return
Garry puts this country under a deep, hollow obligation,
such as it feels when King Edward acknowledges the
receipt of an official grovel by cablegram.
Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis is trying to fix up a performance
of “Ingomar,” to be given at one of the Melbourne
theatres, wLh Miss Uni Russell as Parthenia, a character
exactly suited to that graceful damosel.
Geil, of the “ simultaneous mission,” started his S.A.
campaign in a wool-store at Port Adelaide. And a rain-
storm--the first for months—promptly came and banged
so persistently on the iron roof that he could not be heard
beyond the first half-dozen rows of seats. The meeting
sang hymns desperately to fill up time, but the storm
abated not, and the whole occasion was ruined. What a
stern moral this incident would have been made to point
if it had happened to a Wicked Man—say Ingersoll !
“F.M.”: “R.A.K.” wants to marry De Murska some
more though (like the Samaritan woman), she is already
credited with seven husbands. Her only Melbourne
marriages were to Anderson, R.A.M., who died inside
twelve months, and conductor Hill, who bolted from her
to ’Frisco. Plumpton was never matrimonially in that
swim.
Arthur Crane, the young baritone lately at Rickards’s,
has been enrolled in J. 0. Williamson’s comic opera
forces. Harold Thorley, late of S’Africa, comes along to
fill the place of Brownlow, who is said to be either
returning to hotel management in Westralia, or returning
to the London Savoy Theatre. Brownlow has a talent
for figuring in contradictory paragraphs.
Adelaide Evening Journal published a crafty left-
handed ad. for “Wrong Mr. Wright” in the form of an
article entitled “ What is the Public Taste ? ” The wicked
hireling scribe began by eulogising Brough for his efforts
to “ refine and elevate the tone of the Australian stage,”
and deplored the fact that the public seem to prefer
broad comedy to delicate art. Then, with tears in his
ink, the apostle of culchaw went on to write :—“ Because
theatre-goers like such effects, and, generally speaking,
demand a wild, uproarious time : ‘ The Wrong Mr.
Wright,’which will be presented, &c., &c., is sure to be
popular.” A smart manager nowadays doesn’t ask the
puff direct for a frivolous production. He inspires a
newspaper lament over its predestined success. Broad-
hurst, the strictly commercial author of “Wright,”
“JoneB,”and “Smith” seems to have inaugurated this
system of advertising. He assumes the apologetic atti-
tude of a man who gives the world what it wants, but
wishes that it wanted something better.
“ H.G.”: Why doesn’t some music-hall artist collaborate
with a smart verse-writer, so as to produce up-to-date
topical verses, varying even nightly, according to the
events ot the day ? Such a course should make the
reputation of the singer and incidentally double his
salary, for there is nothing like current news and local-
isms to fetch the public. The songs of entertainer
Rodney, at the Melb. show of The World’s Entertainers,
are about the dullest ever heard on a stage, and, as for
subjects, they might as well have been written by one of
the Argus leader-writers. Yet the audience applaud
Rodney vociferously, because his stodgy verses deal with
things they understand, and please better than would
sparkling ditties about matters beyond their ken.
“Melb.”: Higginbottom, the theatrical wigmaker,
shows me_a remarkably bird-limey photo.. bearing date
1861. It is the front of Melb. Royal, with a group in-
cluding G. V. Brooke, Avonia Jones, and a number of
other theatrical persons of the time, with passers-by.
and some boys and girls, of whom one speculates as to
what 41 years brought them. The bills in front of the
house show plainly “ Farewell Performances of Mr. G. V.
Brooke and Miss Avonia Jones. Benefit of R. W.
Younge, the Hunchback." A curiosity is the high bell-
toppers worn by most of the personages.
The up-to-date bride. The leading lady of the Selbini
acrobatic troupe, just married in London to another-
member of the profesh, announced at the “breakfast”
her temporary retirement from the arena. So far, after
the old-fashioned model. But this modern woman pro-
ceeded confidently to sign a conti act for her reappearance
in six months. Six months after marriage, in a “star”
acrobatic turn !
A recent attraction at the London Hippodrome was a
»blind pi mist named Mendel—Jewish, no doubt—whose
memory is said to be even more wonderful than his skill
on the bo ■; of music. Blind Mendel is note-perfect in a
thousand pieces, ranging' from sonatas lo song-accom-
paniments, and he can repeat from one hearing a scherzo
or whatnot which has just been played to him for the
first time. The music once photographed on his mind
stays there as long as he cares to retain it.
Veteran “ Jimmy ” Oathcart has old age in the family.
His brother Rowley—“ good old Rowley Oathcart ” —is
just now acting in “A Pair of Spectacles” under John
Hare’s management. A son of Rowley was the Oathcart
who came out to Australia as stage-manager for Wilson
Barrett, the first time that noble Roman set us marvel-
ling at the artfulness of his boots.
Dramatist Sardou (of whom a Bulletin correspondent
spoke as having been converted to spiritualism in his old
age) lately wrote to the editor of Le Matin stating that
his 59 years’ study of “ manifestations ” had carried him
“ from incredulity to surprise and from surprise to con-
viction.” The mueh-talked-of sketches which he (Sardou)
drew whilst under some sort of control date back to 1857,
and the dramatist, who has seen a lot of unspiritual life
since ’57, appears to think that the control was, perhaps,
pulling his leg rather than guiding his hand. But, as
regards his faith in materialisations, Sardou wrote “ I am
still waiting for somebody to explain to me by what
psychic force, or by what trickery, an invisible hand has
been able to lay upon my writing table a bunch of white
roses, which I preserved for years, until they crumbled
into dust! ” What strikes the sceptic as an odd circum-
stance in Sardou’s faith is his evident pride in the dura-
bility of those spirit-roses. If the bouquet had disap-
peared up his nostrils the instant he sniffed its perfume
the miracle would have been more satisfactory, although
even then Sardou could not have sworn that an invisible
hand was concerned in the transaction. Nobody can
swear to the action of a hand he never saw. The spirit
might have come in on its hands carrying the flowers
with its feet.
*
Quitk a number of people in Sydney are taking
great care to disavow all financial connection with
the projected new daily-paper project—the Aus-
tralian Times ; and the hopelessness of the
enterprise becomes clearer every day. Mr.
Barton, it is understood, will endeavor to raise
capital in England for the Australian Times,
but the ohances of success in that direction
are meagre. A rich Jewish or American
capitalist (you don’t meet English capitalists in
England) might one day start a paper in Australia
with himself as sole proprietor, if he saw good
dividends and the prospect of grinding some con-
cession axes ahead ; but London investors are not
likely to sink small sums in a far-away and un-
certain industrial enterprise. It is one of the
dangers threatening Australian public life that
some foreign capitalist will one day seethe enormous
opportunity that the timorousness of Australian
public men offers to a newspaper “boss,” and
come here to play, with skill and daring, the
game that some of the daily papers already play
with the saving merit of stupidity. Given that
the people remain as foolish and the politicians
as corruptible as now, a really brainy, enter-
prising millionaire, founding a ring of news-
papers in Australia, could, in a few years,
almost own the continent, and have nothing
to threaten his reign short of a revolution.
As to the Australian Times enterprise, it
is hinted that if the paper does threaten to come
to print it will be met at the outset by a news-
agents’ boycott, which would force it to organise
distributing arrangements of its own—a matter
of much money. A new daily, either in Sydney
or Melbourne (both cities need one), will only
come when a quarter of a million of money is
available ; or when some honest Australian jour-
nalist with a little money, willing to be burned
slowly at the stake for the convictions that are in
him, begins with a “little rag,” and by sheer
courage of purpose and trusty fidelity to the
national ideal makes it gradually great.
»■
The chief difference between the naval or
military tattoo, where misguided individuals
raise blue marks on fleshy spots by whacking each
other with swords, single - sticks, and other
dangerous weapons, and the Tattoo Oil is that the
marks made by the latter cannot be rubbed off.
Nor can they be worn off. This absolutely safe
wool marking or branding oil has made its mark
in every part of the world where Mary hath a
little lamb.*
The woebegone state of Vic. Public
Service, when necessity occurs for getting men to
take on the big jobs, is evident in the failure to
find one competent to act as principal of the
Training College. The Education Department
has between five and six thousand people of
various grades to choose from, but now that the
new order prevails of giving preference to capa-
bility, the Dept, has to look around among outside
educationalists. A similar difficulty cropped up
a week or two ago, when Stuart Murray, the
hard-headed chief engineer for water-supply, was
deputed to devote his next six months to the
Rivers Commission, and Minister Burton, passing
over the merely routine trainers of his own Dept.,
had to enlist the services of a water expert np in
the Mallee, who is to be retained by Govt, as
“understudy” for the big billet of engineer-in-
chief if he snows aptitude during his probation.


“ W.J.” : Warracknabeal (Vic.), cited by
“ H.P.” (B., 24/5/’02) as being fever-stricken and
so on, is certainly not an exception. The tendency
to stagnate and fatten is apparently infectious, as
“ jungle’’-councils vie, in this respect, with
metropolitan, and the alleged health officials shirk
their duty with ease. Gutters are neglected, or
not even constructed, and shuddersome slops and
garbage are allowed to accumulate and form germ-
nurseries. Sanitary appliances remain of the most
laboriously primitive nature, and a cursory inspec-
tion of .the typical out-back pub. yard would reveal
conditions more than horrifying.
The rebate for white-grown sugar set some
Chinese and other colored farmers thinking in
Bundaberg, (Q). They have decided to empioy
white labor to do all the work, and thus benefit
by the Federal bonus. The irony of it!
The Laundry Bill, just passed by the
Lords, at Westminster, is to protect the poor
washerwoman against the religious charities,
which make such enormous sums by getting the
wash done by pauper Magdalenes. Lord Lytton,
the benevolent fugleman of the Bill, showed that
the subscriptions to some institutions are com-
paratively infinitesimal, outside the washing.
f smd aaisnod-vvinoMD
KwDs/ooijaanvaNvaa'o
Seven Prize Medals Awarded.
Neither scratch nor
spurt, the points
being rounded by a
new process.
Attention is also
drawn to their new
“CRADUATED
SERIES OF
PENS.”
g
fd
gfd
g
Each pattern being made in four degrees of flexibility and Points.
Storekeeper for an Assorted Sample Box of either series.
Ask your
Works: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND.
Hearne’s KroneMtis Cure.
the PAMOXTS
COUGHS BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
LUUIxXIO, y medicine in Australia.
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OP ANY CHEST MEDICINE
, . . fl Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderlu ■ , . fc to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most coin-
>oc th ami eat. experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those wnoai j - ~ - - -
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful
fortincr in allaying irritation in the throat ana — & —-- - ,
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medici
, „ , - , n f diafc ?/f lie .V : it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption Ins
forting in allaying irritation m the throat and giving strength toJ;he fli;s mftdicine> n 0 house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
Mid a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE of COUGHS!
COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr W G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
mv case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
ma tt or I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
mv case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave mv bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
trrailually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours g^tehiUy^
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RFLIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
by HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.’’-Yours sincendj’,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to * cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Viotoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OP VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vio.
" Mr. Hearne.— .
•« Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
« 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir,— ,
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than i have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
•• Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.'
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows :—“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne 8
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ x must ask you to send me six bottles more of wie
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for-more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
herto try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
««g; r . My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
J “WILLIAM CROCKETT,
•'Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales."
A Five Tears’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. O. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. I am more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga,.Victoria.
A Seven Tears’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
"Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“ Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of bronchitH
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty Of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was 'confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes .‘—“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearn;e’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— lSyears ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:—“l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma."
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
(Vffi.CQ 1 No. 5 First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
The SMELTING & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
1901, Limited.
SMELTERS
AND
REFINERS
SILVER
LEAD
BULLION
DA-PTO,
T.n.Tra Xllawarra. <56 MILES FROM SYDNEY)
WORKS S
r’T 7
■ ■■
'
■ e
.
Assay Offices, General Offices, Btore and Sulphuric Chamber.
MAKERS OP
S. Co, of Australia
AND
“ ILLAWARRA”
BRANDS OF
SOFT LEAD.
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay.
W. L. HOYT, Manager.
„ p . oaid for gold, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, and JEWELLERS' SWEEP, &c.
Highest, r F For aU infomation re g ar ding Rates, apply to HEAD OFFICE, DAPTO.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
‘“Benger-s Food*
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
Bengers Food
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged l Delicious, Nutritive, end Digestible .
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere- .
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult'
to find. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘ Beiiger’s
Food’ everywhere.”
“If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


Discovered by Christopher Mudd, F L.S., F.R.G.S., M.B.Ph.S., London, Botanist to the King of
Kngland during His Majesty’s Indian Tour.
Eczema OLEAG
Cures this terrible itching complaint.
Not a grease. Does not stain the linen.
Full directions each jar. Jars, 4/6; post, 4/10
Used in the Melbourne Homoeopathic
Hospital with success.
ANTHOS
FOR
THE
HAIR
Not a Grease, purely Botanical.
Written testimony from well-known medical men.
One bottle in daily use lasts about i months.
“ Anthos ” prevents Hair falling out. Dandruff,
and Irritation. Bottles, 2/6 ; posted, 3/3.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND
Melbourne : Foy & Gibson and all Chemists
Sydney: Pattinson & Co. (all branches)
Park & Son, 156 Pitt Street.!
Depot: M. H. Horwitz, 34 Pitt Street.
New Zealand : C. L. Best, Ponsonby, Auckland
Adelaide: Harris & Kemp, Arcade.
Brisbane: Taylor & Colledgb Ltd.
Perth: Foy & Gibson.
Colonial Representative : Fred. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
WOOL. PRODUCE. GRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
■ A - CT AS SELLIKTO- brokers oktly.
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (f) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
'(lncluding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
will be... ... ... ... ... ... iit 3s. 9d. per JSalo
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
_ Pen® 6 per ib...... : 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising FOURPENOE per lb. and
under Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing-.
Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE!
BALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT.
Every inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by the
A.mple accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are
tesired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
AGENTS FOR McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
Company
sent when
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
George and Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAY.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY.
Single Room, with Pull Board, Bs. per
day, or JB2 2s. per week.
TERMS. The convenient
system of paying: for the
room on arrival ancf
meals as they are had.
YOU ENJOY YOUR LUNCH
When you come to Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Rooms ; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp—from Is.—and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7.3 o—from Is.
upwards. Silver grill at work.
LOVELY COLORS
BRILLIANT
GLOSS.
REJECT
IMITATIONS.
SPINALIS
&/. OXIDISED
CNAMEL. ,
ERFECT
3
SECTIONS FOR USE.
NEW GROSS. LONDON. S.E
1
» I
.
See that Aspinall’s name
and Medals are stamped
on every Tin.
manufactured by
ASPINALL’S ENAMEL, Ltd, NEW CROSS,
LONDONENGm
J. BARTRAM & SON,
34 & 36 Market Street, Sydney
19, 21 ’ 23 King Street, ACelbourne.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES .
The ENGLISH DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
Makers of Steam Turbines, Turbine Dynamos, Turbine Pumps, Turbine Fans.
(Over 80,000 Horse-power in use.)
Messrs. GREENWOOD & BATLEY LTD., Albion Works, Leeds.
- Machlne T ° ol Manufacturers and Electrical Engineers. Dynamos, Motors, Pumps, etc.
/Messrs. CONNOLLY BROS. LTD,, Manchester.
in, insulated Cables, Wires, Tapes, etc.
ORNAMENTAL hair.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 80s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
PF” Evert Requisitb for Saloon Ush in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia.
CRA.IG & A.ITKBMT,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
WANTED
JF YOU ARE SUFFERING from any of the following;
ailments, viz., Rheumatism, Sciatica, Vital Weak-
ness, Liver Complaint, Dyspepsia, Lamb Back or
Debility, Kidney Disease or any Organic Deranob-
ments, we want you to wear one of our ELECTRIC
BELTS, and when CURED to let other sufferers know
that our ELECTRIC BELTS will permanently CURE
when all other Remedies have FAILED. We prefer those
cases who have failed to obtain relief elsewhere. Send
us a description of your case, and size around the waist
next to skin. Address—
ARTHUR HALE & SON, Medical Gaivanlsts,
44 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
London Address: 105 Regent Street, W.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugrene, 91 Pitt street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored In
Four Weeks by the use of
106 R I CO RO’s
C.SS£** cE of f £•
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century .with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Ufe restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions , regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 128. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope
Agents for Australasia— PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St,
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales'—
F. H. Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
DEAF
The New Patent
.SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
■and Head Noises, no matter of
Bhcw long standing. Arethesame
i to the ears as glasses are to the
®y es - Invisible. . Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. *
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
life*
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS.
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, & c -> bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN 6.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sspt. 28, 1895, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.”
fd
GOUGHS
N?»
Powell’s Balsam
of Aniseed.
SAFE AND RELIABLE.-
Gives Immediate Relief.
gfd
FOR 78 YEARS
the popular remedy for
Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and all Lung Troubles.
thJ°tir Phleerm immediately, and removes
rfrfv« o g sens ation in the Throat, which de-
P siSn^n,'?* n! iu 0f , r , est during the night. It also
Strengthens the Voice and Cures Hoarseness.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers,
But see the well-known Trade Mark-Lion, Net
and Mouse—is on each wrapper,
k Prepared only by Thomas Powell Ltd
V Blackfriars, London, S.E. ’ ’’ a
v GOUT v
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Pbout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
“Don’t shout”
gfd
" The*r-ytro. lean hearnow
as well at anybody.
‘“How?* Oh. some-
thing new— The Wilson.'
Common-sense Ear-v
Drum. I’ve a pair in my
ears now. you can’t see them ,
they’re invisible. 1 wouldn't
know I bad them in myself,
only that I hear all right."
.The Wilson Ear-Drum Is
really a substitute for the
parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable Totally
i different from any other de-
vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
CWAIIIHft. 229-29 1 Collins St., MelD.
g
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English
American and made to order
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, Ac.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, dec.
fdg
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers
2Bl GEORGE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
m
Vapor. Bath Cabinets.
Price, 25/-
Kead and Face Steamer, 3/6
Carriage paid to any railway station
on direct route in Victoria, N.S.W.,
and S.A., or any seaport town.
We also have a better quality
Cabinet at 45/- (Head and Face
Steamer/ree to advertise this line).
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
fd
gfd
Reader, why not he able to use the
I most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
!out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feats
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain; win reluctant affection,
| gratify your ambitions, and produce
f amusement by the* hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. Ihave
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
lof the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the *cind
ever publ'shed. For a short
time I wi 1 send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a ol.auce of ,
a life-time. Address— 1
g
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and Infallible Remedy ,
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C-S. Eng'.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
The Roman
Hair
Restorer
Produces Brown and Black Hair.
Price 1/6 ; by post, 2/3.
An inexpensive and
certain preparation for
renewing and restoring
'to its original color the
hair of the head, beard
and whiskers.
Largely used by the Roman ladies for preserving their
magnificent tresses. Nourishes the roots and removes
dandruff ; increases the quantity, and renders it glossy
and supple ; does not stain the skin nor soil the linen. If
your hair is falling off or turning grey, use this.
CAUTION. —This being different from most prepara-
tions, other kinds should be refused.
JAMES BRINSMEAD and CO., Chemists, ST. KILDA.
All Chemists sell it.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Fop Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
QRIMAULT «fc Co,, Paris, sold by oHCfaenusti.


“ Kiwi ” from Voleano Land :
What this State needs above all just now is a healthy
national feeling. At present we are an aimless, blundei-
ing, subservient, conceited people, cast about anj liow on
the blood-red seas of carnal Imperialism. This unhappy
circumstance is largely (although by no means solely)
due to Premier Seddon’s remarkable mana. Pnvatelj,
Seddon’s opinion of the whole business would be ex-
pressed in a chuckle. He looks on the people as so many
fools to be used by political schemers, and at the base of
his big head there is something more than an inkling of
contempt for the crowd whose passions he knows so well
how to humor. Seddon will not be with us always,
hiwever : nor will Maoriland always rush frantically into
. very bloody squabble into which it may please England s
financiers’Government to become involved. Meanwhile,
we have no national feeling-. We don’t seem to be proud
because we are Maorilanders, living within reach of
possibilities which would have been Heaven to our
fathers. We yell ourselves hoarse about England, which
many of us never saw ; and we fawn and cower at the
feet of England. We even fancy that we couldn fc build
roads and bridges without the aid of the bandit chiefs of
London Stock Exchange, who bpss England and con-
descend to be our usurers -- on good security. An
“inspired” message by the Jew-owned cable about
“ uneasiness ” concerning our securities is enough to send
us into fits of apologetic crawlsomeness. Politicians and
newspapers, wide asunder otherwise, agree that we are
dependent on the British money-lender, and one looks in
vain for a protest. But surely it will not be ever so
Freedom must germinate and develop under our genial
skies. Even now the intelligence of the country begins to
whisper a protest.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEC
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. 1 don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
‘which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, l/lsd. per b >x. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents •. ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
gieen label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
30 Days’ Trial.
fdg
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
A EE LI A N CES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
ft It by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
TOILET
SOAP
BEST FOR THE SKIN and
COMPLEXION.
Antiseptic, Emollient, Refreshing.
Sold by Chemists, Stores, &c.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
TRICROCO&y
A Studv of BALD N ESS and
FALLING HAIR, By Dr.
ALFRED NEALE. Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
AND THEIR TREATMENT.
Posted Is Id.
Publishers : Turner and Henderson, SYDNEY.
■
THE HARP-O-CHORD.
HARMONICA or MOUTH-HARP and ZITHER
ACCOMPANIMENT COMBINED.
THE tone of the harp enters directly into the body of the instrument and
emanates at the sound-hole with wonderful volume and vibratory effect,
twice as loud as both Mandolin and Guitar. Any Mouth Harp player
can play the Harp-o-Chord on sight, and anyone can easily learn to play the
Mouth Harp. One person can furnish music for Parties, etc., and for the
Serenade it has no equal with its beautiful tone and wonderful carrying
power. A Whole Band in One Instrument, and anyone can learn to play it.
No knowledge of music is required. The HARP-O-CHORD is an elegantly
finished, high-class instrument, sold at a price within the reach of all. Its
dimensions are seventeen inches long by eight inches wide, weight 40 ounces.
It is substantially constructed, elegantly finished and decorated, strung with
copper-spun and'silver-steel strings, blue steel tuning pins, polished. Each
instrument fitted with a high-grade Harmonica, and enclosed in a neat paste-
board case, with tuning key, and the simple but complete instructions for
playing. Simply play the tune or air upon the Harp, and the accompaniment
on the strings. When the Chords are played upon the strings and the tune
upon the harp, the voluminous tone of the combination surprises all. The
tone of the harp is not only greatly increased in volume, but displays a rich-
ness and mellowness before unknown. Price of the Harp-o-Chord complete,
w :th Mouth Harp, Key, and full directions, 18/6. Carriage Paid by Parcels
post to any part of Australasia. We are the sole agents in Australasia for
ie Harp-o-Chord. Orders should be sent accompanied by Money Order in
Registered Letter and addressed to—
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY
229-231 COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
■
< • ,..
aii
/ \\ r> ' ■ •
PLAIN HOME TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Ohromos. 400 Illustrations. 1200 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1901 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALE,
posted to any address for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post. Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted.
Seoret History of the Court of England, 1/6 post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history). Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Ciiiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Pa, Ma and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big 1 Book
•Catalogue—post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
Dr. Cl arkaon’a Electric Belt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr* CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
fd
gdf
ivtil bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is truly wonderful.
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC.
Brice—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £L
LMtWEITE- OWIj out DRUG STORE,
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
•o
SAVE YOUR
A 3 NOW
m WHERE TO
CO,
%
SAVE YOUR
TIME,
PROSPERITY
CAN’T LAST FOR EVER WITHOUT THE
PUBLIC’S CONFIDENCE AND APPRECIATION,
gfd
EVIDENCE OF WHICH IS DAILY RE-
CEIVED IN THE FORM OF TESTI-
MONIALS AND GRATEFUL LETTERS
BY
Herr RABSMUSSEN
THE WORLD-FAMED DANISH
HERBALIST & BOTANIST,
PROPRIETOR OF THE
ALFALINE
HERBAL
REMEDIES
REGISTERED.
A FEW WORDS TO THE UNINITIATED.
PERSONAL AND PERTINENT. —Those who have not met Herr Rassmussen, and
who have not given his Alfaline Herbal Remedies a trial, may find it beneficial to become
acquainted with the good work which he has done in the interest of suffering humanity fur
the last twenty years.
ALONG BACK IN THE BEGINNING OF THE EIGHTIES
Ilerr Rassmussen introduced his now world-famed Alfaline Herbal Remedies to the Australian public at 547 George
Street, Sydney. Australia was then flooded with American importations and proprietary remedies, manufacture i
by doubtful persons with assumed names and fictitious addresses, who took the people’s money without
responsibility, and very often without giving them fair value for same.
HERR RASSMUSSEN BROUGHT ABOUT A REVOLUTION
by straightforward and fair dealings with the public, offering to stake his reputation and future if his remedies
were not as efficacious as he claimed them to be, accepting all responsibility, and willing to abide by the people's
verdict.
THE HAPPY RESULT IS KNOWN TO EVERYONE.
Over twenty years have passed away, hundreds of remedies have come and gone—many of them were forced on
the public in numerous designing ways—thousands of pounds spent on advertising same with the assistance of the
world’s greatest experts in laying traps for the unwary; but the public would have none of them, and they have
disappeared as suddenly as a flash of lightning.
“THE ALFALINE REMEDIES EXCELL ALL OTHERS,”
and are well known to be more popular to-dav than they have ever been. They have not only obtained, but
have retained the goodwill and confidence of the Australian public, and have become famous throughout the
civilized world. The first Sydney Office not only yet exists, but offices have been opened up for their sale at
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Wellington, N.Z., and in West Australia at Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie and
Boulder City, with Agencies throughout the world.
LET THE PUBLIC JUDGE FROM THE FOLLOWING:-
The Alfaline Remedies have held their own for over twenty years in Australia, and Herr Rassmussen has
been awarded the Parisian Acadamies’ Gold Medal and Diploma of Honour ; Gold Medal, Sydney, and several Silver
Medals; honourably mentioned in almost every newspaper in Australia; received many thousands of unsolicit d
testimonials—every one of the originals open for inspection at his Offices. The Alfaline Remedies have never been
known to fail to cure in a single instance.
ARE THEY NOT WORTH A TRIAL?
if they are, why not try them to day ? why leave it till to-morrow and, perhaps, lose your chance and time? No
order so small that it is not welcome ; no order so large that it cannot be executed at once. If you first wish
evidence of the efficacy of the Alfaline Remedies,
SEND FOR HIS FREE BOOK,
and read what the experienced have to say, and what the Australian newspapers have to say—the double distilled
extracts from the Press speak for themselves.
A FEW OF THE ALFALINE REMEDIES:
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS never fail to cure Nervous Diseases, Weak Spine,
Troubled Brain, Fatigued Nerves, Despondency, Poor Memory, Debility, Want of Confidence,
restore Vital Strength, and preserve the system against being affected by age more than any
known remedy. Boxes, 6/- and 12/- ; course, 23/6 posted.*
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS area permanent cure for all Chronic, Blood and Skin
Diseases, no matter how caused, or of how long standing —Blotches, Blood Disorders, Gravel,
Diseases of the Urinary Organs, etc., etc. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-; courses, 23/6 posted.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS completely cure Wasting Diseases in Women
—Anaemia, Whites, Poverty of Blood, Sallow Complexion, Dull Eyes, and act as a perfect
Blood and Nerve Tonic. Boxes, 6/- and 12/- ; courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE RHEUMATIC PILLS cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica, Lumbago. Ravages
from Rheumatic Fever, Chalky Formation in the Joints. Boxes, 3/-, 6/-, and 12/-; courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS remove all Stomach Troubles, Costive-
uess, Indigestion, Flatulence, Heartburn, Wind, Biliousness and Headache. Boxes, 1/-.
GENERAL ALFALINE REMEDIES.
Alfaline Pile Powders cure internal and external Piles, boxes 3/- and 6/- ; Varicocele
Powders, boxes 6/-; Blood Capsules or Globulus, 6/-; Fat Reducing Powders, which remove
Corpulency, 6/- ; Hair Restorer, 6/- ; Corn Cure, 1/-; Ointment, 1/- ; Eucalyptus Oil and
Jujubes, boxes 1/- ; Flesh-Producing Powders, 6/- ; Complexion Beautifiers remove Pimples
and Freckles, 3/- and 6/-; Alfaline Embrocation removes all sorts of Muscular Pains, Stiff
Joints—good for Footballers, bottles #l/6 posted ; Worm Tablets, 1/-; Headache Tablets,
Instant Cure, 1/-; Soluble Quinine Pessaries, 5/- ; Electric Belts, Suspenders, Bandages,
Enemas, Glass Syringes, etc. Circulars with all particulars sent Free.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALITY.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has made special arrangements for attending
personally to his Clients living in the Country, and letters will receive
most careful personal attention. Advice or information sent free and
unobserved. Patrons may rely on skilful, honest and confidential treatment.
His Remedies will he forwarded to sufferers, packed in plain cover and
unobserved, together with Advice and Directions. Letters should be addressed
to Herr Rassmussen’s full name—HAN S PETER RASSMUSSEN —and
Registered if containing Money, and may he sent to any of
Herr Rassmussen’s Addresses
Head Office: 547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
ALSO AT
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke Street
BRISBANE—3O9 Queen Street
ADELAIDE—IS Pulteney Street
N.Z.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington
W.A.—PERTH—4BI Hay Street
XALGOORLIE—Hannan Street
BOULDER CITY-Piesse Street
PREMANTLE-117 High Street
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of Alfaline Remedies


iiiiiii
i
m
m
mm
m
:
;
1
V
i
SOLID SILVER LEVER
Price,
21/-
w
w
Price,
21/-
Post Free
Absolutely the best value
in Australia.
SOLID SILVER DOUBLE-CASE, LADIES’ or
GENTLEMEN’S SIZES. Jewelled in all move-
ments. Kept in order FREE for two years,
unless unfairly used.
MONEY RETURNED IF WATCH SHOULD
NOT PROVE SATISFACTORY.
L. I. FLEGELTAUB,
Watchmaker & Jeweller,
96 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
(Harm (jjoollen Underwear.
LADIES’ and GENTLEMEN’S GARMENTS.
THERE is no more Healthy, Comfortable, and Rational
form of material for everybody during Winter, or for
continual wear for Delicate People and Invalids than
VERTEX CELLULAR WOOLLEN
which by its construction and relation to the human
body constitutes practically a supplementary skin,
affording- the protection of natural warmth while per-
mitting the necessary free evaporation of moisture and
deleterious vapors continually being passed off by the
true skin ; the escape of which is prevented by most other
forms of Underclothing Fabrics by their density and
closeness of texture.
To Gentlemen we specify our
jTiRTEX Cellular Linen=fitted Evening Dress Shirts
which entirely removes the danger of “ cold chill,” always
present with ordinary linen or longcloth shirts. Also
White /ERTEX Cellular Linen-fitted Shirts for Every-
Day Wear.
Sole Agents in State of N.S. Wales —
DAVID BRAHAM and CO.,
73 & 75 King St., Sydney
(OFF GEORGE ST., A.J.S. BANK CORNER).
Call or Write. B*- Price Lists Post Free.
AWAY
TO ADVERTISE
OUR
g
Ostrich Tips
THIS NEW
Fashionable Mount.
TWO TIPS WITH
OSPREYS.
In Black, White, Cream, or
Black tipped with White.
Write To-day.
3/-
THE BUNCH.
POST FREE.
fdg
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Bourke and Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Mention The Bulletin.
Publications.
TO HORSE-MASTERS.
NOW READY.
Tiib Highly Instructive Book,
“AUSTRALIAN HORSES FROM
PADDOCK TO PARK”
By D. McGILLIVRAY
(The Celebrated Australian Horse Taming, Riding,
and Driving Expert).
A TREATISE on the Scientific Handling, Breaking,
Educating, and the General Management of Horses,
teaching the Author’s wonderful methods of completely
subduing the most savage animals living: in a few
minutes, with upwards of 105 splendid illustrations
obtained by instantaneous photography whilst he was
at work upon the wild and raw material.
Obtainable from the following Agents :
Sydney—Messrs. Wm. Bkooks & Co. Ltd., 17
Castlereagh-street.
Brisbane—Messrs. Wm. Brooks & Co. Ltd.
Gunnedah, N.S. W.—Messrs. Bacon & Co.
Price, 11s—post free.
20// discount allowed on large orders.
NOW READY.
“BUSHMAN .„d
BUCCANEER
Illustrated
HARRY MORANT:
(OK TIIB
Bushveldt
Carbineers)
HIS ’VSNTURCS
RND V€RS€S
By FRANK RENAR.
The History, Verses and Correspondence of
“The Breaker.”
PRICE ONE SHILLING
POSTAGE ONE PENNY. AII Booksel.ers.
Wholesale: Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney
Retail: “ Bulletin ” Newspaper Co. Ltd., Sydney.
The Ways of Many Waters
E ' J - DEAD ’'- W Bulletin Offlo.
Heather Bells.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Heather bells, do you remember
When the skies were softly blue,
In a lost and gone November,
Ere the years had trodden you
Underfoot among the bracken,
Where the wind-voice dies and swells,
Can you tell, have you forgotten ?
O you dainty heather bells !
Heather bells, were you not ringing
On a long-dead afternoon,
By a cob-web rope set swinging
To a quaint and dreamy tune ?
Every year your blooms renewing,
As the spring her tale retells;
Doy ou know me for a lover v
Yours of old, sweet heather bells?
Yours of old, for time is flying,
And my steps but feebly turn,
Where my buried years are lying,
’Neath the bracken and the fern.
But the scent is sometimes wafted
From the hollows and the dells,
Listen ! Hear the bees’ low droning,
And the chime of heather bells.
via.
K. WALKER.
From Blackstone’s Commentaries on the
Laws of England :
In a land of liberty it is extremely dangerous to make
a distinct order of the profession of arms. In absolute
monarchies this is necessary for the safety of the prince,
and arises from the main principle of the constitution,
which is that of governing by fear ; but in free States the
profession of a soldier, taken singly and merely as a pro-
fession, is justly an object of jealousy. In these no man
should take up arms, but with a view to defend his coun-
try and its laws ; he puts off the citizen who enters the
camp ; but it is because he is a citizen, and would con-
tinue such, that he makes himself for a while a soldier
The laws, therefore, and constitution of these kingdoms
know no such state as that of a perpetual standing
soldier, bred up to no other profession than that of war •
and it was not till the reign of Henry VII. that the kings’
of England had so much as a guard about their persons:
Nervous sufferers will find ifc worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue *
“M.J.0.” writes to The Bulletin from
South America (near by the spot where 30,000
Chilian insurgents last May massacred their wives
and daughters en masse “ to show their devotion
to the revolutionary cause”), under date, 10/11/’01:
Here, in Patagonia, and presumably in all Argentina,
anyone may take up a town allotment and own it, subject
to the following conditions: —On squatting on the lot
60dols. must be deposited with the authorities; and if
within 12 months the lot is fenced and a house put on it,
the deposit is returned. Their being no timber on the
pampa, the fence is the more expensive, though it may
be of wire or anything else. As for the house, anything
big enough for a door will do. After the 12 months are
up, it is required that within the next four years a fairly
decent house be erected. According to what I see in this
town, a 10 x 12 iron building, lined, floored, and ceilinged,
with one door and one window, is sufficient. Then you
may apply for your deeds, which you will get at a cost
limited only by the Notary’s power of fleecing you. In
Oallegos there is but one notary, and he refuses to make
out the deeds under lOOdols.—which is S. America all
over. In Paraguay the house must be put on the land at
once, of a value greater in proportion to the nearness to
the Plaza (the public square), and moreover the house
must be continually occupied, either personally or by
proxy, as by letting. This is a point where the Para-
guayans, as a people, score, for it keeps down rent, for
one thing,_ and a certain form of speculation for another.
11 Occupation as the primary right ” holds good through-
out Paraguay. A man settled on saleable Government
land cannot be turned off by any buyer, neither
can he be forced to sell out. Bribery does
much; but such is the law, and such is the
usual working-out of it. And, indeed, I begin to agree
with Larry Petrie, who used to say that the “ Paraguayan
pobledore, half-civilised and ignorant in other ways as he
is, has a grip of the land-question ; ” and that, therefore,
the English will never get the grip of the country they
have of the other Republics.
In Chili the estancia lands are not sold; they are
leased for so many years. At the end of the term they
are put up for re-application, and the highest bidder
wins. Ido not know what is done in case of improve-
ments, should the holding change hands.
In Argentina, if a man is hungry he may go to a
station and demand food. If he has money he may be
compelled to pay for it, but, if he has none, he cannot be
refused. Some time ago, a man, being refused food at an
estancia, simply turned round and shot a stud-sheep
before the owner’s eyes, saying he stood within the law.
Apparently he did, as nothing was done to him.
By law a man cannot will all his property away, and
leave his widow and family destitute—he can only dis-
pose of part, a certain proportion of his substance'being
inalienable from his natural heirs.
In Paraguay natural children inherit with the legiti-
mate, and marriage legitimises children born before wed-
lock. Possibly this removal of the ban of illegitimacy
maj r partly account for the looseness of Paraguaj'an
life. When a Paraguayan marries a girl other than the
mother of his children, he sends the other home to hei
mother with the little ones and maintains them there.
There is no secrecy over the matter. Indeed, the mon
children scattered round, the prouder everyone is of the
fact. “Que guapol” is the admiring exclamation.
Sexual relationship within the forbidden limits is dread
fully common, and the unconcern about the matter may
be gathered from the recent remark of a woman o.
position about her 16-year-old daughter’s baby :—“ It is a
pity it is her brother's.” In fact, one grows sick thinking
of Paraguayan “morality,” and is driven to the con-
clusion that a sense of indecency is the beginning of
virtue.
Which brings me back to Patagonia. Tom Hall,
formerly of Bourke, N.S.W., who may not yet be forgotten
in Australia, said, in leaving here, that “ the vices of
Australia were nothing to those of Patagonia,” and that,
as regards the latter country, “he knew not where to
look for a parallel.” Hall had knocked about long enough
in both countries to know what he was talking about. In
short, in South America one-half the population lives on
the vices of the other half, and the child smitten for the
sins of the father is as common a sight as is the dreadful
woman.
A Queensland town council lately bought
a gun for the inspector of nuisances, so that he
might wipe out any vagrant dogs in the district.
The armed inspector opened proceedings by put-
ting a charge of shot into one of the aldermen.
From an Adelaide paper—a curiosity in
obituary verse:
His prayer is answered—and he sleeps his last
Beside the little mother that he blessed ;
The cripple’s crutches he aside has cast,
To take his compensation—dreamless rest,
Life-tired, dream-tired, and longing-tired, midst pains,
He sighed—“ God take me I”—God took brave George
More trouble—a letter from Northern
N.S.W. this time :
A Tweed (N.S.W.) farmer recently got the centre of his
canefield stripped by Hindu labor, the outer rows of
cane being left untouched. With some display he boasted
to neighbours that, in order to get the benefit of the
Federal rebate, he intended doing the trashing him-
self, and, setting to, finished what the Hindus
had designedly left. While these Indians can be
employed without penalty at every farming indus-
try, excepting cane, there will probably be a good
deal of the same trickery carried on in the future. If a
man is officially caught working blacks amongst his cane
he can simply reply that he does not intend to claim the
rebate. If he succeeds in escaping the eyes of the inspector
he can then fill in the formal declaration that none but
white labor had been employed. Perhaps it will be
possible, too, to grease the palm of the superintending
official. There will then be money in it for both parties.


PLEASURE!
THE AEOLIAN
has become so important a factor
of pleasure in so many homes, and
especially in the homes of those
whose names are synonymous with
culture and refinement, that it is an
object of interest to everyone who
gives any thought to his own or his
family’s pleasure.
Because one man likes a certain article is no proof that another will.
When, however, enthusiasm for the same article steadily increases
from year to year, there is conclusive proof that it must have unusual
value. The man who does not give himself a fair opportunity to
learn what this value is, cuts himself off from the means of judging the
benefit he might derive from it.
iA^i'O'OCOV'O
Mm uan OKCHEmBLLB.
The /Eolian is a solo orchestra,
upon which any one can play, irre-
spective of musical training, any class
and style of music ever composed,
and control the expression to suit
his or her own taste.
The smallest instrument embodies the
same principles, is just as perfect in con-
struction, and plays just as many selections
as the most expensive models.
jEolians may be purchased by moderate
monthly payments when desired. You are
invited to visit our warerooms, if for no
other reason than to learn more about this
remarkable instrument —what it is and what
it will do. If you are unable to call, and
the subject interests you, we shall be pleased
to send you descriptive catalogue.
The Co. of New York.
HENRY M. BIRGE <& CO.,
SYDNEY: S2B George St - MELBOURNE: 185 ft 187 Collins St.
SOLE AOENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
SPECIAL OFFER IN AUSTRALASIA
FOR THE HAIR
CAUSES the hair to grow,
keeps it soft and pliant,
eradicates dandruff, prevents
hair from falling and turning
grey, contains no dye or
grease, is the most cleanly
of all hair preparations.
S<?>
•Vi
m
%
mm
mm
-*--« mfwamii».uM i^iiu.jMgW^i’vwWMSiSlir
{£?. •***"**»«*
A 4/6 TRIAL BOTTLE FOR 2/-
INVALUABLE FOR SCALP DISEASES OF CHILDREN. SEE ANALYTICAL REPORTS.
Unrivalled for use in the drv interior. We are already in receipt of valuable testimonials from squatters and
others KOKO is a Hair Food', and a most pleasant dressing clear as crystal, and will not stain the most delicate
tll ries Ladies will find “ Koko” of inestimable benefit in setting the hair under control again after washing,
t.ibncs. ASJ£ FOR **KOKO ” SEE THAT YOU GET “KOKO,” AND NOT A SUBSTITUTE.
IF NOT PROCURABLE WRITE TO US.
SPECIAL OFFER in AUSTRALASIA
to those who have
not yet tried
KOKO
14|6|W
A 1
m
Any Person forwarding this Coupon with Postal
Note for 2s. and Postage (postage is nine pence) will
receive Immediately for trial, by parcel post, undercover,
prepaid, one regular 12oz. bottle of Koko for the Haift
the price of which is 4s. 6d. provided it is ordered within 1 4
days from the date of this offer* In no cftBo
more than one bottle be sent for the use of the same person
on this Coupon, na we make the offer solely for trial, knowing
that it creates a demand when once used ; and this large bottle
gives it a fair trial. We find it better to thus practically give
away one bottle to make a customer than to spend large amounts
tn advertising. Any person into whose hands this offer
comes may make use of it. Address all Orders with
‘Coupons to the KOKOMARICOPAS CO.. Ltd.. 12 DEAN'S PLACE. SYDNEY, N.S.W. ° rderB .“?3; f b ®
with this Coupon after the etpiratioo of date, providing we are then issuing these trial Coupons, and « we are
not, the money will be returned. This Coupon will bo rocoived at 12 Doan’s Placo. Sydnoy. 'And only «/•
will bo required when postage Is not necessary. ...
ts- Doan’s Place is off 270 George Street
KOKO IS SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES AT X/-, 2/6, AND 4/6.
St. Hilda Hill.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On the crest of the hill in Barkly-streefc, St. Kilda,
where you look out over the Red Bluff, there was
Yerrikee’s Ground —70 years ago.
Yerrikee and his band —mostly youngsters had
come out of Carrum Carrum. Too many old men
in Carrum—those doing all the ordering and the
others all the graft, and promotion too long
coming.
Besides there was a holier bond. These young
men wanted wives and good young plump wives—
not the superannuated leavings of Nerridoc and all
the bald and grey of Carrum —and the thing had
all been talked over till thread-bare, in what stood
to them for their club.
Away ofE north on the other side of the hills of
the Everflowing ran a tribe that Yerrikee and his
pals wotted of, and great oorroborees were not
held for nothing in the old days.
So one fine morning young Yerrikee —chief by
might of these dandies of an old time —gathered
his cronies together, and they strolled off from the
conservative camp of the old’uns, and started a
tribe on their own.
Not empty-handed either. There was Yerri-
kee’s father’s spear, for instance —real iron that
had been ripped off the bottom of the boat of some
murdered whalers generations ago, when England
was ruled by a George. Also a cloak of bearskin,
good for the coldest night.
Another’s father possessed a club with a
chain attachment, at the end of which was a ball
of lead spiked with huge iron nails after the style
of the “ Holy-Water-Sprinkler ” in the Town of
London —used in the wars of the Roses. These,
and things like these, ’twould have been a sin to
leave, so, taking them along, they got away from
Carrum country, and eventually assembled on
what is now St. Kilda hill.
Then there was a yabber. Out of shot of the
old ’uns, they showed how they could talk.
Yerrikee was boss of it; he stood up on where
the trunk bulged out at the bottom of a huge gum,
and, reaching up, with a hatchet chopped
some marks into the tree —deep marks—that
would not come out in a hundred years, and,
pointing to them, made a speech, of which the
following is a free translation :
“Gentlemen, —I’ve not brought you here for
nothing. (‘ Hear, hear.’) You know what I want,
and I know what you want, so we won’t waste
any words about that. (Cheers.)
“ I have chopped here, as you see, the name of
my adorable and never-to-be-too-much-longed-for
Kuya Kuya. She is now a maiden —dwelling, I
trust, in the camp of her father (pointing N.E.)
but to-morrow night—to-morrow night, gentle-
men—she shall be (D.Y.) standing at the foot of
this tree—my wife.”
Enthusiastic approbation, and waving in the
air of anything handy, followed this.
The holy-water-sprinkler, in unpractised hands,
accidentally crashed into the head of a too-adja-
cent black. 'lt all happened in a moment, and his
gory remains were for the time hastily clapped
behind a bush, the brother of deceased making a
note of the name of the bearer of the holy-water-
spriiikler for future reference.
The leavings of the defunct being duly divided
up (Yerrikee himself got a pair of boomerangs—
models in their way), the chief resumed: “As I
was about to observe, my friends, at the time of
this most regrettable occurrence, it’s not a ques-
tion of myself alone; there in the camp of the
Meris are others than the chief’s daughter with
soft bosoms and many rows of fat.
“ Are these to be marketed as old men’s slaves ?
Not much ! We’ve laid our plans, and to-morrow
we’ll all meet at this tree again, each with his
lubra, and this shall be Yerrikee’s tribe.”
Wild antics of applause greeted this finish. The
man with the holy-water-sprinkler gave himself
more room this time and no one was much hurt.
Then there was more talk and pointing, some-
times over the sea—that referred to the white man;
he was to give trouble later on—sometimes
towards Carrum, that was farewell to home and
mother —then over to Studley Park way, and that
boded the Meri-ites no good.
Then they took the remains of the accidentally
killed and fixed him up on some poles in the ti-tree
scrub down on the beach.
The brother of the dead man first cut off one of
the hands from the body in fulfilment of a tribal
custom. He would smoke it dry in some native
way until it would be hard and shiny and black
like ebony.
Then it would be a charm to wear round his
neck, and warn him of the approach of an enemy.
The funeral over, they all sallied forth, and by
nightfall were scrambling up and down the steeps,
not far from where you will now find a convent.
With cat-like tread and many a whispered
“Yah, yah” and “jali, jah,” they crept cautiously
through the dark towards where the smoke of
smouldering fires rested in the air. Then they
set a watch, and turned in for an hour or so, to be
fresh on the job just about when the other fellows
were well into their first solid slumber, after the
native bear was eaten.
About an hour before midnight, Yerrikee,
awake and listening, heard a mopoke’s cry thrice
repeated.
He had said before, “We have laid our plans.”
He now said ‘ ‘ Advance ! ” and they advanced.
What could be was done quietly—a creeping
round a miamia—a chop with a hatchet —smash
with a club—dig with a spear—a grunt—a groan—
a gasp—a choking and throat-cutting of the men
and a gagging of the women—by the time the
alarm was fairly raised the thing was done.
After the ball was over, who but Kuya-Kuya
nimbly jumped from an adjacent tree to the side
of Yerrikee, and, looking up blushingly, said —not
in English—“O, I’m so glad you’ve come, dear.
Do you know, I was so afraid they would notice
that funny mopoke business—how did I do it?”
A lot of the women were in the thing before-
hand. It was a put-up job, and this was the
beginning of Yerrikee’s tribe (King Billy of the
whites.)
The raided Meri-ites got up a great revenge ex-
pedition, with friends to help.
Then the old Carrumites chipped in because—
first —there was to be a fight. Second—the new
tribesmen were, afterall, their sons who had reflected
credit on their sires, and they were not going to
bide quiet to see them chopped up by the Yarra
The northern tribes were a big lot and had the
advantage of being counselled by the great white
chief Buckalee, and they came down in hate and
fury, and there was a great to-do down about
where Hawksburn is at this time of day. _
Then Yerrikee, tomahawking, clubbing and
shouting, showed ■"• bat he was made of.
The holy-water-sprinkler sprinkled afresh,
and left lanes of devastation behind. This weapon
had changed hands, it was noticed—the brother or
the man'who had been accidentally killed with it
on St. Kilda beach was now the artist.
In the end the Northerners were half of them
slaughtered, and the astute Buckalee and Ins
friends all but failed to manage a retreat with the
remainder. The reputation of Yerrikee was
made from that moment, and he resumed his in-
dependence on the hill with more promise than
ever. Also his tribe was largely augmented by
Carrumites who flocked to join a rising cause.
When the men went to hunt in the morning
Kuya Kuya would climb Yerrikee’s tree and look
after them, and signal in curious tribal ways miles
off. She did her art-work up this tree. A con-
venient fork in it formed her studio. She’d work
such things as necklaces for Yerrikee’s neck ;
brow-bands adorned with kangaroos’ teeth ; boo-
merang sashes for his waist; or fashion a bone to
go through his nose. The great tree bulged out
all round at the base, forming a natural seat.
From that seat could be seen one day a sloop
coming up the bay, with white people spying out
the land, to have and to own it, and subsequently
Fawkner’s and Batman’s settlement on the Yarra
was formed.
One day Yerrikee and a chosen band were out
as usual on their “ give-us-this-day-our-daily-
bread ” hunt. .
A white man had been murdered ; indignation
was in the air at the settlement; revenge parties
were out, and almost the first thing that happened
was that the young chief was shot through the
heart with a white man’s gun; and that was the
end of Yerrikee.
Kuya Kuya, in her tree, worked a shell-necklace,
and grew anxious watching the hours pass, and
looking Macedon way, Yarra way, Carrum way—
all ways. .
After a while, the six that returned brought
news—news that she was a dead chief’s widow.
The camp was to remove at once. Yerrikee —
the Great Yerrikee —called King Billy by the
whites, was dead, and they were all going to be
united to their fathers again for mutual protection
from the white men. When they started off
they looked round for Kuya but couldn’t find her.
She hid and hung around Yerrikee’s tree after
they had gone. There not many days after she
was spied by a shepherd.
He went to “capture” her, and was surprised
she did not make off but came straight for him as
if a white man was all she was waiting for, and
had closed on him in a sort of wolfish grapple be-
fore he knew what was up. He was a man, and
had his fists to use, but a gun slung round his
shoulders rather hindered him, and the widow,
was impetuous and fought in irregular ways with
her nails and teeth. It was over in no time, and
after laying him out she beat out his brains with
a log of wood.
Then she departed from the neighborhood, and
that was the last of the tribe on St. Kilda Hill.
Natives used to come along afterwards, and at
times they identified Yerrikee’s mark on the tree,
which stands now in a private garden with a look-
out on a fork of it, whence you can see all over the
Oneday in the ’9o’s an old lubrapilgrimaged from
one of the outlying settlements for the protection
of the aborigines, and could have been seen crawl-
ing through Melbourne city and afterwards on
through Albert Park.
She had an old shawl over her shoulder, and
hanging by a string round her neck was a metal
disc, on which was engraved :
KUYA KUYA,
LUBF.A
To Yekrikbe
(Kins Billy of the whites;,
Killed 1837.
Towards evening she was making her way
slowly up Prince’s-street, St. Kilda. At the top
she took a long breath and a look round, spying
the locality. .
She was in front of a large private garden.
Fairy lamps were lighted, and dreamy music
was in the air, and vehicles now and then briskly
drove in at one large gate and out at another.
Outside, the old lubra peered in between the
iron railings, and presently, unnoticed, slid
through one of the open gates and was lost m the
shadows. , ,
It was a pleasant night, and the lawns were
lively with loungers and strollers.
Of these, a couple were contentedly sauntering
to a sort of bower contrived against the trunk of a
huge gum-tree. The woman (for you could not
call such a magnificent creature a “ girl ”) stopped
at the arbor, and read over the entrance !
KING BILLY’S TREE
“ Why King Billy’s Tree! ”
“ Some native chief, I believe—long before your
time or mine—before the white man came.”
“ King Billy’s Tree,” she mused, and they sat
down on the arbor seat arranged out of the bulge
around the base that some large gums have.
“ We’re sitting on a king’s throne, Jack —won-
der if there was a queen ? ”
Hardly were the words out of her mouth when
some bushes parted and the aged lubra stood
gazing at them as they sat together on the old
seat.
Jack struck a match and stood up to have a look
at her. Large coal-black eyes with yellow whites
she had—which she kept fixed on the fair one.
Jack took up the medal that hung from her
neck and read the inscription.
Then he lit another match and he and his wife
read it together.
“Why Jack, you got this up for me.”
“ Good Lord, no ! ”
The old black, making guttural noises, went up
to the tree feeling the trunk with her fingers.
She stood on the seat and reached up as if
looking for something. Jack cast a flickering
light on the scene, holding his box as a permanency
and striking a match as required.
She found the old axe-marks, and said
“ Yerrikee ” excitedly.
“ King Billy’s coat of arms carved on the tree,”
said Jack ; really, the sign for Kuya Kuya that
had been cut deep generations ago by a strong-
young arm, not to come out in a hundred
years
The match went out suddenly, so did a bad
word as Jack put his finger in his mouth.
Then everybody in the place seemed to get
round the spot. The old gin was taken to the
house kitchen, and made much of. Among other
things she had two bottles of English ale, and was
set to recline in a large cane-lounge on a verandah,
and there was a sort of levee around her, in the
midst of whicli she dozed off to sleep.
She was accommodated for the night as a species
of curiosity, but in the morning she was gone. So
was a considerable quantity of liquor. The early
milkman reported having seen the last of the
royalty of Carrum, burdened with eight bottles of
beer, and vanishing in the direction of Gippsland-
SMILAX.


CROWNED WITH SUCCESS.
a
50
1
(72.
Si*
Tlae King of Cures Tlie Queen of Healtli*
AMONGST the citizens of Australia and in all parts of the world, BILE BEANS
FOR BILIOUSNESS have earned for themselves, by their unequalled excellence,
a reputation which places them to-day far in advance of any other similar prepara-
tion. This specific is not a carelessly-prepared nostrum ;on the contrary, it is the
result of long and thoughtful research on the part of a medical man, who, after years of
study, discovered a natural vegetable substance which, after further study, he succeeded in
compounding with other ingredients, so that its effect on the digestive organism of the human
system is identical with that of the natural bile created by the liver. Finding this, then, to
be the most natural catharic obtainable, the public rapidly accepted it in preference to all
others, and consequently the old methods of starving and the use of pepsin and bismuth
sank into insignificance and oblivion. Acting on the bowels in a gentle manner, Bile Beans
do not weaken or in any way distress the patient. This is a point in which they differ
materially from nearly all laxative remedies sold to-day, as the latter usually act in a violent
manner, weakening the patient and in many cases doing more harm than good. Bile Beans
have been aptly termed “a medicine for the people at a popular prioe.” Many wonder how
this remedy can have the great virtue that we claim for it, and still be sold at so reasonable a
price ; yet the solution is simple. Millions upon millions of Bile Beans are consumed an-
nually (a fact that in itself is positive proof that the world’s inhabitants know how to appre-
ciate a really genuine remedy). Owing to this immense annual sale we are enabled to pur-
chase the very best drugs in exceedingly large quantities, and thus get them at a great deal
lower price than if we bought only moderate quantities at a time. Then, again, Bile Beans
are manufactured in possibly the largest and best-equipped laboratories in the world. In
this establishment only the very best of latest improved machinery is used, and this fact also
greatly minimises the cost of production. Thus it will be seen that through the great con-
sumption the proprietors are enabled to sell this valuable remedy at a price that places it
within the reach of all, viz., 13£d per box.
BILE RfJUS
ill
1
*
i
a
>
/
41%
and so does
PEARS
The Sisters.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Young Kate was wearing Jenny’s gown
(Because she liked herself in red)
When, hastening homeward from the town,
She met her handsome cousin Fred
And blushed a little as he said—
“ How very cold and proud we’ve grown !”
Kate blushed the newest shade in red.
He turned, but did not take her arm,
He spoke about the season’s gains,
And what was doing at the farm
Away beyond the Beelah plains,
Now soddened by the autumn rains.
Kate’s quiet answers had the charm
That womanhood’s first season gains.
Instead of “ teasing,” as of old,
She merely gave him “Yes” or “No,”
Though always in a tone that told
The warmth her manner did not show.
Their homeward steps were very slow
As Fred, now truculently bold,
Demanded one more “Yes ” or “No.”
She whispered in her lover’s ear,
Then wept a moment on his breast,
For surely, only yester year
He’d seemed to love her sister best.
Fred turned the question with a jest,
And pointing to the homestead near
He drew her closer to his breast.
In Kitty’s gown of sober grey
Her sister, standing at the gate,
Smiled on the man and turned away
To kiss the glowing cheek of Kate.
So sweet she looked, and so sedate.
Love’s heart was sad that autumn day
When Jenny closed the wicket gate.
vio.
EDMUND FISHER.
Hopetoun Splashes.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hopetoun, Eabl, left many memories in the old
Victorian days. He was a mixed sort of man and
his antics came of mixed blood.
“ Lank an’ supple, swank and thin ;
Fine for gaun against the win’.”
He looked in the bush a good deal like a bush man.
The “gentle Johnston ” strain in him showed out
there. It came when Charles Hope, first Earl,
married in 1699 Henrietta, only daughter of
William Johnstone, of Annandale. How that
religious-paper-yarn about the mercantile ancestor
and the family ledger comes in, neither Burke
nor Debrett explains; but it is 200 years odd since
the grandson of Lawyer Hope of Hopetoun mar-
ried into the Devil’s Dick clan —mosstroopers all.
John Adrian, seventh in descent from that mar-
riage, had more of the desire than the capacity of
the Johnstones. He had lived too much amongst
buttons and lace, gold-sticks and wig-powder.
Still, there was a spark in him, and in the old days,
doubtless, he would probably have ridden home
from a foray with Devil’s Dick himself.
We started out-back one day from Mildura, the
wind coming out of a hot bottle, and the sun like
a live coal set in a red-hot basin. The Earl was
up (on the best horse, of course), scorning the
buggy, and Mac, the overseer, said, with a
chuckle, “Hopetoun ’ll get particular hell the
day.” We all got it hot, and about 4 p.m. Mao
came over to take, by force if necessary, another
man’s place in the buggy—“ Come out of that, one
o’ yer—l’m losing leather ; first time since I came
to the Mallee, five-and-twenty years ago.” The
boy-driver got down, and Mac lumbered up with
many a groan. Evening came, and His Ex., a
little languid, but game like his horse, came
over. “Well, Mac, and where is that particular
hell Hopetoun was to get to-day?” “It’s
here, mon, ” answered Mac, indicating the site of
the “ lost leather,” and giving a ghastly groan as
he rose from his seat.
His Ex. was better in a long ride than after the
hounds. He didn’t understand the pace at which
those who followed the old Starter’s pack had to
ride—at anything. It was quite as hot the day
at Merrylands as over the hurdles at Randwick,
and a four-foot-six post-and-railer just ahead.
“Come on. You are a duffer!” said the 17-
year-old daughter of the master.
“I know I am, but ” There was a bit of
picking-up to do the other side of the fence.
* * * *
“ I never saw him look really angry before, and
I wasn’t surprised,” said the political Jeames of
Melbourne. It was out west (Australia Felix—
not the N.S.W. West), and the Earl desired to
shake hands with Sandy Mac. Sandy was a hard
case; had worked out Glasgow and York before
trying Australia, but had a lot of good yarns. He
was selling a horse. “His Excellency is not
accustomed to wait,” said Jeames at length.
“Tell His Excellency I’d drink with a convicted
felon, but I wouldn’t lose a deal for a duke.” It
was a hard saying to be overheard.
A Victorian Governor always looks his best
when his team swings round from the carriage-
enclosure to the grand-stand at Flemington.
Loch, handsome as an old Assyrian king, used to
tool them round himself. The Hopetoun postil-
lions made a more accurate curve, and sat like
wooden images while the band played and the
hats lifted. “ Ay,” said a looker-on who had no
respect for dignities; “they do it well; but if one
of them girls was in pants she’d put a better head on
it.” The “girls” were the Hopetoun sisters, visit-
ing Australia that year. No man looking at them
could doubt that no little of the gentle Johnstone
blood had come down on the distaff-side. While
his lordship was always more than a little anaemic,
the honorable misses were robust, and free as ever
was Madge or Janet with milk-pail hoisted, kilts
in a byre knot, and Jock hanging round for the
forenicht. A good deal of Toorak was aghast
when one of them shook “Old Jack” (Carbine)by
the forelock and t’other hit him a sounding smack
on the flank, with a “You’re a brick, old man ! ”
The Countess was a little overshadowing. A
good rider and straight shot, she was not much in
line with Toorak, and was pretty fond of a “ lone
hand ” in Australia and elsewhere. “ A Demolin,
you know,” Toorak used to say. And while
Madame Woolpack talked of the blue-black Irish
hair and Irish eyes, and of descent from kings of
old, with a mixture of the blood of Don Diavolo,
wrecked in the homeward scurry of the Great
Armada and entertained of the friendly Celts—
Miss De Bags had other views. Demolin (De
Moleyn) was unquestionably Norman. It savored
of Battle Abbey, Acre, Damascus, Tancred and
Saladim If they had only looked up Burke !
Burke is cruel on De Moleyn. “Ventry, Baron
(Sir Dayrolles Blakeney Eveleigh De Moleyn) ”
that is the title to-day. But the beginning of it
all was Frederick William Mullins, who in 1666
took up> a place in Co. Kerry, and who, doubtless,
in his time was called Bill Mullins. Mullins-De
Moleyns. It’s cleverer than Smith Smythed !
F.M.
That Bandy-Legged Parson.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jones, the manager, Evans and I were seated on
the homestead verandah, smoking and wondering
when rain was going to fall (we were always won-
dering that), when a horseman appeared over the
range. Nobody spoke until he drew rein close to
the front gate, when Jones broke the silence.
“Look here, you chaps,” he said, “ that makes
the fifth parson this week, and I’m just about
tired of ’em. Don’t mind them so much, only they
always have horses, and more horses mean less
grass, and—well, I’m going to put a stop to it,
that’s all.”
We all went out to welcome (?) the stranger.
He was a typical sky-pilot, with long bandy legs,
and his horse was a typical sky-pilot’s “ crock. ”
They were both lean, lank, and hungry-looking,
and neither seemed capable of much further
effort.
He introduced himself as Mr. Chadwick, and,
with a far-away look in his eyes, begged of us to
see to his er—horse.
I led it away, feeling sorry for both of them,
while Jones took the stranger inside, and showed
him a room.
After tea we again adjourned to the verandah,
and I was considerably surprised at Jones’s cor-
diality toward Mr. Chadwick. The latter told us
tales of slum work in London, and we in return
spun yarns about cattle and brumbies till he began
to look incredulous. Then we went to bed.
. I rose at daylight as usual, and found the parson
sitting on the cap of the stockyard gate, smoking.
“Always liked a pipe before breakfast,” he said.
Breakfast over, we hurried out to the yard to
catch our horses. Mr. Chadwick informed me
that he was going to ride a station horse on to
TJndulla, and leave his old grey “to pick up a
bit.” I was wondering what horse the boss had
lent him, when Evans ran one into a small yard
and put the parson’s saddle on it. To say I was
horrified is to put it mildly, as the horse in
question was the worst buck-jumper on the place
—an outlaw in fact. He was quiet enougli to
saddle, and mount; after that he was a lightning
contortionist.
I said nothing. Silence is golden.
Jones’s face was as devoid of expression as a
Chinaman’s as he said : “I hope your old grey is
fat by the time you come back, Mr. Chadwick.”
The parson hoped so too, and, having led the
horse outside the yard, proceeded to mount.
Evans had lent him my new spurs. They evi-
dently wanted to do the job properly. Mr. Chad-
wick swung himself up behind that big valise
with an easy grace that told of long practice.
Then followed a wondrous gymnastic display.
A clatter of hoofs, and a dark whirling mass in a
cloud of dust was about all we saw. The “ thud”
we expected did not come.
Mr. Chadwick was flogging old “Fireworks,”
as we called him, with his hat, and he stuck the
spurs in hard as he headed him for the gate over
the ridge. I looked at the other two.
“Well, I’m damned ! ” they said in chorus.
• • ■ •
In three weeks he was back. Jones and Evans
saw him coming, and camped-out that night.
Mr. Chadwick seemed disappointed when I told
him that they would not be back for two or three
days.
“Pity,” he said, smiling grimly; “I wanted to
see Mr. Jones particularly.” I did not blame
him.
He went next morning, after having expressed
himself as pleased with the improved condition of
his own. horse. “ Fireworks ” was quite broken-
down from hard riding, and now it is not safe to
mention a parson in Jones’s hearing.
Q.
S. C. O. JESSOP.
Constance Clyde describes a Labor Farm :
Many attempts have been made to provide work for the
workless, and one very good attempt is to be found at
Little Bay (Sydney) in the State Labor Farm. This is a
cheerful building, guarded by a light auburn dog, and
surrounded by a vegetable garden that is a credit to these
droughty times. It is a harbor into which the derelict
working man is cast, and where he can gather up his
courage anew till he.is ready to battle with the sea of life
once more. That resting time is three months, and may
be prolonged; no very strict rule is kept as to the fre-
quency of any man’s visits. The dietary scale is good,
and the State Farm laborer has hot water laid on, so that
he can luxuriate in warm baths with an ease that none of
his brethren in Sydney know of. He also possesses a
library, not too well stocked, and he can have his own
special sky-pilot upon Sunday—if the pilot is available,
but so far no soul-saver of any brand whatever has chosen
to come, probably owing to the fact that the necessarily
small wages earned by the congregation would not per-
mit of much addition to the collection-plate. Some fur-
ther improvements are promised for winter, including
lockers for the convenience of such as have anything to
lock.
The State Labor Farm is so far a boon to the com*
munity that it is a satisfactory answer to such Domain
gentry as perambulate this city with their wardrobe in a
state of disrepair, to polish handles that don’t need polish-
ing and do other light, genteel work that will not exercise
the muscles over much. It is also a satisfactory
reply to the other gentlemen whose energy is expended
in getting their wives washing to do, and who are
apt to lose faith in Providence when the missis is incapa-
citated by rheumatism. Of course, it offers no advantage
to the married workman with a penchant for supporting
his family, because he isn’t allowed to bring his household
into the severely bachelor establishment at Little Bay,
and he naturally does not make enough to support it out-
side. These remarks are not made in disparagement of the
State Labor Farm, but only to express a hope that it is but
thenucleus of somethingbroader and better—a State Labor
Village, growing into a State Labor City, where families
of our workers may go, not, of course, to escape toil, but
to escape the greater drudgery of looking for drudgery.
Such, anyway, seems to be the hope of the large gentle-
man, with ideas to match, whose enthusiasm is responsible
for the creation of this refuge. Before anything further
can be done, however, the community must get rid of the
idea that the moral fibre of a working-man will be
weakened by a system that encourages him to look to the
State “ for leave to toil,” and that such a system would
destroy his power of initiative. The man who has enough
initiative to work from eight to five every day, and more,
for all his adult life, at a wage that wouldn’t give him a
month’s ■ holiday in a year, has all the initiative
that is expected of him. The power of initia-
tive may be demanded too much from our
workers. In some periods of history, they have shown it
by upsetting things in general and by making up long
arrears of working without wages by taking wages with-
out working. The French revolutionists showed some of
this power when they used up the aristocrats’ heads as
adornments for Labor processions, but it is not on record
that this burst of originality was appreciated by the
upper classes.


Gives Muscular Strength
and Nerve Power
Takes Out Every Impurity from the Blood, Makes the Blood Rich
Red, Removes Depression, imparts Vigor and New Life.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
'2SO'
'sm?
Mr. Thomas Monroe, of Oriel, Albion, near Brisbane, Queensland, is -well
known in football and athletic circles. He has to keep his system in perfect
condition all the time. Read what he says about Dr. Ayer’s Family Medicines.
ii x have used Dr. Ayer's Sarsaparilla to restore the appetite and give tone and strength to
the whole system, and I Vve been greatly benefited by doing so. . . , _ _
“ I have also obtained marked relief from the asthma by the use of Dr. Ayer s Cherry sec-
toral. These two remedies are well known throughout Queensland as thoroughly reliable
family medicines.”
So great is tbe reputation of Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla as a remedy for healing
the sick that it is called everywhere
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
If you are sick, you certainly should give Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla a thorough
trial. It cannot fail to help you, for it cures the blood first of all. Then your
nerves become steady and strong and the hot weather of summer does not affect*
you. All depression is overcome. Remember, it is a wonderful medicine for
the children, too, when they are thin and feeble, pale and languid. Put your
confidence in it, for there is no family medicine in the world*its equal.
fd
gdf
Purifies and Enriches the Blood.
AYER'S PILLS cure dyspepsia; strengthen the stomach.
27
YEARS’ SUCCESS
AS
the UNIVERSAL REMEDY for
Coughs, Colds.
Asthma, Bronchitis,
influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Hoarseness, &c.
HAS MADE
£ung Tonic
AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY TO EVERYBODY.
Important Notice:
SUBSTITUTION. —There me so many imitations
of this successful, and therefore popular, remedy that
it is of the utmost importance you should use the
word “ OWBRIDGE ’' when buying Lung Tonic,
and TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
Prepared by
w. T. OWBRIDGE, M.P.S., Chemist, Hull.
Sold everywhere in bottles, at Is. lid.
2 *. 9d.. 4*. 6 d., & 11s., by all
Colonial Medicine Vendors.
COPYRIGHT.
F
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
JOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain ,in the Stomach, Sick Headache
J Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Gold Chills, Mush-
ings of. Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on Skin,
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. LkLib hires 1 DUSE
WILL .GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no Action. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be WORi.H A.
GUTOJSA A BOX.” , t . . . ... _
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. Aor a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, ana
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame, i hese
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Meaieme in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is lid, and 13s 9d each.
g
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
v'- V •••
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS]
MAGNESIA!
A
■?
saft
a
Si
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regrain Health?
The Lasigston Regenerator
WILL CURE
YOU
Its effects are almost instantaneous and
on increasing- from day to day.
the good results go
Health, Vigor, Strength
for all who
desire it.
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, permanently located in
Melbourne since 1886, originator of the Regenerator treatment, has so
perfected his method that it has revolutionised the art of Healing,
and it can almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable
cases.
Are You a Sufferer
from bad health in
any of its many forms?
Do you feel nervous, fretful, timid and lack the power of will and
action ? Are you subject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless,
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy ? Are your kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a
disordered condition ? Do you feel weak, nervous and generally debilitated? If so, do not fail to have the
Doctor diagnose your case. Send at once for full information and question blanks.
Seek the Truth, it costa dXTo tliiixg’!
All communications are considered sacredly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.G.S., Eng., c o r Russell & Collins Sts., Melbourne
rv ii
NAufTHAWW
|ZJ E-RLfl
Mr; -
i 'ft or.
r'/rz
'W
Wsr
-' iif i "f
Blacking
is the best dressing made for all bright finished leathers.
It is easily applied with a cloth, an I produces a polish that is unequaled for brilliance
and permanence. Men, women, and children who use “Crozine” once want “ Crozine ”
always, as it is the most satisfactory waterproof dressing made for all varieties of shoes.
Sold almost everywhere. Made and guaranteed only by
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS, Boston, Mass., U. S. Xl
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
CO C O A
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
THE ONLY WAY
TO BE CURED of Weakening and Debilitating Diseases l
is to obtain the PROPER REMEDIES. We have the
REMEDY that will CURE YOU. So CONFIDENT ars
we of this, that we will send a trial course FREE OF
CHARGE and abide by the result. Send your symptoms
and prove our statement. Address— Botanic Institute
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-st., Sydney.


FOR_—
WATERPROOF COATS
RUBBER BOOTS
- GOLOSHES
PERDRIAU and COMPANY,
270 George Street, Sydney
60
YEARS DYEIMG
FOil THE LADIES.
W. O. ELGRIGGE & CO ,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOSK STREET, S ; YD3IY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK*
Hi*
Vwi* •
32 & 34 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send for* Catalogue-
fd
Forks,
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
MARK-
Piii
J. & J. MAXFIKLD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD
At the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers, 93 York-St.
SYDNEY.
Also at
“THE BLOCK,”
Collins-st., MELBOURNE.
S. FREEMAN + SONS L!^
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
BATHO’S BAKTiMQ POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAP OFFICE : WYE YARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
fdg
SKIN,
GAN OBTAIN
IT
BY USING
-
&
&
0
V
&
fiey
KEEPS THE SKIN
1 - . ••
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/-
Sole Makers—M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
Write for Prices and Particulars of
TEAM
Best Value. Highest Efficiency.
A Large Stock of Pumps suitable for every
kind of service ready for immediate delivery.
•' ‘f-
Clarence-st., Sydney, and
533 Collins-st., Melbourne.
PARKE & LACY CO LTD
Bushman
Harry Morant:
His ’Ventures
and Verses.
Vjj'. yv'fr 'te M ''
and Buccaneer;
By FRANK RENAR.
n K j« Q 1/1 Post W EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO.,
PriCe 1/1 Free. W SYDNEY.^
H P. GREGORy & CO.
Machinery Merchants,
Melbourne & Sydney.
HAVE IN STOGK-
Blake's Steam Pumps.
Fay's Woodworking Machinery.
Mundy’s Hoisting Engines-
Empire Co.’s Laundry Machinery-
American “All Steel” Pulleys-
Harris ‘‘Champion” Lubricating Oils.
Mason Reducing Valves-
Ludlow Sluice Valves-
Kortings Injectors and Ejectors-
Emery Wheek.
Pc [ijica [ubricant Co., South Shields, Eng.
Lubricants and Packi tigs . lor all p u rposes. Patent Mica Grease saves 90% in cost of lubrication, and keeps
bearings perfectly cool. Patent Mica Packings last twice as long as ordinary, and are 25% lighter. They do
not score the rods, but put a mica surface on them, similar in appearance to electro-plate.
Sole Agent for Australasia : R. A. HERVEY. Depot,, 171 Clarence-st., Sydney, tf.S. W
GET A GRIP OF THIS FACT.
THE ATLAS PIPE WRENCH
Is away ahead of all others.
a REALLY SPLENDID TOOL. WON’T LOCK ON THE PIPE.
tOin., ss. Sd.; 18in., 10s. ; 24in., 155.; 36in., 325. 6d. Easily Adjusted.
gCA]RPWA.RE HOUSES or
N.
Ltd.,
71 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
SOLE AGENTS.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-si, South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10US.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
JJ OTICB TO MELBOURNE VISITOR!
WIMPOLSPS GEORGE HOTEL, oondt. a
Hilda Railway Stafcwa and Cable Trams. jS* h fc « Jsj
Aeoommsdateoa i* Tietena. IKCLUSITR
Boarders, 9s. per Day, *r km 2 ©niaeas per Week F
